,. 7 :P ,I/{I/ ,gv \""'/‘)_‘.€.0’V;-'>tl/W wiggyx . .y xv ' ",0 32:: Hr ~. "7 7"" . ‘
z, «3%.! 41.4 .mﬁﬁ’of-ﬁ“ 4...»?4? 9:95:39 . ‘ s‘fﬁém éﬁk‘mmﬁ‘» ﬂ‘lsﬁls’m . .Z .

 

270$»:
2 .-
22 2-2

WI W:
as?»

'~
2/

\‘.-'
5&9“?

«I,

\v
‘A

. EXPERIMENTS

ON

HUMAN -

.- :z/ syn-‘0

:I/ wag/1 \v ;
9/ 2. «$9424

’41

0

 

%.” I
2%"

 

 

34:26! \\;~;_+,'0 stun-W \ch
Ass/2:. ‘ m0»;

9.

.11,

I}.

 

0“}

 

(’2’

W
A:

V
(9,:

O

.2,
12/:

s
94

l

,.
11

‘3:
inf/(£0

l

\\;Io:-‘//
,3. .

///.’~:;

,, ’23! was
$2.4m?» 2

= VIVISECTION =2
UP TO DATE.

1-
/ S
If-QWV/u.
7n IIZ" .

(9

f

4

 

 

 

 

 

'6’“an ,
' . 509/:
02- .
27/

z
’1
Ir"

“7/ Y”
'2 :W%'¢5£[1A\//Zi
”’2 . ’ ." 61.7]
127.31.“, $’/ (£92 PM

I

/
. 15.

By R. E. DUDGEON, M.D.

 

.7
0

 

./

a

.44
15'

———-—- Loathsome Diseases

inoculated into
Men, Women 5’ Children.

«.0
A!

 

 

 

I

$5,2sz

V
. .&

PUBLISHED BY

THE BRITISH UNION for the ABOLITION 0F VIVISEOTION
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society),

32 GHARING caoss, LONDON, s.w. 1.
PRICE ONE PENNY.‘

Bend orders to MISS BEATRICE E. KIDD, Secretary.

09%? ‘ :2'

J
5.

1”,,
9146.6;
#28935

4

{9)

.’
06.

yaw

’2‘

\\ A
W

O

W‘gﬁﬁi

i.

‘W?
410

\24-‘0/ yry/
.22s'2594s .

 




 

The British Union

for the Abolition of Vivisection.
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society).
-——+-.*.-(———'

Foundress: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

President and Hon. Secretary:
WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P., M.D., L.R.C.P.’, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.

Hon. Treasurer: RIGHT Hon. VISCOUNT' HARBERTON.

Trustees:
LORD HARBERTON, MRS. A. MURIEL ROSCOE, DR. W. R. HADWEN.

O
:Bankers: LLOYDs BANK LIMITED, 16, Charing Cross, London, S.W. I.

Secretary:
MISS B. E. KIDD (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Headquarters: 32, CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W. I.

 

 

 

“ THE ABOLITIONIST,”

Monthly Organ of the British Union.

CONTAINING
High-class Articles on the Moral, Scientiﬁc, 6:. Historical
Aspects of the Anti-Vivisectlon Question;
Replies to the Defence Research Society;
Racy Criticism of New Vivisectional “Cures”;
Chronicle of the Month’s Work, etc.

 

Should be read by all Humanitarians.

 

Specimen copy sent post free to any address.

YEA RL y SUBSCRIPTION ' (€3,253?) 3/= per annum

 




 
  
 

Experiments on Human Beings.

VIVISECTION UP TO DATE.
BY R. E. DUDGEON, M.D.

  

 

  
 

 

  
   
    
 
  
   
    
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
 
 

 

 

“A human life is nothing compared with a new fact

, ’ in science. . . . The aim of science is the
if advancement of human knowledge at any sacriﬁce
an . . .

, of human life, . . . If cats and guinea pigs

can be put to any higher use than to advance
science, we do not know what it is. We do not

know of any higher use we can put a man to.”
(Prof. Slosson, in the “an YORK INDEPENDENT,” Dec. 12th, 1895.)

 

 

HE only plausible justiﬁcation or excuse for
painful experiments on animals is that thereby

we may acquire knowledge that shall enable us
to allay the suﬁ'erings and save the lives of human
beings, and this is the reason we constantly hear given
by the apologists of vivisection. By this term I mean
all painful experiments on animals ostensibly for
y“ scientiﬁc objects. But as no advantage to sick and
suffering mankind has ever resulted from the countless
tortures that have been inﬂicted on the brute creation
by experimental physiologists, this apology for vivi-
section is untenable. It must be confessed that the
vivisectors themselves who, though mainly doctors, are
seldom occupied with medical practice, do not perform
their experiments with any idea that these can be of
use to medicine. They are prompted to engage in this
cruel pursuit by what has been happily denominated I
“ scientiﬁc curiosity.” That the majority of medical ?
men, though few of them have ever performed or even ;
witnessed the vivisection of animals, are advocates of l

 

 

jg“??? experiments on animals is undoubtedly true ; but the
reason is that they are persuaded by able editors and {
authors of medical works and periodicals that such F
experiments are or may be useful for the cure of ’

 
 
     




.7-_¥.;.,’-,3“‘~,v*-::,-A x" V“... :5, ~ . A1535; _ ' fin-‘1" :. _
MmukggugmMJsrgunui_n m: 1* a .. u _

.-.<. 1- .-\-.‘ ,V V; .-
or a.» . - g v1._‘v-t$ ,,» as; ;.-
. /.:z,.-kn,,,.—=< .

r ‘93:. _,

. 1.:
,5,‘
it"
«,-

‘r
31.:
~.
M.
'n'lj

x;
J‘T‘;

. a»
u}:
', ‘ 1

'1»:
‘1'5’
r9»?

’ K
i";
1."

.3'

5‘
1r.
A l,
fa!
. _.

In

l'l'
.43.
If}

,3

.5 x

Ital

. «I

1
“l
,1
,-.,.'j‘
if 6!

-.» ,. .uq ‘4‘»4- ‘~.‘.\ . . ~ A zr‘iiﬂ I._ , -..; LA; A‘z._4..‘u~x-...A..‘ A ”4..., . . ‘: , < , mg; ”gt-4", .
-. —, <_‘ , ~ -..- 2-: v. _ [(-f} - . A, a. : . . _,- “,3“ "avg. , ., 5.; 7 — ~ ‘ [uh-H. ‘-.‘- ..r .g_ , L a u: —;-‘ ._ I
__ . -r “2;: m, shah."nwgkmtnwm.imgh_ﬁgntugggggg_x; .- “Ltm__4.r.;_4_s_i_;l_g§_i_._zmg

 

<4)

diseases which have hitherto resisted the established
methods of treatment. There is, however, an ever
increasing number, though still a minority of medical
practitioners, who have studied the subject, and agree
with the conclusion of Mr. Lawson Tait, that “ Vivi—
section as a method of research has constantly led those
who have employed it into altogether erroneous con—
clusions, and the records teem with instances in which
not only have animals been fruitlessly sacriﬁced, but
human lives have been added to the list of victims by
reason of its false light.” (On the uselessness of Vivi—
section upon Animals, by Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S., p.
126)

In Shakespeare’s play of “Cymbeline” it is a
doctor who opposes the queen’s proposal to make ex—

periments on animals with poisons.

“ Your highness
Shall from this practice but make hard your heart!
Besides the seeing these eﬂfects will be
Both noisome and infectious.”

That Dr. Cornelius was right in supposing that this
method of research would harden the heart is evident
from the ever increasing cruelty shown in the ingenious
tortures to which the victims of the vivisectors are
subjected.

Who Originated Modem Vivisection?

It may not be generally known, but it is a fact, that
the originator of the modern practice of vivisection
was not a medical man, but, strange to say, a clergy-
man. In 1733, when no one was thinking of vivi-
section, which had fallen into merited oblivion for a
long period, the Rev. Stephen Hales, B.l)., F.R.S.,
Rector of Farringdon, Rants, and minister of Tedding-
ton, Middlesex, therefore a pluralist, published a book
entitled, Statistical Essays, the second vol. of which
contains meostatics, or an account of some Hydraulic
and Hydrostatical Experiments made on the blood and
Blood-vessels of Animals. In this he gives a detailed
account of numerous experiments he made on horses,
deer, sheep, and other animals, in order to show how

 




 

(s)

the force of the pumping action of the heart decreased
as the blood was withdrawn from the circulation.
He opened a main artery and inserted in it along glass
tube, and showed how high the blood rose in the tube
at each pulsation, and how the blood column decreased
in height as the blood was abstracted ounce by ounce
until the animal died exhausted and exsanguined.
His experiments, though performed more than 160
years ago, were quite of a piece with those of the most
modern professors of the art of vivisection-they were
utterly useless and horribly cruel. In another respect
they also resembled the vivisections of to-day—they
obtained the approbation of the Royal Society, and
were published in the transactions of that august
body, and their author was elected a Fellow of the
Society. It is well-known that the surest, I might
almost say the only, passport of a doctor to the
Fellowship of the Royal Society is that he has per-
petrated a great number of vivisections in the pursuit
of science. That his experiments have been utterly
valueless, as far as the health or life of human beings is
concerned, is of no consequence to the bestowers of
the much coveted Fellowship of our most illustrious
scientiﬁc society.

Animal Experiments Futile.

The example of the reverend vivisector was not
extensively followed for many years. Possibly doctors
scorned to be taught by a mere clergyman. But the
latter half of the nineteenth century witnessed a
great revival of experimental research, and with the
discovery—or shall I say theory—of the microbic
origin of many, especially infectious, diseases, the rage
for experiments on animals has attained hitherto un-
known dimensions. .

But the inutility of experiments on animals, even
by the confessions of some of the most industrious
Vivisectors, 6.9., Claude Bernard, who admitted “with-
out doubt our hands are empty of good results,” led
some adventurous spirits to look out for more promising

 




 

(6)

subjects for their investigations. As the poet says,
“the proper study of mankind is man,” so our ardent
researchers thought that the proper subject for experi-
ments, designed to unveil the hidden mysteries of
human nature, should be human beings themselves.
With experiments on so—called “ dumb ” animals it
was a case of “great cry and little wool.” It was
hoped that the human animal would yield a more
abundant ﬂeece. So, as their hearts were hardened, as
Dr. Cornelius says, by a long practice of “noisome and
infectious” experiments on animals, they had no
scruple about purchasing their researches on human
beings provided they could procure an adequate supply
of material. And this, thanks to the complaisance of
doctors in charge of hospitals intended for the relief of
human suﬂ'ering, was forthcoming to any required
extent.

Experiments on Consumptives-

The “ altogether erroneous conclusions ” arrived at
by those early vivisectors of men, Herophilus and
Erasistratus, have not deterred our ﬁn dc siéclc
researchers from experimenting on a very extensive
scale on human victims who had conﬁded themselves
to their care, or had entered the hospitals for the cure
of their diseases or the alleviation of their sufferings.

Professor Koch, Berlin, who is “ damned to ever-
lasting fame ” by his pretended remedy for tuberculosis,
which killed many and cured none, gives an account in
the Deutsche Med. Woo/zensckmft of November 13th,
1890, of the effects of tuberculin injections on healthy
adults.

In the same periodical of February, 19th, 1911, we
read that Professor Schreiber, of Konigsberg, wishing
to try the effects of tuberculin injections on new born
children, was allowed by the director of the Midwifery
Hospital of Konigsberg to operate on 40 infants. He
began with one decimilligram and continued to inject
the tuberculin in ever increasing quantities, until he
at last injected as much as 5 centigrammes, about 50

 

 




 

(7)

times as much as Koch said was the maximum dose
for children from 3 to 5 years old. Schreiber says he
had the kind permission of the chief of the Hospital,
Professor Dohrn, to make his unjustiﬁable experi-
ments on these infants, but he does not say that he
asked for the consent of the mothers, but though he
says that no immediate effects were observed from the
inJ ections, it is very unlikely that they should have no
1njurious inﬂuence on the future health of the subjects
of this barbarous experiment.

Desiring to observe the effects of tuberculin injections
on a child of a tuberculous family, Schreiber persuaded
a labouring man to allow his little son, whose mother
was suffering from pulmonary consumption, to be
operated on. After the injection of one milligram, the
boy was attacked by violent fever which lasted several
days, with considerable swelling of a maxillary and a
cervical gland. He also mentions that he injected
tuberculin repeatedly into two healthy persons and that
he observed an increase of temperature to 39° and 40°
after each injection. Apart from the danger and
cruelty of these experiments, their utter uselessness
must strike every one.

Shocking Experiments on Women.

Experiments designed to ascertain the effects of
inoculations of various virulent bacteria on women
were conducted on a colossal scale. Dr. A. Doederlein,
in a monograph, relates how he inoculated a young
unmarried woman with the microbe of pus. This
seems to have inspired Dr. Menge, Assistant Physician
in the University Hospital for Women in Leipzic,
with the idea of making similar inoculations on non-
pregnant women. His experiments are recorded in
the Deutsche Med. Wochenschriﬂ, 1894, Nos. 46 to 48.
His subjects were 35 women, who a fortnight previously
had undergone the formidable operation of laparotomy
(216., cutting open the abdomen). His experiments on
these poor women were 80 in number. The bacillus
pyocyaneus (obtained from green pus) was, used 23

 




 

 

(8)

times; the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (from a
suppurating breast) 30 times; the streptococcus
pyogenes (from the lochial discharge of recently
conﬁned women suﬁering from puerperal fever, and
from the purulent secretion of a woman "vs/”he had died
of peritonitus) 27 times. He says :-——

“ The bacteria I used in my eighty experiments on thirty-ﬁve
different patients of the Royal Institute were taken either from
diseased mammary glands: from the discharges of recently con-
ﬁned women suffering from puerperal fever; or from cultivations
I had made from the pus in the abdominal cavity of a person who
had died of peritonitis. All the bacteria planted were capable of
taking root and ﬂourishing.”

Experiments en New=bom Children.

He also introduced into the bodies of newborn
infants “ a large number” of staphylococci These
experiments were made in order to see if the parts
into which these virulent bacteria were introduced
could expel them. Nature, more merciful than
the doctor, saved these defenceless women and
babes from the dreadful consequences of this virus
violation~—~all except one who got an acute
inﬂammation. He says :-—-

“ My experiments on new-born babies (girls) disproved the
correctness of the professor’s deductions. Unfortunately I could
get only three babies to experiment on. These I took immediately
after birth. They were not bathed, but at once wrapped up in
sterile linens and carried to my laboratory. I inoculated these
subjects with very considerable quantities of staphylococci.”

Dr. B. Kronig (ibid., N o. 43) selected for his
experiments of the same character 82 pregnant women.
He employed the bacillus pyocyaneus, the staphylococ-
cus pyogenes aureus, and the streptococcus pyogenes.
Fortunately the results of all these useless experiments
were negative, but the risk of infection with dangerous
diseases was great, and no physician with any self-
respect, any feeling of humanity, or any proper sense
of his duty to the patients conﬁded to his care, would
have performed or allowed such hazardous experiments.

In the Royal University Ear Hospital in Halls
(Archie. f. 0hrenheilk., vol. 27, p. 254), Dr.
Schimmelbusch inoculated two boys with a pus
culture taken from a boil on a girl’s ear. The matter

 

 




(9)

was rubbed into the leg. Both boys were supposed to
be dying with blood poisoning. On one boy, aged 10,
ﬁrst pustules and then a boil appeared. This boy died
some weeks afterwards. The other boy, aged 18, on
whom the inoculation developed 50 pustules next day,
died 24 hours after the inoculation.

Dr. Jansen, of the Charity Hospital in Stockholm,
reported as follows on the 12th May, 1891, in a
lecture to the Medical Society at Stockholm :——

“ When I began my experiments with black small-pox pus, I
should, perhaps, have chosen animals for the purpose. But the
most ﬁt subjects, calves, were obtainable only at considerable cost.
There was besides, the cost of their keep, so I concluded to make
my experiments upon the children of the Foundling’s Home, and
obtained kind permission to do so from the head physician,
Professor Medin.”

“ I selected fourteen children who were inoculated day after
day. Afterward I discontinued them, and used calves. .
I did not continue my experiments on calves long, ﬁrst because I
despaired of gaining my ends within a limited period, and again
because the calves were so expensive. I intend, however, to go
back to my experiments in the Foundling Asylum at some future
time.”

The foregoing examples of experiments on human
beings, though cruel, unjustiﬁable and useless, were
fortunately not attended with much apparent immediate
injury to the health, but such is not the case with
regard to the experiments I have now to mention. In
these the operators knew very well that they were
surreptitiously giving diseases of a peculiarly loathsome
character to innocent and trusting men, women and
children.

Children fed on Excrement.

Dr. Epstein, Professor of Children’s Therapeutics
in Prague, wishing to ascertain if round worms could
be reared at will in the human intestines, experimented
on ﬁve children; one was 3 months old, another 125
years, three others of ages from 45 to 6 years. These
children were all quite free from worms. They were
fed upon a savoury mess consisting of excrement of a
child suffering from round worms and containing many
eggs of the worms, mixed with syrup. The result was
that the children became infested with round worms,

 

 

. 2 1—“ ‘y‘

3:; .x i .:

 

 




 

 

(10/

and passed quantities of the eggs by stool. They
were, after some months, dosed. with santonin and
castor oil. From one 22, and from another 79 full
grown worms came away. It is not stated whether
any worms came away from the other children, though
their dejections were full of eggs. But as the professor
says “it is much easier to get the worms in than to get
them out,” it would seem that the poor creatures were
allowed to go out of the hospital still suffering from
these health-destroying and dangerous parasites,
wantonly introduced into their bodies by a professor of
children’s therapeutics. Of one of the children the
professor says, “the child was evidently reduced,” and
indeed every medical man knows that these worms are
often the cause of much suffering and ill~health, and
cases of death caused by them have been recorded by
Cobbold, Davaine, Blair and Rogers.

Inoculated with Gonorrhma.

Dr. Gross, Assistant Physician to the Imperial
Rudolf Hospital, had under his care a young man who
was admitted for an abscess on the left temple on the
5th July, 1895. On the 25th of that month Dr.
Gross communicated to him, by injection of its matter,
a foul disease, which medical men will recognise when
told that its microbe is called gonococcus. The victim,
who had never suffered from any like malady, was
assured by the operator that it would have no effect.
But in 5 days he had the disease very severely, and it
caused some serious inﬂammatory complications, viz. :
epididymitis and cystitis, the gravity of which com-
plications all medical men know. The poor fellow left
the hospital in disgust and went to another hospital to
be cured of the disease wantonly caused by the doctor.
The same Dr. Gross relates in the third number of
the fourth vol. of the Archie. fair Dermatologic, 24
cases where he injected the gonococcus poison into the
arm, whereby the victims were rendered more or less
seriously ill. Dr. C. Bunm, Professor of Gynaecology
and Physician to the Midwifery Hospital of the

 

 




 

 

(II)

University of Basle, injected this gonococcus virus
into an incurable paralytic, with the result that the
defenceless cripple got the disease. (See C. Fraenkel,
Grundriss der Bacterienkundc, 1890, p. 451.) He also
communicated the disease in the same manner to a
woman. (See Real-Encyclopaedie ole?" gesammten
Heilkmzde, vol. 20, p. 137.) For this he deserved to
be well kicked by every respectable doctor.

These cases are bad enough, but the worst of all are
the following, with which I shall conclude this
miserable record of medical depravity :—

Women diseased with Syphilis.

Professor E. Finger, of Vienna (Allg. Wienermed.
Zeitg. Nos. 50 and 51), inoculated three healthy
women, recently conﬁned, with, another infectious
disease of a loathsome and shameful character. The
ﬁrst case was inoculated eight days after childbirth.
The second case was inoculated ﬁve days after child-
birth. The third case was inoculated ten days after
conﬁnement. These three unsuspecting women all
took the disease in its characteristic virulence. They
were all transferred to the department of the
hospital devoted to this foul disease, as they were
suffering from this disease artiﬁcially produced by an
unscrupulous doctor. The ﬁrst victim was kept there
twelve weeks, the second four weeks, and the third
ﬁve weeks. We can imagine the feelings of these poor
and probably respectable women compelled to herd
with diseased prostitutes during all that time for no
fault of their own.

Professor N eisser inoculated eight healthy persons
with the serum of the same disease, four of whom
became affected with its unmistakable symptoms
Arch. f. Dermatologic, &c.,, vol. 44, p. 485, 1895.

These experiments have more than once occupied
the attention of German legislators. The London
Chronicle of March 7, 1900, contained a Renter’s
telegram from Berlin as follows :—-———

“ In the Lower House of the Prussian Diet to-day, on the
consideration of the Estimates of the Ministry of Public Worship,
Herr von Pappenheim called attention to the experiments which

 




.— gi. .~_er——.————.—_‘—..¢.——7 W.“ is?

(12)

Professor Neisser, of Breslau, had made with certain serum on
children and adults. It had also been shown that similar experiments
had been made by other universities.

The Government Commissioner, in reply, said that on Dec.
13th last the Public Prosecutor decided to act, but it was subse-
quently found that, owing to the lapse of time since the commission
of the offence, it had fallen under the statute of limitations. On
January 16th the Government ordered the disciplinary examination
of Professor Neisser.

The Minister of Public \Vorship, in reply, stated that so far
as he was personally concerned he had no hesitation in declaring
that he extremely regretted what had occurred. He would give
every guarantee that such eases should not recur, and that a certain
supervision should be exercised to that effect.”

In the course of the debate Prof. Virchow said:
“ The serum-therapy is absolutely impossible without
animal experiments. When a certain point in it is
reached, it will be quite natural, and I cannot consider
it a folly or wickedness or crime, if the experiments
have been proved on animals, to try them on man
(cries of dissent). Yes! Gentlemen, it is the only ‘
way, and it is done continually.” §

 

 

Neisser’s Brutal Experiments.

The London Times of Jan. 5th, 1901, published a
telegraphic despatch “ from our own Correspondent ” as
follows 2—-

“ The Disciplinary Court for ofﬁcials sentenced Professor
Neisser, of the University of Breslau, last Saturday to receive a
censure and to pay a ﬁne of 300 marks for having published an
account of certain experiments to which he had subjected children 1
who were patients in the University Hospital. In an article pub- E
lished in 1889, Professor Neisser himself related that in 1892 he i
had made experiments upon children with the virus of syphilis, ,
and he gave an account of the course of the cases. Neither the
parents of the children nor the little patients themselves were aware I
of what was being done. The Disciplinary Court was unable to
inﬂict a penalty for the experiments themselves, as the right to i
prosecute had lapsed through time; but it punished Professor
Neisser for the account which he had published.” 3

The Medical Press and Circular of March 29th, 4
1899, in commenting upon the matter, remarked that
in the inquiry “into the possibility of immunising
against syphilis, N eisser asked himself the question
whether the serum of syphilitic subjects was capable
of communicating the disease to healthy persons.”
“ Proceeding on the assumption that serum deprived
of cellular elements is in most infectious diseases devoid
of infectious properties, he made use of serum obtained

 




 

 

 

 

(13)

from syphilitic subjects, which he had proved to be
sterile by preserving it for days and even weeks.
With this serum he injected 8 girls, 5 by subcutaneous
and three by intravenous injection. A girl belonging
to the ﬁrst series who had not meanwhile developed
any symptom of the disease came to the hospital 3
years later suffering from cerebral syphilis. All 3
girls of the second group developed syphilis—one a
month, another between5 and 6 months, and the third
a year after the inoculation.

Editorial Condemnation.

The Editorial continues : “ It would be difficult to
acquit Dr. Neisser of a large measure of responsibility
in respect of the causation of syphilis in these cases.’

. “ We however, are less concerned 1n estab—
lishing the culpability of Dr Neisser than 1n condemn-
1ng the spirit which prompted such experiments. All
measures, even if novel, which may reasonably be
expected to assist in bringing about the recovery of the
patient without injury to his health may legitimately
be resorted to with the consent of the patient, but
measures, whether by drugs or by operation, which
have not for direct object the cure of the patient and
which may prove inimical to his health or condition,
are inadmissible under any circumstances and must
expose the perpetrator to profession al ostracism and to
penal rebuke.” ”‘

The disease thus wilfully introduced into the bodies
of these healthy persons, of course without their
knowledge or consent, is often one of the most terrible
affections to which humanity is liable. Its effects are
frequently hereditary, extending to the third and fourth
generation. It is usually contracted by the fault of its
victim, so we may apply to the hereditary sufferers the
words of the poet :

“ Delicta majorum immeritus lues ; ”
but it is sad and shameful to our profession to think

 

it Nevertheless Professor Neisser was invited by the West London Medico-Ohirurgical
Society to deliver the Cavendish Lecture on the Evolution of the Modern Treatment of Syphilis
at Kensington Town Hall. London, on June 27th. 1911, and presented with the gold medal of the
Society for “ distinguished work in Medical science.”

,__-_“Mww_;_gmmww_ﬂ.m-WV;__.__ r41.-_;..__..._ _, .

. njiik~£ 41;. _

-....,_.v.::..~;. .n-L...‘.'_.-1i;_: . iMJh .m;i.;...;:: .12: » v ‘ 429;?!

x: —,
-;’AL;-_1... ..

.LA;..’./sr......l...u. ‘ ‘

M.-gnz.~;._m;;.‘._;h.-_. can...“ 2;

 




(I4)

that in apostrophising the offspring of the above
sufferers from the criminal folly of these “ scientiﬁc ”
researchers we should have to substitute “ medicorum ”
for “ majorum,” for though innocent, they must suffer,
not for the sins of their fathers, but for those of their
fathers’ or mothers’ doctors.

I might add to the long list of “scientiﬁc ” crimes
I have given above many others nearly as bad, but I
have no heart to dwell longer on this repulsive subject.
It is some satisfaction to know that these records are
taken from continental sources, and that British
scientiﬁc researchers, though not guiltless of cruel
experiments on brutes, and more or less addicted to
testing new and powerful drugs on hospital patients,
have not as yet perpetrated such crimes against
humanity as are above exposed, and I do not believe
that the medical profession of this land would regard
with indifference, far less with approbation, experiments
on human beings with the virus of diseases, even

though they were calculated to be of use to the medical
art, which the cases I have recorded above are not.

Pf

 

English Methods.

We would add that since the above article was
written serum and vaccine therapy has become the
fashionable craze in medical treatment in England and
it has been accompanied by many disasters and
fatalities. So uncertain and unscientiﬁc are its
methods, and so unsatisfactory are its results, that the
whole system can be viewed in no other light than
that of experimentation upon human beings.

Even the vivisection of criminals has been openly
advocated in this country. Dr. Preston King, of
Bath, wrote the “ Lancet ” of Sept. 30, 1905 : “Think
for a moment what this would mean. At present we
are wandering in the dark, seeking vainly for the light
that these experiments alone could give.”

This is indeed the goal toward which experiments
upon living animals must inevitably lead—exploitation
of human beings.

 

 

 




 

 

The British Union

for the Abolition of Vivisection.
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society).

 

FOUNDRESS: FRANCES POWER COBBE.
President and Hon. Sea: WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P., M.D., &c.
Hon: Treasurer: RIGHT HON. VISCOUNT HARBERTON. '
Secretary :V MISS B. E. KIDD.

Oﬁiees: 32 CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.'I.

 

 

From the Autobiography of Miss F. P. COBBE.

“ To those of my readers who may desire to contribute to the
Anti-Vivisection Cause, and who have shared my views on it as set
forth in my numberless pamphlets and letters, and to those specially
who, like myself, intend to bequeath money to carry on the war
against scientific cruelty, I now earnestly say as my final counsel:

“Support the British Union.”

 

lnthe case of benefactors desiring to bequeath legacies in support
of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to state clearly in their
Wills, “The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,” and to
make them payable to the Treasurer for the time being.

Form of Bequest.

l bequeath unto the Society called THE BRITISH UNION
FOR THE ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTIOA, the sum of .....................
free of Legacy Duty, and I direct that the same shall be paid to
the Treasurer for the time being of such Iast=meutioned Society,
exclusively out of such part of my personal estate as may legally
be bequeathed for charitable purposes, and in priority to all other
payments.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils ’must be in
writing, signed by the Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the ,
T estator and of each other.

A Denation of Five Pounds and upwards constitutes a Life Member.
An Annual Subscription of Ten Shillings constitutes an Annual Member.
Remz'ttames by Crossed C/zegue or Postal Order. Smaller Donations gratefully
accepted.

An Annual Payment'of 5/- or 2/6 constitutes an Associate of the Union.

 




- ‘I~-‘~-¢ v-vﬁm-r. ;.«'r :7... i . 4': q
3'; {1'35 1".‘T:;§,..,, 1 , [i 19" 7.».
5 ti; iJi’l 231.212; 42.3%" 2.;5-‘9'7 ‘L “ ." .; "'

é . . . . L
*: .1 . a v .
3% iii-£13531? "Tie-4‘ ;” f , ‘

7

w-._,>—-.- on: ., ...,.1, r

 

 

"a! ‘-. — i. .
[{inr: a: ul’LTtE " is 1

v “.3?

ABLECTED ANTI VlVlSECTlQJ
LITERATURE

 

 

 

 

 

Pamphlets by Dr. HAD‘WEN, J P.

Single
with postage

The Modern Medicine Man (shewing how Serums
and Vaccines arewmade) 2d,

Experiments on Animals Useless and Cruel 3d,

The Antitoxin Treatment of Diphtheria 2d,‘
The Cult of the Vivisector 1d,
Tuberculosis and Cow’s Milk... 1d.
Rats and Fleas, a study in Plague... 2d,
Debate between Dr. Hadwen and Dr. Eastham... _ 2d-

Viewsof Men and Women of Note on the Vivi-
section Question 3d,
(Illustrated with Portraits).

The Case against Vaccination 1d,
The Fraud of Inoculation 3d,
The Fraud of Vaccination _3d.

Pasteur and Pasteurism 1d,

 

By BEATRlCE E. KlDD.
The Policy of Abolition 1/- Per doz., Single,

 

By Miss A. F. WHITELEY.

Some Medical Views of Vivisection

 

 

 

F. J. BROOKE, Printer, 3 Westgate Street, Gloucester. 7153

 




