VIVISECTION

AND THE

TREATMENT OF PATIENTS,-

BY

STANFORD HARRIS, M.R.C.S,

 

JOHN HEYWOOD,
DEANSGATE AND RIDGEFIELD, MANCHESTER“;
AND 11, PA'I‘ERNOS’I‘ER BUILDINGS,
LONDON.

1387.

 




1 1|, ‘ ‘ l 1 \ n ‘1‘ ‘ ‘\ ‘iqulwtv“ ‘

 

 




 

I ';~H'v" r . 4 ' ,. ' ' ‘ " , . , _.-,. "7w: 7" ..‘ , . 1' Au- ~Wui". 5'45".“ '
s . l; ' ~ , . “"-- ... ”'vn ' ' ’ - . ,...,-,.'...— . .. .... , . .‘p... ”brag-.3"... :L @l‘xriﬁaﬁ if gg’.___.i..,_~-;_F "" ,.__ ,

 

VlVISECTION AND THE TREATMENT
OF PATIENTS.

THE advocates of Vivisection ordinarily deny that its practice
will lead to the habit of experimenting on patients, and that
the public, which hopes to beneﬁt from the sufferings
inﬂicted by scientiﬁc men on brute beasts, is in danger of
suffering in its turn at the hands of men of science, zealous
in their pursuit of abstract knowledge.

Such of us, however, who deny the moral right of man
to vivisect animals for his own advantage—such of us, espe-
cially whose medical studies take us through a c0urse of
that literature which is most affected by the ethical inﬂuences
of vivisection,—may well remark with distrust the way in
which patients begin to be regarded, and the new way in
which they are likely to be treated, by men who follow the
practice of making experiments on living animals.

There is no need to point out to what a degree those
experiments have been carried in the hands of some zealous
men, nor with what recklessness and extravagance animals
have been put to suffering by men absorbed in the search
for abstract physiological truth. This has already been done
by zealous humanitarians 5 but some of these, while pleading
on behalf of the animals, are unwilling to yield to the belief
that experiments on creatures of a lower order will gradually
lead to experiments on their fellow—men. The author of a
little pamphlet, recently published, on “The Clergy and
Vivisection,” seems to doubt this possibility: and it is in
confutation of such a mistaken impression, viz., that experi-
ments on living animals may safely be permitted without
leading to experiments on patients, that it may be useful to
put before the public a few extracts from leading medical
and surgical works.

If we take the ninth edition of Dr. Ringer’s Handbook of
Therapeutics, which in a preface prepared for the sixth
edition, is declared to be “especially intended for students
and young practitioners,” we ﬁnd described many different
series of experiments on men, women, and children.

In this one book there are mentioned no fewer than nine
physicians or surgeons who have been engaged in acknow-
.edged “ experiments ” on human beings. Indeed, the

 




 

 

 

 

 

4

later the date of a medical book or paper, the more
numerous we may expect to ﬁnd the description of such
experiments; for the administration of drugs to human beings
for the purpose of investigation is essentially a progressive
science. It is yet in its faint beginnings, but it shows signs
of rapid and sturdy growth.

On page 523 we ﬁnd the statement “in conjunction with
Mr. E. A. Morshead, I have made some investigations re-
garding the action of muscarin on the human body.” The
object of these investigations is not stated to be the discovery
of something to the beneﬁt of man 3 it is possible that such
was the ultimate end in the minds of the experimenters,
but the reason-' given to the “students and young prac-
titioners ” is a different one. They are told that the
“observations were undertaken to ascertain whether the
action of muscarin on man is the same as on animals.”

If every series of vivisectional experiments on animals has
to be veriﬁed on man, the result will be disastrous indeed.

But the idea seems to be accepted in some scientiﬁc
circles. Dr. J. H. Arbuckle, for exampple [page 392] “ﬁnds
that the following substances, nicotia, atropia, hyoscyamia,
aconitia, hydrate of chloral, nitrate of amyl, prussic acid,
strychnia, morphia, picrotoxine, pushed even to a fatal dose,
do not in any degree affect the circulation at the fundus or
the eye. His observations were made on rabbits, and the
results they obtained were, with respect to some of those
agents, conﬁrmed by experiments on man ;” not, it is to be
presumed, pushed to the “fatal” doses before mentioned.
The quotation is from the West Riding Lunatic Asylum
Reports, vol. 5. Were the lunatics of West Riding the
“ subjects ” of these experiments?

To return to the experiments of Dr. Ringer and Mr.
Morshead :—

“ We have made thirteen experiments on four men, seven,
three, two, and one respectively. These men, it is well to
state, were not in good health ; three were in a delicate
anaemic state, the other had slight fever from some obscure
cause, though his pulse was not quickened.”

It ought to have been stated here, for the information of
the public, and the guidance of “young practitioners ” who
may wish to continue these investigations themselves,
Whether these men were patients, and whether they were
experimented on with their own consent. The result of the
experiments was the discovery that “the action of mus’carin
on man is identical with that on animals.” The symptoms
produced, were, however, unpleasant, and could hardly have
been beneﬁcial to men in a “delicate anmmic state.”

, J» ~

t
W




5

“It contracts the pupil, excites profuse perspiration, free
salivation, running at the eyes and nose 3 it purges, some
times excites nausea and vomiting. ,. . . . The perspi-
ration stood. in large drops on the face after the larger
doses, the nightdress became soaked, and the skin felt
sodden. . . . . In ﬁve the drug produced a frequen1
hacking cough.”

In a comparison between the action of the drug and pilo
carpine Dr. Ringer speaks of the effects of pilo-carpine: in
“numerous experiments made by me in conjunction with
Mr. Gould and Mr. Murrell.” Pilo-carpine produces, we

‘ are told, headache and giddiness, with other symptoms more

or less painful.

On whom were the observations made which are chronicled
on page 450 P

“The active principles of these substances [veratrum
viride and aconitia] pass readily into the blood, as is sufﬁ-
ciently proved by the symptoms they occasion 3 dull, heavy,
frontal headache, sometimes accompanied by shooting or
stabbing pain over one or both brows, in the pit of the
stomach, and at the region of the heart. The heart is
greatly affected, for the pulse“ grows slow and weak, and
may sink from 70 or 80 to 40 or 35 beats in a mnute,
becoming at the same time so feeble as scarcely to be felt at
the wrist. Pushed to the full extent, this drug greatly pro-
strates the muscular strength to the extent, perhaps, of
rendering walking impossible, and the muscles may twitch
and jerk spasmodically; the surface is bedewed with a
clammy sweat 3 the features are pinched ; and there may be
complete blindness and deafness, but delirium .is rare.
Dangerous as these symptoms appear, yet they speedily
pass away if the drug is discontinued.”

We read on the next line of “some self—experimenters.”
It is possible that medical men have joined at a veratria
feast in such numbers that delirium may be spoken of as
being “rare” among them afterwards? It is possibl: that
this drug can have been self-administered to a degree which
renders walking impossible, produces spasmodic jerkings of
the muscles, and reduces the pulse to 35 beats a minute,
making it so feeble as to be hardly felt at the wrist?

It does not seem probable at least.

On the next page we meet with a somewhat ambiguous
sentence :

“Veratrum has been said to lower the temperature in
health; but this is not the case according to the late Dr.
Squarey’s observations on University College Hospital
patients.”

. ,a. , a, , ,, , _ .. , _ , .. 7-.
, .- ‘ "" ‘ " ' '=‘ .‘J Hit-h" m. V _ " .A .53...“ 7", a'.':‘.. , .-- '- v. '

-..‘ -.....- ,. .. .wcu- a... .u--. ,. . .. ' . ia-E'Vx» ~m‘»n-§w5,.ﬁv ~, »~ . wa. .
1- . .. ‘ ... ._ x. ,A . i H-» . , ., , ,, ., ... -. -‘.~Ao,‘ﬁ-s‘ 1., .prah-.. .4.“ 4, _., _> - _ ~-

 

 




 

6

As these are called “ observations,” Dr. Squarey has not
been numbered among those who profess to have made
“experiments.” If, however, the “University College
Hospital patients” were not “in health” there is no mean-
ing in the sentence 3 if they were in health, how could they
be “patients,” and for What purpose was the drug adminis-
tered to them?

On page 528 Dr. Ringer remarks that in order to test the
antagonism between atropia and pilo-carpine :———-

“I have on many occasions, administered pilo-carpine,
and when the sweating was profuse, I have injected,
hypodermically, grain ﬁlm of atropia, and in ﬁve to ten
minutes the skin became quite dry, and the salivation
ceased.”

It is evident that these drugs could not have been adminis-
tered for the good of the patient, since they counteract
one another. The beauty of the experiment consisted in the
fact that they did so ; and it is remarkable that Dr. Ringer
did not amuse himself with this pretty example of his power
as a physician once, but 072 many occasions.

On page 530 students are told that gelsemium is “a
powerful paralyzer and respiratory poison,” and Dr. Ringer
says :—

“ In order to test the effects of gelsemium on man, I gave
it to six persons on seventeen occasions in doses sufﬁcient
to produce decided toxic effects.”

Four pages further on, it is remarked,

“To test the effect of gelsemium in the circulation, I
made thirty-three series of observatlons on patients in whom
we induced the full toxic effects.”

The effect of this drug, in degree if not in kind, differs in
different patients, thus :--—-

“A woman suffered from diplopia, headache, and hazy
sight after a second dose of ten minims.”

While, on theother hand,

“In one instance I gave twenty minims to a delicate
young woman every three hours for several days, ﬁnally
causing only slight heaviness in the eyelids.

This was decidedly an obstinate young woman; she
refused to feel pain, in spite of the careful efforts made to
produce it.

Among the symptoms produced by gelsemium are
mentioned pain in the brows, followed soon by giddiness,
then by pain in the eyeballs and soon after by dimness of
sight, . . . . The movements of the eyeball are
restricted, and associated in one case with a strong double
internal squint. The patient next complain: Qf weakness in




7 ,

his legs, and we have never pushed the drug beyond the
production of this symptom. . . . . Some keep moist
ening the mouth with a little water even hours after the
discontinuance of the medicine. ”

In a resume of symptoms we ﬁnd “dull aching pain in

the eyeballs, now and then shooting in character.
The headache and pain in the eyeballs were often severe,
and were intensiﬁed on moving the eyes. . . . . One
patient experienced pain over the occiput, with a sensation
as if the crown of the head were being lifted in two pieces.
. Giddiness was another prominent and early
symptom. . . . When well marked, the patients
staggered, and were afraid even to stand, much less walk.
So giddy was one patient that he nearly fell off the form
. In every case the sight was affected.”

It is certainly a matter to be seriously regretted that 1n
books intended for the instruction of young medical men,
so little trouble ls taken to explain under what circumstances,
and with what justiﬁcation, such experiments as these are
undertaken. An unfortunate phrase was used lately to
excuse an incorrect statement in a medical journal, that it
was “accurate enough for scientiﬁc purposes.’ Such an
expression may well become a by—word of reproach to a
profession 1n which the scientiﬁc knowledge is to be used
directly in dealing with human creatures, and in whose
members a strong sense of responsibility 1n the use of drugs
is much more important than the exact knowledge of the
precise effects of such drugs, when administered under
improper circumstances andb in deleterious doses. The
exactness with which such effects are described, combined
with the total absence of explanation of the circumstances
under which they were 1,)roduced either in the preface of
the book, or elsewhere, is suggestive of the spirit in which
the experiments may come to, if they are not already,
made.

The patients were “afraid even to stand, much less walk.”
One pat"? 1t nearly “fell off the form ” What form?
Whﬂe was he? and how was it all arranged?

On page 62 3 we are told that

“In conjunction with Mr. Bury, I have some investiga-
tions concerning the action of salicine on the human body,
using healthy children for our experiments, to whom we gave
doses sufﬁcient to produce toxic symptoms.”

Under these doses, Which we are informed are not
‘dangerous,” so that the healthy children merely suffered
pain, and were not put in peril of their lives, “the head-
ache is often very severe, so that the patient buries his
head 1n the pillow.”

.1 , : 1143,57: .\ 1 ”r...

 




 

8

There were other symptoms, “muscular weakness and
tremor. . . . Great muscular irritability,” quickened and
weakened pulse, “slight fever,” etc., but “in these healthy
lads the drug did not cause delirium.”

“ Our ﬁrst set of experiments was made on a lad aged ten.
. . He was admitted with belladonna poisoning, but
our observations were not commenced till some days after
his complete recovery.”

Here at last we have a history. “He was admitted” to a

hospital, presumably as a patient; and he was detained
there, after his “complete recovery,” as a subject for
experiment. It is not mentioned, for the information of
“students and young practitioners,” by what authority he
was so detained. He was kept in bed, but we are told that
he was allowed the luxury of sitting up in it. Afterwards—
having gone through an ordeal of belladonna poisoning,
presumably accidental—his curers took him through an
artiﬁcial course of poisoning by salicine. He endured
under these circumstances “severe frontal headache.
So severe that the lad shut his eyes and buried his head in
his arm. . . . Though a very lively boy, he became
very dull and stupid, lying with his eyes closed, and
answering questions slowly. He complained of. tingling
like pins and needles in his right ankle, and suffered from
very decided muscular weakness, soon accompanied by
muscular twitchings and trembling of the legs and arms.”

What a strange spectacle this poor boy would have been
for the charitable supporters of a hospital to observe when
they entered its walls. Would they have been informed of
the cause of his sufferings when they leaned .over him in
pity? To Dr. T. Gilbart Smith, the sight would presumably
have been one to produce unmitigated satisfaction, since he
is reported to have said in his address at Nottingham in
September, 1882, that the wards of hospitals are too often
ﬁlled with cases useless for instruction to the students of
medicine, and that if such cases were refused admission,
“the existing number of beds would be found to provide a
far richer material for the purposes of clinical instruction.”
Under such favourable circumstances the medical student
would soon learn to evince a greater interest in his work,
and “ward work would possess an attraction hitherto
unknown.” In short, we might consider the patients as
suffering for the education of the students, rather than the
students as educating themselves (by unattractive and
uninteresting means) for the reilef of the sufferings of the
patients The relative importance of the two facts would
be reversed in our minds, as they seem to be already in the
minds of some advanced thinkers.

 

 

 

 




bf

 

 

9

Of another boy experimented on we read “ sixty-ﬁve hours
after the last dose he was still dull, rather deaf, and there
was slight tremor of the hands.”

In this boy the symptoms had been so severe, and
persisted, even progressed, so long after the discontinuance
of the medicine, that his medical attendant felt relieved
when they had abated.

“Not that at any time the boy was dangerously ill, but as
the symptoms progressed, after discontinuing the medicine,
we did not know how long, and to what degree, they might
increase.”

The public is aware that patients are almost entirely in
the hands of their medical attendant, whether in hospital. or
out of hospital; it is to him their relatives will apply for
certiﬁcates of death in cases ending fatally. If to the
danger of illness the possibility of experimentation is added,
and those who are suspected of it are the very men in whose
hands is placed the duty of discovering foul play, or the
power of concealing it, the great and deserved conﬁdence
of the public in their medical advisers will be lessened, and
the results will be grievous to both sides. It is therefore for
the good of the profession at large, and of the public on
whose behalf it seeks its knowledge, that the danger of these
new ways should be early perceived, before they have spread
far, and involved many individuals. Some of them are
unnecessary, superﬂuous, besides being dangerous in their
tendencies, as for example, the experiments on alcohol
on page 362. In the present condition of the lower
classes, in which drunkenness is a prevailing vice, a
sufﬁcient number of observations may be made on the
effects of alcohol without experimenting on a boy aged
ten, who had never before taken alcohol in his life;
or without making “dead drunk ” an habitual drunkard.
Cases constantly come before the medical profession of
continued tippling, where the temperature (the subject of
Dr. Ringer’s experiments) can be aken as often as desired
while a cure is being attempted: as in a case which it fell to
the writer’s lot to attend,—almost to nurse—for some
months, in which the quantity of alcohol taken appeared to
have no effect upon the temperature at all. At the present
moment, two cases exist near at hand which he could, if he
desired,_visit, and begin to thermometerize, to his heart’s
content. It must be continually so with any medical man
visiting much among the working classes: so that the
necessity for introducing innocent boys by “ a large number

of observations” to alcohol drinking, or for conﬁrming
drunkards in their evil ways, is altogether imaginary.

 




 

'~-v-:=;:»' . .. , .,_.. , .., , t... H. .~.wi..<v—_....-... ..~ m.

 

 

IO

On page 256 Dr. Ringer thus describes some experiments
on lead.

“There, too, is the fact, in further conﬁrmation of Dr.
Garrod’s discoveries, that if to a gouty person, free at the
time from an acute attack, a salt of lead is administered, it
develops acute gout, with its accompanying symptoms of
severe pain and high fever. The author has repeatedly
veriﬁed this fact.”

The artiﬁcial production—“repeatedly veriﬁed ”——of an
acute attack of gout, with severe pains and high temperature,
is again a curious exercise of a physician’s power.

After the various experiments of Dr. Ringer, it seems a
slight thing to refer to the experiment of Wachsmuth on
his own child, as given in Holmes’ “System of Surgery.”
Wachsmuth wrote the ﬁrst monograph on the haemorrhagic
diathesis. He had excellent opportunities of studying the
disease in two boys of his own household. He had found
Glauber’s salts useful in averting attacks of the disease, and
the secale cornutum efﬁcacious in arresting them. However,
success did not satisfy him in the continuation of the treat-
ment; he resolved to suspend it, and see the result.

Accordingly, during his eldest boy’s “spring attack” of
haemorrhage, he “made some experiments as to the critical
import of the bleeding.”

When “preliminary symptoms” appeared, he gave only
small doses of the usual remedy. As these small doses
proved sufﬁcient to avert an attack, he discontinued them
altogether. “No haemorrhage” had occurred, therefore,
“for the following week I left the child free from all medical
treatment.” Its father and physician abandoned it, in fact,
to the attack of its hereditary enemy—-in the interest of
science. The result was satisfactory.

“The tokens of congestion, which had almost entirely
subsided, were now renewed; still I did not interfere, and
after a few days a smart haemorrhage took place.

The physician and father then came forward once more ;
but soon stayed his hand. He has spoken above of his
habit of giving the secale cornutum “in ﬁve grain doses
every half hour.” He now administered this remedy, but
apparently only the ﬁrst day; in the evening the bleeding
ceased, then he tells us “the boy was very restless in the
night, the orgasm of the blood became more and more
manifest, and at noon of the following day the bleeding
commenced. I/V/mz z'z‘ ﬁaa’ lasted l/zree days I gave ergot
again, and the hwmorrhage ceased.”

-It is hardly necessary to refer to the latest experiment on
nitrite of sodium as a toxic agent, announced at ﬁrst as

 

 




"wwn—r» "'1‘"

M ~‘W ~u

ﬂ“ . M — .»

 

 

11

made by Dr. Ringer in connection with Dr. Murrell, although
it now appears that the experiments on patients were made
by Dr. Murrell alone; these have already attracted public
attention, they were made on “18 adults—r4 men and 4
women,” and again on “16 patients—12 men and 4 women.”
Of the I4 patients the only “one who made no complaint
after taking 10 grains ” was not permitted to escape the
painful effects produced on the rest; I 5 grains were
administered to him, and he was “powerfully affected.”

As a result of these experiments, which have attained
notoriety and awakened indignation beyond the limits of
medical circles, the recommendation of the Westminster
Hospital Authorities can hardly be considered sufﬁcient and
satisfactory.

“The committee recommend that regulations be strictly
enforced that in respect to the treatment of out-patients,
who of necessity cannot be under constant clinical observa-
tion, no remedial agent, the properties and effects of which
are not fully ascertained, shall be administered by the
medical ofﬁcers in charge.”

This recommendation is doubtless made in perfect good
faith, but it hardly meets the requirements of the case. The
second dose of I 5 grains given-to the only patient who
failed to complain of a dose of IO grains, could hardly have
been administered as a “remedial agent.” By referring to
it as such, and prescribing the administration of similar
agents to indoor patients alone, the committe leave a pain-
ful loophole for suspicion that the indoor patients may be
experimented upon as the outdoor ones have been, because
they are under constant supervision and a disastrous result
is less probable in their case.

Unfortunately the public desire to be satisﬁed that pati-
ents will not be used at all for purposes of pure experiment,
and that the medical men to whom they entrust the care of
their health, will be content to study such diseases as come
to be cured, and not to produce artiﬁcial ones for their own
ediﬁcation.

STANFORD HARRIS, M.R.C.S.

 

Joan HEYWOUD, Excelsior Steam Printing and Bookbinding Works, Hulme Hall
Road, Manchester.

 




 




