 

‘Q’
‘ «yikr
M;

{'1’ ‘4" V ‘,

 

t1]!

, ,. /.
a? ,
./

7/ / /,
7/,” / .

/
A a\l
.. {1
./ / a; r
/ , r,
I/./ . 'I .
. I
/ I
.9

f.
y i
1/

vi~‘5f‘ -
{W
IQ
COUNTY

0

BE!
HE

A
m
R
nu
L
F
1.
4
M
M
“M
T:
E
E
R
T
S
.m
5
9
W
N.

ﬁnmmm 50;:
of dimmer mlumt

2101

 




 

 
  
  

 
 

U
\.<
2% . ~93!“ "'\\

REPORTI,

  
 

oun

   
  

     
 

m

The Society’s work increases tremendously every year
partially due to intensive effort and the outstanding
growth in population in Dade County. Records of the
Society’s work in past years are available for exam-
ination at the Shelter Office. Our Humane Society’s
records are in full detail showing the extent of our
work in each municipality and the unincorporated
areas.

The Humane Society of Greater Miami is a non-profit
Florida corporation. It does not participate in any
drives such as the Community Chest and depends
largely upon contributions and its membership to
finance its work.

 

While there has been consid-
erable expansion of the Hu-
mane Society’s plant and
equipment within the past
few years, further improve—
ments are sorely needed.
Among them we might mention two batteries of in-
dividual kennels and individual runs and enlargement
of our office and reception facilities. Any one inter-
ested in helping us obtain this expansion will be
shown planning in this respect. Contributions to your
Humane Society are tax exempt.

 

  
 

With an average staff of 16
full time employees and with
seven ambulances and em-
ergency vehicles, the entire
County of Dade is served day
and night.

A Society agent is on duty at
all hours to receive animals brought to the Shelter.
Visiting hours at the Shelter and adoption time, 10:00
A. M. to 3:30 P. M. week days.

Each employee of the Society’s staff has been care-
fully trained in animal first aid and road emergency
Work. Our Field Agents are men of high calibre,
trained for their work and deputized under Florida
law.




 

PET ANIMAL CEMETERY

Conceded to be one of the most beautiful in the na-
tion, there is no finer resting place for your departed
pet than the Pet Animal Cemetery owned and oper-
ated by the Humane Society. It is operated on a non-
profit basis and the cost of a burial is reasonable.
Visitors are always welcome.

LEGADIES

A Humane Society’s perpetual existence depends pri-
marily on legacies—which, when properly invested,
return good income and relieve the Society from
dependence upon the general public. As the Society’s
endowment fund grows, it is in a better position to
weather depressions and expand its work into other
humane fields. Remember the Humane Society in
your will. The legal title is HUMANE SOCIETY OF
GREATER MIAMI, INC.

   

of Guam min“ 47 FLORIDA
---I 210114. w. 95th STREETIM‘AMI .._..JI'

Membership Enrollment

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amount, $ .__ Date

Name

Address

City ._ State __
Phone Membership: New C] Renewal [:1

Life Membership, $50 up Annual Members, $2 Up

 

 

 




   

    

'H

 

'e'»
ER m
‘ i
U2’w3’13

’ﬁ/‘vﬁaj

  
 

 

  

,, can:
“if":
N

  
   

      

       

   

      
   
   
  

   
       

 
       
  
 

        
   

      
  

      

  
 
 
  

        

 
     
 
 

 

 

‘ .i'-;EJ;B;EKGLAlS_-S . “CAGES 5 ,
TheHumaneSocuew‘yw ﬁrduidl'fé-f‘iE335?)?3‘i¢ité.h:*§1élé'h179"???1919U$59.9“? :- 2 ' “
.nndﬁ'ﬁiﬁ'ﬁ‘niéiﬁf ane h‘ﬁf‘e? .. 196160? a|7n1':qs’ri'a,‘.i¥r:é..‘-éccﬁ¢§ sand '¢.9.n*amm:9 ' . ' 9 , ,.

 

“"2421I’O;000_f:esqdayéi'E'FéIéfi-bici7ié'n‘9l'9rériéve'r‘Tikenriel‘s'-~arnd‘,.9¥brk‘in9'*a-re'alm '

 

 

'4 :Ylii'ffhfé'v" fk‘é-nf ﬁ’elSE",k‘ép'fglﬁ‘m I essly clean'ﬁi, h 0059', "IV 5Q {.23 nirﬁa I-sa n'cl' -. H'S '. '
»: j 9 * .ics-wéi'deiifatili'f-i es: 99133-999 99 fee 1‘05 r’ A’rhel‘ :' 9 r98? 3.- n" ma [5: - - .‘i . -' ~ '

 




 

NE

(“J-L"

I

I.
xx 9".

W

M

‘s......-

GARAGE
FOOD

 

 

p

MBLOI

E

s
o

:UN
c

Q:
:l .

'3",
\
u

L...
'mrPf'
r

‘-
D. a .
2%? z.’
”Ewan“. s.

'
b Vlauﬁtl

n.
w‘

‘4 ulE

Y.-
. 1. I017 I.“ II
anavuv/u. .
i ['0 .p

T

 

HE- ? N

N

E

E?

”.3.

W

.10! 11.“!wa
.. 194.9 .
bﬂtﬁw
’13.; a...) I
.4. z

I O:

.mvmwuﬂ
£ﬁ?: s
Javanv . .

@VER DADE COUNTY

EN
OF HUMNE SCIOETY

 




10A THE MIAMI NEWS,

Juana Nov. 8. 19110?” grand Fury Raps
Humane Society

For Being Lax

The Humane Society of Greater food served the animals w a s

Q‘Mmmi was criticized today by “buggy " ”
the Dade County G1 and J 11 r y, “DISEASE .
which said more rigid controls Some evidence 0‘ disease con-
dition at the shelter was apparent
during the inspection, the report
' The jury outlined several areas said.

that needed improving at the so- The jury recommended that the 1
ciety shelter. It said it has re-é society 5 directors reexamine its
ceived testimony that when em? managerial setup With the view
ployes ’call attention to irregular- oi incorporating strict accounting
ities, the society management of animal controls and stricter
makes little or no effort to make management of the general oper-
changes. ation.

 

are needed at the animal center.

 

 

 

The jury said it conducted an;
investigation and found the ' full-
time veterinarian does not exam-
ine animals brought in for quar.
antine or control purposes, such
as suspected rabies.

THEY MINGLE E

Testimonv also showed the JuryE
said that these animals are per-E
mitted to mingle with other dogsE
in quarantine. ' E

"There is also testimony be-‘i
fore the Grand Jury,” the jury’sE
-final report said, “that on atE
least one occasion a dog suspect—1
ed of having rabies was put to
death the day after it enterch
1 the shelter. -

“This happened in spite of theE
fact that a veterinarian had. rec-'
ommendcd the dog he put in'
._ quarantine.”

 

The report cited a second case
in which 1a pet had been put to
sleep when the dog owner did not
pay his board bill on time.

“NOT HUMANE”

“It is certainly not humane to
put a family pet to sleep' when
the only excuse can be. that. the
accounting controls fell do w n,E
and in the first instance, because g
of the seriousness of rabies, noE
excuse is sufficient ” the report
5 said 1

 

The jurv said it felt that per-
haps the animal contiol sectionE
ol the society should no turned
over to government authorities if;

Emor‘e rigid controls are not ad-é

i bored to

l
E

An inspection of the premises,E
111m report said, revealed non11
public areas of the society wereE
not as clean as desirable and that E

 

 




 

EB nun [REED EB

To help everything live free of pain or suffer-
ing with special emphasis on our dumb animal
friends.

We dedicate ourselves to these ten-point ob-
jectives.

1. Rescue of injured, diseased, abandoned
and hungry animals in all Dade County.

2. Investigation, correction and prosecution
of cruelty to animals.

. Conducting a lost and found department
for the quick recovery and restoration of
lost pets.

. lmpounding and vigorous control of ani-
mal diseases.

. Care of sick pets.
. First aid to sick and injured animals.

. Developing a modern program of humane
education.

. Pet identification tag registration system.

. Ambulance service for large and small
animals.

. Maintenance of a beautiful pet cemetery.

ADOPTIONQ

For those pets that the Hu-

mane Society has judged

worthy of adoption, new homes are found every day.
Many of these pets are from owners that must give
them up for one reason or another. Others are home: .
less but worthy of love, affection and a good home.

Lost sFOUND

The Humane Society spends much i) ‘

time and effort in the restoration

of thousands of pets to their

rightful owners. To reduce these

losses and make the Humane So-

ciety’s work easier, we highly

recommend our identification tag.

The more pets with tags, the fewer

unclaimed strays and even more

restorations. Legally you need pay no reward for the

return, of a lost pet. To do so encourages “dognap-
ping.

 




Humane Society of Greater Miami

OFFICE Christmas
OFTHE

PRESIDENT 1958

Dear Friends of Animals:

As we approach the advent of another Christmas season
my mind lingers over memories of happenings since a year
agone. For those of us who are, more or less, interested in
animal protection and welfare. it has proven indeed a
signiﬁcant year —— one of great performance, one pregnant
with fruitful promise for the future.

For instance, it is a source of rejoicing that at last, after
long decades of constant struggle, we are enabled, as the
result of the tenacious efforts of devoted and dedicated
workers, under the able and resistless leadership of the
American Humane Association, to assure our food animals
a humane ending to their lives as such. And now, as the
outcome of persistent efforts to educate the people of our
land to measure up to their moral responsibilities toward
all living creatures, a vigorous movement is well under way
to guarantee — under federal law — an end to horribly
cruel methods of trapping wild animals for any and all
purposes. Great strides also have been made in the ﬁeld
of humane education to the end that no child may reach
maturity lacking a thorough grounding in the fundamentals
of kindness toward others — human or animal.

Not one of us but deplores the use of living creatures ——
especially dogs — for medical research purposes. Despite
vigorous efforts of humane workers to the contrary several
states and large cities have laws or ordinances whereby
unreclaimed strays must be turned over to medical schools
and research laboratories on demand. Today’s trend in
that direction is undeniable. I do note one change for the
better however: unquestionably a decided movement is un-
der way on the part of those who feel fully justiﬁed in using

 




Januany 5,.1958 -

ME. CEErIEE E. EEEEy

HEEEEE Saciety cf‘ErEEtEE Miami
2101 EarthEEEt 95th ﬁt.

EEEEE 38, Florida

,EEEr Er. Eusey,

It was E plEEEurE to EEE you En Chicago, End 1 EEEtEinly
agree E1121,yuur EuEEatiEE that EEE Animal Care PEnEl hEE E long
EEy to go hafnre it gets to tha huEEnE trEEtEEEt of EEE.EEEE. 1
know that the lEttEr gnu Eent out far ChriEtEEE to your EEmbErE
WEE wriH EE bEfEre you came to EhEcEgo, E0 E0 deubt ycu would
have written it differently EftEr your viait, but I was greatly
COECEEEEE EEEE I rEEﬁ it (East now for thE first timE) tn think
that it EEy'lEEve in tha E1EEE 9f EEEE EEEEEEE the idea thEt thE
Existence of thE AE1EE1 CarE EEEEl er its branches would EEEEEEE

I‘ EEkE it all right to sand dogs Ea laboratariaa from huEEnE Eociaty

J shaltErE. Surely you don't think thia. Elao, I am EurE that

V EftEr Gaming to the Animal Care EEEEI yEE know that thE idEE that

therE 11 going to be any "strict EupErviEion” Es to thE huEEnEEEEE,

of animal «EpEriEEntEtion carried ouE by thE Panel is Wholly

arroneous.‘ SupErviEiEn is the VEEE thing thE officers of the
Pane] don't want.

, It is gEcd to know of the EregrEEE yEu hEvE made with your
shelter, and I hope that you will EEE tn it that this fine, EEE
building never bEcoEEE E shaEEful trEVEEExyof E EhEltEE 1ikE thE
hanafnl of EcocallEd humane argEEizatiEnE tnEt have EEVEE in to
‘financial Ereaaure and 81nd EEEEElE ta E Eainful fEtE.

PEEE.EEEEEE fer E haﬂﬂy'ﬁew‘YEErl

SEEEEEELy,

 




i the over-all shelter project is the designing and erection of

" suitable quarters for miscellaneous animals. When fully

completed your animal shelter will represent an outlay of

close to $175,000.00 and will be recognized as one of the
ﬁnest in the nation.

During 1958 the new Metro government prepared and
passed two important and much-needed ordinances. The ﬁrst
was designed to bring under strict control the keeping of
potentially dangerous wild animals as pets — particularly
in congested residential areas. The second, known as the
Dog Control Ordinance, was enacted as a measure to protect
the health and safety of the general public. It requires that
all owners of dogs must have them given anti-rabic shots
and obtain a license to own and keep a dog. Stated regula-
tions further require that these canine pets be restrained at
all times from running at large.

Your Society is making measurable progress as follows:
prevention of cruelty to animals and children with court
prosecution when it becomes necessary; periodic inspection
of pet shops, riding stables, zoos and other premises where
animals —— furred and feathered — are kept for sale or
exhibition; humane education through the press, radio,
television and the public School system.

Thanks to all of you —— our loyal and generous friends of
animals — January lst, 1958 most certainly marked the
beginning of a truly happy and prosperous year! Now we
face another which I hope will be productive of even greater
accomplishments in behalf of animals. As I personally de-
sire for you and yours a joy-ﬁlled Christmas and a wonderful
New Year, may I trust that you will, when preparing your
gift list, include the needy among God’s creatures to whom
we all owe so much and upon whom we depend for our
sustenance, our protection and happy companionship.

CHARLES W. PUSEY, President,

Humane Society of Greater Miami

 




 

animals for research purposes to guarantee that such ani—
mals be afforded the utmost in human consideration and
treatment. A growing number of medical schools now have
what are called Animal Care Panels — the function of which
is to assure that all research modalities making use of
animals be conducted in a strictly supervised humane
manner. Furthermore it should be a source of great satis-
faction to conscientious humanitarians everywhere to learn
that the egg-embryo and tissue culture are rapidly reducing
the necessity for the use of live animals.

Another marked change for the better is the growing move—
ment in the direction of providing better treatment of ani—
mals housed in zoos of all types. The humane minded among
the millions who annually visit such exhibitions have been
able to bring about this much desired and too long delayed
improvement. Greater humane control, moreover, is mani-
fest relative to the acquisition and importation of wild ani-
mals for our country’s growing number of zoos, etc. Under
the auspices and through the generous ﬁnancing of the
ASPCA of New York City, Idlewild airport now has an
Animalport Where animals of every description are tempo-
rarily sheltered and, when necessary, medically treated be-
fore continuing on to their destination. A most welcome
step in the right direction.

Leaving the national scene let us note here what has taken
place locally. As most of you already know this past spring
witnessed the ofﬁcial opening and dedication of our modern
animal shelter. It was badly needed as we had too long been
compelled to carry on our animal protection activities in
insufﬁciently equipped cramped quarters. Many years of
persistent dreaming and planning ﬁnally reached happy
fulﬁllment. Formerly we were able to kennel about 75 dogs
comfortably. When planned for additional cages are in-
stalled in the new kennel wards, thus bringing the building’s
total capacity to 600 dogs, the job will be ﬁnished. A good
sized room was provided in the plans and is being equipped
for the care of our feline friends. Also planned as part of

2
ﬁ

\\

c




3.33 36 §
/
mm
0310?: ~2136

ﬁr? 213:, 1353:

1» 111.11» 1

“33333 33 2333‘3f‘3133+3*.F1331
21111 {11311 1.331; Fﬁtiﬂ 31:1.

F1331 3F, Fleriﬁa

1313 F3? 331%,

F3 133‘CF3333 13 33 33 1:33 333 333333t aﬂirﬁss 9f
Fr. 13131h 11 @3130r? 13 3333 i {33 33er 333 ’ 31113 13 t 333

g m,
7»

13333 313.11113 33 t33 11133 1 ; 0F;F4331. ‘ 1s 1 1r33
”133133 3333 F3 333 3333 1: :51 333 13 15W311F1“1V3r31ty1
If 33% 33 311 31113331 33313 “(a 3333 33 313 F :“ 33113333 an
333 33313333 3333.

$313113 Brayer
2X363t133 Fearetany

 




 

 

THE UNIVERSAL ETHIC

"The great fault of all ethics hitherto has been
that they believed themselves to have to deal
only with the relations of man to man. In
reality, however, the question is what is his
attitude to the world and all life that comes
within his reach. .4 man is ethical only when
life, as such, is sacred to him, that of plants
and animals as that of his fellow men, and
when he devotes himself helpfully to all life
that is in need of help. Only the universal
ethic of the feeling of responsibility in an ever—
widening sphere for all that lives— only that
ethic can be founded in thought. The ethic of
the relation of man to man is not something
apart by itself: it is only a particular relation
which results from the universal one.

The ethic of reverence for life, therefore, com-
prehends within itself everything that can be

described as love, devotion, and sympathy

whether in suffering, joy, or effort.”

ALBERT SCHVVEITZER
“OUT OF MY LIFE AND THOUGHT”

 




You might call ﬂair
AN EDITORIAL

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JUNE, 1954

E DON’T often inject edi-

torial comment into the Miami-

Dade County pages of this
magazine. We are content to tell the
Miami public what we are doing and
what problems we meet, believing that
the humane people of our community
will support our work when they know
the need. But this month we’re going
to tell you what we think those little
fellows at the left would say if they
could speak for themselves.

The biggest animal-welfare problem
in our city and county, as the dogs in
our picture well know, is that more dogs
and cats are bred here than people are
willing or able to house and feed and
love. The total of the ”surplus" every
year runs into many, many thousands of
animals.

The suffering that results from the
surplus of animals (or the deﬁciency of
homes) is appalling. Have you ever
seen a little dog, or a kitten, that has
died in the middle of rich Miami of
starvation and thirst? We have. The
sight is ugly.

The dogs and the cats can’t do any-
thing about the problem. The blame and
the responsibility lies with us, the
people.

We don’t suppose that, if they could
speak, the little fellows in the picture
on this page would accuse us, the peo-
ple, of our sin. We have never met a
dog that blamed people for anything.
We. think, rather, that the croWd of dogs
in the kennel might say something like
this;

"Thanks for the help you have given
to the Miami Humane Society.”

Page 16A

 




2101 N. W. 95th STREET MIAMI 47, FLORIDA TELEPHONE 7-2217

1 + ﬁnmmﬁocictq

Margaret E. Pusey of Gr‘ottr miﬂnﬁ

Eli
GE

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

June 23, 1955

Dear Friend:

It is now time for all sincere humanitarians to get
together and give all—out support to The American
Humane Association in its vital work.

The solution to the problem is a very simple one.

We must adopt the proposed new by-laws at the special
membership meeting to be held in Seattle, July 20, 1955.
These new by-laws will keep control of The American
Humane Association where it belongs ~ with the affiliated
societies that are carrying on humane work throughout

the country. As you already know, under the old byrlaws
any one who pays five dollars has a vote which can com~
pletely cancel out the vote of a member society.

The by-laws must be amended to protect the humane
societies of this nation!

As a member of The American Humane Association you can
perform a tremendous service for the entire humane
movement by going to the Seattle meeting and casting
your vote to ratify the new by-laws. I hope you will
be there if at all possible.

Sincerely yours,

V Wfﬂw

Margaret E. Pusey

 

 

 




Society Tag

Renewals Due

The Humane Society identiﬁcation
tags for the period expiring March 31,
1956, are now due. Notices have been
sent to all tag holders bearing the 1954
expiration. Hundreds of pets are re-
stored to their owners annually through
this identiﬁcation system. The Society

 

spends much time and effort to quickly
restore lost pets to their rightful owners.
To reduce these losses and make our
work easier, we urge the purchase of
our identiﬁcation tags—the more pets
with tags—~the more easily identiﬁed.
The cost is negligible—less than two
cents per week which is cheap insur-
ance for the return of lost pets and deﬁ~

 

. I .. ..
._ Or-.-- -.. .—
W-rr. .3 3......

. 'In.’/
Ito-schg— Ia.- -: o

. ." .1. :3, 3.:f':>-’:I.‘:i-'.'g;..o' ,_ . 7», i #4:.- .7;
a. ':. .‘. -......2.... 4.74, a....~...wn-nﬁ==ﬁ

- PET CEMETERY
\' Finest in the South
VISITORS WELCOME

humane Sarina].

of 6r2utzr miumi

THE NATIONALQHUMANE: REVIEW-JUNE, 1.95.4

 

 

nite proof of intention if your pet is
stolen. We wish to add a word of cau-
tion to the dog owner: Legally, you need
pay no reward for the return of your
lost pet. To do so encourages ”dog-

napping.”

 

Work Acomplished
in January' February and
March. I954. in Dade
County
Degs 2952
Cats 2| l4
Miscellaneous
animals-birds 390
Cruelty
investigations and
other services |097
Inspections I28
TOTAL 668l
ADOPTIONS
Dogs 702
Cats 424
Misc. 264
RESTORED TO OWNERS
Dogs 243
Cats 36
Misc. 32

 

 

 

Our Work Report

In the next column to the left is our
”work report” for the ﬁrst quarter of
1954. The Humane Society is both
proud of it and troubled by it.

Pride results from the evidence that
the Society has ended and prevented an
immense amount of animal suffering.
The Society handled 6,681 cases of vari-
ous kinds in the ﬁrst quarter; with the
normal summer increase in demands for
Society services, the 1954 total of cases
probably will go well past 30,000. It

‘ requires small imagination to understand

what this ﬁgure means in terms of hu-

mane work accomplished.

The Society is particularly pleased
with the record of adoptions and animals
restored to owners. The animals for
which new homes were found were a
very high percentage of all animals re-

ceived that were suitable as pets.

The disturbing aspect of the quarterly
ﬁgures is the evidence they provide that
cruelty and indifference to animal needs

still is widespread in this community.

MATERNITY WARD

 

This little mother, a stray or perhaps the victim of some heartless owner who
did not want to he burdened with puppies, was happy "to exchange this unique
nest, found under a house "porch, for larger, more sheltered. quarters .at the
Humane Society. The pups were glad to go anywhere that mother went!

2,1??86, 16C

-:>-:

20-40mm

 




 

Death of a
[7.5. Marine

 

UT in the quiet beauty of the
Miami Humane Society's pet
cemetery a hero and a gentleman

has just gone to rest. The name is Fella
—Corp0ral Fella, of the United States
Marines. Fella was part German Shep-
herd, part collie, 100 per cent hero and
gentleman;

The Marine Corps buried Fella, with
full military honors. Marines served as
pall bearers. A Marine bugler softly
blew ”Taps" as the cofﬁn was lowered
into the grave. A funeral detail of Ma-
rines gave Fella an oﬂicial last salute.
And the headstone erected over Fella’s
resting‘place says: ”Fella, US. Marine
Corps war Hero, 1941—1954." '

Fella was truly a hero and truly a
Marine. "F'ellaWas born in 1941 in
Galveston, Tex. ..He won national fame
in 1943 ,when he saved the life of a
12-year-old boy on a Colorado ranch.
Fella killed. a big. rattlesnake that was
poised to strike the boy. The snake bit
Fella deeply and Fella was close to death
fOr many/day's. Luckily, Fella had an
owner, Dave Wade, who got the very
best possible veterinary help and him-
self sat" up-i for. several long nights to

Page 1,613

nurse the stricken dog.

In 1944 Wade went into the Army
and Fella into the K-9 corps of the
Marines. Marine trainers said that Fella
was one of the most intelligent dogs with

which they ever worked. (In 1947

Columbia University put Fella through
tests that showed that he recognized and
responded to more than 400 words!)
Fella appeared to enjoy military life. He
went to Guadalcanal and served more
than a year on active combat duty as a
night-sentry dog. He received two ofﬁ-
cial citations for excellence in sentry
duty.

Wade was mustered out of the army
in 19-47 and promptly reclaimed Fella
from Marine duty. And Fella, always
adaptable, resumed civilian ways with-
out a hitch. He and Wade lived at
2009 SW Ninth St. Fella made friends
of all the children for blocks around.
Wade has given away more than 500-
photographs of Fella to children who
wanted souvenirs of their companion.

The end came to Fella as it does to
most dogs that have good masters and
comfortable homes. He simply lived out
his span. Fella would have been 13 years
old next month. For a dog that is very
old. Fella lost his hearing. His sight was
failing. He walked with labor and with
rheumatic pain.

With sorrow, Wade compassionately
asked a veterinarian to help Fella into
the long sleep.

The Miami Humane Society donated
the resting place in its pet cemetery and
the small cofﬁn in which Fella now lies.
The Humane Society is proud of the
custody assigned to it by Mr. Wade and
the Marine Corps.

 

THE NATIONAL-SHUMANE- :REVIEW-zf—ZJU‘NE, [1954'




Te

Question:
on
5

Most

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—FEBRUARY, 1954

‘tHE Humane Society of Greater

Miami often receives queries about

the services rendered and the
policies of our operation. The Society
invites questions from its members re-
garding their problems or any phase of
our operation. The questions asked most
often are:

Do you put stray dogs to sleep as soon
as picked up by the ambulance?

No, strays are not put to sleep im-
mediately. They are taken to the shelter,
properly recorded, and held so that they
may be reclaimed by their rightful
owners. If not claimed they are then
either offered for adoption or given
euthanasia. Whether the dog is offered
for adoption is determined by its adapta-
bility to a new environment, its age and

its health.

If an owner requests euthanasia, is this
always done?

Yes. The owner of an animal has the
right to dispose of his pet in any humane
manner. We can suggest that a new
home be found for the animal, if we
feel this is possible and practical, but if
the owner insists that the animal be put
to sleep, we have no choice but to respect
his wishes in the matter.

\Y/hy do you ask people to secure stray
animals when they report them?

The Society often handles more than
one hundred calls per day. If each agent
had to search the neighborhood or chase
an animal, it would not be possible to
handle half that amount of calls. This
would mean the neglect of a great many
animals desperately in need of help.

Do your ambulances pick up bodies of
dead animals?

No. Your Municipal Waste Depart-
ment handles this function. We cannot

afford to duplicate existing services. Our
funds must be spent to relieve the suf-
fering of the living.

When do ambulance agents put strays
to sleep?

There are occasions when a stray has
been seriously injured on the highway—
or in some manner painfully injured be-
yond hope. In such instances, the odds
are great against the animal surviving
for even a brief period without extreme
suffering and the agent quickly relieves
its suffering by putting it to sleep. Rec-
ords are kept on all such cases and an-
imals picked up.

How long do you keep animals that
are available for adoption?

The availability period varies accord-
ing to the number of animals~ on hand.
During seasons when relatively few an-
imals come in to the shelter, we permit
them longer opportunity for adoption.
An animal whose age and temperament
indicates that it will make a good pet
will also be given a longer period. If
every unwanted animal was kept in-
deﬁnitely, as we would prefer, it would
mean denying many animals worthy of
good homes an opportunity to even
enter the shelter. As more and more
kennel units are added, the adoption ‘
period for each animal will be pro-
longed.

Why don’t you board animals?

To board pets that have homes would
mean depriving animals that are lost and
homeless of kennel space. Our ﬁrst duty
is to the animal without a home. To
board animals satisfactorily, they cannot
be mixed in with the strays; an entire
separate kennel unit would be necessary.
We regret that present space will not
permit this service to our friends and
members.

Page 16A

 




Meet your sOciety directors

Fred Borton Has Served 10 Years

Born in Jetmore, Kan” Mr. Borton
came to Miami when it was practically
a village. In the days of electric vehi-
cles he started Miami’s ﬁrst electric
garage. The garage became the Elec-
trical Equipment Company, one of the
ﬁnest automotive electrical concerns in
the nation. From this company sprang
Radio Station WQAM, Florida’s ﬁrst
radio station. Mr. Borton was WQAM’S
President and General Manager until he
sold his holdings to the Miami Herald.
He now operates the Borton Manufac-
turing Company and Borton Investment.
He has been a member of the Miami
Water Board since its inception and is
very active in Miami’s civic affairs. He
summers in Highlands, North Carolina.
Mr. Borton has been a board member Fred W. Barton
of the Humane Society of Greater Miami
for more than 10 years.

 

GET A FRIEND TO JOIN US

The American Humane Association. with which the Humane Society of
Greater Miami is attiliated. says that the average cost of picking up a
single injured or ill animal in a humane society ambulance is $4. The average
cost of sheltering a homeless animal is slightly more than $| a day. These
figures show why your Humane Society needs more members. The need
tor humane work grows constantly: our membership must keep pace. It you
already are a member why not clip out that coupon below. put it in your
purse or billtold. and tomorrow get a friend to sign it? One new member
can Finance an emergency ambulance call!

 

Membership Enrollment

[inmaneﬁorietq
0F GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 9521. STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA
TELEPHONE: OFFICE. 7-5620 Ea SHELTER, 7.2217

IE1

Amount. $ ............................ Date ................................................

 

Name .....................................................................................................................

Addl ess ................................................................................................................

C.
I ............................................................................ a e

 

Telephone ...... Membership. New C] Renewal [:1
Business Membership—$5.00 Up
Life Membership—$50.00 Up Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

 

Proclamation

Be Kind to Animals Week, observed
annually throughout America for 40
years under sponsorship of the American
Humane Association, the Humane So-
ciety of Greater Miami, and some 600
other humane societies, was ofﬁcially
proclaimed in Dade County this year by
the Board of County Commissioners.
The Humane Society observed the week
with an open house on Humane Sunday,
May 2, with talks about kindness to
animals in many schools, and with the
Society’s sixth annual Alumni Pet Show.

The Obedience Division of the
Greater Miami Dog Club, the German
Shepherd Club, and the Dog Training
Club of Hollywood and Fort Lauderdale
helped with a dog-obedience program
on the Humane Society grounds on the
day of the Alumni Pet Show.

The ofﬁcial proclamation of Be Kind
to Animals Week, issued by I. D. Mac-
Vicar, Commission chairman, was:

”WHEREAS, the people of the
County of Dade, State of Florida, have
long been aware of the need for pro-
tection of all forms of animal'life, and

“WHEREAS, we are all aware of
the value of animal experience in de-
veloping the character of our boys and
girls, and

"WHEREAS, it is ﬁtting and proper
that we periodically recognize the rights
of animals and the need for their pro
tection at all times,

"NOW, THEREFORE, as Chairman
of the Dade County Commission, State
of Florida, I do hereby proclaim the
week of May 2-8, 1954, as 'BE KIND
TO ANIMALS WEEK’ in the County
of Dade, State of Florida."

 

MEMBERSHIPS DUE
Q Tbal little form at tbe left, ﬁlled out

and accompanied by even a small cbecé,
can belp a: rave from rnﬂering at leart
one more animal tbal wit/a prerent funds
we are unable to protect. If you are al-
ready a member, pleare ask a friend to
yozn.

Page 16D THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JUNE, 11954

 




‘ Our Regular Visitors: Children

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   

f ;

Every day some Child leaivies the shel-
ter of the Humane Society of Greater
Miami with a smile and a pet that will
5 keep on giving him smiles for many
years. Those adopting animals can pur-
E chase a supply of proper dog food and
c obtain pamphlets on *the care 'of their
new pet at the shelter. All animals wear
T a metal tag from the Humane Society.
I
O
N

lane Marie Tener plays with
one ’of the many unusual
pets/crescued by the Society.
. .. . What looks like .a baby
monkey is actually an adult
Squirrel Monkey and is one
"of the most lovable and
gentle of all monkeys. It
receives the same expert
care from Shelter Manager
Nolan Pigg as do the many
other strange pets brought
to the shelter.

A puppy of their own! This part collie is housebkenro, Humane Society attendant Charles E. Hines is always care-
and in good health. The happy people are Kay [ones and ful in choosing a pet, as well as using care in choosing
johnny Burch, her uncle. its adopters.

Page 16B THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—FEBRUARY, 1954

 




 

 

”Colombo,” exhibited and owned by
Mr. and Mrs. Frank ]affe, was judged
the best household pet in the: show.
”Colombo,” a red tabby, was adopted
by the jaﬂe family from the shelter of
the Humane Society of Greater Mimai
a year ago. The cat was adopted on
Columbus Day, which accounts for the
name, "Colombo,” but is known at
home as "Red.”

 

Mrs. Carl Keller, of St. Cloud, Fla.,
holds Champion "Che'wanna’s Sweet
Sentiment,” a shaded silver female
Persian, judged at the Cat Fanciers’
annual championship show as the Best
Cat in Show, Best Champion of Show,
and Best Shaded Silver. Mrs. Frances
Herms, Tarryton, N.Y., is the judge.

xﬁzzjwzgéams I V .' mg} 3%“? a ﬁg“ Q ‘ ,‘ 3§§§§Q§ $333??? I a":
. . _ ‘ 1m 8" ”Wm rm. . , ‘ " #31:” 3333M!

' , ~, ' iwmsé‘ man"; u: tummy
. ,, ‘v , . ‘ . ‘ , "’""" “,AQ 7%)}.vawv‘b,‘ V ,, i

no

 

Enthusiasm for our work gives the impression of a cluttered booth at the Miami’

Florida Cat Fanciers’ annual championship cat show, held last December for
the beneﬁt of the Humane Society of Greater Miami. Most of the items dis-
played are from the Humane Society’s Pet Shop, which augments Society in-
come. In spite of the pet shop supplies, the "Be Kind to Animals” posters,
from many years back, dominated the booth and brought forth much favorable
comment. Free literature on the care of animals was distributed during the two
days of the championship show by volunteers of the Society. Serving as booth
attendants in this photograph are Miss Margery Whitehouse '( left) and Mrs.
Laura Hufnagel.

Scenes fee/I
. At the Cat

Fanciers’ Show  

‘ THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—FEBRUARY, 1954 Page 16C

-Z>-Z

Z’O-.-lnrnm

 




Poem

"In Contempt of Dogs”
By JAMES J. MARSHALL

President, Humane Society of
Greater Miami

Dogs are not civilized, know nothing of
scrence;

Thus never attain to the wisdom of men,

Use their instincts for guidance instead
of reliance

On Emily Post or the experts who pen

Advice to the lovelorn, or folks who
have trouble

With husbands or wives, or drink to
excess,

Whose best contrived schemes prove
only a bubble,

So ﬁlling their psyches with mental
distress.

Dogs are too stupid to voice considered
opinion

On the morals of youth or the perils of
sex

As revealed by Kinsey, or to invade the
dominion

Of statesmen who solve all problems
that vex

The nation, such as budgets, defense or
high taxes,

Control of monopoly, ending of war.

While we worry and worry, old Towser
relaxes

And dreams, satisﬁed with things as
they are.

 

Our Readers Write

MIAMI, FLA.
My Dear Mrs. Pusey:

I want to thank you very, very much
for sending me the National Humane
Review. I’ve read quite a few stories in
it already, beginning yesterday, and
ﬁnd it very interesting. I liked the story
of Underground Keeper of Cats so very
much, and I am very glad and very,
very happy that the man that the story
tells about loved cats and kittens so well
that he takes care of them and protects
them! There ought to be many more

,people like Mr. Schmidt. I wish there

were. The next part of this magazine I

 

 

Dogs are thinking of bones while we
demonstrate science

By inventing the A-bomb, the H-bomb
and such.

We advance human welfare by Our
dauntless deﬁance,

But dogs never tried, or amounted to
much.

They never hold meetings, never pass
resolutions;

From organized armies the poodle re-
frains,

To improving the world they make no
contributions. .

Men have the intellect, dogs have no
brains. ’

 

TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620

Amount. $ ............................

Life Membership—$50.00 U p

 

Membership Enrollment

ﬁnmaneﬁorietq
OF GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

EB
'51

Name ......................................................

Address ................................................................................................. x .............

Ciiy ............................................................................ Sl'al'e ................................

Telephone ................................................ Membership: New I] Renewal E]

Business Membership—$5.00 Up

SHELTER, 7.2217

Dale _________________________________________________

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

Page 16D

like is Pet Owner’s Page (with the
questions and answers). I really feel
like I can’t subscribe for this magazine
as yet, but I would like to know if this
publisher that puts this magazine out,
is willing or aloe: give part of his sales
money into the Humane fund and do
you people of the Humane Society get
a percentage out of it? And how much
money do you get if he does? Enough to
do any good? I want to know before
thinking of subscribing.

RUTH MAY PARSONS

Later: P. S. I just now read that for
the duration of my membership you are

going to send me this magazine! Gee!
Thanks a lot.

(Thanh you, Ruth. May you grow up
with the Jame intenre interert in animal
welfare. The Humane Society’r memher-
rhip receipt; help pay for the Greater
Miami Edition and that ii“ why all mem-
heri .rhould add a little extra when re-
newing memherrhip.—Editor)

HELP NEEDED
That form, at the lower left, ﬁlled
out and accompanied by even a small
check can help us save from suffering
at least one more animal that with pres-
ent funds we are unable to aid.

- .. “=1 ’.

"‘L- . .:.':‘.‘:.:‘-:5'7»"::Zr‘-Y~"‘_‘—.""J'I” - . -
' "' (0"?! :1 ”was" 0- /;o;fvla‘ownt~.WE\-Im

PET CEMETERY

Finest in the South
VISITORS WELCOME

humane Sarita]

of (Bream miumi

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—FEBRUARY, 1954

/

 




Society Handled 34,324 Cases In 1953

During the calendar year of 1953,
the Humane Society of Greater Miami
handled 34,324 cases involving a variety
of animals throughout all communities
within Dade County. Cats were the
principals of 15,564 cases, with ~dogs
involved in 14,203. There were 718
calls for service to other kinds of ani-
mals. The Society’s investigators and
ambulances responded to 3,839 calls.

Most of the Humane Society’s efforts
were expended in the unincorporated
areas of Dade County, where 12,822
' cases, a little more than 37 per cent of
the society’s overall work, were han-
dled. Five thousand nine hundred and
seventy-six dogs, 5,053 cats and 265
other animals were cared for in these
areas. Investigations and ambulance
services totaled 1,528.

As would be expected because of its
size, the City of Miami required the most
work of any single community in Dade
County during 1953. Nine thousand
one hundred and eighty cases were
recorded. Cats were involved in 4,878
instances and dogs in 3,224. Miscel-
laneous animals were the object of 219
calls. Investigations and ambulance
service in Miami reached 859.

Ten per cent of the Humane Society’s
work during the past year was devoted
to 3,468 calls in Hialeah. Other com-
munities in which a thousand or more
cases were handled include Miami
Beach, North Miami, South Miami and
Coral Gables, which, incidentally, had
twice as many cats to handle as dogs.

A statistical table, with the Humane
Society’s work for the year broken down
into communities and types of call, is in
the adjoining columns.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—MARCH, 1954

 

 

Humane Society of Greater Miami-Dade

County SPCA Work Accomplished

January-December 1953

Dade County

 

 

Dogs Cats

Cruelty Investigations 6
Other Ambulance
Misc. Services

,% of

Total Work

 

Unincorporated areas -- 5,976 5,053
Bal Harbour ................ 3
Bay Harbor Islands ...... 2 6
Biscayne Park .............. 69 64
Coral Gables ................ 395

El Portal ...................... 38 29
Florida City .................. 47 23
Hialeah ........................ 1,724
Homestead

Medley .......................... 7

Miami .......................... 3,224

Miami Beach ................ 417

Miami Shores .............. 167

Miami Springs .............. 318

North Bay Village ...... 14

North Miami ................ 541

North Miami Beach 166

Opa Locka .................... 194

South Miami ................ 456 .
Surfside ........................ 18 23'
Sweetwater .................. 24 13
Virginia Gardens .......... 15 1
West Miami ................ 133 150

12,822 34.4
3 =16
8 91¢

265 _ 1,528

77

71

30

77

38
9

67
5 47
2 39
3 19

35 321

 

TOTALS ...................... 14,203 15,564

3,839 34.324

*others 00.9%

 

 

Page 16A

 




 

A couple of little avorites get in a hurry for their share
of the meal at the Humane Society of Greater Miami’s
shelter. No pet goes hungry, though, as the best diets are
fed to all animals at the shelter.

Mabel Moon, 3, has her pup picked out, but
can’t resist one more look at the pets or
adoption at the Humane Society shelter.
Big, open air pens give everyone a chance to
see what is for adoption and what pets they
would like to take home.

 

"Henry,” the pet cat at the Humane Society shelter,
cuddles up for a nap with a strange hedfellow in a stack
of trays. "Henry,” the cemetery cat, loves to play with
any of the residents of the shelter and gets along with the
pups as well as the kittens.

 

Page 163 ' THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—MARCH, 1954

 




E KNOW we’ve said it before; we’re saying .
it now, and we’re sure we’ll say it again in the
future—many times: \C’mon down to the
shelter. It’s located at 2101 Northwest 95th Street,
Miami. You’ll ﬁnd that spending some time with us,
looking at the various animals we care for and the
up-to-date equipment with which our friendly staff
works, can be enjoyable, educational and interesting.
The photographs on these two pages give an idea of
what you’ll see at the shelter of the Humane Society
of Greater Miami.
And, who knows—you might even make friends
. with a particular animal and want to take it home. If
.‘ so, we’ll probably be most agreeable. We’ll give you
instructions and pamphlets on how to care for your
new pet, and, if you wish, we have foods on sale for
its proper diet.
So, again, c’mon down. We think that if you visit us
once, you’ll come again and again.

40mm

20-

 

Accidents will happen, and when they do at the Society’s
shelter, someone is ready at the ﬁrst aid cabinet to take
care of scratches and bumps—just one more of the many
items of care and attention given to every pet at the
shelter. Mrs. Laura Hufnagel has been at the shelter for

- several years and is-leeenly interested in the welfare of the
animals.

 

It loo/es like a lasting friendship is being made at the
shelter. Mina Moon, 5, of 520 5.13. 3rd Street, Hialeah,
seems to have a determined set to her lips and "Brownie”
is doing his best to wash her face.

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—MARCH, 1954 Page 16C

 




He Got A Home

By JAMES J. MARSHALL
President, Humane Society of Greater Miami

ITTLE MARY was hurrying home
L from her grandmother’s when
she saw the dog cowering in the bushes
at the side of the road. A cold drizzle
had set in since she left her grandmoth-
er’s home a half mile down by the creek,
where she had gone to carry to the old
lady some freshly baked bread. Although
she was cold and wet, Mary stopped.

"Nice dog,” she said, and coaxed him
to her with extended hand. He hesi-
tated, then slowly advanced, limping on
three legs. He wasn’t much of a dog
byrstandards of breeding, part collie,
part shepherd, with some traces of bull
terrier about the jaw. Mary petted him
and he licked her hand.

"Why, you have a sandburr in your
paw,” she said, lifting his front leg.
"Let me pull it out.” She did so and,
in appreciation, he sat up on his
haunches and waved his paws. His eyes
were big and brown, and Mary thought
she saw a tear trickling down his face.
Or maybe it was only a drop of rain.

I am
going to call you 'Rags’ and you can
sleep in the barn.”

He nodded understandingly, and
frisked about her as they walked quickly
through the piney woods. But her
mother was doubtful when they reached
their little house.

”Your father doesn’t like dogs,” she
ventured. "You will have to ask him
when he comes in from the ﬁeld.”

Her father conﬁrmed this when he
came in. ”I don’t want any dogs around
here. I have enough to do feeding us
without a dog. He doesn’t look like
much of a dog to me.” Rags sat up
again but without success. “Give him
some of those hog bones we were going
to throw out,” he ordered. ”Tomor-
row’s Sunday and we will take him
away and lose him.”

The next morning, her parents drove
to the little church in the Village. In
the back seat Mary, trying not to cry,
held Rags in her arms. In the woods,

”You come home with me.

 

TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620

Amount. $ ____________________________

Lite Membership—$50.00 Up

 

Membership Enrollment

ﬁnmuncﬁorietq
0F GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREEI’, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

EB

Name __________________________ , ...........................

Address ..................................................

City ............................................................................ State ................................

-- Membership: New C] Renewal E]
Business Membership—$5.00 Up

Telephone ..............................................

SHELTER, 7.2217

IE9

Date .............................................

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

Mary’s father stopped the car.

"Get that dog out,” he said, opening
the back door. Just then a man in a
prison uniform stepped out from behind
the trees.

"All of you get out,” he ordered. He
had a revolver in his hand. "I just got
away from the road gang, and I need
that car!”

Mary’s mother screamed and her
father made a lunge for the man’s arm,
but a blow from the butt of the revolver
knocked him down. As the convict
raised his arm to strike her father again,
Mary jumped from her seat and grasped
the man’s wrist. With a sweep of his
arm he threw her from him. Just then
a brown streak ﬂew through the air and
hit the convict. As Rags came at him
again he ﬁred. The bullet hit the dog
in the leg. But Rags jumped for his
throat and had him on the ground.

Around the bend in the road, a siren
shrieked and the brakes of the Road
Patrol car ground to a stop as two patrol-
man jumped out.

”A pair of hand cuffs for you, Bo,”
said one of the patrolmen. They carried
the convict into the car. Then one of
them looked at Rag’s leg.

”Just a scratch,” he decided. Their
car drove off.

Mary’s father lboked at Rags. "You
got a home, dog.”

v

.. . . ..._
.u-a..ut,.. I..‘-.-~-.. ., H
n .. I.,)"..-n-.",.~ ._.'
.l:.~. '0. lhvf‘ Ul“ .‘ Wm].-

PET CEMETERY

Finest in the South
VISITORS WELCOME

[immune Enrica]

of (Brzutzr miumi

It” ‘—~=—’r .7. .—
.

Win/rm

' """“L"
-'- valuu

 

 

 

Page 16D

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—MARCH, 1954

 




 

| é’miw

For the duration of your membership
in the Humane Society of Greater
Miami, each month you will receive the
Greater Miami edition of this very in-
teresting National Hnmane Review. The
material that ﬁlls its pages every month
is prepared by experts in all the branches

of humane work. It will keep you in ,

touch not only with the happenings in
Dade County but the humane movement
throughout the world—especially in our
own United States. Every word is au-
thentic, every situation has been thor-
oughly investigated. Your Humane So-
ciety of Greater Miami will not increase
its dues to pay for your subscription.
The Society wants to keep you informed
of what is being accomplished and if
you wish to make a contribution to-
wards the thousands of subscriptions
mailed each month without obligation,
it will be appreciated.

 

THANK YOU

Sent/gem Bell Telephone 6'}
Telegraph Company for the re-
duction. in our base telephone
costs.

Clarence M. Gay, Comptroller,
for exempting the society from the '
Florida sales tax.

[0/972 A. Mad'igan, fr., Talla-
hassee, for excellent presentation
to Mr. Gay’s ofﬁce on our behalf.

Mir; Katherine Robia’er, owner
of Little River Lumber Company,
Miami, who gives us prices far be—
low cost.

Meter Ve/oie/e Divirion of
Florida for judging us worthy of
the governmental type license tag
which cuts the cost from $35 on
the large ambulances to $2.25.

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, .1953

| The facts on the

Seizure Seal-e

By STEPHEN A. VETTER

Treasurer-Director, Humane Society of Greater Miami

ACH morning it is my custom to
E read thoroughly our morning

newspaper—one of the greatest in
the country—the Miami Herald. On
Thursday, February 19, 1953, the ﬁrst
glance at the paper gave me such a jolt
that I forgot my breakfast. Appearing
in the paper on that morning was a
group of pictures of various people tell-
ing the Dade County delegation to the
state legislature what they wanted. There
was a picture of Dr. Homer Marsh,
acting Dean of the University of Miami
School of Medicine, and his co-worker,
Dr. R. T. Hill. The caption said ”we
need bodies” and "they told the legis-
lators that unclaimed human bodies and
animals are needed for furthering study
and research at the new medical depart-
ment.”

To the uninitiated this would make it
appear that Drs. Marsh and Hill wanted
dead animals—but to us at the Humane
Society it spelled out the word Jeizme
in capital letters.

That very afternoon this newspaper
page was mailed to every humane so-
ciety in Florida and to every other in-
terested organization.

To obtain a copy of the proposed seiz-
ure act was quite a problem. A tele-
phone call to Dr. Marsh that day
brought the response that not only could
we have a copy but that he would per-
sonally bring it because he wanted to
talk to us—would telephone in a few

days and make an appointment. We are
still waiting.

In order to avoid delay in knowing
just what we faced, I obtained a copy of
the proposed seizure law the following
morning from a friendly source. It was
mimeographed that afternoon and, to-
gether with other material, was mailed to
every humane society in the state, our
large membership, and thousands of
other persons.

Our County of Dade has three repre-
sentatives in the State House—George
Okell, Dante Fascell and Robert L.
Floyd. All are excellent legislators and
men with ﬁne backgrounds. Dade Coun-
ty has but one senator, the Honorable
R. B. uBunn” Gautier, Jr, who is also
a man of great experience in public
ofﬁce.

Representative Okell told us by tele-
phone that he would ”not favor the bill
or vote against it.” Effort was then made
to appear before the entire delegation
and ﬁnally Mr. Charles W. Pusey, our
Executive Vice President, made an ap-
pointment for 4:30 pm, March 11,
1953. He was given 10 minutes at 6:30
pm. and the attitude of the legislators
seemed to indicate that the Humane So-
ciety had no business opposing any such
bill. Senator Gautier said he knew of
no Seizure Act. '

We had three lines of defense. The
ﬁrst one: an effortvt'o prevent introduc-
tion of thezbil'l by 'the Dade delegation,

Page 16A

 




 

—:>-.-z

20-40MU’

These Are Our Field Agents

 

Seizure Act

(Continued from preceding page)

the only interested county at this time.
Our second line of defense was to have
the bill killed in the Public Health and
Safety Committee, which is comprised
of 13 members. If this committee per-
mitted the bill to appear on the ﬂoor of
the House or Senate, we planned then
to have suﬂicient opposition among the
members of the Florida Legislature to
defeat it.

Letters, cards, and petitions poured
into the Dade County delegation—a
volume they never before experienced.
On Easter Sunday, April 5, two days
before the Florida legislature went into
session, our society published a large
advertisement in the Miami Herald with
the message, “Your Pet is in Danger.”
This brought another wave of oppo-
sition.

In the meantime, our society was
working on the second line of defense
-——-the Public Health and Safety Com-
mittee. We believe that we had enough

Page 16B

votes in this committee to stOp the pro—
posed seizure bill dead in its tracks.
However, we don’t know—it never got
that far.

While we have no deﬁnite informa-
tion as to the activities of other societies
throughout Florida, it was evident that
they were doing an excellent job in as-
sisting our opposition. Our society was
well represented in Tallahassee by out-
standing men and they tell us that the
ﬂood of mail to every legislator was un-
precedented. A member of the House of
Representatives from another county told
me that the bill was defeated before the
legislature went into session; that only a
corporal’s guard would have voted
favorably for any type of seizure bill.

Ten days after the two-month session
opened, we asked the members of Dade
County’s delegation to give us a ﬁrm
statement as to their intentions and here
is the result:

On April 13, 1953, our good friend,
Senator Gautier, wrote in part:

”As I stated, I will not support the
Animal Seizure Act in any form whatso-
ever.”

A short article on page 16D reveals
that this year the Humane Society of
Greater Miami has been handling
more than 90 ambulance calls and
other types of animal-protection cases
every day throughout this year.
”Pictured here are some of the society
Field Agents that handle the brunt of
the work involved. From left to right
they are: William A. Harris, Harry E.
Cullen, Bobby Cannon, [oseph Im-
perial, and Nolan M. Pigg. Unfortu-
nately, Agent Charles E. Hines was
answering an emergency call when the
photograph was made. All of these
men are thoroughly trained, uni-
formed in green, deputized by the
Dade County Sheriﬂ. Some of them
have been in humane work more than
10 years. Authorities tell us that Dade
County now has 600,000 population, a

' growth of nearly 20 per cent in ﬁve

years. With this increase of human
population has come a proportionate
growth in animal population. Our
Agents cover every part of Dade coun-
ty, answering all types of requests to
protect animals of any kind from suf-
fering. The service is available day
and night, seven days a week.

Representative Okell wrote us at
length on April 15 and 16 and his let-
ter is worthy of lengthy quotation. He
wrote:

”I wish to advise you that my posi-
tion on this bill is that if it is necessary
for medical schools to have authoriza-
tion to perform vivisection on animals
so that they may operate, I will be in
favor of granting this authority, but I
will not support any measure having for
its purpose the requirement of either the
humane societies or the dog pounds fur-
nishing the animals; I feel if the schools
need these animals, it is up to them to
obtain their own supply through regular
commercial channels. Personally, I am
not convinced that there is any necessity
for the use of vivisection by the medical
schools as part of their training work.

So far in making my inquiries, I have A

found that the medical profession itself
is evenly divided; some say there is a
necessity; some say there is not, and
until I am convinced of the actual ne-
cessity, I will not support any bill to do
with vivisection.”

Representative Floyd, another very

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1953




able legislator, wrote on April 16:

“Please be advised that-I will not
support legislation designed to cause
seizure of pets for research purposes
from humane societies and 1.30 advised
Dr. Marsh three weeks ago.”

Representative Fascell, who hung up
an excellent record in the legislature, on
April 17 said in his mimeographed re-
plies to letters opposing the Seizure
Act:

“I am against the pound seizure act.

as it is presently proposed.”

Replying to a request by me to clarify
his statement, Representative Fascell on
April 17 wrote:

"My letter re the Animal Seizure Act
referred to all drafts of the bill. I do not
know of any which will be acceptable to

the Dade delegation. If you have knowl-
edge of any further measures along the
same lines, would appreciate your ad-
vice.”

Of course, Dade County is only one
of 67 counties in Florida. We were
loathe to publicize the fact that our legis-
latorswould not vote for any proposed
Seizure Act because it was possible for

‘medical and research interests to present

a bill through the delegation of another
county. When June 6, 1953, came up on
our calendar we were happy people. No
other bills were proposed. It is our stud-
ied opinion that no Seizure Act could
have passed at the 1953 meeting of the
Florida State Legislature.

Now comes a disturbing bit of in-
formation. While we- know of no in-

corporated area within our county that
has passed an ordinance permitting the
use of its dog pound for research pur-
poses, the May-June issue of the Na-
tional Society for Medical Research
Bulletin says: ”In Florida a proposed
pound bill was dropped when local ar-
rangementslwere made to have research
animals supplied by municipal pounds
and humane societies.” We wonder.
The NSMR was slinking in the back-
ground throughout the battle. Of that
we are certain. Its ﬁne hand was evident.

Our membership is rather large. Each
of us has his own views, his own
thoughts on the use of animals in re-
search. Some are sincerely and violently
opposed to the use of any animal at any

(Continued on next page)

S 01MB THIN G HAS BEEN ADDED

  
   

Photo by Romer

Yes, something new has been added to our Pet Cemetery
in the last year. Mrs. George M. Wisner was disturbed
during our hot and dry summer of 1952 by the parched
condition of what had been beautiful expanses of grass in
our Humane Society’s Pet Cemetery. Her solution for the
problem was the gift of a new well, pipes, pumps, and
sprinklers that now cover the entire cemetery with water,

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1953

regardless of the weather. The grass and shrubs of the
cemetery this year are responding beautifully to Mrs.
Wisner’s generosity. The Pet Cemetery is now the resting
place of nearly 1,500 animals. The eight sections are each
enclosed by a rustic type coral rocle wall and borders of the
best types of tropical plants. Large oales cover portions of
the cemetery, giving it a cool, restful appearance.

Page 16C

-3>-Z

20-10mm

 




Figure; Show
Society ’5 Work

NE of the disadvantages of expert
efﬁciency is that a big and difﬁ-
cult job can get done without at-

tracting attention and without getting
credit. The Humane Society of Greater
Miami suﬁ‘ers from that disadvantage.
Because the society does its humane work
quietly and unostentatiously, very few
citizens of Miami or Dade county know
how big a job is being done.

In an attempt to ameliorate that situ-
ation, the society will publish statistics
on its operations in each issue of the
Tropical Review section of this maga-
zine. Members and friends of the society
can help the society to gain new friends
by passing on some of these ﬁgures to
other people.

In the ﬁrst six months of this year the
society was involved in 17,269 cases of
actual or potential cruelty to animals—
an average of more than 90 a day, seven
days a week.

Animals involved in this great work
—all of them given shelter and many of
them given medical care—were 6,920
dogs, 7,887 cats, and 395 animals of
other species. The "other species” in-
cluded a range from pigeons to horses!

Seizure Act
(Continued from preceding page)

time or any place for experimentation
and research. Others feel that, in moder-
ation and under proper control, highly
qualiﬁed research and medical centers
should be permitted the use of animals
in their work. And there are others who
feel that the experimental and medical
centers can do-no wrong, certainly would
not abuse animals, and should be per-
mitted to do as they wish.

Our society respects the opinion of
the three groups but we make this deﬁ-
nite statement so there never will be any
confusion as to the aims and policies of
the Humane Society of Greater Miami.

The Humane Society of Greater Mi-
arni will never knowingly allow an ani-
mal to leave its tbelter for experimental,
rcientiﬁc, or any otlaer rerearcl} purpose.

Your pet is no longer in danger—at
least for two years. Our society spent its
limited funds wisely to defeat this seiz-
ure threat. Many of our members came
to our ﬁnancial rescue and, to them, and
to all of you who took such great inter-
est, we offer our most sincere thanks.

 

The society succeeded in restoring 759
animals to their owners. By vigorous
effort, the society also found new homes
for 1,697 other animals.

 

TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620

Amount. $ ____________________________

Life Membership—$50.00 U p

Membership Enrollment

[inmune 50:1qu
OF GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

El!
.51

Name _____________________________________________________

Address __________________________________________________

Ci’ry ............................................................................. Slate ________________________________

Telephone ................................................ Membership: New |:] Renewal [3

Business Membership—$5.00 Up

SHELTER, 7.2217

Date ________________________________________________

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

Page 16D

 

ﬂei’d 462‘

14 cguac’nl‘ecl

MEET OUR PRESIDENT

Since the very inception of the Hu-
mane Society of Greater Miami, nearly
18 years ago, James J. Marshall has
been the society’s president. He is an
attorney, practicing in Miami, and a
member of the bar of all local and state
courts as well as of the Supreme Court
of the United States.

Mr. Marshall is a graduate of the
University of Pittsburgh, with degrees
of AB. and LLB. and has done post-
graduate work at Harvard.

Nearly 30 years ago, Mr. Marshall
decided to make Miami his home.

He has been accorded outstanding
honors in recognition of his work in
popularizing astronomy and for the pub-
lication of several hundred articles on
the subject. On nomination of Dr. Har-
low Shapley, Director of Harvard Ob-
servatory, in 1930 Mr. Marshall was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society. Through his knowledge
of astronomy he has become a well
known ﬁgure in radio on this subject
and was honorary Lecturer in Science at
the University of Miami.

In the face of his extensive legal prac-
tice, his church work, his study of as-
tronomy and his work for the humane
society, he still has found time to give
considerable attention to amateur the-
atricals, having been president of vari-
ous civic theatre groups in Miami. The
Society is very fortunate in having such
a man as Mr. Marshall as its president.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1953

 




Your Society Plans for Present and Future

With Some Reflections
On Past Developments

By CHARLES w. PUSEY

(Managing Director and Execu-
tive Vice President)

HREE RECENT developments in

connection with our service to the

animal population of Dade Coun-
ty have given me considerable satisfac-
tion.

Our Board of Directors passed a reso—
lution whereby facilities for kenneling
our dogs and cats will be more than
doubled, thus relieving the much-too-
crowded existing quarters. At the same
meeting it was further decided that we
immediately install two Euthanair high
.altitude chambers for the humane elimi-
nation of sick or injured animals beyond
medical treatment and unwanted ani-
mals that cannot be provided with new
homes. The third sourceof satisfaction
was the establishment of a special edi-
tion of The National Humane Review
to be mailed monthly to the more than
3,500 members and friends of the So-
ciety, thereby enabling the working staff
to bring to their attention and active
interest the work being done month by
month.

As I write this, my mind travels back
through the years. We have come a long
way since July, 1936, when, in response
to the urgency of a humane-minded
friend aware of my interest in animals,
I was constrained to formulate and carry
through plans to minister to the unfor-
tunate and unwanted among the coun-
ty’s animal population. Little did I real-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEWl—NOVEMBER, 1953

At the ground-breaking ceremonies for the new shelter expansion, held on
Sunday, Oct. 18, were oﬁcers and directors of the Humane Society of Greater
Miami (left to right): fumes ]. Marshall, President; Charles W. Pusey, Execu-
tive Vice-President; Stephen A. Vetter, Treasurer; Mrs. George Wisner, Vice-
President; Mrs. Margaret E. Pusey, Secretary-Director; Mrs. Florence H. Gates,
Director; Mrs. Alys DeMuth Swords, Director, and Mrs. Grover Zaring, Di-
rector. Actual wor/e began the next day. Expansion of the shelter, which will
double the ﬂoor space, will include the installation of new Euthanair chambers
for the humane killing of animals when necessary, and a large isolation ward.
Nothing will he spared for comfort of the animals, and eﬂiciency of the shelter.

ize then what a job of work it would
prove to be.

The early years demanded all the
thought, planning, and hard work which
could possibly be crowded into each
succeeding day. Barely enough time re-
mained in any 24-hour period for neces-
sary sustenance and sleep. Often one be-
came discouraged, wondering if it was

possible or advisable to try to carry on
another week, so many were the diffi-
culties which seemed insurmountable.
But, somehow, we managed to over-
come one obstacle after another so that
after 18 years of sustained effort we
feel that we are justitﬁed in safely say—
ing we are an established humane or-

ganization, deserving and holding the

Page 18A

 




 

-Z>-:

zo-ﬂnmm

respect and praise of. a large majority
of the county’s population. The one-man
operation has become a Society with 15
full-time employees.

It goes without saying that the suc-
cess of the project depended on very
much more than the labors of one man
with a dream and a persistently pursued
goal of achievement. Deep and abiding
gratitude ﬁlls the heart as one recalls the
many helpful and generous friends who,
one by one, became part of the organ-
ization through the years; whose sus—
tained and sympathetic friendship more
than made up for the frustrations and
hardships that, more or less, were a
part of each day’s life and activity. With-
out the encouragement and assistance of
such loyal friends all the labor involved
in the establishment of a firm and last-
ing foundation for an organization de-
voted to animal welfare w0uld have been
in vain. ,

Especially, am I conscious of the great
debt I owe my wife and co-worker, Mar-
garet. It was her cheerfully assumed job
to work hard day after day to provide
for the living of us both until a time
arrived when the increasing financial
support of the Society’s work ﬁnally
made it possible for her also to devote
her full time and attention to the task
to. which we are both dedicated.

One eventually reaches an age when it
becomes possible—if wisdom and un-
derstanding develop'at all—to evaluate
to some degree of clarity the main fac-
tors that play a large part in bringing
about the realization that purposeful
labor has not been in vain, that a dis-
tant goal is closer to realization than at
ﬁrst seemed possible, that, except in
rare cases, the sympathy and support of
like-minded friends is an indispensable
element in any successful adventure. Life
becomes really rough at times, as we all
know, laden with misunderstandings
and even active opposition to the fulﬁll-
ment of our best laid plans, with frus-
tration and heart-breaking failures at-
tending our most sincere efforts to make
good. All that remains, however, is the
awareness that the job has been well
worth the doing and the future may be
viewed without fear or hesitation. We,
here in South Florida, realize that our
work for animals has not been in vain
but that much—very much—-—needs yet
to be attempted and accomplished be-

Page 18B

fore it becomes possible for any and all
of us to rest contented with past suc-
cesses.

May we all be wise enOugh to con-
sider carefully and be guided in our
work by the following quotation from
the writings of the incomparable Albert
Schweitzer:

”A man is ethical only when life, as
such, is sacred to him, that of plants and
animals as that of his fellowmen, and
when he devotes himself helpfully to all
life that is in need of help. . . . When
he goes out of his way to avoid injur-
ing anything living. . . . The stronger
the reverence for natural life, the
stronger grows also that for spiritual
life.”

A
V

PET CARE

How long is it, dog-owner, since you
visited your veterinarian for a check-up
of your canine pet? It is easy for him
to become infested with heart worms or
hookworms and he should be examined
at least once a‘year to! detect their pres-
ence. Those persistent skin eruptions
that cause him so much discomfort more
often than not require the attention
that a trained and experienced veterina—
rian alone can provide.

We at the shelter know only too well
how potentially dangerous it is to ac-
quire a pup and attempt to rear and
own it until a ripe old age without
safeguarding it. against the ravages of
distemper and other serious virus dis-
eases by the administration of a vaccine
of proven value—effective in a very
high percentage of cases. Even under
the best of home care sometimes acci-
dents will happen. '

 

mu 4%:
ﬁcgua’nl‘ecg

 

MEET OUR TREASURER

Stephen A. Vetter has been a director
of the Humane Society of Greater Miami
for the past seven years. He is well
known in the business world of the na-
tion, having been in the radio broad-
casting ﬁeld for ‘more than 25 years in
Dade County and Pennsylvania. For
the past two years he has devoted his
full time to the Society, which is great-
ly indebted to him for his untiring in-
terest and diligence on behalf of the
animal life of Florida. He has been
highly guiding and
strengthening the financial affairs of the
organization. Mr. Vetter is from Pitts-
burgh, but 30 years ago he decided to
make his home in Miami.

successful in

They’re not un-
happy, these pup-
pies, just soher-
loo/eingauith not
a drinle in the
house — except
cool, fresh water.
By the time we
go to press these
ﬁw ppe puppies
will have found
go od h o m es ;
homes with loo-p
ing care. Your
Humane Society
makes certain
"loving care” is
included with
each adoption.

THE‘NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—NOVEMBER, 1953




 

 

 

 

 

With her mother’s approval, a youngster assures our kennelman that
she will provide her just adopted kitten with plenty of tender, lovin g
care. A view of some of the many clean, airy cages in the shelter is
shown. There are open runs for all animals in various sections of the

shelter and on our ﬁve acres of ground.- All animals get their share of "
0 ea , sunshine and exercise.

Saul u ’Z/eat _

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—NOVEMBER, 1953 Page 18C

 




Life with Our Preridem

 

Birds, Squirrels, Dogs Find
Refuge At His Home

By JAMES J. MARSHALL

THE BIRDS’ feeding station is

about ten feet away from our back

porch. The rumor has gone about
that the President of the Humane So-
ciety lives in there and the bluejays are
strongly of the opinion that this en-
tails certain obligations on his part,
notably keeping the station full of bird-
seed and hors d’oeuvres in the shape of
diced bread. Exhaustion of the food sup-
ply is the signal for the local Bluejays
Union to stand in the station and shriek.
And bluejays can shriek!

Here in South Florida we see an end-
less convention of birds. Through the
summer our tropical garden is full of
ﬂashing forms, the red streak of the
cardinal, the friendly conversation of
the mocking bird that follows one from
bush to bush, the absurd woodpecker
walking up tree trunks, the chattering
sparrows, mourning doves sobbing in
the tops of trees, ﬂickers hanging up-
side down, and a dozen others that are
with us the year ’round. And at migra-
tion season, our garden is a motel for
feathered tourists.

Have you ever seen a painted bunt-
ing? Nature’s palette of brilliant colors!
The names of all of them escape us, but
the lady next door has a way with birds
and when she calls them, it looks like
Grand Central Station at 5:30 PM.
They sit on her head and shoulders and
demand refreshment.

Mr. and Mrs. Bushytail, the squirrels
who live in our big oak and who from
time to time raise a family, are appreci-
ative of our avocados. They are co-
operative also. Until we discovered that
one avocado left at the base of the tree
would satisfy their diet, they used to
chew all they c0uld ﬁnd without dis-
crimination. One of their amusements is
to poise tail up on a pine ten feet from
the birds’ feeding station, then leap

unerringly into the station. We’ve never '

seen them miss.

The dogs around the neighborhood
recently presented us with a testimonial
of appreciation. They like the water bowl
inside the garage and the box of dog
biscuits we keep for visitors. Some just
drop in to wish us a good-day. D712, the

 

TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620

AmountI $ ............................

Lite Membership—$50.00 Up

 

Membership Enrollment

ﬁnmuncf’odctq
OF GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

El!
.3

Name .....................................................

Address __________________________________________________

City .............................................................................. State ________________________________

Telephone ................................................ Membership: New [:1 Renewal [:1

Business Membership—$5.00 Up

SHELTER, 7.2217

Date ________________________________________________

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

Page 18D

Scotch Collie, whose owner next door
visits us daily, does not need anything,
to eat, but is too polite to refuse. Smoky,
an ancient veteran without teeth, al-
ways comes to the front door. He is a.
sort of exaggerated fox terrier, who;
howls to come in, and immediately gal-~
lops to the wife’s room for a greeting,
then to the kitchen for a pan of milk.
Fairy, the English setter, comes to the
garage, sings for a slice of avocado and
two biscuits, then sings a thank-you note
and goes off. Butt/9, the Boston, Chico,
the bull terrier,Rmty, the Chow, Mark,
the huskie, and many whose names we
don’t know, drop in for a few minutes,
and then hurry off to another appoint-
ment.

Perhaps yOu don’t believe it, but the
hundred or so goldﬁsh in our outdoor
pool come to the surface and talk to us,
snapping their jaws, but hide from other
people.

Only one thing in my relations with
animals gives me more pleasure than
their society. That is when someone
comes to my ofﬁce and says, ”put in my
will that I give so and so to the Humane
Society.” That evening the cardinals are
brighter, the jays sing a happier note
and the song of the mocking bird fills
the twilight with music.

A

DATES
To Remember

The Miami, Florida, Cat Fanciers
Championship Cat Show will be held .in
Bayfront Park Auditorium, Dec. 12 and
13. All-Breed, Solid Color and Tabby &
Tortie shows are scheduled acCording to
CFA rules. Judges are: Mrs. C. D.
Carroll, Decatur, Ga.——Specialty Shows;
and Mrs. Frances Herms of Tarrytown,
N .Y.—All-Breed. This show will be for
the benefit of the Humane Society of
Greater Miami.

The eleventh AKC All-Breed Dog
Show and Obedience Trials is sched-
uled for Jan. 17, 1954, in the Dinner
Key Convention Hall. This important
annual event is sponsored by the
Greater Miami Dog Club. This club
makes a substantial annual contribution
to the Humane Society of Greater
Miami.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—NOVEMBER, 1955

 




Dou [ole Slogan Needed

By JUDGE
WALTER H. BECKHAM

Moem’le and Domerz‘z'c Relation; Court,
Miami

HE WORK of the Humane So-

ciety of Greater Miami has made

the expression, "prevention of
cruelty to animals,” a most worthy slo-
gan, which has been backed up by many
years of ﬁne service on the part of this
organization, causing it to merit the
appreciation and approval of all of our
citizens. As a Judge who has presided
over a Juvenile Court now for more than
20 years,'I wish we could establish the
phrase, "prevention of cruelty to chil-
dren,” and give it as much meaning,
appeal, and signiﬁcance as the Humane
Society has given to the meaning of the
phrase, "prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals.”

Why is it that apparently we do not
attract as much interest from organiza-
tions to this phrase as has been attracted
to the Humane Society’s work in dealing
with dumb animals? Perhaps it is be-
cause animals do not have any voice,
while children are supposed to have
parents who are responsible for them,
learn of their wants, and are able to
supply them. While this is true in many
instances, there is a growing number of
cases of cruelty to children which merit
public attention.

At a time when the public press is

"playing up” the harm of juvenile de- .

linquency to the nation, it is a good idea
to look behind the scenes and \see what
is the story behind the story. We should
appreciate,- ﬁrst of all, that to some
extent the volume of juvenile delin-
quency in the nation is being over-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—DECEMBER, 1953

played and perhaps given too much
sensationalism through newspapers and
magazine articles, which overlook the
large volume of ﬁne, outstanding young
people who come into maturity each
year and take their places as ﬁne citizens,
worthy of our hopes and appreciation
as the parents of tomorrow.

Our young people of today, on the

,.whole, are more intelligent, clear-eyed,

wholesome, and healthy than any group
of youngsters we have ever had, despite
the many problems which adults have
made for them, including many modern
gadgets, such as movies, television, and
automobiles. In other words, our public
delinquent group—meaning those who
come into actual conﬂict with the law
and end up in court—represents a minor-
(Continued on page 16D)

 

£951 Qal‘ 74¢?“ka

Leo Ackerman

Born in Tennessee 53 years ago, Leo
Ackerman came to Miami in 1922 and,
in the following year, started an insur-
ance business that is one of the largest
in Florida. He is a member of the
board of the Cancer Institute of Miami
and is its past treasurer. Among his
many other activities, Mr. Ackerman is
a member of Mahl Shrine Temple, Mi-
ami Beach Exchange Club, and Knights
of Pythias and spends much time work-
ing for community organizations.

With Our

Directors

Mrs. Valentine C. Riley

Just 29 years ago, Mrs. Valentine C.
Riley decided to make Miami her per-
manent home. Born in England, she
came to the United States at an early
age, lived in California and Texas before
making Florida her choice. She has
always been active in humane and public
welfare work. She was a member of
the Pan American Club and past Presi-
dent of the Republican Women’s Club,
and has been active in work with our
Humane Society for many years.

Page 16A

 




 

Page ,16B

 

 

By MARGARET E. PUSEY .
ecretary

A study in contrasts. ”Denver,” an
English hull, as you might surmise
from his appearance, wasn’t a
major winner at the annual Alum-
ni Pet Show sponsored by the Hu-
mane Society of Greater Miami,
but the dog leeeps its owner happy.
This former resident of the Hu-
mane Society shelter is enjoying a
great hi g hug from Claire Levine.
Adoptions made from the shelter
do provide a lot of happiness to
both owner and pet.

4'

Cats in the Alumni Pet
Show? Sure thing! ”Iiggs”
and ”Buddy Boy” loo/e
happy even if their owners
don’t. Roy Knox has his
”figgs,” ﬁrst-prize winner —,
in the cat division, and
Bonnie H etterlin g restrains
her ”Buddy Boy,” second-
rzze winner.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—DECEMBER, 195.3




 

TOTAL of 74 pets were entered
in the Humane Society’s Fifth

Annual Alumni Pet Show, ar-
ranged to celebrate National Dog Week.
But—came the rain in torrents. _(You
know, we do have some rain in South
Florida—mixed, of course, with plenty

lumni poll

of sunshine. . .) So the Show was
postponed for a week.

Then more rain: rain in the early
morning, but clearing in the shelter area
in the afternoon. Those owners and
pets who braved the threatening weather
had a lot of fun and received many ﬁne
prizes and, to top it oﬂ“, every entrant
received a special prize of value.

Our Pet Show, staged each year with
the only requirement being that the
animal was adopted from the Humane
Society, is designed to focus attention

Umbrellas are rare in South Florida so we must. explain
that Mrs. Fran/e Bowien is holding one—just in case you
never saw one before. That’s ”Daisy” next to Mrs. Bowien,
and her smile is to tell the world that she won ﬁrst prize
in the mixed-breed class owned by adults. Mrs. Bowien

is one of our host of true friends.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—DECEMBER, 1953

on the many ﬁne animals obtainable
from the shelter and to encourage their

~ owners to keep them in good condition,

well groomed and, above all, well be-
haved. It is surprising to see so many
of the dogs and cats, formerly our guests,
with such good manners, able to do

sac...

tricks, and in excellent physical condi-
tion, a result of home care and careful
training. 2

To one who is accustomed to seeing
so many bedraggled animals brought to
our shelter, it is a surprising pleasure to
note the beautiful coats, the alert eyes
and the carriage of these same animals.
We have seen many that we felt would
be an excellent addition to the “pure-
bred” class.

Accredited AKC and CFA judges
always contribute their time and efforts

 

to this event. This year we had Mrs.
Charolette Thornton, well known Obe-
dience Trial Judge; Mrs. Virginia Selby,
an expert judge of dogs; and Mrs.
Louise Heron, an outstanding breeder
and cat show judge. Mr. Milton H.
Dickerson, President of the Greater
Miami Dog Show, and our president,
Mr. James J. Marshall, assisted. And
we assure you, plenty of assistance was
needed.

The oldest alumnus on the scene was
Bitsy, a 13-year-old terrier adopted from
our shelter in 1940 by Sharon Ann Ford.
The next oldest was Daisy, a 9-year-old
of undetermined blood lines, but with
the suspicious appearance of being a
spitz. Mrs. Frank Bowien is Daisy’s
proud owner.

Our annual Alumni Pet Show attracts
more attention and a larger attendance
each year.

With ﬁve acres of ground, we have the
necessary space on the Society’s property
for these shows and, of course, there is
never a charge for exhibiting or admis-
sron.

 

”Lucky? was the right name for the former resident;of
the Humane Society’s shelter, held by its owner, Billy
Zinser. Although his ancestry was a bit diﬁcult to deter-
mine, .”Luc/ey” landed in ﬁrst place for pets entered by
juvenile owners. The girls,‘unfortunately, are unidentiﬁed.

They and their pets, however, loo/e happy about the Show.

Page 16C

 




Double Slogan

(Combs/red from page 16A)
ity group of perhaps 10 or 15 per cent
of our total child population. These,
however, get the publicity, while the
80 to 90 per cent of young people who
turn out all right have no news value
and do not hit the front pages.

Each community’s ﬁgure of delin-
quency is, perhaps, somewhat larger in
numbers or volume because of the con-
tinued growth in our child population,
particularly since the war. This is evi-
denced by many millions being spent
for additional school buildings to meet
enlarged enrollments. It is believed,
however, that the ratio of juvenile de-
linquency to child population is not
especially higher now than it has been
for several years, and in some areas it
is even lower.

Having said this bit in appreciation
of the majority of our young people, I
now want to point out that we have
too much juvenile delinquency involv-
ing cruelty to children in the back-
ground. This fact should concern us.
Public agenciesiserving the needs of
children are generally receiving more
calls for their services than they can
fulﬁll. Orphanages and similar insti-
tutions are usually over-crowded. Char-
ity homes or detention homes, for
dependent children, are usually ﬁlled to

capacity. These conditions are caused
primarily by careless, indifferent, and
worthless parents who bring children
into the world without accepting the
responsibility for their care and rearing,
thus inﬂicting cruel treatment by per-
mitting sordid and improper conditions
in the home, so that the public is re-
quired to take over the care of such
children in order to give them a decent
chance in life.

It is noted that on the average too
many American homes today are being
adversely affected by the drinking of
too much intoxicating liquor. This is
a growing social evil, although we do
not intend to raise any controversy over
the question of prohibition. Ask any
police judge, or juvenile court judge,
as to the effect of» too much liquor in
American life today and they will cor-
roborate this statement. Most juvenile
courts have quite a few children to deal
with on Monday mornings who have

had to be rescued from drunken parents

or debauched homes over the weekend.
Complaints in such cases represent sto-
ries of children not having been fed in
their homes for some two or three days,
or being allowed to live in ﬁlth, with
clothing unchanged, while the parents
have been drunk or indulging in too
much patronage of saloons or bars, thus
more or less abandoning their children.

This is a high type of cruelty which

 

TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620

Amount $ ____________________________

Life Membership—$50.00 Up

 

Membership Enrollment

ﬁnmaueﬁorictq
0F GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

El!
'51

Name _____________________________________________________

Address ..................................................

City ........................................................
Telephone ______________________________________________

____________________ State

.- Membership: New C] Renewal [:1
Business Membership—$5.00 Up

SHElTER, 7.2217

Date ................................................

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

Page 16D

 

In the charter of the Humane
' Society of Greater Miami, there
is the phrase, "prevention of cru-
elty to children.” Only insufﬁ-
cient income has prevented the
Society from expanding its ac-
tivities into that ﬁeld of much-
needed action—Editor.

 

 

 

should not be tolerated in any com-
munity.

Broken homes, whether by divorce or
separation, or mothers unnecessarily tak-
ing positions out of the home and leav-
ing their children unsupervised, also
create instances of cruelty to children.

Reviewing conditions which we think
prevail pretty generally throughout the
United States, we believe that the time
may have come for a more concerted
public recognition of the need for com-
bined effort to prevent cruelty to chil-
dren, either through such an organiza-
tion as the Humane Society or some
special organization devoted to such
purpose, so that in all cases of neglected,
abused or cruelly treated children there
would be a deﬁnite group standing by,
ready to intervene and take up cudgels
for the prosecution of people guilty of
such cruelty and to enforce all laws for
the children’s protection.

This would serve to alert all law
enforcement ofﬁcials and make them
more conscious of the need for strict
and impartial and uniform law enforce-
ment in matters affecting children. It
is to be regretted that while these duties
definitely belong to parents and to cer-
tain ﬁelds of law enforcement, too often
offenders get by through political ex-
pediency or inefﬁcient law enforcement.
An organization devoted to the preven-
tion of cruelty to children could unques-
tionably spark-plug into positive and
deﬁnite action all such cases. While we
shed tears over homeless and abused
dogs or other animals, we should also
shed a tear for the homeless and abused
child in the community, who represents
an even greater potential appeal on

.humanitarian grounds, perhaps, than

the need for the protection of dumb
animal life, as important and humane
as that may be.

Let us encourage the double slogan:
"prevention of cruelty to animals” and
"prevention of cruelty to children”!

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—DECEMBER, 1953

 




Poems
By Beulah Godwin

(Bet/la}: Godwin is very well known
to Miamianr throng/9 loer many con-
tribution; in verse to [are Kofoed’r daily
column in tlae Miami Herald. Time and
again roe liar demonstrated a genuine
love and regard for livin g creaturer.

NO PEDIGREE!
We have a little neighbor-friend, who
daily comes to call,
To get her tid-bit handouts, and to guard
our house and all; ’
An independent Somebody, with soulful,
melting eyes,
But she hasn’t any papers—so she’ll
never win a prize!
She runs intruders oﬂ‘ the place—the two
or four-foot kind,
And minds us, most implicitly—float is,
when 50 inclined;
She cheers us when we’re feeling low,
with all her cunning capers,
But she’ll never rate a ribbon—’cause
she hasn’t any papers!
She talks to us, in special ways—though
some may think that odd—
And looks atUS, with her big, brown
eyes, as WE might look—to God:
She’s such a joyous bundle, full of love
and loyalty,
I’m awf’lly glad she doesn’t know—
she has no pedigree!
HOW COME
He came to our door,
Tapping ever so lightly . . .
His look seemed to ask of us,
Oh,- so politely
"Please give me somethmg to eat” '. . .

And that . . ’

Is how we come i i,

To have a cat.

7, THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY, 21954

A flory

Undue Inﬂuence

By JAMES J. MARSHALL
President, Humane Society of Greater Miami

LD JUDGE Randall was about
to deliver. his opinion on the will
of the late Jonas Carter. Carter’s

nephew, man-about-town Philip Carter,
somewhat bleary-eyed from a late party
at the country club, nervously ﬁngered
his little mustache, leaned on his walking
stick. Mrs. Thomas Worthington Dalton
III, Carter’s cousin and niece of the de-
ceased, faultlessly attired in a Dior
creation, exhibited the haughty reserve
which had earned her leadership of the
summer colony at Bar Harbor. She hated
Philip, glanced contemptuously at a
mongrel airedale-spaniel named Pal,
who was smiling at his lawyer, meek
little Mr. Larsen. Pal was in court over
the protest of Mr. Borland, of Fenhurst,
McCormick, Forland and Smith, the
famous legal authorities on probate law,
appearing for Philip, and Mr. Astley, of
Astley, Curran and Norris, also authori-
ties, who represented Mrs. Dalton. Judge
Randall felt that Pal had sufﬁcient in-
terest in the estate to permit his coming
in on a leash.

”Gentlemen,” said Judge Randall,
"this is an unusual situation. As I under-
stand it, Mr. Carter was the owner of
this property in Oklahoma, which he
considered practically worthless, but
after his death it was found to be valuable
oil land, So that his estate will amount
to Several million dollars. In his will he
appointed Mr. Larsen his executor, and
directed that his property, which he sup-

posed to be of little value, be sold and
that Mr. Larsen hold the proceeds in
trust for support and maintenance of his
dog Pal, with the remainder after Pal’r
death over to the Humane Society. The
will is contested by his nephew and
niece. As you know, this will can be set
aside for only two reasons, either that he
was mentally incapable of devise, or that
undue inﬂuence was exerted upon him.
I ﬁnd no evidence that he lacked testate
capacity.

”But, if the Court please,” interrupted
Mr. Astley, ”it was shown that Carter,
although earning barely sufﬁcient to live
in a shack near the city dump, made a
practice of. feeding homeless dogs and
cats and providing a kind of hospital in
his home for injured animals. This ap-
pears to me to be evidence of mental
inadequacy.”

”I think not, Mr. Astley,” replied the
Judge. ”To me this is evidence of a
highly intelligent mind. Is there any
testimony which would show undue in-
ﬂuence?”

Mr. Borland rose. ”Affection for this
mongrel can only be interpreted as such,”
he asserted. '

”As I gather, you maintain that the
dog Pal exerted undue inﬂuence over Mr.

' Carter?”

”That is what it amounts to,” ventured
Mr. Borland.
”I do not recall havingever heard this
(Continzied on page 16D).

Page -16A

 




 

- I >- I

................................

CU ﬁzz—~— W VQ—wa QAW ”—“W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

} OFFICE

 

 

 

C ouN 7’54,

9
WM,- WNb.M

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HENNELNEZ

 
 

 

F KENNEL Net

 

 

 

9*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1'6B

To achieve the goal of extending
its services, the Humane Society 0
Greater Miami is expanding its shelter.
In this ﬂoor plan, designed by Archi-
tect T. Hunter Henderson of Miami
Beach, the shaded portions represent

(2M

4 +———{
M
QUN‘WW wis“ ' ‘cn—txa‘p 'wﬁrnyﬂr—r M /-
(”Mdétﬁw y’ﬁza a “(an In (27% (D. ‘D ”ELAF(~.—. jMM

JAUN‘THH utnvﬁhsou-
~ AFe‘xt'i’bcl' - Miami Mk

new additions. The complete under-
cover area will be three times the pres-
ent shelter area. Yards for the animals
(not shown in this diagram) are out—
side the three kennels. Mr. Henderson

_ is a member of the Humane Society.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY, 1954

‘g




 

Strange as it seems, with tens of thousands of dogs and cats, every
shelter in the country seems to have a pet or two. omehow, it, is a
mar/e of the employees’ kindly feelings toward animals. Your Humane
Society. of Greater Miami is no exception. Here are "Baby” and
"Henry,” who tickle everyone with their antics.

1.

Shelter
Pets

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY, 1954 Page 16C

 




MEET OUR SECRETARY

Mrs. Charles W. Pusey, a Floridian
by birth, is Secretary to the Board, and
a Director of the Humane Society of
Greater Miami, as well as the Resident
Manager of the shelter. She has always
been keenly interestedin the welfare of
animals and it was because of this in-
terest that she persuaded her husband,
President Charles W. Pusey, to pioneer
in humane work in Dade COunty. Until
1945, Mrs. Pusey was connected with

 

WORK ACCOMPLISHED

Calls handled in Dade County,
January-October, 1953

Do gs .................................. 1 1,787
Cats .................................... 14,005
Misc. .................................. 63 1
Nuisance ............................ 347
Cruelty .............................. 480
Biting ................................ 3 10
Non-Productive Calls ........ 2, 148
TOTAL ............................ 29,708

Restored to

Adoptions Owners

Dogs .............. 2,114 1,211
Cats .............. 878 95

 

 

 

local radio stations, but now she devotes
full time to the affairs of the Humane
Society.

Mrs. Pusey is also very active as ofﬁcer-
director of the Greater Miami Dog Club,
the Miami Florida Cat Fanciers, Soropti-
mist and Miami Shores Business & Pro-
fessional Woman’s Club.

A
v’

DOG SHOW ON ]AN. 17

Friends and members of the Hu-
mane Society are urged to attend the
Eleventh AKC All-Breed Dog‘Show
and Obedience Trials scheduled for

‘January 17, 1954, at Dinner Key Audi-

torium, Miami. The event is sponsored
annually by the Greater Miami Dog
Club.

 

TELEPHONE; OFFICE, 7.5520

Amount' $ ____________________________

Lite Membership—$50.00 Up ,

 

Membership Enrollment

linmuncﬁorietq
OF GREATER MIAMI

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

Eli

Name _____________________________________________________

Address __________________________________________________

City ............................................................................ State ................................

-. Membership: New E] Renewal E]
Business Membership—$5.00 Up

Telephone ..............................................

SHELTER, 7.2217

.5

Date ________ _ ........................................

Individual Membership—$2.00 Up

 

 

Undue Inﬂuence

(Contimmd from page 16A)

interesting point,” said the Judge. "I
think in view of the facts, it is untenable.
As has been proved, Mr. Carter was the
black sheep of a wealthy family. He
declined to join his father and brothers
in various questionable stock promotions,
out of which they became wealthy, while
his father left him nothing but this piece
of desert land. It is true that he showed
little interest in his ﬁnancial advance-
ment, but several witnesses have de-
scribed him as a much-loved person by
people in misfortune to whom he ex-
tended help. Mr. Philip Carter and Mrs.
Dalton, it appears, held him in contempt,
and even refused to come to his assistance
when he was critically ill. His dog, on
the other hand, shared what little food
he managed to obtain, never questioned
the privation of his property, was loyal
to him for many years, his constant and
faithful companion when his relatives
deserted him. I cannot ﬁnd that Pal
inﬂuenced him to do anything that he
would not have done himself. It is the
judgment of the Court that Mr. Carter
made wise disposition of his estate. The
will is sustained.”

I“ "'I” “—1.- .f.

- ‘ —'".".'."T u.‘-.- -~~ -
T" * ";’...‘,......‘.‘:.‘..K'.. "3’; >;:,.- ‘-"_.‘_'.".._.. .- -
u . .. -’.l71;l.l..p~‘0 lo.vf~ln*pmi.~.W¢\-m

PET CEMETERY

Finest in the South
VISITORS WELCOME

nmmm Sarita]

-- of Greater miumi

THE .NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY, 195-4

 




mi ‘
{mm m
A“... 333 15.37:”

“luv

%%3

'4

1g, 31‘}:- 23’3 ‘

igﬁw my} «3*; 0‘ * 3?
6

“1E. NZ}

9 ‘ ‘55.

l . .
I.
J.

”3,3“? MT} ”5.52.1”“3?

~ga$ mg-
«5

As”...

3“}m

“355:5.

”a“ TIER-i " ' MI;
in: J. 2. 3‘

Mg)“ 1.7;?
, m,

I

i

«:xyww m.» -r mm}:

.7... ~ “ft“. 5:.
Mg” 3» $1.2; _ 4». .§,

5’"

Eﬂﬁizﬁr ﬂ,

’2‘?" AA”: A“
x {7 4. a;

2A
". 9%}?
..: p,

h.

-J.. 'n' .lv'w'A

*“D' ' q A a.

$3.: .pmw
1*. «us 7. i I 2}}.t‘k

w?» J» m:

ﬂax?!“ An“. 3.,
(whiny) I

iv“:

a»
m “.1.
AJ.a‘wﬂ.4~- .Ai. ‘ A

‘ 35,-.

‘9’ LA. 4: "r .

r- y Aw:
gt .2 {#23:}

-- $251“? A.
La; 46;"... A:

ﬁﬂmﬁ“

x. ,a

An: ‘5 ’ “" ﬁzw‘ng 4"}.(3 '9 ““S. '1’ Afﬂﬂ“: 3:“
4.: M; 2, In: A , ‘34 2.: .

J? “1‘ a: «if; :3 4H.

’ at: i 1 *1 . ’ :‘J

"m‘ #rxﬁ‘A-‘v "1.....- ﬁx 7

a a ﬁ?“

ww .1533, 3
mm}, m.

'2‘. m“ "

15'.- :‘Z.

rﬁﬁr

. ~ 3
'- W "fgﬁ‘ﬁ'fw’g‘ Q’W'
31.153313 .13 411%.?!"

ﬁﬁﬂﬁ?) arﬁ A

ﬁm

§5’3. mg"? 2

ﬁr?

a.» v.»

 




a:

3"“? 5"
3

J?

- ‘ R 53 «
,9 ., '33 F
Jung»? :V-wr

4a. 4a,:

_ L,
‘1." .- iwaa A f

ﬁl'u£.ﬁﬁﬂf

_ ft ”Zr... 4p ‘ '
.9» .1 $.11“ 44:» {41.41"

V A! T I
~ 5;, , ,_ r, , 71;"; ,
$331114; 64:; 94' “7.43 MW» iv hr“ '4 a

$333“ A

i. 4%.; ‘

VA.

. . 1'
fr-L‘up f m.- 1
- ‘1 x h g

..,. >-

v , 1'
”pg-2 « \‘,-‘-, m 4M. {w #1“ z

W V‘ V - \ > n , ‘ : ~‘ \ "W way! 30..”me vaf

if} y ; V . 1: p ‘ . ,_ 12"
"kw" ‘ ' '- " ' " . 3' 4, v .‘2 ml}

to ,
‘ 1

,u w}.- L-J-m ‘\,

«k . 15*,
~ 1
w .

av,

 




£21.53; 5

: xxxxx
ﬁxford 5~21h6

March.l9, 1933

Era. Charlea'ﬁ. Puﬁey

ﬁnmane Society of Greater ﬁiami
2101.%0rthwa$t 95th Strﬁﬁt
mm 38, Mariam

m
I} ,3 ‘3" y
”garikmwwwﬁt,

Era. ﬁtavenﬁ gave me thm varieus mamas to
Wham ﬂeportﬁ should be gent and I find thgﬁ the Humane
Saciety of Sarascta ia already an aur liﬁt and FESQiVﬁﬁ
ﬁapmrts regularly. EGWQV%r, if therﬁ is 80mg particular
paﬁuan there ta'whem Reports sheuld be addressed, please
let ma Raga,

Sincarely yaurs,

ﬁill$barﬁugh Ewanty ﬁuﬁane S. 7% ‘ 13 5153 a: tag 315E
but 2101) -11” ‘ﬁilbeif’t ' 3 31am}. .. pi "Ja’ﬂ $31K: ’{rsm to Mm
mea&&MMm,mm$ﬁmxma€mrau

!‘ ‘~ M1 a!» #9 rt .2. —3 a... val-
4 , 3%.? U; o a; L: with L;
0? i8 eme an ugh?

 




”a;
— 2 ”‘3'
magﬂtnw< w:

my 23,1333

3T3)» 333333.33? 5:"in ..
ﬁWﬁﬂ (3:31? ‘3 by {33” ’3333'333‘33‘: 333333333,
2103. "3:3. 33-4. 95% 3333333613 '
“3533333 1:33, 3’3.3:3:: 3.33;. 3

an». 5' 2. "',
3.332.131“ 3333315331333:

“1:. 33.33:: @3333: 3.0 5:33. 32:33:: 13:: 33% :33? 3331;: 13.33.3323. 1' '33:
‘3‘311131 3:23.: 33. .3.“ 13353333: 33:33 333331» 22:33 9:33:33; ‘33:: 2...“: “‘3...:.::‘3i:3"“ 3:. 39:33-‘2‘333
333’ 21.3.3231: 3:33.3333333. 3:33:33“ 33:3“ 3.33.33.33.32. 33:33:: 3333‘. . Wm: 33.13.: :Iémi‘. 339‘. 3.3.2. 3;
33,333,333: :3“: ‘5; 3i" ‘3‘ “3"“ ‘2‘ :3: 3:33;” :3: 33.22 533‘; . .33.}: 3.3.3213: ‘33:" 33. 3‘33“. .. ”1......3: 3:33.33 :33‘13::;2‘g.;::::“3§33
b3: 33:. 3.3.322“ ”'3. 32333333, 3333:333331‘ 133.33»: 3.333133 3.3.33 3333:: 33.3333?- ”313“?“ 33‘3”“
anﬁﬁ “”“3‘” ”‘1? {2‘3" wW‘VVWEw 33 3‘13 3J3?’3£“3’ 1’334‘33343 3.63.33. $3.933, 333333.33 v3.3.1. 3.335;“, 333;“‘ﬂf 193%
and 3%33‘3i..333333 :32?“ 2'32: meal 3131333.: 3:333:12. 3:33.}. .33; 33.53.: 333333: 3:333:33 33:33:33.. .3333 330
3.33:: ’“thM‘b 33:.” “‘z‘r3c~33‘.‘m 3':‘3‘331:3.:3.3:7.3.332: .. .. 33.3. .3313“ 3:3": “.3. .333 333‘... .333.“ 33: ‘33
pm: 33:33 33‘. 3&3 mm: “3.33 32:33: 3.3333332 in 2““3‘333‘2‘131 cix‘cuiatez‘: to wachr‘ma. 3m... :r
31:33.1 33:33 33313-: 3'. ﬂag”: 33W: ‘3 3:33.: 3:331" 33:. 3.33:: 3333333233: 3.33 532‘: ‘3‘ :3”
33333332333333“ 33:33:33.3:3. 233;? 33:23:33: 32333.33: 33:233.: 233333.33 ~ 33:13:35. by .330 {memrmmz 3.333% 33.33:: 333:: :21:
3:33:13: 333‘. 33:33:33.: 33:13.: 33.13;.» 2:33: 3.3.3.3333: 3.333333 “:31: 3:3: "2‘33 3233.333: 3333313333313 :3 will '3:
Wtieularly 1:333:15? 333 take ‘30 ”33:53.33. 3.3.2 3133123333, 23331333 233333 3313‘ 3:3 223:3. 3‘3“ 11:33.- “‘3‘...
33: 333:: 3333:3333: 33.333333: ‘7"33‘33‘33‘33 33:3 33:393. ‘33. .32 33.33.3123 3:33 g...“ 3:33:33 :3“: 3331.... 33331.1,
3:331:43“ 333333.333“: 6.33:: 3:33 Latina: 3:33 333:“: 3323-“ 33:3“ “2:3... ‘33. 32.3: 33. 3:333:32: :.1‘3.-’:‘ ‘3:
33:333‘3331‘321 m“ 3.33: 333333231 3:333 .133?::: 3313335331333

:33: kind mgarés a

233333333313,

CS 391‘

‘23 {:3 a,“ ' *’
I ...:3.. 1...: 33 ‘3. 33133233333333: 3:: 333...: -3333: 33.33 3.333 t 3.33:: refermc“: 31.3: 3101‘ 33

*3

. .3. . 33:33 2
311.333.33333‘33 33333333313331, mar: :33." 333233.. 23. 323...: 1:33:31 3:: 3333: ‘33:; fmui‘wr, 3:. ’11.“:
3.333332333333323: ‘33:. :33; 3232333. 3‘33. - ""“3.;:lic 33;. 3:3“: ”3.....‘3. 3:“ 3:33 3:13:33. 3:33
3:2: ‘2': 33* 3a 31. - .
aim: .1323” .3: 31331... I 3.33:: .33 2:13.: -3: 3.3: 3:333:33‘333333. ”Ema“ ms.

 




,‘sx,

'2101 N.W. 95th STREET :5: MIAMI 47, FLORIDA «I: TELEPHONE 7-22I7

nmuneﬁ 011qu

OF GREATER MIAMI

"P’
7‘

nine Stevens
5.1;: fare 113.3%. 011%"?

‘r

V

am.

Thank yam fer . x I ,

of the latter * glw " '6?» r w .
puhlication 9? same ¢u> , I? ymu the Gopyc
trip aﬁroad wag iﬁﬁere 'ng as wvll a3
yam.

r

30% knar ‘ ELther of us will a++mnﬁ

w Lia/EL
.LT _‘ '. ,, '. . v'» "‘
wrb. » ;,ar :3 dreadfully Q?ﬁ@$@d is our
‘5 m - .0 a a " n < at
me ratﬂer unconieriable gaunt Lt alrv

'9 3‘2?-
” .. ‘m, a . D a? . >' ‘. 1 « "x- E! 1
30h? aﬁmual repsrﬁ LG? ﬁne -; E .I -, I ; WOQ;ﬁ

0 1w

9 , " . »., a w 'l 4 n 0‘
M,VT%Gl&v3 capzem. we ara -.m" U I =- ﬂuent 33mg?

I; . I?” u- a“ " . . T ,, I v v
you have an? new maberlal -( .-1” _ . h., I 9 9a “311

“E
anxicsuﬁ ta} begm "‘5 - .. maizgr‘gglg We
wd a mariﬁnette a=¢s 2” ﬂ’ » . 6*
5Q? ﬁhe.ﬂnimal
wwald.ba a$ca§tabE .

let 2 Charles
Ea staﬁement F»' =’ conversaﬁ
ianittae ﬁhat Eﬂéﬁl +Vw a? 'L a 3353
land“ - ﬁhe
*:31 «'but Charﬁea
ﬁhht .J Soeiety supplying amimalﬁ
he ﬂycpped fram.membershi§ rnI2HPE
whgre 2 ~* .‘r",‘a* I 'Evﬁiﬁ,NSﬁR ta bur imawladge.

r“! “s
, ,

 

an. I.
, a

a: II!
.I .

 




."1
34 4,
1, :1.

.1... ,1.”
{,1 Li

1;

3"”‘1’3, 1,;
“ untrfy Cliff:
:5: wave; :2:

Q’thﬁe 1”

7‘
F60

f, A

:9“.
v, ..

“V‘
*3
L.
31.:

V ”J
y ;
"u
m
..:w

s :r; :3
V a"
4.3. J.

i
11 1.)}.

adv
' Q.)
- -.- >14
... ‘
: ' 1,
- .,
(‘0‘
.
t
a

-.
_.
.«k

:71 “_ ‘ 3‘3 12*“

,5.
If
‘0
.L .

3;}

.L.
a) s.» ,3.
A n ’9
11C; in

a:
v

1“ n1 1?“

Elgfr “
1'. 022.11% ;"

.
u.

M u

m.
mm 3 .,

M

w

C) '

T1
.Ow
(‘1’

‘ 2;)

(‘3
care

4

a,»
A
‘1‘?
.8.

3 .333 '2”?

:1 1.123711 f
a!
a. .4}. at! in! I.

U:
l'

‘U

53
L11,

.. a)

K./ ‘ i

”a

‘ “i

L 1

{In , 7"" 5.x
‘1 323“} '-
”a
.J

i.
.

‘4

-..
D
7

‘j I“
. 7 , _
«j
k)

h.
.M M. -. .7

O

k
‘ 1.23”
2n. 1533 «v

5-, . .u

.1

=1
¥

-m. .
,L
'a’“ ‘

‘1

"Hi-“‘37 7%}(}

Us) «5.. «I.

i.

”a rj‘,“

:‘ﬁ‘é‘ﬁ

L)

3.] .1.

.IL':

3
‘ U

W». ,
u 1;

£9

 




    

2101 N.W. 95th STREET 15.? , MIAMI 47, FLORIDA ‘5‘! TELEPHONE 7-2217

  

umuue 5mm;

OF GREATER MIAMI

Elf-I
GE!

June 1, 1953

Mrs. 5hristine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
350 ”ifth Avenue

New York, N. Y.

Dear Christine:

I am.enclosing copies of the Humane Society-Dr. Hemer
Marsh correspondence. Sorry to be so long in sending
this to you-but we have been snowed under with work

and glad to report that the proposed.&nimal Seizure Bill
was never introduced in the Florida Legislature meeting.
This, I am sure, was due to the terrific pressure brought
to bear on the Dade County legislators. as received
commitments, in writing, from each of them.stating that

they'weuld not support any such legislation should it be
offered by other sources.

However, we feel quite certain that another attempt will
be made in 1955 so we must continue working. Please feel
free to call on us for any material you may need from
time to time. I

 

'We all enjoyed your visit so much and.more than appreciated
your efforts in behalf of this organization. 'Whenever you
are in the vicinity, please stop by again.

With kind regards from.us all to you and yours.

Sincerely,

   

  
    
   
 

    

      
    
 

UMAN " DE 1

I .__
DCA -
, ﬁllilgl II "a“; 5::
_ 2: “JED! a. ‘6 a. II _
’9‘ L'.‘ ' x‘ .1 '

  

N‘ﬁd

   

I
_,-b . “ ‘0' _ \A
u 9 ,-‘v.-_‘ $1.} \V‘.,’, ,2.” '73... .1. R‘ _ ._ ‘

54‘ L61E!!!

 




m , 9% 2 M”

P.S. The EEy~June issue of thE NEER Bulletin reached me
before I had posted this letter. As you may not EEVE 38Eﬂ'
it yet, I' 11 pass on to yout;w0 itemg 0f interEE+ to you.
They are as fellows:

"EEE last EullEtin also Etatad that til: xmarican mumanﬁ
Essaciatian had thrown out humane societies wEich arE
praviﬁing Enimals for FEEEEECE. TEE.EEE has passed a
resolution but no more. ;ur informant far tEiE itEE E83
GEErIEE Eusev, former southeastern rapresentative of the
Ema rican Eumane.masociat13n.

and an anather page: “In Eloriaa a EPOpOEed paund bill
EaE dropped when legal arrangements were made to have
research anirgals supplied by municipal pounds and
humane societies.'

£0 let me EEOE the basis of these itams when you have
tEE time, and lat me urge the greatest cauEion in cemmunicating
with the ESEB however great the temptaticn may bE ta try
to set them straight. I taink thE interpretation placed _
by +EEE on the discus Eion betEeEE.Er. thweder, Er. Kama,
E138 ErEper and EE speaks for itself in tEiE matter. It
seems very apparent that they are anxioua to elicit
comments fram individual humane secieties which can be
uaed to further their own ends.

With kindest ragards,

 




11.1.1551 {51.111515111115115 111.511.1553:
77f“ “‘77 73'?” {if EﬁM‘ﬁ. 7%éi 1,111? :7. 17:74:13.?‘1xg11g’.
” ” ﬁlariﬁa

:55
3"’~~. Am, 5 7
“W771: 5:725»; ér‘ia‘dﬂxﬁo’i.’

9‘ v:
5- 17 ‘97.:
$5.5 .573:

. N a
E "1,612; 55.5355 . 7 5‘5 *5 "51“ 55 to a
' “VIC-Al. mi 7" 7‘1151L77_£ 0

.5 5.

’75!" .551 v.1 - “I“ awn“ 3a '. .‘ﬂ w 5 - '
-55 .11. 1 .. 5.5.11.5. 1.11 351.551. 1.1.1.1131

13511155
3:0?6ﬂﬁ

‘5

55
' ff». 7 ‘5' 'L“ 7‘: ‘ W11 5,. .\¢ ,‘
«L. 151‘. If “2'1"1577753» 77’ 75.15 . 5,, 1555.75.55; 7. {,3

.2

”5155153553,:

.‘ﬁﬂ U 0‘,"
5“}. ”r7 7 .’
Wr- 5075 «L2

5..., u
1‘“ - “5,51,,
1'":- 4'1:- L191 5.

v 4 ‘ 1: K

’yvu‘ “ Its-v,
1. F LL 7-2?

>757.

vr-;..h\u 3-

51.11.51.111“ :11" 7:11:

A
7 v.
55.57755:

.1.
‘73,". '7’3’ ~:.E7§.5:ﬁé-

"515,357 ('5 "’5

5 ,ﬁ, an» a;

.5131?

I
0‘ $5“ .5 "5 ‘ ,_ “11:5 5»
5. .5, _. _. _: 5..-...* ' T757.

{5

5 .. {5_
515-5.:
..:- .

7777195 a”; ‘7" 3‘5 .7 1

54'- s)». .1. t: 7‘5“ w

.I. ‘5
5113715555" 1’55 :1:5*7-" (351575"
'-.v ‘¢'5 n“ -_.‘” -."Ipv £7,“ t

a,

5"?”

l 1” -
151:1:
-..-. «.5

?:§h "L: :51 5
”277’; ‘ .555.

w-In

"O'jvh‘

.2)
5‘

ti 11%;»0".

2“”"9‘ v», 17:.“

'_. g_ i. a.

5‘“, "*5 '1”- *5.‘ 55 4535

W ‘3"? 55,5“ .iai‘
I

5 ..,..,..*1_. r 5.; -..._ '7 . ., .55
71.,1.,..1..1...1 511.151.1113. 1,?5'5511151 .1 3,5

.55., . .3515 7.735 .3. ..
3:5: 753'; 171.731; (7} 1M%7

Y ‘7‘ ‘7'! ‘7: “Q".‘zig 5“ {4157.3
haﬂk: \u‘h 5),": g i Hf};

*2'5‘5m,‘ 1: 1.11:? 4:55:55 7.».11’3w 5-55
53:17.55 5 57515. 15.5.13 (“A "-115, 7:3: 5. :3

‘5 5» : “5 ..
9 {15... . 5; I" kink
' _.-.-.5' 1». 5.:

it,

3U: :13. 151112.551.“ :5

5
3,4" 7977’ 5“: j??? ' :i..‘."“3
4...} 75.1173. 153.. 'z-:“-:'-- #95355; 2:

15151151151355.515er 11:;
111:1" 7““35522‘5":.f 7.5.1; 11221”

2.211115315332575. 1.5965,:
111‘1. offiaiai 111‘ 1:15:51

(*5 72111111211113.

55511551551. 511.115 15.511
51:55. 51151. 1.1. 151.1 11515111 or. {:1155
131.53.11.13 mﬂ1§5;  ”7.1311335“ 113%}
1. 1515,55,...15155131 15.515155111101115...

77337351171311“: 11157731117513: 331:1? 5.:- 11:11:15,511

7 55559115551155:
55111" .7125 "5:": "1:113: "7:531 317.1151 1:5”
mm ’12: 1.117551555155113:
11 £3; 4;: )1: 17.13.

55.55571"? “M‘s hum?» ’7

. '5 5 ' 5:
r» «n - :5, -
1.52.15.51 111 -1. -- ~. ~

A: 5 75.5.). $153.53»:
01:11:...1111113. f1":

51512515»
d. Q}‘rdo

3.5101111 51.311511115115512 11' 3,51 5:515 1,5,5 151'

‘” ‘5 171371, 1115

“3'31“ :‘ 51:3
5 5 53115551155 a:-

5...

u:
5
v5-

1£,§t~f J :7“. r:

uiv—o.‘

4" _ g"
7 1917.11 (5-

. .- -, - . '5:
. .1755} 5.1, 3.. L5. 75.11? 5:51.355 {1373.

g”r4‘;; ”if: pas-wit
1* r .1." an."

Ln‘ ’«5-

1,," 1;}

t 7-71.55. 5.5 '
J. 5.51.1.1 ”1.1.11 177%

5: If! '7 . 5 ‘.
1.1.1.. {1.1.5.15 5515.111 11.539113

Emmw

553:1
11115.15 3.5155551".

 




”k ”a willing an ﬁﬂﬂ‘gﬁﬂmy 3::‘3‘53-“3 ME: *3? my Bam’ﬁ 9f
giracﬁara an ﬁarmh igﬁh &m& %h@ Floriﬁa Ewdmraﬁiam.wﬁ h :ama

3:3 :31; 51:35:: ﬁm: fml’almﬁins“; (my: I 30?“ ”W W333; 33W“? 3W“? 3”???
"L

‘,r H; T13 «x1. “.1 a “it?“ ' ‘ ‘ r
: $3ﬁ‘33; ghiﬂ w

imam}: rﬁgwﬂa a

3:13:35; :3“ : Mrﬁmii‘z 39 warﬁiﬁﬁﬂﬁ
: 5:53;: :3: 53:“: Mama“: mam :

 




UNMRSITY OF MIAMI
SCHOOL OF WDICIN'E
CORAL GABLES 4:6 FLORIDA

March 17, 1953

Mr. James J. Marshall, President
Humane Society of Greater Miami
2101 N. W. 95th Street

Miami, Florida

Dear Mr . Marshall:

It was good to have had the Opportunity to sit down with your group and calmly
lay out our mutual problems regarding the obtention of animals for use in our
teaching and research activities. In spite of the fact that our people and the
representatives of your group do not see eye to eye on the methods which might
be involved, I do know that we have a common ground in our consideration of the
privileges due these animals. ’

I will accept your description of the Vancouver system as a series of questions
to which I offer the following reactions:

1. If our interest and intent is to be as humane as possible in the handling and
use of animals, I see no reason why we should try to keep any situation under
cover. I presume that an officer of the Humane Society would be welcome to visit
our institution should we get some system set up for obtaining animals.

2. Inasmuch as there are several types of work involving animals which cannot be
carried on on a non-survival basis, I would have to say that this item is not
acceptable. I presume, as we discussed it, non-survival is taken to mean that
animals used will not «be kept alive beyond twenty-four hours after the initial use.
To restrict experiments and teaching activities in this fashion would necessarily
seriously restrict the type of work which could be done. Nutritional studies, for
instance, frequently require weeks and even months of preparation. Studies of
various types of heart surgery cannot be done within a twenty-four hour period.

In studies of tissue repair rather long periods of time for observation are required.
For us to state that we would adhere to the policy of limiting an animal experiment
to twenty-four hours would be underwriting a falsehood, and we have no desire to

do this.

3. It is stated in the proposed bill, and will be included in the final bill,

that only animals which are strays, unclaimed by their owners and not adopted by a
new owner with a reasonable period of time and abstined to be killed, will be used
by us. We have no desire to get into the rather repulsive business of collecting
animals which roam the streets. Indeed, we are all cognizant of the dangers of try-
ing to use animals obtained in any way except through bonafide publicly supported
agencies having the responsibility of seeing that the streets are kept clear of
stray animals. I cannot say that we would limit the obtention of animals to the
city pound, for it would dpend upon how many animals might be available at a
particular time. We would certaimly confine our efforts to recognized agencies and
would not want to deal with any individual.

4. I believe that this has been answered in my remarks involving No. 3.

 




ﬂ

5. my remarks in.No. 5 would apply here also. It is to be presumed that
if a dog has proper identification marks an effort would be made by the
public agency to locate the owner of that animal.

6. I believe that to accept this condition would be to defeat the purpose

of our effort. There comes a time when one mndividual must trust the motives
and activities of another. To state that the pound management would retain the
right to refuse to surrender any specific animal would lead to difficulties.
If, for instance, the management wished to do so it could extend this privilege
to the refusal to surrender any animals. I think the conditions we have stated
above in.No. 5 should be accepted as our intent to use no animals except those
described. Naturally, if a question of some specific animal arose, it would

be our wish tht the prdblam be entirely clarified before we would proceed with
its use.

7. There are two aspects to this question. In the first place, if animals
are to be used for research purposes a record is kept of the animals used, not
necessarily'in detailed description of each animal, but as it might be a part
of a group. Due to the character of research Which is conducted frequently,
these records must be confidential to prevent premature publicizing of results
which the investigator might not be ready to release. On the other hand, in
teaching activities an experiment may be set up, run by the students under
supervision, and only results recorded and used by the student. It is not our
procedure to keep close records of each animal used. I cannot see how, except
in a very general way, that the records be open for public inspection.

8. we have stated in the proposal that animals ubjected to potentially'pain-
ful procedures would be put under general anesthesia during any manipulations.
This is the general practice. On the other hand, there are dertain types of
work which can.be done on animals, as it is done on man himself, which are

not painful, and for which I can see no necessity for rendering the animal
unconscious. Within the limitations stated, we would expect the animals would
be unconscious during any experimental procedure.

Inasmuch as both of us have certain problems which are highly important to
each group, and yet having I believe common interests, it is my sincere hope

that some sort of compromise can be effected which would be agreeable to both
Of 1130

I will be most happy to hear from.you further after your meeting with the board
of directors of your organization.

Again may I thank you for extending to us the opportunity to visit with you.

With kindest regards, I am

Sincerely'yours,

/S/ Homer F. Marsh, l?h.D.
Acting Dean.

 




w

.32.

1.

mm w
633-. 5’

;W,.‘r:_c.¢"s,3;;»w,k :

“at: ‘M’Mﬁr qugmﬁwxy
.ws‘ mi Lat}: ‘

N gz‘éln

.2 . ‘W 2 ’
, 4;“)! 7‘ "Mt ‘ i .i‘ , ‘7“; "'11"
{3 {2.12” J»? gzgz. ii:

7..

«‘sim‘gﬁh

'2 imﬁﬁrﬁﬁﬁi

23

y

{.72

2 $2:-
«2‘» W

2.3.2 4;;

w w a“

v ' 1:12:22:

' «w
.
ﬂ;

.. “‘3 “‘g‘ u.»

v..,. ,

M ‘9 4» “£5“;
.

;~,‘4 “r

. ’ 45?”: .
‘JL kin-*-

. ‘5

z

:3; ‘ﬂ,

4. ,
u.“

2 r1. '7"! 3m.
15%? V

EJ‘ZJ

“can .y.

157:-

a

322

.y). .2
' J

i

’ "E
. mémaéuﬁf

.,~ 0:?" .
f: 'i“? u} 3
t.“ .»,. ’ ’-‘

w

r:

- ,
. y.-

‘2, w
.31.. w .

x

.,
it"; 3. ‘
W" 'V’ ‘wi'ri‘i'

“.7 1i"?
2.22. J. ’5“ w

a

4. 5;“

”b
£3:

v ‘f. ‘2

.
.15 . 159‘ v"?("1:‘1
{up 2' J >

_ FLA - ‘,‘.‘;
"‘"ia‘iﬁimﬁs --v w

L
.

.1 e

s.

.
. » .x»
2’ -. ‘\

about the

in

t
m
Hm
b
. t
S
e
t
a
l
S
t
.1
n
.1
n
m
m
m
m
+u
8
e
0
d
t
a
h

xi

1'

PS:

proposed.pound bill being drqued "When local arrangements

1 pounds

0

nlcipa

plied by mu

1.

were made he have research animals sum

and humane ﬁocieties?”

 




    
 
    
    
   
    
    
 
   
    
  
  
 

PROPOSED FLORIDa.DOG SEIZURE ACT PRESENTED TO DEDE
COUNTY LEGISLATORS BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
MEDICAL SCHOOL ON FEBRUARY 18. 1953.

AN ACT TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND warm BY REGULATING THE EMAEE
USE or ANIMALS IN THE DIAGNOSIS} PREVENTION, AND TREATMENT or HUMAN AND ANIMAL
DI srAsns; THE ADVANCEMENT or VETERINARY. MEDICAL. AND DENTAL AND OTHER saint-
CES; Ann THI§IMPROVEMENT.AND SEANDARDIZATION or BIoLooIoAL PRODUCTS, PHARMAP
CEUTICALS Ann DRUGS; .AND TO PBDVIDE LICENSES THEREFOR.AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLA~
axons THEREOF. '

SECTION 1, As used in this act, (a) "Institution" means any school or
college of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture; medical
diagnostic laboratory, hospital, or other educational or scientific establish-
ment having to do with investigation of or instruction.in the structure and
functions of living organisms. the causes, prevention. control. or cure of
diseases or abnormal conditions of humans and animals; (b) "Public Pound"
means any place used.by a municipality. town, city. countny, or state for the

detention or keeping of unclaimed or stray animals.

§§EEEEEL§3 An institution.requiring. for the effective performance of its

 

scientific or educational activities, the use of live dogs and cats may apply to
the State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals from the establishment
maintained and operated by public funds for the confinement, care and disposal
of animals seized by public authority, commonly called the "Dog Pound"AI If the
State Board of Health finds that the institution, by reason of its ethical stane
dards. its personnel, its facilities, and the uses it proposes to make of the

animals is a fit and.proper agency, it shall issue a license to the institution,

 
 

subject to the restrictions and limitations hereinafter provided.

     

SECTION . It shall be the duty of the_Pound.Supervisor to deliver from

    
 

among the available impounded animals. at the request of an institution possess-

 
 

ing a license, such number of animals as the institution may request and reason~

 
 

ably require to effectively carry on its activities: provided, however. that Such

 
 

animals have been impounded at least five days and remain unclaimed and.unre~

    
 

deemed by their owners or by any person desiring the animal as a pet and willing

to pay applicable license fees and the reasonable expenses incurred in the

 
 

animal's detention.3 If a request is made on a Pound Supervisor for a greater

 
 
 

WSW!“ EGCEEW OF GREATER MIAMI

  




number of animals than he has available for release, he shall withhold from
execution thereafter all unclaimed and unredeemed animals until the request has

been.met.

§§§T§Q§¥E, The licensed institution shall provide for the transportation
of animals from the Pound and may use them only in the conduct of their scienti-

fic or educational activities.

W. An institution shall, at its own empense, return to appropriate
pound.any animal delivered it which subsequently is identified and claimed.by its
owner; provided, however, that no institution shall be liable to the owner for
any injury, illness or subsequent death of any such animal resulting from the
transportation, detention, or proper use of the animal in its scientific or

-educational activities.

SECTION 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and a reasonable Oppor-
tunity to defend, may revoke the license granted to an institution (a) if the
institution has violated any provision of this act or any rule or regulation.pro~
mulgated.by the State Board of Health pursuant hereto, (b) if the standards,

personnel, facilities, practices or activities of an institution are such that

the continued exercise of rights conferred by the license to the institution is

not in the public interest? In general it is a rule that no animal employed in
scientific or educational activities shall be allowed to suffer pain from opera—
tive procedures more than that which man himself submits to in venipuncture,
intracutaneous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection. or other minor traumata
ordinarily performed in medical practice without anesthesia. For all other mani~
pulations local or general anesthesia is mandatory during the potentially pain»
ful procedures and until the death or sacrifice of the animal, except that survi—
val may be permitted when all ‘sterile surgical precautions have been taken and

longer observation is essential to the success of the study. In any survival

eXperiment. humane post-Operative care must be provided.

SECTION 7. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the right of

an institution to obtain animals from sources other than.pounds3r

§§pTION 8. The State Board of Health shall have the power to adapt such
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of'Florida; as it deems

necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this act.f The Commissioner

mum SOCIETY OF new

 




of Health Shall have the right, whenever it is deemed advisable, to inepect or
investigate any institution to which a license has been granted or which is

applying for such a license.

SECTION 9. This act shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect
its general purpose to make available to qualified institutions for the purpose
of scientific investigation, experiment, or instruction. unclaimed and.unre—

deemed animals impounded in dog pounds.

SECTION 10. It shall be a misdemeanor for (a) any person or institution

 

to violate any of the provisions of this act or any rules or regulations

promulgated thereunder, or'(b) any person to fail willfully to execute any of .

the provisions of this act or any duty imposed on him by this act.

SECTION ll. If any provision of this act or the application thereof to

 

any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without
he invalid provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this

act are declared severable.

SECTION 12. It being immediately necessary for the preservation of the

 

public health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to eXist, by reason
whereof this act shall take effect and be in full force from and after its

passage and approval.

HMHWE SQMEW 053 GREATER MMM‘

 




REVISED PROPOSED PET ANIMAL SEIZURE ACT

W

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED:

AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE ACQUISITION BY SCHOOLS OR COLLEGES OF MEDICINE AND
OTHER EDUCATIONAL OR SCIENTIFIC ESTABLISHMENTS OF STRAY AND UNCLAIMED.ANIMALS
FROM PUBLIC POUNDS OPERATED BY THE STATE OR.OTHER SUBDIVISION} PROVIDING FOR
THE LICENSURE OF SUCH.EDUCATIONAL OR.SCIENTIEIC ESTABLISHMENTS BY THE STATE
BOARD OF HEALTH; PROVIDING THE DUTIES OF PERSONS IN CHARGE OF PUBLIC POUNDS;
PROVIDING FOR THE CLAIMING OF ANIMALS BY THE OWNER FROM SUCH INSTITUTIONS;
PROVIDING’FOR.THE REVOCATION OF LICENSE OF ANY INSTITUTION VIOLATING THIS
ACT; PROVIDING FOR THE HIEL’XNE TREATMENT OF ALL ANIMALS DELIVERED TO SUCH IN-v

STITUTIONS; PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS ACT.

BE IT ENACTEDIBY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA:

Section 1. As used in this act, (a) "institution" shall mean any school or
college of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture; medical diagnos~
tic laboratory, hospital, or educational or scientific establishment having to do
with the investigation of or instruction in the structure and functions of living
organisms, the causes, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal condi~
tions of humans and animals; (b) "public pound" shall mean any place used by a
municipality, town, city, county, or state for the detention or keeping of unclaimed
or stray animals which is supported in whole or in part by_public funds.

Section 2. An institution requiring the use of living dogs and cats may apply

apply to the State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals from the establish-

ment maintained and.0perated in.whole or in part by public funds for the confinement,
care and disposal of animals seized by public authority. If the State Board of
Health finds that the institution, by reason of its ethical standards, personnel,

its facilities and the uses it proposes to make of the animals is a fit and proper
agency, it shall issue a license to the institution, subject to the restrictions and
limitations provided in this act.

Section 3. It shall be the duty of the person having charge of the public

 

 

“mgggfgi as defined in thisact, to deliver from among the impounded animals, at the
request of an institution possessing a license, such number of animals as the insti-
tution may request; provided however, that such animals have been impairnded at
least thirty days and remain unclaimed and unredeemed by the owners or by any person
desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees and a reason»
able expense incurred in the animal’s detention.

Section N. The licensed institution shall provide for the transportation of

animals from.the public pound and may use them only in the conduct of their scientific

or educational activities.

 




Section 5. An institution shall at its own eXpense return to the (public pound

 

from which the animal was obta1ned.any animal delivered to it which subsequently is
identified and cla1med by its owner, provided however, that no institution shall be
liable to the owner for any injury, illness, or subsequent death of such animal re~
sulting from the transportation, detention or other preper use of the animal in its
scientific or educational activities.

Section 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and hearing, may revoke the
license granted to an institution if the institution has violated.any provision of this
act or any rule or regulation promulgated.by the State Board of Health pursuant hereto.

Section 7. No animal employed in scientific or educational activities shall be
allowed to suffer pain from Operative procedures more than that which man himself sub-
mits to in venipuncture, intracutaneous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection, or
minor traumata ordinarily performed in medical practice without anesthesia. For all
other manipulations local or general anesthesia shall be used during the potentially
painful procedures and until the death or sacrifice of the animal, except that survival
may be permitted when all aseptic surgical precautions have been taken and longer
observation is essential to the success of the study. In any survival eXperiment,
humane post-Operative care must be provided.

Section 8. The State Board of Health shall have the power to adopt such rules
and regulations. not inconsistent with this act, as it deems necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this act and themgtate Board of Health or its duly author1zed

WW“. u-‘W Hammad» .w -4» "a

agent shall have the right, w1thout notice,'whenever it is deemed advisable to inspect
erminvestigate any institution to which a license has been granted or which is applying
for such a license.

Section 9. thhing in this act shall be construed to effect the right of an
institution to obtain animals from sources other than public pounds.

Section 10. It is declared by the Legislature that the purpose of this act
is to foster the advancement of medical science and to that end the provisions of this
act shall be liberally construed.

Section 11. Any person or any institution violating the provisions of this act
or any rules or regulations promulgated hereunder or any person failing willfully to
execute any of the duties imposed.upon him by this act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall pay a fine of not more than.Five Hundred Dcllmrs.

Section 12. If any provisions of this act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the invalid
provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this act are declared
severable.

Section 13. This act shall take effect immediately upon its becoming a law.

 




REVISED PROPOSED PET ANIMAL SEIZURE ACT

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED:

AN ACT PROVIDING FOR.THE.ACQUISITION BY SCHOOLS OR COLLEGES OF MEDICINE-AND
OTHER EDUCATIONAL OR SCIENTIFIC ESTABLISHMENTS OF STRAY AND UNCLAIMED.ANIMALS
FROM PUBLIC POUNDS OPERATED BY THE STATE OR.OTHER SUBDIVISION; PROVIDING FOR
THE LICENSURE OF SUCH EDUCATIONAL OR SCIENTIFIC ESTABLISHMENTS BY THE STATE
BOARD OF HEALTH; PROVIDING THE DUTIES OF PERSONS IN CHARGE OF PUBLIC POUNDS;
PROVIDING FOR.THE CLAIMING OF ANIMALS BY THE OWNER FROM SUCH INSTITUTIONS;
PROVIDING FOR THE REVOCATION OF LICENSE OF ANY INSTITUTION VIOLATING THIS
ACT; PROVIDING FOR THE HUMANE TREATMENT OF ALL ANIMALS DELIVERED TO SUCH IN—

STITUTIONS; PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS ACT.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA:

Section 1. As used in this act, (a) "institution" shall mean any school or
college of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture; medical diagnos-
tic laboratory, hOSpital, or educational or scientific establishment having to do
with the investigation of or instruction in the structure and functions of living
organisms, the causes, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal condi~
tions of humans and animals; (b) "public pound" shall mean any place used by a
municipality, town, city, county, or state for the detention or keeping of unclaimed
or stray animals which is supported in whole or in part by public funds.

Section 2. .An institution requiring the use of living dogs and cats may apply
apply to the State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals from the establisha
ment maintained and operated in whole or in part by public funds for the confinement,
care and disposal of animals seized by public authority. If the State Board of
Health finds that the institution, by reason of its ethical standards, personnel,
its facilities and the uses it proposes to make of the animals is a fit and.proper
agency, it shall issue a license to the institution, subject to the restrictions and
limitations provided in this act.

Section 3. It shall be the duty of the person having charge of the public
pOund, as defined in this act, to deliver from among the impounded animals, at the
request of an institution possessing a license, such number of animals as the insti—
tution may request; provided however, that such animals have been impcrnded at
least thirty days and remain.unclaimed and unredeemed by the owners or by any person
desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees and a reasonr
able eXpense incurred in the animal's detention.

Section N. The licensed institution shall provide for the transportation of
animals from the public pound.and may use them only in the conduct of their scientific

or educational activities.

 




Section 5. An institution shall at its own expense return.to the public pound
from which the animal was obtained any animal delivered to it which subsequently is
identified and claimed by its owner; provided however, that no institution shall be
liable to the owner for any injury, illness, or subsequent death of such animal re~
sulting from the transportation, detention or other preper use of the animal in its

scientific or educational activities.

Section 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and hearing. may revoke the

license granted to an institution if the institution has violated any provision of this
act or any rule or regulation promulgated by the State Board of Health.pursuant hereto.

Section 7. No animal employed in scientific or educational activities shall be
allowed to suffer pain from Operative procedures more than that which man himself sub-
mits to in venipuncture,'intracutaneous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection, or
minor traumata ordinarily performed in medical practice without anesthesia. For all
other manipulations local or general anesthesia shall be used during the potentially
painful procedures and until the death or sacrifice of the animal, except that survival
may be permitted when all aseptic surgical precautions have been taken and longer
observation is essential to the success of the study. In any survival eXperiment,
humane post-Operative care must be provided.

Section 8. The State Board ovaealth shall have the power to adopt such rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this act, as it deems necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this act and the State Board of Health or its duly authorized
agent shall have the right, without notice, whenever it is deemed advisable to inspect
or investigate any institution to which a license has been granted or which is applying
for such a license.

Section 9. Nothing in this act shall be construed to effect the right of an
institution to obtain animals from sources other than public pounds.

Section 10. It is declared by the Legislature that the purpose of this act
is to foster the advancement of medical science and to that end the provisions of this
act shall be liberally construed.

Section 11. Any person or any institution violating the provisions of this act
or any rules or regulations promulgated hereunder or any person failing willfully to
execute any of the duties imposed.upon him by this act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall pay a fine of not more than.Five Hundred Dellirs.

Section 12. If any provisions of this act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the invalid
provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this act are declared
severable.

Section 13. This act shall take effect immediately upon its becoming a law.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A proposed State Law, an ANlMAL SElZURE ACE”, has heart placedheljore the
Dado Senator and Representatives to present to the l953 Florida State Legislature.

i'i' CALLS 50R. CONFlEiCATlQN BY LAW 9F DOGS
AND CATS BY RE5EARCH LABORATGRIES ANB
MANY TYPES OF $CHOOLS.

if this viaious, cruel hill beenmes law your pet, it lost, could possibly end up in
a research laboratory; it will set the humane movement in Florida back tilt-y years:
it will require runny humane sosieties to close their doors and. at least hamper
others in their sex-wines to the publisl

It must he noted that the issue this hill poses is NOT viviseetinn versus antic
viruseetion. ‘lhe issue presented by this cruel hill is solely whether privately
operated humane societies and publie pounds (and sometimes individual eitizensl
should and non be compelled by law to provide animals for experimental uses.

Animal experimentation is already legal. This seizure bill does not extend that
legality.

The passage of this proposed Elli would add a further tax burden. It will cost
Dade County alone not less than an additional $40,000.00 per year in tax money.

With the halo supplied by the faith of the American people in med’eal science,
the large drug firms, established for profit. convert sanetuaries of mercy into dog
pounds at the beak and call of experimental laboratories regardless of how the
animals are to be used

The Humane Sooieties of our nation are opposed to any law whieh compels the

surrender of ar-unals for experimental purposes. it is the moral node of ALL humane
Soaieties that all animals coming into their possession should be disposed of by
quickly returning them to their rightful owners. by being placed in suitahle homes
or by being humanely destroyed.

The bill is normally iniquitous because it would «ompel humane societies to use
money given them by private donors for a purports OPPOSED to the wishes and
intentions of the givers.

The proposed legislation is unneaessary from any viewpoint. An ample supply of
animals is already available in this state for legitimate research workers. Na
soientiiia study of any kind is being delayed or prevented in any degree by lash
of animals and this research in Florida has been an aetuality for years. The
proposed bill is a means to provide on inexhaustible supply of animals to an ever
growing crowd oli-career scientists with but little biological background and scant
interest in the future of man. Unlimited and uncontrolled animal experimentation
must not be.

When God gave us aontrol of fire and the knowledge to hurl a stone. He made
us masters of the: animal world. From this vast kingdom man selected the dog
to be his eve-r faithful companion. always at his side. alert for maraudersl ever
ready to warn us, protect us from danger with even his very lite. He asked little
in return. Now comes those who. in the name at scienee. propose to seize him
by law as to tut. to torture for days; months, «=- oven years. m mostly in idle
curiosity but always under the cloak of science. Animals- in abundance lead to
abuses liar beyond the requirements of research laboratories.

People of Florida: we beg of you in the name of humanity not in
allow this vicious, cruel animal seizure bill to besmirch our Statute
Books. Express your amnion to our Senators and Representatives
in the Florida Legislature who draft our laws, and to our Governor
whose signature -- or refusal of it ._ makes the final decision,

TIME l5 $HQRT!

 

ilﬁ" run. ‘ii’rth Si. ' l‘E'LEFl-i'lfil‘lﬁ l’ri‘i-Mi’l

x»

.- <«mt‘. ova. qw—w. .......,..,..————

 

 

 

 

{am-x --.. an. «r

In”.

-M~.— . .-..'. an '4’"

, l...’.a,,_-..y 1‘?

‘4.

-- .w. . «av. . up, . as

m, amen-m an». ram WJM‘ WU: adv-4,1;

 

 

 

«Wu. 0..
A .wu-VI—v'

 

 

- -
w- ..-.-‘.-.~—.

u.-. “-

 

 

 

 

 

w-——_.. w-..” mum.w. v.“

4-. ”Wm-u. r“ .. I

“w--.'.

 

 

M‘s, —. .n-w—‘mu. A.»— van-no... .. nau“--m-f'-- a.“ m..- -

mum—n

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.-sr\-~‘-




TO THE HUMA.HE SOCIETIES OF FIOBIDA

 

The total defeat of the ANIMAL SEIZURE ACT should.be uppermost in our minds
today, our first thought in the morning - and our last thought at night. “What affects
one part of Florida will eventually reach its tentacles throughout the State. There
may be a number of quiet, unknown, research units in Florida of which.we are not yet
aware; other schools will spring up "medical, dental, veterinarian, agricultural,
medical diagnostic laboratories, hospitals, or other educational or scientific estab—
lishments". It may be located in your county ~ even the laboratories of the large
drug houses which are in Opeartion for profit. Too, under the proposed law. the
University of’Miami Medical School can demand animals from every humane societygin
the _State, providing you accept any ﬂpublic funds" We, in.Miami, will place our~
selves outside of the provisions of the law although the financial sacrifice will be
great. It will pinch ~ pinch hard, but we will survive although our work:will be
curtailed.

MOST IMPORTANT! This is not a vivisection battle. The Medical Research inter-
ests like nothing'better than to cloud the issues with vivisection debates which, in
the final analysis, defeat the humane societies. But to make it so, to even bring up
the word except in rebuttal, would defeat us and play into the hands of the prOponents
of the Bill. Vivisection is nationally recognized and it is legal throughout the
land. The issue is dead except for possible CONTROL. PrOperly Operated humane
societies are built on the foundation that every animal that comes within its work be
returned as quickly as possible to its rightful owner, be placed inpa new, good home,
or, humanely put to sleep. There is nothing else but the embellishment of these
principles. So, in approaching our present problem, do not allow yourself to be drawn
into an argument on the relative merits or demerits of vivisection.

 

When talking to your legislators bring to their attention that the humane socie-
ties of Florida are privately built and Operated and that to approve the SEIZURE BILL
would retard animal welfare work:fifty years. Point out that in many counties it will
cost the taXpayers tens of thousands of dollars to establish and operate public pounds
to replace the humane societies that are supported mainly by their memberships and
donations. It is a terrific price for the taXpayers to pay, a hundred~fold more than
it would cost the Research Laboratories to raise their own animals. Bring to their
attention that most societies are doing this dog pound work for less than 25% of the
actual cost and that the reason for doing so is based on the average inhumane, filthy
and cruel public pound.

DON'T THREATEN your Senator or Representative with mayhem or suggest that he is
committing political suicide if he votes favorably on this Seizure Bill. To do so will
Only.antagonize and.you gain nothing. ‘You might suggest that your thousands of members
and their families will appreciate his Opposition to this cruel bill.

Bear in mind that other unknown interests of national scOpe ~ other than the
University of’Miami's Medical School, may have a huge warmchest and spend large sums of
money to secure the passage of this Bill with an eye to the future and to attract other
research laboratories to Florida. Only five states have approved Seizure laws and
three of these cannot approach Florida in pOpulatiOn ~ none in living conditions.

I suggest that you do not confine your efforts to your own County. Jump over the
border line irmo the neighboring counties that have no humane societies. There are no
more than twenty active humane societies in Florida; there are 6] counties in the State
and were the representatives of our own counties all Opposed to the Bill u we would
still be in the minority and could.suffer defeat.

In order not to make this lengthy, I am enclosing other material which should be
carefully read and.pencilled.

GOD BE WITH YOU. Sincerely,

 

S. A. Vetter
Address: Care of:
IﬂHdKHE SOCIETY OF GREATER MIAMI Legislative Committee
2101 N. w. 95th St.,Miami 1+7 Fla. FLORIDA FEDERATION or HUMANE SOCIETIES

 




Reprint from THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR of February 25, 1952.'
THE ‘POUND' BILLS

More than the fate of stray dogs and cats is at stake in the so—called "pound"
bills currently being introduced in several state legislatures throughout the United
States. At the very heart of the issue lies the question: Do private citizens have
the right to organize within the law for a recognizable legitimate purpose with the
assurance that this purpose will not later be perverted by the government?

To date most of the debate has centered around the emotionrcharged subject of
vivisection. Little attention seems to have been paid to the fact that the "pound"
bills, by giving eXperimental laboratories the right to requisition "unlicensed,
unclaimed, and unwanted" stray animals from the pounds of humane societies, would

compel these societies to act as partners in a business for which they were never
intended.

Most of these societies were in part set up to try to find homes for these
animals or, failing that, to dispose of them in a painless manner. Money for support
of the societies is contributed with this purpose in mind. Is the government now to
be allowed to designate an agent that can arbitrarily force these societies to Open

their pounds to the laboratory in contradiction of their eXpress and legally estab-
lished purpose? ,

The implications of this question exceed the immediate issue of the "pound" bills,
for if answered in the affirmative it would set a precedent easily extended into other
areas and other organizations. Regardless of what position one may take in regard to
vivisection, he should be alert to the broader implications of this prOposed legisla-
tion.which threatens to extend further the reach of government control. If one is not
careful he will find that the "lOgical" end to such a process is the transfer of all
discretion from the citizen to the state.

THIS CAN HAPPEN IN FLORIDA IF THE PROPOSED PET SEIZURE BILL IS APPROVED
BY THE STATE LEGISLATURE'WHICH CONVENES IN TALLAHASSEE.APRIL 7, 1953!

 

It can happen unless YOU eXpress your OppOSition to the members of the
Florida State Legislature}

The HUMANE SOCIETY OF GREATER MIAMI will place itself out of the sCOpe of
this cruel and vicious bill, if passed, ~ but then it must curtail its
services and reduce its animal welfare work by nearly fifty percent. It
will cost the taxpayers of Dade County alone an additional $H0,000.00 per
year for County and.Municipal pounds — or, our streets and fields will be
filled.with homeless cats and dogs. The unclaimed animals in the public

pounds will be turned over to the Medical School and eXperimental labora»
tories.

DEFEAT THIS BILL AND KEEP YOUR PETS OUT OF THE LABORATORIES}.

HUMANE SOCIETY OF GREATER MIAMI
and
DADE COUNTY S P C A
2101 N. W. 95 Street
Miami 47, Fla.

 




c

PROPOSED FLORIDA DOG SEIZURE ACT PRESENTED TO
THE DADE COUNTY LEGISLATORS BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MIAMI MEDICAL SCHOOL ON FEBRUARY 18th, 1953

AN ACT TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE BY
REGULATING THE HUMANE USE OF ANIMALS IN THE DIAG-
NOSIS, PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HUMAN AND ANI-
MAL DISEASES; THE ADVANCEMENT OF VETERINARY, MEDI-
CAL AND DENTAL AND OTHER SCIENCES; AND THE IMPROVE-
MENT AND STANDARDIZATION OF BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS,
PHARMACEUTICALS AND DRUGS; AND TO PROVIDE LICENSES
THEREFOR AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF.

SECTION 1. As used in this act (a) “Institution” means any school
or college of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture;
medical diagnostic laboratory, hospital, or other educational or scientific
establishment having to do with investigation of or instruction in the
structure and functions of living organisms, the causes, prevention, con-
trol, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of humans and animals;
(b) “Public Pound” means any place used by a municipality, town, city,
county, or state for the detention or keeping of unclaimed or stray
animals.

SECTION 2. An institution requiring, for the effective performance
of its scientific or educational activities, the use of live dogs and cats
may apply to the State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals
from the establishment maintained and operated by public funds for the
confinement, care and disposal of animals seized by public authority,
commonly called the “Dog Pound.” If the State Board of Health finds
that the institution, by reason of its ethical standards, its personnel, its
facilities, and the uses it proposes to make of the animals is a fit and
proper agency, it shall issue a license to the institution, subject to the
restrictions and limitations hereinafter provided.

SECTION 3. It shall be the duty of the Pound Supervisor to deliver
from among the available impounded animals, at the request of an in-
stitution possessing a license, such number of animals as the institution
may request and reasonably require to effectively carry on its activities;
provided, however, that such animals have been impounded at least five
days and remain unclaimed and unredeemed by their owners or by any
person desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license
fees and the reasonable expenses incurred in the animal’s detention. If
a request is made on a Pound Supervisor for a greater number of animals
.. than he has available for release, he shall withhold from execution there-
.‘after all unclaimed and unredeemed animals until the request has been
met.

SECTION 4. The licensed institution shall provide for the transpor-
tation of animals from the Pound and may use them only in the conduct
of their scientific or educational activities.

SECTION 5. An institution shall, at its own expense, return to ap-
propriate pound any animal delivered it which subsequently is identi-
fied and claimed by its owner; provided, however, that no institution
shall be liable to the owner for any injury, illness or subsequent death
of any such animal resulting from the transportation, detention, or
proper use of the animal in its scientific or education activities.

SECTION 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and a reason-
able opportunity to defend, may revoke the license granted to an insti-
tution (a) if the institution has violated any provision of this act or any
rule or regulation promulgated by the State Board of Health pursuant
hereto, (b) if the standards, personnel, facilities, practices or activities
of an institution are such that the continued exercise of rights conferred
by the license to the institution is not in the public interest. In general
it is a rule that no animal employed in scientific or educational activities
shall be allowed to suffer pain from operative procedures more than
that which man himself submits to in venipuncture, intracutaneous, sub-
cutaneous, or intramuscular injection, or other minor traumata ordin-
arily performed in medical practice without anesthesia. For all other
manipulations local or general anesthesia is mandatory during the po-
tentially painful procedures and until the death or sacrifice of the animal,
except that survival may be permitted when all sterile surgical precau-
tions have been taken and longer observation is essential to the success
of the study. In any survival experiment, humane post-operative care
must be provided.

SECTION 7. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the right
of an institution to obtain animals from sources other than pounds.

SECTION 8. The State Board of Health shall have the power to adopt
such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of Florida, as

A S S I S T
YOUB SOCIETY v TO

DEFEAT

TIIIS CBUEL
PET SEIZURE BILL
BY:

1. Prompt Payment of Dues.

2. Add What Extra Money You Can
Spare To Help Defray Expenses.

3. Express Your Opinion On This Seiz-
ure Bill By Seeing Or Writing Your
State Representatives A n (1 State
Senator.

DADE coumv SENATOR
HONORABLE R. a. GAUTIER, JR. DuPont Building, Miami, Florida

DADE COUNTY REPRESENTATIVES
HONORABLE DANTE B. FASCELL
157 Miracle Mile, Coral Gables, Florida

HONORABLE ROBERT L. FLOYD
Biscayne Building, Miami, Florida

HONORABLE GEORGE S. OKELL
Biscayne Building, Miami, Florida

humane 50am;

or GREATER MIAMI
2101 NW. 95th St. - Phone 7-5620 - Miami, Florida

 

 

it deems necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this act. The
Commissioner of Health shall have the right, whenever it is deemed
advisable, to inspect or investigate any institution to which a license has
been granted or which is applying for such a license.

SECTION 9. This act shall be so interpreted and construed as to
effect its general purpose to make available to qualified institutions for
the purpose of scientific investigation, experiment, or instruction, un-
claimed and unredeemed animals impounded in dog pounds.

SECTION 10. It shall be a misdemeanor for (a) any person or in-
stitution to violate any of the provisions of this act or any rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder, or (b) any person to fail willfully
to execute any of the provisions of this act or any duty imposed on him
by this act.

SECTION 11. If any prevision of this act or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of this act which can be given
effect without the invalid provisions or applications, and to this end the
provisions of this act are declared severable.

SECTION 12. It being immediately necessary for the preservation of
the public health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist,
by reason whereof this act shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage and approval.

 




Ami 1 8, 19525

Dear ﬁargaret and Charles,

I hope that your work to prevent thefﬁassage

.of a seizure bill is going well. It WES very nice to see
both of you again though I wag sorry that it had to bﬁi'
unéer such a cloud of apyrehension.

I weuld apyreciateit very much if you ceufki
send me a copy of the letter which"you received from the
medical school in respange to year suggestion that the biJJ-
be dreppeé.and that a voluntary arrangement be made.with tkie

pound to supply animals for nan-gurvival axperimenﬁs under
full anesthagia. ﬁr. Vetter said it wag quite long, and I
m ould be interegted in reading the reasona why iﬁ/ﬂﬁé the
gagiegtion was declined.
we received a copy of the reviseé bill. Thank
you for sending it..
With all goed hepes and wishes,

Eincerelyw

 




7.“...‘2101 N.W. 95th STREET ”if? MIAMI 47, FLORIDA 31‘! TELEPHONE 7-22I7

umune Sudan]

OF GREATER. MIAMI
EH
GE

1
‘3,

k

March 24, 1953

Miss Estella Draper
Animal Welfare Institute
350 Fifth Avenue

New York, N. Y.

Dear Estella:

I do not have the name of the individual in Sarasota
either. I think the one report will be sufficient
for that Society.

In my opinion, one report for Tampa will be enough.
You might address same to Mr. Gilbert at the Society
because he seems very active and alert to current
legislation.

The new president's name for the Humane Society of
Broward County, Fort Lauderdale, is Mr. Frank Allen.
I do not have his correct address as yet - but anything
addressed to him in care of the Society, just Fort
Lauderdale, Florida - will reach him. »

Sincerely yours ,

M. E. Pusey
Secretary.

.“g- *2. *‘
47,32 w '-. ‘
9 .‘E’. ' f‘
7' ’ “2Q. ‘ I" ' ‘V .
H "'3‘3;V3‘.t‘iiy ’- (

 

, 7 T-
..‘ H ‘ I] I: \ ._ « I \ >-‘
. ) ‘ .' ‘1 ‘. F '. x 'I l
n' ,o " ‘ » m. 1: v‘ " l? I“? v -
, a; -- - 9". , . . ._.- 1.; . $ :2 r"
,- €231: 553-5") ﬁg" ,gw- w "'QL “v ‘3 4“? gen
' In ‘7’" .4: ;_ ’\__'“_ ,M‘ﬂ «hi: :~,._,i:, " ' '\ v ~ -:‘- ‘ ,-I 1.."-~ 7“ " Avg-.194..- . _ er-nk

I’MWWWWW WW

 




1]
l9 5% 53

\~
$ 2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA

‘9;

ﬂat

0
OF GREATER MIIAM

Gamma

‘5-

. . .3.

1‘ ,\‘~' \\\\\\\ “\ ~.
~\\\\ 3“ \“ .

 




    
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

To help every living thing live without unnecessary pain or sul-
“N , - fering - with special emphasis on our dumb animal friends.

817/ To attain this we dedicate ourselves to these ten-
' point objectives:

1. Rescuing iniured, diseased, abandoned and hungry animals in
Dade County.

2.. Investigation, correction and prosecution of cruelty to animals.

3. Conducting a lost and found department for the quick recovery
of lost pets and restoration to their rightful owners.

4 Impounding and vigorous control of rabies suspects.
5. Assisting in the treatment and care of sick pets.

6 First aid rendered to sick, stray and iniured animals.

7. Developing a modern program of humane education.
8

9

0

\' w.

. |

. "i

 

 

Pet identiﬁcation tag registration system.
Ambulance service for large and small animals.
Maintenance of a beautiful pet cemetery.




    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

With an average staff of fifteen paid employes, and seven
ambulances and emergency vehicles, the entire County
of Dade is served day and night, seven days a week.

Animals may be brought to the Shelter at all hours. Visit-

 

ing hours at the Shelter and adoption time 10:00 am. to
3:30 pm. weekdays. Each member of the staff is trained

in animal first aid and road emergency work. Our ﬁeld

 

agents are carefully selected, nicely uniformed and depu-

tized by the Dade County Sheriff.




 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

I952 — SIXTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT — I952
lnanareathatisoutstandingforitspopulation growth,itisunder— TOTAL CASES HANDLED DURING 1952...33,990

standable that the Society’s work increases by leaps and bounds

 

5 each year. During 1952 there were 33,990 cases involving animals. DOGS . . - ' - . . . . . . . 13,213
: Condensed, our report appears on this page. Our office records are CATS . . - ° - . . . . . . . 14,734
: in full detail even showing the extent of our work in each municipality. MISCELLANEOUS ANIMALS AND BIRDS , , , . 653
l The Humane SOCiefY of Greater Miami is a non-Profit Florida cor- CRUEl-TY AND o1.2::lNVES'l-lGATICNS . . . . 2,929
l poration. It is not supported by tax money nor does it participate in OTHER AMBULAN Al-l-S . , , . . . _ 2,461

any drives such as the Community Chest. The Society depends upon ADOPTIONS ' ' ' - - . . . . . 2,569

contributions and its membership to finance its work. RESTOR'ED TO OWNERS . - . . . . . . 2,036

 
  

 

 




 

 

 

Shelter expansion is imperative and during 1953
we hope for sufficient ﬁnancial aid from our mem-
bers and friends to make the necessary additions.
Traffic has become so heavy around the Society’s
property that proper fencing is a sore need. Plans
have been completed and may be discussed with
any one interested in helping us attain our goal.
Contributions to your Humane Society are tax
exempt. If you wish to remember the Society in
you will, its legal title is: Humane Society of
Greater Miami and Dade County Society for Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

New homes are constantly being found for those pets
the Society deems worthy of adoption. Many are from
owners who have relinquished their pets for one reason
or another; others, homeless but worthy.

Thousands of pets are lost each year in Dade County.
The Society spends much time and effort to quickly
restore these pets to their rightful owners. To reduce
these losses and make the Society’s work easier, we
urge the purchase of our identification tags —- the more
pets with tags —— the more easily identified.

Caution: Legally, you need pay no reward for the return of your
lost pet. To do so encourages “dognapping”.




ets

on

:ly
ce
ve

N"

The Society is proud of its efficient plant and
equipment all housed in one location consisting
of an entire block of almost five acres. The
Shelter, kept spotlessly clean, houses 150 ani-
mals — not to mention its outside facilities for

large animals.

Although our facilities were built under long
range planning, the Society finds that it is fast
outgrowing the present Shelter and that expan-

sion is a necessity when finances will permit.

 

There is no finer resting place in the South for your departed
pet. The Cemetery is operated on a non-profit basis and cost
of burial is reasonable. Visitors are welcome.

 




Membership Enrollment

ﬁnmmﬁotietq
0F GREATER MIAIVII

2101 N. W. 95th STREET, MIAMI 47, FLORIDA
TELEPHONE: OFFICE, 7-5620 Em SHELTER, 7-2217

IEI

Amount, $

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State

 

 

Telephone Membership: New [:1 Renewal [3

 

Life Membership —- $50.00 Up Annual Membership -— $2.00 Up

OFFICERS AN D DIRECTORS

James J. Marshall, President

Charles G. Bancroft, Honorary Vice President
Mrs. Edith Y. Wisner, First Vice President

Mrs. Robert W. Gifford, Second Vice President
Charles W. Pusey, Executive Director

Stephen A. Vetter, Treasurer

Mrs. Margaret E. Pusey, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Leo J. Ackerman Mrs. John T. Wainwright
Fred W. Borton Mrs. Roy Page

Charles W. Chase, Jr. C. Palmer Parker
John DeMilly Jr. D.V.M. Mrs. Alys DeMuth Swords
Mrs. Florence H. Gates Mrs. Valentine Riley

Mrs. Grover C. Zaring

Legal: James J. Marshall. Mrs. Alice C. Wainwright.
Accounting: Audits by Palmer Parker 8. Henriquez, C.P.A.

 




Fobruory 26, 1953

«-

ﬁr. anﬁ Er
Humane foo ,

2101 ﬁ.W. Mg . d .-
ﬁiomig Floriko

so ah”wloo $uooy
i: of Grootor Elam:
o ‘ s ‘

'* Korgorot onﬁ Charlos.

‘ I am vory oorry inﬂoed to ﬂoor that a seizure
hog boon ﬁrafto? for ﬁloriﬁa. Eric ﬁansen has.
me a copy of it goo hello me that 2% will be
in April 0 Y

I believe 2 oomﬁ you a copy of my fayoer's

ottor to mooboro of tho §oderation of Amorioon Eooiooioo
mor'Exporimootol Siology, but, in case I 615*not, I enclose
a copy. it woulﬁ be interesting to obtain an opinion oo
to whether Section 6 of tho propoood Floriﬁo Act would
outlaw oxoorimonto such as the tumbling-of unaneothotized
rats of tho drowning of unanoothetizeﬁ‘oogs ono, if so,
what method of ooruﬁioizing oxoorlmonts would-be emoloyod
'bythovBooro of ﬁooloo. You will finﬁ doseriptiono of those
oxyorimonto in the letter. ‘ u

I truot you-recoivoo the motorial oomoorming tho
arrangements in Vancouver relating to the procurement of
impounﬂoﬁ animals for painloso exporimontotion only. Such
an arrangement io'not oasy to make where there are very
large numboro of laboratories, but it shoulo be quite
foooiblo.in Miami where thoro 18 only a single medical
school. It makes possible the protection of animals which‘
woulﬁ otherwise be beyond the reach of the humane oooioty,
anﬁ the important improvementswhich aro‘underwoy in
Vancouver as a result make it woll.worth serious consideration.
I note in ﬁeotion 7 that laboratories wish~specif1o exemption
from obtaining animalo only from pounﬂs, onﬁ'this, if properly
interpreted, 13 very oorroct since it is doSiroblo to nos
the Smallest number of animals possible for chronic oXporiments.
ano this means that thotr horodity-ano history moot be accurately
known. In short they should be bred for the purpooe.

Let me hear ﬁrom yOu when you.have the time. I
wish you ouceoso in your struggle.

Sincerely,

 




PROPOSED FLORIDA DOG SEIZURE ACT PRESENTED TO DADE
COUNTY LECTSLATORS BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
MEDICAL SCHOOL ON FEBRUARY 18, 1953.

AN ACT TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE BY REGULATING THE HUMANE USE
OF ANIMALS IN THE DIAGNOSIS, PREVENTION, AND TREATMENT OF HUMAN AND ANIMAL DISEASES;
THE ADVANCEMENT OF VETERINARY, MEDICAL, AND DENTAL.AND OTHER SCIENCES; AND THE
IMPROVEMENT AND STANDARDIZATION OF BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, PHARMACEUTICALS AND DRUGS;
.AND TO PROVIDE LICENSES THEREFORE AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF. .

Section 1. .As used in this act, (a) "Institution" means any school or college
of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture; medical diagnostic
laboratory, hospital, or other educational or scientific establishment having to do
with investigation of or instruction in the structure and functions of living
organisms, the causes, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal
conditions of humans and animals; (b) "Public Pound" means any place used by a
municipality, town, city, country, or state for the dentention or keeping of
unclaimed or stray animals.

 

Section 2. .An institution requiring, for the effective performance Of its
scientific or educational activities, the use of live dogs and cats may apply to the
State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals from the establishment main-
tained and operated by public funds for the confinement, care and disposal of
animals seized by public authority, commonly called the "Dog Pound". If the State
Board of Health finds that the institution, by reason of its ethical standards, its
personnel, its facilities, and the uses it proposes to make of the animals is a fit
and proper.agency, it shall issue a.license to the institution subject to the
restrictions and limitations hereinafter provided.

 

Section 3. It shall be the duty of the Pound Supervisor to deliver from among
the available impounded animals, at the request of an institution possessing a
license, such number of animals as the institution may request and reasonably
require to effectively carry on its activities; provided, however, that such
animals have been impounded at least five days and remain unclaimed and unredeemed
by their owners or by any person desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay
applicable license fees and the reasonable expenses incurred in the animal's
detention. If a request is made on a Pound Supervisor for a greater number of
animals than he has available for release, he shall withhold from execution there-
after all unclaimed and unredeemed animals until the request has been met.

 

Section R. The licensed institution shall provide for the transportation of
animals from the Pound and may use them only in the conduct of their scientific
or educational activities.

 

Section 5. ,An institution shall, at its own expense, return to appropriate
pound any animal delivered it which subsequently is identified and claimed by its
owner; provided, however, that no institution shall be liable to the owner for any
injury, illness or subsequent death of any such animal resulting from the transa

portation, detention, or proper use of the animal in its scientific or educational
activities.

Section 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and a reasonable opportunity
to defend, may revoke the license granted to an institution (a) if the institution
has violated any provision of this act or any rule or regulation promulgated by the
State Board of Health pursuant hereto; (b) if the standards, personnel, facilities,
practices or activities of an institution are such that the continued exercise of
rights conferred by the license to the institution is not in the public interest.

 




-2-

In general it is a rule that no animal employed in scientific or educational
activities shall be allowed to suffer pain from operative procedures more than that
which man himself submits to in veinpuncture, intracutaneous, subcutaneous, or
intramuscular injection, or other minor traumata ordinarily performed_in medical
practice without anesthesia. For all other manipulations local or general anesthesia
is mandatory during the potentially painful procedures and until the death or
sacrifice of the animal, except that survival may be permitted when all sterile
surgical precautions have been taken and longer observation is essential to the
success of the study. In any survival experiment, humane postwoperative care must be
provided. ‘

Section 7. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the right of an
institution to obtain animals from sources other than pounds.

 

Section 8. The State Board of Health shall have the power to adopt such rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of Florida, as it deems necessary to
carry into effect the provisiOns of this act. The Commissioner of Health shall have
the right, whenever it is deemed advisable, to inSpect or investigate any institution
to which a license has been granted or which is applying for such a license.

 

Section 9. This act shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect its
general purpose to make available to qualified institutions for the purpose of
scientific investigation, experiment, or instruction, unclaimed and unredeemed animals
impounded in dog pounds.

 

Section 10. It shall be a misdemeanor for (a) any person or institution to
violate any of the provisions of this act or any rules or regulations promulgated
thereunder, or (b) any person to fail wilfully to execute any of the provisions of
this act or any duty imposed on him by this act.

 

Section 11. If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any
person Or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the invalid
provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this act are declared
severable.

Section 12. It being immediately necessary for the preservation of the public
health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, by reason whereof this
act shall take effect and be in full force frOm and after its passage and approval.

 




Y

.5.-

11.31.3112)“ 3:2:
333332 533136

33rch'31, 19?}

" -,-' 7“): «as «I ,

333. C33113' :333y

2.31 ’1'"? ~10 “"4 ”31,1" «147' {“5 ii‘: '5“ :- * ‘2" ‘ v“ . '3
L3.hs::.£3 ,, -- L305 31:3 J 2.3.! “rm m 30:“ :.€il€§.m
. ‘ @Y “ i A 3 ‘ . l" 1' ‘3‘ -, Mg.

21(31 4.3”; g "1 . SEEStEE L; Lrﬂgt

'..- . .9 131 ,~ , ,

:13315 313r133

$33r ﬁ‘rw3r3t,

133333 forjr 3*13333r y 23:,” 1:333 terribly
53-0171?! 133 11:33? “5:“ 11131123331313 '13:; ': 32,2311 3 3::33311v1n‘tn
mint, :32: t: “6311313 132'! 11:73” *h :1. "'"ve'; r'vrc2:gnt3ned c131. 3
151t13. C3333 :11? the iwao tant thﬁ nw‘:s +0 defeat 333 3111,
331d :21: is 23:30:11 ta} 131131.: 1.1.31; .iﬁ'ﬂetmr. , . agraﬁd rm this
at 135.31.. 1133231123 “2333 A0:“ 5' - :25 1:37:33? 1:12:13?
3:33 opmuntsm ‘ ’

133'33 perhaps he3y¥that the Arizona 1335313ture
‘ has clasad' thﬁmmt takinf 3ctiwn'on their @3333 bill. 5G 303
110r1§3 13 the on1y immediate thr33t.

W: 1h 311 good wishas fer your success,

iiincerely'y0333,

 




  

2161 N.W. 95th STREET a MIAMI 47. FLORIDA a TELEPHONE 7'22'7

Best regards. ‘..,, - 1;: " 2_ 1‘,.‘1‘:?‘-.v,-:’"7-L'-,:" 1‘» . f 2-: <_-..n ‘ r .
”W W for www: M for W

 

  

[immune 50mm]

OF GREATER MIAMI
GE!

 

March 24, 1953

Miss Estella Draper
Animal Welfare Institute
350 Fifth Avenue

New York 1, N. Y.

Dear Estella:

It was nice hearing from you again. First, I want
to say how much we enjoyed and appreciated the
visit from Mrs. Stevens. I know it was a great
inconvenience to come out to our place. She is a
wonderful person and I truly hope that others she
helps is just as appreciative.

 

Please tell Mrs. Stevens that the two pamphlets

were delivered to Miss Crafts of Jacksonville, however,

due to the rush of getting material ready for the

Federation meeting, I did not have an opportunity to

read them. She might ask Miss Crafts to forward same

to me and I will send them on to you just as soon as

I have read the material. Also, tell her that the
Federation meeting proved to be most disappointing due

to petty politics and bickering among the delegates.

Miss Crafts seemed to be the instigator - which surprised

me no end. I attribute it to just plain jealOusy. Poor
Charles felt more than hurt and it is doubtful if we will
remain a part of the Federation. They came to no conclu-
sion and made no definite plan on method of approach in
Tallahassee. We plan to try to defeat the Hill independ—
ently. Each society seemed to have adifferent idea. You
know how that is. I was asked if Mrs. Stevens would appear
in Tallahassee on behalf of the Federation. I told them .
that I did not think so because she had stated already I; w: r u
that she did not feel same would be 9A.. . ‘*
We will keep her advised of any ‘ ' "

  
 

 

 

    

  

 




ANIMAL SEIZURE THREAT IN FLORIDA

 

The threat of a law enabling drug companies. research organizations, and
institutions to seize animals from pounds and Humane Society Shelters for eX~
perimental purposes is alive in Florida. The Humane Society of Greater Miami
is constantly alert to legislative activities in Tallahassee and.will Oppose
any legislation for procuring animals from Humane Society shelters and.pounds
for live animal eXperimentation.

Among our members, we number peeple who Oppose any type of emperimenta~
tion on live animals as well as those who feel it is an unfortunate necessity.
However, the continuation of live animal emperimentation is NOT the issue of
these bills. We ask those who approve of experimentation on animals not to
be misled by publicity put out by various groups who are attempting to turn
this into a vivisection vs anti~vivisection argument in order to cloud the
actual Purpose of this proposed Florida Animal Seizure Act legislation. Animal
seizure legislation attempts to force humane societies and.pounds to use their
facilities to provide animals for emperimentation. IN OTHER'WOBDS, THE LABORA~
TORY PEOPLE‘WANT THE IANMAKERS TO CONFISCATE GIFTS MADE BY HUMANITARIANS TO
HUMANE SOCIETIES AND USE THEM FOR.THE BENEFIT OF OTHER CAUSES AND EVEN FOR THE
BENEFIT OF PRIVATE COMMERCIAL INTERESTS FOR.PROFIT.

Please consider the following facts in judging this legislation.

1. Medical research has existed for many years and can continue even if
these bills do not pass. ’

2. Animals for research can be obtained through reputable dealers or
bred for the purpose without forcing humane societies into an untenable
position.

3. If these bills pass, humane societies throughout Florida will be
forced to violate principles upon which they are founded and endowed. Shelters
and pounds are eXpected to care for stray animals in one of the following ways:
(a) Return lost animals to their owners. (b) Find homes for unclaimed pets.
(c) Give unplaceable animals a humane and painless death. Shelters and pounds
were NOT set up to act as animal procurement agencies for medical research
groups.

{umane Society of Greater Miami
and
Dade County S P C A
2101 N. W. 95th Street
Miami )479 Fla.

 




Reprint from THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR Of February 25, 1952.
THE 'POUND' BILLS

More than the fate Of stray dogs and cats is at stake in the sO—called ”pound"
bills currently being introduced in several state legislatures throughout the United
States. At the very heart of the issue lies the question: DO private citizens have
the right to organize within the law for a recognizable legitimate purpose with the
assurance that this purpose will not later be perverted by the government?

To date most of the debate has centered around the emotionecharged subject Of
vivisection. Little attention seems to have been.paid to the fact that the "pound"
bills, by giving experimental laboratories the right to requisition "unlicensed,
unclaimed, and unwanted" stray animals from the pounds of humane societies, would

compel these societies to act as partners in a business for which they were never
intended.

Most of these societies were in part set up to try to find homes for these
animals or, failing that, to dispose of them in a painless manner. Money for support
of the societies is contributed with this purpose in mind. Is the government now to
be allowed to designate an agent that can arbitrarily force these societies to Open

their pounds to the laboratory in contradiction of their eXpress and legally estab—
lished.purpose?

The implications of this question exceed the immediate issue of the "pound" bills,
for if answered in the affirmative it would set a precedent easily extended into other
areas and other organizations. Regardless of what position one may take in regard to
vivisection, he should be alert to the broader implications of this prOpOsed legisla-
tion.which threatens to extend further the reach of government control. If one is not
careful he will find that the "lOgical" end to such a process is the transfer Of all
discretion from the citizen to the state.

*****************

THIS CAN HAPPEN IN FLORIDA IF THE PROPOSED PET SEIZURE BILL IS APPROVED
BY THE STATE LEGISLATURE'WHICH CONVENES IN TALLAHASSEE.APRIL 7, 1953!

 

It can happen unless YOU eXpress your Opposition to the members of the
Florida State Legislature:

The HUMANE SOCIETY OF GREATER MIAMI will place itself out of the scOpe of
this cruel and vicious bill, if passed, - but then it must curtail its
services and reduce its animal welfare work:by nearly fifty percent. It
will cost the taxpayers of Dade County alone an additional $M0,000.00 per
year for County and Municipal pounds — or, our streets and fields will be
filled with homeless cats and dogs. The unclaimed animals in the public

pounds will be turned over to the Medical School and eXperimental labora~
tories.

DEFEAT THIS BILL AND KEEP YOUR PETS OUT OF THE LABORATORIES!

HUMANE SOCIETY OF GREATER MIAMI
and
DADE COUNTY s P c A
2101 N. W. 95 Street
Miami #7, Fla.

 




PROPOSED FLORIDA DOG SEIZURE ACT PRESENTED TO
THE DADE COUNTY LEGISLATORS BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MIAMI MEDICAL SCHOOL ON FEBRUARY 18th, 1953

AN ACT TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE BY
REGULATING THE HUMANE USE OF ANIMALS IN THE DIAG-
NOSIS, PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HUMAN AND ANI-
MAL DISEASES; THE ADVANCEMENT OF VETERINARY, MEDI-
CAL AND DENTAL AND OTHER SCIENCES; AND THE IMPROVE-
MENT AND STANDARDIZATION OF BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS,
PHARMACEUTICALS AND DRUGS; AND TO PROVIDE LICENSES
THEREFOR AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF.

SECTION 1. As used in this act (a) “Institution” means any school
or college of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or agriculture;
medical diagnostic laboratory, hospital, or other educational or scientific
establishment having to do with investigation of or instruction in the
structure and functions of living organisms, the causes, prevention, con-
trol, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of humans and animals;
(b) “Public Pound” means any place used by a municipality, town, city,
county, or state for the detention or keeping Of unclaimed or stray
animals.

SECTION 2. An institution requiring, for the effective performance
Of its scientific or educational activities, the use of live dogs and cats
may apply to the State Board of Health for a license to obtain animals
from the establishment maintained and operated by public funds for the
confinement, care and disposal of animals seized by public authority,
commonly called the “Dog Pound.” If the State Board of Health finds
that the institution, by reason Of its ethical standards, its personnel, its
facilities, and the uses it proposes to make of the animals is a fit and
proper agency, it shall issue a license tO the institution, subject to the
restrictions and limitations hereinafter provided.

SECTION 3. It shall be the duty of the Pound Supervisor to deliver
from among the available impounded animals, at the request Of an in-
stitution possessing a license, such number of animals as the institution
may request and reasonably require to effectively carry on its activities;
provided, however, that such animals have been impounded at least five
days and remain unclaimed and unredeemed by their owners or by any
person desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license
fees and the reasonable expenses incurred in the animal’s detention. If
a request is made on a Pound Supervisor for a greater number of animals
than he has available for release, he shall withhold from execution there-
after allunclaimed and unredeemed animals until the request has been
met.

SECTION 4. The licensed institution Shall provide for the transpor-
tation of animals from the Pound and may use them only in the conduct
of their scientific or educational activities.

SECTION 5. An institution shall, at its own expense, return to ap-
propriate pound any animal delivered it which subsequently is identi-
fied and claimed by its owner; provided, however, that no institution
shall be liable to the owner for any injury, illness or subsequent death
of any such animal resulting from the transportation, detention, or
proper use of the animal in its scientific or education activities.

SECTION 6. The State Board of Health, after notice and a reason-
able opportunity to defend, may revoke the license granted to an insti-
tution (a) if the institution has violated any provision of this act or any
rule or regulation promulgated by the State Board of Health pursuant
hereto, (b) if the standards, personnel, facilities, practices or activities
of an institution are such that the continued exercise of rights conferred
by the license to the institution is not in the public interest. In general
it is a rule that no animal employed in scientific or educational activities
shall be allowed to suffer pain from operative procedures more than
that which man himself submits to in venipuncture, intracutaneous, sub—
cutaneous, or intramuscular injection, or other minor traumata ordin-
arily performed in medical practice without anesthesia. For all other
manipulations local or general anesthesia is mandatory during the po-
tentially painful procedures and until the death or sacrifice of the animal,
except that survival may be permitted when all sterile surgical precau-
tions have been taken and longer Observation is essential to the success
of the study. In any survival experiment, humane post-operative care
must be provided.

SECTION 7. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the right
of an institution to Obtain animals from sources other than pounds.

SECTION 8. The State Board of Health shall have the power to adopt
such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of Florida, as

ASSIST
YOUB SOCIETY T0

DEFEAT

TIIIS CRUEL
PET SEIZURE BILL
BY:

1. Prompt Payment of Dues.

2. Add What Extra Money You Can
Spare To Help Defray Expenses.

3. Express YOur Opinion On This Seiz-
ure Bill By Seeing 0r Writing Your
State Representatives And State
Senator.

' DADE counrv SENATOR
HONORABLE R. s. GAUTIER, JR. DuPont Building, Miami, Florida

DADE COUNTY REPRESENTATIVES

HONORABLE DANTE B. FASCELL
157 Miracle Mile, Coral Gables, Florida

HONORABLE ROBERT L. FLOYD
Biscayne Building, Miami, Florida

HONORABLE GEORGE S. OKELL
Biscayne Building, Miami, Florida

[immune 50mm '

OF GREATER MIAMI

2101 NW. 95th St. - Phone 7-5620 - Miami, Florida

 

 

it deems necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this act. The
Commissioner of Health shall have the right, whenever it is deemed
advisable, to inspect or investigate any institution to which a license has
been granted or which is applying for such a license.

SECTION 9. This act Shall be so interpreted and construed as to
effect its general purpose to make available to qualified institutions for
the purpose of scientific investigation, experiment, or instruction, un-
claimed and unredeemed animals impounded in dog pounds.

SECTION 10. It shall be a misdemeanor for (a) any person or in-
stitution to violate any of the provisions of this act or any rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder, or (b) any person to fail willfully
to execute any of the provisions Of this act or any duty imposed on him
by this act.

SECTION 11. If any prevision of this act or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of this act which can be given
effect without the invalid provisions or applications, and to this end the
provisions of this act are declared severable.

SECTION 12. It being immediately necessary for the preservation Of
the public health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist,
by reason whereof this act shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage and approval.

 




3:322
"o “fa

' 71
£2.11
’ (T: '2"

72‘ if“: {It
”3:. a! a);

:13

3x

’? ‘i .
L-x‘” “3‘.

fram ﬁlavel“
'3‘

5

1"
,ﬂ?:
~v-, Mix
A.
a"

”$3.." ,

,

,
winin-

’

W”

5’
1 :11;

a%?

'3‘?
my
:1
3
«U

tamp

524:: 32». 95,9»: (,-
2 z: a “at?

v.0

t’,

T
h
i

“'3’:

‘2
‘.~

”Jgﬁw

1‘ 3'4- “.4
:' its“

'57: "y
, .1

3"“
(”'3
w

{4.
9.

if"? '

«m

(“if“)
.r. s
«(9‘

«ya

‘ ”ng 1

rs?

V L

f

_.t _,

3

'1
!

:g.v
|~ yew"

\ «11°: 9'1

"1‘3 ’1‘ N
' '5...» ‘5’ .‘u

 

 




I“??? éyy‘iMMﬂJ

If

0 ‘
' J ‘ I” '9‘, m . r - (a 3' » ”an iv
“5““ may : .93“ LwLwL-9’ZL “ win-Wm”- :21
N

A“!

V I ﬁrsuurl—‘yl v;
f L KW "’ ,5 /: J“:1...9 l 9 IZLWW «wi

.9 , , . . ,
«I - 43“..) .

.
9r. g "' ... - ..
.« akmf 1.. .4. #7 3 (if " 139‘ ‘L,...«2!.,...g = - 49’"
v. ,. ' x ‘ 3-. ‘ - ’ ‘ ‘ 1 '1"
a"? ’

‘ ’L A ' '
~, ,‘ ...

"10‘” 9; 1
» '-"‘m.r . “7

,0”

 




«

I, " "Ag-wrw‘mr” 11"",an "é: 3'»

"7
,~ $9131.?

v

v '“Nf V ‘ w ,4
' 4 ' I ’ o" m
. ' ,0 4 if ¢\. . ( qf- ”.1
‘4 . " V .44 .« ' ‘5...»4‘ J ‘
q. AJ , w «wt.» ‘ f, - m _, (MWJQ #0
I" V “3" r, ‘ V

l
i
t

I

' . v ,
. 4- H .v ‘i‘ V 7 (I _ I} '11
f V ‘4}. 4 {3... r4 ‘l’gKy-vv’" 4'. ,mv’tlaatx ,,,,,, ‘ Z”’M‘£’€~n{l/J

" ‘
' - ( H—r ,. . .,'. 2. , .

, "I :1" .‘ "f, ”.- ’ .~ 5', ,r '4‘ ﬂ;
”“4“.” w-‘w ,3 ,1; .,,,M.7 "j”, :gz«w%j’ A: i g”. M ‘

~11“ m

I ;,Q4&dj£*r(.hv‘r;ﬂz’ ;,'_,(_,/r ":4? (’4‘; 1/” , W”. j

{A ~
4’ .i’p
L.»- {"4 ’4 3 LL,- (We LW ”ﬁrm“!

.I-c

\

 




.v‘r «
’5 A - kwuqﬁgk: v

"e

,V
.V lg v“.
u

Elﬁdlwr.

, , ”w M

.
v
w,“ ﬂu -

r evils-y" ‘ 1““

I‘

_. 1.- J. «3’: .. . Q:— X».

 




