’I_‘h_e Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.——No. 100.

 

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

THE WAR EEEORT
0E THE BIRDS

By ALAN S. DOBSON, E.R.S.P.B.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%

We all want to win the war.

To-day, nearly everyone is in one way or another helping
towards the War Effort.

I wonder if it has occurred to you boys and girls that the
birds also are making their effort. They may not know it, their
effort may not be a conscious one, but all the same they are
contributing in no small way towards winning the war, and I
want to show you how you can help the birds.

Imagine, if you can, a sudden calamity such as a terriﬁc
tempest or blizzard sweeping over our Island that would blow
all the birds into the ocean or a huge gas attack that would, in
one fell swoop, kill all the birds; do you know that 1n a year
or two there would not be left a scrap of green stuff on these
Islands? And what is worse, there would be no food left for
our cattle and sheep, and we should be on the verge of starvation.
A vast horde of wild creatures, such as Green- ﬂy, Beetles Wire-
worms, Grubs, Daddy-long-legs, Field Mice, Voles, and thousands
of other pests would descend upon our ﬁelds, pastures and
gardens, and make a clean sweep of them.

It is the wild birds that save us from this dreadful fate.
Let me tell you a true story.

In part of the Lowlands of Scotland the chief Industry is
Sheep Farming. The farms are scattered over the hills and
valleys there. The hills are not very high, and the grass grows

 




 

2.

all over them, but in some parts a good deal of heather and
bracken grow. The Grouse make their nests in the heather on
these hills, and in the Shooting Season these birds provide a lot
of sport for the Landowners and their friends, so you may be
sure that the Grouse are rigorously preserved. Woe betide
anyone who would interfere with the Grouse or their nests. The
owners of these preserves found, however, that certain birds,—
Owls, Hawks, etc., occasionally made a meal of a Grouse’s egg
or even a young bird, so the order was given to the Gamekeepers
that all the Hawks, Owls, etc., were to be destroyed. What
happened? I will tell you ! Within a very short period not a
blade of grass was left in the whole district. Small animals
called Voles, a species of mouse that tunnels under the soil and
eats the roots of the grass, increased to such an extent that no
grass was left and the farmers were nearly ruined because there
was no grass for their sheep to feed on, You see, the Owls and
Hawks may have taken a few eggs or baby Grouse, but their
main diet was Voles, and will you believe it, to remedy this
state of affairs Owls and Hawks actually had to be imported
from the Continent to clear off the Voles, and it was some time
before the grass grew again. This shows what a mistake it is
to interfere with what is called “ balance of nature ” doesn’t it?

I could give you many other instances of a similar kind, but
that one will sufﬁce to illustrate my point.

At a time like this, when it is so very important that we
should grow all the food and crops that we possibly can, we
should be particularly careful to preserve and encourage our
wild birds.

One of Hitler’s best friends in England today is Mr. Wire-
worm. He is more numerous now than ever before, because
we are ploughing up a lot of old pasture land where Mr.
Wireworm abounds. The chief enemies of Mr. Wireworm are
Mr. Rook and Mr. Starling. Examination by experts of the
crops of rooks that have been shot shows that although the
rook may eat a few grains of seed-corn, nevertheless wireworms
make up the bulk of his meal. Starlings feed chieﬂy on wire-
worms, leatherjackets, (which are the larvae of daddy-long—legs)
and grubs. All the' ﬁnches,——for instance, sparrows, green-
ﬁnches, chaffinches, and goldﬁnches, feed chieﬂy on the seeds
of such weeds as thistles, charlock, sorrel, dock, dandelion,
chickweed,—in fact all the weeds that infest our farms and




3.

gardens. Other birds, such as robins, ﬂycatchers, wrens,
chiffchaffs, blue tits, and the warblers, feed on insects and
caterpillars, all of which are most destructive to our crops of
grain, fruit, vegetables and ﬂowers.

It is entirely wrong to suppose that because birds are seen
among ﬁeld crops they are necessarily doing mischief. The
crop of a wood pigeon, shot on a ﬁeld of peas, was found to be
full of the seeds of chickweed with which the ﬁeld was infested.
Similarly another bird shot among young turnips had been
feeding chieﬂy on grubs; the crops of many have been found
full of caterpillars of harmful moths, in two cases, with the
larvae that were devastating the leaves of the Oak Trees.

I once watched a sparrow, much maligned bird, feeding its
young, for half an hour. At intervals of from one to two
minutes it ﬂew between the oak tree and its young, who were
on the lawn, and each time it had a caterpillar in its beak.
This went on for hours. The same thing happened in the case
of a wren that I watched, only the wren carried either a moth
or a daddy-long-legs each time, and you know that moths lay
hundreds of eggs which turn into caterpillars and these feed on
all kinds of plants.

Now I think I have said enough to convince you that birds
do their bit in our “ Dig for Victory ” Campaign. Anything,
therefore that interferes with the birds or their nests or eggs is
a sort of sabotage, and sabotage, especially in ,War Time, is a
very serious crime. I know how interesting and exciting it is
at this time of year to go out bird-nesting, but even if you
don’t actually take eggs out of nests, you may do quite a lot of
damage. Some birds, I may say most birds, are very shy and
sensitive and have a very keen instinct for danger, and if a nest
is so much as touched by a human hand, some birds will desert.

I am sure you have all heard a lot about Hitler’s ﬁfth
columnists, and what a dangerous crew they are. Well, I want
you all to look upon people that interfere with birds, their
nests and eggs as sort of ﬁfth columnists who are hampering
our War Effort, or rather the War Effort of the Birds.

Wild birds have many enemies. Severe winters take a
heavy toll of bird life. In the winter of 1939—40 I actually saw
small birds completely enveloped in a coating of ice, frozen to
the trees on which they roosted. Rats, stoats, weasels, cats,

 




 

4.

especially cats, kill thousands of birds every year. Many
thousands of little visitors that migrate from their native lands
. to nest in our hospitable country, never reach our shores, being
overcome on the way here by bad weather and exhaustion.
Reliable authorities tell us, however, that the worst enemies of
these beautiful and useful little friends are human beings, who
not only rob their nests but attack them with guns, catapults,
traps and snares.

After what I have told you of their great usefulness to the
human race, I feel sure that none of you would wish to be
numbered among the birds’ enemies. Don’t join the ranks of
the Hitlers of the Brute Kingdom, who delight to attack the
weak and helpless, Do all you can to persuade your friends not
to go bird-nesting. Tell them that it is against the law to take
or destroy wild birds’ eggs, and that upon conviction they are
subject to severe penalties, under the Wild Birds’ Protection
Acts.

Be a good Citizen and help the Birds’ War Effort.

Royal Society for the Protection of Birds,
82, Victoria Street,
London, S.W.l

Copies may be purchased at One Penny each, from the Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds, 82, Victoria Street, London, SW. 1

 

J. MILES & Co., Printers, LONDON, W. 1

 




