THE VIVISECTOR IN THE
LUNATIC ASYLUM.

BY EDWARD BERDOE, L.R.C.P.ED., M.R.C.S.,

 

 

REPRINTED FROM “THE ZOOPHILIST,” SEPTEMBER, 1897.

 

 

A FEW years ago we made a protest against the-
appointment by the Asylums Committee of the London

County Council of a licensed vivisector as professional
pathologist. Many of our friends feared that the

admission of an experimenter on animals to an im-
portant ofﬁce on the medical staff of an asylum
for the insane would open the door to a possible»
danger, and would place the most helpless of our sick
brethren and sisters at the mercy of unscrupulous
scientists. No doubt the presence of a vivisector in the
wards of a lunatic asylum is a far greater danger than
his connection with a general hospital. Dark doings
have often taken place in our asylums. The age of
humanity has succeeded the barbarous times not so
very long gone by when the unsound, in mind were
treated like wild beasts, chained naked to the walls of
dark and ﬁlthy cells, subject to the lash of brutal keepers
who so recently as the end of the last century were
permitted to exhibit their wretched charges to an
inquisitive public for a penny or twopence a head. We

 




 

2

ﬂatter ourselves that we have changed all that, and that,
although it is probable that individual attendants even
now treat their patients with occasional cruelty if not
violence, we like to believe that everything is done that
is possible to maintain in health and reasonable comfort
the poorest of the mentally afflicted. We have
been reckoning, however, without the vivisector. The
fears of our friends who opposed the election of a licensee
'as pathologist at Claybury Asylum were not groundless.
We have just read, with feelings of horror and indigna-
tion, the account of Dr. H. BERKLEY, of a series of
experiments of a most cruel, not to say murderous,
character, published in the July number of the Bulletin of
johns H opkms Hospital, Baltimore. The experiments
were performed on eight patients in the City Asylum
with a view to test the effects of overdosing with thyroid
extract now so much vaunted by experimenters asa cure
for myxoedema, and a remedy, moreover, so they say,
indisputably the outcome of vivisection.

Dr. BERKLEY’S article begins by remarking that “the
favourable side of the administration of the thyroid
extracts is shown in the very numerous articles in current
medical literature, published both in this country and in
Europe. Comparatively few of these papers treat of
other than the bare clinical results from the most
conspicuous standpoint, and it is quite safe to say, after
a review of some of them, that the results would have
been as brilliant had no medicament been administered.”
It was determined in this scandalous torture-den to
induce grave symptoms of poisoning in certain incurable
patients, whose minds were so enfeebled that no com-
plaints they could make would be likely to be listened to.
Dr. BERKLEY says—“ The ﬁrst portion of the investiga-
tion was made upon eight patients at the City Asylum,
who, with one exception, had either passed or were
about to pass the limit of time in which recovery could




3

be conﬁdently expected.” That is to say, eight persons
were selected to be tortured and done to death, that the
effects of continuous poisoning with a dangerous drug
might be duly watched and recorded. Amongst the
more prominent symptoms induced by the drugging
were loss of weight, enfeeblement of the heart’s action,
digestive disturbances, and fever. These effects were
present in more than half the cases. Two patients, we
are informed in the most scientiﬁc phraseology, and the
most heartless manner, were “frenzied,” and of these,
“ one died before the excitement had subsided.” Is there
any otherterm that can be employed to explain the death
of this victim than “murdered scientiﬁcally”? The
writer of the paper in question accepts this View. He
says—“ The above experiment upon eight human
subjects points out conclusively that the administration
of even the very best and purest of the commercial
dessicated thyroid tablets is not unattended by danger
to the health and life of the patient.” The danger to
health was actually proved by the marked inﬂuence of
the poison upon the future mental powers of the subject.

Here, then, we have proof, if such were needed,
that the “true researcher” hesitates not when he gets
the chance, and cannot be made to answer for his
crime, to subject to torture and deprive of life, such
human beings committed to his care whom he may safely
employ as “beasts of research,” as the Germans call
hospital patients. We are incessantly told that animals
are employed in the laboratories that human beings may
be spared the effects of painful experiments. If such
experiments have really the value attributed to them, why
were these eight patients exposed to torture and death
by those who were employed to minister to their needs ?

We have always maintained that the physiological
laboratory and the hospital ward are equally the
haunts of the vivisector. The one is complementary

 




4

to the other, and this case affords additional proof of
the charge. Dr. BERKLEY says—-“ These results
obtained, we then decided to further pursue our
experiments upon the lower animals.” It seems a
matter of indifference to thevivisector whether he begins
with the dog and goes on to the man, or vice 126750;. He
wants both dog and man, rabbit and woman, rat and
child; he makes no nice distinctions, for he has no
mercy, no sense of justice, all living creatures are his
materials, and these he will ﬁnd with or without
leave or licence. This infamy will continue until public
Opinion is sufﬁciently awakened to stop it. By condon~
ing vivisection, Society condones wilful murder, and
must be made to know it.

 

 

N} £1- L5 m WW
' 1
Published by the Tﬁﬁl‘m STREET SOCIﬁme FOR BEBE PROTECTION

iv 4.
OF ANIMALS FROM IVISECTIb‘N, ﬁN‘I‘T‘ED WITE “hHQ TERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION 0F VIVISECTION, 20,
VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 9.97.

Price $1.; 5d. per doz.; 35‘. per 100.

 




