 

3

ﬂ“ “

l/c,
/“ /‘ /// I»//

Fig. 1. Eye dominance. Student sights a distant object
through a hole in a card held at arm’s length, then slowly
brings the card toward her face. At a certain point she
becomes aware that she is using only one eye—the dominant
eye.

Repeat each test several times. Is the same eye
always used to keep the object in sight? Is the sub-
ject’s dominant eye on the same side as his dominant
hand and the dominant food-chewing side of mouth?
Make a record of eye, hand, and side-of-mouth
dominance for a group of, say, 20 people; does a
consistent pattern emerge?

Depth Perception

A study of depth perception can be made with
just a large sheet of white cardboard (60 cm by 90
cm) and a strip of black paper about 1 cm wide and
30 cm long. The instructor acts as experimenter.
Prop the large cardboard about 5 m in front of the
class several feet from the front of the room, with the
top of the cardboard about 10 cm above the eye level
of the subjects.

Trial 1: Hold the black paper 10 cm behind the
large card, with about 5 cm showing above the card.
Subjects are to judge and record the distance be-
tween the large card and the black strip under four
conditions: (i) looking with one eye while holding
head still; (ii) looking with one eye while moving
head back and forth; (iii) looking with both eyes
while holding head still; and (iv) looking with both
eyes while moving head back and forth.

Trial 2: Repeat. the above procedure with the
strip 30 cm from the card.

Trial 3: Repeat at 20 cm.

Trial ,4: Repeat at 2.5 cm.

Next, repeat trials 1—4, but use a pencil instead
of the black strip. Hold the pencil so that 5 cm of it
show above the card, and use the same distances
but change their order.

Each subject records his judgments (16 for the

402 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER |974

 

 

black strip and 16 for the pencil trials). After the

trials are completed, the subjects are told the actual

distances and asked to compute their errors. The
average error for the whole class can also be com-
puted. Which conditions produced the poorest judg-
ments? WhiCh produced the best? What depth cues
were available to the subject under each of the
viewing conditions? Were there any differences be-
tween accuracies of judgment for the black card and
for the pencil? Why?

Localization of Sound

Accuracy in locating sounds can be determined
by blindfolding the subject and clinking two coins
together (or by using a snapper “cricket”) at vary-
ing points approximately 1 m from the subject’s
head (ﬁg. 2). The subject is asked to point in the
direction he thinks the sound is coming from. A
score of correct or incorrect is recorded for 30 trials

 

 

 

//////

.'1 . W4“,

the direction she thinks the sound is coming from. Another
student records correct and incorrect responses.

with each subject. What individual variation is
found in the ability to locate sounds? Can training
improve this ability? Do musically talented stu-
dents, who have received training in listening care-
fully to sounds, score better than average in this
test?

Judging Weights

What are the limits of man’s ability to judge
whether two objects are of different weights? The
subject closes his eyes and holds two 125-ml Erlen-

 




meyer ﬂasks by the neck—one in each hand (ﬁg.
3). One ﬂask is marked “Test,” the other “Control”;
and each initially contains 50 g of water (1 g = 1
ml). The subject reports to the experimenter if he
thinks the weights are equal. The experimenter then
adds water to the test ﬂask in 2-m1 portions, each
time handing the ﬂasks back to the subject but
randomly mixing the right and the left and each
time asking the subject to determine relative
weights. When the test ﬂask feels just perceptively
heavier, record the volume of water added. The dif-
ference in weight between the test ﬂask and. the
control ﬂask at this point is the “difference thresh-
old” fOr 50 g. Repeat this procedure, starting with
100, 200, and 500 g of water (and using larger ﬂasks
as needed). How ﬁne a discrimination can be made
in judging weights? Does the difference threshold
vary according to the initial weights used? Make a
graph, plotting the difference threshold on the
vertical axis against the weight of the control ﬂask
on the horizontal axis. Do the results vary much
from person to person?

Mapping Sweat Glands

Map the sweat glands on the palm of the subject’s
hand by painting 2.5 cm2 of the skin with 1% i'odine
solution (McBlair 1965) (ﬁg. 4). Allow the skin to
dry completely. Then hold a-2.5-cm square of bond
paper on it for 30 seconds while resting quietly.
Remove the paper and count the number of bluish
dots irrl cm2. Each bluish dot represents one active
sweat gland. Record the result. Repeat for the palm
of the left hand, the sole of a foot, the back of the
neck, and an underarm. Repeat under conditions of
light exercise and after sitting in a cold room. What
conclusions can be drawn as’ to the distribution and
activity of sweat glands?

Muscular Fatigue

Muscle fatigue can be tested by continuously
opening and closing the hand rapidly and forcefully.
Record the number of times this is done in 20
seconds. Repeat this 10 times and record the number
of closures per trial. Graph the results by plotting
the number of closures against the number of trials.
To demonstrate the importance of good blood-circu-
lation for muscular activity, repeat this experiment
with a constriction band on the arm, to block off
the venous return.

Heart Rate: a Study in Physiological Variation

The range of individual variation in any popula-
tion has important implications for physicians in
determining the presence of abnormal signs: one
cannot know what is abnormal unless one knows
what is normal. An important health sign is the
rapidity or slowness of the heartbeat—the heart

 

y; ' ,,,.

Fig. 3. Judging weights. The subject (center), with eyes
closed, holds two ﬂasks of water—a test ﬂask and a control
ﬂask—and judges which is the heavier. Another student
(right) has just added 2 ml of water to the test ﬂask. Suc-
cessive aliquots are added to this ﬂask until the subject
senses a difference in its weight from that of the control
ﬂask, which remains unchanged. A third student (left) acts
as recorder.

rate. The extent of individual variation in heartbeat
is, therefore, of considerable importance. Heartbeat
can be gauged from the pulse either in the wrist or
in the carotid artery (in the neck). Determine the
heart rate for many individuals. Count the number
of beats per minute with the aid of a stopwatch.
Make several determinations for each individual.
Plot the, distribution curve by graphing the fre-
quency (number of individuals in the sample) on
the vertical axis against the heartbeats per unit time
on the horizontal axis. The standard deviation and

.ﬁ.’ , ,IM' ’ %7

Fig. 4. Sweat gland activity. The subject’s hand is being
painted with a 1% solution of iodine. When it is dry, a
2.5-cm square of bond paper will be held in close contact
with the painted skin for 30 seconds. Small blue dots will
appear on the paper wherever there are active sweat glands.

STUDENTS AS EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECTS 403

 




 

 

other statistical properties can be determined if the
sample is large enough (Hake et al. 1971).

Performance after Eating a Good Breakfast

Elicit the reaction time, decision-making ability,
and work capacity of a group of students who have
regularly omitted breakfast for four weeks; then
have them eat a good breakfast and retest them for
these values. A simple standard psychological test
that could be used is the time taken to sort a deck
of cards into suits and rank. Alternatively, deter-
mine simple and choice reaction times (see below)
for subjects acting as their own controls; or use
other students as controls by comparing these times
for students who regularly omit breakfast with
those who regularly eat breakfast. The results may
prove comparable to recent professional ﬁndings
that made use of a variety of tests: when breakfast
was omitted, students took longer to make decisions,
had less neuromuscular control, and did less work.

Nervous System
Reaction Time

To demonstrate the time lag between stimulus
and response (reaction time), the subject holds the
thumb and foreﬁnger of his preferred hand about 1
cm apart while the experimenter suspends a rela-
tively new dollar bill vertically between them, with
the center of the bill level with the thumb and
ﬁnger. The subject is told to grasp the bill as soon
as .the experimenter releases it. Most subjects are
unable to do this.

A variation requires the subject to hold a measur-
ing stick (meter stick, ruler) between his thumb
and index ﬁnger; he releases his grip and then, as
quickly as possible, tries to grasp the stick again.
Measure the distance the stick travels before it is
stopped. Several trials should be made. The average
distance the stick falls is a measure of reaction time.
Compare the results of trials with several subjects.

Have the subject repeat the test after chilling his
hands in icewater. What effect does this have on the
results? Why?

Simple and Choice Reaction Times

To demonstrate the differences between a simple
and a choice reaction time, have 10 students line up
in a single column, with each person placing his
left hand on the shoulder of the person in front of
him (ﬁg. 5). The ﬁrst person raises his arm so that
it can be readily seen. The subjects are told that
each person will be tapped on the shoulder and
that he is to respond as quickly as possible after he
receives the signal. The instructor taps the left
shoulder of the last person and starts a stopwatch
at the same time, stOpping it as soon as the head
man drops his arm. After some practice runs, time

404 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER l974

10 trials. Average the results and compute the mean
time taken for each person to respond. This is the
simple reaction time.

To measure choice reaction time, each subject
places both hands on the shoulders of the person
next in line. This time the subjects are to respond
by tapping the shoulder opposite the one that re-
ceived the stimulus; but the location of the stimulus
will be unknown in advance and will vary from trial
to trial. Make 10 trials and compare the results with
those obtained for simple reaction times.

Which. reaction time is faster? What are the
neural explanations for the differences in the two

 

Fig. 5. Simple reaction time. 10 students are lined up; each
has placed his left hand on the left shoulder of the person
in frbnt. The person at the head of the line holds up his
left hand, ready to start the test (see text), while the teacher
(right) stands by with a stop watch.

situations? Give examples of the improvement of
efﬁciency in industrial or other work through
organizing the task in such a manner as to reduce
the frequency of choice-reaction times.

Human Error

A salutary experiment devised to test a person’s
ability to observe accurately is to assess the errors
made in simple counting. Ask all thec students to,
open their textbooks to a particular page and count
the number of words on that page in a speciﬁed
length of time. (Tell them that a hyphenated word
counts as one word.) Have each student write down
his answer on a piece of paper. Collect the results;
discard deliberate attempts to confound the data;
and make a frequency distribution graph of the
rest of the responses. Usually, there is an enormous
range in responses.

Finger Mazes: Plotting a Learning Curve

A learning curve is a graph showing the relation
between time and the ability to complete a task
accurately. It reveals the speed with which a sub-
ject has learned a task. One suitable task is to learn .
a ﬁnger maze.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.__Jl_.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 6. Finger maze. The experimenter records time and
number of sequential trials needed for the subject to learn
to trace a pathway from start to ﬁnish in the maze.

All that is needed is (i) the maze (ﬁg. 6), (ii) a
7-by-9-inch (l8-by—23-cm) card with a 5-mm hole
punched in the middle, to act as a shield for the
maze, and (iii) a stopwatch. The experimenter
places the card over the maze so that the start
(marked “8”) shows through the hole. He tells the
subject that on the word “go” he is to move the
card so that the maze pathway shows through the
hole in the card. If an incorrect path is chosen, he
must retrace his path and continue until the correct
one is found. If the correct path is chosen, he will
eventually arrive at the end of the maze (marked
“F,” for ﬁnish). The experimenter records the time,
in seconds, that the subject takes to complete the
maze in each of several trials. Continue, the trials
until the subject completes at least two errorless
trials. At this point, the subject has learned the
task. He may need 10 or more trials to do so.

To construct the learning curve, plot on the
vertical axis the number of seconds taken to com-
plete the maze, against the number of trials on the
horizontal axis. Compare the results attained by
several subjects. Is the learning time decreased if
rewards are given? Do learning curves for different
tasks have the same general shape?

Comments

References given at the conclusion of this article
describe additional experiments that use human
beings as subjects and are suitable for high-school
student investigations.

Teachers should be aware of the problems asso-
ciated with using students as experimental. subjects.
The guiding principle in determining the advis-
ability of a human physiological or psychological
demonstration must always be that the teacher should
stand in loco parentis; that is, the teacher should not
allow any risk that a prudent parent would not wish

his child to undergo. The Association for Science Ed-
ucation, in England, recommends that the teacher
should (i) know something about the medical his-
tory of the human subject, (ii) consult parents if
there are any doubts, (iii) never press any demon-
stration to extremes, and (iv) consult the school
medical ofﬁcer when necessary. .

In selecting suitable biology projects, special care
must be exercised to exclude any possibility of
physical or mental damage to the student. Among
the projects that may be risky are demonstrations
of the effects of mild exercise and the taking of blood
samples. On the whole, experiments that require the
subject to swallow something should be avoided-—
if the substance to be swallowed is a chemical or
could be considered a drug. Giving electric shocks
or other aversive stimuli to humans should not be
part of any student demonstration. (Recently, in a
home-rigged science fair project, a high-school stu-
dent aroused human subjects from sleep with elec-
tric shocks geared to the bed. Unfortunately,
requirements for protecting human subjects were so
lax that instead of this project being banned because
of the very real hazard presented, it gained a prize!)

Projects which could cause mental stress or em-
barrassment should also be avoided. Under no cir-
cumstances should any subject feel he is under
pressure to participate in any demonstration. Al-
though some students might not mind measuring
their body height or weight in the classroom, others
would be sensitive on these points. Experiments in-
volving genetic inheritance of certain characteristics
that raise questions of paternity are another source
of potential embarrassment to some students. The
students should be fully informed of the nature of
any experiment before being asked to volunteer to
be a subject; never ask for volunteers and then
describe the experiment.

The American Psychological Association (1973)
has this to say about student investigations of hu-
man behavior:

Generally stated, [ethical] principles oblige the stu-
dent investigator to inform participants of all fea-
tures of the investigation (including risks of physical
or mental discomfort) that reasonably might be
expected to inﬂuence their willingness to participate
and to respect their freedom to decline or to discon-
tinue participation at any time. . . . The student
investigator is also obliged to keep conﬁdential any
information obtained about participants during the
investigation.

Professional scientists have given very serious
consideration, in recent years, to establishing social-
ly acceptable standards of human experimentation.
However, the guidelines that have emerged from
these deliberations deal with standards governing
fully trained research workers and do not normally
deal with, standards required of beginning, un-

trained students. Obviously, standards for young

students are not necessarily the same as those re-
quired of fully trained, professional researchers.

STUDENTS AS EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECTS 405

 




Only one organization—the American Psychological
Association—has addreSsed itself to problems re-
sulting from high-school student investigations of
human behavior. To date, no organization has pre-
pared guidelines covering all precollege biological
(both physiological and psychological) investigations
involving human subjects. In view of the recent
tendency to introduce the study of human physiology
and psychology into high-school curricula, it would
be judiciOus if leaders of the biology-teaching pro-
fession were to devise guidelines governing all
aspects of biological investigation in secondary edu-
cation that may have ethical implications.

Acknowledgements.—Photographs of students performing
experiments were taken by Michael Simmonds (ﬁg. 1, 2, and
4) and Edward M. Spivack (ﬁg. 3 and 5), students of Leonard
Krause at Akiba Hebrew Academy, Merion Station, Pa.
Their cooperation and that of students at Overbrook High
School, Merion Station, Pa., who also participated, is grate-
fully acknowledged.

REFERENCES
Books and Articles

AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION. 1973. Ethical prin-
ciples in the conduct of research with human subjects.
Available on request from the APA’B Ofﬁce (of Scientiﬁc
Affairs, 1200 17th St., N .W., Washington, DC. 20036.

GREGG, J. R. 1966. Experiments in visual science for home
and school. Ronald Press Co., New York. (Describes about
40 vision experiments, including locating blind spot,
optical illusion, measuring chromatic ﬁelds, measuring
size of pupil aperture and ﬁelds of vision, studies Of ac-
commodation of the eye, visual acuity, dark adaptation,
and subjective color-mixing.)

GREEN, E. R., and K. BOBROWSKY. 1968. Laboratory investiga-
tions in biology. Silver Burdett Co., Morristown, N. J.
(Includes digestion of starch, analysis of urine, human
genetics.)

HARE, J. C., J. J. W. BAKER, and G. E. ALLEN. 1971. Twelve
problems in biology: open-ended experiments for intro-
ductory college biology. Addison-Wesley Publishing Co.,
Reading, .Mass.

LAND, E. H. 1959. Experiments in color vision. Scientiﬁc
American 200 (5) :84. (Includes color perception.)

MCBLAIR, W. 1965. Experiments in physiology. National
Press, Palo Alto, Calif. (Includes experiments on hair,
touch, and color perception.)

ORLANS, F. B. 1970. Better nutrition studies. American Biol-
ogy Teacher 32 (8):484. (Nutrition experiment.)

_____. In press, 1974. Animal care: from Protozoa to
small mammals. Educational Programs Improvement
Corporation, Boulder, Colo. (Includes various physiology
and psychology experimentson many species of animals.)

RIFE, D. C. 1970. A laboratory exercise in human heredity.
American Biology Teacher 32(5):290. (Inheritance of M
and N blood types.)

SCHLICH’I‘ING, H. E., JR., and R. V. BROWN. 1970. Effect of
background music on student performance. American
Biology Teacher 32(7):427. (Studies on effect of distrac-
tion.)

VOGEL, S., and S. A. WAINWRIGHT. 1969. A functional bestiary
—laboratory studies about living systems- Addison-Wesley
Publishing Co., Reading, Mass. (P. 90—91: conditioned
reﬂexes.)

Visual aids

Staining and observing blood cells. Biology ﬁlmstrip labora-

406 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER l974

tory experiment. Silver Burdett Co., Division of General
Learning Co., 250 James St., Morristown, NJ. 07960.

Studying blood: smear and stain technique. Super—8 mm
cartridge ﬁlmloop, color or black-and-white; approxi-
mately 4 min. Holt Biology Filmloops, Holt, Rinehart and
Winston, Inc., Box 3670, Grand Central Station, New York,
N.Y. 10017..

What makes apples sour? [pamphlet]. USDA Science Study
Aids. Education Services, US. Department of Agriculture,
Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville, Md. 20705; (Re-
lationship of pH to taste.)

 

 




Sound and Fury

US Navy threatens whales to safeguard foreign interventions

by Chris Clarke

recently—declassiﬁed high—tech US Navy

project to aid in detection of hostile sub—

marines is shaping up as a major new
threat to marine life. Nonetheless, the Navy is
pressing ahead with the development of the pro—
ject amid a growing chorus of opposition. The
International Marine Mammal Project has
learned that the Navy’s ofﬁcial justiﬁcation for the
project is misleading, and that its major purpose
is to provide political cover for interventions in
foreign countries.

The project, called the Surveillance Towed
Array Sonar System Low Frequency Active
acoustic sonar system (SURTASS LFA), is
designed to take advantage of the special acoustic
properties of high—decibel, low frequency sound
in seawater to detect what the Navy claims are
increasingly quiet foreign submarines.

In years past, the US Navy and its allies have
monitored movements of enemy submarines
through a network of hydrophones (underwater
microphones) placed on the seabed. This net—
work, the Sound Surveillance System (SOSUS),
proved effective for decades in monitoring the
positions of Soviet nuclear—powered submarines
in deep water in the Atlantic and Paciﬁc oceans.
Additionally, a previous generation of SURTASS
ships without an LFA component listened for
subs by means of a string of towed hydrophones.
However, as propulsion technology advances, the
Navy claims that passive sonar will soon prove
inadequate to a new generation of quieter subs
with redesigned propellers and more efﬁcient
power systems.

Enter SURTASS LFA, which consists of
underwater megaphones, suspended from ships,
that broadcast very loud pulses of low frequency
sound into the ocean water. (That’s the LFA part.)
The sound travels readily through the ocean and
echoes off solid objects, submarines among them.
(Thus the term “active” sonar, as opposed to a
“passive” system that merely listens to sounds the
target ships make.) The rebounding sound is then
picked up by an array of microphones towed
underneath Navy vessels. (That’s the SURTASS
part.) The signals are then uploaded into ship—
board computers, which interpret the echoes to
distinguish submarines from rocks, schools of ﬁsh
and sunken WWII destroyers. The Navy’s claim is
that SURTASS LFA will allow a ﬂeet to detect

even the quietest submarines as they lie on the

bottom of the ocean waiting to ambush unsus—
pecting aircraft carriers.

But of more than three dozen mentions of
SURTASS LFA in leading defense trade publica-
tions since 1990, none have described the system
as a counter to quiet subs in the open ocean. The
US Navy wants SURTASS LFA for use in littoral
(coastal) anti—submarine warfare (ASW), to pro—
tect its ships and crew during interventions in for—
eign lands, where losing even one Navy sailor may
prove politically damaging. And this expensive
political cover may come at the expense of the
health of marine mammals and other wildlife

worldwide.

What SURTASS LFA does

Sound travels much more readily in water than it
does in the atmosphere. Some marine biologists
have speculated that whale songs emitted off the
coast of Newfoundland are audible to whales in
the Caribbean Sea. And whatever the medium,
low frequency sound carries further than higher—
pitched sound. You can hear the bass line in a rap
song long before the car stereo responsible hoves
into View, where the higher notes are often hard—
er to resolve at a mere block or so. Older, passive
systems for submarine detection such as SOSUS
have long taken advantage of the extreme degree
to which low—frequency sound will propagate in

water. Diesel—electric submarine engines, the tur—

bines on nuclear subs, prop wash, and the wake
generated by a sub under power all create low—fre—
quency vibrations, which we and other living
things hear as sound.

The speed of sound in water depends on the
water’s temperature, salinity, and pressure. When
sound travels from warmer surface water past a
deeper layer (which oceanographers call the ther—
mocline, often at about 500 meters) that marks a
transition into colder water, the speed of that
sound wave slows. Like a beam of light through a
glass lens, the sound will bend toward the direc—
tion in which speed is slowed. At about a thou—
sand meters below the surface, the weight of a
kilometer of ocean increases the ambient water
pressure. Sound travels faster in this highly-pres—
surized water than in water at normal pressure,
and thus at about 1000 meters the emitted sound
will start to bend up toward the surface again.
Thus there is a layer of ocean in which the sound,
reﬂected in turn between the thermocline and the
zone of increasing pressure, can travel for a signif—
icant distance. This is much the same phenome—
non as ﬁber optics, in which light bouncing off
the walls of the optical ﬁber is transmitted for
remarkable distances and around curves.

And much like ﬁber optics, the “sound chan—
nels” created between the thermocline and the
thousand—meter level transmit a wealth of infor—
mation that anyone with a good computer and
the right algorithms can decipher. Which is pre—
cisely what SOSUS and previous versions of
SURTASS did. During the Cold War, the posi—
tions of Soviet subs were accurately determined
by detecting their low frequency signals from a
handful of positions, allowing for known oceano—

graphic conditions, and crunching the numbers.

SURTASS LFA OEIS/EIS

 

 

 

 

 




 

LFA is intended for use in the world’s biologi—

cally—rich coastal regions during US incursions

into other countries, to reduce the likelihood

of politically damaging casualties.

Nowadays, the US Navy says that’s not
enough. Quieter ships, combined with an ambi—
ent ocean noise level that grows as more and more
merchant ships ferry global commerce across the
seas, make it increasingly difﬁcult to ﬁnd enemy
subs as they lurk. True, the submarines once oper—
ated by the Soviet Union are now in the hands of
people who are probably our friends, but the
Navy warns against the day when advanced tech-
nology falls into the hands of those whose power
might not be of the super variety. “The danger”,
wrote Navy Captain N. E. Rondorf in a May 11,
1999 letter to Mark Giese of the Wisconsin
Humane Society,

lies in the proliferation of submarines by
nations whose interests may be hostile to the United
States and its allies. LFA sonar will allow the detec—
tion of these potential threat submarines and provide
the ability to successfully defend our forces against
the stealthy, well—armed submarine threat. LFA
sonar is critical to protect United States sailors, sol—
diers, ships and equipment.

Rondorf failed in his letter to specify precisely
where those hostile subs would be found, and
why they might be hostile. As we shall see, these
questions prove central to the origin and intend—

ed use of SURTASS LFA.

The Danger to Wildlife~

Why are representatives of the Wisconsin Hu—
mane Society, and of dozens of other animal wel—
fare and environmental organizations, corre—
sponding with the US Navy about SURTASS
LFA?

Beneath the top few feet of seawater, the ocean
is a dark place. The same water that conducts
sound so well scatters and absorbs sunlight.
Thirty meters down, human divers ﬁnd the sea a
murky, slightly mysterious place. Not much deep-
er than that, only the sparse bioluminescence of a
handful of creatures provides any light at all.

Any ocean species that relies on remote sens-
ing rather than just waiting for food to swim into
its mouth had better ﬁnd some sense other than
vision to rely on. A few, such as the great white
shark, have developed extraordinary olfactory
senses. Others have invented whole new senses:
electric rays are thought to scope out their neigh—
borhood by discharging and then measuring the
electrical impedance of nearby objects.

But for most marine species, especially those
whose ancestors came from the land with a devel—

oped set of terrestrial senses, hearing is the key to

the door of perception. Marine mammals in par-
ticular are renowned for their sharp ears.
Bottlenose dolphins can distinguish between a
cube and a sphere of similar size, just by listening
to their echoes. A mother humpback whale can
keep track of her calf by voice, and vice versa, over
a distance of miles.

Imagine being told to drive down to the soc—
cer ﬁeld and pick up your kid, and to stop at the
grocery store on your way back, all the while
blinded by a brilliant strobe light. This is more or
less the scenario activists fear: that the deafening—
1y loud sound pulses generated by SURTASS LFA
will prevent marine mammals from feeding, from
navigating successfully to calving grounds, from
ﬁnding members of their families. Animals other
than marine mammals are also potentially threat—
ened by SURTASS LFA. Many seabirds are
known to be quite sensitive to low frequency
sounds in air, and it’s a safe bet that diving
seabirds such as the common murre are sensitive
to underwater LF sound as well. Some species of
salmon are repelled by sounds of frequencies less
than 150 cycles per second or Hertz (Hz). Other
ﬁsh are vulnerable to damage in their swim blad—
ders and other organs from certain types of low-
frequency sound.

Activists and the Navy disagree as to the sub—
jective intensity of the sound generated by SUR—
TASS LFA. On paper, the numbers are apparent-
ly unambiguous. Eighteen bathtub—sized speak—
ers, suspended approximately a hundred meters
below the hull of the ship, will emit synchronized
pulses of sound ranging in frequency from 100 to
500 Hz. The pulses will reach intensities as high
as 230 decibels (dB) at the source. (Decibels are
calculated on a logarithmic scale; a 20 dB sound
is ten times louder than a 10 dB sound, and a 30
dB sound a hundred times as strong. The human
nervous system processes sounds on a similar log—
arithmic scale, which is why a lawnmower in the
next yard doesn’t sound ﬁve thousand times loud—
er than a normal conversation.) Within a nautical
mile of the SURTASS LFA array, the Navy says
that sound intensities will fall off to below 180
dB, an intensity which it claims poses no long—
term threat to marine life.

After sweeping up and down the water col-
umn to a point 300 nautical miles away from the
source, the noise may still be as loud as 140 dB.
Most people ﬁnd their threshold of immediate
pain at about 135 dB. Standing next to a jet

engine at full power, you’d be subjected to a noise

level of 160 dB. A minute and a half of 170dB
sound will cause permanent hearing loss in
human ears.

Problems arise in translation from air to water,
and from human to nonhuman ears. Sound not
only travels further and faster in water than in air,
but the relationship between a sound’s intensity
and the pressure it exerts on objects is different in
water. Acoustic scientists disagree as to what level
of sound in air would be the equivalent of a 140
dB pulse from a SURTASS LFA array 300 nauti—
cal miles away, but most generally subtract 26 dB
from underwater sound intensities to ﬁnd equiv—
alently loud sounds in air at sea level. In other
words, sounds in water are about 500 times weak—
er than subjectively similar sounds in air.
However, in its July 1999 Draft Overseas
Environmental Impact Statement/ Environmental
Impact Statement (OEIS/EIS) for SURTASS
LFA, the Navy states that

due to the relative impedance of air and water
(the stiﬂness or density of the medium) a roughly
5,000 times greater power level (35.5 dB) is neces—
sary in air than in water to produce an equivalent
power level. Therefore, 61. 5 dB must be subtracted
from a sound level in water to produce an equiva—
lent acoustic intensity in air. ...[A] 60 dB di erence
represents a million—fold power di erence; so, [sic] it
can easily be seen how misleading it can be to try to
compare underwater sound that a system like S UR—
TASS LFA sonar makes with in—air sound that a
jumbo jet makes.

In other words, the Navy disagrees that 26 dB
is the correct conversion factor, arguing instead
for 35.5 dB, but then — as if to offer a compro—
mise between the two positions —— subtracts them

both.

Battery by Boom Box

An exact correlation between sounds in air and
water may never be agreed upon. However, no
one disputes the fact that a 230 dB sound in
water 'poses an immediate and severe threat to
humans and wildlife in the Vicinity. Ironically, the
best existing set of safety standards for exposure to
low—frequency sonar comes from the same insti—
tution planning to contravene those standards
with SURTASS LFA: the US Navy. In Exposure
Guidelines for Navy Divers Exposed to Low—
Frequency Active Sonar, a 1996 report by F.
Michael Pestorius of the University of Texas at
Austin and Capt. M.D. Curley of the Naval
Submarine Medical Research Laboratory in
Groton, Connecticut, the authors describe a diver
who was exposed to an underwater low—frequen-
cy sound of 160 dB. After twelve minutes, the
diver experienced “dizziness, somnolence, inabili—
ty to concentrate and residual tingling in arms.”
He received medical attention on the sp0t and
recovered, only to suffer a relapse an hour after

the event and another while driving home from




the hospital the next day. The diver, 32 years old
at the time of exposure, later complained of irri—
tability and memory loss, and underwent treat-
ment for seizures and chronic depression.

Based on this and other examples of adverse
human reaction to low—frequency subaquatic
noise, the Navy established a 140 dB threshold of
safety for human exposure to LF sound. One
hundred forty decibels, says the Navy, is the loud—
est underwater sound to which a diver can safely
be exposed.

A sound of 140 decibels is One ten—thousandth
the intensity of a 180 dB sound, the Navy’s “safe”
level for marine mammal exposure to LFAS. The
Navy claims that marine mammals, with their
extraordinary sensitivity to the slightest sounds,
can withstand a sound ten thousand times more
intense than that proven to cause human beings
immediate and lasting damage.

There is abundant and increasing evidence
that the Navy is as wrong as common sense would
dictate. On May 12 and 13, 1996, twelve Cuvier’s
beaked whales beached themselves in a 39 kilo—
meter stretch of the Kyparissiakos Gulf, along
Greece’s Ionian coast. A thirteenth was found in
an advanced state of decomposition two weeks
later. Cuvier’s beaked whales rarely beach them—
selves: Dr. A. Frantzis, in a short article published
in the peer—reviewed journal Nature on March 5,
1998, observed that the NATO vessel Alliance
had conducted LFA tests in the Kyparissiakos
Gulf beginning on May 11. Frantzis noted “We
know that LFAS was used in the Kyparissiakos
Gulf. We also know that no other LFAS tests or
mass strandings have occurred in the Greek
Ionian Sea since 1981. Taking the past 16.5 years
into account, the probablility of a mass stranding
occurring for other reasons during the period of
the LFAS tests is less than 0.07%.”

A similar incident took place as this article was
being prepared, on March 15, 2000, when the US
Navy tested active sonar equipment off Abaco
Island in the Bahamas. Within two days, thirteen
whales had beached themselves on Abaco, Grand
Bahama, and Eleuthera islands. The toll included
Cuvier’s whales, dense—beaked Whales, an uniden—
tiﬁed species of baleen Whale, a minke whale and
a Spotted dolphin. According to the US National
Marine Fisheries Service, two whales were bleed-
ing from the eyes, suggesting acute trauma .

The Navy has denied any connection between
the whale deaths and the active sonar tests.
However, Michael Breynan, Director of the
Bahamian Fisheries Department, told the
Associated Press that he was unaware of any sim—
ilar incident happening before in the Bahamas.
Biologist Ken Balcomb, who has been involved in
cetacean ﬁeld research in the Bahamas since 1992,
says that one or two whales strand in the Bahamas
in an average year.

Scientists and environmental organizations,
including Earth Island Institute, are calling on the
Navy to suspend all LFA tests while an investiga—
tion is conducted into the strandings.

Other SURTASS LFA tests have done damage
to whales. In March 1998, two humpback whale
calves died after being separated from their moth-

ers during tests of SURTASS LFA off the

~ Hawai’ian Islands. (The tests were Phase III of the

SURTASS LFA Scientiﬁc Research Program
(SRP), phases I and II having taken place off the
California Coast near San Nicolas Island in fall of
1997, and west of Monterey Bay in January 1998,
respectively.) Humpbacks keep track of their
young by voice, and any injury to the calves’ (or
mothers’) hearing may have prevented them from
reuniting with family members. Contemporary
reports in the Honolulu Star—Bulletin described
an unusually whale—free whale watching season
following the tests.

Low—frequency noise need not kill an animal
outright to do damage to the marine ecosystem.
As noted, whales and other marine mammals rely
on their hearing to feed and breed. Even if a
whale is not mortally wounded by the intense
shock of an LFA “ping,” any hearing loss the
whale suffers as a result may keep that whale from
ﬁnding food, traditional breeding grounds, or
members of its pod. As Benjamin White Jr. of the
Animal Welfare Institute puts it, “ A deaf whale is
a dead whale, but it can take a very long time to
die.” '

Animal activists and marine biologists say that
even a few uses of an LFA system could damage

populations of marine species past the point where
recovery is likely, and fear that such damage may
not be visible for weeks or months after the boom
goes off. They decry the fact that the Navy’s Draft
OEIS/EIS claims SURTASS LFA poses no over—
whelming threat to cetaceans or other wildlife,
despite the fact that the Navy’s tests included no
long—term monitoring of animals in the test areas.
Migrating gray whales swerved dramatically off
their normal route while LFA SRP phase II was in
progress near San Francisco Bay, and again during
the next winter’s southward migration. During
phase I of the SRP in the Channel Islands area,
researchers noted that ﬁn and blue whales respond—
ed to the pings by decreasing the number of their
vocalizations: shutting up, in effect. Cetacean biol—
ogist Lindy Weigart of Canada’s Dalhousie
University notes that “we don’t even know what
these vocalizations are used for, but the best guess is
that they are important in mating. A decrease in
calling whales... could easily translate into fewer
mates being located and thus a decline in popula-
tion.” In a response to the draft OEIS/EIS, Weilgart
said “The most biologically signiﬁcant effects are on
population parameters such as birth rate, growth
rate, death rate, etc. These are largely unknown, and
moreover unknowable, for most populations of
cetaceans. A very limited, short—term study... would
certainly not even begin to address such questions
of biologically signiﬁcant impact.”

It is instructive to note that despite the
marked effects the LFA SRP activities had on
marine mammals, none of the SRP test pings
even reached intensities as high as 160 dB at the

 

The Navy’s version of where SURTASS LFA will be used.

SURTASS LFA draft OIES/EIS

 

 

 

 

129‘ E 383“ 129” W

68* W 0° 68’ E

 

 




source. SURTASS LFA’s planned operating inten—
sity, as noted before, is 230 dB: ten million times
more intense than 160 dB.

The Navy has responded to concerns about
SURTASS LFA’s potential for devastation of
marine life by agreeing to a couple of mitigations,
including attempts to monitor for the presence of
marine mammals by high—frequency sonar and
shutting down the system in their presence, a
proposition of dubious likelihood during hostili-
ties. At the forefront of the Navy’s environmental
promises is a stated commitment to refrain from
using SURTASS LFA in proximity to the coast—
lines of the world, where much of the oceans’
known biological diversity lies. A technical report
for the SURTASS LFA EIS prepared on the
Navy’s behalf (and with Navy funding) by scien-
tists at the University of California, Santa Cruz’s
Institute of Marine Sciences, baldly and repeated—
ly states that SURTASS LFA will not be used in
nearshore waters, thus minimizing the effects on
the biologically—rich littoral (coastal) environ—
ment. The Draft OEIS/EIS says that the Navy
won’t be using SURTASS LFA anywhere where a
signal of 180 dB would be detectable within 12
nautical miles of land.

Looking at these assurances, and at the map in
the OEIS/EIS of SURTASS LFA Sonar Potential
Operating Areas (see graphic), one could logical—
ly reach the conclusion that SURTASS LFA is
intended for use in the open ocean, much as
SOSUS was used to detect the Soviet submarines
of a generation ago. This conclusion would be
reached in error. SURTASS LFA is intended, and
has apparently always been intended, for use
along the world’s coastlines.

Going Coastal

In 1982, during the Falklands Islands war, an
Argentinean ﬁghter plane ﬁred an Exocet missile
at the British ship Sbejﬁeld, sending it to the bot—
tom and killing twenty sailors. The incident pro-

pelled the navies of the world — or at least those
whose governments insisted on invading other
countries — to adjust their expectations of the
kinds of risks they would face in wartime. The
subsequent demise of the USSR capped this sea
change in naval strategy. As the nature of naval
warfare shifted from a long—term game of chess on
the high seas to something more closely resem-
bling Whack—A—Mole, anti-submarine warfare
strategy and equipment came up lacking. Passive
low—frequency sonar had been, and still is, ade—
quate for detection of even the quietest sub—
marines in deep water. Despite the increasing
noisiness of the world’s oceans, an undisputed fact
which the US Navy advances as justiﬁcation for
SURTASS LFA, marked advances in computing
and remote sensing more than make up for any

increased masking of submarine noise. In

February, 1997, the US Navy’s Director of
Submarine Warfare Rear Admiral Edmund
Giambastiani told fane’s Defense weekly, “Our View
is that because of signiﬁcant capabilities in pro—
cessing, sensor apertures and the ability to net sen—
sors together, passive is not dead... We feel there is
[sic] still a lot of dB out there that we can mine.”

On the continental shelf, it’s a different story:
passive sonar has never been effective in the lit-
toral (coastal) environment. Shallow water, con-
torted rocky coastlines, and changes in salinity
near estuaries and lagoons have been a source of
frustration for anti-submarine warriors relying on
sonar. Inconsistencies in the acoustic medium
make passive sonar next to useless in the littoral
environment. As long as littoral warfare remained
a sideline to the main event on the high seas, this
technological blind spot was considered not
much more than an annoyance. But as littoral
anti—submarine warfare moved to center stage,
discussion of active sonar began in earnest, and
that’s when the LFA component was added to a
SURTASS that had worked just ﬁne on the open
ocean. As Norman Friedman put it in a June 1,
1995 essay in International Defense Review:

During tbe Cold WW, tbe major navies were
concerned mainly witb countering nuclear-powered
submarines, oﬁen (tbougb not always) in deep
water, wbere low—frequency, long—range [passive]
sonar was tbe best sensor. Furtber, bad a Tbird
IVorld Wizr actually broken out, IWestern navies
would bave bunted Soviet submarines anywbere in
tbe world is oceans, attacking tbem wbenever tbey
were found and, given tbe scale and scope of tbe war,
errors would bave been acceptable. Today, from a
tecbnical point of view, tbe tbreat now coincides
quite closely wit/7 tbat faced by smaller navies for
many years: diesel—electric submarines operating in
coastal (littoral) waters. In addition, a limited oper—
ation against a Tbira’ World country entails di er—
ent rules, and operations are likely to be geograpbi—
cally constrained and may be sbort of war, so tbat a
potentially bostile submarine will bave tbe initia—
tive. Indeed, attacks wbicb are premature or wbicb
accidentally sink otber countries’ submarines will
cause grave diplomatic problems, possibly even lead—
ing to tbe operation being terminated

Of the many references to SURTASS LFA in
defense trade publications throughout the 19905,
none -— zero — have mentioned a use other than
protecting US Navy ships as they enter the littoral
waters of hostile foreign nations. There are no ref-
erences to combat on the open ocean, nor to
defending the coasts of the United States. LFA is,
and has always been, intended for use in the
world’s biologically—rich coastal regions during
US incursions into other countries, to reduce the
likelihood of tactically acceptable but politically
damaging casualties. The US Navy has weighed

the extinction of marine mammals against poten—

tial political inconvenience, and decided in favor
of politics.

There are plenty of places where continental
shelves extend far enough from the coast that the
Navy could illuminate the shallow water while
remaining outside their “180 dB at 12 nautical
miles” limit. There are also plenty of places in the
world where the shelf is only a narrow strip along
the coast, or where broad shallow seas hold such
diverse marine life that an arbitary 12—mile limit
means little in any biological sense. Such places
include potential political hotspots like the west
coasts of Ecuador and Peru; the horn of Africa; the
Bay of Bengal; the East China, South China, and
Yellow seas; the Adriatic and Ionian seas; the Red
Sea; and the Persian Gulf. It is possible that the US
Navy, out of a deep and abiding respect for marine
life and the sanctity of its promises, will refrain
from ever using SURTASS LFA in such vulnerable
areas. It is far more likely that the exigencies of
combat and — to be fair — an ofﬁcer’s concern for
the safety of the personnel under his or her com—
mand will outweigh concern for wildlife. Once
SURTASS LFA is deployed, it will be used Wher—
ever it is deemed necessary.

SURTASS LFA is not the ﬁrst or only example
of a technology injurious to wildlife created to sup-
port an interventionist foreign policy. It may, how—
ever, be the ﬁrst time a weapon other than strategic
nuclear arms threatens the inadvertent extinction
of a whole raft of species. Viable alternatives to
LFA exist in the ﬁeld of littoral antisubmarine war—
fare. ASW helicopters, intelligent torpedos, and
other tech solutions have been advanced as LFA—
replacements. There is also the radical notion of
forestalling the conﬂict before it begins, by refrain—
ing from selling diesel—electric submarines to
nations we know we’ll likely be invading, or by
reconsidering the lost art of diplomacy Without
gunboats to back it up. Only public opposition to
SURTASS LFA will force consideration of these
alternatives. Whether the Navy sacriﬁces marine
mammals out of fear of stateside political opposi—
tion to its operations depends largely on the voices
of the US citizens the Navy so fears.

What you can do: Please write or call your
Representative and Senators, urging them to
DEFUND the Navy's LFA program (if you do
not know who your members of Congress are,
contact your local Registrar of Voters or City
Hall; the Congressional switchboard is (202)
224-2121). Send the same message by writing or
calling President Bill Clinton, The White House,
1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20500;
(202) 456—1414 or e—mail <president@white—
house.gov>. For more info, send your e—mail
address to IMMP <marinemammal@earth—

island.org> and ask to be put on our special LFA
alert list.

 




PHONE NUMBERb F011 WASHINGTON, 11C. EMBASSIES:

Embassy of Austria:
Embassy of Belgium:

Embassy of Denmark:

Embassy of Finland:
Embassy of France:
Embassy of Gennany:
Embassy ofGreece:
Embassy of Irclzmd:

262-895-6700

2M~333-6900 ~

202w234n4300
1202-2936300
2332-9444000
ﬁﬁZ-‘ZWMOUO
202-939-5300
202n46’2m3939

Embassy of Italy; 202-328-5500
Embassy of Luxembourg: 202-265-“71
Embassy M1116 Netherlands: 202—244-5300
Embassy of Pomigal: 202-328~ 8610
Embassy sf“ Spain: 202~728-2340
Embassy of Sweden: 202-467-2600
Embassy of United Kingdom: 202-462d 340

 




*

sent on or before July 12th.

before July 20th.

To reach a Foreign.Minister: Air letters need to be
FAXes can be sent any day

* If you miss these deadlines: the last chance to
register your plea for the animals is through phone calls to

the embassies. (See blue sheet)

FOREIGN MINISTERS' NAMES, ADDRESSES AND FAX NUMBERS

Hon. Wolfgang_Sohussel
Vice-Chancellor and Federal
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Ballhausplatz #2

1014 Vienna

AUSTRIA

Fax: 011-43—1 535 4530

Hon. Erik Deryoke

Minister for Foreign Affairs
#2 Rue Quatre Bras

1000 Brussels

BELGIUM

Fax: 011-322 511-6385

Hon. Niels Helveg Petersen
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Asiatisk

Platz #2

1448 Kobenhavn K.

DENMARK

Fax: 011—453 154-0533

Hon. Tarja Halonen

Minister for Foreign Affairs
AP.O. Box 176

00161 Helsinki

FINLAND -

Fax: 011—358 962 9840

Hon. Hubert Vedrine

Minister for Foreign Affairs
37 Quai D'Onsay

75700 Paris

FRANCE

Fax: 011—33-1-4551-6012

Hon. Hans Van Mierlo

Deputy Prime Minister, Minis-
ter for Foreign Affairs

PO. Box 20061

2500 EB The Hague
THE NETHERLANDS
Fax: 011 31 70 348-4848

Hon. Jaima Garia

Minister for Foreign Affairs
Largo do Rilvas

1200 Lisboa

PORTUGAL .

Fax: 011—351 1 609708

Hon. Javier Solana Madariaga
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Palacio de la Provincia, 1
Madrid 28071

SPAIN

Fax: 011-341 365—5101

Hon. Dr. Klaus Kinkel
Federal Minister for Foreign
Affairs

Adenauer Allee 99-103

53113 Bonn

GERMANY

Fax: 011—49-228-17340

Hon. Theodoros Pangalos
Minister for Foreign Affairs
1 Akadimias

Athens 10671

GREECE

Fax: 011—30-1—361-2885

Hon. Dick Spring

Tanaiste and Minister for
Foreign.Affairs

80 St. Stephens Green
Dublin 2

IRELAND

Fax: 011—353 1478 1484

Hon. Lamberto Dini

Ministero degli.Affairesteri
P.E. Farnese #1

00194 Roma

ITALY

Fax: 011-39-6—322-2850

Hon. Jacques Poos

Deputy Prime Minister, Minis-
ter for Foreign Affairs, For-
eign Trade and Cooperation

5 Rue Notre Dame

L2910 Luxembourg

LUXEMBOURG

Fax: 011—352 2231 44

Hon. Lena Hjelm=Wallen
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Box 16121

10323 Stockholm

SWEDEN

Fax: 011-468 723-1176

Hon. Robin Cook

Secretary of State for Foreign
and Commonwealth Affairs

House of Commons

London SW1A.0AA

UNITED KINGDOM

Fax: 011-44-171-839-2417

 




(WW.
//.// A.
/ ﬁfe/WV.

fin/J...

WWW”

4,?

/

ﬁ...
.%
..

I

£44}? I
I f /.r
47M»

1/9

 

/,,

.r.
I .I
you?

#7

r

.. $44.
52.35.

/




 

Few people realize the terrible price in pain and fear paid by animals trapped for their fur.
In the following photographs , you’ll see step by step, the widely accepted methods
used to obtain wild furs.

T make a fur coat from wild animals,

atch as many as you can in steel jaw leghold traps.

B. Glunz

         
  

Pboto

Daniel]. Kelly

0
-

Pboto:

 

 




 

 

Pboto: Dick Randall

. ',/

Fanvn ‘ H I I Golden Eagle

If a trap has nothing but a foot in it . . .

Set it again.

 

Maybe the next animal won’t gnaw
his foot off to escape before you get there.

 




hen the animals gnaw the
trap breaking their teeth on
the steel, the pelt still looks
the same.

fan England

Pboto

The customer will never

Saran Bu rke

Pboto

43cm

m

I you catch a dog or cat
let them go.

Their owners can take them to a vet for amputation
of their gangrenous legs.

You can help stop this cruelty. Write for a free information packet on the measures pending in Congress and
the European Community to end use of steel jaw traps.

Society For Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719
Washington, DC 20007
USA.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, 0.0. 20007
(202) 337-2334

ONE MORE BIG EFFORT NEEDED

July 8, 1997 Extremely Urgent

Dear Humanitarian:

On July 22, just two weeks from now, the European Union' 3
(EU) Foreign Ministers will vote to reject or accept the cruel
trapping agreement proposed by the EU Commission, Canada, and
Russia. This agreement would actually entrench the use of the
worldfs most painful and widely used trap: the leghold trap—TEee
enclosed "What is the Real Price of a Fur Coat?").

 

 

YOU CAN HELP by appealing to the Foreign Ministers whose
names appear on the enclosed list. PLEASE URGE THEM TO REJECT
THE AGREEMENT, which makes a mockery of the good EU Regulation
3254/91 against the leghold trap. Ask them to implement the
Regulation' 8 import ban of furs from 13 species that come from
countries which haven't prohibited use of the leghold trap.

Last month the Council of Ministers of the Environment
refused to accept the shockingly inhumane agreement proposed by
the EU Commission, Canada, and Russia. This was an important
milestone in our long fight to protect animals from the ravages
of the leghold trap, but we need to make sure that the Foreign
Ministers do not succumb to the threat of a World Trade
Organization challenge by the United States.

British, French, Austrian, and Belgian Environment Ministers
were the chief opponents of the Commission's disastrous
agreement. Their countries deserve your-praise. If you can fax
the Foreign Ministers or call the embassies or immediately write
air mail letters, your voice -will be heard. (Air Letters are
available at the Post Office for 50¢.)

 

These letters, faxes, and phone calls may be the most
important you ever make on behalf of animals. THANKS for all you
can do!

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

2572. ’ ‘ “W7W5’4ﬁ7w7 Wﬂcfoﬁ’
W “:7“; .52?“ “Mimi/WW ?
;ZnL.CQVu Egyyp ﬂzéiilﬂf/f/QﬁpM

‘aéél4whndvéf;72éaL-6Lawnoupésa

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.0. Box 3719
Washington, DC 20007

phone: (202) 337-2334 sapl@saplonline.org fax: (202) 338-9478

 

June 22, 2001

To Humanitarians:

GOOD NEWS! Senator Peter Fitzgerald (R, IL) introduced Senate Concurrent
Resolution 45 “Expressing the sense of the Congress that the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act of 195 8 should be fully enforced so as to prevent needless suffering of
animals.” Senators Patrick Leahy (D, VT), Daniel Akaka (D, HI), Richard Durbin (D,
IL) and Jon Corzine (D, NJ) are cosponsors. A copy of the Resolution is enclosed.

You can help stop the hideous cruelty being inﬂicted on cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,
horses and other equines in slaughterhouses. The big slaughterhouses kill as many as
4,000 cattle or hogs an hour! The faster the slaughter line speeds, the greater the
corporation’s proﬁts. Their greed is unlimited. Conscious animals who have missed
being stunned--as federal law requires--are butchered, still struggling and kicking and
crying out. THESE INTOLERABLE PRACTICES MUST BE STOPPED!

PLEASE WRITE both of your Senators urging them to add their names as cosponsors to
S. Con. Res. 45 and to approve its passage when it reaches the Senate Floor. Please urge
friends and neighbors to do the same. A list of Senators is on the reverse side.

All Senators may be addressed: Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washington, DC 20510.

MORE GOOD NEWS! Congresswoman Connie Morella (R, MD) and Congressman
Elton Gallegly (R, CA) have just announced that they plan to introduce a companion
Resolution in the House of Representatives identical to S. Con. Res. 45.

Please write your Representative urging him/her to join as an original cosponsor and vote
for the Morella/Gallegly House Resolution. If you don’t know your Representative’s
name, call your public library, newspaper or visit www.saplonline.og.

All Representatives may be addressed: House Ofﬁce Building, Washington, DC
20515.

It is essential that Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman enforce the Humane
Slaughter Act in full. PLEASE WRITE TO HER at the following address:

Honorable Ann M. Veneman

Secretary of Agriculture

14th Street and Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20250

If you can use extra copies of this mailing to distribute to friends, members of your
church or club, just let us know and they will be sent promptly.

Thanks for your valuable help! Please send us copies of responses you receive.
Sincerely,

ohn Kull erg \ Christine Stevens

President Secretary

 




 

K

 

Murkowski,
Frank (R)

 

Stevens, Ted (R)

 

AL

 

Sessions, Jeff (R)

 

Shelby, Richard (R)

 

R

 

 

Hutchinson,
im (R)

 

 

ILincoln, Blanche (D)

 

 

Z

 

Kyl, Jon (R)

 

McCain, John (R)

 

CA

 

Boxer, Barbara (D)

 

Feinstein, Dianne (D)

 

D

 

Craig, Larry (R)

 

Crapo, Mike (R)

 

IL

 

Fitzgerald, Peter (R)

Senators of the 107th Congress

 

T

 

Baucus, Max (D)

 

Burns, Conrad (R)

 

NC

 

Helms, Jesse (R)

 

Durbin, Richard (D)

Edwards, John (D)

 

IN

 

Lugar, Richard (R)

 

 

Bayh, Evan (D)

 

S

 

 

 

 

Roberts, Pat (R)

 

Brownback, Sam (R)

 

KY

 

McConnell, Mitch
(R)

 

Bunning, Jim (R)

 

 

CO

LA

ND

 

Dorgan, Byron (D)

 

 

Conrad, Kent (D)
E .

 

Hagel, Chuck (R)

 

Nelson, Ben (D)

 

NH

 

Gregg, Judd (R)

 

Smith, Bob (R)

 

NJ

 

RI

 

Chafee, Lincoln (R)

 

Reed, Jack (D)

 

SC

 

Hollings, Ernest (D)

 

Thurmond, Strom (R)

 

SD

 

Daschle, Tom (D)

 

Johnson, Tim (D)

 

TN

 

Frist, Bill (R)

 

Thompson, Fred (R)

 

TX

 

Gramm, Phil (R)

 

Hutchison, Kay
Bailey (R)

 

 

 

 

Allard, Wayne (R)

Breaux, John (D)

Torricelli, Robert (D)

UT

 

 

 

 

Campbell, Ben
Ni ghthorse (R)

Landrieu, Mary (D)

 

MA

 

 

CT

Kennedy, Edward (D)

 

 

Dodd, Chris (D)

Kerry, John (D)

 

 

Lieberman,
Joseph (D)

MD

Corzine, Jon (D)

Bennett, Robert (R)

 

 

NM

Hatch, Orrin (R)

 

 

Bingaman, Jeff (D)

VA

 

 

Domenici, Pete (R)

Allen, George (R)

 

 

NV

Warner, John (R)

 

 

 

Mikulski, Barbara (D)

Bryan, Richard (D)

VT

 

 

 

 

DE

Sarbanes, Paul (D)

Reid, Harry (D)

Jeffords, James (I)

 

 

 

 

Biden Jr, Joseph (D)

ME

NY

Leahy, Patrick (D)

 

 

 

 

 

arper, Thomas (D)

 

 

l L

 

Graham, Bob (D)

 

Nelson, Bill (D)

 

GA

 

Cleland, Max (D)

 

Miller, Zell (D)

 

HI

 

Inouye, Daniel (D)

 

Akaka, Daniel (D)

 

IA

 

Grassley, Chuck (R)

Collins, Susan (R)

Clinton, Hillary (D)

WA

 

 

 

 

Snowe, Olympia (R)

 

I

 

Stabenow, Debbie (R)

 

Levin, Carl (D)

 

MN

 

Dayton, Mark (D)

 

Wellstone, Paul (D)

 

MO

 

Bond, Kit (R)

 

Camahan, Jean (D)

 

MS

 

 

 

Harkin, Tom (D)

Lott, Trent (R)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cochran, Thad (R)

 

Letters to Senators may be addressed:

Letters to Representatives may be addressed:

Schumer, Charles (D)

Gorton, Slade (R)

 

 

OH

Murray, Patty (D)

 

 

DeWine, Mike (R)

 

Voinovich,
George (R)

WI

 

Feingold, Russell (D)

 

 

OK

Kohl, Herb (D)

 

 

Inhofe, James (R)

WV

 

 

Nickles, Don (R)

Byrd, Robert (D)

 

 

OR

Rockefeller IV,
John (D)

 

Smith, Gordon (R)

WY

 

 

Wyden, Ron (D)

Enzi, Mike (R)

 

 

PA

 

Thomas, Craig (R)

 

 

Santorum, Rick (R)

 

 

Specter, Arlen (R)

 

 

The Honorable

 

United States Senate

Washington, DC 20510

The Honorable

 

United States House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515

For up-to-date information about pending legislation, please visit SAPL’s website at
http://www.saplonline.org

 

 




107th CONGRESS
lst Session
S. CON. RES. 45

Expressing the sense of the Congress that the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958
should be fully enforced so as to prevent needless suffering of animals.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 5, 2001
Mr. FITZGERALD (for himself, Mr. LEAHY, and Mr. AKAKA) submitted the

following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry

 

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Expressing the sense of the Congress that the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958

should be fully enforced so as to prevent needless suffering of animals.

Whereas public demand for passage of Public Law 85-765 (commonly known as the

‘Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958’) (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) was so great that
when President Eisenhower was asked at a press conference if he would sign the bill, he

replied, ‘If I went by mail, I'd think no one was interested in anything but humane

slaughter’;

Whereas the Act requires that animals be rendered insensihle to pain when they are
slaughtered;

Whereas on April 10, 2001, a Washington Post ﬁont page article reported that
enforcement records, interviews, videos, and worker afﬁdavits describe repeated
violations of the Act and that the Federal Government took no action against a company
that was cited 22 times in 1998 for violations of the Act;

Whereas the article asserted that in 1998, the Secretary of Agriculture stopped tracking

the number of humane-slaughter violations;

Whereas the article concluded that scientiﬁc evidence shows tangible economic beneﬁts

when animals are treated well;

 




Whereas the United States Animal Health Association passed a resolution at an October

1998 meeting to encourage strong enforcement of the Act and reiterated support for the

resolution at a meeting in 2000; and

Whereas it is the responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture to enforce the Act fully:

Now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring),

SECTION 1. HUMANE NIETHODS OF ANMAL SLAUGHTER .

It is the sense of Congress thatw
(l) the Secretary of Agriculture should~
(A) resume tracking the number of violations of Public Law 85-
765 (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) and report the results and relevant
trends annually to Congress; and
(B) fully enforce Public Law 85-765 by ensuring that humane
methods in the slaughter of livestock--
(i) prevent needless suffering;
(ii) result in safer and better working conditions for persons
engaged in the slaughtering of livestock;
(iii) bring about improvement of products and economies in
slaughtering operations; and
(iv) produce other beneﬁts for producers, processors, and

consumers that tend to expedite an orderly ﬂow of

livestock and livestock products in interstate and foreign
commerce; and
(2) it should be the policy of the United States that the slaughtering of
livestock and the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter shall

be carried out only by humane methods.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANI/l/IAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLA T [ON
P. 0. BOX 3 719
Washington, DC 20007

 

phone: (202) 337-2334 sapl@saplonline.org fax: (202) 338-9478

 

July 13, 2001
To Humanitarians:

We are writing about two issues of urgent concern where your action could save literally
thousands of animals. One regards an historic opportunity for the United States Senate to act on a
Treaty that would help conserve wildlife and wild places in the Wider Caribbean Region. The
other is the good news that the Bear Protection Act has been reintroduced in the United States
Senate.

SPAW PROTOCOL

Highly endangered sea turtles, eagles, falcons, parrots, whales, dolphins, crocodiles, snakes,
iguanas, and other species in the Wider Caribbean Region need your help. On January 18, 1990
in Kingston, Jamaica, the United States joined a number of countries in the western hemisphere to
sign a protocol concerning Specially Protected Areas and Wildlife (SPAW). SPAW protects
rare and fragile ecosystems and habitats, thereby protecting the endangered and threatened
species residing in them. This includes the marine environment of the Gulf of Mexico, the
Caribbean Sea and the areas of the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of northern Florida. SPAW also
provides direct protection (from taking, possession, killing or commercial trade) to wild plant and
animal species that are listed under the protocol.

The Treaty has lain dormant in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee since 1993 but
must be passed as soon as possible! The current roster of nine countries that have acceded to
the Treaty includes only countries such as Cuba that have historically advocated weak positions
on wildlife conservation and endangered species protection. Without the involvement of the
United States there may be no strong conservation voice during the deliberations of the Parties to
SPAW. In fact, Cuba is scheduled to host the ﬁrst important meeting of the Parties from
September 24 — 29, 2001.

WHAT YOU CAN DO:

> Call Senator Joseph Biden, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
requesting immediate consideration of the Treaty in his Committee. His
Washington office number is 202-224-5042. Or send him a letter at the Senate
address on the next page.

Also, write or call Secretary of State Colin Powell, bringing this important Treaty to
his attention and urging his involvement in having it ratified promptly. Contact:

Secretary of State Colin Powell

US. Department of State

2201 C Street NW

Washington, DC 20520

(202) 647-4000

Over, please...

 




Once approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the full Senate can give its “advice
and consent” to Presidential ratiﬁcation of the Treaty, the President would ratify it and the United
States would become a Party.

BEAR PROTECTION ACT

Senator Mitch McConnell (R, KY) has again introduced the Bear Protection Act in the US
Senate, S. 1125. This bill was passed unanimously last year after garnering a remarkable
67 bipartisan cosponsors, but action was never taken in the House. The Bear Protection Act
would end the United States' involvement in the trade of bear viscera by prohibiting the import, ‘
export and interstate commerce in bear gall bladders and bile. Bears are targeted for their parts,
which fetch enormous proﬁts for the poachers who illegally kill them and the merchants who sell
their organs for use in traditional medicine remedies. As Asian bear populations rapidly and
drastically dwindle, increasing evidence points to a rise in bear poaching and bear parts
smuggling rings in the United States. These proﬁteers threaten to devastate America’s wildlife.
Write both of your Senators today and urge them to cosponsor S. 1125, The Bear Protection
Act, if they have not already.

Senators May Be Addressed: The Honorable
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

 

Or call through the Senate switchboard: 202-224-3121

The House version of the Bear Protection Act, HR. 397, sponsored by Congressman Elton
Gallegly (R, CA), was introduced on February 6, 2001 with 76 original cosponsors. Today there
are 142 cosponsors. Write your Member of Congress today and urge her or him to
cosponsor HR. 397, The Bear Protection Act.

Representatives May Be Addressed: The Honorable
United States House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515

 

Or call through the House switchboard: 202-225-3121

Thank you for your help on these two important animal protection issues. Any contribution you
can make toward the cost of this mailing and in support of our work on these and other issues is
greatly appreciated. A self-addressed envelope is enclosed.

Sincerely,

/ zﬁﬂi’é 5&7...

John F. Kullb Christine Stevens
President Secretary

 




    

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLA TION
P. O. Box 3719
Washington, DC 20007

sapl@saplonline.org fax: (202) 338—9478

 
      
 

 

phone: (202) 337—2334

   

August 15, 2001

 
    
 

Dear Humanitarian:

  
 

Laboratory Animals

   

Your letters are urgently needed in the fight to protect animals used for experimentation! The
Animal Welfare Act was broadened in 1970 to extend it’ s protections to all warm-blooded
animals used for research, but the regulations promulgated by US. Department of Agriculture
(USDA) specifically excluded laboratory mice, rats and birds. These animals, who constitute
approximately 95% of the animals used for experimentation, have been denied the safeguards
provided to other species by the Act.

     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Following a lawsuit brought by the Alternatives Research and Development Foundation, the
USDA agreed to pursue a rule-making process to include these additional species. However,
opponents of animal welfare including the National Association for Biomedical Research
(NABR) have been spear-heading a campaign to prevent USDA from implementing the
Animal Welfare Act for all warm-blooded animals as mandated in the law.

Last year, NABR convinced a Senator to include restrictive language on funding provided to
USDA and tied the agency’s hands. They are back this year, and they are trying to do the
same thing. Letters in support of protection of all laboratory animals are desperately needed
to both of your Senators as soon as possible. When Congress returns from its recess at the
beginning of September, Senators will be voting on this critical issue.

 

 

 

This rodent cage at a major university laboratory is an example of
conditions under which birds, mice and rats are maintained because
USDA has been prevented from providing the mandated legal oversight.

PLEASE URGE YOUR SENATORS TO VOTE “NO” ON ANY AMENDMENT TO
THE AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS BILL TO PREVENT USDA FROM
EXTENDING THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT TO ALL WARM-BLOODED
ANIMALS. You may want to include the following facts in your letters: 1) All animals used
for experimentation deserve the modest protections of the Animal Welfare Act, 2) Poor
treatment of rats, mice and birds in the laboratory demonstrates how crucial USDA oversight
is for all experimental animals [see example in the next paragraph], 3) Surveys reveal the
strong support for laboratory animal welfare by research personnel and laypeople alike, thus
N ABR’s claims to the contrary are erroneous, 4) Valid scientific data can only be obtained if
the animals are properly cared for, and 5) No other government agency is ensuring the well-
being of these animals.

 

  

Over, please...




-2-

An example of needless suffering at a private, accredited biotechnology company documented
by a USDA Veterinary Inspector (despite the current exclusion of mice from the Animal
Welfare Act regulations): Inadequately anesthetized mice were sliced open and had their
organs cut out by a research assistant. The approved research protocol, which was
ignored, stated that the mice would be dead when their organs were “harvested.” Three
of the institution’s veterinarians and a veterinary technician attempted, but failed, to
stop the employee from continuing with the torturous procedure. The assistant had
been cited twice before for causing pain and distress in mice and rats. She should not
have been “experimenting” on animals.

Senators may be addressed: The Honorable
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

 

If you don’t know the names of your Senators, please refer to the list sent to you in the
previous mailing, contact your local library or refer to our website at www.saplonline.org.

Your letters make a difference:
Resolution in Support of the Humane Slaughter Act Has Been Passed by the Senate!

S. Con. Res. 45, the Resolution introduced by Senator Peter Fitzgerald (R-IL) “expressing the
sense of the Congress that the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958 should be fully
enforced” was adopted by unanimous consent in the Senate on July 31‘“. Senator Harry Reid
(D-NV), the majority whip, brought the measure to the ﬂoor. Thanks to all of you who wrote
to your Senators urging their cosponsorship of this important measure.

Now, action is needed to be sure it passes in the House of Representatives. If you have not
already done so, please write to your Representative and urge that he/ she cosponsor the
companion resolution, H. Con. Res. 175 and urge Chairman of the Agriculture Committee
Larry Combest (R-TX) to pass the measure out of his Committee.

 

 

Representatives may be addressed: The Honorable
' United States House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515

H. Con. Res. 175 was introduced by Representative Constance Morella (R—MD),
Representative Christopher Shays (R-CT) and Representative Elton Gallegly (R-CA) on June
27. The identical resolutions call for the Secretary of Agriculture to track violations of the
Humane Slaughter Act and report the results annually to Congress and to fully enforce the
Humane Slaughter Act to prevent needless animal suffering and create safer working
conditions for slaughterhouse workers.

Thank you very much for writing on these two key issues. Please send us copies of any
responses you receive to your letters.

Sincerely,

' / MM... 523;“,

John F. Kullb Christine Stevens
President Secretary

P.S. Please keep the Society for Animal Protective Legislation in mind when you receive
your tax refund in the next couple of months. Because your donations to the Society are not
deductible from your income tax, they are especially needed and appreciated.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement on S.B. 497

Before the Senate Committee on Economic
and Environmental Affairs

The State of Maryland

on February 18, 1986

My name is John Gleiber. I am the Executive Secretary of the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, a national
organization founded in 1955. I speak for many Maryland
citizens who want to protect birds and mammals from
unnecessary cruelty and have testified on their behalf before
this august body on other proposed legislation. I am
delighted to be here today to urge enactment of Senator
Clark's important Senate Bill 497.

This should be of especial interest to you because passage of
the bill would place Maryland in the vanguard of the drive
toward humane legislation in state and federal bodies.

The inspiration for this bill came from New York State where
a precedent—setting law was passed in 1984 with the same
basic provisos as Senator Clark‘s bill. Quite simply,

the language prohibits commercial sale of birds taken in the
wild and brought into this country, often under the most
barbarous, inhumane and disgusting conditions. passage of
this legislation would mean that large numbers of beautiful
birds with an essential place in the ecosystms of their
native lands would not die unnecessarily and uselessly.

The New York law came about because a distinguished lawyer
and former member of the state legislature became aware of
the unhealthy and dangerous brutality of the wild bird trade
when a member of his family became infected through contact
with a diseased bird she had purchased from a pet shOp.

Please note that this bill does not harm the pet store owner
as you will doubtless be told. That is not the intent of the
bill nor is it the result. It is to protect wild birds which
are captured in indiscriminate numbers, often shipped in
conditions of appalling overcrowding, undernourishment and
filth and finally arrive at our ports of entry with vast
numbers dead or dying. The trade is so profitable that a
shipment with outrageously heavy mortality can still show a
profit for the shipper. It is this sort of unthinking waste
ﬁflnatural resources that this bill is designed to bring to a
a t.

 




It is significant that in New York State an attempt was made
to reverse the Wild Bird Act. Maryland has the honorable
Opportunity to join her sister state in a move that will be
hailed by concerned Maryland voters, as well as citizens
throughout the country.

It is well to remember two things. The Clark bill will stop
pain, suffering, destruction of native species and damage to
fragile ecosystems. In doing so, it will not wreak financial
harm on pet stores. Most pet birds sold in pet shOps are
captive bred, and these sales will, of course, continue.
Indeed, they will be enhanced by public confidence that the
birds were not obtained by cutting down nest trees with birds
crashing to the ground. The public wants to know that the
birds are healthy and legally obtained. Only poachers,
smugglers and the profiteers who encourage these activities
will be restrained.. An honest purveyer of pets whose stock
is healthy, wholesome and disease-free has nothing to fear
from this proposed legislation.

Thank you for this Opportunity to speak. I would be glad to
answer any questions, perhaps with the assistance of my able
colleague, Greta Nilsson, who appears before you as an expert
witness.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

Febr ua ry l 0 , l 986 (202) 337-2334

ﬂ_B_GEE_N_I

To Humanitarians in Maryland,

A hearing has been scheduled for February 18th on Senate
Bill 497 to prohibit commercial sale of wild caught exotic
birds in the State of Maryland. Senator James Clark, Jr. of
Howard-Montgomery District 14 introduced the bill after
learning of the terrible sufferings undergone by these
beautiful creatures snatched from their native jungles to
pass from hand to hand in the ruthless pet trade.

New York State passed a similar law which is due to go
into effect this year. For your information I enclose the
excellent, humane statement made by New York Governor Cuomo
when he signed the bill into law. A report on the cruel
smuggling rife in the bird trade in Bolivia and export to our
country is also attached.

PLEASE WRITE TO EACH MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE BEFORE WHOM
THE BILL IS PENDING urging them to support SIB; 421. The
Senators may be addressed at: Senate of Maryland, Annapolis,
MD 21401—1991.

Senate Committee on Economic and Environmental Affairs

Sen. Norman Stone, Jr., Chairman Sen. John Derr

Sen. Arthur Dorman, Vice Chairman Sen. B. W. Mike Donovan
Sen. John Bambacus Sen. Sidney Kramer

Sen. Troy Brailey Sen. Frederick Malkus, Jr.
Sen. James Clark, Jr. Sen. S. Frank Shore

Sen. Victor Cushwa

We are informed that pet industry lobbyists are
vociferously fighting against its passage. Humanitarians
must speak up for the macaws, conures, toucans and other
highly intelligent birds whose brilliant plumage makes them a
target for the trade.

PLEASE COME TO ANNAPOLIS FOR THE HEARING at 1:00 p.m.,
February 18th if you possibly can. The hearing will be held
in Room 200 of the James Senate Office Building on College
Avenue and Rowe Boulevard. As a protector of the liberty of
birds flying free in their native lands your presence at the
hearing is important.

Your letters, wires and phone calls to your own Maryland
State Senators are important, too. PLEASE HELP KEEP THE WILD
BIRDS FREE.

Thanks for helping!

rSinc

erely, .
(Elma 52W

ChriStine Stevens
Secretary

 




Dear Friends,

Hello, I am a Blue whale. I am the biggest animal that has ever
lived on earth ——bigger than even the dinosaurs! You probably have
never actually seen me or my smaller cousins, though, because we
live in the ocean. My great whale relatives include the Fin, Sperm,
Sei, Bowhead, Right, Humpback, Gray, Bryde's and Minke whales. My
smallest relatives include the dolphins and porpoises. Because we
live in the ocean, maybe you think we are fish, but we're not. We
are mammals just like you. And I guess that makes us distant rela-
tives.

A long, long time ago—about 50 or 60 million years ago— my
earliest ancestors lived on land. During the following millions of
years, though, they moved to the ocean. Very, very slowly they
underwent changes that made life in the ocean easier. Their front
legs developed into flippers. Their back legs disappeared. Their
tails developed flukes. All these changes made movement in the
water easier. A thick layer of blubber under their skin allowed
them to live in cold water. Since my ancestors were mammals and
breathed air, they also had to develop a way of staying underwater
for long periods at a time. Well, my ancestors adapted very well
to their new environment. We present-day whales are very com-
fortable living in the ocean.

Unfortunately, you humans have never understood us whales
very well. Because we live in the ocean, and you live on land and
don’t have the chance to see us very often, I guess wehave always
seemed a bit mysterious. Would you believe that you and l have a

 




, also happen to be very intelligent creatures. My brain, for ex-
ample, is one of the most complex brains of all Earth’s animals. I
am sure that we whales and you humans have many secrets to learn
from one another. We are peaceful, playful, social animals. Often
we roam the seas in groups or pods—frolicking together, “talking”
to one another, and sometimes even singing together. My cousins
the Humpback whales are famous for their songs. Some of us have
social and family structures similar to your own, and more com-
plex that those of may other animals. For example, besides my
mother, I have an “auntie” to take care of me while I am growing
up. She is a sort of aunt and baby-sitter combined. We are also
sensitive, caring animals. A mother whale is very loving and pro-
tective toward her baby calf. Individual whales may come to the
aid of another member of the pod during times of trouble. So, you
see, even though we don’t look at all alike, you and l aren’t so dif-
fe re nt after all! W W

Your ancestors knew even less about us Whan you do.
They thought we were monsters from the deep and they hunted us
down with their boats and harpoons. They mercilessly killed us so
they could make smokeless candles, oil for their lamps, and other
products. During the 1800’s a certain folklore grew about us
whales. Back in those days, I guess men thought it was adventur-
ous to join up with a whaling crew and sail the high seas in search
of the largest animal on Earth. In the words of you humans, those
were the “romantic” days of your long history of whale huntingb
Believe me, although we have tried to understand, wegﬁgte§*§‘é‘é””"
nothing romantic about it. Put yourself in our place, and I’m sure
you’ll agree.

Nineteenth-century whaling wasn’t romantic, but I’m willing
to admit that it may have been adventurous to some men. Catch-
ing a whale in those days required a certain amount of skill. Once

2

 




one of us whale\s‘wwas sighted, there was no guarantee that the
whalers could catch him. Some of us could swim faster than their
boats. Those of us who were slower swimmers sometimes could
avoid harpooners by staying underwater for long periods at a time.

Well, enough background information about us whales. The
real reason I am writing you is to bring your attention to a very
important matter—whale hunting today. Whaling today is a totally
different story from nineteenth century whaling. It is definitely
not romantic. It is not even adventurous. To put it simply, whaling
today is barbaric and cruel. Your modern ships equipped withso-
nar and explosive harpoons take away any advantage we whgavlesﬁf”‘"*'”
may have once had. As soon as we are located by sonar... we are as
good as dead. There is no way we can escape. As a result, I live in
constant fear of being found by a whaling ship. In half an hour, a
factory ship can change me from a happy, peaceful whale into a
butchered mass of blood, meat and bones. With your new space—
age technology, you can kill as many of us;,\w‘hales"inone day as
your ancestors did in one year. We blue whales and our other
cousins have been killed in such great numbers that we are in dan-
ger of becoming extinct. It has taken us whales millions upon mil-
lions of years to evolve into our present high form of life. Yet, in a
period of a few short decades, you humans have threatened to
reduce us to a mere memory.

Fortunately, not all countries are involved in whaling. The
main whaling nations today are Japan, Iceland and Norway. We do
not understand why these countries continue to hunt us down and
slaughter us even though the many nations who are seeking to pro- '
tect us have protested their actions. Maybe it is because of
money. But there remains little profit to be made in whaling. All _
whale products can already be replaced with inexpensive commer-
cial substitutes. I think you should write to the foreign ministers
of Japan, Iceland, and Norway and tell them that you wish their

{1.
v/

 




countries would stop killing us whales. You can write to them at
the following addresses:

lCELAlNllD JAPAN

His Excellency His Excellency

lngvi S. lngvarsson Nobuo Matsunaga

Ambassador of Iceland Ambassador of Japan

2022 Connecticut Ave, N.W. 2520 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008 Washington, D.C. 20008

NORWAY

His Excellency

Kjell Eliassen
Ambassador of Norway
2720 34th St. N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20008

Believe us, we whale\\are happy being whales. We don’ t want
to be face cream, fertilizer or mink food. We are physically de-
fenseless against your technology. All we can do is extend to you
our gestures of friendship and our pleas for compassion. (Maybe
you have heard of my cousin Nacho, the California Gray whale who
made history by seeking human companionship. The California
Gray whales have been protected from whalers. Apparently my
Gray cousins have, to a degree, overcome their fear of you humans
and are expressing their friendship.) The final decision regarding
the fate of us whales lies entirely in your hands. Please show a
little humanity. After all, isn’t “humanity” supposed to be one of
your outstanding “human” characteristics? The similarity of they
two words is no mere coincidence. Please help save usii'IVhales‘“!

Yourfnend,
A Blue Whale

Animal Welfare Institute P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

 




 

~ \\\‘ \»‘

\
\\\\\
‘\

\\\\\§\\ \ : ‘E;

 

M

H

Ill
16! q”

I

r/v / /' IX/
.4)
ﬂ. .
V , ,
9
/

‘I
[fill

~
1 ,
,/

 

 

 

 

 

 

m
LITE

 

 

W

 

\\\\\\\\\\\‘

\\
\ §>

v \ \\
‘\\>\\\\\\\x N§\\\s\\ I §\\\\\‘§\>§\ \\

\ \\‘\\\ \\~\\_ \:

\§\\\\\§ “‘9‘ {68‘1“ "\ ‘ \\ :\ \\§§\3
‘ng \ 5‘ L \X ::\\\*\-r\ \\ 1Q

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\\ \\::\\\\‘\\\\\ ‘1‘

\.\
\\ \ .

¢\\< m \§~ \ 1» NM \ »\\ ‘
\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 




 

 
     

  

 

,,,,,,
4

74/44

     

 
     

        

'4
7/4

 

. . 44
. ////.44444/44 47/47/74.,44,..4444...44... 44, 4.; 4 44 .4 .4 4.
; , . 4// 4., 44.444.444.444.44.444.44.44 47.4.4 /. ...4 44, . 4/
44.44.... .4 /7/M 4 . ”WV/0a . .. 444/7 44444 ..
’ 4 . 4444 $19 4...... . 444/4 .44
.4...444. /,4 ,/ 44..., 44474444444444.4134: / . 4 444 4444.44 W7 . \

/
\.
O

. .. . . 4544......43: 4 .4 4 .4/.4..4 .
.444/4M§ 4. .. 44 .i4444444124414. . ..,.

..H

% E.
Q

4’44-:P.->N .> v4 4

       

 
    
    

............ 4 14 . /../..4,/4/4//%./.4. 4

. 7.44 .
4. 44/44 4 t 4 , ﬂ/ 4

/4//
.4444 4

    

 

”//
4
44/

‘

. .././.44/...../. 44.
. .. 7 . .4. 4 ./4/4,.4 4.4.
. 3 474.4
. 4 4 -. , .
. . .. .4.....4.444444..44444%744.4.

“ 0/} 7////7

1444444,,
. 4,,"

4 ,

  

.44.

   

                                          

4 Dr. . 4/44 4”. 7.
. . 4
47/47” .

  

4

6‘ M
WHEN

.4 r.
4 4 |

r
//4
. / {I
”MW/744274441? I
44% 4%.

.44 . 4 4 /

    

4 .1 1.4.7.4”! . @wﬂﬂx .4.

       

 

54/4 £4u/444 . . ., 74g“. / L74

4... Ill/I; .
\ .44... % .
44 ‘I
. 4 I /

.4..4.4// 4..
4447447//4MZM%.

/ .4 .4
4
4

/

    

   
                  

  
     

 

  

4/4

7/44 4/////44.44444./M44////4/44 . 4444 443477444
/ / «y/ .
4/4 . /

 

 

. . a £71 .
\4 . 277474 4444744444.”..4444444, /. .. 4.

 

/
////

. 4.4.444 44444..
. 4 4 44 I”. .r a. 74.454544145443764? .r/ 4 ,
4 @444 47444444774444 / 74

       

7/

4 4
,4.4. /
44

   

.4/
4 4 44

4’3, 4,/ f: '
;,.’ .//. /
/////
3:7

SACKS AND CAGES To CARRY To

 

//
74/4;
74

   

     

AN
11»: TREES CoME DOWN

BABIES ARE KILLED I“

7/
”€274
F

   

///.:

 

[44
,4..4. 4./ {/4 4 4 , . .
... 74F / 74455404414 2

r 7 1.5111435554 4’ I15. 4W. 4497 A

 

 

’/4
/

      

 

 

 

“THEN THEY CRAM THE BIRDS INTO

. 4444.... iii? . ..//4/.4..4..4.H44..47// A

 

 

4

/
/ /.4 4.

/4 .
4444444/ 4444 ./
W/ﬂWMW/w/V/4/74/4

. 44474 4 4447

     

4 4,4/ .4
4. 444 7.. ... .
%4%74WV//4 .44.,

(V444 .

6

DEALERslh

       

 

 

 

     

 

 

 




......

M SUFFOCATION

v FRIGHT/

AM

A LOT OF EIRDS

DIE FRO

 

SOMETMES smegma; SHEA

O

WILD

5

 

 

 

 

 

    

BIRDS IN FROM MEX/co...
You LOOK
CLEAN... 60

Q5

  

  

ﬂ/I' /,
,///’%//o

  

{9/

, / .-"';,'//
74%- /

AHEAD 1

//n
l

J
”(IX/f

  

«7/41”
2%?”

/
é

I '. 1‘ } /
,ﬂéyﬂﬂ/{y/ﬂ,

 

  

 

 

 

 

(WT AWAY we .3

  

 

 

         

      

> \
. . _ :_ c ‘
‘ 9V \\ L\ .\‘;$.
> ‘35:. 3\\\\§\&{\

 

      

 

~§\\\\‘

   

                              

r:
PANELS!"

y 571/
D Book

An

“ To REE? THE BIRDS awe-r THE

THEM INTO SPARE TIRES

 

®

 

 

 




 

  

4M1?”

      
 
 
   
 

    
 
  
    
     
 
     
 

I IN /782, OVER 200,0oo
LEGALLY IMPORTED BIRDS
DIED ENROUTE To THE

.324, 0R IN
QUARAN T/NE/

 

Tom LEéALLY IMPORTED BIRDS;
778,080

 

DEAD ON ARRIVAL:
55,757

 

 

DIED w QUARANWE:

 

7
% I¥184o
WHY
DIDN’T 7251
WE ?

 

’1
/ ﬁlm/‘1’ I WAS BORN
/// W IN AN AWARY.
7 o UNDER CONTROLLED
CONDN‘cNSIOI NOT
IN THE J‘UNGLE/

 
  
 

 

 

 




 

 
   
    

  
    

YOUR so
Coos,
ARE STILLNEREE"
. N THE :nmetsg

         
    

Obéy
//,/x’*?/
“4.2, (7/ :,7 {07% I),
C . W V
a ' ’9, /
4 l’, I, , ,
t / ,/

 

 

 

 

w MAW PARTS

OF THE; V40
TRoPICAL 3‘25?
ARE ENDANGERED!
WTE HAVE To SAVE.
- HEM SHORE ms

. Too LATE .l’

 
   

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

. 7 .
7.47).» // 777 /ﬂ/
77.77//..7/ , 7

,,.,..,/.. 7777/7/77
7 , 0177777.?

NEVER BUY A
BIRD UNLESS
77-16 DEALER PROVES
BORN
IN .CAPTNITy/

PET

IT WAS

97.7. ,
A/
/7/4

7%
. 7

.x //7 .777777u7,
, 7 7 77//
7/77 7 777M
7,777 7/7////7/7/ﬂ

//

/.. ”,7
.7/7 / .

7c, / /// //7
/

 

 

my. “545‘
I SUPPORT A LAW To LIMIT

I THE SALE OF PET BIRDS To THOSE

 

 

 

PRIME ELECTED

ALS.
SIGNED _'_ A
NME (mm)
74/4//////////////‘/////,/////////////////////77/

17.0. Box 83

GLEN HEAD,
////'/////

7777

MY NAME TO COMMUNICATE WITH

.
.
.
.
.
_
.
.
_
.
.
.
.
.
_
_
.
u
.

BRED m CAPTMTy. You MAY USE

 

MAW“: ADDRESS

//77

TﬁE APPRo
' OF‘FcCI

1
/

////////

r
I To: PARRoT TRooPERs
//////7////777'

/ I

/7 1/
7/7, 7 777
A 47‘! 77/////.7
I 7 ,1; 7M
. 7 /z7
7 777777 ..

Tam THE
PARKoT
TROO?ERS

 

 




D. J. Fox/Oxford Scientific Films

Fighting for survival

Are Canadian naturalists about to lose their influence over which species are protected?

POLITICS, not science, may end up
with the biggest say in designating
endangered species in Canada, con-
servationists fear.

A controversial proposal being
considered by the federal govern-
ment would change the makeup of
COSEWIC, the Committee on the
Status of Endangered Wildlife in
Canada, reducing the role played by
its scientists.

For two decades the committee
has been responsible for drawing up
Canada’s lists of endangered species.
At present the committee consists of
17 political appointees nominated
by the federal and provincial gov-
ernments, plus representatives of
three environmental groups and six
scientists selected for their specialist
knowledge about particular groups
of plants and animals.

Under the new proposal, three
scientists appointed by the federal
and provincial governments would
replace the three environmentalists,
and the six independent scientific

Politicallpawn. Canada’s wolverines are under threat

Wildlife Fund Canada in Toronto.

The committee’s chairman, David
Green, a zoologist at McGill
University in Montreal, fears
that the proposal will threaten
COSEWIC’s reputation as a fair
forum for all sides of the conserva-
tion debate. ”If you remove the
independent voices, you open the
gates for people to say COSEWIC is
biased,” he says.

But the official line from the
Canadian Wildlife Service, the
government’s main conservation
agency, is that the reorganisation
should make no difference to the
committee’s work. COSEWIC’s
political appointees have always
been well qualified scientifically
and there is no reason to suppose
that will change, says David Brack-
ett, the service’s director-general.

That doesn’t reassure the pro-

- posal’s critics. ”A lot of those
‘ people have been really good, and
if they would be reappointed we
wouldn’t have a problem. But I

experts would lose their voting rights. The
changes would give political appointees
more votes than the two-thirds majority
needed to add or remove a species from
the endangered list.

The proposal, made by federal and
provincial environment ministers, has
taken everyone by surprise, because no
such change was mentioned during a
nationwide consultation last summer. Even
government biologists have not been told
the reason for the sudden change. ”Every—

Theresa Fowler of the Canadian Wildlife
Service in Hull, Quebec, who serves as
COSEWIC’s invertebrate specialist.
Environmentalists see a sinister purpose
behind the ministers’ timing: Canada’s
parliament is expected this spring to debate
new legislation that will give species on the
endangered list nationwide legal protec-
tion for the first time. ”It’s not a coincidence
that COSEWIC has been operating for
21 years, yet only with the coming of
legislation have changes been made,” says

very much suspect that won’t be the case,”
says one senior wildlife biologist.

The effects of similar politicisation are
already making themselves felt in some
provinces, claims Stewart Elgie of the
Sierra Legal Defence Fund in Toronto. In
Quebec, for example, the provincial cabinet
has the final say over which species appear
on the province’s list of species at risk. Not
a single animal has been added in the past
decade—not even high-profile species on
COSEWIC’S list, such as the wolverine and

one is very surprised and upset,” says

Lindsay Rodger, an ecologist with World

the harlequin duck. Bob Holmes

Tissue report pits privacy against pathology

EFFORTS to protect genetic privacy could hold up cancer research in
the US, pathologists claim. They are worried about a report from the
National Bioethics Advisory Commission (NBAC) on the use of human
tissue samples held in repositories throughout the country.

Many of the samples were gathered during surgery, and most
are decades old. Advances in DNA technology mean that researchers
can now extract a wealth of information from them. The potential
benefits to medicine are enormous.

But there are risks to privacy. Decades after someone underwent
surgery, for example, a researcher might discover that they carry a
disease gene which—if the information leaked out—could threaten the
person’s ability to obtain insurance. “Our goal was to protect the
people who provided the tissue,” says NBAC member Tom Murray, a

18 16 January 1999

bioethicist at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio.

The draft report, which is open for public comment until 17 Janu-
ary, says that nearly all proposals to use tissue samples in research
should be reviewed by local institutional review boards, which already
vet research on human volunteers. The boards would rule whether
sample donors must be contacted to obtain their consent.

Murray says a fast-track review process could be used for projects
that are unlikely to threaten genetic privacy. But Mark Sobel, president
of the Association for Molecular Pathology in Bethesda, Maryland, fears
that “it will make some research not feasible and delay other projects”.
He argues that in most cases there is little risk of revealing hereditary
traits. Cancer researchers, he says, often look for non-hereditary
mutations that occur in individual cells. Philip Cohen

New Scientist 72> www.newscientist.com

 




Game over?

The copyright clampdown
that’s got gamers in a frenzy

WEBSITES offering free versions of classic
arcade games such as Space Invaders have
been ordered to remove them by an Amer-
ican trade organisation. The move has
angered enthusiasts, who say the games of
the 19705 and 19808 would not be avail-
able at all without the time and effort they
have put into keeping them alive.

Lawyers for the Interactive Digital Soft—
ware Association (IDSA) in Washington
DC, a copyright watchdog that represents
games companies, have been cracking
down on the classic game sites. Until last
week, such games were still available from
at least one major site, GamePower. But it,
too, has now said that it will withdraw its
classic game collection.

Classic game enthusiasts are angry about
what they see as a misguided enforcement
effort. ”It makes no sense to me,” says the
operator of Dave’s Classics, a site that
housed one of the largest collections of old
games. ”If the copyright holders of these
games had any intention of releasing
them in the future, it would be a lot easier
for them to contact me directly about
their plans and ask for the games to be
removed.” He withdrew over a thousand
games after the IDSA complained to his
Internet service provider.

Most of the games are old slot—machine
favourites such as Asteroids, Galaxians
and Frogger—games that pioneered the
market. They are primitive compared to
today’s computer games, with clunky

graphics and poor sound. Enthusiasts play
them out of nostalgia, or a feeling that their
excellent ”game play” makes up for the
poor graphics.

The games come from enthusiasts who
buy old arcade machines at junk sales and
download the games software from the
machines’ memory chips. They then make
the games available on the Net, along
with free emulator programs that modern
computers need to decipher the arcade
machines’ code.

The vast majority of the games in ques-
tion, such as Killer Cornet and Monster
Bash, seemed destined for oblivion before
enthusiasts retrieved them from the
scrapheap. ”It seems that the companies
didn’t care about this until we made a
market for classic gaming,” says Shane
Monroe of Seattle, who runs the Insert
Coin games site.

Douglas Lowenstein, president of the
IDSA, acknowledges that most of the
games featured on the classic websites
are not commercially available. But he
says that companies have to defend their
copyright as a matter of principle. And
in the future, he adds, they might want
to re-release some games, perhaps as
CD-ROM collections.

”If you want to make money on these
games, great,” responds Monroe. ”We’ll
even pay you. But you have to offer them
to us.” He says the companies should
allow sites like his to license old games, sell

Oysters do their hit for cleaner beaches

DISCARDED oyster shells are to be used to clean household waste
water in a prototype plant being built in Japan. The plant will purify
water that would otherwise pollute local beaches. “Oyster shells
harbour large numbers of anaerobic and aerobic microbes on their
surfaces,” says Toyokuni Asahina, one of the plant’s designers at the

Kesennuma City Council. “Dirty water is
food for these microbes.”

The £35 million prototype is being
built on Oshima, an island 200 kilometres
north of Tokyo where oysters are farmed,
and is due to start working in March
2000. About 250 tonnes of shells will
be required annually to maintain layers
4 metres deep in the plant’s six filtration
tanks. Filthy kitchen, bath and laundry
water from 265 households will be filtered

New Scientists? www.newscientist.com

16 January 1999

.. centrist 1’

vl }‘ \ .
.4 {13% m ,

\wnom’

 

Bruce Coleman

Arcadia: extinct games had been enjoying
a new lease of life in cyberspace

them for about a dollar apiece and pay
royalties to the copyright owners. Instead,
he predicts the games will remain available
only through an underground network of
serious collectors. Other observers believe
the games will now end up on websites
outside IDSA’s jurisdiction.

Kurt Kleiner, Washington DC 4-

through the tanks, passing through each in turn.

The more organic waste there is in water, the more oxygen microor-
ganisms need to break it down. Untreated waste water on Oshima has
a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of about 200 parts per million, but
this should be reduced to less than 20 ppm after the water has been

filtered through the oyster shells, Asahina
says. Suspended solids will be reduced from
200 ppm to fewer than 50 ppm.
Microorganisms are already widely used
to treat water, but the new plant should be
more effective than gravel beds and will
provide a use for hundreds of tonnes of
waste shells. Another advantage is that oys-
ter shells make acidic waste water alkaline,
providing a perfect environment for the
microorganisms. Peter Hadfield, Tokyo

17

co

(1)

K

D

. *1
8‘3
LL
X

(D
Q:

 




    

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 11, 1980

ANTONIO SUAREZ INDICTMENT:
GOOD NEWS FOR TURTLES

CONTACTS: Fran Lipscomb, John Gleiber
202—337-2332

With the indictment of the notorious Antonio Suarez, a major victory
has been won for an endangered sea turtle species. On August 7, a
federal grand jury indicted four seafood businessmen including

Suarez on 13 felony counts for importing into the United States 73,000
pounds of Pacific Ridley Turtle meat, the equivalent of 7,000 turtles.

The turtles were allegedly labeled falsely as the non-endangered
Mexican River Turtle. The indictment climaxes a year~long investigation
by an interagency task force composed of agents of the National Marine
Fisheries Service (NMFS), the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), and

the Customs Service, and an attorney from the Wildlife Section of the
Justice Department.

The indictment alleges that the first illegal shipment was imported

on February 22, 1978, and nine more were made through June 26, 1979.
Each of the defendants was charged with conspiring to submit false

and fraudulent invoices and customs entry documents: except for B & B
World Enterprises, each was also charged with importing in violation

of either the Endangered Species Act or the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species, thus violating the customs law.

Antonio Suarez of Mexico fled the United States to avoid a grand jury
subpoena to appear with documents which he received while attending
the World Conference on Sea Turtle Conservation in Washington, D. C.
last year. A business in which he held the position of director
general, Pesqueria Industrial de Oaxaca Sociedad Anonima or PIOSA,

was also indicted.




 

Suarez has long been suspected of illegally importing the turtles;
PIOSA slaughters tens of thousands of endangered Ridleys captured by
Mexican fishermen on the beaches during nesting season. According

to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources, on the basis of a PIOSA population estimate that was 15
times bigger than that of the Instituto Nacional de Pesca, the

‘Mexican Department of Fisheries granted PIOSA a Ridley quota of 112,000

in early 1977: 90% of the subsequent catch concicted of egg-laden
females.

"To placate the Fisheries Department,” says IUCN, ”in October of 1977
Suarez opened a spanking new laboratory which he claimed would return
to the see no less than 5,000,000 hatchlings...Ignorance and negligence
combined to cut the number of hatchlings to less than 15% of the
target. These were than poured into the sea at the same hour and

place daily, prompting a hungry build~up of off~shore predators at
'feeding time.'"

Suarez‘s arraignment is scheduled to be held sometime in the next two
weeks; he faces a potential prison sentence of 32 years.

Also named as defendants are:

Juan.Alsina Ramirez, also of Mexico, and two Mexican seafood corporations
of which he was a director and chief operating officer or agent,
lMeximpex and Sociedad Anonima.

Rogelio Alejandro, of Florida Seafood Corporation of which he was
president and director, Flanic Trading, Inc.

Maximum sentences upon conviction:

~~Conspiring to import turtle meat with false and fraudulent documents
(18 U. 8. Code 371), $10,000 and five years in prison;

--Importing endangered sea turtles meat contrary to law (L8 U. S. Code
545), $10,000 and five years in prison:

—~Importing sea turtle meat by means of false and fraudulent documents
(18 U. S. Code 542), $5,000 and two years in prison.

The indictment is the second stemming from an investigation by an
interagency task force. The first involved sea turtles illegally
imported by two seafood businessmen from Texas and Pennsylvania.

The Pacific Ridley Turtle is found in the warmer waters of the Pacific
from southern.Japan to Baja California. The west Mexican population

 




of the species was listed as endangered on July 28, 1978. In.April
of 1978. the IUCN called for a total maratorium in all the territory
of Mexico on the commercial take of all species of sea turtles.

The Pacific Ridley is particularly depleted. .According to IUCN, "not
many years ago La Escobilla in the state of Oaxaca had six olive
Ridley arribadas~~mass nestings——annually. By 1977, the number had
sunk to two...and in 1978 there was no arribada at all(!)"(Emphasis

added.)

 




113.9(03

THE Cl-RlSHAN scIéNcE MONITOR

Ptiday, Aptil10, I981

Poland likely to give in and grant farmers their union

‘ By Eric Bourne
. special correspondent Of The Christian Science Monitor
Warsaw

. The peasant farmers who have been battling Poland’s re- '

. Igime for official recOgnition may very soon have a trade
. union equal in status to the workers’ Solidarity union. _
‘ Although it has yet to be confirmed, official sources say
the government isprepared to drop its objections as it did
‘ earlier with the industrial union.

” TNething could do more to help Poland regain social peace
,. and revive it‘s faltering economy. ‘

When farmers went to the regional headquarters of the

United Polish Peasant Party in Bydgoszcz March 16 to
. *present their case for legalization of a trade union for private.
farmers, they touched off the worst period of all m the crisis-

Although the Peasant Party would not support them, the
industrial Solidarity union did. The issue escalated into “the
Bydgoszcz incident,” and police action brought all Poland to
the brink of a catastrophic general strike.

There was good news for farmers in general this week as
substantial mcreases were made 1n prices for products deliv-
ered to the markets.

And formal registration of Rural Solidarity seems near.
Although it was turned down by a Warsaw court early this
year on a legality, no one doubts it was because the Commu-
nist Party disliked it on political grounds. The issue is to be
debated 1n parliament today.

1 On the eve of this parliamentary session, the farmers is-
sued the charter stating the nature and goals of their union. It
contains several assurances designed to mollify the Commu-
nist Party’s ideological fears.

Declaring the union has “no political ambitions,” the stat-
ute unequivocally recognizes the Communist Party as the
country’s “leading political force.” It acknowledges the
Peasant Party, which is allied with the Communists, as the
legitimate spokesman in questions vital to the countryside
and agriculture. Many private farmers are, in fact, members
of the Peasant Party

Parts of Rural Solidarity’s charter are a simple declara-
tion of faith from Poles who are deeply rooted in land they
own but for whom, over the years, there have been fewer and
fewer resources and less encouragement for good taming.

“Our main concern,” it says, “is recognition of agricul-
ture’s proper place in society and that the farmers’ work
shall be properly rewarded.

“We do not want our sons and daughters to leave our fam-

u—J‘" “ : .- ‘ ‘ - .
. I» g, g A, .
5." ' .

,... 0‘
1..

j¢¢-.

torn months since AUEUSt ily farms, nor the countryside to become desolate. We Want it

to be rich and capable of feeding our nation and exporting

I
I
='-‘-‘:W‘::~M~_‘ ﬁve, .UWMQ‘" .
. “‘
I M .I _ .
. t" - ..| ‘

.. -_4"’"-v\l‘1“~"«./'-- 1'
. ._ ,I .I
‘. . . I

Advertisement

ﬂ « , .. A food as was once our tradition.

IFYOUCARE

“Many of us are indebted to the ‘peoples power. ’Many of
us received land under the agricultural reform.

“But we wish to see restored the principle laid down in
that decree that agriculture would in future be based on _
healthy, productive farms owned by individual farmers.”

The allusion is to an early decree by the postwar Commu-
nist regime breaking up and distributing vast estates among
2 to 3 million landless peasants. The decree is still on the
books.

In another gesture to the party’s ideolOgical misgivings,
generated 1n part from the support given the farmers by the

.2.ka W ). . -

TN" . _ 7:6,».

1 I
"\ ~1 - ~ ~ "~ .I ,1... .
.. . I. ~ , g .
t " 1‘ WV '1: h}: - fur ‘ ‘-
‘ I - ‘ , ’-

wwrww
. . . .,'

“91;; , .

[HP—lrhzzaﬁw

 

L,

The farmers’ charter stating the nature
and goals of their union contains
assurances designed to ‘mollify the
Communist Party’s ideological fears.

w)?“ - fw'qggK.
. " ’. :‘I

 

Roman Catholic Church, the charter concludes:

“Our union is open to all farmers, regardless of their po-
litical and religious'beliefs. Nevertheless, most of us were ‘
brought up in the faith of our fathers and we see in the church "
moral support during times that are difficult for our whole
nation.”

. The primate, Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski, has several
times endorsed the farmers’ right to their own associations .
like workers or any other branch of society.

This support and the regime’s need for the Cooperation of
. the church— plus the stark necessity of stunulatmg agricul-

. .ture '— induced tne regime to promise in the agreement tnat— ;’ ,_"

, ., _ , . . .rsﬁ'meto“1;ggonsmeﬁ

 

 

” 7,. ‘eﬁaﬁyrthegloomr.ﬁ"~‘;§
‘ economlc report to be presented‘m panliamenttoday— limit. .
'. ‘ x .~ , ~‘ I‘ _ _‘“"V"-. . ’ ;-.i . , ,1“ ;. pomttocontmuedfalloffmproducuon aninescapabletrgnt-iff
please write, wire or phone". your Senators ’ and Representatives in.“
Washington asking them to protect The Marine Mammal Protection Act
from the onslaughts of vested interests that hepe to cripple or destroy it.

. until the government’s efforts to reform the economy and
grapple with Poland’s fearful foreign debt begin to take ef-
fect. «I ‘

An adequate food supply is essential if this new austerity
is to prove acCeptable. . -

W.'German woodpeckers:
, not out of the’woods yet

By Elizabeth Pond
Staff correspondent of
The Christian Science Monitor

The law, passed in 1972, ended importation into the United States of the white coats of the“
baby harp seals. It has reduced the toll of dolphins killed or injured in the giant tuna nets
* from more than 300,000 a year to one fourteenth of that number, and if it is not weakened, it
. will ultimately end the destruction of dolphins by the tuna industry. It has stopped Soviet
slaughter of whales within 200 miles of the United States, helped bring the threatened sea
* otter back from near oblivion, created a recovery team for the endangered manatee, and
ended the worst abuses that captive sea mammals used toundergo. Much of the pain and
death inflicted on these magnificent creatures in the wild has been prevented, and they
. have prospered. But this year its opponents want to cut its regular three-year reauthoriza-
tion to a single year in preparation for an attack on the integrity of the Act.

 

9:01?

@311; RlGl-IT , .
to 960‘
Bonn TAWNY OWL PEcK: PECI— .

InFrankfurt, 1981 is the year ‘2on , “'0. W V :0;
of the black woodpecker. not” 3% $51sz /I x» 5%

But this designation is less Q” it”, ="‘°° I
an honor than a warning for this 7 W [(25%
feathered carpenter with the - I ~. ‘ q.
tough skull and the red stripe on
its head. There are only 15 to 20.
pairs in the Frankfurt woods —
far fewer, their defenders point
out sarcastically, than the
stuffed woodpeckers decorating
hunters’ dens.

In a way the shortage of Woodpeckers' 1s not new. Frank-
furt archives from 1859 lament the rarity of this bird. But the
numbers increased under improved conditions after World.
War I.

Now the situation 1s more serious. The beech trees that the ‘
black woodpecker fav0rs almost exclusively for nesting are
dwindling. An urgent program is under way to preserve the
remaining century-old beeches that the woodpeckers like
best. -

If the present 15 or 20 pairs and their offspring can be
protected, a few other species will be helped along as well.
The jackdaw, tawny owl, and stock dove all live in holes I. .. .. . -
origmallydrilledbytheblackwoodpecker. ,. _ , . . " " ‘

‘ .. 7/

,. 24“:‘

0
()4— 1‘
Q?” Pl: CK ‘

vect- . "‘9'

UNLESS CITIZENS EXERCISE THEIR RIGHT TO PETITION THE GOVERN-

' MENT, POWERFUL OPPONENTS OF THE LAW THAT MADE AMERICA
THE WORLD LEADER IN MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION WILL QUIETLY
UNDERMINE AND ULTIMATELY DESTROY IT. ’

Society for Animal Protective LegislatiOn
P. O. Box 3719, Georgetown StatiOn
Washington, DC 20007

Yes, I want more information on the Marine
Mammal Protection Act and how I can'help
protect dolphins, whales, seals and other
mammals of the sea.

1....

- "saw
I)

ted.
viad- '

.2

mu

.4] 7/‘
"‘M

r. . . .. ,.
“I in?“ ﬁr“)

\uull‘
. . I .4 . e
- I . ' I. I "
. ~ ‘3.) \ I .
. y . . - I .~_ ._ . . .
r ~.- ~_.‘_ ~..'\ .. I; ~ <. _. “r . "xx: “3.. ‘4 ’*:~-« ' 2«_ "a » " ‘ . ‘ “I" « “1 ( " ‘ ' ‘ ‘
MW 61.... 3..» ‘.Av , \, Ar -_\.‘_ ”j - '\ g ,‘ : ,3 4,; - . . . .I ‘- fI -; 'Yl ', , , ‘r n " - ,. x .
. _~, _ . N . .‘ . w a... ‘ -I r ’L 1* <-.- ' “"r ‘ - ‘ - ‘N .- ' "“ ‘ ‘ In-v- ""
I. .I f. ,2. 1“, g , x, ,r' ,I gICI, .. .‘ , ”l a . .4 J", , . .4
. . - -‘..,. . .-, g ._ ,._I; - . I ' ‘ ~ I . -I.,,w‘ . ,_'-
" ' -"i‘" I -'"“r’. l=~"-I‘ .~‘ ~ “1.5. I, ‘ -.'.;‘I -‘ Izl-JJ I ,.- "‘"" ’l H - A ' “""’“ ‘3‘
. V... _ . .. . .1 . my . . ”I ._ﬂ , \I I,, E. ,.I_. . .. - ...II . v:
. . ‘ ‘ ‘I v. ~ - I: I « . - ‘ a" ‘,I "‘ " ‘ ‘ -
I ‘ . ‘- - ' .v\ I, I

1 .; 117:9» ' :

Please contact your Senators and Repre-
. senfatives today! ASK THEM TO SUPPORT
A THREE- YEAR REAUTHORIZATION FOR
THE MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION
ACT. All Senators may be addressed at the
Senate Office Building, Washington, DC
20510 All Representatives at the House
.Office Building, Washington, DC 20515. For
more information, write‘ the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation, PO Box
3719, Georgetown Station, Washington, DC
. 20007.

:2 .-*>:—-~bJ‘A/‘w

7‘42
4,...N .h ,. a».
I i § ‘ .

Sybv —_,‘:5;l. .‘ \J‘ﬁT-‘fl" '—
w" "'~.—x’*‘_«&z‘-‘

Name

Address

 

n.

 

a? J‘

 

 

 

Zip Code

 

,ci,,~"«.-:

W~W7M\J;‘~,QWWV¥ _ A: f"

 




THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY FOR.ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
FROM 1955, WHEN ONLY TWO FEDERAL LAWS TO PROTECT ANIMALS EXISTED,

TO 1981, WHEN FOURTEEN PROTECTIVE FEDERAL LAWS ARE ON THE BOOKS

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was founded at the
time of the introduction of the first federal bill to require
humane slaughter of food animals. At that time, humane organiza~
tions had had little success in obtaining needed federal legisla~
tion because they spent most of their efforts in caring for lost
and stray animals, and they were concerned about losing their tax~
exempt status if they did much work on legislation. Until 1977,
United States law specified that an organization could not retain
such status if it spent a "substantial" amount on lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal Protective Legis-
lation registered under the Federal Lobbying Act and devoted its
efforts entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955 on, it

'worked intensively to obtain enactment of the following major
federal legislation:

1958: The first federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed, requiring
all packers selling to the U. 8. government to provide anes-
thetization, mechanical or electrical instant stunning prior
to slaughter for all animals in all their plants except for
kosher slaughter. The law covered 80% of animals slaughtered.
(See 1978 for broadening and strengthening of the law.)

The'wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits poisoning of'watere
holes where wild horses and burros drink and use of aircraft
to round the horses up for sale to slaughterhouses.

The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed (after years of
work). It set minimum standards for care and housing of dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in the
premises of animal dealers and laboratories and identification
of dogs and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are licensed.
laboratories registered. (See 1970 and 1976 for broadening

The Endangered Species Act was passed, providing for listiné'ha~um.

by the Secretary of Interior of Threatened Species and Endan-
gered Species and prohibiting importation of the latter for
commercial purposes. (See 1973 for strengthening of the law.)

 




  

1970:

1971:

1972:

1973:

 

 

-2-

A measure to prohibit soring of Tennessee walking Horses for
show purposes was passed. (See 1976 for amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protection of the Laboratory Animal
welfare Act to all species of warm—blooded animals, through-
out their stay in the laboratory and in the wholesale pet and
eXhibition trades as well, was passed unanimously by both
Houses of Congress. The bill was renamed "Animal Welfare Act."

A law was passed to provide a criminal penalty for shooting
animals and birds from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses was passedo

Resolutions passed by both Houses of Congress requested the
Secretary of State to call for a ten~year international
moratorium on commercial whaling.

Based on the ad0ption of the 1971 resolutions, the united
States delegation to the Stockholm Conference on the Human
Environment proposed the moratorium on commercial Whaling,
and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote, thus putting world opinion
on the side of the whales.

The Society worked for passage of the Marine mammal Protection
Act, which prohibits killing, taking or harassing of any marine
mammal without a permit and bans importation of any part or
product of a nursing marine mammal or its mother. It sets

the goal of zero mortality or serious injury rate for dolphins
caught incidental to tuna purse seining. (For extension of
the law's jurisdiction, see 1976.)

Resolutions in the House and Senate calling for international
protection of polar bears were passed.

An amendment giving the Department of the Interior power to
enforce the law providing a criminal penalty for shooting at
animals from aircraft was passed.

Prohibition of Poisoning of Predators on Public Lands was
passed by the House but not by the Senate.

U. S. action to protect endangered species was greatly
strengthened: (l) the Convention on International Trade

in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora was concluded
in Washington after 92 nations took part in a three-week
conference; (2) to conform with the requirements of the
Convention, the Endangered Species Act was strengthened and
broadened.

 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
  

 

 

  




-3-

Hearings were held against the poisoning of predators on the
public lands.

A bill which included authorization of funds for research on
methods of animal birth control was passed by the House and
Senate but vetoed by the President; nine days of hearings were
‘held on legislation to regulate air shipment of animals; over-
sight hearings were held in the Senate to strengthen the Herse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were made to enact legisla—
tion against the poisoning of predators. The Executive Order
banning predator poisoning on public lands was threatened and
had.to be forcefully defended.

The Executive Order on predator poisoning was modified to
provide for experimental use of cyanide with a View to develop~
ing a cyanide collar for sheep to kill only predators actually
attacking sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to restrict the cruel
leghold trap and on a bill to invoke economic sanctions
against Whalers. The Senate passed a bill substantially
strengthening the Horse Protection Act of 1970.

The Animal welfare Act was broadened extensively. The new-
law (1) regulates carriers and intermediate handlers under the
Act, requiring them to adhere to humane standards for trans-
portation affecting commerce of all animals protected by the
.Act; (2) requires animal brokers to observe humane standards
and specifies that all dogs-~inc1uding dogs for hunting,
security, or breeding purposes-~be protected by the Act;

(3) prdhibits C.O.D. transportation of animals unless the
shipper guarantees payment of round-trip fare and any out-of-
pocket expenses of the carrier or intermediate handler for
care of animals not claimed at destination. Also, animals
cannot be transported at an age less than the Secretary permits;
and dealers, exhibitors, auction sale operators, and Federal,
State and local agencies are required to obtain a veterinarian's
certificate before delivering any animal designated by the
Secretary for transportation affecting commerce; (4) extends
the Secretary's investigative authority to intermediate
handlers and carriers and authorizes the Secretary to impose

a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation of the
humane standards; (5) imposes a uniform civil penalty of up
to $1,000 on all persons regulated under the statute, and
eliminates the requirement that the Secretary issue a cease-
and-desist order before imposing a civil penalty on research
facilities; (6) makes it a crime punishable by fine and

 




 

*1978:

imprisonment knowingly to sponsor, participate in, transport
in interstate commerce, or use the mails to promote fights
between dogs or other mammals or between cocks, except where
state law permits it: (7) requires all government agencies~~
including the Army, Air Force, and National Institutes of
Health~-using laboratory animals to prove that they are fully
in compliance with the Act.

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill, providing protection for a
species found only in parts of California.

The marine mammal Protection Act of 1972 was amended to increase
its coverage from 12 to 200 miles, consistent with the new 200-
mile-limit law extending U. S. jurisdiction.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was revamped, civil fines
being increased from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense, and
criminal penalties raised from a maximum.fine for first
offenders of $2,000 and/or a six-month jail term to a maximum
$3,000 and/or a year in jail. A second criminal offense can

be penalized by a fine up to $5.000 and/or two years in jail.
Other sections provide: authority for the U. S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal equipment as evidence for
trial: authority for USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours for
further examination; power to subpoena non-government witnesses
in civil cases; penalties for assaulting, intimidating or
interfering with federal agents; penalties for knowingly making
false reports or entering a horse in a show under a false name.
Authorization for funding was increased.

The federal Humane Slaughter Act was significantly improved by
requiring that all animals slaughtered for meat imported into
the U. S. be humanely slaughtered. Foreign packers importing
to this country must meet standards equal to those required of
U. S. packers. Further, the Federal Meat Inspection Act was
amended for all federally-inspected plants to empower the
inspectors to stop the slaughtering line on the spot if any
cruelty is Observed. Slaughtering may not recommence until
deficiencies, Whether of equipment or of abuses by personnel,
are corrected. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
played the major role in obtaining enactment of this legis-
lation. which had been pending for years.

The Agricultural Appr0priations Bill was amended on the
Senate floor to authorize use of funds for research on
animal birth control..

 

 




The Packwood—Magnuson Amendment to the International Fishery
Conservation and Management Act was passed, providing important
protection for whales and other sea creatures. The amendment
cuts a nation's fish allocation by 50%.on certification by the
Secretary of Commerce that a nation has not lived up to the
Act. Allocations would be st0pped in a year if such nation
persisted in its violation, thus providing a powerful incentive
for whaling nations to adhere to rulings of the International
Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as Marine animals were included in the
embargo sanctions of the Pelly Amendment of the 1967 Fisher-
man's Protective Act. All threatened or endangered species
were covered in the new amendment which makes it possible
for the President to embargo all wildlife products from any
nation that diminishes the effectiveness of an international
‘wildlife conservation agreement. The Convention on Inter~

national Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
is a prime example.

The House of Representatives passed the Elephant Protection
Act by unanimous consent and sent it to the Senate.

Amendments to the Lacey Act making this 1912 statute enforce~
able and increasing penalties for willful importation of
'wildlife obtained illegally in a foreign country or trans~
ported illegally across state lines were passed by the House
of Representatives and approved by the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works, but blocked by the objection
of individual Senators before final passage.

Hearings were held on an International Wildlife Bill intro-
duced as an amendment to the Elephant Protection Act, but
despite support at the hearings by every organization except

the ivory dealers' lobby, the bill was blocked by a series of
Obstacles.

0f the existing laws to protect animals, twelve were passed since the
founding of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a
large extent, because of the Society's work. The two previously
enacted laws are the 1906 "28~hour Law" protecting livestock shipped
by rail, and the 1948 law authorizing the U. S. Customs to prosecute
shippers of animals if they fail to maintain reasonable humane stan~
dards. These two dates and the 42 years between them.speak for them—

selves of the lack of action on legislation to protect animals'before
the founding of the Society. '

 




 

-5-

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation prepares information for

use by members of Congress and their staffs. It sends circular letters
to a large mailing list of individuals interested in animal protective

legislation, informing them of ways in which they may help, principally
by writing to members of Congress or other government officials and to

the editors of newspapers.

The Society needs your help to continue its essential work. If you
believe in protection of animals by law, please give generously.
Animals and Their Legal Rights, a 215~page paperback book published
by the Society's sister organization, the Animal welfare Institute,
describes American legislation protecting animals including analysis
of state anti-cruelty laws and the full text of a number of laws. It
may be purchased by interested persons by using the coupon below;

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

*************‘k'k'kic'k'k************************

I wish to help Obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

Enclosed is my contribution of $ . (Not deductible in
computing income tax because the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

Also enclosed is $ for purchase of copy(ies) of
Animals and Their Legal Rights at $2.00 per copy.

 

Name

 

Address

 

 

Zip Code

. wwm IN G
5. WW HUMANS (”89M “"7 .

CROSSING

£4qu

  

 

 

 

 




 

 

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

October 5, 1982
To Humanitarians:
GOOD news},

I. Senator Robert DOle (R., Ks. ), a longstanding and highly
effective friend of animals, has introduced S. 2948, an excellent
bill to reduce the suffering of millions of laboratory animals.

It is similar to H. R. 6928, but one change has been made which
should smooth the road to enactment. It maintains all of the
'humane provisions we have been writing you about, but it deletes
the House bill' s mandatory accreditation, which has roused Opposi-:
tion from institutions that fear the potential cost. Since thee
Society for Animal Protective Legislation never considered this

to be a key provision, we endorse Senator Dole' s decision to drop”
this controversial point in the urgent campaign to get the leéﬁsn}
lation passed before Congress adjourns in December. «ﬁgy

PLEASE WRITE BOTH YOUR SENATORS ASKING THEM TO CO-SPONSOR S. 2948. ,.
Tell them how important and urgent you consider passage of th1s 4”
bill to be. A list of Senators is enclosed for your use. Then
please write to the Chairman and members of the Committee to Which -
S. 2948 has been referred, urging them to support it and to act
favorably on it this December.

COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND HUMAN RESOURCES ’

Republicans Democrats
Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, UT, Chairman Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, MA
Sen. Robert T. Stafford, VT Sen. Jennings Randolph, WV
Sen. Dan Quayle, IN Sen. Claiborne Pell, RI'
Sen. Paula HaWkins, FL Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton, M0
Sen. Don Nidkles, 0K Sen. Donald W. Riegle, Jr., MI
Sen. Lowell P. Weicker, Jr., CT Sen. Howard M. Metzenbaum, OH
Sen. Gordon J. Humphrey, NH Sen. Spark Matsunaga, HI

Sen. Jeremiah Denton, AL
Sen. John P. East, NC

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED: SENATE OFFICE BUILDING
~ WASHINGTON, D. C. 20510

II. In the House of Representatives, humane groups united to
fight off an amendment to the National Institutes of Health
authorization bill Which would have blodked passage of H.R. 6928
and S. 2948 this year and for two succeeding years. The proposal,
offered as an amendment in the form of a substitute for the whole
lengthy bill, would have required, among numerous other provisions
unrelated to animals, that the Secretary of Health and Human
Services make a study of the main provisions of H. R. 6928 and

report to Congress two years later:

Fifteen staff members, interns and volunteers from the Society

for Animal Protective Legislation, the Humane Society of the
United States, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and
the washington Humane Society blanketed the Hill on September 28th
to hand deliver a letter co-signed by eight humane organizations,
under the aegis of the Monitor Consortium, to every one of the ‘ .
537 offices of Members of the House of Representatives. The letter
asked them to vote down the destructive amendment. Two days later
on September 30th, the full House voted down the entir%§t1tute.
bill by 275 to 130, leaving the way clear to pass H R.56 92 and

S. 2948.

In a colloquy on the House floor, CongreSSman Henry WaXman (D, CA),
Chairman of the Health Subcommittee, in replying to Congressman
Doug walgren (D, PA) went on record as prepared to hold hearings

and act on the Walgren bill, H. R. 6928.

(over)

 




-2-

win...— .- - . .- 7,. 7‘ .i. . . .- -' p- v . -_ . ‘ __ ._.

The earlier Chairman Waxman schedules action on the bill, the
better is its chance of passage this year. Please write him
urging him to act as soon as the Congressional Recess ends.
(November 29th is the day now set for Congress to reconvene after
the elections.) Ask him to schedule a mark-up in his Subcommittee
and to report the bill favorably.

More co-sponsors are needed for H.R. 6928. A list of those who
are now co—sponsors is attached. Please thank your Representative
if he or she is already a co-sponsor and ask them to urge Con-
gressman Waxman to move the bill promptly. If your Representative
has not joined as a co—sponsdﬁ; please urge him or her to do so.

ALL REPRESENTATIVES MAY BE ADDRESSED: HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
' WASHINGTON, D. c. 20515

Your Representatives and Senators can be reached by phone in their
District or State offices during the Recess. Phone calls arg‘veryw
helpful, and you can make local calls during October and NOvember
while they are home from Washington. If you need help getting
their local phone numbers, let us know, or you can check with a
public library in your area.

Let's build an increasing ground swell for this legislation so it
can be enacted into law in December. What a present that would be
for laboratory animals:

III. MORE GOOD NEWS; Both House and Senate Appropriations
Committees restored the funds to enforce the Animal Welfare Act

to the 1981-82 level ($4.8 million as contrasted with the $1.5
million recommended by the Office of Management and Budget). This
means that enforcement of the Act will not have to be cut. Your
letters were vitally important in badking up our work here in
Washington to prevent the Animal welfare Act from being undermined.

'Sincerely,

71,. MW AWL ‘w ‘ (723% 55%

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

P. S. If you would like to send a donation to the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation at this time, it would be most
helpful.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334
March 14, 1983

To Humanitarians:

Last week was a great week for animals! Two major pieces of legisla-
tion were introduced:

I. Senator Robert Dole (R., Ks.) introduced S. 657 to
ensure proper treatment of laboratory animals and
keep their numbers to a minimum.

Congressman Clarence Long (D., Md.) introduced
H.R. 1797 to end the use of the steel-jaw leghold
trap.

Both legislators have a time-tested record of unfailing support for
animal protective legislation. If we all work hard, these two
essential bills can become law before the end of the Congressional
session. Here's hOW'YOU can help:

I. s. 6537 TO PROTECT LABORATORY ANIMALS

S. 657 is in the form of an amendment to the Federal Animal Welfare

Act, building on existing law to require each institution that uses
animals to appoint to an Animal Studies Committee a public member not
paid by the institution. This member is charged with the responsibility
of representing community concerns for the welfare of the animal sub-
jects. This committee must inspect the animal laboratories at least
twice a year and report any improper conditions to the funding agency
and the veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture.

The bill protects any worker in a laboratory who reports any mistreat-
ment of an animal. He or she cannot be fired for reporting (this is

an important provision because laboratory personnel has often been

too intimidated to tell the proper authorities about cruelty to animals
inside the institution).

The bill mandates an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine providing
information to reduce or replace animal use, minimize pain and distress,
and prevent unnecessary duplication of animal experimentation. A series
of 8 assurances are required from each registered research facility,

all aimed directly at the protection of animals.

.Although the bill has formidable opposition (its passage would
obviously reduce profits for multimillion-dollar animal breeder and
dealer operations), it has been thoroughly studied and repeatedly
redrafted to eliminate unnecessary obstacles to passage. Mbst
important, it will not require institutions to become accredited by
the American Association for the Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care. Administrators feared potentially huge costs, many of them
unrelated to the welfare of animals. S. 657 concentrates on direct
protection of animals.

S. 657 has been referred to the Senate Agriculture Committee, of
which Senator Dole is an important member. Please write to him
thanking him for introducing the bill. Then write to your own
Senators asking them to co-sponsor S. 657. A list of Senators is
enclosed.

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED: Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20510

(over)

 




II. H.R. 1797 AGAINST THE STEEL-JAW LEGHOLD TRAP

This is the fifth Congressional session in which Congressman Long has
introduced his bill to end use of steel-jaw leghold traps. Earlier
versions of his bill were based on a prohibition of interstate or
foreign commerce in furs from any state or nation which had not banned
use of this trap. This year‘s bill is more specific. It bans inter—

state and foreign commerce in:
l. Steel-jaw leghold traps

2. Any article of fur derived from an animal that was
trapped in a steel-jaw leghold trap.

Fines are $1,000 for the first offense and $5,000 for any subsequent
offense. The new provisions offer strong incentives to trappers and
trap companies to give up this cruel trap whether or not the state

or nation in which they reside has banned its use. Fifty nations

have already banned this cruel device—~it was described in a British
Government report as a "diabolical instrument." By zeroing in on

this trap, the bill stands a better chance of enactment. But it will
require enormous public demand to offset the powerful opposition of
the trappers and their allies, such as the National Rifle Association.

PLEASE URGE YOUR REPRESENTATIVE TO BECOME A CO-SPONSOR OF H.R. 1797.

The bill has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Come
merce, initially to its subcommittee on Health and the Environment,
chaired by Congressman Henry A. Waxman (D., 0a.). Please write to
him requesting that he hold hearings on the bill, and please express
your appreciation to him as ? co—sponsor.

ALL REPRESENTATIVES MAY BE ADDRESSED: House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515

We will keep you informed of how you can help advance the progress
of these two desperately needed pieces of legislation. We will be
grateful to receive the responses you get to your letters. PLEASE
WRITE AS MANY AS YOU CAN, for without your efforts, the eleven
federal laws which the Society for Animal PrOtective Legislation
has successfully fought for could never have been enacted.

with warm thanks for your help,
Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334
M April 19, 1983

Dear Humanitarian:

A mark—up on the National Institutes of Health authorization bill
has been scheduled for April 26th in the full Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the U. S. House of Representatives.

At that time a study bill will be proposed. Your letters were vital
to the successful defeat of the study bill in that Committee's.Sub—
committee on Health and the Environment earlier this year; but
lobbyists——especially those from commercial laboratories or those
with financial interests——are working hard to pass the study bill in
hopes of blocking mandato y l slation.

o/L agile/m,
Please write to as many members ofa’wL the Committee as possible, making
sure that you write to any from your own state first. Ask them,
respectfully, to vote against the amendment to study the laboratory
animal situation unless the study is accompanied by effective mandatory
legislation to reduce animal suffering in laboratories.

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE

Democrats Republicans

 

John D. Dingell, MI, Chairman Hon. James T. Broyhill, NC
James H. Scheuer, NY Hon. Norman F. Lent, NY
Richard L. Ottinger, NY Hon. Edward R. Madigan, IL
Henry A. Waxman, CA Hon. Carlos J. Moorhead, CA
Timothy E. Wirth, CO Hon. Matthew J. Rinaldo, NJ
Philip R. Sharp, IN Hon. Tom Corcoran, IL

James Florio, NJ Hon. William E. Dannemeyer,

Edward J. Markey, MA Hon. Bob Whittaker, KS
Thomas A. Luken, OH Hon. Thomas J. Tauke, IA
Doug Walgren, PA Hon. Donald Ritter, PA
Albert Gore, Jr., TN Hon. Daniel R. Coats, IN
Barbara A. Mikulski, MD Hon. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.,
Al Swift, WA Hon. Jack Fields, TX
Michael Leland, TX Hon. Michael G. Oxley, OH
Richard C. Shelby, AL , Hon. Howard C. Nielson, UT
Cardiss Collins, IL ‘ ‘ " '

Mike Synar, OK ALL‘REPRESENTATIVES‘MAY‘BE;ADDRESSED:
W- J- (Billy) Tauzin, LA House Office DBuilding

Ron Wyden, OR Washington, . %f. 20515
Ralph M. Hall, TX 5m 2.-oz 124113
Dennis E. Eckart, OH Thanks for your help'

Wayne Dowdy, MS Sincerely,
William B. Richardson, NM ,1 ‘
James Slattery, KS Cf:§:;546;<
Gerry Sikorsk1, MN Christine Stevens
John Bryant, TX ' Secretary

Jim Bates, CA 2.5.. 44’“ W E 7% E Z; 6—
Qs/meféﬂvg 03M5£577 e;

 




.4}

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION-‘
P.O.Box3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202)33r2334

December 1983

Dear Humanitarian,

I could take anyone to several locations not far from my
home where piles of unwanted or ”trash” animals were dumped
from traps. Sometimes I have found a few animals still
alive, but so far gone with injuries that they too had to
be destroyed. Then there are the several hundred that I
have treated and released, wondering if a three—legged ani—
mal would really make it...

—--testimony of New Jersey wildlife rehabilitator
Virginia Andresen

The steel jaw leghold trap has been outlawed in more than 60
nations. Yet, last year in New Jersey, this painfully cruel device
captured an estimated 195,000 commercially targeted furbearers. In
addition, countless unsuspecting birds, squirrels, rabbits, even
endangered species and pets, became victims of its maiming grip.

LAST WEEK, AFTER A 13 YEAR LEGISLATIVE BATTLE BETWEEN TRAPPERS
AND ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATIONS, A BILL (S. 3779), TO PROHIBIT THE
MANUFACTURE, SALE AND USE OF THE STEEL JAW TRAP, PASSED lﬂ.IﬂE.ﬂEﬂ
JERSEY SENATE. If this bill, which is scheduled for a vote in the
State Assembly on either January 5th or 9th, is approved by the Assem—
bly and signed by the Governor, the steel jaw trap will be banned in
New Jersey. With your help,
8. 3779 can win approval in the
Assembly. BECAUSE THE NEXT TWO
WEEKS ARE CRITICAL TO THE BILL'S
PASSAGE, WE IMPLORE YOU TO CON—
TACT YOUR ASSEMBLYMEN AND WOMEN,
AS WELL AS GOVERNOR KEAN, IQ
VOICE YOUR SUPPORT OE THIS IM:
PORTANT AND MUCH NEEDED LEGISLA—
TION. THE TORTUROUS STEEL JAW
TRAP MUST BE OUTLAWED THROUGHOUT
NEW JERSEY, ONCE AND FOR ALL!

 

When triggered, the powerful
steel jaws of this trap snap to-
gether with such force that an
unfortunate captive may have
bones crushed. Clinched by the
foot, a creature may spend days
or weeks in the racking grip,
suffering from starvation and
frostbite. As the animals fran—
tically attempts to escape,
bones snap and limbs sever. All
too often, a desperate mammal
wins freedom by gnawing off a

captured foot and leaving it be—
hind. For most furbearers, how—

ever, agony ends with the trap—
per's return. THESE ARE THE
COLD, HARD FACTS.

According to a Yale University survey, 78% of Americans oppose the
use of the steel jaw leghold trap. In urban New Jersey, that figure
climbs to 85 to 90%. Yet, with the support of the fur industry and the
N.J. Division of Fish, Game and Wildlife, trappers, who make up only
.05% of the state's residents, have successfully thwarted efforts to
outlaw this device. That is...UNTIL NOW.

In June, a bill introduced by New Jersey Assemblyman D. Bennett
Mazur (D—Bergen) to ban the steel jaw trap, passed in the State Assem—
bly. In the Senate, however, this bill was unfortunately referred to
and never released from a committee chaired by Senator Raymond Zane

 




(D—Salem), whose constituency includes a large percentage of the
state's trappers. Earlier this month, Senate President Carmen
Orechio (D—Essex) introduced another anti—steel jaw trap bill,
which again was directed into Senator Zanes's committee. Because
of his dedication to the passage of the bill, Senator Orechio re—
introduced the proposal. On December 15th, after extensive floor
debate, an amended version of S. 3779 received Senate approval!
The bill must now go to the Assembly, where it is scheduled for a
full House vote on January 5th or 9th.

YOU CAN PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE PASSAGE 9E S; 3779——§X
WRITING QR TELEPHONING YOUR ASSEMBLY MEMBERS AND GOVERNOR KEAN,
AND URGING THEM TO SUPPORT THIS BILL. (A list of New Jersey
Assembly members and their addresses is enclosed. If you are
uncertain in which district your town is located, call your local
library.) Be sure to address your officials in a respectful
manner and explain that the steel jaw leghold trap is no longer
necessary——THERE ARE EFFECTIVE SUBSTITUTESI In Rhode Island and
Florida——the only two states that have imposed a total ban on use
of the device-—alternative trapping methods have been successfully
utilized. If S. 3779 is ratified, New Jersey will join these
progressive states in setting an example for the rest of the nation.

 

 

HOWEVER, THE UNFORTUNATE VICTIMS OF THE STEEL JAW TRAP CANNOT
SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES. YOU MUST ﬁg THEIR VOICE!

 

We, at the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, are
very appreciative of your past efforts aimed at passing anti—steel
jaw trap legislation in New Jersey. At this time, we ask that you
contact your Assemblymen and women and Governor Kean. Without
passage of S. 3779, the cries of anguish of thousands of animals
throughout New Jersey will go unanswered.

Sincerely,

“)zltdhyl¢‘.~¢ lfg45v~tlbéi~“°*"3 <::2:Z431Z:;1‘inZZ:;;%&7
Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

P.S.——S. 3779 would not have been set in motion had it not been for
the unrelenting efforts of Senator Orechio and Assemblyman
Mazur, as well as the strong support of Senators Russo and
Gagliano. After contacting your Assembly members and Governor
Kean in regard to S. 3779, you may wish to send a note of
appreciation to the following:

Senator Carmen Orechio Assemblyman D. Bennett Mazur
800 Bloomfield Avenue 448 Main Street
Nutley, New Jersey 07110 Fort Lee, New Jersey 07024

Senator John F. Russo Senator Thomas Gagliano
917 North Main Street 1090 Broadway
Toms River, New Jersey 08573 P. O. Box 67
W. Long Branch, New Jersey 07764

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGtSLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington. 0.0. 20007

(202) 337-2534

September 20, 1991

To Humanitarians:

The Campaign to Save Wild Birds is Making Great Proqresst

l) Gavernor Flarin Signed the New Jersey Wild Bird Bill into law
August 12th. 15 Signing the 5111, the Guvernur recemmended that
the Gangreas 9555 a bill 1155 New Jersey‘s which provides an
immeﬁiate ban on iﬁprtdtiﬁn at wgld~saumht birds for sale as pets.
5555 2540, penjimg in £55 5. 5. Range 0i Repreaenta atives, and its
Companion biii, 55 {2155 15 the ﬁenate; wmuid do ju5t that. we
rmzat rkv<ﬁui :1 5555.55} 555: thenz‘nhicteci intcn.lxw.
2‘; 15mm)“ 19,5: airlineaﬁ have Staggﬁ'd accxgpting the massive pet
5:5de Shipmpnfg 05 wgéémgaught QXUZLC birds. Shocking evidenCE 0f
intlti anﬁ urgtru Liar n: 51:5 yapulatians Ln their nativa
55:11.5!” ...mxvinaasi r3125 almina ‘Cﬁ."“!a 5355:. to refuse tranangrt of
1:: :15 ;;r:,z.‘.,3ii‘:t.xti 575”an PM 555;: <3tf:":r airiir‘ms are s—ztill bringing

5251» n frmm {ha jprvi“‘
5055 HEL? 35 QRGE5TL?
rim-r5193}: WWLLILEFF 5 ‘53: ”REATLREn.

t0 yeur 5enat¢r5 and
5! 1553551 axiom. The
Aiziuan mray Parrot, a
; .. . . ; . to tajk 50 readily5
‘ 5:? :75; r .5 .5 5:5 5.! :3; 53;: '- = -.._*:;>j em; i (3 hi gr: mQr tali ty _,
‘5! ban 1' 5+ :5 51:5 5; Hus-1:2 ,. :5: (:5 3‘” mi ”1: ates and 53:1 :1de to
1:5: 5.23. .. 3.5 . :5 ~‘ f"? «5- i? my 3.. i wimp.) . TM? arm (‘8 A1623,
5:15:35 5. 5:41:53? 5, EV ,:. 3:31,; :5:- {35:31:75 I {35-51:} 5 E :5; , u: an A! 2: 7;, an (3r 3}”
Parrat. 5:5 *“' A 34 *“ wﬁmQQiéﬁ 51th rwrged dwz¢ﬁ ‘”'

5:55:2531cn5 5*1L5ﬁv {mgv'w-*

I! M I: r

f! xv?- ..-._ , 'z 5 n _! 3. ; . 5 4‘ , ’.l u 5,. ._ __ w ‘ A ”3; i: " -.‘ é“ . ‘ I ' n a L V l 5;: 1‘ 3' '
ilk“; 53.511501“ LEE 1‘3 5:11.45} 3,5355, ?.‘ . :5: 3‘ 2..“"5‘; 53: -' ”hit pug}: 1,31. “‘95 5 ;
t. . 5 .5 .:‘ - ._ «5 v 5 ...ﬁ
11

5. 1555555555 5 they are try;.
55 55543555 :5 55 gm 5 51; 5f lumpholes wfllCh would
the efiéative 515*;:.* )555ruzkﬂirwan3 pra515”* 5 New
NEW 55015.: "7'7??th 112.1% in; pet 3;; dde is trying m.- 5:55 ‘1;
; Eeqréttablyf $n40~brﬂ by the 55515 Wildlife F5555 This
254; 5nd 5, 1915} wuu15 permit 3 ﬁwge yegg§ 5: ﬂﬁﬁﬁlve
wilﬁ 51155 and 50535 require urpﬁtiy insteaﬁed gavernment
,.s:;{,)erx<:i1r...ures fray 5:35}: *5! 1:555:555555155 at 55-5 iﬁtgl'icjf and than

5.,
P

luc’ 1-.

? ~55
nepartment 0r Lgrirui:::%9, withwut helping tdrxﬁh {hmalnillimn
inndwtais:ng ;5rte;~ 5535 has: aent out by the World Wildi1f5 Fund
urging fwgiplﬁhtx L 3955 in :ar55 to their “agislatgrﬁ in aupport
mf the: L213. 1 f 5'; 5:55; my 5335 5.1-5 4.5;. '25" 5:36 .,

*Aeroii~&a$ Argenti555; Air Franca, American Airlines, Austrian"
Airlines, Briti5h ﬁirwar55 BWIA International hizways Corp.,
Chailenqe Air Cﬁggw, 550.: C85 Czechoslovak Air? DanmAir Services
Ltd., Fﬂiﬁﬂ Airliﬁﬂﬁ: Inc35 El 5; Iarael Airlineg, Ethiopian
Airtimeg, 15¢“, Feﬁerai Expre35 ngpozatiOn' Garuda Indonesia, KLM
Royal Dutch Airlines, Lan Chile, Lufthansa AG, Northwest Airlines,
Sabena Wurld Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Swissair, THY Turkish
Airlines, Trans Warld Axriines, United Airlines, US Air, and
Virgin Ailantiu Airways.

 




you can help get the facts to your legislators by signing and
Bending the enoloaed pre~addressed cards.

our help to protect the hideously persecuted wild birds is Of the
greatest importance. Every single letter and card is needed to win
protection for thase wonderful creaturea. we woula gzeatly

appreciate knowing Hf respensea you receive to your cards and
letters.

1. Please wr1 11.H tHe last name of tha legislator you are
dddIeH H51HH on the mesgage Side of each card.

Add any adﬁ1tiwnal HHmmHnts you would like to make.
Sigﬁ anH write your Hddzess in the space pravided.
Stamg aHa mail {Haah pHHtHazd needs 19 cents pogtage).

11. 3/111: Han. d1,Hi:1‘1bL11H _, " please let us
know and WH H111 1H H11 1 a#13 W'HLHH. If you need aﬁditianal
infmrmatiHn Hm thH H113 E;WW 1dﬂer HH can Hend You COPiEB 0f the
'6H11H1 yHH LHHH1HHH 1n “n: HHWHan HarliH: :1113 year for
dthxibutimn t0 chH;: H, W H111 hH1HT

if Hug nHan 1 yH:L W11¥”Pﬂ 1H HHH 1rwrs HI th Subcammittees
HH1H1H whHm H R AEHH HHH 12$ HHHHH1 HH H1111 S. 1219; are pending,
nﬂw 1H tHH L111ﬁ Hm ﬂﬂ itW 1i HHH dﬂ HHt have thﬁ 11Ht'we sent yam
in Juan jHH1 1£ﬁ11ﬂ11wﬂﬁw HHH HH H111 1H1r11ad 1:0 Sand v Htléumgther
Hopy1 ﬁHtHHrH HH :HHHH Hhu 11H*:HHH MHHHHLH are 0f great
lmwﬂi”eﬁﬁﬁ.

NH WHHH {HLHHHQ 1H HHH11HH 111m 1-1 ,1* 1 ngking with you to
HHtHiH H 1aw that w111 11H1y H1H1HH1; 31;’ Hras tTGm the quEGy .
deHth: {onlv 1H 1H HHMHHE} HHH 1MUHT 9W ”71 01 all wild caught
birnH Hﬂ191.nu LUH HmitHﬁ RHHHHH,

w“ ’ 1 ' #3 W - . 1595’
H . .1 W1 , - . W .Wa r 1» w
11.1.11. W1 H H .1 W W t »

N

, I 7 -~
M31161w1ne EH H1 wxw Chrthime Stevenﬁ
1W ldéﬁf SﬁCfﬂﬁﬁry

PW 5W

11 yHu hHHH HHL yHt HHHpHHdHH 1H Hur JHHH Hotice aHking whether you
wish Lo 1HHH1H HH HUL Hail mg 1ist; pIHaHH 1H1 us kHHwW NH are
tHgHE t0 HHHH HH91H1HH HH thH 111nm 11Ht. wHQ 18 pn’u cpareu to write
f0? "EH prtHUtiﬂh H1 Huima13,mHH1f yam haven‘ t yet written us,
we’lf HHHH LH HHH: fer yaw HHHH1

P912313.

In H1539 yam rH hauing aifficulty rema mbering which bird bill is
which, Hm: stat: HHHPHHHH two jingles to hHlQ:

JWRW 2840 1H th way to go
HWHW 2541 is the bill to shun

S. 1218 is five years too late
S. 1219 is right on time

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

September 20, 1991

To Humanitarians:

The Campaign to Save Wild Birds is Making Great Progress!

1) Governor Florio signed the New Jersey Wild Bird Bill into law
August 12th. In signing the bill, the Governor recommended that
the Congress pass a bill like New Jersey's which provides an
immediate ban on importation of wild-caught birds for sale as pets.
H.R. 2540, pending in the U. S. Hbuse of Representatives, and its
companion bill, S. 1219, in the Senate, would do just that. we
must do our utmost to see them enacted into law.

2) Twenty—six airlines* have stOpped accepting the massive pet
trade shipments of wild-caught exotic birds. Shocking evidence of
cruelty and destruction of bird populations in their native
habitats convinced the airline companies to refuse transport of
this pitiful cargo. But twenty other airlines are still bringing
wild birds from the jungle.

YOUR HELP IS URGENTLY NEEDED TO WIN PROTECTION BY LAW FOR THESE
BEAUTIFUL, INTELLIGENT AND VULNERABLE CREATURES.

Enclosed are three cards already addressed to your Senators and
Representative asking them to co—sponsor the legislation. The
engraving reproduced on the cards shows an African Gray Parrot, a
species in great demand because they learn to talk so readily.
Their sensitivity makes them particularly subject to high mortality
when they are captured, shoved into cramped crates and shipped to
the big U. S. bird dealers for sale to pet shOps. The famous Alex,
whose accomplishments you may have read about, is an African Gray
Parrot. His kind are often smuggled with forged documents.

The importers are bent on making the biggest profit possible to the
exclusion of any humane considerations, and they are trying to
persuade the Congress to adOpt a bill full of loopholes which would
wipe out the effective state legislation already enacted in New
Jersey and New York. The bill the pet trade is trying to get
passed is, regrettably, endorsed by the World Wildlife Fund. This
bill (H.R. 2541 and S. 1918) would permit 5 more years of massive
trade in wild birds and would require greatly increased government
expenditures by both the Department of the Interior and the
Department of Agriculture, without helping birds. One million
fund-raising letters have been sent out by the World Wildlife Fund
urging recipients to send in cards to their legislators in support
of the bill favored by the pet trade.

*Aerolineas Argentinas, Air France, American Airlines, Austrian
Airlines, British Airways, BWIA International Airways Corp.,
Challenge Air Cargo, Inc., CSA Czechoslovak Air, Dan-Air Services
Ltd., Delta Airlines, Inc., El Al Israel Airlines, Ethiopian
Airlines, Inc., Federal Express Corporation, Garuda Indonesia, KLM
Royal Dutch Airlines, Lan-Chile, Lufthansa AG, NOrthwest Airlines,
Sabena World Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Swissair, THY Turkish
Airlines, Trans World Airlines, United Airlines, US Air, and
Virgin Atlantic Airways.

 




You can help get the facts to your legislators by signing and
sending the enclosed pre-addressed cards.

Your help to protect the hideously persecuted wild birds is of the
greatest importance. Every single letter and card is needed to win
protection for these wonderful creatures. We would greatly
appreciate knowing of responses you receive to your cards and
letters.

1. Please write the last name of the legislator you are
addressing on the message side of each card.

2. Add any additional comments you would like to make.
3. Sign and write your address in the space provided.
4. Stamp and mail (each postcard needs 19 cents postage).

If you can distribute cards to friends and neighbors, please let us
know and we will be glad to send extras. If you need additional
information on the wild bird trade, we can send you copies of the
leaflet you received in our mailing earlier this year for
distribution to others who will help.

If you haven' t yet written to the Members of the Subcommittees
before whom H. R. 2540 and its companion bill, S. 1219, are pending,
now is the time to do it. If you do not have the list we sent you
in June, just let us know and we will be glad to send you another
copy. Letters to these Subcommittee members are of great
importance.

We look forward to hearing from you and to working with you to
obtain a law that will truly protect wild birds from the greedy

dealers (only 10 in number) who import 85-90% of all wild—caught
birds entering the United States.

Sincerely,

: ""“é a W Cm%‘%o
Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

P. S.

If you have not yet responded to our June notice asking whether you
wish to remain on our mailing list, please let us know. we are
eager to keep everyone on the mailing list who is prepared to write
for the protection of animals, so if you haven't yet written us,
we' 11 h0pe to hear from you soon.

P. P. S.
In case you' re having difficulty remembering which bird bill is
which, our staff composed two jingles to help.

H.R. 2540 is the way to go
H.R. 2541 is the bill to shun

S. 1218 is five years too late
S. 1219 is right on time

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

July 19, 1991

G R E A T N E W S I ! I

 

To Humanitarians in New Jersey:

After many months of hard work by all of you dedicated New
Jersey humanitarians, the most wonderful result: the Wild
Bird Bill which passed the Assembly almost unanimously, has
passed the Senate UNANIMOUSLY.

There was not one single dissenting vote to mar this
significant legislative victory. Your letters and telephone
calls made this possible and New Jersey is in the forefront
of enlightened humane legislation.

We must be certain that Senator John Lynch and Assemblyman
Bennett Mazur realize how grateful we are to them. Their
steadfast stand to protect exotic birds from the unspeakable
horror of the bird trade deserves the highest possible
gratitude and appreciation from us all.

Governor Jim Florio has indicated he is sympathetic to the
legislation, but he will be under pressure from the last
ditch industry efforts to undermine the bill by a
"conditional veto" or an amendment which would send the bill
back to the legislature. Send your card if you have not yet
done so, otherwise write or call his office asking for his
prompt signing with no amendments. Tell him he will be
signing a bill that will put New Jersey in the center
spotlight as a model of progress and humanitarianism. His
address and phone number are:
' Governor Jim Florio
State Heuse
Trenton, NJ 08625
(609) 292—6000

You have earned a significant victory, and we hope you are
proud of your work and your State. CONGRATULATIONS and our
warmest thanks.

Sincerely,

“may“ M“... can; J2.“

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF APPROPRIATION OF $10 MILLION FOR
ENFORCEMENT OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT FOR FY 90

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

Before the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural DevelOpment
and Related Agencies of the Senate Appropriations Committee

April 13, 1989

The increased duties assigned by Congress to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service under the 1985 amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act (Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals) urgently require a modest increase in funding.

The budget proposal is $7.567 million. We respectfully
request that $2.433 million be added in order to make
possible the inspections without which the law cannot be
enforced.

Why is this increase_negessary?

The recent reorganization of APHIS created a new entity,
Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) staffed by
personnel devoting full time to their jobs. Formerly
Veterinary Services, a much larger entity, provided
inspectors who worked primarily on prevention of animal
disease and who also made inspections of the 6,872 different
licensees and registrants throughout the nation including:

1260 Registered research facilities (some of which have
20 or more separate sites)
3811 Animal Dealers
1411 Exhibitors
390 Intermediate handlers and carriers

Currently there are only 48 inspectors trying to conduct the
minimal two unannounced inspections per year necessary to
implement the law fairly and effectively in all of these
different sites.

To put a qualified inspector in the field, including salary,
training, and back-up is estimated at $80,000 to $85,000 a
year. The additional funding requested would enable REAC to

 




deploy an average of two inspectors for each state. While
one inspector could cover a state with a small number of
registered or licensed sites, other states badly need three
or four.

Last year Senate and House conferees made the following wise
statement in the Conference Report:

"The conferees are concerned about the possible effect
that the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service's planned
reorganization may have on program delivery units of the
animal welfare program. The conferees expect APHIS to
continue to consult with animal welfare groups during and
after the implementation of the reorganization to ensure that
a more effective animal care program is established. The
conferees will expect not only an improvement in the quality
of inspections, but an increase in the frequency of those
inspections.

"Also, the conferees are extremely concerned about the
length of time involved in issuing parts I and II of the
final regulations of the Animal Welfare Act, as amended by
the Food Security Act of 1985, and direct the Department to
issue the final regulations without delay."

follow-us inSpestigns_reguired-bx_la_

The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments
specify that when deficiencies are found, the inspector must
conduct repeat inspections until all deficiencies are
corrected. As clearly documented in the Animal Welfare
Institute book, Beyond the Laboratory 299;, the following
sequence of events is quite common: an inspector finds a
deficiency, gives the registered research facility a
Specified time in which to correct it, returns to find that
while that one may have been corrected, two new deficiencies
have arisen. This means a further inspection must be made,
and in some institutions, yet another and another. Those
repeat inspections, of course, mean that other institutions
will never get more than a single inspection.

There is a grave danger attending single annual inspections.
The value of APHIS inspections depends in a large measure on
the fact that they are unannounced. This is the only way to
ascertain how the animals are really being treated when no
outside observers are present. But if lack of adequate funds
reduces inspections to one per year (and this idea has
surfaced within USDA several times) then all licensees and
registrants, once they have got through an inspection Know

 




 

that they're free to violate the Animal Welfare Act with
impunity for the next 12 months. Certainly that was not the
intent of Congress in passing the Act and its subsequent
strengthening amendments in 1970, 1976 and 1985.

To prevent such a disastrous undermining of the law, the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation strongly urges that
a total of $10 million be appr0priated for FY 90.

Mojor_§cientific organizations and animal welforo_oooiotio§
support_reguest_for $10 million

Supporting this request are the nation's leading scientific
societies and animal protection organizations. Their names
are listed as signatories to the letter addressed to you,
Mr. Chairman. We earnestly hOpe that you and the other
distinguished members of this subcommittee will agree with
this broad spectrum of concerned groups and recommend the
requested moderate increase of $2.433 million.

Submitted herewith for the official Subcommittee files, in
conformance with the new policy, is a copy of Beyond the
Laboratory Door referred to in this statement, quotations
from which are attached to this testimony.

 




 

 

LOUISIANA / 31

dirt and animal urine built up on them. Floors and walls need a good scrubbing.
Some animal cages have excreta build—up. ”

On 1/ 27/82 the problem with storage of food and bedding had been
corrected and pest control had been a least temporarily correCted,
however, serious new deﬁciencies were cited and others found not
corrected. “Water seeps onto ceiling panels causing them to [all out. . . .
burned lights must be replaced and ﬁxtures protected with plastic covers. Urine
from primate cages ﬂows into light switches in two rooms—this must be
corrected.” “Most cages have no pans to trap excreta; animals simply urinate
and deﬁcate on floor and caretaker then hoses this to drain-—pans must be
provided. In rooms where batteries exist these drain to end of battery then to
wall and ﬂoor. The top battery in 2 cases drain to wall with a light switch
causing extreme hazard. Urine and feces build-up on walls and ﬂoors. This
drainage must be directed to a ﬂoor drain via downspouts, etc. which will
prevent excreta from building up on walls and ﬂoors. ”Two inspections later
on 4/22/82 the roach and mouse problems noted earlier had
reappeared and the floors were still peeling. Also, "Cages need to be
changed as they are rusting.” On 1/4/83 these deﬁciencies continued.
By 1/ 26/83 the roach problem was apparently solved; however, the
major deﬁciencies with rusting cages and peeling floors were noted

again.

Regular inspections of the Zoology Department rooms revealed
peeling floors on 10/21/81, 1/27/82, 3/30/82, 4/22/82, 12/6/82,
1/26/83, 4/11/84 and 7/23/84. By 12/6/82 the inspector had begun
insisting that the “ﬂoors need to be replaced.” On 10/21/81 the inspCCtor
also found “roaches, mice and rats are getting into animal rooms and feed
. . . . Litter boxes ﬁlled with excreta in Room 655. Change litter boxes more
oﬂen . . . . Strong odor in Room 655.” On 1/27/82, cats, "Food stored in
open bucket on ﬂoor (Must be stored in closed container in separate area) . . .
ﬂoors peeling; feces 62’ urine on ﬂoor due to litter being spread out on ﬂoor
instead of in pans, ” and hamsters, "C ages must be cleaned 63’ paper changed
more often.” By 3/30/82 the hamster cages had reverted. “Hamster
cages need cleaning. Hair and excreta build-up on cages. Change pans under
cages.”

On 1/27/82 the inspector also reported, “One cat scratching ear
intensely—caretaker said he noticed but had not requested treatment—-

32 / PART ONE

Employees must request veterinary care when needed.”

The Microbiology Department facilities housing only rabbits have had
perennially peeling ﬂoors, originally cited on 10/21/81. Other
deﬁciencies found there include: 10/ 21/ 8 1 , “Hair and excreta on cage ”
(cited again on 3/30/82), “Floors covered with excreta in Room 660. Drain
needs to be unplugged and ﬂoor cleaned Floors and walls need cleaning in all
rabbit rooms, ” and “There is hair and dust on light ﬁxtures, vents, and
ceiling” (also 1/27/82); 1/27/82, “Ventilation impaired by completely
clogged vent in Room 6 58. All ducts and vents in the rabbit rooms are dirty and
must be cleaned, ”and “Pans are presently not placed on lower cage of a battery
and urine and excrement fall on floor—pans must be used; ” and 1/26/ 83,
“Cages in Room 660 need to be replace ” (also noted on 4/22/82,
12/6/82, 1/4/83, 4/11/84 and 7/23/84). Stopped up drains, originally
cited on 10/21/81 were designated as major deﬁciencies on 2/1 1/82
but were found repeated on 4/11/84.

On 4/22/82, "One rabbit in Room 660. . . needs veterinary care or to [be]
euthanize .”

An attempt to correCt the peeling ﬂoors and rusting cages that were
originally cited as deﬁciencies in 1981 was not made until 1984
when USDA threatened to ﬁle a case against the University. An
expecred completion date was set for 11/23/84, nearly 5 years after
the original citation.

 

MARYLAND

The JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (USDA registration #516)
medical institutions including Baltimore City Hospital, Good Samaritan
Hospital, and the School of Hygiene and Public Health have been
AAALAC accredited since 1974. In 1982 the University received
$51,166,741 from NIH, and in 1983 NIH research grants rose
almOSt $10 million to $60,705,131. In addition, $4,219,430 worth
of NIH contracts was awarded to johns Hopkins in 1983 and
training grants were $5,769,651. In 1983 the University used 2,270
dogs, 215 cats, 1,322 guinea pigs, 1,606 hamsters, 5,287 rabbits and

 

 




 

56 / PART ONE

and in late 1983 and early 1984: “unreported health problems were cited in
three of the 21 facilities.”

 

NEW YORK

In the STA TE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (USDA registration
#21 136) system the campus at Stony Brook had a repeat deﬁciency so
serious that the USDA inspector recommended prosecution. Mean-
time, this campus apparently has remained in NIH’s good graces
based on its Statements of Assurance that it is AAALAC accredited.
For example, USDA reported on August 19, 1982 that, “The dogs need
rest boards in the runs to stay clean and away from dampness, urine and feces.
The dogs were found to be sitting in urine and feces. ” Two months later the
inspector reported, “0n the previous inspection dated 8/1 9/82, it was
pointed out that drainage of dog quarters is very dcﬁctive and accumulation of
urine, feces, waste water and food in the area creates a potential health hazard
for the animals. Nothing has been done so far to rectiﬁr the deﬁciency. A case
against the facility is recommended. ” The Stony Brook campus uses

substantial numbers of dogs. The most recent ﬁgures available
(10/19/83) show 226.

In the case of Downstate Medical Center, which is also accredited by
AAALAC, the inspector complained on 8/5/81 that, “There are four
cats enclosed in one cage (28”x 32”) making it very uncomfortable for them to
turn about freely and to stay in their normal position. It is impossible for the
group to sit and lie comfortably. This deficiency should immediately be
rectified. ” He added that the cages “were found in very dirty condition.”
Despite the recommendation on 5/27/80 that a case be brought
against the Center and the subsequent legal action, rabbits were
repeatedly found in cages too small for them, on 4/ 14/80, 5/27/80,
1/8/81, 8/5/81, 9/14/81, 11/10/81 and 1/17/83. This inexcusable
condition persisted for three years untiljuly 1983 when, according
to an APHIS News Release, the State University ﬁnally “agreed to
construct cages with suﬂicient space for rabbits to move about freely and to
comply with other provisions and standards of the act. ”

At the Potsdam Campus an inspector reported on 10/ 15/81 “. . . . no
water available in the cage. And only a few cages had evidence of food ” On

NEW YORK / 57

10/28/ 81, “Dr Horst has said that the mongooses are fed Alpo (75% H2 0)
once a day and that is their primary source of water.”

Deﬁciencies found on 4/7/83 at the Brockport campus, Homes Hall,
Psychology Department rooms were found repeated on 4/25/83 even
after an assistant professor signed an agreement stating that all
would be corrected by 4/21/88. Those deﬁciencies include, “The
gerbils are being housed in Room B—1 9 which has deteriorated to the status of a
poorly kept storage room . . . . Level of husbandry indicates that there are not
enough employees to comply with 9CFR 3. 82 . . . . Rabbit cages in Room B6
are dirty—must be cleaned and sanitized.” Major problems with lighting
were also cited and “Room B21 (primates) has excess junk of various types
scattered about.”

On 12/8/81 and 12/ 15/81 deﬁciencies were found at SUNY atAlbany,
Psychology Department, described as follows: “The primary enclosure
used to house the two adult female and seven juvenile monkeys has an attached
shelf used for resting made up of chain link material and pipes. This resting
device was in disrepair and had some broken protruding and sharp wires pro—
truding in various spots. These wires may cause injury to these animals . . . .
The primary enclosure mentioned in above paragraph also needed more fre-
quent cleaning in certain areas. There was an excess accumulation of unused
food in areas as well as other dirt and ﬁlth This is an unsanitary condition . . . . ”
Two months later on 2/8/82, “The room housing these primates is in des-
perate need of a thorough washing.” In addition, the primary enclosure
for the male monkey ‘fails to provide srﬂicient space to allow the animal to
make normal postural adjustments,” and “There is an ongoing and serious
mouse (rodent) problem in this facility as evidenced by an accumulation of fecal
matter in comers.”

At the Biology Department there has been a repeated and recurring
problem with inadequate rabbit cages. On 8/28/79 the inspector
wrote, “Approximately four rabbits still not meeting space requirements will be
euthanized in approximately 1 -2 wks once experimentation is complete, ” and
on 10/ 9/ 80, “Two 10 1/4 lb rabbits were enclosed in primary enclosures of only
390 sq”. Such sized rabbits (large New Zealand whites) need at least 540 sq.
inches.” Also on 10/9/ 80 the inspector noted a “considerable problem
with roaches” in the rabbit room. On 12/ 17/82 the roach problem

 

 




catcher 3y 1§39

Dear meanitarian:

Encloseﬁ 1% the new ele@h&nt leaflet we wrote you aboutl Let
mg kncw haw many ygu wauld like he diatribute. new is the
tzma far thé big puah ta bﬁﬂ inigzgégigngl §£§§§ lg iygzyi

Elm flying to Laugaﬁne? Switzarlanﬁ (at my own expenae) at
the enﬁ Qf the week ta attend the maetinq 0f the Canventicn
“ ﬁn Enteruatienal Traée in Enéangered Spacies cf Wilé Fauna
ané Flera {CiTES} where the fate of the ele§hant will be
éeaiéadl The ﬁaciety for Animal yrotective Legislaticn will
ﬁe averythimg §assib1e ta sava the elephants. The ivory
traﬁa iﬁ lobbying delagates ﬁe try to yrevent the ban,
withaut which thése marvelaus animalg will be killed t9
extinctiena I‘ll be taking extensive infermatian with me to
canvince any unéecided ﬁelegate$ to vate for a bang

More than ene hunﬁreé cauntriés are CITES membazsa The
delegateg from all of them will xeseive cepies of the .
encloseﬁ leaflet. Raﬁ our companion organization? the lnimal
Welfare Institute; will yresent each heaa of delegation with
a cassette 0f the moving musical plea fer tha elephants by
world famous cellist ﬁstislav Rostropovich.

An mnhely alliance 0f ﬁealers anﬁ officials are trying t9
unéermine an: efforts; but a strong entrant is running in
fave: of grotecting the elephants. The British Ambassaﬁor
has recaived more than 13200 lettersl

But since we last wrete ycu, a new initiative has been taken
by tha Hong Kong ﬁealars. They are gre8$uring the British
gavernment ta aSk for a special exemption to give them time
t0 market their stackpiled ivory!

‘EHE IﬁTEREATIONPaL IVER? TRADE I‘ﬁUST S'I‘OP. TO EXTENB FAVGRS TO
30%? KQEJG; THE ’ VERY CENTER OF THE EilORLD TRADE g HOULD HARE} {—3
MGCKEEY 0E? TEE {EDGBAL ETEEUGGLE TO SAVE TEE ELEPHAET.

?1@a8& yiltg @gain $9 the Exitiab Ambagagégzl ﬂag; 5;;
Anghggy gglggé urging him to ﬁe everything in his power ta
baa all lasexnatignél Ezgﬁg l5 iygzy»

“0‘3?!"

 




as $pecial favors for gong Keng ghaulﬁ QVQn be cansidareﬁg
let algae agproveé. A millien elephaﬁta have ﬁieé t9 f$$é
the greedy Bong Rang traﬁe. Thege ﬁesecrator$ magi no? he
rewarﬁeé, The Ambasgaﬁarﬁs aﬁéress i3:

BﬂEe Sir Anthany Aclanﬁ
Th3 Ambaagader 0i §zeat Brit&im
3189 ﬁaagachusettg Avenue; ﬁg
waghimgtan; nﬂﬂe 26968

Thanks far all you can $01 if you naeé axtza le&fletg f0:
big ﬁemengtraticn Qutgiéa & atare ﬁhaﬁ gglis ivory; 1et~us
knew. we have gemﬁ whiah tﬁe yrintar haﬁ $0 $3 avar anﬁ
which heis given as fraég 3% if yea 0&3 age them QQﬁ; just
call us and wagil gét thaw to yea @Xngtly;

Leaking ﬁcrwarﬁ to heaziﬁg Exam yams

gincezelyy

Christima mt€V€ﬂ3
Searet&ry

Enclosure

 




December 17. 1987

To Humanitariane in New Jersey: ‘

WHY HASH‘T THE WILD BIRH BILL COME UP FOR A VQTE? As you
know, A; 2332, introouceé by Assemblyman D. Bennett Hagar,
was approveﬁ by the Aeeemoly Committee last year.
Unfortunately. the Speaker of the Assembly has not yet posteo '
the bill for a Floor'votei Until A. 2332 is peoeeé. poachers
and smugglers will continue to send the beautiful birds they
captute illegally into Haw Jersey for sale to the public.

Elem mile .29 the maker. oiihe W requesting him to
post A. 2332 for a vote. He may be addressed as follows:

Hon. Charles Hardwick

Speaker of the Assembly

203 Elm Street'

Weetfielo, New Jersey 07090

Even if You have written them previously, nay,i§_;he.;1me no
ﬁzise,again,. They can help by asking Speaker Hardwick to
poet toe bill. Remind them that capture of parrots, mynehe.
finchee, ano many other beautiful bites caueee such terror
anﬁ Severe injury to them that mortality, even before export
from their native lanoe, avexages ase-soe.

A. 2332 would ban the sale of wiloncaught exotic birﬁs in New
Jersey. A similar law wee enacteﬁ in New York State in 1984‘
It has long been illegal to capture our own native birﬂs anﬂ
sell theml We shoula reepect the laws of other countries in
the some way. Hany biroe are caught illegally in their
native countries ano trans~shipped through Belgium and The
Hetherlenﬁs. Othere~~offioiale estimate up to 50 000 a
yeer~~ere smuggleo into this country from Hexico. Many ﬁle,
and many carry éieeaeeo that endanger our native biras and
poultry.

If you woulé like edoitional information on mortality in the
exotic bird traée, let us know. We can senﬂ you a free copy
of an W}. W W W. If you wish: we
can also send you a copy of the Environmental Investigation
Agency's 2h? Ipaﬁe é? géye ﬁildliﬁe, ﬁggtglity and Ixanaagzt
W price: -

We will be glaﬁ to sené you extra copies of this letter to
give to neighbors and friends, for it‘s important now that

 




2;:
E2”? :1
Q

@392

’3‘ E "f
? ‘I i
_0 In!» a ’

3"»1-‘3 .'

‘5“ iii ’13

ﬂﬁ

2. :2. 2.

,2

$92

‘0' y 15"").
2

' 3
(-héi‘pi

kit-.5
\w

re...
at
9
an

a1=

31’ .-
8; 3

. "'9?" m.
ﬁfiwkﬁa“

«‘3'
we.

ff? in) .2

3»

I?“ ‘3‘»
we. 3.- '

s. (23.2.1233

2g 2 v;

. m '2
Ask

a
/ .

d 5““: x 2-.

t

12'."

yreve

k
.11

'2» l5

3.— ":1
i U

3..., “ r Av.“
12 1 z (7...;
W J- \u

«2%:
’1‘, .1

at}

l

rat

«I.
Cs ‘2‘
5.1 IL.

’1

mi ta y

L.

'3
t

,2.

2,... /
.

4..

Q «I

a

“2 fr“ r'v-
‘ 1 u' 2‘
a» .2. 2.2

$EEV

i2.

 




a“
\
33

g

.. (3 73‘}

u;
‘a

mm

ix}?

G

553135;,

,..

13H"

J.

Num-
\
'

n
'1'
1:
L
f
z»

45
”a,

a
V1

it?! ‘_
5.?
r,

*7

{in
s"
cm ~

LGRQXQ

2’?“

{3 ‘

{ii
'5

LW.
“.3“
“av
T...
a.

a
sun...

‘11

‘I’ﬂ
r

5:»
iii"

lﬁbaxgtaxa

25’

I:
a"

9‘
f".
w

t
i!
x
*-

an1v=

%
JV

7 gﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁrﬁ Ea wgite

tit}

ﬁhi

\
.11
.K

 




gag
Tx§
a” a
my 3
S 3
a, a,

v;

NU! Tn...“

l

fﬁiﬁeigf€

in,
v

w
1".

eY

(“3

my a

.5. £1.91:-
Ju rm
watt M36..."
a...» 1%
35a
. g. ..

«5w T...”
3.“.

.5,

KIC-

If}; ‘t’ 3’"
.. .1 5

2A
a»!

3

$3351-

31 $3:
a 3343

1: ,.,,:
Em;
~09!

 




R, e p 1' i n ’1, from

THE LABORATORY ANIMAL
IN THE STUDY
OF REPRODUCTION

6th ICLA Symposium
Thessaloniki 1975

Edited by
Th. Antikatzides, S. Erichsen, A. Spiegel

© Gustav Fischer Verlag . Stuttgart - New York
1 {176
A. .1 i 1.:ig‘l'1i: s 1" e S e I‘V e d

 




Benefits and shortcomings of the US. Animal Welfare Act

‘3 Ch
two .r.

r311 w-‘x

s. iii-E”: itederal Laboratory Animal Welfare Act became law in 1966, was strengthened and
bl‘O’Hrl in 1970 and renamed the Animal Welfare Act. Research and training has bene-
ﬁtted from the consequent upgrading of standards, and the Act has gained broad acceptance
througirrmt the scientific community. Not all needed improvements have yet been
aceornpiished, however, and further amendments to the Act are pending in the U.S. Con-
gress. in particular, requirements for human standards of transportation for laboratory and
other animals. There is increasing interest in development and use of research, testing, and
production methods which substitute tissues and organ cultures, computers and other

systems, to the extent feasible.

 

 




183

An ethical approach to animal experimentation with particular emphasis on
training of personnel

Ray, Ph. M.

UFAW believes that all personnel who are involved with experimental animals —
veterinary surgeons, other scientists, animal technicians — should be adequately trained to
enable them to inﬂict as little suffering as possible upon the animals. UFAW’S approach to
animal experimentation will be described in detail, together with the efforts which have been
made over many years to impart these views to workers all over the world. An understanding
of the animal and of experimental and statistical techniques are all necessary for the
maximum amount of knowledge to be gained from the minimum number of animals. Train-
ing of scientists is particularly important: veterinarians can be expected to have a basic
knowledge of animals, while many countries have good training schemes for animal
technicians, and only scientists appear to be ill-provided for. A plea is made for this situa-
tion to be remedied as real humanity rests upon knowledge.

 




ﬁarch EGQ 198$

QQ Quin QQQQQQQQQ QQ QQQQQQQQQQiQ:

@003 QQQQE QQQQQQQQ QQQQQ Paul QQQQQQ QQQ QQQQQ iQQIQQQQQQ
QQ QQQQ11QQQ Qill QQ QQQ QQQQQQQQQQQ Qf QQQQQQ QileCQuQQQ

QirQQ QQQ QQQQQQQial $316. QQQ bill iQ QiQilQQ QQ QhQ QQQ

YQrk 1QQ QQQQQ 1Q QQQ Qurbing QQiQ QrQQQ QQQQQQ

QQQ QQQ Qil1 QQQQQQ QQ HQQQ 3222.?g QQQ it QQQ QQQQ referred to
QQQ QQQQQ QQQ‘QuthQQ fQQQ QQQQ1 QQQQQQQ CQHQQ QQQQ 3Q QQ
QQQQQQQQQ QQ xiii? QQ QQQQ Q; QQQ CQQQQQQ‘Q QQQQQQQ QQQQQQQQ
QQQQQQQQQQQQ QQQQ QQQQ QQQQQQQ QQQQ QQQTQ

QQQQQQ QQQa QQ QQQQ M»; QQQQ LQQLVQ in the State
tL re quiQQ QQQQQQQ * * ‘

fl:

Wﬁé
raw

1.53m
Msm

Q7 iii}

m *t}
(‘5: 2w 3" M
F:@

{‘3

QleQaQ QQQQ QQQQQ QQQ QrovisiQQQ QQ the Qi11: pQQ

QQQ QQQQQQQQ to QQ11 QQQ birﬁs bQQQ iQ CQQtiviQyQ QQQ
QiEQQ rQQQQ 1Q QQQQ QQQ QQQQible QQQQltyQ Suffﬁfiﬂgr QQQ
Q QQVQQQQQ in the Q11é QirQ QQQQQ will be e1iQiQQQQQ if
2227 QQ QQQQQQQ QQQQ QQQ. LQQ yQQQ 1QginQQQrQ know the
QQQQQQQQQQQQQ QQQQQQ QQQQQQQ QQQQQ.QQQ QQQQQQQQ for
QQQQ QQer year in QQQQQQE aleneg but QQQQ are so raugh1y
QQQQIQQ QQQ QQQjQQQQQ t0 QQQQ QQQQIQQLQQQQ that anf QQQ QQQ Q
QQQQ QQQQQQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQQQ QQ QQQQQQ QQ QQQ QQQQQQ QQQQQQQ
QQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQQ»

(I:

Q
3

9"" {5} Q?

G
4

3
$
i.»

at 19'
0‘ 4;»
QCQﬁt

WHEEQQ
713:?»ch

QHQQ QQQQIVQ QUQ 73336 CQHPQT BE ALLOWED TO COFTZQU it
QQQQQQ QQ jQQQLEiQQ in any QQyQ QQly the grQQQ of QQQ get
iQQQQQrQ QQQQQ the QrQQQ alive. QQQ 1QQQ 95 many countries
QQQQQ QQQ QQQQQiQQlly celared onﬁic birQQ live prQQiQiQ
QQQQQ QQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQ are QQQQQlQQ QQQ QQQQQy,

QQCQQQQQ Q ring Qf birQ QQQQQQQrQ QQQQQ ting bethQQ QQQiCQQ
californiag QQQ LQQQQQQQQ QQQQ caught QnQ Qineﬁ. ﬁne
QQQQQQQQ Q twomyeaz QQQQQQ QQQQ QQCQ, hut Q11 QQQ often the
Qeacher. QQQ Qmugglers QQnQiQuQ their hQQrtless crimes
QQQQQQQQQQQ QQQ QQQy have Q0 QiQQiQulty in Qelling their
QQQQrQQQQQQ victimswwat 1Qast those that Qurvive. QQQ
QQC1QQQQ QhQQQgQQpQQ QQQQ their suffering mere clearly than
any words QQQ Q9.

{over}

 




{fifﬂhi
«we
$1 WM:

.p
up. n
5;.» x
N

5, a -

.-
1 Inn»!
1 ‘

flaw-3'

z
5‘ x. m?
V I

 




me

May 10, 1988

Dear Humanitarian,

First we want to thank you for your valuable help. Over 100
Senators and Representatives have called or written Secretary
of Agriculture Richard Lyng urging him to issue regulations
under the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments to the Animal Welfare Act enacted in 1285. But
still these urgently needed regulations have not been made
final. To date, they have not even been sent by the
Department of Agriculture to the Office of Management and
Budget which has the last word on all regulations!

THIS DELAY CAN NO LONGER BE TOLERATED.

We must ask all of you who wrote to your lawmakers to write
again. 1) Please thank them for urging action by Secretary
Lyng, but tell them you would deeply appreciate their phoning
the Secretary strongly urging that he issue regulations now.

2) Please ask your
Senators and
Representatives

to remind the Secretary
that well—prepared prgp
regulations, written by
Agriculture's experienced
humane veterinarian

Dr. R.L. Crawford, appeared
in the Federal Register
March 31, l2§7 for Parts I
and II. THESE SHOULD BE
PUBLISHED AS EINAL
REGULATIONS WITHOUT FURTHER
FOOT—DRAGGING OR WEAKENING.

3) PrOposed regulations for Part III have been written but
not released. They, too, should be published so that the
interested public can read and comment on them as must be
done before they are made final.

Enemies of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments are throwing obstacles in the path of law
enforcement. Animals are suffering for lack of the essential

protection that ggngress mandated in l28 .

WHILE HIGHER-UPS DELAY THE REGULATIONS, OTHER PROBLEMS LOOM
IN THE BACKGROUND.

This delay is made all the more worrying by the fact that
other initiatives which might weaken the administration of
the law are being brought forward while the regulations are
withheld from the public. .

The dedicated Animal Care staff that administers the Animal
Welfare Act is a part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's
Veterinary Services, a body comprised of hundreds of
veterinarians who Specialize in regulations and their
enforcement. This staff, effectively headed by Dr. R. L.
Rissler, has continued to improve enforcement of the Act
during the past five years. If good regulations are
promulgated and reasonable funding is provided for

-over-

 




inspections, the animals in laboratories, zoos and dealers'
premises will be incomparably better off. But it appears
that forces hostile to animal welfare are influencing the
Department or Agriculture at a high level. Demotions and
transfer of key personnel threaten to weaken compassionate
enforcement of the law.

Most recently a plan has surfaced to remove enforcement of
the Animal Welfare Act from Veterinary Services and place it
in a new entity to be called Compliance and Animal Welfare.
It is rumored that this might be headed by a veterinarian
specializing in Laboratory Animal Medicine. Practitioners of
this Specialty often rationalize and accept the status quo in
scientific institutions regardless of the feelings of the
animals.

Humanitarians must insist on maintaining trai

re gglatory action to halt abuse and neglect of experimental
animals through honest l_we enforcement. Sufficient numbers
of inspectors must be available so that repeated unanno ounced
inspectrons are made. Currently inspectors are being told to
make one inspection a year with reinspections "as needed".

If this is a precursor of further changes, the entire program
may be undermined.

At a meeting announcing the proposed reorganization, we were
told the numbers of inspections did not have to be simply
counted, but could be "scientifically" determined as to their
need. Those of you who have read the Animal Welfare
Institute' 5 Beyond the Laboratory Door will instantly
recognize that countless animals will suffer if USDA' s
veterinary inspectors do not inspect repeatedly. A facility
may pass one inspection,but only a few weeks later an
inspector may find animals in cramped dirty cages, lacking
needed veterinary care, or even a supply of clean water.
Virtually every licensed or registered facility stands in
need of at least three unannounced inspections a year. But
if the animal welfare staff is separated from Veterinary
Services, it will no longer be able to call for help from
this larger group in making inspections.

In short, all humane members of Congress should give careful
scrutiny to the new plans so that progress in animal welfare
that humanitarians have fought so long to achieve is not
lost.

ACTION NEEDED

Please tell your legislators that this is £29 priorit y in
preventing abuse of laboratory animals. Congress passed an
excellent piece of legislation in the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals amendments, but they cannot be enforced
UNLESS THE REGULATIONS ARE FINALIZED AND FULL SUPPORT IS
GIVEN TO THE VETERINARY INSPECTORS.

We'd very much like to know what responses you receive, and
in case you've mislaid the list of legislators we sent you, a
second copy is enclosed. PLEASE WRITE BOTH YOUR SENATORS AND
YOUR REPRESENTATIVE.

Thanks for all you can do.

Sincerely,

W WW (Tao/raw 56;;

Madeline Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

 




 

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007

(202) 337-2334

June 8, 1988

Thanks so much for signing on!

We have just heard from London that further expressions of
support are urgently needed. If your Representative's name
appears on the enclosed list of co—sponsors of last session's
bill to end the use of steel—jaw leghold traps, it would be
yery helpﬁul i: you wguld write him 9; he; concerning the
excellent prOposal to label fur coats in the U. K.

This proposal by the Minister of Trade and Industry, Alan
Clark, would require each coat made from fur commonly
obtained with steel-jaw leghold traps to be plainly labelled.
Many Members of Parliament have already lent their names to
the following Resolution:

That this House, noting the intention of the Department of Trade and Industry to
introduce a labelling Order to cover the furs of animals caught in leghold traps, a device
made illegal in the United Kingdom following the report of the 1951 Scott Henderson
Committee, which describes it as a diabolical instrument which causes an incalculable
amount of suffering, congratulates the Minister for Trade on taking this valuable step,
which will allow the consumer to exercise freedom of choice as to whether or not to purchase
garments the production of which will have involved extreme cruelty to animals; and calls
upon Her Majesty’s Government to include in the Order the furs of badger, beaver, bobcat,
coyote, cross fox, ermine, ﬁsher, gray fox, lynx, marten, muskrat, opossum, otter, racoon,
red fox and wolf, all of which are frequently caught in leghold traps.’

Our joint letter, a copy of which is enclosed for your
records, needs follow—up from Members of Congress because the
U. S. State Department has bowed to pressure from trappers,
furriers, and wildlife managers and is expressing Opposition
to the promulgation of the Order at the highest levels of the
British government. IT IS URGENT THAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WHO OPPOSE THE USE OF STEEL-JAW LEGHOLD TRAPS SHOULD WRITE TO
PRIME MINISTER THATCHER commending the proposed Order by
Trade Minister Alan Clark. U. S. Representatives wishing to
support this important move SHOULD ALSO WRITE TO THE

- OVER-

 




SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AND COMMONWEALTH AFFAIRS
commending this proposal. Addresses are:

The Rt. Hon. Margaret Thatcher, MP, FRS
Prime Minister

10 Downing Street

London, SW1

ENGLAND

The Rt. Hon. Sir Geoffrey Howe, QC, MP

Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs
Foreign and Commonwealth Office

Downing Street

London, SW1A 2AL

ENGLAND

THIS MATTER IS VERY URGENT, so if your Representative is

opposed to cruelty to animals, urge himlher to write, wire,
or FAX support for the Fur Labelling Order TQDAY.

With great appreciation of your invaluable support,

Sincerely,

22% may, 6&4"ch c (1246/90:

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens

President Secretary

 




 

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334

1 September 1988

Re: Request for signature of
rule 65 written declaration
for the Register on the
steel jaw leghold trap.

Barbara Castle (Soc, UK) and Madron Seligman (Ed, UK),
Chairman of the Parliamentary Intergroup on Animal Welfare,
supported by a resolution passed by Intergroup, are doing all
in their power to ban the steel jaw leghold trap within the
EurOpean Community where it is not already banned, and to
require labelling of imported furs so consumers will know if
the animals were caught by this cruel device.

We are greatly encouraged by this humane action. A
scientific survey conducted by the Yale School of Forestry
and Environmental Studies shows that 78% of the American
public Opposes use of the steel jaw leghold trap.

The intense pain, fear and physical injury caused by the
steel jaw trap (see enclosed photographs) are completely
unnecessary. Alternative methods are available, and we'll be
glad to send full information on these at your request.

If you have not yet signed the rule 65 written declaration
for the Register, we respectfully request that you join the
117 Members who have already demonstrated their support for
it, and sign it during the Plenary Session 12—16 September.
Your support would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

CS/cl

Encl.

 




‘

American
Amer

3.
.1.

Inst
can

itute
Society
Sukmx:

of

P"'\ .
O U tp

-j
1

01
r Ce)
N

oglcal Sc
1 E1010
'icrcblcloc

-
1
«

~ v
\
-

EDCE’S

 

 




m Charles Chambers, Executive Director of the American lnstit‘te

Biological Sciences. My remarks today represent the views of

s Institute and the several other member associations of the

Society Council for Biology and Medicine. Collectively, these

represent a preeminent portion of the scientists who actually
iomedical and behavioral research in the nation.

A

I,
:34 "h

0 L0 H r+ (3
H L
O rt w

CTJH
rim

(LG (I)
(a?

C)
:3

As we have expressed on past occasions, our organizations are
totally devoted to the highest standards of scientific and ethical
responsibility in all research including that which involves the use

of animals for both biomedical and behavioral studies. In
particular, humane and prudent use of animals as research subjects
is essential not only to produce scientifically sound findings, but
also to achieve the consequential improvements in the quality of
life for both humans and animals. Thus, it is not surprising that
we are seriously concerned that, for the third year, the
Administration is recommending reductions in the minimal resources
APHIS has for animal welfare activities in its Veterinary Service
Division. We are indeed gratified that this Subcommittee has
consistently rejected these proposals in the past. We have no
reason not to encourage similar action now. The continued authority

of PPHIS to function in the national interest in this area is

necessary.

year, however, we haven actively reviewed the whole
mal welfare management, ot only in the context of
the Animal nnelfarc Act, wkich RPhlS

, but also in the context of assigning states and
rganizations more responsibility for inspection or

We have concluded that a strong APHlS represents the
in biomedical

best current approach to the concerns of citizens both
research centers and in humane societies. We respectfully request

for APHlS to a level of $8 million so that the
Act can be honored

L—I-f")
(D

(i): rt m (f

3.1

m (D
H
r"?

‘
A I

.— hn + I
J:iG.J--Y.EXJLS OJ.

,
L
LJ

(In)
L4. ;

OJ

’1
0

increased funding
Congress's intent in enacting the Animal Welfare

and fulfilled

The Federal government supports some 52% of the biomedical research
's country, with more than a third coming through NIh alone.
there is a substantial Fede'al concern that the research

s it establishes in many area including animal care,

e prospect of a hodge—podge and likely

ictory regulations, state by 1' 1 A, campus by campus

university systems, would among

sional scientists who want lt would also

irreparable harr to their

are

I); f

f), .— .1 F1

 




,4

nd ws‘
- or: leve'
would also provide a
h would enable posi
tered research facii

[f1
‘,

I'-

L4
(7‘
L;
w
*1
O9
4

PM
)4

3 0“

pl
(1)
$4
(0

Q
m
r?-
O
0
f1
ram
o
O

r?"

J
n ("r LJ -. '

U‘ﬂ'w
n!
S

O
”'3
m m m
C
H h»! r f
m
H‘WV
n)
r)

J .7
3 O

\Q

;.J

3
c?" {Q m

5..) .

(n

H W H()
m U .
i D:
b 1 E;

U

j

0
y.

13‘ s
(n (D M Os 0
H O

Or++4n1

1
m
3

Cf its 435 ,'u - inspectors in the fi

time. The remainder can devote only 6% of their time to animal
welfare concerns because of the necessary attention they must give
to interstate inspection and disease control among agricultural
stocks. The proposed appropriation would enable APHIS to greatly
strengthen the training of its own staff and eventually be able to
provide services to research centers and local humane groups; for
example, through regional workshops and conferences on research
standards, federal regulations, and modern practices. It would be
'able to collect, maintain and publish substantially better data
about the status of animal welfare, not only in research, but also
7n the much larger industrial production and testing sectors.

inally, of course, a good portion of the $3 million increase would
permit a greater allocation of time, effort and personnel to the
regular inspection cycle for both research facilities and licensed
dealerships. It would also make possible more extensive staff
coordination and liaison between APHIS and such groups as the
American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory unimal Care
(AAALAC).

.“ ". .4. 5‘}
61C, 'El\ ELUK EIE iUii

e enforcement of the Animal
the ‘>. '; t, of the Federal government,
tie humane societies. iPElS
in proper agency to administer ti- Act, and any compromise of 'ts
ability to function as its current level of $4.&56 million would be
opposed. In fact, responsible administration of the Act
an increased appropriation and we conclude that $8 million
an appropriate level. We are pleased to acknowledge
:imcny to be presented by Ms. Christine Stevens of the Society
Animal Protective Legislation. We agree on this level of
;.ino and on the need for a stronger APHIS.

.
(‘ r\ Y.‘ ‘ _ W
-., ‘-_/‘ . .‘ 4

.’\ r
\» L a l I
If

. .1 t
LY, .
unliclg 11C

tieredical research :u‘ . c
.5.
0..

tn. ‘ w ~., ' 1 snare
m

VCU éf

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC 20007
(202) 337-2334

- ' STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF AN APPROPRIATION OF $8 MILLION
FOR ENFORCEMENT OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE :ACT
BY THE ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE
AND $419,000 TO ENFORCE THE HORSE PROTECTION ACT
By Christine Stevens, Secretary
April 23, 1984

L On behalf of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, I
request increased funding for the enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act in order to ensure that the law is achieving the
compliance which Congress intended.

A recent study by the General Accounting Office shows that two
states included in their study, New York and California, failed
to inspect all Registered Research Facilities even once during
the course of the year. The Department has for many years
aimed at four inspections a year in order to ensure that the
minimum standards are met.

The proposed budget cut would reduce enforcement funds for this
work to a mere $3.6 million. I want to thank this distinguished
Subcommittee for wisely rejecting cuts in two successive years,
keeping the appropriation at the $4.8 million level. However,

as clearly demonstrated by the GAO study, this sum has been
inadequate. We join the American Institute of Biological Sciences,
the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology and
other member groups of the Inter—Society Council for Biology and
Medicine in requesting $8 million for FY 85.

We request that this distinguished Subcommittee require the
Department to expend a minimum of 60% of the funds appropriated
for inspection and compliance of Registered Research Facilities
and the Licensed Animal Dealers supplying them. These two areas
are in particular need of government surveillance because it is
difficult, and in many cases impossible, for animal welfare
organizations to inspect either of these categories.

Unnecessarily large percentages of available funds have been
allocated to the inspection of puppy mills by the Department of
Agriculture. The GAO study shows that Kansas and Iowa, which
have many puppy mills but few laboratories or laboratory animal
dealers, received a disproportionate share of last year's appro—
priated funds. In those states inspections were made twice a
year without difficulty. This is the way all states should be
handled.

The purpose of the Animal Welfare Act is to prevent abuses before
they happen. If they do happen, then legal action must be taken,
but it is far better for the animals, the registrants and the

licensees, and the concerned public to maintain steady compliance

 




_2_

rather than having to penalize gross violations. An example of
such a violation was the extreme neglect by the University of Ohio
which allowed a large number of kittens to suffer the excruciating
pain of having chains bite into their necks as the kittens outgrew
the identifying chains. The university was assessed a fine of
only $500 for this violation. Nevertheless, the fact that USDA
took legal action was praiseworthy, and had sufficient funds been
available for more frequent inspection of these animals, their
suffering, wholly unrelated to any research, could have been
prevented.

It is important to protect animals against needless suffering for
the sake of the animals themselves, for the sake of our country's
ethical principles, and for the sake of biomedical research
involving animals. Although animal welfare organizations and
scientific organizations sometimes have points of disagreement,

I know of no organization or institution in either category which
does not agree that an increase in funding for the Animal Welfare
Act is necessary and that action to fund the program adequately is
of major importance.

I would like to draw attention to graphs prepared by Fay Brisk of
Action Line for Pet Owners which show the number of cases prose—
cuted by USDA/APHIS under the Animal Welfare Act in the period
1968—1984. Six representative states are shown, three of them

major research states and three ”puppy mill” states. The puppy
mill states got nearly twice as much money as the research states
and carried out about three times as many prosecutions. A second
graph shows prosecutions in all states.

To sum up, we recommend an appropriation of $8 million for Fiscal
Year 1985 accompanied by a requirement that no less than 60% of
these funds be allocated for inspection of laboratories and
laboratory animal dealers.

HORSE PROTECTION ACT

 

An increase to $260,000 is recommended for enforcement of the Horse
Protection Act for FY 85. The increase is needed so that USDA
inspectors can attend all Tennessee Walking Horse shows.

The FY 85 budget calls for $159,000, a $6,000 increase from last
year, but this will not permit USDA to go to the 332 shows which

were only covered by industry inspectors. Last year USDA inspectors
covered l32 shows. $75,000 was allocated to these field inspections.
To cover them all would require an expenditure of $225,000 in the
field. With 15% allocated to overhead, a total sum of $260,000 is
needed—~certainly a very small price for ending the terrible practice
of soring.

At a recent meeting of representatives of the Tennessee Walking
Horse industry and of animal welfare organizations concerned to

 




 

-3-

prevent illegal soring of these horses, statistics were presented
which demonstrated that the presence of USDA inspectors signifi—
cantly increased the numbers of sore horses identified. Because
of the necessity to rely on industry inspections by Designated
Qualified Persons (DQP's) to prevent sore horses from entering
competitions, the problem still has not been solved. Reliance

on DQP's is necessitated by lack of funds to send USDA inspectors
to the majority of Tennessee Walking Horse shows and sales.

Definite progress has been made since passage of the Horse Protec—

tion Act in 1970 and its amendment in 1976. The soring which used
to be highly visible, with large, round, hairless spots on the
pasterns of competing horses, has now disappeared. However,

dishonest trainers continue to use much more sophisticated methods
involving both chemical soring agents and temporary analgesic
agents to foil USDA inspectors and DQP's. The industry recognizes
that the breed was being undermined by these dishonest practices.
At the meeting all industry representatives expressed concern
about their “image.” Thus, a more adequate appropriation enabling
USDA to do its job would be especially effective at this time.

If soring is stopped, the competition will revert to the actual
breeding of the horses rather than pain infliction to make
inferior animals appear to be well bred. The welfare of the
horses and the welfare of the industry itself are both in need

of increased USDA inspections which will discourage the dishonest
trainers who have plagued the industry for more than 20 years.

 




ﬁilve?imn‘309i

: ,3 _ ‘ ‘,’-. '1‘ s”) - £-
7’ Lin-33:”? 3' ,J , M.» r )3
1?, 1?9/

1
1"

Unitei ﬁiaies Senate 3 HOuse of Réﬁregeﬁtatives
Washinﬁtan, UGO?

n

near Lexiglaiors and Frienﬁs;
Wiih your oanaiieratian of Bill Esp Hgﬁﬁ 173?, I wguiﬂ like is Saw A

few words via.letter9 I,Virqinia Andregen, hava bgan a wildlife rehabilitair
in the atate of New Jaraay'for many yﬁarg and am direciar 0f ihﬁ $inelamﬁq
Santuary for Wildlife Cmrp., a nmnuprcfit orqamimation ﬂeiicaiad i0 savimm
wildlife.

A very inanirinq experience for me use t0 be i0 walk in the franquiliiy'
of'the farest. is ihe years g0 by this becomes a harder thing im i0, N0 laugh?

do I find the footprints leading to the water and then mff to a ﬂenvmmﬂev a

log or in a tree. As I walk the trails now I encmunter’areag with one tram hale

after another. Whe trap hale being a 390% where a trap was aJaked anﬁ baiiwﬁ?
and baa caught and'held its Victim while it giruggieﬂ f0? iis life mmly'io %e
clubed to death, ﬂied of starvaiion or chew fo itg leg to free itgalfﬂ If I
walk on, I will see more places and by pursuing the taﬁk, I may finﬂ the
active trap sight. Here if I am in time, I may save One of Goia creatureaa
My last trip was met that way. A fox frmzen to th@ ﬁrauni had t0 3%iahinned
out only to be destroyed by a veterinarian, a raccaon was deaﬂ ai ihe enﬁ 0f
trail of blood from a missing foot, anﬂ a bird wag alive with twa braken Imqg.
Not a pretty sight. But the last plage I must menﬁion is the trash bile, It
is easily found in the w00d$ because it has the odor of‘death» “he 125% @ne
this spring revealed a cat, three skunks, fmur half grawnronosaums and a
raccoonwwith a had coat» A liitle ways away? an QDQSSHM was still alive with
a bloody head and three broken legs.

Next fall I will again am into the woods because I must, The pleamure
is gone but my hppe is not. with new legislation in New Jersey the animalg
have some home too‘ Help them all over the Unitei States by pagging'wederai

Anti~trapping laws“ @tari with Haﬁ. 1797.

Sincerely yaurg,

"/0“ 1‘3 1* H / I ‘
w‘lﬂ"? .I‘ v / ff,
‘ J' ‘ ,
< /4:’¢;;*7‘""_,.,.:::.’.~31...--=;:' {J {€71}. { I‘: ’ '

Xi Qinia Andregen

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719 _
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

November 14, 1996

Dear Humanitarian,

It was good to hear from you. Your help is m appreciated and needed. Now
that Congress is out of session, we must concentrate our efforts on the Executive
Branch of our Government. If President Clinton and the United States Trade
Representative's Ofﬁce would accept the European Union's Regulation banning
imports of certain furs from countries that still allow steel jaw leghold traps to be
used, countless animals would be spared an enormous amount of needless pain
and agony.

As you know, both the United States and Canada still use these barbaric
instruments and Canada is threatening to challenge the EU Regulation through
the World Trade Organization. You can help by writing President Clinton urging
him to withdraw any cooperation with Canada on this serious moral issue.

If the White House would withdraw opposition to the Regulation, we are
conﬁdent that the European Union will stand ﬁrm on implementing the import
ban. Enclosed is a poster our companion organization has just prepared to keep
the record straight for the decisions coming up very soon in the European Union.
On December 9, the Ministers of the Environment of the EU member states are
meeting to vote on the Regulation. '

 

Many animals suffer days of torment from traps set out by school children from
one weekend to another. The majority of leghold traps are used by teenagers as a
hobby. The pitiful dog, Cindy, whose picture appears in this poster was probably
caught in traps set by school boys. The wolf was caught in a US government trap
with teeth that penetrated his ﬂesh.

We are trying to get attention paid to the information we have sent repeatedly to
the White House, the US. Trade Representative's ofﬁce, and the Departments of

Interior, Agriculture, State and Commerce.

(over)

 




Page Two

Your letter to the President can help turn the tide. He may be addressed:

The President
The White House
Washington, DC 20500

If you can, please send a copy of your letter to:

Mr. James Murphy

Assistant US. Trade Representative
for Europe and the Mediterranean

600 17th St., NW

Washington, DC 20508

Or, better still, write him directly, strongly urging him to accept Europe's import
ban on the furs of beavers, badgers, bobcats, lynxes, marten, coyotes, wolves,
sables, raccoons, otters, muskrats, ﬁshers, and ermine caught in our country until
we prohibit use of the cruel steel jaw leghold trap. Tell him there must be no
further obstacles thrown up by the United States to cause delay in implementing

the EU Regulation. Let him know you want our nation to stop defending cruelty .
The terrible pain and suffering caused by the trap's steel jaws must not be
tolerated. Make clear, too, that so—called "padded" traps are no solution. The
"padding" is nothing but a bit of hard rubber or plastic. The powerful pressure of
the jaws on the animal's leg is what causes such intense pain. AL steel jaw
leghold traps should be abolished.

Thanks again for your much needed support!
Sincerely,
($5,, 2...“ 6%..“

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

September 26, 1996

VOTE NO ON 5.1420, WHICH AMENDS THE MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT,
DESTROYS EXISTING PROTECTION FOR DOLPHINS AND UNDERMINES THE
INTEGRITY OF THE “DOLPHIN-SAFE” TUNA LABEL

Before you vote on 8.1420 or its companion bill, H.R.2823, which may be attached to a
Continuing Resolution in the House, you should know the facts reported by U.S.,
Mexican, Colombian and Panamanian authorities about the involvement of the tuna
industry in drug smuggling.

The Cali Cartel operated a fleet of 10 Panamanian—ﬂag tuna boats as a front for smuggling hundreds of
tons of cocaine north from Colombia to Mexico and the United States. As reported in The Los Angeles
Times May 1, 1996, the US. Coast Guard captured one of the Cali boats, the Nataly 1, en route to Mexico
with a cargo of 12 tons of cocaine hidden in cartons marked “tuna.” For several years, the Cali fleet
regularly transferred multi—ton shipments of cocaine and heroin at sea to Mexican tuna boats. Mexican
tuna canneries provide cover for such smuggling.

0 The Cali Cartel had a ﬂeet of Mexican-flag tuna boats that delivered huge quantities of cocaine and
heroin to Ensenada, La Paz and other Baja California ports, where the notorious Arellano Felix drug gang
took delivery for smuggling into California. The same ﬂeet delivered drugs to other Mexican drug gangs
along the Texas border and along the Gulf coast. Mexican police recently shut down this tuna/cocaine
operation.

0 According to the U.S. Attorney who prosecuted the Nataly I case, the Panamanian company that operated
the drug ship and the rest of that Cali Cartel fleet is named Pescadora Azteca. In Mexico, the largest tuna
fleet, 10 boats based in Mazatlan, is operated by a Mexican company with the same name, Pescadora Azteca.
Is this a part of the Cali Cartel operation?

0 The Cali and Medellin cartels of Colombia have invested heavily in tuna fleets and canneries in
Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama and other countries in Central and South America,

according to law enforcement and intelligence sources. They have used the long-range tuna boats to
smuggle cocaine and heroin into the US. and Europe; the canneries are used to hide shipments -—- even in
cans —— and to launder the billions in drug proﬁts. The Colombians have set up joint ventures with the
Sicilian Mafia in Venezuela to tranship cocaine to Europe for distribution in the Mafia’s heroin network.

S. 1420 would continue injury and death of dolphins by an industry that has already killed more than 7
million dolphins by its pursuit with helicopters and speed boats and capture by multi-million dollar tuna
purse seiners.

Latin American drug cartels are deeply involved in the tuna industry of that

region. 8.1420 would lift the US. embargo of dolphin-unsafe tuna, would reward these drug lords and
would reopen a smuggling pipeline for their deadly narcotics. We urge you to oppose this unacceptable
legislation.

Sincerely,

55% 2;; 5/wa

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




 

'10 Colombians Convicted o

'of Mexico. The island, named for 18th cen-

 

l Narcotics: Case involved a fishing boat carrying 12 tons of the '
drug, a record for seizures by US. on high seas.

By TONY PERRY
TIME STAFF WRITER

AN DIEGO—in a case involving the
largest narcotics haul ever seized by
US. law enforcement agencies on the
high seas, a federal jury Tuesday convicted
10 'Colombians arrested- aboard a

Panamanian-registered ship carrying 12'

' ions of cocaine.

“"‘This demonstrates our commitment.to,.;.

interdict drugs whether they're at the
ports of entry or. on the high seas," said
Assistant US. Atty. Gonzalo Curiei, v'vho
prosecuted the case along With Assistant

US. Atty. Bill Gallo; “We're determined to _

track down'the trafﬁckers wherever they
are.” - .. ' , _

' The 10 'were aboard the Nataly l, a ﬁsh-
ing- trawler, when it was boarded late last
July by a US. Navy cruiser, with the per-
mission of the Panamanian government,

* The Nataly I, part of a fleet
the Cali Cartel, regu
from Colombia to Mexico,
to Mexican tuna canneries or trans
boats at sea or at islands off
Nataly I was captured by the 0.8.

operated by

of cocaine

780 miles west of Peru. The ship was taken
to San Diego, where it remains today.

The cocaine aboardthe Nataly I was .

worth $143 million on the wholesale drug
market. and probably several times that
much on the retail or street level, prosecu-
tors said. - ~

After a two-week trial before US. Dis-
trict Judge Marilyn Unit, a jury convicted
the master and chief engineer of the 112-

‘foot vessel of conspiracy tO-distribute
cocaine-and of distributing cocaine. Eight

seamen,weré convicted: of the distribution

'charge, but. the- lurﬁgould not reach a

unanimous, ,decisipn._‘ong;the ‘ conspiracy
countagainst any oi them.-

11 expert from the Drug Enforcement-

. . 'Administration;testified 'thathhipg
packed With cocaine'otten travellhe same.-

routes near the Galapagos Islands as fishing
trawlers before heading to rocky, uninhab-
ited Clipperton Island 670 miles southwest

larly carrie
deliveri

the west coast of Mexico.
Coast Guard in July 1995,

108 ANGFLFS TlMBS,MAY‘l 1996

tury English pirate John Clipperton, has a
long history as a staging ground for
smugglers. ,

Once at Clipperton, the huge cocaine
loads are broken down into smaller loads
and dispersed to smaller boats for the trip
northward. Some drug experts believe that
the illicit cargo on these smaller boats is
unloaded in Melrico into vehicles headed to
the United States.

Before the Nataly I was seized, the
record for a cocaine seizure was 6 tons
taken in 1989 from a Colombian ship.

The cocaine in the Nataly I was found
hidden in 13 secret compartments amid the
ship's huge oil tanks. It took Navy and.
Coast Guard investigators three days to
find all 24,3255 pounds of the powdery
drug. One indication, that the vessel was not
involved in ﬁshing was that no fish were

_ found aboard. . .
- {fl‘he defendants, ages 3] to 57, we'fe‘zﬂll: '
from Cali, Colombia, headquarters of the .

violence-prone cartel considered the
world’s top supplier of cocaine.

of Panamanian-registry tunaboats
d multi—ton shipments
ng the "atun blanco"
ferring the drugs to Mexican

When the
it

carried 12 tons of cocaine in cartons marked "tuna."

n, Cocaine Charges ._

 

The master of the ship, Richard
Klimavicius-Vlloria. 37, and the chief
engineer, Dagoberto Lerma~Lcrma, 67,
face up to life in prison on the conspiracy
and distrﬂoution'charges. The eight seamen,
found guilty of distribution, face a mini-
mum of 10 years in prison and a $4,000 fine.
Sentencing is set for July 29.

The charges were brought under a 1986
law that allows US. authorities to seize
narcotics from ships outside its territorial
waters. In other high-seas cases, the Los
Angeles-based 9th Circuit“ Courtioi Appeals
has ruled that prosecutors must prove that -
the drugsyvere headed for the U.S.- ' ’ '

A DE'A e'xpert testiﬁed, to the satisfaction
of Judge Huff, that the packaging on the,

cocaine was similar tothat in loads found in
the 11.8., which accounts for an estimated
300 tons of the World's annual 800— to/n con-'

sumptlon of cocaine: 2-,“: '- ~.'""-\t'-.3".- 'I':f---~.
Théjﬂataly I'WBS sé’ié and despair-arse?

the property of the .3 government'and‘
subject to sale, unless a protest is filed by
the owner.




[87.193723]
1: guy? 9

 

 

 

Las pesquisas
de los organismos
do Intengencia
descuhrferon
que en los puertos
de Ensenada,
Bale Callfomla,
I y Balboa,
Panamé’,
son
reacondlclonados
los buques ‘
con doble fondo
para ocultar
sustanclas
llfcltas
cnmo cocal'na
y destinaﬂas
a Estados Unldos
(San Diego),
Canada‘
y Europa
(Eapaﬁa,
Francla 9 Hana)

 

 

 

.
i .
m 1933:? ~.

, 5*.-33‘39
. l . ... I.
.x 0 ~ .. ..

 

 

 

 

 

,~.-",‘I.-'ol', '-\-~"‘..-{~ l"
‘ .. £_:_'.;I".3‘:r‘_l:

|

v."" '..- -‘
arm” -.

'v

‘,- ,z "is
. glﬁipﬁ‘:

1‘.
.ﬁ‘f"

._.‘
4.1

mm.

’d

res:
,m’sr"

x...

s -.
.: ﬂ
—

- I
l

Narczyimmciamiemo a Pé- z Balladares, punta del meberg .é

Empzesas moxicanas, ontré

las redes del narcotréﬁco?

O Descubren nexos azure cdrrefes d2 Cali 3: szuana

La moan del narcotnﬁ-
cantc colomblano Jose Casuﬂldn

Henna, quicn dcstinamSl mil do- '

1am para la campnﬁn dcl presi-
dent: panameﬂ’o. Ernesto Pémz
Balloons, Mold unadolas'mtns
principnlcs do {amputation dc
cocafna. a Euados Unidos, Cam-
dA y Europa. asf oomo la rclacidn
d: cmpresarios madam: invo-
lucradoa con los condos dc ’njun-
na y doC'zli qnc'u'nﬁmncon la
drag: y lava: dlncno.

De amu'do con un documemn
conﬁdanoinl do In Fiscalfa Espe-
ciallmdaenDelltos Reladonados
con Dmgu. do In Reptﬁallca do
Panama. y cnvlado tnnto a In Se~
cram-fa dc Rdaciona Emu-lore:

-comoalaPmmndmiaGcnunl

do In Renﬁbllca. la pmﬂcipacién

.danwdcnnosendu'ﬁﬁcododro-

gas so d: on varias cmpresas dc
Baja California. pmpiednd de
Gxnpo Pesqnao Rodriguez.

Ante la: pmdone: octadouni-

Miguel Badz'llo

dense: por el ﬁnancinnncmo dol

narcotm‘ﬂco a 1n campaﬁa do Péo
re: Balladarcs. el procurador ge-
neral dc Panama. Jose Antomo
80:33., so pronuncio aya- por ro-
fmmar In: lcyu do so nacidn pafs
para oxn'aditar a Cash-211623 He-
nno, aogﬁn rccommdncz'oms dcl
propio president: del pm’s cen-
Unmet-loam.

Detuvlcron a! namotmﬁcnnte
oﬁcinles do laAgenoia Control dc
Intellgencia (CIA. por su: siglns
en inglés) el 17 do abril y el ofec-
to inmcdiato yn-dlo rcsultado: cl
gobicmo panamnﬁo esté dis-
pucsto a cxtraditar a Castrillén
Henna, as! oomo a disentir la
posibilidod do mantencr la pro-
sendn milimr monunidcnse en
el canal dc Pnnmné.

Gammon Hanna :3 socio del
grupo pmqumo bajo el nombre dc
Jacinta Natalia Ruilogn 'Ibm,
con pmaporto mexicano mimexo
95320008659.

1

Dctrnidn ca Panama por la!
CIA. cl nm‘cntmﬁcznte tambiéng
utiliza lo: nombrc: falsos dc Ina
Iio César Castro Mesa y Ruben;
Burciaga Roddguez, .oon pun-i
ports: xmm'cancmj cl (1: Jorge}
Cone: Patiﬁo. con-documennmj

. colomblano. I

E! hombre. dc conﬁanza do;
Cam-111611 Homo en Mexico wi
Manuel Rodn'gncz Iona. oxide-f
cl 14 dc'cncm do 1936, con pan—1';
portsBI-4862yA—l-862 y main-5‘
Dish principal dc Gmpo quucmu:
Rodrigum. a,

La: oorponoiones pregnant-3
meme involuntadas en el Mﬂooig
do cumin: del duel dc‘Caﬁ yell
Iavado do dim son: Puqucrag
Cnrimar. Pcsquaa (Inuit. P»;
quota Quinn. PuquunMnr P229.
flco y Paquu'a Santa mm .

Esuﬁmas y [as emhmcim:
mimixm. Vlzcafnoy ElFon 50111
p-opiednd dd moximno Rodd—3
gucz Ldpa y Gunman Henna.

-'-l
.\..‘
- .

'.‘,'_ '. ,L
1:13-ﬂR-T1’flf" "

'. I. l l l '
. H¢I_hb'l‘.'_¢‘:‘,“r4 v .. ..
v. - . _ »~ ~
. 7" “

 

’," _'§-.. ' ‘ ,.
<4 .JJv- ““
.k-.,-.':-'?"- ..-

 

 

 

ﬂ-ﬂ

. a .' I'M; .‘;-‘ “

v.3.- . ,- " .. ‘--."
u _ u .. f .‘:’-~W“9LQM‘OVOGN‘A9
ﬁmwﬁﬁ Wmisltmxrmraeg

2.1-:— 1—:

 

%

 

 

Apunra imam.

Ernesto-Péraz Balladams.

Loo pains involucmdos co 1:
transportau‘m y e! trﬁﬁco dc dro-
gas: Canada. Colombia. Espaﬁa.
EStados Unidos, Punch. Gunte-
nnla. India y México.

Lns pesqulsas dc los organis-
mos do inteligmda descu‘on’eron

out: en lo: [mums dc Ensenada.
Baja California. y Balboa. Pam
mi, son rcnoondicz'onndos lo: bu-
qncs con doblc fondo para ocnltar
munch: ilfcitns como cocaine. )4
dammias aﬁsmdos Unidos (San
Diego), Canndﬁ y Europa \Espa-
ﬂa..ancia.c Imlla).

 




 

(5“)115

I5
I

1 5

 

 

 

 

 

a. '
5‘|Il‘j 5
5.|4 40”“;Ja 55) C(I‘lliUI‘Jnl) “ l‘.‘ 5) )1. . dun .~ . 4 \Jdkr|. I
all .||| HHIAQ . ..“5|(I|951|IU ( I\55I| .L (55L.( I. .l 5..( 5. 5| . | V , | | I .5
0
I’ll
t I II ‘|
I . 55. .I 51.
‘5
. 15
..E
l n .v I
' ﬂ .
55k! (.15.. ... ..
55“.
.5...
5155.. m.
15550;; I
II. 55
5559-] 511.1.- 1.5.
15’
555 . A \l . 355.51!‘ I. \ 55) .5] I»). I. ..J» .5 .5
i H” 1d“ Maul-9| 0(3.‘ 1r(n(0(| (5‘ I4 .15! 3.... 551 .5 5.5 ...ax n.555“ 51 U05 1“
1 I
”a ||314 ~90 MD J all Wu...- 51011.5) .. . .
in” (.rf‘po "a. €155 {anon-5.55 C Ul’nlr 5| 5'5! W... - .5.L..5(5..II . (l5(ll55
. . . it", [if .
..5I-n0. ‘45. I .544) 14 a..." 515 ||’|1) .Glxllﬁl‘l .. .5.
...-lad”; Macogh \Wlo ‘1..th I! A; Ilorpul‘v(o In“ ((1‘..l50(.5 ‘51 ”(It
5 . I ,
. .55 ’56.... 3.1.. .
.55.” \hﬂ .UI . 5| .. .5Hw...» £913.!) 1.1. 15515.5(.v 5-455
...-REES» uW-Eﬁn... .0.»..00 1511.1... .9. ...-0.51-... ....---.c... s .5.-
5) — 05! IL...- 1... 1 .
.v . . . 1 » 5|Il5r .
EE»».P.0»8 -..-95.9 ... -0..» -5 I1...- u... - dun-.200..- ..1.? a»: ..0 .- ..--.0»
1’ .5.
[a
||| 51 |. n|| _ f) ...-{5 . 14. 5514.00.55] 1".) 11 ’JannJ 355105..-.-
...-.. nap» u non-Ln». .0». 5» ...: .555... .. : ._ I...- z.. -5. 55....- ...»ul ...-5-
l in. C .‘ . 0
. 1| . 05 I
.5551.) l 5! 3|) ’l .. 9|) ..0‘ i 5‘ 'N .I. 1) 559 In)! “15‘th All) .. . .5
. ,5.LR5CDLHD.5((MF our-5. ...» .l I!!! 0:4... f ... I. ...... ... .... .5... kn:
“ 5 A 5 . .. .‘
v .5
. 51”“, U“ |ae| A . |5|||551|I 'f .1. .I’a.) 15
(FOR? IIIUH .....pH ...-[:8 (u:.l.1.l.. . ....-. . Lift-... ...... 5. 0 5D . -. -..-In-
.
.l . VI‘I. .1. 115'. 95. .
5. L550”! 5 4 .. In») In 5. r.. I1...1‘l11) 5511144., 9» II. V155
r5 2 . 055.0 [5 lilo. Cl 0... uI55/5(..(5l5(00.1rl55.5»55(5 d(.\.I5..(
. Inl— . ’4. II 1|! I... . .
o 1 | )5! p!!! . .. 11h
1‘ 4.170.!!! 19.! ‘ . 8 5 135.. .. 5 I.“ .l 3" 939 1'5: 1 1),)
(“30 Ada” ..).nHll {.05.l iii. 0“ 015‘ ..1..) .I 0 .‘_n» 5. . Ln“. (“1. . 5 (5155.5 11h“? ((55 ((5:55 5.515555'
313.5. l.‘ II... 555
‘3') .‘4 4H5 nulJro. 5" . .Q: .l 1.515.. J ... :14] .5) . |||DHM|D|U 5.- I
.(o‘: a“. 5‘1””: .‘ 55505.55 5|. 1. 1 5lal|ul ((5 (5 [L 5.5 5555
a o . 5‘ . l 5'. J .. I I
5.! 4 151:5 A) In. .10 .l I
.anwunoo U0." :5» 95.5.an (Janna-.5 .0 P55. .55 J55 55 .. 5.1.15 14.. .. UH .0»D..M.I( 0 U4 .. Um..- . .“INC. 5
1 15d“ 5." ....
5| I... 51!... «L1. .
. I) 1e I 54)). 1| ‘14 5. ul- 1 5 5.55.8, |J.I|| ...-5‘1 ’51. 5
5993.508 ...0.em1..o»:s:»..5. ..1....- ,... .. .... ...-.5.- .. .. 9. . :5 .. 1999.....- .0: u ...-or.
a. a. ll 51.5 1
. . 510.0! . .
I 5: \l '3‘ 51..., (5.0 L . .51 “15“”!!! \|5i I
II." “nuSDII-nfﬁhua .11.! . .1! .511..- L . 95.. . H... h... .8.“ “O L. 15.5-55.5}...
.L .11.! 3.11.11. 55 .5: 5. .
. . . .5. ’1'»- ...
:55|U...—.O1 V5|5l|nu .l5 JNS H H) . 2 .31.. 555...] 5| ....- L.“ 11LK 1151.511...J 5.)..111155 ...15
. :5 r5355... M ‘00“ .9|m [I c. .‘ 5| a 0. .. 55 |95n5||k| f5H)\.5 ......‘(5 ‘1‘ ||.
. all I: ‘5. [I ..l .J 1» 5.0. tr
5. :40 .5) 311.3) a 154‘ .1 ..1‘5 ..5- ..n.1w5113)r.
555:0 ”.8 ML bitty“ p F55.» 0’ 15.1.5.50. Inf. 1 . ...-0 II 0.1,. L
1 . . . .5‘ , I 4- 5.5 4 5|: .1. Io
15155.. .5 1. J 3 . 55I 2.0 ... . 5.555.655) - -
- .8950... (on 03......» Earn-.0.» 5.1.5.... .. w». . -....» .-.-..-..-»09 .0 - .... :5.
..l ..
. . . . l . . . I . 1.. . (I .l . .
54' (1514 no i .J 1.554 15' «5541-. 15 5-... ..- 51154: J 1551.. .11. U... . 9.
LI. ..5.£.M‘MPN§01|.|| ‘1 {(559.555 “I; mk- . (55%.: l. 5.. ...L5r5n.l11 .5 .I 1
. . . .. . .
.I- I.) e I l) . 1 .lJ‘QIJ)...‘ IJ 3 5. 1. .
1. ...» ...-$09...» 9m 09 ..0 -..E . 1...; ... .9»... --.-.-.... :- 6.» - r. .3...- -
0. .. .
1 S
- ll 9. .U.. .
.)|J J .1 o... a) 3 5.1.55} . .a Z.- .10 50 .. 1 15¢ 11.55)) )J.J1J1| 1.55.5555. 5.
.5!.(515.MH‘N5 5p «Barbs ”505(5 ..\ .55..5r5(. l (I .0. . 51.350 . | .5” ... II. (5.5 . . .5 5(5..|(15-. . .....5.
PI) ‘0‘ . . 5V . 1
. . . . 0:.“ n .I 5| #5..
55" )1’315‘ 1319!. .L. «.45 51 L45. I) ..1.) . ) . I I .I:
5.5: I.“ (575191513 (tr-0|.” (5 .550.» 5|! o 1 .55. Jr.” .1 ”1. ...l ..555. ...-”1.5 I...BU5 ...} 15h” . ..1.-.51] I
1 . 1. .
.L in: I 55 5 .
[51‘ Jib. -551 IOWA-Ina .l1555l1ac4l1lopc .2 I. 5.15. J55 .. 55'515! ...! .15).»), . 5
5 ..5Cll5 (J I'MrLrL 5.1.515 . ((55.5 .515. .l(. .(...555 ...5 ..“51r5: . . ...... 5
5..U1_\1 51‘!“ 0...), ... 5(1))... - ‘5' ..ll 5)..)115 1155.) 355)) .5 11.55 .5.
{.555 tro atvgo 1..» ..5(I(L 5... .(I \Ix.(.15.5..5..(.u. 1.555.155...-
....
I
.. .
151.511.}. \5.‘ 1.) 55)]4 . ..1- al)’)) :55 1.55.... .)
55(9I5>|b15l\ .55 g~n>95u50555| .r1...(.f.(I.o..L.w. (.1rf‘(.5.1|(5IU51...1-HU 1.5.-
. . .
AJ .595. ”NH-5H.- .JAA 13105)!)3 130555.555; . 5).)..014 n. 5155551931..
5| (1.- ..l5(‘5|| r Ir5|..1l» 5 .ILol..l .15:5|I( .5. 5.555] .
. .5. , .
.55] . 4. 55...; 1.05- . )a 1555...!) 55
It...» ”“8 C0 huh H.555 .40.“!!! (I... 5.L-5..(T-5
. . . .
.I.) 1-))1) 5c 501 \1.J.“I\1|11 .595 . Iliﬁb‘ I. I l I. 1
ll- »(0'(uruhb| f” |(JI5IV . .55 555 15.15 5.5 .. (. .5r .(I.
”5 .ma 5: 51) I D . 55.55551! . 1. .1.
15:..45 5 .nwr. 2:5.”qu 0“...“th u. 5 .....5. .ul. .I. 5. 1 -. -
I I I‘ . It
I1. .1313 1515.7 .5 )‘ollnull‘ll 55).."55 . I» 5:5(Nu .5.V I 11 5| \5 I. ~55}. . 5 |||||5. 5.4 1) Ill. || )\.| 55’. 11555-515555- .. ....5151 5 I 1
l||lv Ltd IHOE 5nr5|L 5.5 5555.5.(n5 ..(1 (I5. I( ..(5.5.L.. ...; .(ILU‘ .5\ . (Ea-””5..5 (. .555. (I I .15 Al.1l..(.5l5(....5 Id. ...(Ill-I . . .(t. 5.55:555‘. .. . .5. I. (155 |.5I55.u
. . . .I .
..Il5151]. . 11.U|)|1.5J .5. .I. .5l5555) ...)...51 5.1. 1)..) .1255 .J|5 )ll). 0. . .. 1 .. . Ax)! .» 11.555.555-551 ).5555..]55 .
.(15‘tE-0550rwqulv .55 .55 5.5(t‘9‘l lilo .\(5r5.55l55t55 .(551‘55550 ((IKrL ..1.-551. .0.-.1(»|I It .. 15. 155.5 I 15. «1 ... .515 .( . .5I»... .
.» 11551545551534 ..5...l.) . 59m” .Hrvu 5'|.l|l 41155254 55) .54 I}! I. :53 .1. 15551.) 11' 5 .5 ..IJ] l||55.)»».4 1.5.! 55091.)|)I.1 55 1
..I .rI P||l5pl§ .II‘ (chr( 75(5 (5555515.... 5 5||| 5|5555 “.50.;(55 (51.555 55.555( (51... 5 I. . I5 I .L 5.95r55(. 55l|5.| (515515 .5715! .. .
... .
51.5. .‘4)..11:)91J)..’5Ll5l|\1.50 “Ur-5.5 l5)!..|51 1|) .\.5J 155.551.5151)“ 1|}.5) ..5 ....)5 . 15 .1)..».5.5.ll55135.55 II. .5 9 lat): 5: .J 11.55551III 01.55.5541
..ILa ..LL 05(55I505pl5 5r|vtvl51 1 105555555551 ..5.5 .».IU15.515»|5 5...)» .5... (1.5 ....v .L-L 5(55U .. 5. 1555551515 .5 .I5.555 5.1.5.555 .5 ..5 If .5555..||b..((
5 | 5 5.1.. . . . . . . .
I .5 (lei-505555.551 .55 51.5.31 .1 (.....5. 1 1.41 .| .1. )111..J.\I .u1.I.1.» .J». ‘5I..1..\555J.. . .1. .-l 55 .51)..) ..55 55 ... 1.5...1. .11 .. 15)5|55.I 55.1.] |~5I| 1. 1.1.55 . . u. 51.
(5558 ”.Egrl .Il|5u.|.|||5 . 5r||l\ .55.l.55|.5“ (l5 1r. (r5l 5|\1f5 .rllLlllb Ulla. |0555|5155. .5 5~FI||5tf 5(. 55I5C..5 £r(~.\.lb .5: I. .5 It .5 (5o 55! 55 5. (0 Io.|\.55 l. 1) IP51. I“ 1. ..1.51- I .
I \ I ‘ 5 i ‘ 5| 5 5“ I .
t ‘ I 1) 55 41 154.2. .5 5‘ ..| . . ... Io 515L114 U..Ia|5ul.5a.15.5.9315..b5 515....35JII J 5.. ...J'. 5554 5.5.5.! J 5].... .553IlN1l 5.15) 5.) )510II5.15I.15 .
I‘LL”! Ishr5Ml-lwﬁ— .DFI; It.” ..In5w.. (U (”17.5 .llt5.> (5.5 (It IMF Dbl/L». 5).!55‘ |...15r.6 (..ll»»or50 55:55 .r55»). .1... .55.. f..|55 I'LL {'5‘ (5 ..P ..55|51v. .13.; I ...(J155.l .f.» I( (L |0I50>5|I5..((. 5t” .5155.-
.. a . . - . .
I 15» 5)) 5'... < 1' 5. |11¢l|n 33: I55.) I. 3‘ »| .55 -..: ..I ..III)‘ I . ‘J ’1||||a « I||Iu.| Ill|155.4 55.1 I 5 5
5» TLHuHHDOI-MUEIB N55. ..2... r5n1l5.» udnwnun.5 .55..l.. Idlm..(...0 .5 .55 ,..5 ....(Ilﬂﬂﬁnv. ..55.-..HH.15 .31 UL?“ ”1155 . (1 ...CUI (.5. ..5 (...-5:52... 2155.... .55. .Iﬂu dun-”H... 5.. 5
I55...:| [AIJ‘1’1I 519?); .).I.054|l..JHV4.J.J.\I..1101<.5J» Ae.‘ 50311550} .)5I|55HWI.5 .9». 1)]1J ...l .... 1.51205: (51 5541031113 0.! 4.) 5‘. ..1|.I5l5l I.)— . 4...n14..))
. (5'55 ((5555555555‘15‘5ﬂrbr5‘r151555 \5(.»5‘.5 5(5...L ...(55 .0J5I5rr5lr (KI-.055 (L .(1 11.55.15.555 5151 ..Ir... 5.. 1555') I55 5..» -.It...I. ..(5 1.5.2551...
. . . 15 .. . . .5
5|. ‘1 .J‘c ‘55 Ho}. 1! 5 5| |--§|\4 1 6' 10 \J ..1)..1555....—s.4 5.! .. 350)...) 111-. 5' . - ..J).l|| '5‘) . I .55.: I.) .5||. 5 55.555 1 - I
.515ﬂ . ar..»(|gl|h “agar-La». ..HO‘Dom’LIU ”WM. U.rl (Bu.| url|l0rIIanp Fr» LLLOI.| 5|. 5((. {on .150 0.5. 5555 L L (55 ..l(ll.5 \Lr‘k 151.5 -r(I|0_MI (n é..\. 55l.|1. 1 5 I (”raw .» .5Inr| .Ilw \ 5.5 551‘! . H .
.. .5. . \ 5‘ . .
JJ3 ...»! (I ‘Jwaclhilllbrm- ugmnlilawu AJ ..4 J1|5r3 .151:| . ..A..l5}l . .11.”), In, 1 |..v... .u. ) .|’.I ..55513}.J 30.5 .14 . 1|
52..U-5IV»O. «1555.15.58 (.555! I|5l 30F!“ .rlhr50 (15152.5 ..55 (..--15 1((HU L9Hl1.5555 5.35 (ILC££ . .(55 . u..5...L (...... .551...- .LII..(5L~(( .. 555.5..55 .5I.5.. 5.5
. . . . . I . 5‘ . .I I .. .. . 5 . - ..
3’1'14‘) 9.». .5. “ll .4 r’lulxd 5“ 5.155.); 51‘1U .5. 51. 45. 5 5 .U 55... . . a . J]: .51 v 5. 5441' 1315.1. .5 I 1 515
Lxﬂuh .p ‘fﬂpf‘flLD Bnrlnulu (I. ...u5515 .t Pr» (5» 5"“ (5'5 ILI‘I.‘ uLfm»: ...frv. I5H5HN59HNU 515 hr...) (Ln! LC HULLEUl rﬂnrolhtmlun r555 Altr 1((.r\n.f»5H.‘4. 1.5“..H555“ 5h.. .55.
15 . . . . I 2 5 I!
11055 0| 4 . I: .514 151541 ‘\l»4|\l 111.. ..J. 111.5) 1.! aslla) 5.51.) ...I l ulwlirllu I.) “515.515 111.455. ..1.) . . |
qurfwolno .WHR” Ira“ V315 M .3 C550 L 905! 5;” £5 Mom rloJ‘Io. I} .lovvd 5....Urzll' 5|.r55155 05415..” (55' .0555!“ (15...: Is .15! Dr\ 5|» (M 5“». OIerlns.(r\. 5.555 (I. 1 ”Uncut.” J55
L .5 5 .
. . A
55.130 5.1)) 55 L. 515) ”‘5...¢ .J\515 1)); 51.951. ‘01).) 513.5510») . I)... )..Uﬂ<
AIKLLH. m PH ...HI.( (I. ((I5(55.5ILI I...( (II. (>I..l.I5,LA.\ 5.5.515... .55. . I55..:5 ill"

.50.»...0 Fun-.9» 0.0 T. 0090» an.»

.105le

 
 
 

  

  

0.95.- 1.0.9.9..

5’.I.I.l.‘rl.'ln|..l1.l.5.| .... . ...-....
l'.
1..I..H.-w.1l. ..-. \_.55(..55 .1.)... . I. ..

.55....05 {\lsa‘55155

5.055.155.53CIn.

on. crww»w9.»x..3.15»r.3 “...-m... 9»

...o‘ ..r. 117.5515. .-

     

...}...I

 

...5

 
 

9?. ...-EN. 990.95 IFEmu-mLEB 93090 09...»... . WE ....»- 0.19.1.5 ... . ,0
.1..5..5....1I...I...u. mum—.T ﬁt L LI. 1.

urn-.1»... 08.88 ....» 0......- ”um-5.9.. 9.. .00..» ”9.0109 E ...-.010 ...-1.. 5...»..an. 5E0.- 9939.31.55...- ...»...qu .--.-

{Wk-.1... 55549.5 5.. .55.. . . ,.....- ..... .

I. .PQAHHJ ”h Wyn. ”\J’14..11.1|||.W DUI.

(

5......- Emnn-Ev. 3.080.909 ...80. 9890» .9530 mm...
.3.» E9999 99.0. 9.» 08.9990» 5.009%. 00 5.80.993.- mm».

. 0...- mg“. @693»... 009-40390. 9.» 50909», 9.....ch 1.985....»

98093999.. x999 9.»».u ...-.990550599 103899..» . ...mw 90.00 00:00». .90» r...- 2......
E9059 3: 5094080» .... .0.» 0.9% ,.m» Emma. Emma». mu... #099580» GEE»? ... 8.008 r»- mnaomﬁ 0...... 9
9 CEo3. Paw-3059.» 0049.93.53 3:95 www.mu €030 Emmgomxmmnnne» 80 8083 00360508.

SEE 9.5-» now-end...- »nnﬂoaﬁt ISL...» wan-0&9
mm 0.990»...- .5599. ... 0.399.999» 9099...»?-
Ho 0.433.930.9915 09353.». 009.. 9.8.. @9990» nod-990»
9.1-.» 90 9003.05 00329999 1000999». 993E890...
C9990». 33-9.. 9.30. 0992.999 9: 1089mmmwggndnm.
..UCW». nah-M5 PmQ. ”IUD-g . ...:
mu 89h nounEE». 03:09. anaﬂwmmmo. m. mduﬁao

9033.90.59. 9». gang. 9... .099»... pmw. 9E»... 50339.»...ommu ..u.

3:38» <.. .09....- 0.9.9.9 .m».0.»..»._. 0.0.9.08 90939». 93.0.00»-

99» 998mm». .969» .8900J... REESE-990 m9»? 8.9.». 9-9.... w». wecﬁae .0995-9 550......- 0.9 .0.» .9999...
589030 .9909... 08-» 0.9.3050 .099. 0 0030390830.». 08.0999. 98.0.98». 09 v.58» 989.59 99» 990
..U Maggie m.» 3935,.» E990 95.9.» 9099.0 5.25» ﬂea-WEE. $5.». «.909»... 00.3.0 5 08.....me .H» 99.0mm
9005mm 9098:»E59E519w9899 WEBB» 88905» ... L5... .

.680 99.93.08». 299008» .090»09E09...1,9990099 und-... ........ ...-595900» .9»... G)... . r .0» 409890.» .099093510
.0988. 999.190.20.00 999.03.... 900..» .999 ...-....»xﬁusnsn 0.0908. 9991.2» H.990.»

0995-4008310 d ...».nJ .08.-»
9958-908 ...-E09»» N0.- .9396. .90.» 00955-

5014 1|...111:

Lll.ll.\15

57.1....

"....5A55Y5.5..|l
...—.—

9...»... .9. @998.» 089698... .-...e m 9.09956 .9999».

$38..
.. .999" 9990...»
.9380 99m»- .6». 18.099830» 035009890900: 88..

9589...». 9999390999

.55»:

”REED.

:8... .n:.

9.9 m0.» 0.9.05.9 P29. 090.

3.9

 

. .

 

13.03:. ...-“mm... . ...».0..m&...1&r}»pi .......0..».

on. 01%. mar 55.00.

09. 09.9.»...

.0.-.‘31. . .5
.- Fun» .8m»..».m.6»5 0.9000 n m» zen-.358 Hanan-Mo. W055
...Euonpne UmEenEnne. 0». 9.950.. 8.08090» 80008 L. ......5...

. m»

   

$929.50» 9050898 92.109“...- .wmenu.» 080E008»

...-b. “nu-0.». ...»...9»- E99390» 88 00955300..» ..m...0»»

....5u55.-o.r.05....lt .
T 2

  

...
.UNIII

 

.l..»..-.

.9955 9.15.5300

   
  

...5...».:C....“..15.5[..n
..me (.5 Daman|l5D|mEpB| 38050 .\55|ul(h1|l
.0» ..E 0» 9903...». ...-5.98.»: 908099.009»? .09 Eula-..1.. .,

.9¢.0mr»-m..w..ruﬁuﬁ-on 9-0..» ...»mm0w. ...-......rnm

.—

..(...1|

”map-9m.-

....uIL»—.(5m.5qlha.d . . ..I....
.340 09-. :- 88 90908.50...» .0» 000..

...L.. ..L5I4 .1: 1.: ....
£9.39 599059..» 095....» ...»...

LJWWDPOJNLDJNH

LU? XII-.3110". 50.5555 5. .0.... l. .0. 1.. 5 525. I,

.mmmuwann 99%....» . ...-em.» 95: .. I .09.de
I...» “.0.-D»

41.05anth

1.9.. 352:; .. 5..

LI'IJ :1...”
053» 1.....90590588900088 003M999...
mné “MIN/1.2!! . .5I5151.
tfuk14....

gammy-B... 69.00 C ... 09.398.99.- 1.».- .9...
9. mam-0- 89.30 B93309? c munch-095.13»-

9.809...» 9.0.30. 95E 9 2.5.8908: 9...;

.U
.
11.3.55)

.5

. R5508 Iggy 95»...- ... mane.» .0.-9019.9.

. em..«4uu»»»%39»5 ...-29 mg» ...-.99.. 13.. WEE. ..--

..- < 0.090 $.08 9009.83.» 01.03» ”...-mm.» ....»mb-n. mnwnwun.
5.0.. .90.... ”Wk-mm... 99.0...» .....E.. mam. 83800» 099.... 5.5m ...-E

909%.»? ;....-.

:5... . .).5‘oé.ue 924‘. 1010.5 In. 5.01.3.1
-. ...m.».»........ . ......, ham-.9588».- oanruduu» 99...»...
0 E»... ..1....» H03. 0». .0.-:9. .

0»- MR» ... G
“So.
E50»

..H—sﬂ. . IWWIJII—

‘51

1

H. .nwwbl

nxnbrf

...-m.- :0»

l5..I\1..
...501




El Financiero.(nexico City)
5 July 1996 (Translation)

DJIEDCICZJLIQ (EtbdePJLlIIIEES 2&IKCDIIC3
GPIIIE IDEQIJC§-UPEZJKI?I?IKZI(IJ§(3 liIBUDVUCJEZFCEE

- Narco~fihancing of Perez Balladares, tip of the iceberg
- Ties discovered between the Cali and Tijuana cartels

Investigations by'the'intelligence agencies revealed'that ships are
refitted with double hulls at the ports of Ensenada, Mexico, and
Balboa, Panama, to hide illicit substances such as cocaine, for
shipment to the United States (San Diego), Canada, and Europe
(Spain, Eaamcs,.:aad-. Italy) - .

9 " ‘ ' by Miguel Badillo

The arrest of Colombian drug trafficker Jose Castrillon Henao,
who funnelled USS 51,000 to the company owned lag Panamanian
President Ernesto Perez Balladares, revealed one cﬁi,the -main
transportation routes of~cocaine to the United States, Canada, and
Europe, as well as the relationshiproE Mexican businessmen involved '
with the cartels of Tijuana and Cali who traffic in drugs and
launder money. -

Based’ on a confidential document of the Office A the
Prosecutor for Drug—Related Crimes of the Republic of Pan and
sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Oificc the
Attorney General (Procuradurfa General de la Republics), the~
participation of Mexicans in drug trafficking takes place in
several companies based in Baja California owned by the Grupo
Pesquero Rodriguez (Rodriguez Fishing Group).

In response to U.S. pressure brought to bear in response to
the drug—money iinancing CHE the Perez Balladares campaign, the
attorney general of Panama Jose Antonio Sossa, spoke favorably of
amending ﬁanamanian law to extradite Castrillén Henao, based on
recommendations of President Perez Balladares himself.

Castrillon Henao was detained by Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA) officers on April 17, and the immediate effect has already
yielded results: the Panamanian government is willing to extradite
Castrillén Henao, and to discuss the 0.8. military presence in the
Panama Camel. ‘

Castrillén Henao is a partner in the fishing group under the
name Jacinto Natalie Ruiloga Tovar, with. Mexican passport
95320008659. '

Detained in Panama by the CIA, Castrillon Henao also-goes by
the pseudonyms Julio César Castro Meza and Ruben Burciaga
Rodriguez, with Mexican passports, and Jorge Cortez Patiﬁo, with
Colombian papers. ' .

 




authorities are_expected to make the necessary demands.

Just days before the celebration of the international struggle
against drugs, members of the French intelligence service came to
Mexico confidentially to collect inﬁormation on some Mexican
companies in Baja California, which is territory of the Arellano
Felix family'cartel, involved‘in transporting cocaine ingMexican
waters and in money laundering.

The French police also brought a complaint in their briefcase
against the CIA, because of its untimely intervention in the
detention of a Cali cartel man in Panama—~Colombian-Jose Castrillon
‘Henao—-as it impeded the arrest of an entensiVe“networ&Wofdtoﬁtacts
of the Rodriguez Orejuela brothers (held in Colombia) in at least
seven countries of the Americas and Europe.

Nonetheless, that hasty arrest, which ledtxithe revelation'of
drug money contributions to the campaign of the Panamanian
president, was more in the interest of the United States, as it
allows the U.S. to bring more pressure to bear on the Perez
Balladares administration, as is now the case with Colombian
President Ernesto Samper Pizano, who Washington seeks to force out
of office in light oﬁ findings that his presidential campaign also
received drug money. !

This intervention by the CIA in Panama, entailing violations
of Panama‘s national sovereignty, brought to a halt the
international investigation into 23 wide—ranging drug-trafficking
network involving citizens of Colombia, Panama, Mexico, the United
States, France, taly, and Spain. '

,On sticking its nose into this matter, the powerful CIA had
two aims in mind: to reveal Perez Balladares as one whose.campaign
received narcoﬁinancing to pressure him on the iSsue of the
extradition of drug traffickers, and to.hindergthguinyesmigatiye

efforts of the intelligence agencies of other countries, tncluding
Mexico.

Could it be that other presidential campaigns in Latin America
have received money from.drug-trafficking? The CIA.has the answer.

#—

 




 

WI IVIunucl lImIrigl’w uslm:/., gnqtsnnam mmru

“7‘“. ____._- o. .‘....._._...._...__._ - -w ._.._.._

 

Arraign IIIII'IIIIYII7&1me It‘an {IKE-45 at:
um conls‘lcw (IN WIN 4; I m I‘l‘aalis

(Tilu I’éu‘cz Silva I.:.I Lu I’Imgm’mlml'n (imm—
IuI do In chﬁhlicu (l’( iII) munlium: cu emai-
go (Iin‘niizili‘au‘iii, duals cl pusgulu 'vimncs, iII
lucsuulu nawglmlicauuc IvIgumézl len’gucz
L6pcz, couluclp on México (IcI columhizum
Insé Cushilléu llcnyau), sciiuladu (:(mm mm
(lc Ins (Iirigcnlcs (Icl (:(irtcl (In: (Bali.

A an v02, cl lnsliulln ”Nucionul pun: ‘ cl
Combine a 1:15 Drogzis (INCH) ascguré (Ii—
vcrsOs bicncs con un vulnr superim' 11 I03 I5
milloncs .(ld (Iélarcs, pmpicilad (Id-Rosin“
gucz Ibpcz y Cusu‘ilk'm Hanan). I

155“: IIIIIIIII) upcrulm cu (liwzrsm calmlus (Icl
mule y cuulro dcl puis, usi mum on cl Dislli
In Federal, mnpurmlo cu (Incumcnlns apémi-
I'ospmnu Iicuncias (II: mmh‘xcir, pusupuuus,
czulillas (IclIScrvigzio Mililur Nacional y nuns
(Ia IIuCIIIIICIIIO, Imslu su :nl‘u‘cl‘lCnskﬁn‘cn I’mm-
snﬁ'cl pusudu I7 gI-c quiI, I0 qlu: II) pcnnilm
:quIIII'II‘ 'imnuclﬂcs y paulicipzn' cu “Hunting
diversos, c inclusn pusm' cmnu ImImjauIm mu
rcgislm «Igl Segum Suciul. ‘

El cnmisiunzuIn"(lul “It ‘I ), Izwiur IK'InIinu
Ruiz, inlhrum qua min my (:nmzluyc In muni—
guzutidu pmvin (‘UlI(2!.|)(IIIIII(.‘IIII:, luzm Imv
vulizlz; limzus (k; invarglnguth’m an Inn um; .21:
pl'cruunc cl mm (L: inrsgiuutinma Inuuzauims
IIICXICZIHZIS pulu npul‘ilciunus (II: [awn/u (II;
(“Hum pm' mm: (It: Rudlfgmzx I .(II)(:/., 2151’ ('n-
um I21pmliuipmziriuIII:zagguulumlc Isl I'm“. In
Imlic'ml I‘mlmnl an In mun-H in” (II; :.u:.~ “I“?
HICIUIICS (III IIaIIicu III: IIIHlIIIIIII. .‘IIH umhzugen.
nclzud qm; Imam In mm “nu lmy ningglm in
(liciu ni Mum” (gm; mlzugimu; n umntus «In: In
I’I'iR con CI pl'cmmlu Imurmlulimmlu.

AILI'UIQII IIIIC «:I inrulilulu (mum: ‘s‘qm- Imlm
upmuuimwb (III: lmnsIun-Jum (IL: «In/Lana) an
m; Imm’un u lmvés «In; imlimL'imugrs Iinumﬁ-mr.
IIIZSIIU ("nImuhiu y pmmlmn pm Méxiw Inna
IIugiu it I:IIIIIILIII,1'|5IIIIIIIIUIICIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'II III.
lim'u'm (luv. lumbiéu pursnlmu |HII Miaxiuu I"'
m It'uu'mu n I ‘nlmuIJJ"

 

I I mad.) III- I3u;.IIIII\3H I IHIIIIU

I‘m I'I mumnz III'. lam mum!Iuyuuimutu, (Iiin,
nu Im :.I«Iu lmullnh: nlmzan ”ninth; ('nlnun'AS
In luluzmn LZIIIIU (:I nuniuhnIhtunlc: (:nInnI
IIIRIIII) y IimIIIgIIUJfI (Spa/“,Inm) MHHHVH (1m:
Lu; ()ln n.u:inm::; III: Inz'lIiru III; «:ncau'nu ‘IIW
zunlun. n-nIIJqum pm‘ mm ”Ivpnzmtnlulmu
mm. (Iv In W” Innlu'imnm.~; runniduagu qm:
I‘M“ lull rI put; [MI In W Ivmernz".

I'Iu nImIanIu, rm ununlu um IIIIUIIIIIILII’HI
_-.qu..n-..m-. pun uIinmau' I'Ihi imlugucz. I 0-.
I“?! m: ('I lnIIH ilml auxin II..'. I “ugllillén ”cum;
pm «I I'M-‘- Itl Immuunn m, QIIILiIlHIli, :uImi
ulnlnmIm «II: IAIT; (-mlumu‘; I '.muturmll/mlmu
\’r.|;u'<I\'-. 3' INS luxulucms I 'mllnzu', Sum” In
um, I 1pm; 31 Ilium, Ins I Illem; :npzmtnlmmzu
II: rum IIIIII/mIJ‘. lmm I: .III& .I II.: (Innzgur; y [u

I.IaI.' II" sIHu'iu

 

1,53 Imnmlu
Méxicn

I2 DIE E‘SIEITI'IIEI‘JIIIIE HIE I996

h'lilltmcs (Ic III'IIaHrs (an
Immtus umxinums

lil cumisiunmlu (ch II'ICI) indicé qm: RmIII—
gun I .(muz cs milu un puqucim etsluhml cu Iu
caulcnu dul IuiIicu dc commit pun/ﬁnial“: (II:
(Julmnhia;'5iu cutlnugn, ppscl’at Inicncs mun:
bias 0 immuchlcsum uu vulur Slipcrim a: In:
I5 millnncs dc «Idlmqg aulqmz’ls (k: impunqu-
lcs sumas on (Mums cucnlux Immzzuias.‘ '

I’mcisé quc Cu I994 RCxIl'l’gucz Ilpclalm a
In Scumlzu‘iu dc Ilucicmlu quu Imlu’un (ZCSZIIIU
sus actividadcs cnuwuziaIcs, pum (Ic micro
do I993 11 I996 him (Icpésilns pm' unis III: 8
milloncs (IC'pcsos, unicuIms run; an I993
I‘ucu‘m pm’S millou¢s (IL: (Idlaucs.

Adgmils rcznlizéklivcrsas Iranial’cwniuins (Is:
300 mil 3; 200 mil (Idlm‘cs a cucums [an I‘u~
neunz’l, Niwvu .Ymk y Frunciu, cu Incgmjus
quc upm‘unlcmcnlc cstzllmn wlawiunmlns cull
zu:livi«|zulus pcsqucxuri

Insistié cu quu Iu iuvcsligacidu cslzI uhicr-
Iu, Izmln cu I0 qua 5c ICIIUG ul lrz’lIiczu (It: (Im-
gm; (:mm) nI Invade: (IL; (Iincm, y maneinm')
qm: nu Imy cu Méxicu ulmu (INIUIIIIIUS utlu
«innuulun mm (250:; ildena.

IIquIggucz I 6pm., launhién cnumzidn «:mnu
Iil ('L'umpmh‘c, El Maximum y [El ( 'upi, m: u“.—
(Iliuul‘lq m} £111“ng (Igglg'lipiliuqip 'tgu‘ I .2: I‘m,
Huiu IkxIIInmiu .‘Sm‘, IIIiIIIIII) a In gmvmlml II.)
Inti dulilns pm Ins quc 36 IL; alcusu, y “nl h:
mm' IlllIlI.l(IU dc quc pmlicm mm’luuzlm: a: la
maid“ (II: In jusliciu (Indus Ins unilliplms u;
an .‘jHﬁ mm qm; uncnlu”-

I ,u InuaIi'nuziCSn (Icl imnllpiuln _y (:I magma
IIIICIIII) «Ix: nus hiuucs I’m: Ictsullaulu «L: nun
invursligmziéu iuiuimlu cu uInII, lqun (It; In
ulmﬂlunrsitin 4L: .lusd (Tushilléu (:u I‘anumai.

Vcd. “2mm

 

 




Nara)

IIIIIIIiIII'Id III: III II Ig’iIII‘I I

IIiLIIcs EISL‘gIIIIIIIIIb‘

Ii IIIII: IIJS IIIUIICS IIIII: IILIEIIIJ I:: II; “III. I\ IIIIZ‘ .I II;
IIIIII IIICIIIIIIIIII) III pic iIllIII) IIIIILIIIIIIIII: IIIIII: III:
LIIIIICIIIIIIII IIIS IIIKIIIUS IIcSIIIILiIIS V .I. aim),

1:1 SIIIIzal y Rinbﬁ HIS IlIIC pL ..‘IIIIIIIIL‘L‘LII IIII'II-. .

LIIIIIJS cu IIIS IIIIIIIIII: 5 III. I [HICIIII IIItI‘iIIII I-iIII‘
II)S,(3|I15IIJEICIIIIIIHIIIIISIII

()II‘IIS IIcs CIIIIIIIIII'IILIUIIL‘S IXJSQIII; HIS —- (p‘I'
pic’s luliami Malia y I (Julia-«3 LIIyIIs II'IIIII-
Iuciuuus IIICIIIII IIOIIIICINIEIS III: CSIU IIIIICIEIIi
IIIICIIIU Ic j'III IIIiCnIIIII; IIIIVI:I;IIII;III I: II BIIIII’II III;
AIIIIIIIgIIs cu cl I’IIIIIiL‘II, ..I: :(IIligki‘Il III IIIIL- IIII
III: ILII5I1III'IIIII, IIIIIIIII IIIIIIII III III: III .IIIII IIII-x .:I I II
IIIIIpIIsinIiII III: III aIIIIIIiIIIIII IzmIcspIIIIIIiI: IIIL‘

“.vw—n.—4‘- __.___._ -.. -..» .s .L-.. ... “""""‘".' “-..—-.-“

 

 

.‘IIIiIIIinIIIII, lIIL II:;I:I;IIIIIIIII y 5L1 I..III:III:IIIIII
IIIIIII: IIIIII III III I’II'x. I:I )IIII; III: IIIiII IlIrMIII
qua, III iguul I‘IIC II»; I Ims IIIIVIUS I15; II aqui—
INIIII) IIIII IIIIIIIciIIIIs SISICIIIIIS‘ I III: IIIII'chII: iIIII
y III: I: I‘HIIIIIIICIII :iIIII vi II SIIIIIiIIz.

IIII (IIIIIS III I iIIIII ; II III( I) IOIIIIIIIII) II II
I’IIIII IIIIII ZIUIUIIEIVI: II|III (mum IIIIIIIL‘IIII III:
IIIII llliIIlIUIIil XIII lII,y IIII IIIzliilIIIIILIII II‘)()
III. II IIIIIIII III I/ Ii II, IIIIIIIIII IIIII )IIII I V, IIIII:
IIIIizI‘ III: IiIII:II IIIIIIIiIzilIIIIcII III; kiiiliiuuu. I II
”$1.9“ I.IISI‘III'IIIIII,IIVIUXILIIIII y III I’II'L

I‘IILIIIIIIIII “cum;

I: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIsIIIIII'III I III [IICSU‘ LII I’IIIIII-
IIIZI III IIsIIIIII III: IIIIIICI IiIIIIIII:iIIIIII con 50 mil
IIIIIIIIc:I LII LIII: (INC 5 III I:I'IIIIpIIIIII pII siIIL-III iIII
II: I: .IIIL. :III I'cII:‘/. IIIIIIIIIIIIII:.; , quicu IIIL'IEII III-
IIIIII iIIVItsiigIII: iIIII III: I phi II‘IIIIL‘I IcI: iIIiIIII uszis;
IIIIIIIIuIiIIIIIti; IIuIII :III: gum IIL-SI:IIIII>I:I:I IIIIL
su bane/Inna: IIIcIII IIIIILIIIIIIliItzII‘IIIz.

IIIII NIIIIS IIIII I)I\II IAIN)“ A I’III_.IIUNIU IV IIII I)

lIIiIi/II Cll I‘IIIEIIiIx) IIIII;IIIIII:IIIIII:iI’III IIIiLiIII
I‘IIIS'II CUII Ins alias IIIIiI) (Iésur (TIIIIIII) Mum,
IIIIIIéII IIIII'CI'JLII RIIdII’gIIcz, ,IZIIEIIIIU HIIIIIIIII
I‘I'IIilIIgII 'l'IIvIII‘ y Juigc 'CIII'Iés I'Iuiiiu.

Hugo II IIIIcrIII an 113in CIIIIIIM'IIIII SIII‘. 'I'II-
IIIIIIIliIIIIII, VcIIIianL, 'MicIIIIIIcI’III, ("fIIIIIIIIilII,
SIIIIIIIIII y cl Disliilu FIZIICI'III iISIKLIIIIIU (ill I“
VLZHiiIS LIIIpIcsais [usqucms L'IIII “(Hill’slul I
I I'Ipcz, (luiL'II funglai CUIIII) IIIIIIIiIIisIIIIIIIII

AIIIIIos sun IIIISCIIIIIIS pm su pnIIiILIpIII: iIIII
L-II cl III’IIinII dc cucI'II'IIII, IIIIIIspIIIIIIIIu put VI’II
IIIIII iIiIIIII III13III:( ("IIIIIIIIIIIII III’IIIIZI IIIII’sus ItIIIIIII
('IISIII IIiItII, '2IIIIIIIIII IL‘IIIIIIIII y MCIIIILII [Iii
I'd IiIIIIIIIIL-IIII: scr iIIIIIIIIIII: iIIII cu lisIIIIIIIII
IIIIiIIIIs y IiIIIIIIIa. .

SI: CIIICUI'II quc. (.‘usIIillI’III IIIIcnIII (20“ um
IIIIIII (ICIIIISIII IOU cIIIlIIII'éIIciIIIII::;, incluycII-
IIII IIIIII::IIIs IIIpiIIIIs y yIIIcs III: IIIjII. SII mm
III: iIIIIIILIIciIIC(IIIIpIcuIIIII ‘IIIIIIIIIIi'II, I’aIIIIIIIII
ITI‘IIsIII lIiimj-IELII’II’IIIII; IlnnIlIIIIIs y‘Méin: II

Iraq» LI.

. I
Il,‘,...'
~ '.I',

-1o~.n... ~u~
\v”!"""'~

.. .131. .

:‘JJ
*snnp-mu
In, \I' ~--'.

. . 1ﬁnh";ngi_g‘}‘{.; .:‘ 3“. zii'”,ii
U” “ENG” IIGSIIIIGIO y una IGSIIIUIMJIEI son [IIIIIII III. IUS Menus b. WI! VIIIUI' LIIIIUIIIII II IIIII In IIIIIIIIIIIIII III.‘ IIIIIIIIus, IIIII: Ia PIUI. IIIaIIiIIIa GIIIIBIIII III.- III Hupnhliuu III:LI: IIIILI') III [)lt.‘ )lIIIIU IIIIII. IIII'a~
IICIIIIIII MIIIIIIIII ROIIIIgIIez Iwépcz uliIIII LI (‘ urn/uni”: qIIiI.II pIIIIII IIIIII I I. IIIIjII iIHIIII’II IIIIIIIiI iIiIIIIII III:: III: Ll vicmeu III IIII-IIIII

 




La Jornacla (Hexico City)
12 Septenber 1996 (Irgnglgtion}

Hanuel Rodriguez Lopez, alleged narco
House Arrest in Baja California Sun: for

Call Car tél Cointract

by Ciro Perez Silva.

'Nne Gifice of the Attorney General (Procuraduria General de la
Republics) has kept under house arrest, since last Friday, alleged
drug trafﬁicker Manuel Rodriguez Lope-2, a contact in Hexico or
Ilolombian Jose Castrillon Renae, who is said to be a leading figure
in the Cali cartel.

. At the some time, the National Institute for Drug Control
(Institute National para el Combate a las Drogas, INCD) attached
several assets with a total value of more than 15 million dollars,
which are the property of Rodriguez Lopez and Castrillon Henao.

Castrillon Henao operated in several states of northern and
central Mexico, and in the Federal District, using false documents
such ems drivers’ licenses, passports, National Military Service
cards, and birth certiﬁicates, until he was apprehended in Panama
last April l7.‘ This enabled him to acquire real property and
participate in a variety of businesses, and even pass himself 055‘:
as a worker registered with the National Social Security Institute.

INCD commissioner Javier Molina Ruiz reported that the
preliminary investigation has yet to conclude, but there are
several.lines of investigation in which it is presumed that Mexican
banking institutions were used tor money laundering by Rodriguez
Lopez, and that Federal Judicial Police agents participated in
protecting their cocaine trafficking operations. Nonetheless, he
noted that to date "there are no indicia or data" relating agents
or the Office of the Attorney General to the alleged drug
trafficker. -

He added that the Institute is aware “that there were
operations (to transfer dollars) carried out through financial
institutions from Colombia, which passed through'hexico on their
way to France, as well as to other parts of Europe, that also
passed through Mexico to return to Colombia." ‘

Considering the stage of the investigations, he said, it has
not been possible to determine when the relationship between the
Colombian drug trafﬁicker and Rodriguez Lopez began, but he held
that the cocaine trafficking operations that both carried out at
sea "represented more than we could consider passes through Mexico

1

 




'by land."

Nonetheless, sufficient information is in hand to state that
Rodriguez Lopez is Castrillon Henao's main partner in Hexico. He.
is also the administrator of the companies ,Comercializadora Velarde
and the fishing boats Carimar, Santo Tomas, Cipres, and Kine, which
apparently were used for drug trafficking and money laundering.

Hillions-of dollars in Mexican banks

The INCD commissioner indicated that Rodriguez Lopez is only a
small link in the chain of cocaine trafficking from Colombia.
. Nonetheless; he held personal and real property with a value

greater than 15 million dollars, in addition to large sums‘ in
various bank accounts.

He,noted that in 1994 Rodriguez declared to the Hexican‘
Treasury that he had ceased his commercial activities, but from
January 1993 to 1996 he made deposits for more than $8 nullion
dollars, while in 1353 they were for 5 million dollars. .

In addition, he performed several transfers of 300,000 and
200,000 dollars to accounts in Panama, New York, and France, in
businesses that apparently were related to fishing activities.

He emphasized that the investigation is open, with respect to
both drug trafficking and money laundering, and he mentioned that

no one else is in prison in Mexico in connection with those illicit
acts. .

Rodriguez Lopez, also known as El Compadre, El exicano, and
El Capi, is under house arrest in La Paz, Baja California Sur, due
to the seriousness of the crimes he is accused of, and due "to the
well—founded fear that he might slip away from the action of
justice given his abundant resources." ‘

Locating the accused and attaching his assets were the result

of an investigation begun in April, after the apprehension of Jose
Castrillon in Panama. '

Property attached

Among the property that had been seized from the alleged drug
trafficker as of Wednesday are the fishing vessels Vizcaino, El
Sauzal, and Kino, which remain anchored at the docks of the port of
San Carlos, Baja California Sur. '

Another three fishing vessels, Ciprés, Juliana Maria, and
Calafia, whose crews were notified of this legal procedure while
navigating in the Bahia de Tortugas, in the Pacific, are-being
taken to the port of Ensenada, where they will have to remain at
the disposition of the respective authority.

2

 




?

Similarly, the luxury yacht HcMax was attached and is anchored
at La PaZJ it, like the other vessels, is equipped with modern
navigation syst ems and Systems for communication via satellite

In other actions, the INCD located and attached a Cessna model
182 aircraft with registration XBCHF, and a Bell model 47 6- II
helicopter, registration XBPFV, in addition to five properties of
Rodriguez Lopez in Ensenada, Mexicali, and La Paz.

Castzilldniﬂenao

The Colombian, CastriJlOn, is in prison in Panama, accused of.
having financed the presidential campaign of Ernesto Perez
Balladares with USS 50,000 in checks. Perez Balladares, after an
investigation, accepted that he had received these contributions

but stated ghe was unaware that his benefactor was a drug
trafficker, Z .

Castrillén uses false of: icial documentation . series with
the aliases Julio Cesar Castro Mesa, Ruben Burci Rodriguez,
Jacinta Natalie Ruiloga Tovar, and Jorge Cortes Pat

He came to Basics to operate in Baja
‘Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Michoacan, Coahuila, Sinaloa, a;
District, as a partner in several companies with Rod
who served as administrator.

Both are sought for their participation in the
cocaine, transported by sea Er om Colombia to coun
Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, and Mexico, with final
United states and Europe.

(0 U) f'h

It is estimated that Castrillon has a fleet with as many as
100 vessels, including speedboats and luxury yachts. ~is area of
.hnfluence includes Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica,‘Ecuador, Honduras,
and Me xico.

st

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

October 1995

Dear Friends,

The Endangered Species Act is under fire in the U.S. Congress” I
hope you will help keep this excellent legislation on the books.
You and your friends, and if you're a teacher or student, the
members of your class, can all help right now and in the coming
weeks by writing letters to the Representative from your
Congressional District urging support for the Endangered Species
Act without weakening amendments. All Representatives may be
addressed at: House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515.

U.S. law protecting endangered and threatened species is the best
legislation passed by any nation. We mustn't let greedy vested
interests weaken it. The enclosed publication recently issued by
our companion organization, the Animal Welfare Institute,
provides accurate information for your use.

The next edition of the Endangered-_S.pe_ei_e§_-ﬂandho.9_k which you
requested will be sent to you as soon as it becomes available.
Meanwhile, this synthesis of important facts is available to you
and your friends and colleagues. Additional copies of this
letter and/or "America Leads the World in Preventing the
Extinction of Species" are available. Please let us know if you

need more.

Remember, extinction is forever.

Sincerely,

‘inMadeleine Bemelmans ’
President

 




‘ ' Rosanna” ’ * " " ” '
Georgetown Station
VmemnmLDLmen7

(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$12 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$750 Thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act,
and an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non—lethal Research
for FY 1996

Submitted to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee
on Agriculture, Rural Development and Related Agencies

by Christine Stevens, Secretary
March 10, 1995

CE_IHE-AHIMAL
WELEABE-ACT

Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC), a unit within
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, is a modest, but
essential program which ensuregkbasic protections to millions of
animals nationwide through enfotcement of the federal Animal
Welfare Act. The program, which oversees the care and handling of
animals used in research, exhibition, and the wholesale pet trade,
has the support of animal welfare organizations, animal research
organizations, and the vast majority of Americans who want these
animals treated humanely.

Herewith is a copy of our testimony submitted last year
requesting an appropriation of $20 million for the Animal Care
Program. For the program to function efficiently and effectively
as-Congress intended, the needs outlined in the statement remain.
To conform with Congress' desire to cut back all expenditures, we
have scaled back our request to the barest minimum: $12 million.
The attached letter from both the animal protection and the
biomedical communities calling for increased appropriations was
submitted with our previous statement.

Unfortunately, the Animal Care prOgram has had to carry out
its responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act without
sufficient funding. This shortfall has occurred because the
program's budget has not kept pace with increasing operational
costs. An agency-wide increase in locality pay, salaries and
benefits has resulted in 93% of the current animal welfare budget
obligated towards salaries and benefits. This leaves virtually no
funding for the field Operation to conduct its inspections.

In January of this year the Office of the Inspector General
released an audit of APHIS enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act
(Audit Report No. 33600-l-Ch). The auditors note that APHIS
"...did not reinspect all locations where serious violations had
previously occurred." APHIS offered the following explanation,

 




budgetary cutbacks...“ The auditors respond, "As a result,
facilities are able to continue with practices which could
jeopardize the health or safety of their animals without APHIS
intervention." The auditors also note that 'APHIS does not have
sufficient staff to make both annual inspections at all facilities
and followup inspections at those where direct violations have been
identified...."

Veterinary Medical Officers (VMOs) and Animal Care Inspectors
(ACIs) are responsible for conducting unannounced compliance
inspections of research facilities, animal dealers, exhibitors,
carriers and handlers at more than 10,000 sites nationwide.
Maintaining a sufficient number of inspectors is vital to the
Animal Care Program's success, yet budget shortfalls have already
led to a decrease in the number of field inspectors over the past
three years. The breakdown is as follows:

FY 1993 FY 1994 FY 1995

Veterinary Medical Officers 49 46 45

Animal-§are-luspectors ............... 32 ........ 37 ........ 32 .......
TOTAL 86 83 77

Money is desperately needed to provide additional field
inspectors, adequate training of inspectors, computers equipped
with modems and replacement of high mileage vehicles. REAC has
done an admirable job of enforcing the Act given itpflimited

budget. The number of VMOs and ACIs will continue its precipitous
decline, crippling the program, unless corrective measures are
taken.

CHANGES WHICH WILL SAVE THE GOVERNMENT MONEY

There are a number of potential modifications to the
operations of Animal Care that could save the government money,
while still enabling the program to function as it should if-sgme
Qf-the-finanoia1-savings-are-allqcated-f9r-the-hiriug-9f-additiqnal
field staff.

A. User Fees.

The first is to implement user fees for research facilities,
carriers and handlers, and to increase the fees already being
charged for dealers and exhibitors. The fee scale should be based
on the size of the facility being inspected since it can take up to
a week or more to inspect a large research institution, but only a
few hours for others. However, the legislation to provide user fee
authority will likely not be adopted and implemented until the
latter half of FY 1996 or FY 1997. The user fee program needs to
be expedited to allow it to come into force as soon as possible,
but in the meantime the proqram will need sufficient funds to
continue its work.

The license fees currently collected from dealers and
exhibitors yield approximately $770,000 each year. We urge you to
designate these funds for the Animal Care Program to help reduce
the current shortfall.

 

 




It should be noted that the REAC Program has also collected ‘
$345,900 in fines in FY 1994 which go toward the general fund. The
OIG Report cited the need for APHIS I'to assess larger monetary
stipulations....Although the Act allows APHIS to assess up to
$2,500 per violation, most stipulations were limited to $300 or
less under current APHIS policy....The monetary stipulation could
be used as a more effective enforcement tool if APHIS levied
greater dollar amounts." In response to the DIS report's call for
stiffer penalties, it is anticipated that the total amount of fines
collected will rise appreciably.

B. Close Sector Offices.

During a reorganization in 1988, five sector offices were
established for the Regulatory Enforcement‘and Animal Care Program.
Last year the office in Minnesota was closed, and there has been
consideration of further reducing the number of offices to two,
with one in the East and another in the West. We support this
effort. Closing two more Sector offices will help streamline the
organization, while greatly reducing expenses. These savings should
permit hiring of much needed additional field inspectors.

As further reorganization takes place and Animal Care is downsized,
it is important that staff reductions occur from Sector and
Headquarters staff, and not from the gield staff.

C. Modify the Animal Welfare Act to Eliminate an Unnecessary
Activity Which is Depleting Much of the Programs' Funds.

There are approximately 60 random source (Class B) dealers who
currently supply some of the dogs and cats used by research
facilities. The legal sources for their dogs and cats are other
dealers, pounds, or individuals who have bred and raised the
animals. Class B dealers frequently get their animals from other
dealers, with animals being transported over great distances as
they change hands from dealer to dealer. The trail back to the
original source for the animals is hard to follow. Because the
animals are sold to research for between $100 and $400, there is
strong incentive to get dogs and cats through any means possible
including theft or fraud. When USDA conducts a "traceback" to
confirm the original source for an animal, oftentimes it finds that
the animal was acquired illegally or that the source is unknown.

USDA is spending an exorbitant amount of its resources in an
attempt to get these dealers to comply with one of the fundamental
objectives of the Animal Welfare Act: preventing the theft of pets
for research purposes. The cost for a thorough, l-month traceback
effort conducted in November of 1993 was $80,000 and involved
nearly 1,700 hours of work.

USDA's auditors attempted to conduct tracebacks and describe
their efforts in the OIG Report: "We traced one dog, purchased for
research by a university in Maryland, to a Class B dealer; this
dealer, in turn, purchased the doq from anOther licensed dealer in
Indiana, which refused to provide us access to its records." In
another case they contacted two individuals who sold dogs to a
dealer "and found that they had not actually bred and raised four

 

 




prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and (3) on
improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods which
could (A) reduce or replace animal use; and (B) minimize pain and
distress to animals, such as anesthetic and analgesic procedures."

In the past year AWIC has distributed more than 44,000
materials in response to requests for information. AWIC staff have
conducted workshOps and attended conferences, too, but activities
have been limited because much of the funds designated for the
Center have been diverted to other programs within the NAL. To
prevent this from continuing, we recommend Committee report
language to designate the appropriation solely for AWIC to carry
out its charge under ISLA and not for other purposes.

IHCBEASE-AHIMAL-DAMAGE-CQNTBQL-EUHDS-EQB-EQH:LEIHAL-BES§ABCH

The Denver Wildlife Research Center (DWRC) is to be
congratulated for its progress in developing innovative, effective
non—lethal methods of wildlife control. Based in part on reduced
demands by EPA, the DWRC has been able to devote 75% of its
research budget for non—lethal control. These efforts should
continue and be expanded upon.

Research efforts include identifying naturally occurring
compounds as potential bird repellents, use of habitat modification
and immunocontraception for blackbirds, immﬁ$0contraception of
deer, tranquilizer tabs and electronic monitors for coyote traps,
and evaluating remote-sensing technologies for locating, censusing,
and monitoring wildlife using infra-red.

Also of note are ongoing efforts at finding a publicly
acceptable, practical alternative to the steel jaw trap. A joint
effort is underway which involves ADC, trappers, trap inventors,
engineers, and animal protectionists who are looking at new
footsnare designs for possible use as a less cruel alternative for
coyotes. An article which provides further details is attached.

AEHIS1-ANLMAL-CABE-EBQGBAM-NEEDS-§§QQ-TBQUSAND-EQB_ENEQBCEMENI-QE
IHE-HQBSE-BBQIECIIQN-ACE

The Horse Protection Act was established to prohibit unfair
competition in shows and sales through the cruel practice of
"soring" - the use of chemical or mechanical irritants on a horse's
limbs. A horse that is sored will exaggerate his or her gait to
keep from putting weight too long on any one foot. A severely
sored horse suffers excruciating pain when standing and can be
crippled for life. Limited funding has permitted VMOs to attend
only 76 out of a total 571 recorded horse shows in FY 1993. APHIS's
presence consistently results in two to three times higher turndown
rates than shows where Designated Qualified Persons associated with
the industry do the inspections alone. $500,000 will permit
inspection of more horse shows to catch more violators. The
increased threat of being caught should provide incentive for
better compliance with the law.

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Boar 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007 ~
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$20 Million for the Animal Care Program,

$7 Million for the Regulatory Enforcement Program,
$750 Thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act,

and an Increased Allocation of
Animal Damage Control Funds for Non—lethal Research
for FY 1995

Submitted to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee
on Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies

Christine Stevens, Secretary

April 12, 1994

The Animal Welfare Act is the chief federal law for
protection of animals. Thorough and diligent work by the
Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) staff of USDA,
APHIS are paramount to ensure compliance with this Act. Since
its inception in 1988, REAC's responsibilities under the Animal
Welfare Act have grown, yet its budget has not increased in
proportion to the heightened financial needs. In FY 1993, REAC's
field staff of Veterinary Medical Officers (VMOs) and Animal Care
Inspectors (ACIs) conducted unannounced inspections of:

1,400 registered research facilities, with 3,149
separate sites
4,154 licensed animal dealers
1,828 licensed or registered animal exhibitors
129 registered carriers (which include airlines), with
sites numbering in the thousands
280 registered intermediate handlers

Woefully insufficient funding has permitted widespread lack
of compliance with the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare
Act by licensees and registrants; the animals maintained by the
entities listed above are paying the price.

Submitted with this testimony is a letter from organizations
representing both the animal protection and biomedical research
communities calling for increased appropriations to facilitate
the important work of REAC.

 




 

RmRGANIZATION O? APHIS IR 1988

The Animal Care Program underwent a major upheaval with the
reorganization of4APBIS conducted in 1988. The Animal Care
Program was removed from Veterinary Services, and a new program,
.Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care, was established. The
process of reorganizing, coupled with a lack of commitment to
lenforcement and insufficient funds, was nearly the undoing of the
prOgram. Since its creation over six years ago, much effort has
gone towards salvaging and equipping REAC to address its charge
of enforcing the Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act.
.Fortunately, progress has been made, and now there is a greater
emphasis on enforcement by REAC's small, but dedicated staff. We
do not believe that further reorganization will improve the
ability of REAC to carry out its charge, however, additional
funding is absolutely necessary to achieve this goal.

ANIMAL CARE

The Animal Care component of REAC has a field staff of 83
people with the seemingly unattainable task of inspecting the
nearly 8,000 registrants and licensees listed on page one often
enough to ensure compliance with the Animal Welfare Act. Budget
constraints continue to reduce the number of inspectors, which
had peaked at 86 .. Atleast.l09_.t.otal-insmectmr.s-.ar.e_.desp.er.a.tslx
needed to achieve a reasonable assurance of compliance. Because
of anticipated budget shortfalls, plans arexslready underway to
dramatically scale back the number of inspections conducted at
registered research facilities.

For FY 1994, ninety-two percent of the Animal Welfare
apprOpriation is obligated to cover salaries and benefits of the
entire existing staff of 155.

Lack of funds has seriously impeded the inspection process.
Facilities within a short distance of the VMOs or ACIs are
inspected often, while long distance inspections are rare.
Inspectors who travel 200 miles to a registrant or licensee for a
compliance inspection are encouraged to return home for the .
night, even if another site is to be inspected in the same region
as the previous one, 200 miles away. While this helps reduce
expenditures from the dwindling current budget, it is not an
efficient, effective way to administer the animal care program.

Because there are a limited number of inspectors with a vast
area to cover, vans and ACIs spend up to 50‘ of their time
traveling to and from sites. As cars are needed, used ones are

being acquired from other USDA programs. The inspectors are
suffering from wear and tear, too.

Funding is needed for local work conferences and Sector
conferences to provide opportunity for groups of inspectors to
meet with each other and their bosses. Aside from a few
specialized courses, limited to a small number of inspectors,
there has been no training for field inspectors since FY 1991.

Inspection of research facilities is a time-consuming job
left to 46 vnos, who may also have to inspect other registrants
and licensees. The current regulations for so-called enforcement

     

  
  

 

.a--~..-.-i

  




l -n .Z.'....-..'..._.,_,,

of the 1985 Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA)
amendments to the Animal welfare Actrequire that each research
facility develop a plan to provide exercise for their laboratory
dogs and a physical environment adequate to promote psychological
well-being for primates. Bach research facility housing dogs
and/or primates has its own plan, and the vno must read each plan
in its entirety and then inspect the facility to ensure its
compliance with the document as well as the other requirements of
the Animal Welfare Act. The Society for Animal Protective
Legislation joined the Animal Legal Defense Fund and other
plaintiffs in fighting these problematic regulations in favor of
more specific, uniform requirements.

The following additional funding is requested:

Addition of a minimum of 17 inspectors, $1,337,000

Travel, communications and overhead, $2,100,000

Work conferences and training, $616,000

Inspection for compliance with ISLA regs., $1,860,000

Drafting new legislation/regulation, $350,000

Trace-backs of Random Source 3 Dealers, $342,500

Extending coverage to mice, rats and birds, $3,154,000

Acquisition of Equipment (vehicles, computers,

cameras), $540,500
Relocation of Headquarters, $100,000

REX; ULATORY ENFORCEMENT

The Regulatory Enforcement component is responsible for
enforcing all APHIS programs. Investigators pursue cases brought
to their attention by the Animal Care staff. They investigate
apparent violations of the Animal Welfare Act, document evidence
and develop cases for prosecution. Staff needs are not a serious
issue within this component, however, it is necessary to relocate
5 staff members to meet program demands more efficiently.

Additional funding is needed for the following:

Training and work conferences, $120,000 -

CITS (Alleged Violation, Case Tracking System) computers,

and upgrading of existing system, $150,000

Replacement of copiers, $25,000

Replacement of 18 vehicles, $290,000

Relocation of 5 employees, $250,000
Assisting Animal Care with trace-backs, $265,000

LICENSED RANEOH SOURCE Dd; AND 01' DEALERS

This past year there has been extensive local and national
media coverage on pet theft, including Connie Chang's 'Bye to

Kissing dogs and cats are supplying

the laboratory animal trade. Random source dealers have been
shown to be involved in unscrupulous activities. Thisyear one
of the most notorious animal dealers, Brvin Stebane, signed a
consent agreement to permanently hand over his dealer's license.
A case is pending against another infamous dealer, Jerry Vance,
who can not account for the acquisition and disposition of *
hundreds of dogs and cats, housed in substandard quarters.

Eye' and 1803 'Hard Copy'.

 

 

 




. -~ ~.._....._.- .0...

Animals are being acquired under. false pretenses, with
licensed dealers or 'bunchers' collecting animals advertised in
newspapers as I'free to good home'. The good home' is actually a
research laboratory where there is no guarantee that the animal
will not suffer prior to death.

A regulatory requirement went into effect in 1989 requiring
random source dealers to maintain extensive records on each
animal they acquire. Any person supplying animals to a dealer
must give their complete address and license plate and driver's
license numbers. USDA stated its belief that the additional
recordkeeping requirements would serve in 'enhancing the
traceability of the animals‘' and “will be a valuable tool in
combatting the sale of animals obtained unlawfully.‘ Finally,
dealers who have operated outside the law must now account for
sources of their animals.

The requirement for records is only effective if USDA
inspectors confirm that complete and accurate records are being
maintained by the dealers; to do this they must conduct record
checks and trace-backs. Trace-backs involve confirming that the
source listed for an individual animal was really the owner.
Checks conducted have revealed repeated instances of inaccurate
records,- the individuals listed as having been owners of animals,
were not actually the owners!

One dealer, Julian Toney, is being charged with more than
1,600 apparent records violations! This case has been pending
before an administrative law judge for more than agsyear. Until
the case is heard, he is able to continue buying dogs and cats
and selling them to research institutions.

Crack-downs such as these must continue through aggressive,
across-the-board trace-backs by REAC. In addition, Animal Care
is pursuing possible corrective measures through additional

statutory and regulatory requirements.
ANIMAL WELFARE INFORMATION CENTER

An apprOpriation of $750,000 should be designated as a line
item for the Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC) located at
the National Agricultural Library (NAL) . The AWIC was .
established as mandated by ISLA, which called for an information
service to assist with laboratory animal employee training,
prevention of unintended duplication of animal experiments,
reduction or replacement of animals where possible, and
minimization of animal pain and distress.

The AWIC is a valuable resource to researchers.
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees, veterinarians and
librarians and should be a resource for the entire REAC staff.

In the past the AWIC has conducted workshops, provided grants and
exhibited at conferences. Unfortunately, much of the money
designated for the Center has been used to cover other programs
within the HAL. This must stop. We strongly recommend that
Committee report language designate the appropriation solely for
the AWIC to carry out its responsibilities under ISLA and not. for

other purposes.

 

 




ANIMAL DBHAGB CONTROL PROGRA!

A long list of unfunded projects for research on non-lethal
methods sits before the Deputy Administrator. Funding must be
increased dramatically to make these and other research efforts
possible. Non-lethal control methods are critical to the future
of wildlife management by therfederal government. These methods
include taste aversion, exclusion, 'fright' devices, repellents,
guard animals, and wildlife contraception. Some methods that
have been developed are being employed, but there is a tremendous
need for further research and implementation. Non-lethal methods
can meet the public's expectations to reduce animal suffering and
provide the means to resolve wildlife damage problems.

The wildlife species ADC have attempted to manage have shown
strong resilience at eradication; killing animals is oftentimes
only a temporary solution. For example, coyotes will produce
more young in response to population reductions which have
occurred from damage control killing. In addition, it is parent
coyotes, raising young, that are most likely to prey on
livestock. The population of coyotes in the United States has
never been greater, despite lethal attempts at control.

We support the Administration's proposal to decrease the
budget for Animal Damage Control operations. In the past ADC has
been the beneficiary of strong financial support from Congress.
ADC must be held accountable for continued use of steel jaw
traps, dbnning, poisoning, and aerial gunning. Until ADC has
followed through on a commitment to further develop and utilize

non-lethal control methods, we will continue to support budget

reductions. . .
ADC states it is undergoing a make-over, but we believe it

is principally cosmetic. As part of the make-over, ADC plans to
change its name to one which is believed to be more palatable to
the public, 'Wildlife Services'. Meanwhile, ADC field staff
continue to use 30,000 steel jaw leghold traps on predators:
checking them only once in 72 hours! Veterinarians worldwide:
including the American Veterinary Medical Association and the
World veterinary Association agree that steel jaw traps are
inhumane. When will USDA's ADC recognize this and melt down

these traps?

HORSE PROTECTION ACT

In addition to their duties inspecting for compliance with
the Animal Welfare Act, VHDs must also patrol horse shows to
ensure compliance with the Horse Protection Act. Limited funds

permitted inspection of only approximately one-fifth of the 518

horse shows conducted in FY 1992, the most recent year for which
' Werehcrses a s

we have data. Wind; ,
do the 'Designated Qualified PersonsII (DQPs) when inspecting at

shows. Virtually all DQPs are associated with the Tennessee
Walking Horse industry. There is a lack of resolve within the
industry to stOp the deliberate soring of horses competing in
shows. $500,000 would enable VHDs to attend more shows, thereby

discouraging violations of the Horse Protection Act.

 

 

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O.Box3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202)3312334

April 12, I994

The Honorable Dale Bumpers
Chairman, Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural

Development, and Related Agencies
140 Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The animal welfare organizations listed below support the
testimony of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
requesting an appropriation of $20 million for the Animal Care
Program, $7 million for the Regulatory Enforcement Program, $750
thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center, $500 thousand
for enforcement of the Horse Protection Act, and an increased
allocation of Animal Damage Control funds for non-lethal
research.

With appreciation for your consideration,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

Albert Schweitzer Council on Animals and the Environment
American Humane Association

American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Animal Care and Welfare/SPCA

Beauty Without Cruelty

Doris Day Animal League

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal

Fund For Animals

Humane Society of the United States

Interfaith Council for the Protection of Animals and Nature
International Primate Protection League

United Animal Nations

Washington Humane Society

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC 20007
(202) 337-2334

July 2, 1984

To Humanitarians in New York State :

Last Wednesday the New York State Legislature passed and sent to the
Governor a bill that will enormously reduce the suffering and death of
wild birds imported into the state for sale by the pet industry. The

Wild Bird bill, Senate Bill 9472, bars the sale of wild birds in the

state starting Septexrber, 1985. Much of the evidence of the destructiveness
of the trade was supplied by The Bird Business, the Animal Welfare Institute
book published in 1981. The bill passed with little fanfare. Now, however,
those who make huge profits marking up the price on rare cockatoos and
macaws and other birds snatched from their native forests are expected to
press the Governor not to sign the bill. Your help is needed to urge
Governor Cuonr) to sign this extremely important bill into law.

 

Please write Governor "CIJOITD at the address below imnediately. The time is
short because in order to become law the bill must be signed within 30 days.
The points to stress are that the cage bird trade is extremely destructive
in its capture of wild birds, many of whom die during capture, transit or in
quarantine stations here in the United States. Of nearly three million

birds imported for the cage bird trade between January 1980 and Dec. 1983,
fully 550,000 died - either dead on arrival or died in quarantine. Think of
one half million birds - beautiful finches, parrots, hornbills, hummingbirds,
tanagers. At last, this cruel carnage can be stopped. The bill specifies
that only captive—bred birds will be allowed to be sold in New York State.
The bill will not cause financial hardship or cost jobs, and this also
should be Irentioned in your letter. Tradesmen have over one year to sell

the wild birds in their possession. Captive-bred birds are readily available
— cockatiels,canaries and budgerigars, for example —— but the cage bird trade
has chosen to import and sell wild birds because the profit margin is so

high.

Every year, thousands of baby parrots are taken from their nests. Often,
the nest tree is cut down, killing some of them in the process. Crowded and
ill—fed, they are shipped off to buyers in the United States, about half
of them dying in the process. If New York State becomes the first to outlaw
this tragic waste of life, then ctherstates will follow, so spelling an
end to the ghastly trade in wild birds. That is why your letter is so
important and why we hope you will write today to:

The Honorable Mario Cuomo, Governor

The Executive Chamber, State Capitol

Albany, NY 12224
Attn: Gerald Crotty, Counsel

Specify your wish that the Governor sign the "Wild Bird bill", Senate 9472,

into law. Wméw/

(@3352; m

’ Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




 

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O.Box3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007' ~ " , .
7202-) 33-7-2334

April 24, 1984

To Humanitarians:

Enclosed is a copy of ”A Bill to Prevent Needless Pain,” the
leaflet about the Dole bill to protect laboratory animals.
Please let us know if you can use extra copies to give friends
who will write to Washington in support of this urgently

needed legislation. There is no charge. We only ask that you.
distribute them thoughtfully to help the animals used in experi—
ments and test.

Here are more ways in which you can help:

1) After reading the leaflet, write your Senators asking them
to co—sponsor 8.657, or if they already are co—sponsors (see
list at the end of the leaflet), thank them and ask them to
work for prompt passage of the bill. Please thank the chief
sponsor, Senator Bob Dole, too, and let him know you look to
him to guide the bill through to enactment.

.,j_ y

- " 1

Your Senators may be interested in knowing that the following
countries have already passed legislation of this kind: Austria,
Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland,

and the United Kingdon. As Dr. Lawrence Abel, the former Vice
president of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, testified:
"We do not commit the atrocities which are reported from time

to time in some other countries. We do not allow the extravagant
cruelty committed by some investigators of stress and shock. We
have proved that the desired results can be obtained by less
inhumane methods. We are convinced that the freedom of all and
sundry to use animals indiscriminately would not improve the
value of research."

Let your Senators know, too, that by establishing an Information
Service at the National Agricultural Library in cooperation with
the National Library of Medicine, to prevent unintended duplica—
tion of animal tests and experiments and to make available to
scientists and administrators the latest information on alter—
natives to laboratory animals and the means of reducing their
numbers, it is estimated that billions of dollarS“ of taxpayers'
money can be saved.

2) Write to as many members of the Senate Agriculture Committee
as you can. 8.657 is pending before this Committee. ‘Senator
.Iesse Helms (R,NC) Chairman, is especially important. Please
urge hiHltO schedule a mark—up on the bill and report it favor—v
ably sc>it.can be voted on by the full Senate.

7 ‘ '1‘" ' : .. q . .
mm. ‘7‘“ ~—--"W&F~J¥W '

 

COMMITTEE ON ’AGRIOUETERE, NUTRITION AND FORESTRY f

 

 

Republicans Democrats
Senator Jesse Helms (NC)M3murman Senator Walter D. Huddleston (KY)
Senator Robert Dole (KS)* Senator patrlck J.Leahy EEE)*
Senator Richard G- Lugar (IN) . Senator Edward ZorinskyT)*
Senator Thad Cochran (MS) , Senator John Melcher (g)*
Senator Rudy Boschwitz (MN)* Senator David Prygr (A (0K)
Senath Roger W. Jepsen (IA) Senator Dav1d L. .ore (IL)
Senatgk Paula Hawkins (FL) Senator Alan J. Dixon
Senator Mark Andrews (ND) senator Howell Heflin (AL)
Senator Pete Wilson (CA) - ~
?¢%fiator Orrin Hatch (UT) * are sponsors of 8.657.

Senators may be addressed at the Senate Office Building, d t
Washington, D.C. 20510; Representatives may be addresse a
the House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515.

 

 

 
  

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334

_..~n~r{>'.t
_ . ’tuw ‘
it“.

To Humanitarians:

Enclosed is your advance copy of ”A Bill to Prevent Needless Pain,"
the new leaflet about the Dole bill to protect laboratory animals.
By the time this letter reaches you, we'll have the leaflet in
quantity, so please let us know if you can use extra copies to give
friends who will write to Washington in support of this urgently
needed legislation. There is no charge. We only ask that you
distribute them thoughtfully to help the animals used in experi—
ments and tests.

Here are more ways in which you can help:

1) After reading the leaflet, write your Senators asking them to
co-sponsor S. 657, or if they already are co—sponsors (see list at
the end of the leaflet), thank them and ask them to work for prompt
passage of the bill. Please thank the chief sponsor, Senator Bob
Dole, too, and let him know you look to him to guide the bill through
to enactment.

Your Senators may be interested in knowing that the following
countries have already successfully passed legislation of this
kind: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany,
France, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. As Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of
Surgeons of England, testified: ”We do not commit the atrocities
which are reported from time to time in some other countries. We
do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some investiga—
tors of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired results
can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced that
the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately would
not improve the value of research.“

Let your Senators know, too, that by establishing an Information
Service at the National Agricultural Library in cooperation with

the National Library of Medicine, to prevent unintended duplication
of animal tests and experiments and to make available to scientists
and administrators the latest information on alternatives to labora-
tory animals and the means of reducing their numbers, it is estimated
that billions of dollars of taxpayers' money can be saved.

2) Ask your Representative to support S. 657 when it reaches the
House of Representatives.

3) Ask Secretary of Agriculture John Block to support S. 657, point-
ing out to him that it will help his Department's veterinary inspectors
to administer the Animal Welfare Act. A study just completed by the
General Accounting Office shows that they have not succeeded in
inspecting every laboratory using animals in New York and California
even once a year. The committee member representing community con—
cerns for the welfare of the animal subjects, which the Dole bill
would mandate for all institutions, would give some of the needed
back—up for Agriculture's Veterinary Services. The provision to
prevent discrimination against staff members who report violations
of the law to the committee will help, too, to ensure compliance
with the Animal Welfare Act. The Secretary may be addressed:

Hon. John Block
Secretary of Agriculture
Washington, D. C. 20250

Please let us know what responses you receive to your letters.
Senators may be addressed at the Senate Office Building.
Washington, D. C., 20510: Representatives may be addressed at the
House Office Building, Washington, D. C.L 20515.

 




TRAPPING

Good news from the State of New Jersey: Both the Senate and
Assembly have passed the Orechio—Mazur bill to prohibit sale, use,
manufacture of possession of steel—jaw leghold traps beginning 18
months from its signature into law by Governor Kean.

We must redouble our efforts to obtain enactment of H.R. 1797 to
end the use of the steel—jaw trap throughout the nation. Please
write to your own Representative urging him or her to co—sponsor
and work forgpassage of H.R. 1797, the bill introduced by Congress-
man Clarence Long (D, MD) with more than 100 co—sponsors. Write to
Chairman Henry Waxman (DL CA), who heads the Subcommittee on Health
and the Environment before whom H.R. 1797 is pending, and respect—
fully request him to schedule hearings on the bill and push it
through the Subcommittee. Chairman Waxman is a skilled legislator
and he is a co—sponsor of H.R. 1797. Please thank him for his
concern and tell him how much it means to you to see an end to this
barbaric device which causes such intense pain and fear.

 

Following are the names of the members of the Subcommittee. Please
write to as many as you can. A11 Representatives may be addressed:
House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515.

Subcommittee 9g Health and the Environment

 

of the
House of Representatives Committee on Energy Conservation and Power

Democrats Republicans]

 

Hon. Henry A. Waxman* (CA), Chairman Edward R. Madigan (IL)

Hon. James H. Scheuer* (NY) William E. Dannemeyer (CA)

Hon. Thomas A. Luken (OH) Bob Whittaker (KS)

Hon. Doug Walgren (PA Thomas J. Bliley, Jr. (VA)

Hon. Barbara A. Mikulski* (MD) Howard C. Nielson (UT)

Hon. Richard C. Shelby (AL) James T. Broyhill (NC)

Hon. Ron Wyden (OR)

Hon. Dennis E. Eckart (OH)

Hon. Gerry Sikorski (MN)

Hon. Richard L. Ottinger* (NY)

Hon. Timothy E. Wirth (CO)

Hon. Mickey Leland (TX)

Hon. John D. Dingell (MI), ex officio (Chairman of full Committee on
Energy Conservation and Power)

*Indicates co-sponsors of H.R. 1797. Please thank them and urge
them to fight for the bill's passage.

Thanks for your help on these vitally important bills. Your letters
can make the difference between their passage or the continuance of
the tragic status quo.

 

Sincerely,

‘ ’ '3 /
n @221 /.~W (>2. . z; 52;.

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

Latest news: Senator Charles Mathias (R, MD) has introduced
8.2389 to end shipment of steel jaw traps in interstate and foreign
commerce. Less comprehensive than the House bill, 8.2389 would
nevertheless provide a substantial economic incentive to Woodstream,
the big trap company that has cornered the trap market in the
United States, to end the intense promotion of steel jaw traps
and switch their attention to less painful capture devices such
as the Ezyonem cable coated legsnare and Havahart box trap.

In introducing the bill, Senator Mathias stated ”I urge every
Member of this body to consider this bill and the strong public
opinion behind it. This proposal has been inactive for too long.
It is imperative that we ban the steel—jaw leghold trap now to
insure that millions of animals are spared its vicious bite."

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 37I9
Georgefown Sfa’rion

Washingfon. D. C. 20007

\/ May 12, 1970

URGENT
To Humanitarians in Florida:

Florida's excellent law prohibiting bullfights, and its general
anti-cruelty law are both in grave danger. With.shocking speed
and lack of scrutiny, the Florida Senate and House have voted to
amend these humane laws to exempt so-called "simulated or blood-
less bullfights," rodeos, and trained animal acts! ONLY THE GOV-
ERNOR OF FLORIDA CAN SAVE THE STATE FROM THIS DESCENT INTO BARBA-
RISM.

Please send_g wire todqy beggigg the Governor to_veto S.B. 1180
and H.B. QZE§, the identical cruel biT:§_which would deal a stagger-
ing blow 23 Florida animal protective legislation.

 

Ask your friends, neighbors, and members of local groups to which
you may belong to help by sending telegrams to the Governor, too.
He may be addressed as follows:

Governor Claude R. Kirk, Jr.
Governor's Office
Tallahassee, Florida

"Bloodless" bullfights involve infliction of pain and fear. If
they should be made legal in the State of Florida, they can be ex-
pected to be the forerunners of the even more sadistic Spanish
corrida in which the tortured bull is killed before the eyes of the
cheering crowd.

The inclusion of "trained animal acts" in the exemption amendments
suggests that the promoters of bullfights have still other cruel exhi-
bitions planned which constitute criminal offenses under the existing
Florida anti-cruelty law. The promoters want carte blanche to do as
they please with.animals. They want to tie the hands of humanitarians
who have prevented depraved spectacles of pain infliction for fun.
DON'T LET THESE CRUEL COMMERCIAL INTERESTS WIN OUT. LET GOVERNOR
KIRK KNOW YOU DON'T WANT FLORIDA TO FALL BELOW THE LEVEL OF THE UNITED
STATES AS A WHOLE. Urge him.respectfully but forcefully to veto the
bills 8.8. 1180 and H.B. A756 that would legalize cruelty for profit.

Write a letter to the Editor of your local paper telling about
this emergency. Urge readers to join in expressing themselves against
weakening of Florida's anti-cruelty laws. Ask the editor to write an
editorial calling for a veto of S.B. 1180 and H.B. M756.

If you can use extra copies of this letter to give to friends or
distribute at meetings, let us know immediately. TIME IS OF THE
ESSENCE. LET YOUR VOICE BE HEARD NOW!

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
RCIBmuN19
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$12 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$750 Thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Ecrse Protection Act,
and an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non-lethal Research
for FY 1996

Submitted to the abuse Appropriations Subcommittee
on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration,
and Related Agencies

by Christine Stevens, Secretary
March 8, 1995

BEHIS1$-ANIMAL-CABE-BBQGBAU-NEED$-$12-UILLIQN-TQ-ENEQBCE-IHB-AHIUAL
WELEABE-ACT

Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC), a unit within
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, is a modest, but
essential program which ensures basic protections to millions of
animals nationwide through enforcement of the federal Animal
Welfare Act. The program, which oversees the care and handling of
animals used in research, exhibition, and the wholesale pet trade,
has the support of animal welfare organizations, animal research
organizations, and the vast majority of Americans who want these
animals treated humanely. _

Herewith is a c0py of our testimony submitted last year
requesting an appropriation of $20 million for the Animal Care
Program. For the program to function efficiently and effectively
as Congress intended, the needs outlined in the statement remain.
To conform with Congress' desire to cut back all expenditures, we
have scaled back our request to the barest minimum: $12 million.
The attached letter from both the animal protection and the
biomedical communities calling for increased appropriations was
submitted with our previous statement.

Unfortunately, the Animal Care program has had to carry out
its responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act without
sufficient funding. This shortfall has occurred because the
program's budget has not kept pace with increasing operational
costs. An agency-wide increase in locality pay, salaries and
benefits has resulted in 93% of the current animal welfare budget
obligated towards salaries and benefits. This leaves virtually no
funding for the field Operation to conduct its inspections.

In January of this year the Office of the Inspector General
released an audit of APHIS enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act
(Audit Report No. 33600-1-Ch). The auditors note that APHIS _
"...did not reinspect all locations where serious violations had
previously occurred.“ APHIS offered the following explanation,
"some followup visits were not made due to staffing limitations and

 

 




budgetary cutbacks..." The auditors respond, "As a result,
facilities are able to continue with practices which could
jeopardize the health or safety of their animals without APHIS
intervention." The auditors also note that "APHIS does not have
sufficient staff to make both annual inspections at all facilities
and followup inspections at those where direct violations have been
identified...."

Veterinary Medical Officers (VMOs) and Animal Care Inspectors
(ACIs) are responsible for conducting unannounced compliance
inspections of research facilities, animal dealers, exhibitors,
carriers and handlers at more than 10,000 sites nationwide.
Maintaining a sufficient number of inspectors is vital to the
Animal Care Program's success, yet budget shortfalls have already
led to a decrease in the number of field inspectors over the past
three years. The breakdown is as follows:

FY 1993 FY 1994 FY 1995
veterinary Medical Officers 49 46 45
Animal-§are-lnspectors ............... 32 ........ 32 ........ 32 .......
TOTAL 86 83

Money is desperately needed to provide additional field
inspectors, adequate training of inspectors, computers equipped
with modems and replacement of high mileage vehicles. REAC has
done an admirable job of enforcing the Act given its limited

budget. The number of VMOs and ACIs will continue its precipitous
decline, crippling the program, unless corrective measures are
taken.

CHANGES WHICH WILL SAVE THE GOVERNMENT MONEY

There are a number of potential modifications to the
operations of Animal Care that could save the government money,
while still enabling the prOgram to function as it should if-some
of-the-fiuancial-savings-ere-allqcated-for-the-hiring-9f-additiqnal
field staff.

--‘-

A. User Fees.

The first is to implement user fees for research facilities,
carriers and handlers, and to increase the fees already being
charged for dealers and exhibitors. The fee scale should be based
on the size of the facility being inspected since it can take up to
a week or more to inspect a large research institution, but only a
few hours for others. However, the legislation to provide user fee
authority will likely not be adopted and implemented until the
latter half of FY 1996 or FY 1997. The user fee program needs to
be expedited to allow it to come into force as soon as possible,
but in the meantime the prOgram will need sufficient funds to
continue its work.

The license fees currently collected from dealers and 5
exhibitors yield approximately $770,000 each year. We urge yOu to
designate these funds for the Animal Care Program to help reduce
the current shortfall.

 

 




It should be noted that the REAC PrOgram has also collected
$345,900 in fines in FY 1994 which go toward the general fund. The
OIG Report cited the need for APHIS “to assess larger monetary
stipulations....A1though the Act allows APHIS to assess up to
$2,500 per violation, most stipulations were limited to $300 or
less under current APHIS policy....The monetary stipulation could
be used as a more effective enforcement tool if APHIS levied
greater dollar amounts." In response to the OIG report's call for
stiffer penalties, it is anticipated that the total amount of fines
collected will rise appreciably.

B. Close Sector Offices.

During a reorganization in 1988, five sector offices were
established for the Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care Program.
Last year the office in Minnesota was closed, and there has been
consideration of further reducing the number of offices to two,
with one in the East and another in the West. We support this
effort. Closing two more Sector offices will help streamline the
organization, while greatly reducing expenses. These savings should
permit hiring of much needed additional field inspectors.

As further reorganization takes place and Animal Care is downsized,
it is important that staff reductions occur from Sector and
Headquarters staff, and not from the field staff.

C. Modify the Animal Welfare Act to Eliminate an Unnecessary
Activity Which is Depleting Much of the Programs' Funds.

There are approximately 60 random source (Class B) dealers who
currently supply some of the dogs and cats used by research
facilities. The legal sources for their dogs and cats are other
dealers, pounds, or individuals who have bred and raised the
animals. Class B dealers frequently get their animals from other
dealers, with animals being transported over great distances as
they change hands from dealer to dealer. The trail back to the
original source for the animals is hard to follow. Because the
animals are sold to research for between $100 and $400, there is
strong incentive to get dogs and cats through any means possible
including theft or fraud. When USDA conducts a "traceback" to
confirm the original source for an animal, oftentimes it finds that
the animal was acquired illegally or that the source is unknown.

USDA is spending an exorbitant amount of its resources in an
attempt to get these dealers to comply with one of the fundamental
objectives of the Animal Welfare Act: preventing the theft of pets
for research purposes. The cost for a thorough, 1-month,traceback
effort conducted in November of 1993 was $80,000 and involved
nearly 1,700 hours of work.

USDA's auditors attempted to conduct tracebacks and describe
their efforts in the 016 Report: "We traced one dog, purchased for
research by a university in Maryland, to a Class B dealer; this
dealer, in turn, purchased the dog from another licensed deaﬂer in
Indiana, which refused to provide us access to its records.” In
another case they contacted two individuals who sold dogs to a
dealer "and found that they had not actually bred and raised four

 

 

 




of the five dogs we checked.” APHIS responded, "REAC has cited
multiple USDA licensed dealers for fraudulent recordkeeping
concerning the inability to verify sources."

In what we believe will be a futile and costly attempt to
remedy the problem, APHIS has established traceback form 7400 "in
an attempt to verify sources of animals" and will institute "a
national database of geographical marketing channels of random
source animals". How many contortions must the agency make in an
attempt to keep track of the circuitous and frequently
unaccountable maneuvers of approximately 60 random source dealers?

Another example of the problem with licensed B dealers is the
case of Julian and Anita Toney of Lamoni, Iowa, who have been
charged with more than 1,600 recordkeeping violations. The case
was pending before an Administrative Law Judge for a year and a
half. Finally, in June of 1994, an Administrative Hearing was held
regarding the charges, but the Toneys are still in business nine
months later, while we all await the outcome. AttaChed is an
article describing the Toney's and other Class B dealers.

This Subcommittee could offer report language to encourage the
Department of Agriculture to support legislation to eliminate this
costly activity: prohibit random source B dealers from supplying
d0gs and cats for research.

This should have only a minor impact on the research community
because facilities are able to breed their own doqs and cats or
acquire animals from licensed breeders (Class A) or directly from
pounds (rather than via the dealer network). B dealers, who are
able to meet the minimum requirements of the Animal Welfare Act,
will be able to modify their Operations and become A dealers. USDA
will save hundreds of thousands of dollars. Pet owners and hunters
will be protected from dog thieves as Congress intended when it
passed the AWA.

D. Eliminate the Preceptorship Program in Favor of Providing
Training for all Animal Care Inspectors.

Over the past three years a few inspectors have been enrolled
in a specialized training course known as the "Preceptorship
Program". During the course, inspectors spend time with the staff
at a number of the research or exhibition facilities that USDA
regulates learning about their Operations and management. We do
not believe that this serves a vital function; the funds, $10,000
per program for two inspectors, would be better used if applied to
training for all inspectors. Otherwise we would suggest that the
training be videotaped so that it could be made available to
benefit all inspectors.

AH-AEBBQBBIAIIQH-QE-$Z§Q-THQUSAHD-$BQULD-BE-DESIGHATED-AS-A-LIHE
ITEM-EQB-IHE-AHIUAL-WELEABE-IHEQBUAIIQN-CEHTBB

The creation of the Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC)
at the National Agricultural Library (NAL) was mandated by the 1985
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA) amendments to the
Animal Welfare Act. ISLA states that AWIC is to provide
information "(1) pertinent to employee training; (2) which could

 

 




prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and (3) on
improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods which
could (A) reduce or replace animal use; and (B) minimize pain and
distress to animals, such as anesthetic and analgesic procedures.“

In the past year AWIC has distributed more than 44,000
materials in response to requests for information. AWIC staff have
conducted workshops and attended conferences, too, but activities
have been limited because much of the funds designated for the
Center have been diverted to other programs within the NAL. To
prevent this from continuing, we recommend Committee report
language to designate the appropriation solely for AWIC to carry
out its charge under ISLA and not for other purposes.

INCREASE-AHIMAL-DAMAGE-CQNTBQL-EUHDS-EQB-NQN:LE¥HAL-BE$EABCB

The Denver Wildlife Research Center (DWRC) is to be
congratulated for its proqress in developing innovative, effective
non-lethal methods of wildlife control. Based in part on reduced
demands by EPA, the DWRC has been able to devote 75% of its
research budget for non—lethal control. These efforts should
continue and be expanded upon.

Research efforts include identifying naturally occurring
compounds as potential bird repellents, use of habitat modification
and immunocontraception for blackbirds, immunocontraception of
deer, tranquilizer tabs and electronic monitors for coyote traps,
and evaluating remote-sensing technologies for locating, censusing,
and monitoring wildlife using infra—red.

Also of note are ongoing efforts at finding a publicly
acceptable, practical alternative to the steel jaw trap. A joint
effort is underway which involves ADC, trappers, trap inventors,
engineers, and animal protectionists who are looking at new
footsnare designs for possible use as a less cruel alternative for
coyotes. An article which provides further details is attached.

ABHISl-AHIMAL-CABE-EBQGBAU¢HEEDS-§SQQ-THQUSAND-EQB-EHEQBCEUENT-QE
THE-BQB$E-BBQTECTIQH-ACI

The Horse Protection Act was established to prohibit unfair
competition in shows and sales through the cruel practice of
“soring” - the use of chemical or mechanical irritants on a horse's
limbs. A horse that is sored will exaggerate his or her gait to
keep from putting weight too long on any one foot. A severely
sored horse suffers excruciating pain when standing and can be
crippled for life. Limited funding has permitted VMOs to attend
only 76 out of a total 571 recorded horse shows in FY 1993. APHIS's
presence consistently results in two to three times higher turndown
rates than shows where Designated Qualified Persons associated with
the industry do the inspections alone. $500,000 will permit
inspection of more horse shows to catch more violators. The
increased threat of being caught should provide incentive for
better compliance with the law.

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

February 10, 1995

U R G E N T A C T I O N A L E R T

 

Your immediate help is needed to
prevent the House Subcommittee on
Interior Appropriations from reducing
or eliminating vital funding for
protection of elephants, tigers,
rhinos, endangered birds and other
imperilled species.

The Subcommittee Chairman, Congressman Ralph Regula (R, OH), is
being urged to cut funding for critical laws including the
Endangered Species Act, Wild Bird Conservation Act, Rhino and
Tiger Conservation Act, and African Elephant Conservation Act. US
leadership in CITES (Convention on International Trade in

Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) would be undermined
if its current modest funding were reduced.

For three decades the United States has been the world leader in
protecting species on the brink of extinction, enacting strong
domestic laws and forging important international agreements.
When the CITES Parties met in the United States last November,
our country's vigorous commitment triumphed over the forces of
greedy exploitation.

Let Congress know how proud you are that the US has led the world
in enactment of legislation and international treaties to protect
and conserve animals. Write or phone your Representative and
Chairman Re ula and as—many Members of the Sdonmmittee as you
533 ufging them to increase, not cut, funding for the enforcement
of US laws to protect animals and their habitats.

A newly released report by the Government Accounting Office,
"Wildlife Protection", points to grossly deficient funding for
the vital work of the Interior Department's Fish and Wildlife
Service. It recommends addition of 43 inspectors to enforce our
wildlife laws and carry out our international responsibilities.
At present only 74 inspectors struggle to cope with this immense
workload!

(over)

 




Please urge your friends to join you in writing letters to ask
the Subcommittee to maintain funding to protect the animals whose
lives depend on our Government's actions. We must not let
misguided cost-cutting in Washington threaten magnificent
creatures throughout the world.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

The Subcommittee hearin is scheduled for February_;}, so time is
of the essence! Your letters or calls will have the greatest
impact if they reach Chairman Regula before the hearing, but
please keep writing or phoning. Thanks for all you can do.

w

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
INTERIOR

REPUBLICANS DEMOCRATS

Ralph Regula, OH (CHAIRMAN) Sidney Yates, IL
Joseph McDade, PA Norm Dicks, WA
Jim Kolbe, AZ Tom Bevill, AL
Joe Skeen, NM David Skaggs, CO
Barbara Vucanovich, NV

Charles Taylor, NC

George Nethercutt, WA

Jim Bunn, OR

All Representatives may be addressed:

The Honorable

 

House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515

To phone your Representative call 1-202-225-3121.

 




 

April 12, 1994

Rep. Richard J. Durbin
Chairman, Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA,

and Related Agencies Subcommittee
Committee on Appropriations
US. House of Representatives
2362 Rayburn House Ofﬁce Building
Washington, DC. 20515

Dear Chairman Durbin:

Animal Welfare Act enforcement is a unique and critical rexonsibility that Congress
assigned to the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). evidenced by repeated
amendments to the Act strengthening and broadening the Department’s authority, as well
as continued national and local media attention to the subject, laboratory animal welfare
remains a high priority of the American public. Speaking for millions of our citizens, the
undersigned organizations, from both the animal protection and biomedical research
communities, respectfully request your subcommittee to increase the meager appropriation
for USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) animal care program.

This allocation has never exceeded 310 million per annum.
4a,}

Respondin to public concern, the U. 5. Congress ga'Ve USDA major new re ula-tory
responsibility with the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act. There ore, before

reinvention of overnment became a universal marching order, a new APHIS unit called
Regulatory En orcement and Animal Care (REAC) with a small full-time staff exclusively
dedicated to animal welfare was established in 1988. Although the public’s expectation has
never been greater, subse uent budget constraints have prevented the further evolution of
REAC. Nevertheless, AP IS and REAC leaders have produced marked improvement in
Animal Welfare Act enforcement and compliance. We are now concerned that plans to
consolidate and downsize some of USDA’s activities will negatively affect this small, but
essential program. The organizations below strongly support continuation of the REAC
effort and urge that sufficient funds be appropriated for its real growth.

Despite level funding in recent years, APHIS has managed to slightly increase the number
of mandated ins ctions of the 7,751 regulated facilities (9,483 actual sites) from 13,762 in
FY 1991 to 17,5 3 last year. This was accomplished with a ﬁeld staff of only 86 FTE’s and
at the expense of adequately maintaining inspection support services. To fully meet the
intent of Congress as expressed in the Animal Welfare Act, the number of inspections and
veterinary inspectors, the quality and depth of their training and support must be

augmented.

Animal protection and research organizations agree that federal oversight of research
facilities is a critical function. We encourage Congress and the USDA to allocate the
resources necessary for this unique statutory obligation to be carried out efﬁcrently and

effectively.

 




 

 

Chairman Durbin.April 12. 1994
Pagez

Should you have any questions, or require additional information, pleasecontact Adele
Douglass of the Amencan Humane Association (202.543.7780), Cathy Les With the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation (202/337-2334) or Barbara Rich at the National .
Association for Biomedical Research (202/857-0540). Thank you very much for your

consideration of this important issue.

Sincerely,

Albert Schweitzer Council on Animals and the Environment
American Academy Dermatology

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
American Heart Association

American Humane Association

American Medical Association

American Pediatric Society

American Physiological Society

American Psychological Society

American Society for Laboratory Animal Practioners
American Society for Microbiology

American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics
American Veterinary Medical Association

Animal Care and Welfare/SPCA

Animal Rights International

Arthritis Foundation

Association of Academic Health Centers

Association of American Medical Collc es

Association for American Veterinary edical Colleges
Association of Medical School Pediatric Department Chairmen
Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights

Beauty Without Cruelty

Council for Compassionate Governance

Doris Day Animal League

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal

Endocrine Society

Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology
Federation of Behavioral Psychological and Cognitive Sciences
Fund for Animals

Genentech. Inc.

Health Industry Manufacturers Association

Humane Society of the United States

Interfaith Council for the Protection of Animals and Nature
International Fund for Animal Welfare

International Primate Protection League

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
National Association for Biomedical Research

Ore on Humane Society

Pe orming Animal Welfare Society

Psychologists for the Ethical Treatment of Animals

Society for Animal Protective Legislation

Society for Investigative Dermatology

Society for Neuroscience

Society for Pediatric Research

Washington Humane Society

 

 




 

sening WA is“. is notex ,__ I

Shocking Violatitmsofopedral Law byLaboratory Dog Dealers

In a crackdown on ﬂagrant violators of

it
i_» ~.

the Animal Welfare Act. the us De— i .2 -'

partment of Agriculture (USDA) has
taken action against several large-scale
animal dealers. In direct contradiction
of the intent of the Act. dogs were going
to laboratories without documentation
to prove that they were not stolen pets.

Julian and Anita Toney

Random source dog dealers. Julian
and Anita Toney ofLamoni. Iowa. were
charged by US DA with more than 1600
violations of the Animal Welfare Act's
record keeping requirements. This stag-
gering number of forged. incomplete.
and/or inaccurate records ofacquisition
and sale of animals is unrivalled.

The Toneys received over S 100.000 a year for selling dogs and
cats to the University of Iowa and the University of Minnesota. They
even understated their proﬁt to USDA in order to pay a reduced
license fee. Representatives from both Universities were subpoe-
naed to testify at the Administrative Hearing held in June regarding
the charges against the Toneys. The hearing record. recently ob-
tained by AWI. is packed with revelations about the animal dealing
business. Julian Toney described how the research facilities like to
use him. and his business flourished. As he put it. “I always delivered
on time. I always tried to have the sizes dogs they ordered... if you
had the right bfé’eds and the right sexes. then they was real happy
with you... If they needed two litter-mate females to do a heart
transplant because doctors were coming in from all over they
country. they would call and say. J ulian, we've had another dealer
cancel out. Do you happen to have two of these females? Can you
have them over here tomorrow morning. or it is going to cost us
literally thousands of dollars to do away with this class for the day
and schedule it for another day until you can get here. And I would
always go with any kind of special order that come."

Where did the Toneys get the dogs and cats they sold? We may
never know all of their sources. but they included other licensed
dealers. and many unlicensed dealers. known as "bunchers." Some
of the bunchers acquired animals from pounds that provided dogs
free of charge under the guise of relieving the pound from the
expense of euthanizing animals.

One example is the city of Brookﬁeld. Missouri. which has
employed Wayne Junior Stufflebean for the past 14 years to “pick
up dogs for them...” At the hearing. Mr. Stufflebean testiﬁed that the
dogs were held for 48 hours. When questioned about the dogs he
gave away he stated. "we didn't keep track of the dogs. you know...
I would ask them what they were going to do with them. And they
said that they was going to—people down there in another town
wanted them. And so I was just giving them three. four. ﬁve dogs."

In Minnesota. pCOple who have lost pets have contacted the
University of Minnesota in a desperate search for their beloved
companions. In fact. most dogs used by the University appear to have
come from Iowa and Missouri. Thus. the elaborate dealer network
makes it virtually impossible to ﬁnd a missing animal. The dealers
proﬁt: the research facilities use the animals. then incinerate them.

While we anxiously await the outcome of the hearing on
USDA‘s charges against the Toneys, they continue buying and

One ofthe dogs conﬁscated from Jack Stowers kennels

Animal Welfare Institute anrterly, Summer 1994

until next year.

Jack Stowers

USDA inspectors attempted to con-

duct compliance inspections more than
20 times, but were unable to get onto the
premises to do their job. When Stowers
, admitted inspectors. they found many
"x 1' ' problems. Because of the squalid condi-
tions and poor health of the dogs. the
USDA. assisted by the local District
Attorney. obtained an injunction. which
reads in part:
The Secretary has reason to believe that
Jack Stowers is placing the health of
dogs in serious danger in violation of the
Act and the regulations and standards
promulgated thereunder.

Prior to the conﬁscation of 29 dogs from Stowers’ premises by the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service on June 29. 1994.
Stowers had threatened to, inter alia. shoot the dogs.

The 29 dogs were conﬁscated by APHIS pursuant to 9 C.F.R. §
2.129. because the health of the animals was in serious danger and
because they were in need of immediate veterinary care. .

Stowers has stated to APHIS ofﬁcials that he intends to continue
to deal in dogs. regardless of whether his license is revoked.

For these reasons, the issuance of an order enjoining Stowers from
operating in violation of the Act and the regulations and standards
promulgated thereunder is appropriate.

Many of the dogs had to be euthanized. but fortunately, others
were placed in caring homes by a local humane society. Stowers is
believed to have supplied dogs to other Class “B” dealers including
South Jersey Biomedical and Mike Kredovski of Biomedical Asso-
ciates, both currently under investigation. Stowers continues to
operate while the case is pending before an administrative law judge.

(woos outrun" sg- .1 pa]

Jerry Vance

Vance's housing facilities did not provide adequate shelter.
were ramshackle. and failed to allow rapid elimination of excess
water and wastes according to USDA. Vance was also charged with
record keeping violations and failingto identify animals.

Vance had been a regular customer at local “trade days.“ He was
televised on Comic Chung’s “Eye to Eye” program at the Rutledge
trade day in Missouri carelessly loading dogs into his large truck.
This led to a loud public outcry.

Jerry Vance has been permanently prohibited from animal
dealing. He was also required to pay a civil penalty of $25,000.
though $20,000 of the ﬁne will be suspended if he doesn’t violate the
Animal Welfare Act for 20 years.

Jeffery Hodges .' .
Animals at Hodges’ facilities. were in need of veterinary care

and housed in cramped. dirty cages. without sufﬁcient shelter. Food
and water bowls were ﬁlthy. USDA inspectors also noted over-
crowding during transport. record keeping violations. and that ani-
mals were not held for the required period of time before being sold.
In a Consent Decision. Hodges agreed to a Cease and Desist
Order and to a license suspension for one year continuing thereafter
until he is able to demonstrate full compliance with the Animal
Welfare Act. He was also assessed a civil penalty of $ 10,000. which
was suspended as long as he doesn’t violate the Act for one year.

15

 

 

 




i. . ra-;5~’;1g'-" 'r‘, . ' '. ,» 1-.,_ . c
, . n . . x . ‘ .

 

by Cathy Liss

An animal heads down a trail where an unwary footstep triggers the
pan of the hidden steel jaw trap, activating the jaws, which slam
together with violent force on the animal’s leg. Excruciating pain
and fear grip the animal. as a ﬁerce struggle for freedom ensues.
Torn flesh, severed tendons, cutaneous lacerations, tooth fractures,
broken bones and countless hours, if not days, of agony and terror
are some of the horrors inﬂicted on animals a," -: "

caught in steeljaw legholdtraps. Fordecades ' " '
the federal Animal Damage Control (ADC )
program has been using these archaic steel
traps to catch and kill millions ofcoyotes to
"Protect American Agriculture.“

Aware ofthe horrendous injuries caused
by steel traps but unwilling to look beyond
them. ADC personnel spent countless tax
dollars fooling with modifications to steel
traps in their research department. However.
at last there are signs that the Department of
Agriculture‘s ADC program is loosening its
grip on steel traps.

In addition to pursuing alternatives to
trapping coyotes. the Animal Damage Con-
trol staff has decided to test a variety of
footsnaresi‘ on coyotes. Bob Phillips. the
principal investigator. invited me to the Utah
compound to observe the footsnare testing.
Also present were Dr. Marianna Roetto. the study veterinarian.
Bob‘s assistant Ken Gruver. Tom Garrett. and Tommy Svensson of
Sweden. John McConnell. experienced at moving coyotes without
getting bitten. was the coyote handler.

The footsnares to be tested were two spring-arm powered
snares: the Fremont and the Bouffard and three tubular-type snares:
the Ezyonem. the Lulea and the Aberg. The research protocol called

for placing each of the footsnares . ,_

on the animals‘ legs to detemiine if
they were able to hold the animals
and to ensure that the snares were
flUl causing severe damage. The

e.
r. . “an.“
i“ .1».
‘-.-. i ‘
1" ‘- « v-
. a
.

next step was setting the snares in

an enclosure with free-roaming

coyotes to be certain that the snares

could catch and hold the animals.

For this preliminary look at g , g ,_ ..
footsnares. it was agreed the long- . - - -. "-r' -
est time a coyote would be held
was 2 hours. At any time I felt a coyote was going to be seriously
injured or was in severe distress. I could call off the test, but this did
not prove to be necessary.

A captive-reared colony ofcoyotes is maintained by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for research purposes. They are stunningly
beautiful animals. extremely alert and keenly intelligent. each with
a distinct personality. Once one animal lifts his head and starts to
call. the others quickly join in and their song is captivating. They
demonstrated their sagacity by their ability to avoid snare sets and
in their efforts. once caught. to get out.

* It is important to distinguish footsnares which restrain the animals. from
necksnares which strangle animals. resulting in a slow and agonizing death.

.
, :' .. ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ . 1 ‘
,. . . . , .
. ., - -
‘ ' ., a ' + e . ,_ :
L ' .Oyt .‘ fﬁ’ .. '. 4 "‘ I"
.

Female coyo e held in 0 Fremont footsnare.

The Aberg snare developed in Sweden holding another coyote.

W sir“-
, ..;,.

Footsnares Can Reduce Injuries to 'lrapped Coyotes  

All of the devices which were tested have a mechanism to
prevent the circulation from being cut off as would happen with an
ever-tightening snare noose. Another important feature was a coat-
ing and/or tubing along the snare cable to protect the animal’s limb.

A comparison was made of footsnares staked ﬁrmly to the
ground versus use of a “drag,” a weighted object affixed to the end

' of the snare. Once animals are caught,
they are able to move to cover, rather than
being held in a ﬁxed location. In Sweden
it is mandatory to use a drag when trap-
ping foxes.

Tommy Svensson came to demon-
strate proper use of the Swedish footsnares.
the Aberg and the Lulea. Though very
similar, the Aberg appears to be the less
injurious. The Aberg was able to catch
and hold numerous coyotes. Its current
design is intended for use on foxes so it
will need some modification for applica-
tion with coyotes. It is lightweight and
easy to set. In Sweden it is only permitted
to be used in snow, which is preferable,
yet it can be used in a “dirt set.”

The Ezyonem footsnare was actually
too easy on the coyotes. They are strong
animals, able to escape from it with rela-
tive case. We were unable to test the Bouffard because of difﬁmlties
in setting the snare properly. It will have to be examined in the future,
after acquisition of a newer design and instructions for proper
setting.

The Fremont footsnare was able to hold coyotes successfully.
However. operational difﬁculties were encountered when attempts
were made to catch them: the coyotes were able to pull their legs free
‘ . " t 2,1 2‘ - “w before the snare noose had closed.

I Here. again, setting instructions
are needed to ensure that the set is
made properly.

Fortunately. during my three
days of observation, [did not need
to halt any of the tests. The lock
on the Fremont snare caused a
small laceration on a coyote ’5 leg.
This injury can be prevented if the
lock is modiﬁed to eliminate sharp
metal edges. Another coyote
broke a tooth biting on the metal pan of the Lulea snare. This
problem is avoided in the other footsnares which do not have metal
pans (Ezyonem) or have pans which detach’ after catching an ammal
(Aberg, Fremont. Bouffard). While the capture of coyotes is by no
means a serene event, reducing the impact a trap has on an animal
reduces the pain and suffering caused by the ordeal. Many of the
coyotes held in footsnares responded with annoyance at being
caught and held, which contrasts sharply with their frenzied fight
against steel jaw traps. Additional study and reﬁnement or modiﬁ-
cation of footsnares will be necessary, but this formal test by the US
Government demonstrated clearly that they can be a viable alterna-
tive to steel jaw traps.

;» / r “.

ssi'j Aqua)

”.4:-

ssr'l - uié.)

. ‘ ‘ .,
.73? " .

10 Animal Welfare Institute anrterly, Winter 1994

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$23 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$750 Thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act,
and an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non-lethal* Research
for FY 1994

Before the House Appropriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

March 24, 1993

We believe that the reorganization of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (APHIS) in 1988 had a severely adverse
effect on enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act. Combined with
insufficient funding, the directions to the staff of Regulatory
Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) from the former Administrator
and former Deputy Administrator of APHIS downplayed serious
inspections and enforcement in favor of vague goals described as
"educational". Fortunately, committed inspectors and other staff
continued to carry out their work despite lack of encouragement.

President Clinton has stated: "I have always loved and
respected animals and abhorred any cruelty toward them. Please
be assured that a Clinton Administration would be extremely
sensitive to these issues and concerns." The new Administration
must be given the opportunity to honor the standards of the
federal Animal Welfare Act (AWA) and revivify the nation's only
comprehensive federal law on the welfare of animals. To do that
a minimum of twenty-three million dollars must be apprOpriated.

RULING ON IMPROVED STANDARDS FOR LABORATORY ANIMALS AMENDMENTS

On February 25, 1993, more than seven years after Congress
enacted the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA)
Amendments to the AWA, US District Court Judge Richey issued a
ruling upholding the Congressional Mandate for exercise for
laboratory dogs and an environment adequate to promote
psychological well—being of laboratory primates. Judge Richey
found the final regulations promulgated by USDA, which rely on
"performance standards", arbitrary and capricious.

In issuing his ruling the judge stated that the regulations
"...do not provide the minimum requirements mandated in the Act.
'A dog is man's best friend' is an old adage which the Defendants

 




-2-

[USDA, Health and Human Services, and the Office of Management
and Budget] have either forgotten or decided to ignore.

Hopefully the new Secretary will ensure that the bureaucracy he
inherits and the special interest groups with which he must
contend will be forced to remember this sentiment and comply with
the law."

Referring to special interest groups' efforts to delay
implementation of requirements under ISLA, the judge stated,
"...former Judge J. Skelly Wright of our Court of Appeals once
said, in essence, that the regulators in Washington are regulated
by the regulated. This may well be the case here. If this is so
here, then something needs to be done to change the process."

The judge's order states that USDA must promulgate new
regulations, "without unnecessary delay", under ISLA. The judge
further ordered that the Plaintiffs [Animal Legal Defense Fund,
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, Drs. Roger Fouts,
Bernard Migler, and William Strauss] "may make further
application to this Court in the event that the Defendants do not
act with all deliberate speed...."

The Plaintiffs look forward to the prompt promulgation of
sound regulations.

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES OF USDA

The U.S. Department of Agriculture has a tremendous
responsibility in assuring that the minimum standards of the
Animal Welfare Act are met at research facilities, dealers'
premises, animal exhibits, and during transportation by
intermediate handlers and carriers. The number of sites in need
of inspection are greater than ever before because the number of
facilities regulated by USDA has continued to increase. In 1992
there were 1,474 research facilities (with 3,495 separate sites),
4,400 animal dealers, 1,495 exhibitors and 442 animal carriers
and handlers. Currently, the field staff consists of 49
Veterinary Medical Officers (VMO's) and 37 Animal Care Inspectors
(ACI's) for a total of only 86.

Additional monies are desperately needed for more field
inspectors so that every site can be visited at least three times
a year. This is the minimum number of inspections necessary to
assure steadfast, nationwide compliance with the law. Strict
enforcement including prompt legal action must be pursued if the
minimum standards are not met.

In our testimony before this distinguished subcommittee last
year we requested an appropriation of $23,048,399 to enable the
Agency to carry out its responsibilities. Attached is a copy of
the statement submitted last year by the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation on behalf of more than 200 animal
protective organizations who want to see the Animal Welfare Act
adequately funded and properly administered.

 




-3-

OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT

The report from the Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
(March 1992) shows clearly the damage done under the Department's
previous administration. The recent book, Stolen for Brofit, by
Judith Reitman details the regrettable performance by the former
APHIS Administrator and his Deputy from an outside perspective.

The Animal Welfare Act must be enforced. Its requirements
for minimum standards can no longer be allowed to be routinely
violated as the Inspector General's Audit clearly shows them to
have been. For the use of this distinguished Subcommittee, I
submit a copy of the Inspector General's findings, some of which
are listed below.

“Our audit concluded that APHIS cannot ensure the humane
care and treatment of animals at all dealer facilities as
required by the act. APHIS did not inspect dealer facilities
with a reliable frequency, and it did not enforce timely
correction of violations found during inspections.“

16.2 % of facilities whose inspection reports were reviewed
had not received even one inspection in the past year! More than
half of the facilities were not in compliance with the Act.

80.8% of the facilities with violations had not received timely
follow—up inspections.

"The infrequency of inspections occurred because APHIS
expects a limited number of qualified inspectors to perform a
large number of inspections."

There were seven dealers identified who had violations which
were not corrected and were cited during 3 or more inspections.

"Of the 22 licensed breeding facilities we visited, 17 had
not properly identified the animals. In addition, 14 of these
facilities did not maintain adequate inventory records."

"...85.6% of inspections performed in Missouri required a
follow—up inspection because of identified violations."

We agree with the Inspector General's audit that facilities
which do not meet the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act
should not be in business. The audit stated that of 284 licensed
facilities reviewed, 49 licenses were renewed despite the fact
that the facilities were not in compliance with the Act's minimum
standards. Licenses should not be renewed for facilities that
have repeatedly failed to meet the minimum standards.

As stated in the audit, distribution of memoranda as was
done when Veterinary Services was administering the Animal
Welfare Act (prior to the reorganization) should be reinstated.
It is essential that the entire field staff receive the same
instruction, the information is available for future reference,
and the position of the Department is clear to all.

The Audit itself has not been supplied to the field staff.
Instead, bland statements, that the inspectors were told to use
as responses when they receive inquiries about the Inspector
General's highly critical report, were handed out. This question
and answer sheet is attached.

 




4—

REGULATIONS ON PET THEFT ACT AND EXOTIC ANIMAL AUCTIONS

Lifting of the regulatory freeze will allow regulations on
pet theft and exotic animal auctions, which have been found to be
highly abusive, to be published this year.

The American public demands that serious attention be given
to ending fraud and theft by laboratory animal dealers selling
dogs and cats. The regulations on pet theft are in the final
stage of departmental clearance.

This February, following a year-long investigation, the
operators of D & T Kennels were convicted of criminal conspiracy
and attempting to defraud the USDA. The defendants were
obtaining random source dogs by answering ads offering animals
"free to good home". The pets were then "sold" to D & T Kennels,
a licensed dealer, using fictitious names in the records. The
animals were then sold by D & T Kennels for use in medical
research. Only one dog, Charlie, survived the experimental
research and was rescued.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation is a strong
supporter of the Animal Welfare Act and its enforcement by USDA.
We hope that sufficient funding can be forthcoming to assure
well-being of animals under the law.

ANIMAL WELFARE INFORMATION CENTER

An appropriation of $750,000 should be designated as a line
item for the Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC) at the
National Agricultural Library. The Center was established in
accordance with the mandate in the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Amendments calling for an information service
to assist with laboratory animal employee training, to prevent
unintended duplication of animal experiments, to help reduce or
replace use of animals where possible, and to minimize animal
pain and distress.

The AWIC has been a much needed resource to the research
community (researchers, Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees, veterinarians and librarians) and can be to the staff
of REAC. In the past AWIC has conducted workshops, provided
grants, and exhibited at conferences. Unfortunately, an
increasing percentage of monies designated for AWIC have been
used to cover other programs within the National Agricultural
Library. Committee report language should designate the
appropriation solely for the AWIC and not for other purposes.

THE HORSE PROTECTION ACT

Limited funding has permitted inspection of only about 1/10
of the horse shows conducted in a given year. USDA is under
great pressure from the Tennessee Walking Horse industry.
$500,000 is needed to permit inspection of more horse shows.

 




-5-

THE ANIMAL DAMAGE CONTROL PROGRAM

Research efforts on non-lethal* projects must intensify to
meet the needs of the Animal Damage Control (ADC) field
operations. An increased allocation of funding should go to non-
lethal* projects conducted by the Denver Wildlife Research Center
(DWRC); we propose an increase from 55% to 70%. Funding for
animal damage control field operations should be cut back until
it can be demonstrated that new technologies are being employed
and the proper treatment of animals is a priority.

ADC Research Qperatious

Investigations should continue and expand on a number of
worthwhile projects including chemical bird and mammal
repellents, immunocontraception and "scare" devices.

We support appropriation of funds for the relocation of DWRC
to Fort Collins with committee report language identifying the
objective to accelerate research, availability and use of a
variety of non-lethal* control methods.

ADC Eield Operations

While the DWRC is making some progress in working on
innovative techniques for less cruel means for controlling
problem wildlife situations, the field program appears to be
stagnating. Methods used, such as steel jaw traps, denning,
poison baits and aerial gunning, are inhumane, indiscriminate and
provide a large "body count" but not a long term solution to the
predation.

Lack of concern about pain and suffering inflicted on
depredating animals is prevalent. ADC continues to use the
barbaric steel jaw trap, banned in more than 60 countries, and
lobbies against prohibitions on steel traps before state and
local legislatures.

Federal ADC trappers have long Operated with an exemption
from state game laws on checking for animals caught in traps.
Many ADC trappers are only required to check traps twice a week!
Any restraining trap will cause immeasurable suffering when
holding an animal (which could be a non-target victim) for this
length of time. In New Mexico recently, the State Land
Commissioner banned federal ADC trappers from trapping on state
lands because of their refusal to comply with the state trapping
law regarding checking traps.

The archaic field program was best described by a state
ADC officer who said, "We're feeding a dinosaur, and we'll go the
way of the dinosaur."

*Non—lethal refers to methods such as repellents, chemosterilants
and aversive techniques. We propose a research budget increase
from 55% to 70% for non—lethal work.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. 0. Box 3719
Geometown Station

Washington. 0.0. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$23 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act and
an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non-lethal Research*

for FY 1993

Submitted to the Senate Agriculture, Rural Development, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee on Appr0priations

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

April 15, 1992

The Animal Welfare Act is the chief law for protection of
animals in the United States. It must not be undermined by
lack of the most basic necessities for enforcement of its
minimum standards. We support strong enforcement by USDA to
obtain compliance from the many entities it must regulate,
however USDA needs the resources to enable it to enforce its
mandate. -(See breakdown of appr0priations needed on page 5.)

Major new responsibilities continue to be added to the work
of Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) within the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Meanwhile, lack
of funds has prevented proper enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act. REAC needs to double the number of inspections
it conducts in a year to help assure compliance with law at
the same time that its workload has more than doubled. It is
essential that the funding for animal welfare enforcement be
increased to a minimum of $23 million.

APHIS's 83 field inSpectors are responsible for inspection of
more than 3,234 research Sites, 4,268 animal dealer premises,
and 1,415 exhibitors. In addition there are approximately
400 intermediate handlers and carriers whose animal shipments
must be inspected as frequently as possible.

*Non-lethal research refers to methods such as repellents,
chemosterilants, and aversive techniques. We propose a
research budget increase from 55% to 70% for non-lethal
work.

 




vice; Rate and Birds

A 1970 amendment to the Animal Welfare Act called for the
inclusion of all species of warm-blooded animals used in
research and the wholesale pet and exhibition trades. At the
discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture, mice, rats and
birds have been excluded from this requirement. Now, more
than twenty years later, a federal judge has ruled that mice,
rats and birds must be given protection under the Animal

Welfare Act.

The judge stated, “The defendants' failure to pursue the
humane care and treatment of birds, rats and mice, both by
excluding them from the definition of 'animal' and by
refusing to issue regulations governing their care, flies in
the face of that mandate and indicates that the agency has
'been blind to the source of its delegated power'....This
inertia on the part of the agency allows the mistreatment of
birds, rats and mice to continue unchecked by the agency
charged with the protection of laboratory animals. The Court
cannot believe that this is what Congress had in mind.‘

Mice, rats and birds constitute at least 85% of the animals
used in research. Therefore the cost for the preparation of
regulations and enforcement will be significant. By the
Department's own estimates, it will be a minimum of $3
million, with more recent USDA estimates closer to 39—10
million. The USDA expects this to more than double their

workload.

On March 4, USDA appealed the decision, however, the
coverage must be extended. Only if the decision were
overturned, which we believe to be unlikely, would the USDA

be relieved of this duty.

derburdeoed Staff

Following the reorganization of the Animal Welfare Program in
1988 there were a total of only 63 inspectors covering the
entire US and this figure has slowly increased to a total of
83. Currently APHIS is conducting an average of 1.5
inspections per facility annually. (Note that this figure
includes reinspections, which may be only partial
inspections.) Adequate funding would permit doubling of the
field staff, so they could conduct more, better quality
inspections and reduce travel time which accomplishes

nothing.

Only veterinary medical officers can inspect animals in
research facilities. In 1988 there were 42 veterinary
inspectors, and this number has only risen to 48. It should
be at least doubled in order to cover inspection of
laboratory mice, rats and birds.

 




Bet Theft bet

The Pet Theft Act was enacted into 1aw as Sections 28 and 29
of the 1990 Farm bill. The new requirements are intended to
allow pet owners to recover their pets from pounds before
they are sold to dealers. Under Section 28 REAC should
ensure that proper records are kept on each dOg or cat by the
pounds, the dealers, and the laboratories and that valid
certification of the specific source of each animal is
provided. There are approximately 3,500 pounds in the United
States. Authority to apply for injunctions is contained in
Section 29:

Wherever the Secretary has reason to believe that
any dealer, carrier, exhibitor, or intermediate
handler is dealing in stolen animals, or is placing
the health of any animal in serious danger in
violation of this Act or the regulations or
standards promulgated thereunder, the Secretary
shall notify the Attorney General...

t 0: Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals and
Regulation of farm Animals Used in Biomedical Research

Final regulations implementing the 1985 amendments to the
Animal Welfare Act were published on February 14,1991.
Unfortunately significant parts of these regulations are in a
form called Iperformance standards" As a result inspectors
will require much additional time to complete an inspection.
Prosecution of violations, likewise, will be an even more
labor—intensive task for APHIS's Regulatory Enforcement and
the Office of General CounSel under this form of regulation.

The inspector must first evaluate the individual plan
prepared by the facility to see if the plan meets the
requirements of the law and regulations; next the facility
must be inspected to determine whether it is adhering to its
own plan (in the absence of record-keeping requirements);
each individual dog and primate should be carefully observed
to assure that they are meeting the performance-based
requirements and then the inspector must mark the inspection
report form in a comprehensible fashion. Every facility is
at liberty to write a different plan both for exercise of
dogs and well- -being of primates.

APHIS has further expanded its duties, and will begin
inspection of farm animals used in biomedical research.

There are approximately 2,400 research facility sites which
house dogs, primates and farm animals used in biomedical
research and approximately 4,000 dealers and 1, 000 exhibitors

in these animals.. ‘
\

 




_‘_

Headquarters staff current estimate for the additional time
required during inspections to assure compliance with the
requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs, psychological
well-being of primates and inspection of farm animals used
for biomedical research; is 2 hours per facility for the
first inspection and 1 hour for each inapection thereafter.
‘We are convinced that the actual additional time needed will
be at least double that proposed by headquarters staff.

Exotic Animal Auctions

APHIS is preparing regulations to cover exotic animal
auctions. Headquarters staff estimates that there are 25
such auction sites which must be licensed, requiring
announced pre-licensing inspections in addition to
unannounced compliance inspections. License applicants are
permitted up to 3 pre-licensing inspections to meet APHIS

standards.

Drafting Regulations

During the year APHIS must draft and finalize regulations
regarding use of farm animals in biomedical research, sales
of exotic animals at auctions, transfer of animals to and
from pounds, shelters and dealers per the requirements of the
Pet Theft Act, and use of mice, rats and birds per the
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.

Anim l Welfare Act Budget

Page 5 of this testimony contains a breakdown of our estimate
for the Animal Welfare Act enforcement budget from our
testimony before this Subcommittee last year. In FY 1992 the
appropriation did not increase significantly, yet the
responsibilities of USDA increased enormously. In addition
to the $20,048,399 that we calculated was needed for FY 1992.
we added $3,000,000 to enable USDA to begin coverage of mice,
rats and birds for a total request of $23,048,399 for FY

1993.

The Animal Damage Control Program

The Denver Wildlife Research Center (DWRC) is to be commended
for its research on non-lethal methods which now comprise
over one-half (55%) of the research budget up from 47% last
year. This forward-thinking approach should continue and
expand. In addition to aversive and repellent methods, a key
alternative technology to be pursued is immunocontraception.
We prepcse that 20% of the research budget he directed toward
nonzlethal projects. This is a prudent, economical, Viable,
and humane means of planning for:the future of wildlife

management.

 




-5-

We support the relocation of DHRC to Port Cbllins to allow
the facility to conduct its alternatives research program as
aggressively as possible, and to accelerate the rate at which
non-lethal alternative methods are develOped for animal
damage control. ‘.

The Animal Damage Control field program currently receives a
budget of nearly $26,000,000, and we support a reduction in
funding because of the eXtreme cruelty, lack of efficiency,
outdated methods and strategies often used by ADC in the
field. The field Operations budget is not being put to
constructive use, relying more on a ”body count“ than
successful long-term results. Until such time as there is a
major shift in emphasis within the program, including the
incorporation of new technologies being developed, we believe
that taxpayers' monies can be more wisely spent elsewhere.

Minimum Appropriations Needed to Enforce
the Animal Welfare Act

Operating Budget for FY 1989................. ..... $ 6,197,000
(less than 1.20 inspections per site were made)

ADDITIONAL (IDSTS BECAUSE 0? ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
AND AN INCREASED WORKLOAD:
.Additional Unannounced Inspections (1.80 per site,

for a total of 3 inSpections)........... ..... .....2,300,069
Addition of Assistant Sector Supervisors and

Computer Assistants....................... ........ ..289,138
Inspection of Carriers and Handlers..... ......... .....265,018
Pet Theft Act.......................................3,200,000
Inspection for Compliance with ISLA & Farm Animals

Used in Biomedical Research Regulations.;.........l,078,000
Inspection of Exotic Animal Auctions...................11,400
Drafting Regulations..................................237,362
Increased Prelicensing Inspections....................165,423
Investigating Increased Number of Complaints...........61,332
Regulatory Enforcement...........................;..2,000,000
Acquisition of Needed Equipment.....................1,199,600
Training..............................................612,000
Benefits, Communications, Travel and Overhead.......l,300,000
Inflation...........................................l,132,057
TOTAL RmUESTED LAST YEAR.........................$20,048,399

Mice, Rats and Birds..............................$ 3,000,000
TOTAL MUEST FOR FY 19930000000000.00000000no...o$23l0481399

 




; SOGETY FOR ANIMAL PMTECTNE LEGISLATION
P. 0. Dan 3719
GummMnmShMaw
‘wummmurotzaxn7
(202) 337-2334

April 10, 1992

The Honorable Quentin N. Burdick
Chairman, Senate ApprOpriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural _

Deve10pment, and Related Agencies
140 Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Mr . Chairman:

The animal welfare organizations listed below support the
testimony of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
requesting an appropriation of $23 million for enforcement of
the Animal Welfare Act, $500 thousand for enforcement of the
Horse Protection Act and an increased allocation of Animal
Damage Control funds for non-lethal research.

With appreciation for your consideration,

Sincerely,

aim; 6%“

Christine Stevens
Secretary

Action 81

Action for Animals' Rights (CA)

Adopt-A-Pet (NY)

Alabama Animal Adoption Society

Alaska Animal Rights Coalition

Albert. Schweitzer Council on Animals and the Environment
Allies of Animals (NY) -

American Association for Science and Public Policy
American Humane Association '

American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Anderson County Hmnane Society (SC)

Animal Advocates (PA)

Animal Allies (VA)

Animal Assistance League of Orange County (CA)

Animal Care and Welfare/SPCA (PA)

Animal Care Society (VA)

Animal Defense Council (AZ) 1"

Animal Friends (PA) '

Animal Fund (NC)

Animal Legal Defense Fund

 




Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal

Argus Archives

Press (CA) ,

Lifeline of Iowa.

Protection Institute of America
Protection League of Johnson County (IA)

Protective League
Protective League.

Rescue
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights

Welfare League of Racine, Inc.

(OH)

Inc. (WI)

League of.Pittsburgh (PA)

Coalitions

Forum (VT)

Foundation of Florida

Information and Educational Service (CT)
Information Service (NY)

Kinship, Inc. (TX)

Mobilization
(WI)

Welfare Society of Allegany County (MD)

Animals' Agenda
Anti- Cruelty Society (IL)

Associated Humane Societies (NJ)
Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights

Austin Animal Defense

(TX)

Bangor Humane Society (NE)

Beauty Without Cruelty

Beaver Cbunty Humane Society (PA)

Benton-Franklin Humane Society/Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals (WA)
Bergen County Animal Shelter Society (NJ)
Brooke County Animal Welfare League (WV)
Cabarrus Animal Protection Association (NC)
Care About the Strays (OH)
Central Vermont Humane Society, Inc.
Chattahoochee Humane Society (AL)

CHEETA (IN)
Citizen' 8 Committee for Laboratory Animal Liberation (NY)

Citizens to End Animal Suffering and Exploitation
Citizens United for Animals (WI)

Coalition for Responsible Trapping Laws (C0)
Collin county Humane Society (TX)

Colorado University Animal Rights Group

Concerned Citizens for Animals,

Inc. (HA)

Connecticut Cetacean Society

Dahlonega-Lumpkin County Humane Shelter (GA)
Dixie Humane Education Bureau (AL)

Dublin-Laurens Cbunty Humane Association (GA)
Eagle vail Humane Society (00)

Ecology Center of California

El Paso county Humane Society (TX)

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal ,

Erie Cbunty Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals (NY)

. .~,~.—.. wwmw-r—W""—

 




Page TDKCO

Farm Animal Reform Movement

Flagler County Humane Society (FL)
Florida Federation of Humane Societies
Franklin County Animal Shelter (ME)
Fund for Animals

Garland Humane Society (TX)

Greater Derry Humane Society, Inc.
Greenhill Humane Society (0R)

Hardin County Pet Protection (KY)
Haven Humane Society (CA)

Heartland Humane Society (OR)

Helping Paws (IL)

Hiawatha Humane Society (MN)

Houston Animal Rights Team (TX)

Humane Association of Central New York
Humane Education Committee (NY)

Humane Education for Animals (KY)

Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane

Education Network
Society and SPCA (WA)

Society, Inc.

Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society

of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of

(ND)

Avery County (NC)
Belleville (IL)
Cascade County (MT)
Charlotte (NC)
Cowlitz County (WA)
Crawford County (KS)
Fairfax Cbunty (VA)
Harford county (MD)
Harrison County (TX)
Hernando County (FL)
Kansas

Kent County (MD)
Kent Cbunty (MI)
Larimar County (CO)
Manatee Cbunty (FL)
McDowell County (WV)
Missouri

Monroe (MI)
Nacogdoches (TX)
Napa County (CA)

New York

North Iowa

Port Jervis/Deerpark, Inc.
Shenandoah County WA)
South Shore (MA)
Southern Nevada & SPOX
Sullivan County (TN)
Sumner County (TN)
the United States
Tippecanoe (IN)
Tucson (AZ)

(NY)

. -r"-_' 4"“--~v'-n'~_‘VT-.—~‘II~'- "M-

 




The Work of The Society for Animal
Protective Legislation from 1955,
When Only Two Federal Laws to Protect
Animals Existed, to 1983, when Fourteen
Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was
founded at the time of the introduction of the
first federal bill to require humane slaughter of
animals. At that time, humane organizations

had had little success in obtaining needed

federal legislation because they spent most of
their efforts in caring for lost and stray animals,
and they were concerned abOut losing their tax-
exempt status if they did much work on
legislation. Until 1977, United States law
specified that an organization could not retain
such status if it spent a “substantial” amount on
lobbying. '

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation registered under the

Federal Lobbying Act and devoted its efforts
entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955
on, it worked intensively to obtain enactment of
the following major federal legislation:

1958: The first federal Humane
Slaughter Act was passed, requiring all
packers selling to the (J. 8. government to
provide anesthetization, mechanical or
electrical instant stunning prior to
slaughter for all animals in all their
plants except for kosher slaughter. The
law covered 80% of animals
slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

The Wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits
poisoning of waterholes where wild
horses and burros drink and use of
aircraft to round the horses up for
sale to slaughterhouses.

The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was
passed (after years of work). It set
minimum standards for care and

housing of dogs. cat, primates, rabbits,
hamsters and guinea pigs in the
premises of animal dealers and
laboratories and identification of dogs
and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are
licensed, laboratories registered. (See
1970 and 1976 for broadening and
strengthening of the law.) i

The Endangered Species Act was
passed, providing for listing by the
Secretary of Interior of Threatened
Species and Endangered Species and
prohibiting importation of the latter for
commercial purposes. (See 1973 for
strengthening of the law.)

A measure to prohibit soring of
Tennessee Walking Horses for show
purposes was passed. (See 1976 for
amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protec-

tion of the Laboratory Animal Welfare
Act to all species of warm-blooded
animals, throughout their stay in the
laboratory and in the wholesale pet
and exhibition trades as well, was
passed unanimously by both

Houses of Congress. The bill was
renamed “Animal Welfare Act."

A law was passed to provide a criminal
penalty for shooting animals and birds
from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses

was passed.
Resolutions passed by both Houses of

Congress requested the Secretary of
State to call for a ten-year international
moratorium on commercial whaling.

.1?

 




1972: Based on the adoption of the 1971
resolutions, the United States delegation
to the Stockholm Conference on the
Human Environment proposed the
moratorium on commercial whaling,
and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote, thus
putting world opinion on the side of the
whales.

The Society worked for passage of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act, which
prohibits killing, taking or harassing

of any marine mammal without a permit
and bans importation of any part or
product of a nursing marine mammal

or its mother. It sets the goal of

zero mortality or serious injury rate for
dolphins caught incidental to tuna

purse seining. (For extension of the law’s
jurisdiction, see 1976.)

Resolutions in the House and Senate
calling for international protection of
polar bears were passed.

An amendment giving the Department
of the Interior power to enforce the law
providing a criminal penalty for shooting
at animals from aircraft was passed.
Prohibition of Poisoning of Predators on
Public Lands was passed by the House
but not by the Senate.

1973: (J. S. action to protect endangered
species was greatly strengthened:
(1) the Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora was concluded in Washington
after 92 nations took part in a three-week
conference; (2) to conform with the re-
quirements of the Convention, the En-
dangered Species Act was strengthened
and broadened.
Hearings were held against the
poisoning of predators on the
public lands.

1974: A bill which included authorization of
funds for research on methods of animal
birth control was passed by the House
and Senate but vetoed by the President;
nine days of hearings were held on
legislation to regulate air shipment of
animals; oversight hearings were held in
the Senate to strengthen the Horse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were
made to enact legislation against the
poisoning of predators. The Executive
Order banning predator poisoning on
public lands was threatened and had to
be forcefully defended.

1975:

1976:

 

The Executive Order on predator
poisoning was modified to provide for
experimental use of cyanide with a view
to developing a cyanide collar for sheep
to kill only predators actually attacking
sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to
restrict the cruel steel jaw leghold trap and
on a bill to invoke economic sanctions
against whalers. The Senate passed a

bill substantially strengthening the Horse
Protection Act of 1970.

The Animal Welfare Act was broadened
extensively. The new law (1) regulates
carriers and intermediate handlers
under the Act, requiring them to adhere
to humane standards for transportation
affecting commerce of all animals
protected by the Act; (2) requires animal
brokers to observe humane standards
and specifies that all dogs — including
dogs for hunting, security, or breeding
purposes — be protected by the Act; (3)
prohibits C.O.D. transportation of animals
unless the shipper guarantees payment
of round-trip fare and any out-of—pocket
expenses of the carrier or intermediate
handler for care of animals not claimed
at destination. Also, animals cannot be
transported at an age less than the
Secretary permits; and dealers, exhibitors,
auction sale operators, and Federal,

State and local agencies are required to
obtain a veterinarian’s certificate before
delivering any animal designated by the
Secretary for transportation affecting
commerce; (4) extends the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate
handlers and carriers and authorizes the
Secretary to impose a civil penalty of up
to $1,000 for each violation of the
humane standards; (5) imposes a uniform
civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all persons
regulated under the statute, and eliminates
the requirement that the Secretary issue

a cease-and-desist order before imposing

a civil penalty on research facilities; (6)
makes it a crime punishable by fine and
imprisonment knowingly to sponsor,
participate in, transport in interstate
commerce, or use the mails to promote
fights between dogs or other mammals

or between cocks, except where state

law permits it; (7) requires all government
agencies — including the Army, Air Force,
and National Institutes of Health — using

 




1978:

laboratory animals to prove that they are
fully in compliance with the Act.

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill,
providing protection for a species found
only in parts of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 was amended to increase its
coverage from 12 to 200 miles,
consistent with the new 200-miIe-limit law
extending (LS. jurisdiction.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was
revamped, civil fines being increased
from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense,
and criminal penalties raised from a
maximum fine for first offenders of $2,000
and/or a six-month jail term to a
maximum $3,000 and/or a year in jail. A
second criminal offense can be
penalized by a fine up to $5,000 and/or
two years in jail. Other sections provide:
authority for the (J. S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal
equipment as evidence for trial; authority
for USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours
for further examination; power to
subpoena non-government witnesses in
civil cases; penalties for assaulting,
intimidating or interfering with federal
agents; penalties for knowingly making
false reports or entering a horse in a
show under a false name. Authorization
for funding was increased.

The federal Humane Slaughter Act was
significantly improved by requiring that
all animals slaughtered for meat
imported into the (I. S. be humanely
slaughtered. Foreign packers importing
to this country must meet standards
equal to those required of (I. S. packers.
Further, the Federal Meat Inspection Act
was amended for all federally-inspected
plants to empower the inspectors to stop
the slaughtering line on the spot if any
cruelty is observed. Slaughtering may not
recommence until deficiencies, whether
of equipment or of abuses by personnel,
are corrected. The Society for Animal
Protective Legislation played the major
role in obtaining enactment of this
legislation, which had been pending for
years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was
amended on the Senate floor to
authorize use of funds for research on
animal birth control.

However, the (I. S. Department of
Agriculture failed to make use of the funds
appropriated for that purpose.

1979:

1980:

1981:

The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment
to the International Fishery Conservation
and Management Act was passed,
providing important protection for
whales and other sea creatures. The
amendment cuts a nation’s fish
allocation by 50% on certification by the
Secretary of Commerce that a nation
has not lived up to the Act. Allocations
would be stopped in a year if such
nation persisted in its violation, thus
providing a powerful incentive for
whaling nations to adhere to rulings of
the International Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as Marine animals
were included in the embargo sanctions
of the Pelly Amendment of the 1967
Fisherman’s Protective Act. All threatened
or endangered species are covered in
the new amendment which makes it
possible for the President to embargo all
wildlife products from any nation that
diminishes the effectiveness of an
international wildlife conservation
agreement. The Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora is a
prime example.

The House of Representatives passed the

Elephant Protection Act by unanimous
consent and sent it to. the Senate.
Amendments to the Lacey‘Act making
this 1912 statute enforceable and
increasing penalties for willful
importation of wildlife obtained illegally
in a foreign country or transported
illegally across state lines were passed
by the House of Representatives and
approved by the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works, but
blocked by the objection of individual
Senators before final passage.
Hearings were held on an International
Wildlife Protection Bill introduced as
an amendment to the Elephant Protection
Act but despite support at the hearings
by every organization except the ivory
dealers’ lobby, the bill was blocked by
a series of obstacles.

The enforcement provisions of the
Lacey Act were substantially
strengthened. This forward-looking
legislation was hampered by weak
sanctions and procedures. Violation of
the Lacey Act now carries penalties of
a maximum fine of $20,000 and/or 5
years imprisonment for each violation
of the Act.

 




The Elephant Protection Act died
without action.

The Endangered Species Act was
reauthorized after a vigorous battle
with special interests who tried, for the
most part unsuccessfully, to weaken it.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act
was reauthorized.

A bill to provide for development and
use of non-animal methods to test
chemicals in consumer products and
to limit pain and distress for laboratory
animals was reported favorably by the
House Committee on Science and
Technology but failed to pass before
adjournment.

The Society is working for the
enactment of bills (1) to minimize pain
and distress for laboratory animals and
encourage use of alternative methods;
(2) to end the use of steel-jaw leghold
traps.

Of the existing laws to protect animals, twelve
were passed since the founding of the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a large
extent, because of the Society’s work. The two
previously enacted laws are the 1906 “28-hour
Law” protecting livestock shipped by rail, and
the 1948 law authorizing the Cl. S. Customs to
prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to
maintain reasonable humane standards. These
two dates and the 42 years between them
speak for themselves of the lack of action on
legislation to protect animals before the
founding of the Society.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepares information for use by members of
Congress and their staffs. It sends circular letters
to a large mailing list of individuals interested in
animal protective legislation, informing them of
ways in which they may help, principally by
writing to members of Congress or other
government officials and to the editors of
newspapers.

The Society needs your help to continue its
essential work. If you believe in protection of
animals by law, please give generously.

Society For Animal Protective Legislation

P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, D. C. 20007

 

 

wand-1:3 5

M' Home

l message l

 

 

 

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

Enclosed is my contribution of $

. (Not deductible in computing income tax because the

Society for Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

Name

 

Address

City

 

 

 

Zip Code

 

 




August 11, 1983

Mr“ Jerry ﬂunt
HunType

52 L Street, E.
Washington, D.

Bear Mr. ﬁunt:
Please get new material (the date in.the title, page 1;

adéitions, pages 3 and 4} ané send them for proofreaéing
and paste-up t0 us.

553 the same type faces as the original copy, encloseﬁ.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

C iilh

Enclosure

 




     
         
 

The enforcement provisions of the Lacey Act were

 

substantially strengthened. This forwarowlookinq

 

legislation was hampered by weak sanctions ané

oroceﬂures. Violation of tho Lacey tot now oarrieo

   
  

    
   
    

penalties of a maximum fine of $26,900 and/or

5 years imprisonment for each violation of the Act.

«do

The Elephant Protection.&ot iioo without action.

  

The Enoangerol Sgocios Act was roouthorizoo after a
vigorous battle with special interests who tried,.

for the moat part unsuccessfully, to weakon it.

       
  
    
 
  
  
   

1982: The Marine Mammal Protection Act was roauthorizoﬂ.

A bill to provioo for oovelogmont ano use of non~l
animal mothodg to toot chemicals in conaumor prooucts
an& to limit pain ano distress for laboratory animals
was reporteo favorably oy the mouse Committee on
Science and Technology but failoo to pass before

adjournment.

1983: The Society is working for tho enactment of billo

(l) to minimize pain and oistross for laboratory




animals anﬁ gncourage nae of altarnative methods:

(2) to end the use of steelmjaw lﬁgholﬁ traps.

 




The Work of The Society for Animal
Protective Legislation from 1955,
When Only Two Federal Laws to Protect

Animals Existed, to 1/98

1: when Fourteen

Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective "Legislation was
founded at the time of the introduction of the
first federal bill to require humane slaughter of
animals. At that time, humane organizations

had had little success in obtaining needed
federal legislation because they spent most of
their efforts in caring for lost and stray animals,
and they were concerned about losing their tax-
exempt status if they did much work on
legislation. Until 1977, United States law
specified that an organization could not retain
such status if it spent a substantial" amount on
lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation registered under the
Federal Lobbying Act and devoted its efforts
entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955
on, it worked intensively to obtain enactment of
the following major federal legislation:

1958: The first federal Humane
Slaughter Act was passed, requiring all
packers selling to the U. S. government to
provide anesthetization, are mechanical or
electrical instant stunning prior to
slaughter for all animals in all their
plants except for kosher slaughter. The
law covered 80% of animals
slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

The Wild Horse Act passed. lt prohibits
poisoning of waterholes where wild
horses and burros drink and use of
aircraft to round the horses up for

sale to slaughterhouses.

The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was

passed (after years of work). It set
minimum standards for care and

housing of dogs, cats, primates, rabbits,
hamsters and guinea pigs in the
premises of animal dealers and

. laboratories and identiﬁcation of dogs

and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are
licensed, laboratories registered. (See
1970 and 1976 for broadening and
strengthening of the law.)

The Endangered Species Act was
passed, providing for listing by the
Secretary of Interior of Threatened

- .« Species and Endangered Species and

prohibiting importation of the latter for
commercial purposes. (See 1973 for
strengthening of the law.)

A measure to prohibit soring of
Tennessee Walking Horses for show
purposes was passed. (See 1976 for
amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protec-

tion of the Laboratory Animal Welfare
Act to all species of warm-blooded
animals, throughout their‘stay in the
laboratory and in the wholesale pet
and exhibition trades as well, was
passed unanimously by both

Houses of Congress. The billwas
renamed ”Animal Welfare Act."

A law was passed to provide a criminal
penalty for shooting animals and birds
from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses
was passed.

Resolutions passed by both Houses of
Congress requested the Secretary of
State to call for a ten-year international
moratorium on commercial whaling.

 




1972: Based on the adoption of the 1971

resolutions, the United States delegation
to the Stockholm Conference on the
Human Environment proposed the
moratorium on commercial whaling,
and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote, thus
putting world opinion on the side of the
whales.

The Society worked for passage of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act, which
prohibits killing, taking or harassing

of any marine mammal without a permit
and bans importation of any part or
product of a nursing marine mammal

or its mother. It sets the goal of

zero mortality or serious injury rate for
dolphins caught incidental to tuna

purse seining. (For extension of the law’s
jurisdiction, see 1976.)

Resolutions in the House and Senate
calling for international protection of
polar bears were passed.

An amendment giving the Department
of the lnterior power to enforce the law
providing a criminal penalty for shooting
at animals from aircraft was passed.

Prohibition of Poisoning of Predators on
Public Lands was passed by the House
but not by the Senate.

(J. S. action to protect endangered
species was greatly strengthened:

(1) the Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora was concluded in Washington
after 92 nations took part in a three-week
conference; (2) to conform with the re-
quirements of the Convention, the En-
dangered Species Act was strengthened
and broadened.

Hearings were held against the
poisoning of predators on the
pubhclands.

A bill which included authorization of
funds for research on methods of animal
birth control was passed by the House
and Senate but vetoed by the President;
nine days of hearings were held on
legislation to regulate air shipment of
animals; oversight hearings were held in
the Senate to strengthen the Horse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were
made to enact legislation against the
poisoning of predators. The Executive
Order banning predator poisoning on
public lands was threatened and had to
be forcefully defended.

The Executive Order on predator
poisoning was modified to provide for
experimental use of cyanide with a view
to developing a cyanide collar for sheep
to kill only predators actually attacking
sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to
restrict the cruel leghold trap and on a
bill to invoke economic sanctions
against whalers. The Senate passed a
bill substantially strengthening the Horse
Protection Act of 1970. ' '

The Animal Welfare Act was broadened
extensively. The new law (1) regulates
carriers and intermediate handlers
under the Act, requiring them to adhere
to humane standards for transportation
affecting commerce of all animals
protected by the Act; (2) requires animal
brokers to observe humane standards
and specifies that all dogs—including
dogs for hunting, security, or breeding

purposes—be protected by the Act; (3)

prohibits C.O.D. transportation of animals
unless the shipper guarantees payment

of round-trip fare and any out-of—pocket
expenses of the carrier or intermediate
handler for care of animals not claimed
at°destination. Also, animals cannot be
transported at an age less than the
Secretary permits; and dealers, exhibitors,
auction sale operators, and Federal,

State and local agencies are required to
obtain a veterinarian’s certificate before
delivering any animal designated by the
Secretary for transportation affecting
commerce; (4) extends the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate
handlers and carriers and authorizes the
Secretary to impose a civil penalty of up
to $1,000 for each violation of the
humane standards; (5) imposes a uniform
civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all persons
regulated under the statute, and eliminates
the requirement that the Secretary issue

a cease-and-desist order before imposing
a civil penalty on research facilities; (6)
makes it a crime punishable by fine and
imprisonment knowingly to sponsor,
participate in, transport in interstate
commerce, or use the mails to promote
ﬁghts between dogs or other mammals
or between cocks, except where state

_ law permits it; (7) requires all government

agencies—including the Army, Air Force,
and National Institutes of Health—using
laboratory animals to prove that they are
fully in compliance with the Act.

 




Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill.
providing protection for a species found
only in parts of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 was amended to increase its
coverage from 12 to 200 miles,
consistent with the new 200-miIe-Iimit law
extending (J. S. jurisdiction.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was
revamped, civil ﬁnes being increased
from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense,
and criminal penalties raised from a
maximum ﬁne for first offenders of $2,000
and/or a six-month jail term to a
maximum $3,000 and/or a year in jail. A
second criminal offense can be
penalized by a ﬁne up to $5,000 and/or
two years in jail. Other sections provide:
authority for the U. S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal
equipment as evidence for trial; authority
for USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours
for further examination; power to
subpoena non-government witnesses in
civil cases; penalties for assaulting,
intimidating or interfering with federal
agents; penalties for knowingly making
false reports or entering a horse in a
show under a false name. Authorization
for funding was increased.

The federal Humane Slaughter Act was
significantly improved by requiring that
all animals slaughtered for meat
imported into the (J. S. be humanely
slaughtered. Foreign packers importing
to this country must meet standards
equal to those required of (I. S. packers.
Further, the Federal Meat lnspection Act
was amended for all federally-inspected
plants to empower the inspectors to stop
the slaughtering line on the spot if any
cruelty is observed. Slaughtering may not
recommence until deﬁciencies, whether
of equipment or of abuses by personnel,
are corrected. The Society for Animal
Protective Legislation played the major
role in obtaining enactment of this
legislation, which had been pending for
years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was
amended on the Senate floor to
authorize use of funds for research on
animal birth control.

However, the US. Department of

Agriculture failed to make use of the funds
appropriated for that purpose.

1979:

The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment
to the International Fishery Conservation
and Management Act was passed,
providing important protection for
whales and other sea creatures. The
amendment cuts a nation's fish
allocation by 50% on certiﬁcation by the
Secretary of Commerce that a nation
has not lived up to the Act. Allocations
would be stopped in a year if such
nation persisted in itS'violation, thus
providing a powerful incentive for
whaling nations to adhere to rulings of
the International Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as Marine animals
were included in the embargo sanctions
of the Pelly Amendment of the 1967
Fisherman's Protective Act. All threatened
or endangered species were covered in
the new amendment which makes it
possible for the President to embargo all
wildlife products from any nation that

‘ “ diminishes the effectiveness of an

international wildlife conservation
agreement. The Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora is a
prime example.

The House of Representatives passed the
Elephant Protection Act by unanimous
consent and sent it to the Senate.

Amendments to the Lacey Act making
this 1912 statute enforceable and
increasing penalties for willful
importation of wildlife obtained illegally
in a foreign country or transported
illegally across state lines were passed
by the House of Representatives and
approved by the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works, but
blocked by the objection of individual
Senators before ﬁnal passage.

Hearings were held on an International
Wildlife Protection Bill introduced as

an amendment to the Elephant Protection
Act but despite support at the hearings
by every organization except the ivory
dealers‘ lobby, the bill was blocked by

a series of obstacles.

The Society is working for the enactment!
/,

,2

rage the use pf/sfeel jaw

(1) To dis
Ieghold traps,
(2) To provide fo
non-animal
and con er products, .
T strengthen enforcement provisions
e Lacey Act.

 




Of the existing laws to protect animals, twelve The Society needs your help to continue its

were passed since the founding of the Society essential work. If you believe in protection of.-,.

for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a large animals by law, please give generously/Animals
extent, because of the Society’s work. The two r and Their Legal Rights, a 215-page paperback
previously enacted laws are the 1906 ”28-hour : book published by the Society’s sister

Law" protecting livestock shipped by rail, and . organization, the Animal Welfare lnstitute,

the 1948 law authorizing the U. S. Customs to describes American legislation protecting ,
prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to animals including analysis of state anti-cruelty l
maintain reasonable humane standards. These laws and the full text of a number of laws. It

two dates and the 42 years between them , may be purchased by interested persons by

speak for themselves of the lack of action on using the coupon below.
legislation to protect animals before the '"*‘ww-wmwwwwmM“ "
founding of the Society.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepares information for use by members of
Congress and their staffs. It sends circular letters
to a large mailing list of individuals interested in
animal protective legislation, informing them of
ways in which they may help, principally by
writing to members of Congress or other
government ofﬁcials and to the editors of
newspapers.

”If”

M'

ﬂ. “.MJ ~—-_
...,vv'-\"f '
O o

. ”‘7

Society For Animal Protective Legislation
P. O. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D. C. 20007

 

wag; 5):;
l Home

 

 

l mssrucﬂ

1

 

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

Enclosed is my contribution of $ __________ . (Not deductible in computing income tax because the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.) {7’

KW?“
-_._._.-/"_

— '- \
. \‘

a v..- M-.

..~—- ~»—*—

. "‘

./

. I Also enclosed is $ ________.. for pUrchase of copy(ies) of Animals and Their Legal Rights at $2.00
1. per copy. /

Name

 

Address

 

 

City Zip Code

 




l
i The Work of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
from 1955, When Only Two Federal Laws
to Protect Animals Existed, to 1998, When Fifteen
Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was founded at
the time of the introduction of the first federal bill to require
humane slaughter of animals. Till then, humane organizations
had little success in obtaining needed federal legislation be-
cause they spent most of their efforts in caring for lost and stray
animals, and they were concerned about losing their tax-exempt
status if they did much work on legislation. Until 1977, United
States law specified that an organization could not retain such
status if it spent a “substantial” amount on lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation registered under the Federal Lobbying Act and de-
voted its efforts entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955
on, it worked intensively to obtain enactment of the following
major federal legislation. Note that nine strengthening amend—
ments have been passed over the years. The Society continues
to seek improvements in existing laws.

19 58 The first federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed, re-
quiring all packers selling to the US government to pro-
vide anesthetization or instant stunning by mechanical
or electrical means prior to slaughter for all animals in all
their plants except for kosher slaughter. The law covered
80% of animals slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

1959 The Wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits poisoning of
waterholes where wild horses and burros drink and use
of aircraft to round the horses up for sale to slaughter-
houses.

1966 The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed after years of
work. It set minimum standards of care and housing for dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in the pre-
mises of animal dealers and laboratories and identiﬁcation of
dogs and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are licensed, laborato-
ries registered. (See 1970, 1976, 1985 and 1990 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

The Endangered Species Act was passed, providing for listing
by the Secretary of Interior of threatened species and endan-
gered species and prohibiting importation of the latter

for commercial purposes. (See 1973 for strengthening of
the law.)

1970 A measure to prohibit soring of Tennessee Walking
Horses for show purposes was passed. (See 1976 for
amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protection of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act to all species of warm-blooded ani-
mals, throughout their stay in the laboratory and in the
wholesale pet and exhibition trades as well, was passed
unanimously by both Houses of Congress. The bill was
renamed the Animal Welfare Act.

1 97 1 A law was passed to provide a criminal penalty for shooting
animals and birds from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses was passed.

Resolutions passed by both Houses of Congress re—
quested the Secretary of State to call for a ten-year inter—
national moratorium on commercial whaling.

197 2 Based on the adoption of the 1971 resolutions, the United
States delegation to the Stockholm Conference on the
Human Environment proposed the moratorium on com-
mercial whaling, and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote.

The Society worked for passage ofthe Marine Mammal
Protection Act, which prohibits killing, taking or harass-
ing of any marine mammal without a permit and bans
importation of any part or product of a nursing marine
mammal or its mother. It sets the goal of zero mortality or
serious injury rate for dolphins caught incidental to tuna
purse seining. (See 1976 and 1992 for extension of the
law’sjurisdiction.) Resolutions in the House and Senate
calling for international protection of polar bears were
passed.

An amendment giving the Department of the Interior
power to enforce the law providing a criminal penalty for
shooting at animals from aircraft was passed.

 




9

Prohibition of poisoning of predators on public lands was
passed by the House but not by the Senate.

US action to protect endangered species was greatly strength-
ened: (l) the Convention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora was concluded in Wash-
ington, DC after 92 nations took part in a three-week confer-
ence; (2) to conform with the requirements of the Convention,
the Endangered Species Act was strengthened and broad-
ened.

Hearings were held against the poisoning of predators on
public lands.

1974 A bill which included authorization of funds for re-

search on methods of animal birth control was passed

by the House and Senate but vetoed by the Presi—

dent; nine days of hearings were held on legislation

to regulate air shipment of animals; oversight hear-

ings were held in the Senate to strengthen the Horse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were made to enact legisla-
tion against the poisoning of predators. The Executive Order
banning predator poisoning on public lands was threatened
and had to be forcefully defended.

1 97 5 The Executive Order on predator poisoning was modiﬁed to

provide for experimental use of cyanide with a view to de-
veloping a cyanide collar for sheep to kill only predators
actually attacking sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to restrict the cruel steel j aw
leghold trap and on a bill to invoke economic sanctions
against whalers. The Senate passed a bill substantially
strengthening the Horse Protection Act of 1970.

1976 The Animal Welfare Act was broadened to: (l) regulate car-

riers, intermediate handlers, and animal brokers, requiring
them to adhere to humane standards; (2) specify that all
dogs - including dogs for hunting, security, or breeding
purposes be protected by the Act; (3) prohibit COD trans-
portation of animals unless the shipper guarantees payment
of round-trip fare and costs for care of animals not claimed
at destination. Also, animals cannot be transported at an
age less than the Secretary of Agriculture permits; and deal—
ers, exhibitors, auction sale operators, and Federal, State
and Local agencies are required to obtain a veterinarian’s
certiﬁcate before delivering animals for transporta-

tion affecting commerce; (4) extend the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate handlers and

carriers and authorize a civil penalty of up to $1,000

for each violation of the humane standards; (5) im-

pose a uniform civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all
persons regulated under the statute, and eliminate

the requirement that the Secretary issue a
cease-and-desist order before imposing a civil pen-

alty on research facilities; (6) make it a crime pun-

ishable by ﬁne and imprisonment knowingly to

sponsor, participate in, transport in interstate com-

merce, or use the mails to promote ﬁghts between

dogs or other mammals or between cocks, except

where state law permits it; (7) require all government agen-
cies - including the Army, Air Force, and National Institutes
of Health - using laboratory animals to show that they are
fully in compliance with the Act.

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill, providing protection for
a species found only in parts of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 was amended
to increase its coverage from 12 to 200 miles, consistent
with the new 200-mile-limit law extending US jurisdic-
tion.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was revamped, civil ﬁnes

being increased from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense, and

criminal penalties raised from a maximum ﬁne for ﬁrst of-

fenders of $2,000 and/or a six-month jail term to a

maximum $3,000 and/or a year in jail. A second

criminal offense can be penalized by a ﬁne up

to $5,000 and/or two years in jail. Other sec-

tions provide: authority for the US Depart—

ment of Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal

equipment as evidence for trial; authority for

USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours for further ex-

amination; power to subpoena non-govemment witnesses

in civil cases; penalties for assaulting, intimidating or inter-

fering with federal agents; penalties for knowingly making

false reports or entering a horse in a show under a false
name. Authorization for ﬁnding was increased.

1978 The Federal Humane Slaughter Act was signiﬁcantly im-

proved by requiring that all animals slaughtered for meat
imported into the US be humanely slaughtered. Foreign
packers importing to this country must meet standards
equal to those required of US packers. Further, the Fed-
eral Meat Inspection Act was amended for all federally
inspected plants to empower the inspectors to stop the
slaughtering line on the spot if any cruelty is observed.
Slaughtering may not recommence until deficiencies,
whether of equipment or of abuses by personnel, are
corrected. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
played a major role in obtaining enactment ofthis legis-
lation, which had been pending for years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was amended on the
Senate ﬂoor to authorize use of funds for research on animal
birth control, but the US Department of Agriculture failed to
make use of the funds.

1979 The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to the Interna-

tional Fishery Conservation and Management Act was
passed, providing important protection for whales and
other sea creatures. The amendment cuts a nation’s ﬁsh
allocation by 50% on certiﬁcation by the Secretary of
Commerce that a nation has not lived up to the Act. All
allocations would be stopped in a year if such nation
persisted in its violation, thus providing a powerful in-
centive for whaling nations to adhere to rulings of the
International Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as marine animals were included in the
embargo sanctions of the Pelly Amendment ofthe 1967
Fisherman’s Protective Act. All threatened or endangered
species are covered in the new amendment so the Presi—
dent can embargo all products from any nation that di-
minishes the effectiveness of an international wildlife
conservation agreement such as the Convention on In-
ternational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora.

 




The House of Representatives passed the Elephant Protec-
tion Act by unanimous consent and sent it to the Senate.

1980 Amendments to the Lacey Act making this 1912 statute en-

forceable and increasing penalties for willful importation of
wildlife obtained illegally in a foreign country or transported
illegally across state lines were passed by the House and ap-
proved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public
Works, but blocked by the objection of individual Senators.

Hearings were held on an International Wildlife Protec-
tion Bill introduced as an amendment to the Elephant
Protection Act but despite support at the hearings by
every organization except the ivory dealers’ lobby, the
bill was blocked.

198 1 The enforcement provisions of the Lacey Act were substan-

tially strengthened. Violation of the Lacey Act now carries
penalties of a maximum ﬁne of $20,000 and/or ﬁve years
imprisonment for each violation of the Act.

The Elephant Protection Act died without action.
The Endangered Species Act was reauthorized after a vig-

orous battle with special interests who tried, for the most
part unsuccessfully, to weaken it.

1982 The Marine Mammal Protection Act was reauthorized.

1985 The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act passed

unanimously. The new law which amends the Animal Welfare
Act was designed to minimize animal pain and distress. It es-
tablishes an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine
to provide data on alternatives to laboratory animals, help
prevent unintended duplication of experiments and tests, and
provide information to institutions for instruction of scien-
tists and other personnel in humane practices as required by
the new law. Each registered research facility must appoint
an institutional animal committee including a veterinarian
and a person unafﬁliated with it to represent the general
community interesting the proper care and treatment of ani—
mals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deﬁciencies to the institution for
correction. If not corrected promptly, the US Department of
Agriculture must be notiﬁed for enforcement action, and
any funding agency involved informed for a decision on
whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to
consult with a veterinarian before beginning any experi-
ment which could cause pain. They must adhere to stan-
dards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and
post-surgical care, use of pain—relieving drugs or euthana—
sia, against use of paralytics without anesthesia and un-
necessary use of the same animal for more than one major
operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only
when speciﬁed by a research protocol and an explanation
given for any deviation. Fines for violations were raised
from $1 ,000 to $2,500 and from $500 to $1,500.

1990 The Pet Theft Act passed as an amendment to the Animal

Welfare Act. It requires pounds to hold dogs and cats ﬁve
days before releasing them to dealers. The amended Act also

allows the US Department of Agriculture to seek injunctions
against any licensed facility found dealing in stolen animals or
placing the health of any animal in serious danger in violation
of the Animal Welfare Act.

1991 Final regulations for the Improved Standards for Laboratory

Animals were published in 1991. However, the Animal Legal
Defense Fund and the Society for Animal Protective Legis—
lation had to go to court because the Congressional man-
date for “a physical environment adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of nonhuman primates” and for
exercise for laboratory dogs was not met. US District Court
Judge Charles Richey ruled in favor of animal welfare, but
the Government and the National Association for Biomedi-
cal Research appealed his decision; it was ultimately re-
versed.

1992 Three major animal protection bills were enacted in Octo-

ber.

The Wild Bird Conservation Act put an immediate import ban

on the ten bird species whose survival is most severely threat-

ened by capture for the commercial pet trade. It requires that,

within one year, importation of all species of birds listed by the
Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) be prohibited. The
Secretary of the Interior is empow-
ered to enforce the conservation and
humane treatment standards of
CITES, saving hundreds of thou-
sands of beautiful birds from terrible
suffering and death.

By the end of 1992, one hundred and
six airlines had stopped transport-
ing wild-caught birds for the pet
trade.

The Driftnet Fishery Conservation

Act provides the US with the sanc-

tions necessary to enforce the
driftnet ban agreed by the United Nations that went into
effect December 31, 1992. Nations that continue to put out
30-mile-long driftnets entangling whales, dolphins, seals,
sea birds, and every other living creature that falls into their
toils can no longer sell ﬁsh to US markets and their vessels
are now denied US port privileges.

The lntemational Dolphin Conservation Act establishes a
global moratorium from March 1, 1994, on tuna ﬁshing which
kills dolphins; imposed strict, non-discretionary embargoes
and sanctions against countries failing to abide by the glo-
bal moratorium; established the United States as a
dolphin-safe zone by June 1, 1994; prohibited sale, purchase,
transport of tuna and tuna products that are not dolphin
safe; provided $3 million a year for research on ﬁshing tech-
niques that do not kill dolphins. However, legislation passed
in 1997 has put this important law in severe jeopardy.

1998 The Endangered Species Act must be reauthorized by
Congress. Opponents of the strong law have mounted
major campaigns to weaken and undermine the act. The
Society is ﬁghting back to protect the act as it stands.

 




 

4'

SAPL is working to pass the Bear Protection Act, which
aims a‘i eliminating the incentive to kill bears for their gall-
bladders by making it illegal to sell, import or export the
internal organs of a bear as well as products containing, or
claiming to contain, these bear parts.

The Society is working for enactment of legislation to amend
the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit random source dog and
cat dealers from supplying these animals to research facili-
ties. Adoption of the bill would 1)protect pets from being
taken by theft or fraud and sold to laboratories for experi-
mentation, 2) reduce the suffering and neglect of current
victims of the commercial trade, and 3) save the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture money which could be used for increased
enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act.

The Society is seeking passage of legislation to end the
use of steeljaw leghold traps in the United States. Pub-
lished polls reveal that the vast majority of Americans
oppose use of these notoriously cruel devices, yet the
United States lags behind 88 countries who have pro-
hibited their use.

Our Record

Of the existing laws to protect animals, 15 were passed since the
founding of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a
substantial extent, because of the Society’s work. The two previ-
ously enacted laws are the 1906 “28-hour Law” protecting livestock
shipped by rail, and the 1948 law authorizing the US Customs to
prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to maintain reasonable
humane standards. These two dates and the 42 years between them
speak for themselves of the lack of action on legislation to protect
animals before the founding of the Society.

The Society prepares information for use by Members of Congress
and their staffs. It sends circular letters to individuals and organiza-
tions interested in animal protective legislation, informing them of ways
in which they may help, principally by writing to Members of Con-
gress or other government ofﬁcials and to the editors of newspapers.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation needs your help to
continue its essential work. If you believe in protection of animals
by law, please give generously. Because contributions are not tax
deductible, the Society is always underfunded.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO Box 3719, Washington, DC 20007

(202) 337—2334
fax: (202) 338—9478 email: sapl@animalwelfare.com

URL: http://wwwanimalwelfare.corn

 

AM

I; G

 

 

 

 

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

D Please add my name to your mailing list.

El Please send me information on how to remember the Society for Animal Protective Legislation in my will.

. (Not deductible in computing income tax because

 

Enclosed is my contribution of $

the Society for Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

 

 

 

 

 

Name

Address

City State 0 Zip Code
Phone Email

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

WILD-CAUGHT BIRDS NEED YOUR HELP TOMY!

Date: May 19, 1992

To : Supporters of an Immediate Ban on the Wild-Caught
Bird Trade

From: Christine Stevens

Re : H.R. 5013, THE WILD BIRD CONSERVATION ACT OF 1992

Your Representative is an important member of the Subcommittee on
Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation and the Environment that will
soon hold hearings on H.R. 5013, you can play a vital role in
achieving protection for parrots and other birds suffering and
dying at the hands of the international pet trade.

For almost a year, United States efforts to halt this ghastly
business have been at a standstill. Allies of the ten big dealers
who import 85-90 percent of all birds tried to prevent passage of
strong, immediately effective legislation by proposing a lOOphole—
ridden "five year phase-out" instead.

Congressman Gerry Studds, Chairman of the Subcommittee, has
introduced H.R. 5013 to break the deadlock. This new bill is based
on a draft by the Department of the Interior after completion of
a major "sting" Operation that uncovered a huge illegal
internaional bird smuggling network spanning three continents.

H.R. 5013 has eliminated many 100pholes desired by importers, and
trade lobbyists are vehemently opposed to the bill. This
intransigent position has considerably weakened any support the
industry enjoyed, and H.R. 5013 stands a good chance of passage.
H.R. 5013 will effectively stOp the global decimation of wild birds
if it is amended to go into effect immediately on enactment instead
of permitting a four year phase—out. Scientists warn that
unscrupulous dealers will simply use a multi—year phase-out to
intensify and accelerate the destruction of remaining wild birds.

WHAT YOU CAN 00: Please telephone your Representative's office
today, requesting that H.R. 5013 be amended to include an immediate
ban on the importation of wild—caught birds for sale as pets. Your
telephone call can be reinforced with a brief letter. Please
encourage friends, neighbors and members of your church or social
group to follow suit; every phone call and letter counts.

We have enclosed a list of Subcommittees members' district offices

for your convenience. Please forward any responses you receive to
SAPL .

Thank you for your work to end this cruel and deadly trade.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

August 14. 1992

To Humanitarians:

IMPORTANT PROGRESS FOR PROTECTION OF WILD BIRDS

The House of Representatives nassed the Wild Bird Conservation Act of
l992 {H.R. 5013) just before adjourning for the Labor Day recess.

The net industry tried hard to nrevent inclusion of a provision to
protect the strong laws that have been passed in New York and New
Jersey. but the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and other
organizations seeking protection were delighted to obtain a provision
that will keep state laws intact.

Now we must urge the U. S. Senate to adopt H.R. 5013 during the short
and hectic prewelection session. PLEASE WRITE TO YOUR OWN SENATORS

(see enclosed list) AND TO AS MANY MEMBERS OF THE SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE
ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AS YOU CANl urging them to bass the bill.

SENATE SUBCOW'QITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

Democrats Republicans
Max Baucus) Chairman (HT) John H. Chafee. Ranking (RI)
Daniel P. Noynihan (NY) Alan K. Simpson (WY)
George J. Mitchell (ME) Dave Durenberger (MN)
Frank R. Lautenberg (NJ) John Warner (VA)
Bob Graham (FL) James N. Jeffords (VT)
Joseph I. Lieberman (CT) Steve Symms (ID)
Howard E. Metzenbaum (OE)

All Senators may be addressed: Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 205l0

Please remind the Senators that conditions for the birds are so bad
that 83 airlines. including all U. S. Carriers. have stopped
transnorting wildwcaught birds. In one shipment last year. lOgOOO
birds were dead on arrival. The United States doesn’t allow sale of
our own native songbirds. but the U. S. pet industry has succeeded in
making our country the largest consumer of exotic) wild~caught birds.

Some of our correspondents have asked us to prepare sample letters for
them. and in accordance with their wishes, we enclose such a letter.
Howeverr individuali original letters carry the most weight. so if you
have time to write your own letters to the Senators. we urge you to do
so.

 




Dear Senator;

H.R. 5013; the Wild Biré gonservetiOh Act of 1992? azssed the
House on August llth. Please do everything in sewer to

see that the bill is passed by the Senate and ”'3 “ into law
by the President.

The terrible sufferings and deaths of thousands of hires from
the time of their capture in Asiag Africa and Latin America
must be stepeed. The pet traée is endangering the very
existence of ﬁifferent species in their native lanes. For
example, nearly a quarter or the world s 300 earrot species
are at risk of extinction. The pet trade can and should rely
on birds bred domestically.

Many of the ten big sealers: who import 80% of the
wil€~caught hires into our country; are under investigation
by the U. 5. Fish and Wildlife Service for alleged vielations
of wildlife laws.

Please don‘t let anything stand in the way of enactment of
the Wild Bird Conservation Act of 1992.

Sincerely;

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

August 14, 1992

K)
.
I

Mr

To Humanitarians:
IMPORTANT PROGRESS FOR PROTECTIgt 0F WILD BIRDS

The House of Representatives .f sed the Wild Bird Conservation Act of
1992 (H.R. 5013) just before ﬁvgourning for the Labor Day recess.

The pet industry tried hard.f] prevent inclusion of a provision to
protect the strong laws thaﬁl’ave been passed in New York and New
Jersey, but the Society fori, imal Protective Legislation and other
organizations seeking prot;c ion were delighted to obtain a provision
that will keep state laws intact.

Now we must urge the U. S- 9 ate to adopt H.R. 5013 during the short
and hectic pre—election sea :on. PLEASE WRITE TO YOUR OWN SENATORS

(see enclosed list) AND TO AS MANY MEMBERS OF THE SENATE SUBOOMMITTEE
ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AS YOU CAN, urging them to pass the bill.

SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

Democrats Republicans
Max Baucus, Chairman (MT) John H. Chafee, Ranking (RI)
Daniel P. Moynihan (NY) Alan K. Simpson (WY)
George J. Mitchell (ME) Dave Durenberger (MN)
Frank R. Lautenberg (NJ) John Warner (VA)
Bob Graham (FL) James M. Jeffords (VT)
Joseph I. Lieberman (CT) Steve Symms (ID)
Howard M. Metzenbaum (0H)

All Senators may be addressed: Senate Office Building
Washington,iDC 20510

Please remind the Senators that conditions for the birds are so bad
that 83 airlines, including all U. S. carriers, have stopped
transporting wild~caught birds. In one shipment last year, 10,000
birds were dead on arrival. The United States doesn't allow sale of
our own native songbirds, but the U. S. pet industry has succeeded in
making our country the largest consumer of exotic, wild—caught birds.

Some of our correspondents have asked us to prepare sample letters for
them, and in accordance with their wishes, we enclose such a letter.
However, individual, original letters carry the most weight, so if you
have time to write your own letters to the Senators, we urge you to do
so.

 




CONTENT OF H.R. 5013

You will recall our struggles against legislation which would have
given five years to the greedy traders to "phase out" their activities.
This provision has been eliminated. However, we were unable to get an
immediate ban on importation of all wild birds. The ten most
endangered species will be prgégcted on enactment of the law, and at
the end of one year, importati of all species listed by the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) will be stopped.

Among other important powers given to 'he Department of the Interior,
the Secretary is authorized to stop i:rgrtation of birds from countries
that don't ensure conservation and hu gﬁ treatment.

With many of the big bird dealers underlf iminal investigation, and the
rejection of shipment by air by nearly -3* the world's airlines, this
bill will make a big step forward, but w: rust keep working.

HELP NEEDED FOR THE SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PVQ'ECTIVE LEGISLATION

The Society for Animal Protective Legisl=ti§n has joined with the
Animal Legal Defense Fund in suing the D=“Ertment of Agriculture, the
Department of Health and Human Services, and the Office of Management
and Budget to force the government to publish humane standards for
exercise for laboratory dogs and an environment that promotes
psychological well-being of monkeys and apes, as mandated by the
Congress under the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments
to the Animal Welfare Act.

We are leading the fight to stOp use of steel jaw leghold traps by the
fur trade and the ranchers and government agencies who continue to
"control" predators by use of this hideous device.

Contributions to the Society for Animal Protective Legislation are not
deductible in computing income tax, thus making our fund—raising
especially difficult. We deeply appreciate the true altruism shown by
humanitarians who give us the help so urgently needed to protect the
wild birds, the wild mammals, and the dogs and primates in experimental
laboratories.

Thanks for your vital help in writing the letters needed now, and
thanks for any financial aid you can extend to SAPL.

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

Enclosures

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

February 4, 1985

Dear Friends:

Thank you for responding to Gregory Peck's television appeal
to fight the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. I am
delighted you feel so strongly and want to help. A bill to
end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap will be introduced
soon in the new Congress. You can help by writing to your
Senators and Representatives urging their support and asking
them to co-sponsor the legislation. As soon as it has been
introduced and has a bill number, we will send you that
information. I hOpe you and your friends will let Senators
and Representatives know just how much you want to see an end
to this terrible form of trapping.

Enclosed is background information which you can use when
writing letters and speaking to others and encouraging them
to join the campaign against the steel jaw trap. If you can
use additional copies of any of the enclosures, just let us
know.

Your name will be added to our mailing list so that you will
be informed of the progress of this legislation. If you have
questions, we will be glad to answer them. This is a fight
that must be won.

Sincerely,

/_J"
M.
(:0! 5/
N‘,
I \‘

'/ ékx{g<EXA£bééqy

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334
MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO S. 5864 AND A. 7558

Backgreund

These two bills were drafted by the pet industry in order to
nullify the Wild Bird Act enacted in 1984. They would be
substituted for the present Act in Section 11-1728 of the
Environmental Conservation Law.

t t ' ' 5 58

The Wild Bird Act prohibits the sale of wild birds or those
not born or bred in captivity exeept under regulation by the
Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC). The intent
of the bill as described by Governor Cuomo in his statement
on signing it was to prevent the inhumane treabment and
needless deaths of hundreds of thousands of wild birds
captured for the caged bird trade, to prevent the spread of
disease to domestic poultry by escaped wild birds and to
prevent the depletion of wild populations of birds. S. 5864
and A. 7558, by contrast, address only the record keeping of
the sale of wild birds and the manner in which they are sold,
that is, the sanitary conditions of transport and keeping.
These bills will do nething,to alleviate the major problems
inherent in the wild bird trade.

Q. Is the Wild Bird Act a blanket prohibition on the sale of
wild birds?

A. No, the Wild Bird Act has wide latitude for the DEC to
regulate. Under present draft regulations, zoological
and other non-profit organizations are exempted from its
provisions, bird breeders will be able to buy and sell
wild birds for a period of up to 10 years, a list of
species totally exempt from its provisions is being drawn
up, and humane means of identifying captive-bred birds
are being formulated.

Could the Wild Bird Act promote smuggling?

Just the reverse, when in force, the_Wild_Bird Aet

Will deereese smuggling because captive-bred birds will
be identified and therefore wild birds — both smuggled
and legally imported — can be easily recognized. At
present, there is ng method of telling a legally imported
or captive-bred bird from a smuggled bird. Smuggling is
rampant begause wild birds may be easily bought and sold.

Will pet stores lose revenue under the Wild Bird Act?
No. Captive—bred birds are available in a great variety

of species. The general public is not demanding rare and
difficult to breed species. It is the pet industry that

 




has fostered this and other fallacies to undermine the
Wild Bird Act.

Do national laws prevent cruelty to and depletion of wild
birds?

No. There are only laws banning commercial importation
of endangered species. The capture of wild birds is not
prohibited by any existing legislation and involves a 50%
mortality* and great cruelty to birds. The pet industry
wishes to mask this reality. '

The American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA)
resolved that it "strongly Opposes the keeping of wild or
exotic species of animals as pets and believes that all
commercial traffic of these animals for such purposes
should be prohibited."** The parties to the Convention
on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES), the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and nwmerous other conservation
groups have agreed to this basic principle. 106
countries including the United States have already
recognized the problems in the wild bird trade and do not
export their native wild birds.

What will S. 5864 and A. 7558 cost New York tax-payers to

enforce?

Far more than the Wild Bird Act. The regulations would
require an enormous bureaucracy and enforcement staff
unlike the present Act. For this and other reasons the
DEC Opposes these bills. ”By contrast, the Wild Bird Act
could provide an excellent source of revenue to pet
stores selling captive bred birds and to bird breeders.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation strongly urges
you to reject S. 5864 and A. 7558. Supportive data and
information on bird importation will be supplied by the
Society upon request. If you have any questions or need
further information please call Greta Nilsson at 703-435—9436
or 202-337—2334. ' ‘ ' ‘*

*According to an Food and Agriculture Organization study in
Senegal, the only scientific study ever done on mortality in
capture.

**Ayian/Exotic Practice, Volume II, Number 1, January-March
1985, Page 3. '

 




8

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

The entire program of the Animal Welfare Institute depends on
contributions from individuals, organizations or firms who desire
to see the continued protection of all animals. This is the sole
aim of the Institute and we earnestly solicit your financial
support.

All contributions and dues are tax deductible.

I want to become a non—voting member of the Animal Welfare
Institute and enclose a check or money order for the following
category:

C] LIFE $100.00 C] SUSTAINING $10.00
l3 ASSOCIATE $ 25.00 l:l CONTRIBUTING 33 5.00

D My check includes the amount for the category checked
above plus an additional contribution

All members will receive the quarterly Information Report

l3 Please send me information about procedures which can be
used to give the Institute a gift of investments or property or
about naming the Institute beneficiary in a will.

A copy of the Animal 'Welfare lnstitute’s latest annual report
filed with the New York State Board of Social Welfare is
available upon written request to the Institute at the address} on
the masthead, or to the New York State Board of Social
Welfare, Office Tower, Empire State Plaza, Albany,

NY 12223.

 




 




4f

RESTRAINT METHODS OF LABORATORY NON-HUMAN
PRIMATES: A CRITICAL REVIEW

V Reinhardt’, C Liss and C Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007, USA

7 Contact for correspondence and requests for reprints: 4605 Crescent Road, Madison. WI 5371,

USA

Abstract Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221-238

 

Published information provides scientific evidence that traditional, involuntary restraint
techniques of research non-human primates are intrinsically a source of distress resulting
from fear. It has been documented that common methods of enforced restraint result in
significantly increased adrenal activity as well as signiﬁcant changes in a variety of other
physiological parameters. There is no scientiﬁc evidence that the animals adequately
habituate to in voluntary restraint. Numerous reports have been published demonstrating that
non-human primates can readily be trained to cooperate rather than resist during common
handling procedures such as capture, venipuncture, injection and veterinary examination.
Cooperative animals fail to show behavioural and physiological signs of distress. It was
concluded that the advantages of training techniques over traditional restraint techniques will
have to be explored more extensively in the future for the sake of research subjects and
scientiﬁc methodology.

 

Keywords: animal welfare, handling, non—human primates, psychological well-being,
restraint, social support, stress, training, unfamiliar environment

Introduction

One of the major drawbacks to the use of non—human primates is that they can be very
difficult and even dangerous to handle; restraint is therefore necessary and desirable to protect
both the investigator and the animal (Robbins et al 1986). Restraint of laboratory non—human
primates is tacitly accepted by many investigators, veterinarians and colony managers as a
given methodological characteristic of research protocols and husbandry practices. Many
authors of scientific publications are unaware of how their research animals are handled
(Arluke 1988) and consequently do not mention the conditions under which their research
data were collected. even if such data are stress—sensitive (Reinhardt 1991). Some
primatologists, however, have long recognized that traditional restraint procedures may
constitute uncontrolled methodological variables (eg Ives & Dack 1956; Cope & Polis 1959;
Mason et al 1968). The animals often vigorously resist being restrained because of adverse
conditioning (Robbins et al 1986). Scientific data collected from such fearful subjects must
be evaluated with particular reservation, taking into account possible stress—related deviations
from expected normal physiological functions and behavioural reactions.

The present review evaluates traditional restraint techniques of laboratory non-human
primates and discusses possible methods of refinement.

‘9 1995 Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221-238 22]

p wanan-wmw WWW "

i

misc-m

1‘, ~_"

, nitrim‘ﬁwu .5“: 1:.

”qu1:.“ x ‘r . ."_ ~ . _-
i -,F' V l - r

.n ., pg.~3q—;q~,v—




Reinhardt et a1

 

Common restraint methods

Squeeze-back cages

Squeeze—back cages can be stressful for the animal but are safe for the handler (Sainsbury et
a] 1989). Such cages are equipped with a special back—panel that can be moved in such a way
that the animal is forced to come to the front of the cage and tolerate being partially or
completely immobilized (see Figure 1 in Reinhardt et al 1991b). Squeeze—back cages are
commonly used to facilitate venipuncture, injection, topical application of drugs, close-up
examination, capture and other procedures.

Puri et a1 (1981) restrained nine adult male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) in their
home-cages and obtained blood samples at 20 minute intervals. While testosterone levels
significantly declined, serum cortisol concentrations significantly increased over a one-hour
sampling period. Fuller et al (1984) analysed sets of two blood samples taken from 10
squeeze—back restrained female rhesus macaques. Serum cortisol concentrations significantly
increased from the initial bleeding to the second bleeding after 30 minutes.

Manual restraint
During manual restraint non-human primates are usually held by two people (see Figure 10.1
in Reinhardt 1992a) to allow sample collection, drug administration or physical examination.

Bush et al (1977) analysed blood samples taken during routine manual restraint episodes
of 56 subjects of the primate families Callithricidae, Cebidae, Cercopithecidae and Pongidae.
Restraint resulted in severe alterations of the animals” acid—base balance, which led to serious
metabolic acidosis. Kissinger and Landi (1989) subjected eight long-tailed macaques (M.
fascicularz's) to brief manual restraint and observed significant increases of two enzymes
commonly monitored during toxicologic and pharmacokinetic studies: aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). The authors underlined that
these enzymatic responses are important and should be taken into consideration when
differentiating between drug-related and experimental effects. Reinhardt (1992a) assessed
serum cortisol responses to manual restraint in 10 adult female rhesus macaques. The
monkeys were habituated to being held in a supine position on a table while a blood sample
was collected from the femoral vein. The procedure resulted in a significant increase in serum
cortisol concentrations within 15 minutes.

Restraint boards

Rather than holding an animal down with the hands, some investigators strap its extremities
or its waist on specially designed restraint boards (see Figure 2 in Schultea & Stein 1981) or
restraint tubes (see Figure 2 in Hearn 1977) to allow sample collection, electrocardiographic
or ultrasonographic recording.

Swan (1970) noted that after 1~1.5 hours of board—restraint, bonnet macaques (M. radiata)
would exhibit signs of impaired mobility as a result of the restraint and consequent struggling.
Berendt and Williams (1971) observed marked changes in tidal volume and respiration rate
in 18 rhesus and 24 long—tailed macaques restrained for five minutes or longer on such a
board. The authors warned that restraint may produce results that are difficult or impossible
to interpret. Landi et al (1990) reported significant increases in aspartate and alanine
aminotransferase levels in eight long—tailed macaques restrained for two hours on restraint
boards. Goncharov et al (1979) strapped five male and five female baboons (Papio

222 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221238

"2.. . .

‘ .i- 4., c. *-'._r;- V.
rgﬂt,‘ if??? I:

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

hamadryas) to a table for two hours. In the males, cortisol levels increased significantly while
testosterone levels exhibited a significant. rapid decrease which persisted for two days after
the immobilization. In the females, a significant decrease in progesterone was observed during
the luteal phase and there was a significant decrease in oestradiol during the follicular phase.
Cortisol was significantly elevated both in the follicular and luteal phase. Quadri et al (1978)
strapped four female rhesus macaques on restraint crosses. Immobilization induced a
significant progressive increase in prolactin concentration in all animals throughout a 60
minute immobilization period. Removal from the cross was followed by a decline in
prolactin.

Restraint chairs

Restraint chairs maintain an animal in a sitting position with restraint being effected by
pillory type attachments at the neck and waist (see Figure 1 in Mason 1958). Such chairs are
commonly used (National Institutes of Health 1991) for procedures requiring free access to
the subject’s body, head and extremities as well as for psychological and metabolic
experiments. Restraint chairs have been qualified as comfortable (Milhaud et al 1980; Lennox
& Taylor 1983) though they inherently cause monkeys physical and emotional stress
(Nakamura et al 1982). Despite attention to details of conditioning and daily assessments of
the animal’s health status, chronic chair restraint is accompanied by inherent problems
(Morton et al 1987) such as decubital ulcers (McNamee et al 1984), skin abrasions, necrosis
of the ischial callosities, position—dependent oedema, inguinal hernia, rectal prolapse and
laryngeal air sacculitis (Morton et al 1987).

Bouyer et a/ (1978) habituated eight young baboons one at a time to an experimental
room. When placed into a restraint chair and left alone in the same experimental room as
before, subjects soon closed their eyes and became motionless. The electrocorticogram
showed ‘drowsiness rhythms’, which typically appear during transition from wakefulness to
sleep. Administration of an anxiolytical drug (diazepam) caused both the behaviour and the
electrocorticogram of the restrained animal to return to normal. The authors inferred that the
unusual responses underline a reaction to the ‘stress’ conditions brought on by restraint.
Drowsiness has also been noted as a typical state in chair restraint rhesus macaques (Golub
& Anderson 1986).

Morrow—Tesch et al (1993) studied immune responses in eight chair-naive adult male
rhesus macaques. White blood cell counts, the percentage of neutrophils and plasma cortisol
levels showed a significant increase; the percent lymphocytes and monocytes as well as the
natural killer cell activity, showed a significant decrease during a three—hour chair restraint
period. Goosen et al (1984) analysed haemograms of three adult male and one adult female
chair—experienced baboons, during 90 minute chair restraint sessions. Blood samples were
collected at 30 minute intervals. Total white blood cell count more than doubled over a 90
minute test period. The authors inferred from this that the animals were acutely stressed.

Kling and Orbach (1963) placed 13 stump-tailed (M. arctoz'des), 10 long—tailed and '10
rhesus macaques in restraint chairs for 24 hours and analysed corticosteroid concentrations
in blood samples obtained shortly before and at the end of the restraint session. Under the
severe stress of restraint in the primate chair for 24 hours. the values for all three species rose
significantly with little or no difference between species (Kling & ()rbach 1963). Hayashi and
Moberg (1987) observed in six adult male rhesus macaques a significant, transient increase

Animal Welfare I 995, 4: 221238 223

. " ”953,4 ﬁlathfy"’(ﬁflv'p‘btfémg‘ w ~Y'i- I ,, ‘1,»

mar :; r ‘t7.:1' n» ur-

< ' o—r‘ﬁi- 1" _~‘ .«vv; qur'ri 1—5‘ ‘-«
. .1

, A

5 “ ‘ .- {:r.'..po'~t‘r~r."._1‘m:;‘w ‘7“:th I‘m-T ._ . 30-... . . a - _.

-a 7‘ r-”

 




Reinhardt et al

 

of luteinizing hormone (LH) immediately following the initial stress of being restrained in
a chair, and significantly elevated serum corticosteroid levels throughout a subsequent seven—
hour restraint period. Norman and Smith (1992) and Norman et al (1994) confined four adult
male and 10 adult female rhesus macaques for six hours in restraint chairs. In the males
(Norman & Smith 1992), adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol significantly
increased within 15 minutes after initiation of restraint and remained elevated for most of a
six-hour restraint period. Conversely, luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone levels
significantly decreased immediately after restraint and remained suppressed for several hours
after the animals were returned to their hone—cage. In the females (Norman et al 1994),
ACTH and cortisol showed a significant increase with the initiation of restraint, and although
ACTH had generally returned to baseline by the end of the restraint, cortisol levels remained
elevated after the animals were returned to their cages. In animals sampled in the follicular
phase, mean plasma LH levels were significantly lower during restraint and remained
suppressed for several hours after the animals were removed from the chair. LH levels were
not notably inhibited by restraint in the luteal phase. The authors concluded that chair
restraint stress inhibits fertility in both male and female primates. Mason and Mougey (1972)
assessed thyroid response, as measured in plasma butanol extractable iodine (BEI) levels, to
chair restraint in 14 adult male rhesus macaques. Levels were significantly elevated
throughout the first three weeks of chair restraint. During the second month BEI levels did
not differ significantly from those observed as a response to net-catching from the home-cage.

Mason (1972) and Mason et al (1973) examined urinary corticosteroid and catecholamine
excretion in eight adult male rhesus macaques that were chair restrained. Both metabolites
showed a greater than threefold increase during the first three days of chair restraint,
remaining significantly elevated through the first week. The authors advised that patience in
allowing at least two to four weeks of restraint adaptation to occur is rewarding because of
the increased reproducibility and interpretability of experiments. Fleischman and Chez (1974),
however, warned that prolonged restraint may be stressful enough to prematurely terminate
pregnancy. Seven out of ten baboons experienced premature labour and delivery within ten
days of continuous chair restraint. Golub and Anderson (1986) measured three physiological
indicators of stress in 11 pregnant rhesus macaques during 23 two~hour chair restraint
sessions distributed over a period of eight weeks. Initially elevated heart rate, blood pressure
and plasma cortisol declined from the first to the last session. The reduction in these
parameters was most marked during the first three sessions, but continued in some animals
over the entire eight-week period. Cortisol concentration consistently rose throughout each
chair restraint session.

Tether

Chronic cannulation of blood vessels or other organs allows remote sample collection via a
tether system. The subject has relative freedom of movement in an experimental cage and is
capable of lying down (see Figure 1 in McNamee et al 1,984). A major clinical concern

associated with chronic vascular catheter implantation is the development of septicaemia
(Morton et al 1987; cf Crockett et al 1993).

Kaplan et al (1983) assessed cardiac response to tethering in 30 long-tailed macaques. In
over 80 per cent of cases, heart rate measured eight days following attachment to the
tethering system was significantly elevated. Of four monkeys tethered for a month or longer.

224 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238

' ‘ .. 1.. Xraxmiiwsgi; a

 

 

 

 

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

three failed to show heart rate decline to pre—tether levels. Beta—adrenergic blockade tended
to reduce heart rates, indicating that the animals were sympathetically aroused while tethered.
The authors inferred that some amount of cardiovascular (and perhaps hormonal) disturbance
may persist in tethered animals, even if several weeks are allowed for ‘habituation’.
Repetition of this experiment led to the same findings and conclusion (Adams et al 1988).
Crockett et al (1993) did a similar study, measuring urinary cortisol as a stress indicator in
ten female and ten male adult long~tailed macaques. Levels increased after the animals were
attached to the catheter-tether system and remained significantly elevated during a three-week
follow-up period.

Restraint chutes

Restraint chutes are equipped with adjustable space restrictors and/or guillotine panels (see
Figure 18 in Fielder & Casmer 1966) allowing partial or complete immobilization of a
primate away from its home—cage. They make the animal uncomfortable and require much
technician—animalcontact to perform many research procedures (Sullivan & Crary 1991) such
as venipuncture, injection, nasogastric intubation or topical application of drugs.

Landi et al (1990) found significantly elevated enzyme levels (asparate and alanine
aminotransferase) in eight long-tailed macaques who were placed for two hours in a
restraining box. Elvidge et a1 (1976) reported significantly elevated plasma cortisol
concentrations in six adult female rhesus macaques that were venipunctured in such a box.
Reinhardt et al (1990, 1991a) took two blood samples in 15 minute intervals from ten adult
female and six adult male rhesus macaques in their home—cages, and on another day in a
routinely used restraint chute. It was not necessary to immobilize the animals in either
situation since they readily presented a leg for venipuncture. Both sexes showed a significant
cortisol increase when venipunctured in the restraint apparatus but not when venipunctured
in their home-cage.

The authors inferred that removal from the familiar home-cage rather than venipuncture
per se was a distressing event for the animals. This assumption is supported by Phoenix and
Chambers (1984) who transferred adult rhesus macaques from their home—cages to
comparable cages in a different room. The animals were subjected to the same venipuncture
technique in both conditions, but their serum cortisol levels were significantly higher when
blood was collected shortly after they were moved to the unfamiliar environment, than when
blood was collected only days before in the familiar environment. Mason (1972) and Mason
et al (1973) reported less-pronounced stress responses (as measured in urinary corticosteroid
and catecholamine excretion) in rhesus macaques that were chair restrained in familiar
surroundings than in males chair restrained in an unfamiliar environment. Mitchell and
Gomber (1976) videoed rhesus macaques in their individual home—cages and immediately
after they were moved in transfer boxes to identical but unfamiliar cages. The subjects
exhibited behavioural signs of distress, ie significant increases in barks, screeches and in
stereotyped pacing and somersaulting in the unfamiliar cages. Line et al (1987) found
significantly elevated serum cortisol concentrations in rhesus macaques placed for 5 minutes
in transfer boxes. The authors found no evidence of habituation.

Animal Welfare 1995. 4: 221-238 225

r 71",». in... . -. , . . .

— —---— -W.—=

._..w~ . a... ..—,.a.,. m.

~m§w1~rr - m; .— ~._'_ .




Reinhardt et al

Nets etc

The removal of laboratory non—human primates can be achieved not only with transfer boxes
or modified restraint boxes (Sullivan & Crary 1991), but also with the help of heavy gloves
(see Figure 1 in Sainsbury et al 1989), poles (see Figure 1 in Nahon 1968). leashes (see
Figure l in Schmidt et al 1989) or nets (see Figure 3 in Gay 1960). These devices. similar
to the transfer box, teach the subject fear (Nahon 1968) through association and are likely to
trigger apprehensive distress responses (cf Manuck et al 1983). At the same time, however,
some of these capture-transfer devices may be a source of distress in themselves. Being
captured in a net. for example, is probably a distressing experience on its own. Caught
monkeys often become entangled, requiring forceful removal (Fielder & Casmer 1966).
Luttrell et al (1994) described a conventional catching procedure of a troop of rhesus
macaques using a net, and noted that incidents of acute diarrhoea, rectal prolapses and
lacerations were common.

Alternatives

Alternatives to compulsory restraint have been developed in an attempt to minimize the
research subjects stress responses.

Ch amical restraint
Chemical restraint allows undisturbed handling of the physically free, yet unconscious
research subject.

Wickings and Nieschlag (1980) noted significantly lower serum cortisol responses to
venipuncture in four adult male rhesus macaques when anaesthetized with ketamine than
when left conscious during the procedure. However, levels of prolactin increased significantly
when the animals were anaesthetized but not when they were conscious during venipuncture.
A similar effect has been described by Puri et al (1981), in three adult male rhesus macaques
showing an immediate prolactin response to ketamine injection but not to injection of distilled
water. Puri et al (1981) also observed that the three males responded with progressively
increasing cortisol concentrations to multiple venipunctures when anaesthetizedwith ketamine.
This finding has been confirmed by Fuller et al (1984) who noted a progressive. significant
increase in serum cortisol in four adult female rhesus anaesthetized with ketamine, in response
to multiple venipuncture. The authors concluded that ketamine does not modify the stress-
induced increase of cortisol. Goosen er al (1984) recorded progressively increasing, total
white blood cell counts under similar conditions in four adult baboons and interpreted this
as an adrenalin effect resulting from acute stress. Line et a] (1991) demonstrated in six adult
female rhesus macaques that a single ketamine injection resulted in significantly elevated
heart rates which did not return to normal levels for three hours. Crockett et a1 (1993)
injected ten female and ten male long—tailed macaques with ketamine and observed a
significantly increased urinary cortisol excretion during the day and subsequent night of
injection.

Avoiding the possible disturbance associated with the injection of the drug. Castro et al
(1981) examined ten adult male long-tailed macaques anaesthetized and blood sampled via
chronic venous cannulas. The data clearly showed that ketamineper se did not affect plasma
levels of cortisol nor arterial blood pressure.

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238

 

 

 

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

Psychological support

Fleischman and Chez (1974) proposed to keep chair restrained baboons as pairs in order to
minimize stress and anxiety. At the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center all headcap—
implanted rhesus macaques assigned to research involving chair restraint are housed in
compatible pairs. If one of the two is chair restrained during an experiment, the other one is
kept close by as psychological support (see Figure 2 in Reinhardt et al 1989). The assumption
that the presence of another conspecific has a protective effect under stress (Bovard 1959) is
supported by numerous psychological studies (Mason 1960; Epley 1974; Gunnar et al 1980;
Coe et a1 1982; Gonzalez et al 1982; Hennessy 1984).

Coelho et al (1991) assessed the physiological effect of companionship in four adult male
baboons during the potentially distressing restraint condition of being tethered. The animals
were tested under individual housing conditions and under an experimental social condition
which implied that subjects had visual, tactile, and auditory contact with compatible males.
Being tethered in company with social partners ameliorated stress responses to the restraint
condition, as measured in significantly lower blood pressure and lower heart rate than when
being tethered alone.

Training

Training non-human primates to cooperate rather than resist during manipulations circumvents
the need for physical and chemical restraint. The subject has considerable control over the
situation, by retaining relative freedom of movement.

It has been reported that non~human primates may cooperate during various procedures
such as: capture from home—cage (Nahon 1968; Clarke et al 1988; Heath 1989; Reinhardt
1992b), capture from group (Smith 1981; Bunyak et al 1982; Reinhardt 1990; Phillippi~
Falkenstein & Clarke 1992; Welker 1993), venipuncture (Michael et al 1974; Elvidge et al
1976; Rosenblum & Clouston 1981; Bunyak et al 1982; Walker et al 1982; Herndon et al
1984; Wall et al 1985; Hein et al 1989; Scalletetal 1989; Vertein & Reinhardt 1989:” Clarke
et al 1990; Priest 1991; Reinhardt & Cowley 1992; Eaton et al 1994). systemic drug
administration (Levison et al 1964; Priest 1991; Reinhardt. 1992a), oral drug administration
(Turkkan et al 1989), topical drug administration (Reinhardt & Cowley 1990), urine
collection (Kelley & Bramblett 1981; Bloomsmith 1992; Anzenberger & Grossweiler 1993;
Rice 1994), vaginal swabbing (Bunyak et a1 1982). and veterinary examination (Turkkan
1990; Laule 1993).

The actual training procedure and exact time investment in its successful execution have
been reported in only a few cases. Reinhardt. (1990) outlined a training technique that allows
one person to catch all or selected members of group-housed rhesus macaques. The technique
is based on positive reinforcement, and animals exit voluntarily or on hand~clapping
command into transport boxes without apparent signs of excitation (Reinhardt 1992c). Luttrell
et al (1994) tested this method in a zoo-group of 45 rhesus macaques. Six hours, distributed
over 18 training sessions lasting 10—35 minutes each, were invested to condition the animals
to voluntarily enter a chute system one by one and enter a transport cage attached to the
chute’s exit. Catching all troop members in succession took less than 15 minutes. None of
the animals showed signs of distress during the catching procedure. Reinhardt and Cowley
(1990) described a training technique that ensures cooperation of stumpotailed macaques
during experimental topical drug application on their forehead (see Figure l. in Reinhardt &

Animal Welfare I 995, 4: 221-238 227

st...» "WW1!” rww w

 




Reinhardt et al

 

Cowley 1990). One to 14 sessions. each lasting for 1-»5 minutes, were required to successfully
condition 17 adult males and 3 adult females to voluntarily present their foreheads and allow
treatment while reaching for food treats offered by the handling personnel. Reinhardt (1991),
and Reinhardt and Cowley (1.992) delineated a safe, positive—reinforcementtraining technique
for ensuring the active cooperation of adult macaques during in~home—cage venipuncture.
Average total training time invested until a subject voluntarily presents a leg in a specially
designed opening of the door and displays no resistance during subsequent venipuncture, was
40 minutes (16—74 minutes) for 15 adult male rhesus macaques. and 35 minutes (IS-~45
minutes) for six adult female stump-tailed macaques (see Figures 4 and 5 in Reinhardt 1991;
see Figure 2 in Reinhardt & Cowley 1992).

Elvidge et al (1976) compared plasma cortisol concentrations of six adult female rhesus
macaques that were trained to cooperate during venipuncture with those of six untrained
females and 12 anaesthetized females. Cortisol response to venipuncture was significantly
lower in the trained than in the untrained or in the anaesthetized subjects. These findings are
in line with those of Reinhardt et al (1991a) and Reinhardt and Cowley (1992), who were
unable to detect significant cortisol responses to venipuncture in 15 male rhesus and 6 female
stump—tailed macaques that had been trained to actively cooperate during the procedure.
Reinhardt (1991) compared mean white blood cell counts of six adult female rhesus macaques
that were trained to cooperate during blood collection, with those of six untrained females and
found significantly lower counts in the trained than in the untrained animals. Untrained
subjects showed the typical leukocytosis alarm reaction (Ives & Dack 1956) to involuntary
physical restraint (cf Loomis et al 1980).

Regulatory recommendations

Restraint methods of laboratory non—human primates are regulated in a flexible manner.
Improvement of traditional restraint techniques are recommended but not prescribed.

The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Institutes of Health
1985) stipulates that brief physical restraint of animals for examination, collection of samples,
and a variety of other clinical and experimental manipulations can be accomplished manually
or with devices such as squeeze-backs. Prolonged restraint should be avoided unless essential
to research objectives. Less restrictive systems should be used when compatible with research
objectives. Animals to be placed in restraint equipment should be conditioned to such
equipment prior to initiation of the research. Restraint devices must not be used simply as a
convenience to investigators in handling animals. Attention must be paid to the possible
development of lesions or illnesses associated with restraint, including contusions, decubital
ulcers, dependent oedema and weight loss. The Guide to the Care and Use ofExperimental
Animals (Canadian Council on Animal Care 1993) recommends that restraint procedures
should only be invoked after all other less stressful procedures have been rejected.
Investigators should consider how physiological, biochemical and hormonal changes occurring
in any restrained animal will influence their proposed experiments. The guide underlines that
isolation from conspecifics. and the degree of immobilization have a strong influence on the
degree of stress experienced by a restrained animal. The US FederalAnimal Welfare Act (US
Department of Agriculture 1991) leaves it to the Committee at research facilities (Institutional
Animal Care and Use Committee) to decide which type of researchjustifies the maintenance
of non-human primates in restraint devices. Non—human primates must not be maintained in

228 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238

.60: Mr "'1‘ ”l- Mamie .g,

 

 

 

 

   

' mvxmmmlamﬁ .

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

restraint devices unless required by a research proposal approved by the Committee.
Maintenance under such restraint must be for the shortest period possible. In instances where
long-term (more than 12 hours) restraint is required, the non-human primate must be provided
the opportunity daily for unrestrained activity for at least one continuous hour during the
period of restraint, unless continuous restraint is required by the research proposal previously
approved by the Committee. The British Code of Practice for the Housing and Care of
Animals Used in Scientific Procedures (Home Office 1989) does not specifically address the
scientific implications of non-human primate restraint. but it recommends that advantage
should be taken of the animals’ ability to learn and therefore emphasizes that the least
distressing method of handling is to train the animal to cooperate.

Traditional restraint techniques of non—human primates not only raise scientific but also
ethical concerns (Prentice et al 1986). These concerns are based on the assumption that
procedures that cause pain or distress in human beings may cause pain or distress in other
animals (US Government Principles 1985). Proper use of animals, including the avoidance
or minimization of discomfort, distress, and pain is therefore imperative (US Government
Principles 1985). Widely accepted ethical standards require scientists to subject animals to as
little pain or distress as is necessary to accomplish the objectives of procedures (Office of
Technology Assessment 1986). All experiments should be designed to avoid distress and
unnecessary pain and suffering to the experimental animal (European Economic Council
Directive 1986). To reduce stress and pain, non-traumatic restraining techniques should be
taught (Schwindaman 1991).

Conclusions

The scientific information available suggests that traditional restrainttechniques of non-human
primates assigned to research need to be refined both for scientific and ethical reasons.

Common restraint methods are intrinsically a source of distress resulting from fear,
discomfort and possible pain. Being involuntarily and forcefully restrained and subsequently
subjected to uncomfortable handling or painful treatment is a distressing experience not only
for a human but also for a non-human primate (cf US Government Principles 1985).
Significantly increased adrenal activity, a classical indicator of distress, has been observed in
non-human primates subjected to all common methods of restraint (Table 1). Other possible
physiological responses to conventional restraint techniques include statistically significant
changes in the secretion of testosterone, progesterone, oestradiol, prolactin and luteinizing
hormone, as well as significant changes in thyroid function, commonly monitored enzymes,
heart rate, respiration rate and blood pressure, severe alterations in acid-base balance,
electrocorticographic abnormalities, leukocytosis, immune suppression and abortion (Table
1).

Significant physiological changes continue in animals subjected to routine restraint, or to
long-term restraint. This persistency of the distress response, suggests that non—human
primates do not become fully habituated to involuntary restraint. The partial return to quasi—
normal conditions after prolonged restraint stress should be regarded as a sign of gradual
physiological exhaustion rather than of habituation (cf Burton et al 1981). Prolonged restraint
is likely to exacerbate the subject’s discomfort and pain resulting from hypokinesia, decubital
wounds and other clinical problems.

Animal Welfare I 995, 4: 221-238 229

1 WW '«mwmw .. -

 

i'} 1‘ . "

N .

. -..-. m A. -
Unfit-7:."




 

Reinhardt et al

 

 

Table 1

Traditional restraint of

refinement.

laboratory primates

and techniques of

 

Traditional restraint
Technique
response

selected
reference

Refinement
Technique
procedure

selected
reference

 

Sqeeze-back
cortisol increase
testosterone decrease

Manual restraint
cortisol increase

AS T and ALT increase
metabolic acidosis

Restraint board
cortisol increase

AST and ALT increase
testosterone decrease
progesterone decrease
oestradiol decrease
prolaction increase
respirat. rate increase

Restraint chair
cortisol increase
ACTH increase
catecholamine increase
1.]! decrease
testosterone decrease
thvroxin increase
heart rate increase
blood pressure increase
1e '.'koc_ rum is

in munr suppression
abortion

dr i ) wsit 1 ess

T( {h er
cortisol increase
heart rate increase

Restraint chute
cortisol increase
AST and ALT increase

Nets
acute diarrhoea

I
Fuller et al 1984
Puri et al 1981

Reinhardt 1992a
Kissinger & Landi 1989
Bush et al 1977

Goncharov et al 1979
Landi et al 1990
Goncharov et al 1979
Goncharov et al 1979
Goncharov et al 1979
Quadri et al 1978
Berendt & Williams 1971

Kling & Orbach 1963
Norman et al 1994
Mason et al 1973
Norman & Smith 1992
Norman & Smith 1992
Mason & Mougey 1972
Golub & Anderson 1986
Golub & Anderson 1986
Goosen et al 1984
Morrow-Tesch et al 1993
Fleischman & Chez 1974
Bouyer et al 1978

Crockett et a1 1993
Adams et al 1988

Elvidge et al 1976
Landi et al 1990

Luttrell et al 1994

Training
capture
venipuncture
injection

Training
examination
venipuncture

Chemical restraint
ketamine anaesthesia

Psychological support
companionship

Psych ological support
companionship

Training
venipuncture

topical drug
application

systemic drug
application

oral drug application
examination

Training
capture
venipuncture
urine collection

Reinhardt 1992b
Priest 1991
Priest 1991

Turkkan 1990
Reinhardt 1991

Castro et a1 1981

Fleischman & Chez 1974

Coelho et al 1991

Vertein & Reinhardt 1989
Reinhardt & Cowley 1990

Reinhardt 1992a
Turkkan et al 1989

Laule 1993

Smith 1981
Bunyak et al 1982
Kelley & Bramblett 1981

 

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221-238

era‘s.»e'.1~'-:rt,-.. . *1»
a! a v.3‘1ﬂ’.‘_..';t,1_..t . .5

 

 

 

Restraint of laboratory primates

The inability of non—human primates to adequately adjust indicates that any research,
testing or husbandry procedure involving involuntary restraint is a direct cause of distress to
the restrained subject. This endorses the regulatory recommendations of avoiding restraint
altogether (Canadian Council on Animal Care 1993) or limiting restraint to no longer than
12 hours (US Department of Agriculture 1991). Exemptions should be granted only under
the condition that the restrained animal is not left alone but has visual and auditory contact
with at least one compatible conspecific acting as a source of comfort (Kiesler 1966) and
buffer against stress.

Most handling and experimental procedures imply that the subject not only is restrained,
but simultaneously also removed from its cage. The conspicuous cortisol response and
behavioural fear responses to being removed from the home-cage suggest that the situation
is a distressing experience on its own, and affects subsequently collected scientific data even
before the subject is exposed to the extra stress associated with the restraint. Non-human
primates can readily be conditioned to cooperate during common handling procedures in the
familiar home—cage environment. This methodological refinement eliminates both sources of
uncontrolled variables: the distress associated with being removed from the home—cage, and
the distress associated with being involuntarily restrained.

Primatological investigators underestimate their research subjects' level of intelligence
when they hesitate to train rather than restrain them. The time investment in properly
designed and gently/firmly executed training protocols is not high, and quickly pays off in
research data that are not unduly confounded by avoidable distress reactions of the research
subject. The initial time investment becomes insignificant when animals are trained for
routine procedures. Training facilitates sample collection and drug application in the subject’s
home enclosure. This not only eliminates the time expenditure for moving individuals to a
special handling area but at the same time avoids serious lower-back health risks. because
heavy animals (eg a 15kg stump~tailed macaque) no longer have to be lifted and carried in
transfer boxes (Cowley et al 1993). Working ‘with’ (cooperative) rather than ‘against’
(fearfully resisting) experimental animals also increases the safety of the handler because the
interaction with the animal subject is based on trust rather than fear.

Anaesthesia seems to be an optimal alternative to restraint both from the investigator’s and
from the subjects standpoint. Unlike training, however, chemical restraint traditionally
includes some form of involuntary restraint to allow the administration of the drug. This in
turn triggers the above outlined uncontrolled physiological responses, affecting data
subsequently collected from the anaesthetized research subject. Even during anaesthesia, non—
human primates show a notable, albeit diminished stress response to injection. Training the
subject beforehand to cooperate during the injection of the anaesthetic would eliminate this
unnecessarily data-biasing circumstance.

The empirical evidence strongly suggests that training rather than restraining non~human
primates during procedures is better for all parties: animals. handlers and investigators. The
advantages of training techniques deserve more extensive exploration in the future for the
sake of the research subjects and of the quality of the scientific experiments conducted on
them.

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221-238

. 5"

y' g inswammawpwmwwmmmmw

 




 

 

Reinhardt et al

 

Animal welfare implications

Training nonhuman primates to cooperate rather than resist during handling procedures offers
a simple refinement to traditional, involuntary restraint techniques. Working with a
cooperative rather than against a fearfully resisting experimental subject is a safeguard against
unnecessary distress.

Acknowledgements

We are thankful to Klari Fajzi and two anonymous referees of Animal Welfare. The
manuscript greatly benefited from their critical but constructive comments. The senior author
very much appreciates the assistance of Doug Cowley and Russel Vertein who were
instrumental during the development and implementation of various training techniques at the
Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center.

References

Adams M R, Kaplan J R, Manuck S B, Uberseder B and Larkin K T 1988 Persistent
sympathetic nervous system arousal associated with tethering in cynomolgus macaques.
Laboratory Animal Science 38: 279—282

Anzenberger G and Gossweiler H 1993 How to obtain individual urine samples from
undisturbed marmoset families. American Journal of Primatology 31: 223-230

Arluke A B 1988 Sacrificial symbolism in animal experimentation: Object or pet?
Anthrozoos 2: 98—1 17

Berendt R F and Williams T D 1971 The effect of restraint and position upon selected
respiratory parameters of two species of Macaca. Laboratory Animal Science 21: 502-509

Bloomsmith M 1992 Chimpanzee training and behavioral research: A symbiotic relationship.
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA)/Canadian Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (CAZPA). Annual Conference Proceedings: 403—410

Bouyer J J, Dedet L, Debray O and Rougenl A 1978 Restraint in primate chair may cause
unusual behavior in baboons; Electrocorticographic correlates and corrective effects of
diazepam. Electroencephalic Clinical Neurophysiology 44: 562-567

Bovard E W 1959 The effects of social stimuli on response to stress. The Psychological
Review 66: 267—277

Bunyak S C, Harvey N C, Rhine R J and Wilson M I 1982 Venipuncture and vaginal
swabbing in an enclosure occupied by a mixed~sex group of stump~tailed macaques
(Macaca arctoides). American Journal of Primatologv 2: 201-204

Burton R R, Burns J W and Smith A H 1981 Restraint of animals in space research.
Physiologist 24 (Supplement 6): $41-$44

Bush M, Custer R, Smeller J and Bush L M 1977 Physiological measures of non-human
primates during physical restraint and chemical immobilization. Journal of the American
Veterinary Medicine Association I 71: 866—869

Canadian Council on Animal Care (CCAC) 1993 Guide to the Care and Use of
Experimental Animals, Volume 1, 2nd edition. CCAC: Ottawa, Canada

232 Animal Welfare I995. 4: 221-238

 

 

 

 

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

Castro M I, Rose J, Green N, Petersen D and Taub D 1981 Ketamine—HCI as a suitable
anaesthetic for endocrine, metabolic, and cardiovascular studies in Macaca fascicularis.
Proceedings of the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine 168: 389-394

Clarke A S, Mason W A and Moberg G P 1988 Interspecific contrasts in responses of
macaques to transport cage training. Laboratory Animal Science 38: 305-309

Clarke M R, Phillippi K M, Falkenstein J A, Moran E A and Suomi S J 1990 Training
corral-living rhesus monkeys for fecal and blood sample collection. American Journal of
Primatology 20: 181 (Abstract)

Coe C L, Franklin D, Smith E R and Levine S 1982 Hormonal responses accompanying
fear and agitation in the squirrel monkey. Physiology and Behavior 29: 1051-1057

Coelho A M, Carey K D and Shade R E 1991 Assessing the effects of social environment
on blood pressure and heart rates of baboon. American Journal of Primatology 23: 257-
267

Cope F W and Polis B D 1959 Increased plasma glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase activty
in monkeys due to nonspecific stress effect. Journal of Aviation Medicine 30: 90—94

Cowley D, Vertein R, Pape H and Reinhardt V 1993 Improving the work environment for
animal care personnel of laboratory primates. Animal Technology 44: 129-135

Crockett C M, Bowers C L, Sackett G P and Bowden D M 1993 Urinary cortisol
responses of longtailed macaques to five cage sizes, tethering, sedation, and room change.
American Journal of Primatologv 30: 55—74

Eaton G G, Kelley S T, Axthelm M K, Iliff-Sizemore S A and Shiigi S M 1994
Psychological well—being in paired adult female rhesus (Macaca mulatta). American
Journal of Primatology 33: 89—99

Elvidge H, Challis J R G, Robinson J S, Roper C and Thorburn G D 1976 Influence of
handling and sedation on plasma cortisol in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Journal
of Endocrinology 70: 325—326

Epley S W 1974 Reduction of the behavioral effects of aversive stimulation by the presence
of companions. Psychological Bulletin 81: 271—283 ‘

European Economic Community Council Directive 1986 On the Approximation of Laws,
Regulations and Administrative Pro visions of the Member States Regarding the Protection
of Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientiﬁc Purposes 86/609. Journal Officiel
des Communautes Europeennes, L 358, December 18

Fielder F G and Casmer C J 1966 A device to facilitate the restraint and handling of
monkeys with minimal human contact. Laboratory Animal Care 16: 395—402

Fleischman A R and Chez R A 1974 A chair for the chronic study of the pregnant baboon.
Journal of Medical Primatology 3: 259-264

Fuller G B, Hohson W C, Reyes F 1, Winter J S D and Faiman C 1984 Influence of
restraint and ketamine anaesthesia on adrenal steroids, progesterone, and gonadotrOphins
in rhesus monkeys. Proceedings of the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine
I 75: 487-490

Gay W l 1960 A net designed for capturing caged monkeys. Proceedings ofthe Animal Care
Panel 10: 75—78

(4»)

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221-238 23




 

Reinhardt et al

Golub‘ M S and Anderson J H 1986 Adaptation of pregnant rhesus monkeys to short—term
chair restraint. Laboratory Animal Science 36: 507-511

Goncharov N P, Taranov A G, Antonichev A V, Gorlushkin V M, Aso T, Ckan S Z and
Diczfalusy E 1979 Effects of stress on the profile of plasma steroids in baboons (Papio
hamadryas). Acta Endocrinologica 90: 372-384

3onzale7. C A, Coe C L and Levine S 1982 Cortisol responses under different housing
conditions in female squirrel monkeys. Psychoneuroendocrinolgy 7: 209-216

Goosen D .1, Davies J H, Maree M and Dormehl I C 1984 The influence of physical and
chemical restraint on the physiology of the chacma baboon (Papio ursinus). Journal of
Medical Primatology 13: 339—351

Gizn'nar M R, Gonzales C A and Levine S 1980 The role of peers on modifying behavioral
distress and pituitary-adrenal response to a novel environment in year-old rhesus monkeys.
Physiology and Behavior 25: 795—798

Ilayashi K T and Moberg G P 1987 Influence of acute stress and the adrenal axis on
regulation of LH and testosterone in the male rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta). American
Journal of Primatology 12: 263-273

I-Iearn J P 1977 A device for restraining small monkeys. Laboratory Animals 11: 261-262

Ileath M 1989 The training of cynomolgus monkeys and how the human/animal relationship
improves with environmental and mental enrichment. Animal Technology 40: l. 122
I-Iein P R, Schatorje J S, Frencken II J, Segers M F and Thomas C M 1989 Serum
hormone levels in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys. Journal of Medical Primatology 18:
133—142

Hennessy M B 1984 Presence of companion moderates arousal of monkeys with restricted
social experience. Physiology and Behavior 33: 693—698

IIerndon J G, Turner J J, Perachio A A, Blank M S and Collins D C 1984 Endocrine
changes induced by venipuncture in rhesus monkeys. Physiology and Behavior 32: 673-
676

Home Ofﬁce 1989 Code of Practice for the Housing and Care of Animals Used in Scientiﬁc
Procedures. HMSO: London, UK

Ives M and Back G M 1956 "Alarm reaction" and normal blood picture in Macaca mulatta.
Journal of Laboratory Clinical Medicine 47: 723729

Kaplan J R, Adams M R and Bumsted P 1983 Heart rate changes associated with tethering
of cynomolgus monkeys. Laboratory Animal Science 38: 493 (Abstract)

Kelley T M and Bramblett C A 1981 Urine collection from vervet monkeys by instrumental
conditioning. American Journal of Primatology I : 95—97

Kiesler S B 1966 Stress, affiliation and performance. Journal of Experimental Research in
Personality I : 27—235

Kissinger J T and Landi M S 1989 The effect of four types of restraint on serum ALT and
AST in cynomolgus monkeys. Laboratory Animal Science 39: 496 (Abstract)

Kl‘éng A and Orbach J 1963 Plasma l7-hydroxycorticosteroid levels in the stump-tailed
monkey and two other macaques. Psychological Reports 13: 863—865

234 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238

.31.“. 'iv,avv,."'. '

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

 

 

Landi M S, Kissinger J T, Campbell S A, Kenney C A and Jenkins E L 1990 The effects
of four types of restraint on serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase
in the Macaca fascicularis. Journal of the American College of Toxicology 9: 517-523

Laule G 1993 Using training to enhance animal care and welfare. Animal Welfare
Information Center Newsletter 4(1): 2,8,9

Lennox M S and Taylor R G 1983 A restraint chair for primates. Laboratory Animals 17:
225—226

Levison P K, Fester C B, Nieman W H and Findley J D 1964 A method for training
unrestrained primates to receive drug injection. Journal of the Experimental Analysis of
Behavior 7: 253-254

Line S W, Clarke A S and Markowitz H 1987 Plasma cortisol of female rhesus monkeys
in response to acute restraint. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 26(4): 1—4

Line S W, Markowitz H, Morgan K N and Strong S 1991 Effect of cage size and
environmental enrichment on behavioral and physiological responses of rhesus macaques
to the stress of daily events. In: Novak M A and Petto A J (eds) Through the Looking
Glass: Issues of Psychological Well- Being in Captive and Laboratory Primates pp 160—
179. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Loomis M R, Henrickson R V and Anderson J H 1980 Effects of ketamine hydrochloride
on the haemogram of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Laboratory Animal Science 30:
851-853

Luttrell L, Acker L, Urben M and Reinhardt V 1994 Training a large troop of rhesus
macaques to co—operate during catching: analysis of the time investment. Animal Welfare
3: 135-140]

McNamee G A, Wannemacher R W, Dinterman R E, Rozmiarek H and Montrey D
1984 A surgical procedure and tethering system for chronic blood sampling, infusion, and
temperature monitoring in caged nonhuman primates. Laboratory Animal Science 34: 303~
307

Manuck S B, Kaplan J R, Thomas B and Clarkson T B 1983 Behaviorally induced heart
rate reactivity and atherosclerosis in cynomolgus monkeys. Psychosomatic Medicine 45:
95-108

Mason J W 1958 Restraining chair for the experimental study of primates. Journal of
Applied Physiology 12: 130-133

Mason J W 1972 Corticosteroid response to chair restraint in the monkey. American Journal
of Physiology 222: 1291—1294

Mason J W and Mougey E H 1972 Thyroid (plasma BEI) response to chair restraint in the
monkey. Psychosomatic Medicine 34: 441-448

Mason J W, Mougey E H and Kenion C C 1973 Urinary epinephrine and norepinephrine
responses to chair restraint in the monkey. Physiology and Behavior 10: 801—803

Mason J W, Wool M S, Wherry F E, Pennington L L, Brady J V and Beer B 1968
Plasma growth hormone response to avoidance in the monkey. Psychosomatic Medicine
30: 760-773

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238 235

 

9w— "-Mﬁ W '

 




Reinhardt et al

 

Mason W A 1960 Socially mediated reduction in emotional responses of young rhesus
monkeys. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology 60: 100-104
Michael R P, Setchell K D R and Plant T M 1974 Diurnal changes in plasma testosterone
and studies on plasma corticosteroids in non—anaesthetized male rhesus monkeys (Macaca
mulatta). Journal of Endocrinology 63: 325—335
Milhaud C L, Klein M J and Merkel M C 1980 A new restraining chair for rhesus
monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Journal of Medical Primatology 9: 62-70
Mitchell G and Gomber J 1976 Moving laboratory rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to
unfamiliar hone-cages. Primates 17: 543-547
Morrow-TeschJ L, McGlone J J and Norman R L 1993 Consequences of restraint stress
on natural killer cell activity, behavior, and hormone levels in rhesus macaques (Macaca
mulatta). Psychoneuroendocrinology 18: 383—395
Morton W R, Knitter G H, Smith P M, Susor T G and Schmit K 1987 Alternatives to
chronic restraint of nonhuman primates. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical
Association 191: 1.282-1. 286
Nahon N S 1968 A device and techniques for the atraumatic handling of the sub—human
primate. Laboratory Animal Care 18: 486-487
Nakamura R K, Coates R, Crawford H and Friedman D 1982 A flexible restraint chair
for the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). Journal of Primatology 11: 178—185
National Institutes of Health (NIH) 1985 Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals. NIH: Bethesda, USA
National Institutes of Health (NIH) 1991 Nonhuman Primate Management Plan. Office of
Animal Care and Use. NIH: Bethesda, USA
Norman R L, McGlone J and Smith C J 1994 Restraint inhibits luteinizing hormone
secretion in the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle in rhesus macaques. Biology of
Reproduction 50: 1626
Norman R L and Smith C J 1992 Restraint inhibits luteinizing hormone and testosterone
secretion in intact male rhesus macaques: Effects of concurrent naloxone administration.
Neuroendocrinology 55: 405—41 5
Office of Technology Assessment 1986 Alternatives to Animal Use in Research, Testing, and
Education. US Government Printing Office: Washington, USA
Phillippi-Falkenstein K and Clarke M R 1992 Procedure for training corral-living rhesus
monkeys for fecal and blood-sample collection. Laboratory Animal Science 42: 83—85
Phoenix C H and Chambers K C 1984 Sexual behavior and serum hormone levels in aging
rhesus males: Effects of environmental change. Hormones and Behavior 18: 206-215
Prentice E D, Zucker I H and Jameton A 1986 Ethics of animal welfare in research: The
. institution's attempt to achieve appropriate social balance. The Physiologist 29: 17, 19, 20

Priest G M 1991. Training a diabetic drill (Marrdrillus leucophaeus) to accept insulin
injections and venipuncture. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 30(1): 1-4

Puri C P, Puri V and Anand-Kumar T C 1981 Serum levels of testosterone, cortisol,
prolactin and bioactive luteinizing hormone in adult male rhesus monkeys following cage-
restraint or anaesthetizingwith ketamine hydrochloride. Acta Endocrinologica 97: 1 1. 8—124

236 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221—238

New. . ' . .. . 7 11/1,, .9,

Restraint of laboratory primates

 

my, .y 3 ._ .7, in. . ' - “argue“: wars: * 9r..;ii.-:.vgw~!". mp“ t. .F "Mir-a; " _ , 3‘. ‘.73'-‘". H”
‘r . . mummy ‘ .x .n,‘ a, .3... .~’ , m ,, ~sz .k...’
. “ ’3'“- !l "i“ i " m"; ” ~ grammars” .. “7' '~ ~ '
I 4 .

Quadri S K, Pierson C and Spies II P 1978 Effects of centrally acting drugs on serum
prolactin levels in rhesus monkeys. Neuroendocrinology 27: 136-147

Reinhardt V 1990 Avoiding undue stress: catching individual animals in groups of rhesus
monkeys. Lab Animal 19(6): 52-53

Reinhardt V 1991 Impact of venipuncture on physiological research conducted in conscious
macaques. Journal of Experimental Animal Science 34: 212217

Reinhardt V 1992a Improved handling of experimental rhesus monkeys. In: Davis H and
Balfour AD (eds) The Inevitable Bond: Examining Scientist-Animal Interactions pp 171-
177. Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK '

Reinhardt V 1992b Transport—cage training of caged rhesus macaques. Animal Technology
43: 57-61

Reinhardt V 1992c Voluntary progression order in captive rhesus macaques. Zoo Biology
I I : 61—66

Reinhardt V and Cowley D 1990 Training stump-tailed monkeys to cooperate during in-
homecage treatment. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 29(4): 9—10

Reinhardt V and Cowley D 1992 In—homecage blood collection from conscious stump—tailed
macaques.Animal Welfare 1: 249—255

Reinhardt V, Cowley D, Eisele S and Scheffler J 1991a Avoiding undue cortisol responses
to venipuncture in adult male rhesus macaques. Animal Technology 42: 83-86

Reinhardt V, Cowley D, Schefﬂer, Vertein R and Wegner F 1990 Cortisol response of
female rhesus monkeys to venipuncture in home-cage versus venipuncture in restraint
apparatus. Journal of Medical Primatology 19: 601-606

Reinhardt V, Houser D, Cowley D, Eisele S and Vertein R 1989 Alternatives to single
caging of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) used in research. Zeitschrift fuer
Versuchstierkunde 32: 275—279

Reinhardt V, Pape R and Zweifel D 1991b Multifunctional cage for macaques housed in
pairs or in small groups. American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Bulletin
30(2): 14~15

Rice J M 1994 Zoo husbandry and research: An integrated approach. Humane Innovations
and Alternatives 8: 597—600

Robbins D O, Zwick H, Leedy M and Stearns G 1986 Acute restraint device for rhesus
monkeys. Laboratory Animal Science 36: 68-70

Rosenblum I Y and Clouston F 1981 Normal range and longitudinal blood chemistry and
hematology values in juvenile and adult rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Ecotoxicology
and Environmental Safety 5: 401 ~41 1

Sainsbury A W, Eaton B D and Cooper J E 1989 Restraint and anaesthesia of primates.
Veterinary Record 125: 640-644

Scallet A C, McKay D, Bailey J R, Ali S F, Paule M G, Slikker W and Rayford P L
1989 Meal—induced increase in plasma gastrin immunoreactivity in the rhesus monkey
(Macaca mulatta). American Journal of Primatologv 18: 315-319

Schmidt E M, Dold G M and McIntosh J S 1989 A simple transfer and chairing technique
for nonhuman primates. Laboratory Animal Science 39: 258260

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 221238 237

assists":- 9W

  

43—. 30‘
z. 2‘

“a" . . . “’ '




 

Reinhardt et al

 

Schultea T D and Stein F J 1981 A simple restraining device for small primates. Lab
Animal [0(5): 67-69

Schwindaman D 1991 The 1985 animal welfare act amendments. ln: Novak MA and Petto
A J (eds) Through the Looking Glass.“ Issues of Psychological Well—Being in Captive and
Laboratory Primates pp 26-32. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Smith E O 1981 Device of capture and restraint of nonhuman primates. Laboratory Animal
Science 31: 305-306

Sullivan S M and Crary T L 1991 A new device for restraining nonhuman primates.
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Bulletin 30(2): 18-19

Swan S M 1970 An apparatus for the transportation and restraint of nonhuman primates.
Laboratory Animal Care 20: 1131-1 132

Turkkan J S 1990 New methodology for measuring blood pressure in awake baboons with
use of behavioral training techniques. Journal of Medical Primatology 19: 455—466

Turkkan J S. Ator N A, Brady J V and Craven K A 1989 Beyond chronic catheterization
in laboratory primates. In: Segal E (ed) Housing, Care and Psychological Well~Being of
Captive and Laboratory Primates pp 305—322. Noyes Publications: Park Ridge. USA

US Department of Agriculture 1991 Animal welfare. standards. final rule. Federal Register
56: 6499-6500

US Government Principles 1985 Principles for the utilization and care of vertebrate animals
used in testing. research, and training. In: Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals pp 82-83. US Department of Health and Human Services: Washington, USA

Vertein R and Reinhardt V 1989 Training female rhesus monkeys to cooperate during in—
hor'iecage venipuncture. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 28(2): 1—3

Walker M L, Gordon T P and Wilson M E 1982 Reproductive performance in capture-
acclimated female rhesus monkeys. Journal of Medical Primatology I]: 291-302

Wall ll S, Worthman C and Else J G 1985 Effects of ketamine anaesthesia. stress and
rep :ated bleeding on the haematology of vervet monkeys. Laboratory Animals 19: 138- 144

"‘N-elki r C 1993 Ethological research work. On and with primates, and especially the crab—
eaténg monkey. Macaca fascicularis. Journal of the International Association of Zoo
Educators 28: 20-31

Wickings E J and Nieschlag 1980 Pituitary response to [RH and TRH stimulation and
peripheral steroid hormones in conscious and anaesthetized adult rhesus monkeys (Macaca
mulatta). Acta Endocrinologica 93: 287-293

Animal Welfare 1.995. 4: 221-238




The Animal Welfare Institute is working in conjunction with the Humane Society
of the United States and a number of other humane organizations to stop the US
Government from pressuring the EU to overturn its law banning import of leg-
hold-trapped furs. We'll use print ads, letters to EU and US politicians, and
other strategies. We would like to show that groups from every state support our
goal.

I. We appreciate your past support of this campaign. Please let us know if
your group is willing to continue being listed as opposing steel-jaw leghold traps.
Contact Cathy Liss at AWI (phone: 202/337—2332, fax: 202/338-9478, or mail:
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007) with your name, organization, and state.
She will be happy to answer any questions.

2. Write to President Clinton (on your group's letterhead if possible). He has
stated his love and respect for animals. Urge him to act on his principles and
support the EU's efforts to end use of cruel leghold traps. President Bill Clinton,
1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20500.

3. Several groups are sharing the cost of desperately needed advertisments. If
you are able to contribute toward the ads, please send your check, made out to
the Animal Welfare Institute, to: AWI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.
Attn: Cathy Liss, ad budget. We would greatly appreciate the assistance.

The Animal Welfare Institute is working in conjunction with the Humane Society
of the United States and a number of other humane organizations to stop the US
Government from pressuring the EU to overturn its law banning import of leg-
hold—trapped furs. We'll use print ads, letters to EU and US politicians, and
other strategies. We would like to show that groups from every state support our
goal.

1. We appreciate your past support of this campaign. Please let us know if
your group is willing to continue being listed as opposing steel-jaw leghold traps.
Contact Cathy Liss at AWI (phone: 202/337—2332, fax: 202/338—9478, or mail:
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007) with your name, organization, and state.
She will be happy to answer any questions.

2. Write to President Clinton (on your group's letterhead if possible). He has
stated his love and respect for animals. Urge him to act on his principles and
support the EU's efforts to end use of cruel leghold traps. President Bill Clinton,
1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20500.

3. Several groups are sharing the cost of desperately needed advertisments. If
you are able to contribute toward the ads, please send your check, made out to
the Animal Welfare Institute, to: AWI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.
Attn: Cathy Liss, ad budget. We would greatly appreciate the assistance.

The Animal Welfare Institute is working in conjunction with the Humane Society
of the United States and a number of other humane organizations to stop the US
Government from pressuring the EU to overturn its law banning import of leg-
hold-trapped furs. We'll use print ads, letters to EU and US politicians, and
other strategies. We would like to show that groups from every state support our
goal.

I. We appreciate your past support of this campaign. Please let us know if
your group is willing to continue being listed as opposing steel-jaw leghold traps.
Contact Cathy Liss at AWI (phone: 202/337—2332, fax: 202/338-9478, or mail:
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007) with your name, organization, and state.
She will be happy to answer any questions.

2. Write to President Clinton (on your group's letterhead if possible). He has
stated his love and respect for animals. Urge him to act on his principles and
support the EU's efforts to end use of cruel leghold traps. President Bill Clinton,
1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20500.

3. Several groups are sharing the cost of desperately needed advertisments. If
you are able to contribute toward the ads, please send your check, made out to
the Animal Welfare Institute, to: AWI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.
Attn: Cathy Liss, ad budget. We would greatly appreciate the assistance.

The Animal Welfare Institute is working in conjunction with the Humane Society
of the United States and a number of other humane organizations to stop the US
Government from pressuring the EU to overturn its law banning import of leg—
hold—trapped furs. We'll use print ads, letters to EU and US politicians, and
other strategies. We would like to show that groups from every state support our
goal.

I. We appreciate your past support of this campaign. Please let us know if
your group is willing to continue being listed as opposing steel-jaw leghold traps.
Contact Cathy Liss at AWI (phone: 202/337—2332, fax: 202/338—9478, or mail:
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007) with your name, organization, and state.
She will be happy to answer any questions.

2. Write to President Clinton (on your group's letterhead if possible). He has
stated his love and respect for animals. Urge him to act on his principles and
support the EU's efforts to end use of cruel leghold traps. President Bill Clinton,
1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20500.

3. Several groups are sharing the cost of desperately needed advertisments. If
you are able to contribute toward the ads, please send your check, made out to
the Animal Welfare Institute, to: AWI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.
Attn: Cathy Liss, ad budget. We would greatly appreciate the assistance.




 

 

BE RESPONSIBLE:
DO NOT PURCHASE DOGS AND CATS FROM

RANDOM SOURCE (CLASS B) DEALERS

 

Random Source (Class B) dealers:
have acquired stolen or fraudulently-obtained dogs and cats

and sold them to research facilities,

often launder animals by moving them repeatedly across state
lines, and by transferring them from dealer to dealer, making
it virtually impossible for pet owners to ﬁnd their missing
animals,

routinely Violate the law by failing to maintain accurate
records of the source of dogs and cats they supply to research
facilities, and

typically fail to meet even the minimum care requirements of
the Animal Welfare Act.

THERE ARE ONLY ABOUT 60 LICENSED CLASS B DEALERS SUPPLYING
DOGS AND CATS FOR RESEARCH PURPOSES. APPROXIMATELY 1/3
OF THESE DEALERS ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION OR HAVE CASES
PENDING AGAINST THEM BY USDA FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF

THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.

USDA LICENSED CLASS B DEALERS ARE STILL PROFITING
FROM THE SALE OF DOGS AND CATS DESPITE APPALLING
ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.
FOLLOWING ARE A FEW EXAMPLES:

One dealer has been convicted of selling more than 1,600 dogs and cats to research
facilities without proper records identifying the sources Of the animals. He is appealing
the decision, and thus is able to continue selling animals.

Another dealer has had dogs confiscated by USDA, refused to permit USDA to inspect
his premises more than 20 times, and has state cruelty-tO-animals charges pending
against him. But he is still in business and is supplying animals to other Class B dealers.

Dogs and cats on another dealer’s premises have been found suffering from lameness,
severe dehydration, bloody injuries, severe nasal discharges, severe ocular discharges,
and respiratory problems. Other animals were found dead. He is still in business despite
being charged with more than 32 separate willful Violations of the Animal Welfare Act
including failure to maintain proper records identifying the sources of his animals and
failure to provide adequate veterinary care.

 

ELIMINATING RANDOM SOURCE (CLASS B)
DEALERS REDUCES PET THEFT AND
BENEFITS RESEARCH FACILITIES.

 

 




SIMPLE REFINEMENTS CAN MAKE A BIG
DIFFERENCE IN ANIMAL WELL-BEING

 

 

Traditional single-housing
of laboratory macaques is
not species-appropriate
because the animals are
social, not solitary animals.
Paired animals are com-
patible in approximately
85% of cases. The
incidence of serious injury
resulting from partner
incompatibility is less than
1% per year. Pair-housing
fosters the animals’ well-
being by offering them
means to satisfy their
social needs.

Thirty—three year old Inka had no physical contact with any During 180 minute observations, Selina (on the right), 36
conspecific for more than 13 years before her environment years old, was groomed by her 27 year old companion,
was enriched with a 16 month-old female infant, whom she Sissa, for27minutes. In turn, Senila groomed Sissa for58
instantaneously accepted as a companion. minutes.

'Ietueg HOJESSSH etewud |euoIESeH uIsuoosIM to Aseunoo sotoqd “v

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pair-housing allows adherence to research protocols which require use of
headcap implantation (as shown above) or tethers for remote infusion.

 

 

Traditional involuntary restraint of research non-human
primates is a source of distress. It takes less than one
hour to train adult macaques of both sexes to actively
cooperate during venipuncture, the most common han-
dling procedure. Working with rather than against an
adult macaque enhances the safety of the work environ-
ment and increases the validity of the research data
collected by avoiding unnecessary distress reactions such
as a statistically significant increase in cortisol levels.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The animals cooperation during
venipuncture assures that the results
ofthe experimentwi/lnotbeconfounded
by distress reactions.

With training, blood collection can
be conducted in the home cage,
even with pair-housed non-human
primates.

 

 

 

Conventional venipuncture techniques often require two
or three people to control the resisting experimental
subject.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE M PO Box 3650 M WASHINGTON, DC 20007 n (202) 337-2332

 




 

 

MATERIALS
AVAILABLE FROM
THE ANIMAL WELFARE

INSTITUTE
PO Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare is-
sues, including treatment of captive animals in laborato—
ries, commercial trade, factory farms, and traplines,
summaries of international meetings, laws and treaties
affecting animals, articles by undercover investigators,

and book reviews. Illustrated, one year subscription.
$25.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign
laws. AWI, 441 pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy
free to libraries, police and humane societies. To others
$8.00

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007
I wish to become a non-voting member of

the Animal Welfare Institute

El $1000 Benefactor El $500 Patron
El $100 Friend El $50 Supporting

 

MATERIALS
AVAILABLE FROM
THE ANIMAL WELFARE

INSTITUTE
PO Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare is-
sues, including treatment of captive animals in laborato—
ries, commercial trade, factory farms, and traplines,
summaries of international meetings, laws and treaties
affecting animals, articles by undercover investigators,

and book reviews. Illustrated, one year subscription.
$25.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign
laws. AWI, 441 pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy
free to libraries, police and humane societies. To others
$8.00

MATERIALS
AVAILABLE FROM
THE ANIMAL WELFARE

INSTITUTE
PO Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly

Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare is—
sues, including treatment of captive animals in laborato—
ries, commercial trade, factory farms, and traplines,
summaries of international meetings, laws and treaties
affecting animals, articles by undercover investigators,
and book reviews. Illustrated, one year subscription.
$25.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign
laws. AWI, 441 pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy
free to libraries, police and humane societies. To others
$8.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 Cl $25 Regular [I $5 Student or Senior
1 Citizen
1 (Subscription to IlreAWI Quarterly included)
’ NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP
INSTITUTION
Please send me the items marked for which I enclose
$

 

(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent

1
g only upon request. UPlease send me a receipt.

1

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007
I wish to become a non-voting member of

the Animal Welfare Institute

El $1000 Benefactor El $500 Patron
El $100 Friend I] $50 Supporting

 

 

 

 

 

El $25 Regular [I $5 Student or Senior
Citizen

(Subscription to The AW] Quarterly included)

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY

STATE ZIP

INSTITUTION

Please send me the items marked for which I enclose

$

 

(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent
only upon request. EIPlease send me a receipt.

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007
I wish to become a non—voting member of

the Animal Welfare Institute

Cl $1000 Benefactor El $500 Patron
Cl $100 Friend El $50 Supporting

 

 

 

 

 

El $25 Rggulai‘ El $5 Student or Senior
Citizen

(Subscription to The AWI Quarterly included)

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY

STATE ZIP

INSTITUTION

Please send me the items marked for which I enclose

$

 

(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent
only upon request. DPlease send me a receipt.

 

 

 

 




The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this classic book.
UFAW, 238 pages. 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Illustrated manual for those planning to build, remodel or re-equip
animal quarters. AWI, 108 pages, 165 illustrations, revised edi-
tion, 1979. One copy free to scientific institutions, veterinarians or
architects. To others $5.00

Physical and Mental Suffering of ExperimentalAnimals: A Review
of Scientiﬁc Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI, 195
pages, 1979. $5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978-1984, and includes two new
sections: "Unjustifiable by Any Standard" (citing USDA reports
of laboratory inspections) and "Photographs of Experimental Ani-
mals," AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers Biomedical
Research, Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September
27, 1984. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Models of
Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. National Academy of
Sciences, 8 pages, 1976. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future of Ani-
mals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Edu-
cation, and Testing. National Academy of Sciences, 9 pages, 1977.
Free

A Bibliography for the Use of Non-affiliated Members of Insti-
tutional Animal Care and Use Committees
Annotated. Includes books on alternatives to animals, laws and
regulations, training courses, and the psychological well-being of
primates. AWI. $0 .50

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from The
Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175. Free

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report of
the National Research Council Committee on the Use of Labora-
tory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. 2 pages,
1988. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being of
Captive and Laboratory Primates, a 544 page book edited by
Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Contains quotations from 50
leading prirnatologists and other scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

 

Video: Laboratory Dogs
Shows humane care and housing in an experimental
surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films. $10.00

Video rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped within
the U .5. All video rentals require a $25.00 refundable deposit (please
enclose a separate check) and are available for one week.

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this classic book.
UFAW, 238 pages, 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Illustrated manual for those planning to build, remodel or re—equip
animal quarters. AWI, 108 pages, 165 illustrations, revised edi-
tion, 1979. One copy free to scientific institutions, veterinarians or
architects. To others $5.00

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals: A Review
of Scientiﬁc Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI, 195
pages, 1979. $5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978-1984, and includes two new
sections: "Unjustifiable by Any Standard" (citing USDA reports
of laboratory inspections) and "Photographs of Experimental Ani-
mals," AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers Biomedical

Research, Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September
27, 1984. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Models of
Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. National Academy of
Sciences, 8 pages, 1976. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future of Ani-
mals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Edu—
cation, and Testing. National Academy of Sciences, 9 pages, 1977.
Free

A Bibliography for the Use of Non-affiliated Members of Insti-
tutional Animal Care and Use Committees
Annotated. Includes books on alternatives to animals, laws and
regulations, training courses, and the psychological well-being of
primates. AWI. $0 .50

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from The
Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175. Free

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report of
the National Research Council Committee on the Use of Labora—
tory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. 2 pages,
1988. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being of
Captive and Laboratory Primates, a 544 page book edited by
Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Contains quotations from 50
leading primatologists and other scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

 

Video: Laboratory Dogs
Shows humane care and housing in an experimental
surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films. $10.00

Video rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped within
the US. All video rentals require a $25.00 refundable deposit @lease
enclose a separate check) and are available for one week.

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this classic book.
UFAW, 238 pages, 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Illustrated manual for those planning to build, remodel or re—equip
animal quarters. AWI, 108 pages, 165 illustrations, revised edi-
tion, 1979. One copy free to scientific institutions, veterinarians or
architects. To others $5.00

Physical and Mental Suffering of ExperimentalAnimals: A Review
of Scientific Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI, 195
pages, 1979. $5 .00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 19781984, and includes two new
sections: "Unjustifiable by Any Standard" (citing USDA reports
of laboratory inspections) and "Photographs of Experimental Ani-
mals," AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers Biomedical
Research, Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September
27, 1984. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Models of
Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. National Academy of
Sciences, 8 pages, 1976. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future ofAni-
mals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Edu-
cation, and Testing. National Academy of Sciences, 9 pages, 1977.
Free

A Bibliography for the Use of Non-affiliated Members of Insti-
tutional Animal Care and Use Committees
Annotated. Includes books on alternatives to animals, laws and
regulations, training courses, and the psychological well-being of
primates. AWI. $0 .50

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from The
Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175. Free

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report of
the National Research Council Committee on the Use of Labora—
tory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. 2 pages,
1988. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being of
Captive and Laboratory Primates, a 544 page book edited by
Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Contains quotations from 50
leading primatologists and other scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

 

Video: Laboratory Dogs
Shows humane care and housing in an experimental
surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films. $10.00

Video rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped within
the US. All video rentals require a $25 .00 refundable deposit (please
enclose a separate check) and are available for one week.

 

 




 

PUBLICATIONS AVAILABLE FROM THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

 

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this classic book. UFAW, 238 pages, 1992.
$25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals

New, completely revised edition, edited by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt; text and illustrations
provided by the scientists most expert in the housing and care of each individual species.
AWI, 120 pages, illustrated, 1997. One copy free to scientific institutions, veterinarians
or architects. To others $5.00

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1 985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from The Congressional Record, Vol.
131, No. 175. Free

Environmental Enhancement for Caged Rhesus Macaques

A photographic documentation by Viktor Reinhardt and David Seelig. Free to scientific
institutions, members of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees, veterinarians, and
libraries. To others $2.00

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals: A Review of Scientiﬁc Literature
from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI, 195 pages, 1979. $5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door

Continues the above review, 1978- 1 984, and includes two new sections: “Unjustiﬁable by Any
Standard” (citing USDA reports of laboratory inspections) and “Photographs of Experi mental
Animals,” AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers Biomedical Research
Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September 27, 1984. Free

Humane Perspectives

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future of Animals, Cells, Models, and
Systems in Research, Development, Education, and Testing. National Academy of
Sciences, 9 pages, 1977. Free

A Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees

Annotated. Includes publications on alternatives to animals, laws and regulations,
training courses, and the psychological well—being of primates. AWl. Free to members of
IACUCs, all others $0.50

The Animal Dealers: Evidence of Abuse of Animals in the Commercial Trade 1952-1997
A shocking expose of cruelty, fraud and negligence in the growing trade in animals—both
in exotic animals and in dogs and cats for research. Edited by Mary Ellen Drayer. AWI,
430 pages, illustrated. $8.00

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research

Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report ofthe National Research
Council Committee on the Use of Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral
Research. 2 pages, 1988. Free

 




ﬁlial/x

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article fromAnimal Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic
Diseases. National Academy of Sciences, 8 pages, 1976. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being of Captive and Laboratory
Primates, a 544-page book edited by Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Contains
quotations from 50 leading primatologists and other scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

Concentration Camps for Dogs
Reprinted from Life magazine. 8 pages, 1966. Free

Protect Our Pets
Help stop pets from being taken by unscrupulous animal dealers and sold to laboratories. AWl,
4 pages. Also, a 2” button reading “Protect our pets 0 Stop dog & cat theft.” Free

Social Housing of Previously Single-Caged Macaques: What Are the Options and the
Risks?

By Viktor Reinhardt, Cathy Liss and Christine Stevens. Reprinted from the journal Animal
Welfare. UFAW, 20 pages, illustrated, 1995. Free

 

Please send me the items marked, for which I enclose $
(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

STATE

 

INSTITUTION

 

 

1:] Check or money order (payable to
the Animal Welfare Institute)

1:] Visa or 1:] MasterCard
Card Number:

DUDE DUDE DEED DEED
Expiration date: ED _ DD

Month

 

Signature

 

 

 

Send to:
AVVI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007
Phone: (202) 337—2332, fax: (202) 338—9478

e:mail: awi@animalwelfare.com; URL: http://www.animalwelfare.com

 




(‘08

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007-0150

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338—9478
email: awi@animalwelfare.com

 

Date: June 3, 1998

To: Attending Veterinarian

From: Cathy Liss, Executive Director W

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, a new publication of the Animal Welfare
Institute is enclosed. We hope this book will serve as a practical inspiration to provide
optimal housing and handling conditions for the animals in your charge.

The Animal Welfare Institute believes that species appropriate housing and humane
handling of laboratory animals not only determine the research subj ect's well-being, but
that good science depends on it. Only a species adequately housed and humanely handled
can yield scientiﬁc data that are no; contaminated by extraneous, data-biasing variables.

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals has been written by professional experts
who care about laboratory animals and good science. We are conﬁdent that you will find
it helpful in your endeavors to ensure the best possible animal care at your facility.

Also enclosed are a copy of our newsletter, The A W] Quarterly, and a list of other AWI
publications which may be of interest to you. If your institution conducts research on
primates, you may be interested in a copy of another of our books, Environmental
Enhancement for Caged Rhesus Macaques. If you would like a copy of this book, an
additional copy of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, or to be added to our
mailing list to receive our newsletter, please let me know.

 

We recognize the important responsibility you, as an attending veterinarian, have to
alleviate the possible suffering, pain and discomfort of research animals and to otherwise
improve the quality of their lives in the laboratory.

 




(‘08

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE no. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007—0150

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478
email: awi@animalwelfare.com'

Date: June 3, 1998

To: Chair, Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee

From: Cathy Liss, Executive Director C 340$

Enclosed is a complimentary copy of a new publication of the Animal Welfare Institute,
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. This book, a practical guide to ensure that
animals assigned to research protocols are housed and handled in appropriate ways, has
been sent to you as Chair of your institution's Animal Care and Use Committee. We
hope that it will be of interest to you and the other members of your Committee.

The Animal Welfare Institute believes that species appropriate housing and the humane
handling of laboratory animals not only determine the research subject's well-being, but
that good science strictly depends on it. Only a species adequately housed and humanely
handled can yield scientiﬁc data that are not contaminated by extraneous, data-biasing
variables.

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals has been written by professional experts
who care about laboratory animals and good science. We are conﬁdent that you will ﬁnd
it helpful in your endeavors to ensure the best possible animal care at your facility.

For your information, we have enclosed our most recent newsletter and a list of other
AWI publications. If your institution conducts research on primates you may be
interested in another of our publications, Environmental Enhancement for Caged Rhesus
Macagues. If you would like a copy of this book, an additional copy of Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals or to be added to our mailing list to receive the A W]
Quarterly newsletter, please let me know.

 




210 ORGANIZATIONS IN SUPPORT OF ABOLITION OF
THE STEEL J AW LEGHOLD TRAP:

Adair County Humane Society, Missouri; Alaska Animal Rights Coalition; Alaska Animal Welfare
Society; Albert Schweitzer Memorial Foundation, Inc.; Allegany County Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, New York; Alliance of Utah Animal Organizations; Allies of Animals, New York;
American Anti-Vivisection Society; American Humane Association; American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; Animal Advocates, Inc., Texas; Animal Assistance League of
Orange County, |nc.,California; Animal Care Center, Wyoming; Animal Birth Control, Florida; Animal
Care and Welfare/Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Pennsylvania; Animal Charity,
Ohio; Animal Connection of Texas; Animal Havens League, Louisiana; Animal Legal Defense Fund;
Animal Liberation League, Texas; Animal Liberation Ltd.,Australia; Animal Lifeline of Iowa; Animal
Lovers Unlimited, Delaware; Animal Protection Advisory Network ofTexas; Animal Protection League
of Johnson County, Iowa; Animal Protection Society of Iowa; Animal Rescue League of Boston,
Massachusetts; Animal Switchboard, California; Animal Welfare Institute; Animal Welfare League
of Alexandria, Virginia; Animal Welfare League of Benzie County, Michigan; Animal Welfare League
of Greater Baltimore, Inc., Maryland; Animal Welfare Society, Maryland; Animal Welfare Society of
Central Iowa; Animals in Distress Association, Inc., Idaho; Arkansans for Animals; Asociacion para
la Defensa de los Derechos del Animal, Argentina; Associated Humane Societies, New Jersey;
Awareness of Wildlife and Animal Rights Through Education, Illinois; Beauty Without Cruelty, USA;
Beaver County Humane Society, Pennsylvania; Belleville Area Humane Society, Illinois; Bergen
County Animal Shelter Society, Inc., New Jersey; Birmingham Animal Rights Coalition, Alabama;
Borderland Humane Society, Minnesota; British Columbia Society for thePrevention of Cruelty to
Animals, Greater Vancouver Branch, Canada; Cabarrus Animal Protection Association, Inc., North
Carolina; Canadian Federation of Humane Societies; Capitol Humane Society, Nebraska; Care
About the Strays, Ohio; Carson-Eagle Valley Humane Society, Nevada; Central Vermont Humane
Society, Inc.; Citizen’s Animal Management and Protection Society, Utah; City Animal Control,
Kansas; City Animal Shelter, Oklahoma; Clinton County Humane Society, Illinois; Coalition of
Hoosiers Encouraging the Ethical Treatment of Animals, Indiana; Cocheco Valley Humane Society,
New Hampshire; Collin County Humane Society, Texas; Community Animal Rescue Effort, Illinois;
Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals, New York; Danish Animal Welfare
Society; Danville Area Humane Society, Virginia; DeKalb County Humane Shelter and Society,
Indiana; Delaware Action forAnimals; Dixie Humane Education Bureau, Alabama; Dona Ana County
Humane Society, New Mexico; Doris Day Animal League; Douglas County Humane Society/Animal
Control, Georgia; Ecological Centerof Southern California; Edgecombe-Nash Humane Society, Inc.,
North Carolina; El Paso County Humane Society, Texas; Elizabeth H. Brown Humane Society, Inc.,
Vermont; Elsa Wild Animal Appeal; Etobicoke Animal Welfare Association, Canada; Florida
Federation of Humane Societies; Franklin County Animal Shelter, Maine; Friends of the Earth,
Cyprus; Fund for Animals; Fur-Bearer Defenders; Greater Derry Humane Society, Inc., New
Hampshire; Greenville Humane Society, Texas; Grup Baleard’OrnitoIogia i Defensade la Naturalesa,
Spain; Harrison County Humane Society, Mississippi; Hawaii Humane Society; Heart of Missouri
Humane Society; Hellenic Animal Welfare Society, Greece; Hill Country Humane Society, Texas;
Humane Civic Association, Inc., California; Humane Education Committee, Inc., New York; Humane
League of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania; Humane Legislative Network, California; Humane
Shelter of South Brevard, Florida; Humane Society of Cascade County, Montana; Humane Society
of Charlotte, North Carolina; Humane Society of Collier County, Florida; Humane Society of Cowlitz
County, Washington; Humane Society of Guernsey County, Ohio; Humane Society of Harford
County, Inc., Maryland; Humane Society ofHobart, Inc., Indiana; Humane Society of LarimerCounty,
Colorado; Humane Society of North Texas; Humane Society of RamseyCounty,Minnesota; Humane
Society of Rock Island County, Illinois; Humane Society of San Bernardino Valley, California; Humane
Society of Sedona, Arizona; Humane Society of South Central Georgia; Humane Society of Southern
Nevada-The S.P.C.A.; Humane Society of the United States; Humane Society of Ventura County,
California; Hunterdon County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Inc., New
Jersey; Huntington Humane Society, West Virginia; Idaho Humane Society, Inc.; lllnois Citizens
Animal Welfare League; Interfaith Council for the Protection of Animals and Nature, Georgia;

International Wildlife Coalition; Ithaca’s Concerned Animal Rights Enthusiasts, New York; Jefferson
County Animal Welfare League, Ohio; Jefferson County Humane Society, Ohio; Jefferson Society
forthe Prevention ofCruelty to Animals, Louisiana; Kan kakee County Humane Society, Illinois; Kauai
HumaneSociety, Hawaii; LagunaBeach Animal Shelter, California; LakeCityAnimaI Shelter, Florida;
Lake County Animal Protection Association, Illinois; Lenoir County Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, North Carolina; Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
California; Marion County Humane Society, Kentucky; Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals; Maude Schefﬂey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, South Carolina;
Miami County Humane Society, Inc., Indiana; Michigan Humane Society; Mobilization for Animals
of Pennsylvania, Inc.; Morristown-Hamblen Humane Society, Tennessee; Moses Lake-GrantCounty
Humane Society, Washington; Muscogee County Humane Society, Georgia; Natchitoches Humane
Society, Louisiana; National Antivivisection Society; Network for Ohio Animal Action; Nevada
Federation of Animal Protection Organizations; New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Canada; New Hampshire Animal Rights League, Inc.; New York State Humane
Association; Niagara Falls Humane Society, Canada; Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Virginia; Northeast Animal Shelter, Massachusetts; Ontario Humane Society, Canada;
Orangeburg Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, South Carolina; Oregon Humane Society
and Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; Palo Alto Humane Society, California;
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; People for Animal Rights, Kansas;
People forAnimal Rights, Oregon; People for the Ethical Treatmentof Animals; People to End Animal
Cruelty and Exploitation, Alabama; Pet Animal Welfare Society, Inc., Connecticut; Pike County
Humane Society, Pennsylvania; Progressive Animal Welfare Society, Inc., New York; Progressive
Animal Welfare Society, Washington; Protect Our Pets and Homeless Animals, Inc., New Jersey;
Protectors of Animal Welfare, Inc., New York; Providence Animal Rescue League, Rhode Island;
Ramona Animal Shelter, California; Regina Humane Society, Canada; Rescuing Unwanted Furry
Friends, California; Roanoke Valley Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Virginia;
Rochester Animal Control, New York; Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Hong
Kong; Salem County Humane Society, New Jersey; San Diego Humane Society and Society forthe
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, California; Sangre de Cristo Animal Protection, Inc., New Mexico;
Santa Cruz Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, California; Saratoga County Animal
Welfare League, New York; Save-a-Dolphin, Connecticut; Save Animals from Exploitation, Florida;
Shelby County Humane Society, Ohio; Society forAnimal Protective Legislation; Society for the Pres-
ervation of Birds of Prey, California; Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Anne Arundel
County, Maryland; Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Monterey County, California;
Society forTexas Animal Rights; Souris Valley Humane Society, North Dakota; South Dakota Animal
Welfare League; South Suburban Humane Society, Illinois; Stop Taking Our Pets Coalition, Texas;
Stray Haven Humane Society, Inc., New York; Sullivan County Humane Society, Tennessee;
Tennessee Humane Association; Texans for Animal Rights; Texas Humane Information Network;
Tulsa Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Oklahoma; United States Wild Horse and Burro
Foundation; Valley Shore Animal Welfare League, Inc., Connecticut; Vanderburgh Humane Society,
Indiana; Virginia Federation of Humane Societies; Virginians Against Cruelty to Animals; Voice of
the Voiceless, California; Voices forAnimals, Virginia; Volunteers forAnimal Welfare, Inc., Oklahoma;
Voters for Animal Rights, Ohio; Wasatch Humane Society, Utah; Washington Humane Society,
District of Columbia; Washtenaw Citizens forAnimal Rights, Michigan; Welland and District Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Canada; Wildlife Preserves, Inc.; Wisconsin Federated
Humane Societies; Wisconsin Humane Society; Wyoming Advocates forAnimals; Yorktown Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Inc., Canada

Please note that every state in the United States is represented.

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC.
USA.

 

 

 

THANK YOU FOR ALL YOU ARE
DOING TO END THE USE OF THE
AGONIZINGLY CRUEL STEEL
J AW LEGHOLD TRAP.

The 210 organizations
listed at the end of this
leaﬂet join us in deep
appreciation for the
progress Members of
the European Parlia-
ment and Commission
have made toward
barring imports of furs
caught by this hideous
device. BUT
PLEASE DON’T
DELAY THE DATE
OF THE BAN. WE

 

 

N

 

 

URGETHATIT "I,

 

SHOULD GO INTO t Id b ke b
EFFECT BY 1992. Rescue raccoon was reae for ro n ,

severe infection.

 

 

 

You have rightly condemned the steel jaw leghold trap
for the intolerable terror and pain it causes every animal
caught in its unrelenting grip. Many gnaw off their own
feet in order to escape (see photo above).

Toronto Humane Society

 




  
       
   
   
   
   
   
       
    

To document this fact we have sent monographs to all
MEPs on the major alternatives which are infinitely less
cruel: box and cage traps, cable coated leg snares and quick
kill traps. We’ll be happy to supply additional copies on
request.

 

 

 

 

The fur trade deliberately uses their million dollar
studies to hold off, year after year, action to prohibit use of
steel traps.

Back in 1985 the public relations firm hired by the
Government of Canada to advise them on how to save their
fur industry, stated: “... the leghold trap is a necessary
sacrifice.” But instead of taking this wise advice studies
are being funded to compare psychological stress in foxes
caught in steel jaw leghold traps with stress caused by
being chased by large dogs. They’re still trying to justify
the unjustiﬁable!

  

 

J k _« . J j J, J 4,.
A swan dying in a steel jaw leghold trap.

 

PLEASE SUPPORT THE
AMENDMENTS THAT WILL
BRING A 1% END TO
THE TORTURE. AND
PLEASE INCLUDE MORE
SPECIES. REMEMBER THE
TRAP IS NON-SELECTIYE.
ANY ANIMAL CAN SET IT
OFF, A LOVED HOUSEHOLD
PET, AN ENDANGERED
SPECIES OR “TRASH”
ANIMALS AS FUR INDUSTRY TRAPPERS CALL
THE ANIMALS THEY CAN’T MAKE A PROFIT ON.
EACH ONE SUFFERS UNIMAGINABLE AGONY.

 

Ed Park

 

 

 
   

The desperation of this badger is expressed by the great hole
he has dug in his eﬁ‘orts to get away.

  
  
 

We urge that the regulation be amended to come
into effect in 1992. This would provide ample time for
trappers to change. In the case of native peoples the change
would restore them to harmony with the type of devices
(now available in modern form) they used before the cruel
Steel jaw leghold trap was brutally imposed on them by
non-native invaders of their lands.

     
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
      

Dr. George Whitney

Please support the amendments tabled by the fol-
lowing members: Madron Seligman, Michael Elliott, Car—
los Pimenta, Anita Pollack, Maria Adelaide Aglietta,
Gianfranco Amendola, and the Environment Committee to
reduce the grace period and increase the species covered.
The numbers are listed below for your convenience.
Amendments supporting both the shortest and next shortest
time periods are included.

 

 

What the steel jaw leghold trap does to an animal ’s limb.

SIXTEEN MILLIQE animals a year are trapped in the
United States. The sum total of this appalling pain and

injury is multiplied by the number of days they are left to
suffer before the trapper comes to kill them and cOllect his
pelt. In Alaska, Michigan, and North Dakota, there is m
limit to the time animals may be left without checking. In
many other states J .J , . 7.
trappers are not re- " I " VJ J " J i j” * "I" '
(luired to check their 4 7713 4'93 13'
traps for 48 or 72
hours.

l“ W I» '7 if V \t/ I“, ‘l ”V 1' 1‘ 71- l“ “I i"'\l ‘1 ‘/
sli.~‘y-.. t‘l‘

 

 

We urge you to support the following amendments:
, . . _ _ A3-138/1, 2, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23 (the shortest
’ 1 grace period), 24, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 (the second
. " ‘ shortest), 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 48,51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 60,
9“? ~~ f{2,53§;“ '* 61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,7l,72,73,74.

2'

 
 
 




Environmental Enrichment for Primates
Annotated Database
on Environmental Enrichment ana’
Reﬁnement of Husbandry for Nanhuman Primates

 

http://www.animalwelfare.com/Lab_animals/biblio/enrich.htm
(Last update: October 4, 1999)

Viktor and Annie Reinhardt
Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC

Purpose
This database disseminates information on all aspects of species—appropriate care,
handling and housing of captive nonhuman primates.

Scope

The database comprises published articles, abstracts, book chapters, books,
photographs, slide sets and videotapes. All entries have been read by the authors to
guarantee their relevance to the topic of primate environmental enrichment.

Features

Each of the 1492 entries is brieﬂy annotated and indexed by searchable keywords.
Fifteen percent (224) of entries are accessible on-line as FULL TEXT documents

(including photographs). New records are being entered on a regular basis and an

attempt made to link as many entries as possible to their full texts.

The database has more than 300 primary keywords such as:

o Abnormal behavior (e.g., Hair pulling-and-eating, Self—biting)

0 Animate enrichment (e.g., Group-housing, Human interaction, Pair
formation)

Cage design (e.g., Grooming-contact bars, Perch installation, Tunnel)
Feeding enrichment (e. g., Feeding schedule, Foraing board, Probe feeder, Puzzle)
Full text (on-line document)

Inanimate enrichment (e.g., Illumination, Mirror, Perch, Sound, Space, Toys)
Management and practical issues (e.g., Cost, Morbidity, Retirement, Safety)
Photo documentation (e. g., Photo & Foraging, Photo & Adult-adult pairs)
Reﬁnement (controlling extraneous variables) (e.g., Social buffer)
Substrate (e.g., Fleece, Paper, Straw, Tuft, Woodchips)

Training to cooperate during procedures (e.g., Blood collection, Capture)
Variables (e.g., Cage arrangement, Cortisol, Fear, Heart rate, Restraint)
Videotape documentation

 




Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

F. BARBARA ORLANS

No BIOLOGY COURSE IS COMPLETE without direct
observation of living organisms. The study of dead
and pickled specimens has some usefulness, but it
is the study of living matter that is fundamental to
understanding organic processes. The study should
be comprehensive; that is, a wide range of living
organisms should be observed in a biology class-
room. Classroom subjects of study should include
representatives of the higher animal phyla as well
as higher plants, fungi, bacteria, protozoans, and
other small animals. Among these, representative
forms of the higher animal phyla are small mammals
and man.

Oddly enough, some high-school and college
teachers seem to think that studying mammals means
studying only gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, and
mice. Usually. such studies are made on domes-
ticated, caged animals. Observation of wild animals
in their natural habitats is usually not part of a
biology course. Yet domesticated, captive animals
are quite different in their physiology and behavior
from their wild counterparts. Perhaps even more
strangely, the study of human physiology by direct
experimentation. on human subjects is similarly
neglected. Whereas one might argue that studying
wild animals in their native habitats presents cer-
tain problems for the classroom biology teacher,
no such problems exist in the study of human
. physiology.

There are many advantages to using human be-
ings as subjects for biological observation. Human
subjects are always at hand; there is minimum
preparation for such experiments. Human subjects
can follow directions and respond verbally, to pro-
vide data nOt obtainable from other mammals.
Whereas it may be difﬁcult to interest students in
the physiological processes of an amoeba, the func-
tioning of the human body is of great importance
and interest to most students. Some youngsters
may fail to recognize the relevance of some live-
animal biology demonstrations to their own prob-
lems; for instance, some may have difﬁculty relating
the nutritional requirements of guinea pigs to their

own food needs. Is it not more forceful and of more
direct value for a student to learn as much as pos-
sible by direct study of himself?

Despite these many advantages, most high-school
biology courses either neglect or omit the study of
man as a physiological entity. Many teachers never
entertain the idea of using human subjects in their
classes—maybe because they think of all experi-
mentation as something that will harm or injure
the subject. Of course, proper provision must be
made to ensure that experiments in human physi-
ology are carefully chosen, so that neither physical
nor psychological harm will befall the subject; but,
even so, a wide range of educationally sound ex-
periments can be selected. The purpose of this
article is to suggest some of them. Equipment needs
for these experiments are minimal; materials are
easy to obtain and inexpensive.

Vision
Eye Dominance

Most people have a pronounced proclivity to use
one eye more than the other. However, few people
know that they do so.

To determine eye dominance, the subject, using
both eyes, sights a distant object through a 2.5-cm
hole in the center of a cardboard sheet held at arm’s
length. The cardboard must be held with both hands
and moved gradually toward the face, keeping the
distant object sighted (fig. 1). Determine which eye
is used (Gregg 1966).

 

The author is a senior staff scientist at

George Washington Medical Center, 2001 S

St., N ..,W Wash., DC. 20009, where she

writes reports to keep physicians and policy-

makers informed on the latest developments?

in intrauterine contraceptive device tech-

nology. She is also a proliﬁc writer on a

number of topics, including animal care.

This article is a condensed version of a ’
chapter in Animal Care: From Protozoa to Small Mammals
(see references), written under contract with BSCS. It was
also a paper at the 1973 NABT convention. Orlans, a physi-
ologist, holds a B.Sc. degree from Birmingham University,
England, and M.Sc. and. Ph.D. degrees from London Uni-
versity. After completing her graduate training in 1956, she
served as a research physiologist for the National Health
Institute, U. S. Public Health Service. She has been active
for a number of years in the Animal Welfare Institute and
the Humane Society of the United States and maintains
membership in several professional societies.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, 0.0. 20007
(202) 337-2334

ONE MORE BIG EFFORT NEEDED

July 8, 1997 Extremely Urgent

Dear Humanitarian:

On July 22, just two weeks from now, the European Union's
(EU) Foreign Ministers will vote to reject or accept the cruel
trapping agreement proposed by the EU Commission, Canada, and
Russia. This agreement would actually entrench the use of the
world's most painful and widely used trap: the leghold trap-TEee
enclosed "What is the Real Price ofia Fur Coat?").

 

YOU CAN HELP by appealing to the Foreign Ministers whose
names appear on the enclosed list. PLEASE URGE THEM TO REJECT
THE AGREEMENT, which makes a mockery of the good EU Regulation
3254/91 against the leghold trap. Ask them to implement the
Regulation's import ban of furs from 13 species that come from
countries which haven't prohibited use of the leghold trap.

. Last month the Council of Ministers of the Environment
refused to accept the shockingly inhumane agreement proposed by

the EU Commission, Canada, and Russia. This was an important
milestone in our long fight to protect animals from the ravages
of the leghold trap, but we need to make sure that the Foreign
Ministers do not succumb to the threat of a World Trade
Organization challenge by the United States.

British, French, Austrian, and Belgian Environment Ministers
were the chief opponents of the Commission's disastrous
agreement. .Their countries deserve your praise. If you can fax
the Foreign Ministers or call the embassies or immediately write
air mail letters, your voice will be heard. (Air Letters are
available at the Post Office for 50¢.)

 

These letters, faxes, and phone calls may be the most
important you ever make on behalf of animals. THANKS for all you
can do!

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans Christine Stevens
President Secretary

25% ‘Mﬁ7%/ﬂoéﬁ7¢r¢7 W” 7”“—
@W ‘ 51%" ”WW yﬂ’
/é¢&4é;7é;’;bu_€§vu 2%52.5:figf:?%%123“”ér27W
tdééééckvtzgéqxéZZ_62¢émw«m49*(CEM

 




Humane Society of Ventura County (CA)
Humanitarians of Florida, Inc.
Hunterdon County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (NJ)
Huntington Humane Society (WV)
Interfaith Council for Protection of Animals and Nature
International Ecology Society
International Fund for Animal‘welfare
International Wildlife Coalition
Jacksonville Humane Society (FL)
, Joplin Humane Society (MO)
Kauai Humane Society (HI)
Laguna Beach Animal Shelter (CA)
Lake City Animal Shelter (FL)
Lake County Animal Protection (IL) ,
Lawton Humane Society & Animal Shelter (OK)
Leesburg Humane Society. Inc. (FL)
Leflore County Humane Society (MS)
Lewis and Clark Humane Society (MT)
Marion County Humane Society (KY)
Maryland Federation of Humane Organizations
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals
Mecca Wildlife Task Force (MN)
Medical Research Modernization Committee
Minnesota Committee to Protect the Mourning Dove
Montana State Humane Society
Morris Animal Refuge (PA)
National Cat Protection Society
Nevada Federation of Animal Protection Organizations
New Fairfield Animal Welfare (CT)
New Jersey Animal Rights Alliance
Newton Animal Rescue League (IA)
North Central Ohio Nature Preservation League
North County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (NY)
Owensboro Humane Society (KY)
Panhandle Humane Society (NE)
Peaceable Kingdom (SC)
‘Pennsylvania Animal Welfare Society
People for Animal Rights (KS)
People for Animal Rights (NY)
People for Animal Rights (OR)
PeOple for the’ Ethical Treatment of Animals
People to End Animal Cruelty and Exploitation (AL)
Pet Adoption League (NJ)
Physicians committee for Responsible Medicine
Pinellas Cbunty Animal Protection Association (FL)
Pomona Valley Humane Society (0') '
iProgressive Animal Welfare Society (WA)
IProgressive Humane Association. Inc. (NY)

 




Promote Animal Rights -.Write for Animals

Protect Our Barth's Treasures (OH)

Quincy Animal League, Inc. (HA)

Riley County Humane Society (KS)

Roanoke County Animal Control (VA)

Rutherford County Humane.Society (TN)

Salem County Humane Society (NJ)

Santa cruz Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (CA)

Sauk Valley Humane Society (IL)

Save-A-Dolphin

Seneca Humane Society, Inc. (NY)

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Anne

Arundel County (MD)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of West

Pasco (FL) _

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in
Cattaraugus Cbunty (NY)

SOS Animals (NY)

Standish Humane Society (HA)

Sun City Friends of Animals (CA)

Susquehanna Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (NY)

United Animal Nations

Vancouver Humane Society and Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (WA)

vermont Humane Society

Vilas County Animal Shelter (WI)

Virginia Federation of Humane Societies

VOices for Animals (VA) ‘

Volunteer Services for Animals (RI)

Voters for Animal Rights (OH)

Wasatch Humane (UT) _

Washington County Humane Society (OH)

Washington County Humane Society (WI)

Washington Humane Society (DC):

Wenatchee valley Humane Society (WA)

, Western Pennsylvania Humane Society
Whale Protection Federation (IL)

Wisconsin Humane Society

Wolf Defenders (CA)

Women's SPCA of Pennsylvania

Yuma County Humane Society (A!)

 




0

{3 TI ‘2? 1C. {:3

{'7
a.)

‘V'
.13.

easy
0

a

i

Am

52

I

10m
CO

1

. B.»
A 1...
.1
n
.A
r

0

f

lit
Associatimn

"- 13.11 {i

m
T
J

I

Invagtlﬁat
f;

n 37
f:

ruelt
G?
Wilﬁlife

uman

1'
.5.

Eﬁféﬂﬁﬁ
C

a1
xout
1
at@

a

g
Gﬂlﬂty
onal

3

i
iona.
5

Le
ﬂ
0

a1

Him
humane
Internat

A
”'1

 




 




Save the Whales and Dolphins
The Time Is Now

 

 

 

 

 

of whales..." Representative Gerry Studds speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives
before passage by a 382 to 0 vote on a resolution against commercial whaling.

In 1985, the nations that belong to the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) voted for an indeﬁnite cessa-
tion of commercial whaling. Intense public pressure served
notice to whaling countries that the hunts that drove the
great whales to the brink of extinction would no longer be
tolerated. But the cetaceans (whales, dolphins and por-
poises) that have survived face great environmental threats
to their survival. Pollution of the seas by toxic waste and
PCB's and the results of ozone depletion, climate change,
toxic algal blooms and mysterious diseases are increas—
ingly devastating whales and dolphins.

But despite these dangers, the IWC is considering
adoption of the Revised Management Procedure (RMP).
The RMP would end the current international moratorium
on the commercial hunting of whales. It is based on unre-
liable data and out-dated ecological principles. The gov-
emment and whaling industry of Japan demand a resump-
tion of commercial whaling. Norway has stated that it will
slaughter hundreds of minke whales in defiance of any
IWC regulation.

The Japanese government and whaling industry have
continued to trade in pirated whale meat and to overhunt
Dall's porpoises and striped dolphins contrary to IWC
resolutions. Dall's porpoises have suffered signiﬁcant de-
cline and the striped dolphin is near extinction. The car-
casses of Dall's porpoises are processed at the factory of one
of Japan's biggest whaling companies, New Nippo (for-
merly N ihon Hogei which was owned by Taiyo Fisheries,
implicated in extensive pirate whaling operations world—
wide). The Dall's porpoise meat is being sold fraudulently
as "whale meat."

The Japanese government and whaling industry have
lost the support of the Japanese peOple. So serious is this
loss of support that the government is spending hundreds of
thousands of dollars to promote the eating of whale meat.
Whale watching has taken root in many Japanese commu-
nities. Thousands of Japanese people ﬂock to see whales
around the Japanese coastline, and the growing whale
watching industry has provided a vital source of income for
depressed ﬁshing communities. Operators of the new whale

watching industry complain that the government is trying

to discourage it because of pressure from the big whaling
companies.

A senior Japanese conservationist says "What is needed
is international pressure on the Japanese govemment to
stop whaling."

Japan and Norway are not alone in the assault against '
the world‘s cetaceans. A report by the Environmental
Investigation Agency, The Global WarAgainstS mall Cera-
ceans, documents the killing of over 1000 small cetaceans
in Chile, to be used as crab bait, and between 6000 and 7000
in Venezuela, for shark bait. One Of the largest and cruelest
whale hunts in the world Occurs in the Faroe Islands. Over
1,000 extraordinarily gregarious and intelligent pilot whales
are slaughtered every year. Bottlenose whales, white sided
dolphins, harbor porpoises and orcas are sometimes killed
as well. A Faroese official explained the reasons for the
slaughter as “sport, tradition and a way of obtaining cheap
food.” '

For over 20 years, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation and its companion organization the Animal
Welfare Institute have labored to protect marine mammals.
At this crucial time of the IWC meeting in Japan (May 10-
14, 1993), we ask for your help.

 

WHAT YOU CAN DO

Please phone or send a telegram to:

The Right Honorable Nicholas Brathwaite

Prime Minister's Office, Botanical Gardens

St. Georges, Grenada, West Indies
Urge him to instruct the delegation for Grenada to vote
against any resumption of commercial whaling any-
wherein the world. Norway and Japan want to kill whales
and sell their meat. They must be stopped.

For more information write to:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719

Washington, DC. 20007

 




government ofﬁcials and to the editors of
newspapers.

 

 




 

    

  
    
  
  

  
   
    

Leaflet and
Universities
Welfare, 7a
,ondon, W.C.l

illustrated S‘ationery
information from rhe
Federation for Animg! \
Lambs Conduit Passage, Len-’f

  
   
  

 




