IN MANY FOREIGN FIELDS

A Call for Help

A paper by Miss Georgiana Kendall, vice-president of the American Humane Education
Society, read at the National Humane Convention, Portland, Oregon, August, 1926.

Published by the American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Mass, where copies may be obtained upon request.

NORTH AFRICA

I hardly know a more inspiring picture than that presented by hirs-
Hosali who, leaving her home in England, journeyed to North Africa
in order to lessen abuses suffered by the donkeys at the hands of their
pitiless drivers. 4 -

We see her there, near the yard where the animals return from their
arduous labors,iprovide'd with bandages, 'ointments and salve, and we"
see the deep—seated "Wounds and festering sores as she urges the driver?
to lift the Saddle frOm the tortured animal, to Which she gives merciful
relief. ‘

The astonished Arabs, as they stand at attention, are taking their
ﬁrst lesson 1n humaneness, fearful at ﬁrst, and somewhat suspicious at
the kindly control assumed over their earthly treasures.

Soon, however, the good news of “donkeys healed and strengthened
by care and rest” has attracted so many new patients that her busy
day of blessed service beginning in the early morning, can end only at
nightfall.

When Mrs. Hosali’s attention was called to the pitiful plight of .
“unwanted cats” thrown over the wall—their fall being thirty—nine
feet—--—to a strip of land that was dry—where sometimes thirty or forty
cats were gathered—she arranged large straw-ﬁlled packing boxes,
which she placed on high iron bars, where the luckless creatures found
shelter and couldseek refuge from the rising tide that might wash over,
them or carry them away.

The humane world, familiar with Mirs. Hosali’s work in North-
Africa, will scarcely wonder that John Galsworthy has likened it to
“the holy crusades of ancient times.”

SPAIN

, It is with greatest satisfaction that we read of Miss Alva C. Blaffer’s
work in Spain as mentioned” in the National Humane Review, September,
1925:—-— .
i “Recent events in Spain lead to the liOpe that that country is em-
barking upon a new course which will eventually reach the place where
bullﬁghts will no longer be tolerated. Although not organized primarily
to discourage bullﬁghting, there is no doubt that the newly-formed

 

 




 

Iberian Federation of Societies for the Protection of Animals and Plants
will become a strong factor in the anti-bullﬁght movement. The
Federation, representing four Spanish and three Portuguese societies
for the prevention of cruelty, has been formed with the help of The
American Humane Association, represented by a member of its board
of directors, Miss Alva C. Blaffer; the Royal S. P. C. A., of England,
and other humane organizations in England, America, France and Italy.

“The Madrid section of the Federation was organized at the home
of the Princess Hohenlohe, who became ﬁrst vice-president, and among
the patrons are the Prince of Asturias and his two sisters, Princesses
Beatriz and Cristina, the Duke of Alba and other prominent members
of the Spanish nobility. The president is Dr. Eduardo Alfonso and the
Secretary Senor Joaquin J ulia. One of the prominent members of the
board of directors is the Count of Elda, who is the head of the Boy
Scouts in Spain. Much of the organization work has fallen upon the
shoulders of Senor Julia. He has traveled extensively both in Europe
and America and is the author of several books telling about his experi-
ences. He talks English ﬂuently and is now in charge of the commercial
section of the British Embassy at Madrid. He became interested in
humane work through Miss Violet Wood, a representative of the English
Council of Justice to Animals. Miss Blalfer found him more than willing
to help when she suggested the formation of a strong society to promote
humane education and animal protection.

“The Madrid section of the new Federation has already conducted
a successful humane poster and essay contest in which many prizes were
given. The Society is also seeing to it that the bullﬁght authorities
carry out their promise to have horses,.wounded in the bull ring, killed
humanely rather than forcing them to continue the unequal combat
with the bulls. '

“That bullﬁghting is losing its hold upon the Spanish people is
asserted to be the case by Don Antonio Canero, a noted horseman, who
declares that boys and men are taking up football, instead. He has
undertaken to reform the bullﬁght by preventing the goring of old
horses. He plans to use the best horses possible rather than those old
and practically worn out that are almost invariably gored by the bulls.

“It is the aim of the animal lovers in Spain to establish new S. P.
C. A.’s all over the country, to publish a humane magazine and to press
humane education so that the rising generation will have a better con-
ception of its duty to give considerate treatment to animals. Juvenile
humane organizations will be formed and it is hoped that in the larger.
cities it will be possible to establish free animal clinics and to operate
animal hospitals and ambulances. ‘

“Miss Blaffer and her associates deserve credit and their work in
Spain commends itself to humanitarians.”

2 .

{74.1”
I j ~ l/Yl gm ”3' life/L"- fiftil
Edi"! (0/17

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CUBA‘

And, coming nearer home, it seems as if nothing 1n Havana is so
impOrtant to the humanitarian as the benign presence of. Mrs.. Jeannette
Ryder, who for so many years has devoted herself to secure better
conditions for neglected children and suffering animals whose lot there
has been pitiful 1n the extremes

And we trembled not a little for her safety when we learned of her
courage on one occasion, when she entered the bull ring and, standing
there, unaided and undaunted, in the name of the law she had secured,
compelled those responsible for the contemplated spectacle to retire,
with the animals intended for the combat and slaughter.

ITALY
Leonard T. Hawksley whispered a word of courage and endurance _
to his followers as he lay struck down by a cruel driver he had previouSly
arrested.‘ Restored, after some months, to active service, he gave again
his whole—hearted devotion to extending his beneﬁcent inﬂuence through-
Out that enchanting country. ,
' INIHA
The remarkable record showing the far- reaching work of The Bombay
Humanitarian League caught its ﬁrst inspiration from our humane
leaﬂets received some years ago by a prominent Indian philanthropist
there. Indian princes and others of distinctionare coming under its
inﬂuence; contests are ably conducted in its schools, and other far,-
reaching progressive measures, showing the devoted energy of its leaders,
are deserving of unstinted praise and appreciation, predicting also a
future of ever-increasing usefulness.

MEXICO
, Our new worker in Mexico, ever devising new methods to reach the
people, is devoting his time to improving the hard lot of abused animals
there, where, excepting for the generous hOSpitality of the Methodist
missionary, his important activities would not have been possible. We
have reason to anticipate great results from his self-sacriﬁce and enthu-
siasm, and we learn with much satisfaction that posters and leaﬂets,
with some temporary ﬁnancial aid sent to him, have been most helpful.
_ I , PALESTINE
Mr. Kenneth Reynolds, headmaster of St. George’s College in
Jerusalem, and Mrs. Reynolds—in addition to their prior claims—are
furthering the humane movement in various directions, and their good
work could be greatly broadened were more generous support forth-
coming there, where it is so greatly needed.
‘ TURKEY
Those of us who recall the distressing fate of the homeless dogs of
Constantinople which once thronged the city streets will rejoice to
3

 

 




 

know that now a Humane Inspector collects the unwanted strays and
that they are painlessly destroyed in a lethal chamber under the direc-
tion of Professor Santour, a veterinary surgeon who will be long remem-
bered for his great interest in the cause and the attention he has so gener-
ously given to the Animal Protective Society.

A cart with separate compartments for stray dogs and cats has
been acquired and four stalls have been added to the hospital.

It was in 1912—four years after the Band of Mercy was formed——
that the adult Society was founded by Lady Lowther—in which many
inﬂuential Turks became interested, and the police, under their able
leader, Sadi Bey, co-operated most helpfully.

Too much praise cannot be accorded to Mrs. Alice W. Manning,
closely connected with Robert College in Constantinople, for the beau-
tiful work she has so ablyaccomplished there.

We may indeed gather helpful inspiration from her various humane
activities, for not only has she been very active in founding Bands of
Mercy and introducing humane education through translations of
“Black Beauty” and other humane publications into various languages
used in Turkey, Bulgaria, and adjacent countries, but she is responsible
for the humane. organization of 750 members in Soﬁa (Bulgaria), where
is now edited an active publication called The Humane Review.

Thousands of copies of “Black Beauty” translated into Bulgarian
have been distributed in the schools.

Mrs. Manning annually conducts a prize speaking contest at Robert
College, using the Angell Prize Contest medals supplied by the American
Humane Education Society.

SOUTH AMERICA

In June, 1923, Mrs. O. F. Frederick, of Reading, Pa., in addition to
her other activities in South America, aided by kind friends, opened the
ﬁrst watering station on the long, wearisome road leading to Callao
(in Peru), this being one of several stations she wishes to place where
sorely needed.

Between 8 A. M. and 6 P. M. the ﬁrst day it was opened, more than
one thousand living beings, men, women and animals, quenched their
thirst there, in that locality where never before had such merciful pro—
vision existed, and it is pleasant to remember that thousands of wearied
pack animals, traversing the dusty road beneath a blazing sun, will be
refreshed and strengthened by the draft of water now provided for their
use.

A watering trough, with a humane message printed above, appealing
for kindness and mercy, is a valuable object lesson and an ever-present
reminder to all passing that way. . . -

Some twenty years ago, Mr. John S. Pierson, of New York, having

4

 




 

 

close afﬁliation with our Boards of Foreign Missions, rendered our
humane cause a most valuable service.

Having just read “Black Beauty,” he suggested that the best way to
send our humane message into South America and other foreign lands
would be to enlist the sympathy'and co-operation of our religious misé
sionaries—their inﬂuence being great among the residents in their indi-
vidual localities—and suggested the distribution of our Spanish “Black
Beauty” in South America, securing for our immediate use valuable
addresses of our religious representatives stationed there.

Following this practical idea, our Society had pasteboard boxes
made (as best adapted to mule pack transportation), each holding six
or eight copies, and “Black Beauty” was sent in generous quantities
to our missionaries there—and in each volume was a printed letter
explaining our motive and asking the recipients to place copies with
persons who would make telling use of them.

We were greatly cheered when one leading citizen soon sent us a
prepaid order for one thousand copies of that fascinating horse story;
when an editor promised to publish one chapter each week in his paper;
and when the Directors of Education in the Republic of Venezuela
issued an order for its use in the schools as a supplementary reader.

Mr. Pierson had judged rightly, and how greatly humanizing inﬂu-
ences were needed was shown by the depth of possible animal cruelty
as revealed by the statement of one man who said that he purposely
left the extensive wound on the back of his saddle horse unhealed as it
made the movement of the animal much easier!

CHINA

Several years thereafter our Boards of Foreign Missions when vis-
ited at their headquarters in New York, reSponded most generously
to our timid request, and received from our ofﬁces in Boston, to be sent
out with their own religious publications, an abundant supply of our
humane picture leaﬂets, which, accompanied by a Special message from
the Board, enlisting sympathetic co-operation in our benevolent work,
were sent to their missionaries stationed in foreign lands.

An interesting letter from a Methodist missionary :—

UNIVERSITY OF NANKING
Nanking, China
F. W. Dieterich
g December 10, 1923
American Humane Education Society
Boston, Mass.

Some time ago we received some samples of the literature published
by the above society, together with a letter from the Board of Foreign
Missions of the M. E. Church, 150'Fifth Avenue, N. Y., asking us to
use or distribute this literature where it would do the most good.

5

 

 




 

Recently in my class in Religious Education wehad a lesson on CI‘LI?
elty to animals and I distributed the pamphlets among the class, asking
for reports on each. The boys were all so. much interested, voting unani-
mouslyrto form a Band of Mercy here, that I decided .to present the
matter to the whole student body of something over four hundred,
including both the High School and the Grades. As .a result, three
hundred and ninety-seven boys signed the Band of Nlercy, pledge and
over two hundred and ﬁfty of them wish me to order Band of _Mercy
buttons for them as advertised or listed on the last cover page-of the
pamphlet, “Twelve Lessons on Kindness to Animals.’.’

Today I was invited to present this matter of Humane Education
to: the members of the Nanking Church Council at their regular monthly
meeting. This is an‘organization of the pastors and elected representa4
tives of all the churches and Christian Associations working in N anking.
It was very sympathetically received, indeed, and enthusiastically
discussed, but time forbade any deﬁnite action more than referring the
matter to the Committee on Social Reform for action. Several of'the
Chinese pastors spoke to me after the meeting and would like literature,
in Chinese, which they could distribute in their churches, Sunday—schools
and day schools (grades). ' I would be glad for a generous and Varied
supply of samples of your literature, pamphlets, posters, cards, maga-
zines, etc. . ‘

There are almost ten thousand students in N anking and the city?
is showing great interest in social reform at this time. Recently a public
gathering of ofﬁcials, gentry, business men and others was held (attends
ance about two thousand) and action was taken pledging the city to
enter upon a campaign of reforms including among others, drinking,
gambling, and cruelty to animals. To these reforms the ofﬁcials. have
pledged their support. Such action and such a meeting was made pos«
sible as a result of the Christian inﬂuences which have been at work. in
thexcity for several decades. With your co—operation' and suggestions
I. shall be gladto do what I can for the cause.

Our Band of Mercy boys have elected'Mr. Ho Ying as theirpresi—~-
dent. He is a Chinese scholar, that is, has a degree under the old
Chinese system of education, and is now studying English and other
subjects in our Middle (High) School.

You can have little conception 'of the terrible and constant cruelty
which abounds on every hand every day in almost every place, as one
might'reasonably expect in a non-Christian civilization, and it is by
no means conﬁned to dumb animals, unfortunately. So we pray for
God’s blessing upon your society and upon the spread of its “gOSpel”
in this very needy land. . I i '

Your fellow—worker, ; , _
F. W. DIETERICH




We said in our reply: “Not only will the enthusiastic body of Band
of f Mercy members in the middle and- lower schools of Nanking Univer-
sity receive generous contributions of literature in English, but there
will also be sent to them ﬁnancial aid fer printing humane literature in
the native language. This is made possible througha recent gift to
the American Humane 'Education Society specially designated for
foreign work. 'A careful reading of Mr. Dieterich’s letter, published
above, will show that the seed sown in N anking is destined to bring forth
a harvest far beyond the conﬁnes of the University. This is but one
(though very emphatic) illustration of what. the American Humane
Education Society is accomplishing, the literature having been sent out
through the Missionary Board by one of our vice-presidents. ” Later
Mr. Dieterich writes: , . , a.

“We have received the very generous supply of samples of the litera-
ture you distribute and publish, including several books, back numbers
of 0m Dumb Animals, pennants, buttons, and three copies each month
of the above periodical. Thank you very much for all of them.

. “Our students were delighted with the buttons and we had such a
scramble for them it was hard to avoid a riot! I am placing the maga-
zine in the libraries of the University of N anklng, Ginling College (for
women), and the third copy in various government and private schools
in the city. In hIay we had a health week 1n Nanking, including lec—
tures and exhibits in a public hall and grounds, and I proposed to the
boys in the Middle School that they prepare an exhibit and talks on
kindness for the thousands of people who would attend during health
week. They took the matter up very enthusiastically, and gave up
their school work to spend long hours for several days promoting this
worthy cause. Thousands of people were touched and inquiries received
from places far distant, both North and South.

“We have also approached the president of the Nanking Reform

Association with reference to making ‘Mercy’r one of the departments
of the association’s activities, and he is very "sympathetic and willing,
and much interested in all kinds of reform and popular education.
, “We hope at an early date to get some society. or publishing company
to translate and publish the .most suitable of your pamphlets for distri—
bution‘among Chinese pastors, Primary school teachers, Sunday-school
workers and among students in Middle and Primary schools.

“It has seemed to me after thinking the matter ever, that it will be
better to organize a ‘Chinese Humane Education Society’ afﬁliated with
the American society in some way, but let the Chinese feel that it is
their organization.

“We hope this coming fall to put on an energetic campaign in Nana
king, in co-operation with the N anking Church Council and the Reform
Association, and would be pleased, of course, if it should result in a
national organization with headquarters in N anking.”

’Z

 




 

SYRIA

“Wonderful indeed,” quoting Our Dumb Ammals, November, 19%4,
‘is the hold which the Band of Mercy seems to have not only upon the
orphans of the Near East Relief 1n Syria, but also upon the peOple 1n the
towns and villages. ‘
“Even the American Consul General at Beirut has become interested
enough to suggest a draft of suitable anti- Cruelty laws to be presented
to the High Commissioner.”

Describing the remarkable results obtained, Mrs. Alma B. Kerr, at
the Hill Top Orphanage, at Sidon, writes :—

“We have now organized three societies in our orphanage here; one
for the larger boys, one for the larger girls, and one for the very small
orphans.

“Our teachers have all joined and it has been largely through the
efforts of M‘r. Himadi, a Moslem teacher here, and Miss Mary Kourani,
that we have made such a success of it.

“The larger boys organized ﬁrst and have held some very wonderful
meetings.

“They have appointed some of their members to go out on Satur-
days and Sundays into the villages nearby.

“Passing through the orange groves at Sidon, they came upon an
overladen donkey being cruelly beaten on the head with a stick. Re—
monstrance failing, one boy seized the donkey’s rope and stopped him,
and the other boy caught the stick as it descended on the donkey’s
head. The boy ﬁnally threw away his stick, promising he would be
kind to his donkey.

“Yesterday on our ride to Beirut we passed ﬁve camels laden with
huge rocks such as are used here for construction of buildings, their
patient heads bent under the load of stone.

“Later we passed 17 four-wheeled wagons transporting oranges from
Sidon to Beirut, pulled by mules. Three of the mules had badly-ﬁtting
harnesses and were bleeding where the ropes cut in—one .mule was being
beaten with a heavy stick over his nose and forehead by his driver and
kicked by another man. An hour later, when our car came by, the
mule was still being beaten.

“Later on our journey we met a public conveyance traveling from
City to city, drawn usually by two or three very ill and exhausted horses,
who have trotted daily up and down the coast for years. There are
usually two men driving. They take turns at whipping the horses and
holding the reins. In the intense heat of the summer the trip is frightful.
The horses travel all day and late at night.

“The greatest need” (continues Mrs. Kerr) “is for the right kind of
literature in the Arabic language. People are hungry for something

8

 

 

 

 




 

to read, especially in the villages up in the Lebanons where there are
no libraries, newspapers, or journals. .

“Tomorrow I am going to see the Moslem editor of our local paper
and ask him to quote prices for the publication of several of your pamph-
lets in Arabic.”

We can indeed believe that further supplies of literature and ﬁfty
dollars in cash, sent by us toward the expenses of translating and pub-
lishing, did good service. ‘

The following letter from Mrs. Kerr, dated January 4, 1925, tells
the story :—

“Just a year ago the Band of Mercy was practically unheard of in
Syria and today there are several thousand members and a great many
more sympathizers.

“Here is a copy of an order given by the Governor General of the
Lebanon and Syria.

“The order is as follows and became immediately effective, and,
which for the ﬁrst time, gave legal protection to the animals in that
territory. It has been published in all the newspapers of Syria and
has gone out to all the police departments.

“ ‘Conceming domestic animals and their treatment

“ ‘The Governor General of the Grand Lebanon advises that any
persons who are seen abusing their animals in any way shall be punished.

“ ‘A ﬁne of two Syrian pounds shall be exacted or a punishment of
from one to ten days imprisonment depending on the gravity of the
offense.’ ”

Another correspondent writes :—

“The fact that there was no law in Syria protecting dumb animals
made such pioneer work extremely difﬁcult and an appeal was made to
the Governor of Sidon for some ofﬁcial help.

“This gentleman responded willingly and ordered all the Govern-
ment schools to include the principles of the Band of Mercy in their
curriculum.

“Later Mr. Himadi carried the project to the Representative Council
in Beirut and with the co-operation of General Serrail, a law was passed
making it a penal offence to illtreat dumb animals of any kind.

“The hardest work was accomplished among the peasants in the
mountains of Grand Liban. The sheiks of many districts were ap-
proached and ﬁnally enlisted in the Band of Mercy.

“This was no easy task, considering that animals in this country
have «been beaten for centuries, not because the people here are so
extraordinarily cruel, but no one ever thought to champion a dumb
animal.

 

 




 

 

 

“Maronites, Jews, Mohammedans and Druzes are in' the Band of
Mercy enrollment of Syria.”

BULGARIA

From Bulgaria, whither! our “paper missionaries” have carried our
message of humane reform, comes the following assurance—the news
of the publication of a Humane Review—a publication of no mean
proportiOns.

A grant from the Ministry of Public Instruction has been made for
editing it.

Its purpose is to awaken interest anew and on a much larger scale
throughout all Bulgaria and adjacent countries. Through generous
friends we have-been able to help the Soﬁa SOciety materially as well
as through literature and Suggestions.

The Society reports 750 members in Soﬁa, 250 in the Provinces, with
tWelve branches and ﬁfty pupils.

This, too, is highly signiﬁcant: The Bulgarian Holy Synod has sent
an epistle to the Bishops to recommend their clergy to sustain the Socie-
ties for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and to become members
Of them. Our correSpondent, a well—known journalist of Soﬁa, writes
that the most of the Bishops are members and some at the head of the
provincial societies.

The following Proclamation has been issued by the Soﬁa Prefecteur

of Police:——— (
“I Order

“'1. The load of the draught and transport must be in accordance
with the nature, strength, and physical condition of the animals, the
condition of the weather and roads, the kind and size of the vehicle.

“The effort of the animal and the strain upon it should be the measure
of the overloading.

“Q”.- The vehicles must be well greased and the animal properly shod.

“3. For driving, the whip or a thin birch only may be used. Their
use is permitted only on the hind part of the animal. Their use on other
part: of the body 1s severely forbidden.

.The owners or the drivers of the animals are bound to take the
necessary care for the feeding and health of the animals; to feed them,
not to leave them in the cold and in the draught when in sweat; and not
work them when they are sick.

“Those who do not conform with the order will be held responsible
for cruel treatment of animals and will be dealt with 1n accordance with
article 475 of the criminaLlaw and ﬁned up to 2,000 levs.

“The execution of this, my order, I entrust to the police agents
under my command and to the volunteer police organs provided with
special legitimation cardse—members of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. -

10

 




 

" “The present order to be published 1n the press and by posters in the
principal streets.
“Soﬁa ....... .. April 1926.
“Signed—Prefect of Soﬁa ‘Kisolf.’ .
“In order to protect the dumb animals against bad treatment, and
to put an end to the evil inﬂuences which cruel scenes have upon the
education of youth, on the strength of articles 489 and 4'75 of the crim-
inal law.”

“Is it not piteous” (writes one familiar with existing conditions)
“that the poor animals fall to the earth under the heavy blows of the
batons and the weight of the loads which are beyond their strength?”

This cry for help reaches us from thousands of beasts of burden,
weakened by starvation and abuse and beaten because too feeble to
fulﬁll the heavy task exacted of them.

In addition to asSiSting earnest workers already in the ﬁeld, with
whom both the American Humane Education Society and the American
Humane Association are in touch, may we not hope to send out a humane
representative to visit leading cities in Panama and in Central and
South America?

Two or three persons now under consideration are in readiness for
such service and a small sum (several hundred dollars) has been assigned
for such purpose when the moment comes so to use it.

Would not this additional arm of Humane Service to bespeak justice
and compassion in foreign lands, where they are so urgently needed,
bring special honor and distinction to our leading Humane Societies?

LATER REPORTS

A few days after the above paper was read at the Convention in
Portland the following statements were received and published in Our
Dumb Animals, September, 1926:

Very remarkable results continue to be achieved in Syria through
the humane educational activities of Mr. Rida Himadi, assisted by friends
of the American Humane Education Society. He has had three Of our
popular leaﬂets, “A Talk with the Teacher,” “How to Treat a Horse,”
and “How to Treat Animals,” translated into Arabic and widely dis-
tributed. He has issued, in Arabic, a short history of the Band of
Mercy in Syria.

New Bands of Mercy have been organized in the Friends school,
Liban, the National Protestant College, Syria, the School of Saints
Peter and Paul, Liban, and the American Mission High School, also in
Liban. Many additional members have been obtained for Bands
previously reported.

This progress is the more remarkable in the light of the atrocious

11

O
.

 

 




ﬁghting that was going on’in' Syria at the 1 same time; Many'of the
colleges are becoming actively interested in humane education; Presi—‘r
dent Dodge of the American University of“ Beirutvhas welcomed the"
Band of Mercy in all departments of the University. A prominent mer;
chant of Damascus, a Mohammedan, met some students 1n the street
Wearing the Band of Mercy badges, inquired what they represented, and“!
beéame so interested that he wrote to Mr. Himadi and promised to organ—4
ize a Band among the Damascus merchants. The chief head of the
Druzes, a member of the Representative Council of Beirut, is ready to
use his inﬂuence to secure statutes in favor of animal protection. '

Mexican Children Petition the Government to Abolish the i
' Bullﬁght

The following remarkable statement is taken from Ld Prensa:
“City of Mexico, June 27,1926

“A campaign against bullﬁghts has been initiated in this republic
by the school children.

“The movement began 1n a rural school near the City of Mexico by
means of a petition signed by thousands of boys and girls and sent to
the Minister of Education, demanding that, since Mexico has reached
a higher degree of culture and enlightenment, the barbarity of the bull-
ﬁght, which Is an affront to civilization, be abolished.

“The petition requests the Secretary of Education to obtain the assist—
ance of Other high government ofﬁcials to put an end to bullﬁghts or
at least to prevent the slaughter of the horses which now take a leading
part in the bullﬁght. ”

Nothing more promising has come out of Mexico within our mem-
ory. Nothing gives ﬁner evidence of the better day that is in store
for that celebrated country. It is a sign of progress in the nation’s
educational, social, and civil life that all high-minded men and women
the world over must welcome with sincere pleasure. Every humane
society’in the United States will gladly respond, we are conﬁdent, in
aiding in any possible way these children in this great endeavor. We
will gladly receive and forward any contributions from readers of 0m
Dumb Animals designed. to further the splendid undertaking of the school
children of Mexico. '

 




