THE PEOPLE’S DISPENSARY FOR SICK ANIMALS

OF THE POOR
FOUNDED ‘91? Patron H.R.H. THE DUCHESS 0F KENT. HeadOﬂioc:
.1 , mengn up mm. ouuzcron: MRS. DICKIN. 0.8.15. 14’ Clifford Street.
London,Vﬁ1

Telephone:
INCORPORATED 1923 CHRISTMAS 1946 . REGcnt 69I6 (5 lines)

 

Dear Sir,

Our Subscribers have recently received an illustrated Report of the
work of the P.D.S.A. from 1959 to 1945, giving information about the bewilder~
ing difficulties which confronted us during those dark years, and of the Service
we were able to give to the Nation during that time: the Rescue Work for the
Animals, who shared with us the suffering and misery, the horror and distress
of those dreadful days: the Practical Help rendered to the owners of Animals —
this Service extending to other countries in the War zone — and at the same
time keeping open our Hospitals and DiSpensaries for normal work at home.

The Report also shows the increase in our expenditure due to the
extension of our activities, and the abnormal financial conditions brought
about by a six years’ War: chiefly, the Rise in Wages: the increased cost of
maintenance of Hospitals, Dispensariesiand Caravan Dispensaries: the enormous
Price of Drugs, Instruments and treatment requisites. We faced this increased
expenditure, as it was impossible to turn a deaf ear to the many demands for
our Services.

The pain of the Animal is as acute as ever: still they cry for
relief; still they are looking and waiting for us to help them. Thousands of
tired Horses, mangy Cats, poor lost Dogs and little caged Birds - as in the
Picture of the Green Wicket — as well as other innumerable forms of suffering,
await the coming of the P.D.S.A. The pathos of their misery is urging us
forward to answer that cry and bring relief to their suffering lives. There-
fore, we are now forging our way through many obstacles for a

GREAT GOING FORTH OF THE P.D.S.A.

to places where its healing hand has not yet reached.

For this extensive Mission we are relying, as we have always done,
on the sympathy of Animal Lovers to support us. No one else will.

If this Christmas each Subscriber could find it possible to send
£1. 1. 0d. or any smaller sum to help in the opening of a Gate to a P.D.S.A.
Hospital or Dispensary for the down and out suffering Animals, how our hearts'
would rejoice! It may be that I am asking too much. I can only say that if
you personally were in touch with the vast Animal World of Misery, as I am,

I am quite sure you would understand and forgive me.
I am,

Yours very truly, . d/{f:
. ,‘i / at ’ ‘
£555“: «.29 over/

 




P.S. If you were good enough to give a donation in answer to
our Annual Report would you be so kind as to pass
this on to a friend.

 




