IIIIAN VICTIMS OF MEDICAL RESEARCH.

Ratepayers. Taxpayers. Electors.

 

 

 

THOUSANDS or POUNDS
0F PUBLIG MONEY

are annually expended upon
cruel and misleading experi-
ments upon defenceless animals.

 

These practices lead
to experiments on
MEN, WOMEN
and CHILDREN.

WiII YOU help to

(l) MARY CAIN. ‘ abOllSh these lthgS? (2) MARY CAIN (a few days later).

“ Experimentation upon the lower animals must of necessity lead to
experiments upon the human species.” DR. WALTER HADWEN, ].P.

DR. GEORGE SEARLE, SC.D., F.R.S. (a Cambridge University Lecturer in Experimental Physics)
writes :—“ Most people nowadays know or suspect that experiments are done upon human beings as well
as upon animals.” . . . . “ It is a wise patient who can tell what a hypodermic syringe contains.”

Dr. Searle adds, after quoting experiments on dogs: “I now come to the bedside of Mary Cain at the
Hospital for Sick Children. Edinburgh, and refer to a paper by Dr. Charles McNeil. Mary, aged 241—, was
admitted July 21st, 1913. . . . she was scrofulous and in poor condition. Human tuberculin and bovine
tuberculin were injected at two points, iust above and below the bend of her left arm. In a few days there
were deep ulcers at the sites of the tuberculin injections, and there was an intense reaction of the skin.”—
(Cambs. Chronicle, June 30th, July 28th and September lst, 1920).

The description of the ﬁrst photograph says :—“ Note the intense cutaneous reactions to human and
bovine tuberculin, producing two extensive vesicles with central eschars. Note also the legs covered with
livid depressed patches, the ulcers at the bases of the toes . . . the sores on the lips and on the cheeks—
all being tuberculides of unusually severe type.” (Note also the word “producing ” I).

Mary Cain “ left hospital,” we are told, before “ treatment with thyroid gland could be fairly tested.” No
wonder. .

Experiments upon Criminals.

DR. A. T. BRAND, in “Cancer : Its Cause, Treatment and Prevention,” 1922, says :——“It is most important
that much more should be done in experimental inoculation, and it is even more necessary that such experi-
ments should be made on the ‘genus homo.’ Fortunately,” he remarks, “there is abundant material for this
purpose, although it is at present annually wasted by the common hangman I No doubt there would be a great
outcry from the shrieking sisterhood of both sexes ; but they should, of course, be simply ignored, for science

must be permitted to pursue the calm and even tenor of her way, undisturbed and undeterred by the vapourings
of irresponsible cranks.” (“Material ”1).

DR. ROBERT DUNSTAN drew attentlon, and protested in the Daily Herald, November 3rd, 1923, to
experiments upon six criminals in Ceylon “lying under sentence of death.” The experiments consisted in
administering carbon tetrachloride to the men and strong purges of Epsom salts, causing dizziness, vomiting,

etc. [P.T.O.

 




“ Investigations ” in Hospitals.

In recent years there has been an ever-increasing demand for experimentation on human beings. The
latest vivisector “to plead ” (as he says), for this is Dr. C. G. Douglas, President of the Section of Physiology,
at the meeting of the British Association, reported in the Times, September 3rd, 1927, and the Evening
Standard, September 2nd. He said that “in the interest of knowledge man himself, rather than an animal,
should be experimented on, that man is in many instances a far more advantageous subject for investigation.”
When the subjects are the “willing human co-operators” he mentions, there can be no objection, but it is
impossible that they could have been so in the “ investigations ” related below.

Drs. Ringer and Murrell, in the Lancet, November 3rd, 1883, relate the following experiments on out-
patients :—

“ In addition to these experiments, we have made some observations clinically. To 18 adults—14 men and
4 women—we ordered ten grains of the pure nitrite of sodium in an ounce of water. and of these 17 declared
that they were unable to take ,it. . . One man, a burly, strong fellow, suffering from a little rheumatism
only, said that after taking the ﬁrst dose he ‘ felt giddy ’ as if he would ‘ go off insensible.’ His lips, face and
hands turned blue, and he had to lie down for an hour and a half before he dared move. His heart ﬂuttered,
and he suffered from throbbing pains in the head He was urged to take another dose, but declined on the
ground that he had a wife and family. Another patient had to sit down for an hour after the dose, and said
that it‘ took all his strength away’ He, too, seemed to think that the medicine did not agree with him The
women appear to have suffered more than the men . . . One woman said that after taking the ﬁrst dose—
she did not try a second—she felt a trembling sensation all over her, and suddenly fell on the ﬂoor. Whilst
lying there she perspired profusely, her face and head seemed swollen and throbbed violently, until she'thought
they would burst. . . . Another woman said she thought she would have died after taking a dose ; it threw
her into a violent perspiration, and in less than ﬁve minutes her lips turned quite black and throbbed for
hours ; it upset her so much that she was afraid she would never get over it. The only one of the 14 patients
who made no complaint after taking ten grains was powerfully affected by ﬁfteen . . . The effect on these
patients was so unpleasant that it was deemed unadvisable to increase the dose.” And Dr. H. Snow quotes
from Ringer’s Handbook of Therapeutics, 8th edition, various experiments that Drs. Ringer and Rickards
made, at University College Hospital, with large does of brandy, “a large number” of them being on a boy
aged ten who had never taken alcohol 1n his life before.

These “observations” were performed many years ago, but as Dr. H. Snow (formerly Senior Surgeon,
Cancer Hospital) comments on them and other experiments, “ It is impossible to credit the Laboratories or

the Schools with an increased spirit of humanity since these things were done, only of necessity there is more
secrecy.”

Also the “ British Medical Journal ” for October 23rd, 1926, refers with great approval to “Ringer’s Work”
and “experimental method” with drugs, and their “ effect” in “minute quantities upon the heart.”

In the “British Medical Journal” of April 17th, 1926, under “ Immunisation. against Measles,” Ferry and

Fisher refer to Streptococcus Morbilli. It says: “ Experiments were made with its toxin ;” 30 children and 30
adults, were so tested.

The Lancet for April 18th, 1925, reports seven cases of tuberculosis treated with sanocrysin at the London
Hospital—two died (one of them only two hours after the second injection). Three cases were treated at St.
Mary’s Hospital and “one patient died, apparently in consequence of the treatment.” The Daily Express of
April 23rd, referring to these cases, had a paragraph headed “A Fatal Experiment,” and after quoting the
. hospital reports, the writer says : “I suppose, however, the experiments will continue.” ‘

“The Artiﬁcial Production of Haemorrhage.”

Under this title the British Medical Journal, October 23rd, 1926, gives details of “An investigation to prove
the truth of Halban’s assertions, and to ascertain the possibility of the artiﬁcial production ” of haemorrhage,
performed by a surgeon, Beckwith Whitehouse, Professor of Obstetrics, etc., University of Birmingham. A
perfectly healthy young mother was used. During an “exploratory ” examination the “opportunity occurred,”
we are told, of excising the corpus luteum.” This necessitated a second visit to the operating theatre. (Note
the word “ opportunity ”). A. E. PARKER.

 

 

Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.

 

r C .1. HURi), Printer, 51, New Road, Edmonton.

 




