- -- mm ‘mwmﬂ'ﬁi‘kﬁlz.w "'m'ié ‘ V.
‘ ¥ ‘ . . ., > , 1.4.“ 1

 ‘- . _. ﬂitiah _ mam fur Abnl'itimt .nf ﬁihizetiimt.

President, MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

 

‘ 4 \\

’ A , SHAMELESS PERVERSION ‘

OF

A, GREAT PUBLIC BEQUEST.

 

Being a Statement, Legal, Medical and Moral,

of the facts

coucEamm: THE BROWN INSTITUTION.-

 

ISSUED BY THE SURREY BRANCH OF THE BRITISH UNION
FOR ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.

President :—-MRS. DESPARD.

, MISS HELEN PIERREPONT.
H371. 8808‘ '_ iMRS. MABEL COOK.

Hon. Treasurer :——MRS. WRIGHT.

-Of'fice: 202, WANDSWORTH ROAD, SW.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

4
aﬁwv . ,F , 1., ‘
‘ k ,_\7 ..
LL, t .\ , ,1“ . y \ _
.ﬁ‘ . .
r.
.
¥
‘
t \ .
. h
I
. .
a

 




fry—v r

 

_ A . z' i , r _ , .. A < . V

_‘ _ , . , ‘ «rm. . , , ~ , .. « 5' ., . . -- ~

-v—-m—vw-v’;w W”_,N'W _ VWW, 3', a» , : ~ _ a. I A , u < ‘5‘ , u R ”a“, .1
\ q .

1-: "m' ﬂ‘w‘ <‘?“? r" '5'? 'WW. f. 4"" U"-
‘ , I ,- f ‘. ‘ ‘

nu,"- .Vlf—f,’."‘ 27‘— ?”WWVF‘ "'7‘
‘ ‘ ' J ' .

x :5‘; 72..

 

 

 

 

  

A SHAMELESS PERVERSION.

“Hr- ——————_.

 

 

  

A MEMORIAL, protesting against the licensing of the practice
of Vivisection at the Brown Institute, was presented to the
Home Secretary on Tuesday, August 6th, 1901, by Mr. Atherley
Jones, K.C., M.P., and Colonel Sandys, MP. The Petition
was signed by over ﬁfty-three thousand persons, and among
the signatures appear the following names :———

The Earls of Haddington, Kinnoull, and Dunraven, the
Countesses of Carlisle, Aylesford, Portsmouth (Dow.), Lovelace,
Ravensworth, Darnley, and Egmont, Lady Henry Somerset,
Lady Victoria Campbell, Viscount Sidmouth, Viscount Harberton,
the Bishop of Argyle and theIsles, Mrs. Chinnery Haldane,
Lady Windsor, Lady Mount Temple, Lady Battersea, Lord
Hatherton, Lord Saltoun, Lord de Clifford, Lord Leigh, Lord
and Lady Llangattock, Lord and Lady Farquhar, Lord
Brampton, Lady Paget, Lady de Rothschild, Hon. Maud Russell,
Lady Dorothy Howard, Lady Mildred Allsopp, Hon. Lady H.
Grey Egerton, Prince Victor Dhuleep Singh, Rt. Hon. Sir Richard
Garth, Sir Andrew Armstrong, Bart., Sir Herbert Ashman,
Sir James Colquhoun, Lord Lieut. Dumbartonshire, and Lady
Colquhoun, Sir Gerald and Lady Sybil Codrington, Sir Matthew
and Lady Dodsworth, Lady Davis, C. E. Monro Edwards, E.
Dolseran Hall, Hon. Mrs. Fiennes, Sir Julius and Lady Glyn,
Lady Gwendolen Herbert, Sir Robert Head, Lady Kemball,
Bishop Marsden, Bishop Graham Ingham, Lady Mackworth,
Napier Miles, Esq. (Kingsweston), Hon. Charles Rolls, Hon.
J, M. Rolls, Archdeacon Robeson, Sir Charles and Lady Skelton,
the Archdeacon of Merioneth, Sir William Wedderburn, W. R. M.
Wynn, Esq. (Lord Lieut. Merioneth), Sir Robert and Lady
Wilmot, Sir M. A. Wood, Bart, and Lady Wood, General
Stracey, Arthur Tharpe, Esq., and Mrs. Tharpe, Miss M.
Betham Edwards, Rev. Canon Fausset, R. C. Lehmann, Esq.
(then Editor of Daily News), Hugh B. Evans, Esq. (Zoologist to
British Antarctic Expedition), Miss Marie Corelli, Miss Mary
Clifford, Mrs. Lovett Cameron, The Dean of St. David’s, Miss
Hearn (Marianne Farningham), Madame Sarah Grand, Tighe

    

 

  




-:.;"‘V- _ ;

3‘; ...- as? “5,- 137-. .2;'-.- .
:‘rvr g»; j. 53.13.23? ’f_’«'_~‘,‘.:".'_"§v‘f,‘--;,£ . ..

. x 1113";

.J,’
K“

. "v «L

"4:12! 'Y‘JIf 7.4 I"

:-_AF,¢—Yw.._.,._..,_.._ -.-—-

-="'< 22.75

. igi A
*- "A046” 751:“:

éjéwiﬁ‘g:

3.;ﬁi‘é‘
599%»; I"), i ,

T i - i
3' 336:5

“Te—"f"3‘?‘”?“> , .
“ Txéi- "‘

$2.,

I.
[in
'hl‘
I5?
’ ‘l
i

.
i
: 9
s39.
j.
i
,
.
l
.
.
l
.

 

2

Hopkins, Esq., Justin McCarthy, Esq., Mrs. Arthur Stannard
(John Strange Winter), the late W. J. Stillman, and W. H.
Massingham, Esq., Miss Genevieve Ward, and Miss Dolores
Drummond. There are also the signatures of 44 medical men,
surgeons and physicians; of several barristers; and of a large
number of solicitors. Amongst the Parliamentary and political
friends of the cause who sympathised with and signed the
Petition, we read the names of Lord Balfour of Burleigh, Sir
James Ferguson, the Hon. Seymour Ormsby-Gore, the Hon.
Colonel Morgan, Colonel Sandys, Dr. Macnamara, Sir J. S.
Barrington Simeon, Col. W. G. Webb, Messrs. L. Atherley
Jones, K.C., J. Keir Hardie, John William Logan, Claude
Lowther, Samuel Moss, A. E. Pease, J. A. Pease, Samuel
Smith, Robert Cameron, and Cumming Macdona.

 

The following speech was delivered by Gerald Maberly, Esq.,
M.A., LL.B., at a large public meeting organised by the Surrey
Branch of the British Union for Abolition of Vivisection to pro-
test against the practice of Vivisection at the Brown Institute.
The meeting was held at St. James’s Hall, May 28rd, 1901 :—

Mr. GERALD MABERLY, M.A., LL.B., addressed the meeting on
the Legal aspect of the question with which the meeting was
particularly concerned. He said the Brown Institute was
founded and kept up out of some twenty thousand pounds left
by a Mr. Brown to the University of London for the purpose,
primarily, of founding an animal hospital. When it was founded
in 1871 it was conducted as an animal hospital, but gradually
the vivisectors got a footing in it, and one of the superintendents
had admitted that the number of animals kept there for vivisec-
tion was even greater than the number of those kept for
treatment. So far was the original object of the trust lost sight
of, that the building was now known in the books of reference
not as a Charity, not as an Hospital, but as a Scientiﬁc institution.
The money was only left to the London University so that it
might do with it what Mr. Brown wished; and, of course, if it
could be proved that the wish of Mr. Brown was not being
fulﬁlled, the strong arm of the law could take it away and give it
to somebody else who would carry out the founder’s intentions.
In this respect the practice of vivisection there was on a different
footing than elsewhere. Vivisection, as ordinarily carried on,
they could not check appreciably, for the law is not concerned
except to protect the vivisectors by enabling them to say their
practices are legalised. But at the Brown Institute vivisection
could not be legally carried on unless Mr. Brown intended it to be




 

 

 

3

carried on; and if, as they most ﬁrmly believed, and held,
Mr. Brown did not intend it to be carried on, the vivisectors had
no more right to practise there than they would have to break
into his—Mr. Maberly’s—house and vivisect his dog and cat, and
there and then ask him to pay their infamous expenses. Thus
Anti-vivisectionists, if right, were not hampered in their crusade
against the Brown Institute by the necessity of getting a new
law. They could ﬁght with the weapons at their disposal with-
out waiting an indeﬁnite time for action on the part of the
Legislature. The vivisectionists, of course, said that the law
was on their side, and that Mr. Brown did intend vivisection to
be carried on in the Institute, that their opponents were running
their heads against a brick wall, and that nobody would be a
penny the worse for this crusade except themselves, and that
they would suffer in their own pockets ; but it was to refute these
contentions and to fortify themselves and to take courage and
strength to ﬁght this question that he asked them to go
to the Will itself and see what it said and what Mr. Brown’s

intention really was. The only way they could ﬁnd out

his intention was by referring to the original document;
and if in interpreting that document he. was told that as a
lawyer he had no right to do so because he had not received a
fee, he replied that he was not giving his own opinion but the
opinions of Mr. Montague Crackanthorpe and of Mr. Chester Jones,
the eminent Chancery barrister, both of whom had expressed
the opinion he would give them that night. Mr. Brown’s Will
was exceptionally free from technicalities, and there was no
difﬁculty in understanding it. There were three Clauses in the
Will dealing with this question. The ﬁrst dealt with the object
which the testator intended the Institution to serve. He said
the money was to be devoted to an institution for investigating,
studying, and endeavouring to cure the injuries and maladies of
animals. Here the important question was, What was the
meaning of investigating and studying ‘2 He would call that the
Investigation Clause. Then, after arranging for the appointment
of a superintendent to take charge, the Will said, “I further
desire that kindness to the animals committed to his ”—that was
the superintendent’s—“ charge shall be a general principle of the
Institution.” That for the sake of brevity he would describe as
the Kindness Clause. Then the Will said that a Committee
should be appointed by the University of London to decide
various matters arising in the management of the Institution,
and inter alia, to decide upon the purchase of diseased or injured
animals or their carcases for the promotion of science. That he
would call the Purchase Clause. He would speak ﬁrst on the
Kindness Clause, which was the most important and the most
comprehensive. Mr. Brown desired that kindness to animals
should be “a general principle of the Institution.” At ﬁrst sight
that seemed conclusive, for vivisection, whatever claim might be
made for it, could hardly be called kindness to the animals
subjected to it. The way the vivisectors got over that was this.
They said it did not mean kindness to all the animals in the

 




 

4

Institution ; that it simply meant kindness to the animals brought
there by their owners to be treated, and not to the animals
brought there for the purpose of being vivisected. That might
be very ingenious, only Mr. Brown did not say anything of the
sort. He made this general statement about kindness to animals,
and these people might as well contend that the Will meant that
you should be kind to animals brought in on Monday, but not to
animals brought in on Tuesday; or kind to animals vaccinated
and not kind to animals not vaccinated, as make those other
distinctions, which were obviously made to bolster up their own
practices. “Ah ! But,” they said, “ you must think of the
Investigation Clause; you must not so construe the clause about
kindness as to prevent investigation. Mr. Brown distinctly says
there is to be investigation into the diseases of the animals, and
you cannot have investigation without vivisection.” But that
was where the vivisectors were wrong; for vivisection need not be,
and was not, included in the meaning of investigation where it
was not expressly stated. Thousands of kindly doctors were
studying and investigating disease in their patients by observing
their symptoms and the results of their treatment. Investiga-
tions of the ravages of disease were also made by post-marten;
examination and in the dissecting-room. That was the primary
method of investigation. It was as old as the hills, and it was
perfectly compatible with honesty and mercy and kindness to
animals. It lay with the vivisectors to prove that Mr. Brown
did not mean investigation in that primary and honest meaning
of the word. When Mr. Brown made his Will, vivisection was
very little practised, that was to say, very little in comparison
with the wholesale way in which it is practised now-a-days; and
little as it was heard of, it was heard of all the less because
there were no Anti-vivisection societies to call attention to it in
the way they were calling attention to it to-day. In all pro-
bability Mr. Brown had never heard of it, and never had given
it any attention if he had incidentally heard of it. It was entirely
unreasonable and unjustiﬁable to suppose that Mr. Brown when
he, in these days, talked of “investigation,” meant the new-
fangled and little-known system of which he had probably never
heard rather than the kind of investigation which was familiar
to everybody, and which was in accordance with the other clause
of his Will. (Cheers) If there was any doubt left as to the
meaning of the Investigation Clause it ought to be removed by
the terms of the Purchase Clause. If Mr. Brown had meant
vivisection to be practised in the Institution what kind of
animals would he have authorised to be bought? For the pur-
poses of the vivisector in 99 times out of a hundred it is healthy,
living animals that are wanted. Supposing Mr. Brown wanted the
kind of investigation to be carried on to be the clinical and the post-
mortem examination, he would not want healthy animals; he would
want diseased animals, injured animals, dead animals. And it
was such animals that he authorised to be purchased. Injured
or diseased animals or their carcases were named, and he care-
fully omitted any reference to healthy animals. Thus by the

 

Q




 

 

;.

E)

Purchase Clause Mr. Brown took it out of the power of the
Institute to do effectively what, according to the vivisectors, it
was his wish that they should do under the Investigation Clause.
(Cheers) In order to be able to accept the contention of the

. vivisectorsand to construe this word “investigation” as including

vivisection, they had ﬁrst to assume that the testator used the
word in what was to him a new, technical, and unfamiliar sense ;
secondly, to introduce into the Kindness Clause a qualiﬁcation
which the testator himself had not introduced; and thirdly, to
make that Purchase Clause mean exactly the reverse of what it
said. (Cheers) It passed his understanding to know how any
man who had read the Will could say that investigation meant
vivisection, or that the Will countenanced vivisection, unless in
that man the wish were father to the thought. (Hear, hear.)
Quite apart from this clause, there was another point on which
the authorities of the Brown Institute violated the terms of the .
trust. Looking back for a moment on that investigating clause,
the words were “investigating, studying, and endeavouring to
cure maladies, distempers, and injuries any quadrupeds
or birds useful to man might be found subject to.”
How many of the investigations of the vivisectors would
be found to be in accordance with the part of this clause
which nobody disputed the meaning of ‘2 He ventured to say very
few indeed; for their experiments were not meant for the
investigation of the diseases of animals, but for the study of the
diseases of man and the experiments on animals were for the
supposed beneﬁt of man. Take the cases which they had
published at great length in their articles in the Journal of
Pathology, there was a series of experiments on dogs, the object
of which apparently was to see with how little kidney the dogs
could exist. They cut out half of one of their kidneys and
waited to see how long they lived. If they did not die within a
certain time, another half of one kidney was cut out and the
animals were observed for another period of three weeks. Then
half of the remaining kidney was cut out. And the behaviour of
the animals with these injuries were compared with that of the
animals with one kidney. Then it was observed how long they
could live with no kidneys at all. What purpose could that serve
under Mr. Brown’s Will? From their own point of view
the experiments were obviously carried on not for the
beneﬁt of the animals, but for the purposes of abstract
science. Another series of experiments was performed on
dogs and monkeys, described by Mr. Edmunds, of the
Evelina Hospital for Children. At the end of the article on
the ﬁrst series of experiments the conclusions which could
be drawn from them were given; and although he did not
pretend to understand all the scientiﬁc terms that were
used, it was perfectly plain, even to the lay mind, that these,
conclusions were simply so. much verbiage to cover the absolute
lack of any scientiﬁc conclusion of any use whatever. As
regarded the second series, with unwonted modesty’the‘vivisector
did not profess to deduce any conclusions whatever. Mr.

 




 

 

6

Maberly inferred from the manner in which the work of the
Brown Institute was carried on, not only that there wasa breach
of trust, but that it was a conscious breach of trust. It was
not an institution that advertised itself; on the contrary, great
pains were taken to keep in the background. By the terms of
the Will ﬁve lectures had to be given. One of their friends
desiring to ﬁnd out about these lectures wrote to the superinten-
dent to inquire about them, enclosing a stamped envelope for
reply. There was no reply. Another letter was written con-
veying a clear intention to search the matter out. Then it was
intimated that a lecture would be given at the Imperial Institute
on a certain day, no time being mentioned. By careful search
at the Imperial Institute there was found in some dark corner an
intimation that there would be a lecture at 4.30; the inquirer and
some friends went and heard an abstruse and dull lecture
delivered to themselves and about eight other people. Mr.
Maberly concluded by thanking the audience for their patient
attention, and sat down amid cheers.

The following speech was delivered by Dr. Hadwen, of
Gloucester [M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond.] , at a public meeting held 011
June 18th, 1901, in the Wheatsheaf Hall, South Lambeth Road 2——

Dr. HADWEN: Ladies and Gentlemen, I will ﬁrst of all read
to you the Resolution that I beg to put to this meeting. It is:
“ That this meeting wishes emphatically to condemn the per—
version of the Brown Institute from the purposes of alleviating
the sufferings of animals for which it was founded to those of
their torture and useless dissection when alive, and calls upon
the Government to see that the law is duly brought to bear upon
the matter. And further it expresses its earnest conviction that
it is essential that the law of this country which at present
shelters the perpetrators of useless cruelties to animals, shall be
so amended as to render vivisection impossible.” (Cheers.)*

In the excellent speech which Mrs. Despard has just delivered
it will have been made perfectly clear to you that the object
which we have in View to-night is not to deal with the subject of
vivisection generally, but to emphatically protest against the
perversion of. the funds of a generous benefactor to a purpose
totally opposed to that which the benefactor had in View when
he left that money in his Will. It is clear to anyone who has

read that Will that he desired that an hospital should be founded '

for animals in the same way as an hospital is founded for human
beings. It was his wish that animals of all kinds should be taken
there, that they should be kindly treated, that their diseases
should be attended to, that their sicknesses should be alleviated
and cured, that if they died they should be provided with a

 

* The resolution was carried unanimously and with enthusiasm.
There was a large attendance of local residents, persons living near
the Brown Institute.




 

4 ﬂ-‘ .A, - I

7

decent funeral, and furthermore, that investigation should
be made into their diseases for the beneﬁt of other animals.
Now, it is certainly a most serious matter when it comes to be
discovered that in the case of this hospital a laboratory has been
instituted where not merely investigations for the beneﬁt of
animals are“ carried on, but investigations for the beneﬁt of
human beings—or rather for the so-called beneﬁt of human beings
(hear, hear),—and that this investigation takes the form not
of bed-side examination followed by postmortem examination
connected with pathological, microscopical and chemical research,
which is the only scientiﬁc way of dealing with disease, but that
in addition to this we have animals dissected alive, put to all
manner of the vilest and most indescribable torture, and all this
done with the money of this gentleman who had left it behind
him in order that the greatest kindness should be bestowed
upon these poor creatures. (Cheers) Now, I need scarcely say
as an Englishman, I have no hesitation in appealing to those
present as Englishmen and English-women—in whom the very
principle of justice is inculcated from earliest childhood, and
stands out perhaps more prominently in connection with England
than any other national trait all the world over—I have no hesita-
tion in appealing to you to say that can I but prove that such
things are carried on as I have already described; that such
tortures are perpetrated in this Inferno as have been hinted at by
Mrs. Despard; you will with one voice unhesitatingly denounce in
the very strongest and ﬁrmest language this horrible condition
of things existing within a few yards of this Hall. I do not
intend to-night to treat this subject in anything like a senti-
mental manner. I am not going to appeal to you as much as
one could appeal to the moral side of the question. I want
to-night not to give mere hearsay, mere suspicion, but I want to
look at this Brown Institute as medical men in charge of the
Brown Institute have looked at it themselves, and I want to give
you facts from their own writings to show the character of the
work that is carried on there, and the cruelties which are perpe-
trated in your midst; and if I prove that case I do not think
you will have much diﬁiculty in saying, after reading the Will of
the late Mr. Brown, that there has been a gross prostitution of
the money he has left behind, and that no step should be avoided
that could possibly be taken to bring about the downfall of the
iniquitous practice which has been described. In the ﬁrst
place I will just turn your attention to an article which
was written by no other person than the Superintendent
of the Institute, Dr. Rose Bradford, and contributed by
him to the Journal of Physiology on the 27th February,
1899. The article was upon the “Results following partial
nephrectomy, and the inﬂuence of the kidney on metabolism.”
Ten years before that article was written (1889) Tuﬂier pub-
lished an account of a series of operations performed on the
kidneys of dogs to discover ﬁrst of all how small an amount of
kidney a dog could possess without actually dying, and secondly
when one kidney was out out, how big the other kidney would

,1:
F
.g‘
:
v.
'53
E;
E
F

 




8

grow. Very interesting no doubt! He usually removed one
kidney entirely, and then cut away piecemeal at varying
intervals portions of the other kidney, stopping the bleeding
by means of hot irons, or else by transﬁxing with a needle
and tying with a thread. The main result of these revolting
experiments was to ﬁnd out that life was possible when only
1.12— grams of kidney per kilogram of the body weight remained.
What advantage that was to a human being I do not know, but
anyhow, Dr. Rose Bradford evidently having become alive to
these interesting experiments began the same work but com-
menced the other way about, namely, instead of cutting out one
kidney and then hacking out the other bit by bit, he cut away
portions of one kidney ﬁrst, and then removed the Whole of the
second, and arrived at practically the same result as Tuﬂier, the
principal difference being that he thought the danger limit to
life was reached when 2 grams of kidney was left, whereas Tufﬁer
declared it was 1%. This is the eloquent result which was arrived
at at the Brown Institute by Dr. Rose Bradford, after these—
I cannot use any other word—diabolical experiments on dogs.
(Hear, hear.) But of course they differed to some extent. Doctors
always do differ. (Laughter.) Dr. Bradford found some changes
take place in the urine and urea, whereas Tufﬁer found no change
at all. Paoli went all over the same ground four years later;
more dogs were submitted to the piecemeal extraction of
their kidneys, as well as cats and rabbits. And that is one of
the serious points in regard to vivisection. As soon as ever a
certain set of experiments is started you ﬁnd that some other
vivisector must perform similar experiments. Generally speaking
he arrives at contradictory results, which necessitates, of course,
another investigator starting the same series of experiments on
other poor animals for the purpose of setting the other two right.
Then the other two, having their professional dignity to main-
tain, have to go over the same thing again in order to prove that
they were right after all, and so the game goes on. (Cheers)
Paoli discovered what had been discovered long, long before
without any atrocious cruelties perpetrated upon the lower
animals, that if one kidney is lost and the remaining kidney
mutilated, the portion of kidney left behind will carry 0n the
work as far as it possibly can. He of course differed from the
other two as to how much kidney was necessary to sustain life ;
he came to the conclusion that a dog required half a kidney with
which to maintain existence. He also “discovered” that the
kidney or portion of kidney left behind began to increase in size
in proportion to the extra work thrown upon it. We all knew
this before. We doctors have all watched kidney patients by
the bedside for months together. We have all followed them to
the postwar/mu room when they died, and have found that where
one kidney has been diseased, possibly absolutely destroyed, the
other kidney has simply grown in order to compensate for the
work which the other could not do; and we have all known the
surprising time a patient has thus been able to live with only a
small portion of kidney. What then was the use of torturing all

 

 




 

 

9

those animals to ﬁnd that out. (Cheers) All the experiments
of Dr. Rose Bradford were performed mainly upon those most
intelligent and faithful of animals—fox terriers. The animal
was anaesthetised with chloroform, and a hypodermic injection of
morphia was given and chloroform administered throughout the
operative procedures. I will touch on that question of chloro-
form directly. When the operation was over, the skin sewn up,
and the animal bandaged, it was placed in a glass case with a
glass ﬂoor standing on four legs, so that the operator could watch
the poor wounded animal day by day. Whilst these observations
went on the blood was examined. This was done by removing
the wretched creature from its prison, giving it a whiff of chloro-
form, opening the neck and inserting a tube in the carotid artery.
He tells us there were 4.9 dogs operated upon altogether in the
Brown Institute. One died in six days from loss of blood. You
see it is simply a question of giving chloroform when ﬁrst
the incision is made through the skin and tissues. What about
the agony subsequently when the animals are slowly dying in
this glass case under the cool eyes of the torturer ‘2 Two died
from blood poisoning from the wounds, when we do not know,
no time is stated. But we have it constantly remarked by vivi-
sectors that the wounds heal antiseptically, and therefore the
animals suffer no pain. We know well enough that they do not
invariably heal antiseptically and in this case we have blood
poisoning ensuing. What with thirst, vomiting, diarrhoea, the
pain and agony this means, we know well enough what the
poor creatures must have suffered. In another dog a wedge
was cut out of the kidney and an attempt made to graft it
on to the peritoneum, which lies in the abdominal cavity.
The poor thing lingered four days and died. “ These died
from preventable causes,” we are told, otherwise I pre—
sume they would have been allowed to linger on in agony as
instanced by the next case which lived 86 days after operation,
the cause of its death being unknown. Thus all the animals in
the ﬁrst operation were cleared off. In the second series ﬁve
died from causes immediately connected with the operation after
lingering various periods. Three dogs died during the chloro-
form administration, which was a blessing for them. (Cheers)
The operator attributes it to carelessness. Now with regard to
this chloroform, I am quite sure of this, that unless the public
believed that the animals, when they were put through these
operations were anaesthetised so that they felt no pain, the public
would rise up in the most determined resistance and opposition
to the whole practice. But the public does believe that the
animals are anaesthetised, that they are insensible to pain, that
they do not feel these operative procedures, and it never occurs
to them but that they are insensible all the time, and as to the
subsequent agony that they must pass through after the opera-
tion is over, this of course never comes before them and they pay
no heed to it. The fact of the matter is, that it is not the animals
that are anaesthetised, it is the public that has been anaesthetised.
(Cheers) The plain fact is that the animals are not always

her-:mmtm.’ Eiﬁﬁ‘»"‘. ‘TS-W‘V'S‘L" '

 

/

 




10

rendered insensible. More than half the licences dispense with
anaesthetics. Dr. Hoggan says that anaesthetics have proved the
greatest curse to vivisectable animals. In many experiments to
render the animal insensible would be to defeat the object of the
operator, such as those, for instance, connected with the
reﬂex action of the sensory nerves; those connected with the
glandular secretions, as in Hughes Bennett’s and Rutherford’s
experiments on the liver ; again those on digestion, and those on
the temperature of the heart and arteries, and those in which it is
necessary to use a gas engine for artiﬁcial respiration ; those on
the phenomena of pain; the boiling, baking, and stewing alive
experiments; drowning, starving to death, alcoholisation, and
feeding on substances which are incapable of sustaining life. It
is the same when the effects of drugs and poisons have to be
tested; and also in a numerous class of experiments which
require time—days, weeks, or months—for their completion.
The animal if it goes to sleep, goes to sleep quietly, but wakes
up in torment that can only end with its most wretched life. 1
And again, when an operation is performed and the animal is I
kept alive, often in great agony, in order that the results may i
be observed, as in numberless operations and pathological 1
experiments. Besides it is most difﬁcult to render an animal l
insensible and at the same time keep it alive. Vomiting l
frequently interrupts the process, during which the animal 1
comes round, and my experience with chloroform on dogs is that
as soon as they are insensible they cease to breathe, and this l
experience is borne out by that of Professor Pritchard (Professor ;
of Anatomy at the Royal Veterinary College), a gentleman who .
has had more experience in this direction than any man living,
who said before the Royal Commission, in answer to Question
797 :—
With regard to dogs, I should never think of applying
chloroform at all. I should think it very unsafe to do so. They
appear for some time not to be under the inﬂuence of it at all, and
then suddenly they come under the inﬂuence of it, and we ﬁnd
it impossible to bring them round. He was asked (Question 846),
Have you formed any idea as to the comparative sensitiveness
to pain of diﬁerent animals ?—The answer amounts to this.
He foundno difference whatever in the sensibility to pain of the
lower animals and of man. The practical consequence of this
is, as Dr. Hoggan has remarked, “ That complete and con-
scientious anaesthesia is seldom even attempted, the animal
getting at most a slight whiff of chloroform, by way of satisfying
the conscience of the operator or of enabling him to make state-
ments of a humane character.” Chloroform has been given;
that is all, and that is the reason why in so many cases curare
has been resorted to. The “ hellish wourali,” as Lord Tennyson
calls it, completely paralyzes the muscular system so that the
animal cannot cry, lies lifeless on the board, and yet according
to Claude Bernard the sensory nerves are as alive as ever, and
the animal is as capable of feeling every cut, every torture, every
twinge as if it were in the full possession of its muscular power.

 




 

11

Dr. Walker also gave evidence before the Royal Commission.
In answer to Question 1,810, he said :—

“ When an experimenter says, for example, as is said in a very
recent publication, that ‘before and throughout these experi-
ments anaesthetics were used’ it is perfectly true; but if by
that you choose to understand that while the animal lived and
was experimented on he was throughout insensible, it is the
greatest delusion that ever was.” Dr. Burdon-Sanderson,
another great authority, in reply to Question 2298 said 2——

“ With regard to experiments on inﬂammation, even the most
simple ones cannot be done without the production of a certain

‘ amount of pain, because pain is one of the phenomena of

inﬂammation. ’ ’

“Does that imply,” he was asked, “that the experiment
cannot be performed under anaesthetics ‘2 ”

He answered: “With anaesthetics as regards many other
operations perhaps, but still without anaesthetics as regards the
process itself. You cannot produce an inﬂammation in an animal
and maintain a state of anaesthesia during the whole of the
process. It is quite impossible.”

Physiologists know these facts, and the result is that it is
stated .that they occasionally use ether; but it is very difﬁcult
owing to the conformation of face and the necessity for tying
the mouth up, to give ether to dogs, the animals principally
operated on ; you require to smother them, and if the anaesthetic
is intermitted for a moment they come round; and we conse-
quently ﬁnd it stated that the ether has been supplemented by
morphia injected under the skin, and I dare say you noticed that
after chloroform had been administered morphia was injected into
these dogs by Dr. Rose Bradford. It became necessary to add
morphia for the purpose of deadening the pain when the chloroform
could no longer be continued. But Claude Bernard, whom we
know as a very experienced vivisector—the details he has given us
of his experiments are perhaps the most revolting in the pages of
history—he has told us that an animal after large doses of
morphia still remains sensitive; and it is totally impossible to
deaden the pain with morphia unless you give it in poisonous
doses. In these circumstances then I think you may form your
own conclusions as to the value of giving a dog an anaesthetic in
order to operate upon it. It is practically an apology for
rendering an animal insensible, but it is the public as I have
already remarked that is really anaesthetised by this statement.
It is not the dog. (Cheers) Now to continue Dr. Rose
Bradford’s statement, we ﬁnd that one dog died from shock.
Two poor creatures were submitted to three separate operations.
First a wedge was cut out of the left kidney. Some time after-
wards it was opened and a wedge cut out of the right kidney,
and again after an interval, the right kidney was cut out
altogether. These operations are certainly of the most terrible,
painful and revolting character. In another case, instead of
cutting out the kidney the ureter was tied so as to stop the ﬂow
of urine—the agony from which must have been fearful. Any-

:2'- . e-

l
1
l
l

 




 

12

one who has witnessed a human being suffering under similar
conditions will well remember the fearful torture that a patient
has to go through in such circumstances. I have another paper
published in the Lancet, where further experiments of ureter-
tying in two places is described, and the animals were kept 1n
agony for a considerable time. Some of the animals surv1yed
these kidney experiments for 5 or 6 months,conﬁned all the tlme
in the laboratory, where the operator admits “the hygenic sur-
roundings were not of the best.” Thirst and vomiting were marked
accompaniments of the operation, especially during the early
stages. The passage of blood occurring sometimes for a week.
Then came a number of experiments to see if a small piece only
of one kidney were cut away, whether the other kidney would
correspondingly enlarge and so on, and several somewhat contra-
dictory conclusions were arrived at. Then theories are advanced
as to why one kidney atrophied when a portion of it was cut out,
and if the amount of atrOphy was proportionate to the amount
excised; and then if the hypertrophy of one kidney was the
result of the atrophy of the other. And after all manner of
minute calculations and subtle reasonings the operator had to
conclude that none of these theories or suggestions could be
deﬁnitely proved. And supposing they could have been I want
to know what on earth would be the beneﬁt to the human race
in the relief or cure of their maladies. (Cheers) Then this
was not enough, for there arose the question whether age made
any difference in these respects, so the next thing was to operate
upon puppies. A kidney was cut out from a puppy two months old
and it was killed after four months. Another puppy nine weeks
had a portion of its kidney cut out, was sewn up, and killed four
months later. And as in this solitary case the results were
somewhat different from the other experiments, the operator
concluded that probably age accounted for the contradiction
already disclosed. So I suppose a good many little puppies will
have to be operated upon in order to set this right (a voice:
“ Brutal”) or what is more probable in the hands of another
investigator, to upset everything Dr. Rose Bradford has said, and
then Dr. Rose Bradford, according to custom, will have to com-
mence another long series of operations on the fox—terriers and
puppies in order to maintain his dignity and conﬁrm his contra-
dictory results. (A voice : “ Will he vivisect himself? ” and cheers.)
I do not believe we shall ever be able to realise the pain involved
in these experiments until we do get a vivisector to put himself
under similar treatment. (Cheers) When‘a medical man told
me the other day that he did not believe that under curare a
(leg was not insensible to pain, I said to him, will you then allow
me to give you curare and lie down on the table and let me
operate upon you ‘2 (A laugh.) He did not agree to that. That
is the only way to settle the questions between vivisectors and
Anti~vivisectors.

The quantity of kidney required to sustain the life of a dog is next
gone through, although all this has been proved again and again
at the bed side of human patients, and it is well known by past-

 




18

mo-rtem examination how very little kidney a diseased person may
possess and yet survive. The dogs suffered from thirst, loss of
appetite, great emaciation, weakness—s0 as to stagger and be
unable to stand—ulcerated sores, superﬁcial ulcers, bleeding
from the groins, and so on, through all the painful category of
suffering induced by those heartless and useless experiments.
(Cheers) Then a starvation experiment was performed—a
dog placed in a glass case and starved for several days in order
to see the quantity of urea passed under such circumstances.
But all such experiments were associated with so many fallacies
as to yield no positive results—except that the poor creatures
died or were ultimately killed. Then another point had to be
raised. This was to determine the nitrogenous extractives in
the blood and tissues after portions of the kidneys had been out
out; and in order to discover this the animal was bled to death.
To carry this further the bile duct communicating with the
liver was tied so as to stop any ﬂow in that channel. The
pain the animal must have suffered is simply indescribable.
The article closes with a couple of pages of “conclusions.”
Practically every one had been already established years ago as
the result of clinical observation in the human subject where the
track of disease in the kidneys was scientiﬁcally followed and
worked out in the postmortem room; they have added nothing
of the slightest value to medical or surgical knowledge. Dr.
Rose Bradford has not so far as I can discover yielded a single
fresh thought resulting in the improved treatment or cure of
kidney troubles in mankind. And yet when this matter is
brought before the Home Secretary this is the reply he sends :—

“I am desired by Mr. Ritchie to say that he haspconsidered
carefully your letter of the 23rd ult., and the placard which has
been issued on the subject of the work carried on at the Brown
Institute in Lambeth. In the ﬁrst place it should be mentioned
that the Institute is under the government of the University of
London, and has been duly registered in the application of the
University for experiments under the Acts 39 and 40 Vict., c. 77,
viz., in July, 1877. . .

“ No circumstances have been brought to the knowledge of the
Secretary of State tending to show that there has been any
illegality in the management of the Institute. His attention
was however drawn to the publications from which extracts are
quoted in the placard and he caused full inquiry to be made,
with the result that he was satisﬁed that all proper precautions
were taken to prevent suffering, and that the conditions imposed
by the Act and governing the experiments referred to were duly
observed. . . . . Mr. Ritchie is moreover advised that the
experiments themselves were of great value to the investigation
and treatment of ‘Bright’s disease ’ and other kindred
affections.”

Well, I ask the Home Secretary to supply us with deﬁnite
information as to what these blessings are. (Hear, hear.) It is
all very well to make these general statements. We have had
quite enough fooling from these circumlocution bureaucratic de-

 




 

14

partments, which masquerade behind those who stand up to repeat
the beatitudes of oﬁicialdom from a front bench in the House
of Commons. But we demand to know what these revolting,
cold-blooded, so-called “ scientiﬁc” investigations have yielded,
and in what way disease has proﬁted by these blood-curdling
tortures perpetrated upon defenceless and dumb creation. In
the face of Dr. Rose Bradford’s statements I ask him. and I
challenge him as a medical man to give me one tangible proof
in regard to it. (Cheers) I now turn to another series of ex-
periments carried on at the Brown Institute and published in
the Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology. In May, 1899, Mr.
Walter Edmunds, M.A., F.R.O.S., published an article headed
“Further Observations and Experiments on the Thyroid
and Parathyroid.” It appears that in 1897 two German
scientists (Vassale and Generalé) published an account of
experiments they had performed by excising the thyroid gland
and parathyroids in living dogs and then carefully recording day
by day the pitiable results of such operations. As is usual in all
these vivisection experiments—at matters not how useless or
cruel they may be-—-these self-same experiments were sub-
sequently repeated by four other scientists (Rouxeau, Gley,
Moussu, and Welsh) without adding anything to the gruesome
details of their predecessors. Not satisﬁed with this, Mr. Walter
Edmunds, F.R.C.S., must of necessity follow the example of the
continental experimenters and submit the animals at the
laboratory of the Brown Institute to similar torture. Altogether
18 dogs were operated upon. Whether chloroform was ad-
ministered in the initial operation or not he does not say, but the
primary ﬁxing of the dog and the opening of the neck would be
nothing compared to the long lingering illness to which the
animals were compelled to submit to in their prisons in this in-
ferno. Owing to the difﬁculty of the operation only 11 out of the
18 animals had their parathyroids totally removed. In two of
these—I give you his own statement—they had one lobe of the
thyroid gland removed at the same time ; one of them died the
night after the operation; and the other survived, but only to
have another lobe of the gland cut away, when it died too. Of
the remaining nine, one died after lingering two days, another
in four days; one in seven days, and the remaining poor creature
lingered on in its misery for 28 days. Now the interesting fact
gleaned from this is that by cutting away the parathyroids dogs
die at the rate of 44 per cent. ; whereas when the thyroids are
totally excised there is a mortality of 80 per cent. That is
sublimely interesting, a valuable bit of knowledge towards the
cure of human maladies! (A laugh.) The remaining ﬁve dogs
of this series which had sufﬁcient vitality to survive the excision
of the parathyroids, were then reopened and submitted to excision
of one thyroid lobe ; and if they survived this, they were again
fastened down and the remaining lobe removed. Three out of
the ﬁve died ; but two even survived this, but only at the price
of tremors—a stumbling walk sometimes passing into paralysis
of the hinder limbs, and emaciation and muscular weakness.

 

 

 




 

15

The history of sunken eyeballs in the miserable terriﬁed creatures
1s described as an interesting eye symptom. Of the remaining
dogs one lived on after operation in a paralytic condition for
72 days, and all were submitted to operation until death
released them from the hands of their tormentor. The only
facts gleaned are that there was the usual trembling, unsteadi-
ness, paralysis, emaciation, and sunken eyeballs; and I should
like to know what beneﬁt that is to medical knowledge,
or to human life, or—to public morals. (Cheers) In the
same article a description is given of the results of similar
experiments on monkeys performed by the same enthusiast.
It is simply a long and revolting history of death, death,
death at varying periods, apparently according to the vitality
of the sufferers. One lived 13 days, another 32, another
36, others 68 and 268; one poor creature lingered on for
15 months. And the pages of the Journal of Pathology are
lightened by nine sketches of the monkeys’ faces after being
slowly tortured in this scientiﬁc manner. They are exactly
what might be expected, sunken glaring eyeballs, and dilated
pupils, like wild and terriﬁed animals. And this is 19th century
science ! And what is the outcome of all this torture ? Simply
nothing, except to glorify the name of the writer on the pages
of the Journal of Pathology. Not a scintilla of light was thrown
upon the question of thyroid disease or its remedy. In fact
the fallacies surrounding such experiments are so numerous
that not a single ascertained fact, even if it were of value, could
be relied upon for therapeutic purposes. (Cheers) Not satisﬁed
with all this Mr. Walter Edmunds contributes to the same
journal 18 months later, namely in December last, an account
of further experiments in the Institute. In addition to
cutting out the thyroids in some cases, the experiment was
tried of feeding monkeys on nothing but thyroid glands which
had been removed from sheep. A long and painful history is
given of how the poor monkeys buried their heads between their
limbs, refused to look their tormentors in the face, how their
hair stood erect and fell out in patches, how paralysis and
emaciation, and weakness were so great at last that the creature
could not lift its food to its mouth, and ﬁnally of death from
wasting away. The average life of the poor monkey under this
slow agonizing treatment in its torture chamber was 76 days.
So far as I can gather the story is simply one of slow starvation.
All these horrible details might have been guessed at before the
starvation began. Sketches are again given of the monkeys’
faces with their wild terriﬁed glare, which any ordinary
individual would construe into the result of fright and starvation.
But vivisectionists reason with greater subtlety. They are not
ordinary individuals. The question for them was why was this
peculiar effect produced upon the eyes, and was it from the
action of the central nervous system or was it due to the local
action of the ganglia about the eye. So the cervical sympathetic
nerves were cut on one side of the starving animal, and to make
sure that they should not unite again a considerable length of the

 




 

 

16

nerve was cut away, but no deﬁnite conclusion could be come
to upon this useless point, so with a “probably this” and
“probably that” the subject is dismissed, and the animals died.
One would have thought all their miserable failure and folly
in the thyroid business would have been enough to satisfy
anybody. But no, Mr. Walter Edmunds next commenced upon
rabbits in order to note the effect on their eyes, when
the thyroid gland was partially or wholly removed. In two
cases we are told, to use the Operator’s words, “the eyes
became very narrow and the animals died,” one after lingering 13
days, and the other 49 days. In another one the eyes became
more prominent ; and in another case no alteration occurred for
nine months, and then it speedily closed them altogether in
merciful death. Then came the repetition of cutting out the
nerves from the neck, in addition to the other operations with
the usual story of contradictions and lingering death. And what
is the conclusion of the whole matter ‘2 After ten rabbits had
been treated in this cruel and absurd manner, which in some
cases, the author states, “the symptoms were so severe as to be
fatal in a few days,” the reader is coolly informed that “these
experiments are too few to allow of any very deﬁnite conclusions
being drawn;” which means, I suppose, that this abominable
torturing is still to be carried on at the Brown Institute, which
was founded by a generous, kind—hearted man. for the purpose of
caring for animals in their sickness and disease. All these
experiments are with a view to establish or disprove a long
recognized theory as to the origin of a certain disease in the
human subject, although the animals themselves are not diseased
in the particular organ referred to, nor could the results provide
any definite data to assist in the relief or cure of the disease
referred to in the human species, even if a whole menagerie
of victims was submitted to the torturer’s knife. (Cheers)
But these experiments at the Brown Institute do not end
here, for turning to the Journal of Pathology for February,
1900, we find a horse which had been three weeks an in-
patient for a Sprain in the shoulder, and another with a
Sprained leg were submitted to successive bleeding from the
jugular vein for experimental purposes. This was not a painful
experiment, but it is sufﬁcient to show that no hesitation is
made in using the animals sent in by their owners to be treated
according to the will of the benefactor, for experimental purposes
in regard to human subjects. Cats, we continue to read, were
similarly experimented upon. Typhoid inoculations were also
carried on there and the cultivation of typhoid serum. These
inoculations we are told are nothing more nor less than the
prick of a pin; but I hold in my hand the report of the inspector
appointed to examine the vivisection laboratories during the past
year, and this is what he says with regard to these so-called
pin-pricks. There were no fewer than 8,825 experiments per-
formed last year in the various vivisection establishments through-
out the country without any chloroform at all. The majority of
these were inoculations, that is injecting into the animal’s body

 

 

 

 

 




..

 

17

certain diseases; and this is “nothing but a pin-prick.” But
what does it mean ‘2 It means the generation in these animals
of the most foul diseases, and whilst these diseases are forming
in the animal’s body they are undergoing varying degrees of
suffering, and furthermore the inspector actually acknowledges
that fact this year to a very large extent, that is as much as you
can an inspector under the circumstances to do so. In some of
“the cases,” he says, “ such as the injection of certain drugs
or of tetanus toxin, the effect produced is painful.” There is
some difference of opinion, he says, amongst thosewho have
had most experience, as to whether the effects produced by the
inoculation for tuberculosis and for diphtheria are attended by
pain or not. I dare say there is a difference of opinion.
Animals do not talk. If only animals could speak the animals
might tell us. Until we can hear the animals’ opinion on the
subject, I think the Government ought to step in and stop
the practice about which there is this difference of opinion.
(Cheers.) But the inspector says this: “There is, however,
strong reason for holding that the gradual development of
tuberculosis and the poisoning by diphtheria toxin resulting from
such inoculations, although they may not be accompanied by
acute suffering, are conditions which bring these proceedings
within the category of experiments calculated to give pain." It
was, I think, in 1878, that this Brown Institute was ﬁrst licensed
for vivisection experiments, and only one vivisector was then
connected with the establishment. Soon after, another was
appointed. This has gone on until there has been as many as
15 vivisectors on the staff of the Brown Institute, and last
year there were something like 11 upon that staﬂ. In the whole
of that period there has been one name that has stood out upon
that list. Every year Dr. Klein has been granted a certain
certiﬁcate for experimentation at the Brown Institute. Now
Dr. Klein was examined before the Royal Commission in 1876.
For four years before that he was at the Brown Institute per-
forming experiments, and the way in which experiments were
performed at the Brown Institute by Dr. Klein can perhaps -be
best given in his own words. If you will, therefore, bear Wltll
me a little bit longer, I will just read a short account of hls
cross-examination before the Royal Commission. Question 3528.
The Chairman asked :—

Are you assistant Professor at the laboratory of the Brown
Institution ?—Yes.

y o n, v)
:{< :j: a: >,: .1. a.

What is your own practice with regard to the use of anms—
thetics in experiments that are otherwise painful ?——Except .for
teaching purposes, for demonstration, I never use anaesthetics,
where it is not necessary for convenience. If I demonstrated
use anmsthetics. If I do experiments for my enquiries in
pathological research, except for convenience sake, as for
instance on dogs and cats, I do not use them. On. frogs and the
lower animals I never uSe them. ‘ ' '

 




 

18

When you say that you only use them for convenience sake, do
you mean that you have no regard at all to the sufferings of the
animals ?—-No regard at all.

Dr. Hadwen was here interrupted in his reading by cries of
“ Shame.”

You are prepared to establish that as a principle which you
approve ?——-I think that with regard to an experimenter, a man
who conducts special research, and performs an experiment he
has no time, so to speak, for thinking what the animal will feel
or suffer. His only purpose is to perform the experiment, to
learn as much from it as possible, and to do it as quickly as
possible. _

Then for your own purposes you disregard entirely the question
of the suffering of the animal in performing a painful experi-
ment ?—-—I do.

J; «V; d; J;
pp 4‘ 4‘ 4‘

But in regard to your proceedings as an investigator, you are
prepared to acknowledge that you hold as entirely indifferent
the sufferings of the animal which is subjected to your investiga-
tion ?——Yes.

4; d; d; J»
4‘ 4x 4‘ 4‘

Could you explain more in detail why you think it necessary
besides the point of time, to abstain from use of anaesthetics in
cases of research ?-——I fancy the whole attention of the investi-
gator is drawn to the purpose of the experiment. He has made
clear to himself what he is going to do, how he is going to do
it, and what he is going to learn by it. He generally chloroforms
a dog when he experiments on a dog for convenience sake, in
order not to be disturbed by the bowling and the resistance; and
so with cats. He does not do it with frogs. I do not think we
have any right to regard the sensibility and feeling of a frog as
being of a very high degree. And just as little as a sportsman
or a cook' goes inquiring into the details of the whole business,
while the sportsman is hunting or the cook putting a lobster in
boiling water, just as little as one may expect these persons to
go inquiring into the detail of the feeling of the animal, just as
little can the physiologist or the investigator be expected to
devote time and thought to inquiring what this animal will feel
while he is doing the experiment. His whole attention is only
directed to the making the experiment, how to do it quickly,
and to learn the most that he can from it.

That is candid, remarked Dr. Hadwen, who then read on 2——

But do you think that where it is only a question of time a
professor of physiology is not bound to consult humanitarian
feelings ?—I must again draw a distinction between an investi-
gator and a professor of physiology. I understand a professor
of physiology is a man who teaches, and there I think it is quite
right before a class that when one performs an experiment one
should use an anaesthetic, but an investigator has no time. I
myself, when I am going to make an experiment for pathological

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

19

research, have no time really with regard to what the animal
will feel.

Is that really the only reason that you can give for not using
anaesthetics ?—It is to a great extent; it is the chief reason I
should say ; there is no place for considering that point.

In fact, I suppose with rabbits you would not use chloroform ?
—-I use chloral hydrate; but as a general rule, for my scientiﬁc
investigations, I do not use chloroform, or any other anaesthetic,
except for convenience sake, in dogs and cats, and for no animals
as a general rule. There may be exceptions, perhaps, but as a

general rule, I think I am safe in saying I do not use it.
>§< :1: ~" ~" 9,: :2:

But what experiments you have tried have been tried in the
Brown Institute at your own cost, I suppose ?—In my private
room. Those that I do for teaching purposes, physiological
purposes just referred to, I do in my private room ; I live there.

Are these pupils of yours in any way connected with the
London University ?——No, they are pupils from different hospitals
who wish to enter more closely into the study of microscopical
anatomy.

, d; d; d ;
l‘ (p a“ 'l‘ '1‘ 4»

But now coming to vivisection proper, do you perform in this
laboratory operations which involved a great deal of pain to the
animal ?—-Yes, we do occasionally ; of course they are very few.

And without any question of employing anaesthetics unless it
happens to be for your own convenience to do so ?—Yes.

Why do you not chloroform a dog ?—-—We chloroform a cat
because we are afraid of being scratched. (A laugh.)

Why not a dog ?—If it is a small dog there is no fear of being
bitten by the dog. '

‘1,
(p

, ‘v, x . J;
’I‘ 4. 4‘ 'l‘ I

As I understand you, if you were directed to perform an
operation for the purpose of ascertaining some fact, or supposed
fact, with reference to the nerves of a dog, and it became
necessary to cut the back of the dog severely for the purpose of
exposing the dog’s nerves, for the sake of savmg yourself incon-
venience, you would at once perform that without the use of
anaesthetics ?—-Yes.

And it is only because the dog might howl, or get into
contortions, that you would use anmsthetics at all ?-——Yes.

4;

v . v, K ;
>5 4" ’i‘ I

In the case of frogs you never take out any part of the brain
before you perform these experiments, do you ?—-No.

That is a short process, is it not ?-—Yes.

But you think it unnecessary, because . you say. that a
physiologist has a right to do as he likes With the animal ‘2—
Yes.

 

 




 

20

One would have thought (continued Dr. Hadwen) that such
answers as these would have been enough to stir the whole
British Parliament. You never would have supposed that his
name could have appeared on the list of operators at the Brown
Institute after that. But his name has appeared there every
year since.

After this Dr. Klein reported on. the Etiology of Diphtheria, and
described a number of experiments carried on upon cats. “ The
cornea of the eye is scraped and diphtheritic poison from the
diphtheritic membrane of children rubbed in. Before the end
of the week the cornea shows distinct ulcer. The corneal tissue
becomes at the same time loosened and opaque, the conjunctiva
much inﬂamed, oedematous, and at the internal canthus
there collects muco-purulent matter.” From this the only
thing we gain is that if you apply the poison of diphtheria
to a cat’s eye you can produce diphtheria in the cat’s eye.
I think I have shown you from the words of doctors themselves
the revolting cruelties which are carried on in the Brown
Institute hard by, and in appealing to the audience to-night I
think one may appeal safely to your sense of English justice, to
your sense of English chivalry, and regard for these intelligent
creatures that have saved our lives a thousand times, and that
will lick the hand of the man who may have dealt them a
death blow. I may safely ask you to plead, as Mrs. Cook has
so well put it, on behalf of those who are unable to plead for
themselves. (Cheers) I trust there will not be a single person
here who will not go forth from this meeting with a ﬁrm deter-
mination to use every effort to put a stop to this iniquity; that
you will approach Parliament on the subject, and bring pressure
to bear on your representatives in the House of Commons in
regard to it so that this fearful torture and cruelty shall be wiped
away altogether and be no longer a blot on this neighbourhood,
a blot upon legislation, a blot upon humanity, aye, and a blot on
the medical profession. (Cheers)

 

The following speech was delivered by the Rev. Osmer L.
Cole, then Assistant-Curate of St. Anne’s Church, South
Lambeth, on February 12th, 1901, at St. Mark’s School,
Camberwell :——-

WHEN I came to London, just on three years ago, I thought
that I should be called upon only to do the work of a Priest
——that is to say, to care for the souls and bodies of men
and women. I little thought that I should be compelled to
throw myself into the same work as my grandfather in years
gone by—a holy war against slavery. It is true he was then
engaged in the abolition of the slavery of humaubodies in,
countries where the Name and the Power of the Divine Master
was unknown, and consequently some excuse might be made for

 

 

 

 




 

—’ﬁp———

 

21

those who did it. But now there is no excuse. The slavery is o
a. different kind, though quite as terrible.

No longer slavery of coloured races against which we are
called to ﬁght, but on behalf of our fellow-creatures in the
animal world.

I would impress upon you that this is an oppression of un-
offending innocent dependents in a country boasting of its
honour, justice and liberty.

My attention was ﬁrst called to this local campaign by that
Institution of which you have already heard something this
evening, namely, the Brown Institution, situated in the
Wandsworth Road, not far from the Vauxhall Station, which
whited sepulchre is completely surrounded by streets of working
people, along which it is my duty to Visit from house to house.

Oftentimes my work is terribly interrupted by the heart-
rending cries which arise from within this building, and from the
tales of working men of sleepless nights caused by the agonised
wails of the animals shut up in the dark cellars of the Institute.
When by the bedside of a dying parishioner, oftentimes it is
only by the greatest act of concentration of mind I am able to
speak as one should at so solemn a time because one’s thoughts
and attention are so distracted by the saddening appeals of these
helpless four-footed slaves.

Not long ago a working man was so disturbed during the
night that when he came down in the morning he said to his
landlady, “ I am going straight to the Brown and shall take with
me this paper,” which was none other than a copy of THE
ABOLITIONIST with an account of a meeting protesting against
them. I call this place a whited sepulchre, and shall I tell you
why? Because it is so still and fair and clean without, but
Within frequently is full of bones, not of dead men, but of dead
animals. Bones of animals whose lives have been crushed out
of them not by thelaw of nature, accident, or necessity, but at
the dictation and the slow, cruel grind of men possessed of a
spirit foreign to the laws of justice, mercy, and love.

Men, indeed, who, although perfectly upright in every other
respect, allow themselves in this particular instance to be blinded
to that noblest of manly gifts—the possession of an almost
absolute knowledge and strength, yet controlled at all times by
love—that they become imbued with an all-absorbing desire to
satisfy, whatever the cost, a senseless and morbid curiosity and
self-interest. . .

I venture to say that of all places the Brown Institution 1s the
last place where vivisection should ﬁnd a home, founded as it
was by a beneﬁcent gentleman who generously left £20,000 .for
the sole purpose that in this poor neighbourhood the working
classes might be provided with a hospital and home for their
sick or injured animals. .

It is in no sense either a home or a sanatorium, but a mason-
house in which practices are perpetrated of such a foul nature
that those who do them ensure for themselves the utmost
secrecy.

F TL.
F
F F
‘. ;
I' F
F
Fl'
.
t
F v}
F
r J
F’
j.
‘ .
I .
Ft
Vi
F.
F
:1 -‘
F
F F
F
.

 




 

 

22

Indeed, the Brown Institution, instead of fulﬁlling the noble
intentions of its Founder, is now a primary source of propagating
evils, the results of which we cannot possibly estimate.

Surely this ought not to be, and it is our ﬁrm determination
that it shall not be. We have shaken the power of this nefarious
trafﬁc and we will not abandon the attack until we have con-
quered, and to hasten that day we earnestly plead for fresh
recruits, ammunition, conﬁdence and patience. It is no insigni-
ﬁcant work; we are opposed with forces stronger in numbers,
possessed of a policy popular and taking, because it ﬂatters the
vanity and comforts of human nature; we have to face and
overthrow traditions, which under their false title of Scientiﬁc
Research, deceive thousands who have no time and possibly no
inclination to investigate the matter for themselves, and so
permit themselves to be gulled by the persistent assurances of
clever and inﬂuential men that it is an absolute necessity if we
are to reap the fullest beneﬁts of medical skill and treatment.

True good can never be derived from an evil source. It is
contrary to the revealed law of life. Again, works required to
be done in secrecy and by stealth and will not bear investigation
and light, condemn themselves.

The Brown is shrouded in mystery. This fact is not generally
known, but it is absolutely true and cannot be too widely
proclaimed. First, it is an exceedingly difﬁcult thing to get an
entrance there.

Secondly, it is equally difﬁcult to obtain any report or any
balance-sheet of the work done. It is also a strange thing that
this institution, instead of being registered under the list of
Charitable Institutions, is registered under those classed
“ scientiﬁc,” showing clearly the mind of those who now have
the management of it.

Let me, as one who sees daily this centre of wrong-doing,
plead with you to come to our assistance in freeing these innocent
sufferers from their untold woes. The great Lord Shaftesbury
called vivisection “an abominable sin.” I echo that truth : it is
a direct violation of the eternal law of love. If, as we know is
absolutely true, we are made in the image and after the likeness
of God, who is Almighty, All-loving and Merciful to every
creature, then it is for us, His sons and daughters, endowed in
measure with those same attributes, to use them as He does.

God has given us everything for our use, but for this very
reason an immense responsibility rests upon us. This blessing
is a delegated power and sacred stewardship for which we must
render an exact account.

Let us each, in his or her own sphere, set ourselves to free the
world of this terrible sin against God and man. Love and
Prayer are our two greatest weapons. Use them well. Prayer,
that all may have their eyes opened to vivisection in all its
hideousness ; that there may be less thought of self and greater
love for all. .

 

w

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BRITISH UNION

ABOLITION OI‘

VIVISECTION.

 

President:

MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE.
Vice-Presidents :

The Rt. Hon. Viscount HARBERTON.
The Countess of RAVENSWORTH.

The Dowager Countess of DARNLEY.
The Lady MOUNT TEMPLE.

The Lady BATTERSEA.

The Lady HELEN STEWART.

L. ATHERLEY-JONES, Esq., K.C., M.P.
THOMAS BAYLEY, Esq., M.P

ROBERT CAMERON, Esq., M.P. \

__.____—_,...~.. _ ._____.._.

SAMUEL SMITH, Esq., MP.

Lady KEMRALL.

The Very Rev. the DEAN OF ST. DAVID‘s.
The Very Rev. the DEAN OF BANGOR.
JOHN NORRIS, Esq., K.C.

Mrs. CHARLES THOMAS.

Mr. and Mrs. FRANK MORRISON.

Miss MARSTON.

Mr. and Mrs. ADLAM.

Mr. and Mrs. R. LLOYD PRICE.

Sir CHARLES and Lady SKELTON.

Hon. Secretary:
Mrs. ROSCOE. (Crete Hill, Westbury-on-Trym.)

Hon. Treasurer:
JOHN F. NORRIS, Esq., K.C.

Secretary:
Miss FLORENCE BAKER. Headquarters of the Union, 20, Triangle, Bristol.

Hon. Correspondents:

Countess BALDELLI, Florence. l

Countess BAYARD DE VOLO, Austria. l

Princess MELE BARESE, Naples. I

Mrs. SAUNDERS, Natal. ‘

Madame VAN EYS, San Remo.

Dr. PAUL FCRSTER (Member of Reichstag),
Berlin.

Herr FLIEGEL, Zﬁrich.

Herr Dr. ED. R. V. LISZT, Vienna.

Mrs. BROWN, Palermo.

Mrs. SAVIGNY, Toronto.

Dr. MATTHEW WOODS, Philadelphia.
Miss SNOW, Connecticut.

Miss HAIGH, Bath.

- Miss DEIGHTON, Cannstadt.

Frau F. VON ERLENTHAL, The Tyrol.
ATHERTON CURTIS, Esq.

Hon. Members:

Mrs. THOMSON, Hampton Court Palace. l
Sir EDWARD T. GOURLEY. '
JOSEPH A. PEASE,Esq. I
A. E. PEASE, Esq., MP. 1
DADABHAI NAOROJI, Esq.

Mrs. TALBOT, Barmouth.

Rev. Sir GEORGE Cox, Bart.

Miss HELEN L. COBBE.

Mrs. RATHBONE.

Miss CARRINGTON.

Rev. NEWMAN HALL.

Madame LILLI LEHMANN.

Mrs. KENNERLEY RUMFORD (CLARA BUTT)
Mrs. KITCHIN (Deanery, Durham).

Mrs. E. STUART PHELPS WARD.

Miss GENEVIEVE WARD.

Miss DOLORES DRUMMOND.

Federated Societies of British Union

BANGOR, CARNARVON AND DISTRICT BRANCH.

Hon. Sec., Mrs. GASQUOINE.

BRISTOL AND SOMERSET FRIENDS’ ANTI-VIVISECTION COMMITTEE. Hon. Sec., Miss

MARRIOTT.

BRISTOL AND WEST or ENGLAND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY (CENTRAL SECTION or

UNION). Hon. Sec., Mrs. ROSCOE.

EASTERN COUNTIES BRANCH (GREAT YARMOUTH). Hon. Sec., Mr. BRUCE LEACH.
ELECTORAL ANTI-VIVISECTION LEAGUE (LONDON). Hon. Sec., MISS SQUIRE. Secretary,

Rev. J. FLEMING SHEARER.

LIVERPOOL AND DISTRICT ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY. Hon. Sec., Miss PENNELL.

MACCLESEIE‘LD ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY.

Hon. Sec., Mrs. RENSHAW.

NORTH OF ENGLAND BRANCH. President, The Countess of RAVENSWORTH. Hon. Sec.,

Mrs. MABEL COOK.

NORTH WALES ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY.

President, R. LLOYD PRICE, Esq., J.P.

Hon. Sec., Miss ATKINSON. Secretary, Mrs. CATTERMOLE, Dolgelly.
SHEFFIELD ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY. Hon. Secretary, Miss PHILLIPS.

SOUTH WALES ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY.

Hon. Secretary, Mrs. BUSH, Cardiff.

SURREY BRANCH. President, Mrs. DESPARD. Hon. Sec., Miss HELEN PIERREPONT,
202, Wandsworth Road, South Lambeth, London, S.W.

WESTON-SUPER-MARE BRANCH. President Rev. C. J. SENIOR. Hon. Sec., Mrs. RIDGE.

YORK ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY. Hon. Sec., Mr. O. F. PICKERING.

 

 

inrnmss &. Co., Printers, 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.C.

‘8: l
1.‘ .
i
I.
I
[:

..- ,-..-;....:.»AV_I::' 1:1', .:.: ,1... A; Le... “ R. L“ ‘21:“. ..j Isa. i ,-'. a! h. ( . ..—;-r. 7» ». '- ’

, sum . ~ér'w: A”. W- -,~_-A a?” W . . .. W .. ...~‘7-.T-"; A» -§7‘""7»~;.~..-." 7‘ *' ”'1 r - .. y
A“ ‘A,-.., .- -. ._ “g - A , _ ‘ . .- ~«"‘- '< Aa‘I..- .. '1
__. _A‘.._ A . . I. . .u . A _ A . . A A AAA_ A 'a..,_ fat. I“ a. '1. :1.

"an."

r n...
““7“" .‘ .53..

.; .

v.—.. - 927;:6 .ﬁffjlmzx“:

.11.]

. a“ .

 




 

M
w
w
v.
m
w
m

aim"?

 








 




