MR. WICKSTEED ON
VIVISECTION.

 

 

THE Rev. Philip Wicksteed preaching in Little Portland
Street Chapel, June 80th, 1889, on the text Gen. 1, 27-28,
concluded with the following remarks. After discussing the
use of animals for food, he said 2—-

“ But when we come, not to inherited and long-ﬁxed relations
based upon the animal nature which we share with the
animals, but to new departures starting from the higher level
of our present humanity, surely we are entitled to insist upon
a higher code ‘? Man is an animal and has animal wants
whiCh must be satisﬁed. Man is also a spiritual and moral
being, and it his animal satisfaction must not be allowed to
1§olate his spiritual and 11101al natuie, still less must that
Spilitual and moral nature itself be allowed to de1elop itself
along base and degrading lines.

Now, amongst the higher activities of our humanity we
cannot tail to 1ank the search for truth and knowledge, and
the desire to understand 0111 selves and the world we li1e in.
Is it not of importance not easily to be exaggerated that we
should pursue our search for knowledge along lines that
. will make it ennobling in all its bearings ‘2 It has been held
by some-while it is hotly disputed by others—-tl1at
knowledge of theoretical and practical importance can be
obtained in the ﬁrst instance, and subsequently conveyed
from mind to mind, by means involving the more or less
acute 5 torture of animals. Are we in the interests of our
higher humanity to enter into this new relation to the
inteiior animals, and besides slaughte1ing them that we
may live, t01ture them that we may 1111011 ‘2 To ask the
question 1s to answer it. ‘Though I undei stand all mysteries
and all knowledge, and have not love, I am nothing.’ If
humanity is truly to advance, then knowledge must not be
gained at the expense of tenderness, and we must be content
to renounce the unholy knowledge which can only be gained
by outraging our bette1 selves.

“But when the beautiful love of knowledge has been
degraded into an unholy lust, it often allies itself witha a
narrow and reckless but genuine love of man, and announces
that its real goal is not expeiimcntal and speculative, but
practical ‘To alle11atc human Sllllgllllf’ ’ is the puipose of
all the suli‘ei 11101 inﬂicted on the biutes we a1 c told , and 0111

 




2

scientiﬁc men who have spent a generation in teaching us
that there is no essential difference between man and beast,
now rise to a more than theological loftiness of claim for
man as the chosen and only denizen of earth who has any
rights. Let them not mislead themselves or us. They are
true to their principle, and do not really recognise any
breach of continuity between man and beast. Both in logic
and in practice these who will torture animals to gain
knowledge will—wso far as they morally and legally dare——
torture men for the same purpose ; and those who will inﬂict
suffering on beasts to save the suffering of men, will like-
wise torture one man to gain the means of relieving another;
and alas. the way in which it works itself out in our present
civilisation is that they torture the poor and friendless to
gain the requisite knowledge to relieve the sufferings of the
rich and inﬂuential.

“ Scientiﬁc men have taught us their lesson. We cannot
part man and beast as we once could. Our moral code must
not differ in its application, our moral principles cannot be
reversed, according to whether we are dealing with our more
digniﬁed or our lowlier fellow creatures.

“ Sympathy with man, if genuine, must make the heart
tender towards all God’s creatures——callousness to the
suﬂ'erings of animals must, with sure retribution, breed
callousness to the sufferings of men. The torturing of
animals by way of saving men from the risk of torture, is
cowardly and cruel, debasing and degrading to our best
humanity. It breeds unmanly panic, and it stimulates
hateful evasiOns. To torture them for the sake of knowledge
is a less ignoble, but perhaps a more cold—blooded sin. In
either case we sacriﬁce the pearl of great price if we purchase
either knowledge or relief at the expense of our humanity.
‘Though I understand all mysteries and all knowledge and
have not love, I have nothing.’ ”

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS rROM Vn'isnc'rION, UNITED wrrn THE INTERNATIONAL
Assocm'riON FOR. 1»1 a TOTAL SUPPRESSION or VIVISECTION,
20, Vic'roaii-i STREET, WEsTMINSTER, S.W. 8.89.

 




