 

The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.1.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

G.

 

 

 

 

 

VOL. Ix. No. I. JANUARY, 1935. 2d. MONTHngsﬁ/gggrmm
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. 31' THE EDITOR 2 STORMY SCENES AT BRISTOL MEETING 5
EXCELLENT PUBLIC MEETING AT MALVERN 3 ATROCIOUS HIND-HUNT AT BRIDGWATER '7

Tée Editor accept: 720 rexpomz'éi/z'ty far 0pz'7zz'0m exprened i7: Tigﬂed articlex.

 

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
- - - - - ° N which we now inﬂict in Sport with
which we now read of the bloody
nes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

    
    
    
  
    
    
  
  
   




   

CRUEL SPORTS

VIEWS AND

January, 1935

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

A Happy New Year

Our ﬁrst thought this month is to wish our
readers “ A Very Happy New Year,” with the
ardent hope that, in the poet’s words, “ a
thousand unseen hands may reach out and

forward and help us to their peace-crowned
heights.”

New Year Resolutions

This is the time when one makes all sorts of
resolutions for the New Year and we would ven-
ture to add one to the number, viz., that each
of our members should vow to secure another
member before the month is out. It means no
sacriﬁce to do this and it is, we think, not much
to ask of those who are already pledged to help
us to pull down the iniquitous Spirit of cruel
sport which dominates our ruling classes. Five
shillings includes membership and the journal
monthly for a. year; for 2/6 the journal will be
sent to any address post free. We ask for a
prompt and generous response to this suggestion,
not only because we are fervent animal-lovers,
but also because one’s humane education is
neglected unless they are up-to-date in our move-
ment and we are the recognised mouthpiece for
anti-cruel sports news and inspiration.

Public Meetings

Probably never before have so many excellent
meetings been held round about the same time
as during the past few weeks, when four rousing
public meetings have been held under the
auspices of the League. These were at'Chinley
in Derbyshire, Malvern, Bristol, and London;
The former was duly reported in our last issue.
The Malvern and Bristol meetings are reported
in the present issue, but we regret that the report
of the London meeting must be held over until
next month.

M alvern

The meeting at Malvern was an outstanding
success, not only because of the numbers pre-
sent, but also because of the quality of the
speeches and the great interest aroused. Air-
Commodore Charlton was the chief speaker and
made a deep impression. The local papers
gave lengthy reports and the correspondence
that ensued has helped to nourish the good seed
sown.

Bristol

The Bristol meeting and the Shop Campai
extending over the preceding week, were also-
great success, and here again the press did
well and gave generous space to corresponde
both before and after the meeting. Forty n
members, and 1,500 signatures against de

   

hunting means business and augurs well for the
future of the branch.

Congratulations and an Appeal

We warmly congratulate all concerned in pro-
moting and organizing these meetings and hope
that they will be followed up and the advantages
gained stabilized by nursing the enquirers and
new recruits and digging oneself in.

We want, however, to try and extend the
good work to other districts and to this end
appeal for support so that similar public meet-
ings may be held in towns where the need is
equally great but where meetings have never
been held. There are at least ﬁfty towns where
the Evangel of the League has never been heard
and where meetings should be held, and would
be held—had we the sinews with which to or-
ganize them. And when we think of the huge
sums, running into hundreds and thousands of
pounds spent weekly, say on dinners, dances,
football, golf and other pleasures, we are
humiliated at the thought that it is so difﬁcult
to get even £10 with which to combat a per-
nicious and glaring national evil like blood sports,
which is a grave menace to the material as well as
the moral welfare of the community. We would
like, therefore, to hold ten public meetings in
different towns during the New Year. Who will
send the ﬁrst £10 and name a town?

Women! M.F.H. '

“ At the present time women are the back-
bone of the hunting world.” So writes “ A
Special Correspondent ” in the Observer of
November 18th. And, he adds, “over eighteen
women ﬁgure as masters of hounds this season,
many more act as secretaries, and there are some
who hunt hounds as well.”

He goes on, “Perhaps the number will be in-
creased for practically every hunting ﬁeld to—day
is composed of at least seventy-ﬁve percentage
of women, while the members of the Pony Club
are mainly girls.” ‘

Here is a state of things enough to make the
angels weep and the worthy women who have
recently passed on turn in their graves.

It is an appalling state of things and we sug-

 

gest it is up to the women particularly to stand

forward and help dam this ﬂood and so save the
children from an increased spate of coarseness

“ I In, -

 

 

 

 

   

  
   

 

 

 

     

 

w




 

f7“?

 

 

 

; January, 1935

 

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Three

 

 

EXCELLENT PUBLIC MEETINGAT MAL VERN

Air-Commodore Charlton Chief Speaker.

A public meeting against cruel sports was held
under the auspices of the League (Malvern
Group), on November 20th, in the Public
Library, Malvern. Rev. C. L. Bradley, M.A.,
D.Mus., Oxon. (President, Oxford and District
Society, Abolition of Cruel Sports), presided,
and the speakers were Air-Commodore L. E. 0.
Charlton, C.B., C.M‘.G., D.S.O., the Rev. J.
D. Raw (Minister, Malvern Baptist Church);
and Miss Emily Cox, M.A. '

The Chairman, announcing apologies for
absence, said the Bishop of Worcester (Dr.
Perowne) had written: ‘7 I think it is a good
thing to ventilate these questions in public. The
conscience of the people requires awakening, and
it will take a very long time to bring home to
great numbers of those who enjoy fox-hunting,
the cruelty of the sport. I trust you may have a
good meeting, and that people outside the meet-
ing will be made to think the problems out.”

The Bishop of Birmingham (Dr. Barnes)
wrote: “ I am heartily with you in desiring to
bring to an end the cruelties inﬂicted on animals
in so-called ‘ sport.’ ”

Countess Beauchamp wrote: “ As it is not
possible for me to have the great satisfaction of
being present at the meeting in order to support
your admirable crusade, and to protest against

. cruel sports, I should like to convey especially

my admiration of the splendid effort made for
Malvern in promoting this meeting.”

Among others who sent apologies were Canon
Donaldson, Mr. Beverley Nichols; Rev. H. H.
M. Bartleet (Vicar of ' Malvern), Rev. J . Gr.
Barrow (Vicar of Little Malvern), Rev. W. E.
Musgrave, and Rev. Edwin Tully (Emmanuel
Church). Mr. W. Sayers (Chairman of Malvern
Urban District Council) wrote expressing full
sympathy with the movement; Rev. H. Stanley
Shergold (Holly Mount Congregational Church),
Rev. R. H. Isaac Williams (Vicar of Cowleigh),
Mrs. Helen Freeman (VVychcliff); Dr. Thomas
(Barrister-at-Law), and Mr. Amos, Editor of
Cruel Sports.

“ The Sleepy Sort ofMinrt ”

The Chairman said it was argued that the
destruction of foxes was necessary and that hunt-z
ing destroyed foxes, therefore hunting was neces-
sary. It was easy to come to that conclusion if
they had a half-ﬂedged, sleepy sort of mind.
Was hunting the destruction of fox-es! He
would guarantee that in November, 1935, there
would be. as many foxes to be hunted as there
were in November, 1934, so they could see the
fallacy of such reasoning. ,

Air-Commodore Charlton said that until 15
years ago he was himself an ardent sportsman in
every acceptance of the term. In his own case,

Support from Clergy, and Ministers.

the disco-very which he made of a. tangible con-
nection between sport and war set him thinking,
war, to his mind, being a bestial thing. (Ap-
plause.) He remembered how hunting was sup-
posed to foster the cavalry spirit and give- one
a campaigning eye for country; and how shoot-
ing bestowed quickness of sight and the ability
to arrive at a quick decision. In common with
everyone else in his walk of life, he took these
things as truth and stiﬂed whatever qualms of
conscience stirred within him, by the reﬂection
that sport and patriotism went hand in hand.
But that was previous to the World War. After
that, he saw things fro-m an entirely different
angle of vision. Among the several millions of
the British race who fought, the proportion of
so-called sportsmen was necessarily low. Our
armies were mainly composed of youths and'
men to whom the word “sport” connoted rivalry
at games, and other pursuits and pastimes of
recreational value and helpful to bodily ' and
mental ﬁtness. And yet it could be said that
they won the War! It appeared then to him
that football, cricket, rowing, cycling, cross-
country running and' all the other pleasures of
the many, as against the few, were at least» as
effective and many times as accessible, when it
became a. question of turning the citizen into a
soldier; that, whether war were justiﬁable or
not, it certainly did not justify sport; that to
claim it did so was false; and that some other
justiﬁcation must be found.

Suffering the Key—Note

Human action must be justiﬁed on moral
grounds, and on moral grounds alone; and, most
of all, when it was the cause or instrument of
suffering. Suffering, alas, was the key-note of
“sport”; and pain preceding death was the hall—
mark which, wittingly or unwittingly, distin-
guished the sham from the true in sportsmen’s
eyes. Man had elaborated a. complicated sys-
tem of putting to death his, fellow creatures of
the animal world for no other reason than that
it gratiﬁed him to do so and called the process
“ sport.” He did it for a pleasure—seeking
motive. There lay the indictment. The speaker
went on to describe fox, stag, hare, otter and
other hunting, coursing, grouse and partridge
driving and rabbiting. He said the worst aspect
of the sport was that the individual who: de-
rived gratiﬁcation from the pursuit to which
torture was an inseparable accompaniment, de-
graded himself thereby; and the boomerang
effect of self-degradation on the individual, on
his associates, and on society at large, lowered
the moral standard of a race. (Applause) We
had advanced far in our human impulses; why

 




 

 

"CR UE ’L

had we stuck where we were as regarded existing
spert? The rat-pit, cock-ﬁghting, bear andbull-
baiting, dog-ﬁghting, shooting pigeons from a
trap, had all passed away, or had been illegalised.
We protected our song birds; we protected our
rare birds; and cruelty to animals was strictly
punishable by law. Specious were the excuses
which the sportsmen made when challenged on
the cruel aspect which he presented to an ever-
gro-wing number of his fellow human beings.
“ What,” he said, “ would our country be with-
out us! Do. we not put money into circulation
locally and bring a certain amount of prosperity
to the country towns and agricultural districts!
Literature. and song have been evoked by our
activities; we have added to. the gaiety of
nations. And, lastly, the English are proverbi-
ally and, by tradition, a sporting race, looked
up to as such by all the world. Wherever we go
we carry sport of one kind or other with us. It
is our heritage. Can we be legitimately asked
to become an unsporting nation in every impli-
cation of that term, simply because certain
sentimentalists shut their eyes to everything
except the ugly side, refusing .to recognise that
the weaker must go to; the wall?” These, said
the speaker, were not carefully-contrived argu-
ments, especially thought out for the occasion.
They were common stock-in-trade, used in ad-
vocacy of sport by sporting people. None of
these arguments which he had cited demanded a
categorical reply, for the simple reason that
right could never be founded on wrong. Eng-
land lived by trade and exchange, honourably
conducted; not by bartering pain for pleasure
in defacement of the beauty, the peace and
quiet of our countryside. Sport bore the same
relationship to the real, the higher, life as mil-
dew on a. rose leaf bore to the health of the tree.
Money put into circulation in that way was
tainted at its source. If the hunting-man did
not stint to undergo serious risk in the ﬁeld,
it only served to show to what hot-blooded
lengths he would go in order to subserve his
pleasure. If sport added to! the gaiety of the
nation, it also fed the blood-lust of the crowd;
and both writers and songsters were guilty of
false sentiment when they added their quota to
encourage such a craving.

Two Main Bulwarks

Now came the two main bulwarks of argu-
ment—that sport preserved the species and that
it was the proud heritage of our race. If the
species was thus preserved, it was at least a
classical example of how kindness could kill.
As to our sporting tradition—traditionally we
were slave-traders not so long ago. We
were slave-owners after that, until the public
conscience awoke, and then we paid 970,000,000
doWn. as compensation, in order that men should
go free. Floggings with a hundred lashes were
once traditional for the ‘sake of naval and military

Page Four

SP OR TS

. January, l 935

discipline. The convict-hulk, traditional to- our
penal code, was long since abolished. Children
were no longer chained to factory machines during
a working day of 14 hours. The mentally afflicted
had not been treated of late like ferocious wild
beasts in captivity. All along the line we had
advanced in benevolence and compassion to-
wards our weaker fellow creatures. And yet for
some inscrutable reason we had withheld our
mercy from the bird and beast of the wild.
Could it be because they belonged to a lower
order of creation? They were preached to» by
St. Francis, who called them his brothers and
sisters! And they were akin to ourselves. Bio-
logically and in physical structure we had
branched from the same original stem. Were it
not for a trick ofTortune, we might be animals
still, as once we were. It was our duty to
behave as though our fate was linked with theirs,
and to. spare them the suffering which we would
ﬂinch from ourselves. If lines had been written,
and set to music, about the beauties of the
chase, verse had been produced by great poets
with an opposite end in View.
“ He pray-eth well who loveth well,

Both man and bird and beast.

He prayeth best who loveth best

All things both great and small;

For the dear God Who loveth us

He made and loveth all.” (Applause)

Air-Commodore Charlton then moved the
following resolution: “ That cruel sports are no
longer to be tolerated, and that where killing
is considered necessary it should be effected as
swiftly and painlessly as possible.”

Rev. J. D. Raw, who seconded, said he
thought it was undeniable that the growth of
Christian civilisation had marked a steadily in-
creasing growth in tendency and sympathy with
the lower creation.

Miss Emily COX, supporting, said the glamour
that hung over hunting was something like the
glamour over war, which had come down through
the ages. Cruelty seemed to her to be the worst
of all evils, and every effort must be made to
enlist youth in the crusade against cruel sports.

Questions were asked and answered, after
which the resolution was put to the meeting
and carried.

Rev. Walter Lee prOposed a vote of thanks. to
Air-Commodore Charlton. He said that he came
to the meetingwith an open mind and he thought

that on the whole he had been convinced.

Mrs. Priestley, who seconded thought Air-
Commodore Charlton had given them a most con-
vincing and unsentimental exposition.

The Chairman thanked Miss Cox for the work
she had done in organising the meeting.

Miss COX then pro'posed a vote of thanks to

the Chairman, and appealed for support on
behalf of the League.

 




 

January, 1935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Five

 

STORMY SCENES AT BRISTOL MEETING

Cat-calls, Shouting and Noisy Interruptions Throughout

A public meeting organized by the Bristol
branch of the League was held at the Bedland
Park Hall, on Friday, November 16th, and
:attracted a large audience.

Canon A. H. Sewell presided, and frequently
had occasion to call the rowdy element to order.
“ Cat-calls,” he said, “ could be done by any-
one,” but he appealed to them to be intelligent
and to put their objections into words at the
prOper time, when they would be dealt with.

He deﬁned cruel sports as those in which
animals were .made to suffer or even to fear;
and he deplored that Churchmen were not more
active in the cause for which the League stood.

MR. EDWIN MORE, London,‘ was the ﬁrst
speaker, and lauded our vast and mighty British
Empire which had always stood for justice and
fair play. . ‘

Referring to hunting, Mr. More said this prac-

tice had its roots right. back in antiquity. But ‘

it was a loveless and callous minority which the
League had in mind when it spoke of prohibition.

There were interruptions at this point when
Mr. More appealed, in the name of sport, for a
fair hearing and promised not to run away from
questions at the end.

He then referred to a recent incident in which
two men were ﬁned for releasing a rabbit to be
torn to pieces by dogs on Wimbledon Common.
It was, he added, because they were poor men
that they were ﬁned.

He created some indignation by reading the
report of a recent meet of the Belvoir Hunt
when a fox was killed in the kitchen of the
rectory, and the rector was present at the hunt.

Massacre

“ Sport,” he said, was a word wrongly
applied to the pursuit of living animals.” That
practice in which success was measured by count-
ing the corpses was “ not sport, but bloody
massacre.”

Mr. More contended that the keeping down of
foxes should be left to the farmers who would
deal with the problem effectively for economic
reasons. The 200 organised Hunts in the
[country were chieﬂy interested in preserving and
breeding foxes in order to hunt them.

,CANON L. G. MANNERING, Bristol, was the next
speaker and he said one of the reasons why he
was against cruel sports was. because it was an
abuse of man’s advantage of a God-given mind.
He thought it was an utterly reprehensible thing
for people to pit the superiority of their minds

“

in a collective capacity to bring about unwanted
cruelty on the animal creation. He failed to see
how educated men and women could ﬁnd
pleasure in hunting.

The Canon read a letter from the Bishop of
Bristol in which the Bishop stated:-—“ I do
feel strongly that Christian people ought to pay
far more attention than they normally do to the
question of man’s treatment of the animal
creation, especially as it affects sports and
amusements. ”

” Speaking for myself,” the letter continued,
j“ I cannot believe that amusements which can
be shown to involve cruelty or cause suffering
to animals are consistent with a Christian atti-
tude towards life.”

Mr. W. H. P. W'ARNER, the Hon. Secretary
of the South-Western Branch of the League,
also spoke and warmly commended the objects
of the meeting.

Questions were then invited, when one speaker

who said his living depended upon hunting asked
permission to deliver a prepared speech but
refused to keep within four minutes.
Another objector urged that hunting caused
very doubtful ” suffering to animals and that
its abolition would cause great suffering through
unemployment.

In reply Mr. More said that the money eX-
pended on hunting could be expended in a pro-
ductive or constructive way.

A man, who described himself as a barrister,
said that as compared with the alternatives, fox-
hunting saved the foxes much suffering.

“ You have no sense of humour,” replied the
Chairman.

In closing the meeting, Canon Sewell said the
League stood for the prohibition of cruel sports;
that was to say any sport in which animals were.
killed or made to fear for the sake of people
to amuse themselves. It was a very straight-
forward issue.

C‘

The Shop Campaign

For the week preceding the Public Meeting a
Shop Campaign had been held at the R-edland
Park Hall with entirely satisfactory results.
About forty new members were enrolled and
1,500 signatures obtained to the Petition against
deer-hunting. Many enquiries were made about
the work of the League and a considerable
quantity of leaﬂets distributed. Great credit is
due to the local workers for the splendid work
they put into the Campaign, particularly to Miss
M. L. Brown, the Hon. Treasurer, who organ-
ised it on behalf of Miss Norah M. Chapman, the
esteemed Hon. Secretary of the Branch, laid
aside, at the moment, through illness.

 




 

 

Page Six

CRU-EL SPORTS

 

January, I 935

 

NOTES ON THE BRISTOL CAMPAIGN
' By Edwin More

The Bristol and District Branch of the League
must be commended for the efﬁcient way they
staged a. Campaign which was both arresting
and effective.

A week’s work centred on a shop hired for the
purpose in the main road focussed considerable
attention on the public meeting and attracted a
representative audience from both camps. Very
signiﬁcant was the seriousness with which hunt
servants, both during and after the. meeting,
asked about their future in the event of the
League succeeding in its objects.

Dignitaries of the Church on the platform were
powerless to prevent the exposure of its con-
federacy with organised hunting in many parts
of the country, and there was no: mistaking the
hostility o-f the audience regarding the Leaden-
ham fox. It was news to most of those present
that the Rector, Rev. NV. G. Sher-ten, who rode
with the hunt, while living for twenty years
among the Buddhists of Ceylon as a missionary
was persuaded by them to abandon the hunting
of which he was so- fond, and one could detect
the look of perplexity on the faces of those
present as to the relative merits of the gospel of
the hunting missionary and the religion of the
natives which holds all life to be sacred.

Bristol must be regarded as one of the most
successful advances- the League has made this
year.

Baby Hawks as Bait

“ Mere words are not strong enough,” write
the authors, “ to condemn the despicable prac-
tice of setting a steel gin in a hawk’s nest along-
side the helpless young, and using them, in
effect, as a. bait to- trap their parents.

“ That the trapped bird and its starving young
are often left for half a day and then the trap
reset to catch its mate is not unusual, and this
is done in the name of sport!”

———Birds in Britain.
Foxes Carry Disease

If foot-and-mouth disease is conveyed from
farm to farm by any animal, surely the for: would
be the most likely with his trailing brush and
large pads. Foxes are very active on the farms
when ﬁnding foo-d for their cubs, and foot-and-
mouth disease breaks out about the end of the
cub-hunting season—T. S. HAWKINS.

—Daily Herald, Nov. 24.

A Word for the Voiceless

We squeal. at the horrors of war, but are quite
willing that horrors should be inﬂicted on animals
—the cruel. steel-toothed trap for fur—bearing
animals, the hunting for hours to a cruel death
of the deer, fox, otter, and hare, etc.
. ‘ B. COPINGER PRICHARD.
——Sanday Referee, Dec. 16.

Deed of “Valour! ”

“ Mrs. Anthony Eden, wife of the Chancellor
of the Duchy of Lancaster, saw a stag in her
garden when returning at midnight to her
Scottish home after a dance. Although in even-
ing dress, she stalked it through a bog, and shot
it down by the light of motor head-lamps.”

——Pearson’s IVeekly, Nov. 16.

“ A Bit of Coursing ”

At Wimbledon Police Court yesterday, Thomas.
Tapsell and William Marshall, Wimbledon, were
charged with cruelly ill-treating a rabbit. They
were ﬁned £10 each, or one month’s imprison--
ment in default.

BC. Green said that he saw Tapsell leading
three greyhounds and Marshall with a sack in
which something moved. At an open space the-
-dogs were released, and a rabbit taken from the
sack was held over the dogs by Marshall, tan-
talising them. ‘

One of the dogs succeeded in seizing the rabbit,
which was torn to pieces by all three. Only the
head and forequarters were found afterwards.
When spoken to Tapsell said, “ We were just
having a bit of rabbit coursing.”

—Daily Telegraph, Nov. 6.

 

 

(Continued from page 7.)

round it and tear its quivering ﬂesh? But I forgot. After
its hindquarters had been torn away by the fury of the
dogs, the men came and drove the dogs away from the
living, loving hind, and killed it with a knife. And to-
morrow the. R.S.P.C.A. will tell us that the hind is not
a captive animal, but the Exmoor ewe is one. Is it
not time that public opinion was aroused to put an end
to stag and hind hunting?
* * * *

Mr. John Nayler, J.P. :—

Sir,—It is difﬁcult to ﬁnd words used in ordinary
conversation sufﬁciently strong with which to express
one-’s detestation of the scene described by Mr. Biddis-
combe in your columns. One ,grieves to think that men
and women should take part in such cruelty and in the
butchering of so pathetic an animal as the hind.

I suppose it is correct to speak of ourselves as living
in a Christian and therefore a civilised country; but
hunting scenes such as the one referred to make one
wonder if it is true; and it is all the more puzzling
when we know by our police court records that a carter
who beats his horse—even if it is a jibber and therefore
trying to one’s temper—can be apprehended on the spot,
while society people who have horses and hounds and
huntsmen for their pleasure can indulge in the open day
and with full publicity in a species of cruelty towards a
dumb creature that calls for reprobation on the part of
every person of reasonable intelligence and feeling.

I am not a super-sensitive person. In the Yorkshire
village where I lived seventy years ago I was made
familiar with rough scenes of brutal enjoyment by men
who delighted in misusing creatures of all kinds, but I
cannot recall any scene comparable for sheer inhumanity
with the hunting scene you have given to the world.
Where is the politician, Member of Parliament, or high
priest of the Church who will devote himself to putting
an end to such scenes? Do we ask in vain? Then,
indeed, is our Christianity and so-called civilisation a
mockery and a sham, .

.*u:

 

 




'9

 

 

January, I 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Seven

 

A TROCIO US HIND~HUNT A T BRIDG WA TER

SENSATIONAL DESCRIPTION BY AN EYE-WITNESS

One of the most revolting and cruel hind-hunts of

recent years took place at Bridgwater, Somerset, on"

'November 22nd, by the Quantock Staghounds. Mr. A.
Biddiscombe, J.P., directed attention to the atrocity
in a letter in the “ Bridgwater Me,rcury ” of November
',28th and this was followed up in subsequent issues, by
Mr. Sharp, the Secretary of the League, Mr. A.
Lancaster Smith, and Mr John Naylor, J. P., with
excellent letters as below. A letter to the editor by

'the writer urging the local police or R. S. P. C. A. to

prosecute the Hunt on the grounds of the extreme
,grossness of the cruelty involved and the utter help-
lessness of the hind, was refused insert-ion although he

offered to ﬁnd £5 towards the cost of making the

prosecution a test case.
Mr. Biddiscombe wrote. —
Sir, —As a regular reader of your paper and because

'of your sense of justice and love of fair play, I shall
esteem it a favour if you will insert the following:

On Thursday afternoon, the 22nd inst., whilst in my
garden, my attention was directed to the Qauntock-road,
from which position I saw a ﬁne specimen hind coming
in my direction, closely followed by a pack of hounds.
Jumping a hedge 100 yards

I would that many of our people could have witnessed
this. scene, for surely this sport is not British, and to
say the least of it, it is inhuman. Cannot public opinion
be aroused to- put an end to such a travesty of fair play?

* *1 -X- '1‘

Mr. Sharp wrote: ~—

Sir, —Mr A. Biddiscombe and your good self have earned
the grateful thanks of all decent people for your ex-
posure of the recent Bridgwater hind- hunting incident.

In this so—called Christian country, it is a serious re-
ﬂection on our legislators that they will not accede to
the request of the British public by granting facilities
for the re- introduction of the Bill that will make this
shameful ‘amusement ’ of a few people illegal, The
British Sports- -loving public is sick of reading of these
nauseating incidents in connection with staghunting.

Many of us have come to the conclusion that it 1s use-
less to keep on appealing to the humanity of the so- called
sportsman; we must deal with him as we do with a man
who illtreats a domestic animal.

* * I1 I1
Mr. A. Lancaster Smith :—
Sir,—A certain wise and great man once referred in an
old and sacred Book to the

 

away into an adjoining ﬁeld, it
turned right, made a futile
effort to scale a wall about ﬁve
feet high, and then collapsed,
‘being completely exhausted By
this time hounds came through
the hedge, and, though the
‘poor hunted creature. sought to
evade the pack lusting for its
‘blood, it was surrounded and
pounced upon, thus failing in a
'last desperate effort to get
free. Words fail to describe
'the scene of barbarism and
cruelty which went on for
several minutes until someone
came and beat the dogs away.
The poor Cieature being still
alive, I ask—why was not a
humane killer used instead of a
knife?

fear

ascends,

man bends,

 

Gods Reject !

’Ere tumult closed, hiding body of deer, , ,
Its quivering sigh was captured into space, the 20th mSt- (after some
And mixed with pain, and suffering, and the

Of kindred creatures, helpless at the base.
. May be,.—-o.r .may be. not,—the. prayer
But writhing universe itself must ease,

Returning plague and scourge, to which

But does not understand.
Feverishly slaying, and making no amends.
The slayer, for a time, by choice select,
In plan of evolution gods reject. We read such, phrases as

ALICE E. COLLINGE (adapted).

“ loving hind,” and pointed the
moral that human beings might
follow her example of gentle-
ness and love. In your issue of

thousands of years of civilisa-
tion), there appears the. testi-
mony of an eye-witness concern-
ing the way a hind was done
to death in the name of sport.
What a pity that it was not
possible to ﬁlm the scene and
show this barbarous deed in its
calculated cruelty! One often
Cause and effect sees ﬁlms of the hounds

’ “moving off,” but never one
of the piteous culmination.

3’ E‘

“ was taken, was accounted
for,” was “ bowled over,”

 

 

- I shall never forget the awful death cry of this help-
less victim of so-called British “ sport,” whose only

crime is that it eats grass. Would this kind of thing be

tolerated, think you, if it were the sport of the working
man? Your readers will be able to appreciate some—
thing of the victim’s agony when I state that its con—

dition was ghastly, some of its hindquarters had been

torn away by the fury of the dogs. I might add that in

its last vain effort to scale the wall the poor animal had
"torn much of the skin off its fore legs.

Some of the horses that had come on the scene ap-

‘peared to me to be in a very distressed condition. one

in particular having blood on both of its sides, caused, I

"presumed, by a too frequent use of the spurs to urge it
-on that its rider might be in at the kill.

“This was one of the best runs we’ve had!” I over—

heard one “gentleman” remark. This affair commenced
:at 10.30 a.m., and it was now 2.45 pm.

One young
“‘lady” treasured the hair of the victim, which she placed

in her handkerchief as a memento of her part at the kill.

AmOngst the whole of those present I heard no word

'of pity express-ed for this harmless creature, which had

been separated from a herd away in the Quantock Hills,

hunted mile after mile to satisfy the “sporting” instincts
-of a sheltered few, and to become the subject of a heart-

fbreaking scene.

. and other camouﬂaged
variants of the same theme, but I venture to say
that the public would be horriﬁed to see the hounds
falling on a defenceless animal. This ghastly business of
hind hunting should be stopped by law. There is abso-
lutely no shred of excuse for it.

The hind is a female warm-blooded animal; so is the
Exmoor ewe, Both range over the moors, and eat
grass. What would happen if a company of superior, or
even working class men and women, were to start ewe-
hunting? They might say, “We will wear blue smocks
instead of red coats, and we will have our own hounds,
pedigree and other sorts. Ladies and gentlemen ex-
quisitely tailored are allowed to hunt the hind for hours,
and then let their dogs tear out her entrails. We will
have the same sport with ewes from Exmoor instead of
hinds. ”

Can you imagine the scene at the police court the next

morning, whenD the Hon. Bill Bloggs, Rat Catcher Jim,
Miss Ermytrude Hodge, and other sports from Bridgwater
and neighbourhood came up before the impartial dis-
pensers of justice? It could be pleaded, of course, that
tearing a live sheep to death was good sport and pro-
vided much employment.

Will any veterinary surgeon tell us whether a hind is
likely to suffer less than a sheep if a pack of dogs sur-

(Continued on page 6)

 




Page Eight c R U E L s P o R T 5 January, 1935

The ‘League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

10], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

Wee-Presidents—
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
SIR HERBERT BARKER- DAME LOUISA INNEs LUMSDEN. HENRY W. NEVINSON. ESQ-

ﬁgs. lglqAnérg-ﬁrp‘gpyyvpg, F.R.Soc.L1t., LLJ), (Edinburgh). BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.

(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES. Esq-
' G. P. Gooon, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE-

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”! '
IT CONDEMNS fox deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned”)
. IT DEMANDS the subStitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)
IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation (See
leaﬂet “ Blooded”)

 

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of . the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available. '

 

JOIN 'THE LEAGUE. ,
I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I . enclose herewith* .......... . ...............

State
whether
Mr.) Mrs” .....'........... ..... .. ............... . .................. . ...... ..................................................
or Miss. ‘ ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo onogoooooooo.

‘5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members J(:5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L..P.C.S., IOI, Chanda: House, Westminster, S.W.I.

00.000.000.00.00000.00... ooooooo c oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooc-oooaooeoooaoocooooo000000000000loco-.0000...

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL Spoars, Iondon, the sum

of... .. . ..... .~ ........ .. ..... free of Legacy Fury. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue 6f'the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses 1n the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

BRIGHTON—Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure BUSDLEI_GH gALEEgTQEI. the Coaéstgl Gem offﬁultlh Deﬁan-
. - uperlor oar es1 ence. e rooms W1 . an o.
generous varied dlet’ Bedrooms 11' and 0' water, gas running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, lnclu- vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
sive terms.__Tariﬁ‘: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and Wormald, “Mountway.”
17, Norfolk Terrace. WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880._.Sewell_ 51, Lan-
BEAUTIFUL BUTTE_RMERE._Yictoria. Golf Hotel. Season caster Gate, LODd‘m-
terms £4/4/-, SWISS balconles 10/6d. extra. (Quiet HUMANE FUR! (fabric).._104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
periods 75 per cent.) beck 7257,
Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of lid. per word per insertion or 2 /6d. per line for twelve
insertlons and they should be recelved at the oﬂice by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published .by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Prlnted for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bo nd Gate, Nuneaton.

‘_

 




