Viviseetion. 33. Warning.

 

 

In the Vemlam Review for the Christmas Quarter of 1900, is an
article which I can only characterise as terrible, as it proves beyond
question that the devilish crime of Vivisection has now been
extended from dumb animals to such helpless beings as madmen,
children, and poor lying-in women in public institutions, who have
the misfortune to fall into the hands of men, rendered deaf to the
Moral Law by the craving to acquire a certain description of know-
ledge at any cost.

The evidence whereon the above damning accusation is based, is ‘
contained in a State Document published by the American Govern-
ment, technically described as “Senate Document No. 78, 55 Con-
gress, 3rd Session.” Among other statements the following may be
selected :—

I. In Vienna a doctor (not named) injected matter from a
decomposing corpse into thirty-ﬁve women and three new-born
children.

2. Henry ]. Berkley (of the John Hopkins University) is stated
to have administered preparations of the Thyroid gland to eight
insane patients from the City Asylum, though the experimenter
himself remarks :——“ When the administration is pushed even to a
moderate degree, death is alm’ost invariably the result.”

3. Then comes an entry of the inoculation of twenty leper girls
with a loathsome disease, by a man who witholds his name, but
whose results are published by the New York Medical Journal, one of
the leading Medical Serials in the United States. This man was
then acting as Physician and Surgeon in charge of the Government
Free Dispensary at Honolulu.

4. Next comes Dr. Sanarelli, of Montevideo, who inoculated
ﬁve wretched creatures with the virus of yellow fever procured from
the Lazaretto on Flores Island. This “ bold experimenter,” as a
Boston paper calls him, in 1897 thus writes :—-—“ My experiments
on man reached the number of ﬁve—the fever, the congestions, the
jaundice, the delirium, the final collapse, in ﬁne all that conjunction
of symptoms of yellow fever I have seen unrolled before my eyes,
thanks to the potent inﬂuence of the yellow fever poison made in

my laboratory.”

The above cases are American and Continental ; but Dr. Sydney
Ringer, Physician to the University College Hospital, London,
admits experimenting on healthy children :——“ In conjunction with
Mr. Bury, I have made some investigations concerning the action

 




of Salicine on the human body, using healthy children for our experi-
ments, to whom we gave doses sufﬁcient to produce toxic symptoms.
Thirty-three patients were also experimented on with Gelsemium,
in whom we induced full toxic effects.” With these facts before
us, and a crowd of similar ones behind, to which space forbids my
alluding, the words of the Veralam Reviewer are indeed much to the
purpose,—“ If one desires to get rid of a troublesome fellow, it is
necessary to murder him. If one benevolently yearns to possess his
purse, in order to give alms to the deserving poor it is necessary to
steal it. If, for scientiﬁc and humane purposes, one has set one’s
heart (in watching a man’s digestive organs at work, it is necessary
to vivisect him ; and the vivisection of animals is necessary on
precisely the same grounds. If one is determined to possess the
fruits of a crime, it is necessary to commit a crime. The gigantic
fallacy which is now misleading thousands of well-intentioned
people is that the necessity of an act (real or assumed) to accom-
plish a certain purpose, is its justiﬁcation. The whole apology of
vivisection of all kinds is based by inference, on this childish plea.”

“ There is no crime that this argument would not justify ; and as
we shall presently see, it is already beginning to be used in defence
of a crime that carries menace of the most horrible kind to us all ”
—Vernlam Review, No. 53, p. 75.

We have all heard of acts. of cannibalism committed by starving
mariners at sea, when the poor wretches drew lots who should die,
that the rest might enjoy a chance of living; but these were men
who acknowledged the restriCtions of an old-fashioned morality,
which your living vivisectionist scorns! The poor cannibals did
not murder and devour the weakest among them, but all took their
chance alike of the fatal lot. just imagine men like Dr. Crile (the
author of“ Surgical Shock ”), or Dr. Sanarelli, or any of the same
stamp drawing lots to decide which of these philanthropists should,
for the good of his fellows, have the serum of yellow fever pumped
into his veins, or have his feet burnt off in a Bunsen ﬂame, as
wretched dogs have had. Not they, indeed. They are not given
to assassinate one another in the cause of science; but it is the
insane, the orphan child, the poor woman in the lying-in hospital,
that become the victims of scientiﬁc research. Is Christianity
dead, or what has come over its professors, that men and women,
who call themselves Christians, should calmly tolerate, not to say
defend, this recrudescence of the principle of Machievelli, that the
end justiﬁes the means, and that the wise man is he who pursues
his object without permitting any consideration of the moral law to
interfere with his aim P Heaven forbid that the twentieth century
should abandon the good ﬁght with the powers of hell, by inscrib-
ing on its banner the despairing cry of “ Evil be thou my good! ”

Ilfracombe. W. THEOBALD.

 




