 

4 :"')‘.

MWEK 774/5556 AAC" 2' ”” V 4' I i > ‘

P96? ﬂaw/2r 07C ‘ Chapter I
.. . y _ ”awe/Mgr .t . THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
0W7?“ W CBEY . . IN THE UNITED STATES

~ . y s ; by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson
ADDINQ; OK, DQLWMCQ («spy ‘ ‘

arcfﬁﬂ 37294; 5’ RESULT:

America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the

‘ _ ri hts of animals by enactiny statutory le 7islation to rotect them from cruel

/"J COSRX A Lmﬁﬂ 6” triatment. In 1641 the Puritarzfs of the Massichusetts Bap; Colony voted to have

printed their first legal code, ”The Body of Liberties.”l There are 100 "liberties”

-- (H79 ,2 G F: . which the Puritans expect ”to be respectfully impartiallie and inviolably
' _ enjoyed and observed throughout our Jurisdiction for ever." At a time when

/%3(; /00 [,3 others considered animals as mere property, to be used or abused at the whim

/ I0 ' of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92. Cruelty to animals forbidden. On

turning to Liberty 92, we find:

d
Marat? and 7 I) 7 21/5
OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

”£0 CHIC/(31“ ”(3 Clat /g 7L/ef— 92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any

bruite Creature which are usuallie kept for man's use.

5‘ ' . i 3/ 93. If any man shall have occasion to leade or drive Cattel from
/ Dy )0 ’9 - ' . .

place to place that is far of, so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall Sick,
‘M“"' ”by or lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them, for a competent
time, in any open place that is not Corne, meadow, or inclosed for
some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law, the first law to protect
animals in transit.

The Puritans take Special care to proclaim these ”liberties" lines:

‘“" 96. Howsoever these above Specified rites, freedomes, lmmun—
ities, Authorities and priveledges, both Civill and Ecclesiastical are
expressed onely under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one consent fullie
Authorise, and earnestly intreate all that are and shall be in Authoritie
to consider them as laws, and not to faile to inflict condigne and pro-
portionable punishments upon every man impartiallie, that shall
infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we draw on the research of
the noted historian, Samuel Eliot Morison. In his book, Builders ofthe Buy Colony
(page 232), he says, “Although animals then had no protection in Common

Law, 'The Bruite Creature' has a section of his own in the Body of Liberties."

And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers to an ”interesting case of condemnation
for cruelty to an ox, in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County [Massachu-
setts] III, 305." It seems clear that Liberty 92 not only was an anti-cruelty law but
also was used successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time—so far ahead that humanitarians through-
out the world, not aware of its existence, have been assuming that the British

 

I :‘
. ,i"

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

0

MP, Richard Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first anti-cru-
elty legislation in England (1822), was the primary author of all the laws that
have followed. It seems now that ”Humanity" Martin must give up first place to
the Puritan minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties of
1641.

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill, England. He was a
graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, studied law and became a barrister.
Driven out of England for heresy by Bishop Laud, he came to New England in
1634 and settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where be compiled ”The Body of
Liberties,” adopted by the General Court of Massachusetts in December 1641.
Beginning in 1635, there had been a growing concern among the Deputies of
the towns of the Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce results. Finally, in
June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted the service of "a learned lawyer" whose
legal abilities they felt to be superior-«the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had
already served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical sketch, "The
Simple Cobler of Aggawam," Mr. Ward says, ”I have read almost all the Com-
mon Law of England." This and his own experiences were the sources from
which he drafted his statute book. He enriched the code with his own practical
good sense and his understanding of the communal love of liberty, making
"The Body of Liberties" in entirety work far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, "there was little early specific legislation but
it was possible to prosecute ’cruelists’ under common law as committing ’nui—

III

sances. For instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted and found guilty of
cruelly beating his horse and sentenced to pay a fine of $30 with costs
of prosecution and to give bond for his good behavior for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the introduction to his book,
The Humane Movement in the United States, 1910—1922, page 12. Note that the
cartman had ”to give bond for his good behavior for one year," in addition to
the $30 and costs. It would seem that some of our modern penalties for cruelty
fall far short of the wisdom of this one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was punishable under
Common law, we have this statement from the Digest of New York Statutes and
Reports:

Animals 111. Treatment——Preservation——Destruction of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal—meg. excessive
beating of his horse by a cartman,-~~is punishable at common law as a
misdemeanor. Gen. Sess, 1822, People v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas,
111. And see Ross' Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.1

As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law among the United
States was enacted in 1828 by the New York State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously kill, maim, or wound
any horse, ox, or other cattle, or sheep, belonging to another, or shall
maliciously and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.4

 

The Evolution of/lnti—Cruelti/ Laws

Although this law limits the protected animals to owned horses, cattle, or
sheep, it does give these animals the right to be protected from their owners’
cruel treatment, thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving
them the legal right to be well treated for the first time in an established State of
the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching back to the Colonial
laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an earlier date than 1828 have so far proved
fruitless; therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the Statutes for
responsibility. The two Revisors are B. E. Butler and John C. Spencer. According
to these gentlemen, in their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty of presenting an
entirely new arrangement and organization of the criminal laws. Saying that the
Common Law had long ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punish-
ments, they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure in criminal cases,
prepared by Mr. Livingston for the state of Louisiana . . . But the differ-
ent state of society for which our labors are intended, and prevailing
sentiments respecting punishments varying essentially from those
entertained by the enlightened author of those codes, have prevented
the adoption of many provisions suggested by him . . .

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esq., a distinguished jurist of the Inner
Temple (in England) where recent and great efforts have been made to
simplify their criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his able
and voluminous reports and consolidations, prepared under the
employment of the government for the British Parliament. They con-
tain complete digests of the British statutes respecting crimes, with
copious annotations from the reports. They have been of essential
service to us . . . it is but just to remark that they were not so generally
applicable to this state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly digest-
ing and arranging so much of the law as relates to crimes and their
punishments.

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may be given to Mr.
Butler and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the first anti-cruelty state law and for
assigning its violation the punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti—cruelty legislation was Massachusetts in 1835.h
The wording was similar to that of the New York law, but the punishment was
designated “by imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or by
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars."

In 1838 Connecticut7 and WisconsinH added an anti—cruelty law to their stat-
utes. Connecticut's penalty was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine
not exceeding twenty-five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at not more
than thirty days and fine from five to fifty dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in which each state
enacted its first anti—cruelty law. Penalties were similar to those already quoted,
until Texasq set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvania w imposed a more severe pen—
alty: a fine up to two hundred dollars, imprisonment up to one year, or both, at
the discretion of the court; and Idaho set its punishment as “A fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment . . . not exceeding six months, or both

 




 

Animals and 'I 7101' r Legal Rights

such line and imprisonmmt. " IdahoH made another step forward by introducing
and passing a companion law (Sec. 142) to impose a similar penalty on any per—
son ”who shall willfully administer any poison to any cattle or domestic animal
or maliciously expose any poisonous substance, with the intent that the same
shall be taken or swallowed by cattle or domestic animal . . So far as is known,
this is the first law in the United States to protect domestic animals from poison-

ing.
UNITED STATES ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

Chronological Enactment

1641 Massachusetts Bay Colony "The Body of Liberties"

1828 New York 1871 Montana

1835 Massachusetts 1872 Colorado
1838 Connecticut 1873 Delaware
1838 Wisconsin 1873 Indiana

1842 New Hampshire 1873 Nebraska
1845 Missouri 1875 Georgia

1848 Virginia 1879 Arkansas

1851 Iowa 1879 Louisiana
1851 Minnesota 1880 Mississippi
1852 Kentucky 1880 Ohio

1854 Vermont 1881 North Carolina
1856 Texas 1881 South Carolina
1857 Rhode Island 1883 Alabama

1858 Tennessee 1883 Maine

1859 Kansas 1884 Hawaii

1859 Washington 1887 New Mexico
1860 Pennsylvania 1887 South Dakota
1861 Nevada 1889 Florida

1864 Idaho 1890 Maryland
1864 Oregon 1891 North Dakota
1867 New Jersey 1893 Oklahoma
1868 California 1895 Wyoming
1868 West Virginia 1898 Utah

1869 Illinois 1913 Alaska

1871 District of Columbia 1913 Arizona

1871 Michigan 1921 Virgin Islands

Bv 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for the incorpora-
tion of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, twenty
states had enacted anti—cruelty laws; of these states, six were in reality still
territories when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington,
Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry Bergh, even with his
newly incorporated society, found it difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biog-
rapher, A. F. Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASPCA, says that although
there had been an anti-cruelty law passed in New York State in 1829 [sic], no
one could remember that it had ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to
draft a new law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry Bergh’s

The Evolution of/1nti-Cruelti/ Laws

first law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the 1828 law, though an added sec-
tion aims to protect disabled horses and mules from abandonment.

Statutes at Large ot' the State of New York passed in the years 1863,
1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN ACT better to prevent cruelty to
animals. Passed April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. '1. The twenty-sixth section of title six, chapter first, part four
of the Revised Statutes, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or neglect, maliciously
kill, maim, wound, injure, torture or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox,
cattle, sheep or other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Sec. 2. Every owner, d river or possessor of an old, maimed, or dis-
eased horse or mule, turned loose or left disabled in any street, lane or
place of any city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule to lie
in any street, lane or public place for more than three hours after
knowledge of such disability, shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of re~establishing anti—cru-
elty legislation as a matter of public conscience, demanding respectful attention
by judges of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore dis-
missed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being inflicted on animals, how-
ever, and cognizant of the newly aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did
not stop with the somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when ”An Act for the more effectual preven-
tion of cruelty to animals" was passed on April 12. This Act has ten sections and
has since served as the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty
laws (forty—one states and the District of Columbia have present laws based on
this Act). For this reason it seems worthy of quotation in entirety here.

STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
john W. Edmonds, Ed, Vol. V11, 1870

CHAP. 375
AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals.
Passed April 12, 1867; three-fifths being present
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section 1. If any person shall over-drive, over-load, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly

 

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be over-
driven, over—loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary sus-
tenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly muti-
lated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in any way be
connected with, or interested in the management of, or shall receive
money for the admission of any person to any place kept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or other
creature, and every person who shall encourage, aid or assist therein,
or who shall permit or suffer any place to be so kept or used, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, or cause to be
impounded in any pound, any creature, shall supply to the same, dur—
ing such confinement, a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
food and water, and in default thereof, shall upon conviction, be
adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any time impounded as
aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and water
for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any per-
son, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter
into and upon any pound in which any such creature shall be so con—
fined, and to supply it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for
such entry, and the reasonable cost of such food and water may be col-
lected by him of the owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon judg-
ment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle or otherwise, any creature, in a cruel or inhuman
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall
be taken into custody therefor by any officer, such officer may take
charge of such vehicle and its contents, and deposit the same in some
safe place of custody; and any necessary expenses which may be
incurred for taking charge of and keeping and sustaining the same,
shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be lawfully
recovered. Or the said expenses or any part thereof remaining unpaid,
may be recovered by the person incurring the same, of the owner of
said creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter use any dog or dogs
for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck,
barrow or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village, for busi-
ness purposes, shall be required to take out a license for that purpose,
from the mayor or president thereof, respectively, and shall have the
number of said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section shall forfeit and
pay a fine of one dollar for the tirst offense, and a fine of ten dollars for
each subsequent offense.

 

The Evolution of'Aiiti-Crm'lty Laws

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled creature shall be
abandoned to die, by any person, in any public place, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for any magis-
trate or captain of police in this state to appoint suitable persons to
destroy such creature if unfit for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, upon being designated thereto by the sheriff of any
county in. this state, may, within such county, make arrest, and bring
before any court or magistrate thereof having jurisdiction, offenders
found violating the provisions of this act; and all fines imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions of this act, shall
inure to said society, in the aid of the benevolent objects for which it
was incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the first day of May next.
And the said American society for the prevention of cruelty to animals
shall cause the same to be published once each week for three weeks,
in four daily papers published in New York City, or in default thereof
shall forfeit the right to receive the penalties and fines as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
prohibit or interfere with any properly conducted scientific experi-
ments or investigations, which experiments shall be performed only
under the authority of the faculty of some regularly incorporated med-
ical college or university of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great advance made in
establishing protection and legal rights for animals. In Section I, notice the
detailed, specific cruelties, and that they are now applied to ”any living crea-
ture." Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal fights and baiting. Sections 3
and 4 protect impounded animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early impact of animal
experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty
charges.

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti—cruelty laws in the fifty states, the District of
Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the
Commonwealth of I’uerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally
agrees that all animals have the right to (l) protection from cruel treatment,
such as is described in detail in Section 1 of Henry Bergh's 1867 law; (2) protec—
tion from abandonment; (3) protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of
food, water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Treatment

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have laws which stipu-
late that cruel treatment must have been committed willfully, maliciously, or
cruelly. State statutes with qualifiers such as ”intentionally,” ”negligently,"
“maliciously," or "knowingly" define the mental state of the person charged.
Statutes without qualifiers make offenders strictly liable for an offense without

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

regard to mental state. Please note that terms such as ”cruelly” and
”unnecessarily” which characterize the circumstances of the offense committed
must be distinguished from the qualifiers "intentionally," ”negligently," “mali-
ciously," or "knowingly" which describe a culpable mental state.‘ In court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such
qualifiers can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly have been con-
victed of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other jurisdictions
drafted without qualifiers. Moreover, provisions with qualifiers can be inter—
preted as a license to inflict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inflicting the pain are not sadistic. It is
this interpretation that is applied to scientific research and to scientific demon—
strations in schools.

In 22 states and the District of Columbia, experimental animals used in sci-
entific institutions are specifically excluded from the protective coverage of the
anti-cruelty laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Geor-
gia, Hawaii, ldaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey,
New York, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington and Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are con-
structed in language similar to Missouri's law in which it is written that the pro-
tective provisions of the animal welfare statute ”shall not be construed to pre—
vent or interfere with any scientific experiments or investigations" (Section
578.055). In Utah, the statute explicitly permits both painful research and pain—
ful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this section that the con-
duct of the actor towards the animal was an accepted veterinary prac-
ticeH or directly related to a hona fide experimentation for scientific
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed, the manner
employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to
the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved [Section 76—9—
301[.

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska and Vermont call
for the ”humane" treatment of animals. The Vermont statute states that nothing
within the anti-cruelty law ”shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the
use of animals for scientific research by competent research men if done in a
humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the animals [Section 13-403[.”

Although Pennsylvania's anti-cruelty law does not contain such exemp-
tions, it does permit the issuance of search warrants to the police or humane
society agents to enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition:

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued under the provi-
sions of this section which shall authorize any policeman, or agent or
other person to enter upon to search premises where scientific
research is being conducted by, or under the supervision of, graduates
of duly accredited scientific schools or where biological products are
being produced for the care or prevention of disease. [Section 18-
5511, Act of June 3, 1911, as amended]

 

The Evolution ol/lnti-Cruelti/ Laws

Provision of Food, Water and Shelter

Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam prohibit both depriv-
ing an animal of ”necessary sustenance”and failing to provide ”food and water"
or “food, water and shelter." Several require the provision of ”necessary suste-
nance" without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase ”necessary sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for confined animals and necessary
veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-cruelty code states in
part: “A person who . . . deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or
drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink . . . or in any
way furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act ending to produce such
cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor. . (emphasis added). In the case of People v.
O'Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 37] N.Y.S. 2d
603, the defendants were charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a
limping horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary veteri—
nary care. The court noted the definition of "sustenance" in Webster's Third New
International Dictionary (1966): "the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries of life." The court also cited the definition of "torture" or ”cruelty":
"Every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted" and determined that failing to provide the horse
with necessary medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.H (Ital-
ics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in most
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private citizen to relieve a neg—
lected animal impounded on the property of another person by entering into
the place of confinement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter without qualifying
phrases, but most states require that failure to provide shelter be proven inten-
tional or cruel. Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mex-
ico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia do not specifically
require shelter, they prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance.
Courts in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi, the courts have not
yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the cold is needed
only in such states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states as Mississippi and
Louisiana, where shelter is not specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should
require shelter in its anti-cruelty code.

In 1989, Nevada Governor Bob Miller signed a bill into law authorizing the

state to seize cruelly treated agricultural animals. The law ' stemmed from a cru-
elty case in which cattle were starving to death.

This is the first state law to parallel, in part, a 1988 amendment to the British

 




Aninm/s and Their Legal Rights

Protection of Animals Act authorizing the court to disqualify any person con—
victed of cruelty to animals from having custody of any animal in the future.

Provision of Exercise, Space, Light,
Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light, ventilation and clean living
conditions for confined animals are important but infrequent requirements of
state anti—cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these provisions make
only brief references to them. Statutes in Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh
air. California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota,
Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exer-
cise or adequate space. Light is required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine
and Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

Protection from Abandonment

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code (Section 18—9—
201) as “the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its
care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care." Most
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone pro—
hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel
or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disu-
lrlcd animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec—
tion of wild animals‘in captivity).

Kinds of Animals Protected

With respect to which animals are to be protected from cruel treatment,
about half the state laws protect any non-human living creature or ”any animal,"
defining animals as all living creatures except human beings. The rest use the
words ”animal," “domestic animals," "captive animals," or ”warm-blooded crea-
tures."

Protection From Poisoning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another
commits a criminal act. The anti-cruelty laws of half the states specifically pro-
hibit the use of poison to inflict injury or death. Under the Connecticut anti—cru-
elty code, ”any person who . . . unjustifiably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such
drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done . . . shall be fined not more than $750 or imprisoned not
more than one year or both."

Among the states which prohibit administering and/or exposing toxic sub-
stances to domestic animals in the anti-cruelty code, variations exist as to which
animals are protected: some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock only,
and some distinguish between animals that are the property of the poisoner and
those that belong to someone else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to
poison may vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the species of
animal, and whether the animal belongs to the poisoner or to another, with the

 

 

The Evolution of/lnti—Cruelti/ Lines

longest term of imprisonment and highest fine usually imposed when the
poison is administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for example:

. . . a person who unjustifiably administers any poisonous or nox—
ious drug or substance to a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance with intent that it be
taken by a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or
domestic cattle are the property of himself or another, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in the state prison for not less than one year
nor more than 10 years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by
both fine and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any animal other than a
horse, mule or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug
or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal
other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the
property of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.IR This
section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious animals. [Section
574.150]

ln states without such anti—cruelty statutes, poisoning prohibitions may
exist under another title of the state law code, or poisoners who injure or kill
any animal belonging to another may be charged with committing a crime
against property. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be prosecuted for
injuring, killing or inflicting pain upon an animal. Colorado imposes the highest
fine for causing pain, injury or death: a minimum of six months' imprisonment
and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty—four months' imprisonment and/
or a $5,000 fine. The law states that "a person commits cruelty to animals if,
except as authorized by law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . . any
animal."

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement of a substantial
reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person trying to
poison domestic animals has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to
such activities.1h

Humane Transport of Animals

The anti—cruelty laws of most states, the District of Columbia, and the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico require that transport of animals be conducted in a
humane manner. Minnesota's law protects "any live animals" (defining ”ani-
mal" as "every living creature") and specifies the acts that constitute a cruel
manner of transport. Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

livery person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, any live ani-
mals upon any vehicle or otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can both stand and lie
down during transportation, and while awaiting slaughter; every per-
son who shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a vehicle or other-
wise, any live animal having feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or corporation engaged
in transporting livestock who shall detain the same in cars or compart-
ments for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading the same
in a humane manner into properly equipped pens for rest, water, and
feeding for a period of at least five consecutive hours, unless requested

 




r‘" I

Animals and Their Legal Rights

to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented by storm or una—
voidable causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the exer-
cise of due diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same to be
crowded together without sufficient space to stand, or so as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; pro-
vided, that upon the written request of the owner or person in custody
of that particular shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or other railroad form, the
time and confinement may be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

The majority of state laws requiring humane transport are much briefer
than Minnesota's, however, and are often written in the manner of the following
Mississippi statute: "If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or
upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor" [Section 97-41—5].

California, ldaho, Washington and West Virginia protect “domestic ani—
mals" from cruel transport. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and the 30 remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, ”any creature" or “any animal" ("an animal")—~with individual defini-
tions of ”animal."

Anti-cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are given in the
Appendix, along with the penalties for violating these statutes.

The Value of Specific Language

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-cruelty codes, usually consists of ”every act,
omission or neglect" whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted." Therefore, when a law does not specifically require shel-
ter, a judge may determine that failure to provide it is "an omission" or ”neg—
lect" causing "unjustifiable physical pain" and, therefore, an act of cruelty pun-
ishable by law. It is far better, however, if illegal acts are specifically prohibited
by statute. This need was demonstrated in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a violation of the
state’s anti-cruelty code. The statute then read as follows: ”Cruelty to animals is
subjecting any animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal
and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect."

The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty——as quoted above—— -in
jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas code gave no definition) and deter—
mined that "the mere act of abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel mis-
treatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas law which stated “cru—
eltv to animals is . . . having custody of any animal and subjecting such animal to
cruel neglect" does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those per—
sons "having custody" of an animal and "an abandoned animal would not be in
custody of the original owner."

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation with more specific
prohibitions and requirements. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, American
Samoa and the Virgin lslands. In Georgia, for example, the portion of the law
prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: “A person

 

 

\/\)

 

 

The Evolution Uf/ltlff—Crllt’ffl/ Lines

is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect causes unjus-
tifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal."

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of animals should
work to: (1) preserve strong laws; (2) promote better state and federal legisla-
tion; (3) be alert to proposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent
humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient animal protective
societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty to those in authority, including the local
police or sheriff, state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways to
monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8) promote humane edu-
cation.

Following are important provisions from the anti—cruelty laws of the 50
states and the District of Columbia:

ALABAMA

13A-11-14. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal belonging to
another.

ll’enalty: Up to 6 months' imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 fine (§13—A—5-7,
13-A-5—12).l

ALASKA

11.61.140. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if the person
(1) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged physical pain or suffer-
ing on an animal;
(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result of that neglect, causes
the death of the animal or causes severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .
(c) in this section, ’animal' means a vertebrate living creature not human
being, but does not include fish.

IPenalty: Up to $5,000 fine and or up to 1 year's imprisonment (§12.55.035,
1255135).)

ARlZO NA

13-2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, such person recklessly:
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human custody or control to
cruel mistreatment; or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his custody or control to cruel
neglect or abandonment; or

  




Animals and Their Legal Rights

3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody or control of another .

without either legal privilege or consent of the owner . .
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2 misdemeanor.

IPenalty: Up to 4 months' imprisonment and/or up to $750 fine (§13—707, 13-
802)]

ARKANSAS

5—62-101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, except as author-
ized by law, he knowingly:
(1) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another without legal priv-
ilege or consent of the owner.
(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

5-62-110. Definitions.
(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) ’Animal’ or ’dumb animal' includes every living creature;
(2) 'Torture,’ ’torment,’ or ’cruelty’ include every act, omission, or neg—
lect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit-
ted . . .

IPenalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 year’s imprisonment $54.20], 5—4-
401)]

CALIFORNIA

597. Cruelty to animals.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section or Section 599C,
every person who maliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or
wounds a living animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is guilty
of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a fine of not
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and imprison—
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the fine and imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suf-
fering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner abuses
any animal, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or
protection from the weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a

 

 

The Evolution of/inli—Crm'lti/ LIIU‘S

"

misdemeanor or as a felony or alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a
felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . . .

599.b. . . . 'animal' includes every dumb creature; the words ’torment,’ ’torture,’
and ’cruelty' include every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

[n 1989, California prohibited disciplining elephants by beating that may
break the skin, electrical shocking, starving, and the use of martingales and
block and tackle for their restraint.

COLORADO

18-9-20]. Definitions. As used in section 18-9-202, unless the context otherwise
requires:

(1) ’Abandon’ includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per—
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its proper care.

(2) ’Animal' means any living dumb creature.

(3) ’Mistreatment' includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering.

(4) ’Neglect’ includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
elements, opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for
an animal's health and well-being.

18—9-202. Cruelty to animals—~neglect of animals—~—offenses.

(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by law, he
knowingly or with criminal negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a
cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or pro—
cures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to pro-
vide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) in the case of any person incurring a second or subsequent convic-
tion under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of
imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory
and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro-
bation or parole for any part of such period . . .

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals—penalty.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily 0r
cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or
otherwise in a cruel or inhumane manner any animal or causes or procures it to
be done or who, having charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to
provide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly
abandons it commits a class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided
in section 18—1-106, C.R.S.

lPenalty: Minimum sentence is six months" imprisonment or $500 fine, or both;
maximum sentence is 24 months' imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or both (§18-1-
106).]

 




 

 

 

  

Animals and Their Legal Rights

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustifiably injures any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any
animal, fails to give such animal proper care or neglects to cage or restrain any
such animal from doing injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply
any such animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably adminis-
ters any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic animal or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall
be taken by an animal, or causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of
any animal, inflicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with proper food, drink
or protection from the weather or abandons it or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a cruel manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or carries on or
performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in, or is a witness of, or in any
way aids in or engages in the furtherance of, any fight between cocks or other
birds, dogs or other animals, premeditated by any person owning, or having
custody of, such birds or animals, or fights with or baits, harasses or worries any
animal for the purpose of making it perform for amusement, diversion or exhi-
bition, shall be fined not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars or impris-
oned not more than one year or both.

DELAWA RE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words. and phrases shall
include, but not be limited to, the meanings respectively ascribed to them as fol—
lows:

(1) ’Cruel’ includes every act or omission to act whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ’Cruel mistreatment' includes any treatment whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) 'Cruel neglect' includes neglect of an animal. which is under the
care and control of the neglector, whereby pain or suffering is caused to the ani-
mal or abandonment of any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) ’Crueltv to animals’ includes mistreatment of any animal or neglect
of any animal under the care and control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way of example this
includes: Unjustifiable beating of an animal; overworking an animal; torment-
ing an animal; abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) ’Person' includes any individual, partnership, corporation or asso-
ciation living and/or doing business in the State.

(6) ’Abandonment' includes completely forsaking or deserting an ani-
mal originally under one's custody without making reasonable arrangements
for custody of that animal to be assumed by another person.

(7) ’Custodv' includes the responsibility for the welfare of an animal
subject to one's carejand control whether he owns it or not.

(8) ’l’roper feed' includes providing each animal with daily food and

 

The Evolution of/lnli-Cruelti/ Lures

 

 

   
  

water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(9) ’I’roper shelter’ includes providing each animal with adequate
shelter from the weather elements as required to prevent unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(10) 'Proper veterinary care' includes providing each animal with vet-
erinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(11) ’Animal' shall not include fish, crustacea or molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he intentionally or reck-
lessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any animal whether
belonging to himself or another. This section does not apply to the killing of any
animal normally or commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided
that such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if the act is not
required to terminate an animal's suffering, to protect the life or property of the
actor or another person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist which
would not impair the health or well-being of that animal.

IPenalty: Class A misdemeanor: Up to $1,000 fine and /or up to 2 years' impris-
onment (sill—4206, 11-42(17)]

  
   

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

22-801. Definitions and penalty:

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or
cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sus-
tenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, shall for
every such offense be punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year,
or by fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

22-802. Other cruelties to animals:

livery owner, possessor, or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unfit for labor, or cruelly aban—
dons the same, or who carries the same, or causes the same to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhumane manner,
or knowingly and wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind shall be punished for
every such offense in the manner provided in Section 2280].

22-807. Impounded animals to be supplied with food and water:
Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound,

  

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

any creature, shall supply the same, during such confinement, with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water; and in default thereof shall,
upon conviction, be punished for every such offense in the same manner pro~
vided in section 22-801.

22-812. Abandonment of maimed or diseased animals . . .

A person being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons such animal, or
leaves it to lie in the street or road, or public place, more than three hours after
he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not less than ten dollars nor more than two hundred and fifty dol-
lars, or by imprisonment in jail not more than one year, or both. Any agent or
officer of the Washington Humane Society may lawfully destroy, or cause to be
destroyed, any animal found abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing,
in the judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to view the same in his
presence, to be glandered, injured, or diseased past recovery for any useful pur-
pose. When any person arrested is, at the time of such arrest, in charge of any
animal, or of any vehicle drawn by any animal, or containing any animal, any
agent of said society may take charge of such animal and such vehicle and its
contents and deposit the same in a place of safe custody or deliver the same into
the possession of the police authorities, who shall assume the custody thereof;
and all necessary expenses incurred in taking charge of such property shall be a
lien thereon . . .

22-813. Definitions:

in section 22-801 to 22-809, inclusive, and section 22-811, the word 'ani-
mals' or ’animal' shall be held to include all living and sentient creatures
(human beings excepted) . . .

FLORIDA

828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives
of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates,
or kills any animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in §775.082 or by a
fine of not more than $5,000, or both.

(Penalty: Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (§775.082).]

GEORGIA

16-12—4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect
causes unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of animals raised for the
purpose of providing food nor does it apply to any person who hunts wild ani-
mals in compliance with the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or injur—
ing of an animal for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scien-
tific research is justifiable.

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months' imprisonment (§17-10-3).]

 

 

The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws

HAWAI I

711—1100. Definitions of terms in this chapter . . .

(5) 'Animal’ includes every living creature;

(6) ’Cruelty,’ 'torture' or ’torment’ includes every act, omission, or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if he knowingly or
recklessly:

(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, or cruelly beats or needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or pro-
cures to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of neces—
sary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed, any
living creature;

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with or interested in the
management of, or receives money for the admission of any person to, any
place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock
or other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or assists therein, or
who permits or suffers any place to be so kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or other con-
veyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane manner;

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act towards the further-
ance of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (1)(a), (c), (d) and the following subsection (3) are not
applicable to accepted veterinary practices and to activities carried on for scien-
tific research governed by standards of accepted educational or medical prac—
tices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured that there is no
reasonable probability that its life or usefulness can be saved, the animal may be
immediately destroyed.

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 year's imprisonment (§37-706—640,
37-706-663).l

IDAHO

18-2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds an animal, the
property of another, or who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shel—
ter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any
animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, or to be
cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the same with proper food, drink,
shelter or protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or other-
wise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
misdemeanor.

 




 

 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section shall be punished by
a jail sentence of not more than six (6) months or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

18—2108. lmpounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in any pound, any
domestic animal, must supply the same during such confinement with a suffi—
cient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. ln case any domestic animal is at any time impounded
as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary food and water for more
than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful for any person, from time to time, as may be
deemed necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such animal is
confined, and supply it with necessary food and water so long as it remains so
confined. Such person is not liable to any action for such entry, and the reasona-
ble cost of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such
animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon a judgment therefor . . .

18-2109. Permitting animals to go without care-—Abandoned animals to be
killed.

Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who shall permit the same
to be in any building, inclosure, lane, street, square or lot of any city, county or
precinct, without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. And it shall be the duty of any peace officer, or officer
of any incorporated association qualified as provided by law, to take possession
of the animal so abandoned or neglected, and care for the same until it is
redeemed by the owner or claimant, and the cost of ca ring for such animal shall
be a lien on the same until the charges are paid. Every sick, disabled, infirm, or
crippled animal which shall be abandoned in any city, county or precinct, may if
after due search no owner can be found therefor, be killed by such officer; and it
shall be the duty of all peace officers, or by an officer of said incorporated associ-

ation, to cause the same to be killed on information of such abandonment. Such.

officer may likewise take charge of any animal that by reason of lameness, sick—
ness, feebleness or neglect, is unfit for the labor it is performing, or that in any
other manner is being cruelly treated; and, if such animal is not then in custody
of its owner, such officer shall give notice thereof to such owner, if known, and
may provide suitable care for such animal until it is deemed to be in a suitable
condition to be delivered to such owner, and any necessary expenses which
may be incurred for taking care of and keeping the same shall be a lien thereon,
to be paid before the same can be lawfully recovered.
18-2112. Terms defined.

ln this chapter the word ’animal' includes every dumb creature; the words

’torment,’ 'torture' and ’cruelty' include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

ILLINOIS

8-70301. Cruel treatment.
§3.01. No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, over-
work or otherwise abuse any animal. No owner may abandon any animal where

 

 

 

- ﬂ.¢~ o‘-

The Evolution of Anti—Cruelty LlNl’S

it may become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

lPenalty: First offense, class C misdemeanor; second offense, class B mis—
demeanor; third or subsequent conviction, class A misdemeanor]

INDIANA

35-46-3-3. ’Animal’ defined.
As used in this chapter, ’animal’ does not include a human being . . .

35-46-3—7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A person having a
vertebrate animal in the person's custody who recklessly, knowingly, or inten-
tionally abandons or neglects the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor.

35-46—3-12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(1) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate animal resulting in serious
injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority of the owner of the
animal; commits cruelty to an animal. a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably believes the conduct
was necessary to:
(1) Prevent injury to the accused person or another person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from destruction or
substantial damage; or
> (3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged suffer-
ing.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year's imprisonment in addition to a
fine of up to $5,000 (§35-50-3-2); Class B misdemeanor: Up to 180 days' impris-
onment in addition to a fine of up to $1,000 (§35-50—3-3).l

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals.

A person who impounds or confines, in any place, a domestic animal or
fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to section 109.60, or dog or cat, and fails to
supply the animal during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate shelter, or who tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates, overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means
which cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently, commits the offense of cruelty to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor. A person who intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to ani-
mals which results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is guilty of a
serious misdemeanor.

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dogs—penalty.

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon
the cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person
who will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

to an animal shelter or pound as defined in section 162.2. A person who violates
this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.

KANSAS

21-4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:
(a) intentionally killing, injuring, maiming, torturing or mutilating any
animal;
(b) abandoning or leaving any animal in any place without making
provisions for its proper care; or
(c) having physical custody of any animal and failing to provide such
food, potable water, protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise and
other care as is needed for the health or well—being of such kind of animal . . .
(3) Cruelty to animals is a class B misdemeanor.

21—4313. Animals, Definitions . . .
(1) ’Animal' means every living vertebrate except a human being . . .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months' imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 fine (§21:4502, 2]-
4503).]

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.
(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being a
spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight for
pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide
adequate food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal.

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) lncident to the processing as food or for other commercial pur—
poses;

(c) For humane purposes;

(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.

IPenalty: A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12 months' (§534.040,
534090))

LOUISIANA

14:102. Definitions; cruelty to animals . . .
(1) ’Cruel’ means every act or failure to act whereby unjustifiable physical
pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

 

 

The Evolution of/lnii-Cruelii/ Lines

(2) ’Abandons' means to completely forsake and desert an animal pre-
viously under the custody or possession of a person without making reasonable
arrangements for its proper care, sustenance, and shelter.

(3) ’l’roper food' means providing each animal with daily food of sufficient
quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the
animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with daily water of suffi-
cient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by
the animal.

(5) ’Proper shelter' means providing each animal with adequate shelter
from the elements as required to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering
by the animal.

(6) ’Proper veterinary care' means providing each animal with veterinary
care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering
by the animal.

14:102.]. Cruelty to animals.
A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal negligence commits any
of the following shall be guilty of cruelty to animals:

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, or overworks a
living animal.

(2) Tortures, torments, cruelly beats or unjustifiably injures, maims,
mutilates, or kills any living animal, whether belonging to himself or another.

(3) Having charge, custody, or possession of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, unjustifiably fails to provide it with proper food, proper
drink, proper shelter, or proper veterinary care.

(4) Abandons any animal.

(5) lmpounds or confines or causes to be impounded or confined in a
pound or other place, a living animal and fails to supply it during such confine-
ment with proper food, proper drink, and proper shelter.

(6) Carries, or causes to be carried, a living animal in or upon a vehicle
or otherwise, in a cruel or inhumane manner.

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or sub-
stance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or sub-
stance, with intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic
animal.

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner.

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or omission whereby
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused to or
permitted upon the animal.

(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person any act enumerated
in this Section.

B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. . .

14:1024. Confined animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined, and continues without
necessary food and water for more than twenty-four consecutive hours, any law
enforcement officer may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or confined and supply it with necessary food and water
so long as it shall remain impounded or confined.

 




Aninmls and Their Legal Rights

MAINE

7:3907. Definitions.

As used in this Part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, unless
the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the following
meanings . .

2. Animal. 'Animal’ means every living, sentient creature not a human
being . . .

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. ’Torment, torture and cruelty' means
every act, omission or neglect, whether by the owner or any other person,
where unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . . .

29. Well cared for. 'Well cared for' means that the animal is receiving neces-
sary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from
the weather and humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been
nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured, abandoned, poisoned,
beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison with the intent that it be taken by the
animal . . .

7:401]. Cruelty to Animals.
1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
the consent of the owner, or kills or attempts to kill any animal with the owner's
consent, by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or occupant of
property is privileged to use reasonable force to eject a trespassing animal;

8. injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons, gives poison to, cruelly
beats or mutilates any animal or exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken
by an animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of necessary suste-
nance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December, January, February
or March without providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter . . .

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as pre-
scribed in this section.

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and quaiity‘to maintain all
animals in good health.

2. Water. if potable water is not accessible to the animal at all times, it shall
be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention when the animal
is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism or mai-
formed or overgrown hoof.

724015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean condi-
tions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of farm

 

 

The Evolution qunli-Cruelli/ Lures

animals, nothing in this section may be construed as imposing shelter require—
ments or standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practice
in the particular county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes of
this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as follows.
A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the health of the ani-
mai.
B. indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or
mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as fol-
lows.

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or
caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be provided to
protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, ’caged' does
not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals.

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.

(1) An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides and a waterproof
roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall
be provided as necessary for the health of the animal.

(2) if a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under weather
conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size
with a floor above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to accommo-
date the dog and protect it from the weather and, in particular, from severe cold.
inadequate shelter may be indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold
weather for a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or
vessel of any kind when extreme heat or extreme cold will be harmful to its
health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and outdoor
enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide sufficient
space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. inadequate space
may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal
behavior patterns.

4. Humaneiv clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary to
provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleanings to remove excretions and other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation.
Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil violation for which a

forfeiture of $500 for each offense may be adjudged and such other relief as may
be necessary to restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the effects of
cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well cared for.

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of necessary suste—
nance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes,
procures or authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon
the animal, or unnecessarily fails to provide the animal with nutritious food in
sufficient quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air, space, shelter or
protection from the weather; or (4) uses or permits to be used any bird, fowl, or
cock for the purpose of fighting with any other animal, which is commonly
known as cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner, possessor, or cus-
todian of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, who abandons such animal or
drops or leaves such animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $100.00 . . .

27:62. Definitions.
The words 'torture,’ ’torment,’ and ’cruelty’ mean every act, omission, or

neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted, and the word ’animal' means every living creature except
man.

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or
kills an animal, or causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces—
sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel
or inhuman manner in a race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait in fishing; and who-
ever, having the charge or custody of an animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or protection from the
weather, and whoever, as owner, possessor, or person having the charge or cus-
tody of an animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or willfully
abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a vehicle, or other-
wise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner
which might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully
authorizes or permits it to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cru-
elty of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dol—
lars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon conviction for any
violation of this section . . . the defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to
determine the defendant's fitness for continued custody of the abused animal,

 

 

The Evolution of/tnti-Cruelty Laws

be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of any society, incorporated
under the laws of the commonwealth for the prevention of cruelty to animals or
for the care and protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction.

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal, and
whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or other-
wise, inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, is guilty
ofa misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or fined
not more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Definitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. ’Animal’ means every living creature except members of
the human race.

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' means every act, omission, or
neglect which causes or permits unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or
death . . .

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty.

Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive, overload, torture, cru-
elly beat, neglect, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or
cruelly work any animal when it is unfit for labor, whether it belongs to that per-
son or to another person.

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive any animal over
which the person has charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or other animal in any
enclosure without providing wholesome exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed any cow on food which produces
impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow any maimed,
sick, infirm, or disabled animal to lie in any street, road, or other public place for
more than three hours after receiving notice of the animal's condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty
to animals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage any animal for public display pur-
poses unless the display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to
protect the caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal dimen-
sion of each side of the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal.

 




 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricul-
tural society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county agricultural societies,
county fairs, to any agricultural display of caged animals by any political subdi-
vision of the state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national educational
livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions of this subdivision do not apply
to captive wildlife, the exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.041.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

ll’enalty: Up to 90 days' imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine (§609.03).]

MISSISSIPPI

97—41-1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

lf any person shall override, overdrive, overload, torture, torment,
unjustifiably injure, deprive of necessary sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly
beat or needlessly mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustifiably injured, tormented, or deprived of necessary
sustenance, food or drink; or to be cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or
killed, any living creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

97-41-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97—41-7. Confining creatures without food or water.

If any person shall confine, or cause to be confined, in any stable, lot, or
other place, any living creature, without supplying the same during such con-
finement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide sustenance.

lf any person be the owner or have the custody of any living creature and
unjustifiably neglect or refuse to furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. '

MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:

(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of sections 578.005 to
578.023;

(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes injury, suffering, or
pain to an animal;

(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making provisions for its
adequate care;

(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or works an animal
unfit to work; or

(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal willfully fails to provide

 

 

The Evolution of/lnti—Cruclty Laws

adequate care or adequate control.
2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Up to 1 year's imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000 (§558.011,
560016)]

MONTANA

45-8-211. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if without justifica-
tion he knowingly or negligently subjects an animal to mistreatment or neglect
by:

(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody with proper food, drink,
or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or

(e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or participating in a horse race
of more than 2 miles.

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to animals shall be fined
not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed 6
months, or both. If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to the
county in which he is convicted any animal affected. This provision does not
affect the interest of any secured party or other person who has not participated
in the offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection (2), the court may
require the defendant to pay all reasonable costs incurred in providing neces—
sary veterinary attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

28-1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and abandon; defined. As
used in section 28-1002, unless the context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and a wild living crea-
ture previously captured. Animal does not include an uncaptured wild creature
or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under
section 28-1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food, water, protection from
the elements, opportunity to exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper
for an animal's health and well—being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its proper ca re.

 




 

  

28-1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(c) Abandons any animal; or
(dl Kills or injures any animal belonging to another.
(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class ll misdemeanor . . .

IPenalty: Maximum 6 months' imprisonment or $1,000 fine or both (§28-106).]

NEVADA

574.050. Definitions . . .
As used in NRS 574.050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. ’Animal' does not include the human race, but includes every other
living creature.
2. ’Torture' or ’cruelty’ includes every act, omission or neglect,
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning animals; failure to pro—
vide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or unjustifiably
injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or to
another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink, or neg-
lects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink;

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink;

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers
an act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than those prohibited in
NR5 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.

1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody, of a
maimed, diseased. disabled or infirm animal, who abandons such animal or
leaves it to die in a public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie in a
public street, road or public place more than 3 hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to impounded animal; pen-
alty.

1. A person who, having impounded or confined any animal, refuses or
neglects to supply to such animal during its confinement a sufficient supply of
good and wholesome air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

Il’enalty: Up to 6 months’ imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000, or both
(§193.150).l

 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

 

 

The Evolution uf/lnli—Crm’lli/ Laws

NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

l. In this section, ’cruelty' shall include, but not be limited to, acts or omis-
sions injurious or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any animal,
including the abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its care,
sustenance, protection or shelter.

ll. In this section, ’animal' means a domestic animal, a household pet or a
wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives or causes to be
deprived any animal in his possession or custody necessary care, sustenance or
shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures, mutilates or in any other
manner mistreats or causes to be mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when overloaded, or
otherwise abuses or misuses any animal intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animal in his possession or custody in a
manner injurious to the health, safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in his possession or
custody by causing such animal to be left without supervision or adequate pro—
vision for its care, sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any animal in his posses-
sion or custody to be subjected to cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary
suffering of any kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in paragraph
lll, any person charged with cruelty to animals may have his animal confiscated
by the arresting officer and, upon said person's conviction of cruelty to animals,
the court may dispose of said animal in any manner it decides. The costs, if any,
incurred in boarding and treating the animal, pending disposition of the case,
and in disposing of the animal, upon a conviction of said person for cruelty to
animals, shall be borne by the person so convicted . . .

lPenalty: Up to 1 year's imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000 (§651:2).]

NEW JERSEY

4:22-15. Definitions.
As used in this article:
’Animal' or ’creature’ includes the whole brute creation . . .

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature
in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor.

A person who shall impound or confine, or cause to be impounded or con—
fined, in a pound or other place, a living animal or creature, and shall fail to sup-
ply it during such confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and whole-
some food and water, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as pro—
vided in section 4:22—26 of this title.

  

 

 




 

 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place; misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or
creature to die in a public place, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty.
A person who shall:

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, tor~
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or
needlessly mutilate or kill a living animal or creature;

b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent, servant, employee or oth—
erwise an act enumerated in subsection ’a' of this section;

c. Inflict unnecessary cruelty upon a living animal or creature of which
he has charge or custody either as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to
provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather;

d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by reason of disability, dis-
ease or lameness, or any other cause, could not be worked without violating the
provisions of this article;

e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in the management of, or
receive money or other consideration for the admission of a person to, a place
kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting a living animal or creature;

f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or assist in an activity enu-
merated in subsection ’9' of this section;

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by him to be used as
provided in subsection ’e’ of this section;

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature in or upon a
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw a
vehicle for business purposes;

i. lmpound or confine or cause to be confined in a pound or other
place a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such confine-
ment with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or creature to die
in a public place;

I. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose, or cause or permit to be sold
or offered for sale, used or exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease
known as glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease dangerous
to the health or life of human beings or animals, or who shail, when any such
disease is beyond recovery, refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside stand or market for
the sale of merchandise along a public street or highway; or a shopping mall, or
a part of the premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature confined, or
allowed to roam in an area whether or not the area is enclosed, on these prem-
ises as an exhibit; except that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet
shop licensed pursuant to 17.1.. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15] et seq); a person who
keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for the purpose of the protection of the
premises; or a recognized breeders' association, a 4-H club, an educational agri-
cultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or other similar charita-
ble or nonprofit organization conducting an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside stand or market located
along a public street or highway of this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping
mall, or a part of the premises thereof;

 

 

V33

The Evolution ofAnti-Cruelty Laws

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or display live baby chicks,
ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, turtles or chameleons which have been dyed
or artificially colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artificial
color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the purpose of soliciting any
alms, collections, contributions, subscriptions, donations, or payment of money
except in connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted in a
bona fide manner by recognized breeders' associations, 4—H clubs or other simi-
lar bona fide organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away living rabbits, turtles, baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl under 2 months of age, for use as household or
domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away living baby chicks, ducklings
or other fowl, or rabbits, turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any
purpose not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall fail to pro-
vide proper facilities for the care of such animals;

5. Artificially mark sheep or cattle, or cause them to be marked, by
cropping or cutting off both ears, cropping or cutting either ear more than 1
inch from the tip end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either ear’
more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall have or keep in his pos-
session sheep or cattle, which he claims to own, marked contrary to this
subsection unless they were bought in market or of a stranger;

t. Abandon a dog or cat-—

Shall forfeit and pay a sum not to exceed $250.00 to be sued for and recov-
ered, with costs, in a civil action by any person in the name of the New Jersey
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

NEW MEXICO

30-18—1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary sustenance, cruelly
beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal with proper food or
drink; or

C. cruelly driving or working any animal when such animal is unfit for
labor. Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a fine of not more than
$500.00, or both (§31-19-1).I

NEW YORK

350. Definitions.

1. ’Animal,’ as used in this article, includes every living creature except a
human being;

2. ’Torture' or ’cruelty’ includes every act, omission, or neglect, whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to provide proper sus-
tenance.

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or
unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether wild or tame,
and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprives any animal of nec-
essary sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such suste-
nance or drink, or causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who wilfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars, or by both . . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of an
animal, who abandons such animal, or leaves it to die in a street, road or public
place, or who allows such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public street,
road or public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left
disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
than one year, or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both.

356. Failure to provide proper food and drink to impounded animal.

A person who, having impounded or confined any animal, refuses or neg—
lects to supply to such animal during its confinement a sufficient supply of good
and wholesome air, food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punish—
able by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars, or by both. In case any animal shall be at any time
impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and
water for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into and upon
any pound in which any such animal shall be so confined, and to supply it with
necessary food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such person
shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost of such
food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such animal, and the
said animal shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon
a judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROLINA

14—3b0. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill
or cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, injured, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly muti-
lated or killed as aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such offender
shall for every such offense be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating to animals, the
words ’animal’ and ’dumb animal' shall be held to include every living creature;
the words ’torture,’ 'torment' or ’cruelty' shall be held to include every act, omis—
sion or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused
or permitted. Such terms shall not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of
animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Com—
mission.

 

 

Tlie Evolution ofAnti—Crm’lfy Laws

14—361. lnstigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate, or move to, carry on, or
promote, or engage in, or do any act towards the furtherance of any act of cru~
elty to any animal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine ot
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year.

14-3611. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody ot
an animal, who willfully and without justifiable excuse abandons the animal is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars
($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.1—01. Definitions. In this chapter, unless the context or subject matter oth-
erwise requires:

1. 'Animal' includes every living animal except the human race.

2. ’Board' means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. ’Cruelty' or 'torture' includes every act, omission, or neglect whereb}
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted . .

36—21.1-02. Overworking or mistreating animals.

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, oi
unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work any ani—
mal when unfit for labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has charge or control
of necessary food, water, or shelter.

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure without exercise and
wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animal ot
which he is the owner, or of which he has custody, to lie in any street, road, or
other public place for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way further, any act of cru—
elty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display purposes unless the
display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the caged
animal from the elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side ot
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal. The provisions of
this subsection do not apply to the North Dakota state fair association, to agri-
cultural fair associations, to any agricultural display of caged animals by any
political subdivision, or to district, regional, or national educational livestock or
poultry exhibitions. Zoos which have been approved by the health district or
the governing body of the political subdivision which has jurisdiction over the
zoos are exempt from the provisions of this subsection . . .

[Penalty: Maximum one year's imprisonment, a fine of $1,000, or both.]

OHIO

959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, shall abandon
such animal.

 




 

 

\r
"\ 0

3W

 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of not more than $100.]

959.02. lnjuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of the
owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is the property
of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an
official capacity.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of the animal killed or the
injury done amounts to less than $300, misdemeanor of the second degree,
punishable by not more than 90 days' imprisonment and/or a fine of not more
than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300
or more, misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable by not more than six
months' imprisonment and/or a fine of not more than $1,000.]

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unne-
cessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an
animal without supplying it during such confinement with a sufficient quantity
of good wholesome food and water;

(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during such
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sun-
light if it can reasonably be expected that the animals would otherwise become
sick or in some other way suffer. Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply
to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, shelter means a man—made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree devel-
opment, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

ll’enalty: Misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by not more than 90
days' imprisonment and/or a fine of not more than $750.]

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to the soci-
etv or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the
county, township, or municipal corporation where such violation occurred.

OKLAHOMA

2111685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive, overload, torture,
destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subju—
gation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself or
to another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter; or
who shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or injured, maimed
or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall

 

 

The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws

willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelty
to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding five (5) years, or by imprison-
ment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not exceeding Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer finding an animal so maltreated or
abused shall cause the same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall
be a lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien.

21:1686. Abandoned aniinals~l)estroyed how.

A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled, or infirm animal who abandons said animal or who allows said animal
to lie in a public street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the animal is disabled or
dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section and Section 1691 of this
title, the term abandon means the voluntary relinquishment of an animal with
no intention to retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited to
vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to
feed the animal or allowing it to stray or wander onto private or public property
with the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said animal.

21:1691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or highways or in any
public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other domestic animal along
any private or public roadway, or in any other private or public place with the
intention of abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.

21:1692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of Sections 1686
. . . 1691 of this title shall be punished by a fine in an amount not less than One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one (1) year, or by both
said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.850. Definition and classification of the crime of cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment; or — l
(b) Subjects any animal under his custody or control to cruel neglect;
or
(c) Kills without legal privilege any animal under the custody or con-
trol of another.
(2) As used in this section, ’animal’ includes birds.
(3) Cruelty to animals is a Class B misdemeanor.

167.860. Specific acts defined as cruelty to animals; defense; exceptions.
(1) As used in this section, 'animal' means any mammal, bird, reptile or
amphibian.

 




a?» I

Animals and Their Legal Rights

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any animal, or
who, having the charge of or custody of any animal as owner, or otherwise,
inflicts cruelty upon the animal, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody of any animal,
who cruelly drives or works the animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly aban—
dons the animal, or carries or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or wilfully
authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to torture, suffering, or cruelty
of any kind, shall be punished for each and every offense in the manner pro-
vided in subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or person having the
charge or custody of any animal, who deprives such animal of necessary and
adequate food and drink for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and
every offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this section . 5..

PENNSYLVANIA

18:5511. Cruelty to animals . . .

(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms shall have the
meanings given to them in this paragraph:

'Domestic animal.’ Any dog, cat, equine animal, bovine. animal, sheep,
goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals—A person commits a summary offense if he wan-
tonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats or otherwise abuses any animal,
whether belonging to himself or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives
any animal of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. . .

II’enalty: Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4-1-1. Definitions . . .
(l) The words 'animal' and ’animals' shall be held to include every liv—
ing creature except a human being . . .

4—1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animalsw 'Shelter' defined.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, tor-
ture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly
kill, or cause or procure to be so overd riven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever, hav—
ing the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall
inflict cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide that animal with
proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall, for every such
offense, be imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding five hundred dollars ($500), or be both
imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

’Shelters,’ as used in this chapter, shall mean a structure used to house any

 

 

 

 

The Evolution nf/lnti—Cruelti/ Laws

animal, and which will provide sufficient protection from inclement elements
for the health and well—being of the animal.

4—1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani—
mal, who shall cruelly drive or work that animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly
abandon that animal, or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner, or
wilfully authorize or permit that animal to be subjected to unnecessary torture,
suffering or cruelty of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain, or that shall be
declared a hazardous substance by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration or
by the Rhode lsland Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1—2; provided however, that this section
shall not be deemed to include any drug having curative and therapeutic effect
for disease in animals and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4-1-4. Abandonment of infirm animals.

lf any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be abandoned to die,
by any owner or person having charge of that animal, that person shall, for
every such offense, be punished in the manner provided in 4-1-2 . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA

47-1-10. ’Animal' and ’animals' defined.
In this chapter the words 'animal' or 'animals' shall be held to include all
brute creatures.

47-1-40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill—treats, deprives of nec-
essary sustenance, shelter, or inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any
animal or causes these things to be done, whether the person is the owner of the
animal or has charge or custody of it, for every offense, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty days or by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not exceeding sixty days or
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates, cruelly kills, or
inflicts excessive or repeated unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes the acts to be done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to exceed sixty days
or by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars, or both.

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl, accepted animal
husbandry practices of farm operations, the training of animals, or the practice
of veterinary medicine.

47-1-50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and unnecessary tor-
ture.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal who:




(A? I

Animals and Their Legal Rights

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor;

(2) Cruelly abandons it;

(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise
in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind;

Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be pun-
ished for every such offense in the manner prescribed in 47-1-40.

47—1—70. Abandonment of infirm animal in public place.

A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal in any town or city of this State,
who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left disabled
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding thirty days.

SOUTH DAKOTA

40—1-1. Definition of terms . . .
(1) ’Animal' shall include every living dumb creature;
(2) "l‘orture/ 'torment,’ and ’cruelty’ shall include every act, omission, or

neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted . . .

40-1—2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat,
mutilate, or cruelly kill any animal.

40-1-21 Abandoning animal prohibited.
No person may abandon any animal.

40-1-6. lmpounding or leaving of animal without proper attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in any building,
enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without proper care and attention for more
than twelve consecutive hours.

40-1-15. Violation of chapter as misdemeanor.
A violation of any provision in this chapter, which is not otherwise classi-
fied, is a Class 2 misdemeanor.

40—1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as misdemeanor.

Every person who maliciously kills or injures any animal, other than those
specified in 40-1-21 [livestock], belonging to another, or any animal whatever
belonging to himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Class 1 misdemeanor: one year's imprisonment in county jail and/or
$1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30 days’ imprisonment in county jail and/or
$100 fine]

 

 

 

The Evolution ofAnli—Cruelli/ Linus

TENNESSEE

39—3-10]. Definitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, the words ani-
mal or dumb animal shall be held to include every living creature; the words
torture, torment, or cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit—
ted; but nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds
or game for the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by incor-
porated gun clubs.

39-3-104. Cruelty to animals.

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture, torment, deprive of neces-
sary sustenance, or cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or pro-
cure same to be done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell, or
exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every such offender shall, for
every offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the
purchase of animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of this
state, for the purpose of humaner killing the same.

39—3—106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound or
other place, any creature, shall supply to the same during such confinement a
sufficient quantity of good and Wholesome food and water, and in default
thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39—3-110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote, or engage in, or do
any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

39-3—121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.

It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or otherwise
willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline species on public lands or
rights of way. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or workhouse not to exceed thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.

39-1-202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the punishment for
which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute of this state, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail or workhouse not more than one year, or by
fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in the discretion
of the court.

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly:
(1) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;
(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an
animal in his custody;

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;

(4) transports or confines an animal in a cruel manner;

(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal, other than cattle,
horses, sheep, swine, or goats, belonging to another without legal authority or
the owner's effective consent;

(6) causes one animal to fight with another; or

(7) uses a live animal as a lure in dog race training or in dog coursing
on a racetrack . . .

(c) For purposes of this section, ’animal' means a domesticated living crea-
ture and wild living creature previously captured. ’Animal' does not include an
uncaptured wild creature or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished
by conduct at issue under this section.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Fine not to exceed $2,000 and/or imprison-
ment not to exceed one year]

UTAH

76-9-301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an animal in his
custody;

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or confines an animal in a cruel manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal without legal priv-
ileg“; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal
or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a
dog, to fight with a different. kind of animal or creature for amusement or gain . . .

Il’enalty: Class B misdemeanor.]

VERMONT

13:401. Animal defined.
For the purposes of this chapter, the word ’animal' or ’animals' shall include
and extend to all brute creatures.

13:403. Cruelty to animals generally.

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or having
the charge or custody of an animal, inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or
unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year or fined not more
than $200.00, or both.

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an ani—
mal, who cruelly drives or worksthe same when unfit for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehi-
cle or otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or wilfully author-

 

 

'l'lu’ Evolution Uf/‘Hll‘Cl’llt’lll/ Linus

izes or permits the same to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or
cruelty, shall be punished as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

13:404. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animals shall be abandoned by any
owner or person having charge of same, such person shall for every offense, be
punished in the manner provided in section 403(a) of this title.

VIRGINIA

31-79666 Definitions. The following words as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings:

’Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable intervals, at least once
daily, of quantities of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, suf-
ficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

’Adequate water' means a constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, pota-
ble water provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals and in
a suitable manner for the species at least once daily at any interval.

’Adequate shelter’ means shelter that may reasonably be expected to pro-
tect the animal from physical suffering or impairment of health due to exposure
to the elements or adverse weather . . .

’Animal’ means domestic animals, including both agricultural and compan-
ion animals, if not specified otherwise . . .

31—79668. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty to provide for each
of his companion animals, pursuant to regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of animal
depending upon its age, size and weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every animal shelter with
respect to animals contained therein.

31796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the purposes of
this section is defined as deserting, forsaking, or intending to absolutely give up
an animal without securing another owner or without providing the necessities
set out in §3.1—796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor.

3.1-796122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-treats,
abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain not connected with bona
fide scientific or medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or another;
or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or
(iii) willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of
cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be carried in or upon any vehi-
cle, vessel or otherwise any animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as
to produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any of the above
things, or being the owner of such animal permits such acts to be done by

 




Animals and Their Legal Rights

another, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other domesticated animal in
any public place including the right-of—way of any public highway, road or
street or on the property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dehorning of cat-
tle.

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal shall be construed to
include birds and fowl.

lI’enalties: Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more than 12 months
and/or a fine of not more than $1,000; Class 3 misdemeanor: A fine of not more
than $500.]

WASHINGTON

1652.070. Certain acts as cruelty—Penalty.

Except as provided in RCW 9A.48.080, every person who cruelly over-
drives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, de-
prived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed,
any animal; and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same with the proper food, drink, air, light,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and unreasonably
drives the same when unfit for labor or with yoke or harness that chafes or galls
it, or check rein or any part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal, or who cruelly aban-
dons any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For the purposes of this sec-
tion, necessary sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable inter-
vals, not to exceed twenty-four hours, of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species and age of the animal and sufficient to provide a reasonable level of
nutrition for the animal.

WEST VIRGINIA

61—8-19a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such animals in fights
against each other prohibited; penalties.

If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessarv sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of another person, or if
any such person shall impound or confine any such dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quan-
tity of food and water, or shall abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat or shall be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or putting one dog or
cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or
shall receive money for the admission of any person, or shall use, train or pos-
sess a dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars,

 

 

The Evolution ofAnti-Cruclti/ Laws

and in addition thereto, in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may be
imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county humane
officer may remove the dog or cat involved and place said animal in the county
pound, and said dog or cat shall not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act
of cruelty) but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given over into
the care of a humane society, or upon the recommendation of a licensed veteri-
narian shall be humanely destroyed.

61-8—19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly beat, torture, tor-
ment, mutilate, kill, or overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary sus—
tenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such horse or other ani-
mal be his own or that of another person, or shall impound or confine any such
animal in any place and fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of
good, wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any vehicle, or oth-
erwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, or knowingly feed a cow
on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die
any maimed, sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than five nor more
than one hundred dollars, and in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may
be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding six months.

WISCONSIN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter:
(1) ’Animal' includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or
(c) Amphibian.
(2) ’Cruel' means causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering or
unjustifiable injury or death . . .

951.02. Mistreating animals.
No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to himself or another,
in a cruel manner . . .

951.13. Providing proper food and drink to confined animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
mav refuse or neglect to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and
water as prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all animals in good health.

(2) Water. lf potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it
shall be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter.

No person owning or reSponsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as prescribed in this section.
In the case of farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as impos-
ing shelter requirements or standards more stringent than normally accepted
husbandry practices in the particular county where the animal or shelter is
located.

 




 

 

 

Animals amt Their Legal Rights

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be compati-
ble with the health of the animal. .

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated
by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health of the animals at all
times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall
include:

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaus-
tion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial
means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in
this paragraph, 'caged' does not include farm fencing used to confine farm ani—
mals.

(b) Shelter from inclement weather.

1. ’Animals generally.’ Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to
the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as nec-
essary for the health of the animal.

2. ’Dogs.’ If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include:

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals.

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and main-
tained so as to provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate freedom
of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility, stress
or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both indoor
and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and
other waste materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Note: In 1986, Wisconsin upgraded the penalty for deliberate acts of cruelty to
a felony offense]

WYOMING

11-34-101. Definitions.
(i) ’Animal' shall be held to include every living dumb creature . .

11-34-102. Cruelty to animals generally.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works or willfully and maliciously tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sus-
tenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously and need-
lessly mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise in a cruel
or inhuman manner any animal, or causes or procures it to be done; or who,
having the charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it
with the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or cruelly abandons

 

 

 

The Evolution otAnti-Crm'lty Lou's

it shall upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in the county iail not
exceeding one (1) year or by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such fine and imprisonment.

 

1. Laws of New Hampshire, Vol. I, Province Period, Appendix D. Complete text. 1904.

2. Old South Leaflets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.

3. New York. State Courts. Digest of New York Statutes and Reports, from earliest period to
the year 1860. Vol. 1, page 124.

4. Revised Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title VI.

5. Iournal of the Assembly of the State of New York, 51st Session, Seconil Meeting. Albany:

Croswell, 1828, pages 45-6.
6. Revised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.
7. Statutes of Connecticut, Title XXI, p. 184.
8. Statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, page 365, Sec. 19.
9. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

10. 1860 Laws of the General Assemhly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p. 395.

11. 1864 Laws of the Territory of Idaho, Xll, Sec. 143, p. 329.

12. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray
Loring for their valuable insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
luu‘ discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of cruelty statutes, and pro-
vides a clear explanation, with case support, of the legal principles involved.

13. “Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing, without anesthesia, such proce-
dures as dehorning of cattle at any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castra-
tion. '

14. Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering"; Maine, ”neces-
sary medical attention”; Maryland, “necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania, ”veteri-

, nary car ' Puerto Rico, "medical or veterinary treatment if needed."

15. The pena ty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to one year's imprisonment

.. 3‘ “l and/or a fine of up to $1,000.
.16. On a national level, the American Humane Association (AHA) offers to match up to

$500 for ”information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons
willfully poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from AHA's office at
9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

17. In some states, every ”willful act," etc.

i 9‘
E ‘ '1 t g f
f . g u 3'
.5
a a.
. ' ‘ 3 , § 3, ‘V
< 1‘ A]. ‘7‘ i (T
7

 




‘l-

ANT|.1: 2/16/90

Chapter I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANT I-CRUELTY LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson

America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the
rights of animals by enacting statutory legislation to protect them from cruel
treatment. In 1641 the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, ”T he Body of Liberties."1 There are 100 ”liberties”
which the Puritans expect ”to be respectfully irnpartiallie and inviolably
enjoyed and observed throughout our Jurisdiction for ever.” At a time when
others considered animals as mere property, to be used or abused at the whim
of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92. Cruelty to animals forbidden. On
turning to Liberty 92, we ﬁnd:

OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any
bruite Creature which are usuallie kept for man’s use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade or drive Cattel from
place to place that is far of, so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall sick,
or lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them, for a competent
time, in any open place that is not Corne, meadow, or inclosed for
some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law, the first law to protect
animals in transit.

The Puritans take special care to proclaim these ”liberties" laws:

96. Howsoever these above speciﬁed rites, freedomes, Immun-
ities, Authorities and priveledges, both Civill and Ecclesiastical are
expressed onely under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one consent fullie
Authorise, and earnestly intreate all that are and shall be in Authoritie
to consider them as laws, and not to faile to inﬂict condigne and pro-
portionable punishments upon every man impartiallie, that shall
infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we draw on the research of
the noted historian, Samuel Eliot Morison. In his book, Builders of the Bay Colony
(page 232), he says, “Although animals then had no protection in Common
law, '1‘ he Bruite Creature' has a section of his own in the Body of Liberties.”
And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers to an ”interesting case of condemnation
for cruelty to an ox, in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County [Massachu-
setts] III, 305." It seems clear that Liberty 92 not only was an anti-cruelty law but
also was used successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time—so far ahead that humanitarians through-
out the world, not aware of its existence, have been assuming that the British
M.P., Richard Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first anti-cru-
elty legislation in England (1822), was the primary author of all the laws that
have followed. It seems now that ”Humanity” Martin must give up first place to
the Puritan minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of liberties of
1641.

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill, England. He was a
graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, studied law and became a barrister.
Driven out of England for heresy by Bishop Laud, he came to New England in
1634 and settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where he compiled "The Body of
Liberties,” adopted by the General Court of Massachusetts in December 1641.
Beginning in 1635, there had been a growing concern among the Deputies of
the towns of the Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce results. Finally, in
June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted the service of ”a learned lawyer" whose
legal abilities they felt to be superior—the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had
already served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical sketch, "T he
Simple Cobler of Aggawam,” Mr. Ward says, "I have read ahnost all the Com-
mon Law of England.” This and his own experiences were the sources from
which he drafted his statute book. He enriched the code with his own practical

 




good'sense and his understanding of the communal love of liberty, making
. ”T he Body of liberties" in entirety work far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, ”there was little early specific legislation but
it was possible to prosecute ’cruelists' under common law as committing 'nui-
sances.”' For instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted and found guilty of
cruelly beating his horse and sentenced to pay a fine of $30 with costs
of prosecution and to give bond for his good behavior for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the introduction to his book,
The Humane Movement in the United States, 1910-1922, page 12. Note that the
cartman had "to give bond for his good behavior for one year,” in addition to
the $30 and costs. It would seem that some of our modern penalties for cruelty
fall far short of the wisdom of this one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was punishable under
Common Law, we have this statement from the Digest of New York Statutes and

Reports:
Animals III. Treatment-Preservation-—-Destruction of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal—cg. excessive
beating of his horse by a cartman—is punishable at common law as a
misdemeanor. Gen. Sess., 1822, People v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas.,
111. And see Ross’ Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.3

As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law among the United
States was enacted in 1828 by the New York State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously kill, maim, or wound
any horse, ox, or other cattle, or sheep, belonging to another, or shall
maliciously and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.‘

Although this law limits the protected animals to owned horses, cattle, or
sheep, it does give these animals the right to be protected from their owners'
cruel treatment, thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving
them the legal right to be well treated for the ﬁrst time in an established State of
the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching back to the Colonial
laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an earlier date than 1828 have so far proved
fruitless; therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the Statutes for
responsibility. The two Revisors are B. F. Butler and John C. Spencer. According
to these gentlemen, in their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty of presenting an
entirely new arrangement and organization of the criminal laws. Saying that the
Common Law had long ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punish-
ments, they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure in criminal cases,
prepared by Mr. Livingston for the state of Louisiana . . . But the differ-
ent state of society for which our labors are intended, and prevailing
sentiments respecting punishments varying essentially from those
.entertained by the enlightened author of those codes, have prevented
the adoption of many provisions suggested by him . . . '

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esq., a distinguished jurist of the Inner
Temple (in England) where recent and great efforts have been made to
Simplify their criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his able
and voluminous reports and consolidations, prepared under the
employment of the government for the British Parliament. They con-
tain complete digests of the British statutes respecting crimes, with
copious annotations from the reports. They have been 0f essential
service to us . . . it is but just to remark that they were not so generally
applicable to this state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly digest-
ing and arranging so much of the law as relates to crimes and their
punishments.

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may be given *0 Mr.
‘Butler :and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the ﬁrst anti-cruelty state law and for
asmgning its violation the punishment of a misdemeanor.

j The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was Massachusetts in 1835.6
The wordi“8 was similar to that of the New York law, but the punishmth was
desxgnated "by imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or by
ﬁne not exceeding one hundred dollars."

In 1838 Connecticut7 and Wisconsin'5 added an anti-cruelty law to their stat-
UteS- Connecticut's penalty was imprisonment not exceeding one month 01' fine

 




not exceeding twenty-five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at not more
than thirty days and fine from five to ﬁfty dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in which each state
enacted its first anti-cruelty law. Penalties were similar to those already quoted,
until Texas9 set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvania10 imposed a more severe pen-
alty: a fine up to two hundred dollars, imprisonment up to one year, or both, at .
the discretion of the court; and Idaho set its punishment as "A fine of not more
than ﬁve hundred dollars, or imprisonment... . not exceeding shixrndonths, or both
such fine and imprisonment/If.Idehof‘madsanethsx. .Sﬁt‘sﬁjfféfrWaxQ bxintrpducing
and passing a companion law (Sec. 142) to impose a similar penalty on any per-
son ”who shall willfully administer any poison to any cattle or domestic animal
or maliciously expose any poisonous substance, with the intent that the same
shall be taken or swallowed by cattle or domestic animal . . .” So far as is known,
this is the first law in the United States to protect domestic animals from poison-

ing.
UNITED STATES ANT I-CRUELTY LAWS
Chronological Enactment

" 1641 Massachusetts Bay Colony "The Body of Liberties”

, 1828 New York 1871 Montana

, 1835 Massachusetts 1872 Colorado
1838 Connecticut 1873 Delaware
1838 Wisconsin 1873 Indiana
1842 New Hampshire 1873 Nebraska
1845 Missouri 1875 Georgia
1848 Virginia 1879 Arkansas
1851 Iowa 1879 Louisiana
1851 Minnesota 1880 Mississippi

1852 Kentucky 1880 Ohio
1854 Vermont 1881 North Carolina

1856 Texas 1881 South Carolina
1857 Rhode Island 1883 Alabama
1858 Tennessee 1883 Maine

1859 Kansas 1884 Hawaii

1859 ‘Washington 1887 New Mexico
1860 Pennsylvania 1887 South Dakota
1861 Nevada 1889 Florida

1864 Idaho 1890 Maryland
1864 Oregon 1891 North Dakota
1867 New Jersey 1893 Oklahoma
1868 California 1895 Wyoming
1868 West Virginia 1898 Utah

1869 Illinois 1913 Alaska

1871 District of Columbia 1913 Arizona

1871 Michigan 1921 Virgin Islands

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for the incorpora-
tion of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, twenty
states had enacted anti-cruelty laws; of these states, six were in reality still
territories when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington,

Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry Bergh, even with his
newly incorporated society, found it difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biog-
rapher, A. F. Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASPCA, says that although
there had been an anti-cruelty law passed in New York State in 1829 [sic], no
one could remember that it had ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to
draft a new law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry Bergh’s
first law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the 1828 law, though an added sec-
tion aims to protect disabled horses and mules from abandonment.

Statutes at Large of the State of New York passed in the years 1863,
1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN ACT better to prevent cruelty to

animals. Passed April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. The twenty-sixth section of title six, chapter first, part four
of the Revised Statutes, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or neglect, maliciously
kill, maim, wound, injure, torture or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox,
cattle, sheep or other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
Upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

 




Secl’Z. Every owner, driver or possessor of an old, maimed, or dis-
eased horse or mule, turned loose or left disabled in any street, lane or
place of any city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule to lie
in any street, lane or public place for more than three hours after
knowledge of such disability, shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of re-establishing anti-cru-
elty legislation as a matter of public conscience, demanding respectful attention
by judges of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore dis-
missed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being inﬂicted on animals, how-
ever, and cognizant of the newly aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did
not stop with the somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when “An Act for the more effectual preven-
tion of cruelty to animals" was passed on April 12. This Act has ten sections and
has since served as the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty
laws (forty-one states and the District of Columbia have present laws based on
this Act). For this reason it seems worthy of quotation in entirety here.

3

STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., VOL V11, 1870

CHAP. 375
AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals.
Passed April 12, 1867; three-ﬁfths being present

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section ‘1."If any person shall over-drive, over-load, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be over-
driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary sus-
tenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly muti-
lated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shalL for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in any way be
connected with, or interested in the management of, or shall receive
money for the admission of any person to any place kept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or other
creature, and every person who shall encourage, aid or assist therein,
or who shall permit or suffer any place to be so kept or used, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, or cause to be
impounded in any pound, any creature, shall supply to the same, dur-
ing such conﬁnement, a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
food and water, and in default thereof, shall upon conviction, be
adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any time impounded as
aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and water
for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any per-
son, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter
into and upon any pound in which any such creature shall be so con-
ﬁned, and to supply it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for
such entry, and the reasonable cost of such food and water may be col-
lected by him of the owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon judg-
ment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle or otherwise, any creature, in a cruel or inhuman
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall
be taken into custody therefor by any officer, such ofﬁcer may take
charge of such vehicle and its contents, and deposit the same in some
safe place of custody; and any necessary expenses which may be
incurred for taking charge of and keeping and sustaining the same,
shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be lawfully
recovered. Or the said expenses or any part thereof remaining unpaid,

 




VA...

..._—"--.--,........ . .. .. . . , _,-._

s Q

may be recovered by the person incurring the same, of the owner of
said creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter use any dog or dogs
for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck,
barrow or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village, for busi-
ness purposes, shall be required to take out a license for that purpose,
from the mayor or president thereof, respectively, and shall have the
number of said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section shall forfeit and
pay a ﬁne of one dollar for the ﬁrst offense, and a ﬁne of ten dollars for
each subsequent offense.

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm or disabled creature shall be
abandoned to die, by any person, in any public place, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for any magis-
trate or captain of police in this state to appoint suitable persons to
destroy such creature if unﬁt for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, upon being designated thereto by the sheriff of any
county in this state, may, within such county, make arrest, and bring
before any court or magistrate thereof having jurisdiction, offenders
found violating the provisions of this act; and all ﬁnes imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions of this act, shall
inure to said society, in the aid of the benevolent objects for which it
was incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the first day of May next.
And the said American society for the prevention of cruelty to animals
shall cause the same to be published once each week for three weeks,
in four daily papers published in New York City, or in default thereof
shall forfeit the right to receive the penalties and ﬁnes as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
prohibit or interfere with any properly conducted scientiﬁc experi-
ments or investigations, which experiments shall be performed only
under the authority of the faculty of some regularly incorporated med-
ical college or university of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great advance made in

establishing protection and legal rights for animals. In Section 1, notice the
detailed, speciﬁc cruelties, and that they are now applied to ”any living crea-
ture." Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal fights and baiting. Sections 3
and 4 protect impounded animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early impact of animal
experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty
charges.

 




ANTl.2: 2/16/90

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti-cruelty laws in the fifty states, the District of
Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally
agrees that all animals have the right to (1) protection from cruel treatment,
such as is described in detail in Section 1 of Henry Bergh’s 1867 law; (2) protec—
tion from abandonment; (3) protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of
food, water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Treatment

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have laws which stipu-
late that cruel treatment must have been committed willfully, maliciously, or
cruelly. State statutes with qualiﬁers such as ”intentionally,” ”negligently,"
"maliciously," or ”knowingly" deﬁne the mental state of the person charged.
Statutes without qualiﬁers make offenders strictly liable for an offense without
regard to mental state. Please note that terms such as ”cruelly" and
“unnecessarily" which characterize the circumstances of the offense committed
must be distinguished from the qualifiers “intentionally,” "negligently," “mali-
ciously,” or ”knowingly" which describe a culpable mental state. In court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such
qualiﬁers can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly have been con-
victed of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other jurisdictions
drafted without qualiﬁers. Moreover, provisions with qualifiers can be inter-
preted as a license to inflict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inﬂicting the pain are not sadistic. It is
this interpretation that is applied to scientiﬁc research and to scientiﬁc demon-
strations in schools.

In 22 states and the District of COlumbia, experimental animals used in sci-
entific institutions are speciﬁcally excluded from the protective coverage of the
anti-cruelty laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Geor-
gia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey,
New York, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington and Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are con-
structed in language similar to Missouri's law in which it is written that the pro—
tective provisions of the animal welfare statute "shall not be construed to pre-
vent or interfere with any scientiﬁc experiments or investigations" (Section
578.055). In Utah, the statute explicitly permits both painful research and pain—
ful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this section that the con-
duct of the actor towards the animal was an accepted veterinary prac—
tice13 or directly related to a bona fide experimentation for scientiﬁc
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed, the manner
employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to
the ]veterinary purpose or scientiﬁc research involved [Section 76-9-
301 .

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska and Vermont call
for the "humane" treatment of animals. The Vermont statute states that nothing
within the anti-cruelty law ”shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the
use of animals for scientific research by competent research men if done in a
humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the animals [Section 13-4031.”

Although Pennsylvania’s anti-cruelty law does not contain such exemp-
tions, it does permit the issuance of search warrants to the police or humane
society agents to enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition: »

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued under the provi—
sions of this section which shall authorize any policeman, or agent or
other person to enter upon to search premises where Sdeﬂtiﬁc
research is being conducted by, or under the supervision of, graduates
of duly accredited scientific schools or where biological products are
being produced for the care or prevention of disease. [Section 18-
5511, Act of June 3, 1911, as amended.)

Provision of Food, Water and Shelter

t/m

X BNC/ jéK/DWs (52,3

//2

” 23mm " p egg/3%;

4 ﬁv H 5 Z1 cé/ic’ma/

. Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam prohibit both depriv;
mg an animal of ”necessary sustenance" and failing to provide ”food and water
01' "fOOd, water and shelter.” Several require the provision of ”necessary suste-

@

L
(</ l

 




nance” without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase ”necessary sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for conﬁned animals and necessary
veterinarv care.

any... '0' " ’
54v
.9 i‘
r" ' f

In 1989, Nevada Governor Bob Miller signed a bill into
law authorizing the state to seize cruelly treated
agricultural animals. The law stemmed from a cruelty case in
which cattle were starving to death.

This is the first state law to parallel, in part, a 1988
amendment to the British Protection of Animals Act
authorizing the court to disqualify any person convicted of
cruelty to animals from having custody of any animal in the
future.

.. ‘7‘“- us|bALBL U: PLUVCII UllCll'

r-——_--, — w- ___-_ ___.__-

tional or cruel. Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mex-
ico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia do not specifically
require shelter, they prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance.
Courts in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi, the courts have not
yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the cold is needed
only in such states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states as Mississippi and
Louisiana, where shelter is not specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should
require shelter in its anti-cruelty code. ' ._ '_ _.. . ,1

Provision of Exercise, Space, Light, .1 , x /(j :3 U10 /LL/Z[3/ . ~

Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions A g; 3: . - '7 " .r‘

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light, ventilation and clean living _ r- '

conditions for conﬁned animals are important but infrequent requirements of "
state anti-cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these provisions make
only brief references to them. Statutes in Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh
air. California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota,
Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exer-
cise or adequate space. Light is required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine

and Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

-v

' It" I‘l'
N ‘0

-\_

Protection from Abandonment

Abandonment of animals is deﬁned in the Colorado code (Section 18-9-
201) as “the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its
care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care." Most . f *
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal ZonW
hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel
or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disa-
bled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec-
tion of wild animals in captivity).

Kinds of Animals Protected

With respect to which animals are to be protected from cruel treatment, 7
about half the state laws protect any non-[human lig'ng geature or ”any anj- _ ‘ if“;
11181," deﬁning animals as all living creatures except human beings. e rest use
the words '“animalf "domestic animals," ”captive animals," or "warm-blooded
creatures."

Protection From Poisoning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another

 




nance" without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase ”necessary sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for conﬁned animals and necessary
veterinary care. .

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-cruelty code states in
part: “A person who . . . deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or
drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink . . . or in any
way furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act ending to produce such
cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . ." (emphasis added). In the case of People v.
O’Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.5. 2d
603, the defendants were charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a
limping horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary veteri-
nary care. The court noted the deﬁnition of ”sustenance" in Webster's Third New
International Dictionary (1966): ”the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries of life. " The court also cited the definition of "torture” or “cruelty”:
“Every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted" and determined that failing to provide the horse
with necessary medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.“ (Ital-
ics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in most
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private citizen to relieve a neg-
lected animal impounded on the prOperty of another person by entering into
the place of conﬁnement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter without qualifying
phrases, but most states require that failure to provide shelter be proven inten-
tional or cruel. Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mex- ,7 1 f» -‘
ico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia do not specifically "
require shelter, they prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance. 1.
Courts in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi, the courts have not
yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the cold is needed
only in such states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states as Mississippi and
Louisiana, where shelter is not specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should
require shelter in its anti-cruelty code. ' -. . ,. r:

Provision of Exercise, Space, Light, 4 .2" /C/ 6610 /&L/Z[3/ . *

Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions ii. -_: » . "

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light, ventilation and clean living a

conditions for conﬁned animals are important but infrequent requirements of "

state anti-cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these provisions make

only brief references to them. Statutes in Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North

Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh

air. California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota,

Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exer-

cise or adequate space. Light is required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine
and Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

m

, .1
I. I' v
. A. '

.M~

Protection from Abandonment ’<
Abandonment of animals is deﬁned in the Colorado code (Section 18-9-

201) as ”the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its

care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care." Most . ~

states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal ZonW

hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel

or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disa-

bled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec-

tion of wild animals in captivity).

Kinds of Animals Protected

With respect to which animals are to be protected from cruel treatment,
about half the state laws protect any non-,human 1i ' eature or ”any 8111:. . A} *
mal," defining animals as all living creatures except human beings. The rest use
the words "animal,“ ”domestic animals," ”captive animds," or “warm-blooded
creatures."

 

 

4% 7B; /5/ 31‘, if b/L/x/

Protection From Poisoning
A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another @

 




commits a criminal act. The anti-cruelty laws of half the states speciﬁcally pro- .
hibit the use of poison to inflict injury or death. Under the Connecticut anti-cru-
elty code, "any person who . . . unjustiﬁably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such
drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be takgn by an animal, or
causes it to be done . . . shall be fined not more than $250? or imprisoned not
more than one year or both."

Among the states which prohibit administering and/or exposing toxic sub-
stances to domestic animals in the anti-,gguuejtyggudmeLvariations exist as to which
animals are protected: some concern any animal, dogs—“only,“or"livestock only,
and some distinguish between animals that are the property of the poisoner and
those that belong to someone else. Penalties for poisoning or attempu'ng to
poison may vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the species of
animal, and whether the animal belongs to the poisoner or to another, with the
longest term of imprisonment and highest ﬁne usually imposed when the
poison is administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for example:

. . . a person who unjustiﬁably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or
unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug or substance with intent that it be
taken by .a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or
domestic cattle are the property of himself or another, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in the state prison for not less than one year
nor more than 10 years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by
both ﬁne and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any animal other than a
horse, mule or domestic cattle, or unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug
or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal
other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the
property of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.15 This
section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious animals. [Section
574.150]

In states without such anti-cruelty statutes, poisoning prohibitions may
exist under another title of the state law code, or poisoners who injure or kill
any animal belonging to another may be charged with committing a crime
against property. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be prosecuted for
injuring, killing or inﬂicting pain upon an animal. Colorado imposes the highest
ﬁne for causing pain, injury or death: a minimum of six months’ imprisonment
and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months' irnprisonment and/
or a $5,000 fine. The law states that ”a person commits cruelty to animals if,
except as authorized by law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . . any
anun .”

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement of a substantial
reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person trying to
poison domestic animals has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to

such activities.”
j /
Humane Transport of Animals ,< D} /(j (:5 [WM

The anti-cruelty laws of most states, the District of Columbia, and the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico require that transport of animals be conducted in a
humane manner. Minnesota's law protects "any live animals" (defining “ani-
mal" as “every living creature") and specifies the acts that constitute a cruel
manner of transport. Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

Every person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, any live ani-
mals upon any vehicle or otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can both stand and lie
down during transportation, and while awaiting slaughter; every per-
son who shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a vehicle or other-
wise, any live animal having feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or corporation engaged
in transporting livestock who shall detain the same in cars or compart-
ments for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading the same
in a humane manner into properly equipped pens for rest, water, and
feeding for a period of at least ﬁve consecutive hours, unless requested
to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented by storm or una-
voidable causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the 8X91"
cise of due diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same to be
Wed together without sufﬁcient space to stand, or so as to overlie, ‘
crush, wound, or kill each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; pro-
vided, that upon the written request of the owner or person in custody
Of that particular shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or other railroad form, the
time and confinement may be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

 




The majority of state laws requiring humane transport are much briefer
than Minnesota's, however, and are often written in the manner of the following
Mississippi statute: ”If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or
upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor” [Section 97-41-5].

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect "domestic ani-
mals" from cruel transport. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and the 30 remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, ”any creature” or ”any animal” (”an animal”) —with individual defini—
tions of ”animal." '

Anti-cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are given in the
Appendix, along with the penalties for violating these statutes.

The Value of Specific Language K Ely/2% (DZ (, Wﬂfy/

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-cruelty codes, usually consists of ”every act,
omission or neglect” whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted." Therefore, when a law does not specifically require shel-
ter, a judge may determine that failure to provide it is ”an omission" or ”neg-
lect" causing "unjustifiable physical pain” and, therefore, an act of cruelty pun-
ishable by law. It is far better, however, if illegal acts are speciﬁcally prohibited
by statute. This need was demonstrated in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a violation of the
state's anti-cruelty code. The statute then read as follows: ”Cruelty to animals is
subjecting any animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal
and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect."

The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty—as quoted above—in
jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas code gave no deﬁnition) and deter-
mined that “the mere act of abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel mis-
treatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas law which stated ”cru-
elty to animals is . . . having custody of any animal and subjecting such animal to
cruel neglect" does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those per-
sons ”having custody” of an animal and ”an abandoned animal would not be in
custody of the original owner.”

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation with more specific

prohibitions and requirements. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, American
Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In Georgia, for example, the portion of the law
prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: "A person
is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect causes unjus-
tifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal."

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of animals should
work to: (1) preserve strong laws; (2) promote better state and federal legisla-
tion; (3) be alert to proposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent
humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient animal protective
societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty to those in authority, including the local
police or sheriff, state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways to
monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8) promote humane edu-
cation.

/

fj / A); .
A’ I

 




ANTI.3: 2/16/90

ALABAMA

13A-11-14. Cruelty to animals. _-
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal belonging to
another. .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 monthsimprisonment and/or up to $1,000 fine (§13—A-5-7,
13—A-5-12).] ‘ ' "

ALASKA

11.61140. Cruelty to animals. _
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals it the person
(I) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged physical pain or suffer-
ing on an animal;
(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result of that neglect, causes
the death of the animal or causes severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .
(c) In this section, 'animal’ means a vertebrate living creature not human
being, but does not include ﬁsh.

(Penalty: Up to $5,000 ﬁne and/or up to 1 wary-imprisonment (§12.55.035,
12.55.135).] V ,-

ARIZONA

13—2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classiﬁcation
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, such person recklessly:
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human custody or control to
cruel mistreatment; or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his custody or control to cruel
neglect or abandonment; or
3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody or control of another
without either legal privilege or consent of the owner . . .
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2 misdemeanor.

2 ,,__, -1
- ﬁrm z .1

.‘

(Penalty: Up to 4 monthsrimprisonmentﬂand/or up to ”56%;? 13-707, 13.” .2. ,, _.- .

'3
- ' f -_-A.--

802) .] W

. ,__. ”31.29;... a.

ARKANSAS

15-62-101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, except as author-
ized by law, he knowingly: ' -
(1) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another without legal priv-
ilege or consent of the owner.
(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

5-62-110. Definitions,
(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) 'Animal' or ’dumb aninml’ includes every living creature;
(2) 'Torture,' 'torment,’ or 'cruelty’ include every act, omission, or neg-
leg Whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit- ) _
e . . . K g ‘

'. a
w; ‘\ a
' .«x‘

gigilty: Up to $1,000 ﬁne and/or up to 1 yeafimpnsonmen£( “15-4-201' 5'4" MW“. "’

CALIFORNIA .

S97. Cruelty to animals. _._

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section or Section 5990
every Person who maliciously and intentionally mairns, mutilates, tortures; or
wounds a living animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, 15 guilty

 




.of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a ﬁne of not
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprison-
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the ﬁne and imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suf-
fering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner abuses
any animal, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or
protection from the weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a
misdemeanor or as a felony or alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a
felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . . .

599.b. . . . ’animal' includes every dumb creature; the words ‘torment,’ 'torture,’
and 'cruelty' include every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . . lawm/

COLORADO

18-9-201. Deﬁm'tions. As used m' section 18-9-202, unless the context otherwise
requires:
(1) 'Abandon' includes the leaving n‘ .. “a

"xi/K 7,. Eli!
-J, - *
”(I ' ’ 'u’ *

In 1989, California prohibited

beating that may break the skin,
starving, and the use of martinga

their restraint.

_- "usual we minimum and maximum term—svshall be mandatory
and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro-
bation or parole for any part of such period . . .

.1"-&-\. -~- ta . -

 

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals 3.5513. ) Everyxierson who overdriveEj

overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tormentsiaepl‘lves‘ﬁfm

necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhumane
manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who, having charge
and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food,
drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a class 1

/

K A.
(at:
,4

disciplining elephants by

lectrical shocking,
:es and block and tackle for

1-5:"

f)” 1'

misdemeanor and shall be unished as rovided in section 18—1-106, C.R.S. ‘_ .. g ‘\
P P “u ) (D’Mﬂ’érfc /

 

[Penaltyz Minimum sentence is six monthsvg risonment or $500 fine, or both,-
maximum sentenm is 24 months'imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or Both (§p‘18:I-' ’

106).]

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdn'ves, drives when overloaded,overworks, tortures,
deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustiﬁably injures any animal, or who, having impounded or conﬁned any
animal, fails to give such animal proper care or neglects to cage orrestrain any
such animal from doing injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply
any such animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustiﬁably adminis-

\ , N
’ ( mac.- tr: .5 '2
f ' v“ x. “ ax "F
3/53; 5.; 3%.} -. 5‘-
l

 




.of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a ﬁne of not
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprison-
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the ﬁne and imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suf-
fering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner abuses
any animal, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or
protection from the weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal /
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a K A“
misdemeanor or as a felony or alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a ‘
felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . . . (

599.b. . . . ’animal' includes every dumb creature; the words ‘torment,’ 'torture,’
and ’cruelty' include every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . . raw—M/

COLORADO

18-9-201. Deﬁnitions. As used in section 18-9-202, unless the context otherwise
requires:

(1) ‘Abandon' includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its prOper care.

(2) 'Animal' means any living dumb creature.

(3) 'Mistreatment’ includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain or
suffering.

(4) ’Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
«elements, Opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for
an animal's health and well-being. _.~ 7’ _' .. - I Z?

18-9-202. Cruelty to animalsnge'glect of animalsfyffenses. , -.....

(l) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by law, he
knowingly or with criminal negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a
cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or pro-
cures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to pro-
vide it with prOper food, drink, or protection from the weather, or abandons it.

(2)13) Cnidty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor. ~.

'3 (b) I“ the case of ”1:129:59anch $960,114.91: subsequentsestés'm, ///’p7 (.5 1.2/3
tion under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of
imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory
and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro-

bation or parole for any part of such period . . . f7)“ ,3...

we— Mao ,m ._.

”(é)” air/(74% 510%? 270/

 

 

 

 

’0’

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals :M/penalty. l Every person who overdriveﬂs, J 0/,» I.’ ‘ g
overloads, drives when overloaded, overwor s, tortures, tormen , e o Jets-«4' I

necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or

kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhumane

manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who, having charge

and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food,

drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a class 1

misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 18-1-106, C.R.S. ) (PI/Mp ff _, ))

[Penaltyz Minimum sentence is six months im risonment or $500 fine, or both; J [ m0?“ 7 r. 1,.-. p. ))

maximum sentence is 24 months'imprisonment or 55,055 55' e, 01‘ 50$ l§ 13:1- ’1; g ’ " ““ g “ A f ‘3
106” Lm/{i’}; I; is: .2. ____.

I

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,_overworks, tortures,
deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates- or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustiﬁably injures any animal, or who, having impounded or conﬁned any
animal, fails to give such animal proper care or neglects to cage orrestram any
such animal from doing injury to itself or to another animal or falls to supply
any SuCh animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustiﬁably adminis-

 




ters‘ any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic animal or
unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall
be taken by an animal, or causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of
any animal, inﬂicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with proper food, drink
or protection from the weather or abandons it or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a cruel manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or carries on or
performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in, or is a witness of, or in any
way aids in or engages in the furtherance of, any ﬁght between cocks or other
birds, dogs or other animals, premeditated by any person owning, or having
custody of, such birds or animals, or ﬁghts with or baits, harasses or worries any
animal for the purpose of making it perform for amusement, diversion or exhi-
bition, shall be ﬁned not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars or impris—
oned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall
include, but not be limited to, the meanings respectively ascribed to them as fol-
lows:

(1) ’Cruel’ includes every act or omission to act whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ‘Cruel mistreatment’ includes any treatment whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) 'Cruel neglect’ includes neglect of an animal, which is under the
care and control of the neglector, whereby pain or suffering is caused to the ani-
mal or abandonment of any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) ’Cruelty to animals' includes mistreatment of any animal or neglect
of any animal under the care and control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way of example this
includes: Unjustifiable beating of an animal; overworking an animal; torment-
ing an animal; abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) ’Person’ includes any individual, partnership, corporation or asso-
ciation living and/or doing business in the State.

(6) ’Abandonment’ includes completely forsaking or deserting an ani-
mal originally under one's custody without making reasonable arrangements
for custody of that animal to be assumed by another person.

(7)"Custody’ includes the responsibility for the welfare of an animal
subject to one's care and control whether he owns it or not.

(8) ’Proper feed’ includes providing each animal with daily food and
water of sufﬁcient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(9) ’Proper shelter' includes providing each animal with adequate
shelter from the weather elements as required to prevent unnecessary or
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(10) ’Proper veterinary care’ includes providing each animal with vet-
erinary care sufﬁcient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(11) 'Animal’ shall not include fish, crustacea or molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he intentionally or reck-
lessly:

i

mal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any animal whether
belonging to himself or another. This section does not apply to the killing of any
animal normally or commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided
that such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if the act is not
required to terminate an animal’s suffering, to protect the life or property of the
actor or another person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist which
would not impair the health or well-being of that animal.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 2 Warm“
mm<§AI~42922§39714, ._ __ ,, .

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or}(2) Subjects anyfﬂil- ._ f ,:

a an, ~vhwh~w vim-- ma ‘Lw.w.a’- ~--'~W‘W“’“*~Nhnxmumm'h\msy v Wmﬁ‘cr'r‘mxgvjz'vavw . ,,_. , . ._ .5,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

"224801. Deﬁnitions and penalty: , .

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or
.:cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sus-

 




tenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with preper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, shall for
every such offense be punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year,
or by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and

imprisonment.

22-802. Other cruelties to animals:

Every owner, possessor, or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries the same, or causes the same to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhumane manner,
or knowingly and wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind shall be punished for
every such offense in the manner provided in Section 22-801.

22-807. Impounded animals to be supplied with food and water:

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound,
any creature, shall supply the same, during such conﬁnement, with a sufﬁcient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water; and in default thereof shall,
upon conviction, be punished for every such offense in the same manner pro-
vided in section 22-801.

22-812. Abandonment of maimed or diseased animals . . .

A person being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons such animal, or
leaves it to lie in the street or road, or public place, more than three hours after
he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not less than ten dollars nor more than two hundred and ﬁfty dol-
lars, or by imprisonment in jail not more than one year, or both. Any agent or
ofﬁcer of the Washington Humane Society may lawfully destroy, or cause to be
destroyed, any animal found abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing,
in the judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to view the same in his
presence, to be glandered, injured, or diseased past recovery for any useful pur-
pose. When any person arrested is, at the time of such arrest, in charge of any
animal, or of any vehicle drawn by any animal, or containing any animal, any
agent of said society may take charge of such animal and such vehicle and its
contents and deposit the same in a place of safe custody or deliver the same into
the possession of the police authorities, who shall assume the custody thereof;
and all necessary expenses incurred in taking charge of such property shall be a
lien thereon . . . .

22-813. Deﬁnitions:

In section 22-801 to 22-809, inclusive, and section 22-811, the word 'ani-
mals' or 'animal’ shall be held to include all living and sentient creatures
(human beings excepted) . . . ‘

FLORIDA

828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives
of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates,
or kills any animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the ﬁrst degree, punishable as provided in 4.9775982 or by ap
fine of not more than $5,000, or both. . m“ "A

[Penaltyz Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (§ 1775082)]

GEORGIA

16-12-4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect
causes unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of animals raised for the
purpose of providing food nor does it apply to any person who hunts wild ani-
mals in compliance with the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or injur-
ing of an animal for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scien-
tiﬁc research is justiﬁable.

i'IPenalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 monthsiimpgo

I Mn.) .1. “- ri!

' ent (§)17-1o-3).] , ‘
l m“... ;/ -

HAWAII ‘

711-1100. Deﬁnitions of terms in this chapter . . .

 




(5) ’Animal’ includes every living creature; ((6) ’Cruelty,’ ’torture’ or

'torment’ includes every act, omission, or neglect wheféby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if he knowingly or
recklessly: 7 .
(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, or cruelly beats or needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or pro-
cures to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed, any
living creature;

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with or interested in the
management of, or receives money for the admission of any person to, any
place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock
or other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or assists therein, or
who permits or suffers any place to be so kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or other con-
veyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane manner;

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act toWards the further-
ance of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (1)(a), (c), (d) and the following subsection (3) are not
applicable to accepted veterinary practices and to activities carried on for scien-
tific research governed by standards of accepted educational or medical prac-
tices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured that there is no
reasonable probability that its life or usefulness can be saved, the animal may be
immediately destroyed.

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 yearvimprisonment (§A37-706:640,W
37-706-663).] ”We _

IDAHO

18-2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds an animal, the
property of another, or who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shel-
ter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any
animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, or to be
cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the same with proper food, drink,
shelter or protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or other-
wise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section shall be punished by
a jail sentence of not more than six (6) months or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

18-2108. Impounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in any pound, any
domestic animal, must supply the same during such confinement with a suffi-
cient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time impounded
as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary food and water for more
than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful for any person, from time to time, as may be
deemed necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such animal is
confined, and supply it with necessary food and water so long as it remains so
confined. Such person is not liable to any action for such entry, and the reasona-
ble cost of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such
animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon a judgment therefor . . .

1131-12109. Permitting animals to go without care jAbandoned animals to be
' ed.

Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who shall permit the same
to be in any building, inclosure, lane, street, square or lot of any city, county or
precinct, without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be deemed
gUilty of a misdemeanor. And it shall be the duty of any peace officer, or officer
of any incorporated association qualiﬁed as provided by law, to take possession
of the animal so abandoned or neglected, and care for the same until it is
redeemed by the owner or claimant, and the cost of caring for such animal shall
be a lien on the same until the charges are paid. Every sick, disabled, infirm, 01‘

 




crippled animal which shall be abandoned in any city, county or precinct, may if
after due search no owner can be found therefor, be killed by such officer; and it
shall be the duty of all peace ofﬁcers, or by an ofﬁcer of said incorporated associ-
ation, to cause the same to be killed on information of such abandonment. Such
ofﬁcer may likewise take charge of any animal that by reason of lameness, sick-
ness, feebleness or neglect, is unﬁt for the labor it is performing, or that in any
other manner is being cruelly treated; and, if such animal is not then in custody
of its owner, such officer shall give notice thereof to such owner, if known, and
may provide suitable care for such animal until it is deemed to be in a suitable
condition to be delivered to such owner, and any necessary expenses which
may be incurred for taking care of and keeping the same shall be a lien thereon,
to be paid before the same can be lawfully recovered.

18-2112. Terms defined.

In this chapter the word 'animal’ includes every dumb creature; the words
'torment,’ ‘torture’ and ‘cruelty’ include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

ILLINOIS

,~-.\ZQ§.Q_1..Cruel, treatment- ~

§j 3.01. No person or dwner"maydbeat,'cruElly_‘jtreat, torment, starve, over- _, ..

work or otherwise abuse any animaL'No owner maywabandon any iii‘iiﬁKl‘Where
it may become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

(Penalty: First offense, class C misdemeanor; second offense, class B mis-
demeanor; third or subsequent conviction, class A misdemeanor.]

INDIANA

35-46-36. ‘Animal' deﬁned.
As used in this chapter, 'animal' does not include a human being . . .

35-46-3—7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A person having a
vertebrate animal in the person’s custody who recklessly, knowingly, or inten-
tionally abandons or neglects the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor.

3546-3-12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(1) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate animal resulting in serious
injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority of the owner of the
animal; commits cruelty to an animaL a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably believes the conduct
was necessary to:
(1) Prevent injury to the accused person or another person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from destruction or
substantial damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged suffer-
mg.

uw‘prww :-

-[Penalty:-Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 yearWu-npridsﬂonﬂnientin-a‘ddition to a fine - L"
of up to $5,000 (§f3w51-1§9;372~);,7C1ass B misdemeanor: tip to 180 daySImPPson’ .. ~ L

ment in addition to a ﬁne of up to $1,000 (§r35'50'3'3)]

" 4“”, m“, m..r.~ , ,

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals. '

A person who impounds or conﬁnes, in any place, a domestic animal or
fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to section 109.60, or dog 01‘ cat, and fails to
supply the animal during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate shelter, or who tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates, overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means
which cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently, commits the offense of cruelty to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor. A person who intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to ani-
.;.mals which results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is guilty of a
serious misdemeanor.

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dogs - penalty. ,

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon
the cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person
who will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat 01' dog

 




to an animal shelter or pound as deﬁned in section 162.2. A person who violates
this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.

KANSAS

21-4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:

(a) Intentionally killing, injuring, maiming, torturing or mutilating any
animal; , '
(b)‘abandoning or leaving any animal in any place without making
provisions for its proper care; or

(c) having physical custody of any animal and failing to provide such
food, potable water, protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise and
other care as is needed for the health or well-being of such kind of animal . . .

(3) Cruelty to animals is a class B misdemeanor.

21-4313. Animals, Definitions . . .
(1) ’Animal’ means every living vertebrate except a human being . . .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months’mprisonmentand/or uW$L000 a??? (.§, 3131502, .1, a I, “ ‘
21;)4503).] , ', .

<:.'.wn , .1. . .

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.
(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to ﬁght for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being a
spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight for
pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide
adequate food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal,”’ 4. “

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial pur-
poses;

(c) For humane purposes? .

(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.

[Penalty: A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12 monthSWZd: 7...: T I
534.090) .] W..----.-

 




ANTI.4: 2/16/90

LOUISIANA

14:102. Deﬁnitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(1) ‘Cruel’ means every act or failure to act Whereby unjustifiable physical
pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ‘Abandons' means to completely forsake and desert an animal pre-
viously under the custody or possession of a person without making reasonable
arrangements for its proper care, sustenance, and shelter.

(3) ’Proper food’ means providing each animal with daily food of sufﬁcient
quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering by the
animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with daily water of sufﬁ-
cient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering by
the animal.

.(5) 'Proper shelter' means providing each animal with adequate shelter
from the elements as required to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering
by the animal.

(6) ’Proper veterinary care’ means providing each animal with veterinary
care sufﬁcient to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering
by the animal.

14502.1. Cruelty to animals.
A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal negligence commits any
of the following shall be guilty of cruelty to animals:

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, or overworks a
living animal.

(2) Tortures, torments, cruelly beats or unjustifiably injures, maims,
mutilates, or kills any living animal, whether belonging to himself or another.

(3). Having charge, custody, or possession of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, unjustifiably fails to provide it with proper food, proper
drink, proper shelter, or proper veterinary care.

(4) Abandons any animal.

(5) Impounds or confines or causes to be impounded or confined in a
pound or other place, a living animal and fails to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with proper food, proper drink, and proper shelter.

(6) Carries, or causes to be carried, a living animal in or upon a vehicle
or otherwise, in a cruel or inhumane manner.

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or sub-
stance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or sub-
stance, with intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic
animal.

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner.

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or omission whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused to or
permitted upon the animal.

(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person any act enumerated
in this Section.

B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals shall be fined not more
than ﬁve hundred dollars, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both . . .

14:102.4. Conﬁned animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined. and continues without
necessary food and water for more than twenty-four consecutive hours, any law
enforcement ofﬁcer may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or confined and supply it with necessary food and water
so long as it shall remain impounded or confined.

MAINE

7:3907. Deﬁnitions . ,_-,-__.,....-..- ,. . .._._-,.,....,mw , ““""“‘“.‘.,;M.«~"

As used in this’Pa'r’t‘Ta'ﬁdin every law relating to or affecting animals, unless
the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the following
meanmgs . . .

2. Animal. 'Animal’ means every living, sentient creature not a human
being

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. ‘Torment, torture and cruelty’ means
every act, omission or neglect, whether by the owner or any other person,
where unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . - -

29. Well cared for. ’Well cared for' means that the animal is receiving neces-
sary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from
the weather and humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been

 

 

 

 

 

 




nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured, abandoned, poisoned,
beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison with the intent that it be taken by the
animal . . .

7:4011. Cruelty to Animals.
1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
the consent of the owner, or kills or attempts to kill any animal with the owner's
consent, by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or occupant of
property is privileged to use reasonable force to eject a trespassing animal;

8. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons, gives poison to, cruelly
beats or mutilates any animal or exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken
by an animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of necessary suste-
nance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December, January, February
or March without providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter . . .

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as pre-
scribed in this section. '

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and quality to maintain all
animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animal at all times, it shall
be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention when the animal
is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism or mal-
formed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean condi-
tions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of farm
animals, nothing in this section may be construed as imposing shelter require-
ments or standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practice
in the particular county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes of
this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as follows.
A. The ambient temperature shall be .compatible with the health of the ani-
ma].
8. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or
mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as fol-
lows.

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or
mged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be provided to
protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, ‘caged’ does
not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals.

8. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.

(1)‘An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides and a waterproof
roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall
be provided as necessary for the health of the animal.

12) If a dogki‘sti‘ed or conﬁned unattended outdoors” under weather condi; ,

tions which “adversely“anfuf‘elc‘tkthe health‘V'of‘Vthe‘doga ~Shelter Of suitable size with
a ﬂoor above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to accommodate
the dog and protect it from the weather and, in particular, from severe cold.
Inadequate shelter may be indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold
weather for a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or
vessel of any kind when extreme heat or extreme cold will be harmful to its
health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and outdoor
enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide sufficient
space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate space
may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal
behavior patterns. . .

 




4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary to
provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleanings to remove excretions and'other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation.

Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil violation for which a
forfeiture of $500 for each offense may be adjudged and such other relief as may
be necessary to restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the effects of
cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of necessary suste-
nance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes,
procures or authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon
the animal, or unnecessarily fails to provide the animal with nutritious food in
sufficient quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air, space, shelter or
protection from the weather; or (4) uses or permits to be used any bird, fowl, or
cock for the purpose of fighting with any other animal, which is commonly
known as cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner, possessor, or cus-
todian of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, who abandons such animal or
drops or leaves such animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private prOperty, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a ﬁne not to
exceed $100.00 . . . '

27:62. Definitions.

The words ﬁtortEteiﬁgmentI',_aad___fcru_eltyi-.mean everx..as§-2gtissien or
neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted, and the word ’animal’ means every living creature except
man. ‘

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or
kills an animal, or causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel
or inhuman manner in a race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait in ﬁshing; and who-
ever, having the charge or custody of an animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or protection from the
weather, and whoever, as owner, possessor, or person having the charge or cus-
tody of an animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or willfully
abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a vehicle, or other-
wise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner
which might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully
authorizes or permits it to be subjected to unnecessary tothre,_,§uffering.o‘I{i '
elfy of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not more thanﬁve-huadred/ .01,—
lars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided .by law, upon conviction for any
violation of this section . . . the defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to
determine the defendant’s fitness for continued custody of the abused animal,
be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of any society, incorporated
under the laws of the commonwealth for the prevention of cruelty to animals or
for the care and protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction. '

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded.
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived 0f neces-

 




sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal, and
whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or other-
wise, inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or ﬁned
not more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Deﬁnitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. ’Animal' means every living creature except members of
the human race. -

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. "I‘orture’ or 'cruelty' means every act, omission, or
neglect which causes or permits unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain, suffering, or
death . . . -

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty. -

Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive, overload, torture, cru-
elly beat, neglect, or unjustiﬁably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or
cruelly work any animal when it is unﬁt for labor, whether it belongs to that per-
son or to another person. '

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive any animal over
which the person has charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or other animal in any
enclosure without providing wholesome exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed .any cow on food which produces
impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow any maimed,
sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animal to lie in any street, road, or other public place for
more than three hours after receiving notice of the animal's condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty
'toanimals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage'any animal for public display pur-
poses unless the display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to
protect the caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal dimen-
sion of each side of the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal.
The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricul-
tural society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county agricultural societies,
county fairsnto any agricultural display of caged animals by any political subdi-
vision of the state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national educational
livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions of this subdivision do not apply
to captive wildlife, the exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.041.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 90 daysvimprisonment and/or up to $700 fine @9903]

NIISSISSIPPI

97-41-1. living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload, torture, "torment,
unjustiﬁably injure, deprive of necessary sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly
beat or needlessly mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustiﬁably injured, tormented, or deprived of necessary
sustenance, food or drink; or to be cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or
killed, any living creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

97-41-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.
If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he

shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97—41-7. Conﬁning creatures without food or water.

If any person shall conﬁne, or cause to be confined, in any stable, lot, or
other place, any living creature, without supplying the same during such con-
ﬁnement with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide sustenance.

If any person be the owner or have the custody of any living creature and
_unjustiﬁably neglect or refuse to furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. ‘

 




MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:

(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of sections 578.005 to
578.023;

(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes injury, suffering, or
pain to an animal;

(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making provisions for its
adequate care;

(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or works an animal
unfit to work; or

(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal willfully fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control.

2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Up to 1 year/imprisonment and/orafineofupto $1,000 (§,5§_8011,~ ._ >_ I I

560016).)

MONTANA

45-8-211. Cruelty to animals. ,

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if without justifica-
tion he knowingly or negligently subjects an animal to mistreatment or neglect
by:

(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody with proper food, drink,
or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or

(e) promoting, Sponsoring, conducting, or participating in a horse race
of more than 2 miles.

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to animals shall be ﬁned
not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed 6
months, or both. If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to the
county in which he is convicted any animal affected. This provision does not
affect the interest of any secured party or other person who has not participated
in the offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection (2), the court may
require the defendant to pay all reasonable costs incurred in providing neces-
sary veterinary attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

28-1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and abandon; defined. As
used in section 28-1002, unless the context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and a wild living crea-
ture previously captured. Animal does not include an uncaptured wild creature
or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under
section 28-1002; ‘

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food, water, protection from
the elements, opportunity to exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper
for an animal’s health and well-being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its preper care.

28-1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(c) Abandons any animal; or
(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another.
(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor . . .

IPenalty: Maximum 6 months imprisonment or$1,000f1nebrboth (§y28-106).] ‘ ‘ I

NEVADA

 




574.050. Deﬁnitions . . . -
As used in NR5 574.050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. ’Animal’ does not include the human race, but includes every other
living creature. .
2. ’Torture’ or ’cruelty’ includes every act, omission or neglect,
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning animals; failure to pro-
vide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or unjustifiably
injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or to
another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink, or neg-
lects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink; '

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or. drink;

4. Willquy sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers
an act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than those prohibited in
NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.

1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody, of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or inﬁrm animal, who abandons such animal or
leaves it to die in a public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie in a
public street, road or public place more than 3 hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to impounded animal; pen-
alty.

1. A person who, having impounded or conﬁned any animal, refuses or
neglects to supply to such animal during its conﬁnement a sufficient supply of
good and wholesome air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months’ﬁsriéoﬁé’ﬁi‘aﬁ’aﬁiﬁihé of upwtoﬁmjm‘orboth
(§ 193.150) ]

 




ANTI.5: 2/16/90

NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

I. In this section, ‘cruelty’ shall include, but not be limited to, acts or omis-
sions injurious or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any animal,
including the abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its care,
sustenance, protection or shelter. »

II. In this section, ’animal' means a domestic animal, a household pet or a
wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a. misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives or causes to be
deprived any animal in his possession or custody necessary care, sustenance or
shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures, mutilates or in any other
manner mistreats or causes to be mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when overloaded, or
otherwise abuses or misuses any animal intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animalin his possession or custody in a
manner injurious to the health, safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) N egligently abandons any animal previously in his possession or
custody by causing such animal to be left without supervision or adequate pro-
vision for its care, sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any animal in his posses-
sion or custody to be subjected to cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary
suffering of any kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in paragraph
ll], any person charged with cruelty to animals may have his animal confiscated
by the arresting ofﬁcer and, upon said person's conviction of cruelty to animals,
the court may dispose of said animal in any manner it decides. The costs, if any,
incurred in boarding and treating the animal, pending disposition of the case,
and in disposing of the animal, upon a conviction of said person for cruelty to
animals, shall be borne by the person so convicted . . . '

[Penaltyz Up to 1 year" imprisonment and/or a fine of up to§1,000(§651:2).]

NEW JERSEY

4:22-15. Deﬁnitions, WW” _ __ ,, W---

As used in this article:
‘Animal’ or 'creature’ includes the whole brute creation . . .

 

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature
in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor. lA person. £119-“... ' 7
shall impound or confine, or cause to be impounded or confined, in a pound or
other place, a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such
conﬁnement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of
this title.
4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place; misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or
creature to die in a public place, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty. 'A erson “whos’hall z:

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or
needlessly mutilate or kill a living animal or creature;

b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent, servant, employee or oth-
erwise an act enumerated in subsection ’a' of this section; .

c. inﬂict unnecessary cruelty upon a living animal or creature of which
he has charge or custody either as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to
provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather; .

d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by reason of disability, d15-
ease or lameness, or any other cause, could not be worked without violating the
provisions of this article; '

e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in the management of, or
receive money or other consideration for the admission of a person to, a place
kept or used for the purpose of ﬁghting or baiting a living animal or creature;

 




f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or assist in an activity enu-
merated in subsection ‘e’ of this section;

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by him to be used as
provided in subsection ’e' of this section; -

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature in or upon a
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw a
vehicle for business purposes; '

j. Impound or confine or cause to be conﬁned in a pound or other
place a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, inﬁrm or disabled animal or creature to die
in a public place;

i. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose, or cause or permit to be sold
or offered for sale, used or exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease
known as glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease dangerous
to the health or life of human beings or animals, or who shall, when any such
disease is beyond recovery, refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside stand or market for
the sale of merchandise along a public street or highway; or a shopping mall, or
a part of the premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature conﬁned, or
allowed to roam in an area whether or not the area is enclosed, on these prem-
ises as an exhibit; except that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet " , “
shop licensed pursuant to P1. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.1 et seq,); a person who 4 If?! ’0 ;
keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for the purpose of the protection of the
premises; or a recognized breeders’ association, a 4-H club, an educational agri-
cultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or other similar charita-
ble or nonproﬁt organization conducting an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside stand or market located
along a public street or highway of this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping
mall, or a part of the premises thereof;

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or display live baby chicks,
ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, turtles or chameleons which have been dyed
or artiﬁcially colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artificial
color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the purpose of soliciting any
aims, collections, contributions, subscriptions, donations, or payment of money
except in connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted in a
bona ﬁde manner by recognized breeders’ associations, 4-H clubs or other simi-
lar bona fide organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away living rabbits, turtles, baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl under 2 months of age, for use as household or
domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away living baby chicks, ducklings
or other fowl, or rabbits, turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any
purpose not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall fail to pro-
vide proper facilities for the care of such animals;

5. Artiﬁcially mark sheep or cattle, or cause them to be marked, by
cropping or cutting off both ears, cropping or cutting either ear more than 1
inch from the tip end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either ear
more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall have or keep in his pos-
session sheep or cattle, which he claims to own, marked contrary to this
subsection unless they were bought in market or of a stranger; .

t. Abandon a dog or cat—éShall forfeit and pay a sum not 193359
$250.00 to be sued for and recovered, with costsfm a civil action by any person
in the name of the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

 

NEW MEXICO

30318-1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary sustenance, cruelly
beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or overdriving any animal;

3. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal with proper food or
drink; or

C- cruelly driving or working any animal when such animal is unfit for
labor. Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.

[Penalty Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a ﬁne of not more than
$500.00, or both (§3l-19-1).]

NEW YORK

350. Definitions.

 




1. 'Aninial,’ as used in this article, includes every living creature except a
human being;

2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty’ includes every act, omission, or neglect, whereby
unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to provide proper sus-

tenance.

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats ® .4 0 I:
unjustiﬁably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether wild or tame, ""
and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprives any animal of nec-
essary sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such suste-
nance or drink, or causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who wilfully sets '
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars, or by both . . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of an
animal, whoabandons such animal, or leaves it to die in a street, road or public
place, or who allows such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public street,
road or public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left
disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
than one year, or by a ﬁne of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both.

356. Failure to provide preper food and drink to impounded animal.

A person who, having impounded or conﬁned any animal, refuses or neg-
lects to supply to such animal during its conﬁnement a sufficient supply of good
and wholesome air, food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punish-
able by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars, or by both. In case any animal shall be at any time
impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and
water for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into and upon
any pound in which any such animal shall be so conﬁned, and to supply it with
necessary food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such person
shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost of such
food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such animal, and the
said animal shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon
a judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROLINA

14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill
or cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, injured, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly muti-
lated or killed as aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such offender
shall for every such offense be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating to animals, the
words ‘animal' and ’dumb animal’ shall be held to include every living creature;
the words ’torture,’ 'torment' or ’cruelty’ shall be held to include every act, omis-
sion or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused
or permitted. Such terms shall not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of
animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Com-
mission.

14o361. Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate, or move to, carry on, or
promote, or engage in, or do any act towards the furtherance of any act of cru-
elty to any animal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year.

14-3611. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of
an animal, who willftu and without justiﬁable excuse abandons the animal is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to ﬁve hundred dollars
($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.‘l-01. Definitions. In this chapter, unless-the context or subject matter oth-
erwise requires:

 




. '1. ’Animal’ includes every living animal except the human rate.
2. ’Board’ means the state livestock sanitary board.
3. ’Cruelty' or 'torture' includes every act, omission, Or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36-21.1-02. Overworking or mistreating animals. .

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or
unjustiﬁably injure, mairn, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work any ani-
mal when unﬁt for labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has charge or control
of necessary food, water, or shelter. _

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure without exercise and
wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animal of
which he is the owner, or of which he has custody, to lie in any street, road, or
other public place for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way further, any act of cru-
elty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display purposes unless the
display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the caged
animal from the elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal. The provisions of
this subsection do not apply to the North Dakota state fair association, to agri-
cultural fair associations, to any agricultural displayhof caged animals by any
political subdivision, or to district, regional, or national educational livestock or
poultry exl'u'bitions. Zoos which have been approved by the health district or
the governing body of the political subdivision which has jurisdiction over the
zoos are exempt from the provisions of this subsection . . .

[Penalty: Maximum one yeariimpnsonment, 'E’ﬁéwar si,ood,"6i"i§”6‘iin”““M" " '

OHIO
959.01. Abandoning animals. '
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, shall abandon
such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor, punishable by a
ﬁne of not more than $100.]

959.02. Injuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of the
owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, ﬁlly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is the property
of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an
ofﬁcial capacity. ' —

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of the animal killed or the
injury done amounts to less than $300, misdemeanor of the second degree, _
punishable by not more than 90 days"in'ipﬂri§3nihent and/or a fine ofﬂ'ﬁ‘o’t more
than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300

or more,misdemeanor of the ﬁrst degree, P.!:!.I.l_i_.5.h§b1¢-an°t "more than six
months’iﬁiprisonment and/Or a fine Of 'aSFhore than $1,000.? - " W“

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unne-
cessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an
animal without supplying it during such conﬁnement with a sufficient quantity
of good wholesome food and water;

(2) Impound or conﬁne an animal without affording it, during such
conﬁnement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sun-
light if it can reasonably be expected that the animals would otherwise become
sick or in some other way suffer. Division (A) (2) of this section does not apply
to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, shelter means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, 01'
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, 1101‘ fetid
.cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

 

’5‘

[Penaltyz Misdemeanor “gufjhemsemcond degree, punishable by not more than 90 '} f I m ..
daysanent and/or a ﬁne of-hot mE'eutHamﬁ' $750.] 7 ' “”M“ i 99.5 ’f 5"";

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to the soci-
ety or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the

f‘

 

 




. v (
county, township, or municipal corporation where such violation occurred.

OKLAHOMA

2111685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive, overload, torture,
destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subju-
gation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself or
to another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter; or
who shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or injured, maimed
or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall
willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelty
to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding ﬁve (5) years, or by imprison-
ment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not exceeding Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer finding an animal so maltreated or
abused shall cause the same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall
be a lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien.

21:1686. Abandoned animals—Destroyed how.

A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled, or infirm animal who abandons said animal or who allows said animal
to lie in a public street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the animal is disabled or
dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section and Section 1691 of this
title, the term abandon means the voluntary relinquishment of an animal with
no intention to retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited to
vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to
feed the animal or allowing it to stray or wander onto private or public property
with the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said animal.

2111691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or highways or in any
public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other domestic animal along
any private or public roadway, or in any other private or public place with the
intention of abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. ..

21:1692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of Sections 1686
. . . 1691 of this ﬁtle shall be punished by a ﬁne in an amount not less than One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or
.by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one (1) year, or by both
said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.850. Definition and classiﬁcation of the crime of cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal under human custody or control , to cruel
mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal under his custody or control to cruel neglect;
(c) Kills without legal privilege any animal under the custody or con-
trol of another.
(2) As used in this section, ’animal’ includes birds.
(3) Cruelty to animals is a Class B misdemeanor.

167.860. Speciﬁc acts deﬁned as cruelty to animals; defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, 'animal’ means any mammal, bird, reptile or
amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any animal, or
who, having the charge of or custody of any animal as owner, or otherwise,
inﬂicts cruelty upon the animal, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody of any animal,
' who cruelly drives or works the animal when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the animal, or carries or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or wilfully
authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to torture, suffering, or cruelty
of any kind, shall be punished for each and every offense in the manner pro-

 




vided in subsection (2) of this section. .

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or person having the
charge or custody of any animal, who deprives such animal of necessary and
adequate food and drink for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and
every offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this section . . .

 




ANTl.6: 2/ 16/90

PENNSYLVANIA

18:5511. Cruelty to animals . . . -~~ ,
(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms shall have the ,
meanings given to them in this paragraph:
’Domestic animal.’ Any dog, cat, equine animal, bovine animal, sheep,
goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals—A person commits a summary offense if he wan-
tonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats or otherwise abuses any animal,
whether belonging to himself or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives
any animal of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. . .

[Penaltyz Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4-1-1. Deﬁnitions . . .
(1) The words ’animal' and 'animals’ shall be held to include every liv—

ing creature except a human being . . .

4-1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals— 'Shelter’ deﬁned.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cru-
elly kill, or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever, hav-
ing the charge or custody of any animaL either as owner or otherwise, shall
inflict cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide that animal with
proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shalL for every such
offense, be imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding ﬁve hundred dollars ($500), or be both
imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

’5helters,’ as used in this chapter, shall mean a structure used to house any
animal, and which will provide sufficient protection'from inclement elements
for the health and well-being of the animaL

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who shall cruelly drive or work that animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly
abandon that animal, or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner, or
wilfully authorize or permit that animal to be subjected to unnecessary torture,
suffering or cruelty of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain, or that shall be
declared a hazardous substance by the U.‘ 5. Food and Drug Administration or
by the Rhode Island Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1-2; provided however, that this section
shall not be deemed to include any drug having curative and therapeutic effect
for disease in animals and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4-1-4. Abandonment of inﬁrm animals. -

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be abandoned to die,
by any owner or person having charge of that animal, that person shall, for
every such offense, be punished in the manner provided in 4-1-2 . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA

47-1-10. ‘Animal' and ’animals' defined. '
In this chapter the words ’animal’ or ’animals’ shall be held to include all
brute creatures.

47-1-40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-treats, deprives of nec-
essary sustenance, shelter, or inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any
animal or causes these things to be done, whether the person is the owner of the
animal or has charge or custody of it, for every offense, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment 110*
exceeding thirty days or by a ﬁne of not less than ﬁfty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not exceeding sixty days or
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(8) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates, cruelly kills, 01‘

 




inﬂicts excessive or repeated unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes the acts to be done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to exceed sixty days
or by a fine not to exceed ﬁve hundred dollars, or both. _
(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl, accepted animal
husbandry practices of farm operations, the training of animals, or the practice
of veterinary medicine.

47—1-70. Abandonment of inﬁrm animal in public place.

A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal in any town or city of this State,
who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left disabled
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a ﬁne not exceeding one
hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding thirty days.

47-1-50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and unnecessary tor-
turejgvery owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal Who: ' - - , . u Mainframe-i...“ N..m,..‘....l.a,a —«-.- . mam. . , , 'I

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unﬁt for labor;

(2) Cruelly abandons it;

(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise
in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind;

Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be pun-

ished for every such offense in the manner prescribed in 47-1-40.

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .

(1) 'Animal’ shall include every living 'dumb creature;

(2) 'Torture,’ 'torment,’ and ‘cruelty' shall include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted . . .

40-1-2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat,
mutilate, or ’cruelly kill any animal.

40-1-21. Abandoning amm‘ a1 prohibited. Mgpg§gn_may abandon any animal.
40-1-6. Impounding or leaving of animal without prOper attention prohibited.
No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in any building,

enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without proper care and attention for more
than twelve consecutive hours.

0 I . l . , o I
40-1-15. Violation of chapter as misdemeanorié’vmlation of any 23213199353“, I . ~.

Hunk-u“ -

this chapter, which is not otherwise classified, is a Class immisaemeanor.

40-1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as misdemeanor.

Every person who maliciously kills or injures any animaL other than those
speciﬁed in 40-1-21 [livestock], belonging to another, or any animal whatever
139101181118 to himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Class 1 misdemeanor: one yearrnnnprisonmentwm countyjallvatld/Ol'
$1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30 daystirnprisonment“‘iii‘county jail and/or
$100 fine]

TENNESSEE

39-3-101. Deﬁnitions.

in this part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, the words ani-
mal or dumb animal shall be held to include every living creature; the words
torture, torment, or cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit-
ted; but nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds
or game for the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by incor-
porated gun clubs.

39-3-104. Cruelty to animals. ,

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture, torment, deprive of neces-
sary sustenance, m-cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or pro-
cure same to be done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy. $811. or
exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every such offender shalL for
every offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prOhibif the
purchase of animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of this
state, for the purpose of humaner killing the same.

 




39-3-106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound or
other place, any creature, shall supply to the same during such confinement a
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default
thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39-3-110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote, or engage in, or do
any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

39-3—121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.

It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or otherwise
willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline species on public lands or
rights of way. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be ﬁned not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than ﬁfty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or workhouse not to exceed thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.

39-1-202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the punishment for
which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute of this state, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail or workhouse not more than one year, or by
ﬁne not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in the discretion
of the court. '

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.

(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly:

(1) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an
animal in his custody;

(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;

(4) transports or conﬁnes an animal in a cruel manner;

(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal, other than cattle,
horses, sheep, swine, or goats, belonging to another without legal authority or
the owner’s effective consent; .

(6) causes one animal to ﬁght with another; or?\(7) uses a live animal as _ f)f31‘.~’.’
a lure in dog race training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .

(c) For purposes of this section, 'animal’ means a domesticated living crea-
ture and wild living creature previously captured. ’Animal’ does not include an
uncaptured Wild creature or a wild creature whoSe capture was accomplished
by conduct at issue under this section.

(Penalty: Class A misdemeanor: Fine not to exceed $2,000 and/or imprison-
ment not to exceed one year.]

UTAH

76-9-301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;
(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an animﬂ in his
custody; ‘

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or conﬁnes an animal in a cruel manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal without legal priv-
ilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal
or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a
dog, to ﬁght with a different kind of animal or creature for amusement or gain . . .

[Penalty: Class B misdemeanor.]

VERMONT
AfQAtAnimal deﬁned,“ '

_ - —¢_.“4

forthe purposes of this EE$E€£;“E‘1{§ word aiding? 6r” 'Ah‘iiﬁa‘ls’shan include " I.
and extend to all brute creatures. ’

rwailnlelty to animalsrgenerally. .

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or having
the charge or custody of an animal, inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it. 01‘

 




unnecessarily fails to provide it with pr0per food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year or ﬁned not more -
than $200.00, or both. ‘

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehi-
cle or otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or wilfully author-
izes or permits the same to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or
cruelty, shall be punished as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

.404téizapslgaznsnt.otinfi;m animals. . , m... .
W If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animals-'shall be abandoned—byany
owner or person having charge of same, such person shall for every offense, be
punished in the manner provided in section 403 (a) of this title.

VIRGINIA

31-79666 Deﬁnitions. The following words as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings: ~

'Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable intervals, at least once
daily, of quantities of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, suf-
ﬁcient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

‘Adequate water’ means a constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, pota-
ble water provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals and in
a suitable manner for the species at least once daily at any interval.

'Adequate shelter’ means shelter that may reasonably be expected to pro-
tect the animal from physical suffering or impairment of health due to exposure
to the elements or adverse weather . . .

’Animal’ means domestic animals, including both agricultural and compan-
ion animals,if not speciﬁed otherwise . . .

31-79668. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty to provide for each
of his companion animals, pursuant to regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of animal
depending upon its age, size and weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every animal shelter with
respect to animals contained therein.

3.1-796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the purposes of
this section is defined as deserting, forsaking, or intending to absolutely give up
an animal without securing another owner or without providing the necessities
set out in §3.1-796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor. .

3.1496122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-treats,
abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain not connected with bona
fide scientiﬁc or medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or another;
or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or
(iii) willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of
cruelty to any animal; 01' (iv) carries or causes to be carried in or upon any vehi-
cle, vessel or otherwise any animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as
to produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any of the above
things, or being the owner of such animal permits such acts to be done by
another, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. '

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other domesticated animal in
any public place including the right-of-way of any public highway. road 01'
street or on the property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dehoming of cat-
tle. A

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal shall be construed to
include birds and fowl.

IPenalties: Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more than 12 months
and/01' a ﬁne 0f not more than $L000; Class 3 misdemeanor: A ﬁne of not more
than $500.]

WASHINGTQN "

16.52.070. Certain acts as cruelty—Penalty.
Except as provided in RCW 9A.48.080, every person who cruelly over-

 




drives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, de-
prived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed,
any animal; and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same with the proper food, drink, air, light,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and unreasonably
drives the same when unfit for labor or with yoke or harness that chafes or galls
it, or check rein or any part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal, or who cruelly aban-
dons any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For the purposes of this sec-
tion, necessary sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable inter-
vals, not to exceed twenty-four hours, of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species and age of the animal and sufﬁcient to provide a reasonable level of
nutrition for the animal.

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8-19a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such animals in fights
against each other prohibited; penalties.

If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of another person, or if
any such person shall impound or conﬁne any such dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quan-
tity of food and water, or shall abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat or shall be engaged in or employed at dogﬁghting, or putting one dog or
cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or
shall receive money for the admission of any person, or shall use, train or pos-
sess a dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be ﬁned not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars,
and in addition thereto, in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may be
imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county humane
ofﬁcer may remove the dog or cat involved and place said animal in the county
pound, and said dog or cat shall not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act
of cruelty) but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given over into
the care of a humane society, or upon the recommendation of a licensed veteri-
narian shall be humanely destroyed. '

61-8-19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly beat, torture, tor-
ment, mutilate, kilL or overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary sus-
tenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such horse or other ani-
mal be his own or that of another person, or shall impound or confine any such
animal in any place and fail to supply the same with a sufﬁcient quantity of
good, wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any vehicle, or oth-
erwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, or knowingly feed a cow
on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die
any maimed, sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be ﬁned not less than ﬁve nor more
than one hundred dollars, and in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may
be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




ANTI]: 2/16/90

WISCONSIN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter: '
(1) 'Animal’ includes every living:
(a) Warm—blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or '
(c) Amphibian.
(2) 'Cruel' means causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering or
unjustifiable injury or death . . . ‘

951.02. Mistreating animals. -
No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to himself or another,

in a cruel manner . . .

951.13. Providing proper food and drink to conﬁned animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may refuse or neglect to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and
water as prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all animals in good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it
shall be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter. ‘

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as prescribed in this section.
In the case of farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as impos-
ing shelter requirements or standards ”more stringent than normally accepted
husbandry practices in the particular county where the animal or shelter is
located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be compati-
ble with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated
by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health of the animals at all
times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall
include;

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaus-
tion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artiﬁcial
means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in
this paragraph, 'caged' does not include farm fencing used to confine farm ani-
mals. .

(b) Shelter from inclement weather. .

1. ‘Animals generally.’ Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to
the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as nec-
essary for the health of the animal.

2. 'Dogs.’ If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include: ' ~

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals. _ .

0’) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and main-
tained so as to provide sufﬁcient space to allow each animal adequate freedom
of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility, stress
or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both indoor
and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and
other waste materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Note: In 1986, Wisconsin upgraded the penalty for deliberate acts of cruelty to
a felony offense.) .

WYOMING

11-34-101. Definitions. : ‘3'
(i) ’Animal’ shall be held to include every living dumb creature . . .

 




 

11431-102. (fruelty to animals generally.

. . ¢
Every person who overdnves, overloads, dnves when overloaded, over-

works or willfully and maliciously tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sus-
tenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously and need-
lessly mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise in a cruel
or inhuman manner any animal, or causes or procures it to be done; or who,
having the charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it
with the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or cruelly abandons
it shall upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in the county jail not
exceeding one (1) year or by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such ﬁne and imprisonment.

 

O’NH

out

EFSemvm

14.

. Laws of New Hampshire, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix D. Complete text. 1904.
. Old South Leaﬂets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.
. New York. State Courts. Digest of New York Statutes and Reports, from earliest period to

the year 1860. Vol. 1, page 124.

. Revised Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title VI.
. journal of the Assembly of the State of New York, Slst Session, Second Meeting. Albany:

Croswell, 11828, pages 45-6.

. Revised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.

. Statutes of Connecticut, Title XXI, p. 184.

. Statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, page 365, Sec. 19.
. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

1860 Laws of the General Assembly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p. 395.
1864 Laws of the Territory of Idaho, XII, Sec. 143, p. 329.

. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray

Loring for their valuable insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of cruelty statutes, and pro-
vides a clear explanation, with case support, of the legal principles involved.

. "Accepted veterinary practice” includes performing, without anesthesia, such proce-

dures as dehorning of cattle at any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castra-
tion.

Illinois requires ”veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering"; Maine, ”neces-
sary medical attention”; Maryland, "necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania, ”veteri-
nary care;” Puerto Rico, ”medical or veterinary treatment if needed.”

. The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to one year’s imprisonment

and/or a ﬁne of up to $1,000.

. On a national level, the American Humane Association (AHA) offers to match up to

$500 for ”information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons
willfully poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from AHA’s ofﬁce at
9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

. In some states, every ”willful act," etc.

 




 
    

ANTIJ: 2116/90

 
  
     
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
       

Chapter I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANT I-CRUELTY LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson

I
i

l

America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the
rights of animals by enacting statutory legislation to protect them from cruel
treatment. In 1641 the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, ”The Body of Liberties."1 There are 100 "liberties”
which the Puritans expect “to be respectfully irnpartiallie and inviolably
enjoyed and observed throughout our Jurisdiction for ever." At a, time when
others considered animals as mere pr0perty, to be used or abused at the whim
of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92. Cruelty to animals forbidden. On
turning to liberty 92, we find:

OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

92.. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any
bruite Creature which are usuallie kept for man's use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade or drive Cattel from
place to place that is far of, so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall sick,
or lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them, for a competent
time, in any open place that is not Come, meadow, or inclosed for
some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law, the first law to protect
animals in transit.
The Puritans take Special care to proclaim these ”liberties” laws:

96. Howsoever these above speciﬁed rites, freedomes, Immun-
ities, Authorities and priveledges, both Civill and Ecclesiastical are
expressed onely under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one consent fullie
Authorise, and earnestly intreate all that are and shall be in Authoritie
to consider them as laws, and not to faile to inﬂict condigne and pro-
portionable punishments upon every man impartiallie, that shall
infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we draw on the research of
the noted historian, Samuel Eliot Morison. In his book, Builders of the Bay Colony
(page 232), he says, “Although animals then had no protection in Common
Law, '1‘ he Bruite Creature' has a section of his own in the Body of Liberties."
And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers to an "interesting case of condemnation
for cruelty to an ox, in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County [Massachu-
setts] III, 305." it seems clear that Liberty 92 not only was an anti-cruelty law but
also was used successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time—so far ahead that humanitarians through-
out the world, not aware of its existence, have been assuming that the British
M.P., Richard Martin, who fought so ﬁercely for enactment of the first anti-cru-
elty legislation in England (1822), was the primary author Of all the laws that
have followed. It seems now that ”Humanity" Martin must give up first place to
the Puritan minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties of
1641.

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill, England. He was a
graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, studied law and became a barrister.
Driven out of England for heresy by Bishop Laud, he came to New England in
1634 and settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where he compiled ”The Body of
Liberties," adopted by the General Court of Massachusetts in December 1641.
Beginning in 1635, there had been a growing concern among the Deputies of
the towns of the Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce results. Finally, in
June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted the service of ”a learned lawyer” whose
legal abilities they felt to be superior—the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had
already served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical sketch, ”'1' he
Simple Cobler of Aggawam,” Mr. Ward says, "I have read almost all the Com-
mon Law of England." This and his own experiences were the sources from
Which he drafted his statute book He enriched the code with his own practical

 

   




good sense and his understanding of the communal love of liberty, making
“The Body of liberties" in entirety work far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, "there was little early specific legislation but
it was possible to prosecute ‘cruelists' under common law as committing 'nui-

sancesf” For instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted and found guilty of
cruelly beating his horse and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $30 with costs
of prosecution and to give bond for his good behavior for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the introduction to his book,
The Humane Movement in the United States, 1910-1922, page 12. Note that the
cartman had ”to give bond for his good behavior for one year,” in addition to
the $30 and costs. It would seem that some of our modern penalties for cruelty
fall far short of the wisdom of this one. ‘

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was punishable under
Common Law, we have this statement from the Digest of New York Statutes and

Reports.
Animals Ill. Treatment—Preservation—Destruction of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal—cg. excessive
beating of his horse by a cartmam—is punishable at common law as a
misdemeanor. Gen. Sess., 1822, Peeple v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas.,
111. And see Ross’ Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.’

As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law among the United
States was enacted in 1828 by the New York State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously kill, mairn, or wound
any horse, ox, or other cattle, or sheep, belonging to another, or shall
maliciously and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.‘

Although this law limits the protected animals to owned horses, cattle, or
sheep, it does give these animals the right to be protected from their owners'
cruel treatment, thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving
them the legal right to be well treated for the ﬁrst time in an established State of
the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching back to the Colonial
Laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an earlier date than 1828 have so far proved
fruitless; therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the Statutes for
responsibility. The two Revisors are B. F. Butler and John C. Spencer. According
to these gentlemen, in their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty of presenting an
entirely new arrangement and organization of the criminal laws. Saying that the
Common law had long ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punish-
ments, they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure in criminal cases,
prepared by Mr. Livingston for the state of Louisiana . . . But the differ-
ent state of society for which our labors are intended, and prevailing
sentiments respecting punishments varying essentially from those
entertained by the enlightened author of those codes, have prevented
the adoption of many provisions suggested by him . . . '

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esq., a distinguished jurist of the Inner
Temple (in England) where recent and great efforts have been made to
simplify their criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his able
and voluminous reports and consolidations, prepared under the
employment of the government for the British Parliament. They con-
tain complete digests of the British statutes respecting crimes, with
copious annotations from the reports. They have been of essential
service to us . . . it is but just to remark that they were not so generally
applicable to this state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly digest-
ing and arranging so much of the law as mlates to crimes and their
punishments.

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may be given to Mr.
”Butler and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the ﬁrst antiocruelty state law and for
assigning its violation the punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was Massachusetts in 1835.“

The wording was similar to that of the New 'York law, but the punishment was

designated "by imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or by
ﬁne not exceeding one hundred dollars."

In 1838 Connecticut7 and Wisconsin” added an anti-cruelty law to their stat-
utes. Connecticut’s penalty was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine

 




not exceeding twenty-ﬁve dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at not more
than thirty days and fine from five to ﬁfty dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in which each state
enacted its first anti-cruelty law. Penalties were similar to those already quoted,
until Texas9 set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvania” imposed a more severe pen-
alty: a fine up to two hundred dollars, imprisonment up to one year, or both, at .
the discretion of the court; and Idaho set its punishment as “A fine of not more 0/ #7,“ C

than ﬁve hundred dollars, orimgrjégmg . not exceeding six months, or both M , , ,
such fine and imprisonment,,—',‘{Idahou made another step forward by introducinz /9/,‘/“ ‘ 1.2.: - )4/Caﬁ‘c. ,
and passing a companion law (Sec. 142) to impose a similar penalty on any per— ‘

son ”who shall willfully administer any poison to any cattle or domestic animal

or maliciously expose any poisonous substance, with the intent that the same

shall be taken or swallowed by cattle or domestic animal. . ." So far as is known,

this is the ﬁrst law in the United States to protect domestic animals from poison-

mg.
UNITED STATES ANT I-CRUELTY LAWS

‘0‘

‘ ‘ Chronological Enactment ﬁg, z
-« 141641 Massachusetts Bay Colony 'EERQEXPI 151,5”:

‘ 1828 New York 1871 Montana

‘1 1835 Massachusetts 1872 Colorado

i 1838 Connecticut 1873 Delaware

i 1838 Wisconsin 1873 Indiana
£1842 New Hampshire 1873 Nebraska
1845 Missouri 1875 Georgia
1848 Virginia 1879 Arkansas
21851 Iowa 1879 Louisiana
1851 Minnesota 1880 Mississippi

1852 Kentucky 1880 Ohio
'1854 Vermont 1881 North Carolina

“1856 Texas 1881 South Carolina
21857 Rhode Island 1883 Alabama
:1858 Tennessee 1883 Maine
1859 Kansas 1884 Hawaii
1859 'Washington 1887 New Mexico
1860 Pennsylvania 1887 South Dakota
:1861 Nevada 1889 Florida
:1864 Idaho 1890 Maryland
1864 Oregon 1891 North Dakota
.‘1867 New Jersey 1893 Oklahoma
:‘1868 California 1895 Wyoming
L1868 West Virginia 1898 Utah
:1869 Illinois 1913 Alaska
21871 District of Columbia 1913 Arizona

L1871 Michigan 1921 Virgin Islands

 

 

 

 

 

 

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for the incorpora-
tion of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, twenty
states had enacted anti-cruelty laws; of these states, six were in reality still
territories when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington,

Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In Spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry Bergh, even with his
newly incorporated society, found it difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biog-
rapher, A. F. Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASPCA, says that although
there had been an anti-cruelty law passed in New York State in 1829 [sic], no
one could remember that it had ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to
draft a new law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry Bergh’s
ﬁrst law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the 1828 law, though an added sec-
tion aims to protect disabled horses and mules from abandonment.

Statutes at Large of the State of New York passed in the years 1863,
1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN ACT better to prevent cruelty to
animals. Passed April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. The twenty-sixth section of title six, chapter first, part four
of the Revised Statutes, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or neglect, maliciously
kill. maim, wound, injure, torture or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox,
cattle, sheep or other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

 




Sec. 2. Every owner, driver or possessor of an old, maimed, or dis-
eased horse or mule, turned loose or left disabled in any street, lane or
place of any city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule to lie
in any street, lane or public place for more than three hours after
knowledge of such disability, shall, on convicu'on, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of re-establishing anti-cru-
elty legislation as a matter of public conscience, demanding respectful attention
by judges of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore dis—
missed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being inflicted on animals, how-
ever, and cognizant of the newly aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did
not stop with the somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when “An Act for the more effectual preven-
tion of cruelty to animals” was passed on April 12. This Act has ten sections and
has since served as the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty
laws (forty-one states and the District of Columbia have present laws based on
this Act). For this reason it seems worthy of quotation in entirety here.

l.

STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., Vol. VII, 1870

CHAP. 375
AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals.
Passed April 12, 1867; three-ﬁfths being present

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section 1. 'If any person shall over-drive, over-load, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be over-
driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary sus-
tenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly muti-
lated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in any way be
connected with, or interested in the management of, or shall receive
money for the admission of any person to any place kept or used for
the purpose of ﬁghting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or other
creature, and every person who shall encourage, aid or assist therein,
or who shall permit or suffer any place to be so kept or used, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, 01' cause *0 be
impounded in any pound, any creature, shall supply to the same, dur-
ing such conﬁnement, a sufficient quantity of good and Wholesome
food and water, and in default thereofhshall upon conviction, be
adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any time impounded as
aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and water
for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any per-
son, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter
into and upon any pound in which any such creature shall be so con-
ﬁned, and to supply it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for
such entry, and the reasonable cost of such food and water may be col-
lected by him of the owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon judg-
ment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle or otherwise, any creature, in a cruel or inhuman
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall
be taken into custody therefor by any ofﬁcer, such ofﬁcer may take
charge of such vehicle and its contents, and deposit the same in some
safe place of custody; and any necessary expenses which may be
incurred for taking charge of and keeping and sustaining the same,
shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be lawfully
recovered Or the said expenses or any part thereof remaining unpaid,

 




    
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
    

_., . .._4,

may be recovered by the person incurring the same, of the owner of
said creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter use any dog or dogs
for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw any (art, carriage, truck,
barrow or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village, for busi-
ness purposes, shall be required to take out a license for that purpose,
from the mayor or president thereof, respectively, and shall have the
number of said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section shall forfeit and
pay a ﬁne of one dollar for the ﬁrst offense, and a ﬁne of ten dollars for

each subsequent offense.

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm or disabled creature shall be
abandoned to die, by any person, in any public place, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for any magis-
trate or captain of police in this state to appoint suitable persons to
destroy such creature if unﬁt for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, upon being designated thereto by the sheriff of any
county in this state, may, within such county, make arrest, and bring
before any court or magistrate thereof having jurisdiction, offenders
found violating the provisions of this act; and all ﬁnes imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions of this act, shall
inure to said society, in the aid of the benevolent objects for which it
was incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the first day of May next.
And the said American society for the prevention of cruelty to animals
shall cause the same to be published once each week for three weeks,
in four daily papers published in New York City, or in default thereof
shall forfeit the right to receive the penalties and ﬁnes as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
prohibit or interfere with any properly conducted scientiﬁc experi-
ments or investigations, which experiments shall be performed only
under the authority of the faculty of some regularly incorporated med-
ical college or university of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great advance made in
establishing protection and legal rights for animals. In Section 1, notice the
detailed, speciﬁc cruelties, and that they are now applied to "any living crea-
ture.” Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal fights and baiting. Sections 3
and 4 protect impounded animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early impact of animal
experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty
charges.




ANTI.2: 2/ 16/90

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti-cruelty laws in the fifty states, the District of
Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally
agrees that all animals have the right to (1) protection from cruel treatment,
such as is described in detail in Section 1 of Henry Bergh's 1867 law; (2) protec-
tion from abandonment; (3) protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of
food, water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Treatment

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have laws which stipu-
late that cruel treatment must have been committed willfully, maliciously, or
cruelly. State statutes with qualiﬁers such as "intentionally," ”negligently,"
"maliciously," or "knowingly" deﬁne the mental state of the person charged.
Statutes without qualiﬁers make offenders strictly liable for an offense without
regard to mental state. Please note that terms such as “cruelly" and
“unnecessarily" which characterize the circumstances of the offense committed
must be distinguished from the qualifiers ”intentionally,” "negligently," "mali-
ciously,” or ”knowingly" which describe a culpable mental state. In court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such
qualiﬁers can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly have been con-
victed of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other jurisdictions
drafted without qualiﬁers. Moreover, provisions with qualiﬁers can be inter-
preted as a license to inﬂict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inﬂicting the pain are not sadistic. It is
this interpretation that is applied to scientiﬁc research and to scientiﬁc demon-
strations in schools.

In 22 states and the District of COlumbia, experimental animals used in sci-
entiﬁc institutions are Speciﬁcally excluded from the protective coverage of the
anti-cruelty laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Geor-
gia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey,
New York, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington and Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are con-
structed in language similar to Missouri's law in which it is written that the pro—
tective provisions of the animal welfare statute ”shall not be construed to pre-
vent or interfere with any scientiﬁc experiments or investigations” (Section
578.055). In Utah, the statute explicitly permits both painful research and pain-
ful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this section that the con-
duct of the actor towards the animal was an accepted veterinary prac-
tice13 or directly related to a bona fide experimentation for scientiﬁc
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed, the manner
employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to
the veterinary purpose or scientiﬁc research involved [Section 76-9-
301].

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska and Vermont call
for the "humane" treatment of animals. The Vermont statute states that nothing
within the anti-cruelty law "shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the
use of animals for scientific research by competent research men if done in a
humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the animals [Section 13-403] .”

Although Pennsylvania's anti-cruelty law does not contain such exemp-
tions, it does permit the issuance of search warrants to the police or humane
society agents to enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition:

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued under the provi-
sions of this section which shall authorize any policeman, or agent or
other person to enter upon to search premises where scientiﬁc
research is being conducted by, or under the supervision of, graduates
of duly accredited scientiﬁc schools or where biological products are
being produced for the care or prevention of disease. [Section 18-
551L Ad 0f June 3, 1911, as amended.)

Provision of Food, Water and Shelter

Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam prohibit both depriv;
ing an animal of ”necessary sustenance" and failing to provide "food and water
or "food, water and shelter." Several require the provision of ”necessary suste-

\/ 5£/ :30» 566.01%: )
{Q .S / I”) /B/C F5:

(’ hﬂepﬁb

If );I 4
, ,J 5‘ ﬂ (.1 1‘9?“ ,
.9. ‘ “‘3 x”! 3'71”}?
j {2/ /’\/ L651». .2! <7
'1'} (.47 ,x v,,\*, .
\ $1" \ ’ fr."

/' 1 f

u; 35 } I [ f 5,
f) * .4 ﬂ
9‘" F: I: Ins] ﬂ I (”it
'. "N ’1 .

.. ,5 1‘ I"; as». , ’
Mvo’ u‘l‘

. xi ‘t
7 _.—r-" l
1,!" ,; .55; 5“ VWI ,; //(" ’2‘? I/ {if/6 d L’
,4; 2/; ,, ”315/ AK, "rf/zlé,’ r‘ a» M .01.»
1 ,5 a 1,1 f" w»"‘#.¢’<;-=’ .
aw; ea.» ,1, , t

r

. g ,~
' " 2" waxy-{OM
.. a1") . ﬂ 5 5,: ,x _: F ’z/(“J‘ 4-"; “CV" U, I .
"ﬁt 5%” «war A ,
r x _ I ’
f m?" ,l 5‘ If], 4 1'"; I k V 7 L//
. / 1" {/Ml/qwdi/j/
"nvt-V [.1
,- 5/

[/i/CEA/ the w»- ,
{r ,,. 1,4,.» A I

we
W

< ﬁ/ﬂ/ «glib/{ig’ﬂtf
C43)

 




nance” without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase ”necessary sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for conﬁned animals and necessary
veterinary' care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-cruelty code states in
part: “A person who . . . deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or
drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink . . . or in any
way furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act ending to produce such
cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .” (emphasis added). In the case of People v.
O’Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.S. 2d
603, the defendants were charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a
limping horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary veteri-
nary care. The court noted the deﬁnition of "sustenance" in Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary (1966): ”the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries of life. " The court also cited the definition of “torture” or “cruelty”:
“Every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted" and determined that failing to provide the horse
with necessary medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.“ (Ital-
ics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in most
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private citizen to relieve a neg-
lected animal impounded n the property of another person by entering into

.1, _ .1r -- .( --__(3..-_.-_..l I... ..__._.1_. 1L- _..3_.“ -iJLk ‘AAA nos/J cavn‘nd not 1“!

In 1989, Revada Governor Bob ﬁiller eigned a bill into
law authorizing the state to eeize cruelly treated
agricultural animals. The law stemmed from a cruelty case in
which cattle were starving to death.

This is the first state law to parallel; in gart, a 1983
amendment to the Eritieh Protection of Animals not
authoriging the court to disqualify any person convicted of
:ruelty to animals from having onetody of any animal in the
*uture.

7 - --.-- -'-"~" [QT/(J [c4 Qﬁ/L’X’\‘y[ L/CC/Lﬂ—v’l

and Wisconsin statutes re'quire clean living conditions.

Protection from Abandonment «7% 136) /d7 :51 (é/Mgiﬂ/

Abandonment of animals is deﬁned in the Colorado code (Section 18-9-
201) as ”the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its I,
care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care.” Mgsjg ,_,. -'
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zonejpro-
hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel
or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disa-
bled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec-

tion of wild animals in captivity). [/7 7 V 7 n V I
Kinds of Animals Protected X a”? /(/l/ '51 eé/ lee? 1/

With respect to whiCh animals are to be protected from cruel treatment,
about half the state laws protect any non-ﬂhumm M‘Mgétgrgprﬁnyam-
11131," deﬁning animals as all living creatures except human beings. The rest use
the words “animal," ”domestic animals,” "captive animals,” or ”warm-blooded

creatures. /< E? if? 516M [QM

1/

Protection From Poisoning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another

 




nance" without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase "necessary sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for confined animals and necessary

veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-cruelty code states in
part: “A person who . . . deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or
drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink . . . or in any
way furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act ending to produce such
cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .” (emphasis added). In the case of People v.
O'Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.S. 2d
603, the defendants were charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a
limping horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary veteri-

care. The court noted the deﬁnition of ”sustenance" in Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary (1966): ”the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries of life. ” The court also cited the definition of "torture" or “cruelty":
“Every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted” and determined that failing to provide the horse
with necessary medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.“ (Ital-
ics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in most
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private citizen to relieve a neg-
lected animal impounded on the property of another person by entering into
the place of conﬁnement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter without qualifying
phrases, but most states require that failure to provide shelter be proven inten-
tional or cruel. Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mex-
ico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia do not specifically
require shelter, they prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance.
Courts in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi, the courts have not
yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the cold is needed
only in such states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states as Mississippi and
Louisiana, where shelter is not specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should
require shelter in its anti-cruelty code. ‘

Provision of Exercise, Space, Light,
Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light, ventilation and clean living
conditions for confined animals are important but infrequent requirements of
state anti-cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these provisions make
only brief references to them. Statutes in Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh
air. California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota,
Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exer— "7 ‘j' < , [3% .. /
cise or adequate space. Light is required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine :1} /[j W. a: - oég/QKA
and Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

Protection from Abandonment X .7136.) /0;/ :51 Cé/ZZM/

Abandonment of animals is deﬁned in the Colorado code (Section 18-9-
201) as "the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its ..
care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care.” Most ._.. ;>
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zongﬁpro-
hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel
or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disa-
bled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec-

ﬁon of wild animals in captivity). <7 7 I
Kinds of Animals Protected X Z97 /[/7/ Slag/01852 [7/

With respect to which animals are to be protected from cruel treatment,
about half the state laws protect any non-ﬂhuman uliyﬂingggatugggg”anyanl-
mal," deﬁning animals as all living creatures except human beings. The rest use
the words “animal,” ”domestic animals,” ”captive animals," or "warm-blooded

creatures." ,
- ”,7 ,7 , (9/
Protection From Poisoning /< a“) /[)/ ’jééé/Z/éd '

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another

 




 

commits a criminal act. The anti-cruelty laws of half the states speciﬁcally pro— .

hibit the use of poison to inflict injury or death. Under the Connecticut anti-cru-

elty code, ”any person who . . . unjustiﬁably administers any poisonous or nox-

ious drug or substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such

drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or «if ... “
causes it to be done . . . shall be fined not more than ngnggnot '- 7ft) 5?

more than one year or both." W
Among the states which prohibit administering and/or exposing toxic sub- _ , . ,7: .- , . . _
stances to domestic animals in the anti-,cruelty code, variations exist as to whic_h__ (3/35; :i #3545» i? 77”” [SJ/Cl 4.4.?"
animals are protected: some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock only,
and some distinguish between animals that are the property of the poisoner and
those that belong to someone else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to
poison may vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the species of
animal, and whether the animal belongs to the poisoner or to another, with the
longest term of imprisonment and highest ﬁne usually imposed when the
poison is administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for example:

A!

. . . a person who unjustifiably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or
unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug or substance with intent that it be
taken by a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or
domestic cattle are the property of himself or another, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in the state prison for not less than one year
nor more than 10 years, or by a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 or by
both ﬁne and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any animal other than a
horse, mule or domestic cattle, or unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug
or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal
other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the
property of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.” This
section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious animals. [Section
574.150]

In states without such anti-cruelty statutes, poisoning prohibitions may
exist under another title of the state law code, or poisoners who injure or kill
any animal belonging to another may be charged with committing a crime
against property. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be prosecuted for
injuring, killing or inflicting pain upon an animal. Colorado imposes the highest
fine for causing pain, injury or death: a minimum of six months’ imprisonment
and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months’ imprisonment and/
or a $5,000 fine. The law states that "a person commits cruelty to animals if,
except as authorized by law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . . any
animal." '

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement of a substantial
reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person trying to
poison domestic animals has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to
such activities.”

Humane Transport of Animals

The anti-cruelty laws of most states, the District of Columbia, and the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico require that transport of animals be conducted in a
humane manner. Minnesota’s law protects ”any live animals” (defining "ani-
mal” as “every living creature") and specifies the acts that constitute a cruel
manner of transport. Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

Every person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, any live ani—
mals upon any vehicle or otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can both stand and lie
down during transportation, and while awaiting slaughter; every per-
son who shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a vehicle or other-
wise, any live animal having feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or corporation engaged
in transporting livestock who shall detain the same in cars or compart-
ments for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading the same
in a humane manner into properly equipped pens for rest, water, and
feeding for a period of at least ﬁve consecutive hours, unless requested
to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented by storm or una-
voidable causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the exer-
cise of due diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same to be
crowded'together without sufﬁcient space to stand, [or so as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; pro-
vided, that upon the written request of the owner or person in custody
of that particular shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or other railroad form, the
time and confinement may be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

 




The majority of state laws requiring humane transport are much briefer
than Minnesota' 5, however, and are often written' in the manner of the following
Mississippi statute: ”If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or
upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor" [Section 97-41-51.

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect "domestic ani-
mals" from cruel transport. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of

Puerto Rico and the 30 remaining states W‘“ ‘ ' ‘ "“ *“'""‘~“ m-A‘M‘

o

1 ,
222153.432“, .1..." °‘ ”Y“ n n a n n m r

Anti-cruelty statutes prohibi
Appendix, along with the penalties

The Value 0

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-
omission or neglect” whereby unj
caused or permitted." Therefore, wh
ter, a judge may determine that fail
lect” causing ”unjustifiable physical
ishable by law. It is far better, howe
by statute. This need was demons
General Curt Schneider on whether
state’s anti-cruelty code. The statute
subjecting any animal to cruel mis
and subjecting such animal to cruel

The Attorney General noted the
jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the
mined that “the mere act of aband
physical pain, suffering or death
treatment." He concluded that the p 9 ,. ., . 9
elty to animals is . . . having custody _ 9 _ , ; y . 9 {9
cruel neglect" does not apply to aba 9 -‘
sons "having custody” of an animal “ ' 9
custody of the original owner." 3

 

 

9 '99.,»- v
\ 0”

A M; Jr!" 9,.

9,99

9;.
3

. _ , 9 ,99 ,. as
Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas ena " 9 " i W? 9,“;

prohibitions and requirements. How 9 > 9. 9 " .

jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, " " .. ,1: . my.» 9 “V- ~1

Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In G

prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in

is guilty of a misdemeanor when

tifiable physical pain, suffering, or d

Clearly, humane citizens concer
work to: (1) preserve strong laws; (2
tion; (3) be alert to proposed change
humane officers; (5) enlarge the numl
societies; (6) report all cases of cruelﬁ
police or sheriff, state police or statq’
monitor the treatment of animals 1n d
cation.

 

”/Mw/m/a (9/1;
yawn/m /[/J/;)

/?4 [3,4 {/6959
f/// 11/52/07 1’74 52'

 




The majority of state laws requiring humane transport are much briefer
than Mirmesota’s, however, and are often written in the manner of the following
Mississippi statute: "If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or
upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor” [Section 97-41-51.

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect “domestic ani-
mals" from cruel transport. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and the 30 remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, ”any creature” or “any animal” (”an animal”) —with individual defini-
tions of ”animal.” '

Anti-cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are given in the
Appendix, along with the penalties for violating these statutes.

MN % " ‘ ,. '9‘ n . , 7’
The Value of Specific Language ~<’ [W7 /_/_;/ jéué/ZC/[Zéfy

Cruelty, as deﬁned in the anti-cruelty codes, usually consists of ”every act,
omission or neglect” whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted.” Therefore, when a law does not speciﬁcally require shel-
ter, a judge may determine that failure to provide it is ”an omission" or ”neg-
lect” causing "unjustifiable physical pain” and, therefore, an act of cruelty pun-
ishable by law. It is far better, however, if illegal acts are speciﬁcally prohibited
by statute. This need was demonstrated in a 1976 Opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a violation of the
state’s anti—cruelty code. The statute then read as follows: ”Cruelty to animals is
subjecting any animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal
and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect.”

The Attorney General noted the deﬁnition of cruelty—as quoted above—in
jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas code gave no deﬁnition) and deter-
mined that ”the mere act of abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel mis-
treatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas law which stated "cru-
elty to animals is . . . having custody of any animal and subjecting such animal to
cruel neglect” does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those per-
sons ”having custody” of an animal and ”an abandoned animal would not be in
custody of the original owner.”

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation with more specific
prohibitions and requirements. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, American
Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In Georgia, for example, the portion of the law
prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: ”A person
is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect causes unjusp
tifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.”

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of animals should
work to: (1) preserve strong laws; (2) promote better state and federal legisla-
tion; (3) be alert to proposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent
humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient animal protective
societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty to those in authority, including the local
police or sheriff, state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways to
monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8) promote humane edu-
cation.

} '/ __ ,

ﬁa/Mwmm 4;! CC; ”74/401“ fan+_
.a/EW’VLS/Cﬁ/B fZ/J/r) HM: M/»£ fag/7%]
/,, 4?? /4 Mg 529 :27‘597‘523; am AL.

fﬁg .4 /:3 /7’/ Cf ﬂ 74 [47/ Cara-42.42.7142,:

 




 

 

   
 
       
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
     
    

ANTI.3: 2/16/90

ALABAMA

13A-11-14. Cruelty to animals. ~~—
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal belonging to

 

another. . -
[Penalty: Up to 6 months (imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 ﬁne (§13-A-5-7, J ﬂ/Q/VIZ '15 j/
13—A-5-12).] " " ' .- “

ALASKA

11.61.140. Cruelty to animals. .
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if the person
(1) intentionally inﬂicts severe and prolonged physical pain or suffer-
ing on an animal;
(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result of that neglect, causes
the death of the animal or causes severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .
(c) In this section, ’animal’ means a vertebrate living creature not human
being, but does not include ﬁsh.

:, ,4
5:221:22) 31p to $5,000 ﬁne and/0r up *0 1 ”39131393939391.(§.}?:§5:9§.§4 .. £3 L/ y£i353 Iii)

ARIZONA

13-2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classiﬁcation
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized

by law, such person recklessly:

1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human custody or control to
cruel mistreatment; or

2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his custody or control to cruel
neglect or abandonment; or

3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody or control of another
without either legal privilege or consent of the owner . . .

 

 

 

 

 

. ‘3
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2 misdemeanor. 9 ﬂiﬂﬂlzéﬂﬁ ”34/
[Penaltyz Up to 4 months'imprisonment and/or up to $750 ﬁne ($13407, 13- ,9 /";9 (y... «41;, Q “2/";—
802)-1 ~———————-——- c.-. at. -——
ARKANSAS

25-62-101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, except as author-
ized by law, he knowingly: ' '
(1) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; 01'
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another without legal priv-
ilege or consent of the owner.
(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

5-62-110. Deﬁnitions.
(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) 'Animal' or ’dumb animal’ includes every living creature;
(2) Torture,’ 'torment,’ or ‘cruelty' include every act, omission, or neg-

 

 

lect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permit- ‘ /

ted... {g {yaw 52)

[Penaltyz Up to $1,000 ﬁne and/or up to 1 yeayimprisonment (§r 5-4-201, 54— . n [a cg) ,5” ,‘fr ‘

401).} A "" “’ , " ' H
CALIFORNIA .

597. Cruelty to animals. _.7

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section or Section 599C,
every person who maliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or
wounds a living animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is guilty @




7‘.

of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a fine of not
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprison—
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the ﬁne and imprisonment.

03) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented. deprived of necessary sustenance. drink- shplm m. t- 1.- ....-_u-_

In 1989, California prohibited disciplining elephants by
beating that may break the skin, electrical shocking,
starving, and the use ef martingales and block and tackle for
their restraint.

(a) 'Mistreatment' includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering.

(4) 'Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
elements, opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for
an animal's health and wellcbeing.

18-9-202. Cruelty to animals {neglect of animalsw'ﬁpffenses. , .. _ p
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by law, he
knowingly or with criminal negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a
«.cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or pro-
cures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal, falls to pro-
vide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather, or abandons it.
(2) ;(a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) In‘the case of any person incurring a second or subsequent convic-
tion undéi‘"‘the provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of
imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory
and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro-
haﬁon or parole for any part of such period . . .

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals - penalty”; Every ”person , who overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, overworkiwt‘omrtures, to"i-‘fﬁé"ﬁfs:“d'“e'p‘i‘i”v‘é"‘§"o”fm”
necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhumane
manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who, having charge

and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food,
drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a class 1
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 18-1-106, C.R.S. )

PM mum .. s... mhmmMmssoorm pom, ._ 1 .
maximum sentence is 24 months‘ﬁiﬁjiriSonment o?$§,000 fine, or both (53118.1. ' a , .e
3mQJ ,rWWWWM .

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,_overworks, tortures,
deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustiﬁably injures any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any
animal, fails to give such animal pmper care ,or neglects to cage or restrain any
such animal from doing injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply
any such animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably adminis-

 




of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a fine of not
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprison-
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the fine and imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suf-
fering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner abuses
any animal, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or
protection from the weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a
misdemeanor or as a felony or alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a
felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . . .

599.b. . . . 'animal’ includes every dumb creature; the words 'torment,’ 'torture,’ . , a,
and 'cruelty’ include every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or ' ”
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . . » »

COLORADO

18-9-201. Deﬁnitions. As used in section 18-9-202, unless the context otherwise
requires:

(1) ’Abandon' includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for-
its preper care. '

(2) 'Animal' means any living dumb creature. -

(3) 'Mistreatment’ includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain or
suffering.

(4) 'Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
eelements, opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for
an animal’s health and well-being.

18-9-202. Cruelty to am‘ als {neglect of animalsﬁpffenses. _ y ,

(1) A person commits cruelty to animals it, except as authorized by law, he
knowingly or with crimin' ' al negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a
~;cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or pro-
cures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to pro-
vide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) Inthe case of any person incurring a‘second or subsequeHWQPYiG
tion und‘éf'the' provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of
imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory
and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro-
bation or parole for any part of such period . . .

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals - penalty.) Every “person who overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, Overworklsft‘éi‘rture's,‘htorinmeliﬁtsm'p‘ti‘vesld
necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhumane
manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who, having charge
and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food,
drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a class 1
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 18-1-106, C.R.S.

[Penalty M“ “n. “m“ sentence is six mantis @imgrﬁentormomemwm .
maxu‘ num sentence is 24 monthslmpﬁsonment 033,000 fine, or both (53.18113

3‘“:
f

V.}_>

V .‘ n "’| .
.‘ Q H
4.

v, mu . mm

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,_overworks, tortures,
deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates- or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustiﬁably injures any animal, or Who, having impounded or confined any
animal, fails to give such animal pr0per care or neglects to cage or restrain any
Such animal from doing injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply
any SHCh animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustiﬁably adminlS-

 




ters any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic animal or
unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall
be taken by an animal, or causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of
any animal, inﬂicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with proper food, drink
or protection from the weather or abandons it or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a cruel manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or carries on or
performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in, or is a witness of, or in any
way aids in or engages in the furtherance of, any ﬁght between cocks or other
birds, dogs or other animals, premeditated by any person owning, or having
custody of, such birds or animals, or ﬁghts with or baits, harasses or worries any
animal for the purpose of making it perform for amusement, diversion or exhi-
bition, shall be ﬁned not more than seven hundred and ﬁfty dollars or impris-
oned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall
include, but not be limited to, the meanings respectively ascribed to them as fol-
lows:

(l) ’Cruel’ includes every act or omission to act whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ‘Cruel mistreatment' includes any treatment whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) 'Cruel neglect’ includes neglect of an animal, which is under the
care and control of the neglector, whereby pain or suffering is caused to the ani-
mal or abandonment of any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) 'Cruelty to animals’ includes mistreatment of any animal or neglect
of any animal under the care and control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way of example this
includes: Unjustiﬁable beating of an animal; overworking an animal; torment-
ing an animal; abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal. .

(5) ’Person‘ includes any individual, partnership, corporation or asso-
ciation living and/or doing business in the State.

(6) ’Abandonment' includes completely forsaking or deserting an ani-
mal originally under one's custody without making reasonable arrangements
for custody of that animal to be assumed by another person.

(7) ’Custody' includes the responsibility for the welfare of an animal
subject to one’s care and control whether he owns it or not.

(8) ’Proper feed’ includes providing each animal with daily food and
water of sufﬁcient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(9) ’Proper shelter' includes providing each animal with adequate
shelter from the weather elements as required to prevent unnecessary or
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering by the animal. .

(10) ’Proper veterinary care’ includes providing each animal with vet-
erinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(11) ’Animal’ shall not include fish, crustacea or molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he intentionally or reck-
lessly: .

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; orKZ) Subjects any ani-
mal in his custody to cruel neglect; or v

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any animal whether
belonging to himself or another. This section does not apply to the killing of any
animal normally or commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided
that such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if the act is not
required to terminate an animal’s suffering, to protect the life or property of the
actor or another person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist which
would not impair the health or well-being of that animal.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 2 years impris-
onment (an-4206, 114207).)

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

724301. Deﬁnitions and penalty: ,

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, 01'
cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sus-

) (yea/'5.) )

' -P .c ,
. " 0’43 “~- ' :rjlr‘. , :f
.’_‘~:-l a) .r' “wi'kr ‘kwnf’u... i
,

 




  

1

tenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner Or otherwise,
inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, shall for
every such offense be punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year,
or by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment. ' - -

22-802. Other cruelties to animals:

Every owner, possessor, or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries the same, or causes the same to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhumane manner,
or knowingly and wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind shall be punished for
every such offense in the manner provided in Section 22-801.

22-807. Impounded animals to be supplied with food and water:

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound,
any creature, shall supply the same, during such conﬁnement, with a sufﬁcient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water; and in default thereof shall,
upon conviction, be punished for every such offense in the same manner pro-
vided in section 22-801. .

22-812. Abandonment of maimed or diseased amm . . .

A person being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons such animal, or
leaves it to lie in the street or road, or public place, more than three hours after
he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not less than ten dollars nor more than two hundred and ﬁfty dol-
lars, or by imprisonment in jail not more than one year, or both. Any agent or
ofﬁcer of the Washington Humane Society may lawfully destroy, or cause to be
destroyed, any animal found abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing,
in the judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to view the same in his
presence, to be glandered, injured, or diseased past recovery for any useful pur-
pose. When any person arrested is, at the time of such arrest, in charge of any
animal, or of any vehicle drawn by any animal, or containing any animal, any
agent of said society may take charge of such animal and such vehicle and its
contents and deposit the same in a place of safe custody or deliver the same into
the possession of the police authorities, who shall assume the custody thereof;
and all necessary expenses incurred in taking charge of such property shall be a
lien thereon . . . .

22-813. Deﬁnitions:

In section 22-801 to 22-809, inclusive, and section 22-811, the word ‘ani-
mals’ or ‘animal’ shall be held to include all living and sentient creatures
(human beings excepted) . . .

FLORIDA

828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives
of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates,
or kills any animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon any
“hide, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, is guilty of a

   

misdemeanor of the ﬁrst degree, punishable as provided in_@ 775.982 or by a” .

ﬁne of not more than $5,000, or both.
(Penalty: Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (§,Z7‘57.082).]

GEORGIA

16-124. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect
causes unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of animals raised for the
purpose 0f providing food nor does it apply to any person who hunts wild ani-
mals in compliance with the game and ﬁsh laws of this state. The killing or injur-
ing Of an animal for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scien-

 

tiﬁc research is justifiable.
{Penalty Up .to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months imprisonment (§ 17-10-3).]

4,_______.__

HAWAII .

711-1100. Deﬁnitions of terms in this chapter . . .

’ (I‘M/“ff; 3/;

ﬂ/ 7 " ( >l’l , ‘q
"r" 62—" CL» “4"?" «is. “an;

 
 




 

(5) 'Animal’ includes every living creature; Lg) ’Cruelty,’ ’torture’ or
’torment’ includes every act, omission, or neglect whereﬁy unjustifiable Iﬂiwysical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if he knowingly or
recklessly:

(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, or cruelly beats or needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or pro-
cures to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed, any
living creature;

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with or interested in the
management of, or receives money for the admission of any person to, any
place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock
or other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or assists therein, or
who permits or suffers any place to be so kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or other con-
veyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane manner;

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act toWards the further-
ance of any act of cruelty to animals. ..

(2) Subsections (1)(a), (c), (d) and the following subsection (3) are not
applicable to accepted veterinary practices and to activities carried on for scien-
tific research governed by standards of accepted educational or medical prac-
tices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured that there is no
reasonable probability that its life or usefulness can be saved, the animal may be
immediately destroyed.

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

 

.‘»~ —- x
_. 0..--.- .. . _

/,
[Penaltyz Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 yearvimprisonment (§/ 37-706-640,
W

37-706-663).]

IDAHO

18-2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds an animal, the
property of another, or who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shel-
ter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any
animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, or to be
cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inﬂicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the same with proper food, drink,
shelter or protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or other-
wise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section shall be punished by
a jail sentence of not more than six (6) months or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

18-2108. Impounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in any pound, any
domestic animal, must supply the same during such confinement with a suffi-
cient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time impounded
as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary food and water for more
than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful for any person, from time to time, as may be
deemed necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such animal is
confined, and supply it with necessary food and water so long as it remains so
confined. Such person is not liable to any action for such entry, and the reasona-
ble cost of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such
animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon a judgment therefor . . .

l13-2109. Permitting animals to go without care J/Abandoned animals to be
'lled.

Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who shall permit the same
to be in any building, inclosure, lane, street, square or lot of any city, county or
precinct, without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. And it shall be the duty of any peace officer, or officer
of any incorporated association qualified as provided by law, to take possession
of the animal so abandoned or neglected, and care for the same until it is
redeemed by the owner or claimant, and the cost of caring for such animal shall
be a lien on the same until the charges are paid. Every sick, disabled, infirm, or

 

 
 

 
 
 
  
  

, -,. x
2» (32765?!” 5 /
3/6“. swam...“

 

....~.--~—--~»~ a-” M--.“,-_.,,,w,.,.__..~__h,(::1r/ '2 IS" //)I .___....-.

  

/\_

    




 
 

 

crippled animal which shall be abandoned in any city, county or precinct, may if

after due search no owner can be found therefor, be killed by such officer; and it
shall be the duty of all peace ofﬁcers, or by an officer of said incorporated associ-
ation, to cause the same to be killed on information of such abandonment. Such
ofﬁcer may likewise take charge of any animal that by reason of lameness, sick-
ness, feebleness or neglect, is unﬁt for the labor it is performing, or that in any
other manner is being cruelly treated; and, if such animal is not then in custody
of its owner, such officer shall give notice thereof to such owner, if known, and
may provide suitable care for such animal until it is deemed to be in a suitable
condition to be delivered to such owner, and any necessary expenses which
may be incurred for taking care of and keeping the same shall be a lien thereon,
to be paid before the same can be lawfully recovered.

18-2112. Terms deﬁned.

In this chapter the word 'animal’ includes every dumb creature; the words
'torment,’ ‘torture’ and ’cruelty’ include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ILLINOIS
£973.01. cmeitgggment. aﬁ (657“ 7533' 5/)

§ 3.01. No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, over- * p ‘ __
"c - . #— ”we m.» 5:2!"
work or otherwrse amuse any amma‘l.” N 0 owner may abandon any anmﬁl where ' ’ ~ --~ .,-.

it may become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

(Penalty: First offense, class C misdemeanor; second offense, class B mis-
demeanor; third or subsequent conviction, class A misdemeanor.]

 

INDIANA

35-46-3—3. 'Animal' deﬁned.
As used in this chapter, 'animal’ does not include a human being . . .

35-46-3-7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A person having a
vertebrate animal in the person’s custody who recklessly, knowingly, or inten-
tionally abandons or neglects the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor.

35-46-342. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(1) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate animal resulting in serious
injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority of the owner of the
animal; commits cruelty to an animaL a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably believes the conduct
was necessary to:
(1) Prevent injury to the accused person or another person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from destruction or
substanﬁal damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged suffer-
Ing. ,s .1
{Penaltyz-Ciass A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year'imprisonment in addition to a fine ) 3’ g
of up to $5,000 (§ 35-50-3-2); Class B misdemeanor: Up to 180 days Imprison— 5‘ - .
ment in addition (0—? ﬁne of up to $1,000 (§r§_§-_503-3).] ”if; 5-" ‘7' .1 {7/ '7 WW"

 

 

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals. ‘

A person who impounds or conﬁnes, in any place, a domestic animal or
fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to section 109.60, or €108 01‘ cat, and fails to
supply the animal during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate shelter, or who tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates, overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means
which cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently, commits the offense of cruelty to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor. A person who intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to ani-
;mals which results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is guilty of a
serious misdemeanor.

 

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dog 4 enal .

W « v day)“
A person who has ownership or Custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon

the cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person 0
/ r :

 
 

   

who will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog

  




to an animal shelter or pound as deﬁned in section 162.2. A person who violates
this sech‘on is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.

KANSAS
21-4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:
(a))ﬁtentionally killing, injuring, maiming, torturing or mutilating any '( /3
animal; .
(b)‘abandoning or leaving any animal in any place without making
provisions for its proper care; or
(c) having physical custody of any animal and failing to provide such
food, potable water, protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise and
other care as is needed for the health or well-being of such kind of animal . . .
(3) Cruelty to animals is a class B misdemeanor.

21-4313. Animals, Definitions . . .
(1) :Animal' means every living vertebrate except a human being . . . ) (MO/ff) S ))

gﬁﬁgfp to 6 monthsl imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 fine (5% Mfi’ ﬂap/”(3n -

 

 

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.
(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to ﬁght for pleasure or proﬁt, (including, but not limited to being a
spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight for
pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide
adequate food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or f“

(c) Kills any W-Mwmw ' A w/

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial pur-

 

 

 

poses; .
(c) For humane purpose . “‘70,

V
(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.
(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor. .
(maﬁa; J

r—'—‘—""" 2
[Penaltyz A ﬁne of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12 months (§.534.040, ﬂ £9 < J __-; ,,

534.090) .1

 




ANTI.4: 2/ 16/90

LOUISIANA
14:102. Deﬁnitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(1) ‘Cruel’ means every act or failure to act Whereby unjustifiable physical

pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) 'Abandons’ means to completely forsake and desert an animal pre-
viously under the custody or possession of a person without making reasonable
arrangements for its proper care, sustenance, and shelter.

(3) ’Proper food’ means providing each animal with daily food of sufﬁcient
quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering by the
animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with daily water of suffi-
cient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering by
the animal.

(5) Troper shelter’ means providing each animal with adequate shelter
from the elements as required to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering
by the animal.

,(6) ’Proper veterinary care' means providing each animal with veterinary
care sufﬁcient to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering
by the animal.

14102.1. Cruelty to animals.
A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal negligence commits any
of the following shall be guilty of cruelty to animals:

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, or overworks a
living animal.

(2) Tortures, torments, cruelly beats or unjustifiably injures, maims,
mutilates, or kills any living animal, whether belonging to himself or another.

(3), Having charge, custody, or possession of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, unjustifiably fails to provide it with proper food, proper
drink, proper shelter, or proper veterinary care.

(4) Abandons any animal.

(5) Impounds or confines or causes to be impounded or confined in a
pound or other place, a living animal and fails to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with prOper food, proper drink, and prOper shelter.

(6) Carries, or causes to be carried, a living animal in or upon a vehicle
or otherwise, in a cruel or inhumane manner.

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or sub-
stance to any domestic animal or unjustiﬁably exposes any such drug or sub-
stance, with intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner.

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or omission whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering. or death is caused to or
permitted upon the animal.

(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person any act enumerated
in this Section.

B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals shall be fined not more
than ﬁve hundred dollars, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both . . .

14:102.4. Conﬁned animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined, and continues without
necessary food and water for more than twenty-four consecutive hours, any law
enforcement ofﬁcer may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or conﬁned and supply it with necessary food and water
so long as it shall remain impounded or confined.

MAINE

 

 

7:3907. Deﬁnitions .
As used in this’Wrelaﬁng to or affecting animals, unless
the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the following
meamngs . . .
be' 2. Animal. ‘Animal’ means every living, sentient creature not a human
mg . . .

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. 'Torment, torture and cruelty’ means
every act, omission or neglect, whether by the owner or any other person,
where unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . . .

29. Well cared for. ’Well cared for’ means that the animal is receiving neces-
sary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from
the weather and humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been

 




nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured, abandoned, poisoned,
beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison with the intent that it be taken by the

7:4011. Cruelty to Animals. ‘
1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
the consent of the owner, or kills or attempts to kill any animal with the owner's
consent, by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or occupant of
property is privileged to use reasonable force to eject a trespassing animal;

B. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons, gives poison to, cruelly
beats or mutilates any animal or exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken
by an animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of necessary suste-
nance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December, January, February
or March without providing necessary sustenance and prOper shelter . . .

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for conﬁning or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as pre-
scribed in this section. _

1. Food. The food shall be of sufﬁcient quantity and quality to maintain all
animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animal at all times, it shall
be provided daily and in sufﬁcient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention. -

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention when the animal
is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism or mal-
formed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean condi-
tions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of farm
animals, nothing in this section may be construed as imposing shelter require-
ments or standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practice
in the particular county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes of
this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as follows.
A. The ambient temperature shall be .compatible with the health of the ani-
mal.
8. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or
mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as fol-
lows.
A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or
caged outside, sufﬁcient shade by natural or artiﬁcial means shall be provided to
protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, ‘caged’ does
not include farm fencing used to conﬁne farm animals.
8. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.
(1)‘An artiﬁcial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides and a waterproof
roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall . ,,. p .
be provided as necessary for the health of the animal. , , . I!" I It i -- j l, 1/ ”a, 2 f9
|(2) If a dog is tied or conﬁned unattended outdoors under weather 99393;” / If; 3,132,.- fw (///.‘r5 t 0'? .e’ tJ/C [ll/l " z.‘ ' ,
tions w lCh adversely af ect t e Whelter of suitable size with "
a floor above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to accommodate
the dog and protect it from the weather and, in particular. from severe COM-
lnadequate shelter may be indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold
weather for a continuous period of 30 minutes.
C. N 0 animal may be confined in a building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or
{8:33:- of any kind when extreme heat or extreme cold will be harmful to its
e

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and outdoor
enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide sufﬁcient
space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate space
may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility. stress 01' abnormal
behavior patterns.

 




4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary to
provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleanings to remove excretions and'other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards. - ,

7:4016. Violation.
Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil violation for which a

forfeiture of $500 for each offense may be adjudged and such other relief as may
be necessary to restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the effects of
cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of necessary suste-
nance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes,
procures or authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon
the animal, or unnecessarily fails to provide the animal with nutritious food in
sufficient quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air, space, shelter or
protection from the weather; or (4) uses or permits to be used any bird, fowl, or
cock for the purpose of ﬁghting with any other animal, which is commonly
known as cockﬁghting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner, possessor, or cus-
todian of a dog, cat, or other domestic animaL who abandons such animal or
drops or leaves such animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a ﬁne not to
exceed $100.00 . . . '

27:62. Definitions. , . ,.. 2 4 I, «+— ‘
The words {injure} ‘torment,’ and 'cruelty’ mean every act, omission, 0;. d}; i, '75-, ’ if. ﬂatly; K—‘n” 2157/2. cg/Ll. if {is/

neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is " V ‘5‘” M ‘

caused or permitted, and the word 'animal’ means every living creature except

man. i

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or
kills an animal, or causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel
or inhuman manner in a race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait in ﬁshing; and who-
ever, having the charge or custody of an animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or protection from the
weather, and whoever, as owner, possessor, or person having the charge or cus-
tody of an animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or willfully
abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a vehicle, or other-
wise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner
which might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully
authorizes or permits it to be subjected to unnecessary torturegs. ' 1' “‘1‘
city of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not more than' M, ..r_..9.1.:——-.
lars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon conviction for any
violation of this section . . . the defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to
determine the defendant's fitness for continued custody of the abused animal,
be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of any society, incorporated
under the laws of the commonwealth for the prevention of cruelty to animals or
for the care and protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction. '

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded. over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived 0f neces-

 




     
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
      

  

sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal, and
whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or other-
wise, inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or ﬁned
not more than $500.00, or by both . . . -

hﬂNNESOTA

34320. Deﬁnitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. 'Animal’ means every living creature except members of
the human race. '

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture' or ’cruelty' means every act, omission, or
neglect which causes or permits unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain, suffering, or

death . . .

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty. .

Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive, overload, torture, cru-
elly beat, neglect, or unjustiﬁably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or
cruelly work any animal when it is unﬁt for labor, whether it belongs to that per-
son or to another person. '

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive any animal over
which the person has charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or other animal in any
enclosure without providing wholesome exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feedany cow on food which produces
impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow any maimed,
sick, infirm, or disabled animal to lie in any street, road, or other public place for
more than three hours after receiving notice of the animal’s condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty
etoanimals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage'any animal for public display pur-
poses unless the display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to
protect the aged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal dimen-
sion of each side of the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal.
The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricul-
tural society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county agricultural societies,
county fairsﬂto any agricultural display of caged animals by any political subdi-
vision of the state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national educational
livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions of this subdivision do not apply
to captive wildlife, the exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.041.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this

section is guilty of a misdemeanor. ‘ I [61! [22% ‘5} 2/
[Penaltyz Up to 90 days imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine @0903” é iii/"H n (3' (agéb g ?M [3") 5.1: /) 2’ a?)

 

 

MISSISSIPPI

97-41-1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload, torture, torment,
unjustiﬁably injure, deprive of necessary sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly
beat or needlessly mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden. overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustiﬁably injured, tormented, or deprived of necessary
sustenance, food or drink; or to be cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or
killed, any living creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

9741-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a “1191 01' inhuman manner, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-7. Conﬁning creatures without food or water.

If any person shall conﬁne, or cause to be confined, in any stable, lot, or
other place, any living creature, without supplying the same during such con-
ﬁnement with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide sustenance.

If any person be the owner or have the custody of any living creature and
unjustiﬁably neglect or refuse to furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink,
he 511311 be guilty of .a misdemeanor.




    
  
 
      
     
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   

MISSOURI

 
 

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person: -

(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of sections 578.005 to
578.023; " a -

(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes injury, suffering, or
pain to an ' °

(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making provisions for its
adequate care;

(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or works an animal
unﬁt to work; or

(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal ’willfully fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control. '

° ' a la A ° d . 1‘ ’
[P 2;“le allmse X‘s/riffs nust endjanmﬁn f t $1 000 (§ 558 011 5 (Vigd/ CS)
ena: o earimrisonmenan ora eou o , . ,
560.013.] P y p P “----—- [3/055 570st

MONTANA

45-8-211. Cruelty to animals. .

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if without justifica-
tion he knowingly or negligently subjects an animal to mistreatment or neglect
by-

(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody with proper food, drink,
or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or

(e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or participating in a horse race
of more than 2 miles.

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to animals shall be ﬁned
not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed 6
months, or both. If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to the
county in which he is convicted any animal affected. This provision does not
affect the interest of any secured party or other person who has not participated
in the offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection (2), the court may
require the defendant to pay all reasonable costs incurred in providing neces-
sary veterinary attention and treatment for any animal affected.

 

NEBRASKA

284001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and abandon; defined. As
used in section 28-1002, unless the context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and a wild living crea-
ture previously captured. Animal does not include an uncaptured wild creature
or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under
section 28—1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food, water, protection from
the elements, opportunity to exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper
for an animal’s health and well-being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective prOViSiOI'IS for
its proper care.

28.1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
0’) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(c) Abandons any animal; or
(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another. ‘ .
(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor . . . (”gaff/4;.“ .. /

IPenalty: Maximum 6 monthsvﬁ‘pr'isonment or $1,000 fine or both (ﬁgs-105)] ,1,

 

 

.:
”he f . Q. "
.. .- ] H» u: .‘V‘xgei' I

f

    

NEVADA




574.050. Deﬁnitions . . . -
As used in NR8 574.050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. ’Animal’ does not include the human race, but includes every other
living creature.
2. 'Torture’ or 'cruelty' includes every act, omission or neglect,
whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning animals; failure to pro-
vide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or unjustifiably
injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or to
another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink, or neg-
lects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink; '

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustiﬁably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink;

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers
an act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than those prohibited in
NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.

1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody, of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or inﬁrm animal, who abandons such animal or
leaves it to die in a public street, road or public place, or who allows it to new a
public street, road or public place more than 3 hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to impounded animal; pen-
alty.

1. A person who, having impounded or conﬁned any animal, refuses or
neglects to supply to such animal during its conﬁnement a sufﬁcient supply of
good and wholesome air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

(Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or a ﬁne of up to $1,000, or both
(§193.150).]

 




     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
   

ANTLS: 2/ 16/90

  
 

644:8. Cruelty to animals. . ~———--———- - - . . .
* I. In this section, 'cruelty' shall include, but not be limited to, acts or omis- .W,
sions injurious or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any animal,
including the abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its care,
sustenance, protection or shelter. ‘

II. In this section, 'animal’ means a domestic animal, a household pet or a
wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives or causes to be
deprived any animal in his possession or custody necessary care, sustenance or
shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures, mutilates or in any other
manner mistreats or causes to be mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when overloaded, or
otherwise abuses or misuses any animal intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animalin his possession or custody in a
manner injurious to the health, safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in his possession or
custody by causing such animal to be left without supervision or adequate pro-
vision for its care, sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any animal in his posses-
sion or custody to be subjected to cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary
suffering of any kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in paragraph
III, any person charged with cruelty to animals may have his animal confiscated
by the arresting officer and, upon said person’s conviction of cruelty to animals,
the court may dispose of said animal in any manner it decides. The costs, if any,
incurred in boarding and treating the animal, pending disposition of the case,
and in disposing of the animal, upon a conviction of said person for cruelty to ,
ammals, shall be borne by the person so conv1cted . . . m :5 @517 (—23)

[Penalty U to 1 earE risonment and/or a fine of u to $1,000 (§651:2).]
P Y P P

 

NEWIERSEY

 

4:22-15. Definitions, 0
As used in this article:
‘Animal’ or 'creature' includes the whole brute creation . . .

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature
in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor. 1A person who “’22-?“ 1/5“
shall impound or confine, or cause to be impounded or confined, in a pound or “
other place, a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such
conﬁnement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of
this title.
4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place; misdemeanor.
A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or
creature to die in a public place, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty. EA erson who shall: {'7 M .1 .4 Lg
a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloade , overwor , torture, tor- W” '
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or
needlessly mutilate or kill a living animal or creature;
b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent, servant, employee or oth-
erwise an act enumerated in subsection ’a’ of this section;
c. inﬂict unnecessary cruelty upon a living animal or creature of which
he has charge or custody either as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to
provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather: .
d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by reason of disability, dis-
ease or lameness, or any other cause, could not be worked without violating the
Provisions of this article;
9- Keep, use, be connected with or interested in the management 0f, or
receive money or other consideration for the admission of a person to, a place 0
2.3

 

kept or used for the purpose of ﬁghting or baiting a living animal or creature;




f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or assist in an activity enu-
merated in subsection 'e’ of this section;

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by him to be used as

mroﬁded in subsection 'e’ of this section; .. M: 7 7_ 4

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or crea in or upon a
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw a
vehicle for business purposes; ‘“’

j. Impound or confine or cause to be conﬁned in a pound or other
place a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, inﬁrm or disabled animal or creature to die
in a public place;

1. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose, or cause or permit to be sold
or offered for sale, used or exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease
known as glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease dangerous
to the health or life of human beings or animals, or who shall, when any such
disease is beyond recovery, refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside stand or market for
the sale of merchandise along a public street or highway; or a shapping mall, or
a part of the premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature confined, or
allowed to roam in an area whether or not the area is enclosed, on these prem-
ises as an exhibit; except that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet
shop licensed pursuant to P1. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.l m; a person who 5’ lg,” 55
keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for the purpose of the protection of the
premises; or a recognized breeders’ association, a 4-H club, an educational agri-
cultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or other similar charita-
ble or nonproﬁt organization conducting an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside stand or market located
along a public street or highway of this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping
mall, or a part of the premises thereof;

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or diSplay live baby chicks,
ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, turtles or chameleons which have been dyed
or artiﬁcially colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artiﬁcial
color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the purpose of soliciting any
alms, collections, contributions, subscriptions, donations, or payment of money
except in connection with exhibitions, shows or performances concluded in a
bona fide manner by recognized breeders' associations, 4-H clubs or other simi—
lar bona ﬁde organizations;

9. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away living rabbits, turtles, baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl under 2 months of age, for use as household or
domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away living baby chicks, ducklings
or other fowl, or rabbits, turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any
purpose not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall fail to pro—
vide proper facilities for the care of such animals;

5. Artiﬁcially mark sheep or cattle, or cause them to be marked, by
cropping or cutting off both ears, cropping or cutting either ear more than 1
inch from the tip end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either ear
more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall have or keep in his pos-
session sheep or cattle, which he claims to own, marked contrary to this
subsection unless they were bought in market or of a stranger; /7‘

t. Abandon a dog or cat—151311 forfeit and pay a sum not M /) 6(1- V, 761
$250.00 to be sued for and recovered, with costs, in a civil action by any person ‘ "
in the name of the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

NEW MEXICO

3048-1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary sustenance, cruelly
beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal with proper food or
drink; or

C cruelly dﬁVing or working any animal when such animal is unfit for
labor. Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.

Penalty: Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a ﬁne of not more than
$500.00, or both (§3l-19-l).]

NEW YORK

350. Definitions.

 




1. ’Animal,’ as used in this article, includes every living creature except a
human being; -
2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty’ includes every act, omission, or neglect, whereby
unjustiﬁa' ble physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
353. Over-driving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to provide proper sus»
«tenance. _ , ‘
A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats @ 4 Of
unjustiﬁably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether wild or tame, "’
and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprives any animal of nec-
essary sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such suste-
nance or drink, or causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who wilfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars, or by both . . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of an
animal, whoabandons such animal, or leaves it to die in a street, road or public
place, or who allows such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public street,
road or public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left
disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
than one year, or by a ﬁne of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both.

356. Failure to provide proper food and drink to impounded animal.

A person who, having impounded or conﬁned any animal, refuses or neg-
lects to supply to such animal during its conﬁnement a sufficient supply of good
and wholesome air, food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punish-
able by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars, or by both. In case any animal shall be at any time
impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and
water for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into and upon
any pound in which any such animal shall be so conﬁned, and to supply it with
necessary food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such person
shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost of such
food .and water may be collected by him of the owner of such animal, and the
said animal shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon
a judgment therefor.

NORTH enorma

14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

'If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill
or cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, injured, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly muti-
lated or killed as aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such offender
shall for every such offense be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating to animals, the
words 'animal’ and ’dumb animal’ shall be held to include every living creature;
the words ’torture,’ ’torment’ or ’cruelty’ shall be held to include every act, omis-
sion or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused
or permitted. Such terms shall not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of
animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Com-
nussion.

14-361 Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate, or move to, carry on, or
promote, or engage in, or do any act towards the furtherance of any act of cru-
elty to any animal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year.

14-3611. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or “15de (ff
an animal, who willfuuy and without justifiable excuse abandons the animal 15
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of up to ﬁve hundred dollars
($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.l-01. Definitions. In this chapter, unless-the context or subject matter oth-
erwise requires:

 




1. ‘Animal’ includes every living animal except the human raCe.

2. 'Board’ means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. ’Cruelty' or 'torture’ includes every act, omission, 0r neglect whereby
tmnecessary‘ or unjustiﬁable pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36-21102. Overworking or mistreating animals. .

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or
.unjustiﬁably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work any ani-
mal when unﬁt for labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has charge or control
of necessary food, water, or shelter. _

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure without exercise and
wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animal of
which he is the owner, or of which he has custody, to lie in any street, road, or
other public place for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way further, any act of cru-
elty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display purposes unless the
display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the caged
animal from the elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal. The provisions of
this subsection do not apply to the North Dakota state fair association, to agri-
cultural fair associations, to any agricultural displayof caged animals by any
political subdivision, or to district, regional, or national educational livestock or
poultry exhibitions. Zoos which have been approved by the health district or
the governing body of the political subdivision which has jurisdiction over the
zoos are exempt from the provisions of this subsection . . .

[Penalty: Maximum one yearnmjpiisonment, a ﬁne of $1,000, or both.]

 

OHIO
959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, shall abandon
such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor, punishable by a
ﬁne of not more than $100.]

959.02. lnjuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of the
owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, ﬁlly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is the property
of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an
ofﬁcial capacity. '
[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of the animal killed or the
injury done amounts to less than $300, misdemeanor of the second degree, . ~ ’1‘, , I I, /
punishable by not more than 90 hysWrisonment and/or a ﬁne of not more , '- '44 ..
than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 ‘
or more, misdemeanor of the ﬁrst degree, punishable by not more than six , ( .- “.19! - ;. /
months‘GHﬁfisonment and/or aﬁne of not more than $1,000.] [I in = < / a

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unne-
cessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an
animal without supplying it during such conﬁnement with a sufficient quantity
of good wholesome food and water;

(2) Impound or conﬁne an animal without affording it, during such
conﬁnement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sun-
light if it can reasonably be expected that the animals would otherwise become
sick or in some other way suffer. Division (A) (2) of this section does not apply
to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this A
section, shelter means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural} U ms... “gl: j n ’3 :1 r. a) (A
windbreak or sunshade that is deve10ped from the earth's contour, tree J " ' ‘ ’ J "v - ‘ :7 I "
deveIOpment, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
.cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

[Penaltyz Misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by not more than 90 ‘) fd” , 2
daySViEFTIS—onment and/or a ﬁne of not more than $750.] \. 4. 91’4le

(C) All ﬁnes collected for violations of this section shall be paid to the soci-
ety or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the

 




county, township, or municipal corporation where such violation occurred.

OKLAHOMA

21:1685. Cruelty to animals.
Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive, overload, torture,

destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subju-
gation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself or
to another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter; or
who shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, desu'oyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or injured, maimed
or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall
willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelty
to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding ﬁve (5) years, or by imprison-
ment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by ﬁne not exceeding Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer finding an animal so maltreated or
abused shall cause the same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall
be a lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien.

21:1686. Abandoned animals—Destroyed how.

A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled, or infirm animal who abandons said animal or who allows said animal
to lie in a public street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the animal is disabled or
dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section and Section 1691 of this
title, the term abandon means the voluntary relinquishment of an animal with
no intention to retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited to
vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to
feed the animal or allowing it to stray or wander onto private or public property
with the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said animal.

2121691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or highways or in any
public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other domestic animal along
any private or public roadway, or in any other private or public place with the
intention of abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. ..

21:1692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of Sech‘ons 1686
. . . 1691 of this title shall be punished by a ﬁne in an amount not less than One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or
.by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one (1) year, or by both
said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.850. Deﬁnition and classiﬁcation of the crime of cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal under human custody or control . to cruel
mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal under his custody or control to cruel neglect;
r“
(c) Kills without legal privilege any animal under the custody or con-
trol of another.
(2) As used in this section, ’animal' includes birds.
(3) Cruelty to animals is a Class B misdemeanor.

167.860. Speciﬁc acts deﬁned as cruelty to animals; defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, 'animal’ means any mammal, bird, reptile or
amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any animal, or
who, having the charge of or custody of any animal as owner, or otherwise,
inﬂicts cruelty upon the animal, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody of any animal,
who cruelly drives or works the animal when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the animal, or carries or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or wilfully
authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to torture, suffering, or cruelty
of any kind, shall be punished for each and every offense in the manner pro-

 




vided in subsection (2) of this section. .

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or person having the
charge or custody of any animal, who deprives such animal of necessary and
adequate food and drink for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and
every offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this section . . .

 

 




ANTI.6: 2/ 16/90

PENNSYLVANIA
18:5511. Cruelty to animals . . .

(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms shall have the __ 7. ,

meanings given to them in this paragraph:
’Domestic animal.’ Any dog, cat, equine animal, bovine animal, sheep,
goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals—A person commits a summary offense if he wan-
tonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats or otherwise abuses any animal,
whether belonging to himself or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives
any animal of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. . .

[Penaltyz Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4-1-1. Deﬁnitions . . .
(1) The words ‘animal’ and ’animals' shall be held to include every liv-

ing creature except a human being . . .

4—1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals— ’Shelter’ deﬁned

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cru-
elly kill, or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever, hav-
ing the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall
inﬂict cruelty upon that animal, or shall willquy fail to provide that animal with
proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall, for every such
offense, be imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not less
than ﬁfty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding ﬁve hundred dollars ($500), or be both
imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

’5helters,’ as used in this chapter, shall mean a structure used to house any
animal, and which will provide sufficient protection'from inclement elements
for the health and well-being of the animal.

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who shall cruelly drive or work that animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly
abandon that animal, or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner, or
wilfully authorize or permit that animal to be subjected to unnecessary torture,
suffering or cruelty of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain, or that shall be
declared a hazardous substance by the U.‘ 5. Food and Drug Administration or
by the Rhode Island Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1-2; provided however, that this section
shall not be deemed to include any drug having curative and therapeutic effect
for disease in animals and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4.1-4. Abandonment of inﬁrm animals. .

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be abandoned to die,
by any owner or person having charge of that animal, that person shall, for
every such offense, be punished in the manner provided in 4-1-2 . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA
47-140. ‘Animal' and ’animals’ defined. ‘
In this chapter the words ’animal’ or 'animals’ shall be held to include all
brute creatures.

47-1-40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-treats, deprives of nec-
essary sustenance, shelter, or inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any
animal or causes these things to be done, whether the person is the owner of the
animal or has charge or custody of it, for every offense, is guilty Of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty days or by a ﬁne of not less than ﬁfty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not exceeding sixty days or
by a fine not exceeding ﬁve hundred dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year or by a ﬁne not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent oﬂense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates, cruelly kills, 01'

 




 
   

 
 

inflicts excessive or repeated unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes the acts to be done "for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to exceed sixty days
or by a fine not to exceed ﬁve hundred dollars, or both. , - .. ._

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl, accepted animal
husbandry practices of farm operations, the training of animals, or the practice

    
      
     

     
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

of veterinary medicine. _7_ _ 4Z1: .
47-1-70. Abandonment of inﬁrm animal in public place. \Q ‘ “xx P @5146. 6/7 ' / " SJ

A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a \X .. é: , 4 . , .« _ _7_
maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal in any town or city of this State, “\‘ix b ’ if?” ’7’! /-—~ 1/" 4/5";

 

who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other ‘5\
public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left disabled 5"
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a ﬁne not exceeding one ,4
hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding thirty days. //

 

a"... ...:o~w cram-.1 . - h.... ,. .

  

47-1-50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and unnecessary tor-
ture.[l_3v_ery owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani- 51; .
mal who: . -“ ”)8; ,1 I 3
' (1) Cruelly drives or works it when unﬁt for labor;
(2) Cruelly abandons it;
(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise
in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind;
Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be pun-

ished for every such offense in the manner prescribed in 47-1-40.
317-1—- "‘”“‘“ ‘ “" "m“ ..,...._--.~ma>rvum J”

mag,” ' ‘ . ‘ ..
..~—...,,_ "Fawn. ,.... -

 

 

\.

SOUTH DAKOTA

  
 
 

 
 

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .
(1) ’Animal’ shall include every living dumb creature;
(2) ‘Torture,’ 'torment,’ and 'cruelty' shall include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted . . .

40-1-2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat,
mutilate, or cruelly kill any animal.

40-1-21. Abandoning animal prohibited. lljo person may abandon any animal. w“ {gt/2,1, , g;

40-1-6. lmpounding or leaving of animal without proper attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in any building,
enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without proper care and attention for more
than twelve consecutive hours.

IA
40-1-15. Violation of chapter as misdemeanorié violation of any provision in If" 1,,” , .- 7&-
this chapter, which is not otherwise classified, is a Class 2 misdemeanor. '

40-1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as misdemeanor.
Every person who maliciously kills or injures any animal, other than those
speciﬁed in 40-1-21 [livestock], belonging to another, or any animal whatever
belonging to himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. ' / , ..
‘* c 152A 3)
"" ‘ \' ”(15‘ \
.l

[Penalty Class 1 misdemeanor: one yedﬁprisonment in county l..311.:....9.§/.2.L- f E)"
$1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30 days‘imprisonmenfin county jail and/or \ ,ﬁIQEAJL‘ J
$100 fine.] ‘

 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

 

      
   
       
 

 

       
     
 
 

TENNESSEE

  

39-3-101. Deﬁnitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, the words ani-
mal or dumb animal shall be held to include every living creature; the words
torture, torment, or cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit-
ted; but nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds
or game for the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by incor-
porated gun clubs.

39-3-104. Cruelty to animals. .
If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture, torment, deprive of neces-

'91'Y sustenance, air-cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or pro-

cure same to be done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell, or

exchange any horse or mule, when unﬁt for labor, every such offender shall, for

every offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the

purchase of animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of this

state, for the purpose of humanely killing the same. @

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    




39-3-106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound or
other place, any creature, shall supply to the same during such conﬁnement a
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome. food and water, and in default ‘

thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39-3410. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals. '

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote, or engage in, or do
any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

39-3421. Abandonment of dogs and cats.

It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or otherwise
willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline species on public lands or
rights of way. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be ﬁned not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than ﬁfty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or workhouse not to exceed thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.

39-1-202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the punishment for
which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute of this state, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail or workhouse not more than one year, or by
ﬁne not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in the discretion
of the court. ‘

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly:
(1) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;
(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an
animal in his custody;
(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;
(4) transports or conﬁnes an animal in a cruel manner;
(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal, other than cattle,
horses, sheep, swine, or goats, belonging to another without legal authority or
the owner’s effective consent; - $2
(6) muses one animal to ﬁght with another; or! (Z) uses a live animal 9an]
a lure in dog race training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .
(c) For purposes of this section, ’animal’ means a domesticated living crea-
ture and wild living creature previously captured. ‘Animal’ does not include an
uncaptured 'wild creature or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished
by conduct at issue under this section.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Fine not to exceed $2,000 and/or imprison-
ment not to exceed one year.]

 

UTAH

76-9-301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an animal in his
custody; -

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or conﬁnes an animal in a cruel manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal without legal priv-
ilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal
or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a
dog, to ﬁght with a different kind of animal or creature for amusement or gain . . .

[Penaltyz Class B misdemeanor]

VERMONT

 

rWeﬁnWed»
For the purposes of this chapter, the word 'animal’ or ’animals’ shall include

and extend to all brute creatures.

Wm Wally WWW“ .---«.....,.......W,

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or having
the charge or custody of an animaL inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or

 




unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year or ﬁned not more
than $200.00, or both. '

r (b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehi-
cle or otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or wilfully author-
izes or permits the same to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or
cruelty, shall be punished as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

,404. Abandonment finfirm '

 

 

If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animals shall be abandoned by any
owner or person having charge of same, such person shall for every offense, be
punished in the manner provided in section 403 (a) of this title.

VIRGINIA -

31496.66 Deﬁnitions. The following words as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings: -

'Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable intervals, at least once
daily, of quantities of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, suf-
ﬁcient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

‘Adequate water’ means a constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, pota-
ble water provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals and in
a suitable manner for the species at least once daily at any interval.

'Adequate shelter’ means shelter that may reasonably be expected to pro-
tect the animal from physical suffering or impairment of health due to exposure
to the elements or adverse weather . . .

’Animal' means domestic animals, including both agricultural and compan-
ion animals, if not speciﬁed otherwise . . .

31-79668. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty to provide for each
of his companion animals, pursuant to regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of animal
depending upon its age, size and weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every animal shelter with
respect to animals contained therein.

Bil-796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the purposes of
this section is defined as deserting, forsaking, or intending to absolutely give up
an animal without securing another owner or without providing the necessities
set out in 531-79668. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor. -

3.1-796122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-treats,
abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain not connected with bona
ﬁde scientiﬁc or medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or another;
01' (ii) daprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or
(iii) willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of
cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be carried in or upon any vehi-
cle, vessel or otherwise any animal in a crueL brutal, or inhumane manner, so as
to produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any of the above
things, or being the owner of such animal permits such acts to be done by
another, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other domesticated animal in
any public place including the right-of-way of any public highway, road or
street or on the property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dehorning of cat-

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal shall be construed to
include birds and fowl.

[Penaltiesz Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more than 12 months
and/or a ﬁne of not more than $1,000; Class 3 misdemeanor: A ﬁne of not more
than 5500.]

WASHINGTON

16.52.070. Certain acts as cruelty—Penalty.
Except as provided in RCW 9A.48.080, every person who cruelly over-

 




drives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, de-
prived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed,
any animal; and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same with the proper food, drink, air, light,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and unreasonably
drives the same when unfit for labor or with yoke or harness that chafes or galls
it, or check rein or any part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal, or who cruelly aban-
dons any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For the purposes of this sec-
tion, necessary sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable inter-
vals, not to exceed twenty-four hours, of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species and age of the animal and sufﬁcient to provide a reasonable level of
nutrition for the animal.

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8-l9a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such animals in fights
against each other prohibited; penalties.

If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of another person, or if
any such person shall impound or conﬁne any such dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quan-
tity of food and water, or shall abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat or shall be engaged in or employed at dogﬁghting, or putting one dog or
cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or
shall receive money for the admission of any person, or shall use, train or pos-
sess a dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be ﬁned not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars,
and in addition thereto, in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may be
imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county humane
ofﬁcer may remove the dog or cat involved and place said animal in the county
pound, and said dog or cat shall not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act
of cruelty) but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given over into
the care of a humane society, or upon the recommendation of a licensed veteri-
narian shall be humanely destroyed. ‘

61-8-19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly beat, torture, tor-
ment, mutilate, kill, or overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary sus-
tenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such horse or other ani-
mal be his own or that of another person, or shall impound or conﬁne any such
animal in any place and fail to supply the same with a sufﬁcient quantity of
good, wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any vehicle, or oth-
erwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, or knowingly feed a cow
on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die
any maimed, sick, inﬁrm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than ﬁve nor more
than one hundred dollars, and in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may
be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




 
   
 
 

Amt-i: 2/16/90

  

WISCONSIN "

951.01. Deﬁnitions. , - -- , -. . --————-~ ~ --~--
(1) ‘Animal’ includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or _ '
(c) Amphibian.
(2) 'Cruel’ means causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering or
unjustiﬁable injury or death . . .

951.02. Mistreating animals. -
No person may treat any animaL whether belonging to himself or another,
in a cruel manner . . .

951.13. Providing proper food and drink to conﬁned animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may refuse or neglect to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and
water as prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all animals in good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it
shall be provided daily and in sufﬁcient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter. '

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as prescribed in this section.
In the case of farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as impos-
ing shelter requirements or standards more stringent than normally accepted
husbandry pmctices in the particular county where the animal or shelter is
located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be compati-
ble with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated
by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health of the animals at all
times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall
include: '

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
   
       
     
 

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaus-
tion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufﬁcient shade by natural or artiﬁcial
means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in
this paragraph, 'caged’ does not include farm fencing used to conﬁne farm ani-
mals.

 
   
     
 

(b) Shelter from inclement weather. .

1- 'Animals generally.’ Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to
the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as nec-
essary for the health of the animal.

2. 'Dogs.’ If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include: '

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals. .

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and main-
tained so as to provide sufﬁcient Space to allow each animal adequate freedom
of movement. inadequate Space may be indicated by evidence of debility, stress
or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both indoor
and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and
other waste materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Note: In 1986, Wisconsin upgraded the penalty for deliberate acts of cruelty to
a felony offense]

 
   
       
   
 
      
       
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 
  

  
 

WYOMING

Ill-34.101. Definitions. . "
(1) 'Animal' shall be held to include every living dumb creature . . .

    
 




 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

11-34-102. Cruelty to animals generally.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-

works or willfully and maliciously tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sus-
tenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously and need-
lessly mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise in a cruel
or inhuman manner any animal, or causes or procures it to be done; or who,
having the charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it
with the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or cruelly abandons
it shall upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in the county jail not
exceeding one (1) year or by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such ﬁne and imprisonment.

 

  
 
    
  
  
 

”NH

“Ht-l
prwﬁs we

14.

 
  
 
 
 
  

 

. In some states, every “willful act," etc.

. laws of New Hampshire, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix D. Complete text. 1904.
. Old South Leaﬂets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.
. New York. State Courts. Digest of New York Statutes and Reports, from earliest period to

the year 1860. Vol. 1, page 124.

. Revised Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title VI.

Journal of the Assembly of the State of New York, Slst Session. Second Meeting. Albany:
Croswell, 1828, pages 45-6. -
Revised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.

Statutes of Connecticut, Title )0(1, p. 184.

Statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, page 365, Sec. 19.

Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

1860 Laws of the General Assembly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p. 395.

1864 Laws of the Territory of Idaho, XII, Sec. 143, p. 329.

. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray

[bring for their valuable insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of cruelty statutes, and pro-
vides a clear explanation, with case support, of the legal principles involved.

. “Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing, without anesthesia, such proce-

dures as dehorning of cattle at any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and astra-
tion.

Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering"; Maine, “neces-
sary medial attention”; Maryland, ”necessary veterinary care”; Pennsylvania, “veteri-
nary care;" Puerto Rico, “medical or veterinary treatment if needed."

. The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to one year's imprisonment

and/or a ﬁne of up to $1,000.

. On a national level, the American Humane Association (Al-IA) offers to match up to

$500 for “information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons
willfully poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from AHA's ofﬁce at
9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

 




,....

I
!

1", ‘Vv‘:

. 01,.1‘.Q$- 8|. . .f;
I‘ll-IV O

 




 

 




 

 

 




 

 




 

n... ..u«

u... u...

.
i

 

 

 

 




.3. J
.

 




 

 

 

 

.

v

 




 

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
m
.
.
.
.
.
.
‘
.
.
u
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

 




 

.
u
o
.
.
.
.
.

on"

 

.
...:
.. .

 




-‘..

t

--.'2

.c
.

 




.

.
:1.
«o!
.

 




:a.

 




 

f". ‘

«.—

.
!

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




. .—.--

 

“0‘"

A631

{7.5 ’44"
..~§ .

4’
a
v-

I

l
/‘I
z

t. .

.u- hit: {:22
{j «i...

v ”1'

V...-
nu

_- _.,.L,....‘

' .

..._
h \x

‘1

.«.\.\$
5. \s _,
mm «M: is ‘5

. < [ Erwm J59
v H: 3.5.,qu 3b ‘ m g

. k‘ a . 5 < . s n39 FM..\\3\ 8m\\ 5

V V a 5 i YQBMT p .0 owner \L \,\\.p\.\4 W C QM \ y - . 5W. .a \ ..\
mxxﬁb wwxwwwm WMMNU m J m3 Jo «VDRNW g «V \ 5Q *WC \ V05 xU \ R w TU \ a \ V ,U .0 § N
SH 2.. . p N .. 5 a , .

K<\\ Urm. c 9. \ \

x
\

Si: no Sm. .. .. , x r. n

 




 

 

1

0v.-

 




 

 

 

A1.

 

 

 




\ >«.._g.,=x '=»"r‘"”

 

 

___..~- m.“ ,.....-..__-~
_....‘ :0.
._, i...’ 4 14‘2“. ‘1

.
4'?

”sari ”‘91.“

 

.

nu...

 

A»... -.'—

l

wwwh

'27

....
.bvvf‘

unw—

...2. 1""

”.1.

 

M,

 




3.

I It!"

 

 

 

 

 

. if":

 

“ﬁf‘wwm

u

 




 

 

 

 

 

unnuuuu-nun-u..."-

 

 

- v-f—O'I’ﬁ'?"-~ M

.

5
v10.

m 4.. .:

 




gm"; x...

 

‘Nwm,

!

"u. .

 




:t...
. .

if...
.

4.... n.” ..... n... n... u... u... u... u... -.u. n... u... ....- u..- .

5""

 




;Z /:%27/;3;cf§;
3???? 72252;?”/C/C767

ITEMS NEEDED TO COMPLETE ANTI-CRUELTY CHAPTER

V//{. Delaware: Need penalty for Class A misdemeanor.

H’,¢;Mwn7ﬁc.:mwNeedgantiscruelty~1aw.~ ,
92, .eééééxvio '7C&Qﬂ§f2agﬁﬁza%naéfZZIWQ{,ﬁZ/LégztgkyﬂL/C’,%%72(£«{ ,
3. Iowa: Need penalty for simple misdemeanor.;ﬁﬁw ART W gﬂn
4. Mississippi: Need penalty for misdemeanor checked (Not,
less than $10 nor more than $100 and/or imprisonment not less

than 10 days nor more than 100 days). n_* xWWWAW we

5. New Jersey: Was section 4:22-17 repealed, replaced, or
neither, by 4:22-26? If repealed, what are the penalties éajp;
now?

6. Oregon: Need penalty for Class B misdemeanor.ww
7. VTexas:<-Need”penaltyfor Class A misdemeanor:ww
all Washington: Need penalty for misdemeanor.~

9. Wisconsin: Need enalties for Class D forfeiture and

Class A misdemeanor./££¢ilp gydxgé.th'4?2%(/p¢4l~”ﬂ7/f ‘73‘“”
'1, "i,f').’4’C/(/ ~ AC4,“ 1v. {ii/1., "(Mg/{ZFY/ '4 ,

10. ed foo note #17 doublechecked: "On a national level,
the _erican Humane Association (AHA) offers to magch up to
$300 -or 'information leading to the arrest and conviction of
any rson or persons willfully poisoning any animal.‘ ‘
Rewand posters are available from AHA's office at 9725 E.
Hhmpden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231." Is this still correct
ﬁhfoémation (reward and availability of posters). V.

I.
l

W

a),
J
.‘

./¢" /.; . ‘
‘ l
I

ﬂotﬁt 0%“

ll WISCONSIN upgraded the . / [S’s anti-cruelty law now stilt?“-
Jlberate acts of animal “1161:1121: f - masher penalties for consecutive v10—
offense (see related story this D8803 e lations of that measure- A ﬁrst offense is a
who“! the ICgislature m‘ed the Use C Class C misdemeanor, a second Offense 18. a
99mpression chambers fox-"Eh; eutha; : class B, and a third or subsequent oatme-
of shelter animajs, . tion is a class A misdemeanor.

:\. zf} :
. Eli) :3§?‘\-?E'\”V‘\ Ari"4-1.1"

‘0‘
//LC;{) \ T) ‘1’. »C "

A

W“

 

 




u.-n"nun-unannoun-.uuu.

”nu-u...

 

 

.. u... ..... u... u... u... n..- on... u... .uu u..-

n- u... n... or... ..... .-..- ....

 




{If {:13 5...!

 

.I

 

 




.23..
~ .

 

 




 

5... 2.."
I i

u»

E

f"!

.0. .u.

 




Laws 9: New Ham shi , Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix
Complete text. 1904.

2. Old seuth Leejlets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.

«.3 .- w d v-~~-...(~Ba~l~tiemore.) Dec 30181.61,“ 62/

gigf/ New York. State Courts. ngest 9: New Kort ELQLELﬁﬁ and

”’ Reports, from earliest period to the year 1860. Vol. 1: page
124. ' .

6%5f Reyised ut 8, 1827—28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title
VI

Fﬁiéi lonrnal Q£.the Assembly oi the.§tate or New York, Slst
" §§§§19n1 ﬁeggnd Meeting. Albany: Croswell, 1828, pages
45-6.

// ‘
éy7- Egylﬁgd ﬁLQLQLﬂgp Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.
7:3? ﬁLﬁLﬂLﬁg Qﬁ C 'ct'cu , Title XXI, p. 184.

3/5: Statutes gﬁ the Territory Q: Wisconsin, page 365, Sec.
“ l9.

‘Ziﬁi Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

/0142 1860 Laws 9: the.§eneral.A§§emhly, Title IV, Sec. 46,
’p. 395.

,wClé: 1864 Laws gﬁ the Ierritgrx Qﬁ Idaho, XII, Sec. 143,
p. 329.

 




ﬂ/v‘f/ 5

ALABAMA

l3A-ll‘f4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if,
except as otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or
recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal
belonging to another.

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 {/K
fine (SS l3—A—5—7 l3~A—5—12).]
. m ”LE [7L

‘ 73
ALASKA UL Ir?‘ 2/:

11.61.140. Cruelty to animals. Z>84/ /r /f
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if L L“ +£Ak
the person
(I) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged / 7.
physical pain or suffering on an animal; L;
(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result
of that neglect, causes the death of the animal or causes
severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .
(c) In this section, 'animal' means a vertebrate living
creature not human being, but does not include fish.

[Penalty: Up to $5,000 fine and/or up to 1 year
imprisonment (SS 12.55.035, 12.55.135).]

ARIZONA

13—2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
otherwise authorized by law, such person recklessly:
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human
custody or control to cruel mistreatment; or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his
custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment, or
3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody
or control of another without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner . . .
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2
misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 4 months imprisonment and/or up to $750
fine (SS 13-707, 13—802).]

ARKANSAS

 




*" as)“

5-62glOl. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if, except as authorized by law, he knowingly:
(l) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or
,= (4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
M” another, ithout legal privilege or consent of the owner.
’ ' "ﬁlls? slay] fy¢,g§ rt: m (:13HWidfgx {g éi-<f(é§¢18 %3 [0/5/erw(z¢/7zvu
”‘ [Penaltyz Up tolél,000 fine and/or up to 1 year ‘
K- imprisonment (SS 5—4-201, 5-4—401).]
\ 43%32“ MC? 33(WNVHOMQ-

‘ mu. ,

«13/

/

CALIFORNIA

597. Cruelty to animals.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this
section or Section 5990, every person who maliciously and
intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or wounds a living
animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is
guilty of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars
($20,000), or by both the fine and imprisonment, or,
alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than one year, or by a fine of not more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and
imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or
(0), every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats,
mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures
any animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the
charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or
otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suffering, or
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the animal with
proper food, drink, or shelter or protection from the
weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal (OK:~
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
crime punishable as a misdemeanor or as a felony_gr,_..ﬂ~—~—-%g%
alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor orva felony and by V
a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . .

599.b. . . . 'animal‘ includes every dumb creature; the
words 'torment,‘ 'torture,' and 'cruelty' include every act,
omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

 




//‘ COLORADO

;’ FE; Userf I/x r§e¢J7OF> l6“f7“él?5ij “/ikifg
’” 18-9-201. Definitions. tfﬂMCumﬁ+3x%ﬂ d+ﬁgfmomgé, V657uxrcﬁ>j

(l) 'Abandon' includes the leaving of an animal b its
owner or other person responsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

(2) 'Animal' means any living dumb creature.

(3) 'Mistreatment' includes every act or omission which
causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering.

(4) 'Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water,
protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise, or
other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's health
and well-being.

18—9—202. Cruelty to animals — neglect of animals -
offenses.

(l) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
authorized by law, he knowingly or with criminal negligence
overdrives, overloads, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or
upon any vehicles in a cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats
or neglects any animal, or causes or procures it to be done,
or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to
provide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the
weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) In the case of any person incurring a second or
subsequent conviction under the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this subsection (2), a sentence of imprisonment within the
minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory and shall not be
subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for
probation or parole for any part of such period . . .

35-42—112. Cruelty to animals - penalty. Every person who
overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,
tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a
cruel or inhumane manner any animal or causes or procures it
to be done or who, having charge and custody of any animal,
unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or
protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a
class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
section 18-1—106, C.R.S.

[Penalty: Minimum sentence is six months imprisonment or

$500 fine, or both; maximum sentence is 24 months
imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or both (SS 18—1—106).]

CONNECTICUT

 




2":

f) .'
6dég

53—247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance,
mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or unjustifiably injures
any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any animal,
fails to give such animal prOper care or neglects to cage or
restrain any such animal from doing injury to itself or to
another animal or fails to supply any such animal with
wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance,
with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of any
animal, inflicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with
proper food, drink or protection from the weather or abandons
it or carries it or causes it to be carried in a cruel
mannerwm . . or worries any animal for the purpose of making
it perform for amusement, diversion or exhibition, shall be

,'”fined not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars or

imprisoned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words
and phrases shall include, but not be limited to, the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:

(1) 'Cruel' includes every act or omission to act
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) 'Cruel mistreatment' includes any treatment
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) 'Cruel neglect' includes neglect of an animal,
which is under the care and control of the neglector, whereby
pain or suffering is caused to the animal or abandonment of
any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) 'Cruelty to animals' includes mistreatment of
any animal or neglect of any animal under the care and
control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way
of example this inclgges: Unjustifiable beating of an
animal; overworking an animal; tormenting an animal;
abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) 'Person' includes any individual, partnership,
corporation or association living and/or doing business in
the State.

(6) 'Abandonment' includes completely forsaking or
deserting an animal originally under one's custody without
making reasonable arrangements for custody of that animal to

be assumed by another person.
(7) 'Custody' includes the reSponsibility for the

 




,wy

welfare of an animal subject to one's care and control
whether he owns it or not.

(8) 'Proper feed' includes providing each animal
with daily food and water of sufficient quality and quantity
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(9) 'Proper shelter' includes providing each animal
with adequate shelter from the weather elements as required
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(10) 'Proper veterinary care' includes providing
each animal with veterinary care sufficient to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by
the animal.

(11) 'Animal' shall not include fish, crustacea or
molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he
intentionally or recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another person without legal privilege or consent of the
owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any
animal whether belonging to himself or another. This section
does not apply to the killing of any animal normally or
commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided that
such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if
the act is not required to terminate an animal's suffering,
to protect the life or property of the actor or another
person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist

‘7; which would not impair the health or well- -being of that
‘animal.

[Viv /)/7t(tix (:iCZSi> Fj— {Y\ «rig/quzz/my., VLf1_“(o H<90c> gjwyyé

‘\ GM!" 9 «leg; Q “5/,va LIA/i r7304 ”Via/Y?!” (S: H [+0906
,wa P] 2;) R169.

7*828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter, or
unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates, or kills any
animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon
any vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree,
punishable as provided in s. 775. 082 or by a fine of not more
than $5,000, or both.

[Penaltyz Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (SS 775.082).]

GEORGIA

 




_,
M 5'

x
1"!

jxﬁy16—lzj¥éi Cruelty to animals.

of

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act,
omission, or neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of
animals raised for the purpose of providing food nor does it
apply to any person who hunts wild animals in compliance with
the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or
injuring of an animal for humane purposes or in the

leurtherance of medical or scientific research is justifiable.
W (Code 1933, SS 26—2802, enacted by Ga. L. 1968, p. 1249; flaw
SS 1.)“ " ’“m

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months
imprisonment (§§ l7—lO-3).]

HAWAI I

711-1100. Definitions of terms in this chapter . .-.

(5) 'Animal' includes every living creature;

(6) 'Cruelty,‘ 'torture' or 'torment' includes every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if he knowingly or recklessly:

(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beats or
needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or procures to be
,overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of

“ necessary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly
mutilated or killed, any living creature . "f

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with
or interested in the management of, or receives money for the
admission of any person to, any place kept or used for the
purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cook or
other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or
assists therein, or who permits or suffers any place to be so
kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any

,*vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or
inhumane manner.»

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (l)(a), (c), (d) and the following
subsection (3) are not applicable to accepted veterinary
practices and to activities carried on for scientific
research governed by standards of accepted educational or
medical practices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured
that there is no reasonable probability that its life or

 




:3,/

usefulness can be saved, the animal may be immediately
destroyed.
(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

way-afﬁenalty: Up to $1,00o fine and/or up to 1 year imprisonment
W (§§_37—706-640, 37-706—663).]

éﬁ9“ IDAHO

1852102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds
an animal, the property of another, or who overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter,
cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or
causes or procures any animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or
shelter, or to be cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly
killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody of any
animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon
the same, or in any manner abuses any animal, or fails to
provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter or
protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or
otherwise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every
such offense, guilty of a misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section
shall be punished by a jail sentence of not more than six (6)
months or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment. M+iT€T7WBSM
’18w2102,“asmadded~byrlgﬂﬁ7wchww386,wSSW17Wp."8ﬁﬁ?whﬁﬁwlﬂ793
ch. 183, SS l,”pd“537.]«. . .

(L15 ")
1872108. Impounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in
any pound, any domestic animal, must supply the same during
such confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and
wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is guilty
of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time
impounded as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary
food and water for more than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful
for any person, from time to time, as may be deemed
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such
animal is confined, and supply it with necessary food and
water so long as it remains so confined. Such person is not
liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost
(of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner

“M“of such animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and

sale upon execution issued upon a judgment there r . . .
)

18—2109. Permitting animals to go without care - Abandoned
animals to be killed.

 




V Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who

”"shall permit the same to be in any building, inclosure, lane,
street, square or lot of any city, county or precinct, '

g without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be
_deemed guilty of a misdemeanor\»-~w«w \V A

”“3” \,(,\\

18‘2112. Terms defined.

In this chapter the word 'animal' includes every dumb
creature; the words 'torment,‘ 'torture' and 'cruelty'
include every act, omission or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . 1

,1.-. a
{$41 ILLINOIS
703.01. Cruel treatment.
SS . No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat,
torment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.
No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a
“public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposurewlwqw-

Nmmm W,

[Penai:y%m~Upwtowﬁmﬁﬁyswjmpg1sonment and7o? a frnewo§w$500
(SS 3K 1005— 8 3, 38 1005 9-1) ] v 1 ., ,, i _
f:g2u’i »«wiiﬂlﬁ .« ,Vjﬂprkrw

;~V _, J_, g, ,,,EV;,,V_
11w,. INDIANA 1;;

g '40-")
‘)..-~

” 3§,£146—3—3. 'Animal' defined.
As used in this chapter, 'animal' does not include a
human being . . .

*35—46—3—7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A
person having a vertebrate animal in the person's custody who
w recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally abandons or neglects
the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B

“. misdemeanor. IP. L. 193 ~1987, SS 10.] .~w Tea

35-46-3-12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(l) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate
animal resulting in serious injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority
of the owner of the animal;
commits cruelty to an animal, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably
believes the conduct was necessary to:
(l) Prevent injury to the accused person or another
person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from
destruction or substantial damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal
from prolonged suffering. *—iPvaw&9%~&9811 SS 1% 1 . -,:

 

 




    
    
  

at, 3

gig)

    
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year imprisonment in
addition to a fine of up to $5,000 (SS 35—50—3—2); Class B
misdemeanor: Up to 180 days imprisonment in addition to a
fine of up to $1,000 (SS 35—50-3-3).]

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals.

A person who impounds or confines, in any place, a
domestic animal or fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to
section 109.60, or dog or cat, and fails to supply the animal
during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate
shelter, or who tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, mutilates, overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means which
cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether
intentionally or negligently, commits the offense of cruelty
to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals
is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.- A person who
jintentionally commits the offense of cruelty to animals which
results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is
guilty of a serious misdemeanongu—nnn

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dogs — penalty.

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog
shall not abandon the cat or dog, except the person may
deliver the cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or

14y dog to an animal shelter or pound as defined in section
151” 162.2. A person who violates this section is guilty of a

gf'ﬁﬁfﬁj simple misdemeanor.
wwpﬁc ““““ , p - _., ﬂ ._1
\;%'3; M ’[Penalty: Simple misdemeanbrgw'.g ”mssn;.>“f¥* SSwwﬂsjij
”4 ‘ g“; Serious misdeméanor= ‘Upmto l2Y§§ﬁW35640£ a fineigﬁhuﬁT§©~”
$1. . o o 0 (ss 903‘" . 1)" . 1 -- ~ ~v - ,1,
.. .' \de ”WW"
KANSAS

21—4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:
(a) Intentionally killing, injuring, maiming,
torturing or mutilating any animal;
(b) abandoning or leaving any animal in any place
without making provisions for its proper care; or
(c) having physical custody of any animal and
failing to provide such food, potable water, protection from g“x
the elements, opportunity for exercise and other care as is (fhﬁjﬁé
needed for the health or well—being of such kind of animal. a» a “
62) The proiisionshof-this sectionpshall not agpmy;tb€‘

 

. 5w. . ,

. ‘ , 4,» (v 2: jv;-;.:»7‘5‘“""W _ .1; > ,_ ., : . . . , x ,: 9:2“! ,, A. ~
7 xvi!” I‘M?" , i“~~ xxx," ‘ .‘ > I ., —r )1 . .. . -I‘2’§€w . ‘ 7' ‘1. . “is?” , Tig‘g‘if ,,.
r "j 1‘ ' “db" (1‘? i .r‘ "I g 1.5.; " :1 .5 “2‘ , ; 1+ '~ ' 1- ‘ j ‘ » n ,2' ya

,.
*1-

  




“”21 4313. Animals, Definitions}; .g aw L3.?Q?E
(1) 'Animal' means every living vertebrate except a
human being . . .

a
.f‘ﬁ- ‘\ .
z, ”w! -

[Penalty- Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1, 000 (SS
21: 4502, 21: 4503). ]

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.

(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the
second degree when except as authorized by law he
intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or
injurious mistreatment through abandonment, participates
other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in causing it to fight
for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate
food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal.

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing
of animals:

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other
commercial purposes; .

(c) For humane purposes.Q.QQ'

(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A
misdemeanor.

[Penalty: A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12
months (S 534.040, 534.090).]

)\

 




532 #W/ 74

LOUISIANA

14:102. Definitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(l) 'Cruel' means every act or failure to act whereby
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted.

(2) 'Abandons' means to completely forsake and desert an
animal previously under the custody or possession of a person
without making reasonable arrangements for its proper care,
sustenance, and shelter.

(3) 'Proper food' means providing each animal with daily
food of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with
daily water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(5) 'Proper shelter' means providing each animal with
adequate shelter from the elements as required to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(6) 'Proper veterinary care' means providing each animal
with veterinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

14:102.l. Cruelty to animals . . .

(B) Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals
,shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars, or
imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.

14:102.4. Confined animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined, and
continues without necessary food and water for more than
twenty—four consecutive hours, any law enforcement officer
may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or confined and supply it with necessary
food and water so long as it shall remain impounded or
confined.

MAINE

7:3907. Definitions

As used in this Part, and in every law relating to or
affecting animals, unless the context indicates otherwise,
the following terms have the following meanings . . .

2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living, sentient
creature not a human being . . .

cw” 26. Torment, torture andqcruelty. 'Torment, torture

and cruelty' means every actfgﬁromission or neglect, whether
by the owner or any other person, where unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . .

29. Well cared for. 'Well cared for' means that the
animal is receiving necessary sustenance, necessary medical
attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather and

 




3 Q

humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been
nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured,
abandoned, poisoned, beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison
with the intent that it be taken by the animal . . .

7:4011. Cruelty to Animals.

1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or the consent of the owner, or kills or
attempts to kill any animal with the owner's consent, by
means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or
occupant of property is privileged to use reasonable force to
eject a trespassing animal;

B. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons,
gives poison to, cruelly beats or mutilates any animal or
exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken by an
animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of
necessary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper
shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions; or

. D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited
_or barren island lying off the coast of Maine during the
months of December, January, February or March without
providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter.r

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with a
sufficient supply of food and water as prescribed in this
section.

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and
quality to maintain all animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animal at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with
necessary medical attention when the animal is or has been
suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism
or malformed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and
humanely clean conditions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
proper shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section may be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practice in the particular

 




r 7

--—_.—u

county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes
of this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.
”Ml. Indoor standard . Minimum indoor standards of shelter
' shall be as followsix.'f 4*12
A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the
health of the animal.
B. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately
ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the
health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter
shall be as followsﬁma

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of
an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural
or artificial means shall be provided to protect the animal
from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, 'caged'
does not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals. ,

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows i.

(1) An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides
and a waterproof roof appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.

(2) If a dog is tied or confined unattended
outdoors under weather conditions which adversely affect the

‘ health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size with a floor
' above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to
accommodate the dog and protect it from the weather and, in
T'particular, from sevenjcold. Inadequate shelter may be
indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold weather for
a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure,
car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind when extreme heat or
extreme cold will be harmful to its health. \C\

‘ 3

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both
indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include the followinggﬁ

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from
injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to
provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate
freedom of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by
evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal
behavior patterns.

4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of
sanitation necessary to provide humanely clean conditions for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic
cleanings to remove excretions and other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation. . . .
Any person who violates this chapter commits a c1v1l

 




r~> .“
3 £8“

violation for which a forfeiture of $500 for each offense may
be adjudged and such other relief as may be necessary to
restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the
effects of cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well
cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of
necessary sustenance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats,
mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes, procures or
authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of
an animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
suffering or pain upon the animal, or unnecessarily fails to
ﬁprovide the animal with nutritious food in sufficient

,“Jquantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air,

space, shelter or protection from the weather? or (4) uses or
permits to be used any bird, fowl, or cock for the purpose of
fighting with any other animal, which is commonly known as
cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner,
possessor, or custodian of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, who abandons such animal or drops or leaves such
animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 . . .

27:62. Definitions.

The words 'torture,‘ 'torment,‘ and 'cruelty' mean every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted, and the word 'animal' means every living creature

except man.

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or kills an animal, or
causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated
or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel or inhuman manner in a
racer game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait

 




35/

in fishing; and whoever, having the charge or custody of an
animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or
protection from the weather, and whoever, as owner,
possessor, or person having the charge or custody of an
animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or
~willfully abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a way and manner which might endanger the animal
carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully authorizes or
permits it to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering
or cruelty of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon
conviction for any violation of this section . . . the
defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to determine the
defendant's fitness for continued custody of the abused
animal, be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of
any society, incorporated under the laws of the commonwealth
for the prevention of cruelty to animals or for the care and
protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction.

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated,
or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever having the charge
or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails
to provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter, or
protection from the weather, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or fined not
more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Definitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living creature
except members of the human race.
Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture' or 'cruelty'

means every act, omission, or neglect which causes or permits
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death . . .

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty..
Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive,

 




51¢

overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or unjustifiably
injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work
any animal when it is unfit for labor, whether it belongs to
that person or to another person.

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive
any animal over which the person has charge or control of
necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or
other animal in any enclosure without providing wholesome
exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed any cow on
food which produces impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any
. animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow
any maimed, sick, inf”rm, or disabled animal to lie in any
street, road, or other public place for more than three hours
after receiving notice of the animal's condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate
or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal or
animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty to animals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage any animal for
public display purposes unless the display cage is
constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the
caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal
dimension of each side of the cage is at least four times the
length of the caged animal. The provisions of this
subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricultural
society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county
agricultural societies, county fairs, to any agricultural
display of caged animals by any political subdivision of the
state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national
educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions
of this subdivision do not apply to captive wildlife, the
exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.04l.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with
any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 90 days imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine
(SS 609.03).]

MISSISSIPPI

97-41-1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload,
torture, torment, unjustifiably injure, deprive of necessary
sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly beat or needlessly
mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustifiably injured, tormented, or
deprived of neCessary sustenance, food or drink; or to be
cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or killed, any living
creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be
QUilty of a misdemeanor.

 




s ,,
JIM
1'

w

_* 95—41-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

i” If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by
hand or in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any
an creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be guilty of
fywa misdemeanor.

94—41—7. Confining creatures without food or water.

If any person shall confine, or cause to be confined, in
any stable, lot, or other place, any living creature, without
supplying the same during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide
sustenance.

If any person be the owner or have the custody of any
living creature and unjustifiably neglect or refuse to
furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

j,‘ '[Penaltyz Fipéﬁéﬁ3not;less”thanq§10.Qgsnct“morymﬁﬁagg§lﬁﬂi00,

nor more thanloodays or both? ,.

MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in
any manner not allowed by or expressly exempted from the
provisions of sections 578.005 to 578.023;
(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes
injury, suffering, or pain to an animal;
(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making
provisions for its adequate care;
, (4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or
works an animal unfit to work;0f
(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal
willfully fails to provide adequate care or adequate control.
2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000 (SS 558.011, 560.016).]

MONTANA

45—8-211. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals

if without justification he knowingly or negligently subjects
an animal to mistreatment or neglect by: . . . _
(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or

killing any animal;

 




 

2/2

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(0) failing to provide an animal in his custody
with proper food, drink, or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning
any animal on any highway, railroad, or in any other place
where it may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure or become a
public charge; or “ 
*’ (e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or

' participating in a horse race of more than 2 milesﬁax7“‘

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to
animals shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in
the county jail for a term not to exceed 6 months, or both.
If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to
the county in which he is convicted any animal affected.

This provision does not affect the interest of any secured
party or other person who has not participated in the
offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection
(2), the court may require the defendant to pay all
reasonable costs incurred in providing necessary veterinary
attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

28—1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and
abandon; defined. As used in section 28-1002, unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and
a wild living creature previously captured. Animal does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a wild creature whose
capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under section
28-1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission
which causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food,
water, protection from the elements, opportunity to exercise,
or other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's
health and well-being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its
owner or other person responsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

28—1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or
permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as

otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:

(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(c) Abandons any animal; or

(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to

another.

 




ﬂ:

(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor. a a KQS“9

[Penalty: Maximum 6 months imprisonment or $1,000 fine or
both (SS 28—106).]

NEVADA

574.050. Definitions.. 4 .7 _
‘ﬁSWﬁEEﬁW&ﬂWNRS”37¢Tﬁ5@Wtﬂw54éwﬂﬁﬁTWTn€&ﬁﬁ&V€ﬁ
1. 'Animal' does not include the human race, but
includes every other living creature.
2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act,
omission or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning
animals; failure to provide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats or unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether belonging to himself or to another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance,
food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such
sustenance or drink;

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or
unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or killed, or to be
deprived of necessary food or drink;

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in,
or in any way furthers an act of cruelty to any animal, or
any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than
those prohibited in NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.
1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having.

‘ ‘“ charge or custody, of a maimed, diseased, disabled or inform

animal, who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a'
public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie
in a public street, road or public place more than 3 hours
after he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty
of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to
impounded animal; penalty.

1. A person who, having impounded or confined any
animal, refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during
its confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome
air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000, or both (55 193.150).]

 




NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

I. In this section, 'cruelty' shall include, but not be
limited to, acts or omissions injurious or detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of any animal, including the
abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its
care, sustenance, protection or shelter.

II. In this section, 'animal' means a domestic animal,
a household pet or a wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives
or causes to be deprived any animal in his possession or
custody necessary care, sustenance or shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures,
mutilates or in any other manner mistreats or causes to be
mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when
overloaded, or otherwise abuses or misuses any animal
intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animal in his
possession or custody in a manner injurious to the health,
safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in
his possession or custody by causing such animal to be left
without supervision or adequate provision for its care,
sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any
animal in his possession or custody to be subjected to
cruelty, inhumane greatment or unnecessary suffering of any

i kind. ‘ a,“ ”in? i
g ° A»;

[Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000 (SS 651:2).1

NEW JERSEY

4:22-15. Definitions
As used in this article:
'Animal' or 'creature' includes the whole brute creation

4:22-17. Cruelty in general; misdemeanor.~”‘
A person who shall: ,I”
a. Overdrive, overload,drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
wwunnecessarily or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse, or
,gneedlessly mutilate or kill, a living animal or creature;
‘ b. Cause or procure any of such acts to be done;
or
c. Inflict unnecessary cruelty upon a living
animal or creature of which he has charge either as owner or
otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to provide it with proper

 




food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather—-

Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for every such
offense shall be fined not more than two hundred and fifty
dollars, or be imprisoned in the county jail not more than
six months, or both, in the discretion of the court.

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a
living animal or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise,
in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4: 22-17 of
this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor.

A person who shall impound or confine, or cause to be
impounded or confined, in a pound or other place, a living
animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such
confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
Afood and water, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section\ H: .22- 17 of this title.

4:22- 20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place;
misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or
disabled animal or creature to die in a public place, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in
section 4:22—17 of this title.

4:22—26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty.

A person who shall:

> a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
or cruell beat or otherwise abuse or needlessly mutilate or
kill a liVing animal or creature;

bAQ Cause or procure to be done by his agent,
servant, empIdyee or otherwise an act enumerated in
subsection 'a' Aof this section;

c. InElict unnecessary cruelty upon a living
animal or creature of which he has charge or custody either
as owner or otherwise” or unnecessarily fail to provide it
with proper food, driﬁk, shelter or protection from the
weather; A
d. Receive or Offer for sale a horse which by
reason of disability, diseaserr lameness, or any other
cause, could not be worked w1thQut violating the provisions

of this article;
e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in

the management of, or receive money or «Acher consideration
for the admission of a person to, a placéAkept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting a living animal or

creature; A
f. Be present and witness, encourage, Aaid or

assist in an activity enumerated in subsection 'e' sf this
section; -

 




d/é

‘ g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by
hiQ to be used as provided in subsection 'e' of this section;

z h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal
or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or
inhuman manner;

2 i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or
helping Qto draw a vehicle for business purposes;

j. Impound or confine or cause to be confined in a
pound or Other place a living animal or creature, and shall
fail to supply it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. QAbandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disable
animal or creature to die in a public place;

1. W1lfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose,
or cause or perm1t to be sold or offered for sale, used or
exposed, a horse bQ other animal having the disease known as
glanders or farcy, 9r other contagious or infectious disease
dangerous to the hea1th or life of human beings or animals,
or who shall, when any such disease is beyond recover,
refuse, upon demand, toQ deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside
stand or market for the sale of merchandise along a public
street or highway; or a shopplng mall, or a part of the
premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature
confined, or allowed to roam in an area whether or not the
area is enclosed, on these premises as an exhibit; except
that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet shop
licensed pursuant to P. L. l94l,‘c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.l et
seq. ); a person who keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for
the purpose of the protection of the premises; or a
recognized breeders' association, a 4 H club, an educational
agricultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or
other similar charitable or nonprofit organization conducting
an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside
stand or market located along a public street or highway of
this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping mall, or a part
of the premises thereof; '

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or
display live baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits,
turtles or chameleons which have been dyed 0r artificially
colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an
artificial color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the
purpose of soliciting any alms, collections, c0ntributions,
subscriptions, donations, or payment of money except in
connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted
in a bona fide manner by recognized breeders' associations,
4-H clubs or other similar bona fide organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away
living rabbits, turtles, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl
under 2 months of age, for use as household or domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away
living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl, or rabbits,

 




é/7

t\ tles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any purpose
no prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall
fair\to provide proper facilities for the care of such
animals;

KENS. Artificially mark sheep or cattle, or cause
them to_bemmarked, by cropping or cutting off both ears,
cropping or‘bugting either ear more than 1 inch from the tip
end thereof, ormhalf cropping or cutting both ears or either
ear more than 1 in from the tip end thereof, or who shall
have or keep in his p0 osion sheep or cattle, which he
claims to own, marked contrary to this subsection unless they
were bought in market or of a Stranger;

t. Abandon a dog or cat—+“Mm%»
Shall forfeit and pay a sum not to Exceed $250.00 to be
sued for and recovered, with costs, in a civflmaction by any
person in the name of the New Jersey Society for' ~e
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

NEW MEXICO

30—18—1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or
overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal
with proper food or drink; or

C. cruelly driving or working any animal when such
animal is unfit for labor.

Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months pr a fine of
not more than $500.00, or both ] "
J

NEW YORK ’

w:

/«/W m; i, a.
‘l - ‘=\\, " 2 #34" if ‘7 j «M f ‘

350. Definitions.

1. 'Animal,’ as used in this article, includes every
living creature except a human being;

2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act, omission,
or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to
Provide proper sustenance.

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats of unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish
it such sustenance or drink, or causes, procures or permits

 




34/6

any animal to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly
beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or
killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who
wilfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way
furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending
to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge
or custody of an animal, who abandons such animal, or leaves
it to die in a street, road or public place, or who allows
such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public
street, road or public place more than three hours after he
receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or
by both.

ﬁx

3 g? 356. Eailure to provide proper food and drink to impounded

gﬁ‘ animal§7

% A person who, having impounded or confined any animal,
refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during its
confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome air,
food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by

a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both. In

case any animal shall be at any time impounded as aforesaid,

and shall continue to be without necessary food and water for
more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any
person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which any such
animal shall be so confined, and to supply it with necessary
food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such
person shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and
the reasonable cost of such food and water may be collected
by him of the owner of such animal, and the said animal shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon a
judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROL INA

14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload,
wound, injure, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill or
cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded,
injured, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly mutilated or killed as
aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such
offender shall for every such offense be guilty of a

 




1/7"

misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating
to animals, the words 'animal' and 'dumb animal' shall be
held to include every living creature; the words 'torture,'
'torment' or 'cruelty' shall be held to include every act,
omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death is caused or permitted. Such terms shall
not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of animals
under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife
Resources Commission.

14—361. Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate,
or move to, carry on, or promote, or engage in, or do any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up
to one year.

l4-361.l. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having
charge or custody of an animal, who willfully and without
justifiable excuse abandons the animal is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.l-01. Definitions. In this chapter, unless the
context or subject matter otherwise requires:

1. 'Animal' includes every living animal except the
human race.

2. 'Board' means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. 'Cruelty' or 'torture' includes every act, omission,
or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36-21.1—02. Overworking or mistreating animals.

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly
beat, neglect, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or
kill any animal, or cruelly work any animal when unfit for
labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has
charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure
without exercise and wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal. ' .

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, infirm, or
disabled animal of which he is the owner, or of which he has
CUStOdY: to lie in any street, road, or other public place
for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way

 




:37"

further, any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any
act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display
purposes unless the display cage is constructed of solid
material on three sides to protect the caged animal from the
elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged
animal. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to
the North Dakota state fair association, to agricultural fair
associations, to any agricultural display of caged animals by
any political subdivision, or to district, regional, or
national educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. Zoos
which have been approved by the health district or the
,governing body of the political subdivision which has
, jurisdiction over the zoos are exempt from the provisions of
this subsection. ,

[Penalty: Maximum one year imprisonment, a fine of $1,000,
or both.]

OHIO

959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, shall abandon such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $100.]

959.02. Injuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without
the consent of the owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal,
filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer, bull, heifer,
ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is
the property of another. This section does not apply to a
licensed veterinarian acting in an official capacity.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of
the animal killed 0; the injury done amounts to less than
$300, misdemeanor ,f the second degree, punishable by not
more than 90 days“ imprisonment and/or a fine of not more

,5than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury

done amounts to $300 or more, misdemeanor of thegfirst
degree, punishable by not more than six months}¥imprisonment
and/or a fine of not more than $1,000.]

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary
sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly
mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an animal without
supplying it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;

 




.5/

(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording
it, during such confinement, access to shelter from wind,
rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably
be expected that the animals would otherwise become sick or
in some other way suffer. Division (A)(2) of this section
does not apply to animals impounded or confined prior to
slaughter. For the purpose of this section, shelter means a
man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural windbreak
or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or
inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or
fowl, swine, sheep, or goats in an enclosure without
wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed cows on food
that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

[Penalty: Misdemeanorgbf the second degree, punishable by
not more than 90 days? imprisonment and/or a fine of not more
than $750.] ”

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the
prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the
county, township, or municipal corporation where such
violation occurred.

OK LAHOMA

1685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive,
overload, torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or
"injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprive any such animal of
necessary food, drink or shelter? or who shall cause,
procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten
or injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary
food, drink or shelter; or who shall willfully set on foot,
instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of
cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such
cruelty, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding five (5) years, or by imprisonment
in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not
exceeding Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer
finding an animal so maltreated or abused shall cause the
,same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall be a

«V’lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a

pledge or a lien.

1686. Abandoned animals—~Destroyed how.
A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a

 




maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons
said animal or who allows said animal to lie in a public
street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the
animal is disabled or dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section
and Section 1691 of this title, the term abandon means the
voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no intention to
retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited
to vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the
premises, or failing to feed the animal or allowing it to
stray or wander onto private or public property with the
intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said
animal.

-lull69l. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or
»"*highways or in any public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other
domestic animal along any private or public roadway, or in
any other private or public place with the intention of
abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

7_l692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of Sections 1686 . . . 1691 of this title shall be
punished by a fine in an amount not less than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars

_. 500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
( . than one (1) year, or by both said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.860. Specific acts defined as cruelty to animals;
defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, 'animal' means any mammal,
bird, reptile or amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any
animal, or who, having the charge of or custody of any animal
as owner, or otherwise, inflicts cruelty upon the animal,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody
of any animal, who cruelly drives or works the animal when
unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the animal, or carries
or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any vehicle or
otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to
torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind, shall be punished
for each and every offense in the manner provided in

 




subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or
person having the charge or custody of any animal, who
deprives such animal of necessary and adequate food and drink
for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and every
offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this
section . . .

[Penalty:7

 




5% fM/‘f/ é

PENNSYLVANIA

5511. Cruelty to animals . . .
(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms
shall have the meanings given to them in this paragraph:
'Domestic animal.‘ Any dog, cat, equine animal,
bovine animal, sheep, goat or porcine animal . . .

(C) Cruelty to animals.--A person commits a summary
offense if he wantonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats
or otherwise abuses any animal, whether belonging to himself
or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives any animal
of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. .

[Penalty: Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

(l) The words 'animal' and 'animals' shall be held
to include every living creature except a human being . . .

4—1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals——
'Shelter' defined.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill, or cause
or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly
killed, any animal, and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall inflict
cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide
that animal with prOper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall, for every such offense, be
imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), or be both imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

'Shelters,‘ as used in this chapter, shall mean a
structure used to house any animal, and which will provide
sufficient protection from inclement elements for the health
and well-being of the animal.

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal, who shall cruelly drive or work that
animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandon that animal,
or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or
inhuman manner, or wilfully authorize or permit that animal
to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty
of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain,

 




I -a - ,,
W”3fn
3/ gy’

or that shall be declared a hazardous substance by the U. S.
Food and Drug Administration or by the Rhode Island
Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1-2; provided however,
that this section shall not be deemed to include any drug
having curative and therapeutic effect for disease in animals
and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4—1—4. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be
abandoned to die, by any owner or person having charge of
that animal, that person shall, for every such offense, be
punished in the manner provided in 4-1—2 . . .

4—1—26. Abandonment of animals from motor vehicles.

If the owner of any animal shall abandon that animal
from a motor vehicle without providing for the care of that
animal, he shall be punished in the manner_provided in 4—1—2

5

for each such offense.

SOUTH CAROLINA

47-1—10. 'Animal' and 'animals' defined.
In this chapter the words 'animal' or 'animals' shall be
held to include all brute creatures.

47-1—40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-
treats, deprives of necessary sustenance, shelter, or
inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes these things to be done, whether the person is the
owner of the animal or has charge or custody of it, for every
offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
must be punished by imprisonment not exceeding thirty days or
by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not
exceeding sixty days or by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by imprisonment
not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates,
cruelly kills, or inflicts excessive or repeated unnecessary
pain or suffering upon any animal or causes the acts to be
done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to
exceed sixty days or by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars, or both.

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl,
accepted animal husbandry practices of farm operations, the
training of animals, or the practice of veterinary medicine.

47-1-70. Abandonment of infirm animal in public place.
A person, being the owner or possessor or hav1ng charge

 




:7 (a

or custody of a maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal
in any town or city of this State, who abandons such animal
or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars or
imprisonment not exceeding thirty days.

47-1—50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and
unnecessary torture.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal who:

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor;

(2) Cruelly abandons it;

(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon
any vehicle or otherwise in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman
manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be
subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any
ki ;

Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished for every such offense in
the manner prescribed in 47—1—40.

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .
(1) 'Animal' shall include every living dumb creature;
(2) 'Torture,‘ 'torment,‘ and 'cruelty' shall include
every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . .

40-1—2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal
prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat, mutilate, or
cruelly kill any animal.

40-1—2.l. Abandoning animal prohibited. No person may
abandon any animal.

40-1—6. Impounding or leaving of animal without prOper
attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in
any building, enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without
proper care and attention for more than twelve consecutive
hours.

My”

(3 di'40—1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as
' misdemeanor. . _ .
Every person who maliciously klllS or injures any

 




57

animal, other than those specified in 40—1-21 [livestock],
belonging to another, or any animal whatever belonging to
himself, 15 guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

[Benalty:. Class 1 misdemeanor;~ one year imprisonment in (E ;
equntyyjall and/Orl§l,OGQ fine} Class 2/misdemeapﬂiz 30 i
daySngmprisonment”in county jail and/or $100 fine.]

a... ,

TENNESSEE

39—3-101. Definitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting
animals, the words animal or dumb animal shall be held to
include every living creature; the words torture, torment, or
cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or
death is caused or permitted; but nothing herein shall be
construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds or game for
the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by
incorporated gun clubs.

39—3—104. Cruelty to animals.

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or procure same to be
done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell,
or exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every
such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the purchase of
animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of
this state, for the purpose of humanely killing the same.

39-3-106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded
in any pound or other place, any creature, shall supply to
the same during such confinement a sufficient quantity of
good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39—3—110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote,
or engage in, or do any act toward the furtherance of any act
of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39-3—121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.
It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or

otherwise willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline
species on public lands or rights of way. Any person
convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or
workhouse not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine

and imprisonment.

 




14.. -‘

‘39-1-202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

' Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the
punishment for which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute
of this state, Shall be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail or workhouse n i more than one year, or by fine
not exceeding one thousand ollars ($1,000), or by both, in
the discretion of the court.

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or
knowingly:

(l) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food,
care, or shelter for an animal in his custody;

(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;

(4) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal, other than cattle, horses, sheep, swine, or goats,
belonging to another without legal authority or the owner's
effective consent;

(6) causes one animal to fight with another; or

(7) uses a live animal as a lure in dog race
training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .

(c) For purposes of this section, 'animal' means a
domesticated living creature and wild living creature
previously captured. 'Animal' does not include an uncaptured
wild creature or a wild creature whose capture was
accomplished by conduct at issue under this section.

n“ my.“ v; .,-,
J ' '

UTAH

76-9—301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he

intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or
shelter for an animal in his custody;

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal without legal privilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to
fight with another animal or creature of like kind for
amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a dog, to
fight with a different kind of animal or creature for

 




amusement or gain . . .

.e -=" f

[Penalty= Class B m **sunmsntnrurmastermwndtmmwx

 

 

VERMONT

401. Animal defined.
For the purposes of this chapter, the word 'animal' or
'animals' shall include and extend to all brute creatures.

403. Cruelty to animals generally.

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or
having the charge or custody of an animal, inflicts
unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to
provide it with prOper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year
or fined not more than $200.00, or both.

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of an animal, who cruelly drives or works the same
when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the same, or who
carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehicle or
otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty, shall be punished
as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

404. Abandonment of infirm animals.
If any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animals shall
be abandoned by any owner or person having charge of same,
“gsuch person shall for every offense, be punished in the
' manner provided in section 403(a) of this title.

VH3NY E VIRGINIA

3.1-799.66 Definitions. The following words as used in this
Chapter shall have the following meanings:

'Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable
intervals, at least once daily, of quantities of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to
maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

'Adequate water' means a constant access to a supply of
clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner or
provided at suitable intervals and in a suitable manner for
the species at least once daily at any interval.

'Adequate shelter' means shelter that may reasonably be
expected to protect the animal from physical suffering or
impairment of health due to exposure to the elements or

adverse weather . . .

 




£752

'Animal' means domestic animals, including both
agricultural and companion animals, if not specified
otherwise . . .

3.1 796.68. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty
”ﬁto provide for each of his companion animals, pursuant to
” regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;¥w”

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the
particular type of animal depending upon its age, size and
weight

4} Veterinary care when needed and to prevent
suffering; and :qu:3

5. Humane care and treatment.j/f”“‘”

The provisions of this section also apply to every
animal shelter with respect to animals contained therein.

3.1—796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the
purposes of this section is defined as deserting, forsaking,
or intending to absolutely give up an animal without securing
an ther owner or without providing the necessities set out in

M.é .l- 796. 68. Violation of this section shall be punishable
as a Class 3 misdemeanor.

3.1—796.122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads,
tortures, ill—treats, abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane
injury or pain not connected with bona fide scientific or
medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another; or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or (iii) willfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any
act of cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be
carried in or upon any vehicle, vessel or otherwise any
animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as to
produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any
of the above things, or being the owner of such animal
‘permits such acts to be done by another, shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal in any public place including the right-
of-way of any public highway, road or street or on the
property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
the dehorning of cattle.

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal
shall be construed to include birds and fowl.

[Penaltiesz Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more
than 12 months and/or a fine of not more than $1,000; Class 3
misdemeanor: A fine of not more than $500.]

 




é/

WASHINGTON

Certain acts as cr elty-—Penalty.
,~ Except as provided in R, 9A.48.080, every person who
r cruelly overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,

overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal;
and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal,
either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering
or pain upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with the proper food, drink, air, light, space, shelter
or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and
unreasonably drives the same when unfit for labor or with
yoke or harness that chafes or galls it, or check rein or any
part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal,
or who cruelly abandons any animal, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. For the purposes of this section, necessary
sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable
intervals, not to exceed twenty—four hours, of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age of the animal and
sufficient to provide a reasonable level of nutrition for the
animal.

16.52.070.

\ . . , , H 1.31.19" ’6” ' " y ‘~ L '1‘, .«J‘ﬂ-‘u‘ 'L‘..A.1."L|~;_ .--~,,,-«..,. , ,V “ ":‘ Iv
\ wﬁnvqi‘fﬂ“:€“w' ‘ . mum“, ,, _ , . . My >, .. 4‘55.» ”Gamma... 11. , a", any, _. ~-
‘M ixmmw‘m “is a; ”W , Wm ..; ‘_ , W m
“L-gomygwpzm 1;. ,2, ~ v . . ' ~', , » ,7
f ‘f' .

,.’ ‘

.r. ,
magi?" ,

u it?" - [.1

_ ,p»'_ ' 'ﬂ'ﬂ > ‘ ‘ ‘
saw,rv‘w-wra-v-nmw‘sva w.” . ‘ . ;
“Li‘wr‘wwwrﬁ “:.:'-""4’vWa-x»‘}Z-‘s'=v
/enalt~;
_ . .
i.
.\:>‘~v;.n;:>..,.as4.,

paid;

‘1 / .\ _ I“ ' Wm.“ ,,
‘! ' 'y: "WM ‘. \
Rf”? M \v

WEST VIRGINIA

61—8-19a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such
animals in fights against each other prohibited; penalties.
If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat,
torture, torment, mutilate, kill or willfully deprive
necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of

another person, or if any such
confine any such dog or cat in
elements or fail to supply the
quantity of food and water, or

person shall impound or

any place unprotected from the
same with a sufficient

shall abandon to die any

maimed, sick, or diseased dog or cat or shall be engaged in
or employed at dogfighting, or putting one dog or cat to
fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to
any dog or cat, or shall receive money for the admission of
any person, or shall use, train or possess a dog or cat for
the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and,

upon conviction,

more than one thousand dollars,

the discretion of the court or

shall be fined not less than one hundred nor

and in addition thereto, in
magistrate, may be imprisoned

in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county

 




humane officer may remove the dog or cat involved and place
said animal in the county pound, and said dog or cat shall

not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act of cruelty)
but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given
over into the care of a humane society, or upon the

recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely
destroyed.

61-8—19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or
needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate, kill, or
overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary
sustenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such
horse or other animal be his own or that of another person,
or shall impound or confine any such animal in any place and
fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of good,
wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, or knowingly feed a cow on food that produces impure

i.or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die any maimed,
9 sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
‘f' misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
.g than five nor more than one hundred dollars, and in the
¥gf‘ ,discretion of the court oﬂ‘magistrate, may be imprisoned in
W‘ * the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




(5‘3 ﬂA/f/ 7

WISCONSIN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter:
(1) 'Animal' includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or
(c) Amphibian.
(2) 'Cruel' means causing unnecessary and excessive pain
or suffering or unjustifiable injury or death . . . *

951.02. Mistreating animals.
No person may treat any animal, whether belopging to
himself or another, in a cruel manner}. ... otAAQHW,

951.13. Providing prOper food and drink to confined animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may refuse or neglect to supply the
animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as
prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all
animals in good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animals at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter.

No person owning or reSponsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
prOper shelter as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practices in the particular
county where the animal or shelter is located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of
shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature
shall be compatible with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall
be adequately ventilated by natural or mechanical means to
provide for the health of the animals at all times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of
shelter shall include:

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is
likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or caged
outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means
shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
As used in this paragraph, 'caged' does not include farm
fencing used to confine farm animals.

(b) Shelter from inclement weather.

1. 'Animals generally.‘ Natural or
artificial shelter appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.

 




M

2. 'Dogs.' If a dog is tied or confined
unattended outdoors under weather conditions which adversely
affect the health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size to
accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include:

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities
shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to
protect the animals from injury and to contain the animals.

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be
constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space
to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement.
Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility,
stress or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of
sanitation for both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall
include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and other waste
materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

“IPeﬁa ties: ”TWMW‘WJ: ~c Hi; _ ;,-~

‘5',

{F-

WYOMING

11-34-101. Definitions.

/:
(i) 'Animal' shall be held to include every living a “
creature . . . i .

11-34-102. Cruelty to animals generally.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks or willfully and maliciously tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or
cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciouslywmmW needlessly
mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or
otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner any animal, or causes
or procures it to be done; or who, having the charge and
custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with
the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or
cruelly abandons it Shall upon conviction, be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year or
by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

Law§,g£ Newsﬂampﬁhixe, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix
Complete text. 1904.

Qﬂd.§ou;h Leaflets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18—20.

 




,i

6.5
D ’Eﬁ;¥i§$&&/1

. Digest of New.iort ﬁtatntes and
“ Biggitﬁr from earliest period to the year 1860. Vol. 1, page
1 .

L4E5. B§¥i§£§.§LaLuL£§, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title
VI.

5/86} dournal.of.the Assembly,of the.§tate.of New York, 515;
gﬁﬁﬁlgnr Sesond Mﬂsﬁing. Albany: Croswell, 1828, pages 45-

k:(ﬁ5 Beyised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.
'“Na. Statutes of.§enne9ticut, Title XXI, P. 184-

3535 Statutes of.the Isrritory.of misconsin, page 365, Sec.
1 .

C7 420. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

Uéggg 1860 laws Q£.Lh£ anera] Assembly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p.

([ﬂﬂ. 1864 Laws pf the Territory gﬁ Idaho, XII, Sec. 143, p.
329.

ﬁXLQ. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and
attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray Loring for their valuable
insights on this tepic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
Law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of
cruelty statutes, and provides a clear explanation, with case
support, of the legal principles involved.

(gkﬁ. "Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing,
without anesthesia, such procedures as dehorning of cattle at

any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castration.

{7’@5. Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering"; Maine, "necessary medical attention";
Maryland, "necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania, ‘_
"veterinary care";wPuestewRiee,mﬁmedAca1wer veterinary”
treatment if needed-“5~W"

. f“ _ !
,~-.t,1728. Theﬂﬁenalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to

one yearfs imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000.

lb

,7 QW. On a national level, the American Humane Association

* (AHA) offers to match up to $500 for "information leading to
the arrest and conviction of any person or persons willfully
poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from
AHA's office at 9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.
(7

,f E8. In some states, every "willful act," etc.

 




*VfJ-ﬂaa

ITEMS NEEDED TO COMPLETE ANTI-CRUELTY CHAPTER

1.; Delaware: Need penalty for Class A misdemeanor.

.: Need anti- -cruelty law.; .
02A JM ’3-%ww«¢luu¢asﬁaﬂfmb/ﬁpiﬁlaﬁMQ/Lﬂﬂﬂaﬂ/ﬁ

3. Iowa: Need penalty for simple misdemeanor.

4. Mississippi: Need penalty for misdemeanor checked (Not
less than $10 nor more than $100 and/or imprisonment not less
than 10 days nor more than 100 days).

5. New Jersey: Was section 4:22—17 repealed, replaced, or
neither, by 4:22-26? If repealed, what are the penalties
now?

Oregon: Need penalty for Class B misdemeanor.
Texas: Need penalty for Class A misdemeanor.
Washington: Need penalty for misdemeanor.

Wisconsin: Need nalties for Class D forfeiture and /
Class A miSdemeanor- 7.‘ (fab f/V/‘é not 42227.5(: flu/L w: my ,Z/e/
/%xzdlfy7nﬂx. xx2¢ 4L «ZJxTL
10. Need foo note #17 doublechecked: "On a national level,
the American Humane Association (AHA) offers to match up to
$500 for 'information leading to the arrest and conviction of
any person or persons willfully poisoning any animal.‘

Reward posters are available from AHA's office at 9725 E.
Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231." Is this still correct
information (reward and availability of posters).

 




GALVIN, STANLEY & HAZARD

ATTORNEYS AT LAW
SUITE 200
111 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20001

 

. ROGER W. GALVIN, DC. MD. (202) 289-4854
VALERHEJ.STANLEY;D£¢MD. ,
IHHJJCEﬁHAZARD,D£JW& April 13: 1990

Ms. Lynn Hutchinson
7712 Arlen Street
Annandale, VA 22003

Re: Animals and their Leqal Riqhts
Dear Lynn:

I checked the anti-cruelty statutes you mentioned tx>1ma by
phone yesterday. The cites you had for Arkansas and Virginia are
correct. The cite for the Maine statute is 7 §4011. A copy of the

statutes is enclosed.

Very truly yours,

Valerie J. Stanley Ej

VJS:ddg
Enclosures

 




5-61-102

sidered an accomplice to the crime under
this section. Heath v. State. 249 Ark. 217.
459 SW2d 420 (1970». cert. denied. 404
US. 910. 92 S. Ct. 236. 30 L. Ed. 2d 183
41971) (decision under prior Iawi.

Defense.

Where the defendant prescribed or ad
ministered medicine to produce an abor-
tion he is guilty, and it is no defense that
the medicine was not taken or that it
failed to produce an abortion. Burris v.
State. 73 Ark. 453. 84 SW. 723 1904»:
Clayton v. State. 186 Ark. 713. 55 SW2d
88 i1932) (decisions under prior lawn

Elements.

In determination of question ofan abor-
tion the court must decide Ill Has abor-
tion taken place? I2i Was it induced by an
intentional act‘.’ ‘3’ If the act was inten-
tional. was the act justifiable or criminal?
4'41 Did the induced abortion injure health
or destroy life’.’ McClure v. State. 214 Ark.
159. 215 S.W.2d 524 ‘1948! (decision un-
der prior lawi.

Indictment.

Indictment was defective to charge a
felony under former similar statute in not
alleging that the act was done "before the
period of quickening," but it is good under
the common law for a misdemeanor pun-
ishable by fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars and imprisonment not exceeding
three months. Reed v. State. 45 Ark. 333
(1885) (decision under prior law).

An indictment for administering drugs
to produce abortion need not name the
particular drug used. Reed v. State. ~45
Ark. 333 (1885i tdecision under prior
law».

Indictment held not defective in failing
to allege that the defendant administered
the medicine with the intent to cause the
abortion before the period of quickening.

CRIMINAL OFFENSES 446

Davis v. State. 96 Ark. T. 130 SW. 547
11910' (decision under prior laWi.

Presence of Accused.

One who sends medicine to a woman
with child with intent to produce an abor-
tion is guilty under this statute. Burris v.
State. 73 Ark. 453. 84 SW. 723 (1904)
decision under prior law}.

Where the defendant sent medicine to
bring about an abortion and directed a
pregnant woman in person or by letter
how to take it. he was guilty although he
was not present at the time the medicine
was delivered to or taken by her. Clayton
v. State. 186 Ark. 713. 55 S.W.2d 88
11932. «decision under prior law».

Proof.

Under an indictment for administering
and prescribing medicine to produce an
abortion. proof of either administering or
prescribing is sufficient. Clayton v. State,
186 Ark. 713. 55 S.W.2d 88 (1932) (deci-
sion under prior lan.

Standing.

A layman had no standing to person-
ally attack the constitutionality of this
section. because. as applied to him. it sim-
ply prohibited a layman from performing
or inducing an abortion. May v. State. 254
Ark. 194. 492 S.W.2d 888. cert. denied,
414 US. 1024. 94 S. Ct. 448, 38 L. Ed. 2d
315 ‘1973).

“'here plaintiff physicians sought to
perform abortions on demand during the
first trimester of pregnancy without re-
gard to the criteria for "legal abortions,”
the risk of criminal prosecution and disci~
plinary action was sufficient to give the
plaintiffs standing to challenge the con-
stitutionality of the state‘s criminal abor-
tion statutes. Smith v. Bentley, 493 F.
Supp. 916 (ED. Ark. 1980).

£11.}

 

ANIMALS

562-101

CHAPTER 62
ANIMALS

SECTION.

5-62-101. Cruelty to animals.

5-62-102 — 5-62-109. [Reserved]

5-62-110. Definitions.

5—62-111. Prevention of cruelty.

5-62-112. Search warrant.

5-62-113. Authority to make arrests.

5-62-114. Authority to take charge of ani-
mals and vehicles of ar-
rested person.

5-62-115. Injunction against society.

5-62-116. Diseased animals — Sale —
Destruction.

Cross References. Fines. : 5-4-201.

Penalty for selling. etc.. or killing of
strays before expiration of time limit.
3' 2-38-118.

Term of imprisonment. § 5-4-401._

Effective Dates. Acts 1879. No. 47.
§ 16: effective on passage.

Acts 1983. No. 285. § 3: Feb. 25. 1983.
Emergency clause provided: "It is hereby
found and determined by the General As-
sembly that each year many thousands of
dogs. cats and other animals are aban~
doned by their owners or persons having
custody of them and that such abandoned

sacrtox.

5-62-117. Decompression chambers.

5-62-118. Impounded animals -— Food
and water.

5-62-119. Cruelty in transportation.

5-62-120. Unlawful dog ﬁghting.

5-62-121. Transfer of certain chicks.
ducklings. or rabbits.

5—62-122. Permitting livestock to run at
large.

5—62-123. Larceny of animals including
carcasses and ﬂesh.

animals not only create serious health
hazards to individuals and other animals
but they also are subjected to needless
suffering: that the present law is not clear
regarding the criminal responsibility of a
person who abandons an animal; that this
Act is necessary to correct this situation
and should be given effect immediately.
Therefore. an emergency is hereby de-
clared to exist and this Act being neces-
sary for the preservation of the public
peace. health and safety shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage
and approval."

RESEARCH REFERENCES

Am. Jur. 4 Am. Jur. 2d. Animals, § 27

et seq.
C.J.S. 3A C.J.S.. Animals. § 99 et seq.

5-62-101. Cruelty to animals.

la) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, except as

authorized by law, he knowingly:

('1) Abandons any animal;

(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;

(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another Without legal

privilege or consent of the owner.

(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

 

 




5-62-102 CRIMINAL OFFENSES

History. Acts 1975. No. 280, § 2918:
1983. No. 285. § 1: ASA. 1947.

§ 41-2918.

CASE NOTES

ANALYSIS

Acts constituting offense.
Indictment or informatIon.
Penalty.

Acts Constituting Offense.

Exposing poisonous substances was ad-
ministering it. if the animal in fact got it.
Hankins v. State. 118 Ark. 419. 176 SW.
691 (1915) decision under prior laWI.

Indictment or Information.
An indictment did not have to allege

5-62-102 — 5-62-109. [Reserved

5-62-1 10. Deﬁnitions.

(a) AS used in this act. unless
(1) "Animal” or "dumb animal

that the animal was killed in an enclo-
sure having an insufﬁcient fence: if killed
while trespassing in the defendant’s en-
closure, having a lawful fence, he could
prove it in defense. Dean v. State, 37 Ark.
57 11881) decision under prior law).

Penalty.

The offenses created by former section
which prohibited cruelty to animals were
punishable by fine or imprisonment. or
both. State v. Greenlees, 41 Ark. 353
l1883) (decision under prior law).

.I

the context otherwise requires:
” Includes every living creature;

(2) "Torture,” "torment,” or ”cruelty” include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain. suffering, or death is

caused or permitted:

H _\ n . . . . .
(3) Owner’ and person” include corporations as well as Indiv1d-

uals.

(b7) Nothing in this act Shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting

of birds or other game for the p

History. Acts 1879, No. 47. § 15. p. 54:
C. & M. Dig, § 2625: Pope's Dig, § 3312:
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2962.

urpose of human food.

Meaning of "this act”. Acts 1879. No.
47. codiﬁed as §§ 5-62-110 — 5-62-119.

5-62-111. Prevention of cruelty.

(a) Any ofﬁcer. agent, or member of a society which is incorporated

for the prevention of cruelty to an

vent the perpetration of any act
presence.

imals may lawfully interfere to pre-
of cruelty upon any animal in his

(b) Any person who shall interfere with or obstruct any such ofﬁcer,

agent, or member in the dischar
misdemeanor.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 10. p. 54:
C. & M. Dig., § 2619: Pope's Dig., § 3306:
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2957.

ge of his duty shall be guilty of a

 

449 ANIMALS 5-62-1 14

5-62-1 12. Search warrant.

Upon complaint under oath or afﬁrmation to any magistrate autho-
rized to issue warrants in criminal cases that the complainant has any
just and reasonable cause to suspect that any of the provisions of law
relating to or in anywise affecting animals are being, or are about to
be, violated in any particular building or place. the magistrate shall
immediately issue and deliver a warrant to any person authorized by
law to make arrests for such offenses authorizing him to enter and
search such building or place and to arrest any person there present
found violating any of the laws and to bring that person before the
nearest magistrate of competent jurisdiction, to be dealt with according
to law.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 14. p. 54;
C. 8.: M. Dig. § 2624; Pope‘s Dig. § 3311:
A.S.A. 1947. § 41-2961.
CASE NOTES

Cited: Holt v. City of Maumelle. 647 F.
Supp. 1529 1E.D. Ark. 1986).

5-62-113. Authority to make arrests.

The agents of any society which is incorporated for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, upon being appointed by the president of the society
in any county of this state. may. within the county, make arrests and
bring before any court or magistrate having jurisdiction, any offenders
found violating the provisions of this act.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 9, p. 54: Meaning of "this act”. See note to
C. & M. Dig., § 2618: Pope's Dig. § 3305: § 51-62-110.
ASA. 1947. § 41-2956.

5-62-114. Authority to take charge of animals and vehicles of
arrested person.

When any person arrested is, at the time of arrest, in charge of any
vehicle drawn by or containing any animal, any agent of a society for
the prevention of cruelty to animals may take charge of the animal and
the vehicle and its contents and deposit them in a safe place of custody,
or deliver them into the possession of the police or sheriff of the county
or place wherein the arrest was made, who shall thereupon assume the
custody thereof.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 12, p. 54;
C. & M. Dig., § 2621; Pope's Dig, § 3308:
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2959.

 

 

 




5-62-115 CRIMINAL OFFENSES
5-62-115. Injunction against society.

No injunction shall be granted against a society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals or any of Its officers or agents except upon motion
after due notice and hearing thereof.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 13. p. 54;
C. & M. Dig. § 26231Pope's Dig, § 3310;
A.S.A. 1947. § 41-2960.

5-62-116. Diseased animals —- Sale — Destruction.

(a) Any person who shall sell or offer for sale, or use. or expose or
who shall cause or procure to be sold or offered for sale. or used or to be
exposed. any horse or other animal having the disease known as
glanders or farcy or any other contagious or infectious disease known
to such person to be dangerous to human life, or which shall be dis-
eased past recovery, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

(bl Every animal having glanders or farcy shall at once be deprived
oflife by the owner or person having charge of the animal upon discov-
ery or knowledge of its condition: and any such owner or’ person omit-
ting or refusmg to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

(c) Any agent or ofﬁcer of a society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals may lawfully destroy or cause to be destroyed anv animal
found abandoned or otherwise and not properly cared for, appearing in
the Judgment of two 12) reputable citizens called by him to view the

animal in his presence. to be glandered. injured. or diseased past recov-
ery for any useful purpose.

glistgry. Acts .1879.’.N0' 47. N 7.8. 11. Pope's Dig. §§ 3303. 3304. 3307; A.S.A.
p. , .& M. Dig. §§ 2616. 2617. 2620: 1947. §§ 41-2958. 41-3757. 41-3758.

CASE NOTES

Cited: Compagionette v McArm' k
. . . 91
Ark. 69. 120 SW. 400 (1909). 1C

5-62-117. Decompression chambers.

(a) .It is unlawful to use a decompression chamber for the destruction
of animals.

(b) Use of a decompression chamber for the destruction of animals is
a Class C misdemeanor.

Historv. Acts 1979 No 112 "
. __ . . . M 1. 2:
A.S.A. 1947, §§ 41-29581 41-29582.

 

451 ANIMALS 5-62-120

5-62-118. Impounded animals — Food and water.

ta) Any person who shall impound or cause to be impounded in any
pound or other place any creature shall supply to it during such con-
finement a sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water. and
in default thereof shall upon conviction be adjudged guilty of a misde-
meanor.

(b) In case any creature shall be at any time impounded as aforesaid
and continues to be without necessary food and water for more than
twelve (.12) successive hours. it shall be lawful for any person. from
time to time and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into and
upon any pound or other place in which any such creature shall be so
confined and to supply it with necessary food and water so long as it
shall remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action
for the entry. and the reasonable cost of the food and water may be
collected by him from the owner of the creature, and the creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon a judg-
ment therefor.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. §§ 3. 4. p. Dig, :5" 3299. 3300: A.S.A. 1947.
54: C. & M. Dig. §§ 2612. 2613'. Pope's §§ 41—2953. 41-2954.

5-62-119. Cruelty in transportation.

If any person shall carry or cause to be carried in or upon any vehi-
cle. boat. or otherwise any creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. and, whenever such person shall be
taken into custody by any officer. such officer may take charge of such
vehicle, boat, etc., and its contents, and deposit them in some safe place
of custody. Any necessary expenses which may be incurred for taking
charge of and keeping and sustaining the vehicle. boat. etc. shall be a
lien thereon, to be paid before the vehicle. boat. etc. can lawfully be
recovered; or the expenses. or any part, remaining unpaid may be
recovered by the person incurring the expenses of the owner of the
creature in any action therefor.

History. Acts 1879. No. 47. § 5. p. 54:
C. 8: M. Dig. § 2614: Pope‘s Dig..§ 3301;
A.S.A. 1947. § 41-2955.

5-62-120. Unlawful dog ﬁghting.

(a) A person commits the offense of unlawful dog ﬁghting if he
knowingly:

(I) Promotes, engages in. or is employed at dog fighting;

(2) Receives money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for dog fighting;

(3) Sells, purchases. possesses, or trains a dog for dog ﬁghting;

(4) Purchases a ticket of admission to or is present at a dog ﬁght;

(5) Witnesses a dog ﬁght if it is presented as a public spectacle.

j}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




5-62—121

CRIMINAL OFFENSES 452

(b) Unlawful dog ﬁghting is a misdemeanor subject to a ﬁne of not
less than one thousand dollars (81,000) nor more than ﬁve thousand

dollars ($5,000).

History. Acts 1981. No. 862. §§ 1. '2:
A.S.A. 1947. §§ 41-29181. 41-29182.

CASE NOTES

Evidence.

Where. in prosecution for witnessing a
dog ﬁght presented as a public spectacle.
a copy of the rules for dog ﬁghting was
lawfully seized by the ofﬁcers as being
incidental to the arrests. because it was
within the immediate control at least of
one witness. and as being evidence of the
offense. and the rules were relevant to the
action. explaining the purpose of the pit
and details shown by the videotape. the
copy of the rules was admissible even
though the state did not show that the
defendants were aware of its existence.
Ash v. State. 290 Ark. 278. 718 SW2d
930 (1986).

The state produced substantial evi-

dence to show the defendant to be guilty
of having "promoted” dog ﬁghting, even
though she was not present at the dog
ﬁght. where the defendant knew that a
structure had been built in the back yard
for the speciﬁc purpose of housing pit bull
dogs. with accommodations to contain
dogs other than their own. she was famil-
iar with the pit and knew it could be used
for dog ﬁghting, she knew that her hus-
band had fought dogs. she realized that
numbers of people came to the house from
time to time and brought pit bull terriers
with them. and she and her children had
helped to take care of the dogs, washing
them and feeding them. Ash v. State. 290
Ark. 278. 718 S.W.2d 930 (1986).

5-62-121. Transfer of certain chicks, ducklings, or rabbits.

453 B 'SINESS MISCONDUCT

5-62-123

5-62-122. Permitting livestock to run at large.

(a) A person commits the offens
large if. being the owner or person c

e of permitting livestock to run at
harged with the custody and care of

livestock, he knowingly permits such livestock to run at large.

(b) For purposes of this section. livestock includes horses. mules,
cattle. goats. sheep. swine. chickens. ducks. and Similar animals and
fowl commonly raised or used for farm purposes. .

(c) Permitting livestock to run at large is a Violation.

History. Acts 1975. No. 280. § 2919'.
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2919.

CASE NOTES

ANALYSIS

Civil liability.
Owner.
Civil Liability.

For cases discussing civil liability. see.
Poole v. Gillison. 15 F.R.D. 194 ED. Ark.
1953): Rogers v. Stillman. 223 Ark. 779.
268 S.W.2d 614 (1954': Oliver v. Jones.
239 Ark. 572. 393 SW2d 248 (1965);
Prickett v. Farrell. 248 Ark. 996. 455

S.W.2d 74 (1970) (preceding decisions un-
der prior lawn

Owner.

Person who kept pony on his premises.
fed it. and paid to have it shod exercised
sufﬁcient control over the pony to be con-
sidered the owner of the pony. Prickett v.
Farrell. 248 Ark. 996. 455 S.W.2d 74
(1970) (decision under prior lavw.

Cited: Cosby v. Oliver, 265 Ark. 156.
577 S.W.2d 399 (1979).

 

 

 

 

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, ﬁrm. or corporation to sell or
offer for sale, barter. or give away living baby chicks, rabbits, or duck-
lings under two (2) months of age in any quantity less than six (6).

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person. ﬁrm, or corporation to sell,
offer for sale. barter. give away, or display living baby chicks, rabbits,
or ducklings which have been dyed. colored, or otherwise treated so as
to impart to them an artiﬁcial color.

(c) This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or display
of natural baby chicks, rabbits. or ducklings in proper brooder facilities
by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling them for
commercial purposes.

(d) Any person, ﬁrm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this section shall. upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor.

(e) Nothing in this section shall prohibit growers of living baby

Chicks, rabbits, ducklings, or other fowl from selling or making gifts-

5-62-123. Larceny of animals including carcasses and ﬂesh.

Upon an indictment for the larceny of any animal which it is a felony
to steal, a conviction may be had for the larceny of the carcass of such
animal, or of the flesh of such animal, if the carcass has been dismem-
bered, as the evidence in the case may warrant.

History. Init. Meas. 1936. No. 3 § 21.
Acts 1937, p. 1384: Pope's Dig, s 3850:
A.S.A. 1947, § 43-2156.

CHAPTER 63
BUSINESS MISCONDUCT

SUBCHAPTER.

1. GENERAL PROVISIONS. {RESERVEnl
2. OFFENSES GENERALLY.

3. DEBT ADJUSTING.

 

thereof in quantities they deem appropriate.

History. Acts 1977. No. 792. .51;
A.S.A. 1947. § 41-4101.

 

 




 

 

   

 

5-62-101 CRIMINAL OFFENSES 102

    

SUBTITLE 6. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH,
SAFETY, OR WELFARE

 
 
 

CHAPTER 62
ANIMALS

  
  
 

SECTION.
§-62-120. Unlawful dog ﬁghting.
0-62-1124. Unlawful bear exploitation.

 
 
 
  
 

5-62-101. Cruelty to animals.

  

 

CASE NOTES

   
  

ANALYSIS under must be reversed. Ford v. City of
Hot Springs. 294 Ark. 435. 743 S.W.2d

   
   

Ordinances. .
Proof. .394 (1988).
Ordinances. PTOOf-

  
 

As this section subjects an offender to As offense is criminal offense. the state
the possibility of both a fine and impris- must establish guilt beyond a reasonable
onment. city ordinance providing for a doubt. Ford v. City of Hot Springs. 294
fine only is invalid. and conviction there- Ark. 435‘ 7‘43 S-W-2d 394 (1988’-

   
   
 
 

5-62-120. Unlawful dog ﬁghting.

  

 

(a)(1) A person commits the offense of un w ' '
first degree if he knowingly: la ﬁll dog ﬁghtmg m the
(A) Promotes. engages in. or is employed at dog ﬁghting; or
(B) Receives money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for dog ﬁghting; or
(C) Sells. purchases, possesses, or trains a dog for dog ﬁghting.

(2) Unlawful dog fighting in the first degree is a Class D felonv.

(b)( 1) A person commits the offense of unlawful dog fighting in the
second degree if he knowingly: '

(A) Purchases a ticket of admission to or is present at a dog fight;
or
(B) Witnesses a dog fight if it is presented as a public spectacle.

(2) Unlawful dog ﬁghting in the second degree is a Class A misde-
meanor.

(c) Upon the arrest of any person for violating the provisions of this
section. the arresting law enforcement officer or animal control officer
Shall have the authority to seize and take custody of all dogs in the
possessmn of the arrested person.

((1) Upon the conviction of any person for violating the provisions of
this section, any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the author-
lty to order the forfeiture by the convicted person of all dogs the use of
whlch was the basis of the conviction. Any dogs ordered forfeited under
the pr0v1sions of this subsection shall be placed in the custody of a

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   

 

103 ANDL—‘zLS 5-62-1241

society which is incorporated for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
or an animal control agency.

(e) In addition to the fines. penalties. and forfeitures imposed under
the provisions of this section. the court may require the defendant to
make restitution to the state, any of its political subdivisions. or a
society which is incorporated for the prevention of cruelty to animals
for housing, feeding, or providing medical treatment to dogs used for
unlawful dog fighting.

History. Acts 1981. No. 362. §1: Amendments. The 1989 amendment
.-\.S.A. 1947. § 41-29181: Acts 1987. N0. rewrote the secnon.
26. 9' 1: 1989. No. 528. s 1.

5-62-124. Unlawful bear exploitation.

(a) A person commits the offense of unlawful bear exploitation if he
knowingly:

(1) Promotes. engages in. or is employed at a bear wrestling match;

(2) Receives money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for bear wrestling: or

(3) Sells. purchases. possesses. or trains a bear for bear wrestling;

(4) For purposes of exploitation. subjects a bear to surgical alter-
ation in any form including. but not limited to. declawing, tooth re-
moval. and severing tendons.

(b) Unlawful bear exploitation is a Class D felony.

(C) Upon the arrest of any person for violating the provisions of this
section. the arresting law enforcement officer or animal control officer
shall have authority to seize and take custody of all bears in the posses-
sion of the arrested person.

(d) Upon the conviction of any person for violating the provisions of
this section, any court of competent jurisdiction shall have authority to
order the forfeiture by the convicted person of all bears the use of
which was the basis of the conviction. Any bears ordered forfeited
under the provisions of this section shall be placed in the custody of a
society which is incorporated for the prevention of cruelty to animals.

(e) In addition to the fines, penalties. and forfeitures imposed under
the provisions of this section, the court may require the defendant to
make restitution to the state, any of its political subdivisions, or a
society which is incorporated for the prevention of cruelty to animals
for housing, feeding, or providing medical treatment to bears used for
unlawful wrestling.

History. Acts 1989. No. 346. § 1.




§ 3.1-79639

AGRICULTURE, HORTICULTURE AND FOOD

CHAPTER 27.3.

§ 3.1-796.65

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.

§§ 3.1-796.39 through 3.1-796.65: Repealed by Acts 1984, c. 492. ‘

Cross references. —— For present provisions

to comprehensive

animal laws, see

a
§ 3.1-796.66 et seq. For present provisions as

Sec.

3.1-796.66.
3.1-796.67.

31-79668.
3.1-79669.

3.1-79670.

3.1-796.71.

3.1-796.72.

31.796.73.
3.1—796.74.

3.1-796.75.

3.1-796.76.

3.1-796.77.

to offenses involving animals, see § 18.2»403.1

et seq.

CHAPTER 27.4.

COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL LAWS.

Article 1.

General Provisions.

Deﬁnitions.
Rules, regulations, and guidelines.

Article 2.
Animal Welfare.

Duties of owner.
Transporting animals;
merits; penalty.

Sale, etc., of baby fowl in certain
quantities prohibited; penalty.
Failure of dealer or pet shop to
provide adequate care, etc; pen-

alty.

Misrepresentation of animals con-
dition; penalties.

Abandonment of animal; penalty.
Exceptions regarding veterinar-
ians.

Procedure for animals left un-
claimed with veterinarian or
boarding kennel after public no-
tice; lien; sale.

Injured or sick animal; action by
veterinarian.

DiSposal of animals by means of

require-

decompression chamber prohib~
ited.

Article 3.
Sale of Dogs and Cats by Dealers.

3.1-796.78. Sale without pet dealer’s animal
history certiﬁcate violation of
Consumer Protection Act: con-
tents of certiﬁcate.

3.1-796.79. Inclusion of false or misleading
statements in certificate violation
of Consumer Protection Act.

3.1-796.80. Consumer remedies for receipt of

Sec.

3.1-796.81.

313796.82.

3.1-796.83.

diseased animal upon certifica-
tion by veterinarian. ,
Written notice of consumer reme-
dies required to be supplied by pet
dealers. .
Failure of pet. dealer to effect regis-
tration after promise; violation of
Consumer Protection Act; reme-
dies; veterinary certiﬁcation;
ﬁnding of intestinal parasites; ill-,
ness subsequent to sale.
Remedies cumulative.

, Article 4.

Authority of Local Governing Bodies
and Licensing of Dogs.

3.1-796.84.
(ll-796.85.
3.1-796.86.
3.1-796.87.
3.1-796.88.
3.1-796.89.

iii-796.90.
3.1-796.91.
3.1-796.92.

3.1-796.93.

(SJ-796.94.

Ill-796.95.

3.1-796.96.

3.1-796.97.

78

Local ordinances; penalties.

Unlicensed dogs prohibited.

How to obtain license.

Amount of license tax.

When license tax payable.

Effect of dog not wearing collar as
evidence. .

What dog license shall consist of.

Duplicate license tags.

Displaying receipts; dogs to wear
tags.

Governing body of county, city or
town may prohibit dogs from run-
ning at large.

Governing body of county, city, or
town may .adopt certain ordi-
nances. , '
Referendum on ordinance requir-
ing dogs to be kept on leash, etc.
County or city pounds; confine-
ment and disposition of stray ani-
mals.

Evidence showing inoculation for.
rabies prerequisite to obtaining

dog license; rabies clinics.

§ 3.1-796.66

c.
3.1-796.97:1. Rabies inoculation of dogs and

domesticated cats.

3.1—796.98. Rabid dogs and cats.
3.1-796.99. Inoculation for rabies at animal

shelters.

3.1-796.100. Regulations to prevent spread of

3.1496101.
3.1-796.102.
3.1-796.103.

rabies and running at large of
vicious dogs.

Disposition of funds.
Supplemental funds.

Payment of license tax subse-
quent to summons.

Article 5.

Animal Wardens and Humane

3.1-796.104.
3.1-796.105.
3.1-7-96.106.
3.1-796.107.
3.1-796.108.
3.1-796.109.
3.1-796.110.

3.1-796.111.

3.1—796.112.

3.1-796.113.

3.1-796.114.

Investigators.

Position of. animal warden cre-
ated.
Animal
records;
courses.
Investigators; qualiﬁcations.
Complaint; investigation; notifi-
cation; general penalty.
Impoundment; expenses; lien; dis-
position of animal.

Humane investigators may arrest
offenders.

Bonds and certificates of humane
investigators; expenses.

Such humane investigators shall
prevent cruelty to animals; inter-

wardens;
penalties;

limitations;
training

ference with such agents; penalty. ,

Authority of law-enforcement of-
ﬁcers.

Power of search for violations of
statutes against cruelty to ani-
mals. ’
“Then animals to be destroyed;
procedure.

COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL LAWS

§ 3.1-796.66

Sec.
3.1-796.115. When humane investigator may
take charge of animals; notice and
hearing to determine whether
owner is ﬁt person to care for
animal; disposition of animal; dis-
' 'position of proceeds upon sale.
3.1-796.116. Dogs killing, injuring or chasing
- livestock or poultry.
3.1-796.117. Dog killing other domestic ani-
mals other than livestock or poul-

try.
3.1-796.118. Compensation for livestock and
poultry killed by dogs.
Ill-796.119. Capturing and euthanizing dogs
by animal wardens; approval of
drugs, etc., used.
3.1-796.120. Gift, sale, or delivery of animals
from pounds or animal shelters.
3.1-796.121. Disposal of dead dogs.

Article 6.
Cruelty to Animals.

3.1—796.122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

3.1-796.123. Soring horses; penalty.

3.1-796.124. Organized dogﬁghting; penalty.

3.1-796.125. Fighting cocks or other animals;
attendance at fighting; penalty.

3.1-796.126. Shooting pigeons, etc., for amuse-
ment, and renting premises for
such purposes; penalty.

Article 7.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

3.1-796.127. Dogs and cats deemed personal
property; rights relating thereto.

3.1-796.128. Unlawful acts; penalties.

3.1-796.129. Jurisdiction of general district
courts; right of appeal.

ARTICLE 1.

General Provisions.

 

§ ELI-796.66. Deﬁnitions. —, The following words as used in this chapter
shall have the following meanings:

“Adequate feed” means the provision, at suitable intervals, at least once
daily, of quantities of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufﬁcient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

"Adequate water” means a constant access to a supply of clean, fresh,
potable water rovided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals
and in a suita le manner for the species at least once daily at any interval.

“Adequate shelter” means shelter that may reasonably be expected to
protect the animal from physical suffering or impairment of health due to
exposure to the elements or adverse weather.

“Agricultural animals” means cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats and
poultry. '

79

 




 

 

  

 
  
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 

.r

   
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
    
   
   
   
  
   

   

§ 3.1~796.66 AGRICULTURE. HORTICULTURE AND FOOD § 31-79666
“Ambient temperature” means the temperature surrounding the animal.
“Animal” means domestic animals, including both agricultural and com~

panion animals, if not speciﬁed otherwise. For the purposes of § 31796.98,

animal means any animal susceptible to rabies.

“Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain animals
and which is owned, operated, or maintained by a duly incorporated humane
society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, or other nonproﬁt organization devoted to the welfare, protection
and humane treatment of animals. ‘

“Animal warden” means any person employed, contracted or appointed by
the Commonwealth or any po itical subdivision for the purpose of aiding in
the enforcement of this law or any other law or ordinance relating to the
licensin of dogs, control of dogs, cruelty to animals, or seizure and
impoun merit of dogs and includes any state or municipal police officer,
animal control officer, sheriff, constable or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments which involve seizure or taking into
custody of any dog or other animal. ,

“Board” means the Board of Agriculture and Consumer Services.

, “Boarding kennel” means a place or establishment other than a pound or
animal shelter where companion animals not owned by the proprietor are
sheltered, fed and watered in exchange for a fee, but shall not include training
or show kennels.

“Companion animals” means domestic and feral dogs, domestic and feral
cats, monkeys, guinea pigs, hamsters, rabbits, exotic animals and exotic and
native birds. Game species shall not be considered companion animals for the
puigoses of this chapter.

“ onsumer” means any natural person purchasing from a pet dealer a dog
or cat described as being registered with any animal pedigree organization.

"Dealer” means any person who in the regular course of business for
compensation or proﬁt buys, sells, transfers, exchanges or barters companion
animals. Any person who transfers companion animals in the regular course
of busmess as a common carrier shall not be considered a dealer.

“Enclosure” means a structure used to house or restrict animals from
running at large.

“Euthanasia” means the humane destruction of an animal accomplished by
a method that involves instantaneous unconsciousness and immediate death
or by a method that involves anesthesia, produced by an agent which causes
painless loss of consciousness, and death during such loss of consciousness.
St‘Exotic birds” means any bird that is not a species native to the United

ates.

“Housing acility” means any room, building, or area used t contain a
primary enc osure or enclosures.

“ umane society” means any chartered, not-for~proﬁt or anization incorpo—
rated under the laws of this Commonwealth and organize for the purpose of
prevenlting cruelty to animals and promoting humane care and treatment of
anima s. ,

“Investigator” or “approved humane investigator” means a person employed
or approved by the State Veterinarian to determine whether there has been a
Violation of this chapter. -

“Livestock” includes cattle, horses, sheep, goats, swine an enclosed domesti—
cated rabbits or hares. -

“Local ordinance” means any law, rule, regulation or ordinance promul—
gated by the governing body of any county, city or town.

"Other ofﬁcer” includes all other persons employed or elected by the people
of Virginia, or by any municipality, county or incorporated town thereof,
whose duty it is to preserve the peace, to make arrests or to enforce the law.

80

 

 

§ 31-79667 COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL LAWS § 31-79668

“Owner” means any person who: (i) has a right of property in an animal, (ii)
keeps or harbors an animal, (iii) has an animal in his care, or (iv) acts as a
custodian of an animal.

“Person” means any individual, partnership, ﬁrm, joint-stock company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity.

“Pet dealer” means any person engaging in the ordinary course of business
in the sale to the public for profit of cats or dogs described as being registered
or capable of being registered with any animal pedigree organization.

“Pet shop” means an establishment where companion animals are bought,
sold, exchanged, or offered for sale or exchange to the general public.

“Poultry” includes all domestic fowl and game birds raised in captivity.

“Pound” means a facility operated by the Commonwealth, or any political
subdivision, for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized, stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals; or a facility operated for the same
purpose under a contract With any county, city, town or incorporated society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals.

“Primary enclosure” means any structure used to immediately restrict an
animal or animals -to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, cage,
compartment or hutch.

“Research facility” means any place, laboratory or institution at which
scientific tests, experiments, or investigations involving the use of living
animals are carried out, conducted, or attempted.

~ “Sanitize” means to make physically clean and to remove and destroy, to a
practical minimum, agents injurious to health. ’

“State Veterinarian” means a veterinarian employed by the Commissioner
of Agriculture and Consumer Services as provided in § 3.1-723.

“Treasurer” includes the treasurer and his assistants of each county or city
or other ofﬁcer designated by law to collect taxes in such county or city. (1984,
c. 492, § 29-21336; 1987, c. 488; 1988, c. 538.)

The 1988 amendment added the second
sentence of the deﬁnition for “Animal,” deleted
"Any person who knowingly permits a dog to
remain on or about any premises occupied by
him shall be considered the owner of the dog"

from the definition for "Owner,” substituted
"Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer
Services” for "Board” and deleted “or his duly
appointed representative” in the definition for
"State Veterinarian.”

§ 3.1-796.67. Rules, regulations, and guidelines. - The Board may
promulgate rules and regulations or guidelines consistent with the objectives
and intent of this chapter concerning the care and transportation of animals.
(1984, c. 492, § 29-21337; 1987, c. 488.)

ARTICLE 2.
Animal Welfare.

§ 3.1-796.68. Duties of owner. -— Each owner shall have the duty to
provide for each of his companion animals, pursuant to regulations adopted by
the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of
animal depending upon its age, size and weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every animal shelter with
respect to animals contained therein. ( 1984, c. 492, § 29-21338; 1987, c. 488.)

R'

8.1

 

 

 




§ 31-79669 AGRICULTURE, HORTICULTURE AND FOOD

§3.1-796.69. Transporting animals; requirements; penalty. —— No

owner, railroad or other common carrier when transporting any animal shall
allow that animal to be conﬁned in any type of conveyance more than twenty-
four consecutive hours without being exercised, properly rested, fed and
watered as necessary for that particular type and species of animal. A

reasonable extension of this time shall be permitted when an accident, storm '

or other act of God causes a delay. Adequate s ace in the primary enclosure
Within any type of conveyance shall be provide each animal depending upon
the particular type and species of animal. No person shall import into the
Commonwealth, nor export from the Commonwealth, for the purpose of sale
or offering for_sale any dog under the age of ei ht weeks without its darn.
Violation of this section shall be punishable as a lass 1 misdemeanor. (1984,
c. 492, § 29-21339; 1987, c. 488.)

Cross references. — As to punishment for
Class 1 misdemeanors, see § 18.211.

§ 3.1-796.70. Sale, etc., of baby fowl in certain quantities prohibited;
penalty. -— No person shall sell, or offer for sale as pets or novelties, in
quantities of less than six, any living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl
under two months old. Violation of this section shall be punishable upon
conviction as a Class 3 misdemeanor. (1984, c. 492, § 29-21340; 1987, c. 488.)

Cross references. —-— As to punishment for
Class 3 misdemeanors, see § 18.2—11.

§ 3.1-796.71. Failure of dealer or pet shop to provide adequate care,
etc.; penalty. -— Any pet dealer who or pet shop which fails to adequately
house, feed, water, exercise and care for animals in his or its possession or
custody as provided for under this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor. Such animals shall be subject to seizure and impoundment, and
2 upon conviction of such person the animals may be sold or euthanized as
provided by § 3.1-796.96. Such failure shall also constitute grounds for
revocation of permit or certiﬁcate of registration after public hearing. Any
funds that result from such sale shall be used ﬁrst to pay the costs of the local
jurisdiction for the im oundment and disposition of the animals, and any
funds remaining shall he paid to the owner, if known. In the event that the
owner is not found, the remaining funds shall be paid into the Literary Fund.
(1984, c. 492, § 29-21341; 1987, c. 488.)

Cross references. — As to punishment for
Class 3 misdemeanors, see § 18.2—11.

§ 3.1-796.72. Misrepresentation of animal’s condition; penalties. — No
person shall misrepresent the physical condition of any animal at the animal’s
sale, trade, delivery, or other method of transfer. For the purpose of this
section misrepresentation shall include selling, trading, delivering or other-
Wlse tranferring an animal to another person with the knowledge that the
animal has an infection, communicable disease, parasitic infestation, abnor-
mality or other physical defect that is not made known to the person receivmg
the animal. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor. (1984, c. 492, § 29—21342; 1987, c. 488.) .

§ 3.1-796L72 f

 

§ 31-79673 COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL LAWS § 3.1-796.77

Cross references. — As to punishment for
Class 3 misdemeanors, see § 18.2—11.

§ 3.1-796.73. Abandonment of animal; penalty. — No person shall
abandon any animal. Abandonment for the purposes of this section is deﬁned
as deserting, forsaking, or intending to absolutely give up an animal without
securing another owner or without providing the necessities set out in
§ 3.1-796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor. (1984, c. 492, § 29-21343; 1987, c. 488.)‘

Cross references. ——- As to punishment for
Class 3 misdemeanors, see § 18.2-11.

§ 3.1-796.74. Exceptions regarding veterinarians. — Sections
3.1—796.68 through 3.1-796.73, 31-79678 through 3.1-796.83, 31796105
through 3.1~796.108 and 3.1-796.120 shall not apply to: (i) a place or
establishment which is operated under the immediate supervision of a duly
licensed veterinarian as a hospital or boarding kennel where animals are
harbored, boarded and cared for incident to the treatment, prevention, or
alleviation of disease processes during the routine practice of the profession of
veterinary medicine, or (ii) animals boarded under the immediate supervision
of a duly licensed veterinarian. (1984, c. 492, § 29-21344; 1987, c. 488.)

§ 3.1-796.75. Procedure for animals left unclaimed with veterinarian
or boarding kennel after public notice; lien; sale. —-— Any animal not
claimed by its owner from a licensed veterinarian or boarding kennel within
fourteen days after a letter of notice has been sent to the owner, by the
veterinarian or boarding kennel, may be sold by the veterinarian or boarding
kennel. The animal may be sold at public or private sale for fair compensation
to a person capable of providing care consistent with this chapter. Any
expense incurred by the veterinarian or boarding kennel becomes a lien on
the animal and the proceeds of the sale shall ﬁrst discharge this lien. Any
balance of the proceeds shall be paid over to the owner. Ifthe owner cannot be
found within the next ensuing thirty days, the balance shall be paid to the
state treasury. If no urchaser is found, the animal may be offered for
adoption or euthanized). (1984, c. 492, § 29-21345; 1987, c. 488.)

§ 3.1-796.76. Injured or sick animal; action by veterinarian. —- If a
licensed veterinarian is called or by his own action comes upon an animal that
is sick or injured and the owner of such animal cannot be immediately located,
then the licensed veterinarian, in his professional judgment, may treat,
hospitalize or euthanize the animal without the permission of the owner. The
veterinarian shall make such reports and keep such records. of such sick or
injured animals as may be prescribed by the Board of Veterinary Medicine,
including the information required under § 3.1—796.105 B. In no event shall a
licensed veterinarian who has properly exercised . professional judgment
regarding such an animal be subject to liability for his actions. (1984, c. 492,
§ 29-21346; 1987, c. 488.) .

§ 3.1-796.77. Disposal of animals by means of decompression cham-
ber prohibited. — No animal shall be euthanized pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter by means of a high altitude decompressmn chamber. (1984, c.
492, § 29-21347; 1987, c. 488.) ..

 

 




CHAPTER 739
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Section

4011. Cruelty to animals.

4012. Cruelty to birds.

4013. Necessary sustenance.

4014. Necessary medical attention.

4015. Proper shelter. protection from the weather and humanely clean conditions.
4016. Violation.

4017. Rules.

Library References
Animals @338 et seq.
C.J.S. Animals §§ 99 to 104. 108.

WESTLAW Electronic Research
See WESTLAW Electronic Research Guide following the Preface.

§ 4011. Cruelty to animals

1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
the consent of the owner. or kills or attempts to kill any animal with the
owner’s consent. by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or
occupant of property is privileged to use reasonable force to eject a trespass-
ing animal:

B. Injures. overworks, tortures. torments, abandons. gives poison to, cruel-

ly beats or mutilates any animal or exposes a poison with the intent that it
be taken by an animal:

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of necessary sus-
tenance. necessary medical attention. proper shelter, protection from the
weather or humanely clean conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December, January,
February or March without providing necessary sustenance and proper
shelter.

Affirmative defenses. It is an affirmative defense to this section that:

A. The conduct was performed by a licensed veterinarian or was a part of
scxentific research governed by accepted standards;

B. The conduct was designed to control or eliminate rodents, ants or other
common pests on the defendant’s own property; or

C. The conduct involved the use of live animals as bait or in the training of
other animals in accordance with the laws of the Department of Inland
Fisheries and Wildlife, Title 12, Part 10.1

T46

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 7 §4012
Ch. 739

Evidence of proper care of any animal shall not be admissible in the defense of
alleged cruelty to other animals.
1987,c 383,§ 3.

1Section 7001 et seq. of title 12.

Historical Note
Derivation: Laws 1977. c. 35.
Laws 1975. c. . ‘ . Laws 1977. c. 169.
Laws 1975. c. . " :. Laws 1979. c. 1'20.
Laws 1975. c. " . ‘ . Former § 510 of title 17—.-\.

Cross References

Criminal violation of cruelty to animals, see title 17 § 1031.

Mistreatment of publicly owned dogs. penalty. see title 17 § 1014.

Prohibition against animal fighting. penalty. defenses and exceptions. see title 17 § 1033.
Prohibition against shooting domestic animals while huntinz see title 12 § 7406.

v

Unlawful production of motion pictures involving cruelty to animals. penalty, see title 17 § 1013.

§ 4012. Cruelty to birds

1. Cruelty to birds. A person is cruel to birds if he:
A. Keeps or uses any live pigeon. fowl or other bird for a target or to be
shot at. either for amusement or as a test of skill in marksmanship;
B. Shoots at any bird or is present as a party, umpire or judge at a
shooting; or
C. Rents any building. shed. room. yard. field or premises or knowingly
allows the use of the same for these purposes.

2. Construction. Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit the
shooting of wild game in its wild state or the shooting of birds at field trials
under the supervision of the Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife in
accordance with Title 12. chapter 707. subchapter IX.1

3. Afﬁrmative defense. It is an affirmative defense to this section that the
conduct involved the use of live animals in the training of other animals in
accordance with the laws of the Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife.
Title 12, Part 10.2
1987,c.383.§ 3.

1Section 7331 et seq. of title 12.

2Section 7001 et seq. of title 12.

Historical Note
Derivation: Laws 1 75. c. 497. § 3.
RS. 1934. c, 140. § 3. Laws 1983. c. 480, § A, 12.
Laws 1955. c. 290. § 23. Former § 1093 of title 17.

Cross References

Criminal violation of cruelty to birds, see title 17 § 1032.
Prohibition against use of snares. poisonous substances for the purpose of catching any wild animal
or wild bird. see title 12 § 7432.

74l

 




7 § 4013 AGRICULTURE AND ANIMALS
Title 7

§ 4013. Necessary sustenance

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal may
fail to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as prescribed
in this section.

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and quality to maintain all
animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animal at all times, it shall
be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.
1987, c. 383. § 3.

Cross References

Criminal violation for failure to provide necessary sustenance. see title 17 § 1034.

§ 4014. Necessary medical attention

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal may
fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention when the animal is or
has been suffering from illness. injury, disease. excessive parasitism or mal-
formed or overgrown hoof.
1987.c.383.§ 3.

Cross References

Criminal violation for failure to provide medical attention. see title 17 § 1036.

§ 4015. Proper shelter. protection from the weather and humanely clean
conditions

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal may
fail to provide the animal with proper shelter. protection from the weather or
humanely clean conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of farm
animals, nothing in this section may be construed as imposing shelter require-
ments or standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practice in
the particular county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes of
this section. horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as
follows.

A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the health of the
animal.

B. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or
mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as
follows.

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied 01’

caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be

provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used In this
748

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 7 §4017
Ch. 739

paragraph. ”caged" does not include farm fencing used to confine farm

animals.

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.
11) An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides and a waterproof
roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species con-
cerned shall be provided as necessary for the health of the animal.
(2) If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under weather
conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog. a shelter of
suitable size with a floor above ground and waterproof roof shall be
provided to accommodate the dog and protect it from the weather and.
in particular. from severe cold. Inadequate shelter may be indicated by
the shivering of the dog due to cold weather for a continuous period of
30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building. enclosure. car. boat. vehicle or

vessel of any kind when extreme heat or extreme cold will be harmful to its

health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and maintained in
good repair to protect the animalfrom injury and to contain the animal.
B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide sufficient
space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate
space may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility. stress or
abnormal behavior patterns.

4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary
to provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleanings to remove excretions and other waste materials.
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.
1987.c.3ss.§ 3.

Cross References

Criminal violation for failure to provide shelter. protection from the weather and humanely clean
conditions. see title 17 § 1037.

§ 4016. Violation

Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil violation for which a
forfeiture of 3500 for each offense may be adjudged and such other relief as
may be necessary to restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the
effects of cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well cared for.
1987,c.383.§ 3.

§ 4017. Rules

The board may adopt any rules necessary or useful to carry out this section
pursuant to the Maine Administrative Procedure Act. Title 5, chapter 375.1
1987, c. 383. § 3.

1Section 5001 et seq. of title 5.

749

 

 




7 §4017 AGRICULTURE AND ANIMALS
Title 7
Historical Note

Derivation:

Laws 1983. c. 308. § 7.
Former § 1051-C of title 1?.

END or VOLL'ME

 




iﬂﬁﬁg‘ YA

fawn $3.32.“...

v.1
.1.

9?

.nr
;‘ V

-., m“
1

g; (J.
\

i x“?

 




4 . . .
“Lt-“5.. ,ervvzlu 1.. sifuftik .3? l 3.: ,

,_ ....3.—'«».--,

Vh‘vnm’ ~ . 4.3.

1.1.3.1.. .
he, I -
3H1
3 _

'w‘:'~~- mxvﬂra n-r 3:...w»

f; y. E. Er .,

. ..u§|,.

 

‘ .ILClN.

1}.

 

.3. b F...

 

. II.

 

. 15%
'UJ‘L

.-.

3‘35
‘33..

i.

   

. " ‘1

wt!
E
3.1:...
“- i
F, .3 .
fr Wur- up
.3; .
.9. 3 «a?
.- in: _
.r. é
v.3 5 A I
« — : x
r m 1;, 1,
l . . .1 1 :3
{.93 ,,,.f..$yu¥.., ._.. 1.

f
in
‘t

'3

a

3 { 3;
ﬁr‘m if j

'_ Visa-E‘Vik I?“ 3

-3
Ea
;,
‘-
~

{7'
:33: 3:1: 3:"

-:

 

 




 

ﬁrﬁiﬁﬁmaz‘ﬁ I'm; I‘I‘I‘ Emmi:

W‘IIN NCIt 3W KKIJIVLDLUH VFW???

4113‘ Lama , ., . ' Pﬁr'iLH-“iimék
A ILII’IILLI . . .. . Lf 5.7:3I111mk1‘:
13131303113; .. .. , .. . . i. NevaILLI

5134:3113; I; . _ . , . -- F‘I'ETII: {-13:113‘151111‘6

IIIII'IIILITrIuI . . -'.' \I3'II. It: 53:3
CTIIIITIrL‘IciG .. , .. f' 33161-3 7310. iIngI
Chrxr‘IIE-IEIIL‘II: .. . . . .: NIH: ‘11 ‘r.
{Ilﬁfla'ﬂiﬂiﬁ . . . ,. . .. . 3": #:1341111; {‘III‘II F15
llifii'liLQI! ' , . ., Earth ILIIIIIII
Manda . . 1.: UIIIII
(II: 13:31:13. . ,3 _. I; i:I*I¢.1EI.Ii-UITFIJ
If 31.3.5. ,. . . _ . Chﬁgm
' 53:331.:va Fur
III. I 1:341“ I L—I F 1 I
;f11_:z:IiI‘-. 3.13 - II‘L'
31:11.17 I 1.11:1: 1:13:13
'3 I,“ T $144“:
IIIIIII . . .. .. I.
I11 .. .. mg

.

.x {my-VL‘A‘II

NEIJIR S 25:23:! La was: 30:91

INT ”BISQUE [‘EGT‘II

The :30.n“‘:w:“r<w 5m nmndiﬂnng 1156::7iunms‘I3 “gamma: I“:3~‘~:::“;:‘?Ig It!
3I233‘I‘11ng 1:: I33 31:; 3134321315 11:53. 50:111.} 3“: IIIII‘U‘ him: 31311331: 1111: um: 11:31.1 5;
21:11:33-231335311 1:: [I113 I ”11:11:33- IILISI 11.3: 111:}: In ‘31:: BATES. 1mm 1:11I313333I10I1mu.:tn
:0 {he 31:31:“ 1:11:33, 119113 :1: :3th serial:33111235137331 :31 3.313113%; that, 33:32:33 being 336:1 I333
1EI-33“:113:I:1I3m 3:13.53: Li‘scgi 111:6 31:15:“ 11%.wa

K311111011 3:0 {13:3 133?: I115 3311333.:115 15‘- “;Ird: 11.315 1:133:35“:

. I “- r .5 r )— l . ’31. L I
:3. Is 13. III I: 1:1 1115:) 11:31 31:53:. I. . . -1} 13:11::

ﬂiﬂi - 13.; 011656» {£3211 dit-Ulé’xzfu ah“
I: .1:ka II, . I.

II'II' 1:1: 1:13.11 3113 11:33::

.5} $111311“! IcIIIIIII" 131‘ I11":

. 3‘: [he fﬁim‘EII: I

' ’ ' I If: .. . . I‘: III- ,: II 1" ﬁrm 11113313352:
13131133133. 11:33»;I:.:I:1I:31”Ivn.:_ III: I “:3 II.,,I1..::3113‘; i I: 3:133.” . ,_ .. I I ..
h 1“ éw~ III 3. 113::
‘1‘ India" 1;},‘5 53532:”? Iiirfif ”*(Irigéiﬂ [IV 1.,” :3..an 5.35.3311“; ._ £131I1-MLIV. .n I.“ :15 3

if: 13$ 173% III: 155.117 “HIM. Pd,» I15 3

Q _ . .

.. . . 3.3-. : I“,

“3 £11 5M TI 22L», an, I511- I «I III-A.
Iv

 




Q

(NAB‘RVStaté Laws Book

 

Through extensive research, the National Association for Biomedical
Research (NABR) has made every effort to pro-ride accurate, complete
information on each state's laws in this area. However, NABR is not liable for
any inaccuracies, misstatements, omism'ons or misrepresentations which may
have been included herein. NABR is not to be held accountable or liable for
any actions 1which may result from the use of this document.

We would like to request that you assist us in correcting any misinformation
which may exist in this document, and to help us include any laws that are

omitted. If you are aware of any changes which should he made in future

editions of this document, please let us know. Any suggestions or comments
you have about this publication are also invited. Thank you in advance for this
assistance. Your help is greatly appreciated. We hope the information pro-
vided herein is helpful to our members.

I _

NABR S tare Laws Book

HOW TO USE THIS BOOK

Summary of Mormaﬁon Provided

Through the publication STATE LAWS CONCERNING THE USE OF
ANIMALS IN RESEARCH, the National Association for Biomedical Re-
search (NABR) has attempted to compile a synopsis of all state laws that
direcdy affect the use of animals in biomedical research. The follomng

general areas are covered:

=‘l3l

l. RECESS to pound animals for research;
2. animal cruelty statutes and their application to researchers;
3. state licensing or regulation of research facilities using arumals; and

4. other state laws governing research animal use, such as restrictions on
importing or exporting research animals.

The state laws in each of these areas for all states are provided in chart torn}
from pages 5 to 7. Following the chart, summaries arranged. according to each
area of concern are provided. Each state is then hsted tndmclually moth all

retesmrt laws in each ol‘ the instills.
Essie laws macerntng the ahility to use peasants animals are categonaed as

follows: i175

. _ f . 1.,“ ‘r , P " ,. ,.,.. *th- _ ,_
l. Ilene states that PROl-itﬁl t the use of mundammals fw resign“. r

u

‘5, ... _, a. r =- V _ . r -1 7‘ _ ‘ 4 J I {IVE ‘j . ‘15}: 1,!‘ié
.2; those "FiIHiE‘S that RE; ﬁlliili gssunrlaatoutls is: Mao-t assailants, t.._:»1e. a: ,. :s

.4..- I" ‘- J ,
l '._l4,,‘.3_€,’._1 i3..s»li

" , ' t * “ti “’1“ l1 11“ H i- » .3 . smarts; apt it. t
'thv - _ 7 ~,. .....,...4 .
~ - L: ., 3 J
i A k ' i .I- l x?
J, 9" j 3‘ 7 ll “"1“ 3 ‘5: ‘ ijlri.“ . g [Mr " is 1... L 3.. ', .Jn. In
"' all. -4 1:3... : . . - n ,
k P
H 1 I. a f..g a
1 “Ir a 3‘” I; . __
‘ ' .1 t. l .u r *5 (I; g 3; ,
I ‘7'. ‘ V V it? h: ' it“ ' r x 1,... u”,-
J'I‘Ilﬁi alt-inﬁll? {lit 3} llfnf‘tl * y t L. if i
m .. .. f: _“>
if ”3 r‘P

 

 




M48512 $3399? I33...- 3wk N383 3mm Laws .8913};

 

all:
g-

‘9 UMAAEV LIED-1K? {JEE' STAT E {ZGN LFFHIMQ
THE USE OF kNI‘EiAJﬁ " ELEJEARCH

"7"" “”7“?“ , , _ .
Qegukﬁkm

i?“

.- n...” Mmma-ww—fax: «pm—Inc

 

 

M.~....——IL-A.“-w'

,. ,WI—«IH

—~—_‘ , 4' ,Ivm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If an 93.933339331 5.9:: affirm—Misti r31" {79.393.73.711 from 5339.9 aniz‘u‘nai Cmchy 331333315 _ E £963.93": g of (mfg?

33-11 "Egg El ‘ “I. .—' r 19—93.}--- I ”3'. “31 3‘9". E H . .I .. » ‘ + x'. E 7”“ "”9

‘E .33! i L}: tit-.ﬁmHKJD [9. pr Wiit'? EH 39:93! .9 {E3934 {h in. 333.9 E... .. an E 3363?: I EJOUHQ ,W‘EEI‘T’DI USE: CHE-EN E 933%

C‘Kﬂﬂtpﬂﬁn 316317.329 9+III-rizﬁd as naming NU Mr. ‘T'N ION 3!. sur, ban 9:39.91: 333331 E E E 515‘

{E36 51319: E399. E E E E

= E E 2 1‘ 9

_ .. . - . . . . . E 9 .‘ .3; :z.‘ I

Wlmrt‘: appimhle, 3 9331353333 of 511.319: 839.3. 9133;791:1313 my beermrlgfmguia~ E E ,‘ I; s:— E j; 32 E

ﬂngrcgistmﬁon of reseas‘th .1CILU93I {hm 3:39 33333.93. in reﬁtzazih E5 aim E E f 9. ﬂ 1 “E- E43 % ‘5 E 32‘ 7?: I
. E E“. 3." 2' .1 ,, ‘1‘ ._, ,- 79 9:9- ":7 .. f "‘2 ‘1? + ~—-«"
provided. ‘I: E? {I .27. if :9 I; E E 3: 9 g 2 5 9: ‘3: E E 73"
‘ $999599” 9EEE93: 591‘: Eff". 2. r"

‘. E Ii '9 fr; it” 9:3; E“: 2 g 1.; (f: 31' 9;. If: ‘99" f -- 9‘ g

: ._ 9-9 E I. E I 2 T'““"‘T"" . E "'" “'3

7 I . E .9 i s .- +7 . _.

- . f 95333393 r >9 i 9 1 s

153 Obtain. F1113. Text of [.3399 i . 49 E E ' “E E ,f - “7-7:

E i, E I ~ i E 7 .. ’ E

9999.... E :- ' ++ : 4 E . ..

"rm“.w- nan" . M41“ Nara”;- r—a—u. ’

- . . . ...m--.__--__.._ m“ ..._-_,.._... -. 1

513933937 {Eran prmwe 1:119 4.993939 9.9.33 3f each 3733:: E39 ;. Cm 9.95.3391 .. 93.5.11, . E 9 2 _. S: E . “'7 .‘ ; 2' i .

9636333331. 033?? Lil: £9? 3‘ E93139)“ 3:? 93.39.73 3:21:95. 359 3:9.- 931939393 .93 333 E 94519495 ‘- .‘ E g gang... 7' E “.3. 7.
' 7 T— . . : E E .

. Mm...” “up.-.
. E > . I
: l r . . f .
. t 7 " IA .- _ I

«I. HILL E‘éjf ifngf LEEI 14E *5 E‘PSKT 'I 5",“: EEK-'13 'ye wfh is L‘giﬂx if E 3;;(9 1:1“ “'49:; {3.1” I.»a'..'§_lgr:’ [EEK t“fd‘.§€'} E fu‘gf"ﬁr:iﬁsr=“‘é ; I :3 i ,1 EL ‘1 > f
f +. 3.1! a. J _ ., I I . E E

Vb

 

f'" .....

r ' . ,‘ ._ _ ' . .. '-... .,...._ - ..._.....,...........I..,.-... .
‘ r .‘. +. -I MM...» .. u- 7
“ " " " ' _. ,1... .,,.._...I_.......,,. ...I....._..+...I.e-..I,......,..,I...- ........f.-.g....~ "1n .—- 13» may

' 1-" . f . , .
' I V ' ‘4' a ' ,... ﬂ ""1 ‘ E w .. ' . ' :,- 9 ._» ~E ., I”.‘-‘- , . .. -+ I I r _‘ _ .I... “I“-.. n-.- — .. w l“ 1 .. ’ w. ... «
ﬂ 3 L§j 3'16: '3' *L inﬂux}; J ’ 1".“ij ail-.9931 ELLE“ {'1‘ EL} Liz: ug»;- {r} :E-El ‘94.: E I." ..E— LE‘IIE-L ni'z‘n 9'19 if" u 31;...Ilu. ‘u. .E 12 .9 L .1 L: a -" g» 1 ‘(E {E 5 1‘ ._ .. . _ . .r
I- '. 1"! K r. m _ 5 2“.
3‘ AT. . I '1,

 

1",” '+ + I4 ' 314$“ .;‘ - 93:. ~ punt-I -. Er. =14.-. f? «9....1. 31.7; v.3. ,~.,!, "T" n.5,-.- ' ’15.): . E" ‘E 4_ w; . A n»-.. n r E WW“ 1!; g f.“ r j J , I. i
‘5'” 31% 4" J ”M” K" " 'E‘} h": L &"‘9“""“ L E 1? d1. “AL: [9.10.3 3.139.- . .5 MU Fir..- ML. ,. F119 33 .l Lu ,9 , 9.4. .. “€1,347... 3.9.". . E . I. . ‘7 9‘ '“ "' ‘E E I E x ' , n -
' ' 2+ . - mum..- way-n. a... .9 wunn...—e.~F1—a-—.,..Q~I J ' .__n.. “.v- «-mx—n -«I......g.+ .3..Ia;-..~-—m~mj._.r .In ,,._ . .. .. I ..
. : 5 4 , “I m 9 . _V ‘ e.’ . ' +. . . . . U 7 I . . I :9 _ §w . .III ...Ir-.a.+—m-mI-. : E I . , ' ,. 1
E9. ”HF “$18.38“ 9'. 13'} LE E9 EEK; TE 435.79.. FE’ {$931. 9' ﬂat; ‘LMiZ.I-.‘:.,E.JTE‘E;“LE +7 13. 9521' I” .v 13E .. 9;? .2 I E {3“}. f 5‘ ﬂ -. . ' . y . _ E 2; i I 1;;
E I 35‘ 3-K: *7 r 3 ’ i ' ‘7 5 E . ‘

. . I
' . .
4s»€'v—-‘_Lawr<"un_ .5 .- «mug—n9" ‘ﬁm. ...I.....'esu .. Imam...‘ , .-.. »-..u .39.} .. ...I .n u f . L
9

l , r
‘ i . ' 5 ' a“ ’ v‘

“‘= L' ‘9 r ‘. ‘ . ‘ :. I I‘ll . F.
.l . -r4 v . . 9 ..~ E I F . l _
I. 34593“? I“ -, , '1'" J‘ ; F . ,3; ‘. E 5, : , L ,. :1 I .. .

W><——4nm'w- .. “a... :inh‘n. I «mm: “39— -—~‘ .9 ,

b"- V

9.593999 31 I 399. Hun“3.17“{3331973833399199.933 ICE"; .Nf..""‘79E‘u. 993. 997.3 3:. m

.___Tw..

 

1H5~ .E‘IE: '.E.;.",E.‘ 3.19.". g ,3...’ 5“... 5-... '. +....‘.+ . mi: ’ «il‘ - .. +‘ .'.‘.:" .9. E
1.. E .5. '
k' I E . _ V
‘ i 0 EM é .
.. -
. +9.
5 “3. j k, )‘- } “ 1
r 1331'; ,1 E" l 4-
m.
a... I. I. .. .
,f
'7‘. v {'k. x. E I E . ‘
... q "if A
I, v _. .3 r
i’ ‘3 ' Elﬁn i ‘ F
E9;
' l ' L E," A

     




 

__,, wt=l-'m-u->

T “.4 w- . “"6, .. ._..

'H'JK~kr--I'r-..'.

.- r‘m'tr ‘1. u...—-- Gal—n "W. m r.

g. uqJ*~-1~u\u‘--—.hA—‘ua- nd—n- 4-»...nauum.” ..;—

m“

4- or u:- :r_a¢—r..A——u-v.—., A, _

, v‘,‘,.,_‘,.v “h.“ v.7.

3,,

25,44": "‘5; g
1» 3-9.: 14‘; J

‘1
s

.1.‘-..-~.. V .-

”v;
F ﬂ " A A“.
’ “"54? ‘i afgvrg‘vg

"s"

gLi>:'j‘

 

I
.‘mwnm.+.m ma...

.

' P

 

?“

{I ETC

 

A . “ml,“ W...

l
“4"“ "Juana-s. .4- wwyr
. ,

<wmwngw-W “1‘
3:; i

 

 

? Mi .'

s e
gun—- ”mu-“*7 -w—u mm _,,-..-_,-__, '_.«_=:~,.g{.—... _,

, m , .--.--.v

l‘

IV ., ,

,W-mz ,. W »:"H'-'r~-':
I

l

l

,4 M~V--.rm3.z, ,nu v~-—tv--—=-~
\

.- n,“ v.42

.--.v

 

x
- u
l .
».W‘.-,,-.h ,._,. 4.. 1, ..-.m r» n... a .m -._. _ _.sm-.m<-x: ‘v- .._ r

In}?

F;

‘U‘Z‘. ,

#51

25’:

rﬂ

‘
F2113

§

,4. - w; ”W,

 

|
l
.. -7 A": m...
I
r
r
I

i
it

 

V,“ r--

.“m- «‘7 at am.- L“

l
i

t
I
.-

0.1%ch

 

i Kenmky

_...~-..-. _.

 

 

—~r—~ ——--—J»n

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ ,m av“ _ “AL", ”aw—“"4

{'1

ESQ?

LI}

l- ...— __.....

2'5;

-thuu‘

 

 

Norm Dokm‘a

_W_..__T_._._~

 

State

.—— ..r.._.. _.___.r
l
|

SUTMMARY GMT 017 STATE LAWS CGNCERNINﬁ
THE USE 0F ANIMAL‘S EN RESEAR CH

 

Prcmibﬁ
HEIGOSB

{Tieq ulna
r‘valeij
NIOW
seiimse

No r'r'xenrican
In. Icrw'

Pam ﬁnirmi Use

”Swag“

__v_r._..mv—..v.-g.~..w+—h , . ,__,_.._,._.,‘_,€..._..g - .._.<_. _...__ ,_'

Fﬁuaﬂumh
Lmasrrxpﬁon
No Veriﬁcan
m law

Anima?
Carve-8w

fﬁﬁ‘mr

1
I

HWJE? state 50w
Li=DF1CTt:&z‘ning ”Crimirg

Faciliﬁﬁ

Reguiméor:
0? 9953mm

Ui‘ﬁﬁsif‘rgf

 

 

 

Side

 

- F'"'— ,-

w “a .VI

 

WNW—q ....,.

Hyman.”

 

,3“:

mmw-~w (p- ....<..‘. w

P I ON b“
@9056
R‘Lﬂ‘u‘re
6621mm
AiEow
régleasa

Na menﬁon
in law

mm ﬁmimcl Use

ther
Peimrch
c—rxempﬁon
N0 murmcan
in Ictwv

 

 

Omer

 

n. ...H ....g. 7. ..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Haw: arch: law 0
(.QFICEFWFIQ licensing

 

 

 

T

'F'
u

SUM? CHART OF STATE LﬁWS EDNCERN 1H8
g USE {JP ﬁgHIhmlS 1N RESEARCH

 

NAB}? State Laws: Boar}:

 

 

NABR State Laws 3

K

{.10}?

 




MAEEEE 5% 2:33}: 5.31.5333 Bmﬁ:

SUM MKR‘E {EFT 3133315. LAWN {JEETQE EEE‘E 3‘3; FREE:
R’Egiﬁﬁtﬁﬁﬁ {USE E3}? EEEJUE Q5133"E -3 \ Efﬁgy, E fr?

Pﬁahibﬁt E @5933 {be Regaire Reimge f3}!
Rmn: E [T's-e. {E33 3m ‘ Rmemeh E- 3353-: 3 states; 33.: BC?

(".3337 new; ix; :3 EES 53-13352 If: E (114$ 31 m bias.
gets 33:33‘er :1 3 «33:33:.
:i axsraié M i 33' 515533333
mum EEE: 33333333.”,
E-‘iaryla‘rad 3333.5 311313.;
EJRENUI E? {I M“! Ejeﬂh
3’33 E—f 333' if: E33333
Ql‘wsw _T. 31%. 3‘36 E;
E‘Eew we"
91435131“. 1E 52;} [I 3316-.-
EEE’EEE: E M t 3 {E
V3333 nut 3:

If T "" . ‘ . 3. g 3.- f; _ . 3
234333333 ' M3“ 333 :33“ Ms ,Ezaf'tﬁa‘a} 34.3;
E‘E “if: 3 If 3133' 1' ;3“ E"
in“? 3%; 1~4 :31; ‘4

1-,? . .
«Ewﬁiwrwz‘

 




NABR State Law: Beam): NASH Stare £412.93“ 303k

0mg: {2 state-3} SUMMARY 0? STATE ANIMAL {II-LU EIL'E'Y LAWS

Illinois: -.—- Paumis mus! {um animals GUE’I” {ﬁr rese’wv'h “when 3:: :1ui3’mri1mi

b}; the appmpriate iota} aurhm’izyﬁ’ Research Exempt From. 01‘ Mmtioned in Animai {Math}! 1319‘

I} _
“WEE?! -— impfytxrzded 303111an may be given to stamvsupponcd inmim- {‘72 state. and BL'}
lions; “3‘31” 4:33 or anothes’ 5mm 0:; givg': [g in—smlc animal fi‘cfﬂcm Haw-carer. Alaska Missamri
animal wamtns (:mnm. gwe or 362:} animals [5 research walnut: {IT-aiiibmia Nevada.
Baa-law are New Jersey
DMI’iCI m" Calum'bm NEW mm
Florida Nari}: {lamina
Gﬂsrgﬁ 310th Dalmm 7“:
Hawaii Trams.
idahu : Utah
V Kamazw ' Vam'iuns,
iﬁui 5m r1421 1’ é rgja i3
Mame E‘s-("35.5131gmﬂ
Wham Léﬁ'l

ND Mailman 01 R, "h mt éxmum {Hanan} 2.523% w 3.43513

 

.31 mm r: as: N. m 11 4:» 5d
‘F F 1' "A ., ,,
4A,,i'éiiﬂiﬁg .‘Hf‘r’f Hadaytumz,

1 1’ : i: rs" New E‘wf ff'x’v :1

7‘ 1
4‘ NH] l
‘ 1 z a
n. W: 1-
*); '
, f ’»F?-.;.J ‘ﬁv
, - 1 v ‘ ,
,JaL‘FL'!!,L ’JJL 1;.l’k33
‘5 L5-
1
?‘.="'.v' ”NH" 1 t
‘52: mks"; hr L
f ..
F 9‘ ah
n7. :- .x‘. ‘
,.;«Vil.g{§_j_ If: I

 




NIIIBR 3mm Law-I Bonk

{II-IIICC {3 SLIIIIIII'}

II‘IIIZIaIIC. ---_ “VIII-Crimry pI'IICIIICI-I" BIC CIICIIIIII {mm CI'IIISII?’ IIIIIIIIC-

.‘I Irv-and ... Hum. III: III? protmtrCCI {mm IIIIEFIIIUFDII C’IUI'JII‘I’
LII: III, II EIIt’IE’II} (III‘IICd, . . - CCII‘L’ILIIIIICIII III IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIII IIII'IICCI, UIIIZIIC‘I‘ IIIIIIIIC.
105:1, IIIILC, 1TH“ ICdCIIIIIy funded :ICICIIIII‘II: III' IIICIIICIII IICIIIIIIICI; . . Illa-p3 IImCIII
0f HCIIIIII and I‘IA‘IIEFHEI PI‘ZI’E‘IIE‘HG IIIIIFI I‘CIII-‘II' IIIICI I‘CCIIIIIIIICIICI III-.3 IIIIIIIIII IIIa

FIR-v

EHEIT'ELII

.9

III IILC MEWSR'UH Cf IIICIIICIII EifIffIw‘ .IICPLIIIC Wait“ II'IICI IIIIC1

PCIIIIIIIIIIIIII ——- RPSEEIK h {iiI'SIII IICS III'C IIIII I IIIIIcIII I CICIIIIIL 1mm I'QI‘IHE’II'I‘
IIIaI-IIIC. IIIII SCIIII IIzII'III-IIII: SI'LIEIII IIIII bC isrcIICII IC: -' ..'3I{;I’1 [III IIIIIIIIIII III-ICED." III
ICICIII‘CII [ICI'IIIICII-

:I‘ICIIICI IIICI

HFIBR ﬁrm: Laws: 80:05:

SETWARY {IF STATE LIQWSING!REG IEMTHLLII‘I
0F RESEARIII 1. FI'III’IZ. IL! “LEI

57jIrIrI-ILIpSIIII 0f State Liftensing ngram

‘31 3131615 III‘ICI IIIC: DISIFHZ {III IIIIImIIIII II we SILIIIL‘ Ian‘s. IIIIICCI‘IIIIIg IIIC
III; I IISIII'II III ’CICIIIIII IIIIIIII-Ca OI IIICIC;

f} star-Cs :II’IIIIII III I'C-quII‘CCIC15I ruImII-ICIII 01 CC «Ian I II LICIIIIICI
iLLIIIIIIIIIIII, Maine, {ICIIIgr-IrI.I-;IIII.*21IC I “I IIgIIIIaI

I :IIIICSCI i-IiI. (III: DI». III‘ICI ICIEJIHIILIII 1113.1 I SIZIIC I. CCCISI. gm "Wr'i'iiiﬁﬂ-‘NI
II. IITI CI IIII :I ICSLJICII IIIIIIIII 21:1 m CIIC: WWII-Pd: I III IIIII..I~I

III-.5:..,IIIIIII3I::"1 IIJW‘IL h"IIrInC:4-II¢.GIIILI,I1*I-.IahII-III.I SIIIIIIIIJ IIIIIII “LII:

235;; ICS CIII {TI‘I (III ICIICIIIII'LICIII IIIIIIC :IIIIII III-I um: III sump: un‘vw may 33.”: II
IIIIIIIIIIICI UT I_IC:-II:~ICI.I ”III“ IIIC SLIM.

Y:‘ I

1 r ', r . , “I
I MCI-12‘ USE-III IIICI‘.’ III I I
' ‘ W
2,1. n. . , .. . .4. r. m 7.... .‘ .7 .. . . -. .’ 'i
If IIIIIICI IIIIIIIIII III-IIIIIIIII; II.» .«III; {Ii-o
II. III'IIIIJI. IIIIII. I'I‘IIKITEMJLIEI-IJW III...
I -2. ‘ :- . . .. . I , I: ‘15}.- . {In-«I
. MI :I‘.’ I'Ii'*r~.-C.III-» II . I I . I.-I IIwI 5, I :III HIM. III-III

SIZE“: LEI-’ffISEIIIIII IIU‘WIIII’PI

 




 

 

U
\

!

NABR State Laws Book

1,

Diali‘iet of Columbia —~—- Permits. required for “any; institution . t. which
desires to obtain animals that have been lawfully impounded.“

lllinois ——- “An institution requiring the use of live dogs and eats For the
effective carrying on of its scientific: or educational :ictivitice out}; apply to the
Director of the Department of Public H ealth for at lieense to obtain imit‘nnls
from a public pound The [lirecnn‘ . ,. may: exempt any institution
requiring the one of live dogs and can; - . - that is licensed in; the Federal
Government . . ."

Iowa “An institution men.r apply annually to the state department of
health [or authotity It} obtain animals from a pound,"

 

K311533~ “The commissioner . . . shall make regular inspections of the
premises of each lice accl. animal dealer, registered pamnd, animal shelter,
licensed pet shop and each research facility." Research Etcilities that hold .21
curTent federal regtatrmion issued under the Ai’iiimil l'k’elliire Ftet shall- not be
tequired ”to obtain at state ceitilication or registration.”

Main-e w— 35 ofSeptenibei 330, 1984?, “550 research or teaching; institttiio of"

. I",
A.

higher ttltimtioi; may ernplncn‘ live annuals i:1 seientn
men: or instruction, 0:1 for the testing of drug or izietlitiiz'ies witl'iritr, lies-t
Emitting 'oeen issued a i'ieemx: . l .

Lil: iiit'esriiftniosi, {meme
4”.
‘1"!

Massachttsettg ---*”l\l0 research institution shall entpltn,P dogs; or cats in

' «,' .- _‘ K'V». ‘ “ '--.,. r'.‘, 1.; , ’,= yr , , [ :."'§'7, Yv“ 7‘ . ; gm 7 ,- V' , P Q. "',' Jewt‘
Bela Pr: .. 'w'li“. THEALL'E'A‘;"fl-14"”' limiting. P‘Lﬁv‘ttml m: . Hz! UT}, .‘l’liliftlf‘ui
, it ‘
‘ ‘ I ’. ‘ ‘ " 3 l” g i ‘1 ~
, i _ ' ‘i ' ,3 ' r. .~3‘ h'. :wv.. .c ‘_C Pkwy; ; "» ll" c-s‘ ",‘ K _'- », '2 "i, f’r‘t ‘- ‘rhw "Ho-1v gut :J'I.‘ . 4;-
Eg _ .lsxq rimm- 21-3- f ‘. x: , n: :l' vi a 5% ElﬁJLL-Ji: u Ll‘leir.” ~ . . Hui. l,.‘.“L' ‘» All: is w, w’l a‘

'54 ‘ll'ir‘. “a" " 'r 1 - 1 an! ‘1 ' ‘ i“ .3" .s « 1.; ' - r" »-”; ». . ;,:\ _—, ll
lugﬁmiﬁiu-“ ”‘1" {5'3 53.7THJH ‘lltgl “TL“. i-.‘3ﬂ.§s’ '27! 333i fillhilcflE I")? thitil'aniucril

. 'rr-“‘ ‘ V 3‘35 ’" ‘7', "' "'" '%“ .1 fl'~- r; -a ~I H- I”
fulﬁll”? Elk‘f":‘- {"7 1",“ {”39”th $1.72?!» “it Jrl ‘9'” fit“! ""1 “Dial-H"? [Hill-till.

l‘tHHlH’MIlﬁ “w i sit"; lithih “sluts: Newt? hilt trot’r'JJ-til 3.!) oﬂmﬂl L “life: ,. - EB: :{qt‘tiizlggi

‘ 1 ‘ u > , .- r i; 3
"' f’,- '.',l' "' r" _ 5""! I ' .»-. ~.,,‘.r— , 4,“.* (,5 .4 it x.
iLJ‘uJ: M l .li,‘ L2. .1! .Ti§,-i,!-_ui_l.f~ i , , .Jls 7. xi 3; .

,, , . ... A, i , F .7 i
s’vaf El :f g”? ‘? s'i’téﬁﬂll'i‘» if; til”? 9'!)
171311“? r or "E "in ”Eilrll‘t‘ lrxn‘~T‘4f“$;f m: Hianmyi-er m :Viit'a"xs":1*‘.iis:‘ 32W it’hhllﬁléml

;, .‘ ’ . .: ‘ , .‘V , _ ‘
, i ‘_ ,_ ... , 4“ at ,l at .. ..,,_ _ :7 ”Ser-
11- _ __ Q. .. , .

NABR State Laws Book

North Carolina —~- USDA lice-me or registration exempe; a researchi'acility
from the state Animal Welfare .Article‘

Ohio -—~ Nor1-proﬁt0hio institutions or organimtions must “be certiﬁed by
the Ohio public health council as being engaged in teaching or research .
in order to receive imprmndeti (logs.

Oklahoma —— Institutions requiring the use of live clogs and eats for
scientific or educational activities ma}.r apply to the State Board of Health “for
a license. to obtain animals. from pouridti.“ '

Pennsyl 'nnia —— “State dog wardens. and other employees of the. depart-
ment are hereby authorized to inspect all kennels and individually licensed
{legs witl‘iin the Commonwealth , . . Provided, however, that only regulm‘ . i .
employees; of the department shall be authorized to enter upon the premise-5
of approved medical. dental, or veteriimry schools“ hospimlst clinic; or other
medical or Hie-milk: ll'lﬁllltillﬂlﬂi . . I" Research facilities shall be exempt from
etate inspection if they have ttntlerg me 2: {toenail govermi‘ient ingpectitm
within the peel, year.

Rhocle island -—.~ The director may [artimtilgate riﬂes; and regulations con-
cerning ll‘t’hllll’ttfi‘zi! ol‘ animals; and may" no in: “in whole or: in part, those
imitionr; oftlterizleniintl regulation; . oi lift. public law SilJMLl-Qcommonly

known as, the igilmi'titot‘r anion? Heller's? act, 'ii'l'iit‘h are coi'ieistent Him the

intent and purpose cal" this; elmpter.“ Research facilities oowewne a valid

l. x 4.4 .v Q vim; p Ail'.‘ , ., .. ,-.J.‘ - I. 3 , -. ;.,-l»: x
'3 .EJ. "5;; 1 .‘ﬁ' 1. 5'- V . it ._ 4 {L 1“ n E I: letttjmxi“. Ll‘ ' 3, advent; 4 li’ It. ,. Kin-l. l- _‘ M. ‘, ‘i t. '.’\ A Ll

‘ l
V ,'.4 . Q. LLW
kl Ir}: . , ~31»,

II' V »=. '2 u t g , I; u. _ >1 ,.. t, ,, ,- . I y "l v 1-, r. z - 1“! J" r ~ "1 3' ’vi: l + ‘ ‘" ‘l ' "I
lfrl”.'.~1;iil”f l.l"="§i;.rifﬁi.i‘. ~w Hats? liar“? ﬁt“ Léjfffftitt‘u Exit llanttirgitmii: 2,th triflem imp: MENU-J11

- l ‘1 M Q. 5,. ...H. N... . 4‘ t‘ vi 4' "4 7. rgﬂi _‘Q-. . 4 k 4 M
gfizillai‘i ‘ Wt? ‘ :_..:~f“§;isclilsrtur‘i: a}; «lei-ll; ﬁlial. felt’é: k'lw‘. litflli f‘a':t€?;".i'ai F7.
-' l
ﬁr ,. _. c. ‘ 1 .5 1i" t ;,4 ”q
r «l; “3‘? W 153 Q 5:, ‘ r: ’ :‘EFWF‘WT PW Wife-a i we rm
. 7- _. t f
.» . .. ~ . ,— i
74,. m“ l t r, L Q, epilhﬂﬂi 4- i Ila-1r l ,,. y “l .. 4
lllhlllntutuli x‘i'Fl?» :1 Fan“: :1?..“‘l"3.l‘ul-Li in i h t r it “it I H s“, will: if ‘ ”W”
l‘ .l
'i‘u-J‘i 51»: —‘.-»,'.;=-; ,1” ill-ls]; in n 'sq—x‘ u"i‘r.‘rll' idlf~l71 a. f‘vi'u lg » ﬁrr‘rl-’:"‘i’7=-T 13" :' ‘ "' 1;» i”F‘k??'”":‘i“:Ix'iwli'lll'i'l'n“! “ .l“
i l, ”LJ' "W -» i: i 5' i».-.wi,-;r—: «Wt ..;.,»‘«...~l.‘*w« w) l a- :.,“!.r.-: em . ac x .- = My- ‘ liar. . i
, "J — -"»*lt ";-- ,L: m'l-w: "1""! ”fl-1‘"'lfafl‘f‘,?1.»2 2w l'zvﬂl n1 "3.“4‘, r17~,~“uqr'g- gig»-
Q;
.a‘ 1 Q ‘4-
l
| L >r‘ ,, l I

 




 

.‘i‘LPjiji-Eﬁ" 5131.215? hams: ﬁrmer

m n".—

... u .r. ‘- ,

U}, H3355. STA'PEPE ﬁ«&u3 Lt8w*£,”“tw1%h P H if; £1751“: {,1 if
APR 57M. {1L5 EN R35 3M2. Emir

, ‘e .. I“, z . K L ., “A, i -‘K.— V‘ . ~~ s" ‘ "‘ ' "Aft.“ .1. I
3 .-:"93‘*)I.A,H-’r mm 3Line"23,4137»;a z». 13.;5-“Pnrjxl guzmdtv I: P.

r.‘ 1- . . h ‘ "
u-if mu: .* r» :

ml}; nut 52;;er 5‘22 *"f'jxfkl‘l 1 :~.{v+£.!f.é_s;m§m

, at“ , ‘_ 1' ‘
new 552;! —~— ﬁrms”, :2

.w ““7 if V ,. ,. .
tin-agaixrs ;;.1_L;:1}.;.L «.rt..r3fr.;; r. iefkgiﬁ.

ﬁr." rﬂﬁercﬁ.

.“A

.-~ :3 I“ r a, . ,,, r\*’_ e. __r._~“:' { :I‘ 7-4.4‘: “M, ‘:':,;H_;
RI! 5 air“; as {Hm UHF-riff“ ,u" .. wesh .!

- , . .1
J L ' ,, 'F‘ W. - ~ :4' -- 97 L P 11-: ‘; : , ‘ :- ‘ -‘ £51443? l"! $931537“? V “En-3123;"? .
P‘“ P r}; 55.“! L5; ' “PM .7, 1.! 1 t; ‘1 L“; g It "5:” 1-. ‘1‘“: 1 i - .‘ I mi : 'I A ' , r‘_ _ é . ' L P ' . . J P. f ‘ k [ELJ : -,.4 , -. L51 ’ . _ . .3"

~ 7" 133:??? E'éﬁi‘lg 1

) gl'ﬁ'iéi‘rék‘tsiil. or Tina:ﬂuff“:i *jwf-I‘ismx :;

 




b/xbgmm will (0 ms M/w ”T ‘5 $1000
§13*A- 5-7 W §:3—A~sv 1;

 




 

Ax, ., e 3‘..."
”z

§ 13A-11-14

CRIMINAL CODE

§ 13A-11-14

(burial or removal permits for dead bodies; certiﬁcates of birth or death; penalty for
failure to obtain or to give information relative thereto); and § 22-19-4 (ministers
at funerals to ascertain if burial permit has been secured).

The Criminal Code seeks to consolidate the areas of the Alabama statutes and
to provide for any other type of conduct involving a corpse which may outrage the
ordinary family sensibilities. The Criminal Code does this without enumerating
multi—offenses. Neither does the Criminal Code spell out all the lawful acts which
may be done to a corpse. but incorporates them by reference through the use of the
phrase, ”except as otherwise authorized by law."

The family must be outraged, which probably would be demonstrated partly by
its pursuit of the offense. The sensibilities of the family must be ordinary, denoting
the contemporary local community standard.

Cross References:

Burial or removal permits for dead bodies; certiﬁcates of birth or

etc. § 22-198.

eath: penalty.

Ministers at funerals to ascertain if burial permit secured, § 22-19-4.

§ 13A-ll-14. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animus if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal belonging to another.

(b) Cruelty to animals is a Clasngnisdemeanor. (Acts 1977, No. 607, p. 812,
’ ”as

§ 5565'.) /

4"

Cross references. — As to wanton, mali-
cious, etc., destruction, injury, etc, of animal of

another, see §§ 3-1-10 and 3-1711-.,.A&.m

employment by counties of persons to enforce
laws for prevention of cruelty to animals, see
§ 3-1-16. '

Collateral references. --— 3A C.J.S., Ani-
mals, §§ 101, 289. 294(bl.
4 Am. Jur. 2d, Animals. §§ 27-30. 129, 146.

147. .

What constitutes statutory offense of cruelty.
82 ALR2d 794.

Liability for killing dog to protect domestic
animals or fowl; 10 ALR 689.

'Cruelty to animals as "infamous offense"
within constitutional or statutory provision in
relation to presentment or indictment by grand
jury. .24 ALR 1009.

Presence of owner as affecting liability for
killing trespassing dog. 42 ALR 437.

Right to compensation for animals destroyed
to prevent spread of disease or infection. 67
ALR 208.

Right to kill 30g dangerous to other animals
as nuisance. 79 ALR 1064.

.-...Constituti0tnIity-Mof estatute» to prevent

cruelty in trapping animals. 79 ALR 1308.

Statutes relating to dogs as affecting right of
action for negligently killing or injuring dogs.
134 ALR 705.

Liability for killing or injuring unlicensed or
untagged dog. 145 ALR 993.

Civil liability of landlord for killing or
injuring trespassing dog. 15 ALR2d 578.

Liability for statement or publication rep-
resenting plaintiif as cruel to or killer of am-
mals. 39 ALR2d 1388.

Cat: liability for injuring or killing dog to
protect cat. 73 ALR2d 1039, 8 ALR4th 1287.

What constitutes statutory offense of cruelty
to animals. 82 ALR2d 794.

Liability for injury to trespassing stock from
poisonous substances on the premises. 12
ALR3d 1103.

 

 




ALABAMA

~§ 3-1-12. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates, cruelly kills,
overrides, overloads or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon any animal, and
whoever, having charge, custody or control of any animal, either as owner or
otherwise, inflicts any unnecessary cruelty on, or Who fails toprovide thel
necessarv sustenance, water and proper shelter for any such animal, must, upon l
conviction, be fined not more than $500.00 and, in addition thereto, may be I
sentenced to the county jail for not more than three months. This section shall
not apply to the dehorning of cattle and normally accepted animal husbandry

. mals in connection with m ° ‘
teaching or research. (Code 1886, § 3872; Code 1896, § 5093;
Code 1923, § 3214; Code 1940, T. 3, § 11; Acts 1975, No. 132, § 1.)

l

ALASKA

_Sec. 11.40.480. Cruelty to animals. A person who cruelly beats

tortures or otherwise maltreats or neglects an animal, whether

It. belongs to himself or to another, upon conviction, is punishable

by imprisonment in a jail for not less than 10 days nor more. than

30 days, or by a ﬁne of not less than $5 nor more than 850. (§ 65-
9-34 ACLA 1949)

Revisor’s note.——The title of ch 19 . Am. Jur. and ALR references. ~ 2
SLA 1953 indicated that this section Am. Jur., Animals, 3 102 et seq.
was repealed by that act. However it Cruelty in trapping animals, 79
was not repealed in the body of the ALR 1308.
act and therefore is still law.

ARIZONA

‘1.)
re

S”

l3 .. 2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification

A. A person commits cruelty to animals if. except as otherwxse
authorized by law, such person recklessly:

1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human custody or con-
trol to cruel mistreatment: or

2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his custody or control to
cruel neglect or abandonment; or

3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody or control of an-
other without either legal privilege or consent of the owner.

B. It is a defense to subsection A of this section if any person
exposes poison to be taken by a dog which has killed or wounded live-
stock or poison to be taken by predatory animals on premises owned.
leased or controlled by him for the purpose of the protection of such
person or his livestock or poultry, and the treated property is kept ‘
posted by the person who authorized or performed the treatment until
such poison has. been removed, and such poison is removed by the per-
son exposing the poison after the threat to such person, his hyestock
or poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall be in such

~ manner'as to provide adequate warning to persons who enter the prop-
erty by the point or points of normal entry. The warning notice which
is posted shall be of such size that it is readable at a distance of fifty
feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall state the
Word “Danger” or "Warning".

 

 

C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2 misdemeanor.
Added Laws. 1977. Ch. 142, § 91', eff. Oct. 1, 1978.

 




ARKANSAS

41-409. Cruelty to animals—If

I i “ - Q. V’. R r-.r~;-
orture. torment, deprive or Dctct.
L . ...-' ‘ ..l-'1‘, .. ,. -
iCEdlCSSi} mutilate 0; an, i caUs
" ‘ -,..,- ..‘ “a- . 3..
loaueci, “snared, to-n.er.ted or t. -l

I
‘ .

‘ s

I -. V - a . . -
A {:0 O; ll-cCGSsIZI} :L.

G 1‘ Ar A \ 9 ~ A“ ‘;~-“~‘V- ..“‘+. ‘- ‘ Q ’-‘ ‘ (‘2 9"‘~- : Y (I V.:
be cruel!" beaten, C1 .iecuiessn intuilateo 01 l—mlec, as aioresaic, cm.- 5

3.. J
11L..:C.,

l

sustenance, or cruelly beat. or ,1

o: procure to be overdriven, over-

§
-

-s:enai:ce. or to;

livin'r creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be guiitv of:

.c ‘1‘ . r- .

a misdemeanor. (Act 3
§2610; Pop; 5 Dig, 95'
Cross-Itcfc-rc-ncc.

Penalty for misdemeanor, 5 1 -

Comparative Legislation.
animals:

(‘21. Dt-ering's Codes, Fen.

Ky. Rev. Stat., §436.180.

CALIFORNIA

SECTION 1. Section 597 of the Penal Code is amended to read: I

597. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) , every person who
maliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or wounds 2
a living animal which is the property of the person or which is the l
property of another, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal l
which is the property of the person or Which is the property of‘
another, is guilty of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the
state prison, or by a ﬁne of not more than twenty thousand dollars _
($20,000) , or by both the fine and imprisonment, or, alternatively, by g
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by a 9‘
ﬁne of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000), or by both the I
ﬁne and imprisonment. .

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c) , every 5
person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, f
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,j
drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, l
or causes or procures any animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, '
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, l
deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge 1
or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any i
animal to needless suffering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the l
animal, or in any manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the l
animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or protection from the:
weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal when;
unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a misdemeanor.

(c) Every person who maliciously and intentionally maims,
mutilates, or tortures any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish
as described in subdivision (d), is guilty of an offense punishable by
imprisonment in the state prison, or by a ﬁne of not more than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and
imprisonment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than one year, by a fine of not more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprisonment.

(d) Subdivision (c) applies to any mammal, bird, reptile,
amphibian, or ﬁsh which is a creature described as follows:

(1) Endangered species or threatened species as described ini
Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 2050) of Division 3 of the
Fish and Game Code.

(2) Fully protected birds described in Section 3511 of the Fish and
Game Code.

(3) Fully protected mammals described in Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 4700) of Part 3 of Division 4 of the Fish
and Game Code.

(4) Fully protected reptiles and amphibians described in Chapter ‘
2 (commencing with Section 5050) of Division 5 of the Fish and
Game Code.

(5) Fully protected ﬁsh as described in Section 5515 of the Fish
and Game Code.

This subdivision does not supersede or affect any provisions of law
relating to taking of the described species, including, but not limited
to, Section 12008 of the Fish and Game Code.

(e) For the purposes of subdivision (0) each act of malicious and
intentional maiming, mutilating, or torturing a separate specimen of
a creature described in subdivision (d) is a separate offense. If any
person is charged with a violation of subdivision (c) , the proceedings

 

 

 

 

 

 

11, 3379, No. ~17, El, 1}. 5;; C. s; M. Dig"

\

La. Rev. Stat. 195 ‘.
Miss. Code 1942,
Filo. liev. Szat.
Okla. Stat. 190.1.
Tenn. Code Ann., -

shall be subject to Section 12157 of the Fish and Game Code.

(I) Upon the conviction of a person charged with a violation of this
section by causing or permitting an act of cruelty, as defined in
Section 599b, all animals lawfully seized and impounded with respect
to the violation by a peace officer, officer of a humane society, or
officer of a pound or animal regulation department of a public
agency shall be adjudged by the court to be forfeited and shall
thereupon be awarded to the impounding officer for proper
disposition. A person convicted of a violation of this section by:
causing or permitting an act of cruelty, as defined in Section 599b, .
shall be liable to the impounding officer for all costs of impoundment i
from the time of seizure to the time of proper disposition. %

Mandatory seizure or impoundment shall not apply to animals in
properly conducted scientific experiments or investigations 3
performed under the authority of the faculty of a regularly ;
incorporated medical college or university of this state.

SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs which may be incurred by a local agency or school district
will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction,i
changes the definition of a crime or infraction, changes the penalty]
for a crime or infraction, or eliminates a crime or infraction.

 




_COLORADO

35-42~112. Cruelty to animals ~ penalty. Every person

who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,

tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,1
unnecessarily or cruelly beats. needlessly mutilates or kills,l

or carries in Or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or

inhuman INHUMANE manner any animal or causes or procures it to

be done or who, having the charge and custody of any animal,
unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or

protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it isr-guiity

of- COMMITS a CLASS 1 misdemeanor and upon~conviction~thereof

shall be punished by~a-tine~oi~not~less-than-fifty~dullers~nor
more-than-seven-hundred~fiftyrdoiiars:-or-by~~imprisonment-~in
the-~county-jail-for-not-morerthan-six-months:-or~by-both-suci
fine-end-imprisonment AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 18-1-106, C.R.SJ

1973,- ‘

35-42-112. Overdriving, starving - penalty. Every person who overdrives.I
overloads, drives when overloaded. overworks. tortures. torments. deprives
of necessary sustenance. unnecessarily or cruelly heats. needlessly mutilates
.ir l;ills. or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhuman

manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who. having the
charge and custody of any animal. unnecessarily fails to provide it With Source: R 8; RE, L. 72, p. 153.§ l;C.R.S. l963.§ 19-1-13.

 

proper food. drink. or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it
is guilty of a misdemeanor and. upon conviction thereof. shall be punished
by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars. or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.

CONNECTICUT ‘
§ 53—247. Cruelty to animals (F

Any person who overdrives. drives when overloaded,"ovenr0rks, tortures, deprives of .
necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or unjustiﬁably injuries any,
animal, or who, having impounded or confined any animal, fails to give such animal proper ;
care or neglects to cage or restrain any such animal from doing,' injury to itself or lot
another animal or fails to supply any such animal with wholesome air, food and water, or l
unjustifiahly administers any poisonous -or noxious drug or substanoe to any domestic}
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that thevsame shall i
be taken by an animal, or causes it to'be done, or. having charge or custody of any animal, 1'
inflicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with proper food, drink or protectiont'rom the f
weather or abandons it or carries it or causesit to be carried in a cruel manner, offsets on
foot, instigates, promotes or carries on or performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal ‘
in, or is a witness of, or in any way aids in or‘engages in the furtherance of, any fight; ‘
between cocks or other birds, dogs or other animals, premeditated by any person owning:
or having custody of, such birds or animals, or fights with or halts. harasses or worries anyl
animal for the purpose of making it perform for amusement. diversion or exhibition, shall:
be fined not; more than two hundred andptil'tymzdollars or imprisoned not more,,th_an onel
Year‘or both. i ._.,

(1971. PA. 99.) /

DELAWARE

§l325. Cruelty to animals. i

l

A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he inten-E
tionally or recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to crucl mistreatment; or

(‘3) Subjects any animal in his custody to crucl neglect;
or ‘

(fl) Kills or injures any animal belonging: to another per-
son without legal privilege or consent of the owner. ‘

Suliscctions (l) and (‘2) are inapplicable to accepted \‘Ct- .
crinary practices and activities carried on for scientific re-
search. ’

Cruelty to animals is a class A misdemeanor.

 




FLORIDA GEORGIA

828.12 Cruelty to animals.—Whoever unnecessarily
overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments. deprives of
necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or,
cruelly beats, mutilates. or kills any animal, or causes me
same to be done, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or;
otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, isf _
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishablei F _ 1“ “‘3 3111:3315 mCOHmP11a11C'19‘W1Lh I
as provided in s. 775.082 or by a line of not more than-i 811d 151113113 01 11“ 15 State The killing or injuﬂng of an anim
$5,000, or both. humane purpc 38 PS 01' in the lurtl‘ieran’ e of 111’: dic 31 or 5339;]

History—5 4. ch 497i, 1901. GS 3395. R68 5244 CGL 7363. s 2. ch 70-50. s h 8b
4, ch 7142.5 949.cn 71136.5 Len 82416 TESPaTC 15 rusili le.

(Acts 1968, pp. 1249, 1322.)

HAWAII

§711- 1109 Cruelty to animals. (1) A person commits the offense of cruel-

ty to animals if he knowingly or recklessly: ‘

(a) Overdrives. overloads, tortures, torments, deprives ot necessary SUSlc-
trance, or cruelly beats or needlessly mutilates or kills. or causes or
procures to be overdrigen, overloaded, tortured tormented or de-
prived of necessary sustenani'ej’or‘to be cruelly bemdlessly
mutilated or killed any living-creature; ‘ ‘ l

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with Or interested in thef

._ finanagement of?” or reCeives money for the admissmzullanyperson to.i
‘ - any place kept or used for the purpose of ﬁghting o_r _bzgiting Lany bull.
bear, dog, cock or other creature, and every person {silo encourages.
aids or assists therein. or who permits or sufters any; place t9 be so
ﬁkeprnr used; —
(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or other

. conveyance, any CICZIIUTC, in a CWCl 01' inhumane manner;

 

of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (Uta). (c), (d) and the following subseCtion (3) are net
applicable to acceptedveterinary practices and to activities carried on for scientif- _
ic research governed by Standards of accepted educational or medical practices. '

W" (3) Whenever atiy domestic animal 15 so severely injured that there [S no
reasonable probabilitytitat _its life or usefulness can be sav,ed the animal may be
immediately destroyed. ""“

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor. [L 1972. c 9, pt of §l]

 

"'v'"' -‘ ~r-v' ;
/.

_Cross References

Deﬁnitions of terms in this chapter §7ll 1100.
“animal' ' §7ll- 1100(5).
Lcmelty, torture or torment §7ll 1000(6).

IDAHO

18-2102 Killing and otherwise mistreating animals. Every person who
maliciously kills, maims, or wounds an animal, the preperty of another
or who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor- ,
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter,
cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or
procures any animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, drink or shelter, or to be cruelly beaten, mutilated or
cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody of any
animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to need--
less suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or
in any manner ab see any animal, or fails to provide the same with pro-
per food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, or who cruell
drives, rides, or otherwise uses the same when unfit for labor, is y
for every such offense, guilty of a misdemeanor.

 




ILLINOIS

8, 221 Cruelty to animals. Penalty. Whoever shall be guilty of cruelty
to any animal in any of the ways mentioned in this section, shall be
fined not less than $3 nor more than $200, viz: First-~By overloading,
overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating,_torturing, tormenting, mutilat-
ing, or cruelly killing any animal, or causing or knowingly alleging

the same to be done. Second-~By cruelly working any old, maimed, infirm,
sick or disabled animal, or causing, or knowingly allowing the same to
be done. Third--By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his
charge or custody, as owner or otherwise, with prOper food, drink and
shelter. Fourth--By abandoning any old, maimed, infirm, sick or dis-
abled animal or by abandoni any animal on any highway or public way

or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger or exposure

or become a public charge. Fifth--By carrying or driving, or causing

to be carried or driven or kept, any animal in any unnecessarily cruel
manner.

INDIANA _. .._ ,
3'1 07-] [103205]. Prohibitedactivities—Whoeveroverdrives,over-

a- -1

loads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments. deprives of!
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats. mutilatcs. or cruelly kills or causes ori
procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, over—l
worked, tortured, tormented, deprived ofnccessary sustenance. cruelly beat-

en. mutilated or cruelly lzilled, any animal; and whoever, having charge or,
custody ofany animal. either as owner or otherwise, inflicts needless cruelty 1
upon the same, or mutilates the same, or deprives it of any natural meansi
ofdefense or protection, or cruelly or unnecessarily fails to provide the same i
with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall, onj
conviction, be fined in any sum not more than two hundred dollars {$200M
to which may be added imprisonment in the county jail for any period not,i
exceeding sixty [60] days: Provided, That the provisions of this section, shall
not apply to the docking oflambs, dehorning of cattle, or clipping of horses,

or the docking of horses intended for show purposes. [Acts 1905, ch. 169,;
§ 584, p. 584; 1907, ch. 38, § 1, p. 57; 1935, ch. 222, § 1, p. 1047.]

Title of Act. The title ofActs 1905. Ch. 169,
read: "An act concerning public ofTenses." ln
force April 15. 1905.

Amendments. The 1907 amendment added

Emergency. Section 2 of Acts 1907. ch. 38
declared an emergency. Approved February
23, 1907.

Section 2 of Acts 1935. ch. 222 declared an

 

the concludin" proviso emergency. APPTOVC‘d March 11. 1935.
. b - .

Cross-References. Failure of officer to any
rest and prosecute for cruelty to animals. 35-;

31-6—1. l
lnjuring or killing animals. 35-1-72-2.

The 1935 amendment amended the con-
cluding proviso by adding the words "or the
docking of horses intended for show pur-

pases.’ . -
Prohibited salesand coloring of rabbits and:

rgwi. 35-31-65-1 — 35-31553. 1
I OWA ,
717.2 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Any 5 person who shall-impound-or-confine-or-eause-to-be

impounded-or-eonfined impounds or confines, in any place, any?

 

a domestic animal7 or fowl, or any dog or cat, and fail fails‘
to supply such Ehg animal during confinement with a sufficient
quantity of food, and water, or who fails to provide a dog or
cat with adequate shelter, or who shall-torture7-torment7
deprive tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,
mutilate7-overdrive7-overioad7—drive mutilates, overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, beat7-or-kill-any-sueh
beats, or kills an animal by any means which shall cause

unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether

intentionally or negligently, shall-be is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor.

 




KANSAS .

21-1610 Cruelty to animals. (1) Cruelty to. animals is: (a Subjecting
any animal to cruel mistreatment; or (b) Having custody of any animal i
and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect. (2) This section shall l
not be deemed applicable to accepted veterinary practices or activities.
carried on for scientific research. Any police officer or public health
officer or any officer or agent of any duly incorporated humane aocietyi
may take charge of any animal found abandoned that may appear to be 1
diseased or disabled beyond recovery for any useful purpose and such 3

officer or agent may at once cause such animal to be killed in a human

manner. (3) Cruelty to animals is’a classB misdemeanor. ‘ 'l

KENTUCKY
186.180 Cruelty to animals. Any person who unnecessarily or cruelly beata,l

l

tortures, uses or otherwise mistreats any animal, whether his own or not,
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars nor more than $1,000 j
or confined in Jail for not more than twelve months or both. l

LOI] I S I ANA
§ 1021. Cruelty t?) animals

A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal negligence commits any of the I
following shall be guilty of cruelty to animals: ‘

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when oyerloaded, or overworks a living animal.
- (2).Tcrtures, torments, cruelly beats or unjustifiahly injures, maims, mutilates, or kills
ny living animal, whetheri'nlonging to himself or another. '

(3) Having charge, custody, or possession of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
unjustiﬁably fails to provide it with proper food, proper drink,’ proper shelter, or proper
veterinary care. . _ - . 1' - - .. .

° (4) Abandons any animal. . -‘ .5 . ;
I (5) Impounds or confines or causes to be impounded or conﬁned in a pound or other

place, a living animal and fails to supply it during such confinement with proper food,
proper drink,’ and proper shelter. .-

(6) .Carries, or causes to be married, a living animal in or upon a vehicle or'otherwise, in a ;
cruel or Inhumane manner. . 1' s

 

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domes- ‘
tic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that the same
shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic animal.

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
consent of the owner. ' f

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or omission whereby unnecessary or unjustiﬁ-
able physical pain, suffering, or death is caused to or permitted upon the animal.

(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person any act enumerated in this Section.

B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.

C. This Section shall not apply to the lawful hunting or trapping of wildlife as provided

by law, herding or2 domestic animals, accepted veterinary practices and activities carried
on for scientific or medical research governed by accepted standards. .

D. For purposes of this Section, fowl shall notbe defined as animals.

Added by Acts 1982, No. 431, § 1.

I In subsec. A, “proper drink" is as it appears in the enrolled hill.
2 In subsec. C. "or" following "herding" is as it appears in the original bill and in the enrolled Act.

 




MAINE

§40l 1. Cruelty to animals
Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if be:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege
or the consent of the owner. or kills or at tempts to kill any animal with the
owner‘s consent. by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner
or occupant of property is priirileged to use reasonable force to eject a
trespassing animal:

 

|
l

B. Injures. overworks. tortures. torments. abandons. gives poison to;
cruelly beats or mut ilates any animal or exposes a poison With the lIllt‘llll

. . I
that ll be taken by an annual; j

t'. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses ol necessary suste‘;
nanee. necessaw medical attention. proper shelter. protection lrom thd
weather or humanclv clean conditions: or

D”. Keeps or leaves a dOmestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December. January. .
February or March without providing necessary sustenance and proper .
shelter. -- ‘

MARXLANDJ_.__
§' 59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

_ Any perSOn who t1i‘ov'erdrives,Overloads, deprives of necessary sustenance,
tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes, pro-
cures or authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of an animal,

’ either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon the
animal, or unnecessarily fails to provide'the animal with nutritious food in
sufﬁcient quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air, spacepshelterg
or‘protectionfromtheiweather,isguiltygoi'.amisdemeanorand shall be pun-l
ishable by a ﬁne not exceeding.$1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90?
days, or both. Customary and normal veterinary and agricultural husbandry;
practices including but not limited to dehorning, castration, docking tails, and l
limit feeding, are not covered by theprovisions of this section. ln the case of I
tactiﬁtiéS imam—physica‘l‘pain‘jmay unavoida’lﬂy'h—é caused—teammals, such
‘as food processing,pest elimination, animal training, and hunting-cruelty;
:shall mean afailure to employ the mosﬂiumanemethod reasonably available}
‘I’t’i‘s‘tl‘ie‘i‘nteﬁition'oiithe.Geniéral:ASsembly than-all animals shall be protected.
from'intentionalcruelty,_hut that no personshalljbe liabl_e__i:or criminal prosecuv
tion for normal human activities to whichthe inﬂiction of pain to an animal
is purely incidental and unavoidable. (An. Code, 1951, § 76; 1939, § 70; 1924,
‘§ 69; 1912, § 63; 1904, § 57; 1890, ch. 198,"§1§‘1955, ch: 19; 1957. ch. 296; 1963,
ch. 718; 1966, ch. 333; 1972, ch. 719; 1975, ch. 716.: g ‘ ‘

 

MASSACHUSETTS
§ 77. Cruelty to animals,

m“*'°m“':*a emu—2w. . . ~ .‘ ’ " ‘ ~ 7

Whoever overtli-ivcs, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly heats, mutilates or kills an animal, or causes or
procures an animal lo he so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured; tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed;
and whoever uses, in a cruel or inhuman manner in a race, game, or contest, or in training
therefor, as lure or hail a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait in fishing;
and whoever, having the charge or custody of an animal, eithcras owner or otherwzse,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it With proper food,
drink, shelter, or protection from the weather. and “'l}0<i\'ct‘. as "Wile". possessor, 0" P050“
having the charge (il‘Jtllh‘Ultly of an‘animal, cruelly drives or works ll when unfit for labor,
or Willl'ully abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a‘vehtcle, or
otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner which
might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully authorizes or
permits it to he subjected to unnecessary-torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind shall be
llunishcd by a fine of not more: than five hundred llOllill‘S 01‘ by-imprisionment for “0‘ more
than one year, or both. ‘

 




MICHIGAN

Sec. 1. ‘y'boeyer overdrivcs, overloads, drives when Overloaded, overwork-s,
tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, matilixtes. or
cruelly kills, or causes or procures to be so overdrivcn, Overloaded, driven when
overlriaded. overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal, and whom-(,7 having the
charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails to provide the same with proper food, drink!
shelter, or protection from the weather, is guilty of a misdemeanor * a: . andi

 

 

 

 

l

51,3” 1,0 imprisoned for nor more than 3 months, or fined not more than 8500.00,;
. . l
or by both * * ’. The cropping of dogs ears shall be ccnsxdered to be a inutila—g

 

 

tion or cruelty to an animal within the meaning of this act, unless such cropping isl
peg-formed by a registered veterinary surgeon. while the dog is under an anaesthetiei

Approved April25, 197-1. 343.21 OVERWORKING OR NHSTREATING ANIMALS; PENALTY.

Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive. overload, torture. cruelly
MINNESOTA beat. neglect. or unjustifiably injure. maim. mutilate. or kill any animal. or cruelly
work any animal when it is unfit for labor. whether it belongs to himself or to

another person.

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive any animal over
which he has charge or control of necessary food. water. or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or other animal in any
enclosure without providing wholesome exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed any cow on food which produces
impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow any maimed. sick. .
infirm. or disabled animal to lie in any street. road. or other public place for more
than three hours after receiving notice of the animal's condition. '

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal or animals. or any act tending to produce cruelty l
to animals. ,i

:

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage any animal for public display;
purposes unless the display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to 3
protect the caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal dimension of i
each side of the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal. The l
provisions of this subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricultural I

l
l
l

 

society. the Minnesota state fair. or to the county agricultural societies. county
fairs. to any agricultural display of caged animals by any political subdivision of
the state of Minnesota. or to district. regional or national educational livestock or
poultry exhibitions. The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to captive!
wildlife. the exhibition of which is regulated by section 97.6l 1.
Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this
MISSISSIPPI section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 97:41-1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload, torture, tor-
ment, unjustiﬁably injure, deprive of necessary sustenance, food,
or drink; or cruelly beat or needlessly mutilate; or cause or
procure to be overridden, overdriven, overloaded, tortured, un-
justiﬁably injured, tormented, or deprived of necessary sustenance,
food or drink; or to be cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or
killed, any living creature, every such offender shall, for every
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

SOURCES: Codes, 1880, §804; 1892, § 1014; 1906, § 1091; Hemingway’s 1917,
§ 817; 1930, § 841; 1942, § 2067.

i
l
l
l

Cross references— .
As to care and disposition of glandered animal, see § 97-27—7.
As to livestock laws, see §§ 69—13—1 et seq.

Research and Pracﬁce References—
4 Am jur 2d, Animals §§ 27-30.
3 CJS, Animals §§ 67 et seq.

ALR Annotaﬁons—
Law as to cats. 73 ALR2d 1032. ~
What constitutes cruelty to animals. 82 ALRQd 794.

 




MISSOURI

563.670. Any person who cruelly, in a willful and ma-
licious manner, kills, maims, wounds, beats, or tortures any
animal or other nonhuman living creature is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by con-
ﬁnement in the county jail for not more than three months,
or by a fine of ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and con-
finement; except that, the provisions of this section shall
not be construed to prevent or interfere with any scientiﬁc
experiments or investigations, with the lawful taking of ani-

mals or other nonhuman living creatures, or with the des-

 

truction of household or garden pests or creatures which,

have an'adverse eﬁect on the public health.

MONTANA

94-8406. Cruelty to animals. (1) A person. commits the offense (I):
cruelty to animals if without justiﬁcation he knowxngly or negligently su -
jects an animal to mistreatment or neglect by: ' g .
(a) oveerorking, beating, tormenting, injuring or killing any animal; ‘
ar ° g any animal in a cruel manner; or , _ . g
c 13;: failinglto provide an animal in his custody with proper food, drink,
or shelter;or -   . . f - _. _ . 1

(c) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any anima pln 301:);
highway, railroad or in any other place Where it may suffer injury, uno
or exposure or become a public charge; or . . , .‘ _. ..

(d) , promoting, sponsoring, conducting or part1c1pat1ng 1n aéiortse rage:
of more than two (2) miles; or promoting, ﬁonsoring, or con uc mg

' ' tin in an ﬁght between any anima _ . . .
partlgpaA gerson :onvicted of the oEense of cruelty to animalsdshauﬂb:
ﬁned not to exceed ﬁve hundred dollars-($000) or behinlilprisone in
county jail for a term not to‘exceed Six (6) months, or ot .

' - b Sec. 1, Ch. {Commission Comment ‘ . . . - .
Slﬁogﬁén 94.8 106 Y ' '- ' Subdivision (1) (0). covers unstail-ces tin
’ . Derived from the proposed which a person knowmglyoand neg lgei'lzl

5565' alsoderived releases or abandons a Wlld or semi. 1.11
odh, section 250.11. animal in a populated area. where it ‘wr

not be able to fend for itself.

 

Source: _
Michigan Code, each
from Model Penal Co

NEBRASKA

28-1002. Cruelty to animals: penalty: authorized or permitted con-
duct. (1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:

(3) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(c) Abandons any animal; or

(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another.

(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to amend or in any
manner change the authority of the Game and Parks Commission, as
established in Chapter 37, or to prohibit any conduct therein author—
ized or permitted.

Source: Laws 1977, LB 38, § 215.

 




NEVADA

57L}. lOO Overdriving, torturing, injuring animals; failure to provide prOper susten—
ance-m—A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or unjustifiably
injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or to
another, or deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, foodor drink, or neglects
or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink, or causes, procures or permits
any animal to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably
injured, maimed, mutilated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink,
or who wilfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers an act
of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty of f
a misdemeanor. . a

NEW HAMPSHIRE

\
644:8 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS l

I. In this section, ”cruelty" shall include, but not be limited to, acts or
omissions injurious or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any {
animal, including the abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its!
care, sustenance, protection or shelter.

II. In this section, "animal" means a domestic animal, a household pet or
a wild animal in captivity.

IIL Apersonisguiltyofarnisdemeanorifhe: '

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives or causes to be
deprived any animal in his possmon or custody necessary care, sustenance or
shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures, mutilates or in any other
manner mistreats or causes to be mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when overloaded, or
otherwise abusesor misusesany animalintended for orusedforlabor:

(d) Negligentlytransportsanyarumalin hispossessionorcustodyina
manner injurious to the health, safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in his possessron or
custody by causing each animal to be left without supervision or adequate
provision for its care, sustenance or shelter: or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any animal in his mien
or custody to be subjected to cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary
suffering of any kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in paragraph
.lII, any person charged with cruelty to animals may have his anima confiscated
by the arresting officer and, upon said person's conviction of cruelty to annuals,
the court may dispose of said animal in any manner it decides. The costs, if
any, incurred in boarding and treating the animal, pending disposition of the
case, and in disposing of the animal, upon a conviction 0f said person for
cruelty to animals, shall be borne by the person so convicted.

 




._;__ NEW JERSEY . _ . . . .
9.32.2-17JViiér'uelty1n general; ntisdepieanor-——A person who shall: (a) overdrlve, over-

load. drive whenoverloadedrevervork. thtnre, tommt. deprive of necessary sus-
tenane'e, l11.118.659356115-13?.91‘ cmeﬂxbeator otherwise 8131156, Or needlessly mutilate or
kill, a living animal or_ creature;__ (b)_.causeo_r._ procure any of such acts to be done;
or (c) infli¢t_unnecessary cruelty'ppon a living anlmal or creature of which he has
charge either assowner orotherwise, orhunnecessarilyfail to provide it with preper
food, drink, shelter or protection from the _wea.ther---shall be guilty of a rug.
demeanor, and'for every such offense shall be fined not more than two hundred and
fifty dollars, or be imprisoned in the county jail not more than 51:: months, or both,

in the discretion of the court.

NEW MEXICO
30-18-1. Cruelty to animals. «\

Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary sustenance, cruelly beating,
mutilating, cruelly killing or overdriving any animal;
B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal with proper food or drink; or
C. cruelly driving or workinganyanimal when such animal is unfit for labor.
Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.

History: 1953 Comp.. § lOA-lS—l. enacted by. Laws
1963. ch. 303. § 18-].

Meaning of “torture" and “torment". — The words
"torture” and "torment" are commonly defined to
include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unjustified physical pain and suffering or death is
caused or permitted. State v. Buford, 65 N.M. 51, 331
P.2d 1110 (1958).

Animals included. -— No legislative intent appears
to restrict. the sanction ofthis section to any particular
class of animals. 1963-64 Op. Att'y Gen. No. 64-86.

The language of former 40-443, 1953 Comp, seemed
to apply only to brute creatures and work animals,

Cockfighting. — Cruelty to animal statute (former
40-4-3, 1953 Comp.) was not passed with the intention
of prohibiting such sports as cockfighting. State v. Bu-
ford, 65 N.M. 51, 331 P.2d 1110 (1958).

Cruel sport. -— Placing ofa live coon in a shallow
barrel which is swiveled to rotate around a pole when
pushed, with the object of ﬁnding which hound dog
can pull the coon out of the barrel in the shortest time,
constitutes cruelty ’to animals as defined in this
section. 1963-64 Op. Att’y Gen. No. 64-86.

Am. Jur. 2d, A.L.R. and C.J.S. references. -— 4 Am.
Jur. 2d Animals §§ 27 to 29.

What constitutes statutory offense of cruelty to

i
l

 

 

 

animals, 82 A.L.R.2d 794.
3 C.J.S. Animals §§ 69 to 71.

‘ and the history showed that it was passed in relation
to other laws governing livestock. State v. Buford, 65
N.M. 51. 331 P.2d 1110 (1958).

NEW YORK

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to provide properi
sustenance.

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or
unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether wild or tame,
and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprives any animal of
necessary sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such
sustenance or drink, or causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured,maimed, mutilated:
or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who wilfully sets oni
foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty ofa misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not:
more than five hundred dollars, or by both.

Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with
any preperly conducted scientific tests, experiments or investigations, involving
the use of living animals, performed or conducted in laboratories or institutions,
which are approved for these purposes by the state commissioner of health. The
state commissioner of health shall prescribe the rules under which such approval
shall be granted, including therein standards regarding the care and treatment of
any such animals. Such rules shall be published and copies thereof conspicuously
posted in each such laboratory or institution. The state commissioner of health
or his duly authorized representative shall have the power to inspect such
laboratories or institutions to insure compliance with such rules and standards.
Each such approval may be revoked at any time for failure to comply with such
rules and in any case the approval shall be limited tooa period not exceeding one

year.

 




NORTH CAROLINA

§ 14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.
If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, tor-

ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly

or cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, injured, tortured,l

beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,

tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly mutilated;

or killed as aforesaid, any

for every such offense be guilty of a

useful beast, fowl or animal, every such offender shall!
misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of up to

one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In this section,
and in every law Wthh may be enacted relating to animals, the words “animal”;

and “dumb animal” shall be held to

include every living creature; the words “tor-E

ture,” ”torment” or “cruelty” shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect:

whereby unjustiﬁable physical
terms shall not be construed
jurisdiction and regulation of

[NORTH DAKOTA

36-2l.l-O2 Overworking or mistreeting animals-~Misdemeanor.
son shall overdrive, overload, torture,
tifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill

(2)

any animal when unfit for labor.

pain, suffering or death is

caused or permitted. Such

to prohibit the lawful taking of animals under the:
the Wildlife Resources Commission. \

(1) No per- ,
cruelly beat, neglect, or undue--
any animal, or cruelly work i
No person shall deprive any ani-

mal over which he has charge or control of necessary food, water, or

shelter.

exercise and whoesome change of air.

(5) No person shall allow any
animal of which he is the owner, or of which he
any street, road, or other public place 3
(6) No person shall willfully instigate, or in any way further,f

animal.

notice.

any act of cruelty to any animal or animals,
(7) No person shall cage any animal for public

produce such cruelty.

(3) No person shall keep any animal in any enclosure without

(h) No person shall abandon any ;
maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled?
has custody, to lie in
fer more than three hours after

or any act tending to

display purposes unless the display cage is constructed of solid mater-
ial on three sides to protect the caged animal from the elements, and
unless the horizontal dimension of each side of the cage is at least

four times the length of the caged animal.
section shall not apply to the North Dakota state fair
to any agricultural display of caged

agricultural fair associations,

The provisions of this sub-
association, to

animals by any political subdivision, or to district, regional, or nation-

al educational livestock or poultry exhibitions.

approved by the health district or
subdivision which has jurisdiction
the provisions of this subsection.
with any of the provisions of this
meanor.

OHIO

959.13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
(A) No person shall:

(I) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily,
or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or conﬁne an animal withouti
supplying it during such conﬁnement with a sufﬁcient quantity of good wholesome

food and water;

ment, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can
reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise become sick or in some other
way suffer. Division (A) (2) of this section does not apply to animals impounded or
conﬁned prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this section, shelter means a man-made

(2) Impound or conﬁne an animal without affording it, during such conﬁne-4

Zoos which have been
the governing body of the political
over the zoos shall be exempt from

(8) Any person who fails to comply
section shall be guilty of a misde-

enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural windbreak or sunshade that is developed
from the earth‘s contour, tree development, or vegetation.

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or goats
in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor or (sic) feed cows
on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;

(5) Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than twenty-
eight hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food, water,
and attention, nor permit such stock to be so crowded as to overlie, crush, wound,
or kill each other.

(B) Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any particular ship-
ment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and apart from any printed
bill of lading'or other railroad form. the length of time in which such livestock may
be detained in any cars or compartments without food, water, and attention, may be
extended to thirty-six hours without penalty therefor. This section does not prevent
the dehoming of cattle.

(C) All ﬁnes collected for violations of this section shall be
or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals. if there be
township, or municipal corporation where such violation occurrcd_

paid to the society
such in the county,

 




OKLAHOMA . .
§ 1685. Cruelty to animals

Any person who shall wilfully or maliciously overdrive. over-3
load, torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or
mutilate. any animal in subjugation or captivity, whether wild or
tame, and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprive 1
any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall
cause. procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriveng
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or in- j
jured. maimed or mutilated. or deprived of necessary food, drink
or shelter; or who shall wilfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, ‘
or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal. or any act i
tending to produce such cruelty, shall be punished by imprison- g
ment in the penitentiary not exceeding ﬁve years. or by imprison- E
ment in the county jail not exceeding one year. or by line not ex-
ceeding ﬁve hundr ed dollars , and any ofiicer ﬁnding an animal so
maltreated ore abused shall cause the same to be tithll c..r e of. and ,
the charges therefor shall be a lien upon such animal. to be col- 1
lected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien. R.L.1910, § :27 it}.

OREGON
167.740. (1) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when over-

loaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,

l
cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or causes or procures such cruelE
treatment of any animal, or who, having the charge of or custody of any

animal as owner, or otherwise, inflicts cruelty upon the animal, shall, upon

conviction, be punished for every such offense by imprisonment in the;

county jail not exceeding {60 days} one year, or by a fine not exceeding
11.199} 111, 000, or both. ,

(2) Every owner, possessor, or person having the charge or custody of

4

any animal, who cruelly drives or works the animal when unfit for labor,

‘

or cruelly abandons the animal, or carries or causes the animal to be car-

. 4 -
I \

ried in or upon any vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner at

knowmgly or wilfully authorizes Or permits the animal to be subjected

 

to torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind, shall be punished for each and

every offense 1n the manner provided 1n subsection (1) of this section.

-
1' v

(3) The dehorning of cattle or the docking of horses or sheep, as com-

monly practiced by stockmen, is not a violation of this section.

PENNSYLVANIA

Cruelty to animals. «A person commits a summary offense if he wantonly or
cruelly illtreats. overloads. beats or otherwise abuses any animal, or
neglects any animal as to which he has a duty of care. whether belonging to
himself or otherwise, or abandons any animal. or deprives any animal of
necessary sustenance. drink. shelter or veterinary care. or access to clean
and sanitary shelter which will protect the animal against inclement
weather and preserve the animal‘s body heat and keep it dry. This subsection
shall not apply to activity undertaken in normal agricultural Operation.

 




RHODE I SLAND

4-1—2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals--—Whoever shall overdrive,
overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sus-f
tenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill, or cause or procure to be so over- i
driven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived 5
of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal, and?
whoever, having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, f
shall inflict unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or shall unnecessarily fail to pro- 3
vide the same with pr0per food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall,{
for every such offense, be imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined f
not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250), or be both imprisoned and fined as I
aforesaid. ‘ ‘

SOUTH CAROLINA

§ 6-4. Ill-treatment of animals generally.———\Vhoever overloads, over-
drives, overworks, tortures, torments, necdlessly'mutilates, cruelly kills,
ill-treats, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter, or inflicts unnecesq
sary pain or suffering upon any animal or causes the same to be (lone,e
whether such person be the owner of such animal or have the charge or:
custody of it, shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor:
and be punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding thirty days or;
by a ﬁne not exceeding one hundred dollars. (1952 Code § 6-4; 1942 Code!
§ 1594; 1932 Code § 1594; Cr. C. ’22 § 559; Cr. C. ’12 § 910; Cr. C. ’02
§ 625; G. S. 1703; R. S. 507; 1881 (17) 573; 1883 (18) 388.)

1

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal {
prohibited. No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when i
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary g
sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat, mutilate, or cruelly kill
any animal. l

Source: SL 1903, ch 9, §5; RC 1919, Cross-References. g .
§10110; SDC 1939, § 40.2202; SL 1977. Civil forfeiture for unlawful use of ;

ch 190, § 441. estray, § 40-29-7. 3
. Violation as misdemeanor, § 40-1-15. i

g
l

TENNESSEE

39-404. Cruelty to animals - Misdemeanor. -- Ifany person shall over- i
drive, overload, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly I
beat, or needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or procure same to be done,
as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell, or exchange any horse
or mule, when unfit for labor, every such offender shall, for every offense, ;
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the purchase of .
animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of this state, for!
the purpose of humanely killing the same. [Acts 1881, ch. 169, § 1; Shan.,
§ 2557; Acts 1917, ch. 55, § 1; Code 1932, § 5091.] *

Law Reviews. Animal Lex. 25 Tenn. L. Rev. Ark. Stat. 1947, §§ 41-409 -— 41-414.

471. Miss. Code 1972, §§ 2067-2075.

Comparative Legislation. Cruelty to ani- “0' Rev. Stat. 1959' §§ 553-660553530- i
m], N Car. Gen. Stat. 59‘ 14-360 —- 14-363. ,3
Ala. Code 1940, m. 3. § 11. "8- Code 1950' § 13-1'215- l

 




TEXAS

Civil 182 Cruelty to animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to 4
overdrive, willfully overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, tor- :
ture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly"J

. beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill any animal or carry any animal
.in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner or
cause or procure the same to be done, or who having the charge or due-5

tody of any animal unnecessarily fails to rovide it =
drink or cruelly abandons it. p with proper bed’:

UTAH

76-5-1 Overworking, underfeeding, heating or injuring. Every person who

overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor- ,

ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, inJures or muti-/

lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures the same to f

be done; and every person having charge or custody of any animal, either!

as owner or otherwise, who inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same,

or wilfully fails to provide such animal with pr0per rhod or drink, or

shelter or protection from the weather, shall for every such offense be*

punished by imprisonment in the county Jail not exceeding three months /

or by fine not exceeding $100, or by both such fine and imprisonment; /

provided, that nothing in this section requiring food, drink, shelter

and protection from the weather to be furnished any animal shall be //

construed to apply to animals running at large upon the range.
‘or cruelty, shall be punished as provided in subsection (a) of this
section.

(c) Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit or
interfere with:

(1) the taking of ﬁsh, wild game, or wild birds under 10 V.S.A.

appendix section 1 et seq.; or

VERMONT
§ 403. Cruelty to animals generally
(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when over-
loaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sus-
tenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills any animal, or

causes or procures it to be done, or having the charge or custody
of an animal, inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily
fails to provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year or
ﬁned not more than $200.00, or both.

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody
of an animal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unﬁt

for labor, or cruelly abandons the same, or who carries or causes I
such animal to be carried upon a vehicle or otherwise in an un-?

necessarily cruel manner, or knowingly or wilfully authorizes or

 

permits the same to be subjected to “unnecessary torture. snﬁ‘grinqi

VI QINIA .
§ 29:13.91. Cruelty to animals; penalty. - Any
' person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-
treats, abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain
not connected with bona fide scientiﬁc or medical ,
experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats, maims, 1,
mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself
or another; or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or (iii) willfully sets on
foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers the act of
cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be carried
in or upon any vehicle, vessel or otherwise any animal in a
cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as to produce torture
or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any of the above
things, or being the owner of such animal permits such acts
to be done by another, shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal in any public placeincluding the right
-of-way of any public highway, road or street or on the
property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the ‘
dehorning of cattle.

For the purposes of this section and §§ 29-213.78. 29' i
213.80, 29-213.82 through 29-213.84, 29-213.93, 29-
213.94 and 29-213.100, the word animal shall be

nnnetwmrl on ‘.nnlnr3n L‘;,_,J,, m“: cm"! ”no; .. um\

(2) the use of animals for scientiﬁc research by competent
research men if done in a humane manner with a minimum suffer-
ing to the animals; or

(3) the implementation of rabies control program by any
state agency.—Amended 1967, No. 365 (Adj. Sess.), § 1, eff.
March 27, 1068. ‘

Hrsroar

VHS. 1947,4§§ 8360, 8361. PL. §§ 8500, 8501. G.L. §§ 6919, 6920.
RS. §§ 5809, 5810. V.S. §§ 4993, 4994. KL. §§ 4183, 4184. 1876, No. 14,
§§ 1, 2. 1872, No. 29, § 1. 1854, No. 51.

Amendments—1967 (Adj. Sess.). Subsection (c): Added.

Source.

ANNorA'rxoxs

l. Intent. The language of subsec. (8.) did not in terms or by implication
make intent or maliciousness an element of offense created, and therefore such
need not be shown in order to justify conviction. State v. Vance (1956) 119 Vt.
268. 125 A.2d 800.

2. Sufﬁciency of information. In a prosecution under subsec. (u) for cruelty
to animals the information was sufﬁcient if it stated that respondent unneces-
sarily failed to provide animals with proper food and drink. State v. Persons
(1946) 114 Vt. 435, 46 A.2d 854.

 




WASHIlNg.IPSO2.I\I.O7O Certain acts as cruelty—Penalty. Every person
who cruelly overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, ox or-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustepance,
cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or causes, piocutcs,da:;-
thorizes, requests or encourages so to be overdriven, ox eiloa g ,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, e:
prived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten or mutilated or
cmellv killed, any animal; and whoever havmg .thecharg‘e o?
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherw1se, inflicts-11.111-
necessary suffering or pain upon the same, or unnecessarily fa1 s
to provide the same with the proper food, drmk, arr, hght, space,
shelter or protection from the weather, or who \Vilfully and un:
reasonably drives the same when unﬁt for labor or with yoke o1
harness that chafes or galls it, or chcclt rem or any part. of its
harness too tight for its comfort, or at n1ght when it has been 31).
consecutive hours without a full meal, or who cruelly abandons
any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

 

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8-19 Cruelty to animals; pitting animals against each other in ight;
penalties. If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly
beat, torture, torment, mutilate, kill, or overload, overdrive, or wil-
fully deprive of necessary sustenance, any horse or other domestic ani- j
mal, whether such horse or other animal be his own or that of another l
person, or shall impound or confine any such animal in any place and fail
to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of good, wholesome food

and water, or shall carry in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise, any such
animal in a cruel or inhumane manner, or knowingly feed a cow on food

that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die any
maimed, sick, infirm or diseased animal, or shall be engaged in or
employed at cockfighting, dogfighting, bearbaiting, pitting one animal
to fight against another of the same or different kind, or any similar
cruelty to animals, or shall receive money for the admission of any l
person, or shall knowingly purchase an admission, to any place kept for
such purpose, or shall use, train or possess a dog or other animal for l
the purpose of seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other domestic l
animal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be fined not less than five nor more than one hundred dollars, and, in

the discretion of the court or Justice, may be imprisoned in the county;
jail not exceeding six months.

WISCONSIN . . . .
AN ACT to amend 948. l 8 (l) of the statutes, relating to increasing the penalty for certain cr1mes against animals.

The people oft/1e state of Wisconsin, represented in sen- 948.15 (1) is subject to a Class C forfeiture. Any per-
ate and assembly, do enact as follows:

SECTION 1. 948.18 (1) of the statutes, as affected those sections is guilty ofa Cl misdemean An '
by 1985 Wisconsin Act 48, is amended to read: . ‘1

l

son who intentionally or negligentl violates any of ,I
l

. . l . person who intentionally v olates s. 948.02, res ting
94§4()82.1894§%n2351t1e;218 83) 9121336: ”593% 6,510 333%: in the mutilatiom disﬁgurenkent or d imal
948:07: 948.09, 948.10, 948.11, 948.13, 948.14 or is guilty of a Class B felony.

948.02 Mistreating Animals.

No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another, in a cruel manner. This SSCthn

does not prohibit bona fide experiments carrie on .

for scientific research or normal and accepted veterinary
practices.

 




WYOMING

6-3-203. Cruelty to animals; penalties; limitation on
manner of destruction.

(a) A person commits cruelty to animals if, without
lawful authority, he knowingly:

(i) Overrides, ‘overdrives, overloads, drives 1
when overloaded, overworks, tortures or torments an animal
or deprives an animal of necessary sustenance;

(ii) Unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates
or kills an animal; or

(iii) Carries an animal in a motorized vehicle
in a cruel or inhumane manner.

(b) A person commits cruelty to animals if he has the
charge and custody of any animal and unnecessarily fails to
provide it with the proper food, drink or protection from
the weather, or cruelly abandons the animal.

(c) A person commits cruelty to animals if he:

(i) -Keeps a place where fowls or animals, by his
consent, are allowed to fight upon exhibition or for sport
upon wager;

(ii) Owns, possesses, keeps or trains fowls or
animals which, by "his consent, are allowed to fight upon
exhibition or for sport upon wager;

(iii) Is knowingly present at any place where an
exhibition of fighting of fowls or animals is occurring.

(d) A person shall not destroy an animal by the use of}
a high-altitude decompression chamber or a carbon monoxide)
gas chamber utilizing a gasoline engine. This subsection is:
uniformly applicable to all cities and towns.

(e) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor punishable byi
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, a fine of not?
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or both:
except that cruelty to animals as defined by subsection (c)
Of this section is punishable by not more than one (1) year
imprisonment, a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or both.

 

 




7 «AbSAL—K Wt £7000 M/W M? ‘5 '1‘.»
§ 1255.035 “2551/35

 




 

i ll.til.i.‘5() .-\i .\.Hl\';\ Sitxi‘iﬂi

in the state possesses, prepares, publishes, or prints With
distribute, sell, or exhibit to others for commercial considera
material that visually depicts conduct described in
11.41.455(a), knowingthat the production of the material xm
use of a child under 18 years of age who engaged in the thy

(b) This section does not apply to acts that are an integra:
exhibition or performance of a motion picture if the acts 1m. ;.. gum... ,3
within the scope of employment by a motion picture open-inn m m
tionist employed by the owner or manager of a theater or n: 3...:- ,3“:
for the showing of motion pictures, unless the motion pictm .« l l
or projectionist

(1) has a ﬁnancial interest in the theater or place :3: whg}
employed; or i

(2) causes the performance or motion picture to be pm: mm; ..
exhibited without the consent of the manager or owner ”3' * .. «Mam
or other place of showing.

(c) Distribution of child pornography is a class (I tel-imi-
SLA 1983)

t ion, -
stier 1%
”l V9.4 a”
"l1::"‘t,

Hit? ‘if'fljg

V’l’V-Wﬁira

Cross references. —— For crime of
unlawful exploitation of a minor. see AS
11.41.455.

Sec. 11.61.130. Misconduct involving a corpse. {as .\ wry};
commits the crime of misconduct involving a corpse if

(1) except as authorized by law or in an emergency. the pew In intes-
tionally disinters, removes, conceals, or mutilates a corpse;

(2) the person engages in sexual penetration of a corpse; 2 r

(3) the person detains a corpse for a debt or demand or upon. a has
or charge. ‘ '

 

166 SLA 1978)

- {b} WWW—corpse is aelass~A misdemeanor. Wish

mal by the use. 0.“
' ‘ l
i'the defendant ' l
accepted veter
' .A‘53cientiﬁc researc
'- ily incident to ll

7‘ on, “animal"
":13, but does not inclu
. to animals is a class
3 '78 SLA 1980: am

' " ...-nts. —- The 1980
{mm the section.

. ent inserted "i a n 1‘; or
;'th€_introductory language of

.. AThe provisions of
’0 :(3) of subsection :a! as
I be 1980 amendment

omotes, or has 2

s; or

,xhibition of ﬁgl
equipment, vi
pei‘son in a Vl(

theistate if t?

t

“animal” me
ut does not incl

Collateral references. -—- 22 Am. Jur.
2d, Dead Bodies, §§ 47-50.

25A C.J.S., Dead Bodies, §§ 8(2l-8(4).

Action at law for desecration of grave,
172 ALR 554. V

Immunity from liability for unlawful
treatment of dead body in operation of hos-
pital by state or governmental unit. or
agency, 25 ALRZd 244.

Liability in damages for Willimwis’é‘
corpse” from relatives, 48 ALRM 2,49. 3

Validity. construction. and «muscular
of statutes making it a crimzzr» “WW ’
mistreat or wrongfully discuss.- at saw
body, 81 ALR3d 1071.

Sec. 11.61.140. Cruelty to animals. (a) A person commits the

crime of cruelty to animals if the person _* '
(1) intentionally inﬂicts severe and prolonged physmal pm

suffering on an animal;

(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result of th
causes the death of the animal or causes severe pain or suffer: n;

animal; or

I! i.“

at Haul?“
g in “2“"

126

in exhibition of
i or .(2) ,of this .56
of this section i '
.z . .ﬁpr the secc

7' OEBtruction t
ction of high

. , . .Qrﬁiierxnits t0

talr‘isk of p

 




451,145 CRIMINAL LAW § 11.61.150

l‘UTES § 11.61 11'. .
kills an animal by the use of a decompression chamber.
. ”It is a defense to a prosecution under (31(1) or (2) of this section
. . . . .. conduct of the defendant
I 1i": conformed to accepted veterinary practice;
rho engaged in Im3 COMM, ,1. ‘ was part of sc1ent1ﬁc research governed by accepted standards; or
S that are an integral 1.11111 ,3 . : . was necessarily incident to lawful hunting or trapping activities

picture ifthe acts are ,,,.....,,..... ‘- ' '3 .. . In this section ”animal” means a vertebrate living creature not
iotion picture operato“ .11' 5mm .. v" " .511; 1 being, but does not include ﬁsh

iager of a theater or Other 1:». ,. - - . . Ernelty to animals is a class A misdemeanor (§ 7 ch 166 SLA
less the motion picture ”pm-m , 5 .1. 9 1 ch 78 SLA 1980; am § 20 ch 59 SLA 1982)

~ishes. or prints with 111112111 1...
‘ commercial CORSldE‘l'élllun, .11.

3nduct described under .‘\ ~
Lion ofthe material involved 11 .

:-

lie theater or place in win. 1 f :3 1" amendments. —— The 1980 may now be found in AS 11.61.145.
w‘ rewrote the section. Collateral references. -— 4 Am. J ur.
. - mendment inserted "(bill or 2d, Animals, §§ 27-30.
.1011 pleture to be performwl ’ , ' the introductory language of 3A C.J.S., Animals, §§ 99-112.
nanager or owner of the them.» . ' Cruelty in trapping animals, 79 ALB.
'° ;mtes. — The provisions of 1308
. \ ‘ ‘ . - ’1‘)and(3)of subaection(a)as What constitutes statutory offense of
7y 15 a Class C {BIOIW- ‘5 2 (h 1 3,; r to the 1980; amendment cruelty, 82 ALR2d 794.

31.145. Promotingan exhibition of ﬁghting animals. (a)
5? mmits the crime of promoting an exhibition of ﬁghting
.eperson

o

s, keeps, or trains an animal with intent thyt it be

)lving a corpse. (all A perwh mbltwn Ofﬁihﬁﬁg animalst‘” ._ -_.,._. 3f: " ’ “f“
'olving a corpse if . ...:‘ ;:. tes, promotes, or has a pecuniary interest in an exhibition
.1 an emergency. the person 1m .4; 4 . . animals or
or mutilates 3 (30111591 9.5: ~ an exhibition of ﬁghting animals.
renetration Of a corpse; ”r i > H. animals, equipment, vehicles, money, and other personal
a debt 0" demand or Up‘m ‘ H ‘.~_-. -1 by a person in a violation of(a)(1) or (2) of this section
. g .7 cited to the state if the person is convicted of an offense
is a class A misdemeanor .: 3 1 7 - aectim.
it a : nation, "animal” means a vertebrate living creature not
Liability in damages 11 1.111111 .1 . .' but does not include fish. .
orpse from relatixes 48 Al R M '1‘ w» 13 an exhibition of ﬁghtmg animals
”£15331th ,ﬁiﬁiigufffiniiﬂl ”mfg. . 7 , (aXl) or (2) of this section is a class C felony;
mime... or wrongfully im 1» ~« ’ ' ~ (8X3) of this section is a violation for the ﬁrst offense and
body. 81 ALR3d 1071- ‘ ' , g. ' ..- eanor for the second and each subsequent offense. ( § 2
“ .1980)

.3 1.150. Obstruction of highways. (a) A person commits

al ( A erson WNW“ 3270f obstruction of higt says if the person knowingly
:1 s. a P ~ ' ' . drops, or permits to drop on a highway any substance that
350“ . . . . .e :4 Julietantial risk of physical injury to others using the

11.1111

and prolonged physu'ul 1

Vi" _‘

 

th;11:11-113" V .. a highway impassable or passable only with

l and, as a result of .. '
”PHD—l 1" « .“ inconvenience or hazard.

uses severe pain or 511
127
6

 




.Aviym ”FL 4w: Mal/W wq ‘6 i750
§13~707 §13-90&

 




 

 

My; eras...

CRIMINAL CODE Title 13

§ 13-2909

Cross IReterences

Criminal liability of labor organizations, see §§ 13—305, 13-308.
Fines, see 55 13—1002, 13M1004.

Library References
Disorderly Conduct €31 et seq. C.J.S. Disorderly Conduct § 1(1) et

@1051. 390-
Labor Relations C.J.S. Labor Relations 5 1002 et seq.

-~o

%§ 13-2910. - Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification

ff';'—»_-o .- ' ""‘H' 'er,
.. .9..-“- c-stm‘”"\-‘2

 

 

   
  

 

‘ ' menus... 1' control to

‘ ‘ ‘“ "MN.

.5,”
r

B. It is a defense to subsection A of this section if any person
exposes poison to be taken by a dog which has killed or wounded live-
stock or poison to be taken by predatory animals on premises owned,
leased or controlled by him for the purpose of the protection of such
person or his livestock or poultry, and the treated property is kept
posted by the person who authorized or performed the treatment until
such poison has been removed, and such poison lS removed by the per-
son exposing the poison after the threat to such person, h1s livestock
or poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall be 1p such
manner as to provide adequate warning to persons who enter the prop-
erty by the point or points of normal entry. The warning notice which
is posted shall be of such size that it is readable at a distance of fifty
feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall state the
word' “Danger” or “Warning”. '

    

C. Cruelty to a iffials or poultry is r; .,
Added Laws 1977. h. 142, §' 91, eff. Oct. 1, 1978,.

Historical Note

Code 1939, §§ 43-1202, 43—1203. 43»
2209. 43-5818.

Altﬁ fume-r §§ 13-863, 13—931
ire—03:3 -

Source:
Penﬂneie 1901, §§ 534, 560.
Laws 112909, (:21. ~10, ii 3.

' 7' 7‘ n M L‘ _ _ 1.... - . - .- . - "7‘. . . _ .I.” - . .
. ._ 1! H) «K 7:1" '93 Rilv at. —. . .. ,
" t, “1.). y: . - - ‘Il‘ a .,‘Q .. ,4: . 1". - a ..l ‘ . . t . ‘~ .- ~ 4 ‘ -‘

; Jr". ltgu.1,.2.acs.}1.’;, ‘3‘ ‘¥_’.‘;33}1;N4.‘a?‘:‘,;l’f‘ :~ J‘- ’~=Z§~,&§,’-;w~'->’F-1-7(}'53? Em, was-:ﬁtrtﬂu‘zm'bihzg 1eﬁrﬁxzknwrmufﬁn-‘2"G'Vér-‘é=’."‘«¥.:£i'“ f7.“ Vitrem-ws‘ﬂwuws'w _- _.... 43:7“. Wilkes“ kmﬁz’hvm‘ .mwst'mwf 22‘99. MWWW‘Q’W‘W" 0'31? 3" - ,

i-pqi'i' ~'Z.'- 4‘: 4;. ‘;"’-~ w: WWI vi". 3‘6 .~._-,.-..» '-‘~‘ 791- ﬂora-3w?» A’s"”".T’?v\"’-*'.V"'¥~‘on?”“1‘-W‘A“,"siwcvtﬁ'ﬁ‘”'\'4«'v<r'i7""2-w1"Z'ﬁ‘v‘wdm’f' 173‘.-'%2~ unit 125.. "K’s-.7; 1:12: .-.. .-;:..-':‘:‘"..'.’. gh‘v‘."7?v‘r~‘fii'f’f".‘r"J! "-..,";‘1""v?'71--3--"- ‘-..-."~c':'-.\.~", ‘ t“"“~-‘."""*"*.’-‘35?" ~

:. '.-' . "3'1; ~_. ,, , ~ , " ‘ ‘; ~, ' .... "1“?" .1 .. _; ~ . -- ,,- ..; ‘. ; . . . , .» .;.‘. _ -u~ 4.1 r. 5‘ r!‘ _,_,> . w, ~ :1. ‘. ' i . '

 

 

Ch. 29 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER § 13-2911
The distinction between dogs and oth- 1929, Ch. 106, § 1, which act exempted
er domestic animals. in the protection from the section authorized persons ex-
afforded by the section under which a posing poison to be taken by predatory
lesser punishment was imposed for 1301- animals.
soning dogs was abolished by Laws
Cross References
Branding or altering brand of animal of another, see 5 24—243.
Horses, poor condition, seizure, see § 24—551 et seq.
Killing livestock of another, see 3 24-246.
Obliterating or changing brand or mark of animal of another, see § 24—244.
Pilot or passengers of airplane killing or attempting to kill birds or animals, see
5 28-1745.
l Punishment for misdemeanor, see 5 13-1002.

Library References

Animals @1940 to 42, 45.

. .. w . Notes of Decisions

Construction and application 2
Malice 3
Validity l

i. Validity

This section providing punishment for
cruelty to"‘animais” evinced no clear in-
tent on part of legislature to include
Same cock in the term “an animal” as

_, M therein; and to interpret statute as
making it a crime to conduct cocktight
would be to render it vague, indefinite
4;,» - M Jud—uncertain and, therefore, in viola-
- “on of due process clause of Const. Art.

513-291 1.

vbo.4 ' ,u . V. . s 1’ 4» 73»

i ,

. {£15 a): s

at" ‘3

: I
int-r v

0! such property by others; 01‘

2. Refusing to obey a lawful order given pursuant to subsection B

of this section.

 

“imam“ With the peaceful conduct of educa- '
tional institutions; classifications ‘ ' ’

“ j; A. A person commits interference with the peaceful CODdUCt 0f
“educational institutions by knowingly:

___._. . _L GOing upon or remaining upon the property of any educational
r V ( “@911- ineviolation of“ any..rule. or regulation of such institution ,
*W’Em‘forthgpurpose ‘of interfering With the lanUI use 0f such Derel‘tY. .
.41....44ﬁ2 érs or in such manner as to deny or interfere with thelawful use

  
 
 
    
    
  
   

C.J.S. Animals §§ 99 to 112, 317 et seq.

2, § 4. State v. Stockton (1959) 85 Ariz.
153, 333 P.2d 735.

 

2. Construction and application

Ranger prosecuted for killing mare in
compliance with regulation was not
guilty of malicious killing. Fears v.
State ( 1928) 33 Ariz. 432, 265 P. 600.

3. Malice

In prosecution under Pen.Code 1913, §
602 (now this section}, which made mali-
cious killing of animal belonging to an-
other a misdemeanor actual malice was
required to be shown. Fears v. State
(1928) 33 Ariz. 432, 265 P. 600.

(a

   
    




«Avkalgm WM {moo may “1‘5"?“
§§"{'Zol §§«¢/’¢)0/

 




Av.

ANIMALS

;‘
g
V:

5-62-101

CHAPTER 62
ANIMALS

SECTION.

5-62-101. Cruelty to animals.

5-62-102 — 5-62-109. [Reserved]

5-62-110. Deﬁnitions.

5-62-111. Prevention of cruelty.

5-62-112. Search warrant.

5-62-113. Authority to make arrests.

5-62-114. Authority to take charge of ani-
mals and vehicles of ar-
rested person.

5-62-115. Injunction against society.

5-62-116. Diseased animals — Sale ——
Destruction.

Cross References. Fines, § 5-4-201.

Penalty for selling, etc., or killing of
strays before expiration of time limit,
§ 2-38-118.

Term of imprisonment, § 5-4-401.

Effective Dates. Acts 1879, No. 47,
§ 16: effective on passage.

Acts 1983, No. 285, § 3: Feb. 25, 1983.
Emergency clause provided: “It is hereby
found and determined by the General As-
sembly that each year many thousands of
dogs, cats and other animals are aban-
. doned by their owners or persons having
custody of them and that such abandoned

SECTION.

5-62-117. Decompression chambers.
5-62-118. Impounded animals —— Food
and water.

5-62-119. Cruelty in transportation.

5-62—120. Unlawﬁil dog ﬁghting.

5-62—121. Transfer of certain chicks,
ducklings, or rabbits.

5-62-122. Permitting livestock to run at
large.

5-62-123. Larceny of animals including
carcasses and ﬂesh.

animals not only create serious health
hazards to individuals and other animals
but they also are subjected to needless
suffering; that the present law is not clear
regarding the criminal responsibility of a
person who abandons an animal; that this
Act is necessary to correct this situation
and should be given effect immediately.
Therefore, an emergency is hereby de-
clared to exist and this Act being neces-
sary for the preservation of the public
peace, health and safety shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage
and approval.”

RESEARCH REFERENCES

Am. Jur. 4 Am. Jur. 2d, Animals, § 27
et seq.
C.J.S. 3A C.J.S., Animals, § 99 et seq.

42-101.. Cruelty to animals.

:-:;:. ingly:
“*1" £4

"

L5 q .x M wn-IIJII‘D

.1-‘:-!

v “n i" a s if, except as

mistreatment;
ruel neglect; or

ills o ”.314, w...- 5; ‘-"'~:‘.... er without legal

.‘ o' cnsent o the owner.

. "3'" *0 N7 54"" ~.~"(.>*r "

'5“ a 1‘7 .,. " su‘y,ﬁl

7.... wf'mf‘i‘. ./ ; '
4. will .. . ,

 




,. . 3 gt I u I ~94 6“""W‘Kw r4"-

A.

.. .. ...<~mwhsltwowk¢f*w

,_. ..,.(~;

cu». -.

y‘»|ﬂ.oy'I-"“

I .. ,,...., -omzvumwtwi\-W65M*~V“W‘N““"" ”“3":

It? .
an” "

i"

5-62-102 CRIMINAL‘ OFFENSES

History. Acts 1975, No. 280, § 2918;

1983, No. 285, § 1; A.S.A. 1947,
§ 41-2918.

CASE NOTES

ANALYSIS that the animal was killed in an enclo-

Acts cons titutin offense sure having an. insufﬁcient fence; if killed
Indictment or i fformation while trespassmg 1n the defendant’s en-
Penalty ° closure, havmg a lawful fence, he could
' prove it in defense. Dean v. State, 37 Ark.
Acts Constituting offense, 57 (1881) (decision under prior law).
Exposing poisonous substances was ad-
ministering it, if the animal in fact got it. Penalty. .
Hankins v. State, 118 Ark. 419, 176 SW. The 036311.385 created by former section
691 (1915) (decision under prior law). which prohibited cruelty to animals were
punishable by fine or Imprisonment, or
Indictment or Information. both. State v. Greenlees, 41 Ark. 353
An indictment did not have to allege (1883) (decision under prior law).

5-62-102 —- 5-62-109. [Reserved]

5-62-110. Definitions.

(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise requires:

(1) "Animal” or “dumb animal” includes every livinghcreature;

(2) "Torture,” “torment,” or "cruelty” include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is
caused or permitted;

(3) "Owner” and “person” include corporations as well as individ-
uals.

(b) Nothing in this act shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting
of birds or other game for the purpose of human food.

History. Acts 1879, No. 47, § 15, p. 54; Meaning of "this act”. Acts 187 9, No.

C. & M. Dig.,§ 2625; Pope’s Dig.,§ 3312; 47, codiﬁed as §§ 5-62-110 -— 5-62-119.
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2962.

5-62-111. Prevention of cruelty.

(a) Any ofﬁcer, agent, or member of a society which is incorporated
for the prevention of cruelty to animals may lawfully interfere to pre-
vent the perpetration of any act of cruelty upon any animal in his
presence.

(b) Any person who shall interfere with or obstruct any such ofﬁcer,

agent, or member in the discharge of his duty shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.

History. Acts 1879, No. 47, § 10, p. 54'

)

C. & M. Dig, § 2619; Pope’s Dig., § 3306;
A.S.A. 1947, § 41-2957.

 

 




 

 

_ ... a «in—w- -a.-.a...~._r:' . -:

3!} i ,1

§ 594.1 PENAL CODE

high stating: “Any person who maliciously defaces real or personal property with paint is guilty of
vandalism which is punishable by a fine, imprisonment, or both.”

(d) It is unlawful for any person to carry on his or her person and in plain view to the public an
aerosol container of paint " ' ” while in any posted public facility, park, playground, swimming pool,
beach or recreational area, other than a highway, street, alley or way, unless he or she has first
received valid authorization from the governmental entity which has jurisdiction over the public area.

As used in this subdivision “posted” means a sign placed in a reasonable location or locations
stating it is a misdemeanor to possess a spray can of paint ‘ ‘ " in such public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, beach or recreational area without valid authorization.

(e) It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess an aerosol container of paint
‘ ‘ ‘ for the purpose of defacing property while on any public highway, street, alley, or way, or
other public place, regardless of whether that person is or is not in any automobile, vehicle. or other
conveyance.

(f) Violation of any provision of this section is a misdemeanor.
(Amended by Stats.1988, c. 925, § 1.)

Historical Note container which is larger than 6 ounces (net weight of
1988 Legislation contents), except as speciﬁed in the third paragraph of subd.
The 1988 amendment provided that the misdemeanor (a), which was added to the section.

applies to any aerosol container of paint, rather than to a

X

‘ 2'75“ ,—_ ~ ‘3.
§ 597. Lﬂmelty mammals;

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section or Section 599e, every person who
maliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or wounds a living animal ‘ ‘ ‘, or
maliciously and intentionally kills an animal " ’ ', is guilty of an offense punishable by imprison-
ment in the state prison, or by a ﬁne of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the fine and imprisonment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). or by both the fine and

imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person who overdrives. overloads,
drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary‘sustenance, drink, or
shelter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and
whoever, having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any
animal to needless suffering, or inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner
abuses any animal, or fails to provide the animal‘with proper food, drink, or shelter or protection

, ' , 'des, or otherwise uses the animal when unfit for labor, is, for
every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a misdemeanor or as a felony or alternativ‘gly
punishable as a misdemeanor or a felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars
$20 000 . . . '

(c) Every person whoxmaliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, or tortures any mammal,
bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish as described in subdivision (d), is guilty of an offense punishable by
imprisonment in the state prison, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or
by both the fine and imprisonment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than one year, by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and
imprisonment.

(d) Subdivision (c) applies to any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish which is a creature
described as follows: .

(1) Endangered species or threatened species as described in Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section
2050) of Division 3 of the Fish and Game Code.

(2) Flilly protected birds described in Section 3511 of the Fish and Game Code.

(3) Fully protected mammals described in Chapter; 8 (commencing With Section 4700) Of Part 3 0f
Division 4 of the Fish and Game Code.

(4) Fully protected reptiles and amphibians described in (Chapter 2 (commencing With Section 5050)
of Division 5 of the Fish and Game Code. 7 \

’\

(5) Fully protected fish as described in Section 5515 of theitFish and Game Code.
Underline indicates changes or additions by amendment

8

PENAL CODE

This subdivision does not su
described species, including, bu

(e) For the purposes of subdi
or torturing a separate specime
any person is charged with a vi
12157 of the Fish and Game Cc

(f) Upon the conviction of :
permitting an act of cruelty, a
with respect to the violation by
animal regulation department .
shall thereupon be awarded to
violation of this section by caus
liable to the impounding officer
proper disposition.

Mandatory seizure or impo
experiments or investigations o
ed medical college or universi‘

(Amended by Stats.1988, c. 12 '
1556, § 4.)

Historical Note
1988 Legitilation
The 1988 amendment in subds. (a)
maximum county jail alternative ﬁnei
in subd. (3), inserted “of this section
“subdivision (c)”. deleted ”which is
person or which is the property of a
in two places; in subd. (1)) added .
crime punishable alternatively as a r
and by a fine of not more than
nonsubstantive punctuation change it

Under the provisions of § 5 of S
1988 amendments of this section by
1556 were given effect and inco --
forth in § 4 of c. 1556.

Section 6 of Stats.1988, c. 1522, r

“It is the express intent of th
amendments to Section 597 of the P
act shall not (a) interfere with the e

§ 5971). Fighting animals 0

Notes of Deeisi
Validity 1

l. Validity

Word "spectator” as used in thi
ciently certain, on its face, to withs
nus challenge; given dictionary dc
tator" could apply to purposeful 0

§ 602. Trespasses constitu
Every person who willfu.
misdemeanor:

(a) Standing timber. Cu
or growing upon the lands I

(b) Carrying away tim -.

(c) Injury to or severan
another anything attached

Asterisks * * ' indicate -

 




Ieight of
of subd.

on who
a a, 01'
imprison-
by both
;han one
fine and

rerloads,
drink, or
t to be so
trived 0f
led; and
jects any
' manner
trotection
it, is, for

ernativel
13 dollars

mammal,
tshable by
30,000), or
' not more
e fine and

1. creature

ith Section

)f Part 3 of

ection 5050),

moment

PENAL CODE

/ 4,;

l
.

§ 602

This subdivision does .not supersede or affect any provisions of law relating to taking of the
described species, including, but not limited to, Section 12008 of the Fish and Game Code.

(e) For the purposes of subdivision (c), each act of malicious and intentional maiming, mutilating,
or torturing a separate spec1men of. a creature described in subdivision (d) is a separate offense. If
any person is charged With a Violation of subdivision (c), the proceedings shall be subject to Section

12157 of the Fish and Game Code.

(f) Upon the conviction of a person charged with a violation of this section by causing or
permitting an act of cruelty, as defined in Section 599b, all animals lawfully seized and impounded
with respect to the violation by a peace officer, officer of a humane society, or officer of a pound or
animal regulation department of a public agency shall be adjudged by the court to be forfeited and
shall thereupon be awarded to the impounding officer for proper disposition. A person convicted of a

o

violation of this section by causing or permitting an act of cruelty, as defined in Section 599b, shall be
liable to the impounding officer for all costs of impoundment from the time of seizure to the time of

proper disposition.

Mandatory seizure or impoundment shall not apply to animals in properly conducted scientific
experiments or investigations performed under the authority of the faculty of a regularly incorporat-

ed medical college or university of this state.

(Amended by Stats.1988, c. 127, § 2; Stats.1988, c. 1522, § 1; Stats.1988, c. 1527, § 1; Stats.1988, c.

1556, § 4.)

Historical Note

1988 Legislation

The 1988 amendment in subds. (a) and (c) increased the
maximum county jail alternative ﬁne from 52,000 to 520.0(1)
in subd. (a), inserted “of this section or Section 599C" after
“subdivision (c)", deleted “which is the property of the
person or which is the property of another" after “animal"
in two places; in subd. (b) added provisions making the
crime punishable alternatively as a misdemeanor or felony
and by a ﬁne of not more than $2,000: and made a
nonsubstantive punctuation change in subd. (e).

Under the provisions of § 5 of Stats.1988, c. 1556, the
1988 amendments of this section by c. 1522. c. 1527 and c.
1556 were given effect and incorporated in the form set
forth in § 4 of c. 1556.

Section 6 of Stats.1988, c. 1522, provides:

“It is the express intent of the Legislature that the
amendments to Section 597 of the Penal Code made by this
act shall not (a) interfere with the existing rights to self-de-

9 597b. Fighting animals or birds; prohibition;

Notes of Decision!
Validity 1

l. Validity

Word “spectator" as used in this section was not sufﬁ-
ciently certain, on its face, to withstand due process vague-
ness challenge; given dictionary deﬁnitions of word. “spec-
tator” could apply to purposeful obserVer of animal fight, as

fense and use of force when it is reasonably believed that an
animal poses an immediate threat or danger to a person or
(b) interfere with any of the laws contained in the Fish and
Game Code or the Food and Agricultural Code."

Amendment of this section by §§ 2, 3. and 4 of Stats.

1988. c. 1522, failed to become operative under the provi-
sions of § 5 of that Act.

Amendment of this section by '§§ 2, 3, and 4 of Stats.

1988, c. 1527 failed to become Operative under the provi-
sions of § 5 of that Act.

Amendment of this section by §§ '1, 2, and 3 of Stats.
1988, c. 1556, failed to become Operative under the provi-
sions of § 5 of that Act. \

The 1988 amendment of this section by c. 1556 explicitly
amended the 1988 amendment of this section by c. 127.

Cross References
Endangered or protected species, punishment for viola-
tions relating to, see Fish and Game Code § 12008. '

aiders and abettors; spectators

well as to mere y. People v. Superior Court (Elder)
(App. 5 Dist.1988) 247 Cal.Rptr. 647, 201 C.A.3d 1061.

This section prohibiting presence, as Spectator, at animal
ﬁght, has Specific intent requirement and requires knowing
presence as spectator for purpose of watching animal ﬁght-
ing; under that construction, use of word “spectator" in this
section is not uneonstitutionally vague. People v. Superior
Court (Elder) (App. 5 Dist.1988) 247 Ca1.Rptr. 647. 201
C.A.3d 1061.

§ 602. Trespasses constituting misdemeanors; enumeration

Every person wh
misdemeanor:

(8) Standing timber. Cutting down, destroying, or injuring any kind of w

01' growing upon the lands of another.

0!) Carrying away timber. Carrying away any kin
Maliciously injuring or severing from the freehold of

(c) Injury to or severance from freehold.
another anything attached to it, or its produce.

0 willfully commits a trespass by any of the following acts is guilty of a

ood or timber standing

d of wood or timber lying on those lands.

Asterisks ' * * indicate deletlona by amendment
9

 




FWr‘t‘Y'-wvrw"rﬂ1-¥m .
W
.

‘4 ,

.“ .“A
' n

3;}

' ’1'.'.
vetV': ~.
' .1

. ﬁwu
‘/ l '1‘...

: summat-

I .‘ . ~ . ' v' - f
. -...,..-,..s.. u. .: ...

L
. V.“ ”garage Ina‘A-‘ﬁhtzii‘P‘ ’w—‘WﬂJ‘JI'

0.- “

:—‘—'-A§. 'r H" ' v' "" "“' .“ ".
.. 71h

1. 3’" t’ '9“‘;‘.‘;*P'
'3. 1....

fputaglgz-thi, I. ‘ . ...

..

..._.

.. . .-
ﬁ-W-’

a..-

I
i
l
J.
.z;
3
.2,

..
., __.-
.._
'W...
_,_
., . .

.163: -m ‘,—4 «ze-
. 5‘: 1r -. 1

5m.

1‘. gs..-" -... e.

 

§ 599aa CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY

Pt. 1
Historical Note

The 1975 amendment provided for arrests
under § 597.5.

Cross References

Affidavits, see Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2003, 2009 et seq.
Magistrate, deﬁned, see §§ 807, 808.

Library Reference.
Forfeitures ¢=3.
CJ.S. Forfeitures § 3.

WESTLAW Electronic Research
See WESTLAW Electronic Research Guide following the Preface.

Notes of Decisions
Fighting animal ~2 way (1975) 127 Cal.Rptr. 306, SS C.A.3d Supp.
Pit bull dogs 3 15-
Violations warranting forfeiture i 2. Fighting l l
‘ Aldabra tortoise, characterized as long-livcd.
slow-moving, and herbivorous. was not a
1- Violations WWW forfeiture “.nghtin animal," for purposes of statutes pm.
Although opening sentence of this section “Fig 01' SCIZUFC and .f9l'felm1'c 0f fighting
governing seizure and forfeiture of animals, animals. Jett v. Mumc1pal Court (People)

birds, and property used in violation of stat- app. 4 Dist.l986) 223 Cal.Rptr. 111, 177 CAM
utes relating to fighting of birds or animals ' '

refers only to statute making a misdemeanor 3. p“ bull dogs

to cause specified animals to fights, forfeiture Where defendant pled guilty to Chm.“c u,
provision is not limited to such violation; rath~ possession or training pit bull dogs m, h mm”

er, if any Penal Code section relating to ani- that they engage in fighting, the dogs wore to
mals fighting is violated, the animals involved be forfeited and were not to be returned m

are to be forfeited on conviction of the person defendant. People v. Treadway (1975) 127 Cal
charged with the violation. People v. Tread. Rptr. 306, SS C.A.3d Supp. 15.

§ 599i). Words and phrases; imputation of knowledge to corporation

hut-hiss'*title*'tlr€‘word‘”'“animal” includes every dumb creature; the. wards
“torment," “torture," and “cruelty" include every act, omission, or neglct‘t
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted; and the words “Wand “person? include corporations as well
as individuals; and the knowledge and acts of any agent of, or perm“
employed by, a corporation in regard to animals transported, owned, or
employed by, or in the custody of, such corporation, must be held to be the
act and knowledge of such corporation as well as such agent or employ“-
(Added by Stats.l905, c. 519, p. 681, § 2.) ‘ ‘

Code Commissioner! Notes

Sections 16 and 17 of the statute of 1873-4qu 499, for the more effectual
prevention of cruelty to animals, are codifi in * * * [sections 59%. 599‘ 1-

Cross References

Agency, see Civil Code § 2295 et seq. . _‘ (”dc
Agent defined, see Civil Code § 2295; Business and Professions Code § 6151; Corporanou .
§ 25003; Insurance Code § 825; Labor Code § 350.
Person as including corporation, see § 7.
426

 

 




384

secure said

ns. (1) As

volving acts
causes an
.y or person

lar device.

ﬂammable
Itch, when
and

vel or. may
explosive

is state. as
Colorado
any polit-
forcemcnt
nal guard.
ed militia
of Puerto
deﬁnition
(1 States.
ise. appli»
r, or tech—
nows that
r and any
urpose of
I irearm.
injury or
‘rtherance

pursuant
e wildlife
rifle club.
range. Of
program
handhng
ones and
arms {in

 

 

4' ”l:
A?

i 5 ‘ it E”

. V1;

385 Offenses Against Public Peace, Order, and Decency 18-9-202

the defense of home, person, or property, or the lawful use of force as deﬁned
in part 7 of article 1 of this title, or other lawful activities.
(b) Nothing in this section shall make unlawful any act of a law enforce-

.5 ment ofﬁcer which is performed as a part of his ofﬁcial duties.

Source: L. 84, p. 555,§ 1.

PART 2
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

18-9-20]. Deﬁnitions. As used in section 18-9-202, unless the context
otherwise requires:

(1) “Abandon” includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other
person responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions

for its proper care.

(2) “Animal” means any living dumb creature.

(3) “Mistreatment” includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustiﬁable pain
or suffering. ; g ‘

(4) “Neglect” includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
elements, opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper
for an animal’s health and well-being.

_ r Source:R&RE, L. 71,p. 471,§ 1;C.R.S. 1963,§40-9-201.

.. Applied .in McCausland v. People, 58 C010. R.S. O8,§ 1910); People v. Allen, 657 P.2d 447
303, 145 P. 685 (1914) (decided under former (Colo. 1983).

j '18«9-202. Cruelty to animals - neglect of animals - offenses. (l) A person

commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by law, he knowingly
or with criminal negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats,
needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a
cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or
procures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal,
‘ fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather,
or abandons it.
' "(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor. ”
. (b) In the case of any person incurring a second or subsequent conviction

under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of

Imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory

‘ md shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for

probation or parole for any part of such period. A plea of nolo contendere
accepted by the court shall be considered a convrction for the purposes of

; this section. .. . - . . .
.:aa~:__¢;t(3) Nothing in this part 2 shall be construed to amend or in any manner
-' ; change the authority of the wildlife commission, as established in title 33,

R.S., or to prohibit any conduct therein authorized or permitted.

Source: R & RE, L. 71, p. 472, §1; C.R.S. 1963, §40-9-202; L. 73, p.

.":i;_v_381. § 5; L. 77, p. 969, § 53.

 




5‘ #3.?” 3§€10€§
i611 . 1' Bureau of Animal Protection - Creation and Duties 35-42-112

to sections 35-42-105 and 35-42-108 after notice has been given may be col-
lected from the owner of such animal. If such costs are not paid by the owner
of said animal after notice and hearing, an action may be filed for the purpose

of collectiOn. In such case, the animal for which such care was furnished
shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon a judg-

ment therefor.

. Source: R & RE, L. 72, p. 152, § 1; C.R.S. 1963, § 19-1-10; L. 73, p. 380,
§3. '

Am. Jur.2d. See 4 Am. Jur.2d, Animals, C.J.S. See 3A C.J.S., Animals,§ § 64, 123,
§ § 58, 59, 74. 128,341. '

35-42-110. Disposition of costs recovered. All costs recovered for the cus-
tody and care of animals given pursuant to this article shall be applied in
payment of expenses so incurred by the bureau.

Source: R & RE, L. 72, p. 152, § 1; C.R.S. 1963, § 19-1-11; L. 73. p. 381,
§4.

35-42-111. Small pet animals. When an animal taken charge of by the
bureau pursuant to this article is a dog, cat, or other small pet animal, the
provisions of sections 35-42-109 and 35-42-110 shall not apply. Instead, such
animal may be delivered to any animal shelter or pound operated by any
town, city, or county within the state of Colorado or to any established ani-
mal shelter which may see fit to accept such animal. If accepted, the animal
shall be kept in said animal shelter or pound for a period of five days, during
which time said agent or officer of the bureau shall make a reasonable effort
to establish the identity of the owner of such animal and, when identifying
a person as the owner of such animal, shall give him notice regarding the
taking and impounding of such animal and an opportunity to reclaim said
animal. If the owner of the animal cannot be found and identified within
the five-day period or if the owner of the animal fails to reclaim said animal
'._-QWithin ﬁve days after notice, the animal may be put up for adoption, sold,
.1: ' or otherwise diSposed of in accordance and keeping with the usual and stan-
dard procedure of said animal shelter or pound.

'i'éfi'Source: R & RE, L. 72.11 153,§ 1; C-R-S9 1963’§ 19"‘12'

l»'$m-‘.Jur.2d. See 47 Am. Jur.2d, Animals, C.J.S. See 3A (3.1.8.. Animals, § § 159,-
f: i . r 339.

Cruelt to animals - penalty.

1

.. u-m uni-mumsgimn.vr§m',— ~ ~3 1

 

 




,...~«: we... . .1 141m. Th» -'»- - '~

- wanna-mum‘s 1.»,— .

 

Source: R & RE, L. 72, p. 153, § 1;C.R.S. 1963, § 19-1-13; L. 83, p. 1365,
§ 2.

Am. Jur.2d. See 4 Am. Jur.2d, Animals, 0.15. See 3A C.J.S..Animals,§ § 101405.
§ § 27-29. 108.

35-42-113. Keeping fowls or animals to ﬁght. Every person who keeps a
place where any fowls or animals, by his consent, are suffered to fight upon
exhibition or for sport upon any wager is guilty of a class 1 petty offense
as defined in section 18-1-107, C.R.S.

Source: R & RE, L. 72, p. 153,§ 1;C.R.S. 1963, § 19-1-14.

35-42-114. Local regulation. The provisions of this article shall not be con-
strued to limit or preempt additional regulation by any city, town, or city
and county. Nothing in this article shall interfere with the authority of the

department of health in the enforcement of parts 7 and 11 of article 4 of
title 25, C.R.S. '-

Source: R & RE, L. 72, p. 153.§ 1; C.R.S. 1963,§ 19-1-15; L. 83, p. 1069.
§ 3.

Am. Jur.2d. See 4 Am. Jur.2d. Animals,
§ 21.

ARTICLE 43

Branding and Herding

35-43-101. Brands on livestock —— evi- 35-43-113. Publication of brands and
dence. ‘ transfers.
35-43-102. Branding -— evidence of own- 35-43-114. Fees ——disposition —— report.

‘ ership -- penalty. 35-43-115. Assessment of brands.
35-43-103. Earmarks. 35-43-116. Wrongful branding —— penalty.
35-43-104. ’Brand distinctions -— record— 35’43’ll7- U53 0f false brand ‘- dam—

, , ing office; ages: . . ’
35-43-105. Fee to record brands -— unlaw- 3543" 18' Mavenck deﬁned -’ branding.

613

I

35-43-128. Theft
pe

35-43-101. B

0 horses with the a

another state or 4
the brand, or a I
state or territor
as a brand duly r

Source: L. 13,
C.R.S. 1963, § 8

Am. Jur.2d. See
15 § 8.9.

35-43-102. B

, usually branded

evidence of own
unless the brand
of cattle or she-
state shall. be pl
The cattle shall
of the owner as
Sheep shall be I
cient to disting

other flocks of s
of such drove .
with the provisi
nor more than th

Source: G. L.
C. 160, § 2; CR8

Am. Jur.2d. See
5 § 8. 9. '

713543.103. E
an. earmark. Su

the owner’s rec.

1t . . .
fuluse—penalty. pena y ‘1‘: 1.0 stock 18 anOl

35—43-106. Certiﬁed copy ofbrand—fee. 35—43-119. Stock mixed wrth drove -~

 

“Va...“ «y...- .mv—wﬁrﬁv .v “

$0....
a _

 

' ' I

‘~ .
, I'_,,m'-mmmc -I.-.~o~vwm-M-.w-"W‘”-
‘< n. ,
.,. a 1.2L . .

35-43-107. , Recording by county clerk and
recorder.

3543-108. Brand book.

35—43-109. Brands personal property —

recording by board —-

effect.

35-43-110. Proof of ownership —— evi-
.dence.

3543-1 1 l. Earmarking sheep and hogs.

35-43-1 12. Other animals 4— earmarks.

35-43—120.

35-43—121.
3543— 122.
3543-123.

35—43-124. I

35—43-125.
3543-126!
3543-127;

penalty.
Trespassing on lands —- injur-
ing resident —— penalty.
Herding sheep near towns.
Penalty.
Thoroughbred rams must be
herded.
Fines paid into school fund.
No hogs to run at large.
Dog worrying stock. .
Skinning carcass without right.

car of the anim

animal cut off
mark by cutting .

'§."".Sburc'e: G. L.

C160, § 3; CR8

Mlnrzd See
9., ~ " .

 




4

s to‘ acts committed

its available to a trial
: applicable law as of

nd the factors to be »

sentencing are those
date of sentencing.
9.2d 977 (Colo. App.

t defendant are not
clence, trial court has
ither consecutive or
ople v. Corbett. 713
85).
n of a death sentence
ath penalty statute
:ople v. Corbett, 713
85). «
inary decisiomete.
,the trial court must
luding the nature of
j of the offender, and;
sentence within, the
ss it. concludes that
;or aggravating fac-
-.Clements, 732 P. 2d

:riinin'alrecordilsen-

iolation of a constitu-
ed cannot be used to
1 subsequent criminal
People, 655 1’. 2d 834

1er the failure (if a
h a previous Sentence
ay be constitutionally
abajal, 720 P 2d 991

' considered serious
liCh occurred between
and the re-sentencing
inn increased the seas
pon remand People lit.
(Colo. App 1987).

troperly consider an
impos-

\» ..

5 Provisions Applicable to Offenses Generally

or mitigating circumstances that justify varia.
tion from. the presumptive range. People v.
Vela, 716 P.2d 150 (Colo. App. 1985).

However, it is not necessary for the sentenc-
ing court to refer explicitly to each of the fac-
tors. To theextent that People v. Piro (671
P.2d 1341) may suggest otherwise, it is disap-
tligcggd. People v. Walker, 724 P.2d 666 (Colo.

The decision of the trial court to sentence
consecutively for separate offenses is discre-
tionary and, in general, courts are free to
impose concurrent or consecutive sentences as
the situation warrants. People v. Wieghard,

, 743 P.2d 977 (Colo. App. 1987).
' A sentence within the aggravated range is
‘Iinandated whenever any of the extraordinary
aggravating circumstances specifically
enumerated in subsection (9)(a) are present.
People v. District Court, 713 P. 2d 918 (Colo.
1986). .

Mandatory sentencing of defendant on parole
istntus under subsection (9) is a deﬁnite,
immediate, and automatic consequence of
plea which defendant must understand.
People v” Chippewa, 713 P. 2d 1311 (Colo.
App. 1985). ,

Subsection (9)(a)(V) does not require, etc.

2- . In accord with original. See People v.
jj;_ Brewer, 720 P.2d 583 (Colo. App. 1985).
7 Because conﬁnement in a'detention facility
"is an essential element of the offense of
attempting to introduce contraband in the
ﬁrst degree, the defendant could not be sen-

18-1 106. Misdemeanors classified-

18-1-106

sectiOn (9) (a) (V). People v. Chavez, 743 P. 2d
53(Colo. App. 1987).

Cost to the taxpayers of the defendant’s trials
and the fact defendant acted alone are not

aggravating sentencing factors and 'were _

improperly considered in sentencing. People
v. Arguello, 737 P.2d 436 (Colo. App. 1987).

Factor which constitutes an element of the
substantive crime could not constitute an
extraordinary aggravating circumstance.
People v. Garciadealba, 736 P.2d 1240 (Colo.
App. 1986).

Sentence modified on appeal only, etc.

In accord with original. See People v.
Clements, 732 P 2d 1245 (Colo. App. 1986).

Sentence upheld.

Minimum sentence within presumptive
range for criminally negligent child abuse
resulting in death was proper when it was sup-
ported by the evidence, reﬂected a proper bal-
ancing of mitigating and aggravating factors,
and did not give undue weight to any one
factor. PeOple v. Clements, 732 P .2d 1245
(Colo. App. 1986).

' When a defendant receives two convicﬁons

' and challenges only one of the convictions, the
. trial court has no authority to alter the sen-

tence for the unchallenged conviction. People
v. Wieghard, 743 P.2d 977 (Colo. App. 1987).

Applied in Espinoza v. People, 712 P.2d 4126.
(Colo.1985),afﬁrming People v Espinoza

annotated in the 1986 replacement volume;

People v. Lucero, 714 P. 2d 498 (Colo. App.

x ,, ‘ “yr”
.a- -. ‘

1985). . .-

J

penalties. (l) MiSdemeaiiors are.

«edit/med into three Classes which are distinguished from one another by the
"followmg penalties which are authorized upon coiiviction except as provided

‘ subsection (1. 5) of this section:
' Miniimini Sentence

Six months imprisonment,

or ﬁve hundred dollars. ..

ﬁne or both

_, _ Whree months imprison-
7 i ' merit, or two hundred fifty
, . dollars ﬁne, orboth

Twenty-four menths imprison-

ﬁne, or bath

\_

Six months imprisonment, or ,
seven hundred ﬁﬁy dollars

fine, or both

.... of unpnsonmen or conwction of a misdemeanor shall he served

g-rrectional ﬁacili” 15 >
,, ,fcreonvietionefeielcny

nest; Canon City unless served concurrently With

ment, or ﬁve thousand dollars"

.féi'n- .- ‘- “I 2., Y". ..r
’&m<’(’~"§m" " '-‘ ‘ ~;. '33,,

‘Ar. r‘pméu t

- (vat. ._
.J ,.

 




:7 W g” V
f- . .. 91' l“; 3." ‘1
My 3- .:;-- ». '

CHAPTER 945

(OFFENSES AGAINST HUMANITY AND
MORALITY.) CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Secﬁon

53—242 to 51—246. Repealed.

51—247. Cruelty to animals.

53—248. Sale or treatment of animals unable to work.
53—249. Cruelty to poultry.

53—24%. Sale of dyed fowl or rabbits.

53—250. Use of animals, reptiles and birds.

5‘ —‘2.51. Docking of horses’ tails.

53—252. Transportation of animals on railroads.
53—253. ' Notice of arrest of offender to be given.
53—254. Repealed.

§§ 53—242 to 53—246. Repealed. (1969, RA. 828, § 214, eff.
Oct. 1,1971.)

Historical Note

Former § 53—242, which related to the For disposition of the subject matter
penalties for blasphemy against God of former §§ 53-243 to 53—246, see Dis-

was derived from: position Table at the front of this vol-
1949 Rev., § 8566. ume.

1930 Rev., § 6243.
1918 Rev., § 6395.
1902 Rev., § 1323.

§ 53—247. Cruelty to animals

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded, overworks,
tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly
beats or kills or unjustifiably injures any'animal, or who, having
impounded or confined any animal, fails to give such animal proper
care or neglects to cage or restrain any such animal from doing
injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply any such
animal. with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably admin—
isters any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with
intent that thé same shall be taken by an animal, or causes it to be
done,r‘or, having charge or custody of any animal, inflicts cruelty
upon it or fails to provide it with proper fOod, drink or protection
from the weather or abandons it or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a cruel manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or
carries on or performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in,
or is a witness of, or in any way aids in or engages in the

furtherance of, any fight between cocks or other birds, dogs or
280.6.SA.—4 71

 




» if ‘: ,.;.;.'._.-,~;»‘-if:-:'-",
'- f‘,=‘.;(.:‘;<»»§’~n‘s . ”3.1‘ 3%,

§ 53-247 CRIMES

other. animals, premeditated by any person owning, or having
custody of, such birds or animals, or fights with orbaits, harasses
or worries any animal for the purpose of making it perform for
amusement, diversion or exhibition, shall be fined not more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars or imprisoned not more than one
year or both.

(1949 Rev., § 8571,“ 1971, PA. 99; 1984, RA. 84-181.)

Historical Note

Derivation: essarily” following “cruelty upon it or”,
1930 Rev., § 6249, “cruelty” following “the weather or”,

1927, RA. ch. 213. and substituted “3” for “an unnecessar-

i333 £13)er §h6igﬁ ily” following “be carried in”.
, . .c . . . .
1902 Rev., § 1331_ 1984, RA. 84—181, increased the fine

1971 PA 99 deleted “unnecessary” from two hundred and fifty dollars to
following “any animal, inflicts”, “unnec- seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Cross References

Animals, definition, see § 17—22.
Constables for fish and game protection, duties, limitation, see § 26—6a.

Library References

Animals @340.
C.J.S. Animals §§ 99 to 107.

Notes of Decisions

In general 1 offense, as all offenses involving contin-

Evidence 2 _ uous action, and which may be continued

Instructions 4 from day to day, may be so stated.

Jury questions 3 -' State v. Bosworth (1886) 4 A. 248, 54
Conn. 1.

The offense of cruelty to animals may
1. In general consist of overworking, underfeeding, or
Counts of an information for cruelty depriving of proper sustenance, or all of
to animals in depriving them of neces- these elements may be combined and
sary sustenance, charging the offense to constitute a single offense. Id.
have been committed on January lst and
on each day from then until March 11th, 2. EVidence

might be used to describe one offense. Where on a prosecution for cruelty to
State v. Cook (1902) 53 A- 589, 75 Conn. animals in depriving horses of necessary

267. sustenance on and after January 1st and

; An indictment charging the defendant on April 6th, defendant offered in evi-
on the ﬁrst count with cruelly overwork- dence photographs taken of the animals
ing certain animals during a stated peri- after May 1st, together with an offer of
od; on the second count with neglecting evidence that on the days of the alleged
to provide them, during that period, with offense the horses were in the condition
proper food, drink, and protection; and shown by the photographs, if defendant
on the third count with depriving them could prove the preliminary fact as to
during that period of proper sustenance, the sameness of condition, the photo-
—cannot be objected to on the ground graphs were admissible. State v. Cook
that each count contains more than one (1902) 53 A. 589, 75 Conn. 267.

72

 




CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

On a prosecution for cruelty to ani-
mals in depriving horses of necessary
sustenance, witnesses having testified
that they had seen the animals on the
days laid in the information, and having
testified to their experience in the own-
ership, use, and care of horses, it was
not error to allow them to state whether,
from their experience, they were able to
determine, on examination, as to flesh
condition, and whether or not the ani-
mals showed proper care. Id.

3. Jury questions

Court properly submitted issue of dog
warden’s cruelty to dog to jury where
there was conflicting evidence on issues
of cruelty and justification and it could
not be said that issues of fact were left
to conjecture, surmise and speculation.

§ 53-249

State v. Wrobel (1964) 207 A.2d 280, 3
Conn.Cir. 57.

4. Instructions

In prosecution for cruelty to animals,
it was error to instruct. jury that defend-
ant as owner of animals in question
would be criminally liable even though
he did not have charge and custody of
them or knowthat any violation of this
section was being committed. State v.
Yorczyk (1974) 356 A.2d 169, 167 Conn.
434.

Trial court’s general abstract defini-
tion of “cruelty” in prosecution for cru-
elty to animals was insufficient to in-
form jury of possible application of term
to situation. State v. Wrobel (1964) 207

lA.2d 280, 3 Conn.Cir. 57.

§ 53—248. Sale or treatment of animals unable to work

Any person who sells, offers for sale, trades or gives away any
horse for the purpose of being worked, which could not be worked
in this state without violating the provisions of section 53-247, or
any person who leads, rides or drives an animal on any public
highway for any purpose except that of conveying the animal to a
suitable place for its humane keeping or killing or for medical or
surgical treatment, which animal could not be worked in this state
without violating the provisions of said section, shall be fined not
more than two hundred dollars or imprisoned not more than six
months or both.

(1949 Rev., § 8572.)

Historical Note

Derivation:

1930 Rev., § 6250.
1925, RA. ch. 165.

§ 53-249. Cruelty to poultry

Any crate or other container used for the purpose of transport-
ing, shipping or holding for sale any live poultry shall be in a
sanitary condition and shall be constructed so as to provide sufﬁ-
cient ventilation and warmth, and such poultry, while in such
container, shall receive such reasonable care as may be required to
prevent unnecessary suffering. Any person who violates any provi-
sion of this section shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars
or imprisoned not more than thirty days or both.

(1949 Rev., § 8573.)
73

 




CRUELTY TO ANIMALS § 53—252

the tail of a horse, or otherwise operates upon it in any manner for
the purpose or with the effect of altering the natural carriage of
the tail, or who causes or knowingly permits such cutting or
operation to be done upon premises of which he is the owner,
lessee, proprietor or user, or assists in or is present at such cutting
or operation, shall be fined not more than three hundred dollars or
imprisoned not more than one year or both. Any horse with a tail
set or apparently with a tail set shall be accessible and subject to
inspection by any officer or agent of the Connecticut Humane
Society. ‘

(b)»If a horse is found with the bone, muscles or tendons of its
tail so cut and with the wound resulting from such cutting unhealed
upon the premises of any person, such facts shall be prima facie
evidence that the person who occupies or has the use of the
premises on which such horse is so found has committed the
offense described in subsection (a). If a horse is found with the
bone, muscles or tendons of its tail so cut and with the wound
resulting from such cutting unhealed in the charge or custody of
any person, such facts shall be prima facie evidence that the person
having the charge or custody of such horse has committed the
offense charged in said subsection (a).

(c) No provision of this section shall be construed to prevent the
Operation by a registered veterinarian upon the tail of a horse when
such operation is necessary for the health of the horse or is the
means of effecting the natural carriage of its tail.

(1949 Rev., § 8575.)

Historical Note

Derivation: 1930 Rev., §§ 6253, 6254.

1945, Supp. § 1012b. 1918 Rem. §§ 6403. 6404.
1941,-Supp. § 865f. 1902 Rev., §§ 1332, 1333.
1935, Supp. § 1701c.

§ 53—252. Transportation of animals on railroads

No railroad company, in transporting animals, shall permit them
to be confined in cars more than twenty-eight consecutive hours,
except when transported in cars in which they have proper food,
water, space and opportunity for rest, Without unloading them for
food, water and rest, for at least five consecutive hours, unless
prevented by storm or other accidental cause; and, in estimating
such confinement, the time during which the animals have been
confined, without such rest, on connecting roads from which they
are received, shall be included. Animals so unloaded shall be
prOperly fed, watered and sheltered during such rest by the owner

75 "

 

 

 




 

§ 53—252 CRIMES

or person having their custody or, on his neglect, by the railroad
company transporting them, at his expense; and such company
shall, in such case, have a lien upon such animals for food, care and
custody furnished and shall not be liable for any detention of them
for such purpose. Any such company or the owner or custodian of
such animals, who does not comply with the provisions of this
section, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars. The
,, knowledge and acts of agents of, and of persons employed by, such
company, in regard to animals transported, owned or employed by
it or in its custody, shall be held to be its acts and knowledge.

(1949 Rev., § 8577.)

Historical Note

Derivation: 1918 Rev., § 6405.
1930 Rev., § 6256. 1902 Rev., § 1334.

Cross References

Animals, definition of, see § 17—22.

Law Review Commentaries

Carrier of goods, liability. Joseph H.
Beale, .Jr. (1906) 15 Yale L.J. 207.

§ 53—253. Notice of arrest of offender to be given

Any person making an arrest for a violation of the laws relating
to cruelty to animals shall use reasonable diligence to give notice
thereof to the owner of animals found in the charge or custody of
the person arrested and shall properly care and provide for them
until their owner takes charge of them, provided the owner shall
take charge of them within sixty days from the date of such notice;
and the person making such arrest shall have a lien on such animals

for the expense of such care and provision.
(1949 Rev., § 8578).

,o

Historical Note

Derivation: 1918 Rev., § 6406.
1930 Rev., :5 6257. 1902 Rev.,§ 1335.

 




// P,

”Cf/“(4k x

va/

 




[\W m N «VI/UAW
If hg’f/zp7 3 {4/60 5) g/Om

/
CL 4//,“V

my; .95; [2:2 32%:

5’0 7* Q VS"???

 




11 § 1322 SPECIFIC OFFENSES 11 § 1325

that the explanation given by the accused was true and, if believed by the
peace ofﬁcer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
Loitering is a violation. (11 Del. C. 1953, § 1321; 58 Del. Laws, c. 497, § 1.)

§ 1322. Criminal nuisance; class B misdemeanor.

A person is guilty of criminal nuisance When:

(1) By conduct either unlawful in itself or unreasonable under all the
circumstances, he knowingly or recklessly creates or maintains a condi-
tion which endangers the safety or health of others; or

(2) He knowingly conducts or maintains any premises, place or resort
where persons gather for purposes of engaging in unlawful conduct.

Criminal nuisance is a class B misdemeanor. (11 Del. C. 1953, § 1322; 58
Del. Laws, c. 497, § 1.)

§ 1323. Obstructing public passages; violation.

A person is guilty of obstructing public passages when alone or with other
persons and having no legal privilege to do so, he intentionally or recklessly

‘ renders any public passage unreasonably inconvenient or hazardous to use, or

. he wilfully enters upon or tampers with or obstructs any public utility right-

of-way.

} Obstructing a public passage is a violation. (11 Del. C. 1953, § 1323; 58 Del.

gfLaws, c. 497, § 1.)

§ 1324. Obstructing ingress to or egress from public build-

ings; class C misdemeanor.

A person is guilty of obstructing ingress to or egress from public buildings
hen he knowingly prevents any person from passing through any entrance
1' exit to a public building, except that this section shall not apply to lawful
icketing or to picketing for any lawful union objective;
'-Obstructing ingress to or egress from public buildings is a class C misde-
iueanor. (11 Del. C. 1953, § 1324; 58 Del. Laws, c. 497, § 1.)

1325. meltSr'to-*~anjmals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall
i ude, but not be limited to, the meanings respectively ascribed to them as
ows:
.... (1) “Cruel” includes every act or omission to act whereby unnecessary
Dr'unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.
17(2) “Cruel mistreatment” includes any treatment whereby unnecessary
.or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.
, (3) “Cruel neglect” includes neglect of an animal, which is under the
care and control of the neglector, whereby pain or suffering is caused to
the animal or abandonment of any domesticated animal by its owner or

171

 




 

. " ﬂ 3341.112 _.«n“ .
_. w-..-...-.._ ﬂ-” ... ..-_~ .— ...- 1,...“ A.-q.i.~—wm.—-m~ «n» .-..

 

 

. W.” ”-9-”. w.” "a? ”1.31.!"— .- .wuryafﬂ.“ .5 ~ :51,” x ., ‘

. ...< a... .. .. .u'... ~. _~.
7... -._—.¢.M.~... w..— N‘vw’D—M" — -

 

 

\ =’ ,
(61,"; '. CHER“)! 9'“ " 25m“

11 § 1325 CRIMES AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 11 § 1325

(4) “Cruelty to animals” includes mistreatment of any animal or ne-
glect of any animal under the care and controlof the neglector, whereby
unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way
of example this includes: Unjustiﬁable beating of an animal; overworking
an animal; tormenting an animal; abandonment of an animal; failure to
feed properly or give proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) “Person” includes any individual, partnership, corporation or asso-
ciation living and/or doing business in the'State.

(6) “Abandonment” includes completely forsaking or deserting an ani-
mal originally under one‘s custody without making reasonable arrange-
ments for custody of that animal to be assumed by another person.

(7) “Custody” includes the responsibility for the welfare of an animal
subject to one’s care and control whether he owns it or not.

(8) “Proper feed” includes providing each animal with daily food and
water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjus-
tiﬁable physical pain or suffering by the animal. '

(9) “Proper shelter” includes providing each animal with adequate
shelter from the weather elements as required to prevent unnecessary or
unjustiﬁable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(10) “Proper veterinary care” includes providing each animal with vet-
erinary care sufﬁcient to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable physical
pain or suffering by the animal.

(11) “Animal” shall not include ﬁsh, crustacea or molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he intentionally or reck-
lessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner; or

, r"- (4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any animal whether be-

longing to himself or another. This section does not apply to the killing of
any animal normally or commonly raised as food for human consumption,
provided that such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if the
act is not required to terminate an animal’s suffering, to protect the life or
property of the actor or another person or if other means of disposing of an
animal exist which would not impair the health or well-being of that
animal.
Paragraphs (1), (2) and (4) of this subsection are inapplicable to accepted
veterinary practices and activities carried on for scientiﬁc research.
Cruelty to animals is a class A misdemeanor.
(c) This section shall not apply to the lawful hunting or trapping of animals
as provided by law. (11 Del. C. 1953, § 1325; 58 Del. Laws, c. 497, § 1; 62 Del.
Laws, c. 71, §§ 1, 2; 63 Del. Laws, c. 260, § 1; 64 Del. Laws, c. 196, §§ 1-3.)

 

 




