 

 

mm

W/ {Qaa/www/
r .. V, s __ L .,

design-S/64
COLONY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

The success of a primate research
program is greatly influenced by the
quality of the housing facilities.
Whatever the size or type of colony,
whatever the Species or genera used,
certain basic provisions ought to be
incorporated into the physical plans.
Although it is neither convenient nor
necessary to imitate the animal's
natural habitat in the laboratory,
consideration must be given to the
problems of temperature and humidity
control, ventilation, light, sanita—
tion, sufficient living area per
animal, and escape prevention. All
these things usually must be pro-
vided economically in terms of space,
maintenance, and cost.

Where monkeys or apes are to be
fitted into existing quarters, staff
members may be able to design ade-
quate primate facilities. However,
if extensive alteration of existing
structures or new building is involved,
the services of an architect famil-
iar with animal colony design are
essential, but not sufficient. Unless
staff members familiar with the
basic requirements and the institu-
tion's activities work with the
architect, costly mistakes and
inadequacies in the facilities will
result.

Some problems of primate care
are unique; others are like those
encountered in the care of other
animals. Thus, a general treatment
such as the Guide for Laboratory
Animal Facillties'aﬁd'the ILAR
Symposium gn’ResearCh Animal Housing

is useful.

 

 

General Plan 2: Colony

The general plan of a colony
may be broken down into two cate-
gories: a) the fUnctions or rooms
needed and b) the relations of these
rooms or functions to one another,
the "floor plan," or in more modern
terms the "flow pattern." There is

4’
./

”7T (Ti/{ﬂ ”(r—-
vhwq linl§éx

 




  

design-5/64-2

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 

not much latitude in the former
but considerable in the latter,
depending on geOgraphical and
other considerations.

The following statement of
requirements is for a central
facility receiving monkeys to be
used for several projects. It
assumes either a large monkey colony
or large animal quarters, perhaps
serving a medical school, where
some facilities are shared with
other animals. Even so, the
segregation of newly arrived mon-
keys from healthy and sick stock
applies to all sizes and types of
quarters, as does the provision of
adequate space for auxillary and
caretaking services. The monkey
suite should have the following
rooms or facilities.

1. Receiving room. This is the
place, not necessarily large, where
the monkeys are taken out of the
crates. The crates should be
removed immediately for incineration
since they may contain vermin. As
monkeys may escape when the crate
is opened, screened windows and a
rigid ceiling to bar off exposed
pipes or vents are desirable. Better
still, the room contains a large
wall cage in which the crate is
placed so that any monkeys getting
out of the crate still have not
escaped into the receiving room.

 
     
   
    
  

The animals are examined, tuber-
culin tested. and medicated according
to the practice of the laboratory
while being held manually. They are
then placed in a tared transfer

cage and weighed. The tattoo num-
ber, the weight, the names of the
supplier and shipper, etc. are
recorded in an admissions book.
Adequate equipment for this room
therefore includes a scale, a desk,
and a storage cabinet for transfer
boxes, gloves, tattoo equipment, etc.

 
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

  

2. Quarantine room. From the
preceiving room, newly arrived

 

 
 




 

design-5/64—3

monkeys are taken to the quarantine
room. This can be a small room
equipped with a number of cages
only large enough to house monkeys
individually. The cage size will
depend upon the size of the monkey
received. If large shipments are
received, it is desirable to have
several small quarantine rooms, so
that a disease-free group from one
room can be used while the monkeys
in a room where one has been sick
can be quarantined for a longer
time. Several quarantine rooms

are also useful if a number of
small shipments, perhaps of different
Species, may be received within a
month. If space in a small colony
is extremely limited, the receiving
and quarantine functions can be
combined in one room, but new monkeys
should be processed immediately and
the empty shipping boxes removed.

Each monkey should occupy a
separate cage, and receive food an
water immediatgly. Small cages
with solid walls not only prevent
spread of infection but are relative-
ly inexpensive. The door should be
of large mesh to admit light and to
permit observation of the occupant.
Other devices for isolating each
monkey bacteriologically are ultra-
violet lamps and maintenance of air
flow from the front to the back of
the cage and out of the room. A
simplified version of the cages
used for studies of highly infective
organisms (so-called "Rockefeller"
cages) will accomplish this. Good
lighting is also needed, so that the
animal's condition can be observed;
40-60 foot candles is appropriate
for a quarantine room. Because the
cages should be sterilized after each
occupancy, it should be easy to
remove them from the racks. Alter-
natively, the racks can be small and
mobile, so that cages and racks can
be moved together to the washing
and sterilizing facility.

 




design—5/64-4

Reading of the tuberculin test,
continued prophylactic treatment,
and other conditioning procedures
are carried on in the quarantine
room. Monkeys which react positively
to tuberculin tests should be des~
troyed immediately. Those obviously
sick on arrival should be immediately
taken to the isolation quarters for
treatment or, better still, destroyed.
Monkeys should remain under observa-
tion in the quarantine room for at
least a month, and should be retested
for tuberculosis at the midnpoint and
end of that time. Longer quarantine
periods of six weeks to three months
to insure complete recovery from the
debilitating effects of capture and
travel and guard against outbreaks
of disease resulting from exposure
in transit (Ratcliff, 1954; Gay,
Schmidt, personal cemmunications).
The spirit of these recommendations
can be followed by transferring
apparently healthy monkeys to the
stock colony after a third negative
tuberculin test, but not using them
as experimental subjects until a .
longer period has passed. A current
negative tuberculin test should be
prerequisite to release from stock.

At the Munich Tierpark, where
several young chimpanzees were
received at a time and kept apart
from the existing collection for
about two months, the quarantine
room of the anthropoid facility
contained a large floor cage in
which the animals could play (Felce,
1948). When a shipment was received,
each animal was placed in an indi-
vidual cage. During the first month
of quarantine they were kept in
these cages and received prophylactic
treatment. During the second month,
when the purpose of the segregation
from the main colony was to insure
adequate feeding of each animal, the
chimpanzees were transferred during
the day to the exercise cage, which
contained gymnastic equipment (chains
and rings, a pole and perches). The

 




design~5l64-S

transfer of the animals afforded an
opportunity to accustom them to
handling, although it must have been
somewhat time consuming. Food was
available only in the individual cages.

At a number of drug houses,
which receive large shipments of
monkeys for use in vaccine produc-
tion, the custom is to release
monkeys from the crates into large
cages accommodating 100 animals or

more (Ayres et al., 1960). Monkeys _ .4 ﬂ_, is.“

from different shipments are kept

in different rooms or buildings and
once the grouping of monkeys from a
shipment is established, the groups
are always kept separate, 1 .e., sur»
vivors from two or three cages are
never placed in the same cage. Each
day, animals which do not appear to
be doing well, cage mates of clini-
cally ill animals, and cage mates

of reactors to tuberculin are sacri-
ficed for excision of the kidneys.
Sick animals are removed to isolation
facilities for treatment and tuber~
culin reactors are destroyed. Since
there is an immediate terminal use
for animals exposed to infection
but not themselves sick, the danger
of expensive losses through epizoo-
tics is reduced, and the mortality
statistics can be remarkably low;
Ayres and his coworkers cite annual
loss of only 3.03 per cent at one
such facility. Other experience
indicates that losses of 25 per cent
or more per shipment occur within
the first few weeks after receipt

of a shipment even though "culling"
of sick animals is practiced.

3. "Clean stock" quarters.
Essentially, these—rooES‘ﬁrBVTae a
place for continued observation and
storage before the animal is assigned
to a specific experiment or colony.
Such a facility permits a third
tuberculin test before the animal
is moved into close contact with
others in which there is a large
investment of time and money. As
long as monkeys from the same crate

 




designm5/64m6

and of the same size are kept
together, 6 to 12 may be housed in a
single large cage, usually a wall
cage. If disease is discovered,
testing and requarantine of the
smaller group is easier than handling
all stock monkeys kept in a single
~cage, and cross infection is reduced.
Ideally, each monkey passing quar-
antine would have a separate living
cage, but this is considerably more
expensive in cage cost and daily care.

At the National Institutes of
Health stock monkeys are held singly
or in pairs in commodious cages. On
the other hand, Creamer and Buchanan
(1960) described a battery of indi-
vidual cages of electrowelded rod
patterned after those used for laying
hens. The cages were only large
enough to permit an immature monkey
to lie down or sit erect. After six
to eight weeks of confinement, mon-
keys tended to show some incoordina-
tion when released into larger cages,
but this ataxia disappeared after
several minutes' activity. This size
limitation is no longer binding
since cages of this material are now
made in sizes providing up to 3 cu.
ft. of Space (Gay, personal communi—
cation). Creamer and Buchanan list
the advantages of single cages over
gang cages for stock monkeys as: l)
elimination of social competition
with its dangers of injury and
inadequate nutrition for subordinate
animals, although the advantages
of companionship are preserved; 2)
reduced exposure to infection-a
monkey's only direct simian contacts
are the two animals in adjoining
cages; 3) greater accessibility of'~
each animal for close inspection; 4)
greater accessibility of each animal
for medication; 5) reduced handling
and 6) lower caretaking costs. The
first four of these are true of
most single-cage housing, but the
sixth is not.

 




 

design—5/64n7

4. Isolation Quarters. The role
of this'dEbatable facility can be
illustrated by considering the animal
with a diagnosed disease. Animals
which are tuberculin positive ought
to be killed outright, but since
monkeys are at a premium, there
is considerable reluctance to sacri-
fice such animals. This reluctance
results in delay, despite clear
evidence that tuberculous monkeys
anywhere in an animal house are a
threat to the entire colony (see
Hable, 1947). An alternative is to
isolate them from all other animals
and maintain them on isoniazid until
they can be used in terminal experi~
ments. Gay (personal communication)
believes this practice should not
be allowed. Risks to professional
and technical personnel are unques-
tionably involved, and expensive
compensation cases can result if
animals known to be sick are nreser~
ved. Unless the authority of the
colony supervisor is absolute, how-
ever, diseased animals will actually
be used or kept on experiment.
Perhaps it is better to control their
use by placing them in an isolation
facility than to risk their remain»
ing in the regular colony.

5. Sick bay or infirmary. A
sick bay and afghail treatment room
and surgery should be provided.

These rooms should be close to the
veterinarian's office, so that fre-
quent supervision is not inconvenient.
Precautions to prevent spread of
infection from cage to cage must be
rigorous.

The sick bay primarily serves
as a post-surgery recovery room and as
a facility for minor operations in
the interest of the animal's health.
In warm climates, this room ought to
be air—conditioned. The combination
of animals potentially sick with
infectious diseases and monkeys
whose resistance has been weakened by
anesthesia and surgical procedures
is, of course, illogical, but the

 

 

 




design-S/64-8

proliferation of isolation rooms must
have some limit. Where the facility
is large enough to justify it, the
post-surgery recovery room and the
"sick bay" should be separate.

6. Living quarters. The exact

nature and location of the permanent
living quarters depend upon the
purposes for which the animals

are used. The various requirements
are discussed in some detail in
succeeding sections. It is a matter
of experience that small rooms housing
a few animals are preferable from the
standpoint of spizootic control.

7. Feed receiving, preparation
32g storage. In an independent monkey
colony of any size, rooms for these
purposes are needed. Ideally, the
feed-receiving area should be separ-
ate from the animal~receiving area.
The exact equipment depends on the
kind of diet fed. The newer cubed
diets require virtually no equipment,
whereas a mixed diet, which may be
varied daily or includes cooked
foods, involves considerable equip-
ment. For the latter, the following
should be provided: a double-door
refrigerator of large capacity, a
large sink, a table with a butcher-
block top for chopping fruits and
vegetables, a small stove or cooking
plate, and racks and cabinets for
the storage of vegetables, fruits,
milk powder utensils, etc. For most
colonies a large refrigerator is
sufficient; for larger installations,
where other species are kept, a cold
storage room with two levels of
refrigeration can be provided, along
with a second room for the storage
of dry food. Racks for storage of
vegetables should be made of angle
iron with shelves of woven-wire or
rod, resembling these in refrigerators.
Such shelves permit circulation of
air, and allow dirt and debris to
fall through to be swept away each day.

 

 




 

design~5l64~9

Sacks of dry food (and cage
litter*) should not be piled on the

 

*If sawdust or wood chips are
used as cage litter, a carboxide or
ethylene dioxide sterilizer is
necessary to control potential ecto~
parasites, etc. (Brewer G Penfold
1961).

 

floor. The broom strikes them, leaving
dust and dirt behind, and they are
also easy prey for rodents. Racks
made from 3-in. or 4~in. pipes, spaced
about 4 in. apart and running from
wall to wall 8 in. to 12 in. from the
floor, are convenient and neat. Where
the operation is large, sacked feeds
(and cage litter) can be stored on
wheeled platforms, pallets, of the
type used in warehouses. Sacks can be
piled on a pallet as they are unloaded
from the delivery truck and moved into
the storage area without additional
lifting. Rotation of stores to
assure freshness of feed and removal
of stores to permit vermin control
activities are also facilitated.

If pelleted food is fed exclusively,
the space for food preparation can be
reduced to a Pullman kitchen or its
equivalent. Such an installation pro-
vides enough Space for keeping food
to tempt a monkey "off its feed" or
to store an experimental diet. If meals
mixed with water are fed, a mixing
machine of the type used in bakeries
is also needed.

8. Cage washing and sterilizing
room. This room is equipped with a
cage-washing facility and possibly a
cage sterilizer. The need for steri-
lization as well as machine washing
is doubtful unless the cages have
been occupied by monkeys with a
virulent infectious disease.

A minimal room for this purpose
is large enough to afford an area
where cages can stand while awaiting

 




design-5/64—lO

processing; separate storage for a
few clean cages may be in the room

or, better, adjoining it. A more
hygienic flow pattern for a large
colony or central facility involves

a used cage room, a pass-through
washer, and a clean cage storage room.
At the National Institutes of Health
all equipment for washing and sterili~
zing cages, racks, feed containers,
garbage cans, etc., is in one room
(Poiley, 1960). Items to be washed
are brought to a "used cage" room

on one side of the washer room, and
clean items are assembled and stored
in the "clean cage" room on the
Opposite side of the washer room.

This arrangement keeps at a minimum
the area requiring Special ventila-
tion to carry off heat and steam, and
also makes unlikely accidental inter-
mingling of clean and dirty equipment.
In a small facility, the need for
dirty and clean cage storage rooms
becomes less apparent. With modern
high-speed cage washers, one cage can

be washed while the next is being
brought to the washer.

Where the installation is small,
or the washing activity is decentralized,
cage-washing presents four problems:
noise, vibration, heat and humidity.
Little engineering detail is available
on these important parameters of
designing a primate colony.

9. Procedure or examination room.
Adjacent to the animal quarters most
colonies have a room where the ani-
mals may be examined, weighed or
anesthetized. Other minor procedures
such as drawing blood samples are
also conducted here. A scale, holding
boxes, examining chair or hammock, and
special equipment determined by the
colony's purpose are kept here. A
small desk is useful for record—keeping.
A logical adjunct to the examining
room is a small clinical laboratory
where procedures for monitoring the

 

 




design-5/64-ll

animals' health are carried out. Of
course, these tests can often be done
in the appropriate research labora-
tories, but assigning a room and a
technician for this purpose ensures
more adequate preventive colony
management. These facilities might
reasonably be arranged in a suite
with the veteriarian's office and

the sick bay and surgical facilities.

10. AutOpsy room. For protection
of the personnel's health at least
a sink and a table should be reserved
only for autopsy. A room devoted
only to autOpsy is preferable, since
both the autopsy process itself and
the fixatives make cleanliness diffi-
cult. This room should not Open on
public hallways and should be remote
from clean stock rooms. Considerable
storage is needed for gloves, gowns,
fixatives, specimen bottles, etc.
Wall Space can therefore be fully used.

 

The following items are considered
essential for the autopsy room:
a) refrigerator for storage of car~
casses awaiting autopsy (or incineration);
b) perfusion tray draining into sink
or into the sewer, with a shelf above
for perfusion bottles; c) autopsy
table; d) an autOpsy room light; e)
an instrument cabinet; f) specimen
scales. g) small instrument sterilizer;
and h) cabinets or shelves for glass—
ware, clean chemicals, gloves, gowns
and drapes.

Although a surgical "scrub" sink
is preferable, an ordinary laboratory
sink with a drainboard will adapt
readily to autopsy work. A stainless
steel tray 2 in. deep is placed on
t0p of the drainboard and drains into
the sink. A rubber tube connected
with the faucet will flush away the
blood and fixative before they harden.
If the available room is large, some
storage of histological and pathologi-
cal Specimens can be combined with
the autopsy function.

 




design-5/64-12

Lighting nearly equivalent to that
used in surgeries is desirable for
certain autOpsy procedures. The
control handles of the light fix-
tures should be protected from
contamination.

Jones (1954) suggests inclusion
of a dictating machine with a lapel
microphone and a foot pedal control
switch in the equipment for necropsy.
The Operator can thus describe all
gross lesions while the dissection is
in progress, and he does not have
to rely upon his memory or dictation
to a second person for autopsy notes.
A camera suitable for photographing
specimens can also be useful (Gay,
personal communication). '—-'

 

"Equipment" might also include
a copy of Jones and Gleiser's .
Veterinary Necronsy Procedures (Phila—
delphia, Lippincott, 19535. This
small volume contains the Armed Forces
Institute Pathology autOpsy protocol,
as well as valuable information on
the preservation of tissues, infec-
tious material and parasites for
further examination. In addition,
the preliminary incisions and the
techniques for removal of organs
apprOpriate to primates are described.

 

ll. Cage re air room. Even when
good sheet metal and mechanical shops
are available, a work bench for minor
cage repairs and "improvisations" may
be justifiable. Often the time for
writing and securing approval of
requisitions and billing, for trans-
portation of the equipment to the
central service, and for the waiting
for access to facilities exceeds
the length of time required for a
minor repair.

12. Cage storage. Now that
primate species varying in size from
the pigmy marmoset to the chimpanzee
are used, a primate colony has the
same problem of cage storage as does

 




design-5/64-13

a general animal quarters. Without

a variety of cages it is difficult

to meet the varying demands of a
diverse group of scientists. In the
planning of new buildings, such rooms
should be provided with the ventila-
tion and other mechanical services

of an animal room since they inevi-
tably become animal rooms.

13. Office and staff quarters.
An office area within the colony 15
an aid to orderly management. In
large animal quarters, this is usually
the office of the administrator in
charge, although a blackboard, or a
bulletin board, over a wall desk in
the monkey section might be useful
for exchange of information between
scientist and caretaker. In smaller
or isolated colonies, an office area
where messages may be left and records
may be kept is helpful. Here, the
scientist and caretaker can meet to
discuss colony problems close to, but
not among the monkeys. This is also
the apprOpriate place for manuals
and journals on animal care. If the
area allotted in pre-existing buildings
is not large enough to permit an
enclosed office, desk and record
storage space within the colony but
outside the major traffic patterns
can be provided.

In the heat of planning for
efficient primate housing, it is easy
to overlook the needs of the humans
who will operate the colony. The
minimum is a dressing room where
caretakers can change from street
clothes; lockable lockers for clothes
storage should be installed. If
lavatory facilities are not avail—
able nearby, these, too, should be
provided. A shower should be included,
although it may be very little used
unless use is compulsory. One common
oversight in planning research
installations is failing to provide
lavatory and dressing facilities for
female scientists and technicians.

 




design-S/64-l4

14. Research surgery. Such facili—
ties are 3e51rably located near (but
not too near) primate colonies, so
that both functions can be supervised
by the veterinarian. Even in a
small suite of this type, exclusion
of extraneous activities and segre-
gation of the following functions
from the surgery proper should be
sought: 1) scrubbing of the surgeons,
2) sterilization and assembly of
drapes and instruments, 3) preparation
of the animal (shaving, etc.), 4)
assembly of used laundry, washing of
instruments, etc. and 5) storage of
instruments.

Breeding colony

If breeding is to be part of
the primate program, certain additional
facilities are needed. Van Wagenen
(1950) and Bloomquist and Harlow
(1960) have discussed the subject of
breeding by temporary pairing in
detail, and only a brief outline is
given here. The female is placed with
the male just prior to the expected
time of ovulation. Cages for the
males should obviously be large and
strong enough for an adult monkey,
and also large enough to house both
animals comfortably during the
mating period. Either housing the
females in cages on castors, or
equipping the male's cage with a
movable center partition, provides
a means of placing the female in
the male's "territory" for a day
or two of "courtship" before the animals
are actually put together. Van Wagenen
(1950) suggests equipping the female's
cage with a wooden perch, which is wash-
ed daily to facilitate detection or
onset of menstrual cycle.

Another approach to breeding
laboratory monkeys is the "harem"
method, in which a number of females
live with a single male. For this
purpose a large wall cage (see

 




design-5/64-15

Chapter 5) is used in indoor colonies.
Indoornoutdoor housing or outdoor
enclosures suitable for a number of
monkeys may also be used for this
purpose.

1. Maternity "ward." In general,
e1aborate—facilities'fbr'bregnant
females are not needed. The simp—
lest method is to keep them in the
main colony, but to place them in
individual cages, to prevent injury
of the newborn by adults caged with
the mother. In some colonies where
pair breeding is practiced, the
pregnant animals are removed, shortly
before term, to individual cages in
another room. This practice permits
close observation, and may result
in lower infant mortality. With
harem breeding, the pregnant animals
should be removed to individual
cages at least a month before term.

2. Nursery. Whether or not
mothers and newborn are separated

routinely, some provision to care
for the young is needed. Some females
reject their offspring; normal lac-
tation does not develop in others.
Either condition necessitates the
staff's raising the young animals.
The nursery should be senarated
accoustically from the females'
quarters since crying by newly sep—
arated young can provoke a general
disturbance. Nurseries for young
monkeys and apes are kept at an
even, fairly high temperature, e.g.,
the temperature in the nursery for
newly born chimpanzees at the Yerkes
Laboratories for Primate Biology

is kept at 900 F. (Yerkes, 1943).

This room should be furnished
with small, solid-wall boxes or bas-
kets for very young animals. As
young monkeys grow larger and more
active, they may be housed in small
cages until they are capable of
handling themselves in monkey cages
in the regular colony.

 




design—5/64-l6

Studies in Harlow's laboratory
indicate that infant monkeys should
have an opportunity to interact

with each other if they are to de-
velop normally. This is not to say
that they should be permanently

cages in pairs during the first

year of life. Van Wagenen's (1950) experience
is that this practice can be deli- '
terious to the subordinate animal.
This problem can be avoided by

proper attention to groupings.

From the age of four or five
months to about two years, young
chimpanzees can also live in fairly
small cages made of light wire such
as lG-guage woven wire. "Baby"
scales and facilities for bathing
the young animals should be in-
cluded in the room's equipment.

Floor plans and flow patterns

How the components outlined
above are combined is largely a
matter of the particular situation.
Many factors are involved, some
depending on local dictates and
some not peculiar to primates. Cir-
cumstances are so variable from
institution to institution that this
section must be presented in the
form of factors to be considered,
not invariant principles.

Where? The first decision,
which affects subsequent ones, is
where the colony is to be located
in relation to the scientists who
will study the monkeys. The loca-
tion has varied from Africa or
Taiwan on the one hand, to the room
next to the office of a psychologist
(who valued the chance to observe
the animals through a peephole), on
the other. If we exclude the ex-
tremes, the scientist living in the
jungle or the monkey living in the
office or home of the scientist (and
both have been done), we can envision
a continuum of proximity as follows:

 




design-S/64-17

1) Primate facilities in the
country of the animals' origin. Such
laboratories (e.g., East African
Virus Institute in Uganda, Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory in Panama and the
Primate Research Station of the
Southwest Foundation for Research
and Education in Kenya) have been
most popular with investigators of
diseases indigenous to these areas
because controlled studies of experi-
mental infection and field studies
of the monkey as a reservoir of
human disease are easily coordinated.
The potential of such installations
for the study of simian psychology,
physiology and organic diseases
minimally affected by captivity is
yet to be fully deveIOped, as is
their potential for research requir-
ing monkeys in sufficient numbers to
make it more economical to transport
the scientist to the animals than
to tranSport them to him.

2) Primate facilities in the
scientists' country but remote from
educational and research centers.
Two types of institutions fall in
this category: those primarily for
receiving primates from overseas,
but also providing some facilities
for experiments in primate culture
and study of epidemiology (Okatie
Farm), and those for the scientific
study of primates (Yerkes Labora-
tories of Primate BiologY)- Because
the choice of location has been
strongly influenced by the idea that
primates are trepical animals, such
stations or laboratories in the
northern hemisphere tend to lie in
its southern portions, e.g., Orange
Park, Florida; Santiago Island,
Puerto Rico; Sukhumi (on the Black
Sea), U.SoSoRo

3) Primate facilities at "commu-
ting" distance from groups of
scientists. For various scientific
and/or economic reasons, many insti»
tutions have chosen this relationship.

 




design-S/64-18

Notable among these are the Regional
Primate Research Centers, sponsored
by the National Institutes of Health,
near Portland, Oregon; New Orleans,
Louisiana; Boston, Massachusetts;
and, at a lesser distance, Madison,
Wisconsin.

4) Facilities on the same cam»
pus as the scientists, but in a
separate building. In this category
fall the Primate Research Centers at
Emory University (Atlanta, Georgia)
and the University of California
at Davis.

5) Primate facilities within the
building complex serving the scientists
who use the animals, but apart from
the laboratories and offices. Usu-
ally, the primate colony is part of
a general animal quarters, relegated
to a top floor or a basement. This
arrangement has been the standard
accepted practice for some years and
occurs in too many institutions to
mention.

I
6) Primate facilities closely
related to the laboratories and offices
of the scientists using the animals.

The University of California at Los
Angeles built its animal quarters

as a tower, or wing, relating them
floor by floor to the various depart-
ments of the medical school. The
Regional Primate Research Center

at the University of Washington has
planned for vertical arrangement

of the primate quarters and the
laboratories in which they are
studied, with provision for longi-
tudinal access to the Center from

the adjacent medical, dental and
nursing complex. Within the Center
there are three units, joined by
airlocks-«short hallways with doors
at either end. The unit nearest the
existing building is given over to
offices for scientists, administrators,
and secretaries, and to the library,
seminar rooms, and associated services.

 




design-5/64—19

The second unit contains research
laboratories and supporting facilities
such as electronics, mechanical,
histological and surgical services.
As a transitional area between this
unit and the third, which is the
primate colony proper, a procedure
room (for examination, minor treat-
ments and minor experimental proced-
ures) and a room for feeding and
caretaking facilities lie to either
side of the airlock corridor. This
arrangement, contrary to that imposed
by supposed rules of good practice
which confine the primate colony to
the basement or roof, brings about a
juxtaposition of the scientist and
his subject which is considered a
healthy one.

7) The limiting case of Plan 6
is one in which several primate
colonies are distributed throughout
a medical school or university.
Despite strong disbelief exnressed
by those who preside over barking
dogs, urinous rabbits and fragile
rodents, this arrangement is entirely
feasible in old buildings and esnecially
so in new construction. This is’
not to say that each monkey colony
in a large institution need be
entirely autonomous. Receival,
quarantine and possibly stock colony
fUnctions can often be snared or can
be the provinces of a central animal
facility. In the main, however,
maintenance of scattered colonies
for special purposes presents diffi-
culties to central administration.
There are, however, sound reasons
for di5persion which can outweigh
administrative convenience.

In decentralization, many
advantages accrue both to science*

 

*There are many examples of close
interaction of scientist and a group
of primates difficult to envisage in
a central animal quarters such as the
colonies of Dr. Gertrude van Wagenen,

 




design-5/64~20

J. F. Fulton, and Robert M. Yerkes
at Yale; Heinrich Kluver at Chicago;
Harry F. Harlow at Wisconsin; Leon
Schmidt at Cincinnati; and a few
known to me personally.

 

and to the primates themselves. The
most obvious advantage is further
segregation of monkeys in which there
is a considerable research invest~
ment. Everyone agrees that a small,
stable colony presents the least
epidemiological hazards. Probably
more important, when the colony is
near by the scientist can convert
into valuable observation periods
snatches of time too short to permit
a profitable trip to a distant central
facility. Given adequate quarters
in the small colony, arguments for
centralization often resolve down
to lower personnel costs for care-
taking without regard to the higher
costs of the scientists' time.

In a primate colony, however, there
are distinct advantages to having
always available an animal techni-
cian, especially one with whom the
monkeys are acquainted, to assist
with the handling of them and to
assume responsibility for special
care. To some extent the argument
between pr0ponents of centralization
and decentralization can be reduced
to a question of whether the care-
taker and the monkeys shall be
available at the convenience of the
scientist or the scientist at the
convenience of the caretaker and
monkeys.

It is not our purpose to argue
the merits of these possible loca-
tions or administrative organizations
except to express the opinion that
the importance of a primate colony
justifies a closer interplay between
scientist and experimental animal
than is afforded by conventional
arrangements (Plan 5) and to point
that some of the early, most pro-
ductive arrangements (Plan 7) per-
mitted such close association.

 




design-S/64-21

Perhaps Plan 6 is a good compromise.

What? The second decision is
what research will be conducted on
what Species. It should be remem~
bered that estimates of need are
never finite. The study of monkeys
often seems "contagious," with
persons eXpressing lack of interest
in primate research becoming highly
enthusiastic after a primate program
has been initiated in a neighboring
laboratory. Also, a department with
no member utilizing primates may
later be joined by a scientist
intensely interested in monkeys or
apes. Furthermore, a study begun on
one species may later be extended
to another with differing cage
requirements, e.g., from monkeys
to chimpanzees. Consequently,
thought must be given not only to
meeting immediate specific needs,
but also to providing sufficient
flexibility and/or uncommitted Space
that new projects, new techniques and
new species can be accommodated
without major reorganization.

Flow patterns. The single most
important principle in establishing
the flow pattern within a colony is
observance of flow from "clean" to
"contaminated" of animals, food, cage
litter, cages, ventiliation, and
even persons. While such a flow
might seem simple to accomplish by
some linear plan, actually it is
not so simple because one begins not
with "clean" animals but with groups
of primates, each one of which is
suspected of being infected with
a communicable disease.

The receiving dock for animals
is the most neglected aspect of
animal colony design. This area
should be constructed so that trucks
can be driven inside and a door can
be lowered behind them to prevent
escape of monkeys from damaged crates
and provide shelter and exclude
the merely curious bystanders.

 




design-5/64—22

This "tunnel" area should have clean~
able walls and floors, a drain, and
should be vented to the roof. Animal
reception should be separate from
reception of other supplies.

After reception a double flow
pattern should be started, with the
monkeys going in one direction and
the crates (plus the insects, feces
and litter they contain), going
for immediate disposal in the other.
The monkeys should proceed from
cleaning, examination, tattooing,
tuberculin testing, treatment and
weighing to isolation. After the
quarantine period and a third tuber—
culin test they are held in stock
until needed and then retested
before being released to active
experimental colonies. The value
of several small quarantine rooms
has been mentioned. Hallways should
be so arranged that egress from
quarantine or stock quarters does
not pass backward through the
quarantine or receival area. What
is true of the monkey is equally true
for his clean cage and food; how-
ever, food debris, cage litter and
soiled cages pass in an antigrade
fashion.

The most logical flow patterns
to date has been achieved at the
National Institutes of Health for
the stock colonies (Poiley, 1960;
Tharp, 1960). A central "clean"
corridor passes between rows
of monkey rooms. Behind them are
parallel contaminated corridors
leading to a cage washing facility,
etc. Clean cages, food, and cage
litter are brought to the monkeys
by the-clean corridor.' Soiled
litter or cages and dead or diseased
monkeys are removed from the ani-
mal rooms via the contaminated
corridor to the apprOpriate dis~
posal or autOpsy areas. There is
no question but what, from the
epidemiologic viewpoint, this
represents the logical arrangement,

 




design-5/64—23

and many refinements can be envisaged,
e.g., personnel could proceed With
clean clothes and shoes through the
clean corridor and return by way of
the contaminated corridor, dis-
carding gown and shoes.

This installation is achievable
in a vast reception, quarantine and
conditioning area. It is equally
desirable, but more difficult, to
achieve the same ideal pattern in the
experimental colony. Commonly,
the duplication of hallways goes
by the board because it reduces
the ratio of net floor space to
gross enclosed area and because of
the designer's urge for more usable
floor space. Where the animals
are on several floors, in the coor-
dinated tower or wing arrangement,
the additional problem arises that
strict adherence to the "contamin-
ated" corridor - "clean" corridor
concept would require two elevators
--which are expensive installations.

This problem can be met in part by
use of cage-washing facilities on
each floor and disposal of refuse
into sewers, provided sawdust or
other litter is not used.

Some fragments of the ideal
flow pattern can be preserved
without great expense within the
bounds of conventional architecture
if the principles of a gradient
of cleanliness and separation
of "clean" and "contaminated" func-
tions are respected. Reception of
food and clean litter need not occur
over the same loading dock as the
disposal of garbage. Sick animals
can be sequestered in a sick bay
or isolation unit remote from well
animals. AutOpsy rooms can be
removed from well animals and
Operating rooms (and from public
hallways). A continuum relating
importance of the animals and
degree of cleanliness can be estab-
lished. For example, a colony of
breeding mothers or one on which

 




design-S/64-24

much experimental work has been lav-
ished should be more isolated than

a group destined for acute experiments
need be. Similarly a group of ani~
mals with weakened tolerance to disease,
as is produced by irradiation, requi-
res Special provision. As an end

point a "germ free" colony may be
mentioned.

Although for economic and
supervisory reasons the trend is
toward centralizing many types of
animals and animals in various
states of health along a long hall,
it can be argued that the conven-
tional isolation technique of an
infectious diseases ward has merit.
Thus, instead of a busy traffic of
dirty and clean cages, food, cage
litter, food wastes, fecal matter,
caretakers and scientists passing a
large number of animal rooms, it
may be better to duplicate certain
facilities and confine these acti-
vities to smaller areas. Certainly
in the planning of animal quarters
it is logical to devote areas to
specific groups of animals-~sick
ones, breeding mothers, or animals
made especially valuable by virtue
of their kind or the scientists' time
invested in them (chronic animals).
Some supporting services for such
animals can be close by. To some
extent, the same logic can be
applied to groups of less valuable
animals unless rigid, effective
flow patterns of clean to dirty can
be established. Perhaps the ideal
primate quarters is not linear but
octagonal or circular, with a ser-
vice core and "wards" of various
kinds radiating from this core.

Isolation of animals as a
group for specific laboratories, as
in Plan 6 or 7, can be accomplished
not only by air locks but also by
separate ventilation systems. For
certain purposes, a whole segment
of a primate research facility--.

 




design-S/64~25

e.g., a "hot" Virus laboratory and
animal roomsa-must be isolated.

Such areas not only must have separ—
ate ventilation tut also a separate
entrance for its personnel, and
separate dressing and shower rooms.
Furthermore, dead animals and cage
litter must be removed through
autoclaves. In such facilities,

and to a lesser degree in many
others, the isolation of individually
caged animals is desirable. Fil-
tering of air into and out of indie
vidual cages is required in
laboratories for the study of

highly infective viruses. A flow

of air from the room into the cages
and a separate exhaust to the roof, to
prevent possible back flow, are

also a necessity or desirable for
cages designed for eXposure of
monkeys to toxic gaseous or

volatile radioactive substances,

and for quarantine or sick bay

rooms to prevent spread of infection.

Another aspect of this problem
of isolation is discussed in the
chapter on caging, namely that
certain kinds and conditions of ani-
mals should be caged singly, but
others can live in groups of various
sizes. The size of the group
is largely determined by the pur-
poses the animals serve. In stock
colonies, groups of 10 to 24 may
be acceptable, whereas in polio-
myelitis vaccine production a
hundred may live together for a
short time.

To summarize, the general
layout or flow pattern of a primate
colony depends too much on its
function and its geographic loca-
tion in relation to other buildings
to permit Specific recommendations.
A colony may logically be located
in the monkeys' country of origin,
within commuting distance, "next
door" to the scientists, or any of
several places in between. Within
a primate facility the monkey may

 




design-S/64-26

be logically placed in a free-ranging
colony, in a gang cage, in a cage
room, or in an individual cage with
separate ventilation, depending on the
research requirements. In the
planning of the layout of the colony,
the flow of monkeys, food, cage
litter and cages along a clean to
contaminated gradient is the prime
consideration. The reduction of
traffic--both that against the
gradient and even that where no
gradient is known, as between two
groups of apparently healthy
monkeys--is desirable.

Because of the Specificity and
complexity of the problem, "typical"
floor plans have not been presented.

Indoor versus outdoor colonies

Basic to planning new construc-
tion, and sometimes to remodeling
old, is a decision on whether the
colony will be outdoors, indoors
or both. The open-air housing of
monkeys, even in the cold winter
climates of New England and the
Middle West, has its advocates. In
fact, two of the early installations
in the country were of the open-air
type, those at the University of
Rochester School of Medicine and at
the Carnegie Institution, Baltimore.
Still earlier were exPeriments with
Open—air housing of monkeys in
zoos. Nearly 60 years ago, R. F.
Scharff (1906) described such an
experiment, carried out in the
Dublin Zoological Gardens (Fig. 00).

He argued that the practice of
maintaining monkeys in the hot rooms
to imitate the climatic conditions
of a tropical forest is illogical since
these animals are now found in Asia as
far north as Peking, where the
temperature reaches 10° below zero,
and one time were inhabitants of
central EurOpe. The mulatta
species is reported to live at

 




design-S/64-27

altitudes as high as 10,000 feet.
The dozen mulatta monkeys in the ~
Dublin experiment were put into any
open cage in the summer and given
no artificial heat even at night.
They did well despite the cold and
were seen swimming in a pond within
the enclosure:

Actually, as Davis (1960)
points out, most 0? the common
research monkeys come from cli-
mates in which the average temperature
is above 64°F during the coldest month.
In such climates, the variation from
month to month is small (2° to 5°F)
and much less than the diurnal
variation (15° to 20°F). The
success of Scharff's eXperiment, and
of outdoor primate housing in zoos
at northern latitudes today probably
results in part from the practice
of introducing the animals to the
environment in the late spring, and
permitting them to adjust to subse-
quent changes in weather as they
occur.

The notably successtl Yerkes
Laboratories of Primate Biology at
Orange Park, Florida, have outdoor
cages. The original building, still
in use, was designed to provide
indoor-outdoor facilities. Later,
an outdoor enclosure was added.
Since the environmental temperatures
at Orange Park range from over 100°F
to near freezing, this installation
suggests the probable practicality of
indoor-outdoor latitudes. Nissen
(1952) remarked that chimpanzees
kept in indoornoutdoor housing
in Connecticut would go out and
play in snow without experiencing
poor health. In Fulton's colony at
Yale, large areaways, designed to
bring light to underground floors,
were covered with wire netting and
housed monkeys and chimpanzees
most of the year without any heating.

At Sukhumi, where the average
winter temperature is 44.8°F,

 




design-5/64-28

mulatta macaques and hamadryas baboons
live and breed in outdoor enclos-

ures with only unheated wooden hutches
for shelter (Voronin et al., 1948).
The vegetation in the enclosures

also provides some protection

against the weather and the animals
tend to sleep in trees rather than

in the hutches except on the coldest
nights.

Despite these examples, the use
of open—air cages is not extensive,
partly because proximity of laboratories
to metropolitan areas and h05pitals,
rightly or wrongly, interdicts their
use, and partly because the idea that
the monkey is strictly a tropical
animal lingers on. For long-term
investigations, the costs of providing
both indoor and outdoor installations
may be justifiable. 0n the other
hand, many successful permanent colonies,
including breeding colonies and
those serving long-term experi-
ments, are entirely inside insta11a~
tions. Since outdoor runs can usually
be provided only fer groups of
monkeys, the protection against
disease and injury afforded by a
commodious individual cage in a
well-ventilated and lighted room
may outweigh any advantages of
outdoor activity.* Monkeys used

*Some of the appeal of outdoor
facilities seems to arise from
reasoning by analogy with the needs
of pet animals forced to live in
accomodations suited primarily
to human occupancy.

 

in acute experiments or in chronic
experiments lasting only a few
months are probably best housed

in indoor quarters.

Recommended Materials

 

Flooring

A smooth, tough, nonabsorbent
floor surface is a necessity. Since

 




deisgn-S/64-29

sweeping, mOpping and hosing are the
common cleaning methods, the floor
must have no cracks in which filth
can collect.Troweled mastic, terrazo,
acid~resistant quarry tile and
steel-troweled concrete are the
preferable materials, approximately
in that order. Unfortunately, this
is also approximately the order, of
greatest to least costliness;
Continuous mastic floors whiéh can
be coved onto the wall as one
continuous sheet are probably

the best flooring material, although
the colors are somewhat unattractive.
If .concrete is sealed with appro-
priate compounds before any usage,
care is easier and the appearance

is improved. ASphalt, linoleum,
rubber or vinyl tile or sheet
flooring is not satisfactory be-
cause dirt can accumulate between the
tiles or strips. Also, water tends
to seep through these cracks and
collect under the floor covering,
sometimes loosening it.

 

If the animal quarters are on
an upper floor of a building,
waterproofing between the structural
floor and the surface floor is
essential. A floor that can crack,
and all can, will leak. Water-
proofing is continued under all walls
inside the quarters and extended
at least 6 in. up the walls enclos-
ing the quarters. In quarters
where old internal walls are being
retained, the waterproofing is
continued up each side of these walls.
It should be specified that the
membrane be brought up around all
pipes to 6 in. and to the tap of
any floor drains.

Cement and plastic flooring
permits the construction of thresh-
oids, a necessity where vigorous
hydraulic methods of floor cleaning
are used and a desirable feature
to prevent floods or wetting of
the hallways where more gentle
cleaning methods are used.

 




design-5/64-31

It has been dogma that drains
should be installed in the floors
of animals quarters, and the entire
floor slanted so that water and
dirt will run off easily. Architects
resist this design since it com-
plicates the laying of floors,
is an obstacle to moving a wall, and
requires adjustable legs on cages
or cage racks. For this type of
floor, a pitch of 2 in. in 10 ft.
is adequate. A depressed area
around the drain is a usable sub-
stitute, but does not provide
protection from floods caused by
plugged watering devices. In
either version there should not
be Space (but almost always is)
in which water can accumulate
around the outer rim of the cover.
Human fallibility is so great in
this region that the flush finish
should be clearly specified in
the plans and the "clerk of the
works" should be alerted to inSpect
for the tendency to set the floor
surface lower than the drain rim.
Drains and floors can be installed
so that one drain will serve more
than one enclosure. If the animals
have access to the floor, the drain
cover must be locked so that they
cannot dislodge it and enter the

pipe.

Floor drains are of two types.
The simple* floor drain and a

 

*The simple drain is not so
simple. According to building codes,
it must have a source of water to
prevent drying out; this source,
in turn, must be protected from
siphonage back into the water
system.

 

flushing floor drain. The former
passes a small quantity of water-~from
a hose or scrub bucket-~per unit

time. The U-trap installed in

the drain tends to retain anything
which floats. Such a drain is

 




design-5/64-32

designed to carry away water but

not solid or semi-solid objects.

A mesh bucket may be added to
collect hair and solid matter.
Locking such drains to prevent

the introduction of insoluble mater-
ials has been recommended.

The second type, the flushing
floor drain, is similar to a miniature
bathroom toilet with its rim at
floor level. Water is drained
away by siphon action and the
drain acts as its own trap. Solid
or semi-solid matter such as feces,
parts of monkey biscuits, or pieces
of vegetable is carried away by
cleaning water when it reaches a
critical amount for siphonage.

After the drain is flushed,
nothing but water is left in the
trap. This type of drain is exnens-
ive and, like a toilet or clinical
service sink, has definite limitations
in respect to the kind and amounts
of solids it will handle. Such a
simple object as a paper towel may
plug it. However, properly used, a
flushing floor drain will handle the
material which falls on the floor
of a monkey room, though not much
sawdust, and thus obviates the need
for carrying a dust pan and trash
can along while sweeping. This
type of drain also solves certain
problems arising from plumbing codes
when cage pans are emptied into the
sewer. If a water tap is installed
over a flushing floor drain, it can
approximate a sink which would serve
only as a source of water or as a
place where hands, mop or vessel
can be rinsed.

Drains in animal rooms, eSpecially
the non-flushing type, become blocked
with hair, sawdust, and debris. If
sawdust enters the sewers, its swell-
ing can damage the joints during a
simple blockage. (This same objection
applies to most other absorbent

 




design-5/64-33

particulate materials used in cage pans.)
The use of 6-in. pipe is a great pro-
tection against steppages, but 4-in.
pipe is permissible for short laterals.
When the animal quarters are located

in buildings also used for other pur-
poses, e.g., laboratories and offices,
a separate sewer system for the ani-
mal rooms is desirable within the
building, although the two systems
enter the same major drain from that
serving the rest of the building in
the basement. Where animal quarters
are on the top floor of a laboratory
building, passing the waste through
heavy-duty garbage grinders to prevent
clogging and flooding should be con-
sidered, although the maintenance costs
might be high owing to stoppage of

the grinder by metallic objects and
fibrous material. Glass pipe is now
competitive in price with iron pipe,
and permits a quick location and re-
moval of stoppage. Whether it meets
without breakage and flooding the
problems encountered when sawdust is
inadvertently introduced into the
drain is not yet known.

The many problems and not inconsi-
derable eXpense prompt the question,
Are floor drains necessary? If
hBEing is used for cleaning the answer
is yes. But some observers believe
that hosing is inapprOpriate in monkey
colonies and serves only to entertain
the caretakers, distribute dirt evenly
over the floor (and the lower parts
of the walls), provide a culture
medium for bacteria, and prevent the
use of the room until the floor dries.
Unless the cages drain directly into
the sewers, or unless the drains are
used to carry away sweepings or water
squeezed into them, they are no more
needed in animal rooms than in kitchens.
It can be argued that sweeping,
followed by controlled flooding and
removal of the water with a wet vacuum

cleaner will clean a floor efficiently.
Thus, although floor drains, particu-

larly the flushing type, can be a
time-saving and desirable feature, they

 




design-5/64-34

are not a "must." Whether they

are necessary in a particular colony
depends on the cleaning methods,

the types of cages and the type of
watering system used.

Walls

If animals or their excreta can
reach the walls, the surface must be
easy to clean and resistant to
chemicals used in cleaning. 0f
the traditional wall surfaces, glazed
or ceramic tile, especially if bonded
with epoxy cement, is the most easily
cleaned. Some architects will argue
that smooth concrete or cement block,
properly treated, is better than
tile. Cement plaster wall, although
a good basis for epoxy paint, cracks
badly even when "panelized."

The plastic resins, such as epoxy,
which dry or set at room temperature
may be applied to concrete, plaster,
or even wood walls to form a heavy
continuous coating. The resulting
surface is water-repellant and non-
porous. A considerable number of
these resins are available, in a
variety of colors. The significant
differences for this use are in
fire resistance, resistance to
specific chemicals, resistance to
scarring, adhesion to specific sur-
faces, and cost. The skill and
experience of the person who will apply
the finish must also be considered;
some resins are easily handled by
amateurs, others are not. Technical
information and prices are available
from local distributors.* Some testing

 

*Epoxy finishes are discussed in
the Engineering News Record, July 12,
196 .

 

of different products may be necessary
to find the best surfacing material for
the specific quarters. The initial
cost is considerably more than that of
ordinary painting, but considerably
less than that of tile.

 




design-5/64—35

Fiberglass-reinforced plastic
panels, resting on a 6-in. curb, might
prove both economical and clean; joints
can be sealed by brushing them with
plastic resin.

A new development in wall cons-
truction for animal quarters is the use
of sheet vinyl, 1/16 to 1/8 in. thick,
glued to a cement gypsum wallboard.

The wallboard is supported by metal
studs, and a wall segment consists of
two sheets.of wallboard staggered

so that there are no through seams.
The advantages of this material are:
ease of cleaning, relative freedom
from joints, modest cost and a choice
of bright, attractive colors. Although
it is quite resilient, it has the
drawback of being suscepible to
denting by severe impacts. This
usage of vinyl is not yet thoroughly
tested.

No wall material will withstand
damage from trucks, carts, or cage
racks striking corners. Heavy stain-
less steel corner molding is
recommended.

A second function of walls is to
keep noise confined to the animal room
and, at the same time, to reduce noise
within an animal room. Whereas the
first can be accomplished by any heavy
wall, the latter facet of sound control
and ease of cleaning unfortunately,
are often incompatible. For a full
discussion of the noise problem, see
page 00.

Ceilings

A maze of plumbing, heating
and ventilation pipes passing through
the room near the ceiling provides
a highway along which escaped monkeys
can travel out of reach. The open~
ings in the walls may also be a point
of entry for insects. For new
construction, Thorp (1960) recommends
that as many pipes and conduits as
possible be run along the hall rather
than through the animal rooms. The
extent to which this recommendation

 




design-S/64-36

can be followed depends largely on

the function of rooms on the floor above
Usually, pipes must pass through the
animal room. Where they do, Space
between a pipe and its sleeve should

be filled with caulking compound to
prevent passage of vermin and to

reduce the transmission of sound.

Usually the eXposed ceilings
in older animal rooms are of normal
room height and finished in smooth
plaster or cement, which can be painted.
The older approach to the problem of
piping has been to suspend a false
ceiling of wire mesh-~woven wire,
expanded metal, or electrowelded wire
(see p. OO)--below the pipes and
below the level of hanging light fix-
tures. This practice keeps monkeys
but not insects out of the pipe area
of a room. In the building of such
false ceilings thought must be given
to the maintenance of the lights and
overhead plumbing. The construction
may be sufficiently strong to permit
maintenance men to do short jobs, such
as changing a light bulb, by standing
on the joists supporting the screen.
For a longer job, e.g., working on
plumbing, planks can be laid on the
joists. The second and cheaper
false ceiling is a metal grid supporting
light-weight panels which can be re~
moved, allowing access to the ceiling
by way of a stepladder. The supporting
framework need not be very heavy in
this type of construction, which differs
from the dropped ceiling often seen in
modern buildings mainly in what replac-
es the acoustic tile.

An example of the first type of
ceiling is one made of eXpanded metal
butt-welded to angle iron to form
panels. The width of the panels is de~
termined by the width of the expanded
metal; wastage is avoided if sheets
are purchased in lengths such that
half the length equals one-half or
one-third the width or length of a
room. The panels may be supported
from the walls by lag screws and a
l-in. spreader, and joined to one
another by such Spreaders. (The use

 




design~5l64~37

of Spreaders prevents a surface-on-sur-
face space in which dirt and vermin
could collect.) A brace of l/Z-in.

rod should run across the center of
each panel, and the whole structure
should also be supported from the
ceiling as needed. An access door
should be provided. For major repairs
and alterations, the whole ceiling
could be removed without great expense.
Since the panel is both the screening
and the support, this type of construc-
tion is becoming more and more expensive
because of the hand labor involved.

A definite fault is that such a heavy
cailing, hung so low, is jail-like

and oppressive, and seems to cut out

a great deal of light, as well as
allowing insects access to the many
refuges in the pipe Space.

A ceiling with removable panels
can be built with an angle—iron railing
along the walls and T-iron joists
across the room to provide a grid into
which panels are laid. These panels
can be fabricated of woven or
electrowelded wire mesh on rod,
attached by hook bolts. If the mesh
is large, 2 in. by 4 in., such a
ceiling unquestionably makes for
a lighter room, but is slightly less
convenient for both major and minor
maintenance. Similar construction with
fiberglass-reinfbrced plastic or
molded vinyl panels would be less
oppressive and, since the panels are
smooth, would give a monkey fewer
handholds. Although these panels
are translucent, they stop enough light
to necessitate high-wattage lighting
above them,* or the placing of light

 

*Panels of this type specially
designed to provide diffused light in
offices or homes are available
commercially.

 

fixtures flush with the ikopped ceiling.
Covered lighting fixtures in the wall
just below the level of the dropped
ceiling constitute an alternative.

 




design-5/64-38

Installation of similar dropped
or false ceilings in the service rooms
adjoining the animal rooms is highly
desirable since monkeys are very apt
to escape or take refuge in such rooms.

It is curious that dropped ceilings
with flush lighting fixture of the
type used in "human" architecture have
been used in new construction of ani-
mal quarters only recently. The
framework supporting only the ceiling
material is quite light, and since
the framing is available commercially
in a variety of forms, the cost is
not great. Smooth ceilings, free of
pipes, reduce a loose monkey's chance
to travel across the ceiling and thus
make capture easier than it is in a
room with a netting ceiling. The
adaptation of the dropped ceiling to
animal quarters has involved substitution
of aluminum for iron supports (because
of rusting), use of solid rather than
perforated panels, and sealing the
panels. The latter two modifications
are necessary to keep vermin from
reaching the space between the false
and the true ceiling.

The extra dropped ceilings pay
for themselves if it is considered
acceptable to extend the walls only
to the lower ceiling. This construc-
tion saves in many ways besides reducing
the cost of the walls. The absence
of walls above the dropped ceiling
greatly simplifies the installation,
servicing and remodeling of electrical,
plumbing and ventilation systems.
Moreover, the low walls make possible
use of the plenum system of ventila-
tion as Opposed to separate exhaust
ducting for each room. The 4-ft.
space above the false ceiling is a
huge plenum through which air is
exhausted from the room either through
grills or through holes in acoustic
tile. There is some argument against
the plenum system of ventilation for
animal rooms in that insects can pass
freely into and through the plenum, as
can fomites if air movement fails (the
negative pressure is very slight).

 




design-5/64-39

The plenum system to some degree makes
the animal quarters one big room. How-
ever, it is no worse than that, and
many animal quarters use quite large
rooms successfully. If the plenum
system is not used, low walls with a
dropped ceiling which is sealed

can be used, with the air being exhausted
by ducts fOr each room. In any case,
savings in the costs of heating, venti-
lation, and lighting will also accrue
through the reduction in cubage.

The height of the ceiling should
be dictated by the height at which an
average man can reach a monkey, perhaps
8 ft. as Opposed to 8 ft. 6 in. used
in hallways, offices and laboratories.
In small rooms, this height is not
oppressive. Light fixtures flush
with the ceiling would make maintenance
simple and ceiling ventilation out-
lets could also be flush. Certainly,

a drOpped ceiling composed of large—
area flush lighting fixtures, large-
area air diffusers and removable sound
absorbing panels is an attractive
replacement for the wall-to-wall metal
mesh screening.

Barriers and cages

Installations planned to house
apes, baboons and adult macaque monkeys
require heavier materials than do those
for adolescent macaques or the small-
er genera of primates. The same
materials can be used to construct
both barriers and cages, although
the material requirements are not
exactly identical for the two appli-
cations. With this in mind, a specific
study of materials for cage construc-
tion is worthy of note. Hoeltge (1961)
has discussed in some detail the
advantages and disadvantages of
aluminum, galvanized steel and stain-
less steel for the caging of animals
and, as shown in Table 1, rated each
on six points. It should be borne
in mind that this rating is not related
specifically to monkey cages. Thus,
some of'Hoeltge's objections to
aluminum are based on difficulties
with rodent cages.

 




design-5/64-40

In attempting to determine the
seriousness of corrosion as a problem
in the caging of animals, Hoeltge
sent questionnaries to a number of
laboratories. When 104 replies were
rated on a point system with l as
maximal corrosion, the following sequen-
ce from maximal to minimal effects:
rabbit, 1.56; guinea pig, 2.49; mouse,
3.5; rat, 3.7; cat, 4.0; monkey, 4.37;
dog, 4.4; and hamster, 6.14. Thus with
the same amount of care dog and mon—
key cages of similar material should
last about the same length of time
and somewhat longer than mouse and
rat cages.

Woven wire. Woven wire, usually
galvanized iron, is made of wire which
is crimped into a zigzag with intervals
correSponding to the mesh size and
is then literally woven, over and
under, into a mesh of squares or
diamonds. The crimping restricts
lateral movement of the wires, and
yet the mesh has a resiliency which
prevents its being bent out of shape.
The loose ends are secured in any of
three ways. 1) They are inserted
through holes in channel iron
(U-shaped in cross section) and twisted.
The channel is capped in doors, and fits
snugly against pipe supports, making
a neat, clean finish with no end that
the animal can reach. However, this
method of attachment leaves a space
which can harbor vermin unless filled.
2) The wire ends are held beneath a
strip of metal bolted to an angle
iron; this method is insecure and
provides a maximum harbor for dirt
and vermin. 3) The wire is crimped
around 3/8-in. rods, which are then
fixed by hook bolts to an angle~iron
frame. The wire should be of "black
metal" and attached to the rods
before galvanizing; bending galvanized
wire around the rod will break its fin-
ish and the ungalvanized Spots will
rust. Such panels are warped somewhat
in the galvanizing process but can be
easily straightened. This method
involves the extra weight of the rods
and is not familiar to some fabricators.

 




.design—5/64-4l

Electrowelded wire mesh. In this
material the warp and ths'ﬁabf do not
interweave. Although this type of
mesh is considerably weaker than woven
wire, a good quality of "mink fence"
is sufficiently strong to restrain mon-
keys. Electrowelded mesh is especially
useful for ceiling panels if it can be
obtained in "black iron" and hot-dip
galvanized after fabrication, or if
the galvanized form is used with a
minimum of cut ends. Woven wire is
more expensive since considerable
hand work is involved. On the other
hand, electrowelded wire is seldom
available in black metal, so that
attaching it to frames presents a
problem. The welding of galvanized
wire is a health hazard to the welder
and also leaves denuded areas that
will rust. These areas can be touched
up with aluminum paint fairly success-
fu11y. Stainless steel mesh does not
present this problem, although it
does stain. The fact that electro-
welded wires or rods (see below) end

 

in a straight line makes it possible to
insert them into a line of holes. In
one method of fabrication with this
material, the wires are secured by
melting their ends to form round
buttons.

Panels of electrowelded wire can
be fabricated where unskilled labor is
cheap by using pipe for the frames and
attaching the mesh to them with several
turns of wire or with bands spaced at
intervals along the nipe. The modules
should be multiples of the mesh size.
This construction is suitable for
barriers, wall cages, outdoor cages,
and other simple units. In the
example shown (Fig. 00), electrowelded
wire with 2-in. by 4-in. mesh was
used. The ends of thevwire were cut
flush, leaving a cross-wire on each edge
to be attached to the pipe framework
by a wrapping of wire. This type of
mesh (1/8 in. heavy gauge) does not
weld easily, but is sufficiently stiff
to hold up well in use.

 




design-5/64-42

For large monkey cages, 2 ft. by
3 ft. by 7.5 ft, pipe with an inside
diameter of 1/2 in. may be used for
framing, and pipe with a 3/8 in. inside
diameter may be used for the door.
Short straps of metal curved to bolt
onto the cage frame and simply bent
around the door frame serve as hinges.

Electrowelded rod. This material
is similar to electrowelded wire
except that the vertical "wire" is
larger and the cross rods are spaced
farther apart. (Electrowelded rod is
commonly used for refrigerator shelves.)
This material does not have the "jail"
look of large rods or bars. The rods
can be of galvanized iron (as in chic-
ken cages), chrom-plated steel, or
stainless steel. One firm makes a
monkey cage of this material. In the
larger gauges, and for the smaller
monkeys, electrowelded rod may well
be the best material for economical
cages fabricated by mass production
techniques.

Expanded metal. This material
is made by cutting slits in sheet
iron and subjecting it to stretch,
so that the slit becomes a diamond-
shaped opening. The twist introduced
by the stretching may be flattened, and
varying amounts of smoothing of the
sharp edges is done. This material is
less expensive per square foot than
woven wire of equivalent strength and
can be more easily attached to angle
iron frames. After expanded metal is
cut to size, chiefly done with sheet
«metal shears, it can be butt-welded
to one edge of an angle iron, which
forms the frame of the cage. A
similar process results in large
panels that can be used for screening
and barriers. Less neatly, eXpanded
metal can be joined to the side of a
rod and the excess metal ground away.
This material comes ungalvanized and
can be hot-dip galvanized for cages
or, more simply but less satisfactorily,
can be painted for panels. Table 2
indicates the specifications for
black expanded metal.

 

 




design~S/64-43

At first sight, expanded metal
seems preferable to either woven or
electrowelded wire, since all crevices
and spaces are eliminated. How-
ever, expanded metal has several
serious drawbacks which bring its
cheapness into question. This
material is more difficult to keep
clean than wire. 0n cage floors and
walls it presents a flat surface
instead of a round one, so that
cleansing resulting from erosion
of soil during movement of monkey's
hands and feet is retarded. In con-
trast to round wire, expanded metal
is hard for the monkey's fingers
to close around, so that the outside
of expanded metal cages tends to
become encrusted. BXpanded metal
has been criticized by van Wagenen
(1950) and many others because its
sharp edge and V corners may injure
or amputate the fingers of a climbing
animal. Fremming (personal communi-
cation) confirms the existence of
this hazard, which is especially
serious during catching when the
monkey may cling tightly to the cage.
The long axis of the diamonds in
eXpanded metal should be oriented
horizontally on the sides and front
of the cage and from left to right
in its floor to reduce injury. Also,
the horizontal orientation in the
sides and front of the cage increases
visibility. Expanded metal does not
have the resilience of woven wire
and may break under continued impact.

One-piece construction is typical
for expanded metal cages, whereas
panel-and-frame construction is used
in woven wire cages. Only the largest
industrial concerns can handle the
galvanizing of one-piece cages. Mono-
lithic construction also makes any
modification difficult. In psycho-
logical experiments, for example, it
is often desirable to combine a
standard sanitary metal living cage
with a locally fabricated wooden work
apparatus. If frame-and-panel construc-
tion is used, a side or an end of the
cage can be removed and replaced with

 




design~S/64-44

the testing equipment, or with a

sliding door leading into such apparatus.
With one-piece construction such modifi-
cations involve cutting and welding,

and are therefore more eXpensive and
irrevocable.

Punched metal. A pattern of
circular holes can be punched out of a
sheet of stainless steel, aluminum or
ungalvanized iron rather quickly
(although wastefully of metal). The
resulting sheets, having straight
edges and solid borders, can be bent
and joined by seam-welding to form
a cage in relatively few steps.
Punched aluminum or stainless steel
may be suitable or even preferable
flooring for cages for some animals,
but probably not monkeys. Even though
the round hole eliminates the sharp
notch which is an objectionable
feature of expanded metal, consider-
able thickness of metal is needed
to keep the perimeters from being
knife-like. Consequently, cages
with walls of this material tend
to be very expensive and somewhat
heavy.

Cyclone or link fencing. This
material, familiar in factory fences,
is a loosely woven material in which
periodic bows serve the same purpose
as the crimping in woven wire. Attem-
pts to weld cyclone fencing to pipes
or angles are doomed to failure. It
must be stretched to be firm; this
is done by threading a bar of flat
stock through the mesh and then
attaching the bar to a post or to
walls, pulling the wire tight. The
need for tension makes cyclone fencing
quite difficult to use successfully
in indoor installations, where
areas are small and anchor points
insecure. It is, however, quite
often used for outdoor installations
and for chimpanzee cages.

At the Yerkes Laboratories of
Primate Biology, chain-link fencing,
double galvanized, with a 2-in. mesh
is used to house chimpanzees more
than six years old. The fencing

 




design-S/64~4S

must be 6 gauge for cages housing
adult animals; 9 gauge can be used for
slightly younger animals. The
framework for these cages should be
galvanized iron pipe at least 1 in.

to 2 in. in diameter; 3 in. is not too
great a safety factor in building
cages for adult males. The pipe

can be joined by threaded couplings
bolts, or welds (Yerkes, 1943; Nissen,
1952).

For chimpanzee cages, the most
satisfactory means of securing the
mesh to piping is with steel straps
(or bands) passing around the pipe
and through the mesh at short inter-
vals. These straps are fastened to the
pipe with rivets or bolts with lock
nuts. Cages fabricated in this
fashion have withstood use for 20 to
30 years. For the smaller primates,
an 11 gauge wire, the standard for
fences, suffices, as do the conven-
tional fencing posts.

A great improvement and conven-
tional Cyclone fencing is Ford fencing.
Link fencing is attached to a welded
pipe frame by a solid rod which is
threaded through the links and is
welded to the frame at 18-in.
intervals. There are no straps or
bolts to loosen and the twisted free
ends of the fencing present no loose
ends to tempt "monkeying" or inflict
damage.

Sheet metal. Galvanized iron
or stainless steel sheets and incor-
porated into some monkey cages as
walls or as a cove around the
sides of the cage at the bottom.

Sheet metal is entirely unsuitable
for barriers and tends to make cages
dark. It is extremely noisy, easi-
ly soiled, restricts climbing, shuts
out light, and prevents air movement.
However, it is the least eXpensive
material and can be used for the
backs of cages to be set against a
wall or for the sides of "isolation"

 




design-S/64-46

or " uarantine" ca es * where the
g ,

 

*Wood and Kennard (1956) inserted
a sheet of 12 gauge metal between the
cage of a monkey newly introduced into
the colony and its neighbors to provide
temporary isolation. It is common
practice to use a removable shield
when a fomite barrier is needed
temporarily.

 

prevention of spread of fomites takes
precedence over all considerations. In
ape cages, sheet metal must be heavier,
part for part, than wire work, which
withstands pounding better. Because
chimpanzees are especially devoted to
tympanic effects, solid sheets of
metal in their cages should be avoided
if at all possible.

Stainless steel is often consider-
ed indi5putab1y superior to its
country cousin, galvanized iron, and is
often used for purposes, such as racks,

to which it is unsuitable--at least

in the economically feasible gauges.
Actually, stainless steel is "tinny"
in economical weights, often discolors
at each point of spot welding, and

is surprisingly hard to clean of cer-
tain stains unless Special cleaners
and considerable "elbow grease" are
used. It is superior to galvanized
sheets for large flat surfaces, but is
replacing galvanized metal chiefly
because it is more economically fabri-
cated, more resistant to chemicals used
in mechanical washers, and easier to
clean of particulate matter. Sharp
edges can be removed by sand—blasting,
which may pit the metal, or by
"negative electrolysis," which removes
rather than adds metal. The thin
sheets dictated by costs can be
strengthened by "embossing" or by weld—
ing "blisters" to the sheet.

There are several types of stainless
steel, each having different pro~
perties and costs. Hoeltge (1961)
states that chromium-nickel stain-
less steels, e.g., types 302 and
304, are superior to chromium stain-
less steel, e.g., type 430, for

 




design-5/64~47

caging and that the latter should
not be used. Where a considerable
amount of welding is needed, he
recommends type 304. In any event,
stainless steel should not be
joined permanently to galvanized
steel because the zine is anodic to
stainless steel. If provision is
made for removal of one part so

that the joint can be thoroughly
cleaned and dried at frequent inter-
vals, combinations such as stainless
steel pans inserted into galvanized
channel may be used. For pans,
stainless steel is clearly super-
ior and galvanized metal should

not be considered.

Iron or aluminum grillwork. Bars
are the traditional restraint for
"wild" animals, and are seen in the
older zoo installations. They have
a prison connotation and are estheti-
cally less pleasing than mesh or
electro-welded rods. Moreover, per
pound, wire mesh is many times
stronger, as well as less expensive.
Its flexibility protects it against
breakage. Aluminum bars of suitable
grade are not significantly cheaper
than stainless steel but are more
economically worked, so that the
total cost is less. Bars inserted
into aluminum stock are used
exclusively in one line of cages.

Glass and clear lastics.
Utilization—of'structural and rein-
forced sheet glass to protect animals
from air-borne infections is occasion-
ally suggested. Its use is generally
restricted to Special cages for
disease research or for exhibition.
It is also used as a partition in
breeding cages. The weight, the
difficulty of alteration, the danger
of breakage, and the necessary daily
washing legislate against general
use of glass. It also soon loses
its transparency through scratching
and smearing. Plexiglas is more
easily sawed for alterations, and
less easily broken than is glass.

 




design-5/64-48

The plastic, however, is especially
subject to scratching. The clear
styrene used in some small animal
cages does not withstand the water
temperatures in mechanical washers.

Reinforced plastics. One-piece
fiberglass-reinforced plastic is being
used for dog and monkey cages. Owing
to the expense of the pressure molds
used to fabricate these cages, the
lack of mass production has meant a
high cost per cage. The result is
pleasing, light reflective and reasonab-
ly easily cleaned, but the junction
of metal for the doors with the plas-
tic is a problem, as is the support
of the cage. The surface-hardness
of the plastic resin is also a factor.
Some of the resilient plastics used
for this purpose scar easily; other
resins used are hard but brittle.

In general, the resin does not
maintain its initial luster, but
few materials do.

 

Finishes

Wherever paint is used in primate
quarters it shruld be lead-free.
Furthermore, red or white lead should
not be used as a metal primer in the
belief that overcoats of leadnfree
paint will safely separate primate
and lead. Two serious illnesses
in gorillas were traced to the use
of lead-containing paint on cages.
(see Ruch, 1959). In one of these
cases, red paint, apparently red
lead from the cage bars, was
visible in the vomitus.

Galvanized metals should be
inspected periodically for signs
of peeling. Sharp impacts, friction,
or chronic condensation, can break
the finish and set up conditions
for flaking of the zinc coating.
Flaking may also occur if an
excessively thick coat has been
given, even though the underlying
steel is not exPosed. Aluminum paint
can often check deterioration at a

WM

’
,& (if «:15, #23...“ cue ,.(
LCM.\£,?%W}I mfﬁamm 3‘7 (1'1" “x“.

,a/ [(wuﬁaés/7 3? ”lit Dilated.) 6"“ )

ﬂ /
x. 9' LR] LL!" (IL-n» (.661 {IV/m

 




design~S/64-49

broken point in the galvanizing,
or may be used simply to brighten
stained galvanizing.

Indoor Colony

Barriers

Barriers between a primate colony
colony and laboratories or offices pre-
sent no problem if the colony is
banished to a separate building, the
Upper story or the basement. However,
if close contact between the scientists
and the colony is desired (or necessary);
barriers to prevent the escape of mon-
keys, odors and sound become very
important. An airlock, a short hallway
with doors at either end, is recommend-
ed to connect the animal quarters
with other areas. An airlock is also
a monkey lock, a sound lock and an
odor lock. For efficient performance
of the latter two functions, air move-
ment within the corridor must be reduced.
This is accomplished by making the
opening of the second door dependent
upon the closing of the first. The
pressure of the air in the corridor
should be positive to that of colony
air and negative to that of air in the
adjacent laboratory or office areas.

If the airlock is also to serve as a
pathogen lock, ultraviolet lights may
help; however, these will be effective
only if air movement has been reduced
and should turn off when the door to
the lock is opened so they will not
damage the eyes of the person entering.
The doors of the airlock and for

that matter any door, present a problem
to passage by a cart or by a person
with his hands full. Although expens-
ive, automatic door Openers are possibly
economically justifiable, but as far

as we know have not been used. A
delayed-action door, which permits the
pusher of a cart to Open a door and
move his cart through it before it
closes, is installed in the Clinic
Center, National Institutes of Health.
Short of these two practices are foot-
battered "kickplates" and truck-
battered doors.

 




design-S/64-50

Regardless of the location of
the colony, more than one barrier
should be introduced between the monkey
cage and the exits or public hallways.
One such barrier should be a solid
wall to keep the colony out of view.
Others can be made of mesh. To be
effective, all barriers must be sub-
ject to the closed-door rule. The
solid barrier thus becomes a means
of reducing spread of odor and sound,
as well as animal escapes.

When the quarters are not located
on a separate floor or in a separate
wing, the animal rooms should Open onto
an internal hallway. Double-swing doors
in the main public hallway at the end
of the wing containing the monkey room
constitute an inexpensive additional
barrier, and are helpful in restrict-
ing the range of an escaped monkey.

The most important barriers, however,
lie within the animal room itself,
since most handling occurs there. The
design minimum is three barriers and
sometimes five are none too many.
These barriers are: l) the cage door,
2) a "bay" or room-within-a—room, 3)
the animal room door opening on an
inner hallway, 4) the door into the
main corridor of the animal quarters,
and 5) double swinging doors between
animal and other areas. The ways of
establishing barriers within the monkey
colony, point 2 above, are as follows.

1. Room-within-a-room. As des-
cribed by van Wagenen (1950), the room-
within-a-room is a large, covered
cage of chain-link fencing built 3 ft
inside the walls of a large room. This
type of quarters is simple to construct,
since screening of individual windows,
radiators, etc., is avoided, but it
has several serious defects. It con-
fines a monkey escaped from its living
cage, but not one escaping when out-
side the great cage. Moreover, a monkey
escaping from its cage, although con-
fined within the great cage, can still
hide between and behind living
cages. Catching the animal will take

 




design~5/64-51

the time of several people, the animal
room will be disarranged, and watering
or urine collection bottles may be
broken. Finally, since as much as

50 per cent of a room may lie between
its walls and those of the great cage,
this plan is extremely expensive in
terms of floor space.

2. The partitioned room. A more

 

economical room-within-a—room is secured
by placing a wall-to-wall and floor—to—
ceiling screen across the end of the
room nearest the door. The windows

are also screened. In effect, this
screening is a barrier against escape
into external hallways, but without a
low ceiling, catching can become diffi-
cult. If the room ceiling is of normal
height, it is best to provide a com—
lete false ceiling of screening and

to bring the front barrier up to it.

The escaped monkey is thus denied

access to overhead pipes or light
fixtures, and he is within reach
whether inside or outside the enclosure.

The doorway in the vertical
barrier should be large enough to per-
mit tall cages or racks to enter,
even though the latter are to be
semi-fixed installations. 50 large
a door is heavy and tends to warp;
therefore, a door of normal height
surmounted by a second door or a
removable panel continuing un to the
ceiling is preferable to a single
large door. Double doors as described
below are preferable to single doors.

3. Bay arrangement. The third
design coﬁgists of banks of facing
cages, opening on a center space which
is so screened that monkeys cannot
escape onto the tOps of the cages or
out of the bay. [For a detailed des-
cription of an early use of the "bay"
principle see Kennard, Ruch G Fulton
(1946).] This plan provides a barrier
and a convenient area into which a
monkey can be released for observation.
Monkeys quickly learn to return to
their cages, but the plan also facilitates

 

 




design-5/64-52

catching by hand. The bay arrangement
is by far the chaepest way of providing
the first barrier, because the area to
be screened is small-«bank-to-bank
overhead, doors to enter the bay and
flaps below the cages; the cage racks
provide the support for all screening.
With immovable cages fixed against

the wall and running from floor to
ceiling, as in Dr. Leon Schmidt's
installation at Christ Hospital,
Cincinnati, doors may be the only
additional cost. In the Yale Physiology
colony, the cages were supported by
angle iron racks, and the tolerance
between cage frames and supporting
racks was too small to admit a monkey
loose in the bay. Ceiling panels were
attached to the top angle iron of each
rack, double swinging doors were
hinged to the vertical angle, and

long flaps were placed along the
bottom angle. For ready sweeping and
mopping, the bottom flaps swung up and
were held open or closed by a chain and
snap. The double doors, swinging in
and out, were self-closing and gave a
wide opening without the weight and
instability of wide doors. Because
the hinges contained Springs, the doors
were difficult for a monkey to open,
even if they were accidentally left
unlatched, but they were easily opened
by a caretaker entering or leaving with
his arms full. The two-way hinges were
mounted on blocks so that side-sliding
cage doors could pass between the
frame and the door. If this design

is used with cages on which the

doors slide upward, a suitable opening
for them should be provided fn the
false ceiling.

A ceiling screen extending only
from cage bank to cage bank is a
barrier only to monkeys escaping from
the cages into the bay. Once outside
the bay, the animals can find many
refuges unless a complete false ceiling
is supplied and the ends of the cage
racks are protected.

In the layout of a bay system
the width of the bay is important.
Dr. Leon Schmidt used a 4 ft bay to

 




design-5/64-53

facilitate the capture of animals. The
Illinois system has a 2 ft drainage

trough at the back and the Yale-Washington
system a 2 ft service area at the back.

A 4 ft tray interval is a minimum; a

5 ft interval is workable but a 7 ft

. bay has been recommended if injection

or other work is to be done in the
corridor between the banks of the cages.

Ventilation

 

The cleanest monkey colony is not
odor-free,* and if it is unventilated,

 

*As a subjective impression, the
amount of odor is somewhat dependent
on the diet fed. Some of the commer-
cially prepared diets seemingly produce
a less offensive residue than do mixed
"natural" diets. Unconsumed or spilled
milk is especially bad. In one pri-
mate quarters visited, the odor was
not connected with the monkeys but was
a pervasive cereal smell.

 

odors reach hallways and adjacent rooms.
Thus, some form of forced air exchange
is necessary. If the building's venti-
lation system is the recirculating type,
the monkey rooms should have a

separate system. Provision of a sep-
arate system for the monkey quarters
also permits weekend ventilation

when the system for the remainder of
the building may be shut off for
economy. A warning system which

signals mechanical failure of the
ventilation system is desirable for

any colony and necessary for an
infectious disease colony. Openable
windows used in place of forced air
exchange create drafts and upset the
temperature control. Furthermore, odors
often enter open windows in the

floors above. (In urban areas and
especially near a hospital, escape

of animal noises into neighboring
buildings may also make this form of
ventilation unwise.) Although simian
primates live in climates where there

 




design—5/64-54

is a sharp diurnal variation in
temperature, it is generally believed
that the primate singly caged indoors,
and unable to seek protection from
the cold, should not be subjected to
sudden changes in temperature.

The third benefit of adequate venti-
lation is to reduce the concentration
of airborne bacteria by dilution with
outside air. The Spread of bacteria
by the ventilating system is most
certainly prevented by not recirculating
the air. The modification of the air
by filtering is another aspect of
ventilation.

Citing six changes an hour as
the desideratum for human habitations,
Thorp (1960) suggests 10 changes an
hour for animal rooms, partly on the
grounds that the number of individuals
to be served is larger and partly on
the grounds that exposed food and
excreta in the animal rooms present
greater odor problems. As many as
23 changes of air an hour have been
recommended for small animals. To
reduce air-borne infection and odors
the ventilation system should not be
of the recirculating type. It should
maintain a slight positive pressure
in the room and should be separate
from ventilation systems for other
animal rooms. Munkelt (1948) suggested
that 20 per cent of the air in an animal
room should be fresh each minute (12
changes per hour) to provide odor con-
trol. In contrast, Ayres et a1. (1960)
selected a ventilation system giving
four-and-a-half changes an hour on
the grounds that higher rates of
flow increased the likelihood of drafts
and might also be conducive to the drying
of the animal's skin. A factor beyond
odor control to be considered in sel—
ecting the number of air changes per
hour is the cost of heating or cooling
the fresh air entering the room.

In the selection of air-condition-
ing equipment, devices that control
odor by increasing the concentration
of positively charged particles in
the air should be avoided. Such ions

 




design~5/64-55

both suppress the mechanisms~~ciliary
movement and mucus formation-~by which
the respiratory mucosa rids itself of
irritants, including inhaled pathogens,
and increase its vulnerability to trauma
(Krueger et all., 1959). Devices
producing ozone are objectionable both
for this reason and because ozone

is poisonous to cells throughout

the body.

Munkelt (1948) stated that acti—
vated carbon, commonly used in air
purifiers, is not a satisfactory means
of deodorizing air from animal rooms
because this material does not retain
ammonia well if at all. Another
approach to odor control is to introduce
substances into the air or ventila-
tion system to diminish olfactory acuity
or to blend with or mask the animal
odors. This practice is not entirely
satisfactory since a number of these
substances are allergens for some
peOple.

As pointed out above, an important
way of reducing the spread of odors is
to use barriers against monkey escane
as barriers to escape of air. The
closed door rule and use of an "air-
lock" are particularly helpful in this
connection.

Although it is not necessary to
belabor the monkey's needs for ven-
tilation or the investigators‘
preference for it, when it comes to
establishing how much ventilation is
required opinions vary considerably.
Obviously, the amount of ventilation
needed for odor control depends on the
density of the monkey pOpulation, the
types of cages, type of bedding, the
cleaning practices and simOphobia or
simophilia. With modern air diffusion
screens, air exchange at a rate of 15
changes per hour can be achieved with-
out drafts and certainly with benefit
to man if not essential to the monkey.

The treatment of air from a room
containing highly pathogenic bacteria
and viruses is a very technical subject,

 




design-S/64-56

which has been given careful considera-
tion by Jemski (1962) of the BiOIOgical
Laboratories at Frederick, Maryland.

In brief, it may be said that although
incineration is 100 per cent effi-
cient and virtually foolproof, it is
difficult mechanically. Filtration
with periodic disinfection by steam-
formaldehyde vapor is therefore the
method of choice. Fiberglass filters
are 99 to 99.9 per cent effective, pro-
vided they are given proper care.
Microbial filters should have prefil-
tration to remove animal hair and

dust. Any filtering system should be
monitored bacteriologically and
periodically decontaminated by steam
formaldehyde.

In the planning of a ventilation
system it should be recognized that
along with its benefits the system
provides an excellent concealment
for anthropods such as cockroaches
and an excellent way of neutralizing
expensive precautions against the
Spread of sound. The latter problem
can be counteracted with the advice of
the sound engineer. Too often, the
diSposition of animal room air has
not been considered. In remodeling,
odorous air is frequently expelled
from one room by fans, only to enter
a window in the floor above. Although
visually unattractive, ductwork extend-
ing to the roof along the outside of
the building is preferable if the
primate colony is being installed
below existing offices and laboratories.
In new construction the exhaust from
animal rooms should be expelled at a
level above surrounding buildings.

The intake of air should also be
above roof level so that the exhaust
of fume hoods, etc. does not enter
the primate quarters.

The costs of air treatment vary
from one climatic region to another,
but are a significant part of cons-
truction costs in all climates.
According to some estimates, cost of

 




design-S/64-57

ventilation can be as much as 30

per cent of the building cost. For
most climates estimates range from $10
to $17 per sq ft, plus $3 to $4

per sq ft to lower the relative
humidity to 60 per cent in summer

and to raise it above 20 per cent in
winter.

Temperature regulation

Protection against cold tempera-
tures. Within the limits of 5 and
80° F, constancy of temperature is
probably more important than level.
This statement is based on Opinion
and experience. Actually, the animal's
comfort is determined by the tempera-
ture in the cage rather than by that
in the room. Thus the design of the
cage and the number of animals in
it, as well as the temperature of
room air, are factors in temperature
control.

The mulatta colonies at Yale's
Laboratory of Physiology (Kennard et
a1., 1946) and at the University of
Birmingham, England (Eckstein S
Zuckerman, 1951, 1957) have been
kept at 74° and 75° F, respectively.
The colony which Kennard later
established at the Universtiy of
British Columbia was kept at 70°F
(Wood 6 Kennard, 1956), and the tempera—
ture in the large mulatta colony at
the University of Texas Radio-biological
Laboratory is 68° to 70°F (Gisler et
al., 1960). Yerkes (1943) suggested
that temperatures in chimpanzee
colonies need not be over 70°F, and
Noback (1929), in discussing the care
of primates, gave the temperatures used
at a Chicago 200 as 65° to 72°f,
kept constant. However, at Sukhumi the
minimum temperature in indoor cages
is much lower for several species of
baboons and macaques, being 50° to 55°F
for healthy animals and 57° to 64°F for
sickly ones (Voronin et al., 1948).
Such temperatures would reduce the
contrast between indoor and outdoor
temperatures when the animals move from
one environment to the other. Wooden

 




design-5/64-58

benches (but not bedding*) are provided
that the animals need not sleep on cement.

 

*Provision of bedding of straw,
hay, or even blankets is a time-honored
means of protecting domestic animals
against cold. However, the practice
is interdicted by sanitary considera-
ticns. Straw and hay are particularly
objectionable since they can serve
as the route by which pathogens enter
the colony (see Ruch, 1959).

 

A number of colonies, including
the cebus colony at the Harvard Nutri-
tion Laboratory (Mann et a1., 1952),
are kept at 78° F and this relatively
high temperature may be justified for
lowland trOpical species. It is diffi-
cult to believe that the 85° F maintain—
ed at the (British) National Institute
for Medical Research (Owen, 1958) is
truly necessary, especially since
this temperature is only 2° below
the one which Ayres et al. (1960)
consider potentially dangerous to their
colony if permitted to persist for
any length of time. until experiment
or experience proves otherwise, monkey
rooms may simply be heated to a tem-
perature that is comfortable to the
caretakers and scientists working there.

The temperature range given above
applies to juvenile and adult animals.
The nurseries for very young animals
should be warmer (up to 90°F). If
infants are left with their mothers,
however, there is no need to keep
them at a room temperature higher
than that provided for the adult colony.

One means of guaranteeing against
failure of temperature control is to
install two thermostats, one set a
few degrees lower than the other.

If the regular thermostat fails, the
one with the slightly lower setting
begins functioning, and thus a severe
dr0p in temperature from this cause is
prevented. This technique is parti-
cularly valuable where constant

 




design~5l64~59

temperature is critical for an
eXperiment, in nurseries, and where
the climatic temperatures are apt to
be extreme or building insulation is
poor.

Where the primate colony is an
adjunct to an existing institution,
the basic form of heating, often with
steam or hot water, is usually pre-
determined. In new installations,
low-level heating sources should be
used,* i.e., pipes with flanges

 

*Brewer and Penfold (1962)
object to low-level heating devices
partly on the grounds that valuable
wall space may be lost as a result
of poor location.

 

ranged along the outside wall. An
asbestos screen in front of these
pipes, although open at the ton and
bottom, is safe as well as effective
from a heating point of view. Consid-

eration should be given to units which
combine heating and ventilating
functions, so that some heating (or
cooling) of the air is done outside

the animal room. However, even in
mild climates, heating of the perimeter
of the building is necessary.

Radiant heat from the floor was
used at Johns Hapkins' poliomyelitis
colony and is used in runways for
monkeys at the National Institutes
of Health (Gay, personal communication).
This method is "safe," and floors
dry quickly after washing. With
thorough daily washing, it can be
very satisfactory; otherwise, feces
tend to dry and become difficult
to scrape off. Radiant heat in the
walls or ceiling has not been tried.
For small areas, radiant electrical
heat with the wires enclosed in glass
might be successful.

Protection against high temperatures.
Despite the tropical Habitat of’
common laboratory monkeys, it is possi-
ble that heat and heat sources are more
of a hazard than is cold. The animals

 

 

 




design—5/64—60

should not be able to come in direct
contact with electrical or steam heat-
ing devices, and the heat exchangers
should not heat the metal of the cages.
Well monkeys will avoid radiators, but
a monkey which is sick, recovering
from anesthesia, or just panicked,

can receive burns or be overheated.
Thus, the source of heat for the room
should be outside the cage and barrier .
area, and should be screened, The
latter need, in turn, presents a pro-
blem because any screened-off area

is a trap for dirt and vermin.

Screens should be easily removed

yet well secured.

Heating can be a hazard in
another way: a bursting steam or hot
water pipe at night or on a weekend
can destroy a primate colony.

Such an event occurred in a
colony of monkeys which had been born
in the laboratory, subjected to
eXperimental procedures, and kept
under observation for many months.

One weekend shortly before the animals
were to be sacrificed for histological
study, a steam pipe burst and the
monkeys were scalded to death. Besides
the humanitarian aspect, the research
investment in these monkeys was lost
owing to autolytic changes.

Apart from the housing situation,
attention should be given to prevention
of overheating in laboratory situa-
tions. During surgery animals have been
lost through overheating. Conversely,
excessive heat loss may be a problem
when restraint prevents postural
adjustments to changing temperatures.

Noise and vibration

Noise, like odor, is objectionable
whether confined to a monkey colony
or allowed to escape. A distinc-
tion in thinking must be made between
the problem of reflected sound within
the colony and the more difficult pro-
blem of sound transmitted from the
colony. Noise within the colony some—
times prohibits discussion between staff

 




design-S/64~6l

members. It is also a disturbance

to collected observation and thinking

on what may be crucial matters connec-
ted with the health of the colony or

an experimental procedure. Furthermore,
the reflected sound as well as the
original noise contributes to the

din transmitted out of the colony. As
mentioned earlier, noise has sometimes
legislated against the use of Open-air
facilities. Also, noises from indoor
primate colonies carried through windows
have caused complaints and may stimu-
late antivivisection feelings. The
screams of a chimpanzee who has been
robbed of a banana by a cage mate can
easily be misinterpreted. Noise, odor
and insects have prevented workers from
having their colonies close at

hand. The monkeys have been consigned
to the top floor or the basement.

In medical schools the proximity to
patients has dictated isolation

under conditions unattractive to

the investigator. In psychology de-
partments housed in university buildings
the use of monkeys has been interdicted.

Reduction of sound reflection.
The conventionaT—means of reducing
sound within a room and the common
means of obtaining easily cleaned
surfaces are mutually exclusive.
Ceramic tile, terrazzo, and their
kin are not only excellent for cleaning,
but also are excellent sound reflec-
tors. They make for noisy rooms, al-
though the slight irregularities in
orientation of the surfaces of
many small tiles make them somewhat
less reflective than a smooth solid
wall with a hard surface, e.g. painted
cement. On the other hand, common
acoustic tile is stained by water, pro-
vides many refuges for dust and
vermin, and is easily destroyed by
escaped monkeys. Because of the dic-
tates of cleanliness and resistance to
water for floors and walls, the
ceiling is the main surface available
for sound trapping. When a false
ceiling of wire netting is used, the
structural ceiling and the walls
above the netting are the only surfaces
available for treatment. The maze of

 

 




 

design-5/64-62

pipes, conduits and air ducts helps
to dissipate sound, although they may
also transmit sound, especially high-
frequency vibrations, to other areas.
As mentioned in the discussion of
ceiling materials, sound-absorptive
substances may replace the netting

in drOpping ceilings. However,
conventional forms of acoustic tile
are unsuitable for this purpose if
hoses are used for cleaning.

Acoustic material which depends on
small holes to trap sound can be made
of metal and retain effectiveness,
especially when backed by a plastic-
covered pad of fibrous material. Some
forms of heat insulators, produced

in large flat blocks, are also fair
absorbers of sound. An absorbent
applied flat to the ceiling is less
effective than the same material
hanging below the ceiling. Deep
cones of certain dimensions made of
sound-absorbing material are surpris-
ingly effective as sound traps and
might be used as shades for light
fixtures.

If a floor-to-ceiling barrier
separates the front part of the
room from the caging area, an addition-
al space for sound trapping is pro-
vided, since the front wall stands at
right angles to the ceiling and walls
and in the path of the richocheting
sound. Unfortunately, utilization
of this area for sound absorption
is often restricted because a needed
sink in this position makes desirable
an easily cleaned, water-resistant
surface. Covering such walls and
the ceiling with irregularly shaped,
protruding blocks as in anechoic cham-
bers would dissipate sound waves, per-
haps without undue magnification of
the cleaning problem.

Walls which run at angles other
than 90° to one another prevent
standing waves, but require engineer-
ing to determine the pr0per arrangement.
A slightly wedge-shaped room is com-
patible with the bay principle and




design~5/64-63

could channel sound to the end of

the room away from the windows. Such
a plan might be suitable for a single
animal room where the wasted space
could be utilized. A true ceiling
sloping upward from the windows to the
entrance wall would have the same effect.
Although this principle is used in
broadcasting stations, it presents
architectural and constructional
difficulties.

Reduction of sound transmission.
The simple method of reducing sound
within a room-~installation of
sound-absorbent material in the ceiling
-~does not prevent transmission of
sound from a room. Nevertheless,
application of such material to several
surfaces does help to reduce trans-
mission because the sound which leaves
a room has two components: vibrations
transmitted through the direct
path to walls, floors and ceilings; and
vibrations induced by sounds
bouncing around the room, especially
a small room, setting in motion the
surfaces they strike. Sound-absorbing
surfaces in the trajectory of the noise
thus do provide an added benefit of
reducing transmission. Covering a
heavy wall with a soft surface such
as plaster reduces its sound-trans-
mitting qualities through both
reduction of reflected sound and
mismatch of vibration frequences.
The total effectiveness, however,
depends on the weight of heavy material.

 

There are two general methods
of preventing sound transmission. One
depends simply on the weight of the
wall and the mismatch between it and
the air. A heavy wall of concrete
block, cement or, to a lesser degree
depending on weight, ceramic tile
effectively reduces sound transmission--
thus the expression "silent as a
tomb." Heavy walls are about the
only practical method of reducing
transmission of low-frequency sounds.
The attenuation gained is considerable
with an 8-in. cement wall but is not
much improved by doubling the thick-
ness to 16 in.

 




 

 

design~5/64-64

The second way to reduce sound
transmission is one familiar in
domestic architecture, the building
of two walls separated by air Space
interrupted only by studding. Apart
from the studding this construction
provides two surfaces of mismatch.

If the walls are also relatively heavy,
two layers of gypsum cement board for
example, transmission is fUrther reduced.
In this plan the studding provides a
pathway for sound transmission through
the walls without much loss (unless

the panels are loosely attached to

the studding). To provide a more per-
fect air-solid-air-solid-air system,

the two walls may be hung on separate
sets of studding, alternated to save
Space. A sound-absorbent or heat-
absorbent blanket woven between the
staggered studding increases the
attenuation of transmitted sounds.
Although such walls are not expensive
and are more effective than the solid
cement block wall, they are perhaps

less applicable to animal quarters.

The large empty spaces between the walls
afford a harbor for insects or even
rodents. Although the wall surface

may be sealed, failure of the seal

at a single point may allow them

access to this space, which then provides
uninterrupted travel for considerable
distances. (Although cement blocks

have interior spaces, the amount of
contiguous Open area is less.)

Good sound-attenuating qualities
of the walls are often neutralized by
doors and eSpecially by small
openings around them or around steam
pipes, etc. passing from room to room.
It is difficult to overemphasize the
significance of small Open Spaces as
neutralizers of soundproofing of walls.
Perhaps the maid with her eye to
the keyhole is a sufficient illustra-
tion of the effectiveness of a small
Opening for the ear as well as the eye.
As a minimum, doors should be tight-fitt-
ing, or positively closed, and fitted
with a device which closes the space
between the floor and the bottom of
the door. In general, the treatment
given doors to make them weatherproof




design-5/64-65

helps to make them soundproof and

is inexpensive. When prevention of
sound transmission is especially
critical, "soundproof" doors should
be installed. Such doors, Specially
manufactured, have extra thickness,
extra weight, and especially strong
hinges. The panel is rubber-mounted
and attenuates sounds by its inertia.

Noise control. It is clear
that insufficient—attention has been
paid Specifically to soundproofing
animal quarters, so that general prin-
ciples are the sole guide. In addition,
certain simple precaution will great-
ly reduce sound and vibration. 1)
Location of animal rooms on an
inner-hall is an effective way of
preventing sound as well as monkeys from
escaping. 2) Air locks also are sound
barriers. 3) Mounting fixed cage
racks on rubber blocks is an effective
means of reducing transmission of
sound from one floor to another. 4)
All racks should be fastened together
by rubber blocks. 5) Cage parts,
including doors, should be tightly
fitted to prevent rattling. 6) Any flat,
solid external surfaces on the cages
should be coated with a thick rubber
paint. 7) Removal of metal feeding
pans from cages after food is eaten,
use of pans made of less noisy materials
such as melamine, or use of external
fixed feeding devices will eliminate
much unnecessary clatter. 8) Metal
doors between inside and outside
living quarters should swing freely
or be rubber-mounted. A metal door
provides hours of noisy entertainment
for a chimpanzee. 9) Ventilating
ducts serving the animal rooms should
be independent from those for the
remainder of the building to reduce
transmission to offices and laboratories;
U-turns in these ducts, although
eXpensive, reduce sound transmission.
10) Restricting visual and auditory
communication between animals will
result in significantly less vocaliza-
tion. 11) Selection of animals which
do not vocalize, jump, stomp or rattle
cage doors is often possible. For

 




design-S/64-66

example, Macaca nemestrina are consid-
erably less Scisterous than M. mulatta.

 

Sunlight, ultraviolet light and lighting

Sunlight is potentially valuable
in three ways: 1) as a substitute
for administered vitamin D, 2) as a
destroyer of bacteria and 3) as a
psychological stimulant. The success-
ful use of prepared foods containing
vitamin D suggests that the nutritional
value of ultraviolet irradiation is
no longer as important as it once was.
Even in outdoor runways, and certainly
in indoor quarters, the bactericidal
effects of sunlight are negligible
adjuncts to good sanitary practices.
The importance of the psychological
change to light from darkness, as
from shade to bright sunlight, is
difficult to assess, but the natural
sequence can be imitated by controlling
artificial lighting with a time
switch and dimmers.

Outdoor paddocks or cages and
indoor-outdoor cages are ralatively
ineXpensive, but often present problems
of noise and public attention. Win-
dows and skylights made of glass which
passes ultraviolet light or treatment
with a mercury vapor lamp have been
substituted. Against sunlight through
windows and skylights are: 1) over-
heating of animals directly exposed
to the sun, 2) heat-induced air convec-
tion and carriage of fomites from the
window side to the dark side, and 3)
loss of heat and transmission of
sound through the glass. Actually,
the disadvantages of windows, regardless
of glazing, outweigh their advantages
in all areas--venti1ation, heat control
and lighting. Just as use of glass
and metal in office buildings is
becoming passe for engineering reasons,
difficulty of cooling in summer and
warming in winter, so windows are no
longer considered necessary for
simian primates--no matter how fiercely
defended for human primates. In new
construction, completely windowless,
well-ventilated, well-lighted quarters
are not only defensible, but preferable

 




design-5/64~67

since they eliminate need for pro-
tecting the animals from the windows
(and the windows from the animals).

The problem of locating lighting
fixtures for easy accessibility was
discussed in connection with ceiling
design. The level of lighting should
be adjusted to the human workers.

Cobb (in press) recommends 50 to 70
foot~cand1es of lighting in toilet
rooms and washing areas to promote
cleanliness. A level of 40 to 60
foot-candles is recommended for rooms
housing large animals. Supplementary
light should be provided in quarantine
rooms and in aisles where an animal is
closely inspected or a hypodermic
syringe is read.

Use of ultraviolet lamps in
general colonies as opposed to infect-
ious disease colonies, is of questionable
value. Reliance on such lights as a
source of vitamin D is subject to the
same objection of human fallibility
as administration of oral vitamin
supplements. Sterilization of the
air by low-energy ultraviolet sources
is highly doubtful. In fact, where
sawdust is used, the lamps dry it,
producing fomites on which any disease
organisms present may travel about the
room. Finally, the lamps must be
utilized with some discretion since
overeXposure can be injurious to the
animals; Hume (1957) noted the possi-
bility that superovulation observed
in marmosets resulted from pituitary
stimulation by too strong ultraviolet
irradiation.

The above discussion pertains to
relatively weak or local and mobile
sources of ultraviolet irradiation.
Fixed, high-energy, ultraviolet lights
have been included in the paraphernalia
of laboratories designed for work
with monkeys infected with highly
contagious, dangerous viruses. These
lights are used to lower the level of
infectious agents in the air and on
the floor, to act as screens to prevent
the spread of infection, and to decon-
taminate objects or supplies which

 




design-S/64-68

cannot be conveniently sterilized with
steam or gas. The effectiveness of
ultraviolet light as a screen against
spread of infectious agents depends
upon the immobility of the air. If
the air is moving, little or no screen
exists. The directional effect and ex-
ceedingly poor penetrating power of
ultraviolet light limit its utility
for decontamination. It is doubtful
whether ultraviolet light can penetrate
through organisms, much less through
soil on cages.

If any of these objectives are to
be accomplished, high-energy sources
are necessary and they must be
cleaned regularly. The effective
level of irradiation is a technical
matter, but it is one potentially
damaging to the eyes and skin of man
and the simian primate. The lights can
be so arranged that they do not
bear directly on the monkeys' eyes
and controlled reciprocally with the
room lights to avert damage to humans
entering the room. The Biological
Laboratories, Frederick, Maryland,
have had considerable eXperience with
ultraviolet light as an adjunct to
handling highly infectious agents and
are willing to advise in the proper
use of ultraviolet light and other
precautions.

 

Disposal of refuse and carcasses

If improperly handled these func-
tions can involve annoyances, health
hazards for the colony and its staff,
and serious public relations problems.
Even so, they are often a neglected
area of colony design, especially
where animal quarters are housed in
buildings used for other purposes as
well. Otherwise adequate facilities
are subject to severe criticism as a
result of engineering and architectural
ignorance, neglect, or error in pro-
viding for refuse disposal.

Whether refuse and carcasses are
to be trucked to some other location
for final diSposal or are to be
incinerated within the building housing

 




design-S/64-69

the animal quarters, a collection and
holding area is necessary. As empha-
sized earlier, it should not be part
of the receival areas for animals

and supplies, nor should refuse be
removed from the building over the
receiving docks. The amount of

space required as a holding area

for refuse is determined by caretaking
practices, as well as by colony size.
If prepared cereal feeds are used, and
if cage droppings are flushed into the
sewer, the amount of garbage will

be far less than if the diets include
fresh fruits and vegetables and absor~
bent materials are used in cage pans.
The holding area should have easily
cleaned floor and wall surfaces,

and should be screened so that wild
rodents and flies cannot enter. Since
shipping crates often contain roaches
and ectoparasites, pest control
measures should be applies regularly
and frequently to minimize spread of
vermin to other areas. In hot
climates, it may be necessary to cool
the holding area so that the tempera-
ture is maintained at about 45° F,

to reduce the odor from refuse con-
taining large amounts of organic matter
(Animal Facilities Standards Committee,
1963). In any climate, cold storage
or a freezer should be available for
safe storage of animals sacrificed
during weekend eXperiments. Electrically
shielded refrigeration equipment should
be used for this purpose, so that a
Spark from the motor will not eXplode
or ignite any anesthetic gases escap-
ing from the carcasses or ether-soaked
sponges often discarded with the
animal. As brought out in Chapter 6,
odor-proof, moisture~proof bags,
tightly closed, should be used for
carcasses awaiting diSposal and as
liners for garbage cans. The cans
should also have tight-fitting lids.

In consideration of extramural
disposal, the availability of daily
service is the first requirement. To
permit refuse, and particularly shipping
crates, to stand around for several
days is to invite trouble from Spread

 




design-S/64-7O

of insects, odor, and fomites bearing
bacteria or viruses. Accumulating
garbage will attract wild rodents and
insects into the area, and is very
apt to overflow holding facilities.
The time of collection and the kind
of collection vehicle are other
considerations.

The nature of extramural disposal
facilities must also be evaluated. It
is unwise to dispose of monkey car-
casses in a garbage dump (even one
where burning is practiced). The
similarities in size between the skele-
tons of the human infant and the
monkey could lead to misunderstandings
affecting public relations. If
carcasses are diSposed of by other
means, use of such a facility for
debris may be practical.

Before a central incinerator
provided by the institution is relied
upon, its suitability should be care-
fully considered. Owing to the high
organic content of refuse from animal
quarters, the burning of it can pro-
duce air pollution. At a minimum, the
incinerator should be of the double-
chamber type. For incineration of
carcasses, more elaborate equipment is
required. In addition to two chambers,
such an incinerator should have a leak-
proof grate below the door to catch
rendered fat and retain it until it is
burned. Supplementary heat must be
supplied to provide dehydration. The
combustion of bone requires a tempera-
ture of 15,000-18,000°F; eXposure of
gases to 13,000-lS,000°F destroys
all odor.

The above requirements for
incineration facilities apply equally
to those within the same building as
the animal quarters. A room containing
an incinerator is very difficult to keep
clean and should have the best wall
and floor treatment available. If
the door to the incinerator is low,
spillage is greatly reduced. The
incinerator room should be ventilated
to the roof with a blower much like
that of a chemical hood. In the

 




design~5l64~7l

selection of a location for the
incinerator room, thought should be
given to the relation if its vents
to air intakes, as well as to the
flow pattern within the colony.

Adequate incineration to dispose
of carcasses is so expensive and
so technically difficult to install
that thought should be given to
alternate means. Since kitchen
garbage grinders have been used
effectively for diSposal of rat car-
casses, it is probable that large
grinders would accommodate monkey
carcasses. Although the idea might
seem far-fetched, a small installation
might consider maintaining a colony
of dermestid beetles, used by zoologi-
cal museums to clean all flesh from
skeletons. The drawback to this idea
is the possibility of introducing
another pest. The beetles are capable
of flying out of their chamber when it
is opened and surviving on a diet of
books and clothing in other parts of
the building.

Outdoor Colony

 

Complete Open-air housing for
laboratory primates is almost unknown
in this country, even in the South.
However, varying degrees of indoor-
outdoor caging do exist and the
merits of the varying proportions
for a given climate are not yet
proved. One type is a fully heated in-
door home cage connected with an out-
door cage by a flap or sliding door
set into an intervening wall, so that
the monkeys or chimpanzees move freely
between the inner and outer cages.
This type may be termed the indoor-
outdoor plan. Installation of a lock
on the communicating door makes it
possible to drive the monkeys into
one cage while the other is being
cleaned. Also, if the communicating
door locks, the capacity of the colony
can be temporarily increased by hous-
ing one group of animals in the
inner cage and another in the outer.
This arrangement was used successfully

 




design-5/64-72

in the harsh climate of New England
except during the coldest months.

The second type is an outdoor
mesh cage with some shelter supplied
by hutches or partial roofs, used now
mainly in the southern states. Hartman
(Hartman G Strauss, 1933) gives a de-
tailed description of two such
installations, and Figure 00 shows
another. Outdoor cages were used by
the Okatie Conditioning Farm, operated
by the National Foundation for Infan-
tile Paralysis in Georgia. Both types
of colony may be used for storage or
for living space, the monkeys being
transferred to the eXperimental rooms
in carrying cages. If facilities of this
type are used, it may be best to intro~
duce monkeys during the summer months
so that they may adjust gradually to
the autumn and winter climate.

Outdoor cages made of chain link
fencing, which is cheaper than woven
wire or expanded metal, are satisfactory.

The cages should be large enough to
permit climbing and running, and should
be constructed with cement or tile
floors with floor drains, or a gutter
at the back, to permit cleaning from
the outside. Some provision must

be made to protect animals from extreme
heat or cold, and attention should be
given to the problem of eliminating
odd "corners" into which an animal can
squeeze to escape catching. Cages
should be of several sizes to allow for
different types of living groups.

Adult male monkeys, for example,

must be kept in individual cages and

a few indoor cages for "infirmary"

use should be provided. In some
colonies, windbreaks of trees and
shrubs are planted on the side of

the prevailing wind. Such screening
can also be used to cut the view

of the curious from any public roads.

England (1953) suggests the
following arrangement for a colony
housing hamadryas baboons of all ages:
a series of indoor pens with concrete
floors, each 6 ft. high, 6 ft. deep
and 4-1/2 ft. wide, two adult females

 




design-5/64-73

and an adult male to be housed in

such a pen. He suggests that the out-
door facility be the width of three
interior pens, so that inhabitants

of the three inner cages have access
to the outer cage in turn.

Carnegie Monkey House. Hartman
6 StrﬁTT‘auss QSWCWribed this
installation at Baltimore-~one of the
first of its kind in the United States.
Sunlight is admitted the year around
through the wire top and sides, although
a partial cover is sometimes necessary
in the hottest months. Both the red
quarry tile floors of the paddocks and
the mastic floors of the laboratories
are swept and washed with hot water
regularly, one drain servicing each
pair of paddocks.

The hutches are overhead in the
vestibule, where they are protected
from the weather and are out of the
way. A single hole about 7 in. by 9
in. opens into the paddock, and is
closed by a trap door Operated with a
lever in the vestibule. The door
is locked open or closed with snap
hooks. Additional, weighted, canvas
flaps are dropped over the doorways
of the northern hutches during the
winter to prevent drafts. In cold
weather, two loo-watt electric light
globes, in receptacles set into the
tile walls and protected from the
animals by perforated iron plates,
keep the temperature in every hutch
at 50-60° F.

For further cooling in the
excessively hot Baltimore summers, a
permanent overhead Sprinkler system,
with a nozzled outlet, emits a fine
spray in each paddock. While this
installation is old and in need of
repair, many of the ideas incorporated
in it seem sound if executed with
modern materials.

Okatie Farm. This installation,
established By the National Foundation
for Infantile Paralysis, was an
outdoor colony in Georgia, where the
winters are relatively mild. The
cages (6 ft. by 8 ft. by 6 ft.),

 




design-5/64~74

constructed of angle iron and

2-in. mesh, woven wire, were joined by
concrete block partitions, and had
concrete floors with false floors of
wire mesh set above them. The concrete
floors sloped from front to rear so
that water ran off, unobstructed by

the walls, into a drain formed by an
apron ending in a curb, at the back of
the cages. A cement walk ran along the
front of the cages. In this arrangement,
the floors of the cages were flushed
out with a hose and cleaned with

steam from a portable generator.

The animals were not on a wet floor
after a rain or a cage cleaning.

Not having to enter the cage for clean-
ing is especially important in Open-air
cages, as is feeding from pans attached
to the outside of the cages and water-
ing from an automatic water fountain.

The hutches in these cages were
of wood, 6 ft. by 2 ft. by 2 ft.; the
bottom was a hinged drop leaf which
opened onto a drain pan. The cages

were heated electrically by a 500—

watt metal strip protected by hardware
cloth, the temperature being controlled
thermostatically at about 70° F.

Yerkes Laboratories of Primate
Biolo (Yerkes, 1943). While these
?acilities, at Orange Park, Florida,
were designed for Chimpanzees, the
principles of construction can be
extended to housing for other apes and
for monkeys. The inside living
quarters are actually in the building,
and are accessible from the inside
corridor. They are heated from a hot-
air type, central plant. The
doorway between the inner room
and the outside cage is covered by
two doors: one, a horizontal sliding
door, may be opened or closed by the
animals. The other, a vertical sliding
door, is operated from the second floor
of the building, and is used to lock

' animals in or out. Vertical swinging
doors should be avoided. They are
closed by chimpanzees, as by children,
with a force quite beyond the needs
of translocation.

 




design-5/64-75

The outside cage is built of chain-
link fencing, stretched over galvan-
ized steel pipe. The concrete floor
is covered with asphalt and sand, for
waterproofing and to provide more
comfortable footing for the animals.
There is a floor drain in the corner
of each cage. The fencing partitions
between cages are covered with 1/2-in.,
14-gauge, hardware cloth to prevent
physical contact between living groups.
This partition is set on a cement base
wall in which there is an iron
door manipulated from outside the
cage. This door is used when animals
are moved from one cage to another.
The outer wall has a door to permit
access to the cage, and a sliding door
the same size as the opening of the
transfer box. A concrete roof extends
8 ft. out from the building to pro-
vide shade in the outdoor cages.

These units were designed to house
one to three chimpanzees.

Each cage has a push-type water

faucet, operated by the animals them-
selves. Food is not placed in the
cage, but is handed to the animals
through the mesh.

Southwest Research Center. This
installation consists of several
relatively small, artificial, caves
built of concrete blocks on a concrete
slab. The outer surface of each cave
is built up with cement and boulders
to provide a floor surface greater
than the ground area used. The
interior of the cave is heated. Sever-
al of these caves, on a single slab,
are enclosed in a large cage. It is
ingeniously built of high arches of
steel pipes, anchored in the concrete
slab and supporting woven wire. This
cage is climbable but cannot be
reached by jumping from the shelter.
Individual cave areas within the
large cage are separated by cement
curbings on which are mounted walls
of pipe and wire mesh. The cages are
cleaned by hosing. This novel construc-
tion appears to provide a large exercise
area or interindividual distance at

 

 




design—5/64-76

modest cost. It has been used
successfully for holding facilities
and for harem breeding.

Sukhumi Primate Station. This
installation, Opened in 1927, occupies
about 60 acres on a low mountain over-
looking the Black Sea (Voronin et al.,
1948). The average temperature is
about 73° F in the summer and about
45° F in the winter. The climate is
quite humid, but the sun shines, at
least part of the time, 217 days a year.

As mentioned earlier, the stock
monkeys are maintained in breeding
bands in outdoor enclosures with areas
of up to 2 acres. Some enclosures have
walls of wire netting or corrugated iron
and ceilings of wire netting; others
have walls of smooth sheet metal that
are about 16 to 20 ft high. Voronin
and his co-authors mention that constant
alertness for defects in the fencing
resulting from weathering is necessary
lest the animals escape.

Except for removal of trees close
enough to fences to provide escape
routes, the original subtropical
vegetation has been.left more or less
untouched and provides some shelter
for the animals. Until wooden hutches
were provided, however, pneumonia
was a problem in hamadryas baboons
left out all year. Mulatta macaques
have done well in these enclosures,
but pig-tailed macaques do better if
removed to the indoor—outdoor facili-
ties during the winter.

Experimental animals, sickly
animals and, at certain seasons,
reserve males (males-in-waiting) are
trapped from the bands and housed in
buildings with communicating outdoor
cages 0

Pregnant females are also removed
from the bands and are placed in a
special building some months before
parturition. At first they are housed
two to a cage, each cage having its
own outdoor area. About a month before
term the female is placed in an indi-
vidual cage, so that she may be watched

 




design-S/64-77

closely. This building also contains
a delivery room and surgery, which
are used if labor is difficult.

Open-air enclosures

 

These are roofless and little or
no artificial shelter is provided.
Most Open-air enclosures are in
zoological gardens, and have artificial
landscapes to increase surface area for
the animals and the naturalness of
the setting (so-called "monkey
bills," or "monkey islands"). Without
the problems of display, less expensive
enclosures can be built where several
acres of land in a mild climate are
available. Yerkes (1943) suggested
two to five acres of wooded land for
a chimpanzee enclosure. Trees near
or capable of being bent to the walls
must be cut down.

Three types of barrier have been
tried: wet and dry moats, unscalable
fences, and electrified fences. Moats
are much used in zoos because they
permit unobstructed view by spectators,
but are relatively expensive to build
and not too secure. Urbain et a1.
(1950) reported that adult Macaca
sylvanus regularly cleared a moat and
overhanging wall which necessitated
a single bound of over 8 ft. One
animal leaped almost 12 ft. At the
Philadelphia zoo, two of a group of
mulatta monkeys wintering on a "monkey
island" fell through thin ice which
formed on the moat at night (Ulmer,
1960) and one died of eXposure.

Fences unscalable by such
excellent climbers as monkeys and apes
are easier to talk about than to build.
Such fences are also fairly expensive.
The wall must be high and smooth. At
Sukhimi it was found that monkeys and
baboons could take advantage of any
slight buckling of smooth metal walls,
resulting from changes in environmental
temperature, to escape (Voronin et 31.,
1948). There must be no means, such
as nearby trees, by which the animal
can clear the wall without climbing
it. In small enclosures, there is a

 




design-S/64-78

problem of air circulation. Prom
limited experience, electrified fences
seem to be fairly successful. urbain
and his co-workers found that once
monkeys had been forced to jump into
such a fence (mounted on an ineffectual
moat), they avoided it, and the current
did not need to be on at all times.

To enclose chimpanzees, Yerkes sugges-
ted using a fence 5 ft. high with a
36-in. strip of chain-link fencing on
the bottom, and starting 15 in. above
this, at least two strands of heavy,
electrified wire insulated from the
posts.

An interesting approach to the
barrier problem is being tried at the
Oregon Regional Primate Research Center.
Smooth cement "clam shells," with
their shape and dimensions based on the
angle of the sun's rays, have been
constructed for outdoor housing of
monkeys.

 




 

 

 

 

IIIIIIIlIIIllllllllﬂlﬂlllllllllllllll

-~——-—-—-——~—' . A—-—--——-v~—-——. .Ww

 

 

\

 

 

Washington Hospital Center

You Should Be Glad——

Our few loyal friends have reason to celebrate

some FIRSTS for the idea of WARD S.

For the ﬁrst time anywhere, so far as we know, a
hospital administration has referred to research ani-
mals as “patients.” (Read the enclosed.) With this
scientiﬁc and humane point of view they are not build-
ing research facilities ﬁrst and then scrambling around
to ﬁnd a place to store their animals. They have
sought the advice and help of the National Institutes
of Health and WARDS. This is the way we should
work to promote humane care through obtaining it
' on the "national and ‘ local ‘l‘e'vellike' everything “else.

'Contrast this with the recently built center at the
University of Illinois where 336 dogs are ﬁled away
for life in basement cages . . . like rows of the living
dead or Harvard Medical School where dogs are kept
in a reconditioned barn.

 

VAST NATIONAL NEGLECT.

The ﬁrst ofﬁcial survey of conditions for laboratory
animals across the country made “by the National
Academy of Sciences reveals a shocking lack of trained
manpower and equipment. For years WARDS has
begged ofﬁcials to “GO AND SEE!” We knew they
would ﬁnd that understaffed, inadequate storage is the
rule and not the exception for these unfortunate ani-
mals. We will send you a summary of these ﬁndings
on request.

 

CONGRESSIONAL HEARING.

We testiﬁed before a subcommittee of the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce to
ask that the measures for the care of animals be
strengthened in the bills under discussion. Representa-
tive Kenneth A. Roberts, the Chairman, took much the
same stand as WARDS according to an interview with

WARDS

WASHINGTON 7, D. C.

Georgetown

Quarters
-’ Sponsored—

by
WARDS

George Washington

him in the EVENING STAR. With us he sees the
necessity for national legislation to change the cruel
and wasteful conditions in animal care. He, too, wants
this under the direction of those who understand the
problem.

We should have the same kind of organization to
care for these animals that we have to USE them in
such abundance. This is an INSTITUTE which will
work quickly and efﬁciently. It will pay for itself in
the elimination of the present waste to say nothing
of the untold suffering from rough, ignorant handling
and cramped caging.

These animals desperately need friends.

Welfare of Animals used in Research for Drugs and Surgery
2225 OBSERVATORY PLACE, N.W.

FEderal 7-2225
See inside

 




[W-

A,.'

~ (pp .

"J? . I
. ' . '1...)

T be Least We Can Do

For their service to mankind you can accept these animals as your
wards and cooperate to improve their conditions so long as they are

used for research.

1. By continuing a local program to help ﬁnance better handling.
2. By working with national organizations toward a single high

standard of animal husbandry.

3. By promoting the spread of WARDS in other cities.
If you haven’t remembered us in 1962 we’d be grateful for a gift.

Amount of contribution $ .........................

Name ..................................................

Date ...................................................

Address ................................................

All gifts are deductible for income tax purposes.
Certiﬁcate of registration for charitable solicitation number is 6-07-173

‘

Executive Committee of WARDS

HONORARY CHAIRMEN

Mas. DAVID K. E. Bauer

Mas. Semen Cosmr

Mas. Lrwxs S. Tnompsox

ACTIVE MEMBERS

Mrs. A. S. Mormons?
Chairman

Ms. SAMULL Semen
Financial Chairman

Mas. Rosmr Km
Assistant Treasurer

Mrss er BLALL

Mas. Smcm Cossr

Mas. F. MORAN McComm:

Mas. LAWRENCE Woon Bonner, Js.
Mas. Surrou- Toma

Mas. JAMLs Bums
Co-Chairman

COL. CHARLES HAMILTON
Treasurer

Mas. Pvrrox HAW DUNN
Secretary

Mas. EUGENE CAnusr

Mas. EDWARD FINKENSTAEDT
Mas. Drew Punsox

Mas. Lrwrs s. Tnomrsox
Mas. Len WALsn

Committee of WARDS

Mrs. John Anderson

Mrs. William P. Arnold
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon
Mrs. Thomas Dawes Blake
Dr. Thomas Bradley

Mrs. Cornelius Bretsch
Mrs. L. B. Brubaker

Mrs. Cyrus Ching

Mrs. Thomas Richard Cowell
Mrs. Henry Grattan Doyle
Mrs. Joanne Elliston

Dr. Francis Forster

Dr. W. I. Gay

Rabbi Norman Gerstenfeld,
ViVashington Hebrew Congrega-
t on

Miss Edith Hamilton
Miss Elizabeth Howry
Dr. Charles Hufnagel
Mrs. Agnes M. Johnson
Mrs. W. John Kenney

Mr. George P. Larrick,
Commissioner of Food and
Drugs

Mrs. Herbert Lehman

Mrs. Walter Lippmann
Brig. Gen. J. A. McCallam
Mrs. W. Barrett McDonnell
Mrs. Gale McLean

Mrs. William Mann

Mrs. William Morgan

Mrs. Meade C. Patrick

Dr. Howard Pierpont

Mrs. J. D. Riviere

Mrs. Carolyn Hagner Shaw
Senator Margaret Chase Smith
Mrs. Marye Thomas

Mrs. George Tyson

Miss Phyllis Walsh

Mrs. Richard Wigglesworth

 

 

Dr. Kenneth S. Young
Mrs. Ann Archbold

Mrs. John Auchincloss
Mrs. Alben Barkley

Dr. Brian Blades

Mrs. Joseph Borda, Jr.
Mrs. Raymond P. Brandt
Mrs. Frederick H. Brooke
Dr. Robert J. Coffey

Mrs. J. Blaise deSibour

Rt. Rev. Angus Dun, .
Bishop of the Protestant EPIS-
copal Diocese of Washington

Dr. Kenneth M. Endicott
Mrs. A. R. Forbush

Mrs. William Fulbright
Mrs. Bernard J. Gallagher
Mrs. Charles Hamilton
Senator Lister Hill

Mrs. Bernard Philip Howes
Mrs. Robert Jackson

Mrs. Estes Kefauver
Senator Robert Kerr

Mrs. William Leahy

Dr. William McCune
Miss Leila McKnight

Mrs. Frank McSherry
Mrs. Camilla Marvin

Dr. Charles Morgan

Mrs. John W. Morrell
Mrs. Neill Phillips

Miss Dorothy Fielding Reid
Dr. Maurice Selinger
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. L. Corrin Strong
Mrs. J. Lawn Thompson
Mr. Milton Tinsley

Mrs. Gerard Van Arkel
Dr. Paul Dudley White
Miss Phyllis Wright

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE DOG
IN

MEDICAL
RESEARCH

The Dog’s contribution to Medical Re-
search and to Medical Education is so
well understood by both professional
and lay people it is sufﬁcient to say here
that this contribution is based solely
upon the physical similarity of Man and

Ea-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Both medical and lay people understand
the need for Medical Research and Med-
ical Education—and on an expanding
scale. Here at the Washington Hospital
Center we are fortunate in having under
construction the George Hyman Memo-
rial Research Building, made possible by
the generosity of Mrs. George Hyman,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as a memorial to her late husband. This
splendid structure will serve many of
our needs in the years ahead. However,
no provision is planned for the housing
of laboratory Dogs within this building.
As we will see later, this it not due to
oversight but to careful and considered
planning.

 

 

 

 




 

WHAT YOU CAN MEAN TO THE DOG’S HEALTH 0 As incon-
gruous as it may appear at ﬁrst glance, there is little gen-
eral understanding of the requirements for adequate care
and handling of Dogs and other animals used in Medical
Research and Education. All competent investigators rec-
ognize that pleasant, sanitary facilities to house the anlmals
used in Medical Research is almost as important as chest“-
ful, comfortable wards for the hospital patient. The main-
tenance of good health in laboratory animals is both humane
and essential to accomplishing good Medical Research.

HIS HOME IN THE LABORATORY 0 Let us consider for a
moment the Dog in the hospital laboratory——as a patlent,
which indeed he is. Unlike Man who comes into the hospltal
to be made well, the laboratory animal comes in healthy
. . often to be made ill, so that by his induced illness Man
may be healed and made well.

Indeed, the laboratory animal means much to your health
and equally, you mean much to his health. For your sake
his health is sometimes placed in jeopardy so that. he may
give vital information for your health and well-belng.
With these considerations in mind, the Washington H.08-
pital Center consulted Dr. William I. Gay, D.V.M., Chlef,
Animal Hospital Section, National Institutes of Health and
a representative of WARDS—Welfare of Animals used for
Research in Drugs and Surgery, a national organlzatlon
devoted to a high standard of care for the research anlmal.
Following is a statement of WARDS.

 

 

 

“‘WARDS, whose concern is the humane care of
animals in research, wishes to commend the mod-
ern living quarters for dogs contemplated by the
Washington Hospital Center. We want also to
commend the Hospital Administration for its rec-
ognition that these ‘animal patients’ must have a
high standard of housing and handling for prac-
tical as well as compassionate reasons.

“We believe that those sincerely interested in
alleviating the suﬁ‘ering of research animals can
do no better than to make a contribution toward
this building. It represents the pioneering idea
that living animals must have living quarters and
your gift can inspire other medical institutions to
follow this example.”

WI

llllll
III!!!
I I'lll'l'l'l'lll I

 

 

 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'

\

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII“IIII|II\I\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

HIIIIIIIIIJlllllllIl|lIlIl||||||l|

WWMWM

 

PERSPECTIVE (SECTION A-A)

 

 

 

 

T

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*1

 

ROOM

 

L

INSTR
RMLIMENT

 

 

 

CAGE WASH
ROOM

TOIL I
L------- -----i ,"_ I ITERI

OPERATING CLEAN UP OPERATING SMALL
ROOM ANIMALS

RECEIVING RM.

 

pﬁﬁﬁMr
' ‘ mine

I

I
."r....-

I

I

I

I

... ._........~.
I

FEED
BEDDI

 

.
..... u... Iguaa-uinu-JI S._..u..

 

 

 

r
-—VSTIBULE Il INSIDE RUN

I
y 4.2-];—
I
l
I
I

L---

 

 

 

 

L---_--J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
0";

EXISTING TUNNEL L+A

 

DOG RUNS

THEGEORGEHYMAN MEMOmAL
RESEARCH BUHJNNG

Also, the architectural ﬁrm of Faulkner, Kingsbury and
Stenhouse has been retained to develop plans for the animal
facility here. This firm designed such facilities for both
Georgetown and George Washington Universities. Their
drawings have been approved by the District of Columbia
Health Department, and by our Director of Research, James
A. Curtin, M.D.

Our planning calls for the erection of a structure in an ex—
cellent secluded area adjacent to the George Hyman Memo-
rial Research Building, connected to this building by a

specially designed corridor. This structure Will incorporate
inside and outside facilities for Dogs and will be of the most
advanced design. The purpose, as implied earlier, is to pro-
vide the Dog, an involuntary patient, with a separate, but
equal, health and hospital facility as is provided for man——
a voluntary patient.

To be humane is, of course, one of our concerns. Another is
the success of our experiments possible only when the lab-
oratory animal is well cared for as a patient. Also a part
of this concept is to save money by saving the Dog.

 




 

GIVING 0 As a part of this sketch we have included the
signiﬁcant statement of our consultant WARDS, and illus-
trations of the George Hyman Memorial Research Building,
as well as our proposed Animal Facility.

To make this plan a reality—as one of the Nation’s fore-
most community hospitals, we appeal for funds to build.
We need $50,000 and we ﬁrmly believe these funds will be
provided as soon as our need is known.

Here at the Hospital Center we think a giver not only has
the right but, indeed, the obligation to know where his
money is going . . . for What and why he gives. We are pre-
pared to discuss this program for Animals with you in your
ofﬁce or home or, better still, here at the Center where you
can more easily visualize our program.

Donors are requested to draw their checks to the Washing-
ton Hospital Center and state that such funds are to be
used for the construction of facilities for the care of labo-
ratory animals.

Donations should be sent to:
The Administrator
Washington Hospital Center
110 Irving Street, N.W.
Washington 10, DC.

* W’ARDS has a national program to obtain professional supervision.
trained caretakers and modern living quarters for research animals.
Address: 2225 Observatory Place, N.W.
Washington 7’, DC.

 




 

 

ICL RE' ACH

9mm _ ‘ wens: 1962

  ”immmm ear. mun, Mention, m mm» Permit n-eann Service

 




 

Acknowledgments

This report was prepared by Joseph Rosen-
thal under the general supervision of Dr.
Herbert H. Rosenberg, Chief, Resources
Analysis Branch, Oﬁice of Program Plan-
ning. The National Institutes of Health
wishes to acknowledge the cooperation of
Federal agencies whose assistance in sup-
plying the detailed information made this
report possible.

 

 




 

 

 

 

RESOURCES
for MEDICAL RESEARCH

Resources Analysis Branch, Office of Program Planning
National Institutes of Health
Bethesda 14, Maryland

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Public Health Service

 




 

 

 

 

Public Health Service Publication No. 969

-x‘ ‘
the Superintendent nf szrrmrz‘s, " ~ ‘
ashingmr. 25, I» r - 53-3. 3‘

For sale by

 

 

 

 

A .5? :—:—z Edi-192v '
_’____,

 




 

 

 

FOREWORD

The expansion oF medical research in recent years, largely a result oF increased
Federal support, places upon the Public Health Service and other agencies a heavy
responsibility For Forward planning and eFFective administration. This responsibility
is not conFined to the conduct and support oF current research projects. it calls For
careFul measurement oF the resources presently available For this purpose—Funds,
personnel, Facilities, and institutions—as well as those necessary For the Future.

Continuing study oF resources For medical research is a part oF the Function oF the
National institutes oF Health, the Service’s main research constituent. The activity
is centered in the OFFice oF Program Planning. ,

The present publication is the First oF a series oF reports analyzing aspects oF the
medical research eFFort which are oF widespread interest. This report presents a broad
picture oF Federal expenditures For medical research and the construction oF research
Facilities, data For which were collected by the National institutes oF Health at the
request oi the Bureau oF the Budget. Summary data derived From this survey have

been published in the Budget of the United States Government, Fiscal Year 1963.
Federal support Forthese activities totaled $850 million in Fiscal 1962. OF this
total, $620 million, nearly three-quarters, was awarded in grants and contracts; and
$545 million oF that went to the Nation's educational and other nonproFit institutions.
Subsequent reports in this series will deal with manpower, trends in private support
For medical research, and other topics oF broad interest to persons concerned with the
planning, direction, and productivity oF programs in the health sciences.

LUTHER L. TERRY
Surgeon General,

US. Public Health Service

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

FEDERAL EXPENDITURES FOR MEDICAL AND HEALTH-
RELATED RESEARCH 1960-63

PURPOSE AND SCOPE

This Report is the first of a series deSigned to present
timely information on significant measures of the Na-
tion's resources devoted to medical and health-related
research. Last year the Nation’s expenditures for the
performance of such research reached $1 billion, and
the Federal Government financed more than 55 per-
cent of this national effort (chart 1). This publication
provides a comprehensive picture of Federal expendi-
tures for medical and health-related research for fiscal
years 1960—1962, and a brief summary of such ex-
penditures proposed in the President's Budget for fiscal
1963. Subsequent reports will focus on other equally
vital facets of the Nation's research resources—funds,
manpower, facilities, and institutions—dedicated to
the improvement of health and the conquest of disease.

The data presented here on Federal expenditures for
medical research in 1961 —62 were obtained from Fed-
eral agencies by the National Institutes of Health
pursuant to a request from the Bureau of the Budget.
Estimates for fiscal year 1963 were submitted to the
Bureau of the Budget and made available for purposes
of analysis to the National Institutes of Health. To
ensure complete and consistent coverage, the survey
included and differentiated between expenditures for
(1) medical and health research budgeted and justified
as such and (2) research directly related to health but
supported and justified for other purposes, such as the
promotion of agriculture, the development of atomic
energy, and the exploration of space. Federal ex-
penditures for the construction of facilities for medical
and health-related research are included in the discus-
sion, but the support provided for the training of
research manpower will be covered in later reports.
(See Note on Definitions and Method)

The analysis focuses on the more recent trends in
Federal expenditures for medical and health-related
research, the relationship between these outlays and
total Federal expenditures for research and develop-
ment in all fields, the distribution of support among
Federal agencies, including a brief discussion of the
agencies' health-related research missions, and the
distribution of the Federal medical and health-related
research dollar by performer and by field of science.

Chart 1

National Expenditures for Performance of Medical and

Health-Related Research, 1960-61

Millions
$1200-—

$1000

' V O ".'O"'.' V V C '
:o:o‘o‘o’o’ ‘ "ago:
9 O O t
'9’. 0’1
0 9 o o o o o ‘
”0009...”.
£0!o?o.‘.t.‘.‘.¢.¢2¢f03
r

 

 

SOURCE! National Institutes of Health

HIGHLIGHTS

1. Federal expenditures will exceed $850 million
in 1962 for the performance of medical and health-
reIated research and the construction of health research
facilities. The 1963 estimate rises above $1 billion,
reflecting increases proposed in the President's Budget.

2. Between 1960 and 1962, FederaI outlays for
these activities increased more than $350 million-—
almost 75 percent. ParaIIeIing this rising support for
medical research, FederaI research expenditures not
oriented to defense needs or space exploration also
increased by 70 percent during the same period.

3. The Federal Government now invests 8 cents
of its R & D dollar for medical and health-related
research and for health research facilities. This pro-
portion has been rising in recent years.

4. Of the $850 million total in 1962, more than 90
percent, or $790 million, covers the cost of performing
medical and health-related research. The remainder,
almost $70 million, represents capital outIays for the
expansion of health research facilities.

5. Eighty percent of the $790 million spent by
Federal agencies for the conduct of medical and
health—related research is budgeted and justified

 




 

 

 

 

    

 

 

as such. About 20 percent—$140 million—repre-
sents outlays for research directly related to human
health but supported as germane to agency research
missions other than health.

6. Nearly three-fourths of the Federal medical and
health-related research performance dollar—$580
million—is spent through grants or contracts to other
research performers, largely universities and other
nonprofit institutions. One-fourth—$210 million-—
finances research conducted in Federal laboratories
and hospitals.

7. Educational and other nonprofit institutions will
receive more than $500 million this year from Federal
agencies for medical and health-related research—
more than 85 percent of all Federal grant and contract
funds spent for this research activity; and $40 million
will finance such research in industry. An additional
$20 million will be spent for research performed for the
United States in laboratories and research institutes
in foreign countries.

8. Ninety percent of federally supported medical
research is concentrated in the many disciplines of
biology and medicine. Ten percent—$80 million—
is distributed broadly among related fields in the
psychological, physical (including mathematics and
engineering), and social sciences.

9. Forty percent of the $70 million investment in
facilities for research will cover the costs of new build-

 

  

ings or major renovations at Federal
The remainder will provide the funds, through grant
for expanding health research facilities at educationél
institutions, hospitals, or other nonfederal research
centers.

installations.

ANALYSIS

Trends in Federal Expenditu f -
and Health-Related Researchres or Med'cal

Federal agencies will spend more than $850 million
this year for medical and health-related research and
facilities, as compared with nearly $500 million in
1960.1 The $350 million increment represents almost

‘ Expenditure data in this Report refer to the obligations of
Federal agencies for medical and health-related research.
Data for 1960 and 1961 are actual obligations; data for 1962
are agency estimates of amounts to be obligated this year, and
reflect adminisrrative decisions on apportionment of congres-
sional appropriations far 1962; estimates for 1963 are based on
the requests in the President's Budget for 1963, submitted to
Congress in January 1962. Statistics for earlier years covering
Federal expenditures for medical and health-related research
are not comparable with the 1960—1963 data presented in
this Report. The earlier series provides inadequate coverage
of research directly related to health but supported as being
relevant to the agency's mission. This Underreporting is par-
ticularly significant for the medical and health-related research
classified in fields of science other than medicine. The time
series for earlier years will be revised as soon as possible.

Table 1
Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related Research, 1960—6?

 

[Millions of dollars]

 

 

-_'—___.___’_______

 

 

 

 

 

l lncrease
It i 1969 i 1961 1960 19697/1960

em i (estimate) 1 (actual) (actual) I.” «M/

l Amount Percent
la»- ----- , /
Total I 735
l $857 $693 $494 $363 '
Budgeted l W
61...”. mm. . : :1 : : : : : : : : :: i: : : i : : ::: * 172? .583 i3; 313 4636
l O t _‘_____M _. - ,_ 7", - “‘ __§ﬂ
Conduct of research ......................... L 766 _- T 570 i 444 TM 346 77'9
B d r d i ii ”‘J/T’i

u ge e ........................ l ‘ 85'
Directlyrelated................... iiiiiii l C151518 459 350 33g 489
. .....E ‘77 ‘ *4 ill 94 7 mé/
Expansron of research facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . l g8 A“ T if '0 -’ A 18 l 360
udgeted ..................... ﬂ 1 5 36'6
”eCllY related ................ 56 44 41 ‘ 33‘3

................. 1g 9 o 3 l
‘/

Note—Detail will not necessaril

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

y add to totals because of rounding.

 




 

‘ a 75 percent increase above the 1960 level and is

roughly consistent with the long-term growth rate
for Federal support of medical research.
Within the total for 1962, it is estimated that $790

million will be spent for the conduct of research and

Chart-2

Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related
Research, 1960-62

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Milli n
about $70 million for the expansion of health research $10000:
facilities. Between 1960 and 1962, however, rising
expenditures for conduct of research were not ac- 875 _ $857 .
companied by increases in Government investment in /8., <Reseurch
research facilities (chart 2). Chart 2 indicates that < F°°""'es
outlays for health research facilities declined propor- 75° ‘
tionately from 10 percent of the total in 1960 to 8
percent in 1962. To redress this growing imbalance, 625 __
the President’s Budget for 1963 proposes more than a
50 percent increase for new research facilities, as com- $494
. . . . 500 ——
pared With a 16 percent Increase In expenditures for \
the conduct of medical and health-related research \\\ <conductof
(table 2) 375 _ \920/og Research
Relation to Total Federal R 8: D 250 _ \
Federal expenditures for all research and develop-
ment in all fields (including outlays for facilities) will .25 _ \
total almost $11 billion in 1962.2 This represents an \\
2 Based on obligations for research and development reported ” I960 \\\l962
in the National Science Foundation’s Federal Funds for Science SOURCE. No“ Ml “smut“ of mm
x, NSF 61—82: actual data for fiscal 1960, estimated data for ' °
1961 and 1962, but adjusted to reflect congressional appro-
priations and apportionment for 1962. .
Table 2
Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related Research, 1962—63
[Millions of dollars]
Increase 1962-63
1963 1962
Item (estimate) (estimate)
Amount Percent
Total .......................................... $1,024 $857 $167 19.5
Budgeted ...... _ ............................ 843 706 137 19.4
Directly related ............................ 181 151 30 19.9
Conduct of research ............................. 920 790 130 16.5
Budgeted .................................. 750 650 100 15.4
Directly related ............................ 169 140 29 20.7
Expansion of research facilities ................... 104 68 36 52.9
Budgeted ................................. 93 56 37 66.1
Directly related ............................ 11 12 —1 —8.3

 

 

 

 

 

Note.-—Detai| will not necessarily add to totals because of rounding-

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

increase of more than $2.5 billion, or 35 percent above
the $8 billion total For 1960 (table 3).

The support provided in this period to broad pro-
gram areas has dil-lered (chart 3).

Outlays for research For national delense (Defense
Department and AEC) which constitute the largest
research program—70 percent ol total Federal R & D—
have increased less than one-Filth since 1960. Re-
search expenditures lor space exploration (programs
administered by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration) have mounted more rapidly than other
Federal programs,- space research now comprises 15
percent ol all Federal R & D, as compared with 6
percent in 1960. In the same period, medical and
health-related research has grown From 6 percent ol
all Federal R & D to 8 percent.

It should be noted, however, that expenditures lor
other nonmilitary research programs have risen about
as rapidly as growing Federal support For medical
research (chart 3). Considered as a group, the sup-
port provided lor all other Federal programs increased
68 percent between 1960 and 1962, slightly less than
the 73 percent gain lor medical research. Outlays
For these other Federal research programs now account
For 6 percent ol all Federal R & D, as compared with
less than 5 percent in 1960. Substantial added lunds
have been provided For the support ol basic research
through grants administered by the National Science
Foundation and For growing research activities in ag-
riculture, civilian aviation, labor, and commerce.

For most agencies, the medical and health-related
component accounts For only a relatively small share
ol the agency’s research budget (table 4). At the

upper range, one Finds the Veterans Administration
and the National Institutes of Health, where 100
percent ol the research activities are medical and
health-related. At the opposite extreme are the
Department ol Delense and the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, where such activities repre-
sent only one percent ol agency research expenditures
although the small percentage in each instance re:
llects sizable sums lor the health research picture.
In the middle range are still other agencies such as the
Department ol Agriculture with 13 percent, the
National Science Foundation with 11 percent, and
the Atomic Energy Commission with 7 percent.

Medical Research Missions of Federal
Agencies

The national interest in medical research has evolved
gradually over the past century. Eighty years ago,
the Congress created a National Board of Health in
1879 Following a severe yellow lever epidemic, when
it became clear that existing means were inadequate
lor controlling communicable disease ol this nature.
Among its many productive activities, the Board initi-
ated a research program that provided Financial aid
to scientists at universities through grants lor research
on problems ol interest to the Board. This was perhaps
the First use ol the Federal grant-in-aid device For the
support of research in noniederal institutions.3

3 For a more extensive discussion of the historical evolution
of the Federal role in medical research, see Shannon, James A.,
”The Development of the Federal Role in the Support of Med-
ical Research," Bulletin of the New York Academy of Med-
icine, second series, vol. 37, No. 1, pp. 3—14,Jan. 1961.

Table 3

Federal Expenditures lor Research and

[Millions of dollars]

 

 

Development, by Program Area, 1960—6?

 

 

 

 

 

 

1969 (estimate) 1961 (estimate) 1900 (OClUOI) Ratio
Program area , _ 1962—60
l Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent ‘
I—W-“ 7 7”,, /
Total Federal research and de- i‘ ‘
velopment .................. a $10,804 1000 $0,889 1000 $8,075 1000 1-3
Noﬂgglldelense (Defense Dept. and ' 9
...................... 7734 83-9 1'
Space exploration (NASA) 1 .......... l 1:579 lit: 7,0315 lg? 6/7186 9-0 3'?
All other Federal .................... 1,491 13,8 1 113 11.3 872 108 1-7
. {\— I ——-——‘//
Mtehdlcal and health-related ....... 857 7 Q 603 (3 3 494 9-1 i ;
er ......... ' b '
634 59 490 50 378 4.7

1 .
Excludes medical and health-related research.

S ' n .
OURCES. National Institutes of Health and National Science Foundation.

4

 




 

Chart 3‘

Trends in Federal R & D Expenditures, 1960—62

FEDERAL EXPENDITURES FOR ALL R 8 D HAVE
INCREASED ABOUT US SINCE I960;

Millions //

SI 1000
9000;
7 l l l
7000 l960 l96| I962

BUT THIS EXPANSION HAS BEEN UNEVEN-DEFENSE
RESEARCH HAS GROWN LESS THAN l/5, SPACE
RESEARCH*HAS EXPANDED OVER 2 TIMES.
Millions

SBOOOF

6000 _ Defense

-

4000 -

2000

lOOO _ / Space
800 ~

600 - ’

 

400 I I 1
|960 l96l l962

ON THE OTHER HAND, MEDICAL AND ALL OTHER
RESEARCH HAVE GROWN AT ABOUT THE SAME RATE-7/l0

 

Millions
$900
700 Medical
500 , ”””” A ll Other
300 ' I I

l960 |9s| l962

*National Aeronautics and Space Administration only-
Sources: National Science Foundation and National
Institutes of Health.

The center of Federal medical research later shifted
to the War Department. Here, a small and gifted
group of men under the leadership of Sternberg and
the influence of Dr. John Shaw Billings, who had been
vice-chairman of the National Board of Health,
began a period of research sparked by the develop-
ments in bacteriology emanating from Europe in the
work of Pasteur and Koch. Their intensive work on
yellow fever culminated in the dramatic achieve-
ments of Reed and Gorgas.

In 1887 the Hygienic Laboratory, of which the
National lnstitutes of Health is the genealogical
descendant, was established. This one-room labora-
tory later expanded into a research organization with
separate divisions of chemistry, bacteriology, PG'
ll‘OIOSY, zoology, and pharmacology. lts research

657266 O—62———2

interests broadened further in 1912 when the Public
Health Service was specifically empowered to "study
and investigate the diseases of man.H '

From these modest beginnings in the military
establishment and the Public Health Service, Federal
support of medical research has evolved to the point
where it now constitutes a comprehensive and large-
scale program designed to (1) improve the health and
well-being of the American people, (2) combat
specific diseases and health hazards, (3) provide the
information required for the more effective perform-
ance of Federal agency missions, and (4) push back
the frontiers of knowledge by supporting the work of
scientific investigators of clear promise or demon-
strated productivity. This broad-scale research effort
has expanded steadily in scope and depth since World
War ll.

In keeping with this expansion of effort, the cUrrent
measurement and definition of medical and health-
related research reflect the broad scientific areas and
the manifold avenues of investigation currently pursued
in the search for knowledge to conquer disease and
improve health. (See note on Definitions and
Method.) Congressional support for medical and
health-related research has paced and stimulated the
growth of the Nation's capabilities, resources, and
technical skills for research. Funds are provided not
only for programs of Federal agencies whose sole
research mission is the advancement of medical knowl-
edge, and whose programs are budgeted and justified
on that basis, but as already indicated, sums are also
provided for research that is directly related to human
health but carried on primarily in the fulfillment of an
agency's broader mission.

THE CURRENT SCENE

Ten Federal agencies now share in financing the
performance of medical and health-related research.

Agencies of the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare now spend over $580 million for medical
and health-related research—roughly three-fourths of
total Federal funds devoted to this activity. Programs
of the National lnstitutes of Health, a constituent
agency of that department and the principal medical
research agency of the Federal Government, account
for nearly $520 million—two-thirds of the Federal
total (tables 5A and SB).

Other Federal agencies also provide substantial
support for medical and health-related research:
the Atomic Energy Commission—$65 million (8
percent of the Federal total),- the Department of De-
fense—$60 million (8 percent),- the Veterans Ad-
ministration—$26 million (3 percent); $20 million
each (or 2.5 percent) by the Department of Agri-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

culture and the National Aeronautics and Space 1962 was reported in the. "budgeted" category, as
Administration- and $1.2 million (slightly over one defined above. As indicated in table 5A, an
percent) for support of basic research by the National additional $140 million—or 20 percent of the total“

Science Foundation. All Federal agencies with the represented research directly related to health, but 7

' ' ' ' rele t '
exception of the National SCIence Foundation have supported because of Its vance o the agencys

enlarged their medical research activities since 1960. broader missions. . I
The most dramatic spurt shows in NASA’s still small In some instances, medica research budgeted and
but rapidly growing medical research program under- justified as such constitutes the all-incluswe research
pinning the Nation's space exploration effort, in- mISSlon of the'agency—e.g., Public Health SerVIce,
cluding the successful orbital flights of astronauts Veterans Administration;'in other cases~such as the
Glenn and Carpenter. Atomic Energy Commis5ion, or the Department of
in lool<ing at Federal support for this broad spectrum Defense—only part of the medical and health-related
of research activity, it is helpful to distinguish between research program IS budgeted as such,- for still other
(1) those programs which are budgeted and justified agencies, such as the Department of Agriculture and
as medical and health-related research, both within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
the Executive and Legislative Branches and to the the entire medical and health-related research pro-
American people, and (2) equally significant re- gram is undertaken to support the agencys broader
search endeavors that are clearly and directly related mission.
to health but are financed because of the agency's Medical research programs vary .substantially in
responsibilities for the achievement of broader na- content and emphasis. in the sections that follow
tional purposes. in the aggregate, about 80 percent— immediately, the programs of those agencres or units
or $650 million—of all Federal expenditures for the spending $1 million or more in 1962 for the support of
conduct of medical and health-related research in medical and health-related research will be described
Table 4

Comparison between Expenditures for Conduct of Medical and Health-Related Research and Total R & D, by Agency, 1960-62
[Millions of dollars]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1962 1961 1960

Total Medical Percent Total Medical Percent Total Medical Peg—1‘2"?|

conduct of and medical conduct of and medical conduct of and "Egg

Agency research health- R & D research health- R & D research health- f t l
and devel- related of total and devel- related of total and devel- related (i2 :38

opment research R & D opment research R & D opment research
. . f I) (QSll’ (actual)
(estimate) (estimate) (ac ua mate)

Total .................... $9,776.3 $789.6 8.1 59,1199 $569.6 6.2 $7,487.2 $443.9 1‘:
Atomic Energy Commission ....... 928.8 64.7 7.0 862.6 55.7 6.5 761.7 50-3 (15.3
Federal Aviation Agency ...... 68.5 1.9 2.8 66.6 1.7 2.6 47.9 -9 '
National Aeronautics and Space 2

Administration ............... 1,305.0 20.6 1.6 790.4 4.8 .6 369.3 .7 20-2
National Science Foundation ..... 108.0 11.7 10.8 76.7 11.8 15.4 68.4 13.8 - '
Office of Emergency Planning ..... N.A. ................ N.A. .5 ........ N-A- '4 "1000
Veterans Administration ......... 26.4 26.4 100.0 18.4 18.4 100.0 15.1 15.1 “-4
Department of Agriculture ....... 150.9 20.0 13.3 170.6 17.8 10.4 125.8 14.3 '7
Department of Defense .......... 6,491.8 59.9 .9 6,6387 48,0 ,7 5,711.5 38-2 '
Department of Health, Education, 97.5

and Welfare. ................ 598.3 582.6 97.4 418.5 409.2 97.8 316.7 308.8 (1000)

(National Institutes of Health). (518.7) (518.7) (100.0) (372.1) (372.1) (100.0) (279.7) (279.7) 1.0
Department of interior ........... 82.4 .9 1.0 75.2 .9 1.2 68.3 -7 32 O '
Department of $1616 ............. 16.2 1.0 6.2 2.2 .8 36.4 2.5 -8 '
\

 

 

 

 

 

 

/
. . _ . ealfl’l-
Note—Expenditures for performance of research and development of those Federal agencies havmg no medical and h

related research amounted to $60 million a year in 1960 and 1961 , and $80 million in 1962.
Detail Wlll not necessarily add to totals because of rounding.

. . - NSF,
SOURCES: Obligations for total research and development—National Science Foundation, Federal Funds for Scrence X,
61-82; data for 1962 reflect congressional act

. , epdfi‘
_ ion and apportionment decisions on 1962 budget requests; however data or
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare and et t-l

. . , erans Administration were compiled by National Institutes of ealth.
blISGIfIOnS for medical and health-related research—National Institutes of Health.

6

E3




briefly, drawing upon many sources—narrative sum-
maries prepared by the agencies for budget submis-
sions, testimony before congressional committees,
annual reports, and direct responses to inquiries.

Distribution of Medical Research Expenditures
by Agency

Federal agencies will spend in the vicinity of $650
million in fiscal year 1962 for the conduct of medical
and health-related research budgeted and supported
as such. This reflects an increase of $200 million over
1961, and raises the 1962 level’about 85 percent
above the 1960 base of $350 million.

The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
currently provides three-fourths of the total Federal
expenditures for the conduct of medical and health-
related research and 90 percent of the medical and
health-related research budgeted as such. The Na-
tional Institutes of Health, a bureau of the Public
Health Service of the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, is charged with the primary
responsibility for providing broad support for research
aimed at the conquest of disease and the improvement
of health. Approximately 2,500 scientists and re-
search worl<ers are directly engaged in medical
research in the laboratories and Clinical Center on the
NIH reservation at Bethesda. In addition to this
direct research activity, thousands of scientists receive
NlH support for their research in universities, medical
schools, hospitals, research institutes, State agencies,
and in foreign countries. The research activities of the

National Institutes of Health are organized and con-j

ducted through seven categorical Institutes, five major
Divisions, a 500-bed Clinical Center, and field
activities both in the United States and abroad.

Each of the lnstitutes conducts or sponsors research
in relation to the causes, prevention, diagnosis, and
treatment of designated broad disease areas—cancer,
heart, mental, dental, metabolic, infectious, and
neurological. The support of basic biomedical re-
search, and of investigations of health problems not
covered by the categorical institutes, is a function of
the Division of General Medical Sciences. The Divi-
sion of Biologics Standards conducts research related
to the development, manufacture, and testing of
serums, vaccines, and other biological products for the
prevention and treatment of disease.

The Bureau of State Services of the Public Health
Service also supports significant medical and health-
related research programs related to the application
of research findings. In 1962 this Bureau will spend
$45 million for research into the solution of public
health problems, such as control and elimination of
environmental and occupational hazards, the preven-

tion of accidents, and the control of tuberculosis,
venereal, and other communicable diseases.

In addition to the large-scale research activities of
the Public Health Service, two other agencies of the
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare—
the Food and Drug Administration and the Office of
Vocational Rehabilitation—also provide support for
major medical and health-related research programs.

In 1962 the Food and Drug Administration will
spend $4 million on research to implement the agency’s
statutory responsibility for protection of consumers
against adulterated and misbranded food, drugs, and
cosmetics. ln carrying out this mission, the agency’s
research activities include clinical investigations of
drugs to determine their effects through controlled
experimentation; development of analytical methods
for use in field analyses and to develop food stand-
ards; and study of tolerances for pesticides and food
additives.

The Office of Vocational Rehabilitation supports
research to develop new knowledge and techniques
which will aid the disabled to overcome their
handicaps, and thus be restored to more productive
and useful lives. Funds devoted to this purpose in
1962 approximate $12 million.

The Veterans Administration’s program of medical
and health-related research is directly related to its
responsibility for the provision of medical care to
veterans. In 1962 the VA research program will
exceed $25 million—a 75 percent rise since 1960.

Veterans with chronic diseases requiring long-term
hospital care constitute a predictable and rising pa-
tient load for VA hospitals. Consequently, VA
research seeks to gain new knowledge which will
extend the clinical capability of VA medical staffs
in the diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions
facing the veteran population in such major problem
areas as heart disease, respiratory diseases, cancer,
problems of aging, and neurophysiological disorders.

The small but rapidly expanding medical and
health-related research program of the Federal Avia-
tion Agency will approach $2 million this year. This
research aims at the identification and control of the
physical, physiological, and psychological factors
which may jeopardize safety in flight. It seeks to
improve methods for the determination of physical
fitness and increased knowledge of the capacities and
limitations of the human body to withstand the con-
stantly rising stresses of higher altitudes, pressures, and
speeds. __

In 1962 the Agency for International Developmen
of the State Department spent about $1 million to
support research carried forward by international
health organizations and by foreign countries. This

 




includes the U. S. contribution of half a million dollars
to the World Health Organization research program,
funds to assist the Asiatic members of SEATO in their
basic medical research programs to combat cholera,
and support for research tied to an international
campaign aimed at the eradiction of malaria.

ment and utilization of atomic energy. In pursuit of
its statutory responsibilities, the AEC conducts and
supports research projects designed to: (1) increase
basic knowledge and understanding of the effects of
radiation on living systems (molecular and cellular
level studies, radiation genetics, environmental radi-
ation studies),- (2) solve practical health and safety
problems connected with atomic energy programs
and devices (atmospheric radioactivity and fallout,
health physics, combating detrimental effects of
radiation); and (3) provide the knowledge leading to
the beneficial application of special nuclear and
radioactive materials (use of radioisotopes in medical
and agricultural research, the processing of foods with
radiation as a means of preservation).

AEC research programs directly related to human
health account for two fifths of the $140 million spent
by Federal agencies for research directly related to
human health but supported for other purposes.

The Department of Defense in 1962 will spend $60
million for medical and health-related research—a
sum about equally divided between health research

Research Directly Related to Health

Medical and health-related research programs of
two agencies with major research functions—the De-
partment of Defense and the Atomic Energy Com-
mission—embrace some medical and health-related
projects which are budgeted and supported as such, as
well as other research activities directly related to
health and supported because of their relevance to
broader missions of the agency.

The Atomic Energy Commission in 1962 will spend
about $7 million for medical research budgeted as
such, and $57 million for research directly related to
health but supported as being necessary for the
implementation of the agency’s program—the develop-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 5A
Federal Expenditures for Conduct of Medical and Health-Related Research, 1960-62
[Millions of dollars]
1962 1961 1960
Ratio
Increase 13,62-
. 1960- 0
Agency Total Budg- Directly Total Budg- Directly Total Budg- Directly 62 total total
eted related eted related eted related expend- ex-
itures pend-
itures
(estimate) (actual) (actual)
Total ........... $789.6 $649.9 $139.7 $569.6 $459.0 $110.6 1 $443.9 1 $350.2 1 $93.8 $345.7 1-8
Atomic Energy Com-
mISSIon. ._ ......... 64.7 7.5 57.2 55.7 6.9 48.7 50.3 6.2 44.0 14.4 1.3
Feiaral Avratlon
_gency ............ 1.9 1.9 ........ 1.7 . ..... 1.0 2-1
Natlonal Aeronautics & 20.6 ........ 20.6 4.8 ..... 1 7 '4' 8' '3 '9 """ 7 19.9 294
Space Administration. ' ' ' ' ' """"" I
Ncciitional Science Foun-
ation .............. 11.7 ........ 11.7 — . 8
Ogilce of Emergency 11.8 ........ 11.8 13.8 ........ 13.8 21
anning 2 ................................... 2— ------
Veterans Administra- .5 .5 ........ .4 .4 ........ .4
tion ................ 26.4 26.4 ........ 1-7
DepTﬁmem of Agri- 18.4 18.4 ........ 15.1 15.1 ........ 11.3
cu ture .............. 20.0 ........ 20.0 178 178 143 143 5 7 1'4
epartment of Defense. 59.9 30.5 2 , ' """" ' ' """""" ' ‘ 1.6
DeEpgrrmenr of Weflth, 9 4 48.0 21.5 26.5 I 38.2 I 18.0 1 20.2 21.7
ucation, & e fare. 582.6 582.6 ........ 1-9
(Nafﬁﬁnall lﬁtitutes 409.2 409.2 ........ 308.8 308.8 ........ 273.8
0 eat ...... (518.7) (518.7 ........ 1-9
Department of Interior. .. .9 . . . . . . . .) .9 (372.19) (372.1) llllll 9 (279;) (279.7) ...... 7 (239.3) 1'3
epartment of State. . . . 1.0 1.0 ........ :8 ..... 8 ' .8 """ 8 ' :2 1.2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. /
1 Data for 1960 were not furnished by the Defense De artment; they are derived from estimates published in Health ResearCl' and

Training House Committee on Government 0 '
’ . _ ._ peratlons, ous R rt N _ - A - 961 p, 11.
2 Medical research actrvrtles merged with Defense Departmeentes3110196c2), 321' 87th Congress 15* Sessron, prll 28' 1 I

Note—Detail will not necessarily add to totals because of rounding.

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

 

 

 




 

 

projects budgeted and justified as such and those in
support of the Department's national security missions.4
With the primary focus upon preventive medicine and
the medical problems of military operations, the
Department of the Army accounts for roughly two-
thirds of Defense Department funds for medical and

health-related research. The remaining one-third is
divided among the Department of the Navy with 20
percent of the total, the Air Force with 8 percent, and
the Defense Atomic Support Agency with 6 percent.

Broadly speaking, the purposes of these research
activities are to facilitate (1) more effective perform-
ance of the Armed Forces under widely divergent
environmental conditions and (2) recovery from injury
or illness. The substance of the research in the former
category encompasses maintenance of the individual
under abnormal atmospheric and gravitational condi-
tions, protection from hazards such as physical and
psychological trauma, toxic agents, adverse climate,
and determination of fitness for performance in specific
environments. Research in the second category
stresses the development of new knowledge and
methods adaptable for use under field conditions.

In 1962 the Department of Agriculture will spend

4 Because of budget structuring, pay and allowances of military
personnel assigned to work on all medical and health-related
projects are included in the totals for research projects directly
related to health but not budgeted as such.

about $20 million for research identified as medical
and health-related in support of its responsibilities for
the advancement of the Nation's agriculture and the

welfare of the American farmer.

These funds support

research on diseases of livestock transmissible to man;
toxicological effects of pesticide residues; crop research
for the improvement of plants yielding chemicals for
medicinal products; the biology, ecology, and prev-
alence of insects affecting man and animals; and
problems in food and nutrition, including the physio-
logical availability of nutrients in foods, the metabolic
responses of humans to different combinations of
dietary proteins and fats, the elimination of health
hazards in the handling and processing of foodstuffs,
and the protection of foods from spoilage and
deterioration.

Pursuant to its statutory responsibility to support and
encourage progress in all fields of science, the National
Science Foundation allocated roughly $12 million for
medical research in the biomedical sciences in 1962.
These expenditures support basic investigations in
areas directly related to human health in scientific
molecular biology, genetics,
immunochemistry, and metabolic biology.

ln furtherance of its space exploration missions, the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration will
devote about $20 million in 1962 to research directly
related to human health. As indicated by the success-

disciplines such as

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table SB
Percentage Distribution of Federal Expenditures for Conduct of Medical and Health-Related Research, 1960-62
1962 1961 1960
Total Bud eted Directly Total Budgeted Directly Total Budgeted Directly
Agency 3 related related related
(estimate) (actual) (actual)

Total .......................... 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1100.0 1100.0 1100.0
Atomic Energy Commission ............. 8.2 1.2 40.9 9.8 1-5 44-0 11-3 1-8 46'9
Federal Aviation Agency .............. .3 .3 ........ .4 .4 ........ .2 .3 ........
National Aeronautics & Space Admin-

Istration ........................... 2.6 ........ 14.7 .8 ........ 4.3 .2 ........ .7
atronal Science Foundation ........... 1.5 ........ 8.4 2.1 ........ 10.7 3.1 ........ 14.7
ffrce of Emergency Planning 2 ................................. .1 .1 ........ -1 -1 --------
Veterans Administration ............... 3.3 4.1 ........ 3.2 4.0 ........ 3.4 4.3 ....... 2.
ePartment of Agriculture ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 2,5 ,,,,,,,, 14.3 3.1 ........ 16.2 13.2 . . . .1. . . . 115.5
epdrtment of Defense ................. 7.6 4.7 21.0 8.4 4.7 24-0 3-6 5-1 21-
epartment of Health, Ed t' &
elfare ................ ucalol‘f. . . . 73.8 89.6 ........ 71.8 89.1 ........ 69.5 88.2 ........
(National Institutes of Health) ...... (65.7) (79.8) -------- ((55-3) (81-1) -------- (63-0) (79-9) ------- 7
epartment of Interior ................. .1 ........ .7 .2 ........ .8 .2 ........ -
epartment of State ................... .1 .1 ........ .1 .2 ........ .2 .2 ........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and

1
D9“; for 1960 were not furnished by the Defense Department;
raining, House Committee on Government Operations, House Re

2 - .
Medical research activities merged with Defense Department m 1962-

Note.—Detail will not necessarily add to totals because of rounding-

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

9

they are derived from estim
port No. 321 , 87th Congress,

ates published in Health Research
1st Session, April 28,1961, p.11.

 

 




Chart 4 simulate the stresses which can be anticipated and the
means to withstand them,- they probe for new knowl-
edge about the psychophysiological concomitants of
weightlessness, isolation, and confinement; the meta-

1962 Federal R 8: D Dollar—Total, and Medical and
Health-Related—Distributed by Performer

A" bolic requirements of energy exchange, heat transfer,
Indugtéy 02'? and nutrition under the limitations imposed by con-

finement in a space-capsule,- and the radiation hazards
in space. The agency is also pursuing the search for
extraterrestrial life, to further our l<nowlege of life's
origin and its evolution.

 

     

Educational
Institutions

  
   

Distribution by Performer

MEDICAL AND HEALTH-RELATED
About three-fourths of Federal funds for medical and

0mm," health-related research flow to the Nation’s scientists
~ 3t working in universities, medical schools, hospitals,
research institutes, industry, or in foreign countries.
Slightly over one-fourth of the total is spent in Federal
laboratories and hospitals (table 6A).

This distribution of Federal support for medical and
health-related research by performer contrasts sharply
with the distribution of the Federal dollar for total
sounces: National Science Foundation, NotionalinstitutosotHoolth R 8‘ D (Chart 4)-5 Educational insrifoions receive

All Other i¢

  

Educational
Institutions

  
 
 

/

  

ALL FEDERAL RESEARCH 8 DEVELOPMENT

f l b. ”F l1 fA , , h h 5Distribution of total Federal expenditures for research and
U or ”a '3 ls O merrca S aStronGUlsl SUC researc development derived from National Science Foundation, Fed-

is crucial for the safety of man in space. Studies era! Funds for Science X.

 

Table 6A
Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related Research, by Performer, 1962
[Thousands of dollars (Estimate)]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other performers
United States
Agency Total Federal
Nonprofit organization Foreign
Industry Education All other 1
Total al institu- Other
tions
Total .................. $789,561 $210,449 $39,195 $506,506 $384,863 $121,643 $12,868 $20,543
Atomic Energy Commission ..... 64,679 5,617 12 937 42 682 32 028 10 654 150 3:293
Federal Avratron Agency ...... 1,870 1,664 I 13 I193 I143 I 5 .................
Nagignal Aeronautics 8: Space
ministration .............. 20,620 4,540 2 2 ‘* 2 ................
National Science Foundation. . . . 11,660 422 . . . . 3,971.0 13,8315) 18,311? ...... 624 ..... 18 285
Veterans Administration ........ 26,429 25,197 246' I986 I655 331 ................
Bepartment a; Sgriculture ...... 19,950 16,604 ....... 3 186 3 186 ---------- 168
epartment o e ense ......... 59,898 39 075 l . i I I .............. 52
DeparmenWolff Health, Educa- , 3,211 17,072 14,135 2,937 20
tion, & e are. ............ 582,554 116 035 161985
(Nifilii'ﬁfl ”Mum o, , 14,748 423,331 316,285 107,046 12,155 5)
eat ..... ‘ ........... (518,733 88 274 14:44
Department of Interior .......... 910) ( I910) . . .(14’149) (393,681) (296,605) (97'076) (8,185.) . . .( .......
Department of State ........... 991 385 . . . ........ 81 ........ 30 ''''''' 1 """"" 525 ..........
___ﬂ________.

 

 

 

1 Includes State and local governments.
2 Estimated distribution of nonfederal performers.

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.
10

 

 

 




 

Table 63
Distribution of Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related Research, 1962

[Estimate]

 

Percent distribution by agency

 

 

Other performers

 

United States

 

Nonprofit organization

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Agency Total Federal .
lndustrY Educal- A}? l F0f€|8n
tiona ot er
Total insti- Other
tutions
Total .................. 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Atomic Energy Commission... . . 8.2 2.7 33.0 8.4 8.3 8.8 1.2 16.0
Federal Aviation Agency ...... .2 .8 .0 .0 .0 .0 ................
National Aeronautics & Space
Administration. . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.6 2.1 2 20.5 21.6 2 2.1 ........................
National Science Foundation. . . 1.5 .2 ........ 2.2 2.7 .5 .1 1.4
Veterans Administration ....... 3.4 12.0 .6 .2 .2 .3 ................
Department of Agriculture. . . . . . 2.5 7.9 ........ .6 .8 ................ .8
Department of Defense... . . . . . . 7.6 18.6 8.3 3.4 3.7 2.4 .2 2.5
Department of Health, Educa- ’
tion, & Welfare ............. 73.8 55.1 37.6 83.6 82.2 88.0 94.4 79.3
(National Institutes of
Health) ................ (65.7) (41.9) (36.1) (77.7) (77.1) (79.8) (63.6) (70.3)
Department of Interior. . . . . . . . . . .1 .4 ................................................
Department of State ........... .1 .2 ........ .O .0 .0 4.1 ........
Percent distribution by performer
Total .................. 100.0 26.7 5.0 64.1 48.7 15.4 1.6 2.6
Atomic Energy Commission. . . . . 100.0 8.7 20.0 66.0 49.5 16.5 3 5-1
Federal Aviation Agency ...... 100.0 89.0 .7 10.3 7.6 2.7 ................
National Aeronautics & Space 2
Administration ............. 100.0 22.0 2 39.0 2 39.0 39.0 .............. .2 ...... 2. .4.
National Science Foundation. . . 100.0 3.6 ........ 93.8 88.4 5.4 . .
eterans Administration ....... 100.0 95.3 .9 3.8 2.5 1.3 .............. .8.
epartment of Agriculture... . . . 100.0 83.2 ........ 16.0 16.0 .............. .0. .9
eportment of Defense. . . . . . . . . 100.0 65.2 5.4 28.5 23.6 4.9 . .
apartment of Health, Ed -
tio(nN& Welfare. . . . . . . . . U57 . 100.0 19.9 2.5 72.7 54.3 18.4 2.1 2.8
ational lnstit t f
Health). . . . . . . .9 .e.s. . 0 (100.0) (17.0) (2.7) (75.9) (57.2) (18.7) (1.6) (2.8)
ePartment of Interior. . . . . . . . _ 1000 100.0 .............................. .1 ..... 5.3.0 .........
epartment of State ........... 100.0 38.8 ........ 8.2 8.1 . . ........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

K

1 Includes State and local governments.
stimated distribution of nonfederal performers.

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

almost one-half of Federal funds for medical and
health-related research, as compared with about one-
tenth of total Federal expenditures for R & D in all fields.
lndustrial firms and other profit organizations receive
only one-twentieth of Federal funds for medical and
health-related research, as contrasted with nearly
three-fifths of Federal expenditures for total R & D.

Expressed in dollar terms, Federal agencies spend
$210 million to finance research conducted by Federal
scientists working in federally operated laboratories
and hospitals. The Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare accounted for nearly three-fifths of this
total, the Department of Defense approximately one-
fifth, the Veterans Administration over one-tenth, with
the balance scattered among the remaining agencies
(table 63). About $580 million, or more than 2.5
times that amount, went for the support of medical and
health-related research performed by scientists and
clinicians working in nonfederal laboratories.

Nonprofit institutions received more than $500
million, or seven-eighths of this amount. Indeed, it
should be noted that well over 60 percent of all Federal
funds devoted to medical and health-related research
in 1962 were concentrated in the nonprofit sector.
Research grants awarded by the National Institutes of
Health, the principal medical research agency of the
Government, constitute the predominant source of
support for medical and health-related research per-
formed in nonprofit institutions, providing three-fourths
of all Federal funds. These research grants provide
support for thousands of scientists and clinicians work-
ing on fundamental inquiries touching every facet of
biology and medicine in hundreds of different institu-
tions.’

To strengthen the Nation's research structure and to
provide the necessary resources for modern scientific
research, NlH also awards grants for (1) general
support of research and research training programs of
institutions and (2) clinical research centers which
create the environment essential for more precise
observation and control in clinical studies. Because
advances in knowledge of the biological characteris-
tics of species structurally and physiologically similar
to man may yield results useful for the prevention and
treatment of human disease, NlH also supports regional
centers for the study of subhuman primates.

Industrial firms received $40 million in Federal con-
tracts for medical and health-related research. More
than one-third of this total, $14 million, represents the
NIH-sponsored testing of new drugs and chemical
compounds for use in the treatment of cancer and other
diseases. AEC research contracts account for another
$13 million—about 30 percent of the total. And the
remaining one-third is made up of NASA and De-
fense-sponsored research conducted by industry.

12

In summary, Federal agencies vary widely in the
proportion of their research funds devoted to intra-
mural and extramural research and among the com-
ponents of the extramural sector. As shown in table
63, the Veterans Administration, Federal Aviation
Agency, and the Departments of Agriculture and
Defense each spent two-thirds or more of their funds on
medical and health-related research in their own
laboratories. Other agencies such as the National
Institutes of Health, the Atomic Energy Commission,
and the National Science Foundation devote at least
two-thirds of their research support to nonprofit
institutions.

The National Institutes of Health and the AEC
together provide 85 percent of the funds for medical
and health-related research performed for the Federal
Government in foreign countries. NlH support of such
research activities approached $15 million—70 per-
cent of the total in 1962. In addition to the $15
million in grants to investigators in foreign countries,
research activities financed through foreign currencies
made available to NIH under the P.L. 480 program
amounted to an additional $3 million. Because
P.L. 480 funds are primarily extensions of work under
way in NlH laboratories and, in general, are respon-
sive to the guidance and direction of Federal scientists,
these funds are included in the Federal aggregates
reported in the study.

Field of Science

Medical and health-related research increasingly
draws upon all fields of science to cope with the prob-
lems of health and disease. While this is so, the
preponderance of such research is deeply rooted in
biology and medicine. At the same time, tools and
concepts of the physical sciences—physics, chemistry,
mathematics, and engineering—increasingly find
greater application in the study of health-related
phenomena.

In 1962, roughly 90 percent, or $710 million, spent
for medical and health-related research was classified
in the biological and medical sciences (table 7)-
This aggregate does not portray the broad diffusion
among the many disciplines of biology—such as
biochemistry, biophysics, pharmacology, genetics,
micrObiOIOSYI Pathology, and the specialties of medi-
cine such as cardiology, neurology, pediatrics,
Psychiatry, gnd surgery.

The remaining 10 percent—$80 million—was spread
over the other fields of science and, scattered among
the several agencies. The social and behavioral
sciences represented roughly one-half of this total, the
Pl'leical sciences accounted for about one-third, and
all other fields comprised the balance. As indicated
in table 7, the larger Federal programs, such as those

 

 




 

administered by the Departments of HEW, Defense,
and Agriculture and the Atomic Energy Commission,
involved the productive participation of virtually all
fields of science.

Research projects in other physical sciences—-
including mathematics and engineering—are supported
primarily by the Atomic Energy Commission and by
DHEW’s Food and Drug Administration and Bureau
of State Services. The Veterans Administration
program for the development of prosthetic devices
also entails some support for medical engineering.

Agencies of the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare provide virtually all (99 percent) of the
funds for investigation in the social sciences relevant
to medical and health-related research.

Medical and Health-Related Research
Facilities

Federal agencies will spend $70 million this year
for the construction of facilities for medical and
health-related research (table 8). This represents
8 percent of Federal funds for medical and health-
related research in 1962, as compared with 10 percent
in 1960. Three-fifths of this $70 million will be used
to expand the Nation‘s physical resources for research
at universities, hospitals, and other non-Federal
installations throughout the country. About two-
fifths of the total, or $27 million, will be spent for the

The National Institutes of Health will finance $35
million, or seven-eighths, of the $40 million slated for
construction of health research facilities at nonfederal
public and private nonprofit institutions.
amounts represent matching grants awarded under
the Health Research Facilities Program. Funds are
provided following a determination that (1) the
institution has the competence to condUct the type of
health-related research for which the facility is to be
constructed, (2) the proposed facility will be used for
health-related research for at least 10 years, and (3)
the Federal share of the costs of the research facility
portion of the proposed construction shall not exceed
50 percent. For 1963 the President’s Budget includes
a request for $50 million for this program—an increase
of $20 million above the current level.

These

NOTE ON DEFINITIONS AND METHOD

Definitions

In general, the definitions of ”conduct of research
and development," uobligations,H "field of science,"

”performer,” and "expansion of facilities" are those
employed by the National Science Foundation in its
annual surveys and published in Federal Funds for
Science X, pp. 62ft.

Because medical and health-related research com-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

construction and expansion of Federal research PfISGS G broad area OI scientific inquiry aimed “It"
IGCIIIIIGS- mately at the improvement of human health and the
Table 7
Federal Expenditures for Medical and Health-Related Research, by Field of Science, 1962
[Thousands of dollars (Estimate)]
X
Physical sciences
. ' I Other
Agency Total Bio- Medical Agrr- PSYCI'IO‘ . I M th En i- Socra
logical cultural logical Physrca a _- g
Total scrences ematl- neerlng
proper cal
\_
817
Total ............. $789,561 $95,302 $613,504 $2,746 $29,666 $24,504 $18,485 $519 $5,500 $15,022 $8,
Atomic Energy Commis- ------
Fsion .................. 64,679 37,195 18,178 1,605 ........ 7,701 7,701 .33: III. ..........
“Sm" Aviotion Agency. 1,870 ........ 1,870 ....................................
aflonal Aeronanics & .....................
N pace Administration... 20,620 8,220 7,400 ....... 5,000 ......................
$.tlonal SCience Founda- 758 ..................
Ion .................. 11,660 9,242 1,660 ................................ 704 ..............
Veterans Administration. . 26,429 ,,,,,,,, 93,962 ....... 1,763 704 . . . .266. . . . . . 183 75 ......
Department of Agriculture. 19 950 6 967 12,193 332 ........ 383 691 - 23-4 481 ........ 300
Dgpqr:ment of Defense... 59898 13081 43,388 453 1,270 1:406
normeni o H alth ’ ’ 14947 8,517
(Urfquiom i‘ We'feoref. 582 554 20 571 503,793 356 20,875 13,495 9,389 285 3'8” ’
Cltiona Institutes of I I . . . . 13,704) """"
D ealth .......... (518733) (13 136)(471,500) ....... (20,215) (178)""5'04' (178)-“311 ( .............
Department of Interior. . . . I910 I 26 69 ............... 815 ...........................
equlment of State ...... 991 ,,,,,,,, 991 .....................................

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.
13

 




 

Table 8

Federal Expenditures for Construction of Facilities for Medical and Health-Related Research, 1961 —62
[Millions of dollars]

 

 

 

 

 

1962 (estimate) 1961 (actual)
Agency
Total Federal Other Total Federal Other
site site

Total ................................... $67.8 $27.1 $40.6 $5 3.4 $11.8 $41.6

Atomic Energy Commission ...................... 3.6 ........ 3.6 4.8 ........ 4.8
National Aeronautics & Space Administration ..... .8 .8 ................................

National Science Foundation .................... 2.0 ........ 2.0 1.7 ........ 1,7
Veterans Administration ........................ 5.6 5.6 ........ 5.8 5.8 ........
Department of Agriculture ....................... 3.3 3.3 ........ .6 .6 ........

Department of Defense .......................... 2.5 2.5 ........ 2.4 2.3 .1
Department of Health, Education, & Welfare ....... 49.9 14.9 35.0 38.1 3.1 35.0
(National lnstitutes of Heath) ................ (42.7) (7.7) (35.0) (37.5) (2.5) (35.0)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note—Detail will not necessarily add to totals because of rounding.

SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

conquest of disease, it draws upon all fields’of science—
life, physical, engineering, psychological, and social—-
and many disciplines within each field. Within this
broader context, Hmedical and health-related research"
is defined as all systematic study directed toward the
development and use of scientific knowledge through
fundamental research in the laboratory, clinical
investigations, clinical trials, epidemiological studies,
and engineering studies in the following areas:

1. The causes, diagnosis, treatment, control, preven-
tion of, and rehabilitation relating to the physical and
mental diseases and other killing and crippling
impairments of mankind,-

2. The origin, nature, and solution of health prob-
lems not identifiable in terms of disease entities,-

3. Broad fields of science where the research is
undertaken to obtain an understanding of processes
affecting disease and human well-being;

4. Research in nutritional problems impairing, con-
tributing to, or otherwise affecting optimum health;

5. Development of improved methods, techniques,
and equipment for research, diagnosis, therapy, and
rehabilitation.

Distinction between "budgeted" and "directly
related medical research." In order to ensure coverage
of the entire range of medical and health-related
research, obligations for research budgeted and
supported as medical and health-related were reported
separately for the following two categories which are
essentially determined by the purpose for which
research is supported:

4. ry—t- -—¢—~~—=.1£:=.uw— “A...

14

1. Obligations for Budgeted Medical and Health-
Related Research. This includes obligations from
funds separately budgeted for medical and health-
related research and specifically identified, pro-
grammed, and justified as such within the Executive
and Legislative Branches and to the public at large.
Such research is supported for the purpose of improving
human health, and may include all the research
activities of agencies or subagencies whose sole mission
is the advancement of human health through research.

2. Obligations for Research Activities Directly Re-
lated to Medical and Health-Related Research. This
includes obligations for research which is directly
related to health in terms of substance or probable
applications, but which derives from funds budgeted,
justified, or supported for purposes other than medical
or health objectives; for example, the general support
of science, the promotion of American agriculture,
the achievement of the Nation's national purposes in
outer space.

Method

In order to meet the need for authoritative and
definitive measurement of the Nation's expenditures
for medical and health-related research, the National
Institutes of Health has maintained a time series
showing separately the expenditures of government
(Federal, State, and local) and nongovernment sectors
(industry, foundations, health agencies, and a number
of other private sources). However, medical and
health-related research conducted by Federal agenCieS

 




 

 

was not fully reflected in the national series because of
certain inadequacies in the existing data and reporting
method. Thus, the need to refine both the scope and
method of measuring Federal support of medical
and health-related research, to insure complete
._ coverage, was long recognized by the National
lnstitutes of Health.

Existing deficiencies were also noted in the reports
of two congressional committees,- each recommended
that NlH tal<e action to remedy the situation. (See
Senate Committee on Government Operations, HHealth
Activities of the Federal Government,H Senate Report
No. 142, 87th Congress, 1st Session, March 30, 1961,-
and House Committee on Government Operations,
"Health Research and Training,H House Report No.
321, 87th Congress, 1st Session, April 28, 1961.)

Taking account of these recommendations and the
growing concern of the President's Science Advisory
Committee, the Bureau of the Budget requested the
National lnstitutes of Health to undertake a survey of
Federal agencies engaged in medical and health-
related research. For this survey, Federal agencies
were requested for the first time to review their research
projects—and to report obligations for medical and
health-related research—distinguishing between monies
budgeted for medical and health-related research as

15

such, and funds spent for research directly related to
health but supported for other purposes (see definitions
above). NIH was asked to collect actual obligations
for fiscal year 1961, and estimated obligations after
apportionment for fiscal year 1962. Using similar
guidelines, Bureau of the Budget examiners compiled
summary data for fiscal year 1963.

In recognition of the magnitude and importance of
Federal support for medical and health-related
research, the Bureau of the Budget included a section
delineating medical and health-related research
activities in the Special Analysis on Federal Research
and Development Programs published in the Budget
Document, using for this purpose the summary statistics
collected in the survey. The Bureau of the Budget has
made the 1963 data available to NIH for use in this
publication. The detailed data on expenditures for
medical and health-related research, by performer
and field of science, and for expansion of research
facilities are published for the first time in this Report.
Revised data for earlier years, based on the same
distinction between medical and health-related re-
search budgeted as such and that directly related to
human health but supported for other purposes, will be
compiled so that a comparable historical time series
can be made available.

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:1962 O—-657266

 

 

 

 

 




 




\y ;

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 EasI I7’rh SIreeI'
New York 3. N. Y.

OR 5—I069

7' ,ﬁ ‘1 {ii/f6! /7(}

Dear Dr. Bean,

Hero 13 a copy of the
covering letter to be sent to
members of the Physiological
Society with my letter to
the editor of The Physiologist.

I would greatly value your
advice on this, and if there are
any changes you would suggest,
won t you just note them on the
margin and send the letter back
to no? I d like to get these in
the mail by the end of the week.

Mamma and I enjoyed our visit
with you very much and wish you

W811.
Sim erwoly,

 




M; 2m all '5“

M's-gum 27, [W

m. 30h“ Bean
310 ‘3. Davis
53$.Arbor, Mink.

D33: Dre Bea“.

I'w been trying to reach was by phone fer several dew, km; per
haps van are away. Iha reason I'm sending van @hia carreapandenca 1%
because of the latter farm the Miter 9f The ‘é’hyﬂGlng‘t in which,
you'll mte. he says. Wemimtiam am submitted and awep’teé only
£37023 or ttmugh members ta thé Miter.” In other wards, my lettm needs
a sponsor, am! I immutely thought cf yam. ‘*

The; grim: Vitae-ha: article in The Phwiolegist 13 not massed
as I am ﬂaming you have mad it, but if yw dim”; haw it, Sgt me
know, and I will semi a copy. It is ahackimgly 112%me and mislaadmgg
but Dr. Visschez: awamntly expracts {as indisated in his; Latter of. $131933“
fifth) to leave? all his statmmts uncorrecteﬁ exmapi; am: about tha
thmlt Clinia may .. that is, 11:11:;155 a manﬁtmzr :35 the? Physic Zagiczz'l '
swim» writes m {mm-act than 2:23: 33263 "that rm; lsrtter bu mzbl'ﬁjmed. .

If yam fem? yam aan'i; an 12mg, mum "yen giva me admm on mat
yau think the mm; thing m (30- wan 3d baa?

You'll ht“? in'tmrested t0 m that out in E‘ﬁmeapalis, after Dr.
Washer ma 1:31:53:er an MOS-TV, the statian came wt with ma
censecutive gdﬁgxgetzrfiam in W M tim— lgigmmﬁian! Big ﬁtatmgptg -,

dan't go elm wiﬁ f’iﬁ‘éimw Wop“, but, alga, the Physia}egi&¥%~~
_ 306mm “312%, Wen mean they are defamatmy tn a £421ch myst-
sialogist V539 ma"; mam: back»

I'll telephcme m again before long. Meantim imam fer reading
all $1115.

511 gooé wishes,

Sincweiy,

 




eonverea3ioh with Jb, out} 3 S, 1962. Dr. Davenport wehte eo3hihg 3czdo
with ehlhele beoeuee he in a1347; erimale wer: 3h awful ehepe, e
 mehy as six dogs locked in froh3 kehrcle tﬂrDP’ﬂJQ‘ 3he weekend wi3e no
access 3o ou3door runways. B needled Davenport so he eeid, ”You take 13.”
Small flepe wee; 3 3‘ 3*“ _ dogs would go out at will and etudeht
eXperimehte redml ed .rW and changed 30 demonstreeione.

Cub n told " eve: w‘«‘ he had ﬁeund out through 3e
confined ahi:el ‘ “ t 33 than oneoofinedohee. Rate in mezee showed
this, 3h erefore cohfin nemehe for dogs be3ter than runways. Cohen to
peel w H ' . r 3‘ in buffalo 33 the Physiologieal doCiety meetings.

animal caret u‘. 7*. doing Kent willaame

Williams reporte the ‘3‘ said they were

““39? the IhyS 31' J? "W‘ meat but s ”;.' Cohen

eewhere, oo, that he is responsible only to the

elevere eeye, ”He is not going to take

3ruoking of do e from Detroi3 will be done away

(5
V

with. "We plan to ge3 do 35 local ly " he said, bu3 did not eay how this

\

{'1

30333 happen. However, a o moi ee 0 change the State law 33 re quire
eurrehjeﬂ of dogs 30 laboratories has been formed, e'hers 0333 are
13 is be: h Vept qu1e3. J udge' e illihgz in Kalamazoo is
to say that law mue3 be ehdoged.

Davenport ﬁes been active in lining up Kichigah people againe3
going on sabbatdcal to KayoC lirie ﬁ3r a year Told B
looked over the changes he was making on the top floor

n was going to change 3he plans he had made. "I made some

‘~ akee up there,"

said Davenpor3 and said 13 was 0K for Cohen to
ahead the way he waote d to.
Dempster talked to heaesfield and Jd*e port to get

shel3er. Nah3ed E 3o go but he would rot.

 




OP INIO NS OiN BRITI SH seisNNISTs ‘» _ QNNICE
CONNNOL 0N PNN‘NT”””TS ON A}?

o the Press ideht, No “Cl “11f 1e T11stitute, New YONK

 

1Nwwa,1ﬁ.C., B.Sc. 11. ;T.'W ol. (Sechtz1NN-General‘of YEMEN)
9

 

connection with Bill 8.3570, introduced by QC1,tor Ooope N and
others ih.the U.8. Senate and proVidihN for the control of eX3e1 imerts
on animals, and in 1ew of propaganda to the effect that Home Office
control frustra es medical research ih.Britain, the following questions
addressed by 1r. 3 -*l N 1 1 President of-UFAW, to

the Royal Society «hd by myself to a few other

1. Do yOu consider that ir cons eoue1cc of the
system of licensing and i“ ptci on ndmiristcr d by the
the highest quality

11‘}
Home Office, medical research of
cannot 1M1 carrieélcn1t in Bri 1xxih?

2° ‘Vgulﬂ you pr:fe; Home Office control to be

(boli eC, so that pe1s0hs without scientific training
would be peNmitted to experiment oh animals without
supervisiODN

Have you in your exper_ehcc found .
A in A '3’ -o ’D’- ' ”“1 J" ‘ 1 'J ‘ . q’\
ijgtgffl; 351’ Lougljf 1 1117.8 t1”; L105, 16 gl tlmftv

sciCrtist , mostly Fellows of tie Royal Society,
replied .‘ ie-u questions Of these only ope felt frustrated by
Home Office control. we lV-OP’ simply astchd Y”xi-lo” to each'
and added commeh s, most of which

strongly reinforce '1 - .prh . N -e 3'C~l_~ s s em, though there
were a few miho

Certaijizwihcr.~l. NCNW1 , C._ C1 r: ahd rumactice, Imot involvijmx
questions of principle and not relevant - -:1 up 3;; Bill, might be
desiNahle, but there cah_l; no doubt that r.;» ‘ 1 ,o Control is a
.great success.
experimental animal ‘1. ‘31s‘~ w: 11 i16n£mapt10h of two physi

Sir Edward Appleton and Sir George hnmsog

7%

Sir Edward Salisbury, formerly cwoloowcal
Society, who N»b% approached in View of their exceptionally Wide
acquaintance w? 'mwa;;11 researchers .1 ”x” 11 .pli11es.
medical re*eeNch'l

control are such

the Chester Bestt3

 




formerly Profos

Prof. H.A. Krebs, F.R.S.,

LProfesaqrwgf,
Prrsidentw
Nobel'Prizomon
Research at V
Impe;133ﬁl C‘ICO
Prooldclﬁzcxf‘thc

D3

‘“6 £01

William Slut

and Dr. W.R.

S

Tru t.

Dr.

that we hovo

experiments
hit-r11“ o
Institute, wroto

introduce

(-1
LA.

Ell“

pr 0
LI-KJ I.)

tic ﬂct mu to

that nooﬂo

5r-»~ ru l r- 0
(A‘s-1.: t 81' 3.

you formula at

J\J

Q

A. Huddow, .c

“F

0;}.

\vroto°

:or of

EhXSiQIQtXI
.95mthﬁw

(1
LA

:lll

rector~ﬂen

Leonard

O
8 730 C lg}.

20'

Public Hoolth in

2ng

col Prizcnm n;

.ir_tb©pUniv¢r“iﬁr

Q..-

R w]‘0 an
1 Dyna - x.) O C _.. ‘3.)

tv in 1957 t? 7

no Director elect of

11a

1; _9
l..'..... 9

mm ; -. r— z‘
Research Furo;

oral of tho,Unltca

«M’x'ﬂlwr )iTGCtOf Of

FOR.Sq for Sixteen years Editor of Brain; Sir

Secroto

rV of th; Aﬂriculturul Rsoou Coupe;

I’Ch

Founder and Dlroctor of the Animal

Coltbrook,

r7 to

I K
8 OJ." EV

nouro~ohysiology 1;;

such rational modc of

rx>t

a few animal

u. 3 ,.‘ ,u .1. W
L ".JXJ‘d. :JU L1, b}

Phillih

O
0

Similar to our Ebmc

oolo

*7 (\
o.‘.LOL-)O’ g1.

N Ob 9} ,.

a rovo in) introduce

ttot
t0 '3 1’1...
LL -u-L—L‘b

L ,\ r -... :1 p
tho Liar Cl TUNJ:
b

;Dir€ctor of tho Choc

ttr

“I have, course,

 




5-.

vivisection laws with safety along our pattern in the U.K.". I

may add the opinion of Sir Edward Salisbury, F.R.S. who, though a
botanist, has a wide acquaintance with research workers in many
fields and was formerly Biological Secretary of the Royal Society.
He wrote: ”I think that it should be obvious to all who have the
real advancement of knowledge at heart that to allow the
inexperienced to carry out experiments under any other conditions
is inexcusably bad

I now turn to another aspect of the subject. Everything
depends on the way in which legislation of this kind is
and on the quality of those inspectors or others who a,

Sir George Thomson, P.R.S., Nobel Prizeman and this year's President
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, though he
is a physicist, has such wide connections in the scientific world
that his opinion must carry weight. He wrote: "Obviously my
replies to your queries are ba-ed on second-hand information, but

I can honestly say that I have never heard any serious criticism

of the present system of conLrol from medical research workers or,
indeed, from those doing research on other forms of biology. My
answer to your three questions is therefore 'No' in each case".

A similar reply was sent by another Jobel Prizeman in Physics,

Sir Edward Appleton, Principal of the University of Edinburgh and

a Past President of the British Association etc. etc.

Sir John Boyd, F.R.S., Past President of the Royal Society of
TrOpical Medicine, wrote: “,s far as my experience goes I have
found the Home Office inspectors reasonable and helpful and I have
never suffered from obstruction of any kind. , It is true that I
have heard occasional reports.to the contrary, but I have been
left with the impression that the difficulties arose from impatience
and a tendency to disregard the law on the part of the licensees
and not from any desire of the inspector to interfere with legitimate
activities.” Prof. R.J. Harrison, of the London Hospital Medical
College, wrote: ”On two important occasions the Home Office made

suggestions of the very greatest help and significance which

 




4.
‘of the rethi,rCh ord t1m1:uroorto11tce
the ohvs olog st,
insoectors co~ooe1otive
<re were~ cos: 1m .- ._71. advice was oooortune
?1r Johh.Horword FGR.S., of tho Cowbridge School
of Agriculture, wrote of Home Office Control - Wt forces us to tro in
our young research.worker efficiel :tly“. Pr01. “10X hder H11,ddow wrote
that the ERHMB Office system “tnmnru&zs oh.involustﬂt1ggywrohtee of
TGSDOES ble -.*1. -4v 1 Prof. Jrv‘d £:7_°“. ? LUC of the Nolteho
Institute, o; ~‘1_~ 72-: rea the question
frustrates legit n¢1e 1 "arch thus: in. the oooosite,
the worker to oloh can sorry out his exocriwehts with more core.
This greatly improves the quality C the r6se€1rch
the research worker himse1f. ’ Dr. John F. Loutit, Director of th
Rﬂd"0b1030?lc l Js<»~ m “a; 1 Rorwell, wrote that Home Office
control “acts «1 » 1 1. 1_ Us to hove the h chest quality 3 Cr1mol
core 211? n - -” 1 :1. we 11M1‘r to be
good biological agoo‘LhQVJV. ,~ 7 1 O
of Experimental ? 1- «V 2:» a ,5, of thC Imo1111l
Fund, wrote: "I would If . _ =1¢1 c the Howe Ofdico control of
animal experiments - i . ; dw11°stered) because there is no
doubt that o1nol work :orried on without such CODC Wions
to be fruitless »3. 11; 16 or” _ hovr ?ound
svstcm helos _~g1 -1 ~ n¢1o1._n .4 arm: the sti
lhsp ctors - 1 s3 nble whe1 one is ih_shy doubt
etc. which are ootimuw for the parti1ulor work 2» hos in hood“
Tolsho wrote: "Ir r;:g
expo so 1 J ,» . ._o a 1w1 4 they
F.ROS.fwrotos
View the
svs tom helps,

not impede or x ‘ , . ”g ,1. .1 erlhe would orrfer

.Home Office control to be so 1-» h "w; 1“ ° ”1 most certainly

would not. , a moJe 11 : a 1,.1ihg u have got....

I think the ~1m. ah,3~ should be give: 1 I do

 




not think that y s _,ﬂ, L ~ .1 a ' allowed to do
with 1 living creature.“ Dr. Edward Hindle9 F.R¢S., wrote:
“I should be voﬁy so ry ilideed to se:
system of control which has worked s ,a f« ,c ori U for more
three— quarters cf . century“. Dr. C T. . :”= , l of the
Wolloowc La ooratorles of Tropics l T»T edicine wrote: ”I believe that —
far f rom hllidﬁ‘ ring scientific investiya its .Te system of
Action adopted : 1* a < q..~ii , conditions for
research that are beyond renroach“. ' , , , Huggett, F.R.S.
ologist wrote: - frivolous but
not the responsible worker”.
A number of our corr'c Uoondents welcome th.': fact that Home
Office control protects the experimenter _, well as the animal.
is because educated laymen know that exoerimenters are not
allowed to do just anythinf to animals, and I come finally to the
uestion — what will
i
the duality of the
to find suitable oersonne
then, that the Aﬁericsn ii-soectors will
conscielitious, hum‘rc, highly intelliéent, practical, and incorruotible,
as our inspectors are considered
assumption 1 as o.; w ,'e~J a Less 1,1 opinion
on this corresnondenco ail :1 11p ..information from
other sources. It is that the Sooner T . _ 1n 1; into law,
would have the following efdects

(l) lt would restrict exoeiiwentatibr
tifically comoet nt to carry it

1m“: - Av 1"er (w- «b 1- ;: ’nr :1 r‘ «"0 q :1 ° ’\ ”Wt-i atd
in: OTUOJEK; 011.0 lullgar 01 Views Lil?! l 9" 00101- «J- 1;; o
J.
I 9

wufferino in the laboratory can be reductd so

.ﬂ- .w“
‘«

It would promote ti 1‘" Oby focusing at'
and other asnec

ethically

consider what hapnens when

o.

Home Office ~or“borm1ssion to use

 




some new technique which looks as if it mi ht entail

suffering. In the first place the Home ficey with

advisers, will try to ”1” cs st‘on alte native technique which would

be free from the disai , and usually this solves the oroblem.

In the few instances is ‘11 -snch an alto11ative cannot be found the
Home Office has to consider. foi one thing, the cu‘llf1cttLors of the
anplicant. A first—rote so cientist mig ght be ”lloved to do some things

which would be permitted to an inferior one, but precautions to reduce

sufferir ns as much as possible would he required in any case. All

that would be 'iSCussed with thC annlicnnt on an exnert level
1

lCOULt€ ed onlv one objection, Whiéh I will deal with
shortly. l do not reckon as an obiection the following remark made by
Prof. O.E. Lowenstein alts ~»,°:( ?a wide range of medical research
involvi11g vivis ection it asirg carried out in Britain, and there is
nothing to interfere with the quality of this r1sacs ch orov1ided a good
case has been made out for its necessity“) — ”I myself have had to
give up a ,e of research in the ,21 1* _-~ of diffic ulti n
connection wi c , sidgﬁg - 7. it View of the fact that
there a’4 < , or 21* C re 1 I do not feel seriously
frustrated.” Cea_n 1 T E Villmer, F.R.S., wrote: "I see no
reaso: to believe that the 1 n; 113 ~5v.+a Ia . the qualitv of
medical T6828T0h.8ds181Y u; 1“ ainlv nrevent certain fields
from being investigated by methods which most of us would find
repugnant, but otho: <3 of investigation will no doubt be found
for those azeas, which are 1;; ;.< small".

This brings me to that one of our corr nondert

frustrated by Howe Office cont 1 He wants to carry
exrerimeu.1 on the brain
cannot be sufficiently g 1: + 1 ' Role
a.sume that he is right. :1 ‘=, »-., there are some
knowledge which caniot he a; without reso1t to unethical methods,

a 1'1 r- a 14 t n 1 1 r- '3” 14111 '1 to! ' h "r 1'1 1A,”: 3- :1 V1- "4 (‘1
QU. 011. L49 b 111.1- ' ' - u HIV-C11; 191 .1- 130110 J. -,": .

 




7.

Medical Research Council; ”I sup“ose most
who have any compaosion.wou1d agnea that

some expeviments on animals whiCJ are not legitimateW‘

Cﬁﬂo Hume

23th January, 1961

 




OH BRITISH SOIZUPIHTS ON HOHE OHHICE
1.1 OT“ EEC. Z‘IJTPTNIEI“ TS OH Mill-J’EALS
adl‘11,1 1 the T“residhltﬁ Animal Welfare z:-'. M ‘New York

by tfaior a. Hume 1:. . . f.,.Hiol. (Secre tart-Oereral of news}

In connection with Bill 8.397 9 introduced by Sezator Cooper ans
others iL_the U.$. ~‘1 s sou providi1s for the control of experiments
on animals, and View of orcpaganda to the effect that Home Office
control frustrates meo1cal re 1 Brita n, the following questions
were addressed by Dr. a .1M - _ a ; es ident of-UHAW, to
biological Fe laws of .1 h. 1 Society and by myself to a few other
5 itis shgscientists.

l. c ...» that in consequence of the'
system of l:. censi ,mz:_ tfcbrctior adminis stored by the

Home Office, m€;di a '~Vea' " of the highest quality
cannot be csrr3 .

2. 'Vould you orcfer H ,ce control to be
abolished so that. nersons withou i
would be 1
supervisi ha

m1ti fic training
mitted to esperiment 1: animals without

5. Have you ll1§HNLF experience found that the
Br ti sh system seriously frustratas legitimate research?
In all. 8; sci“: 1. . a , ~ -hs or the Royal Society.
replied to the e ,1 i,:. _ .911 only BEE felt frustrated by
Home Office control. Twenty-one simply anch r: d Y"Ho” to each
question; sixty-six ‘1 1~"J. ‘5 1 an added comme ents, rest of which
strongly reinforcc> d .Jlr stein fv: 1- y“- l l.system, though there
were a few minor critic -

amendments ;. 1d a 143 bractice, not involving

questi01mof"bri1u1iple {and
desirable, but there can.se so doubt that How,
great success. All of these suooo ter 3 of Home Office control
experimental auiual cioloci.ts with the exception of two physicists,
Sir Edward Appleto1
Sir Edward Salisbury, formerly
Society, who were abbroachei
~acquaintance with.rese*:
edic l reset r . » 1 Who have W1°tte

control are such men a- Prof. Ale “1dr"

the Chester Beatty pcoerrch Institute;

 




formerly

Professor 0.

Public

Prof. H.A. Krebs, F.R.S.,

_PrOfessor of Pszjolo<v 1n thg Upﬁv WC T§Y_§f

-Prssiésst of.ﬁhsm393al.§9c

Nobel‘

'Res (”11” Ch

Imperial Cancer

‘ Q
Prizemon

jLTT-T; TT TT°

”(TC

31

of the :1th
U

first Dil’C Ctt) 3"~“-‘c;l“ii"

Sir Frohci

,‘1
or” olmz

T'TT .
(‘1 ‘ .r; J "1"
U " ’..-. .. IS lb 9

William Slot r, FQR.

C: lid. D 3:: a

Trust.

Dr.
that we

ee it

*3? R
"“ DA 0

Leonard

_&V6

”\1
Sci

:TZl O].

abolished“.

ilierity with

T”? C

C

control is

to think‘

CXFL”TH‘“t“

them“.
;;ltiiV1t“
intrOduce

tle ﬂct ms

that heecs

Zemeh,

wrote
a Til
T:’. (‘1

k) Tit/3‘

‘
1' ' '2 *- ’7. a
V3,] .1. O L'KJ o

Institute9 vwmote

of the

dericsr:

(‘1 “7.1 (T: ‘
«(A .L 2.1

Roses

cl

0 ,
IOEMG

S.

ooli”id

CoL hr

by

rch

0308., for

r\

U39 5

r13?

9 SJUCI’S; ta.

:1

DOT: ‘/ "T?

the

Nobel

Cj‘r .,

Hon]
LIT-J CA. -

and Director

of the Uniteﬂ F

QTPGCt

TTOuIMier

Home

Sir Francis

.. . L;

T7 if:

’v“. .e .. .L...
UUQUof

glad t?

t

. Tr

legi

am verV

0 OT

e bit

sloiiior:

Prizemsh;

11:7-

811d

. (‘1
T‘ - ‘30,

slsﬁ

29'

th in the

Sir ErVQL

”m n T3 T7)
t.LOI -

o J. o _' .7

,fvrt one 1

OLs;
,. .3 A
Q:t_LOliS -

TD
J. L

rt“-

UL

of the

sixteen V

of th; Agricultural

Director of the

wroteo

I CTT’ND Jleﬂ. be
9 wrote

DGUTO~

TLC

5:113 u:;1:

m
\J CE.) U
"y: m m Y1 be
_- u: 3"}...1.)

IIOTJ

TN 3 ,.
L/‘J. TV:

horde: bsf

Matthews,
Crrﬂoridsr:z;td a

. Medow or,

Institute

of Edinburgh;

T303080,
T7106!"
FoRoSOyI

of Medical

i1

0
Anims

"I am verV glad indeed

verV solm V to

"A wide

DhVSiOlOgV le‘

such rational mode

esVMBrimeri;

& :NOILJT-

to introdrce
to that

cstions which

 




vivisection laws with safety along our pattern in the U.K.”. I
may add the opinion of Sir Edward Salisbury, F.H.S. who, though a
botanist, has a wide acquaintance with research.workers in-many
fields and was formerly Biological Secretary of the Royal Society.
He wrote: '"I think that it should be obvious to all who have the
real advancement of knowledge at heart that to allow the
inexperienced to carry out experiments under any other conditions
{is inexcusably bad training".

I now turn to another aspect of the subject. Everything
depends on the way in which legislation of this kind is administered,
and on the quality of those inspectors or others who administer it.
Sir George Thomson, P.H.S., Nobel Prizeman and this year’s President
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, though he
is a physicist, has such wide connections in the scientific world
that his Opinion must carry weight. He wrote: ”Obviously my
replies to your queries are based on second-hand information, but
I can honestly say that.I.have.never heard any serious criticism
of the present system of control from medical research workers or,
indeed, from those doing research on other forms of biology. My
answer to your three questions is therefore 'No' in each case".

A similar reply was sent by another Nobel Prizeman in Physics,
Sir Edward Appleton, Principal of the University;of Edinburgh and

L

ast President of the British Association etc. etc.

Sir John Boyd, F.R.S., ast President of the Royal Society of

TropiCal Medicine, wrote: “As far as my experience goes I have

found the Home Office inspectors reasonable and helpful and I have
never suffered from obstruction of any kind. It is true that I

have heard occasional reports to the contrary, but I have been

left with the impression that the difficulties arose from impatience
and a tendency to disregard the law on the part of the licensees

and not from aiy desire of the inspector to interfere with legitimate
activities." Prof. H.J. Harrison, of the London Hospital Medical

College, wrote: ”On two important occasior~ the Home Office made

.suggestions of the very greatest-help and significance which

 




of the resu
erte:
and helpful.

‘ejsd. i1117e113e3ile3‘.

of Agriculture,

our young reseer

that the

»~oons3ble

Institute,
Frustrates

the worker

This greatly

‘69.}?

R€.dio og

control "acts

care and

good h1olog~i cal

of Ernerimental

'Fund; wrote: "I

A
D

enimsl'

1..

ch&

doubt

F‘. T"
LA. L...

to be fruitless

whatever in ens.

system helps,
not impede or
-Eone Office co:
would not.
ihk the

I th

7"I slwevs

thI‘ (3

wrote
ch'WOrkers

Home Office

to nlun “n
improves

ch worker

’\""1

r: is “WU .L

:trol
I would oopos

EDQpGTlHlMYL

' Search and the iwoortsnce

'the ohvsﬁol

found

were occas3ons when advice w s‘opoortune

Sir John’Hanmond, thf Cewbridge’Schcol

of Ho111e Office “It forces us

to trail:

efficiently“. J 3. Alexander Heddow wrote

system 7"provides en‘invelueble guarantee of

V”. O 1‘ , ° ‘1 T; :3 A i {1.
Frol. ddVIe ufulciw 3313., ol the

-« . mp»?
uhSWSreu Sm Ih’the

QU”
thus:

research .

mid to carry out his

the quality of the benef;

himself.“ Dr. John e

rector of th

”nit at Harwell, wrote that Home OfFice

highest qualitv of animal

1’!

:‘ C3 .A C"
‘ K) \J 1-!

C .1.

would'f ontrel of

chrimcnts

imdl work

J__'1
tﬂG

any doubt about

(" C!

pﬁrticuler work,one hcw

rogero the British practice

experimentelists srl of the

D

“03.1wrote: "I have no hesitation

ins your questions. In my

considered view the

insoectors. It fa

To the question'whether he would

”I most certainly

T he

" A 7' 1A '9 '\ s -r\ a
LVerttn Le l r.ve-got....

I do

 




5.

not think that just anybody should be allowed to do iust anything
with.a living creature.”
"I should be very sorry indeed to ~24 “lJ - U » i in the bresent
system of control which has worked so ,a i._: i u for more than
three—quarters cf a century“.
Wellcowea.oratori11of Tropical
far from hindering scientific i v<s'
and insrection adopted in Britain provid~s conditions for

research that are beyond reproach". Profe A. St.G. Huggett, F.R.S.

physioloaist wrote: ”The Act of 1876 stops the frivolous but
not the responsible worker”.

A number cf our corresoondents welcome the fact that Home
Office control protects the experimenter as we ll as the animal.
is because educated laymen know that exoerimenters are not
allowed to do just anything to anima s, and I come finally to the
question - what will be the imoact of the Cooper Bill on American
laboratories if i

Of (munrse, 3 :.;‘ »; ;Q=;* or1.the (yialiiﬁy of
to be anpointed. We haw; sen able to find suitable nersonnel in
Britain; let us assume, has that the Awerican insnectors will be
conscielitious, humane T55 b “wt“ L,e1 : w ,ical, and :incori untibl; ,
as our inspectors

On.this
based partly i ; ~ corresnondence ano
other sources. It is that the
would have the following effects

Q) It would r
«re scﬁﬁnztifica Ml

es tr riot experimentation on animals
37 comoet11t to carry it on:

(2) It w1ulo bromote crcha«cr of views among scientists
in which suffering in the lane story can be reduced to a

would promote efficiency by focusing attention On
and other aspects of met‘hOdOlO€437iZ

would disallow experiments which ar» ethically

‘N w ‘ .1553".
let is ,Lv- ia~ what hastens WMUL

Home Office tor“bcrm1ssion to

 




some new technique

suffering. In the

will try to

8:

advise'

be free from the disudvin

In the f

Home Office

Qt!
LLAU

snplicent. A Piygt_rgt€

which.would

Ox) L niblg}

that would b”

6)

far we have encountered

shortly. I do not 1 Hc on

Prof. O.E. Lowenstein

involving vivisection

KOthj-1:E‘ to 37-7. 1733 ..'ft BC:

n
p“

0 se hes txmn: made out

give up M -ine

connection with the blindi

there are m: thin:

frustrated.”

reason to believe that the

medicsl res srch adversely

from bei11g investigated

bv
L

repugnant, but othe:

for those

frustrsted by Home Office

experiments on the brsin

cannot be sufficiently

assume that he is ri

knowledge which ceniot he

”ALL
Watt

.-. . M .7 3
811 Ch ,1 . J :- ...- v»; 1" 1.... .i. .1

(.‘f
U

which looks

first place
eugge
398,
ew instnnces in which
to consider,

scientist might be

be permitted to

with the

only

.s6.

QC?

LL)

if it might

’\

go
UfllOG

th C Eome

st on slte tive

a

and usually thi

C1
L.)

uch e

for

01,16 thing,

s1:;inR rdt>r one,

"I
oe

would
nonlicnnt on
one obj

obiection

r: 0 r1 1"
'A t...) ML...

wide

ng of fish, but,

,s for we to do,

F

‘Villmer,

licer.

. It may certsinlv ore

methods which wost

1
any case
one of our cor:

. T7 O 1, HE}.

that knowledge

the re
g
of huwen

with

technique

8

n alternativ
the

allowed to do
bu
required iL any case.
an
ection, whiCh I

the

|vestigetion will
smell“.
respondents

wants to carry out certs

1’ .1. :‘
‘CI’.i-SOllo :73 o

.L} t
-(‘ \“' "
7.7....‘JJ‘ C; 11;”:

ieiteil

iis- sciehtific:

at.

, with
-which would

solves the problem.

if).
K.)

ce11n t be the

quslifioetion~

some things

qucaut 0113 to 1‘8le 08

All
exnert level, and

deal with

following remark mode bV

of medical resesrch

end there

0

orovided d good

s
the quality of

vent certain fields

of us find

xwould

no doubt be found

who eal

\_.' \

(‘1
19’

in this
a /
i1ni-s

CE I." (3 8 Diff:

st withstt 1eso.1t to uLethicli‘metho

was forwerlv on

 




7.
staff of the Medical Research Council; "I supﬂose

scientific p30ple who have any 00mpa33f0n_wou1d agree

SOWG GXperiments on animals which are not legitims ﬂ“,

03“» Hume

27th January, 1961

 




from the desk of:
Mrs. Charles W. Engclhard

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Mrs. Engelhard has asked

me to send you the enclosed
as she thinks you will find
it of interest.

Secretary.

 




LISTER HILL, ALA., CHAIRMAN

PAT MC NAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
WAYNE MORSE, GREG. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH. TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY. VT.
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.

JENNINGS RANDOLPH, w. VA. MAURICE .I. MURPHY, JR., N.H. Q o
A- wu—ums- .J Enrich ﬁfaiee ﬁenafe

QUENTIN N. BURDICK, N. DAK.

BENJAMIN A. SMITH II, MAss.

CLAIBORNE FELL, R.I. COMM‘TTEE ON
LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE

STEWART E. MC CLURE, CHIEF CLERK
JOHN S. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

May 9, 1963

Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard, Jr.
Cragwood
Far Hills, New Jersey

Dear Jane:

Thanks very much for your telegram. I
had a very nice talk with Mrs. Stevens the other
day to see what we could do about the animal wel-
fare bill, and I have decided to write to Senator
Hill, urging hearings on this important matter.

I think you might be interested in seeing the en—
closed copy.

I hope this effort will bear fruit, and
in the meantime I plan to look into the legisla-

tion very closely for I would truly like to see a
fair and effective bill enacted in this all too
neglected area of public concern.

My best to you and Charlie.

rriso A. Williams, Jr.

HAW:aed

 




NEWS from the UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
COLLEGE OF MEDICINE

University Medical Center

Salt Lake City 12, Utah

For Information Contact: Alan C. Davis

Code 801, 322—7201
2/5/63 (U, F, MJ, ssw, AID)

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Whoa! Don't give Tabby all the credit -- your dog can see in the dark just as well
as the proud, mysterious cat!
In fact, just about every carnivorous (meat eating animal) has this unusual ability.

It really is not ”x-ray” or ”spotlight” vision, however -- it is because of a Special

structure in the animal's eye, which makes it possible for him to make double use of

the light he has available.

According to Dr. Glenn Taylor, chief veterinarian in the Radiobiology Laboratory
of the University of Utah College of Medicine, these animals have a special mirror-like
structure in the back of the eye which reﬂects the light which passes through the retina,
right back through the retina. The retina is the part of the eye with photo receptors -
rods and cones ~ which, when stimulated by light, pass this message to the brain. By
passing the same light through the retina twice, the same amount of light doubles rod
and cone stimulation.

Therefore, those shining eyes you see along this highway at night, are actually a
reflection of your car’ 3 headlights on the tiny mirrors in the back of the animal‘s eyes.

The mirror called the ”tapetum”, is a triangular in shape, and is found only on
the upper rear surface of the eyes of animals common to our habitat. Seals, however,

have circular tapeta.

 




-2-

The semi-circular tapetum serves to accentuate the light received from the ground,
or below, where special illumination is needed. Light from directly above does not
tend to strike the tapetum.

Dr. Taylor studies the tapetum in the Utah College of Medicine's Radiobiology
Laboratory which is noted for its pure-bred beagle colony. The Laboratory is main-
tained by an Atomic Energy Commission grant of more than a halt-million dollars a
year. Scientists there are studying the psysiological effects of radiation damage from
fall-out, on a controlled mammalian pOpulation.

Dr. Taylor has learned that one of the changes in the eye, caused by prolonged
exposure to radiation which is injected into the animal to simulate the kind of radiation
effect humans would receive from eating food badly contaminated by nuclear fall-out,
is a reduction in its ability to "see in the dark. " Neither the ability to see in daylight,
nor the normal health of the eye is affected by the dosages given. Inasmuch as the
human eye does not contain a tapetum, it is assumed that normal human vision would
not be affected by the type of radiation exposure from ingesting contaminated food.
”Many more damaging manifestations such as bone fractures, anemia, and bone
cancer, would certainly appear in the body before any damage to the eye severe enough

to affect visual health? Dr. Taylor said.

In order to follow changes in the tapetum as a result of exposure to radiation,

Dr. Taylor periodically photographs the interiors of the animal's eyes, using a- retinal
camera. Some dogs, however, like humans, have various structural eye problems
like astigmatism, nearsightedness, cataracts, and others. Astigmatism is a fairly
common defect, and Dr. Taylor has found a means of correcting this in some of the
dogs, temporarily, to facilitate his research.

He fits them with contact lenses.

 




The problem stems from the fact that he cannot get a good photograph of the
animal‘s ta petum through the rest of the eye, when the cornea has some distortion of
the surface. By applying the contact lenses, the distortion is removed, and he can

take a good inner picture.

This way he can observe and record the breakdown of the tapetum over a period

of time.

The dogs don‘t mind the contact lenses, he says, and during the 15 or 20 minute
period when they are wearing them, the improved vision doesn‘t even seem to interest
them.

"Although dogs have pretty much the same structural eye problems as man, these
don't bother him nearly as much, ” Dr. Taylor said. ”A dog's visual 'acuity', or sharp-
ness, is partly in his nose and sense of smell. He doesn't need perfect vision. He
needs to see that the door is Open. He does not have to read the name on it. Even if
he could be helped to see better permanently, with his level of intelligence, he wouldn‘t

care. " He added.

 




   
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
    
  
     
    

" MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Em LANSING

 

COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE ' OFFICE OF THE DEAN

June 21, 1963

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

Dear Mr s . Stevens:

Now that our June commencement is over I am working my way
through a stack of material which accumulated during an unusually
busy spring. Today I encountered the set of "principles" of the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation which you left with me
and upon which you asked me to comment. '

It is particularly difficult for me to comment objectively on the

principles because of my aversion as an academician to restrictive
federal legislation in general, because of some disenchantment with
the approach and tactics of those promoting animal protective legis—
lation, and because of my growing cynicism about the eventual form

and scope of such legislation after a first, relatively moderate bill
_is passed.

From the standpoint of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation,
each of the principles may be essential. However their tone is one
of emphasis on restrictive and punitive provisions with the really
crucial questions either not mentioned or not detailed. (What would
be the qualifications of an inspector? Who decides what pain is
"severe" or how long is "enduring"? Who will decide what care

is ”humane", what housing is "adequate", what exercise is ”normal",
what resting places are "comfortable", etc. ?)

If in the past; have impressed you as essentially humane and honest,
you will not be offended when I say that I still believe that more im-
provement in the treatment of laboratory animals will be gained in the
long run through education and persuasion than through federal regu—
lation. Of course, as an educator I might be expected to hold this

view!
mm

W. W. Armistead
Dean

 




88TH CONGRESS
H R 4620
O O

 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MARCH 7, 1963

Mr. ASHLEY introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce

 

A BILL

To provide for the humane treatment of animals used in experi—
ments and tests by recipients of grants from the United States
and by agencies and instrumentalities of the United States

Government and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa—
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That it is declared to be the policy of the United States that
living vertebrate animals used for scientific experiments and
tests shall be spared unnecessary pain and fear; that they
shall be used only When no other feasible and satisfactory
methods can be used to ascertain biological and scientific in—

formation for the cure of disease, alleviation of suffering,

coooqczoxusoowr-A

prolongation of life, the advancement of physiological knowl—

I

 




 

10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24
25

2
edge, or for military requirements; and that all such animals
shall be comfortably housed, well fed, and humanely handled.

SEC. 2. From and after January 1, 1964, no grant for
scientiﬁc research, experimentation, testing, or training, and
no advance or payment under any such grant, shall be made
by or through any agency or instrumentality of the United
States Government, or by or through any person or agency
pursuant to contract or authorization of the United States
Government, to any person who uses live animals in research,
experiments, tests, or training unless the person applying for
or receiving the grant has a certiﬁcate of compliance with
this Act, issued by the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare.

SEC. 3. The Secretary shall, pursuant to such rules and
regulations as he may prescribe, issue certiﬁcates of compli-
ance to persons applying therefor upon proof satisfactory to
him——

(1) that the applicant’s proposed methods and pro—
cedures involving the use of live animals are in accord-
ance with the requirements of this Act and the policy
of the Congress;

(2) that the applicant’s personnel and facilities are
adequate and appropriate to enable it to comply with

the requirements of this Act and the policy of the Con—

gress stated herein; and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L0

QDCDK'IODCﬁl-PCO

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3
(3) that the applicant has complied or is equipped
to comply with the requirements of section 4 of this Act.

SEC. 4. Each person to whom a certiﬁcate of compliance
has been issued, and each agency or instrumentality of the
United States which uses live animals for research, experi-
ments, tests, or training shall comply with the following
requirements :

(1) All premises where animals are kept shall provide
a comfortable resting place, adequate space and facilities for
normal exercise, and adequate sanitation, lighting, tem—
perature control, and ventilation.

(2) Animals shall receive adequate food and water and
shall not be caused to suffer unnecessary or avoidable pain
through neglect or mishandling.

(3) Animals used in any experiment which would re-
sult in pain shall be anesthetized so as to prevent the ani-
mals feeling the pain during and after the experiment except
to the extent that the use of anesthetics. would frustrate the
object of the experiment, and in any event, animals which
are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painlessly
killed. Unless the project plan on ﬁle with the Secretary
speciﬁes a longer period during which animals must be
kept alive for essential purposes of the experiment or test,
consistent with this Act and the rules and regulations here-

under, animals which are seriously injured as a result of the

 




 

 

 

10
11
12
13
14:
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24:
25

:4
experiment shall be painlessly killed immediately upon the
conclusion of the operation inﬂicting the injury.

(4) An accurate record will be maintained of all ex—
periments and tests performed. Procedures shall be em—
ployed to make possible the identiﬁcation of animals sub—
jected to speciﬁed experiments and tests, and a record shall
be kept of the disposition of such animals.

(5) All cages or enclosures Containing animals shall
be identiﬁed by cards stating the nature of the experiment
or test, or numbers Which correspond to such a description
in a record book.

(6) Painful experiments or tests on living animals shall
be conducted only by persons licensed under section 5 of
this Act or by students in an established training institution
Who are under the direct supervision of a licensee and
all animals used by the students in practice surgery or other
painful procedures shall be under complete anesthesia and
shall be killed Without being allowed to recover consciousness.

(7) N 0 experiment or test on living animals shall be
undertaken or performed unless a project—plan is on ﬁle in
such form as the Secretary may prescribe, describing the
nature and purposes of the project and the procedures to be
employed With respect to living animals.

(8) An annual report and such additional reports or

information as the Secretary may require by regulation or

 

 




 

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24:

‘5
individual request shall be submitted to the Secretary. The
annual report shall specify the number of animals used, the
procedures employed, and such other matters as the Secre-
tary may prescribe, and shall include a copy of any published
work prepared or sponsored by the reporting person or
agency, involving the use of live animals.

(9) Authorized representatives of the Secretary shall be
given access to the animals and to the premises and books
and records of the agency or person for the purpose of ob-
taining information relating to the administration of this Act,
and such representatives shall be authorized to destroy or
require the destruction of animals in accordance With rules,
regulations, or instructions issued by the Secretary, in con-
formance of this Act.

SEC. 5. For purposes of this Act the Secretary shall
license individuals to engage in experiments or tests upon
their submitting an application in such form as the Sec—
retary shall prescribe, if the Secretary is satisﬁed that such
individuals are qualiﬁed for such purposes.

SEC. 6. If the Secretary shall at any time determine that
any agency or instrumentality of the United States has not
complied with the requirements of this Act, he shall forth-
With notify the head of said agency or instrumentality, and

if such noncompliance is not corrected to his satisfaction

 




 

 

10
11

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6
within thirty days after notice is. served, he shall give public
notice of such noncompliance.

SEC. 7. The Secretary is authorized and directed to adopt
and issue rules, regulations, procedures, and orders to carry
out the provisions and purposes of this Act.

SEC. 8. The Secretary shall, subject to such terms and
conditions as. he may specify, suspend or revoke any certiﬁ—
cate of compliance issued pursuant to section 3 of this Act,
or any license issued pursuant to section 5 thereof, for failure
to comply with any provision of this Act or the policy of the
Congress stated herein, upon notice by registered mail to the
holder thereof. Such notice shall set a time within which
the holder may apply for reinstatement pursuant to such
procedures as the Secretary may prescribe. A copy of any
notice of suspension or revocation of a certiﬁcate of compli—
ance shall be sent to all agencies which are considering or
have made a grant to the holder of the certiﬁcate, and no
grant or payment under a. grant shall be made to any person
whose certiﬁcate is suspended or revoked to the extent that
the Secretary’s order shall provide for the purpose of obtain-
ing compliance with this Act.

SEO. 9. The Secretary shall refuse to accept any project-
plan for ﬁling under the provisions of paragraph (7) of
section 4 of this Act, or may strike any project-plan from

ﬁling if he determines that it does not conform with any

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

till-POOR?

OD

{COO-Q

10

11

7

provision of this Act or of the rules, regulations, procedures,
and orders issued pursuant to this Act, or any of the purposes
stated herein. The Secretary shall notify the person ﬁling
the project—plan of his refusal to accept it for ﬁling or of his
action in striking the plan from ﬁling, and his action shall be
effective upon notiﬁcation: Provided, That the Secretary
shall provide a reasonable opportunity for the person ﬁling
such project—plan to submit a justiﬁcation therefor pursuant
to such procedures as the Secretary may prescribe.

SEC. 10. The term “person”, as used in this Act, in—
cludes individuals, institutions, organizations, corporations,

and partnerships.

 




 

88TH CONGRESS

IST SESSION H. R. 4620
A BILL

To provide for the humane treatment of animals
used in experiments and tests by recipients
of grants from the United States and by
agencies and instrumentalities of the United
States Government and for other purposes.

 

 

 

 

By Mr. ASHLEY

MARCH 7, 1963

Referred to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce

 

 

 




88TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION S 5 3 3
O

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

JANUARY 25 (legislative day, JANUARY 15), 1963
Mr. CLARK (for himself and Mrs. NEUBERGER) introduced the following bill;
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Labor and Public

Welfare

 

A BILL

To provide for the humane treatment of vertebrate animals
used in experiments and tests by recipients of grants from
the United. States and by agencies and instrumentalities of

the United States Government and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
does of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That it is declared to be the policy of the United States
that living vertebrate animals use-d for scientiﬁc experiments
and tests shall be spared unnecessary pain and fear; that
they shall be used only when no other feasible and satis-
factory methods can be used to ascertain biological and
scientific information for the cure of disease, alleviation of

suffering, prolongation of life, the advancement of physio-

VI——O

 




 

OJ [\9 H‘

10
11
12
12;
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

2
logical knowledge, or for military requirements; and that
all such animals shall be comfortably housed, dwell fed,
and humanely handled.

SEC. 2. From and after January 1, 1962, no grant for
scientiﬁc research, experimentation, testing or training, and
no advance or payment under any such grant, shall be made
by or through any agency or instrumentality of the United
States. Government, or by or through any person or agency
pursuant to contract or authorization of the United States
Government, to any person Who uses live animals in research,
experiments, tests, or training unless the person applying for
or receiving the grant has a certiﬁcate of registration pur-
suant to this Act, issued by the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and :Welfare.

SEC. 3. The Secretary shall issue certiﬁcates of registra—
tion to persons applying therefor upon proof satisfactory to
him——

(a) that the applicant’s personnel and facilities are
adequate and appropriate to enable it to comply With

the requirements of this Act and the policy of the Con—

gress stated herein; and

(b) that the applicant has complied or is equipped
to comply With the requirements of section 4 of this Act.

SEC. 4. Each person to Whom a certiﬁcate of registration

has been issued, every licensee under section 5 of this Act

 

 

 

 




 

 

[\DHHHHHHHHHH
OCOUJ-QODUTHPOOLOHO

[\D
H

22
23
24
25

CD 03 <1 05 01 PF 00 [\9 H p

3
and each agency or instrumentality of the United States
which uses live vertebrate animals for research, experiments,
tests, or training shall comply with the following require—
ments:

(a) All premises where animals are kept shall provide
a comfortable resting place, adequate space and facilities for
normal exercise, and adequate sanitation, lighting, tem-
perature control and ventilation;

(b) Animals shall receive adequate food and water and
shall not be caused to suffer unnecessary or avoidable pain
through neglect or mishandling;

(0) Animals used in any experiment which would re-
sult in pain shall be anesthetized so as to prevent the ani-
mals feeling the pain during and after the experiment except
to the extent that the use of anesthetics would frustrate the
object of the experiment, and in any event, animals which
are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painlessly
killed. Unless the statement on ﬁle with the Secretary
pursuant to subsection (h) of this section speciﬁes a longer
period during which animals must be kept alive for essential
purposes of the experiment or test, consistent with this Act
and the rules and regulations hereunder, animals which are
seriously injured as a result of the experiment shall be pain-
lessly killed immediately upon the conclusion of the operation

inﬂicting the injury;

 




 

 

 

 

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24
25

4

(d) The post operative care of animals shall be such as .
to minimize discomert during convalescence. All Conditions
must be maintained for the animals’ comfort in accordance
With the best practices in small animal hospitals.

(e) An accurate record shall be maintained of all ex—
periments and tests performed. Procedures shall be em-
ployed to make possible the identiﬁcation of animals sub-
jected to speciﬁed eXperiments and tests, and a record shall
be kept of the disposition of such animals;

(f), All cages or enclosures containing animals shall
be identiﬁed by cards stating the nature of the experiment
or test, or numbers Which correspond to such a description
in a record book;

(g) Painful experiments or tests on living animals shall
be conducted only by persons licensed under section 5 of
this Act or by students in an established training institu—
tion Who are under the direct supervision of a licensee and
all animals used by the students in practice surgery or other
painful procedures shall be under complete anesthesia and
shall be killed Without being allowed to recover consciousness;

(h) No experiment or test on living animals shall be
undertaken or performed unless a brief statement of What
is to be done to the animals and of the object of the work is
on ﬁle with the Secretary, except that such statement need

not be ﬁled if the experiments involved (1) do not interfere

 




 

 

 

COW'QCD

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23

24

5.
with the animal’s normal comfort and well-being or (2)
cause no pain because the animal is under complete anes-

thesia before the experiment is begun and is killed Without

being allowed to recover consciousness. The Secretary may

limit the numbers of animals used in experiments that cause

pain.

(i) An annual report and such additional reports or
information as the Secretary may require by regulation or
individual request shall be submitted to the Secretary. The
annual report shall specify the number of animals used, the
procedures employed, and such other matters as the Secre—
tary may prescribe, and shall include a copy of any published
work prepared or sponsored by the reporting person or
agency, involving the use of live animals; and

(j) Authorized representatives of the Secretary shall be
given access to the animals and to the premises and books
and records of the agency or person for the purpose of ob-
taining information relating to the administration of this Act,
and such representatives shall be authorized to destroy or
require the destruction of animals in accordance With rules,
regulations, or instructions issued by the Secretary, in con—
formance of this Act.

SEC. 5. For purposes of this Act the Secretary shall

license individuals to engage in experiments or tests upon

 




 

 

MNNNNMHHHHHHHHHH
OTt-P-OONHOQDmQObUIi-PWNHO

 

.6'~
their submitting an application in such form as the Sec—
retary shall prescribe, if the Secretary is satisﬁed that such
individuals are qualiﬁed for such purposes. .

SEC. 6. If the Secretary shall at any time determine that
any agency or instrumentality of the United States has not
complied with the requirements of this Act, he shall forth-
With notify the head of said agency or instrumentality, and
if such noncompliance is not corrected to his satisfaction
Within thirty days after notice is served, he shall give public
notice of such noncompliance.

SEC. 7. The Secretary is authorized and directed to adopt
and issue rules, regulations, procedures, and orders to carry
out the provisions and purposes of this Act.

SEC. 8. The Secretary shall, subject to such terms and
conditions as he may specify, suspend or revoke any certiﬁ-
cate of registration issued pursuant to section 3 of this Act,
or any license issued pursuant to section 5 hereof, or may
suspend or strike any statement ﬁled under subsection (h)
of section 4 of this Act, for failure to comply with any pro—
vision of this Act or the policy of the Congress stated herein,
upon notice by registered mail. The Secretary shall provide
a reasonable opportunity Within such time as the notice shall
specify for the person affected by any such action to apply

for reinstatement or other relief.

SEC. 9. The term “person” as used in this Act includes

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PPDDNI—l

7
individuals, institutions, organizations, corporations, and
partnerships. . ,

SEC. 10. The Secretary may create a unit in the Ofﬁce
of the Secretary reporting directly to the Secretary, and may
delegate to such unit the Secretary’s powers and functions
under this Act.

SEC. 11. A sum of not more than $500,000 annually

shall be authorized to carry out the provisions of this Act.

 




 

 

88TH CONGRESS

ls'r SESSION S. 533
A BILL

To provide for the humane treatment of verte-
brate animals used in experiments and tests
by recipients of grants from the United
States and by agencies and instrumentalities

of the United States Government and for
other purposes.

 

By Mr. CLARK and Mrs. NEUBERGER

JANUARY 25 (legislative day, J ANUABY 15), 1963

Read twice and referred to the Committee on Labor
and Public Welfare




 




1A- .
63’“ r .

SPEECH

glven by
The Reverend Charles N. Herrick
~ ' at

National Health Federation's
New York _
_Congress On Health Mon0ply

 




 
  
   

  
  
    

» . V w ‘ ~.,. 3.7- A..-.,»I, 1" r,~.v ".'vu‘ "
." A , A] ”w," ,’ .H x
- . -. -\'
.' _I»' 7‘
'510'3'9 ‘ - ,‘ , ,..' A . N m V' ~ ‘
. n.4, .. -. a“ »‘._ . , . r
. V ‘ ‘ ‘ ”‘4
. ‘ ‘ .‘\ \' \' 4
K “In. I ,, 4 's-- "3‘ -. ‘
‘5 \ ‘ 1' - ‘> ‘ . .,
. . . -. ‘k \N e
‘ V r . "
,gr. 3 .
\‘ ~ 1. ,"‘ w , ,
\ ,‘I ~ ' V
‘ ‘ A \y ‘,
\' , ; » . '.
a \ m, , , -
.v . .
‘ ‘ v- ‘ 'I« . . ‘.
K' ‘ ,Ln. ' L ,
» wfl 1‘~
‘ ‘~ ‘

gearly summer, an‘articlefappearedﬁiW t”

 

,§ , , ' ,JWAﬁfeﬂsaturdayEveninggPost- ,
1%6“§nto a greater study of the conditions under whiCh research animals .ggﬁg
S‘:e;;STarvl ~ . ' - . , . - . , j ., wweww

  
    
 

    
    
  

   
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

,‘_‘ ‘gfreadthe leaflets ....the pamphletS¢agéthe Hearings Before the Sub» ‘Sﬁi
“committee 3; theCommittee gn_Interstate*and'Eérei“n'Commerce_of"th37ﬁoﬁ§e “m*
ggg'ﬂepresentatives g; the 87th Congress.o..trying to keep an Egan mind to
,bothwsides..on"for“ and "against" legislation-for Humane Treatment of
yAnimals used in Researcho

  

 

         
 

\ " Finally, I decided to see for myself. I was taken on a tour of three
_Qv*wellmknown research laboratories in New York Cityo You can read of such
Tﬂygconditions..oopage after page..o.but you can never fully grasp the awfulness
p of the situation until you see for yourself. I, to this day, cannOt fully
grasp how fellow human beings can maintain fellow animal creatures in Such
unspeakable conditionso I shall not tell you about the individual animalsao.
one large dog in one small cage for three years, never taken out_for exer»
cise, never to see the outside world againo..oone baby monkey, alone and
isolated and fearful, in an absolutely bare, stainless steel cage, huddled
‘in the corner for warmth, waiting for God knows what. I shall not even tell
you about all of them together, room after room, cage after cage, the marked
cages and the unmarked, the darkness, the barking....even the debarking. _
_Instead, I ihall tell just about two large signs I sawo "DROP ANIMALS TO BE
'DISCARDED IN THE GARBAGE CAN", one of them said....and the other,"DO YOUR
BEST BECAUSE YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN SOME ANTI~VIVISECTIONIST MAY MAKE AN UNEX»
PECTED‘VISIT"..

     
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
    
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 

.ey I went back to my reading in which the opposition tried to convince us
$7 that conditions are well in research laboratories, that animals used in rew
'% search never had it so goods And I knew that it is not so. _

I went back to my reading and realized that the conditions that I saw u
as awful as they were m are mild in comparison to conditions in other labor»
atories across our nation. Listen with me to one of the reports that was
given at the Hearings before a Subcommittee g; the Committee 2n Interstate
and Foreign Commerce House 9;: Representatives 87th Congress. pp,2oo, 202, 203;

 

 

 

 

"""""""""" SnmmmmtrEmmwnmitmmmmmimmmmr”““““*“‘“““”
' THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

"The housing and care of animals in many large laboratories.o.°I believe
_I would be correct if I said m0st laboratories...ais disgraceful. I have myw
self, in the last five years, visited more than 40 of the largest and best
known animalwusing laboratories of the United States. I have seen and;stxdied’
their animal cages, their records, their procedures, their personnel? I have
been the immediate supervisor of staff investigators of the HSUS who have
spent an aggregate of several years working inside medical school laboratories
as animal caretakers and laboratory technicianso

In the course of this work and stud; of the subject I have seen tens of
thousands of animals so inhumanely housed and cared for that the condition
itself constituted cruelty. At Johns Hopkins University I have seen closely
caged dogs suffering from advanced cases of bleeding mange, without treatm
mento At Georgetown University I have seen a German Shepherd dog confined
in a basement cage so small that the animal could not stand erect. At Mar—
quette University I have seen 40 or 50 dogs locked up in rows and tiers of
smalm cages, with no runway or exercise space available at any time for any
of the animals. At Tulane University we found cats confined in cages sus~
pended from the ceiling, with the wire mesh of the cage floors so widely
spaced thatathe cats could not walk, stand, or lie down in nermal manner.

At New York University I walked for several hours, on a weekend, through 7
several floors of caged dogs, cats, monkeys, rats, rabbits, sheep, and other
animals, scores of them wearing the bandages of major surgery and many of them
obviously desperately ill, without ever encountering any doctor, veterinarian,
caretaker, or even a building janitor. The Overholzer Thoracic Clinic, in
Massachusetts, has kept animals convalescing from surgery in such pigsty con»
ditions that a Massachusetts court, on complaint of the massachusetts SPCA,
returned a verdict of illegal crueltyo _

At Loma Linda University, in California, unlicensed kennel men have perm
my> formed "debarking" surgery on dogs. In the Children's Hospital in Cincinnati
?% one of our investigators found small rhesus monkeys chained by their necks
v“ ‘ inside steel cages so small that the animals could barely move. Kennel menx\
re ' at Leland Stanford University habitually, while we had an investigator ‘
il~ working there,~turned both hot and cold hose water on sick animals while
:LQ §washing cages, rather than undertake the labor of cleaning by hands"

 

 

 
      
        
   
   
   
   
   
     
     




STATEMENT, OE FRED mas, 360'th

cf $CUﬁshouldgknowfabout.experimentsthat involve burning of animals. I

havﬁ éard'it.repeatedlysaid, by seemingly sincere Scientists, that animaldifji

d01~ kpsuffer in laboratOries. I wonder most often whether such witnesses ;

hgiﬁgtead the scientific literature of research into burns. ‘KM

\ _ wj/For example, a Harvard University research team has studied the effects
-of Severe burns of pigs. The pig was selected for this study because of the
histological resemblance of porcine skin to that of human beings.

- f y The Harvard pigs were tied on a steel grate about 2 feet over pans full
of gasoline in a concrete, fireproof room. The gasoline was ignited by an,
electric spark. ‘

In another experiment, dogs were forced to take 120 inhalations of air
heated to SOO'C. The dog was anesthetized while breathing the searing air
but not later. 'One such dog lived 4 hours. Other dogs were forced to in~
hale actual flame. Animals of that group were killed 5 to 5 days after the
inhalationg ~ ‘

‘ v

”Experimenters at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research have reported
a classic example of an experiment deliberately designed to cause pain. The
experiment is reported in Neurology for April 1962.

In this experiment monkeys were used. Under anesthesia, wire electrodes
were implanted surgically in pain reception areas of the brains of nine mon~
keys. Several days after the surgery the experimenters began applying
electric currents to the brains of the monkeys, which were fully conscious
and restrained in steel chairs. The pain was sufficiently intense so that,
as the report in Neurology says, the monkeys showed"facial grimacing, closing
of both eyes, high~pitched vocalization, and generalized motor activity."

In other words, the monkeys screamed and struggled vainly to escape the pain.

The monkeys, however, had a possibility of escape. They could, if they
were smart enough, diminish the electric current by pressing a switch. Most
monkeys learned to press the switch after about 6 hours of pain. But then
the experimenters strained the monkeys beyond endurance by continuing their
tests uninterruptedly for 24 hours, allowing the monkeys no food, water, or
rest during all that time."

I submit for your consideration that such conditions and such suffering
impose upon us a moral responsibility to be aware of the degree of suffering
involved and once aware--—-to respond intelligently to that suffering.

I am grateful to you for the opportunity to speak to you today-—-—to
bring you what I believe are sound philosophical and theological foundations
for human attitudes-~~-that on the basis of those foundations we may be able
to think through intelligently our moral responsibility to those animals
being used in research~~~~animals being used for your welfare and mine.

"A fire—mist and a planet....

A crystal and a cell,

A jelly~fish and a saurian,

And caves where the cave men dwell,
Then a sense of law and beauty

And a face turned from the clod....
Some call it Evolution,

And others call it God.

A picket frozen on duty,

A mother starved for her brood,
Socrates drinking the hemlock,

And Jesus on the rood,

And millions who, humble and nameless,
The straight, hard pathway plod....
Some call it Consecration,

And others call it God."

~~~~William Herbert Carruth

Julian Huxley, in a recent article, in a way I would call "reverently",
writes about the Evolutionary Process by which has come into being that
creature we call Man. ' Man.... with his ability to comprehend, to grasp coma
plex total patterns and situations, to evaluate. Man....capable of things
that no other animal is capable of: conscious reflection....the capacity of
framing conscious purposes which can be then translated into action, and of
constructing Values as norms for our activities.

‘ 7' - (cont')

',’

 




1 5‘ p" Y V‘A~vi.\._‘..l.

n . _ D ' . , - ., V. ._ , x
,“ . ». - H c v ‘_.: ‘ . . J, ,. ﬂ ,-
. I v" 77-. , " '.~ ,» . ‘1'“, I ‘ r ‘ ' - ‘. f l \
- '. _' -"~ ,rl ~_l . A 3‘ ' n‘ .
, \ . I , - - 1‘ I, u _»~ \ ’ -
4' , . , . '7'\ -.'~_-. -..~' ‘1 . »_ ‘ 7
’ . ' ‘ _ “ ‘ . -' .‘\. ’-,.\- FIX! ,:‘,._'_.u‘ '
, l _ x . _. ‘ v ; " l

reqy were and more of the universechas meaningjand-purpose.

] l
A

. r
r

.. gith his capacity for awareness3and7refi§nti0n and thuS‘understanding,‘

"O Lord, our Ldrd....” ‘ “ .f.

;;. :1 What is man that Thou art-mindful of him; ,
/ij For Thou dost crown him With glory and honor...."
: 1""But, ,having said this much, certainly it can not be denied that something;
szhas gone Wrong....terrib1y WP0n8----With the creature we call man. Illus- ”*5
"tration after illustration can be given to document the depravity of man.

'fl w.....the face turned from the clod....often times no longer looks "up"
but "out" in confusion into a world of suffering and despair. Seven million
,Jews killed in the ovens of Dachau and Buchenwald and Auschwitz. Three major
. wars in a lifetime. Threat of total destruction. Illustrations that shock
nus into understanding that all is not well with that creature we call Man.

. But this afternoon, let me bring you a little different illustration
that points up the depravity of the present human situation.

Stand with me in thought at the foot of a large metropolitan hospital.
‘The place is New York City. The time is 5:a.m. in the morning. Outside....
as we stand together looking up....it is cold, and wet, and rather desolate,
for most of the employees of the hospital have long since made their way

, home to their warm beds. Upstairs ...on the sixthfloor....unattended....an

animal lies dying in its cage. Death does not come easy for any of God's
creatures, for God has endowed us all with that precious"will to live". But
this time the wounds are too deep, the loss of blood too great. And so,
another form of life slips into death. In the cages nearby other animals lie
waiting in the darkness....waiting for God knows what....waiting in the same
little cage, day after day....waiting for death. In the morning one of the
animals is scheduled for another bit of practice surgery. They'll have to
drag him to the operating table this time....for he knows too well what waits,
....he has been there before.

Now.... you ask yourself....how can this kind of callousness....coldness
of heart....exist in our land ? Has man been so desensitized....so dehuman-
ized....that what God has created means so littleto him that he can take such
a life without the slightest tinge of remorse or pity or regret ?

One man is quoted as saying, "There can be no cruelty in the pursuit of
knowledge". ~

"No agony is too acute to be inflicted upon an infinite number of animals
if in the opinion of the least member of any medical faculty there is the
slightest chance for adding to the sum of human knowledge. And this without
reference to the question of whether such addition shall be of any practical
use or notl'

How can he have so little regard for other forms of life even though
they be less complex than we ?

How can human beings....men and women....created in the image of God....
with the capacity for love, and kindness and compassion....how can they be so
callous and cold of heart to all of lifeyas it is manifested in that one form-
kngwp_a§”man_? ___________ exgept __________________

"'“Wiong before you and'I wereqborn God was at work
Creating life, nature and the world of men and things
God is not through with creation,

God is not through with me."

I trust that it is no longer necessary to defend the traditional doc-
trine of creation in six days. Creation has been going on for billions and
billions of years; and likewise will continue. Throughout this entire pro-
cess God has been at work....creating....creating life, nature and the world _
of men and things. It is "in Him and through Him and by Him that we and all,
other manifestations of life live and move and have being." Nothing comes
into being without the Creative Resources of God; nothing is sustained

apart from.Him

What I am trying to say is that just as it is no longer appropriate to
think of creation in six days, so it is no longer appropiate to think of God W
as the One who set in motion the whole creative Process, which in turn is now-a
.on its own, creating and sustaining things by the forces of nature. God iSXn
the creator of all things. Nothing comes into being without Him. He is "
present in each act of creation and growth; each manifestation of life is th:

product of His love and concern.

 




b'Page‘ # j- 4 ‘-

.f£¥ﬁﬁi7f . l ‘ -_j,;:;***-H«,i ‘B:, a ,‘, :“< I“ J .;»g
.gv,QTm“dfglife‘is part Of GGd! PEvery form of life is the.result 0

3 Creative iii-'PI‘Qer‘S S in Which and through whi Oh and A b y, which W e and all , .'

er Tormsg0f”life live and move and have our being. ‘It'is no idle and - a V

simple”thought to say that all things have One Father and one G0d....one
Creatar of all. “And it is the heightof egoism, of selfcenteredness to

‘ assugs that God isonly concerned for the well-being of that one form of
life/that we call man. i. i

, / Albert.Schweitzer puts this thought far more beautifully in his book,'

out 2; My Life and Thought. ,Let him speak to you the story in his own words:

*

 

".......I had to undertake a longish journey on the river...the
only means of conveyance I-could find was a small steamer, towing
can overladen barge...Slowly we crept upstream, laboriously feeling
...for the channels between the sandbanks. Lost in thought I sat
on the deck of the barge, struggling to find the elementary and uh”
iversal conception of the ethical which I had not discovered in any
philos0phy,\ Sheet after sheet I covered with disconnected sentences
merely to keep myself concentrated on the problem. Late on the
third day, at the very moment when at sunset, we were making our
way through a herd of hippopotamuses, there flashed upon my mind,
unforeseen and unsought, the phrase, "Reverence for Life". The

iron door had yielded; the path in the thicket had become visible.
Now I had found my way to the idea in which affirmation of the
world and ethics are contained side by side. Now I kngw that the
ethical acceptance of the world and of life, together With the
ideals of civilization contained in this concept, has a foundation
in thought.........."

Reverence for Life..........

What does Schweitzer mean by ... Reverence for Life ? Dr. Schweitzer
asks us to "reflect upon the first, the most immediate, and the continually
given fact of.....consciousness."

"The most immediate fact of man's consciousness is the assertion:
I am a form of life which wills to live, in the midst of other
forms of life which will to live with equal desire.”

"There is within me ardent desire for further life and for that
mysterious exaltation which we call pleasure, while there is fear
of destructidn and of that mysterious depreciation which we call
pain; so too are these in the other forms around me, whether it
can express itself to me, or remain dumb....the man who has be-
come a thinking being feels a compulsion to give to every form
of life the same reverence for life that he gives to his own....
He thirsts to be permitted to preserve his humanity, and to be
able to bring to other existences release from their sufferings."

Reverence for Life.... appreciation and respect and ldve for all forms of
life....to the man of understanding all life is sacred, including that which
from the human point of view seems lower in the scale. (We shall make dis-
tinctions as, for example, when it falls to us to decide which of two lives
we must sacrifice in order to preserve the other). But all through this
series of decisions we shall try to remain conscious of what we are doing
and know that we bear the responsibility for the life which is H .
-sacrificed.

As men and women of understanding we shall injure and destroy life only
under a necessity which we cannot avoid....and never from thoughtlessness.

Insofar as we are authentic men and women we shall use every opportunity
of testing the blessedness of being able to assist life and avert it from
suffering and distress. ‘ '

-" I quoted earlier a man whb SEiEE'FEEé}§JE;h"63'hE'EEhSiE§"E£7EhS”§J}§dEw
of knowledge". We will not argue this point, although I am certain that we

could. We merely point out that "There can certainly be cruelty in the pur—
sﬁit of love". _

Mankind stands at a time when knowledge is the all-consuming passion...
when the measure of man is his IQ.... when knowledge has become god and the
scientist his chief priest....at a time when the all-consuming passion is
man and his well-being.... nothing really matters but this....and knowledge
is accepted as his way into salvation.

We also-stand on the brink of total destruction.

r)

 




.‘ V" . .
l ' ’V ’ A . N
. H L‘,," ‘ '1‘“ ',~'.‘ .
.. -I a U“ " ”J “1‘
‘ J' . ‘ “ ‘
.1" 1‘. f v .._. y ; ”
., ,. . ,w‘ _ .
, r an", L. , ,
1

ere 1s  a decision to be made‘ Has§1_,,een right to  value knoWledge
exclusxon of love ? Is the measure of man.h1s IQ ?. ...Or is man's

"He prayeth best, who loVeth best
All things both great and small,
For the dear God who made us,

He made and loveth all.""

This afternoon I have tried to bring to you sound philosophical and
theological foundations for human attitudes....in order that we might be
/able to think through intelligently our moral responsibility to animals
being used in research,

The job of getting effective legislation that would provide for humane
treatment for animals being used in research is a very difficult job indeed.
The opposition to such legislation is strong and well organized, as you well
know. Those opposed to such legislation maintain that the records would be,
involved....the paper work involved in reporting prOperly what has been
done in their research would be a nuisance, a bother, time—consuming and
costly. Better to let things go along as they are.

Well, I for one am not satisfied with things as they are....I am not
willing to "let things go along as they are". I am not willing to turn my
back and let fellow animal creatures be subjected to such unspeakable con-
ditions and to be subjected to sufferings that stagger my sensitivities.

. If you are asking yourself at this point --"What can I do in this prob-
lem ?" - may I suggest as your first step that you become informed on what
is actually going on in the research laboratories across our nation. Write
the Humane Society of the United States, Washington, D.C. and ask them for
proof and documentation of what I have tried to bring to you today.

Find out for yourselves, Become informed about the true conditions. And
once informed....write your Senators and Representatives urging them to
work for and support adequate legislation that would provide humane treat-
ment for research animals.

 




May in, 1963

honorable Fred Schwengel
Member of Congress
Houee Office Bldg.

Washington, D. C.
Dear Fred:

A couple of weeks ago Mrs. Roger (Christine) Stevens,
President of the Animal Welfare Institute, called me
and informed me that she had a very pleasant interview
with you concerning 8.533, such being a bill intro—

duced by Senators Clark and Neuberger. Thie bill, I
believe, to a greater or leeeer extent represents
vour views of the matter and I eeeume it to be the
bill about which vou wrote me.

Mrs. Stevens has been a tireless worker on behalf of
the program for the prevention of crueltv and is
entitled to the admiration of all humanitarians for

the success which she has had in\protecting the welfare
of our animals. Her most recent and outstanding
achievement has been the Successful culmination of a
campaign for humane slaughter.

We have now a problem which in also deserving of the
most considerate attention of all humanitariane. This
concerns itself with the care and inattention, or lack
of both, in the handling of these poor, dumb beeete

in connection with animal exnerimentation. As the son
of a doctor who practiced in thie community for 57
years, you might well surmise that I am not at all
unsympathetic toward animal eXperimentation. It is
regreteble, however, and vet undeniable that the
animals whoee bodiee and whose very lives are given in

 




Honorable Fred Schwengel May in, 1963

this scientific endeavor are all too frequently victims of
suffering which could be avoided, or at least alleviated if
the situation were pronerly controlled. Without doubt, you
will find those who immediately protest the adoption of any
rules of conduct or treatment of the animals as an insult to
the integrity of a Fine lot of people who are administering
unto the nose of mankind, and as such, should not be bound

by rules. They say, we would do those things voluntarily.
Regretably, one must recognize that these rules are all too
frequently ignored by the very people whom one would last
sunoose would be guilty of any abuse. To the person who only
intends to conduct exocrimentetion in the most humane way
possible there is no hardship in having a rule of conduct
prescribed which can also be applied to those who do not
intend to recognize basic and necessary standards, or who may
well be utterly indifferent to them.

I have heard the objection raised that some of the bills pending
in Congress, of which this may well be one, are inadequate and
are actually illusory. in this situation I think it important
to guard against the violence of the zealots who really wish

to stifle ell experimentation. The most important thing at

the moment is to secure legislation which is calculated to
better conditions, albeit, it may not be the most ideally suited
to their correction. The situation just referred to suggests
that we be on our guard against efforts to divert the legislation
by suggested studies or those other devices with which you are,
I am sure, quite familiar.

As you know, we have appreciated the loyal support which you
have given our society and recognize you as a true humanitarian.
In Mrs. Stevens's letter she speaks of my writing something for
you to offer in the way of remarks on introduction of the bill
in the House. I am quite certain that you will not sacrifice
too much of your modesty to permit me to tell you you need no
help in writing a good speech. If I can furnish any information
or be of any assistance, bv all means let me know. I beepeak
your generous support of Mrs. Stevens in joining in her campaign
for the passage of this sadly needed legislation. It does seem
passing strange that so much effort is required to bring about
an observation of the most elementary standards of kindness by
those whom one would suppose are of a social level to render
such effort unnecessary. In all events, here we are working in
the Lord's vinyard again. i send my very best.

Sincerely yours,

CARL H. LAMBACH
President

Roger Stevens

 




Docteur Albert Schweitzer
Lambare’iae’, Gabon

West Equatorial Africa

6, Mai, 1963

Herrn Senator Maurine Neuberger
c/o Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Sehr Geehrter Herr Senator,

,4 Ich danke Ihnen fﬁr Ihr Schreiben von 4 April 1963. Wenn Sie es
fur richtig halten, dass ich dem Gesetz far das Mitleid mit den
Laboratoriumstieren zustimme, tue ich es gerne. Die Ethik der Ehrfurcht
von dem Leben notigt uns, immer darauf bedacht zu sein, die Kreaturen
mit Mitleid zu behandeln, und besonders noch wenn es sich um Geschopfe
handelt, die der medizinischen Forschung dienen. WennHSie ein solcher
Gesetz in USA durchbringen, wird dies eine Bedeutung fur die Welt haben.
Das Gesetz wird dann auch in anderen Staaten Geltung erlangen.

“Am Anfang war die Tat” ist ein alter Spruch. Ich freue mich dass
Sie und die Animal Welfare Institute (8.533) die Initiative ergreifen.
Herzlich Ihr ergebener Albert Schweitzer

 




JAMES B. UTT ROOM 322
28TH man, CALIF. OLD HousE OFFICE BUILDING

COMMITTEE: MARIE E. ADAMS

WAYS AND MEANS mongregg 0f the waiteb gtateg EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

3901152 of Representatives
Washington. E. «[3.

July 17, 1962

mrs. Georgia.A. Goodrich
#387 valle Drive
La mesa, California

Dear mrs. GoodriCh:

Thank you.fbr your letter of July lhth concern-

ing H.R. 1937, the antiavivisection bill. I appre-
ciate your comments, but I am.hesitant to give my
complete support to such legislation.

There may be some abuses in vivisection of animals
fbr medical purposes, which are extremely regret-
table, but on the whole I believe that it has ad-
vanced science for the preservation of human life.

It may'be that HQR. 1937 would be helpful in
eliminating some of these abuses, but until I am
completely convinced that it is not the beginning
of the end fer this type of research, I must
withhold my support.

'With kindest regards, I am

rdially yours,

ﬂzmt

{James B. Utt
'/”meber of Congress
\\_/,x‘ .« . ’7, /

/

JBU:Bl

CS:I've cmied all this on his sheet 85 don't need it furtherﬁut I
onder if you've seen him since,on this vieWpoint. Or want to.

 




CS This is completely diff.from his routine last year's replies. Have you talked
with his recently?
ABNER W. SIBAL
4TH DISTRICT, CONNECTICUT WASHINGTON OFFICE:
145 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
CAPITOL 4-3121. EXTENSION 2231

COMMITTEE:

R“ Qtungress at the @Hm'teh States

DI STRICT OFFICE:

N,::;’.Yr;;*:::;m 190115»: of Representatihes
VOLUNTEER 6-5685 LEGISLATIVE ASSISTANT:

washingtun’ E0 «5. TIMOTHY D. SMITH

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT:
MISS WINIFRED A. VARBLE

EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT:
WILLIAM N. GAROFALO

March 29, 1963

6% .xL/Ié/

Miss Florence Harrison
50 Lafayette Place
Greenwich, Connecticut

Dear Miss Harrison:

Thank you for your letter concerning legislation that would
help improve the lot of laboratory animals. I do agree
that Congress should.make its position clear on this issue
and am working actively with other Congressmen and some tap
scientific people to draft the right kind of bill. While
we do not want to do anything that will hamper progress

in life-giving medical research, cruelty and carelessness
to animals must not be tolerated.

I appreciate your kindness in writing.

Sincerely,

Abner W. Sibel
AWS:sa '

, 9:97,
mm; W Maw ,
3W HR LLbXO WWW/M

QDOL\%\W ”Jinn T93) mob!) WW

 




Animal Experiments: Regulatory
Measure in the Senate Presents
Hazards to the Public

The reintroduction on 25 January

1963, by Senator Joseph Clark (Pa)
for himself and Senator Maurine Neu-
berger (Ore.) of a bill, 8.533, to regu-
late animal experimentation supported
by federal funds requires that scientists
analyze the potential effects upon the
public welfare of the provisions of the
proposed act so that they may give
advice to Congress and the American
public concerning it. The bill is osten-
sibly aimed at promoting the humane
treatment of experimental animals. Ac-
tually, as the following analysis of the
various sections shows, the bill is strict-
ly a regulatory measure and is written
in such a way as to present untold
hazard to the welfare of the public.

Section 1 declares it to be US. pol»
icy, “that living vertebrate animals . . .
shall be used only when no other fea--
sible and satisfactory method can be
used . . . to ascertain biological and
scientiﬁc information. .” If this
policy were strictly enforced, all use
of vertebrates would be stopped until
it could be shown that other methods
would not work.

Section 2 requires any person receiv-
ing grants to have a “certiﬁcate of
registration,” which is issued according
to provisions in sections 3 and 4 if he
submits to the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare “a brief state-
ment of what is to be done to the ani-
mals and of the object of the work.
. . .” The Secretary of HEW (section
5) “shall license individuals to engage
in experiments [after they have sup-
plied information] in such form as [he]
shall prescribe. . . .” Thus, any amount
of detail may be required.

Section 4 also requires “an annual
report and such additional reports . . .
as the Secretary may require
[specifying] the number of animals
used, the procedures employed, and

8 MARCH 1963

EW

1 Letters

such other matters as the Secretary may
prescribe, and shall include a copy of
any published work. . . .” Section 4
states that “representatives of the Secre-
tary . . . shall be authorized to destroy
. animals in accordance with rules,
regulations or instructions of the Secre-
tary.” It also says: “the Secretary may
limit the numbers of animals used in
experiments that cause pain.”

A most serious provision in section
4 (g) is that “animals used . . . in
practice surgery . shall be killed
without being allowed to recover con-
sciousness.” There is also a provision
that no student may use a vertebrate
animal except “under the direct super-
vision of a licensee. . . .” The provi-
sions are patently absurd as to “prac-
tice surgery.” and the restriction with
regard to federally supported student
laboratory teaching could in practice
eliminate the use of vertebrate animals
in college and medical school teaching
because there is no provision for “li-
censing” teaching assistants.

Despite the protestations of its‘ pro-
ponents, this bill is an antivivisection
measure in spirit. It masquerades as a
“reasonable” measure aimed at promot-
ing better treatment of experimental
animals, but its provisions, if enforced,
would absolutely cripple medical, vet-
erinary, and other biological teaching,
if supported by federal funds as pro-
posed in pending congressional legis-
lation, and the effect upon research
would be very serious. The discourage-
ment to innovation imposed by the
requirement of prior ﬁling of research
plans would by itself be a great im-
pediment to progress because no in-
vestigator can know far in advance ex—
actly what turn his studies should take
in order to be productive. The require-
ment of new mountains \of paper work
and reports would further discourage
investigators. It would also increase the
cost of research by a signiﬁcant factor.

The philosophy behind this bill is
negative and authoritarian. It provides

not mechanisms whatever for improv- '
{ing animal care or housing. It assumes
:unproved callousness on the part of
students, teachers, and investigators. It
ignores the facts that laws against cru-
elty already exist and that existing rem-
edies against claimed abuses have not
been used. This bill is an attempt to
circumvent civil rights and the public
interest by administrative manipulation.
The bill was written by a group of
“animal lovers” who are apparently
more concerned about animal welfare
than about human welfare, as is evi-
denced by the provision virtually out-
lawing the use of animals in practice
surgery, and by section 1.

One further point deserves emphasis.
The new bill differs from earlier bills
in that it exempts from the require-
ment of prior description experiments
in which the animal is to be killed be-
fore it regains consciousness. This is an
illusory exemption because the Secre-
tary of HEW would have no reason to
forbid such experiments. (It does not
allow students to perform such experi-
ments' except under direct supervision
of licensees, as noted above.) However,
what remain fully controlled are the
critical areas as far as public interest is
concerned—namely, experiments which
bearﬂon the investigation of mental dis-
ease, cancer, infectious diseases, surgi-
cal diseases, and so on. It is of interest
to note that this bill, if enacted, could
most seriously hamper the mental
health research program being advo-
cated now by President Kennedy, be-
cause investigations on unanesthetized
animals would be central in any such
program. Anyone who is concerned
about the public welfare must oppose
8.533 in anything like its present form.
Nevertheless, congressional mail on
this issue is heavy, and the present tally
shows support of the bill by more than
90 percent of persons who have
written.

MAURICE B. VISSCHER
Department of Physiology,
Medical School, University
of Minnesota, Minneapolis 14

Grant-Supported Workshops

I happened to see the recent editorial
“A proper accounting” [Science 139, ‘7
(1963)] reprinted in the Saturday Re-
view and I was depressed by the fact
of its publication in this way. I do
not believe that it will be taken in the

871

 




W ALLEN J. ELLENDER. LA., CHAIRMAN

OLIN D. JOHNSTON, S.C.

GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.

SPESSARD L. HOLLAND, FLA. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.
JAMES O. EASTLAND, MISS. BOURKE B. HICKENLOOPER. IOWA
HERMAN E. TALMADGE. GA. JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, KY.

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS.
B. EVERETT JORDAN, N.C.

J. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.

EUGENE J. MCCARTHY, MINN. E. L. MECHEM’ N. MEX. Q'cnifeb $£a£eg genafe

MAURINE B. NEUBERGER, OREG.
GEORGE Mc GOVERN, s. DAK. COMMITTEE ON

J. HOWARD EDMONDSON. OKL-Aé AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY

COTYS M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK

April 25, 1963

Dear Mrs. Potter:

Many thanks for your letter of April 23d, relative
to H.R. 4620 which would require humane treatment
of experimental animals. '

I do appreciate having the benefit of your views,
and you can be sure that I will keep them in mind
during the committee and Senate floor discussions.

Please continue to give me the benefit of your
thinking on matters of mutual interest, and let

me know when my office can be of service in any
way.

With every good wish,

Sincerely,

George Govern

Mrs. Nettie Potter
105% E. Capitol Avenue
Pierre, South Dakota

 




QWniieb $iafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C.

February 26, 1963

Dear Miss Shryock:

Thanks for your card of February let, relative
to the Senate bill for the protection of laboratory
animals.

You ssncountonmy 74.3.3199??? .t for legislation re —
quiring the humane treatment of experimental
animals, and I hope that we will be successful
in securing early passage of this legislation.

With every good wish,

Sincerely,

George McGovern

Miss Ann Shryock
280 First Avenue
New York 9, New York

 




GALE W. McGEE
WYOMING

’Panifeb ﬁfafea ﬁnnaie

WASHINGTON, 0.0.

June 12, 1963

Mrs. Roger Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Your letter of June 10 arrived today, and I appreciate your
reply. I can understand how difficult it is to set a date with
so many commitments at this time of year, and I appreciate your
position regarding the June 28 date. I regret, though, that
Senator McGee will not be in the office the week following the
28th.

Therefore, may I suggest that we plan to be in touch with you
later in July when a more convenient time may be determined?

Or should you be in Washington without notice, perhaps you could
call the office. In that event if the Senator is not in town

or free, Mr. Ira Whitlock, the Senator's Legislative Assistant,
would be alerted to your call and be able to help.

In any event, we will keep trying; and I do thank you for writ-
ing regarding your plans.

Sincerely,

Secretary to GALa W. McGhE
United States Senator

 




JULY, 1963

 

NOTICE

The Humane Society of the
United States offers a reward
of $1,000 for information
supplied to any humane so-
ciety leading to arrest and
conviction of any wholesale
dealer in dogs or cats who
knowingly buys stolen ani-
mals. Other humane societies
are authorized to publicize
this reward.

 

 

 

Utah Branch Defies

New Seizure Law

As Unconstitutional

Backed ﬁnancially and with legal
counsel by The HSUS national organi-
zation, the HSUS Utah State Branch
challenged a new Utah pound seizure
law in the Utah Supreme Court last
month and announced that one or more
of its directors or staff would submit to
arrest rather than release any animal
from the Branch’s animal shelter for
use in research laboratories.

The Utah Supreme Court denied a re-
quested writ of prohibition, which would
have forbidden enforcement of the new
law by state ofﬁcials, but indicated that
it acted only on a technicality and might
ﬁnd the law unconstitutional if it comes
before the court as result of a prosecu-
tion. The court said that since there
had been no attempt to requisition any

{Continued on Page 5)

VOL. 8, NO. 3

Dog and Cat Thieves
Widening Operations

To Supply Laboratories

The HSUS is receiving increasingly frequent requests for assistance
from local humane societies engaged in war against wholesale dog and
cat dealers, usually suppliers of research laboratories and medical schools,
who are suspected of trafﬁcking in stolen animals or of obtaining them by
illegal purchase from poorly supervised public pounds. Most frequently
The HSUS is asked for legal advice in planning arrests and prosecutions.

The most recent report came from the Humane Society of Parkersburg

(W.Va.), an HSUS Afﬁliate. An alert member of the society followed a

truck carrying dogs and trailed it
to an isolated ﬁeld in which eight
other dogs were staked.

Before humane society ofﬁcers
could investigate the dogs were moved
to an unknown new location but the
trucker was identiﬁed through the truck’s
registration number. Mrs. Bernard E.
Starr, society president, said that the
man is being watched closely.

In another case in Parkersburg, two
men have been charged with dog steal-
ing and are awaiting trial.

More than twenty dogs were removed
by the Stevens-Swan Humane Society,
Utica, N.Y., from the Mary Imogene
Bassett hospital after substantial evi-
dence was accumulated that the dealer
who sold them to the hospital had prob-
ably obtained them illegitimately. The

1

 

hospital released the dogs to the society
voluntarily. The animals were to have
been used as blood donors (bled to
death) for other animals being used in
experimental surgery. Several of the
dogs have been returned to owners from
whom they apparently were stolen.

D. Collis Wager, Vice-Chairman of
the Board of Directors of The HSUS, is

President of the Stevens-Swan society.

In another case, still developing, the
Animal Welfare Association of Camden’
N.J., another HSUS Afﬁliate, supplied
ofﬁcers of the city of Camden with in-
formation that led to a full scale in-
vestigation of the city pound and arrest
of the pound supervisor and several

employees. The men are accused of

(Continued on Page 2)

 

 




CRUELTY BEGINS HERE

 

Two of many dogs found in pitiable condition by the Animal Welfare
Association of Camden (N.J.), an HSUS Affiliate, at the Hilldale Farm
Laboratory Animal Center in Franklinville, NJ. Hilldale Farm was until
last month listed by the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, ﬁ-
nanced by government funds, as an approved source of laboratory ani-
mals. When AWA officers entered the premises the chains on these two
animals, one a mere puppy, were entangled so that neither dog could
move more than a few inches. James Williams, owner of Hilldale Farm,
is currently awaiting grand jury action on a charge of conspiracy with
Camden dog wardens to purchase animals illegally from the Camden
pound. The Animal Welfare Association discovered evidence on which
the charge is based.

 

activities of the pound workers and

Williams.

Dog Thieves
( Continued from Page I)
Frequent reports of large scale dog
stealing have come to The HSUS re-
cently from localities in other areas
of New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Cali-
fornia, Utah, Florida, North Carolina,
Virginia and Maryland. There is con-

selling dogs from the pound, illegally,
to James Williams, owner of a labora-
tory-animal supply ﬁrm that has been
listed by the Institute of Laboratory
Animal Resources as an approved source

0f laboratory animals. Williams’ tOO’ siderable evidence, although not enough

 

is awaiting grand jury action on a con-
spiracy charge.

AWA volunteer workers obtained evi-
dence to support their charges by main-
taining a 24-hour-a-day Vigil at the city
observing

pound for several weeks,

to make arrests and prosecutions possi-
ble, that there is a highly organized
complex of dog thieves operating in
Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and
Pennsylvania, with edges of the traffic
reaching out into Ohio, Kentucky and

2

New York state. Some of the largest
and most secretively guarded wholesale
dog dealers in the nation are located on
remote farms along the Pennsylvania-

Maryland border.

In explanation of the increasing fre-
quency of dog and cat thefts, Frank
McMahon, HSUS Field Representative
who has investigated many reports, re-
called the prediction by a special US.
Senate commission that by 1970 the
monetary value of animals used annually
in laboratories would equal the value
of all livestock produced by American
farms and ranches.

“This business of supplying animals
to laboratories is tremendously proﬁt-
able,” McMahon said, “and it is a real
gold mine for thieves who can sell stolen
dogs for as much as $10 each, no ques-
tions asked. A few stolen dogs, mostly
purebreds, get into the hands of dealers
who sell them as pets or as hunting dogs
but most of the trafﬁc obviously is ulti-
mately with research laboratories and
big pharmaceutical production firms.”

McMahon estimated that more than
200,000 cats and dogs are stolen every
year in the United States, an average
of about 65 per county. In some coun-
ties the ﬁgure runs very much higher.

McMahon emphasized that there is
no protection against the “dognapper”
or “catnapper” except constant vigilance
by animal owners. Local humane so-
cieties can help by intensive educational
publicity, warning owners to keep ani-
mals on their home premises and even
then to watch them carefully.

Anyone who knows of a suspicious
dog or cat dealer or who observes any
suspicious truck or other motor vehicle
carrying dogs or cats in quantities is
urged to notify The HSUS and the
local humane society promptly, giving
all details including the license numbers
of suspected vehicles.

 

An HSUS annuity can give you
more tax-free income. Write for
a free booklet explaining all de-
tails.




 

Law for Laboratory Animals

Bogged in Congressional Politics

But Gaining New Public Support

National pressure from the public for enactment of Federal legis-
lation to protect animals used in research laboratories mounted steadily
in June and July but Congressional action was delayed because Congress-
men were preoccupied with the politically explosive issues of civil liberties,
tax reduction and international problems. Rep. Kenneth Roberts (Ala.),
chairman of the House of Representatives committee to which the legis-
lation has been referred, told The HSUS that he deﬁnitely plans to hold

additional public hearings on cruelty to laboratory animals but cannot

yet determine when the full com-
mittee will be available.

Many Congressmen told Rep.
William J. Randall (M0,), sponsor
of the best of the pending bills on this
subject, that mail in favor of protective
legislation exceeded anything that they
had ever experienced. Both Senators
and Representatives obviously are im-
pressed by the volume and quality of
mail demanding action.

A check of ofﬁces of representative
Congressmen showed that the volume
is continuing to increase. This is re-
garded by Capitol Hill experts as a
remarkable phenomenon. It is a politi-
cal adage that the public has a short
memory and a short concentration span.
Congressmen and the White House often
get brief flurries of mail for or against
some proposed action or policy but very
few issues engender public pressure over
long periods.

The fact that demand for a law to
end cruelty to laboratory animals has
been constantly increasing for more than
eighteen months is being noted in every
political corner of Washington.

.Ofﬁcers of The HSUS conferred in
July with several very high ofﬁcers of
the Executive branch of the government,
explaining the cruelties to which many
laboratory animals are routinely sub-
jected and answering expressed fears that
HR. 4856 (the Randall bill) or similar

legislation might impede progress in

 

medical research. Fred Myers, Vice-
President of The HSUS, expressed hope
after these meetings that opposition to
the legislation by executive agencies will
be at least modiﬁed before Congress
votes.

Prospects increased for substantial
unity of the humane movement behind a
single bill as the Randall bill was en-
dorsed by the Maryland and Virginia
state federations of humane societies
and by many more individual local
The Maryland Animal Wel-
fare Associations (the state federation)
expressed the thought of many humane
organizations that have been doubtful
about which of six pending bills to
support when it decided, in a state-wide
meeting, that:

societies.

“Any law enacted should be ad-
ministered by an agency other than
the Department of Health, Education
and Welfare.”

The Randall bill would charge the
Department of Justice with enforcement
of bans on cruelty. Other pending bills
would give that duty to HEW, which
itself uses hundreds of thousands of
animals annually in research and which
has been sharply criticized for its own
treatment of animals.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society,
which up to now has vigorously opposed
every kind of legislation in this ﬁeld
short of a total prohibition of vivisec-

3

tion, may change its strategy. As this
issue went to press the NAVS was con-
ducting an unprecedented referendum
of its membership to determine how
much sentiment there is for support of
a law that would decrease cruelty if
not abolishing vivisection. Most experi-
enced observers expected a majority for
the suggested change of policy.

Oliver Evans, HSUS President, said
after the staff had appraised Congres-
sional sentiment this month that “it
appears more and more likely that some
kind of law to protect laboratory animals
ultimately is going to be enacted and
we are most concerned to make sure that
the law is a good one.”

Mr. Evans pointed out that two of
the pending bills are being given increas-
ing praise as “reasonable” and “con-
structive” by the National Society for
Medical Research and other opponents
of real legal protection for research ani-
mals. The bills faintly lauded by op-
ponents of HR. 4856 would merely
authorize the Surgeon-General to pro-
mulgate regulations for the care and
housing of animals in laboratories ﬁ-
nanced with Federal funds.

“We urge that every humanitarian
write again to his US. Representative
and to both of his'U.S. Senators,” Mr.
Evans said, “expressing a desire for
favorable action speciﬁcally on H.R.
4856, the Randall bill. The united hu-
mane movement is on the verge of a
great victory for animals but we still
could be defeated if every humanitarian
does not keep working.”

REGIONAL OFFICE MOVES
The HSUS Rocky Mountain Region

and Livestock Department ofﬁce has been
moved from Denver to Boulder, Colo.
Belton P. Mouras remains Director of
both the regional ofﬁce and the Live-
stock Department.

The new address is Route 3, Box 384,
Boulder, Colo.

Boulder, only about 35 miles from
Denver, is the seat of the University of
Colorado.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

BE A HUMANE EDUCATOR

Cleveland Amory, HSUS Director who is nationally known as author of
best-seller books and magazine articles, and as a commentator on television and
radio, recently described the humane movement in a magazine article as “a kind
of army—the army of the kind.” He was describing thus the spontaneous unity
of tens of thousands of individual humanitarians who never meet, never corre-
spond with each other, rarely even know of each other, but who collectively are
a mighty inﬂuence. The grand strategy of this army is education of the public.
Through education we get improved laws, we get laws enforced, we inﬂuence the
psychology and characters of children, we save animals from suffering.

Every individual humanitarian can take part in the enterprise of humane
education. The HSUS has produced and will provide a variety of materials that
any individual can use in his own community, hislown neighborhood, his own
group of friends. Whether used on a large scale or in the smallest way, every

use of these educational materials helps and makes of the user a part of “the

army of the kind.”

Below are listed just a few of the available educational materials. Why not
order a few (or many) folders or booklets on a subject that interests you and
become, yourself, a humane educator? If you would like to have suggestions
about how to use ﬁlmstrips, how to work with children, or how to distribute
folders most effectively, write to The HSUS Education Department.

It’s not complicated, however. You can make a beginning simply by ordering
ten or a hundred copies of anything listed and distributing them, in your own

way, to anyone at all.

Here’s the list of materials. Single copies of folders and booklets are free.

For larger quantities we ask a contribution of the amount. indicated, just to

cover the cost of production and make it possible to keep them ﬂowing out to

the public.

Puppies and Kittens—10,000 Per Hour—
folder explaining the cruelty involved in
breeding of kittens and puppies for which
there can be no homes. (1¢ each)

From Cause to Effect—folder on same sub-
ject as above, with some rather shocking
photographs showing the effects of surplus
breeding. (1¢ each)

Be a Good Neighbor—folder that explains
the obligations of a dog owner to his neigh-
bors as well as to his dog. (1¢ each)

Stop—folder, explaining need for state laws
to require that packing plants use humane
methods in slaughter of livestock; illustrated.
(1¢ each)

There Ought to Be a Law—illustrated folder,
forcefully stating need for Federal legislation
to protect laboratory animals from cruelty
and supporting H.R. 4856, the Randall bill.
(2¢ each)

Cruelty Retards Medical Research—Factual
booklet, 12 pp., revealing how progress of
medical research is impeded by misuse of
animals. (2¢ each)

Animals in Research—32 pp. booklet, pre-
senting scientiﬁc statistical analysis of use of
animals in medical research and proving that
great numbers are used unnecessarily. (10¢

each)

 

Cleveland Amory on Cruelty to- Laboratory
Animals—Reprint of an article in the Satur-
day Review, stating facts that evoked thousands
of horriﬁed letters from readers. (1¢ each)

Proof of Cruelties to Laboratory Animals——
12 pp. booklet for the skeptic who doubts that
animals are subjected to pain and other suffer-
ing in experimental laboratories. (10¢ each)

Is Sport Hunting a Sin?——Reprint of article
by Joseph Fielding Smith, President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
(Mormon), condemning sport hunting as im-
moral. (1¢ each)

Animals and Children in Elementary and
Secondary Schools—Booklet, with brief ar-
ticles by the late Dorothy Thompson, Dr.
James T. Mehorter, and others, arguing that
children are harmed by misuse of animals

in schools. (5¢ each)

People and Pets—a color ﬁlmstrip, with re-
corded narration, for showing to young chil-
dren and particularly Girl Scouts. $1 rental;
$6 purchase. (Write for details.)

Dogs, Cats and Your Community—~color
ﬁlmstrip, with. recorded narration, for adult

groups. $1 rental; $5 purchase. (Write for
details.)

Oklahoma Becomes
Fifteenth State With
Humane Slaughter Law

An excellent new law requiring meat
packers to use humane methods in
slaughtering livestock was enacted by
the Oklahoma legislature last month.
The number of states that have adopted
such laws in the last four years now
stands at 15.

A Federal humane slaughter law was
enacted in 1958 and protects approxi-
mately 80 per cent of all livestock com-
mercially slaughtered but state laws are
needed to cover small plants that do not
sell their products to Federal govern-
ment agencies or which for other reasons
are exempt from the national law.

It appears unlikely that any other
state legislature will enact a humane
slaughter law this year. Despite vig-
orous campaigns by humanitarians, hu-
mane slaughter bills have been defeated
or tabled this year by the legislatures
of New York, New Jersey, Missouri,
West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Illinois,
Vermont, Colorado, Idaho, Indiana and
Tennessee. The Pennsylvania Senate ap-
proved a good bill but the lower house
has not acted on it. Pennsylvania hu-
manitarians are intensifying their cam-

paign but are working against odds.

Opposition came chieﬂy from small
packers who fear or resent every kind
of regulation and spokesmen for Ortho-
dox Jewish groups, who purported to
fear that the proposed laws would now
or in the future interfere with ritual

slaughter of animals for food.

The Board of Directors of The HSUS
decided at its last meeting that further
substantial progress toward total elimi-
nation of cruelty in the slaughter of
livestock probably must be achieved
through amendment of the Federal law
to eliminate exemptions and loopholes.
Plans toward that end are being dis—
cussed with Congressional leaders.




Volunteers Conduct
Second July Fourth
Highway Death Survey

HSUS members in seventeen states
took to super-highways and country
roads July Fourth to conduct the second
annual HSUS survey of the numbers
and species of animals and birds killed
by holiday motor trafﬁc and to gather
facts that might lead to a future diminu-
tion of the slaughter.

The volunteer workers covered hun-
dreds of miles of road on foot and in

motor cars.

Survey reports will be analyzed sta-
tistically to permit a projection of the
ﬁgures into calculations of animals and
birds killed throughout the nation and
to produce valid generalizations about
causes of the carnage.

The 1962 July Fourth survey indi-
cated that more than 2,000,000 animals
and birds were killed by motor cars on
that day. The total annual kill, it is
estimated, is above 750,000,000. Rab-
bits, opossums and skunks are most fre-
quently hit. Other studies have found
that at least 41,000 deer are killed an-

nually by automobiles.

BRUTUS ACQUITTED

Leroy Brutus, owner of a kennel in
Pine Village, lnd., in which dogs are
used for the production of serums and
perhaps for experimental procedures by
Brutus’ brother, an Indianapolis veter-
inarian, was found not guilty of cruelty
to animals after a trial in Warren County
Circuit Court in May. Charges against
Brutus had been ﬁled by Frank Mc-
Mahon, HSUS Field Representative, in
cooperation with the Animal Welfare
League of Fountain and Warren Coun-
ties and the Tippecanoe Humane Society.
Before trial, Brutus constructed new
runways and pens for the dogs.

Branch Tests Law
( Continued from Page I )

animal from the HSUS shelter or any
public pound, the issue presented to the
court was moot.

Directors of the Branch adopted a
formal resolution forbidding any em-
ployee to release any animal to a lab-
oratory even if it were demanded under
provisions of the new law.

It is expected that ofﬁcers of the City

 

of Ogden, which operates a city pound,
likewise will refuse to comply with the
law. The HSUS has undertaken to pro-
vide counsel and to pay costs in court
action resulting from action in either
Salt Lake County, where The HSUS
Branch shelter is located, or in Ogden.

The law ﬁrm of Fabian and Clen-
denin, Salt Lake City, is representing
The HSUS in consultation with Mur-
daugh S. Madden of Washington, gen-
eral counsel for The HSUS.

WE’RE TRYING TO STOP THIS

 

Millions of Americans pay millions of dollars every year to see animals
treated like this in rodeos. This is the standard calf roping event, in
which a contestant on horseback must rope a galloping calf, dismount,
throw the calf to the ground, and tie three legs together. The neck of
this calf is being painfully stretched and twisted by the contestant’s
horse, trained to pull strongly while the contestant sits on the already
stunned calf and ties it. It is impossible to prosecute such cruelties
successfully under present laws in most states. The HSUS protests often
against sponsorship of rodeos by churches and civic organizations and
is assisting the Wyoming Humane Society in court action to stop “steer
busting,” a rodeo event in which 800-pound steers are badly injured

and killed.

 




 

City of Anchorage
Adopts Spaying Rule
For City Shelter

An imaginative9 unremitting educa-
tional campaign by the Anchorage
(Alaska) SPCA has persuaded the city
council to require that all female dogs
and cats adopted from the city animal
shelter, except purebred animals for
which there are registration papers, be
spayed.

Mrs. Leck Hoopes, President of the
Anchorage SPCA, said that continuing
heavy distribution through the com-
munity of HSUS folders about the suf-
fering caused by surplus breeding of
cats and dogs was inﬂuential in achiev-
ing the city action.

The Anchorage ordinance also re-
quires that animals be released for adop-
tion only when they are “assured of a
good home under the control of a re-
sponsible person.”

Parkes Rejoins Staff

As Service Director

Lewis Timberlake, Director of The
HSUS Service Department for three
years, resigned July 15 to accept ap-
pointment to the faculty of the Ward
Law Country Day School in Plainfield,
N. J. Mr. Timberlake will teach both
English and Latin.

_ , Patrick Parkes, former Assistant Di-
rector of the Service Department, has
returned to The HSUS to succeed Mr.
Timberlake. Mr. Parkes has been work-
ing in a managerial post in Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla, for the Singer Sewing Ma-
chine company.

The provides
technical assistance and materials of

many kinds for HSUS members and for

Service Department

”local humane societies and local govern-
ments.

' - Mrs. Moneta Morgan, bookkeeper for
The HSUS for several years, has been
appointed Ofﬁce Manager.

  
   

 

   

Money isn’t everything. It

isn’t plentiful, for instance.

Rumors keep cropping up around the humane movement to
the effect that The HSUS is getting rich; needs less help in doing
its work than in its earlier days.

Nothing could be further from truth. And because erroneous
ideas about HSUS ﬁnances can impede desperately needed humane
work, in this column and on the adjacent page we present the
facts in precise ﬁgures.

Humanitarians give money to The HSUS for one basic reason
——they want animals protected from cruelty. But the donors often
have special interests within the broad ﬁeld of humane work and
they often stipulate that their gifts must be used for speciﬁed
particular purposes.

For example, the late Miss Anna Belle Morris bequeathed a
moderately large sum to The HSUS but her will directed that part
of the bequest be maintained as a permanent trust fund, with the
income going to the Boulder County (Colo) Humane Society, and
that the balance of the bequest be used only for work in the Rocky
Mountain region. Thus, the money is not available for the nation-
wide work of The HSUS.

Misunderstanding may result from the money held in HSUS
annuity funds. The HSUS, hoping to provide a dependable ﬁnan-
cial stability for humane work of the future, accepts donations with
an agreement that the principal of the gift will be maintained in-
tact through the lifetime of the donor and that the donor will
receive a stipulated annuity until death. The Mellon National Bank
and Trust Company holds these funds as trustee. Such funds look
relatively large in HSUS ﬁnancial statements but they are not now
available for use in humane work.

The only money that officers and directors of The HSUS can
use to conduct the Society’s general program is the money in the
“General” and the “Reserve” funds.

So, with that background in mind, we invite the humane move-
ment to study The HSUS “balance sheet” on the next page.

As the ﬁgures show, The HSUS checking account held only
$14,390.83 on May 31. The only other money in the General and
Reserve funds was a little over $200 in a savings account and a
bit over $900 worth of securities, given by members and not yet
sold. The total was just barely enough to ﬁnance the Society’s
ordinary work for one month.

The much larger ﬁgures in the restricted funds and trust funds
show that The HSUS is respected and trusted. The annuity funds
ultimately will ﬂow into unrestricted work to protect animals and
do humane education work. But today, now, The HSUS still is
genuinely poor. The work the Society does depends on a continuing
ﬂow of gifts.

Please keep on helping. Can you send a check today?

6

 

 




 

National Leadership Conference
Shaping Up as Biggest and Best
Humane Movement Meeting

Advance reservations for the 1963
HSUS National Leadership Conference,
to be held in Shawnee Inn at Shawnee-
on-Delaware, Penna., in late September,
indicate that this year’s meeting will be
the largest and most representative of
the American humane movement in sev-
Oﬂicers, directors and
leading members of 56 of the nation’s

eral decades.

best local humane societies already have
reserved space and other societies have
notiﬁed The HSUS that they will name
representatives to the Conference in the
near future.

The agenda for the Conference fol-
lows past practice of concentrating on
major problems of the humane move-
ment, with supplementary practical semi-
nars and demonstrations of working
methods for animal shelter workers and
humane society officers.

Principal subjects of the program
will include the organizational, ﬁnan-

cial and moral condition of the entire
American humane movement; the cam-
paign for legal protection for laboratory
animals; policies and programs of hu-
mane society animal shelters; humane
education for both children and adults;
a 5-year action program for The HSUS
itself and its Branches and Affiliates.

The special seminars and demonstra-
tions, designed to give maximum in-
formation to active workers, will deal
with methods of effective fund-raising,
methods of capturing timid and wild
dogs and cats humanely, euthanasia
principles and techniques, animal shelter
construction and equipment, and several
other aspects of humane society and
animal shelter management.

Every person attending the Confer-
ence will be assigned to at least one
of six working committees that will
dig deeply into the major problems of
the humane movement and submit rec-

ommendations for action to the Confer-
ence. All committee recommendations
will then be debated in an open forum
and submitted to vote.

The objective of the entire program
is to unify the national humane move-
ment by developing an informed con-
sensus about methods of attacking major
problems among the movement’s most
active and influential leaders.

All humanitarians are invited to the
Conference. Membership in The HSUS
is not required. The Conference runs
through three full days—September
27-29, from Thursday evening until
Sunday evening. Cost of the entire
Conference, including a beautiful Shaw-
nee Inn room and all meals, is $45 for
a room with double occupancy, $65 for
a room occupied by one person. Shaw-
nee Inn is one of the most luxurious and
beautiful resorts in the Pocono Moun-
tains and its meals are famous.

An illustrated folder describing the
Inn and the Conference is available on
request to The HSUS. A reservation
can be made with a deposit of $10, with
the balance of the Conference costs
due September 1.

 

THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

ASSETS

Cash in Bank—Checking Account ............
Cash in Bank—Savings Account ..............
Securities ....................................................
Notes Receivable ......................................
Accounts Receivable ................................
Other Assets ..............................................
Total Assets ................................................

LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

Accounts Payable ......................................
Employees' Taxes Payable ..........................

Total Liabilities ..................................
Net Worth, Jan. Il I963 ..........................
Income over Expense (5 months) ..............

Total Liabilities and Net Worth ..............

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MAY 3|, I963

General and Restricted

Reserve Funds Funds
.............. $25,7I L89 $(I I,32I.06)
.............. 2 I 8.34 3,4 I 2.43
.............. 940.75 22,837.57
.............. 14,500.00 44.333.34
.............. 5, I 30.33 300.00
.............. I 7,843.04 I ,422.57
.............. $64,344.35 $31,034.85
.............. $ 8,I45.57 $
.............. I ,436.79 I 22.04
.............. $ 9,582.36 $ I22.04
.............. 25, I 56.56 69,776.56
.............. 29,605.43 (8,863.75)
.............. $64,344.35 $ 6|,034.85

( ) Denotes deficit, assumed by General Fund

Trust Funds Total
$ $ I4,390.83
I I7,259.62 I20,890.39
267,465.87 29 I .244. I 9
58,883.34
5,430.33
I9,265.6I
$384,725.49 $5 I 0, IO4.69
$ $ 8, I45.57
|,558.83
$ $ 9,704.40
254,424.9I 349,358.03
I 30,300.58 I5 I ,042.26

$384,725.49

$5 I‘O, IO4.69

 




 

Admiral James Shaw
Named Executive Head
Of Connecticut Branch

Rear Admiral James Shaw, retired,
will become Executive Director of the
HSUS Connecticut Branch on August 10.
His election is planned by the Branch
Board of Directors as the beginning of
a new program that will intensively
cover every aspect of animal protection
work and humane education in every
community of the state.

Admiral Shaw, who lives in Green-
wich, is a widely known naval historian,
writer on maritime subjects, and educa-
tor. He is an active and effective leader
of civic improvement projects in Green-
wich and currently is a candidate for
election as a town Selectman.

Since his retirement from the navy
a few.years ago, Admiral Shaw has been
an ofﬁcer of a company that organizes
and directs programs of basic educa-
tion in under-developed nations. In that
capacity Admiral Shaw has traveled for
long periods in the Far East and in
Africa, advising and otherwise working
with education ministries of many na-
tional governments.

Both Admiral Shaw and Mrs. Shaw
have been members of The HSUS for
several years. The Shaw household in-
cludes four children, several dogs and
several cats, among the latter of which
one or two usually are animals that
have been found in need of some sort
of emergency care.

 

If you plan a bequest to The
HSUS (we hope that you do be-
cause it would be impossible to
continue and expand HSUS work
without such help) we suggest that
you ask for a small HSUS booklet,
How to Stretch Your Humane So-
ciety Dollars and How to Write a
Will. The booklet, free, oﬂ’ers a
candid discussion of philanthropy
in the humane movement and ex-
plains how to make sure that your
will achieves your own wishes.

NEW OFFICERS AND DIRECTOR

By-laws changes approved by
HSUS members in a recent
referendum moved several So-
ciety leaders to new ofﬁces
this month. Above, left, is
R. J. Chenoweth, Kansas City,
Mo., long President of the So-
ciety, now elected to serve as
Chairman of the Board. At
right, above, is Oliver M.
Evans, a Director of The
HSUS since its inception, who
is moving from Clayton, Mo.,
to Washington to serve as a
full time President. At right
is Dr. F. L. Thomsen, of St.
Petersburg, F 1a., elected 3 Di-
rector to ﬁll out the term of

C. Edward Boggs.

Apropos Humane Education of Children . . .

Education is not merely in the imparting of knowledge but the culti-
vation of certain aptitudes and attitudes in the mind of the young . . . The
objective of education is not just knowledge of values but commitment to
them, the embodiment of the ideal in one’s actions, feelings and thoughts,
no less than an intellectual grasp of the ideal . . . To isolate the activity
of thinking from the morals of thinking is to make sophists of the young.—
General Education in a Free Society, Harvard University, p. 72.

 




 

:u 33',“

n 1's

STATE OF IMCHIGAN JWN I. SWAINSON. m

RTMENT OF HEALTH

ALBERT E. HEUSTIS, M.D., State Health Commissioner

LANSING 4, MICHIGAN

Telephone 484-149!

September 25, 1962

Miss Myrtle Babcock
7 Poplar Park
Pleasant Ridge, Michigan

Dear Miss Babcock:

Enclosed you will find a copy of a letter
being sent to Mro George Cartmill of the
Harper Hospital Laboratory in Detroit,
which I believe is self-explanatory.

As a member of the Advisory Committee

I would appreciate it if you might see fit
to re-inspect the laboratory after a suit-
able interval and share your findings with
meo

Thank you very much.

AEH:dp _
Enclosure

 

 




, J

, cc: Miss Myrtle- Babcock

x-e'

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT or HEALTH
panama 4. MIcI-IInAN '

~ ' Septewer 25. 1962

Mr. George Certnill. Director
' Harper Hospital Animal Laboratory
3825 Brush Street
Detroit 1. Michigan
Rs: linens Use of Animals

Dear Mr. Cartmill:

Acting under the provisions of Act 241 of the Public Acts of 1947, and upon the
specific complaint of Miss Myrtle Babcock. a member of the Advisory Comittee
appointed by the Governor in conjunction with said set, this department caused
an inspection to be made of your animal facilities quarters on August 16, 1962.
This inspection was carried out by L. P. Badman, D.V.H., Veterinary Pathologist.

Doctor Hedemen found that the physical quarters were suitable for the proper care
of animals; the ventilation was adequate and the floors were clean (in this instance
there was indicated the need of maintenance and repair, but conditions as they
existed did not detract from the comfort of the dogs). The dogs, however, showed a
definite lack of attention and interest on the part of the scientific staff or the
animal care-takers. Several dogs were suffering from severe dermatitis and general
un-thrifty conditions. Doctor Hedemsn clinically diagnosed one case as generalised
pustular follicular“mange. This particular animal was supposedly being held on e
long-term.surgicsl experiment for some member of the surgical staff. However,
Doctor Hedemsn questioned as to whether this animal had been examined in months.

He reported the other cases of dermatitis as probably due to filth, lack of care,
and external parasites. All of the long-haired dogs were matted and dirty, and
showed complete lack of attention and care. They had the appearance of dogs that
had just arrived from the dog pound, but Doctor Hedenan was told they were dogs
that were on long~term surgical experiments.

It is Doctor Hedeman' s impression that the problem at the Harper Hospital Animal
Facility is due to lack of proper and constant supervision of animal care-takers.
It is his belief that the scientific staff is not required to give these animals
the personal attention they should have. He further stated that he believed
there were several dogs in the wards that had not been examined by any newer of
the scientific staff in months. Doctor Hedensn reported further that the anion).
quarters and the care of the animals are under the jurisdiction of the Pothole”
Department. but that the members of the Surgery Department are the ones who use
the dogs. As a result the people responsible for the dogs are uninformed as to
just what is taking place.

Decision and Recommendation '

The report made by my associate. Doctor Badman. plus the report made previously
by Miss Myrtle Babcock. gives this departnsnt no alternative but to place the
animal quarters at the Harper Hospital on probation.

A17 25M 3'63 .

 




    
  
 
  
    
  
 
   
 
  
    
    
   
     

Mr. George Carmill - 2 - . mum: as; 1962

The following “communal an Index

1. The people (tho Surgety Department) using the dos: tor
unparimntal purposes should to undo roapouiblu for th.
care and mmsmnt of the dogs. This ruponnibility thould
be designated to a “liable who: of the «man: tuft
who in interest“ in the waiter. of tha‘ animal... The condi-

tion of the animal is. of tour“. directly «land to tin
reliability of thc experiment.

2. The: scientiﬁc Itlff should imdiataly walnut. «ch do;

in tht laboratory. All ﬂags in Question“. condition
should I» “critical.

3. The dogs should be Managua individually and a record

of chair auiszmnt key: in the animal quart”- available
“for avian.

 

4‘. Arrangements should be made to plan. dog: that 0:. Nina
held for lonrtotu obumtiou in a «little boarding kennel.

It in my éuty ta furthar advim you that rapretentativea of this department will A
be condzictiag furthar investigating-3, and that I shall aqua”. iii“ Hyrtlc Babcock 5
an a We: of the Advisory Committee to £0 the cam. Failure to cormct the con- ‘
ditions described and to provide for the humane treatment of tha animals iadicatad

will be grounds for mvocaticn of yaur maturation under the provisions ti this

act. You am' Eartha: “vised that your right to bring additional dog: into the

animal quarters for exparimenttl gamma it wtpandad until such time at you

39:21in thin dapartmnt in writing of your intent to corruct tin bad situation that

exists. to comply with the “mandarin. and to othawiu u. that tho dog. arc
hammly treat“. , .

       
   
 

 
 

AlWItil. 11.».
00min imi-

     

n‘

   

128:4»

 
 

mmma mu
Rattan Receipt Remand

 
   




 

May 2. lg 63

ﬁr.‘W1111am A. ﬁwallow
Viea~$reaiden§
ﬁasaachuaatts S.?.S.A.
180 Longwaod Avanua
Bantam 1%, ﬁaaa.

Dear‘ﬂr. awallaw,

Thanka far ycur latter of April 30th. I think
tha AﬁﬁﬂA'a nawa bulletin naada thsrough analyais 39 that sincera
humanitariana will nah be mialad. $inaa we hava bean have in
Kan Yark following tha AS?GA'5 aationa, wa are in a ﬁgositiem to
ﬂu an. ﬁany of the atataments included in the nawg bullatina are
false. @hair reemmmandationa, if fallowad, weulé provida an aven
mare affaetive whitewash of laboratary conditians than Ema AE?CA
has prmvidad in ﬂaw York. Th3 billm thay say aye ﬁhﬁ best (E.R.
hang and E.R. hﬂhB) and tha weakest that hava been introduced.
Mambara of ﬂongrasa and thair staffs usually simply laugh at
them. @hay are what one ﬁenatar called ”aida~tracking hills"
and it 13 0f tha utmost importanca that all gincera humaninariana
fight tham.

 

It is evident that tha A$?£A is sagging to
naminata itself for a position an tha advisory committea. Thay
ara willing to aeaapt thrae mambars of thﬁ ﬁational ﬁcciaty for
Madieal ﬁagaarch as mambara of this Committaa: Thia is tbs
Sociaty that has backed all th@ animal amixure bills, that
prometaa cruel experiments by school ahildran, and that opgoaes
all affacﬁive legialation to preheat labmratory animals. ﬂothing
wurﬁa could hagpen thﬁn to giva the Hﬁﬁﬁ statutory autherity.

Thﬂ ﬂmaiaty for Animal Frntactiva Lagialatian woulé fighﬁ azdn a
bill as tha &%FCA propcaas with all thw energy at our command.

I da nut baliava that it weuld stanﬂ any chanca 0f passage by aha
Gengraas beaause of tha oppaaition which it wsuld inevitably
inspire throughaub the nation. Among iﬁfoymsd seiantiats, the
Rational Seciaty f0r‘%adical Hesearah 13 bagimning be ha leekeé
at aakanea becausa 9? ita intemparata and inaccurata aﬁatamenta.
Thai? latast attacks on S. 533 which yea an pyaparly supporuad
in the last iasua af Gar Dumb Animala ara comical. A3 aaon as
our next Infarmation Repart is printad, 1'11 send yam a eopy
whiah quotas aoma 0f tha statamenﬁa baing sent out by th13_grcup.

 

    




a» William A“ ﬁwallaw ‘..2- My 2. 35963

Spaaifically t0 answar yaur quaatiena. ya ﬁbula
naﬁ opwaaa thw farmation 0? a ggaantaéviaory eammittaa, thaugh
«a &@ nmﬁ canaiﬂer it nec&aaary. Wa waula gnrangly apposa the
typa af ammmittaa prapmaad by the A$?$A. with regard Ea atanéarda,
thava is n0 harm in aeﬁting my atandmrds, our'manual ﬂaaia Care 9f
Labmratery Animals prvvidaa aouné gangral standards Ema has done $0
for gigkﬁ yeara, but in ordar ta pvﬁvwnt naadlﬁas cruelny and abuaa
in labmratariea mandatory law 1% what 16 naaded. Thare avg n0
spaaifim atandardaumf tha kind anviaagad by the ASPCA unﬁar the
Eritish aat. and an axaalxann Jab ham bﬁﬁﬁ ﬂana 1n pravemting abuses
in that aouuﬁrg. X knaw baeausa E hava viaitaﬁ labaranories there .
ana hara aha hava nﬁve? seen the aiakening canditiena in any ﬁritiah
laﬁaratery than tha AﬁPﬂA repeatedly paasss anﬁ approvaa in NEW Ybrk
Giﬁyg Th3 satting up_af standards cauld wall apall 13mg éalay -
just as Ema warding a? tha aamtion an Ragnar alaughtar bynugha dalay
after delay in acuion,en tna Fedaral-ﬂumana Elaughter Act. ﬁnder n0
aircumatancaa Should we wait for all the various views anﬁ eyiniona
aforgamiaaé intavagua an atandards be be raamlvad. There is a flares
~isagraament as $9 wheﬁhay’lakgratary ﬂags ahmuld be psrpetually
eagaa. 8. 533 saya thsy must ha allewad exaraiaa. If wa agreeﬁ to
wait $111 the lags hedy at "dag—aagara" gavg in it might be aacadaa
h&fara a bill wag p&$3ﬁ&. Tha ﬁniversity of ainnaseba is strung for
basing the cagaa wiﬁh the ﬂags in than, and Raﬁﬁ haadquartara are in
Minnesota.

3*
Raw t9 tha analysis 9!? tbs bullat‘ln. {1/1“ mix/ﬁg 5:1ch
1) Tha ASPGA was nah thezfirat humane organiaatian ta canduat ‘5
an inspﬁatian program in labmratoriea. This usuld b& a minot’peint
n93 warth arguing avar if it did mat ha?9 an impcrtant influenaa on
what fallewa.

2) if their experianea hﬁﬁ been ”canaistant“ as ﬁhay abate, it
may ha raaallad that (a) ar. ﬁcapaéden assurad a graup cf ladies
(tha auxiliary ﬁhat wmrka an aéapticna) that in ona ﬂaola yaar only
twa things wera found wrong in all tha labaratoriea thrnughaut
Haw York Gity. In ena instance, a dog’s cage was a littla bit too
amall far it (this was rﬁmadiad at snag, the ladies ware ﬁeld), in
anathar case, th$ temparatura was alighﬁly warmar than it aheuld be.
(h) In 19%! we fauna in at. Vineant*a Hoapital (a laberakary rosaiving
dogs frcm the AﬁBCA and'inapeatad by it) degs withnut water an a hat
aummer any becauaa tha water pans that fit Ska haldars in the eagoa
wera ruateé threugh so they wera 11kg siavea, ﬁne daga' heads aaverad
with elusbars of huga, brawn Sinks; rabbits bleeding fram aha intes-
tation of varminzso’heavy that they wara erawling avar the rdbbita'
far, down ante piles of axramant aver a foot high that had collacted
unaar thg rahbita' hutch, and ovar the whale $106? of tha aaimnl
quartera, 36 that it wag imyossible he walk without steyping on one
or anather farm 9? ﬁiak or inaaat.

Or, no giva another axampla, when an individual amployed at tha
ﬂew Ybrk'ﬂnivarsity‘ﬂantalSaheol aallad both the 5W1 and tha A$?GA
t0 eama anﬁ inspect annditians'whieh this individual found inbalarabla
and had baan unable t0 aorraat, the A$PCA uniformed inspactor want
thraugh withaut requiring any impravamenta. Ha 531d ﬁhat things were

 




%r. ﬁilliam A.-$Wallow ., I (ksﬁll H . May 3, lgé3

all right End he had “36am worae”.. Evan auahvubviausfawuaaa aa a
runway an filthy that me ﬂag amuldhhava atappaé gun withcut gliding
an tha axargmant wanu'unnotimaa’bybha iaspaebar. War did hw ,
abjaet 39 a ﬂag kaph in a aagm tee small fow~it ta atamdiim.nmvmal
pasition, avan though thiﬁ la apﬁaifically agaimat tha ragwlatians
maﬁa? ﬁha ﬁabah~wwtmalf ﬁat. ﬁfﬁerjwa wrote a,latxer af ammplaint
asking fur ﬁaaanb care mf aha animals, thﬂ A$?C& inapaatuv game
back and ﬁalkaa wizh tha éeata? in ahawgo, but did nan avan look at
theawummla. . ‘ " "'

I think the abavg is adequate to damonatrata what is wrong with
tha "aansistant and cantinuing saviea a? unannounced ana unlimitad
inspaeﬁians“ that tha A$?GA likes ta beast abaub.

3) It may be that the inapactiona ara nmw made by vetavimariang,
This did not happen until atrnng prasgura wa§"Eraught an aha AﬁPCA
30 *9 an, $680r&ing to our infmnmation, in aha firgt tan yeara, tha
ASPQA labnratary ingpaetiona wara raraly hy'vetayinapigng.

&) Rathar than "pionaera in seeing that the animals uaad for
axgerimental purpaaaa in New Yﬂrk City were traatad humanaly,
regaived ampla past~aparativa cara,“ etc., as tha AﬁPCA claimﬁ to ba,
it vauld b6 mora aaaurata to say that they were pionwara in white« a
waahimg improper canditiana in laboratorlaa. Ia post~oparative eareﬁkﬂ’
consists 9? simply putﬁing the animal inta an allumetal mesh~bnttom
aaga in the regular animal raom, previding n6 pain-reliaving drugs,
warmth, 9r vatarinary attentian "ampla”? All of thaaa things hapgﬁn
in acme of the AﬁPGAvinspectad labaratoriea and havg far ysara. As
far the othar alaima about ”sanitary conditiona”, 329., a$m abova (2).

S) The claim that ”in each inabance tha aasirad oorrectian is
.6ffacbaé“ nuggests that thﬂ ASFCA has parfacted canditiana in ﬂaw
Yark lahwratwrias. At any rate, it hag achieved all ”daaixwdﬂ by it.
Twc ASPCA~1nspeo®ed laboratoriaa came at sacs ta mind in one 9? which
ﬂags gat cut of thair aages twice a weak, in tha ather, nevar. @hls
leaves somwthing to be daaired by dags, if nab by tha AEFGA.

6) Th® AﬁPGA alaiggp thaﬁ what it calls ”punitive" lawa (which
we muat assuma $nc1udea no $33 daapita the fact that it $633 net
evgn provide cr$minalpanalties) cauld net bring aarw anﬂ camfart to
labmvatorw‘animala. if a aeiantist cauld laaa his linensa far
failing ta provide camfart and care, thara 15 no dcubt that acmfmrt
and cars wguld ha praﬁﬂaﬂ.

?) Dr. L.R. Christensen is quoted as saying that disease is
”prubably thm single ﬁreataat cause 0? animaleﬁaath wné experimﬁnﬁal
wasta.” Ha ahauld ha an auﬁhority an thia sinaa ha has a: mush
«inseam in Ma awn laboratory. Th3 lam: time w: viaitased the HM: Yer-k
University Madiaal Saheol animals wa raund the rabbit eelany noisy
with caughing anﬂ sneezing. gunning nasaa wara ta bg saga in animal
after animal. Th3 air was ammonia ladan ané almast unhraathabla.
The animal man agrasd with us that if ths rnom ware met so grwaaly
cvercrwwded tha apra&d 0f disaaae coulﬁ b6 cut dawn. gut
Dr. Shriatansan himsalf wag in ﬁseehoslevakin running a eanfeywnee
on.anima1 disaasaa!

 




m. Williamh. ‘swallﬁw «1+.- May 2. 1963'

8) ma dauhﬁ raaaarah an prwvantion cf animal disaaaaa is
imyarhant, but WE danit maﬁa a law for that. %a ﬁn na$d a law
that wmuld make it anaihla far tha ﬁasretary 9f $33 so tall a
plaaa likg ﬁﬁw‘ﬁwrk Univarﬁity Ma§iaal ﬁgheal to gut dawn the
nuﬂb@ra 9? animals aqueeaaﬁ into a aingle vmnm (acmﬁ eagas aven
had two rﬁbbits aguaaaad in thamgh ﬁha cages war& not yaally
ﬁdaqmata far ﬁven GHQ rabbit).

9} Tha two'maaguraa ppafarweé by tha Aﬁ?8A ave tha waakast
onaa prmpmﬁad.

10} $ha AEPGA wants an advisory committee mada up at th@
atrungaat apponanaﬁ 9f tha humans muvamant (the Eatiﬁnal Saciety
for ﬁadical Ewaﬁaroh), 0f the A¥%A which has apposed effaative
legiglatiwn t0 proteet labaratoryanimals, and of humane
ergamizatians 0f which it obvieualy considars_itsalf the leading
candidata. It 13 hardly nacassary t0 cammant an such a prapaaal.

11} Th@ Ewe wgaxaat billg ara further built up as bﬁing tha
moaﬁ affactiva.

13) @hﬁy maka ganaral statemamts againat all yanﬁing lagis-
latiwnlaxca t the waakaat, alleging that raw gaeple raga bills,
but giv_nﬁ HQ infarmation on ﬁhair cantenta.

l3) Thay amncluda by racommandimg a timﬁncanxuming propesal
whiah wauld, if aaaaptad, pravant actien on desperately naeﬁaa
laﬁialatiam 30 require humana'traatment 9f axparimﬁntal animals
duying thw aeursa of tha 88th Sangress.

i ﬁﬁﬁnﬁﬁtly hape that Bhe’ﬁgpga which haa'ecngig-
tantly suppgptad lﬁﬁialatinn bagad'an ﬁhé Britiah Act which regulates
animal ﬁXpﬁrim%nt$ Will'canzinue ﬁn Ehia amund azd hemorabla humana
cauraa anﬁ éisragard the A§?€A aamard. *

. if tharw is any paint in 3h“ ﬁb@V@‘WhiG” 1“ no”
clﬁav, Plaaae d0n?t ﬁggitata be lat me know. I'll probably be
callimg yam 9? Br. Eanaan abaut ﬁhia seen.

with kind Pagarda and baaﬁ wiahas,

gincﬁﬁﬁlyt

 




0"

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN, PRESIDENT
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, VICE—PRESIDENT
AND SECRETARY
WILLIAM H. POTTER, JR., TREASURER
EUNICE C. PICKETT, ASST. TREASURER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION

COUNSEL

TRUSTEES OF PERMANENT FUNDS
OLD COLONY TRUST COMPANY

INVESTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
LLOYD D. BRACE. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON
WILLIAM H. POTTER. JR., DIRECTOR
FIRST BOSTON CORP.

GEORGE F. BENNETT. PRESIDENT

PEABODY. BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY STATE STREET INVESTMENT CORP.

MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTYTOANIMALS

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL

I80 LONG-WOOD AVENUE ~ BOSTON l5. MASS.
TElEPHONE— LONGwOOD 6-6100

April 30,

Mrs. Christine Stevens

Animal Welfare Institute

Slst Floor — ﬁmyire State Building
22 E. 17th, Street

New York 17, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

We have just received the A.S.P.C.A. news bulletin of May 1,
and are wondering what your reaction was to the study of national
legislation for the care of laboratory animals.

’he consensus here is that we believe there are two points, at
least, on which we agree. They are: the establishment of a uniform
form of standards and the setting up of an aévisory panel on which
Humane Organizations would be represented. Both of these provisions
would seem, to us, to be desirable for groper enforcement.

_We shall look forward to hearing your views on the matter.

Yours sincerely,

I

I . ‘ . . Tim
M i (’V’Lk‘x (Jerri! v ~
W: A. Swallow,
Vice-$resident

m ,. «mu-u...“

‘3

WAS:maC

 




VOL. 3, NO. 1 ‘

' MAY 1, 1963

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, 441 EAST 92 STREET, NEW YORK 28, NY.

ASPCA Studies National Legislation

for Care of Laboratory Animals

 

Finds Current Bills Fail to Offer Real Protection

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals realizes the necessity for the use of animals
in medical research. The knowledge accrued there-
from beneﬁts animals as well as man. But since its
purpose as an organization is to protect animals, it is

with their health and welfare that the ASPCA is di-
rectly concerned. This is the reason we have made a
thorough study of all current federal legislation on
laboratory animal care.

ASPCA’S INSPECTION PROGRAM

The ASPCA was the first humane organization in
the country to conduct an inspection program in labora-
tories housing animals used for experimental purposes.
In the eleven years this program has been in operation
we have acquired an exceptional reservoir of practical
experience in carrying on a consistent and continuing
series of unannounced and unlimited inspections of
‘ laboratory animal facilities.

This program began in 1952, when the Metcalf—
Hatch Law was passed. This New York State law per-
mits licensed laboratories to requisition unlicensed,
unwanted and unclaimed animals from any dog pound
or humane society which takes public funds. This law
applies to the ASPCA, since it collects the dog license
fees in New York City to maintain shelters and care
for lost, strayed and homeless animals.

At that time the ASPCA was able, through the coop-
eration of the New York State Society for Medical
Research, to make voluntary arrangements with the
laboratories requisitioning animals from us, for un-
limited and unannounced access to their premises for _‘
the purpose of inspection. Such inspection is made by
ASPCA staff veterinarians. Thirty-three laboratories
that requisition animals from the ASPCA are now be- '
ing inspected under this program. In addition, our
veterinarians also inspect thirteen laboratories in New
York City that do not requisition animals from us.
These laboratories agreed without question to the in-
spection when it was proposed by the Society.

We were pioneers in seeing that the animals used
for experimental purposes in New York City were
treated humanely, received ample post-operative care,

1

 




 

were properly housed and fed, and that the environ-

mental requirements pertaining to heat, light, tempera-

ture and sanitary conditions were satisfactory.

.,_ \H_.’

Where any of these basic fundamentals is found

lacking the Society’s veterinary inspector calls it to“

the attention of the administrator of the animal quar-

ters. In each instance the desired correction is effected,“

although not always immediately.

N O UNIFORM STANDARDS

Since no comprehensive set of uniform standards
for the care, housing and welfare of laboratory animals
has as yet been established, we have had to establish
standards of our own, based on experience. From this
experience we have concluded that the greatest weak-
ness in the care of laboratory animals lies in the ﬁeld
of personnel. Untrained animal handlers and general
under-staffing are responsible for most abuses. The
scientist or experimenter seldom if ever goes into the
animal quarters. The key requirement for good animal
care lies in the provision of an adequate staff of prop-
erly trained and motivated caretakers.

If the person in charge does not know What he is
doing or why, does not understand animals, and if it
is purely a custodial job and he is not trained to rec-

ognize health conditions of animals, no punitive law on i

the books can bring care and comfort to laboratory
animals. Dr. L. R. Christensen, President of the Ani-
mal Care Panel, refers to disease in laboratories as
“probably the single greatest cause of animal death
and experimental waste.” This statement is backed up
in the report of a group of IO veterinarians, who re-
cently made a survey of 58 non-profit, non-federal
medical research institutions in the United States. The
survey, made under the auspices of the Institute of
Laboratory Animal Resources, the National Academy
of Sciences and the National Research Council, states

“the importance of research on laboratory animal~

diseases in relation to problems of diagnosis, preven-

tion and treatment cannot be over-emphasized.”

CURRENT FEDERAL LEGISLATION

Inadequate care of laboratory animals and the cru-
elties and neglect they suffer in certain laboratories
have become a public concern during the past several
years. A Congressional hearing has been held on the
subject, and at this session of the Congress six bills
have been introduced, all of which purport to provide
for the humane treatment of laboratory animals. None
of these measures, as drawn, will in our judgment ac-

; complish the desired ends, although two of them do

start off in the right direction.

The ASPCA is not a national organization and
normally restricts its active interest in legislation to
the area appropriate to its responsibilities under the
laws of the State of New York. We believe, how-
ever, that uniform standards and criteria for the pro-
tection of laboratory animals can most effectively be
established through federal legislation applicable to
animals used by federal agencies or under grants of
federal funds. We will therefore support such legis-
lation if it contains all of the following provisions:

1. Recognition of the necessity for the use
of animals in research.

2. Recognition of the moral obligation of a
civilized society that these animals should
be treated humanely.

3. Establishment of a uniform set of stan-
dards by which laboratory performance in
the proper treatment of experimental ani-
mals may be measurd. These standards
should include speciﬁcations as to animal
quarters; care and feeding; training of
caretaker personnel; and avoidance, to
the maximum possible degree consistent
with scientiﬁc necessity, of the inﬂiction
of pain on animals, including the use of
anesthesia, except as this would frustrate
the object of an essential experiment. Ade-
quate post-experimental care, or the pain-
less destruction of seriously disabled ani-
mals, should be provided for. In our opin-
ion, the Secretary of Health, Education
and Welfare is the appropriate authority
to establish such standards, with the assis-

tance of an advisory panel to be composed

rrrrrr




 

of three representatives of the National
Society for Medical Research, three rep-
resentatives of the American Veterinary
Medical Association, and three represen-
\ tatives of humane organizations which
are and have been for not less than ten
years actively and chieﬂy engaged, under
provisions of federal, state or municipal
law, in the physical care and shelter of
' animals and are directly responsible for
the enforcement of laws relating to ani-
mal protection and welfare.

4. Requirement that federal agencies en-
gaged in experimental programs involving

the use of animals shall conform to these
standards, and that recipients of grants of
federal funds for such programs shall be
required, as a condition of the grant, to
agree in writing to conform thereto.

5. Inspection by professionally qualiﬁed per- «

sonnel, under the direction of the Secre-
tary of Health, Education and Welfare, of
all such federal agencies and recipients

of federal grants, to insure compliance .,
with the established standards. Inspections '

to be unlimited and unannounced.

6. Adequate funding to carry out these pro-
visions.

HR 4843 A GOOD BEGINNING

Of the legislation introduced so far, the bill that
comes nearest to our views is HR 4843, introduced by
the Honorable Kenneth A. Roberts of Alabama
(HR 4840, introduced by the Honorable John E.

'1 Fogarty of Rhode Island, is identical). lt places the

accent on standards to be prescribed by the Surgeon
General of the United States, who operates under
Health, Education and Welfare. But it does not in-
clude our points 4, 5 and 6, nor the advisory panel
we suggest under point 3, which we believe to be es-
sential.

Congressman Roberts conducted the above-mentioned
hearings in Washington last September, and we as-
sume that HR 4843 reﬂects his experience. Apparently
he is a man who puts ﬁrst things ﬁrst and believes that
the punitive and restrictive aspects of law should be
subordinated to constructive accomplishment.

FEW PEOPLE READ

The majority of people supporting one or another of
these bills have never read them. Their hearts or con-
sciences are appealed to by organizations who send
them notices to write their congressional representa-
tives asking them to support bill so-and-so without ever
suggesting that they ﬁrst read the bill they are asking
their senators and congressman to support.

Even newspapers are guilty of editorials praising
a piece of legislation because it sounds humane, with-

BILLS THEY SUPPORT t ’21..

Most of the other legislation now before Congress.
leans heavily on record-keeping, administration andg
punitive features. Attempts are made to write into law:i
the details of animal care; our experience with legis-l
lation has been that the law should establish general
principles, leaving detailed execution to the ﬁeld of
competent administrative regulation. We consider
much of this proposed legislation unworkable, and
some of it unlikely to survive challenge in the courts.
Passage of such legislation would produce an illusion
of accomplishment in the public mind, while giving
little if any real protection to the animals involved.
For example, not one of the hills which requires labor-
atories to permit inspection of their premises also
requires such inspections actually to be made by any

suitable authority.

l

out thorough examination of the legislation itself to
see just what protection it actually gives.

The ASPCA has every reason to believe, based on
experience with legislation affecting animal welfare
going back to its foundation in 1866, and its eleven
years of experience with its own laboratory inspection
program, that the passage of any of the bills on the
subject which has been introduced at the present ses-
sion of Congress, other than those introduced by

3

til/—

 




Messrs. Roberts and Fogarty (HR 4843 and 4840 re-
spectively, which are identical) would as a practical
matter accomplish no lasting beneﬁt to laboratory

animals whatsoever. Instead they are likely to produce,
in varying degree, confusion, illusion or futile con-
troversy and litigation.

A SENSIBLE APPROACH

Rather, we anticipate that the fundamental need for
planning and providing along sound lines will be
wholly lost sight of. There may be indeﬁnite delay in
establishing sound and humane standards for labora-
tories using experimental animals —— standards which

are for the ﬁrst time being seriously considered by

organized groups of scientists and doctors throughout
the country.

The simple, sensible aproach in applying federal
legislation to this requirement is, we consider, ﬁrst to
set up the necessary standards, together with an inspec-
tion system, and determine from experience Whether

there is a need for further regulatory or punitive

action.

There is a crying need for objective, compassionate,
but non-hysterical criteria, for evaluating animal care
that would be ﬂexible enough to combine the legitimate
requirements of scientiﬁc progress with adequate pro-
tection for the animals in question. We ﬁrmly believe
the establishment of a set of standards by an impartial,
fully-informed and professionally competent agency
is an essential preliminary to the intelligent considera-

tion of any regulatory legislation by the Congress.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

441 East 92nd Street, New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICERS

William Rockefeller, President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, V ice-President
Horace H. Nahm, V ice-President
William Mapel, V ice-President
John W. Ream, Secretary

James H. Jenkins, Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton

John W. Cross, Jr.
Walter B. Devereux
James H. Jenkins
Richard C. Kettles
Robert V. Lindsay

José A. Machado, Jr.

Alastair B. Martin
William F. Morgan
Horace H. Nahm
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
John W. Ream
James H. Ripley
William Rockefeller

 

The ASPCA, founded in 1866, oldest and largest humane
society in the United States, is empowered to enforce anti-
cruelty laws in New York State. It maintains eight shelters
in New York City and environs for the care of lost, stray and
abandoned animals, a hospital and clinic and a fleet of ambu-

4

lances for sick and injured pets, an Animalport at New York
International Airport to care for airborne animals, and an
adoption service to ﬁnd homes for the homeless. It issues dog
licenses in New York City, maintains a humane education
program and campaigns for legislation aﬂecting animal welfare.

 




