 

 

 

‘THE
BIRDS’ CHARTER

Birds Bought and Released by the
R.S.P.C.A.

(Reprinted by kind {76717117351'071 from, “ The A nimal World ”)

_—

Copies of “The Birds Charter” may be obtained
from
Miss M. BRADISH
R.S.P.C.A. Caged Birds Poster Fund
95~Park Road, Chiswick
London, WA

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




THE BIRDS’ CHARTER

 

BIRDS BOUGHT AND RELEASED BY
THE R.S.P.C.A.

 

LORD BUCKMASTER’S Act for the Protection of British
Birds came into force on Thursday, May 17th. For
some time before that date the R.S.P.C.A. bought up
wild birds from the dealers and released them in the

 

Awaiting their Freedom.

country. For obvious reasons this work had to be done

secretly ; if the dealers had had a hint that the

R.S.P.C.A. was out to release all the birds it could buy

prices would have been prohibitive. It was equally

necessary that the birds should be released in parts of
3

 

 




 

the country suitable for them and.~ at places where
absolute privacy could be secured.

Inspectors of the Society (looking as much unlike
inspectors as they could contrive) went down to the
East End of London in the mornings and quietly bought
up birdsw—one here, a couple there, and so on. The
birds were put into large cages and were taken down
by motor cars to the country in the afternoons and
released. Many of the birds had been “ recently
taken,” to use the legal phrase, and it was a joy to see
how the birds rejoiced in their freedom. The Society
had arranged to have a film taken of some of the releases,
but the work was very difficult, for many of the prisoners
were off in a small fraction of a second directly the
doors of their cages were opened. “ Every bird,” said
one spectator of these happy scenes, went out of its
cage like a shot from a gun.” The birds were given
their freedom at OXshott (renowned for its nightingales),
South Mimms, Hadley,i‘Hampstead, and at a delightful
spot near Woodford. There was no hitch or accident
of any kind ; not one feather was damaged during. the
many journeys of mercy.

Altogether 430 birds were released. Here is the list :
linnets 254; redpolls 5; greenfinches 70; chaffinches
56; twites 8; siskins 16; goldfinches 13; bramble—
finches 3 ; yellowhammer 1 ; larks ‘4. The Society had
intended to make a big effort on the Sunday before the
Act came into force and buy up and release a large
number of birds, but this could not be done, for the
simple reason that it was impossible to buy a large
number of birds in London. It must be remembered

4

 




 

that the present time is the close season for many kinds
of birds.

Hitherto, kind people who have bought wild birds
merely in order to give them their liberty have really
encouraged the catching of wild birds but, thanks to
the new Act, the dealers may not catch any birds to
replace those which the Society released. The Act
applies to any British wild bird that has ever been known

 

A corner of Mrs. Hedley Thorrlson’s woodland garden where
some of the birds were released.

to be caged, altogether 66 kinds of birds, and for the

purpose of the Act a species shall be deemed to be

British if it is a species resident in or Visiting Great

Britain in a wild state. It is now an offence against the

law to catch any such birds with the intention of selling

them alive. No one may sell, offer for sale or have
5

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

possession for sale any live bird to which the Act applies
other than close-ringed specimens bred in captivity.

The cost of giving 430 birds their freedom was paid by
gifts from bird lovers, including a generous donation
from Our Dumb Friends League.

And now it behoves all lovers of birds to see that the
new law is obeyed. we imagine, from the widespread
publicity given to the new Act, that any offender who

 

M 1/5. Hadley Thomson and Miss Bmdish releasing some of
the birds.

puts forward ignorance of the law as an excuse will
find it a very poor one. Miss Bradish, the honorary
secretary of the Caged Birds Poster Fund, has cir-
cularized the Chief Constables throughout England and
Wales and at their request has sent out 5,264 posters
for distribution to police stations.

6

 

 




 

 

Remember—

 

that wild birds of British Species may
not be sold under the Act of I933

 

But

we still have to get forbidden the

, Importation of wild birds of Foreign

Species

Please Help!

 

 

 




 




