-5-

in a single year, yet these small whales, despite the
Scientific Committee's recommendation to do so, have not
been listed, and no quotas have been set.'*This aberration
must be set right at the next meeting.

To sum up, valuable progress was made at this meeting, but
given the mood of the nation and of international feeling,

I believe it should have been greater. If we can solve our
own problem.with the bowhead whales, we will be able to lead
other nations to end commercial whaling.

 




-2-

the fact that all we have learned in the interim indicates that

it is essential to protect populations of rare and endangered
species.

'With regard to the proposal by GAO that species endangered in
some parts of their range but not in all should be listed as
threatened, we entirely agree with your question, Mk. Chairman,
"Doesn't the present system make more sense?" Here again the
GAO shows its insensitivity to biological facts. An across-
the—board threatened listing would lull both the public and the
agencies so that the species would be at great risk in the areas
where it was, in fact, endangered. The Fish and Wildlife Service
should continue to pinpoint, to the best of its ability, the
status of different populations. ‘When Mr. Eschwege stated in
response to a question that a species ”might be listed as
threatened instead of endangered or not listed at all" and thus
have "less impact," GAO's point of view'became all too plain.

It certainly is desirable to reduce conflicts as much as possi—
ble, but not at the expense of driving a species to extinction.

'With respect to the second GAO recommendation for amendment of
the Act, there appears to be a question as to whether amendment
is needed to carry out the intent of Congress. While a permanent
exemption for a specific federal project under construction is a
comprehensible action, applying a similar finality to timber
harvesting and livestock grazing would be unwise. Since these
activities occur on lands which, of necessity, cannot be flooded,
paved over, or otherwise made biologically inhospitable, we would
oppose the second prOposed amendment because we see no reason why

green land in our country should be put off lhmits for endangered
species. A

With regard to the third GAO amendment proposal, it is, of course,
desirable to try to plan ahead; and the Service should act openly
at all times so that agencies planning projects could learn of
proposed listings and listings under consideration as well as
final listings in order to plan wisely. However, it appears that
the Endangered Species Act is being increasingly bogged down with
massive amounts of paper work while the funds and personnel
allocated to the Service continue to be inadequate to the huge
task it has been given. Only if the Congress is prepared to make
a steep increase in both funds and personnel should GAO insist on
including unlisted species~-species which in fact may never be
listed-~in the consultation requirements of the law.

 




_;mitations of the GAO Review
The review, according to the Report (page 8), limited field work
primarily to Fish and Wildlife Service Regions I and IV where, it
is stated, "about 92% of the total U. 8. species extinctions to
date" have taken place. This surprisingly high figure suggests
the need for scrutiny of the two Regions in order to head off
continuance of such a high rate of extinctions.

It is unfortunate, however, that no review of Interior’ 3 handling
of importation of foreign endangered species was undertaken. It
is in this part of the Fish and wildlife Service' 3 work that the
most gross inadequacies have recently come to light. While GAO
complains that 4H% of the petitions were lost by the Service,
recent inquiries to the Service' 8 San Francisco office revealed

a near total lack of the required 3— 177 Forms for both ivory and
macaws. Conservationists would welcome an inquiry into the reason
for this strange lack of documentation. Hundreds of inadequately
completed 3- 177 Forms for ivory imports were located in cardboard
boxes in New YOrk, but even such inadequate materials were absent
from one of the major ivory ports: San Francisco. The same lack
was found by a different researcher with respect to macaws.

While the GAO Report does not recount the reason why it focused
solely on Interior' 3 handling of native species, the letter of
transmittal to the Senate and House makes the unqualified state-
ment: "This report describes management improvements and legis-
lative amendments needed for effective implementation of the
Endangered Species Act, as amended. " It would be most unfortunate
should Members of Congress assume that a complete analysis and
checking of Interior's procedures had been carried out.

There is a good deal in the GAO Report which is plainly tendentious.
The section of the Report beginning on page 52 is especially obnox-
ious, and it is regrettable that the Service should have acceeded

to the idea of limiting population listings to "significant portions"
of species' ranges (page 59). The ability of the Secretary to act
intelligently on biological facts should not be restricted by law

in this way. If he acts foolishly, a mechanism now exists to review
any given situation and to reverse Interior's rulings.

GAO Findings That Deserve Attention

Although GAO's seemingly total lack of ability to grasp the

 




-4-

biological import of the Endangered Species Act makes its legis-
lative recommendations worthless, it has noted, although briefly,
some deficiencies in administration of the Act which Congress
should consider.

On page 69 of the Report, we find that species' recovery efforts
'were slow'because, among other things, "Violators had not been
deterred by strong enforcement and prosecution under the act, and
endangered and threatened species had not been adequately protected."
‘We agree entirely with this statement and with the section, page

89, entitled "Limited prosecution under the 33E." More vigorous
enforcement of the Act through prosecution would unquestionable
assist in deterring violators, and we only wish that more emphasis
had been placed on this essential facet of the work in the Report.

Another aspect of the inadequacy of enforcement is cited on page
88: "In May 1979, FWS officials admitted that they did not know
if FWS special agents were stationed where needed." There is,
of course, a blunter answer to that question: There are not
enough agents enforcing the Endangered Species Act even to begin
to place them Wherever they are needed. YOu will recall, Mr.
Chairman, that in the big fur smuggling case Which I brought to
your attention earlier this year, there was only one Fish and
Wildlife Service agent in the area. He deserves the greatest
credit for having carried the case through to completion.

0n pages 10 and 30, the need for increased staff and funds for
species' status determinations are noted, and the small number
of species which can be listed using the present very limited
staff are given. We hepe the Congress will heed the GAO Report
to make possible needed listings.

Criticism of the adequacy of recovery plans and teams' activities
beginning on page 70 are worthy of attention.

Finally, the section entitled "STATE COOPERATION SHOULD BE INCREASED"
(pages 86-87) deserves attention. It is discouraging to read two
paragraphs under this section (page 87):

Most States received their fish and wildlife matching
funds from the sale of hunting and fishing licenses and
permits and were reluctant to use them on nongame spe-
cies. For example, the State of Nevada's Department of
Fish and Game had a fiscal year 1978 budget of over

 




-5-

$3.5 million, of which only about $4,000 was appro-
priated for endangered species recovery efforts. A
notable exception is the State of California, where
funds from the sale of personalized license plates

are used to support its endangered species program.

***

As of fiscal year 1978, over $1 billion in wildlife
and fish restoration aid had been apportioned to the
States, without Which many would.have had to curtail
game, wildlife, and fish activities. In fiscal year
1978 alone, about $63 million in Wildlife Restoration
Act aid was apportioned to the States. However, only
about $630,000 (1 percent) was requested by the States
for endangered and other nongame species.

It is to be hoped that more states will follow the example cited
of California.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

August 13, 1979

Hon. Cecil Andrus

Secretary of the Interior

U.S. Department of the Interior
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Secretary:

Analysis of the Final Environmental Impact Statement on the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service's "Mammalian Predator Damage
Management for Livestock Protection in the Western United States"
leads to the inescapable conclusion that new blood is needed.
The Service's stubborn insistence on the same methods, most of
which are inhumane, non-selective lethal ones, which the

Animal Damage Control program has been using for long periods of
time with a very limited degree of success and amid mounting'
criticism ﬁpm all segments of the public and the concerned
federal agencies, suggests that hardening of the organizational
arteries has become irreversible. Most flagrant is ADC's
apparent inability to comprehend the basic contradiction between
the President's clear statement on predator management and the
program recommended in the FEIS.

Part of the problem may arise from the fact that the Service

is not well suited to making recommendations on the raising

of livestock. Clearly, a major, if not the major reason,

for the conflict between the grazing of sheep on public lands,
and the co-existence of carnivorous wildlife, is a widespread
desire to turn the sheep loose with as little care as possible.
There are, essentially, no humane standards required of

the owners, not even the provision of adequate food and water, let
alone shelter when that is needed. Huge numbers of sheep and
lambs are left night and day to such care as a single herder
may be able to give.

We believe reasonable standards should be set for humane care
and safe-keeping of livestock grazing on the public lands,

and that the proper agency to undertake this regulation is the
Bureau of Land Management. We suggest that BLM be made the

lead agency in handling the entire problem addressed in the
FEIS. BLM comments showed a better grasp of the total situation
than the FWS speaking through its ADC program managers.

The extreme bias of ADC is well illustrated by the fact that

even though some response was made to the comments submitted

by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, January 12, 1979,
and the FEIS states (page 364) "The entire Alternative section

on public attitude has been revised to more adequately reflect
results of published attitude studies", nevertheless, the very

 




Hon. Cecil Andrus
August 1?, 1979

page 2

words to which we most strongly objected in the draft statement
appear again on page 137 of the final one: "Animal protection

groups are philosophically Opposed to the killing of animals

and are sometimes shocked and angered." I refer you to page

3 of our statement which is attached, documenting the successful work
of animal protection groups for federal humane slaughter

legislation in 1958 and 1978 and these groups' major commitment

to the problem of euthanizing unwanted dogs and cats.

I will not go into extensive detailed notes because the
submission by Defenders of Wildlife dated August 1, 1979,
Volumes I and II, is very thorough, and we subscribe

to these comments. However, I would add a comment on the
reference to the field force on page 153, paragraph 3.

ADC clearly wants to keep the field force busy steadily
throughout the year. This is impossible if the President's
policy statement is accepted. A little empire built on
steady year-round killing of predators is just what must

be done away with. Shifting the responsibility to BLM should
make this possible.

A much smaller and more highly trained group equivalent to that
used by the State of Kansas to remove specific offending predators
is the proper answer to the problem. These same peOple could

well be used to supplemanzthe extremely slow-moving and inadequate
researih being done on painless substitute methods of predator
contro .

Unfortunately, the ADC attitude is insensitive to long-drawn-out
animal suffering. For example, page 91, paragraph 1, "The Service's
policy on frequency of trap visitation is to abide by each
State's requirements If a particular State has not required trap
visitation regulation, the Service's policy is to check traps

as often as possible. This provides great flexibility, as trap
visitation can be adjusted to a variety of conditions such

as weather, or work-load." ADC has opposed state legislation
that would require even 36 hour trap visitation, apparently
putting "flexibility? at the top, and animal pain and terror

at the bottom of its list of priorities. ADC knows of the
extreme suffering caused by trapping. For example (also page 91)
it states,"Foot and leg damage to smaller animals generally
occurs much sooner due to the more fragile bone structure. A11
trapped animals are subject to an indeterminate amount of stress,
In extreme weather conditions, such as heat and extremely dry
weather, animals caught in the open and without benefit of shade
usually succumb in a matter of hours." Yet trapping continues

to be an ADC favorite.

According to a FWS sponsored public opinion survey, the public
desires a high degree of selectivity and humaneness in any lethal
control which may be necessary. 80% of those questioned oppose
the steel trap; 90% oppose the use of poison; the majority oppose
so-called "prophylactic" killing. Indeed, the techniques most
frequently employed by ADC are the least acceptable to the public.

 




Hon Cecil Andrus
«,“"August 13, 1979
page 3

Yet, the FEIS response to criticism of the use of the highly
non-selective leghold trap was to say 30-AO% of the non-target
animals caught in these traps could be released. In FY 1977
this left 67% or 7,206 nontarget animals to be killed by the ADC
program, many of them pets or livestock. The Bureau of Land
Management suggests 582 dogs killed with ADC equipment would
provide a numerical base for starting to calculate the impact
of the program on domestic animals in ADC areas. 'It is no
wonder that BLM found it both "unfortunate and untrue" that
the FEIS stated the ADC program had "no effect at all on
general recreation activity." Many land users will leave an
area entirely rather than expose family and pets to potential
hazards associated with ADC devices such as traps or the M-AA.

In the Presidents Environmental Message to Congress, he said
that the public recognized the important role of predators in
various ecosystems; that "our goal should not be to destroy
them (predators) but to reduce the occasion for their conflict
with livestock;" after which he said use of poisons would be
prohibited and control "should focus on the individual predators
causing the problem- not the species as a whole." The brief
FEIS response is that the current program meets these guidelines.
It does not. The current program's focus is on lethal controls
not non-lethal controls, killing predators before there is a
problem, and non-selective, cruel trapping.

The Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Council on Environmental Duality, and The Bureau

of Land Management have all submitted analyses of the draft and
final statements, and all are seriously and justifiably critical.
Even Interior's own internal audit concluded that'FWS cannot
effectively determine.whether the estimated expenditures of $18
million in fiscal year 1978 had a significant impact on the
prevention of livestock losses by predators in areas where ADC
methods were utilized."

Clearly, it is time for a change. we urge you to respond to the
nearly unanimous vote of no confidence in ADC. Even the livestock
industry is frequently critical of the present program. Essentially,
the half century of killing, largely by slow and painful methods.

has failed to prevent the continuing downward economic trend of

the sheep industry. New management is called for.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens,
Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 5725
BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS,
RESEARCH, AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURE

September 19, 1984

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, I wish to commend the reasoned approach and the
long-term interest you have demonstrated in seeking to limit
the sUffering of laboratory animals. As one of the best
friends of science in the Congress, your efforts should be
crowned with success.

If H.R. 5725 is enacted into law, it will be helpful to
research. The federal Animal Welfare Act, which it amends,
now has the approval of the major biomedical research
organizations as demonstrated by their endorsement of a two-
thirds increase in appr0priations to enforce the Act (1).
Several of these organizations were at the forefront in
fighting passage of the Act in 1966 and its amendments in
1970 and 76, but the fears they then expressed have proved to
be groundless. The same will prove true with your bill, Mr.
Chairman, if vested interests do not succeed in blocking its
passage. The interests I refer to are not scientific; they
are commercial, and they foster illusory fears and play on
prejudice to gain their selfish ends--ends as harmful to the
scientific community as they are to the welfare of animals.
Their rallying cry is: "Studyl"; their aim: to delay, and,
through delay, to defeat the urgently needed H.R. 5725. They
portray needless animal suffering in laboratories as a rarity
and want to pay the National Academy of Sciences to study the
question at length..

Far from being a rarity, the data collected by the Animal
Welfare Institute on enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act *
shows major and repeated "deficiencies" or "alleged
violations" of the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare
Act by 23.7% of the sample of 186 institutions whose
inspection reports and annual reports have so far been
examined. Another 22% have less frequent major violations;
28.5% have only minor ones; 1.6% are under investigation; and
the rest, according to the USDA veterinary inspectors'

*See Appendix A

 




records are abiding by the, and I repeat, minimum standards.
Even these cannot be assumed to be in regular compliance with
the law because some USDA inspectors have been found to have
overlooked serious violations in the past. Indeed USDA'S
Veterinary Services, which administers the Act, has
commendably instituted a policy of double checking on
inspection reports which show few if any observations in
order to ensure that compliance is as uniform as possible.

Thus, even using the most optimistic assumptions, only 24.2%
of registered research facilities are regularly meeting the
existing minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act!

Reading the veterinary inspectors' reports has been an
astonishing experience for me, for though I have visited many
laboratories and observed much needless, purposeless
suffering which is counterproductive to scientific aims, I
would not have guessed that so many renowned institutions
were so oblivious to the duty (to which all give lip service)
to treat laboratory animals decently, that they allow gross
mistreatment to continue unabated or, if corrected under
prodding by USDA inspectors, to recur.

The attached listings specify the level of compliance of 186
institutions. The chart prepared for the 44 in Category I
indicates whether or not the institution is accredited by the
American Association for the Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care, and you will note that many AAALAC-accredited
facilities have major deficiencies, clearly demonstrating the
-National Institutes of Health, position that accreditation
guarantees good animal care and treatment, to be untenable.

The charts further indicate the level of NIH funding in two
consecutive years, and the numbers of dogs, cats, primates,
rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs used in those years. The
number of animals used is higher in 40.9% of the 44
institutions in the second year, demonstrating that the glib
and often repeated statement that the use of animals is just
naturally decreasing.and there is no need of legislative
encouragement in this area to be far from accurate. It is
noteworthy, too, that 77.3% of these severely deficient
institutions were rewarded by an increase in NIH funds in the
second year noted. 22.7% of the 44 used more animals and got
more money from NIH despite their bad record with USDA.

The chart's final column shows the numbers of animals
reported by the institutions to have suffered pain or
distress unrelieved by anesthetic, analgesic, or
tranquilizing drugs. These are decidedly the least reliable
of the figures given since the majority of institutions
decline to admit, in filling out their annual reports that

 




even one animal suffered!* This curious fact is a measure of
the urgent need for enactment of H.R. 5725. Whether the
person who fills out an institution's annual report is
deliberately misstating the amount of unrelieved animal
suffering or is simply blind to it, matters little. The
animals are needlessly suffering, and legislation is
essential to prevent it.

Such legislation has been widely adopted by countries where
laboratory animals are used extensively. Indeed, the only
major exceptions to this general rule are Russia and

Japan, countries in which animal protective legislation of
any kind is almost non-existent. National pride alone should
spur us to bring our standards up to those of the Western
EurOpean democracies which have (and mainly have had for 20
years or more) legislation aimed at pain-reduction for
laboratory animals: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal
Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom.

Scientific endeavor experienced no setbacks as the result of
these laws. Scientists have never sought their repeal.

To illustrate the need for enactment of H.R. 5725 eight video
sequences shot in six-different institutions have been
produced by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
from footage taken by the Lifeforce Foundation. We will be
happy to show this three—minute tape to Members, staff and
others who wish to view them. I include herewith a brief
description of each example and the relevant provision of the

' bill.

VIDEO SEQUENCES ILLUSTRATING NEED FOR
SEVEN DIFFERENT PROVISIONS OF H.R. 5725

All the laboratory animals in these sequences are alone and
unattended.

1. This pup may injure itself on the dangerous piece of
lobse metal projecting from the much gnawed whelping box, an
example of negligence which the ' ' '
Researchﬂcmmitteeiinslndinganublicmembertormesent
communitymcernsforthewelfareoftheanimalsubjectsl

*For example, the USDA veterinarian inspecting Washington
University in St. Louis wrote, 4/22/82, "A sick kitten was
observed which was not under the care of a veterinarian [a
deficiency in itself]. Blood from rectwm and paresis of rear
limb. No pain or distress report on file as prescribed by
Section 2.28(4) of this regulation."

Page 3

 




2. This dog, used in a bone fracture experiment, has
chewed through the bandage and bitten his own skin. Although
observed by the animal caretaker, no action to replace the
dirty and half destroyed bandage has been taken. The bill
requires restzcneratiye care in accordance with established
medical and nursing preceduresr

3. This dog is suffering unbearable pain and bleeding
heavily following heart surgery. Clearly the necessary
analgesics have not been administered. The bill preyides
that nainzrelieying.drugs cr euthanasia may.nct he
unnecessarily uithheld frcm suffering animalsr

4. After having their eyelids sewn shut, these cats are
disoriented. They are hungry and thirsty because their food
and water bowls were not attached andthus were easily
spilled. The cats are in great distress. The bill prelideﬁ
fer lahcratcry nerscnnel tc repcrt yiclaticns cf the
.standards tc the.instituticnal ccmmittee and nrctects them
frcm discriminaticn fer such.rercrtingr

5. Monkeys in restraining chairs may be kept there for
weeks or months, though tethering devices which allow
regulated administration of drugs can be substituted in many
cases for monkey Chairs. {An lnfermatien Seryiee at the

6. Picking at his wounds, with blood running down from
the side of his head where the brain surgery and implanted
electrodes leave his skull open, this monkey is in danger of
develOping major and possibly lethal infection. .yeterinary

as required by the hillr annears.tc he absentr

7. Primates are chained and a pole is used to force
them into the restraint device. Fighting against his chain,
this monkey may break his teeth. Ihe hill.prcyides fcr
instructicn in the humane practice cf animal maintenancer

8. In a convulsion caused by the experiment but
observed by no experimenter, this primate suffers without
relief The bill requires that in any practice inyclying

mtc unanesthetized animalsr a Dcctcr cf yeterinary
Medicine he ccnsulted in the planningr and that yithhclding
tranquilizersr anesthesiar analgesiar cr euthanasia when
scientifically necessary shall ccntinue nc lender than
necessaryr

For anyone who 1) has a strong stomach and 2) is not
convinced of the urgent need for enactment of H.R. 5725, I
also recommend viewing videotapes taken by scientists of the
University of Pennsylvania Head Injury Clinical Research

Page 4

 




Center of themselves and their experimental subjects.

Because the original tapes were stolen from the laboratory by
a group called the Animal Liberation Front, copies are not
being shown in the House of Representatives. People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals has a half-hour of excerpts from
a c0py of the 60-hour long tapes which can be viewed by all
interested persons.

In looking at this half-hour, I noted numerous graphic
illustrations of needless suffering which could have been
prevented by the legislation. Selecting seven sequences, I
wrote corresponding citations of the bill's provisions, and
this material follows. The relevance to the bill is given in
all capitals, the experimenters' remarks in lower case.

I should state that the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation does not endorse the theft of the tapes. After
consultation with counsel, we find that it is not illegal to
show and view these copies of the incriminating evidence.
Excerpts have already been widely viewedon television. We
believe an examination of them will be of value to the
Congress in understanding why there is such vehement and
constantly increasing dissatisfaction with imprOper conduct
of animal experimentation, as vividly documented in these
tapes. And it is especially relevant to Congress since it
shows so clearly the waste of government money.

SEQHBBQE I

THE HEAD INJURY CLINICAL RESEARCH CENTER OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF PENNSYLVANIA RECEIVED NEARLY A MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH IN 1983.

THE BROWN BILL WOULD PREVENT DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
PERSONNEL WHO REPORT ANIMAL MISTREATMENT TO THE
INSTITUTION'S ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE SO THAT
CORRECTIONS CAN BE MADE WITHOUT ADVERSE PUBLICITY.

THIS BABOON IS UNDERGOING SURGERY WITHOUT ADEQUATE
ANESTHESIA. NOTE THE ANIMAL RAISING HIS TAIL. THIS IS
CRUEL ON-THE-JOB LEARNING. NOTE ONE EXPERIMENTER
HOLDING DOWN THE BABOON'S LEE.

*(a) Oh! He's lifting his head!

Come on, baby!

(b) I better get some nitrous. [nitrous oxide, an
anesthetic agent]

(a) StOp! st0p, for heaven's sake. He wants to get up.
He says I've had it. It hurts him, for Christ's sake.
All you got to do is make a little slit in the
periosteum and and push it back.

(b) Ya, but it bleeds.

*Two experimenters talking are indicated by (a) and (b)

Page 5

 




(a) You got to do something to control the bleeding.
That's what the bovie is for...Not there, There!

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES TRAINING SESSIONS FOR SCIENTISTS
AND TECHNICIANS IN METHODS TO LIMIT ANIMAL PAIN AND
DISTRESS. IT REQUIRES THE USE OF PAIN RELIEVING DRUGS T0
MINIMIZE SUCH PAIN. IT PROVIDES FOR AN INFORMATION
SERVICE ON IMPROVED METHODS SUCH AS ANESTHETIC AND
ANALGESIC PROCEDURES.

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT PAIN RELIEVING DRUGS NEVER
BE WITHHELD LONGER THAN NECESSARY.

Sequence II
THIS BABOON IS ABOUT TO BE SUBJECTED TO HIS SECOND INJURY

(a) This is monkey B 9. The monkey now weighs 8.8
kilos. The animal is down for a second lateral bang.
That's him waving. As you can see, the monkey's awake,
moving all extremities. That's his trainer who's taught
him how to do those tricks. The animal is mounted in a
helmet. He is monitored for ICP, EKG, EEG, blood
pressure etcetera. The animal is to be thrust in the
lateral position to become a chronic animal, uh, for
long term studies.

(b) You might want to mention the monkey's already been
banged once.

(a) I said that, a second bang.

(b) Did you say that?

(a) This is his second bang. He was banged once at

680 9 force and quickly recovered. Cheer leading over
in the corner we have B 10. B 10 wishes his counterpart
well. As you can see, B 10 is alive. B 10 is watching
and hOping for a good result for future B 17 over here.

Sequence III

REMOVAL OF THE HELMET APPEARS TO BE AN OCCASION FOR
MERRIMENT

(a) Change his name, and we'll call him "Slim." We
could run a diet service, bring 'em in slam 'em,

put 'em to bed. (hammering and laughter) Thibault's
weight reduction clinic.

THE HELMET WHICH IS CEMENTED TO THE BABOON'S HEAD WITH
DENTAL CEMENT IS BEING HAMMERED WITH A CARPENTER'S
HAMMER AND SCREW DRIVER TO BREAK IT APART.

(a) We don't know where to put ‘em. This guy's waking

up. Conceivably we will come in and they'll be running
around the lab. He's moving! He's moving! He has this

Page 6

 




TABLE, HOLDING A CIGARETTE WITH A LONG ASH IN HIS MOUTH.

(more smoking)

THE BROWN BILL PROVIDES THAT A FEDERAL AGENCY SUSPEND OR
REVOKE SUPPORT FOR A PROJECT IF ANIMAL CARE, TREATMENT
OR PRACTICES HAVE NOT BEEN IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE
STANDARDS. THE NIH GUIDE WAS REPEATEDLY VIOLATED IN

' THIS NONSTERILE SURGERY.

Sequence.¥l

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT A VETERINARIAN BE CONSULTED
IN THE PLANNING OF ANY PROCEDURE INVOLVING PAIN TO
UNANESTHETIZED ANIMALS. NOTE THE BABOON PULLING AGAINST
THE BONDS ON HIS LEGS AND SWITCHING HIS TAIL AS THE
MACHINE ADMINISTERS THE POWERFUL FORCE.

Seguense.¥ll

(a) Come on, monkey, hang in there just a little
longer, baby!

A DYING BABOON IS ATTENDED ONLY BY A STUDENT WHO CURSES
"THE PROBLEM" BUT CANNOT DEAL WITH IT. THE BROWN BILL
REQUIRES POST-SURGICAL CARE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
MEDICAL AND NURSING PROCEDURES.

It is regrettable indeed that spokesmen for the University of
Pennsylvania asserted publicly (2) that the baboons were
anesthetized and felt no pain. These statements show
remarkably poor judgment inasmuch as: l) The videotape
clearly shows a baboon undergoing head surgery with
inadequate anesthesia (see above, "It hurts him for Christ's
sake”); and 2) The NIH protocol (3) for the grant states
that the general anesthetic is allowed to wear off for a full
hour before the massive injury is inflicted. Line 1, page
193 of the grant application reads, "Through the endotracheal
tube the animal spontaneously ventilates 70-80% nitrous oxide
anesthesia until 1 hour before acceleration after which it
breathes room air."‘

To cap it all, the University of Pennsylvania claims in its
annual report to the U. S. Department of Agriculture that it
caused no unrelieved pain to animals!

As bad as the misrepresentation is, even more serious is the
fact that scientific results obtained with that kind of
mistreatment of animals can't be depended upon because of the
way the experiments are carried out. Following are the
figures for the past four years of grants from the National
Institutes of Health to the Head Injury Clinical Research
Center of the University of Pennsylvania: 1980, $ 955,593;
1981, $ 841,537; 1982, $ 886,334; 1983, $ 969,571.

Page 8

 




Fine words can no longer convince the public that laboratory
animals live pain—free lives. The scientific community would
be wise to embrace the moderate bill, H.R. 5725, and
encourage its thorough enforcement to prevent the needless
animal pain and distress that dishonors otherwise reputable
institutions.

Occasionally an opponent of the bill will attack the very
concept of pain, alleging that it cannot be defined. A clear
and useful definition made by Professor Patrick D. Wall
states, "Pain in animals is manifested by abnormal behavior
which can be alleviated by analgesic procedures which relieve
pain in humans." The international journal Pain gives this
definition of severe pain: "Severe pain in animals is pain
produced by procedures to which normal humans would not
voluntarily submit without apprOpriate analgesia or
anesthesia." Dr. A. Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of
the Royal College of Surgeons of England, testified at
Congressional hearings on laboratory animal legislation in
1965, "Fear is the psychological equivalent of pain." Both
must be avoided to the greatest possible extent,
psychological distress being as serious as physical pain.

I was interested to learn that "learned helplessness"
experiments, a state of pathological inability to act as a
result of inescapable pain, have never been conducted in
Britain, nor is there any indication that they were ever
proposed. A review of the literature in other countries
describes dogs subjected to intense inescapable electrical
shock (including a series of 64 painful shocks in two hours
while suspended in a harness) as follows: ”They stopped
running and sat or lay down quietly whining." The paper
concludes that "This relatively simple hypothesis has been
supplanted by a more complicated formulation" and that
"Investigators of human helplessness . . . have become
increasingly disenchanted with the adequacy of theoretical
constructs originating in animal helplessness for
understanding helplessness in humans." Nevertheless, we are
told that "In the long run it is probably better to have
compared and erred, than never to have compared at all.”
(Frommmﬁﬁhﬂliﬂ: WMWW.
edited by D. W. Rajecki (Lawrence Erlbawm Associates,
Hillsdale, NJ, London, 1983).

The amount of pain and fear to which many dogs were subjected
for the past 17 years only to find that investigators are
"increasingly disenchanted" with the relevance of the results
to humans, is not mentioned in the review of the subject.

Whether or not more humane alternatives were considered by
one or more of the investigators cited is not possible to
say. But it is of fundamental importance that such
consideration be given by principal investigators when they

Page 9

 




are deve10ping their ideas. The provision in H.R. 5725 is
mild. It simply requires that the principal investigator
Consider alternatives to any procedure likely to produce pain
or distress in an experimental animal. The institution must
provide an assurance demonstrating that he has done so.

Completely non-authoritarian, this provision would bring to
fertile scientific brains the concept of humane planning of
experiments. Asking a young experimental surgeon, who was
showing me around a room containing horribly emaciated and
cringing dogs, whether he tried to plan experiments humanely,
he responded with obvious surprise, "I never thought of
that."

If H.R. 5725 were law, the need to think before starting
would be established.

H.R. 5725 would not prevent all pain to animals. Rather it
would prevent avoidable pain and pain that can be relieved by
drugs and other methods. The principal investigator would
retain every privilege he now holds with respect to the
design of his experiment. To comply with the law, he would
consider alternatives to any painful experiment. The
Information Service at the National Agricultural Library in
cooPeration with the National Library of Medicine would
provide him with updated information on substitutes for
laboratory animals, ways of limiting their numbers to those
strictly necessary, and the best ways of preventing pain and
distress. He would report to the institution's Animal
Research Committee any changes in his work which would
adversely affect the welfare of the animals. He would
consult with a veterinarian before performing an experiment
which could cause pain in order to ascertain the best methods
of avoiding it. The semi-annual inspections by the committee
would assist the U. S. Department of Agriculture in
maintaining good standards.

This bill is the product of years of work, consulting
representatives of scientific and animal welfare
organizations. The process began in 1982 with a series of
five four-hour long meetings including the American
Physiological Society, American Psychological Association,
Association of American Medical Colleges, National Society
for Medical Research, Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, Humane Society of the United States, American
Humane Association and People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals, among others. The process continued resulting in S.
657 authored by Senator Robert Dole (R.KS) and, after
hearings July 20, 1983, additional work based on testimony
presented was undertaken. Many of the groups who asked for
changes have expressed appreciation of new phraseology in
H.R. 5725 yet still further suggestions continue to be made.
I would like to take this opportunity to make two suggestions
designed to increase scientific support for the bill.

Page 10

 




Page 6, line 18 add "and shall concern themselves with the
welfare of the animal subjects." This would give the
scientific members a mandate on animal welfare supplementing
the vitally important directive to the "outside" member who
"shall be responsible for representing community concerns
regarding the welfare of animal subjects." These 13 words
are central to the effectiveness of the bill.

The National Institutes of Health's proposed principles (4)
include an outside member, but they lack these essential
words which are needed by the laboratory animals and the
scientific community alike.

Until genuine efforts are made by all registered research
facilities to put an end to the massive abuses and waste of
funds in questionable research results obtained with
neglected, diseased, suffering or otherwise unsuitable animal
subjects, more and more damaging disclosures will continue to
be made concerning the needless suffering of these animals.
There is just one effective way to StOp this rapidly growing
trend: support H.R. 5725. Get it passed; and instruct all
personnel to obey it, thus ensuring that laboratory animals
are decently treated. Then the outside member charged with
representing community concerns for the welfare of the animal
subjects will be able to state honestly that the concerns
have been met. The key 13 words, together with the pain
preventing provisions supply the means to accomplish the goal
which all concerned would like to see: an end to needless
pain in animal laboratories.

The second suggestion is to move the sentence beginning "The
Secretary" line 11, page 4 to follow line 4 on the same page.
The purpose is to clarify the meaning. Further clarification
could be achieved by re—ordering the words in the sentence
(line 12) to read "promulgate research facility standards"
rather than "standards for research facilities.~

The U.S. Department of Agriculture objected at hearings on

S. 657 to use of the adjective "prOper" to modify the
standards. In H.R. 5725 no adjective is used, but I
understand that USDA wants to retain the word "minimum."

This would be unwise because the word has been interpreted in
a most deleterious way especially by dog dealers. To give an
example, a dealer argued that because the standards are
"minimum" it would be quite all right to use bits of old
tires as watering vessels for the dogs. "Minimum" really
means to everyone who wants to justify cutting corners that
"anything goes." The word itself has contributed to the
difficulty experienced in getting full enforcement of the
Animal Welfare Act. We urge that it be drOpped, as wisely
done in H.R. 5725.

USDA also asks for guidance on the addition to the standards

Page 11

 




of exercise for laboratory dogs. The basic intent is that
where dogs are caged, they be released at least daily from
their cages. Some institutions release them to an outside
runway. Others simply let them run around the room while the
cages are being cleaned. In some cases a hallway can be used
as an exercise area, or an inside pen can be used. If dogs
are housed in pens or kennel-runways they do not need to be
moved at all. The Subcommittee may wish to include report
language for the guidance of USDA in rule making on this
matter.

As recognized by a growing number of research facilities,
dogs evolved as pack animals running long distances to
capture prey. A cage cannot even begin to meet this species'
behavioral needs. The Animal Welfare Institute publishes a
manual Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals which is
made available free on request to scientific institutions.

It contains many different photographs of acceptable
provision for housing dogs and other laboratory animals for
the guidance of scientists and regulators alike.

USDA also questions the requirement that its veterinary
inspectors visit the animal laboratories of other federal
agencies to enforce the standards. We believe this would
have a highly beneficial result, because although the
existing law requires all agencies to adhere to the standards
established by the Secretary of Agriculture, there is no
means of ensuring that this actually happens. This is the
only part of the bill which would require any increased
funding - the cost of sending representatives of Veterinary
Services to the different sites. In our opinion this would
be well worth the expenditure. We urge retention of the
provision.

OPPONENTS WITH A.VESTED INTEREST

The Association for Biomedical Research is a trade
organization, founded by Charles River Breeding Laboratories,
a multi—national, multi-million dollar business which
recently become a part of Bausch and Lomb, the big Optical
company.

To give an idea of the size of the funds involved, I quote
The Eoston Globe, November 24, 1983: "Charles River had
about $45 million in sales during the last 12 months and
earnings of $6.2 million.... Bausch & Lomb, based in
Rochester, NY, is nearly 13 times the size of Charles
River....Dr. Henry L. Foster, the founder and president of
Charles River, owns 29 percent of the company's stock which
would be worth about $37.8 million if the deal goes through."
It did.

How were these huge profits made? The answer is simple; by
skillful and unrelenting promotion of the sale of the maximum

Page 12

 




 

  

  

numbers of animals to scientific institutions. Even animals
as small and inexpensive as white mice can turn a fat profit
if they are produced by the tens of millions and marketed
with full page ads in every issue of the right journals.
Monkeys, of course, bring far higher prices, and Charles
River trwmpets their ready availability in ads which, since
Bausch and Lomb took the company over are not only full page
but full color, too. "Don't put your research on hold,"
scientists are advised “Link up with a primate that means
quality. Our cyno. Or any of our other 10 commonly used
species.”

Readers would never guess that all primates are either on
Appendix I or II of the Convention on International Trade on
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (endangered, or
threatened with extinction). Most are wild caught.

The more animals used, the larger the profits for Charles
River/Bausch & Lomb. As founder of the biggest laboratory
animal business in the world, Henry L. Foster was quoted in
The Hall ELLESL ILQDSQLipt, 5/21/78, "...if you read the
papers, everything seems to have carcinogenic effects. But
that means more animal testing which means growth for Charles
River....Just let me take a few more minutes to read you a
list that rather excites us....All these companies are
building [testing facilities]. So you can see why we
continue to be enthused and excited.“

In the course of developing even more massive animal sales
worldwide, Charles River boasts ”a triumph for good breeding“
of its animals, but when.Ih£ New XQLK limes (5) reported that
about 1,000 experiments had been thrown off when Charles
River's BALB/c mice turned out to have been genetically
contaminated the company barely turned a whisker. A lawsuit
by cancer reseacher Brenda Kahan, of the University of
Wisconsin, charged that Charles River "deliberately did not
notify its customers" or failed to perform the necessary
tests was settled out of court, and the question asked by
Alvin Warfel (6) "If they can't guarantee they're selling
BALB/c mice when they say they are, why are they in
business?" was never answered.

The National Institutes of Health is a big and steady
customer of Charles River. In 1983 alone NIH had eight
contracts with the company for a total of $3,571,407. The
Science article, "Scientist Sues Over Genetically Impure
Mice," raised more questions than it answered about NIH's
role. Certainly there were no alarm signals sent out by NIH
that were loud or clear enough to alert Dr. Kahan that she
had the wrong mice when she was conducting cancer research
which depended on their genetic purity. Had there been, the
wasted research, wasted government funds, and purposeless
animal usage would have been prevented.

 

Page 13

 

 

   

   
   




Frankie Trull, the Executive Director of the Foundation for
Biomedical Research as well as the Association for Biomedical
Research, works closely with NIH, organizing panels on which
both the present and past directors of NIH appear, and, in
turn, speaking on NIH panels.

ABR and NIH have worked hard to convince the Congress that
H.R. 5725 and S. 657 should not be passed before an 18-month
study is undertaken by the National Academy of Sciences and
reported on - in other words, until two more Congresses have
run their course. This time-honored way of killing mandatory
legislation was acknowledged by Ms. Trull in a presentation
January 31, 1984 at the Health Sciences Center of the
University of Illinois, Open to all faculty, staff, and
students where she noted, "Now we are criticized for being
strong pr0ponents of study legislation by animal welfare
organizations who say this is a stalling tactic. Well, I
mean, you know, none of us was born yesterday. The fact of
the matter is that, in some ways, it is a stalling tactic,"
a few minutes later she remarked, "The party line is that
most scientific associations Oppose the Dole bill.” (S. 657)

It is understandable that a trade association, whose founding
member depends for the continuation of its commercial
expansion on the purchase of the largest possible numbers of
laboratory animals, should fight legislation that calls upon
investigators to consider alternatives which could reduce
numbers of animals or replace them. It is far less easy to
understand why scientific organizations should follow ABR's
"party line." It is not to their best interest to do so.
They are not making money selling animals. On the contrary,
scientists should have an enlightened self-interest in using
the smallest numbers of animals possible and treating them as
humanely as possible.

I personally regret the necessity to bring to public
attention the massive neglect and mistreatment of animals by
research facilities in order to demonstrate the urgent need
for enactment of H.R. 5725. It would be far preferable for
the scientific community as a whole to support H.R. 5725.
The longer scientists allow lobbyists to fight this modest
humane bill on their behalf, the more widespread will public
knowledge of laboratory animal suffering become.

Some scientists may have been led to believe that NIH will
take care of the problem. It is important that the Congress
know that NIH alone is incapable of dealing with it. While
we welcome any improvement in NIH's Guide an in: Care and Use
Q£.Animéls, and in the principles recently put forth by NIH
(we submitted testimony on both), this activity not only
lacks the necessary legal force but, more seriously, lacks
any practical means of enforcing the recommendations and
principles. As NIH itself emphasizes, it does not want to be
a policeman. That task has been properly assigned by the

Page 14

 




Congress to USDA regulatory veterinarians.

FARM ANIMALS ARE EXEMPT

As an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, H.R. 5725 is
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture. Agricultural
interest$should be especially pleased by this fact, and
indeed the majority are. Regrettably, others, though totally
exempt from the bill's requirements, nevertheless oppose its
enactment. They do a distinct disservice to the farmers who
are their constituency by Opposing a much needed humane bill
which farmers as individuals would take no interest in

opposing.

H.R. 5725, specifically exempts farm animals because it
amends the Animal Welfare Act which excludes from the
definition of the term "animal" ”horses not used for research
purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited

to, livestock or poultry, used or intended for use as food or
fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for improving
animal nutrition, breeding, management or production
efficiency, or for improving the quality of food or fiber."

This exemption has been in place for years and though this is
the third time amendments to the Act have been prOposed
(amendments were passed in 1970 and 1976) no change has ever
been proposed to the exemption. The Act focuses on
biomedical research and testing laboratories, their animal
suppliers, and the transportation of these animals and other
dogs, cats and wildlife exhibited in zoos and circuses.

ENFORCEMENT OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT

As demonstrated in the findings from USDA inspection reports
on the 186 institutions referred to earlier, a great deal of
necessary work has been conducted by Veterinary Services in
seeking correction of deficiencies and alleged violations of
the Animal Welfare Act. The difficulties experienced by
inspectors in many instances in obtaining compliance are
reflected in these reports.

Large institutions receiving tens of millions of dollars each
year from NIH often brush off the veterinary inspectors'
efforts to persuade them to correct abuses as required by the
Animal Welfare Act. Persistent visits and revisits, and the
statement that a legal case will be filed if the institution
continues its irresponsible course are frequently necessary.

Basically, the problem stems from poor work by the Office of
General Counsel where many a case has waited for months or
even years for action. Often the legal work, when finally
accomplished, is inferior and fails in its purpose. OGC
should provide the deterrent which would ease the inspectors'
task throughout the country. We strongly recommend that this

Page 15

 




distinguished subcommittee demand that OGC give the Animal
Welfare Act high priority and carry through effectively on
cases. The current and past failure to do so results in
needless waste of government funds when inSpectors are forced
to make repeated visits to obtain compliance. In the
meantime, animals may suffer, sicken, and die for lack of
compliance with the minimum standards. Veterinary Service's
classification of both major and minor deficiencies is
attached (Appendix A). Note number 2 in the "major"
classification: "Excessive fecal buildup to the point where
it appears that weeks or even months have transpired since
the last cleaning.” It is unpleasant to realize the
University of Rochester fell into that category: 7/20/82
"Primates in Room B-7573B are being kept in cages which have
not been sanitized for over six (6) weeks. (Since 6/1/82)“.

Further excerpts from inspection reports are given in a
summary which I would submit for the hearings record.

Based on our observations of USDA enforcement activity

from the time of the bill's passage in 1966 till today, the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation makes the following
recommendations:

1) Although inspection is better today than it has ever
been, considerable improvement is still required to bring it
up to uniformly high standards. The Subcommittee should ask
for regular reports on the measures taken by Veterinary
Services to make the program effective.

At a minimum such a program should include a) training
sessions, b) methods of rewarding good and discouraging poor
enforcement by all personnel, c) Prompt reporting of
deficiencies found in all federally funded institutions to
the funding body (The Memorandwm of Understanding instituted
for flow of information among NIH, USDA and FDA seems to lack
urgency in execution. Thus NIH peer review panels are
generally unaware of the findings of the USDA veterinary
inspectors even when animal welfare standards are grossly
neglected).

2) The Subcommittee should ask for a full report by the
Office of General Counsel on its preparation and handling of
cases under the Animal Welfare Act, and direct OGC to seek
deterrent action so the law can no longer be disregarded with
impunity as has often been the case during the past 18 years.

3) The Subcommittee should make clear to the Secretary of
Agriculture that any shifting of funds away form the Animal
Welfare Act for other purposes will not be tolerated in the
future.

4) The Subcommittee should urge the Secretary to increase
the number of Animal Care Specialists so that laboratory

Page 16

 




inspections are not neglected when animal disease emergences
take priority among the general inspectors.

*********************************

.References

(1) American Association of Biological Sciences, testimony
before the Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations,
representing: American Society of Cell Biology, Association
of American Medical Colleges, Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology, National Foundation for
Infectious Diseases, National Society for Medical Research,
and the Public and Scientific Affairs Board of the American
Society for Microbiology.

(2) Bennett, Susan, and Price, Debbie M., "Animal Rights
Unit Claims Penn Raid," Philadelphia Daily News, May 30,
1984.

(3) National Institutes of Health grant, "Head Injury
Clinical Research Center,“ Number NS 08803-13.

(4) ' Proposed Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care
and Use of Animals by Awardee Institutions."

(5) Boffey, Philip M., ”The Mouse Mix-up", nmm_19rk mines,
July 27, 1982.

(6) "Scientist Sues Over Genetically Impure Mice“, by
Jeffrey L. Fox, Science. (Vol. 221, August 21, 1983).

 




APPENDIX A

Through the Freedom of Information Act U.S. Department of
Agriculture veterinary inspectors reports were requested for
186 randomly selected research institutions. Those 186
institutions are listed in Categories 1, II, III, FV, or V
according to the data found in the inspection reports.

Category 1 consists of 44 institutions that had major and
repeated major or minor deficiencies.

Catﬁgnxx 11 consists of 41 institutions with less numerous
but still major and/or repeated major or minor deficiencies.

Catﬁgnxx Ill consists of 3 institutions for which inspection
reports were exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552
(b)(7)(a) which allows the Agency to withhold investigatory
records compiled for law enforcement purposes if their
disclosure could interfere with enforcement proceedings.

Category.ly consists of 53 institutions with minor
deficiencies.

Qatgggly Y consiSts of 45 institutions with no deficiencies
reported.

Page 1

 




  

 

 

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE VETERINARY SERVICES NOTICE

A. H' E E' . .

These are deficiencies of the standards or regulations which,
due to their nature, would not pose a direct or immediate
safety or health hazard to the animals involved. They also
include those deficiencies which could potentially pose a
safety or health hazard but, on the inspection date, are not
observed in a severe or acute state. Examples include:

1. Inadequate records or animal identification.

2. Small clumps of weeds which border outdoor primary
enclosure in which, however, no signs of pests are
present.

3. Fecal buildup of no more than 2 days' duration.

4. Watering receptacles which appear not to have been
cleaned and sanitized within the previous 2 weeks.

5. Primary enclosures which contain a few loose wires.

B.Maj_ornefi_ci_enci_es

These are deficiencies of the standard or regulations which,
due to their nature, would usually constitute a health or
safety hazard to the animals involved. They also include
those deficiencies which, due to continuing neglect or
advanced state of deterioration, constitute a safety or
health hazard on the inspection date. Examples include:

1. Animals in obvious need of veterinary care.

2. Excessive fecal buildup to the point where it appears
that weeks or even months have transpired since the
last cleaning.

3. Primary enclosures and surrounding areas show evidence
of dead rats, rat feces, rat holes, and other
indications of major pest infestation.

4. Primary enclosures in an advanced state of structural
disrepair, even to the point that it is possible for
the caged animals to escape, or for outside animals or
predators to enter, or where the caged animals can
seriously injure themselves.

5. Indoor housing facilities with little or no
ventilation, possibly to the point that the
overpowering odors and ammonia scent are disagreeable
to the inspector's well—being.

6. Vermin infested feed.

Lack of feed and water.

 




Major and repeated major or minor deficiencies

CATEGORY I

 

RESEARCH INSTITUTION

AAALAC
ACCREDITED

YEAR

NIH
GRANTS $

# 0F

ANIMALS

 

CATS

GUINEA
PIGS

HAMSTERS

RABBITS

f
PRIMATES

INCREASE
IN # 0F
ANIMALS

PAINFUL EXPERI-
MENTS WITHOUT
PAIN RELIEVINC *
DRUGS - 1983 **

 

Arizona State Univ.

1982

803.637

55

19

427

246

 

1983

742,111

13

30

537

320

 

University of Arizona

1982

13,719,002

322

960

1406

1469

 

1983

14,120,949

298

774

1247

2618

 

Syntex (USA) Inc. CA

1982

545

3662

1161

1950

 

1983

454

5066

1554

1795

260 dogs, 1260 g.
pigs, 871 rabbits,
115 primates

 

Colorado State Univ.

1982

3,271,966

407

225

185

188

 

1983

4,034,333

289

659

20

389

0

 

Elars Bio
Research Labs, C0

1982

176

1012

 

1983

1

112.

2618

“18636

1269

 

Univ. of Colorado

X

Med. School

11982

21,781,483

265

327

157

2834

 

1983

24,530,507

303

454

278

3283

21 primates

 

Yale University, CT

X

Sch. of Med.

1982

51,142,691

465

2929

2134

3379

 

1983

57,745,597

300

2953

1046

3202

 

Howard Univ., D.C.

X

Col. of Med.

1982

4,841,231.

187

81

238

215

 

1983

6,173,549

144

275

377

103

 

"Univ. of Florida
at Gainesville

 

[ Vet.Med., J.H. Mil

{Schs of Med,
Dent, Pharm,
1er Hlth Ctr.

1982

12,115,513

639

505

1973

1895

 

1983

13,432,365

409

577

363

1397

 

Univ. of Miami , FL

1982

14,459,339

256

299

162

1837

 

1983

14,620,941

280

285

133

1712

 

Emory University, CA

1982

14,329,952

218

277

125

2602

 

1983

16,882,497

55

363

631

 

University of Georgia

 

 

X

 

Med. Coll.
of GA

1982

8,306,329

414

498

44076

5446

 

1983

 

 

8,574,835

 

 

359

 

392,

 

19406

 

4655

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




CATEGORY 1 COUtLJUEd

 

PAINFUL EXPERI-

# OF ANIMALS _ INCREASE MENTS WITHOUT
AAALAC NIH GUINEA IN # OF PAIN RELIEVING *
RESEARCH INSTITUTION ACCREDITED GRANTS $ CATS PIGS HAMSTERS RABBITS PRIMATES ANIMALS DRUGS - 1983 *fj

University of Hawaii X 4,575,195 370 258 2298 i 456 105
until 1984 5.370.782 293 416‘ 2400 275 51

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hektoen Inst. for Med. 99,293 22 3O — 150 30
Research, IL - 33 30 25 420 5

L

 

 

University of Chicago, 31,399,137 25 505, 1438 63 primates
IL 36,816,448 60 266 65 1432

L

 

 

Purdue University., IN x 9,094,043+ 8 291 773 13 g. pigs
Pharmacy 9,287,881+ 18 291 313 -
Sch.

 

Louisiana State Univ., * X 4, 9,842,611 649 1942

LA Med. Ctr.& 10,605,223 2195
Vet. Med.

Johns Hopkins Univ.,MD X , 51,127,460 76 4620 3 rabbits
Medical , 60,673,430 2' 5287
Insts. '

 

 

 

 

-_

 

University of Maryland SChS Of Med. 15,862,279 294

 

Dent. beg.
A '83-'84

Beth Israel Hospital,MA X 6,447,629 _ 912

7,174,350 1017

13,833,139 1037

 

 

 

Harvard University , MA Med,Dent,P. 55,627,121 1561

Hlth. Sghs,
lAn.Res.&Primate Ctrs 58’142’371 1273

Tufts New England Med. X 1,314,747 958
Ctr.,MA 743,573 1285

 

 

 

 

 

University of Mass., 6,556,969 736
at Worcester 8,951,435 - 753

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A

 




1 conti ued

 

RESEARCH INSTITUTION

AAALAC
ACCREDITED

NIH
GRANTS $

# 0F ANIMALS

 

GUINEA
CATS PIGS

HAMSTERS

RABBITS

PRIMATES

INCREASE
IN # OF
ANIMALS

PAINFUL EXPERI-
MENTS WITHOUT
PAIN RELIEVING *
DRUGS - 1983 **

 

Warner-Lambert7Park-
Davis, MI

9 ,_6421

64

519

94

 

8 ‘11741

3202

146

70 g.pigs

 

Univ. of Minnesota

Duluth Med.

Coll.

41,060,675

1923

4088

34

 

40,860,135

1421

2527

89

7 dogs

 

Univ. of Mississippi

4,382,482

199

921

76

 

4,259,155

358

899

81

 

Washington University,
MO

39,111,960

1952

4191

111

 

42,895,879

1560

5107

A

159

 

Rutgers, The State Univ
NJ '

8,644,703

1881

1332

29

 

9,898,731

1391

236

21

 

Cornell University,NY
at Ithaca

NY State
0011. of
Vet. Med.

10,882,713

272

548

11

 

13,488,271

181

810

10

 

wNew York University,NY

25,401,805

967

1010

 

32,559,848

880

448

 

State Univ. of NY at
Downstate Med. Ctr.

6,014,228

352

476

 

6,675,186

249

449

 

State Univ. of NY
at Stony Brook

1

X

Hlth. Sci.
Ctr.

11,759,599

211

337

 

13,303,972

368

 

Univ. of Rochester,
NY

X
Sch.0f Med.
and Dent.

25,991,504

505

 

31,195,681

595

3 cats, 1 rabbit,
5 primates

 

Duke University, NC

X

34,749,791

2351

 

39,206,042

1975

219 g.pigs, 20
rabbits

 

 

 

Univ. of NC ,
at Chapel Hill

 

X
Sch.of Med.
and Dent.

26,627,702

1914

 

 

 

27,914,081

 

 

 

 

 

 

2088

 

 

 

48 dogs, 12 cats.
15 primates

 

 

 




1

cont

ued

 

 

RESEARCH INSTITUTION

 

AAALAC
ACCREDITED

YEAR

NIH

GRANTS 3

# OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

CATS

 

GUINEA
PIGS

 

RABBITS

PRIMATES

INCREASE
IN # OF
ANIMALS

PAINFUL EXPERI-
MENTS WITHOUT
PAIN RELIEVING
DRUGS - 1983

'k
*9:

 

 

 

 

HAMSTERS

 

 

 

 

Case Western Reserve
Univ., OH

1982

22,809,820

728

434

879

1255

V46

 

1983

26,504,774

389

354

683

1241

29

8 rabbits

 

Ohio State University

Schs of Dent,
ed, Pharm.,

 

r‘iab.An.Ctr,Dept of

An.Labs,Hosps

1981

10,052,795

581

1410

1862

1762

121

 

1982

10,023,942

558

813

861

‘1579

76

 

Oregon Regional
Primate Center

1982

3,504,063

85

354

82

2643

 

1983

3,703,858

10

171

68

2405

 

Univ. of Oregon Med.
School

1982

8,118,117

663

514

1

 

1983

8,585,213

578

411

33

 

Univ. of Pittsburg,PA

X
Sch.of Med.

1982

17,552,164

590

1428

 

1983

21,329,559

1156

930

 

Univ. of Rhode Island

1982

459,226

94

20

 

1983
J/

685,693

40

69

 

Vanderbilt Univ.,TN

, 1982

23,672,537

553

 

1983

25,630,540

347

 

Univ. of Virginia,
Charlottsville

1982

14,173,863

1249

 

1983

15,450,233

475

 

Med. Coll. of
Wisconsin

1981

8,418,095

46

 

1982

7,242,148

189

 

 

Univ. of Washington

 

X

1982

45,184,408

791

 

 

since 1982

 

1983

 

54,501,581

 

 

 

 

429

 

 

 

 

 

16 primates

 

* Involving only animals listed in this chart.

 

 

** Underenforcement of this requirement and the resultant underreporting means that many institutions erroneously fail to acknowledge unrelieved
pain and those who do acknowledge it in only a small number of animals.

 




Addendmtoﬂatggml

Many of the institutions in Category I received from NIH
Research and Development Contracts in addition to the NIH
research grants recorded in the chart. The following list

shows the contract totals for each institution in 1983.

1. Arizona State Univ.,
University of Arizona,

Syntex (USA) Inc., CA,
Colorado State Univ.,

Elars Bio Research Labs, CO,
Univ. of Colorado,

Yale University, CT,

Howard Univ., D.C.,

Univ. of Florida at Gainsville,
Univ. of Miami, FL,
Emory University, GA,
University of Georgia,
University of Hawaii,
Hektoen Inst. for Med.
University of Chicago,
Purdue University, IN,
Louisiana State Univ.,
John Hopkins Univ., MD,
19. University of Maryland,
20. Beth Israel Hospital, MA,

21. Harvard University, MA,

22. Tufts New England Med. Ctr., MA,

23. University of Mass.,at Worcester,

24. Warner-Lambert/Park—Davis, MI,

25. Univ. of Minnesota,

26. Univ. of Mississippi,

27. Washington University, MO,

28. Rutgers, The State Univ., NJ,

29. Cornell University at Ithaca, NY,

30. New York University, NY,

31a.State Univ. of NY at Downstate Med.Ctr.,
31b.State Univ. of NY at Stony Brook,

32. Univ. of Rochester, NY,

33. Duke University, NC,

34. Univ. of NC at Chapel Hill,

35. Case Western Reserve Univ., OH,

36. Ohio State University,

37. Oregon Regional Primate Center

38. Univ. of Oregon Med. School,

39. Univ. of Pittsburgh, PA,

40. Univ. of Rhode Island

41. vanderbilt Univ., TN,

42. Univ. of Virginia at Charlottesville,
43. Med. Coll. of Wisconsin,

44. Univ. of Washington

Res. , IL,
IL:

$

1,577,794
604,880
123,671

244,628
1,826,492
715,515
46,530
1,610,992
896,274
340,355
679,258

5,514
275,742
4,219,430
4,841,934
187,439
2,017,034
411,246
40,502
1,009,430
3,962,015
94,887
1,189,360
517,308
391,758
217,146
316,955
1,151,807
1,279,019
7,002,462
496,841
.564,557

45,639
3,730,401

735,810
375,708
476,753
4,775,379

 




W11

Major and/or repeated major or minor deficiencies

Jackson Laboratories, Inc., D.C.
University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL
Standard Brands, Inc., NY

University of Utah, UT

University Health Center of Pittsburgh, PA
University of Kentucky, KY

Mayo Foundation, MN

University of Missouri, MD

University of Iowa, IA

University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI
Columbia University, NY

Stritch School of Medicine/Loyola University IL
Foundation for Behavioral Research, MI
Hazelton Research Primates, VA
Dartmouth College, NH

Pharmacopathics Research, MD

Abbott Labs, IL

Utah State University, UT

Kansas University Medical Center, KS
Brigham Young University, UT

ICI Americas Inc., DE

Norwich-Eaton Pharmaceuticals, NY
Bristol Laboratories, NY

Schering Corporation, NJ

Flow Laboratories, VA

Marquette University, WI

Mount Sinai Hospital, WI

Biomedical Research Labs, WA
Hollister - Stier Labs, WA

Creighton Univ./School of Medicine, NE
Princeton University, NJ

University of Nevada, NV

The Cleveland Clinic, OH

Shriners Burns Institute, MA

Bioassay Systems Co., MA

Bates College, ME

Michael Reese Hospital & Medical Center, IL
Kansas State University, KS

Yeshiva University, NY

University of South Florida, FL
Litton Bionetics, MD

 




CELEQQLX III

Exempt from disclosure. The Freedom of Information Act
allows the agency to withhold investigatory records compiled
for law enforcement purposes if their disclosure could
interfere with enforcement proceedings.

1. University of Conneticut, CT
2. University of Texas, Austin TX
3. Michigan State University, MI

 




.Cﬂtﬁgﬂl¥.IY

Minor deficiencies

American Red Cross, MD

Grady Investments, Inc., OH
University of Illinois, IL
Massachusett Institute of Technology, MA
University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS
Indiana University, IN

Brandeis University, MA

Avon Products, Inc., NY

Colgate University, NY

Cintichem, Inc., NY

University of Nebraska, NE

University of New Mexico, NM
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, PA
University of Pennsylvania, PA
Sloan-Kettering Institute, NY
Southwest Foundation for Research Education, TX
Eli Lilly & Co., IN a
River Valley Farms, MN

Immuno Nuclear Corp., MN

Tox Monitor, IL

Medical College of Pennsylvania, PA
Southwest Research Institute, TX
Temple University, PA

Hazelton Labs Inc., VA

Tufts University, MA

Arthur D. Little, IL

Toxicity Research Lab., MI

Travenol Labs., IL

University of Oregon, OR

Quaker Oats Co., IL

University of S. Alabama, AL
Environmental Consultants, VA
University of Tennessee, TN
University of Texas, El Paso, TX

St. Louis University, MD

Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, 0H
m&G'MA

University of Utah Research Institute, UT
University of California, Santa Cruz, CA
University of Texas, Dallas, TX
Chicago Medical School, IL
Massachusetts General Hospital, MA
Illinois Department of Mental Health, IL
Ortho Research Institute, NJ

American Cyanmmid Co., NJ

Allied Chemical Corp., NJ

Father Flanagan's Boys Home, NE

Merck & Co. Inc., NJ

Tulane University, LA

University of Idaho, ID

Meloy Labs, VA

Childrens Hospital of DC, DC
University of Michigan, MI

Page 9

 




@mqmmtht-a

CELEQQLX I

No deficiencies

University of South Carolina, SC

Schwartz College of Pharmacy, NY
Northwestern University, IL

Mt. Sinai Hospital School of Medicine, NY
St. Vincent's Hospital, NY

University of Cincinnati, OH

Gillette Comp. Research Institute, MD
Lovelace Foundation of Medicine, NM

Eastern Kodak Co., NY

Southern Illinois University, IL

Thomas Jefferson University, IL
Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine, PA
Texas Research Institute of Mental Science, TX
University of Alabama, University, AL

Cook County Graduate School of Medicine, IL
University of Oklahoma, OK

Latter Day Saints Hospital, UT

Cornell University Med. College, NY

Gulf South Research Institute, LA

The Jackson Laboratory, ME

Lahey Clinic Foundation, MA

Rockefeller University, NY

Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia, PA
Baylor University College of Medicine, TX
Hazleton Raltech Inc., WI

Smith Kline Corp., PA

Bristol Myers Pharm. Research & DeveloP. Co., NJ
Medtronic Inc., MN '
G.D. Searle & Co., IL

Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., CT

Dow Chemical Co., MI

E. Tennessee State University, TN

Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children, IL
Monsanto Company, MO

Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, MO

Diamond Shamrock Corp., OH

Ohio Valley Medical Center Inc., OH

Bodil — Schmidt - Nielson, ME

University of Texas, Tyler, TX

University of Texas, Galveston, TX

Riker Lab, MN

Allergan Pharmaceutical, CA

Armour Pharmaceutical, IL

Brown Unviversity, RI

Hahnemann Medical College & Hospital, RA

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF AN INCREASE OF $4.3 MILLION FOR

THE LAW ENFORCEMENT DIVISION OF THE FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

Before the Subcommittee on Interior
House Committee on Appr0priations

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

February 26, 1987

On behalf of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, I urge this distinguished Subcommittee to
appropriate an additional $4.3 million for the enforcement of
wildlife laws, to add 30 Special Agents to the staff of the
Wildlife Enforcement Division of the Fish and Wildlife
Service, and to prevent the proposed rescission of
$2.55 million of FY 87 funds.

The Division of Law Enforcement of the U. S. Fish and
Wildlife Service is responsible for the enforcement of many
of the laws and regulations enacted by Congress for the
conservation and protection of fish, wildlife, and plants.
Among these statutes are the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of
1918; the Lacey Act, originally passed in 1900 and most
recently amended in 1981; the Endangered Species Act of 1973;
the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972; the Bald and Golden
Eagle Protection Act; and the Airborne Hunting Act. In
addition, the Service, under the authority of the Endangered
Species Act, enforces the provisions of the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora, the most far-reaching international treaty for the
conservation of wildlife and plants in history.

In fulfilling its law enforcement responsibilities, the
Service performs some of the most complex and varied
enforcement activities of any federal or state agency.
Service Special Agents use aerial reconnaissance to detect
areas that have been illegally baited for the purpose of
hunting migratory waterfowl, and then use airboats, pirogues,
or other forms of watercraft to apprehend violators in the
act. These same Special Agents also conduct sophisticated
surveillances, following illegal wildlife shipments from the
point of illegal taking or sale to the point of delivery,
often half way across the United States.

Special Agents of the Fish and Wildlife Service have
successfully conducted some of the most complex undercover
operations in the history of law enforcement in the United
States, infiltrating markets to apprehend dealers in

 




-2...

endangered species. They have extended their covert
activities into the international black market in wildlife,
making numerous arrests and successful prosecutions.

On January 29, 1987, following an lB-month
investigation, charges were brought involving illegal taking
and sale of Dall sheep, mountain goats, caribou, moose,
grizzly bears, polar bears, and wolves, and the sale of
hundreds of pounds of walrus ivory and meat. There are 25
potential defendants in Florida, New Jersey, Minnesota,
Washington, Colorado, and New Mexico. The Agents also seized
a large amount of cocaine associated with the illegal
wildlife Operation.

Wildlife Inspectors of the Fish and Wildlife Service
daily staff the ports of entry of the United States,
attempting to prevent the enormous flow of illegal wildlife
into this country. These Wildlife Inspectors, only 56 in
number, are responsible for monitoring the billion—dollar—a-
year trade in wildlife and wildlife products that enters and
leaves the United States each year.

Despite the fact that the Service has only 186 Special
Agents and 56 Wildlife Inspectors, it has gained an
international reputation as the premier wildlife law
enforcement organization in the world. I know of no
government agency that has accomplished so much with so
limited a budget and so small a staff.

I am appalled by the policy of the Administration to
request rescission of $2,550,000 of law enforcement funds
appropriated by the Congress in FY 87 for the Service. These
funds include $1,750,000 in construction funds essential for
the design and construction of the National Wildlife
Forensics Laboratory, as well as $800,000 to increase law
enforcement activities in the Southwest and in the Caribbean.
These funds are vital to the protection of this nation's
wildlife resources, and I urge you not to permit the
rescission of these FY 87 funds.

In reviewing the 1988 budget for the Fish and Wildlife
Service, I would ask that you give particular attention to
the needs of the Division of Law Enforcement. Because of
lack of funding, the equipment so badly needed by these
Special Agents has deteriorated to a condition that is
inexcusable. Fully one—third of the vehicles are well beyond
the 60,000-mile replacement age recommended by GSA; many have
more than 100,000 miles on them. Many other of the Service's
law enfOrcement vehicles will exceed the mileage replacement
age before the end of FY 87.

The boating equipment of the Division of Law Enforcement
is in no better condition. Many of the boats and motors used
by Special Agents are old, some as much as 15 years. Yet we
expect these officers to protect our wildlife with this type
of aged equipment.

. In addition to vehicles and boats, the Special Agent

 




-3-

force is obliged to use obsolete radio equipment. As you
know, these officers must often work alone in isolated areas.
In case of equipment failure or assault by wildlife
criminals, their only source of help comes from the ability
to summon aid quickly using their radio. However, in many
cases this vital piece of equipment is out of date and in
need of repair.

To remedy the problems of over age and obsolete
equipment, I urge the Congress to establish through the
appropriations process a central fund of $1.5 million
annually that can be used by the Service to purchase and
‘ maintain the equipment so vital to the mission of these
Special Agents. To be effective, this fund must be an
increase above the current operating budget. To designate
$1.5 million from the current budget without appropriating
the increase would have the effect of crippling the ability
of the Service to operate its law enforcement staff.

The Service does not have enough Special Agents. In
1984, Congress directed the Service to maintain a force of
200 Special Agents; however, budget constraints have
prevented the Service from ever reaching that number. I
propose that, in addition to the equipment replacement fund,
Congress appropriate an additional $2. 25 million and
authorize the Service to increase its Special Agent force by
25, a level that will permit it to-be even more effective in
combatting wildlife crime.

A serious concern is inadequate protection of waterfowl
in wintering areas. The Service has noted a steady decline
in waterfowl populations in recent years, and additional
protection is necessary to prevent further decline.
Endangered plants are declining, too, because of the lack of
Special Agents. As the population of the United States
increases and as wild habitat decreases, the need for
aggressive enforcement of wildlife protection laws becomes
even more important. If the Service is to keep up with
public demand, it must have a larger staff of trained Special
Agents.

. Finally, I urge that Congress appropriate an additional
$300, 000 and provide five Special Agents to the Division of
Law Enforcement for intelligence. The Service has a small
Intelligence Unit located in the Washington office. This
unit, consisting of a staff of two analysts and one clerk, .
has been instrumental in many of the major accomplishments of
the Service. For example, through the research and analysis
by the Intelligence Unit on the wildlife trade practices of
Singapore, the Service was able to document sufficient
concern to warrant a total ban on wildlife imports from that
country until Singapore agreed to comply with the provisions
of CITES. Intelligence analysis has been an integral part of
many of the covert operations that the Service has so ‘
successfully conducted. » ,~

 




-4—

I'm sure, however, that you can
staff is insufficient to support the
complex law enforcement organization
Wildlife Service. With the addition

see that this small
intelligence needs of a
such as the Fish and

of the $300,000 and

staff proposed in my testimony, I believe the Service will be

able to maintain a fully responsive,

professional law

enforcement intelligence staff to support both national and
international commitments in the field of wildlife law
enforcement.

 




CRESCUE OREPAIR
ORECUPERATION ORELEASE

suuconsr
SEABIRD
sancmmnr

RALPH T. HEATH, JR.
Founder, Director
President

18323 SUNSET BLVD.
REDINGTON SHORES
(813) 391-6211 ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA 33708

 




I - RESCUE ' 18328 GULF BOULEVARD
vegans:
ISEEEESESAT'O” (813) 391-5211

Chairman Yates:

I am Ralph Heath, founder and director of the Suncoast
Seabird Sanctuary, Inc., located near St. Petersburg, Florida,
on the Gulf Coast. We are the largest wild bird hospital
in the United States based on the number of birds we take
care of - the number averages 15 to 20 injured or sick birds
admitted per day. (Year Round Average)

You might have seen us featured on many prestigious
national television shows such as 20/20, Good Morning America,
Charles Kuralt's "On the Road", the Network's Evening News
Shows, as well as many newspaper, magazine and film features.

Based on records kept since I founded the Sanctuary in
1971, we have realized that the majority of the birds brought
to us for treatment and care were injured by acts directly
or indirectly related to man.

A direct cause of injury would be the result of a person
taking a gun or rock and intentionally injuring a bird. An
indirect cause of injury would be the result of a bird flying
into a power line, glass window, or coming in contact with
many forms.of environmental pollution such as sewage, pesticides,

or heavy metals.

We at the Sanctuary have realized for many years that

a tremendous number of birds - nationwide 9 are struggling to

survive in an environment that they once called their own.

a
V run-4%? get, ' ‘"

 




‘- RESCUE ' 18328 GULF BOULEVARD
newsman
- R ATI N
- REEEESEE 0 mm (813) 391-6211

Man's development and impact on the environment have‘
affected the birds in many ways — and many times cruel and
definitely illegal acts are perpetrated on the birds by
extremely "sick" individuals.

Over the years I have worked with many fine State and

Federal Wildlife Agents. Their dedication to preserving

 

wildlife and its habitats has been second to none.

However, these dedicated men and women cannot do their
job of upholding and enforcing the wildlife and environmental
laws (already on the books) and protecting the birds and
animals — without enough manpower and equipment to essentially

make their profession workable and meaningful!

I believe that law enforcement is only meaningful to the

general public (who might violate a law) if they are reasonably
sure they can get caught and prosecuted when an illegal act
is committed. When the general consensus of the public is
that if they commit an illegal act against a bird (or any other
form of wildlife) and they believe that there is little or
no chance of being caught and prosecuted — there is very
little incentive to obey the law!

We currently have no Federal Agent stationed in Pinellas
County — the most densely populated county in Florida — and
by far the fastest growing! I could keep one agent busy

responding to the calls and potential cases that come into the

-2-

 




- RESCUE 18328 GULF BOULEVARD
'“EPA'R ”#38318235‘5?
: Egg/.135? AT'ON (813)391-6211

Sanctuary alone. These complaints are illegal acts of
cruelty, illegal possession, habitat destruction, illegal
pollution, and many other forms of wildlife violations
that we hear about almost on a daily basis.

Do I report all these illegal acts to our Federal Agents -
39! I know they would not have the time or manpower necessary
to properly investigate all the cases that just my organization
alone could give them. I only report the most severe cases
that I know mu§£_be investigated. The "lesser" cases are
essentially forgotten or sometimes reported to local newspapers
so that the perpetrators of these crimes at least know someone

is aware of what they did.

I know that every United States.government organization

needs money. But I believe law enforcement, nationwide, should

 

be one of our paramount priorities fOr protection of our
wildlife, environment, and citizens as well!

When the type of individual that would intentionally
shoot an American Bald Eagle, cut down an Eagle's nest, pour
toxic waste into a waterway or illegally destroy part of the
environment that belongs to all of us — feels almost certain
that no arrest, penalty, or prosecution is imminent — loss of
respect or concern for law enforcement is the result!

I believe that this loss of respect for law enforcement

is the major reason that crime is at the level it is today

-3-

 




" - RESCUE 18328 GULF BOULEVARD
'“EPA'R 'ﬁEEQSEﬁ?
- N
- SEEEKSEEAT'O mm (813)391-6211

throughout the United States.(Certainly many criminals
firmly believe that they will not get caught.)

Yes, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service needs more money
for good men and women, and good equipment to do their very
important job well! Over the years when I worked with two
Federal Wildlife Agents (who became close friends) one did
not have a boat to patrol and protect the Federal island
preserves and had to borrow ours. The other agent did not
(for a long time) have reverse gear in his Federal car which

had over 150,000 miles on it!

These examples are not only embarrassing to the agents

but point out how difficult it would be to carry on their
investigations accurately and efficiently!
Please help our agents do their job. We as residents
of this great country will be the beneficiaries! V
Roger Tory Peterson, the very famous and prestigious
ornithologist, said many years ago that if we destroy the
environment for the birds and wildlife, we destroy it for

ourselves as well!

Thank you.

Ralph Heath
Founder/Director
Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary, Inc.

 




 

 

 

The Tampa Tribune — 3-3

Police look for fisherman
who fractured bird’s wing

By LESLEY COLLINS
Tribune Staff Writer

DUNEDIN — A great blue heron
never will fly again after an irate
fisherman hurled a chunk of con-
crete at it, fracturing the bird’s right
wing, a Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary
official said Thursday.

Dunedin police are searching for
the man, about 24 years old, who
threw the concrete at the heron
about 5:15 pm. Sunday while fishing
on a small bridge leading to Dunedin
Causeway Beach.

David J ackaway, 32, of Clearwa-
ter, told police the majestic seabird
had been trying to snatch a fish from
the man’s cast net when the con-
‘ crete sailed through the air.

“This guy was like a pitcher with
a hardball,” he recalled. “It was a
pretty sick situation.”

Before taking offense at the
heron, J ackaway said, the fisherman
took delight in tossing small baitfish
into the middle of the road, hoping

that passing motorists would kill
' some half dozen pelicans trying to
scoop them up in their bills.

“The other fishermen thought
that was all kind of funny,” Jack-
away said.

But when the great blue heron
' was left stunned, 'its right wing dan-

gling on its side, he’d had enough.
; ‘ “I told the man to stay put while
my girlfriend called the police,”
Jackaway said.

But the fisherman hopped in his ..

‘ van, assuring them he would come
back later.

The man never returned, Jack-
; away said. As of Thursday, police
had not tracked him down.

“There’s no reason why that bird
should be crippled,” said Diana
King, rehabilitative supervisor at the
Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary, 18328
Gulf Blvd., Indian Shores. “It’s an

unfortunate way to get one this way
‘ . very depressing.”

The adult heron, which stands
about 41/2 feet high, will be exam-
ined today to determine whether the
battered wing must be amputated.

“It will never fly again,” King
said. “But we’re trying to salvage the
wing for balance.”

The heron, named for its bluish;

 

Tribune photo by BRITT LAUGHLIN

Donna Heinrich of the Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary carries the
great blue heron back to its cage after its damaged wing was
examined. The bird will never ﬂy again.

gray color, will join some 450 other
feathered residents at this gulfside
facility, which treats almost 5,000

‘sick and injured seabirds every

year. .
Although great blue herons are
not an endangered or threatened
species, state and federal laws pro-

hibit persons from molesting them,
said~Greg Holder, a biologist with
the Florida Game and Fresh Water
Fish Commission.

Persons convicted of injuring the
birds —— a second-degree misde-
meanor — can be fined up to $500
and sentenced to 60 days in jail.

THE TAMPA TRIsUNE

Tampa, Florida, Friday, February 1 3, 1 987

 

 




Dr. Alex Pellini treats the eagle as Bob Green,

the man who found the bird, looks on.

Memo" 1 "m“

ST. PETERSBURG TIMES I FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1979 198

Eagle wounded by gunshot;
will live, but may. not fly

United Press International

HOMESTEAD -— A mature male bald
eagle shot in the wing and wounded
earlier this week will survive but may nev-
er ﬂy again.

The eagle .was found Wednesday
alongside a south Dade County road on
the edge of the Everglades by a surveyor,
Bob Green, who was driving a back hoe
along the road.

Green said he saw something move in
the underbrush and found the eagle when
he investigated.

“I TOOK MY shirt off and put it
over his head, because that calms him,”
Green said. “Once I did that, I could pick
him up.” _

Green, 30, took the bird to Dr. Alex
Pellini who began treating it immediately.
The veterinarian said the eagle was proba-
bly shot about two or three days before
Green found it.

“He’ll survive. It’s a question of if he’ll
ever use his wing again,” Pellini said.

It’s a federal offense to shoot a bald ea-
gle, an endangered species and the nation-
al symbol, with maximum punishment of
one year in jail and a ﬁne of $20,000.

But authorities said Wednesday there
was little hope of finding the culprit. The

Stilt!

—
bullet, probably 22-caliber, went entirely
through the wing so there’s no slug for a
ballistics comparison.

“THERE CAN’T be'an investigation
unless somebody confesses. or turns in
somebody who might have done it,” said
Dick Endress of the US. Fish and Wild-
life Service.

There are an estimated 900 to 1,500
bald eagles in Florida with from 300 to 500
of them living in South Florida.

Meanwhile, another shooting problem
in the same south Dade County area has
residents upset.

Dove season opened Saturday and resi-
dents say hunters haven’t been too careful
about where they point their shotguns.

“They shot my mailbox full of holes,”
said Nancy Priess. “They’re supposed to
be shooting at doves but they’re shooting
at anything that moves.

“It was pretty much wild and indis-
criminate shooting,” she said.

“If you holler at them and give them a
hard time, a piece of your equipment gets
shot up,” added Donna Dascik, a neigh-
bor.

APR-1&8 6

Grace "accused of destroying eagle’s nest

SUSAN BURNS
Herald Staff Writer

The US. Attorney’s Ofﬁce in
Tampa is investigating W.R. Grace
& Co. for allegedly destroying a
bald. eagle’s nest. last October in
Polk County, according to Don
Schmidt, special agent for the US.
Fish and Wildlife Service.

According to Schmidt, a supervi-
sor at W.R. Grace’s Hooker Prarie
Phosphate Mine near Bartow or-
dered workers to cut the tree down
Oct. 23 even though workers knew
there was an eagle’s nest in the
tree.

Even as late as three weeks be-
fore the nest was bulldozed, a W.R.
Grace worker had seen bald eagles
at the site, according to Schmidt’s
affidavit.

No one at W.R. Grace could be
reached to comment.

,W.R. Grace & Co. is a phosphate
company that used to operate the

Four Corners Mine in Manatee,

Hillsborough, Polk and Hardee
counties. The mine was closed in
March because of a depressed mar-
ket for farming and fertilizer——

phosphate’s main outlet.
In February, the US. District

Court in Tampa issued a warrant
to seize the bulldozer that was
used to uproot the tree, Schmidt
said.

According to the Eagle Protec-
tion Act, the US government has
the right in civil proceedings to
seize vehicles used to destroy bald
eagles. Schmidt said a US. magis-
trate will decide if the bulldozer
was used in violation of the act.

The US. attorney handling the
civil case could not be reached for
comment. .

The offense is a criminal viola-
tion that can carry a‘ $5,000 fine

and a year in jail, Schmidt said.

Kirk Brandfass, a US. attorney
who handles criminal violations for
the US. wildlife service, said he
could not comment on whether
Grace was being investigated for
criminal violations.

Schmidt said it is very rare to
cite someone for destroying bald
eagle nests, although the offense is
common.

“The main problem is that the
victims can’t talk,” he said. “If
you’ve got a large nest in a tree,
there’s a good possibility that’s
what it is.”

 




1983

St. Petersburg Evening Independent
Wednesday, April 6,

 

 

 

White pelican injured by sh
' Weak and injured by a shotgun blast, a white pelican found
Friday near The Pier lies listlessly in a can at the Suncoast

Seabird Sanctuary. Ralph Heath, sanctuary director, said the
bird’s chances of surviving are “pretty slim.” The pelican’s

body is riddled by seven pellets from a shotgun. White pelicans,
which are not an endangered species like the brown pelicans

5 and migrate to Florida during the winter, are rotected by state

' and federal migratory bird laws. Heath as ed anyone with

. knowledge about the shooting to contact the sanctuary. '

Staff photo by FRED VICTORIN

otgun blast

 

 

Clearwater Sun

I
t

Tuesday - November 29,

1977

Pelicans Suffer Human Attacks

About 8 am. Monday a commercial fisherman
approached the east shore of Sand Key near the.
tollbooth, where a truck waited to haul the
fisherman’s catch to market.

Dozens of pelicans were flying above the beach
and searching the shallow water for trash fish
discarded by fishermen who had come to shore
earlier. As the commercial fisherman beached his
boat. mullet fishermen left the banks of Sand Key
and headed back to the baysndiGulfu”

The commercial fisherman stepped onto the
beach and most of the pelicans flew away. Two
pelicans did not. = p ‘ '

“One pelican was lying on the bank and was
bleeding around the bill,” the fisherman said.
‘Also its eyes were swollen shut. The other

pelican’s eyes were open, but it too was bleeding .

around the bill."

The commercial fisherman said the pelicans
appeared to have been beaten with a boatth or
with cars. He said he laced the pelicans in his
truck, covered them to eep them quiet and drove
them to the Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary.

Ralph Heath, founder and president of the sanc-

SuSltli

(chitin '

' tuary, continued the fisherman’s suspicions.

“One pelican had suffered a severe concussion,
a possible fractured skull and both eyes were
swollen shut,” Heath said. “The other one had not
Feet) beaten as badly. it was just knocked sense-
Heath said Ed Stevenson of the sanctuary ad-
ministered steroids and cortisone to the pelican

, and treated its eyes with ointment. Heath said it

may be blind.

“The pelicans are damn lucky to be alive," he
said. “The one still might not make it'. This we
direct of violence against an endangered species.”

John Minick, a special agent for the US. Fish
and Wildlife Service, said banning, injuring or
harassing endangered or threatened species vio-
lated federal law. The art is punishable by as

much as a $20,000 fine and one-year imprison-
ment. '

Other endangered or threatened species living
in this area are alligators and bald eagles, he said.

Minick said that recently a fisherman on St.
Petersburg Beach tried shooin'g a pelican from his
bait bucket with his fishing pole. The sinker on the
line broke the pelican’s wing, he said.

The commercial fishermen who found the
Encarta Monday said about five or six years ago

discovered several dead pelicans on Sand Key
that apparently had been shot.

He said the pelicans being treated probably had
been lured with small fish by mullet fishermen.
When the pelicans ventured too close, they chased
them away with oars. '

“While they were swinging away I guess they
connected with two," the fisherman said.

He said that the pelicans searched for fish along
the shore of Sand Key everyday, especially this
time of year when the pelican's food, bait fish. was
in short supply.

“We work all day here trying to put birds back
together," Heath said, “while some idiot is heat-
ing pelicans with oars."

 




little string on his tail. We just pull. (more

hammering) Push!
Ooh! It's a boy!

THIS CRUDE METHOD OF REMOVING THE HELMET CAUSES
UNQUANTIFIED TRAUMA TO THE EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECT.

(a) We're thinking of going on strike. The contract
says no more than three comatose boonies at any one
time. That's in the contract. (more hammering)

(a) Seems like I left a little ear behind.

(b) Oooohay!

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THE INSTITUTIONAL COMMITTEE TO
BE NOTIFIED OF ANY CHANGES IN PRACTICES ADVERSELY
AFFECTING THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMALS. USE OF HAMMER AND
SCREWDRIVER WERE NOT MENTIONED IN THE GRANT REQUEST.

Sequence 1!

RESEARCHERS, STANDING OVER ANOTHER BABOON ON THE
OPERATING TABLE, DISCUSS THE LACK OF SANITATION

(a) Why is it so dusty down here? Why, because they're
basically incompetent down here. Well, I mean, just in
general our procedures cause dust. '
They don't...They're not regular in cleaning at all, and
I've called them three times. When they do clean
they're half-ass.

Lately the ventilation system has been spewing out

some sort of...dust. It's the type of thing...Ya, I
don't, you know. I complain about it, but you know....
When you come down here it smells like urine.

(b) We have three months of urine down in the bottom of
that thing...Urine asphyxiation...toxicity.

(a) We had to get her out of that. She was just
filling it up with buckets of urine.

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES SEMI-ANNUAL INSPECTIONS BY AN
ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE INCLUDING A VETERINARIAN AND
AN OUTSIDE MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR REPRESENTING COMMUNITY
CONCERNS FOR THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMAL SUBJECTS.
UNCORRECTED DEFICIENCIES MUST BE REPORTED TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FUNDING AGENCIES.

Sequence 1

WHILE CONDUCTING A SURGICAL PROCEDURE ON ANOTHER

BABOON'S HEAD, THE EXPERIMENTER, WHO WEARS NO MASK, CAP
OR STERILE CLOTHING, DROPS AN INSTRUMENT ON THE FLOOR,
PICKS IT UP WITHOUT REMOVING HIS GLOVES AND WITHOUT
STERILIZING IT, CONTINUES THE OPERATION. THE SURGEON IS
SMOKING A PIPE. AN ASSISTANT IS SMOKING A CIGARETTE, AND
A THIRD BENDS OVER THE UNDRAPED BABOON ON THE OPERATING'

Page 7

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 37l9
Georgefown Sfafion

Washingion. D. C. 20007

STATEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION MEETING

0

JULY 9-13 IN LONDON

BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

July 25, 1979

The resolution for an indefinite moratorium on commercial Whaling
which was reported by this Subcommittee and adopted unanimously
on the House Floor prior to the International Whaling Commission
meeting powerfully demonstrated the will of the Congress, and
there is no question but what the whaling countries felt them—
selves sinking in the beginning of the IWC meeting. A strong
current for the U. S. and Australian positions was running, and
it was understood that should the complete moratorium be voted
down, the conservation countries were in an unassailable position
to force votes for zero quotas which would take the place of a
straight moratorium victory.

In the end two small nations, Panama and the Seychelles, took
the leadership in the two victories that were won: the limited
moratorium and the Indian Ocean sanctuary. Most of the hOpe for
quota reductions failed to materialize. The number of whales
scheduled to be killed next year is 15,835, as compared with the
78-79 quota of 19,719, or between four and five thousand less
than last year, depending on how the figures for new’whaling
nations are counted. Clearly, this is a far cry from the goal
the United States set out with in the year when the most favorable
circumstances ever yet achieved by the conservation community
should have resulted in a major, rather than a minor, victory.

To analyze briefly what happened, the U. S. indefinite moratorium
on commercial whaling received a simple majority in the Technical
Committee. The vote was 11 in favor, 6 against, and 6 abstentions.
Panama offered an amendment to permit a separate vote on factory-
ship whaling and coastal whaling; and it was this factory-ship
‘whaling moratorium proposal, with the exemption for minke whales
added to it, which won a three-quarters majority vote, with only
.Japan and Russia voting against it and abstentions by Brazil,

 




Korea, and Spain-~all whaling nations.

In the coastal whaling moratorium which followed, there were
again 11 votes in favor; and one of the "No" votes on the total
moratorium switched into the abstention column. With one more
vote in favor and one less vote against, the coastal whaling
moratorium would.have been carried. No wonder the whaling
nations were worried!

In addition, the heightened public attention focused on outlaw
whaling was bringing unprecedented pressure on Japan and Norway.
I would submit c0pies of articles from the Norwegian press so
the subcommittee can see this focus on the Norwegian citizens
who are involved with the "Sierra."

When Norway's Prime Minister Odvar Nordli visited the United
States, he and Foreign Minister Frydenlund had discussions with
Senator Magnuson and Senator Packwood, and a decision to issue
instructions to the Norwegian Whaling Commissioner resulted from
information acquired during the visit. Norway abstained on the
moratorium vote, in contrast to its "No" votes in 1973 and 1974.
The Commissioner, Mr. Rindal, stated that this was the first time
that he had received instructions since 1957.

The Thames Television documentary on pirate whaling had just been
shown in Britain and Norway. Outlaw‘Whaling, by Craig Van Note,
was distributed widely at the IWC meeting. I would submit a copy
for the record.

The whalers were on the defensive. The "whaler's club" seemed
on the verge of demise, but it came to life again by persuading
Commissioners to follow a practice initiated at last December's
special meeting in Tokyo: the Commissioners retire from the
meeting room, leaving the press, the observers, and even the
other members of their own Delegations to wonder what they are
agreeing to. With respect to quotas, this was revealed in a
series of disheartening votes, many of which occurred late at
night the last day of the meeting. The session finally ended
at 5:00 a.m. Saturday morning, July 14th.

It is my understanding that the instructions to the U. S. Com-
missioner were to vote for zero quotas. A moratorium on commercial
whaling was the U. S. position, arrived at after an immense amount
of consultation over the past year and reinforced by Congress‘s

 




-3-

9
vote. Yet when the eight most strongly conservationist nations——
Australia, France, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama, Seychelles,
Sweden and U. K.--voted for a zero quota on fin whales of the
Spain-Portugal-British Isles stock, the U. S. abstained; and the
whaling countries, who had.managed to muster 9 votes, won despite
the fact that the Scientific Committee Report (page 22) recom-

mended "no catch level because of the total absence of information
on the state of the stock."

The U. S. abstention in this Technical Committee vote, where a
simple majority carries, ensured that the zero quota proposal
could not be forwarded to the Plenary session, and the Oppor-
tunity for a vigorous debate whidh would have been heard by phg_
press was lost. This is the same area where the pirate ship
"Sierra“ is killing fin whales and shipping the meat to Japan
'with the connivance of Taiyo Fisheries, the world's largest fish-
ing company with connections everywhere. It is the area Where
the "Tonnaf another pirate whaler, sank last year when a huge fin
whale it was attempting to drag on board capsized the vessel.

 

Plenary discussion of the Agenda Item.on the pirate whaling issue
took place sometime between 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the day after
the meeting was supposed to have ended. The press, naturally,
was not present in the large numbers common at less eccentric
hours during the week. It should be noted parenthetically that
ludicrously severe security was used to prevent press access to
Commissioners to interview and ask them questions. The press
room was one floor bGIOW’the meeting room, and the stairs were
strictly guarded by security agents. Thus, despite careful
accreditation of the press admitted to the 5th floor, they
‘weren't allowed on the 6th floor and could only hear the voices
of the Commissioners during the Plenary session piped down to
them. Sometimes Observers would carry messages from a reporter
to a Commissioner or scientist who then, depending on his incli-
nation, would go down to the press room or remain in the sanctuary
area, safe from possibly embarrassing queries.

Plenary sessions were repeatedly canceled and postponed, largely
because of the seemingly endless private Commissioners' meetings.

.Although the U. S. voted with conservation nations in Technical
Committee to support limiting the Peruvian Bryde's whale quota to
153, when this vote came up in Plenary session with an amendment
to raise the quota to 264, the United States passed; and when the
vote finally reached the U. S. Commissioner, 9 for to 3 against,

 




-4-

“I

he abstained instead of blocking it as he could have done had
he voted against this high quota, Some observers state that
these extra Whales may be enough to keep the station open.

The U. S. also abstained on the proposal for a zero quota on
sperm whales in the North Atlantic; and when the Technical
Committee vote to remove the exemption on killing 10 humpback
whales by Greenland came up in a broadly encompassing aboriginal
whaling proposal, the U. S. voted with Denmark and Iceland to
retain the exemption. In a key 6-7 vote on the issue of the 10
humpbacks, the U. S. abstained, ensuring, as in the case of the
fin whales, that the question could not be considered in Plenary
when the press would have been able to hear any debate.

Here is what the Scientific Committee Report has to say about

these critically endangered humpback whales: ". . . the Committee
recommends that the exemption for a Greenland catch of 10 hump-
backs be removed, and that steps should be taken to reduce the
deaths due to net entrapment off the U. S. and Canadian coasts . . .
The Committee recommends that the humpback whale should remain a
protected species."

We believe the United States should take a firm position against
the closed-door Commissioners meetings and instruct the U.S.
Commissioner to refrain from attending them except on rare
occassions which may arise with respect to management of the
organization. The selection of a Secretary a few years ago

was a case in point. But meetings in which quotas and other
schedule changes are dealt with should be conducted openly.
Otherwise, we have resorted to the secrecy which surrounded
all decisions made by the IWC up to 1972 when the head of the
U.S. delegation, RussellTrain, called a press conference at the
American Embassy to reveal the votes of all Commissioners on
the Moratorium.

 

That action started the slow but steady progress towards more
Open dec131ons until the commissioners-only meetings started
at the Tokyo Special Meeting, December 1978, and continued

in London in July. We urge that this practice be ended so
far as the U.S. is concerned.

There are many other matters which might be addressed with
relation to the IWC, but I will mention only one more, the
belugas and narwhals in Canadian waters. As much as 23%

of a population of belugas in Cumberland Sound have been taken

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 37I9
Georgeiown Siaﬁon

Washingfon. D. C. 20007

STATEMENT ON
"ENDANGERED SPECIES - A CONTROVERSIAL ISSUE NEEDING RESOLUTION"
(THE GAO REPORT)
by Christine Stevens, Secretary

July 27, 1979

Legislative Proposals

Although the GAO Report has identified a number of areas in Which
improved administration of the Endangered Species Act are badly
needed, the Report's recommendations for amending the Endangered
Species Act range from totally unacceptable to perhaps innocuous.
Those testifying for the General Accounting Office on July 20th
stated that they had no biological consultant for their 123~page
Report. The major legislative proposal which they make reflects
this unbiological attitude in a disastrous manner.

Having just returned from the annual meeting of the International
Whaling Commission, I am doubly aware of the extreme danger of
GAO's proposal to "Limit the act's protection to species endangered
or threatened throughout all or a significant portion of their ,
ranges." It was the pursuit of a policy of this type which has
driven one species after another of the great whales toward extinc—
tion. It is essential to protect the populations of endangered

and threatened species in a variety of places.

Even Russian scientists have now made known to that major whale—
killing country that "One species after another are decreased to
such an extent that further exploitation proves impossible." The
reason for the "large miscalculations" made by the International
Whaling Commission, according to Berzin and Yablokov, was the
failure of the IWC to protect populations of whales. As they
put it, ". . . The quotas of whale-fishing are determined, as a
rule, with respect to the total numbers of the Species, rather
than to a separate population."

If the GAO recommendation were accepted, we would, in effect, be
returning to the inadequate 1969 Endangered Species Act, despite

 




