 

 

 

 

SMALL LIVES SERIES No.10.] [4d. per doz.

 

 

 

P/toto copyrzg/zt] I [C . Reid

THE SQUIRREL

LITTLE gentleman in a reddish-brown fur
coat and white waistcoat, who can run along
1 branches better than any tight—rope walker and
-‘_'can take ﬂying leaps through the air more cleverly than
any acrobat 1n a circus—such 18 Mr. Squirrel as we see

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

him in the woods in summer. He seems to be so happy
and full of life that we cannot imagine his being ill-
treated. Yet gamekeepers and others often go out to
shoot him, for he sometimes eats the buds and shoots
of young trees, though among old trees he does no
harm; boys chase him with stones (what good can
it do them to see him drOp lifeless from a branch P),
and in many ways his life is not so happy as it seems.

NIBBLE! NIBBLE! NIBBLE!

If we could put on a little fur coat, too, and follow
him here and there, we should ﬁnd that he does not ,
spend an idle day. He seems to be always hungry.
From morning till night he is nibbling. Now he darts
high among the branches, and we see him with a brown .
ﬁr cone between his forepaws, busily biting away the
hard outside till he comes to the soft core. Presently
he darts down the trunk of a beech—tree and has another
nibble at the beech-nuts which lie scattered on the
ground below. Then a sound startles him, and with
bushy tail erect he is off like a ﬂash into. the boughs
again, running up the smooth side of the beech-tree as
easily as you or I could run along a well—kept road.
Later we see him in another place, holding a hazel-nut
in his paws. With his sharp teeth he bites off the end
of the nut, then crack I—the shell is split, and he has
the kernel in his teeth. Before he will eat the kernel
he peels off the thin brown skin. Then he nibbles the
white inside part, and soon—with a Whisk of his tail—
he is off again, this time, perhaps, to take some acorns
from the oak, or to see whether there are any chestnuts
to be found over yonder.

SLEEPY TIME.

This is how Mr. Squirrel spends the warm sun-'
shiny months, but when the winds are cold and the
boughs grow bare he begins to think of other things.

 




 

Food will be scarce in winter, and it would never do, on
going to look for something to eat, to ﬁnd, like Mother
Hubbard, that “the cupboard was bare.” So in the
autumn he grows very busy, gathering nuts here, acorns
there—not eating them—but taking them one by one
to little hiding—places, usually in holes of trees. He
makes several of these little stores, and then, when he
thinks he has made himself quite safe against hunger,
he looks about for a nice cosy place in the hollow of
some old trunk, and coiling himself up lies down to
sleep. As we know, many animals—badgers, dormice,
hedgehogs, and others—sleep all through the winter.
This is called hibernating. But the squirrel does not
sleep all the time.. On ﬁne bright days he wakes up
and comes out of his hole. It is then that his stores of
food prove useful, for he ﬁnds his way to them and
makes a hearty meal.

NEST BUILDING.

When spring comes round Mr. Squirrel wakes up,
and takes himselfa wife. Then we may see the pair
of them very busy indeed. In and out among the
branches they go with pieces of moss, leaves, and ﬁbres
in their mouths. If we follow them to the fork of a
large tree we shall see what they are doing. They are
building a nest I Yes, strange as it seems, there it is ;
a real nest, like a bird’s nest, but much bigger, round
and roofed from wind and rain, with an entrance
through which Mrs. Squirrel has just passed on her
way to line the inside with soft feathery moss. If we
peep inside this nest when June comes we shall see
three or four baby squirrels lying snugly beside their
mother. The young ones are very carefully looked
after. They live with their parents until the next spring
comes round, and then they go out into the world to
look after themselves.

 




WILLING TO MAKE FRIENDS.

If we knew Mr. Squirrel better we should ﬁnd him
a charming little fellow. He is quite willing to make
friends when he can be sure that we mean him no harm,
and he can be easily tamed. But it is certainly unkind
to capture him, as some peOple do, and keep him in a
small cage, where his only exercise day after day is to
turn a little wheel. In the woods he does nothing
like this. There he jumps up and down and scampers
about like a kitten. When squirrels are kept as pets
they should have the free run of well-wooded grounds.
They can then live. a natural life, and their pretty ways
may be watched with pleasure. They will soon learn
to come to a call, and will scamper down from the trees
and take food from the ﬁngers and even from the lips.
At the Zoological Gardens in London many squirrels
have been turned loose into Regent’s Park, and they
may be seen almost at any time running fearlessly to

take nuts and pie‘ces‘of bread from passers-by.

QUESTIONS.

(1) How does the squirrel pass the winter?

(2) What is the squirrel’s food P

(3) How does the squirrel prepare for cold weather?
(4) What do you know of a squirrel’s nest P

(5) How should squirrels be kept as pets ?

(6) \‘Vhat do you know of young squirrels ?

It will be found well to induce children to answer the above
questions in their own words.

W

Issued by the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVI‘ZN'I‘ION 0F CRUFLTY To .-\\'131.-\LS.
105, Jermyn Street. London, SW.

 

M. & c.—_5m_6/28, Ind 9 Albert Square, Manchester.

 




