 

During the War we have kept our Flag flying for
hundreds of thousands of Civilian Animal Suf-
ferers and Animal War Victims.

 




    

Christmas

IN the Holy Stable there were an OX,
and a Horse, and an Ass and a Sheep,
and beneath the Manger a Cat with
her little ones; and there were Doves
overhead.

THUS it came to pass that He was
born in the midst of the Animals,
which He came to redeem from their
sufferings.

From the Ancient Gospel i
of the Holy Twelve.

    

1944.

YOU cannot go to Bethlehem without
going past the Camels, the Mules, the
Dogs and the Oxen.

THE Animals of that Stable heard the i
ﬁrst cry of the Infant Lord, Who came
among other things, to' alleviate the
suffering of the dumb ones, whose moan
and plaint has for ages been a prayer

to God.

Dr. Talmage.

The Poet Laurence Housman writes of the time when

..... to His Feet the timid sweet
Four-footed ones of earth shall come and lay

For ever by the sadness of their day.

 




‘SINCE SEPTEMBER, 1939
WE HAVE TREATED:

|,99|,993 DOGS suffering from:—

Fractured limbs or ear complaints, decayed

and painful teeth, skin, trouble, difficult
whelping, wounds, stomach trouble,

pneumonia, etc.

2,622 HORSES, DONKEYS AND
PONIES suffering from:—

Swollen tendons or painful corns and many
other formsof lameness; harness sores,
abscesses, colic, torn and bleeding mouths,
septic teeth, chest complaints, etc.

575,449 CATS "suffering from cankered
ears or mange, scalds, burns, gastric

disorders, wounds, etc.

MANY THOUSANDS of Small Animals
including Rabbits, Goats and Monkeys, and

also many Birds

 

 

The P.D.S.A. Squads ave rescued
262,54l Animal Victims of Air Raids
since I940.

 

 

Christmas is the Season for giving
special help to all forms of suffering.

Will you open your purse still a
little wider and send a Christmas Gift
for the Animals ?

The P.D.S.A. is supported entirely
by Voluntary Contributions and we
are urgently in need of money.

All Contributions will be most
gratefully received by Mrs. M. E.
Dickin, O.B.E., Founder of the P.D.S.A.

"Address: I4 Clifford Street,
London, W.l.

 

 

 

 

When paws are washed Cats are off the danger list

 

 

 




 

This is Spot. When a flying bomb fell he dug his way out of the

debris and then attracted rescuers to the place by barking. They

dug for twelve hours to reach Spot's owners, and the dog dug

beside them until his paws were raw and bleeding. Unfortunately

all efforts were in vain, for the owners were dead when found.

Spot was taken to the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium for treatment for his
paws, an injury to his ear, and exhaustion.

 




