QRepft’es
. receiveb to Eater of

¢Be ﬁrienbs’ ﬂnft’éiniaection ﬂasociaﬁon

from qnemﬁem

of tﬁe

QHebt’caf (profession.

1900.

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

REPLIES.

HE Friends’ Anti-Vivisection Association has
recently sent out more than 28,000 copies of
a letter to Members of the Medical Profession.

The following are some of the favourable replies
received :

281, Brockley Road, SE.
Dear Sir,—

You invite response to your pamphlet. My response is
this; it has come to me as a “breath of fresh air,” one of the
noblest presentations of the question that I have ever read,
moving me to deep thankfulness.

As is the case with most medical men who have been in
active practice for some years, I am no practical physiologist.
I have been chary therefore in condemning those of my pro-
fessional brethren who honestly, and from honourable mo—
tives, uphold our right to make use of the “lower creation”
for physiological as for other purposes. I utterly repudiate,
and abhor with my whole soul, the claim that. we are justiﬁed.
in torturing our dumb friends, whatever the possibilities of
increased knowledge accruing from such torture. That “the
end justiﬁes the means” is in my judgment one of the
strongest weapons the arch-enemy of mankind has ever
wielded. Whether the question be “War for the ‘better
treatment of native races,’ ” or torture for the ‘better
treatment of human diseases,” the principle is essentially
devilish. My practical difﬁculty is in drawing the line at
which the use of animals becomes abuse. This line can only
be drawn, I think, as you suggest, by the education of the
conscience of our Scientists. All questions of casuistry are,
in the long run, only solvable by this method. The moral
law is one and indivisible, and surely no breach of the law
of tenderness can redound in the long run to the advantage,

 




 

 

2

of humanity. So far as I have read and observed, I have
been greatly cheered, and my faith in God’s methods streng-
thened, by ﬁnding how my a priori objections to
vivisection have been conﬁrmed by the paucity of actual
results achieved. Historically viewed, the extravagant claims
made on behalf of vivisection appear to have singularly little
foundation. As a practical physician of twenty-three years
standing I have a profound and increasing distrust in the
laboratory View of human nature, which dominates therapeu—
tics at present. I could give many illustrations from my
own experience of my meaning.

I thank you heartily for the pamphlet. It has appealed
to myself with curious force; perhaps because during the
public delirium of the last few months it has been more than
ever necessary to hold fast to Eternal Principles. I wish
you God speed.

I am, yours faithfully,
J. S. BOOTHROYD, MD.

33, Merrion Square,

Dublin, "‘1.
Dear Sirs,——

I am in receipt of your pamphlet anent Vivisection.

Though I am not prepared to say that all vivisection
should be prohibited by law, I am prepared to say that it
should be tolerated only under the most stringent limitations
and for bond ﬁde purposes of enquiry.

Vivisection for the purpose of class demonstration as
practised abroad, cannot be too severely condemned. I am
quite convinced that even at the present day in these Islands
an immense amount of needless and absolutely purposeless
suffering is caused to dumb animals by so-called scientiﬁc
enquirers. Such opinions are doubtless heretical on my part,
in the estimation of the great bulk of my professional
brethren, but very few medical men have really seen the experi-
ments actually practised, or perhaps their opinions might not
be held so tenaciously or advanced so vigorously as they are
just now.

You may make any use you like of this letter.

Yours,

T. MYLES, M.D., F.R.C.S., Etc.,
Vice—President Royal College of Surgeons.




“ Castlebar,”
116, Palace Road,
Tulse Hill, S.W.
Gentlemen,—
I am in receipt of your pamphlet re the Vivisection
question, and quite approve of the remarks made therein.

Yours truly,
DAVID FENNELL, M.D., F.R.C.S., Etc.

“ Inverness,”
Parkstone Road,
Poole, Dorset.
Dear Sir,—

Thanks for the brochure entitled “ To Members of the
Medical Profession” forwarded to me. In reply, I wish to
inform you that I am a member of the London Anti-Vivisec-
tion Society, and have been so for the last 24 or 25 years.
It is, therefore, needless for me to say that I am quite in
accord with everything that the brochure states. Unfortun-
ately, the brochure treats of the question of vivisection on
animals solely on a moral point of view, and on this basis few
I should think could possibly defend it, but it is on the so-
called scientiﬁc view of the question that people differ. I am
happy to inform you that many members of the medical pro-
fession, and the number is increasing daily, quite think that
vivisection experiments on animals have not only led to
errors in medical practice, but are positively misleading in
results.

I am, yours faithfully,

F. E. VERNIEDE, M.R.C.S., Etc.

District Asylum,
Castlebar.
Dear Sir,—
I am thoroughly in accord with the sentiments expressed
in your pamphlet, as regards the inhuman practice of vivi-
section, which in my opinion is quite unjustiﬁable.
I have [no desire that my opinion should be. treated as
conﬁdential.
Yours faithfully,
G. W. HATCHELL, R.M.S.

 




 

36, Inverleith Row,
Edinburgh.
Dear Sirs,——

I am in cordial agreement with the principle so forcibly
and yet temperately maintained in the little pamphlet you
were so good as to send me.

On the question whether the results of experiments on
the lower animals have been of all the value that is claimed
for them I offer no opinion. It is unnecessary, holding as I
do that to submit them to any acute or prolonged suffering,
for such ends, is unjustiﬁable. Whether the present legis-
lation affords an adequate protection, I am not in a position
either to afﬁrm or to deny.

I am, dear friends,
Very truly yours,
CHARLES H. GROVES, M.D. Edin., B.A. Trin. 0. Dub.

Thornboro-ugh House,

Clarendon Road, Watford.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—

A short time ago you sent me a small pamphlet, ad-
dressed to medical men, in which you invite response on the
subject of vivisection.

I thank you for the opportunity you give me of express-
ing my opinion on the subject, and narrating what I have
seen of the procedure of vivisection.

Vivisection may, for convenience, be grouped into two
main divisions :——

First—The animal is inoculated with some disease of
bacterial culture, and the effects noted. Here the sufferings
of the animal (if any result follows from the inoculation) are
comparable with those suffered by man in sickness.

Second—«The animal is subjected to an operation; such,
for instance, as trepanning the skull to observe the effects
of stimulating the brain substance. In this class the pain
suffered by the animal is similar to what man undergoes in
a surgical operation.

As regards the ﬁrst division, I believe that experiments
of that nature are justiﬁable, though how far and under
what supervision seems to me difﬁcult to decide. As to the
second division, I think that such experiments should be
entirely forbidden.

I am aware that valuable results have been achieved by
such methods, and also that many experiments of this nature

 




 

p4

0

could be carried out painlessly under chloroform; but in point
of fact there is so much torture inﬂicted in this way that the
gain is not to be compared with the price paid for it.

There is, of course, in addition to the pain inﬂicted on
the animal, the further harm of the callous indifference which
the operator acquires.

Let me remind you of the worst feature of the whole
matter, that namely, of the use of curare which paralyses
movement without affecting sensation, so that an animal
under its inﬂuence may be suffering the most acute pain
without having the power of uttering a sound or moving a
muscle. This is the sort of thing that occurs: Some obser—
vations are to be made on the circulation in some internal
organ which must be watched for some hours. The animal is
chloroformed, fastened to the bench, and the operation
necessary to expose the internal circulation is performed.
Now if this animal has to be kept unconscious by chloroform
for some hours while the observations are proceeding, it will
be necessary to pay constant attention to administer the
right quantity of the anaesthetic, lest the animal get too
little of it and begin to struggle, or get too much of it and
die.

To avoid this demand on his attention the operator'in-
jects a dose of curare, and as soon as this has taken effect
he reduces the amount of chloroform considerably, knowing
that however much the animal may feel, it cannot move in
the slightest, and that if any other person comes into the
room there is nothing to be seen except that the animal is
under chloroform and apparently unconscious.

This is the sort of thing that actually occurs—I have
seen it myself!

The average medical student takes his degree without
having seen anything of vivisection, so that when a doctor
speaks on the subject it in no way follows that he is ac-
quainted with it at ﬁrst hand. It chanced that I, when a
student in London, saw something of vivisection as it was
actually carried out, and that made me realise the horrors
of it in a way that no amount of reading would have done.

It is quite unnecessary to depreciate or belittle the
knowledge that has been obtained by vivisection; let the
public only realise what terrible cruelty it involves, and they
will soon put a stop to it.

I am, yours faithfully,
A. LESTOCK REID, M.R.C.S., Etc.

 




 

5, Morab Road,
Penzance.
Dear Sir,-——

I entirely concur with the contents of the pamphlet
which you have been good enough to send me, and which I
have just received.

Yours faithfully,
R. D. BOASE, M.R.C.S., Etc.

233, Branstone Road,
Burton-on—Trent.
Dear Sir,—

I am entirely against vivisection, and always have been,

and am a member of the “North of England ” branch.

Yours truly,

D. MACKECHNIE, L.R.C.P., Etc.

(Since deceased.)

Ashburton,
Eastbourne.
Dear Sir,—

In my opinion (re vivisection) nothing can justify it,
unless the poor animal is completely under an anaesthetic
and never allowed to recover from its inﬂuence.

It has always been a source of sorrow and distress to
me, that our noble medical profession should be disgraced by
such acts of revolting brutality.

Yours faithfully,
GEO. H. JACKSON, M.R.C.S.

Killough,
Co Down, Ireland.
Dear Sir,——- ~
I am in receipt of your pamphlet on Anti—Vivisection.
If my opinion and experience is of any value to you, you are
quite welcome to it; and as I am not bound down by any
particular school of medicine, you shall have as all round a
view as it is possible for me to give, as I go upon the prin-
ciple (1) curing if I can, or (2) relieving by any means
whatever, no matter where I get my information, college,
etc., or from a beggar man! if that only suits the case. I
therefore decidedly condemn vivisection for the following
reasons: (1). It has completely failed to do any practical
good in relieving even some of our worst diseases, such as




7

consumption, acute rheumatism, etc. (2). The amount of
suffering entailed on dumb animals is out of all proportion
to any triﬂing advantage or knowledge (if any) that is gained.
The only point in its favour (if it is so P), which I must state
as a liberal and broad-minded physician, is this, that the
science of medicine is advancing rapidly, and we don’t know
from what point important information may come, for the
relief or cure of some so—called incurable diseases. At the
same time I would certainly discourage that, or any other
sort of cruelty, and it is my bias to look rather in the do-
main of Materia Medica for remedies that would do good,
without doing harm.
You are at liberty to make any lise you like of this, or
put in paper or papers, just as you think ﬁt.
Yours truly,
S. S. PARKINSON-CUMINE, L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.

P.S.——I shall be glad any time to see any of your pub-
lished matter on Anti—Vivisection, and if you make any use
of this letter you could let me see, and I would at any time
be glad to help in all ways I could. S. S. P-C.

17, Oakﬁeld Road,
Penge.
Thanks for pamphlet to hand last evening. I entirely
endorse views contained therein.

GO on and prosper!
C. G. WOOD, M.R.C.S., Etc.

11, Wilbury Avenue,
Hove, Sussex.
Dear Sir,—-

Will you kindly convey my thanks to the President, Vice-
Presidents, and Committee of the Friends’ Anti-Vivisection
Society for their printed letter on that subject which .I re-
ceived the other day. I am altogether with them in this
matter, and to show what my views are on the vivisection
question I enclose a copy of a letter which I sent some time
back to the Principal of King’s College, London, in answer to
an appeal addressed to me, as a Fellow of the College for aid
towards the erection of new laboratories.

Yours faithfully,
J. H. THORNTON, C.B.,

(Dy. Surgeon General, Indian Medical Service, retired).

 




Copy] 11, Wilbury Avenue:I
ove,
September 20th, 1899.

To the Principal of King’s College, London.
Dear Sir,—

I thank you for your letter of September 2nd, but I fear
it will not be possible for me, consistently with the prin-
ciples I hold, to respond as I could wish to the appeal you
have addressed to me with your letter of July 27th.

For some years past I have given much study and con-
sideration to the question of experimentation on living ani-
mals, and I am bound to inform you that I consider this
to be an immoral and dangerous practice, very unscientiﬁc
and misleading, and opposed to the best and highest interests
of the human race. Vivisection (including all painful experi-
ment-s on living creatures) appears to me to be, unquestionably,
an evil thing; it involves great cruelty, notwithstanding the
partial use of anaesthetics; and it cannot fail, sooner or
later, to produce a moral deterioration in those who habit-u—
ally practise or Witness it. So far as I can see, it can only
be defended by purely utilitarian and materialistic arguments,
but if moral and religious considerations be admitted, it is
at once condemned. It has been going on for more than
2,000 years, yet the beneﬁcial results are inﬁnitesimal in
comparison with the physical suffering and moral evil which
have thus been caused.

But were this method of research as useful as its warmest
admirers assert, I should still condemn it, as no material
beneﬁts can compensate for moral evil, nor can it ever be
right to do evil that good may come. The cure of disease,
the relief of pain, and the prolongation of life, are of less
importance to the human race than the cultivation of senti-
ments of justice, mercy, and humanity, and these principles
are in my opinion, incompatible with the practice of vivisec-
tion, the increasing prevalence of which has already, I fear,
undermined them to a considerable extent.

The unscientiﬁc and misleading character of experiments
on living animals is plainly shown by the important differences
in structure and constitution between human beings and
animals, by the fact (usually ignored) that animals suffering
pain are in an abnormal condition, rendering experiments
untrustworthy, and by the extraordinary differences of opinion
among the experimenters, Who seem to agree in nothing
but in mutual contradiction.

 

 




9

Moreover, this practice leads directly and certainly to
experiments on living human beings, and must therefore be
regarded as dangerous. to public safety. That this is no
imaginary danger is plainly shown by the numerous cruel
and unjustiﬁable experiments which have been performed
upon poor patients IDJ many hospitals abroad during recent
years, and also by the nearly successful attempt a short time
ago to pass in the Legislature ‘of the State of Ohio, a mea-
sure legalising the vivisection of criminals condemned to
death. The passage of this law was urgently demanded on
the ground that experiments on animals are misleading and
useless, and that they must thereforev be performed upon liv-
ing human beings.

I very deeply regret that this practice, which seems to
be a survival from the dark and barbarous ages of the world’s
history, should have met with any encouragement in King’s
College, where the admirable mé'tto “Sancte et Sapienter”
ought to have absolutely excluded it. I fear you will think
me very presumptuous to» express such views as these in
opposition to! what appear to be the prevailing opinions of
scientiﬁc men at the present time. But I must remind you
that these views have been held by many of the best and
ablest men of this age, among whom I may mention the
names of Emerson, Tennyson, Browning, Ruskin, the late
Earl of Shaftesbury, and Cardinal Manning, with whom, as
regards this matter, I am proud to range myself. I hope
that the disastrous consequences of this practice in other
countries may open the eyes and stir the consciences of our
own people, and so gradually lead to its becoming discredited
and abandoned.

Believe me,
Yours very truly,

(Signed) J. H. THORNTON.

 

151, Brixton Hill, S.W.
Dear Sir,———- '
Thank you for the little pamphlet ”on Vivisection.
I quite agree with what is said in it.
Yours truly,
A. G. SANDBERG, M.D.

 




 

10

Felsberg,
Wilton Road,
Shanklin, Isle of Wight.
Gent~lemen,-—-—

I reply to your enquiries relative to my feelings and
opinion upon the question of Vivisection. I can only say
that'I am entirely opposed to the practice which I regard
as both very cruel and unnecessary. I speak for myself per-
sonally, and I have no wish to condemn those who are op-
posed to my opinion. But I may add that nothing would
alter my decided views upon this very serious matter, not
even if the entire profession were opposed to me.

Accept my best wishes for the success of your efforts on
behalf of those who cannot plead for themselves and who
ought to have Our most merciful consideration.

Believe me to be,
Yours faithfully,
AUGUSTUS BROWN, M.D., M.R.C.S. (England).

23, Bridge Road,
Hammersmith, W.
Dear Sir,—
My opinion as regards vivisection is worth very little—-
I am not eminent either as a physiologist or as a surgeon——
but, broadly speaking, “I detest vivisection,” though I have
no objection to experiments done: under complete anaesthesia
and in which the subject of experiment is killed before a
return to consciousness.
I am, dear Sir,
Faithfully yours,

F. R. MALlLAIED, M.R.C.S., Etc.

“ Spring Grove House,”
Upper Norwood, S.E.
Dear Sir,—

I beg to- thank you for the copy of the wise and tem-
perate address to the medical profession which has been sent
to me on behalf of the “ Friends’ Anti-Vivisection Society.”
Having been engaged for years in the same kind of effort,
I do not need convincing; and can only say that I doubt

cl.




s,

11

not our ultimate success, but think foolish advocacy is more
likely to hinder than to advance the good cause.
Believe me,
Yours very faithfully,
EDWD. HAUGHTON, M.D., BA.

26, Clifford Gardens,
Kensal Rise, N.W.
Dear Sir,—

Thanks for the little pamphlet on Vivisection. I have
long been convinced bot-h of the wickedness and the useless-
ness of making experiments on living animals. It is one thing
to ﬁnd out scientiﬁc riddles, and quite another thing to turn
the explanations to any useful purpose. The vivisectors are
pseudo-scientists in my estimation, and time, in the end, will
not fail to convince the public of this.

Yours very truly, .
GEO. HERRING, L.F.P.S., Etc.

5, Vicarage Villas,
Willesden, N.W.
Sir,—
I beg to acknowledge your communication, which I have
perused attentively. _
In much of the opinion therein expressed I fully concur.
Yours faithfully,
W. T. BUCKLE, M.B., Etc.

38, Beaumont Street,
Oxford.
My dear Sir,—

My views on the subject of vivisection are exactly the
same as those of the late Lawson Tait. I have always been
opposed to it, and to—day I am more so than ever. It ought
to be put down by the strong hand of the law just as much
as cock-ﬁghting and bull-baiting—in fact more so, for in the
above-mentioned “sports” the animals were at least free to
ﬁght, and not tied to a board or trough. No good has come
of it yet, so far as I am aware, to the human or any other
race, nor is it to be expected that it should. The land is
full of the empty bombastic vauntings of its votaries as
to what they have accomplished, or as to what they will
accomplish in the future; it reminds one of the line:

“Man never is but always to be blessed.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

12

All such promises and vauntings are merely so much specu-
lative froth. Vivisection is absolutely incompatible with the
teachings of Jesus Christ, and with the profession of a
Christian. It ought to be made impossible by law for the
children of the world.
Yours very truly,
JOHN MCLACHLAN, M.D., F.R.C.S., Etc.

San Remo,
Bray.
Dear Sir,—-

As one who was born a “Friend” I sympathise with your
letter. The late Captain Caldwell, an old member of our
assembly, laboured earnestly against Vivisection. The last
clause of Romans viii. 9, though true in a doctrinal sense,
is also true practically, and I do not believe our Lord could
sanction, or that giving pain to helpless animals is according
to His Spirit.

Yours faithfully,
E. E. BARRINGTON, M.B., Etc.

Mortimer,
Berkshire.
Dear Sir,—

I am obliged for your communication re Anti-Vivisection,
and in reply beg to state that I have a great respect for the
Society of Friends, so far as I know anything about them,
but none for Vivisection.

Iam sure that the modern experimental medicine is leading
us farther away from the truth, and I have already written
and published a great deal to this effect without any prac-
tical result, so have almost given up trying to do anything,
but if I can contribute to the furtherance of your views in
any way I shall be pleased to do so, and you can make what
use you like of this letter.

Yours faithfully,
FREDERICK A. FLOYER, B. A., M.B. (Camb),
M.R.C.S. (Eng), L.S.A. (Lond.).

Bridge House,
Gorton, Lancs.
Dear Sir,—
Thanks for your pamphlet re Vivisection.
It is well written, and appeals as the subject ought to
do, to our higher instincts.




13

I hold vivisection to be unnecessary, grossly cruel, and
brutalising to a body of men whose chief characteristics ought
to be patience, love, and forbearance.

Wishing your good cause every success.

I am, yours faithfully
HARRY HOLMES, L R. C. S., L. R. C. P.

P.S.—You may use my letter in any way that may
further the ends of the Anti-Vivisection Society.—H.H.

33, Kendal Road,
Camp Hill, Birmingham.
My dear ‘Sir,———-

Being now in my eighty-ﬁrst year I have relinquished.
surgical practice, but I take the same interest in Anti-Vivi-
sectio-n that I have always taken.

I was for many years a student of Physiology and Patho~
logy, but have always maintained, and still hold, that the
vivisection of animals is. quite unnecessary to elucidate
physiology or pathology, and I Wish your Society every suc-
cess in your laudable endeavour to oppose such unnecessary
cruelty.

I had for some, years the pleasure of intimacy with some
of the most studious and intelligent physiologists this country
has produced, and I am happy to say that many of them
were of my way of thinking in the matter of vivisection.

I need hardly say that I have read your address to the
members of the medical profession with much interest and.
pleasure.

Yours faithfully,
JAMES H. DAVIES, M.R.C.S., Etc-

Eskbank, Midlothian-
Mesdames and Sirs,———

I have perused the letter which I, and, I presume, many
other members of the medical profession, have been favoured.
with by you. In reply, I may mention that I am not one of
those who believe that vivisection has been the means of
adding greatly to the store of really reliable and useful.
knowledge for the medical practitioner. But, even if it were
otherwise, my opinion of vivisection, as a means of en-
deavouring to gain medical knowledge, is in great measure
expressed by what you state in your letter when you say:
“Surely, even if thus obtainable, some extended length of

 




 

 

 

 

 

14

days, some lessening of pain, would be an utterly inadequate
return to a community for the lowering of its moral tone,
and the hardening of its heart. For man, neither pain nor
death is the supreme evil, nor physical comfort and pro—
longed life the supreme good. . . . We cannot believe
that it is right that weaker creatures should be deliberately
tortured by man, however beneﬁcial to him the end in view.”
I believe that the value of experiments on the lower
animals has been very much over-rated. If wholly reliable
medical information is to be obtained from vivisection, then,
in my opinion, the vivisection must be that of mankind
(preferably the experimenters), not of the lower animals.
I am, yours faithfully,
SOMMERVILLE OLIVER, MD.

4, Whimple Street,
Plymouth.
Sir,—

You can put my name to any petition against Vivi—
section, it is cruel, abominable, and any results are bought too
dearly.

Yours,
H. C. LAMBART, B.A., M.A., M.D. & L.R.C.P. (Ed), L.R.C.S.
(Ed.), L.F.P.S. (Glas), Etc.

Rochford House,
Ellington Road, Ramsgate.
Dear Sir,—

In reply to your letter received a few days ago, I need
only say that the sentiments expressed in it are just those
that I have myself held for many years. I will gladly do
anything in my power to further the good cause you have
at heart.

Believe me, yours very truly,
R. T. BOWDEN, MD.

4, Buckland Terrace,
Plymouth.
Dear Sir,—

I have been an opponent of vivisection for nearly twenty
years, and my abhorrence of that hateful practice is no less
than your own. I wish you every success in your campaign.

Yours truly,
T. G. VAWDREY, M.R.C.S., Etc.




30, West Mall, Clifton.
My dear Sir,—— .

I am obliged by your printed communication on the
subject of vivisection, and in reply I beg to say that I very
strongly disapprove of all painful experiments upon animals
whether with the knife or by drugs.

I am, my dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
JOHN GILL, M.D.

Heckington, Lincolnshire.
Dear Sir,—
I fully endorse everything stated in your excellent pam-
phlet, and am personally against the cruel practice of vivi-
section.

E. WELCHMAN, L.R.C.P. Lond.

Waterbeck,
Ecclefechan.
Dear Sir,—

In reply to communication received to-day and read, I
have to state that I personally at all times deprecated vivi-
section. As a student, and as a practitioner of nearly twenty
years standing, I never at any time saw any reason why I
should alter that opinion of antagonism to a method we as
scientiﬁc men should shun. That is my personal opinion,
probably not worth much, in the opinion of very eminent and
learned men who think differently, but none the less strong
after all I have seen and read either in connection with
vivisection or medical science in general.

Vivisection, attended with physical pain to the lower ani—
mals is, in my opinion, a disgrace to the race of mankind, and
ought to be provided against by severe penalties, as no doubt it
is in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, and similar
enactments. I cannot believe the medical profession as a
Whole are committed to it, and I think the question of
abolishing vivisection is one quite within the practical politics
of our calling. It may be unpopular. Let it be so. It is
the cause of kindness, gentleness and humanity of all that
is noble, true and good in human character, and, as such,
the inﬂuence of those makingastern and united stand against
cruelty and inhumanity and callousness, no matter from
what motive, justiﬁcation be pleaded, is bound in the

 




 

16

long run to make itself felt, and sweep before it the big
battalions of so-called scientiﬁc enquirers who don’t hesitate
to use the scapel or the needle, in eliciting What may be
interesting data, but which could be reached and expatiated
upon quite as fully and with as much good to the mouths
in waiting by less reprehensible and quite as certain and use—
ful methods of research.
I am, etc.,

JAMES GILROY, M.B., L.F.P.S.G.

 

8, Guildford Street,
Russell Square, W.C.

Dear Sir,—-— .

To a large extent I sympathise with the pamphlet you
kindly sent me, and the idea of kindness and gentleness,
not only to all men, but to the lower animals as well, has
largely developed during my lifetime, and I am sure that the
Society of Friends has done even more than its share in
promoting this truly religious feeling.

Yours truly,

WM. H. CROWTHER, M.D. (Bruss.), L.F.P.S. (Glas).

 

Reaﬁrth House,
Midyell, Shetland.
Dear Sir,—

I take an early opportunity of associating myself with
the Anti-Vivisection movement you are inaugurating.

As a medical man thoroughly in love with my profession
and jealous of its interests and honour, I ﬁrmly believe that
vivisection, or, to put it in plain English, “torture of ani-
mals for the supposed advanCement of Medical Science,” will
in the end degrade the medical profession in the eyes of those
Whose opinion is worth having, quite apart from the morality
of this question.

I frankly admit that by torturing animals we have gained
some information as to the action of certain drugs, and many
leading physiologists and practitioners support vivisection,
and practice it, believing it will advance our knowledge,
while others prosecute for the love of science simply. Neither
think for a moment the torture caused to poor dumb animals.
I say this with all due respect to the leaders of my pro-
fession.

My ﬁrst impressions of vivisection were gained at Col—
lege ten years ago, when a poor stray cat was caught and slit

$422: if.“




17

up before us to demonstrate. the action of digitalis on the
heart, an unjustiﬁable act of cruelty, as at that time we all
knew the action of the drug without such a ﬁendish demon—
stration.

I possibly take an extreme view of the matter, and I may
be hyper-sensitive through my love of animals, but the more
I think over vivisection the stronger my belief becomes that
we have no right either in the eyes of God or man to torture
poor dumb animals. .

The only means of putting a stop to the evil must origin-
ate in the profession itself, by a combined effort of all medical
men who love animals and recognise the fact that we owe
our position in the world to being relievers of suffering and
not causers of it. . . .

Though I am a very humble member of the profession,
you are at liberty to use my name in any way you like to
further the cause, and I hope to see the day when God’s
dumb animals, both great and small, will be allowed to live
in freedom and peace.

Yours faithfully,

HENRY P. TAYLOR, M.B., C.M.

62, Clifton Road, Brighton.
Dear Sir,—

I have no hesitation in saying that I have always had
the greatest horror of using living animals in, research for
scientiﬁc professional work. I am too old and inﬁrm for
more.

Yours truly,
T. H. A. ROSKRUGE, M.B.C.S.

Arundel,
Malvern Link.
re Vivisectio‘n.
Dear Sir,—

I beg to acknowledge a protest in booklet form against
the above.

The physiological arguments used on behalf of this cruel
practice are based on false premises, I might say, ﬁctitious,
—the nervous systems of human and animal creatures not
being by any means similarly responsive in function and
sensibility.

The nature of the inferior animals is marked by exces-
sive physical and muscular energy. In man the mental
and sensory faculties are highly exalted.

 




 

 

 

18

This differentiation of function indicates some marked
differentiation of nerve and blood organisation—to some ex-
tent, possibly, hidden from our View, but sufﬁciently indicated
by ultimate facts. . . .

We condemn the Inqulsition of papal Rome for its un-
speakable cruelties instituted for the ecclesiastical investi—
gation of psychological states, but we are permitting in our
own land the setting up of Inquisitions where the beautiful
Mammalians are to be cross-examined and tortured, by the
biological priest-s of Ailsculapius, in the name of science.

The methods pursued by modern scientists are quite
along the lines of “Professor Sebastian, of St. Nathaniel.”

LAW is unalterable and inﬂexible, and they who by prac—
tice beget habits that in their nature are cruel and selﬁsh
must eventually, through Physiological Law, become hard
and callous.

The moral and spiritual nerve sinks to the mere intellec-
tual. Blessed is that man and woman who, having less of
the intellectual, is graced with more of the moral and spirit-
ual nerve. The present life, and that which is to come, are
alike based on morals.

The constant practice of vivisection is bound to engender
a habit of indifference to that respect which is due to a
living fellow-creature. . . .

Unkindness towards the helpless dumb creature, makes
him unkind and selﬁsh, unconsciously and imperceptibly he
becomes so. It is the law of Habit.

Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid is an avenger; she keeps a
register even in a man’s own nature—so that he shall even-
tually reap just exactly as he has sown. It is an unalterable
law of the Holy God. .

* It has often seemed to me that medicine and therapeu-
tics, being without a law, this new school has arisen to suggest
to the public that at any rate they are scientiﬁc.
Believe me, yours faithfully,
EDWARD W. FOR'STER, M.R.C.S., Etc.

Caxton, Cambridge.

Gentlemen,—
I agree with the contents of your pamphlet re Vivisec-
tion. . . . I am one who objects to cruelty and suffering

of any kind amongst God’s dumb creatures.

I am, Gentlemen,
Faithfully yours,
H. F. L. WHITE, L.R.C.P., Etc.

 




 

19

30, Harley Street, W.
Dear Sir,—

I am much charmed by the gentle yet forcible appeal
of your pamphlet for higher humanity. I am opposed to
vivisection upon the grounds that I believe that the deliber-
ate inﬂiction of considerable pain upon an unwilling victim
for a speculative gain is contrary to the Divine ideal of the
Cosmos, and is, therefore, in the highest sense of the word,
unscientiﬁc.

Butchery comes under the same bar. I therefore ven-
ture to ask you in return whether you have overcome the
temptations of the stomach by which you are surrounded, in
that you ask us to overcome the temptations of experimen-
tation by which we are surrounded. '

Yours faithfully,
JOSIAH OLDFmLD, M.A., M.R.C.S.‘, B.C.L.

181, High Street,

Plumstead, S.E.
Dear Sir,—

Your pamphlet “To the Medical Profession” has been
forwarded to me from my late address, and for which I
thank you very much. I have read it carefully through with
deep interest, and can truly say that it has received my
highest approbation.

I have held now for several years that the unnecessary
pain to which the lower animals are subjected for the so-
called advancement of science in the laboratories is not justi-
ﬁable with sober and consequent thinking.‘

Truly science has achieved much, yet, with all its
achievements, we must not overlook the fact that above and
beyond the physical life of man, there is a still nobler life to
which “the physical life must ever be subordinate.”

The key-note of truth is well struck when it is said “that
it would be a ruinous price to pay for knowledge at the
expense of weakening the nobler qualities of compassion,
justice, and manliness.”

It has been well said, “that one grain of sympathy and
love given to a troubled one is worth more than tons of
reasoning”; and I am more than convinced of the fact, that
if our scientists had to allow the transcending powers of their
intuitions more play in the world, a greater work would be
done for humanity than that at present pursued by cruel
and inhuman methods.

 




 

 

 

20

My sympathies are with you in your noble work, and
may your association be made the means of doing much

good.
Believe me to be, very sincerely yours,

M. W. SHARPLES, M.B.

Lyndhurst, Ivanhoe Road,
Sefton Park, Liverpool.
Dear Sir,

I received a pamphlet from you this morning re the vivi-
section question.

May I state that I am fully in agreement with the senti-
ments expressed therein? I have never taken an active part
in this agitation, for two reasons. Firstly, because I am not
suﬂiciently conversant with the facts, and secondly, because
the attitude of the average Anti-Vivisector is not one with
which I' can sympathise.

I am, Dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
A. BETTS TAPLIN, L.R.C.P., Etc.

The Villa,
Hull Road, York.
Dear Sir,—
My opinion about vivisection is that it is both misleading

and unnatural.
I am, yours truly,

J. NALTON ROBSON, L.R.C.P.

Rye, Sussex.
Dear Sir,—

Could I have my will acted upon, and actually carried
into effect, every one that vivisects animals (usually called
“dumb animals”), should himself be vivisected in a pre-
cisely like manner and extent 5 and, moreover, the data, thus
obtained from operating upon the living human body, would
yield conclusions far more decisive than in the case of dumb
animals.

Yours faithfully,
EDWARD ADAMSON, M.D. (Edin.), J .P. for Rye, Chairman for
the last 20 years of Rye School Board.

 

 




 

 

21
North Street,
Worthing.
Dear Sir,—

My sympathies are entirely with the members of the
Friends’ Anti-Vivisection Association, and have been for
«years past. I don’t believe that vivisection has added to
our knowledge as far as the cure of disease goes, and despite
all the talk about the use» of anaesthetics during operations
on animals, I feel convinced that the tortures they undergo
after these mutilations are dreadful and past description.

Faithfully yours,
ALLEN DUKE, M.D., Etc.

Norham Lodge,
Leamington.
Dear Sir,—

The practice of vivisection in my opinion results in a
minimum of good to the human race and a maximum of
suffering to the weaker members of the animal world. The
practice of vivisection must tend to blunt the feelings and
harden the heart, and is not justiﬁed judging from the small
results obtained.

I remain, Sir,
Faithfully yours,
0. P. COLLINS, M.R.C.S., Etc.

Willowbank,
Keady.
Dear Sir,—
I am much obliged for your communication on the sub—
ject of ViVisection, and can assure you I abhor the thought

of such practices. Besides, I believe they are of no prac-

tical utility.

At the same time, I think between this practice and the
slaughter of animals for food there is only a difference in
degree, and to be consistent one should give up such food.
With this idea I became a vegetarian, and received not
only the moral beneﬁt of feeling I was in the right, but

improved physically as well.

With best wishes, I remain,
Yours faithfully,
H. H. S. DORMAN, M.D., Etc.

7, Harold Terrace,
Dover.
Against it, i.e., Vivisection.
JOHN F. CHITTENDEN, M.D.

 




 

22

Osborne,
Devonport.
Sir,—

I agree with every word you say. I think it immoral to
purchase man’s physical well—being or advantage at the ex—
pense of the sufferings of animals; especially when such
physical good is gained at the cost of spiritual deterioration
on the part of those who practise cruelty towards animals
in the course of their, in other respects, laudable acts of
scientiﬁc research.

Man and the animals are included in that “whole crea-
tion” which “groans and travails,“ and both look forward,
consciously or unconsciously, to that “ﬁnal restitution of
all things,” in which both will, in their measure and degree,
have a share.

But you will pardon my saying that in seeking to abolish
scientiﬁc research in this connection, you are, in my opinion,
beginning at the wrong end.

Granting, for argument’s sake, that cruelty is proved
(of which one way or another I have no evidence), the mo-
tive at least is good; in how many other cases is there not
equal cruelty without any excuse beyond fashion or man’s
mere wilfulness? . . .

I often think how true are the words now, as then, when
they were written, “the earth is full of cruel habitations,”
and one is tempted to believe in the Indian doctrine of
Metempsychosis, as the only explanation of the seemingly
undeserved sufferings of animals, that they must be lost
souls working out their purgatory.

Oh! indeed, for another St. Francis of Assisi, to plead
the cause of his poor “brothers” anew.

I am, yours truly,
J. MAY, M.R.C.S., Etc.

41, Lauriston Place,
Edinburgh.
Dear Sir, ,

Many thanks for the little book. I fully endorse all it
says. Vivisection has been a curse to the medical profession,
a hindrance and not a help to the acquirement of knowledge.
May the Heavenly Father aid you through His ministering
servants to do much good is my humble prayer.

Yours faithfully,
JOHN BOWIE, L.R.C.P., Etc.




 

23

Kilmote,
Loth, Sutherlandshire,
I approve of the content-s of the pamphlet you sent me..
T. H. RUTHERFORD, M.D.

All Saints” Vicarage,
Southend, Essex.
Dear Sir,

I have received your leaﬂet addressed to the Medical
Profession on the subject of painful experiments on animals,
and I most cordially agree with every word of it. I have:
always looked upon such experiments as being in the highest.
degree immoral, and apart from the suffering which is in-v
volved, I agree with you that they must have a very pre—
judicial effect sooner or later upon the moral tone of society
in general.

I am afraid that these are the only grounds upon which
we can appeal to the public on the matter. The Christian
standpoint which seems so obvious to us is either ignored
or deﬁnitely denied by the majority of Christian teachers
under the general idea that “animals have no rights.”

I am glad to notice the moderation and temperance of
your remarks. I fear that the sensational element that has
sometimes been introduced has had a deterrent effect upon
the cause we have at heart.

It is the inﬂiction of suffering that is the point, and no
medical man can honestly say that this does- not daily take
place in the Physiological Laboratories. We certainly have
every right over the lives of the lower animals, but our‘
rights do not go any further.

Thanking you for your enclosure,

I am, yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES LANG, M.D., Etc.,
Vicar of All Saints, Southend.

1, Crowther Terrace,
Bournemouth.
Dear Sir,—

Relative to your circular note of this date, re “experi-
ments” on living animals, I am disposed to question the!
absolute accuracy of the results of all such action, and am
always sceptical as to the absolute insensibility to pain of
the creature so operated upon.

 




 

 

24

Things were certainly worse in days gone by, for when

a student sixty years ago, when anaesthetics Were scarcely

known, or only just introduced, I purposely absented myself

from such scenes after a few operations, and am by no

means satisﬁed with them now. They may be also as demor—
alising to the operators as they are cruel to the victim.

Yours faithfully,
BENJAMIN CLARKE, F.R.C.S. (Eng).

 

55, Queen Anne Street,
Cavendish Square, W.
Dear Sir,—

I am obliged to you for sending me your little book
addressed to the Medical Profession, dealing with the ques-
tion of vivisection.

I have always been opposed to the practice of vivisection,
and about ten years ago attended many meetings of the
Anti-Vivisection Society; but it seemed to me that at that
time their methods consisted chieﬂy in abuse of the medical
profession, or rather that portion which did not actively help
them, and misrepresentation of facts; and, therefore, I left
off taking any active interest in the question.

Such a book as yours, however, cannot in any way give
offence, and by appealing to all the better feelings latent in
each man, may, and I hope will, be powerful in drawing them
away from what I consider to be a huge moral, if not a
scientiﬁc, error.

Believe me, yours truly,
DUDLEY WRIGHT, F.R.C.S., Etc.

Blackrock Lodge,
Blackrock, co. Dublin.
Thomas Bevan Clark, Esq.,—
Any knowledge we may gain by vivisection I consider
too dearly purchase-d by the sufferings of our fellow-creatures.
I enclose a pound in furtherance of your views.
ROBERT LYNN HEARD, M.D.

“The Langham,”
Ombersley, Droitwich.
Dear Sir,—
In response to the little booklet addressed “ To Members
of the Medical Profession,” permit me, in the ﬁrst place,

 




 

25

to thank you very much for allowing me an opportunity of
reading it, which has given me much pleasure. I have, for
a long time, regarded “Vivisection” with the greatest horror
and contempt, and I do not, for one moment think, that
so-called science has ever been advanced, in any way, by its
continued practice, but rather, the tendency has been to
divert from original resource, to a misleading conclusion.

No one, on earth, could have a stronger feeling against
the horrible practice than

. Yours very truly,

J. HOWL HUGHES, M.R.C.S., L.R.C‘.P.

Eastcombe,
Stroud, Gloucestem

Dear Sir,—

Absence from home during the Winter has caused delay
in answering your letter on the subject of vivisection. It .
is so well considered, impartial and reasonable, that I read
it with genuine pleasure.‘

I have long held that animals should be protected from
all kinds of abuse, and most of all from scientiﬁc cruelty. I-
have had painful experience of the callousness engendered
by the habit of mind which sees in the living animal only
material for research. I have known many doctors, who ap-
proved theoretically of vivisection, that were kind and con-
siderate to the animals with whom they come in contact, and
even more than kind to the animals belonging to them. Such
men may be kind and pitiful towards the sick and suffering, as
some patients insist on telling us that vivisecting doctors
are; but such men do not and would not vivisect, and they
have little personal knowledge of the horrors of the vivisecting
table, and only uphold vivisectio-n because the whole: trend of
their education and environment almost forces them to it. The
vivisectors whom I have known were not kind to patients,
not pitiful towards the weak of their own species any more
than towards the helpless animals in their power, and I would
never have placed anyone I cared for in the hands of even
the most eminent of my vivisecting colleagues. Our equip-
ment for dealing with injury and disease is still so far from
complete that we certainly cannot afford to dispense with
those attributes of tenderness and pity which are conspicu—
ously wanting in all who maltreat animals, whether scientiﬁ~
cally or otherwise.

 




 

 

 

'26

Some interesting statistics were given in a thesis pub-
lished not long since in Paris, and shortly afterwards, as far
:as possible, suppressed. They showed that an appalling num—
ber of women had been operated on in a special manner,
many of whom were quite healthy, and some of whom died
miserably in consequence of the operation. This outbreak
of surgical madness in the French capital in relation to
women coincides, at any rate, if it is not in some casual
connection with, a period of great vivisecting activity in
France. As I have myself known a surgeon (a late frequenter
of the Paris hospitals and schools) operate on a woman, as
he himself said, quite needlessly, I personally am of opinion
that Vivisection and reckless surgery, especially on women,
frequently stand to each other in the relation of cause and
effect.

I remain, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
FRANCES E. HOGGAN, M.D.

Seckford,
Putney Heath, S.W.
‘Sir,——

I have received your communication of last month, and
fully sympathise with your society in their abhorrence of the
practice of vivisection.

More suffering is inﬂicted on animals than the legislature
is aware of.

The administration of chloroform during operation does
not, and cannot, prevent the pain endured afterwards from
lesions inﬂicted by the knife.

. I should be very glad to hear of the Vivisection Act
being abolished, and I think it should be.
I am, Dear Sir,
Yours faithfully, _
S. A. RICHARDS, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., Etc.

8, Wodehouse Terrace,
Falmouth.
Dear Sir,—
In reply to the little pamphlet I have received from your
Association, I beg to say that I am very heartily in sympathy
with your endeavours.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

27

I am inclined to believe that a great deal of the informa-
tion obtained by these experiments is of little real use to the
service of humanity.

Our professors and teachers seem to me to be too much
concerned in the study of disease per se, and that greater
efforts are needed to set up in the public mind an ideal of
health and of righteous living, whereby a vast deal of present
day disease would disappear.

I Wish your Society every success in its noble efforts
to keep the ideal of righteousness before the nation.

Yours sincerely,

SIDNEY B. AXFORD, M.R.C.S.

Melcombe Lodge, Cockington,
Torquay.
Sir,—

In response to your little pamphlet or letter respecting
Vivisection, which I am glad to see is couched in a Christian
and tolerant spirit as regards the members of the medical
profession, I beg to say that personally I am at one with
you as regards the subject of inﬂicting pain on living animals
for the advancement of knowledge. N o advantage on earth
could induce me to sanction the deliberate inﬂiction of pain
on a dumb animal for any advantage immediate or remote
to those I love. If your appeal is continued in its present
spirit of calm and argumentative reason, you will do much
good. It is the spirit in which the Anti-Vivisection crusade
is being carried on generally which revolts medical men from
its advocacy, since it errs both against truth and charity.
Against truth, in that it avers that no advancement of know-
ledge has arisen from vivisection,-—against charity, in that it
charges some of the kindest-hearted and most amiable men
I have ever known, with deliberate and purposive cruelty.
Such unfairness and mis—statements do more harm to any
cause than its advocates can do good.

You may take it as an axiom, that no legal prohibition
of anything will do anything except promote its progress;
that abuse of opponents always rebounds on the heads of
its employers; and that the straining of arguments or the
use of false statements only weakens the cause employing
it. It is by temperate appeals, made in all courtesy to the

individual conscience, that causes are upheld and battles are
won.

 




 

28

Personally, as I say, I am fully in sympathy with you,
but I fail to see what use such approval will be to your
cause. I have too many claims upon me to give you any
pecuniary assistance. My words would have no weight with
those practising vivisection. Whatever the opinion of or-
dinary family practitioners on the subject, no one among
them ever practises. vivisection, personally. Neither I nor
any other opponent of vivisection would consider ourselves
justiﬁed in refusing to our patients the beneﬁts of know-
ledge won by others, through its means. . . . I see not
that I, or any other calm supporter of pity and mercy, can
do much more to forward practical philanthropy, than by
praying that Christ may speedily appear, and by giving us
perfect love and perfect knowledge to do away with this,
as with all cruelty, as also with its real or supposed necessity.

Wishing you all success in your crusade, carried out as
all such crusades should be.

I am, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully and obliged,
WILLIAM SYKEs, M.D., F.S.A.

In Torquay, for example, no vivisection is practised, but
horses are over-driven, beaten and galloped up-hill. Ladies
wear seal-skin jackets and birds’ plumage for the sake of
fashion. All these people would join in any cry against vivi-
section for knowledge, although they practise it daily for
fashion or convenience. Why not establish a society not
“anti” anything, but a society of Love, whose rules shall
exact justice and kindness to both man and beast, shall
prohibit any convenience or advantage derived at the expense
of pain, shall prohibit the wearing of any article of dress
procured by cruelty, or of eating food, such as Paté de
foie gras, procured by diseasing animals? W.S.

Glan-y-Don,

Barmouth.

I fully sympathise with you in your object, I have been

an Anti—Vivisector all my life, and as far as I know vivisec-

tion has not in the least helped me in my medical career.

But I think we anti-vivisectors ought to take another and

better stand than that of the scientiﬁc view, viz., that it

is a wrong and a sinful practice, and as such should not be
permitted.

D. ARTHUR HUGHES, M.R.C.S., Etc.

 

Headley Bros., Printers, 14, Bishopsgate Without, London, 13.0., and Ashford, Kent.

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




