THE VIVISECTION OF MEN.

 

 

IT has been long known to the opponents of cruelty that
the lower animals have been by no means the only victims
of scientiﬁc research. The following facts, which have been
somewhat carefully traced, will, however, we believe, prove
new to most of our readers and are certainly worth
placing before those who still cherish the fond illusion
that Science (as Professor TYNDALL’s friend, Dr. DRAPER,
boasts) is—unlike religion,——“ unstained by cruelties and
crimes.” ‘1‘

The histories of Anatomy (e.g., Sir WILLIAM TURNER’S in
the Encyclopedia Britannica) elaborately chronicle the
earliest dissections of human corpses by the great
physicians of the Greek and Alexandrian schools; but
they give no hint that the most important of these
investigations were made on living human bodies. It is
nevertheless certain that these great scientists of old habitually

 

9* “As to Science—she has never subjected any one to mental tor-
ments, physical torture, or, least of all, to death, for the purpose of
upholding her ideas. She presents herself unstained by cruelties
and crimes. But in the Vatican,” (Sea—History of the Conflict
between Religion and Science, by T. W. DRAPER, M.D., Preface,
p. Xi. (International Scientiﬁc Series).

In the very same book, in which the above boast occurs,
Dr. DRAPER wrote 2—“PHILADELPHUS who towards the close of his
life was haunted‘by an intolerable dread of death, devoted much
of his time to the discovery of an elixir. For such pursuits the
-Museum (at Alexandria) was provided with a chemical laboratory.
In spite of the prejudices of the age, and especially of Egyptian
prejudices, there was, in connection with the medical department,
an anatomical room for the dissection, not only of the dead, but
actually of the living, who for crimes had been condemned.”
~00nﬂict, &c., p. 21.

 




 

2

vivisected hundreds of victims,—slaves or prisoners——
delivered over to them by their highly lauded patrons, of
whom PTOLEMY PHILADELPHUS was chief. TERTULLIAN, the
earliest of the Fathers of the Latin Church, writing about
A.D. 190—200, gives us the following information :—

“Cui vero tantum patuit in Dei opera, ut alicui heec
deesse proesumpserit? (a) HEROPHILUS ille, medicus aut
lanius, qui sexcentos exsecuit ut naturam scrutaretur, qui
hominem Odiit ut nosset, nescio an omnia interna ejus
liquido exploravit, ipsa morte mutante quee vixerant, et
morte non simplici (b) sed ipsa inter autiﬁcia exsectionis
errante.”—Onmia Opera, by MIGNE, 1844, Tom. I. & II.,
page 662.

This is rendered in ROBERTSON and DONALDSON’s Anti-
Nz'cene Christian Library, Vol. 15 (Vol. 2 of TERTULLIAN)
De Anima, pp. 480—433, translated by P. HOLMES, 1869,
Chap. X.

“For by whom has so clear an insight into the works of
GOD been really attained as to entitle him to assume that
these organic resources are wanting to any living thing?
There is that HEROPHILUS, the well-known surgeon, or [as I
may almost call him] butcher, who cut up no end of persons
(sexcentos), in order to investigate the secrets of nature, who
ruthlessly handled (Odit) human creatures to discover [their
form and make]. I have my doubts whether he succeeded in
clearly exploring all the internal parts Of their structure,
since death itself changes and disturbs the natural functions
of life, especially when the death is not a natural one, but
such as must cause irregularity and error amidst the very
processes of dissection.”

TO this passage the following notes are appended in the
Latin edition (TERTULLIAN 077mm Opera, MIGNE, 1844). .

(a.) Herophilus-Zanius. Anatomia quoe et celebris magnoque
in pretio fuit apud Ethnicos, a veteribus Christianis Odio quam
maximo afﬁciabatur. Quamvis hic dictum lanium HEROPHILUM
consted, quod vivos nomines dissecaret. Id autem solitos
facere ERASISTRATUM, DIOCLEM et HEROPHILUM docet CLAUDIUS
Gal VIII. de plac. et II. anat. admin. Poenitvit seeculo
proxime elapso virum eruditum et anatomicae rei peritis-
simum VESALIUM vivum hominem anatomia lacerasse, id enim
Christianum non sapit. (LE PRIEUR).

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

3

(1).) 86d ipsa-ermnte. Itaque etiam vivos HEROPHILUS ille
laniabat (RIGALT).

Which may be thus translated :

(an) “ Anatomy, which was both much pursued and held in
high estimation by the Gentiles, was regarded by the early
Christians with the greatest abhorrence and odium, and
although it is (only) stated here that the said butcher
HEROPHILUS dissected living men, yet CLAUDIUs (Gal VIII. de
plac. and II. anat. admin.) tells us that ERASISTRATUS, DIooLEs
and HEROPHILUS were all in the habit of doing the same. It
is to be regretted that even in the last century so learned
and skilful an anatomist as VESALIUS should have practised
anatomy upon a living man (lit. mangled a living man by
anatomy) for this savours not of Christianity.

(b.) “ Therefore HEROPHILUS mangled them while still alive.”

We have here sufﬁcient testimony to prove that ERASIS-
TRATUS, DIOCLES, and HEROPHILUS, were, in the 2nd century,
all known to have practised human vivisection on an enormous
scale. The number, 600, “ sewcentos,” given by TERTULLIAN
to HEROPHILUS’ victims, may possibly be a rough, round
number, as the translator, Mr. HOLMES, suggests by the
paraphrase “ no end of persons.” In any case, however, it
indicates a frightful repetition of human sacriﬁces on the
altar of Science.

The advocates of vivisection will very possibly argue that this
story may have been a calumny on the part of the fanatical early
Christians against the heathen men of science. The question
may be asked : Did the doctors who were the successors of
these great founders of medicine ever acknowledge that their
masters had done such things ‘2 The answer is very simple
—they certainly did so. AURELIUS CORNELIUS CELSUS, the
celebrated physician of the Augustan age (not to be con-
founded with the philosopher, CELSUS), writing the Preface
to his famous book, De Medicina, made the following
statement 2—-

“Besides, as pains attack the internal parts, they” (he is
speaking of What we should callthe scientiﬁc school of doctors)

 




 

4

“believe no person can apply proper remedies to those parts
of which he is ignorant, and therefore that it is necessary to
dissect dead bodies, and examine their viscera and intestines;
and that HEROPHILUS and ERASISTRATUS had taken far the best
method for attaining that knowledge, who procured criminals
out of prison by royal permission, and dissecting them alive,
contemplated while they were even yet living the parts which
Nature had concealed, considering their position, colour,” &c.

After thus referring as to a notorious fact to these
vivisections of men, CELSUs puts into the mouth of the
Scientiﬁc School of Physicians of the First Century the
same comment which we have heard repeated in the
Nineteenth a thousand times in defence of the vivisection
of dogs and monkeys. “ They maintain, that it is by no
means cruel, as most people represent it, by the tortures of
a few guilty to search after remedies for the whole innocent
race of mankind in all ages.” (Celsus, Preface. De Medicine.)

The “empiric” school, however, CELSUS tells us, protested
against this method—saying, that certain other researches
were “ only idle; but these are also cruel. To cut
open the abdomen and praecordia of living men, and make
that art which presides over the health of mankind the
instrument, not only of inﬂicting death, but of doing it in
the most horrid manner ..... And (they say) that nothing
can be more ridiculous than to imagine anything to be the
same in a dying man, as it is in the living person. Thus
the physician gains only the opportunity of murdering a
man cruelly, not of observing What are the appearances of
viscera in a living person.” His own opinion, in conclusion,
is the rational and humane one ;——-“ to dissect the bodies of
living men is both cruel and superﬂuous ; but the dissection
of dead bodies is necessary for learners.” (Celsus. Of
Medicine. Translated by T. GRIEVE, M.D. London, 1838.
Preface, p. 18.)

Fifteen centuries after the age of CELSUS, with the revival
of Learning and Science, came the revival of Human Vivi-
section. VESALIUs, as above mentioned, is known to have
vivisected men; and in the Storm Universale of CESARE




..—-——

5

CANTI‘J there is an account of the gift of a man for vivi-
section to FALLOPIUS. This incident has been disputed,
but the following series of cases extracted by Professor
ANDREOZZI from the Criminal Archives of Florence, and
published by him in his book Leggi Penali degli antichi
Oinesi are beyond question. COSMo DE MEDICI seems to
have taken the anatomists of Pisa under his special favour, '
and to have made them presents of the miserable convicts
from the prisons at his option. The following are a selection
from the cases extracted by Signor ANDREOZZI from the
Arc/Livia Criminal 16 :—

“1. January 15th, 1545.—SANTA DI MARIOTTO TARCHI DI
MUGELLO, wife of BASTIANO LUCCHESE, was condemned to be
beheaded for infanticide. Under the sentence is written,
‘Dicta Santa, de mente Excellmi Ducis, fuit missa Pisis, de ea
per doctores ﬁeret notomia.’ [No notice to be found of any
execution of the woman, such as would have appeared had
she been put to death before she was sent to Pisa.]

“2. December 14th, 1547.——GIUL10 MANCINI SANESE was
condemned for robbery and other offences. Sent to Pisa to
be anatomised. ‘ Ducatur Pisis, pro faciendo de e0 notomia.’

“3. In the record of prisoners sent away, dated September
lst, 1551, occurs this entry :—‘ Letter to the Commissioner of
Castrocaro, that MADDALENA, who is imprisoned for killing her
son, should be sent here, if she be likely to recover, as it
pleases S. E. that she should be reserved for anatomy. Of
this nothing is to be said, but she is to be kept in hopes. If
she is not likely to recover, the executioner is to be sent for,
to decapitate her.’ The end of the horrible extract is,—
‘Went to Pisa, to be made an anatomy.’

“4. December 12th, 1552.—A man named ZUCCHERIA,
accused of piracy, was reserved from hanging, with his
comrade, and sent to Pisa, ‘ per la notomia.’

“5. December 22nd, 1552.—A certain ULIvo DI PAOLO was
condemned by the Council of Eight to be hanged for poisoning
his wife. Sentence changed—to be sent for anatomy. Was

i sent to Pisa on January 13th.

“6. November 14th, 1553.-—MARGUERITA, wife of BIAJIo
D’ANTINORO, condemned to be beheaded for infanticide .....
December 20th, ‘ she was released from the fetters and
consigned to a familiar, who took her to Pisa to the

 

 




 

6

Commissario, who gave her, as usual, to the anatomist, to malts
anatomy of her ; which was done accordingly ’ (‘ che la \consegni,
secondo i1 solito, a1 notomista, per farne notomia, come in
fatto.’)”

“ Several other cases, from 1554 to 1570, are recorded, with
equally unmistakable exactitude. In one instance the
condemned man’s destiny was mitigated, and after having
been ordered to be sent to Pisa for the Commissario to
consign to the anatomist, ‘When he should ask for him, and
at his pleasure,’ he was mercifully sentenced to be hanged at
once at Vico, ‘by direction of Sua Eccellenza Illustrissima.’
Two unfortunate thieves, PAOLI DI GIOVANNI and VESTRINO
D’AGNOLO, were sent together by the Council of Eight to be
anatomised; the Duke having written to say ‘ that they
wanted in Pisa a subject for anatomy.’ ” After the date 1570
no more cases occur in the Archives. In all, thirteen unhappy
beings were delivered over at this time to the tender mercies
of science.

SO much for the oft-repeated assertion that Vivisectors only
perform their revolting work out of their passionate desire
to alleviate the woes of suffering men and women!

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION
or ANIMALS FROM VIVISEOTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION,
20, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 5.92.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

JUST PUBLISHED. PRICE ONE SHILLING.

THE NINE CIRCLES

OF THE HELL OF THE INNOCENT.

Compiled by G. M. RHODES.

IV/ith Preface by FRANCES POWER COBBE.

LONDON:

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN & CO., PATERNOSTER SQUARE, E.C.;

AND OFFICES OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY,
20, VICTORIA STREET, SW.

 




 




