FASHION-INFECTED _
SPORT

By LLEWELYN Powvs

“ Amongst all the other vices there is none I hate more than
cruelty, both by ”nature and judgment, as the extremest of alt vices. . .
I cannot well endure a seely, dew—bedabbled hare to groan when she
is seized upon by the hounds.” ‘

M ONTAEGNE

OW many people in every shire of England awake
eagerly on September I with the thought that the

season for the shooting of partridges has once again

opened ! It is still summer, and yet the air that
blows in through the open window has upon it the peculiar tang
of autumn. The vegetable marrows are swelled to enormous
proportions, and by the lawns dahlia and Michaelmas daisy
appear cool in a blue haze, whose silver particles seem lightly to
be laden with the quintessential perfumes of all the flowers of
the past happy months. The word “ gossamer,” by which we
describe the spider-web grass of this season, is derived from
the two words “ goose ” and “ summer,” because it is at the
time of Michaelmas that the crafty spiders litter the ground in
every direction with their subtle nets. The partridges are once
more “ jugging ” together, and all is ready for the sport of the
year.

This word “ sport ” is an extremely treacherous one. In
England it is used as a convenient cover for much that is
pitiless and stupid. We all of us inherit from an incalculable
past animal impulses, and the civilisation of the most cultured
amongst us is at its best but a superficial thing. We make a
show of civil behaviour, but in reality we are like tigers parading
in surplices, or like rats simulating propriety beneath the
thinnest table napery. The plain fact is we are all of us the
children of killing animals, whose singular attributes of memory

 




 

and prevision have been made throughout the millenniums to
serve fearful ends. Rich and poor, we are the same. Listen
to the sound that rises from a harvest-field when the self-binder
is cutting down the last square of corn and the rabbits are
beginning, one after the other, to break away. The roar that
comes from the men and boys as each small animal, with its
ears flat, bolts for its life is the roar of a beast—who can doubt
it P And it is the same when hares are being coursed.

The English Barbarians

It is perhaps more easy to feel sympathy with such ancestral
howls uttered by uneducated people in the excitement of a
chase than with the unemotional shooting pastimes of the
game—preserving rich. I do not refer to the old-fashioned
squires who on the first of September are content to walk for
miles across their stubble fields in order to shoot a dozen
partridges “ over dogs,” but to our luxurious landowners who
have reduced this form of free, natural hunting to an ostentatious
spectacle of organised slaughter.

In a celebrated essay Matthew Arnold gave the name of
Barbarians to the English aristocracy. “ When I go through
the country,” he wrote, “ and see this and that beautiful and
imposing seat of theirs crowning the landscape, ‘ There,’ I say
to myself, ‘ is a great fortified port of the Barbarians.’ ” And
surely in this matter of “ sport ” the rich deserve such a title.
What anti-social excesses have not been perpetrated by the
landed gentry for the sake of blood sports ! The game laws
of England are a disgrace to our Statute—book. It was said
of those enacted at the beginning of the last century that
“ the nobles of France had not ventured on the like in the days
of their most splendid arrogance.” I can very well remember
as a boy seeing old weathered “ Trespassers will be Prosecuted ”
boards warning us against man—traps and spring guns, “ dia—
bolical engines ” of the ruling classes, as Lord Holland called
them——“ Better the whole race of game was extinct than that
it should owe its preservation to such cruel expedients ! ”

The Curse of Game—Preserving

The preservation of game in the past has been a curse to
the English countryside and it is so still. Large tracts of ground
that should be open for the holiday recreation of the general
public, such as mountains and moorlands, are selfishly shut
off by a handful of wealthy and privileged men obsessed by
a mania for killing creatures that to an objective observer




might well be judged superior to themselves in sensibility.
The conspicuous waste associated with this heartless amuse-
ment is apparent to us all. It is intolerable that our free
movement over the few wild acres that remain to us in England,
Scotland, and Wales should be pestered at every turn by the
insolence of taciturn keepers! Liberal and humane keepers
are, it is true, occasionally to be met with, but very seldom,
surly deportment being part of the professional equipment of
such serving-men. What are they paid for except to show
sulky physiognomies to all but their masters ?

When I consider what a charming bird a partridge is it
seems extraordinary that any of us can be found to kill them
“ for fun.” It is a bird that has brought consolation and pleasure
to generations of Englishmen. Its reiterated call “ perdix,
perdue ” is heard in our meadows through our spring twilights,
and is a touching reminder of the faithful love it feels for its
little horseshoe-marked companion. And how passionately,
how dutifully this cherished partner performs her nesting duties,
sitting close upon her olive—brown eggs in spite of every alarm,
her bright, anxious brown eyes Wide open ! It is a remarkable
fact that nature, as though to reward such dedicated maternal
Virtue, has made a provision for the lessening of her scent
during the incubating period, so that she may the more easily
escape detection by fox or dog or questing vermin.

How happily in the last days of summer will a dame partridge
rest with her faithful. bird, and her grown—up insect-nourished
brood, “ balming ” in the sun! Her responsibilities over at
last, on the sheltered side of some hillock she will sprinkle her
feathers with sand or dust as, lying on her side, she stretches
with stiffened legs to comb at her wing feathers in a mood of
carefree abandonment. At such a noontime her hunger has been
completely satisfied by her morning’s foraging and, as Evelyn
has so well written, her crop is filled with “ those incomparable
sallads of young herbs ” that the maws of partridges contain at
certain seasons of the year.

Spectacular Massacre

How dull of understanding we are, both rich and poor,
with our cramped imaginations, the veriest slaves of custom !
It is possible, perhaps, to sympathise with partridge—driving,
with the pleasure it offers of walking through the open country,
senses alert, but how is it possible to understand or, indeed,
to forgive men and women who thoughtlessly destroy so many

 




harmless creatures in gross battues 2’ Robert Burns wrote
these lines after seeing a wounded hare limp past him :

Inhuman man ! curse on thy barb’rous art,
And blasted be thy murder-aiming eye ;
May never. pity soothe thee with a sigh,

Nor ever pleasure glad thy cruel heart !

These people have not the excuse of blood-lust. Their
fashion-infected minds have become so inSensitive to the poetry
of life that they are not even aware of what they are doing
when, with an obsequious loader at each elbow, they bring
destruction at so prodigious a rate to bodies tender and explicit.
Without shame or scruple they cause birds as tame as poultry
to tower over them while, with screwed—up, glassy eyes and
foolish banter, they engage in a spectacular massacre that
would have shocked the feelings of Malikshah, the worst of the
hunting Sultans of Persia, who, though he lived a thousand
years ago, was not without misgivings as to the morality of his
favourite recreation : '

“ I fear God Almighty, for what right had I to destroy the

lives of these animals without necessity or need of them for
food P ”

It is impossible to defend the lust for killing unless it be
exercised to protect our lives and property or to provide food
against hunger. Even lions do not kill more than they them-
selves can eat——they do not kill for play. This ruthless habit is
reserved for the cheetah, the hyena, and the European
gentleman ! .

(Reprinted by permission from “ T he Manchester Guardtatt ” of
August 28th, 1936)

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.l

Information from the Hon. Secretary

Publication No. 32] ~ . Price 1d.

 




