 

 

 

THE REPORT OF
THE ROYAL COMMISSION

VIVISﬁETION.

A Critical Review of 223 Cohz‘em‘s.

BY WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., L.R.C.P.,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., J.P.,
sz'dent of the British Union/’07 the Abblz'tz'on of Vim'sectz'on.

Reprinted from
“ The Standard ” of
March 27 and 28.

_ Published by

The BRITISH UNION
for the ABOLITION
of VIVISECTION.
(The British Anti-Vivisection , . ,
Societ . ' '7’:- \Msi ,
Y’ , - \\
Foundress .' ' ‘ \ R «r.
FRANCES POWER COBBE.

3‘2, Chaﬁng Cross,Whitehall,
LONDON, S.W.

President .‘

Dr. WALTER R. HADWBN,
M.D., J.P.

Secretary .'
Miss BEATRICE E. KIDD.
“ What do they say about me? ”

 

 

Price One Penny.

 

 

 




 

The British Union

for the Abolition of Vivisection
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society.)

Headquarters: 32,~CHAR:[NGr CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W. .

 

 

Foundress : FRANCES POWER COBBE.

President and H on. Secretary :
WALTER R. HADWEN, ESQ., J.P., M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., &e.
H on. Treasurer .9 , ~
.The Rev.‘J. STRATTON, M.A. '
Secretary :
Miss 13. E. KIDD.
Organising 860.! Nurse CROSS. Hon. Solicitor : E. HEYS-J ONES, ESQ.
Central Emecutive Committee :
Chairman: Rev. R. D. MUNRO, M.A.

 

The Lady KATHLEEN BUSEE. R. D. PRANKERD, Esq, M.D.

Miss MARGARET BRADISH. . ALF. H. ROSE, ESQ.

H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq., M.P. The Lady ROSMEAD.

J. FRASER HEWES, Esq. , Miss E. SAWERS. ' '

Miss E. DOUGLAS HUME. Rev. P. W. SPARLING, M.A.

E. HEYS-J ONES, Esq. Lord TENTERDEN.

The Baroness DE KNOOP. The Lady TENTERDEN.

Miss S. S. MONRo. Rev. J. VERSCHOYLE, M.A.

HARRY DE PASS, Esq. Miss A. F. WHITELEY.
Bankers :

LLOYDS BANK, LIMITED, 16, St. James Street, London, S.W.

 

 

“THE ABOLITIONIST.”

Monthly Organ of the British Union.
CONTAINING
High-class Articles on the Moral, Scientific, and Historical Aspects
‘ of the Anti-Vivisection Question;
Replies to the Research Defence Society;
Racy Criticism of New Vivisectiona “, Cures ”;
‘ Chronicle of the Month’s Work, etc.

 

Should be read by all Humanitarians.

 

Specimen Copy sent post free to any address.

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION (3523236) 3/- per annum.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE REPORT OF
THE ROYAL COMMISSION

ON

VIVISECTION.

A CI/‘anlibﬂl Review 9f 22‘s C‘ozzz‘em‘s.

 

By \VALTER R. HADWEN, M.1)., 14.11.0113,,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., J.P.,

Pregident cf the British Union for the Abolition of ViViSECHOl-J.

Reprinted from “ TheStandard ” of Marchzyth and 28th.. 1012.

l’vasman m7
THE BRITISH UNION for the ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society).
(FOUNDRESR, Mis‘a FRANCES POWER COBBE.)

32, CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.

President WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., JP.
Secretary a Miss BEATRICE E. KiDD.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Report of the Royal

Commission on Vivisection.

A Critical Review of its Contents.

N spite of any immediate indications of an over-hasty
rivalry in claims either of triumph or of dissatisfac~
tion in respect of a changed outlook, it is pos-

sible that the maturer consideration of both sides in a
keen controversy will lead to a feeling that the
unanimous conclusion of the Royal Commissioners
as regards the practice of Vivisection leaves this vexed
question precisely where it was before they com-
menced their investigation. They report :——

After full consideration, we are led to the conclusion that experi-
ments upon animals, adequately safeguarded by law, faithfully
administered, are morally justiﬁable and should not be prohibited
by legislation.

A criticism of the Report from the Abolitionist,
and at the same time medical Anti-Vivisectionist
standpoint must be accorded a fair hearing before it
can be understood and judged by the public, and it is
with the desire to explain rather than to attack or
defend that I have undertaken. to criticise the Report.
Before doing so I should like to express my agreement
with the Commissioners’ warning that “ the harrowing
descriptions and illustrations of operations inflicted
on animals, which are freely circulated by post,
advertisement or otherwise, are in many cases calcu—
lated to mislead the public, so far as they suggest that
the animals in question were not under an anaes-
thetic,” or that “ to represent that animals in this
country are wantonly tortured would be absolutely
false.” The obvious comment is that the public

 




i

5335-35,” 332' «2.1m;

TEE“.

m

H:-

': a—rj a: ’45:: 33:12:;

 

4

is only misled when no mention of anaesthetics is made,

or when there is an allegation of wantonness, neither
of which misrepresentation can be laid to the charge
of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
for which at least I can speak with authority.

A CURIOUS COMMISSION.

The conclusion above quoted was fully anticipated,
and in fact prophesied, at the time the appointment and
constitution of the Royal Commission was announced.
THE ABOLITIONIST, the organ of the British Union,
in a leading article in its issue of October, 1906, directly
after- the Commission was appointed, published the
following remarks :———

\Ve have before us one of the most remarkable Commissions of

modern times, in which men are called to sit as Judges upon work
with which their own name and reputation are most closely asso-
ciated, and it is contrary to all knowledge of human nature to
suppose that anything other than a favourable judgment of the
practice will be recorded by them.

Of the ﬁve members of the medical and veterinary
professions placed upon that Commission, three had
been or were at the time licenced Vivisectors, one of
them having held a license for fourteen years, the fourth
was a pronounced supporter of the practice, and the
ﬁfth had publicly declared himself to be not an Anti~
Vivisectionist. Vivisectors were, therefore, abundantly
and directly represented, but in spite of most urgent
representations from all parts of the country, as
well as direct pressure brOught to bear by many
Membersjof Parliament, the Home Secretary (then Mr.
Herbert Gladstone) stolidly refused to appoint
even one scientiﬁc representative of the Anti—Vivi-
sectionists.

Of the four lay members of the Commission, one,
Sir Mackenzie Dalzell Chalmers, was Permanent
Under—Secretary for the Home Department, and it
was certainly a most unusual. thing that a paid ofﬁcial
of a department whose methods and acts were bound
to come under close examination should have been
appointed to sit and vote on a Commission which
was to judge them.

 




 

5

Two of the remaining three lay Commissioners
were known to be humanitarians, although having no
expert knowledge of the Vivisection question; neither
had allied himself with the Abolitionists. The views
of Mr. Ram, K.C., were quite unknown, but it is
noteworthy that the Chairman, Lord Selby, as Mr.
Gully, Q.C., defended many years ago Ferrier the
physiologist, when brought to trial for his terrible
experiments on monkeys. This memory may possibly
have given him an interest in the Vivisectionist side
of the question, a knowledge of which he certainly
displayed in his character of cross-examiner.

A PROPHECY.

THE 'ABOLITIONIST, in its leading article of October,
1906, was singularly prophetic :

In the face of such constitution of the Commission", there can be.
but one conclusion. It may be that as a sop to Anti-Vivisection,
curare, the horrors associated with the use of which we have exposed
for many years past, may be disallowed, but even this is question-
able, and certainly would not be a unanimous judgment. More
probable is the view that additional Home Ofﬁce Inspectors udll
be appointed, which will ﬁx the cursed practice more securely
than it is ﬁxed already. We could hope that at least the abolition
of the vivisection of dogs might be achieved, but ‘this is hopeless
whilst the principle involved in Vivisection itself remains disestab-
lished, since they are far too valuable “ material” for the Vivisector
to relinquish too easily. Practically, we believe the law will remain
as at the present time. .

This forecast of six years ago has been fulﬁlled to
the letter. The recommendations of the Commissioners.
(including two minor recommendations as to the-
constitution of the adviSory body to the Secretary of
State and the publication of the experimenters"
records) are as follows 2——

1. An increase in the Inspectorate, with additional
instructions regulating the painless destruction of
animals which show signs of suffering after experiment.

2. Further limitations as regards the use of curare.

THE USE OF DOGS.

The Commissioners remark (par. 105) that the
exemption of dogs “was urged as being strongly
desirable by the three witnesses put forward by

 




r» - 1:. ‘2; ~ is. .-

-.,m>t. i. . - .

m Mv a, - «r‘

5’}:

 

:1?!

WW... .1 ”LWWa.~s.x:ﬁz‘E——w wgﬂm?_£mmmv «v, ":m"

23*

V .'m‘

1 - zaumﬁ'h '“

  

Y: Eﬁ’mm

1’ ;_".£;L:.Z"m '..— : .‘K 53—11.}.32‘

‘ ' 4.: ‘$_74.Q_i‘;‘”zi$:7 1"}? :zﬁzx’n‘; ,
.. , A r
a

6

the Canine Defence League,” but, they conclude
(par. 118):

In View of the variety of practice and the divergence of opinion
as to the necessity of employing dogs for experimentation and
demonstration, we ﬁnd some difﬁculty in deciding upon this im-
portant question. Some of us regard the provisions of the existing
law as sufﬁcient, some of us would prefer that in the case both of
experimentation and demonstration the further special protection
given to horses, asses and mules should be extended to dogs, while
some of us would exclude the use of dogs altogether. But if any
alteration is made in the existing procedure, the majority of us would
agree that the special enactments now applicable to horses, asses and
mules might be extended to dogs, and also to cats and anthropoid
apes. ,

This means nothing but a technical change in
regard to the granting of a licence. The
prophecy of THE ABOLITIONIST as to the Com-

mission’s ﬁndings was thus fulﬁlled both in its.

scope and details. No deﬁnite recommendation is
made for any alteration in the law, but merely
suggestions as to changes in administration.

So conﬁdent was the British Union as to what would
be the trend and result of the Commission’s inquiry
under the circumstances of. its constitution, that it
seriously considered the question of tendering evidence
and ﬁnally decided not to do so. Public announce-
ment to this effect Was conveyed in THE ABOLITIONIST
of November, 1906.

The resolution of the Council of the British Union
was couched in the following terms :——'

This Council places upon record its deep regret that no accredited
medical representative of the Anti-Vivisection cause has been
accorded a seat upon the Royal Commission appointed to inquire
into the working of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876. This regret
is accentuated by reason of the fact that of the medical Commis-
sioners who have been appointed, one has been a licensed vivisector
continuously since 1887; two others have taken out licences to
vivisect at various times, and a fourth has expressed himself
approvingly of the practice. The Council are of opinion that,
in view of the preponderating number of Commissioners presumably
favourable to the practice who have been already appointed, there
should be added at least one medical representative chosen from
among the Anti-Vivisectionists, in order to ensure conﬁdenw
among the many thousands of his Majesty’s subjects interested HI.
this matter and a full elucidation of facts from the evidence of
witnesses on both sides. -




7
RESULT OF A PROTEST.

Mr. Gladstone’s answer was a direct refusal to
accede to the suggestion, and the British Union
forthwith announced its determination to take no
part in the Commission’s proceedings unless the
unfairness of its constitution were remedied.

Mr. Gladstone expressed his regret at the decision
of the British Unibn, and hoped it would be recon—
sidered.

At ﬁrst all the other Anti—Vivisection Societies came
into line with the British Union and published similar
resolutions, but subsequently several gave way; the
British Union—~certainly the most powerful and
thorough—going of the several organisations of the kind
in existence—remained ﬁrm in its .resolve'to the end.
Their side of the case was never presented. Thus the
ofﬁcial Report of the Commission, so far as a scientiﬁc
presentation of facts from the Abolitionist side is
concerned, is incomplete. '

In a question of this kind, it was of the utmost
importance that an expert versed in the case for the
Anti—Vivisectionists should have sat on the Com-
mission, for two reasons. First, that he might assist
his own witnesses, in elucidating their statements by
eliciting facts by suitable questions and by correcting
any unfairness in cross—examination; and, secondly,
that he might cross-examine effectively the witnesses
upon the other side. The latter task is by far the
more important, and, in fact, the principal value in
the volumes of evidence which have been published
by the Commission lies in the admissions which were
wrung out of Pro-Vivisection witnesses in their cross-
examination, chieﬂy by Sir William Collins and Dr.
George Wilson. As, however, these were not Anti—
Vivisectionists, but, as events have proved, deemed
the practice “ morally justiﬁable,” they could not be
expected to know the whole case of the latter, and
the results therefore fell far short of what they would
have been in the hands of an Anti-Vivisection expert.

A STEP FORWARD.

The few Anti-Vivisection witnesses who have given
evidence were at considerable disadvantage, not only

 




 

 

 

8

because of the lack of adequate assistance from the
Commission itself, but by the absence of personal
experience of experiments on animals, a point which is
referred to by the Commissioners in their Final Report
(p. 16, sec. 21). The three witnesses who quoted
deﬁnite cases of alleged cruelty were stated to have
misapprehended what had taken place, and of this (but
in some cases only) proof is provided. Had it not been
for the marked weakness of the Vivisection wit-
nesses themselves in numerous instances when cross-
examined, the Report would probably have been more
unsatisfactory to the Anti—Vivisection cause than
it is. Only one scientiﬁc witness—viz., Dr. Arabella
Kenealy—gave evidence from an entirely Anti—Vivi-
sectionist standpoint.

But although the “ Conclusions ” of the Final
Report are decidedly in favour of the practice of
experiments on animals, the Report itself is of a most
guarded character, the greater portion of which every
humanitarian will peruse with satisfaction ; there
is no question that it will greatly assist the opponents
of Vivisection in their propaganda. In fact, in spite
of the weak recommendations and the naturally pre—
judiced expression of opinion in support of Vivisection,
the Report as a whole may be justly viewed as a step
forward in the march of humanitarian progress.

HOW THE VIVISECTORS’ CLAIMS WERE RECEIVED.

There appears to have been some kind of com-
promise between the Commissioners as to the method
of dealing with the alleged discoveries by experiments
on animals, inasmuch as in the majority of ' quoted
instances, whether concerning physiology, pathology,
or therapeutics, they content themselves with simply
enumerating the bare statements of the scientiﬁc
witneSses without comment. In some instances,
however, the weak points in the vivisector’s claims
are pointedly introduced. The Commissioners’ an-
nouncement, on p. 64, of their general acceptance of f
the “ weighty evidence given before them to the
effect that the study of animals experimentally '
infected with some of these diseases had given them

 




 

9

knowledge which had been instrumental in saving
much mortality and suffering both in man and
animals,” and had ﬁlled them with a pious hope for
the future, is considerably discounted by the fact that
“ these diseases ” are not speciﬁed, and that the ﬂaws
in the claims in every instance, some of which appear
in the unanimously signed Report and others in Dr.
George VVilson’s almost equally lengthy “ Reserva- '
tion,” compel to the conclusiOn that s'uch judgment
is delivered against the weight of evidence.

The concluding excuse, that “ the inﬂiction of pain
on animals in the pursuit of sport and-in the carrying
out of operations such as castration and spaying, or
in the destruction of rabbits, rats and other vermin
by traps and painful poisons ” warranted them in not
going further in their limitations, could only be deemed
logical if deﬁnite beneﬁts were proved to have resulted
to man by these experiments, and that such results
could not have been achieved in any other way. But
in the absence of this proof (and the Commissioners
have failed to vouchsafe any) the excuse falls to the
ground.

EVADIN G THE QUESTION.

Moreover. it was by no means justiﬁable to decline
to grapple boldly with a subject with which they were
instructed to deal. because other evils existed about
which they were not asked to concern themselves.

As a marked illustration of the way in which a
vital question is evaded, we have the revolting and
confessedly futile experiments of Dr. Crile at University
College in regard to surgical shock. The Commissioners
remark :-— '

We express no opinion as to the usefulness of such experiments,
nor as to the desirability of repeating them, but we are of opinion
that such experiments as were performed by Dr. Crile could not
in any case be justiﬁable unless the animals throughout the whole
. experiment were fully and completely insensible to pain.

They are to be congratulated, however, in having
spoken with ﬁrmness in one instance, concerning the
conduct of vivisectors. In Sec. 28, 29, Dr. Pembrey’s
position, which has been repeatedly condemned by
Anti-Vivisectionists, they declare to be “ untenable ”

 

 




 

 

 

 

10

and “ absolutely reprehensible.” He stated that if an
animal is bound down on its back it often passes into
a condition of hypnotism--, and that in, that condition
, he found, by experiments he had performed in Germany,
that an anaesthetic was unnecessary, and in his opinion
the animals did not feel pain. This happened to
be too much for the Commissioners, and they remark
that to grant a licence or certiﬁcates to any persons
like Dr. Klein (who declared before the previous
Commission that he had no regard for the sufferings
of animals) or to Dr. Pembrey “ is calculated to
create serious misgivings in the minds of the public.”

In dealing with the scientiﬁc aspect of the question,
the Commissioners rightly point out that “ the subject
matter of physiology is living things,” and, therefore,
when experiment is likely to be complicated with the
element of pain, moral and ethical considerations are
introduced which have no counterpart in the scientiﬁc
pursuit of the chemist or physicist.

THE ETHICAL SIDE.

To settle the ethical part of the question, the Com-
missioners give the respective opinions of witnesses
who appeared on both sides. Fourteen are named upon
one side, whose views varied from those who considered
Vivisection morally unjustiﬁable from any point
of view, to those who were prepared to allow Vivi-
section, so long as it was conducted painlessly, or
the pain was not severe. Three are quoted upon the
other side—namely, Lord Rayleigh, who declared that
“ safeguards should not unnecessarily interfere with
the advancement of knowledge,” Lord Justice Fletcher
Moulton, who said that “ ethics not only justify but
demand the inﬂiction of death and occasionally of
pain on some animals ” in the interests of others,
and Sir Victor Horsley, who said that “ he who opposes
the pursuit of knowledge is acting immorally.”

The Commissioners thereupon argue the question
from their own standpoint. They aver that if it be
right to sacriﬁce animals for food and adornment, 8.50.,
it is justiﬁable to conduct experiments on animals in
a state of anaesthesia, and the right of an owner to kill




11

carries with it the right to experiment for scientiﬁc
purposes. When it comes to inoculations and their
after-results in pain and suffering, where anaesthesia
is out of the question, they drop ethics altogether, and
talk about utility as a makeweight, and say :—

It would be vain to attempt to proportion the degree of permissible
suffering in consideration of the amount of prospective gain, or to
propound principles of vicarious sacriﬁce. We are here in the
difﬁcult region of relative ethics in which standards of what is or

is not justiﬁable vary with different climes, epoch and temperaments,
and In the same persons at different periods of their lives.

AN ILLOGICAL POSITION.

By similar reasoning, experimentation upon human
beings, and with much more likelihood of beneﬁt to
humanity, could be justiﬁed, although the Commis-
sioners somewhat illogically confessed just before that
“ the growth of the moral sense of mankind has con-
demned and abolished the practice.” So they take a
short cut out of the very awkward position in which
they ﬁnd themselves in dealing with the subject
of applied ethics by formulating the conclusion with
which this article commenced. They have considerable
hesitation about permitting the vivisection of dogs
and higher animals; some of them, they say, object
to it altogether. But surely if Vivisection is, as they
assert, “ morally justiﬁable ” for rabbits and guinea-
pigs, it must also by the same reasoning be “ morally
justiﬁable ” for a dog or a monkey.

As regards utility, the Commissioners rely largely
upon the special pleading put forward by renowned
vivisectors, and in the physiological claims especially
the vivisectors had it all their own way, for no com—

, petent ’witness appeared upon the Anti-Vivisection side

who attempted to deal with this aspect of the question.
Hence, page after page of the Final Report is occupied
solely with the assertions of vivisectors, all of which
assertions have been again and again answered by
scientiﬁc Anti—Vivisectionists, who, for the reasons
already given, had declined to appear before an un-
justly constituted Commission. The evidence quoted
by the Commission is, therefore, to that extent incom-
plete.

 




12

 

THE GERM THEORY ‘OF DISEASE.

When we come to infectious diseases, however,
which occupy some fourteen pages of the Report, the
Commissioners become, in some instances, mildly
critical. '

They very fairly state the basis upon which all
the alleged discoveries in regard to infectious diseases
and their germs and products rest.

They “ thought it worth while to examine more closely
the evidence in regard to these disorders,” and, this
examination makes rather amusing reading.

Commencing with the discovery of the contagium
of Sheep-I709}, which was at one time acclaimed by lead—
ing bacteriologists as a great scientiﬁc advance, the
Commissioners say, “ Unfortunately, their conclu-
sions have proved to be unfounded; sheep-pox has
been shown not to be due toi‘these organisms, and its
cause still remains unidentified.”

In the case of Tuberculosis, the Commissioners
quote all the conﬂicting views of the bacteriologists,
and point out the tragedy of the tuberculin discovery of
Professor Koch, which they declare to have been “ a
vast failure ” ; ﬁnally, brushing all theories propounded
by the bacteriological school on one side, they con—
clude :—

The work of Koch and his pupils shows that any improvement
in the general sanitary conditions of the community which will
involve an access of increased air and light, the avoidance of over-
crowding and the provision of proper food will serve to diminish
the incidence and the mortality of the disease.

These words should be written in letters of gold.
Coming to Plague, the Report says, with a dry
humour that is quite refreshing :———-

The Commission was informed by Dr. C. J. Martin that, notwith-
standing the antiquity of this disease, it was not till 1894 that
the causation of the disease was traced to a bacillus.

ﬁnd Dr. Martin’s account of the discovery is quoted in
ull.

 

 

 

 

A STRIKING ADMISSION.

The Commissioners go on to discuss Haﬁkine’s '
vaccme and Yersin’s serum. The latter, 7 they say,
"‘ has not been successful ” ; and “ the Local Govern—

 




 

l3

ment Board have been conducting investigations
to ﬁnd something better than Haffkine’s ﬂuid,” which
“ has been employed on the rat, guinea-pigand monkey,
but not as yet on man.” And the Report, with
scathing irony, adds :—

The Board are considering Whether they will manufacture any

considerable amount of this material. They do not recommend
these sera, but place them at the disposal of the Health Authorities !

In a few crushing words the Report declares :—

A correct knowledge of the mode in which plague is transmitted
explains why the introduction of better housing and sanitation
generally has practically abolished "the disease from the cities of
Europe, and serves as a basis on which must be devised administra-
tive methods for stamping out this disorder in India and the East.

Cholera and Typhoid are next dealt with. The
alleged speciﬁc organisms of these diseases are just
alluded to, and the statistics as to the value of typhoid
inoculation prepared by Sir A. Wright are mentioned,
but only to be followed by the remark that they have
been contested by Professor Karl Pearson, and the
Commission once again gives the bacteriologists a
snub by remarking :— .

In most cases infection can be avoided by the observation of
the rules as to pure water and food supply which had been previously
arrived at by hygienists.

Then ﬁlalam’a is examined. The? Commissioners
naively remark :— .-

Until recently it was regarded as originating in emanations,
miasmas arising from marshy places, this being a deduction from
the experience that it was prevalent in such places, and that it
tended to disappear with the introduction of effective drainage.
But the Report goes on to show that now it is
supposed to be due to a micro-organism conveyed by
the mosquito, which undergoes developments described
minutely by Major Ross, and the Commissioners
narrate at length all the ritual associated with this
theory—but offer no further comments concerning it.
They pass on to

MUDDLE AND CONTRADICTION.

Yellow Fever. The Report describes all the con—
ﬂicting “ discoveries ” of different bacteriologists and
the wonders which were worked with the wrong germ I

 




 

 

 

14

The Organism itself has not been discovered, but in
spite of the lack of this bacteriological knowledge
Havana has been cleared of Yellow Fever!

Hydrophobiw is next dealt with, and Pasteur’s pro-
tective inoculation and the questionable statistics
upon which its alleged value is based are quoted. But
the Report concludes with the irony that pervades this
portion throughout 2——

Rabies has, however, disappeared from England and Wales since
1899, and with it the necessity for anti-rabic inoculation.

The story of Sleeping Sickness reads like a page
from “ The Arabian Nights.” The Commissioners
tell how a Portuguese Commission ﬁrst found a microbe
similar to that which Sir David Bruce discovered as
the origin of Malta Fever, which was declared to be
the cause of the disease. This discovery was conﬁrmed
by a Commission of the Royal Society. Then Sir
David Bruce’s attention was called to a trypanosoma
found in a few cases, and, by investigating on these
new lines, he discovered that the trypanosome could
be communicated by the tsetse ﬂy ; so the microbe was
given up in favour of the trypanosome. But the
Commissioners cuttingly remark :—

The need for caution in accepting a trypanosoma as the cause
of sleeping sickness has been pointed out. Not long since another

blood parasite—ﬁlaria perstans—was conﬁdently asserted to be the
cause of the disease.

In the midst of this hopeless muddle and con-
tradiction, the Report says cases already infected
are being segregated, and inhabitants temporarily
cleared out from the infected zone. But “ it is yet
too early to determine how far these measures will be
successful.” So much for the boasted triumph of the
bacteriologists in regard to this disease.

OTHER FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.

The discussion of Diphtheria, and Diphtheria Anti-
tOXin occupies no less than four pages, and full descrip-
tions as to the discovery of the one and the manufacture
of the other are recorded. But the Commissioners
point out that the alleged speciﬁc organism has been
found in as many as 15 per cent. of healthy throats
and has been sought in vain in as many as 20 per




 

15

cent. of diphtheritic throats ; so that its genuineness
is seriously doubted. They show by admissions
wrung out of the advocates of anti—toxin that the
diagnosis of diphtheria now rests chieﬂy upon bacterial
and not upon clinical signs, and consequently this
method has resulted in a number of mild or atypical
cases being included in the statistics of alleged genuine
diphtheria. Consequently they signiﬁcantly add :—
Unfortunately, it is’not possible to measure the inﬂuence of this
factor in diminishing the case mortality.
But they show that if diphtheria has declined, so has
scarlet fever “ (for which no similar novel treatment
has been introduced)” and they quote two eminent
advocates of anti-toxin who attributed the decline in
scarlet fever to _
improvement in the general treatment and better hygienic
conditions of the patients.
And this acknowledgment they cap by the tardy
confession of another anti-toxin advocate that

other factors may have to be examined and taken into account
as well as serum or no serum in drawing conclusions from statistical
data. ‘

Tetanus is next treated, and the Report remarks
that the same claims have been made for the germ and
tetanus anti-toxin as have been made in the case of
diphtheria ; but the Report sarcastically remarks 2——

Evidence has been put before us to the effect that this anti-
toxin is effective in preventing the disease when injected at the same
time or shortly after the poisonous dose, but it has not been proved
of practical value in the treatment of tetanus.

Dr. Martin explained this by saying that the disease
was usually discovered too late I

Equally amusing is the treatment which the Com-
missioners accord the discovery of “ the bacillus of
bacterial Dyse'ntery,” and its tragic laboratory effects
on guinea-pigs and rabbits. They quote what “ we
have been told ” about anti—dysentery serum ; but, alas l

the data as to its value as a therapeutic agent in man are not
yet extensive or conclusive, but so far as it has been used theresults
are said to be of a very promising character.

SIR DAVID BRUCE’S STORY.

Malta Fever, which has been claimed as one of the
greatest triumphs of Vivisection (on the subject of

it?» 57% _

at: {‘2‘

—, :: ;.-. ———=: mars-hm

Ear—:‘thvrnz?

l
l
E

 




 

 

 

16

which I communicated two articles to The Contem-
porary Review in August and November, 1909), is
next dealt with; its treatment occupies two pages.
A very fair and exhaustive summary of Sir David
Bruce’s case is given, and a very amusing quotation
from his description as to “ how he would have set to
work to discover the cause of Malta Fever with a
positive prohibition of experiments on animals ” is
supplied. The Commissioners humorously add :—

The epidemiology of the disease is not yet completely worked

out. Sir David Bruce allows that the micrococcus might have
been discovered by microscopic examination alone, and that from
differential observations of those who drank and those who did not
drink goats’ milk, the causal relation of the microbe might have
been discovered.
(As a matter of fact, this “ differential observation ”
had resulted in discrediting its causal relation alto-
gether.) They point out that simple continued fever
and enteric fever also declined during the same period,
and that Sir David Bruce thought “ that may be
attributed to the stoppage of goats’ milk, too ” I The
same germ could evidently do duty for all !

But the Report omits to state that the greatest
decline in Malta Fever took place six months before
the goats” milk was stopped at all, and was synchronous
with the removal of troops toward the close of 1905
from the insanitary St. Elmo Barracks to new and
palatial barracks upon the hillside.

This list of diseases and the bacteriological claims
in regard to them closes with Snake Poison, and in a
few words the Commissioners dismiss the serum
remedies as “ not practically of any great value.”

THE HARD LOGIC OF FACTS.

Thus we have an authoritative pronouncement
proceeding from What Anti~Vivisectionists are justiﬁed
in calling a “ packed Commission ” wherein every
claim of the Vivisection bacteriologist to the discovery
of the true cause and treatment of infectious diseases
is ruthlessly set aside, and one might almost say held
up to ridicule! And considering that no scientiﬁc
expert from the Abolitionist ranks (save Miss Kenealy)
appeared as a witness before that Commission to
present their side of the case, it is evident that the

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

17

Commission have been compelled by the hard logic of
facts, in the very teeth of their own prejudices, and in
opposition to the views of the strong body of Vivi-
section experts who appeared before them, to justify
the position which instructed Anti-Vivisectionists have
taken up for years past in relation to this method of
investigation. " ,

This portion of the Report, which forms its chief
bulk, is a triumph for the Anti—Vivisection cause,
and a death-blow to the boasted Vivisection triumphs
of the last thirty years.

Four pages, devoted to an examination of the
evidence in regard to' diseases of animals, follow.
In each case, as in that of human diseases, there is
shown to be a serious ﬂaw in the vivisectors’ claims,
and the whole question from a bacteriological point of
View is left in doubt and dismissed with dissatisfaction.

THE COMMISSIONERS’ CONCLUSIONS.

The ,“ conclusions ” of this portion are peculiar,
and present the appearance of a compromise :—

1., That certain results, claimed from time to time to have been
proved by experiments upon living animals, and alleged to have
been beneﬁcial in preventing or curing disease, have, on further
investigation and experience, been found to be fallaciuos or useless.

This is apparently a unanimous judgment.

2. That, notwithstanding such failures, valuable knowledge
has been acquired in regard to physiological processes and the
causation of disease, and that useful methods for the prevention,
cure and treatment of certain diseases have resulted from experi-
mental investigation upon living animals.

3, That, so far as we can judge, it is highly improbable that,
without experiments made on animals, mankind would at the
present time have been in possession of such knowledge.

The above statements are so absolutely opposed to
the evidence which I have already quoted that, in the
absence of a vestige of proof in support of such claims
and aspirations, one is driven to conclude that they
must be the opinion of the majority of irreconcilable
Pro-Vivisectionists. They admit in 1 that certain
results. conﬁdently claimed and “ proved by experi-
ments on animals ” have turned out “ fallacious or
useless,” and it is not outside the bounds of probability
that those referred to in 2 and 3 (but which are

54153". 5%?‘11‘ 3‘2 l‘n’ﬁfaﬁﬁﬁigif? T247557 ' 177'! 9'7"

:Q'EEV'I‘P‘S'V’Q‘VM

1"“ x :72;-

wyr". 51:33:31? s"'“-‘°~rv:¢:a3¥v’r.cz

f. I. uﬁf‘ﬂT'v‘M‘i‘i-éﬁaw». agent... 4.1.. ._ ~. _

’
§

l

E
1

,
l

,9

.w

pryém ii 5’3

”ﬁxi—sz‘mzmwmz

1m:- 153—2”:-

~ :2. £- — leka—nswwm

x
\

 




 

 

18

not speciﬁed there or anywhere else in the Report)
are only awaiting their turn to be discredited.

The last two clauses are evidently penned by a wag !
They completely discount 2 and 3. In neatness
of phrase and in cynical criticism the following could
not well be surpassed :-—-

4. That, in so far as disease has been successfully prevented or
its mortality reduced, suffering has been diminished in man and in
lower animals.

That is a truism l

5. That there is ground for believing that similar methods of

investigation if pursued in the future will be attended with similar
results.

A correlative fact which no one will dispute !

THE QUESTION OF PAIN.

The subject of “ Pain in Experiments on Animals,”
which forms the third division of the Report, is dealt
with in a strikingly vague manner.

A summary of the evidence offered by the Pro-
Vivisection witnesses is given. The Commissioners
comment upon “ the conﬂict of opinion as to the
feasibility and the safety of administering anaesthetics
to animals,” and they conclude that

We do not think there is any evidence to show that a condition
of complete anaesthesia cannot be obtained and maintained in dogs
as in other animals, although liability to death under certain
anaesthetics is somewhat greater in dogs than in men.

This is what Anti—Vivisectionists have repeatedly
maintained. They have condemned the rough-and-
ready manner of administering anaesthetics to animals
which is usually adopted, namely, by mechanical means,
requiring no direct supervision, the quantity of anaes—
thetic which is administered being gauged according
to the weight of the animal. Considering the greater
liability to death of the animal than of the human
subject, Anti—Vivisectionists claim that greater atten-
tion is really required, or the suspicion may arise that,
owing to the acknowledged danger of pushing the
anaesthetic to the verge of complete anaesthesia, except
under the greatest vigilance, the animal may notreceive
sufﬁcient. '

The Commissioners quote the evidence of Dr. Buxton
as to the meaning of the term “ incomplete anaesthesia,”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19

which he described as “ that degree of narcosis where
pain is felt.” Sir Victor Horsley, however, in whose
laboratory some terrible experiments were performed
by Dr. Crile under “incomplete anaesthesia,” declared
that it meant that the animal “ was not conscious
of pain.” The Commissioners cautiously add :—

The evidence shows that while, by respirable anaesthetics such
as chloroform, it is possible to establish and maintain, even for long
periods of time, a condition of complete insensibility to pain in
the lower animals. as in man, yet their administration in order to

secure such anaesthesia requires caution and watchfulness as well
as the natural scholtude of a humane and skilful operator.

ANASSTHETICS AND NARCOTICS.

This is a deﬁnite condemnation of the whole system
of administering anaesthetics to animals which has
so far been employed by vivisectors, and justiﬁes the
contentions of instructed Anti-Vivisectionists, which
have been hitherto treated with contempt by their
opponents. .

. Just as in anaesthetics, so in relation to narcotics,
the Commissioners go on to show that the vivisectors
do not agree among themselves. Morphia, which is
frequently used alone or in conjunction with an
anaesthetic, could only produce anaesthesia, according
to Dr. Thane, if given in a fatal dose. Mr. Hobday,
another great authority, considered dogs “ very unsus-
ceptible to a toxic dose of morphia,” and that it
“ affected different dogs differently.” ..

As the result of all this contradiction, the Com-
missioners come to the following indeﬁnite and enig—
matical conclusion :—

After careful consideration of the whole question of anaesthetics
as applied to experimental investigations on living animals, we are
led to the conclusion that by the use of a combination of several
well known anaesthetics complete insensibility to pain can be secured.

This leaves the question precisely where it was before.

The Commissioners here proceed to deal with In,—
oculations, where no anaesthetics are administered, and
which are usually described by vivisectors and their
apologists as “ merely the lance of a vein under the
skin ” or the “ prick of a pin,” and of which some 90,000

PTA-3""? f .7
_. . <4

, ring-.3 xv-‘-1-‘, «um—an». ’T aura-'42:”. ”:37 1°", 1 39!: f? 1:7 .‘
.A . “a N, ,. , m. ..

A
,
‘V
i /.
,é}
lh‘
lid
‘1
L,
'1"
y; ‘.:
It
I .
,5:
”V
“:1.
l -.
, l
é' .1.
y,
A,
'.
v.
,
H .
‘i c,
l.
; .
l
,m
, .k‘
y .
rp-
'v
.N“
n4
‘.
"<
3'5
3".
E3
‘21,

u

Tifimjrm ._, _.w7:‘§—i:‘ :"LZT‘V'ETW i532??? w": 1" :7 $37753»: "

iii??? 3: g'kla’vii’xlii? I?

Thy-'27,:

rirnmz-JXT‘ >
u 4,. .. .n. r

.=:-.”.?§§§5$::"~.~ ‘ ":3 L' 1.2.381:

u

;‘»:N.~’~3F~’:"’L‘I"-. .».?‘="*.<_ 4.; ~14.» T"?

‘35: we? 2",. 1*Ei?‘v"‘—T’"

‘v‘v'f—Nv >7 .vvjrzva r.’

 




 

 

 

20

experiments were conducted last year. The Corn-
missioners quote several revolting instances of exqu1s1te
pain and suﬁering as the result of this alleged innocent
' operation, instances which were narrated by the vivi-
sectors themselves, thus again justifying the charges
which Anti-Vivisectionists have brought against them.

TRUST THE INSPECTORS!

They propose to meet this serious condition of things
by an increase of inspectors—a safeguard which might
be of value if the poor creatures could express them-
selves in articulate language, and if the inspectors
were different from what they have always proved them-
selves to be—the friends of the vivisectors. In
describing the type of inspector that should be ap-
pointed, the Commissioners use the same hackneyed
phrase adopted by the Commission of 1876, “ qualiﬁed
medical men of such position as to secure the conﬁdence
both of their own profession and the public.” Unfor-
tunately, the public have never had a voice in the
matter in the past, nor are they likely to have in the
future. Neither is the profession, for the matter of that.

In regard to the question of Pithing—that is, the
destruction of the brain of an animal, it is common
knowledge that in some of the lower animals, signs of
apparently conscious or purposeful movements take
place, and the Commissioners confess :—-—

We realise the difﬁculty of attempting to dogmatise in such

questions.
And they admit the difﬁculty of drawing conclusions by
analogy with other animals. They attempt to solve
the problem by suggesting decapitation, or that the
pithing should be done under an adequate anaesthetic
by a licensed person. It is usually done by the
laboratory porter.

Demonstrations before students they propose should
be left as at present.

The “ Reservations ” of Colonel Lockwood, Sir
William Collins, and Dr. George Wilson indicate

1. That they would prefer legislation by Act of
Parliament rather than by administrative operation.

 

 

 

 

 




 

'l
A4.

A;iti——Vivisectioiiists who object to the burea‘uci'atiu
power exercised by departments of the State would all
endorse the prmc1ple involved in this reconnnendatioii.

OUR COMPLAINTS JUSTIFIED.

’ :3. They protest similarly against the granting of
“ Statutory Certiﬁcates by the holder or holders of
certain speciﬁed ofﬁces in scientiﬁc or medical institu—
tions.” To explain this, it must be mentioned that
the present Act lays down a number of very strict
conditions and then allows all except three to be re—
moved by certiﬁcate. These outside authorities can
allow of the dispensing with ansesthetics in an experi—
ment, quite independently of the Home Ofﬁce. They
therefore advise that the Home Secretary should have
“ undivided responsibility ” in this matter. They also
suggest that the Society of Vivisectors which was
constituted to protect their own interests, and which
goes by the name of The Association for the Advance—
ment of Medicine by Research, should cease to be the
advisory body of the Home Secretary. All Anti-
Vivisectionists have protested against the anomaly of
this condition of things for many years.

‘ 3. The third point has reference to the painless
destruction of animals when pain ensues. The Minority
say :—-

It is chieﬂy from the evidence given by the inspectors that we
have heard of experiments in which pain and suffering have ensued.
Prior to 1905 the Home Ofﬁce returns purported to distinguish
between “ painfu ” and “ painless ” experiments, but this dis-
tinction is now abandoned as being unsuccessful or even misleading.
The difﬁculty of making the distinction is especially encountered
in the case of inoculation experiments, the number of which has
greatly increased in recent years.

They criticise the confusion and complexity which
their colleagues introduced into the General Report
by laying down a different formula for the inspector
from that of the experimenter in reference to the
destruction of animals suffering pain after an experi—
ment, and they recommend instead ’

the insertion in the Act of a requirement upon all experimenters
in every case in which obvious suﬁering has supervened forthwrth

’7

{iii—‘3 5. 1F~<.39‘5&.Z."'&"5.E~. 3?! Eﬁi‘ 2352 . L .‘ Ti?- s.

'-‘£"=.?5"7-" 11:5:

must? ‘m‘ ravage:
. ‘3'“ r.‘: VNLA ”

1.3L:

»: may: “‘3... .

W?;e-=~mv-gcvz rem-a
>‘_'>" N. '_ M43: r ' .

war-as.— 3“"??? 9‘

m it??? 4 >'. {E v”.- rib .:«._:.':; ~,r..

“933

I55
5;
iii
‘.
j c
K
~1
L
if!

e2", -

.: -‘, :1. ”am

.3:
;.-’.

"123223;"; A'vm-‘QEEm‘Lsi-l-‘ﬁ

._ _v._ a???

\1-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

:) 4)
AHA—I

painlessly to destroy the animal. It would then be the duty of
the enlarged inspectorate, which we agree in. recmnmendmg, lo
see that this statutory requirement is duly enforced.

IF ANIMALS COULD TALK!

This leaves the discretion in the hands of the vivi~
sector with the inspector as a kind of chief executionma

But they omit to mention the admission of the
Home Secretary and Home Ofﬁce ofﬁcials that “ in.
many instances not even the experimenter himself
can tell Whether the animal is suffering or not.” They
can hardly suppose that the division into “ painful ”
and “ painless ”- can be any more positively ascertained
inthe future than has been "possible in the past, and
the Abolitionists are justiﬁed from this point of View
in maintaining that the increase and appointment of
full time inspectors will do little more than create
additional lucrative and practically ornamental. posts,
and provide a further vested interest in what is
to them a very obnoxious as well as unscientiﬁc and
useless practice, With the added danger that it may
instil into the minds of the unthinking public a sense
of satisfaction and security. Considering the quiet
fortitude with which many animals endure suffering,
and the unpractical character of the inspector’s sug—
gested duty which results therefrom, Abolitionists
consider that the present staff is sufﬁcient and an
increase would only tend to make the practice of
Viviseetion more secure by raising a body of men
who will be interested in its per}.)etuation.

4. Their other recommendation that Commercial
Viviseetion connected with the inai‘uifacture of Vaccines
and. Sera should be brought within the scope of the
Act, everyone will endorse. It is a scandal that
manufacturers should for so long have been exempted
from this restraint.

DR. GEORGE WILSON'S VIEWS.

The “ Reservation Memorandum, by Dr. G. Wilson,”
is almost as lengthy as the Report itself and is some-
what discursive.

 

 

 

 




..,~ 4

U n
2.)

He goes rather further than the terms of the lie port
in regard to the question of anaesthesia, and remarks :w-

But even when an animal is rendered completely insensible to
pain by whatever means, there is still room for uncertainty that
during a prolonged physiological experiment, or a demonstration
of the severe‘r kind before students, it may not recover a certain
degree of consciousness, because it is not always easy to determine

whether in such cases full anaesthesia has been continuously main-
tained.

And again he remarks 2“-

The whole trend of Colonel Laurie’s evidence contested the view
that animals, and especially dogs, could be kept fully anaesthetised
by such mechanical methods with automatically regulated doses of
the anaesthetic. . . .

It is when morphia is used, either by itself, or along with
chloroform or ether, that some degree of uncertainty creeps in,
because dogs can take enormous lethal doses of this drug. . . .

It appears to me that even the most careful physiologist or
research-worker may at times be mistaken as to whether in some
of the severer operations the animal is entirely unconscious of
pain throughout.

In view of these admissions it is curious that Dr.
Wilson can consider the practice of Vivisection
“morally justiﬁable ” or that additional inspectors
could remedy the evil.

In dealing with the question of “ Progress ” and
“ Results,” Dr. Wilson says :—-—-
I feel bound to state that I have been far more impressed with

the fallacies and failures which have attended this method of research
than with the successful results which are claimed.

And again he says :-——

These replies of Sir Lauder Brunton, I think, not only show
how difﬁcult it is to reason from animals to man in respect to
the varied action of drugs on animals and man, but also show how
much more difﬁcult it must be to reason from experimenting on
an animal which is placed in an altogether abnormal environment.

Considerable space is occupied by Dr. Wilson in
demonstrating his “ almost complete agreement with
the views of Dr. Granville Bantock on the germ
theory of disease as set forth in his mum's of evidence.”

But he greatly weakens his position by referring
several times to the faith he possesses in the practice
of vaccination and by repeating arguments in relation
thereto which have been frequently disproved.

inn-7:: {saw—’7‘"
g a I

. an". ,uw-V‘. 2‘13”“
Ar?” -‘_'-v.x...L_-u ”A .. - ,.

tar-w-

'M—rv wag—u ,«

:’L-. .

. w ‘z-u ‘a‘; .

C .2245“ :

. {or w .141": '~
-.'.‘\. ,1.“ -< x-J'r.

a» ton: -.——mv ~v—-
’ . \Z‘ 1...

. . gin.

""‘ "1"" - i“ ' > :3". " 72":3“; _ .
—‘ f.‘ .. 5. .~..'::~. 1.. :97. 3333-3: .9: , ism-.-

.5...

'5": .4? 5:25;.” .~

ML; 4.. xx"

(I v'-:'-.-.. “ "71‘ '.

W" .'. ,..... .7. ‘. Mun 4:;1 .- ~ g. ‘ . . , -. . :; ,..‘.. -.‘—- ,(nx i”-*ef“_‘;,3j:.f;“ gang; 5:; _.1_.’:..—_:. h-r...j:’:<:- '. s.
'1’>L~P-Ez1r:um.4¥£3:25;”: 1.: .r, -..~r......:..J.-..J_....- z- .. _ . J. _ . . .

.-2',~??—£<“\'

J.» 1'.

pp

.n.» -

_.: * ‘1}. 34‘s: :5";

 




2-1

In reviewing the whole position in the light of the
Commissioners’ Report and “ Conclusions,” all un-
prejudiced persons must agree that they have com-
pletely given away the case for Vivisection.

AN ALTERNATIVE.

The unanimous Report of the Royal Commissioners
has unmistakably proved that the Germ-theory of
Disease rests upon a bed of sand. With the blast of
their criticism the whole fabric asserting the causation,
prevention. and cure of infectious disease, which has
been built upon it, has fallen to the ground, and it is
conclusively shown that Sanitary Reform alone has
swept away diseases in the past and can alone sweep
them away in the future.

The vivisectors themselves have not gained one
inch, but, by the recommendation of further restric-
tions, however unsatisfactory some of these may be to
Abolitionists, evidence? is aiforded that their position
is not justiﬁed even by their friends. And considering
that practically no scientiﬁc evidence has been tendered
from the Abolitionist side; that the Commissioners
have refrained from giving any deﬁnite judgment upon
the alleged physiological results of Vivisection; that
they have exposed the claims. for utility and the
theories upon which those claims are based in practi-
cally every instance in which they have been made ;
that even their position as to anaesthesia is of a most
wavering and indeﬁnite character, and that their argu-
ment on the moral aspect has broken down in logic
and reason, Anti-Vivisectionists have a right to demand
that a properly constituted Commission, selected in
accordance with the common elements of justice and
cqijiity, be forthwith appointed in order that the case
for the Anti-Vivisectionists be fairly heard and judged,
or else that the whole system, shown to be untenable
by its own advocates, should be at once abolished by
the State.

\‘v’. Speaight 6: Sons, Printers, Fetter- Lane, London.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

{ The British Union
for the AbOIition of Vivisection
(The British AntiVivisection- Society.)

 

§

FOUNDBESS: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

President and Hon» Sec. : , 7 Hon. Treasurer :
WALTER RA. HADWEN, J .P., M.D.., &c. The Revs J. éSTRATTON, M.A.
Secretary : Miss B. E. KIDD.

~0ﬁices : 32. CHARING Cuoss, LONDON, S.W.

 

 

From the. Autobiography of Miss F. P. COBBE.

“ To those of my readers who may desire to contribute to the
Anti-Vivisection cause and who have Shared my views on it as
set forth in my numberless pamphlets and letters, and to those
specially who, like myself, intend to bequeath money to carry on
the war against scientific cruelty, I new «earnestly say as my final
counsel: . - ' ‘

“Support the British Union.”

 

In the case {of benefactors desiring to bequeath "legacies in support
of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to clearly “state in their
Wills, “ The British Union for the Abolition «of Vivisection,” and to
make them payable to the Treasurer for the time being.

Form ’ of Bequest.

I bequeath unto the Society called THE BRITISH UNION FOR
THE ABOLI TI 0N 0F VIVISEOTION, the sum of. . .. ., ........ .. .
free of Legacy Duty, and I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society, exclusively
out of such part of my personal [estate as may legally be bequeathed for
charitable purposes and in priority to all other payments.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria, cap. .26, all Wills and Codi‘cils must be in
writing, signed by the Testator, and attested by two Witnesses in the presence
of the Testator and of each other.

A Donation of Five Pounds and upwards constitutes a. Life Member.
An Annual Subscription of Ten Shillings constitutes an Annual Member,
Remittances by Crossed Cheque or Postal Order. Smaller Donations gratefully
accepted. '

An Annual Payment of 2s. 6d. constitutes an Associate of the Union”

 




 

SELECTED ANTI=VIVISECTION
LITERATURE.

Pamphlets by Dr. HADWEN, J. P.

Per Per
Doz. 100.

Some Recent Vivisection Practices in English
Laboratories... .. 1/—- 17/6

A Medical View of the Vivisection Question . . 2/- 12/ 6
The Antitoxin Treatment of Diphtheria . . A 1/6 10 /—
The Cult of the Vivisector .. .. . . . 4d. 2 /3
Tuberculosis and Cow 5 Milk ‘. . . . . .‘ 1/—- 7/6
Was Jenner a Charlatan ? . . 1/- 7 /6

Debate between Dr. Hadwen and Mr. Stephen ,
Paget at Shrewsbury.. . 1/6 10/-

Debate on the Suffolk “Plague ” .. . 1/6 7 /6

Correspondence between Dr. Hadwen and Sir
Victor Horsley .. . 1/—- 7 /6

Views of Men and Women of Note on the ‘
Vivisection Question .. . . 2/- 12/6
(Illustrated with Portraits.)

 

 

. The Case against Vaccination .. . . . . 1/- 7 /6
The Controversy in “ The Standard ” .. .. 15 /—

A Vivisection Controversy ———— Mr. Stephen
Paget’s Claims, and Dr. Hadwen’s Answers 2/~ 10/—

 

By Miss FRANCES POWER COBBE.

The Early History of the Anti-Vivisection Movement 3d.
Light in Dark Places .. .. .. .. .. vld.

By BEATRICE E. 1000.
Why We Object to a Restriction Bill. 9d. doz., 5/— 100.
Do You Know? (Illustrated) 4d. doz., 2/3 100.
The Policy of Abolition. 1/-— doz., 7/6 100‘.

By Miss A. F. WHITELEY.

Some Medical Views of Vivisection. 3d. each, 2/— doz.

By J. FRASER HEWES.
A Sketch of the Vivisection Question. 1d.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




