The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and
How It Can Be Avoided

Animal Welfare Institute, New York

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Professor of
Pharmacology at Ohio State University,
recently wrote: “It seems to me that it is
wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en—
thused over biological sciences that they are
anxious "to undertake extensive animal experi-
mentation without the background, the ex-
perience, the judgment, or the wisdom that is
necessary in handling animals appropriately
for complicated biological experimentation. In
other words, i think we had better continue
to learn the hard way: there is plenty of bi—
ology to be gotten from a study of unicellular
organisms that can be readily obtained in any
high school laboratory, and handled and fol—
lowed with skill and convenience. We are apt
to get into trouble using animals.”

Sensationalism in the teaching of high school
biology seems to us to be on the increase. No
doubt the majority of our teachers avoid the
practices listed below, but there are numerous
cases of educators, possibly unable to convey
the intellectual interest of their subject by
more conscientious means, encouraging chil-
dren to make cruel and pseudo-scientific ex—
periments paralleling whatever field of research
is receiving popular publicity at the time.

Following are examples of the type of pain.-
ful and uncreative experimentation to which
our organization is opposed. Pupils have been
taught to “make routine transfer of cancer
cells peritioneally in mice,” and a machine
has been devised to force mice to inhale high
concentrations of tobacco smoke and pepper
in connection with the national enquiry,
“Does smoking cause lung cancer.” Objections
might also be raised to certain experiments by
which “the effects of radiation on rats are
determined,” especially since the students con—
cerned have not yet mastered the anatomy
and physiology of the rats they are destroying.
Again, at the height of the Sputnik publicity.
children were taught to detonate home—made
rockets containing mice, and here, while the

making of the rocket may have familiarized.

the children with some principles of me-
chanics, the inclusion of the mouse, the thing
that gave the project its glamor, had no sort

of justification. As the New Y ark Herald
Tribune commented: “Let. youngsters fire off
tiny Sputniks if they can. But why imprison
a mouse, or any living creature in one, if no
knowledge is to: be yielded by its death?
Killing a mouse, suddenly, may be necessary
to prudent housekeeping. Subjecting one need-
lessly to 3,284 feet of . . . terror shows little
reverence for life. If increased interest in sci—
ence is to lead merely to greater callousness,
the world will not have moved ahead.”

To criticize such misplaced attempts as the
high school research projects described above
is not to suggest that all animal life be excluded
from the biology classroom. The judicious
introduction of some forms of life can be a
valuable teaching asset. Students will take a
keener interest in the forms they are studying
if they have an opportunity to observe them
in life. They can be led to develop responsibil—
ity for animals kept in the classroom; pros—
pective scientists: must be made to realize that
a normal healthy condition in the research
animal is the sine qua non of an authentic
biological experiment, and that it is part of
the scientist’s job to- see that his animals are
well kept. All students may be trained to
make careful and precise observations of the
physical form and of the habit or movements
of the species they are shown. The importance
of a well developed technique of observation
in biology can hardly be overestimated. Many
important discoveries were not the result of
hypothesis and experiment but were instead
chance observations by trained observers. Sir
Alexander Fleming’s discovery of penicillin
is a recent example. Interest, responsibility,
and a technique of observation may be culti-
vated in students with the help of animal life
kept in the classroom.1 The major problem
is the selection of suitable forms.

1 Students may be interested to read some works
on animal behavior by such distinguished observers
as Tinbergen, Lorenz, Eckstein, von Frisch, Fabre,
J. S. Huxley, and others. The Animal Welfare In-
stitute is preparing a pamphlet which will include a
select bibliography of the writings on behavior most
useful to the high school student.

Reprinted from THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, Vol. 22, No. 8, November, 1960

 




480 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

Many teachers and scientists agree that
some important principles of biology can be
taught successfully with the help of live uni—
cellular organisms such as protozoa, yeast, and
bacteria. Colonies of ants, or, in rural areas,
of bees, may be especially housed for class ob-
servation. The study Of genetics is well illus-
trated by breeding the fruit-fly, Drosophila.
Higher forms, such as reptiles, mammals, and
birds, may be kept for general observation;
however, the dissection of dead specimens,
supplemented with models and filmstrips,
should sufﬁce to give the student a working
knowledge of their anatomy and physiology.
Crude experiments involving surgery or stress
are not the training students need. Respect
for living things, sound judgment, reliability,
and a technique of observation will go further
towards making competent biologists than will
the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery
in supposed imitation of a fantasy hero.

Students who are induced to perform pain-
ful experiments on the higher animals should
first be made aware of two points:

1. What they are doing is not advancing
scientific knowledge or serving any al-
truistic purpose.

. The enjoyment of tumor transplantation
or other simple surgery is not an intel—
lectual pleasure; the child who takes
pleasure in Such practices is likely to be

' indulging the darkest and most destruc-
tive side of his personality.

Teachers and students alike ought to give
careful thought to these two points so as to
be in a position to take moral responsibility
for their acts if there is anything hazy in their
realization of the above two points.

If animals are to be kept in the classroom,
it is of the first importance that the teacher
should enforce a serious and knowledgeable
attitude toward their care. Most students will
be interested in constructing and outfitting
suitable quarters for classroom animals; some
will be willing to undertake care and feeding.
It is essential that the routine of cleaning,
watering, and feeding be inflexibly carried
out. Some teachers have found that the best
method is to assign two volunteers to each
cage of animals for an entire semester. The
daily ration of food and water for each cage
and the routine days for cleaning should be
posted, so that in case of absence substitutes
will know where to take over. Sudden changes

November, 1960

in diet may cause colic and intestinal disturb-
ances. Care must be taken that a triple ration
of food and water is always provided on Fri-
days. Vacation periods present a major prob-'
lem: in our experience, school janitors' are
never reliable animal caretakers. It will prob-
ably be necessary for the animals to board
with the teacher or with a really responsible
student. The teacher who decides to keep
animals in the classroom must take the ultimate
responsibility for the care and feeding Of the
animals at all times.

Two indispensible pieces of equipment for
keeping rodents are the water bottle and the
food hopper. The hopper prevents animals
from scattering and wasting their food; the
water bottle ensures that the drinking supply
will not be spilt and the animals left thirsty
during an unsupervised period. A water bottle
is simple to make. Through the cork Of the
bottle goes a piece of glass tubing with an in-
ternal diameter of 3/8”, and thick walls. The
outer end of the tube has been rotated in a
Bunsen flame until the opening is between
1/ 16” and 1/8” in diameter and bent at an
angle of not more than 45° out of straight, so
that, when the bottle is hung inverted in the
cage, the spout curves downwards and out—
wards. If the cork is airtight, the water will
not run out when the bottle is filled but will
always be available: at the tip of the tube. The
table gives measurements for some common
laboratory animals:

Capacity of bottle

Mouse Rat Guinea Pig Rabbit
4 oz. 1 pt. 1 pt. 1 pt.
(for 1 rabbit)
Distance of spout from
cage floor for adults:
for young

II/2 n 6'” 4n 6!!
same 3” 2” 3”
All caged animals require fresh water at all
times, and food should also be available to
them on a twenty-four hour basis.

If the cages are placed in an area receiving
direct sunlight at any time of day, a sunshade
must be provided by attaching brown paper
to the sides and top of about one—third of the
cage area. Animals must never be left in a
draft, but adequate provision for ventilation
must be made, especially over the weekend.

It is also the teacher’s responsibility to kill
diseased or unwanted animals by a humane

Vol. 22, No.8

method. The best killing method is the chlor-
oform chamber. A chloroform chamber is a
box containing a wire netting shelf raised
above the floor level, with aperforated lid. A
piece of cotton wool saturated with chloro-
form is placed on the floor Of the box, and the
animal is placed on lthe wire netting shelf
above. The animal must never come into direct
contact with liquid chloroform which ir-
ritates the mucous membranes. Since the Ob-
ject is to anesthetize, not to asphyxiate, an
adequate amount of outside air must enter the
box until the animal is unconscious. The animal
may be observed through a hole in the lid;
if it struggles, more air should be admitted;
when it becomes unconscious, all outside air
should be cut Off. Never remove the animal
from the chloroform box or dispose of, the
body until it is stiff and cold.

Mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, frogs, and
fish are some of the animals most likely to- be
kept in the classroom. The teacher should
familiarize all students with the basic" require-
ments of the chosen species and demonstrate
the correct method of handling it. Some notes
on the basic care and handling of the common
species follow: These notes outline minimum
standards; students may be encouraged to raise
these standards further. For example, they
may wish to design roomier cages with more
elaborate exercise facilities or nest boxes than
are described below; experimenting in Obtain-
ing the optimum housing arrangement or diet
will train students to make close observations
of the animals’ condition.

Mice: Four mice or a breeding pair may be
kept in a cage 6” x 12”, but a larger cage will
provide more space for activity and more op-
portunity for interesting observations. Mice
can be kept in a wire mesh cage with a wire
mesh floor and a movable tray beneath, which
should be lined with newspaper and cleaned
daily. However, recent scientific studies
show that a solid nonporous cage floor, cov—
ered with peat moss or shavings, provides an
optimum environment for mice, and that mice
thus housed are healthier and more content
than mice kept on wire mesh. The whole cage
should be washed in soap and hot water
weekly. If there is a possibility of infection,
disinfectant should be added to the water. The
cage must be thoroughly dried before the
mice are replaced. Mice are sensitive to sud-
den changes of temperature and thrive at tem-

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 481 ,

peratures of 680-720. Suckling mice require a
temperature of 760-78“. Mice are by nature
nocturnal and should be provided with a dark
corner in the form of a nesting box. It should
contain bedding material sucn as shredded
paper, woodshavings, or cotton wool. A con-
venient nesting box is a small metal cup, in-
verted, with an entrance cut in one side at the
rim. An exercise device such as a Ferris wheel
is a good idea. Mice are omnivorous and will
thrive on a diet of meat, fish, cheese and vege-
table scraps, supplemented with bread, oats,
sunflower seed, hemp, Or millet. It is also pos-
sible to feed them on a diet of commercial
mouse pellets if these are supplemented with
greens, yeast, and any of the above mentioned
foods. An exclusive diet Of commercial mouse
pellets may result in malnutrition and canni-
balism. Mice. are usually docile; a mouse may
be picked up by placing the fingers under the
animal and gently easing it into the palm Of
the hand. Mice may also be lifted, not carried,
by the base of the tail if excitable. Gentle
stroking may help to calm them.

Rats: A rat cage should be similar in design to
a mouse cage but considerably larger. Seven
hundred square inches of floor space is the
recommended minimum for eight rats. Rats
require a nesting box. Cleaning the rat cage is
an identical operation to cleaning the mouse
cage. Rats are susceptible to respiratory dis—
eases, and a constant temperature of 650—700 F.,
low humidity, and good ventilation are essen-
tial to: good health. Rats may be fed on. a diet
of commercial rat pellets, supplemented with
grain, greens, milk, meat, fish, and vegetables.
While rats are intelligent and make excellent
PCtS, an angry or frightened rat will inflict a
painful bite. It is advisable to handle rats
gently, to avoid sudden movements, and to
give the rat time to realize it is going to be
handled before picking it up. The best way
to pick up a rat is to place the hand palm
down over the animal’s back, with the thumb
and forefinger around the neck, and the re-
maining fingers around the animal’s body to
take the weight. Rats are playful and appreci~
ate exercise facilities such as Ferris wheels.
Nonbreeding rats and mice should be separ-
ated from breeding specimens.

Guinea pigs: Guinea pigs may be kept in pens
whose floors are covered in a 2” layer of saW-
dust or peat moss followedr by a layer of straw.
An adult guinea pig requires one square foot of

482 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

floor space but will exercise better in a larger
area. If guinea pigs are kept in wire mesh bot-
tom cages, the mesh must be 5/8”, otherwise
the animals will suffer leg injuries. In a wire
mesh cage bedding material such as peat moss
or softwood sawdust must be provided.
Guinea pigs may be fed on hay, which must
be kept in a rack to. prevent soiling, commer—
cial guinea pig pellets, and fresh greens. If a
liberal supply of grass, clover, alfalfa, cabbage,
kale, chicory, lettuce, or sprouted grain is not
given, guinea pigs develop a Vitamin C de—
ficiency which is Often fatal. Guinea pigs
thrive in a cool, dry climate, 65°—79° F. They
should be handled gently, avoiding pressure
on the abdomen. Pregnant females should not
be handled. To pick up a guinea pig, place one
hand well up across the shoulders, with the
thumb behind a front leg, and the fingers well
forward on the opposite side. Work fingers
gently under the hindquarters to take the
weight.

Rabbits: Rabbits require a roomy cage. One
square foot of floor space for every pound of
rabbit is a general rule. Rabbits rest extended
with their feet stretched out behind them, and
any cage which prevents them from doing
this should be allocated to a smaller species.
The cage floor should be covered with 2” of
softwood sawdust or peat moss. Rabbits pre—
fer a cool temperature, 60°-65°F. Strong drafts
or strong sunlight are to be avoided. Rabbits
may be fed on commercial rabbit pellets or on
a grain mixture of whole oats, wheat, and bar-
ley. They also require a good quantity of
alfalfa or clover hay, and green, and root
vegetables daily. If rabbits are put out to grass,
or given an excessive quantity of green food,
they should first be given a meal Of grain or
pellets, to prevent them from taking a surfeit
of green food and developing colic. Never
lift a rabbit by the ears without supporting
its hindquarters with the other hand. It may
be preferable to grasp the rabbit by the scruff
of the neck while supporting the hindquar-
ters as above. Rabbits are inclined to jump and
kick when lifted; they must be treated gently
but firmly. Rabbits not gently handled may
scratch. Adult rabbits should be housed singly,
as they often fight.

Amphibians: Frogs may be kept in large tanks
or concrete pools. It is essential to provide a
resting place outside the water in the form
of a raft or raised plank. The top of the en-

November, 1960

closure must be screened to prevent escape.
The water must be changed daily, unless a
system of running water is used. Frogs kept
in foul water die. A diet of maggots, meal-
worms, slugs, earthworms, blowfly ~ larVae, or
meat is suitable and should be placed out of
the water. Methods of raising these larvae and
worms are described in the Animal Welfare
Institute publication, “First Aid and Care of
Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker. Toads
should have a similar diet. They thrive in a
large cage whose floor is covered with moist
earth or gravel. A rockery of stones or bricks,
under which the toads can retire, is recom—
mended. Frogs and toads may be killed in a
chloroform chamber.

Fish: An aquarium may be planted with pond—
weed which will increase the oxygen content
Of the water and stocked with a few snails
which feed on decaying vegetable matter and
help to keep the aquarium clean. Further
cleaning may be carried out with a Siphon.
Sudden changes in water or water temperature
are harmful to fish, and all the water in an
aquarium should never be changed at once.
Chlorine is. harmful to fish, and tap water is to
be avoided if pondwater is available. If tap
water must be used, it should stand in Shal-
low pans for several days before use. When
water weed will grow in water, it is generally
safe for fish. It is essential that the aquarium
Should contain adequate water and water
surface. One gallon Of water per inch Of fish
is a general rule. For six one—inch fish, an
aquarium 16” x 9” x 9” is adequate. This
provides 5 gallons of water and 144 square
inches of air surface. Overfeeding and over-
crowding are the most frequent causes of
death to aquarium fish, according to the
New York Aquarium. Goldfish may be fed
chopped raw meat, or anglewo-rms, and a good
quality Of commercial fish food. In feeding
tropical fish it is especially important to pro—
vide a variety Of different foods so the fish
can select what they prefer, because the die-
tary needs of the different species are not well
established. Tropical fish aquaria should be
maintained at a constant temperature of 7 5° F.,
and a cover provided, to prevent the fish from
jumping out. In order to avoid overfeeding,
remove any uneaten food ten minutes after the
fish have been Offered it.

The Animal Welfare Institute would be
glad to furnish a list Of books and pamphlets

 




1/01. 22, No. 8 THE A MUSE or
relating to animal care and teaching with ani—
mals in schools. Especially recommended are
the pamphlet, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals," free on request by a teacher; an

English puhlieation, “Animals in Schools," by
”I. l’. \hlrath of the Universities Federation

ANiMALs IN THE CLASSROOM 483

for Animal Welfare; and “Humane Biology

Projects,” now available from the Animal
Welfare Institute. Address enquiries to: The
Animal \Velfare Institute, P. O. Box 3492,

Grand Central Station, N. Y., N Y. 10017.

 

 




9})?
Animal Welfare

Institute

we)

 




 

Advisory Committee

g

DR. LEE R. DICE, Director, Institute of Human

Biology, University of Michigan

DR. ROBERT GESELL, Professor of Physiology,
University of Michigan

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN, President, Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals

DR. PETER OKKELBERG, Emeritus Professor of
Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of the
Graduate School, University of Michigan

DAVID RICARDO, Secretary, British C olurnhia
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals

 

 

 

 




 

The Animal Welfare Institute

AN ORGANIZATION founded by a
group of persons interested in the pro-

motion of humane treatment of animals.

The Institute was incorporated as a
non-proﬁt organization under the laws

of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be

nationwide.

Headquarters are located at
730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y.

 

PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The aim 0 f the Institute will be:
0 To promote the welfare of all animals.

0 To reduce the total of pain and fear

inﬂicted on animals by man.

 




 

 

06 HILE THE INSTITUTE is interested in every phase of animal
welfare, it will, at present, concern itself particularly with humane
safeguards in the use of animals for research and medicine.

This is one aspect of humane work that has received very little
practical attention in the United States. As a result, standards for
the use of laboratory animals vary from individual to individual,
from institution to institution.

At present, animal experimentation is a subject on which opin-
ion differs importantly:

1. Anti-vivisectionists demand the abolition of animal ex-
perimentation.

2. Some experimental biologists, deeming themselves ham-
pered by unsatisfactory supplies of animals needed for
research and by anti-vivisectionist activity, counter by de-
manding the forced surrender of unlimited numbers of
animals from public and semi-public sources.

3. Sincere humanitarians who have not opposed animal ex-
perimentation are having their constructive work made
diﬂicult, and in some instances impossible, by those scien-
tists who react to anti-vivisectionist extremes by them-
selves going to opposite lengths.

On the urgent problem of laboratory animals, therefore, the
Institute will have the following immediate aims:

1. Care: The establishment of a code for the handling and
use of laboratory animals.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experi-
mental animals.

2. Researc/o: The encouragement of medical research of the
highest possible quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a mini-
mum both the pain suffered by animals and the number of
animals required. '

 

 

 




 

 

 

3. Procurement Programs: The survey of existing and
proposed programs for the procurement of laboratory
animals in an effort to discover the best method of satis-
fying the needs of humanity in the advancement of medi-
cine, public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing
practical animal welfare work or the general advance-
ment of humanity through increasing consideration for
all living creatures.

SOME BASIC PRINCIPLES
FOR THE INSTITUTE

In its efforts to promote animal welfare, the Institute will be
guided by certain basic considerations:

1. Animals feel pain (distress, anxiety, discomfort).

There is every scientiﬁc reason for concluding that verte—
brates are capable of suffering. With the lower animals,
the evidence may be less direct, nevertheless observation
even of the invertebrates strongly suggests their sensi-
tivity to pain and discomfort; hence they cannot be safely
overlooked.

2. Criteria for pain-inﬂiction in scientiﬁc experimenta-
tion and standards for its justiﬁcation must be estab-
lished as clearly as possible.

No units exist for the measurement of pain. Neverthe-
less, criteria for judging pain-inﬂiction quantitatively
should be deﬁned. These would include such factors as:

a) Intensity of suffering.
b) Duration of suffering.

c) The number of animals affected. _

’ .3.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Justiﬁcation for pain-inﬂiction in every instance should
take into account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.

b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear,
anxiety, worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the
procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for de-
ciding upon the proper limitation of pain-inﬂiction.
These means should be based on the proposition that the
end justiﬁed the means only if these means fall within
reasonable limits.

. A broader etbics is imperative.

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the
Institute have been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweit-
zer, world-renowned physician, clergyman and philoso-
pher:

”Etbic: in our wertern world bar bitberto been largely
limited to tbe relation of man to man. But tbat is a
limited etbicr. We need a boundlerr etbici~ wbicb will
include tbe animal: alro.”

And again: ”IV/bat does reverence for life my about
tbe relationr between men and tbe animal world?
Wbenever I injure any bind of life I murt be quite

certain tbat it i: neceuary. I murt never go beyond tbe
unavoidable. . .”

"Tbore wbo experiment upon animal; by Jurgery and
drugr, or inoculate tbem witb direarer in order to be
able to belp mankind by tbe rerultr obtained, ibould
never quiet tbeir conrciencer wit/.2 tbe conviction tbat
tbeir cruel action may in general bave a wortby pur-
pore. In every ringle ithance tbey mutt concider

 




 

 

whether it is really necessary to demand of an animal
this sacriﬁce for man, and they mast tahe anxioas care
that the pain he mitigated as far as possihle . . .”

”By the very fact that animals throagh these painfal
experiences have contrihated so mach of valve to saf-
fering manhind, a new and special hand of solidarity
has heen estahlﬁhed hetween them and as. From this
arises the ohligation for each of as to do every possihle
good to all animals everywhere.”

4. New developments may mitigate animal snﬁerin g.

The Institute’s emphasis throughout will be on the needs
of animals and human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimen-
tation in medical and other scientiﬁc research, the Insti-
tute will investigate and seek to foster developments in
experimentation whereby animal suffering may be mini-
mized. '

Fields of investigation might include:

a)

b)

Practical replacement of the higher mammals by
much lower forms of life or life in lower stages of
embryonic development (such as chick embryos)
with a View to reducing the suffering undergone by

animals with highly developed nervous systems. I

Practical replacement of chronic experiments in-
volving protracted physical or mental suffering by
properly conducted sacriﬁce experiments with a
view to reducing the number of painful experi-
ments.

cl) The efﬁcient statistical design of experiments so as

to effect a systematic economy in sampling. For ex-
ample, methods whereby limitation of the number
of variables introduced in an experiment makes
possible the reduction of the number of animals
necessary.

.5.

 

 




d) The substitution of chemical and physical methods,
whenever possible, for biological methods in ex-
periments or tests.

e) The means of avoiding unnecessary repetition of
experiments.

5. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that humanitarianiSm and science,
far from being antagonistic, should complement each
other if civilization is to progress.

It opposes, at one extreme, the fraction of opinion which
would abolish all animal experimentation. It also op-
poses, at the other extreme, that fraction of opinion which
dismisses the problem raised by animal suﬂering as trivial
and which is willing to accept, as an unqualiﬁed justiﬁca-
tion for this suffering, the general aim of increased human
comfort and knowledge.

The Institute will proceed on the assumption that all hu-
man beings, whatever their speciﬁc beliefs or training,
have a common goal of humanity.

It believes that by informing the public and arbitrating
between extremes, the Institute can foster a climate favor-
able to scientiﬁc progress and animal welfare.

As Dr. E. C. Stakman stated last year in an address as
retiring president of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science:

"T/Jere is a need for more understanding and tolerance
between scientists and bumanists: properly motivated,
all are humanists, and tbeir joint contrioution can ac-
celerate man’s evolution toward intellectual enlig/oten-
ment and spiritual re ﬁnement.”

 

 

 

 

 




OPERATION

To achieve the purpose and spread the viewpoint outlined
above, even beyond the narrower scope of its direct operation, the
Institute will make surveys and studies of such matters as these:

1.

Practice:

Codes and practices currently in effect governing the
handling and use of laboratory animals.

. Research needs:

Estimates on numbers, types of animals, sources.

Legislation:

State and local legislation, effective or pending, involv-
ing treatment of animals or their procurement.

Techniques:

Investigation into methods whereby animal suffering may
be minimized and numerical requirements reduced.

The Institute will seek to function with a solid back-
ground of fact as a clearing house of information on
animal welfare, especially on the use of laboratory ani-
mals.

Results of the Institute’s research surveys will be made
available to the public through bulletins, factual re-
leases and other media.

In its operation, the Institute will support the good work done
by other organizations and enlist their aid in its own endeavors.
Such organizations would include:

a) Departments of the Federal and State governments.

b) Humane societies.

 

 




 

 

c) Scientiﬁc and technical associations.
(1) Conservation groups.
e) Livestock protection groups.
f) All other bodies interested in animal welfare.
Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public
acceptance of the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum

and clearing house for the legitimate claims of scientists and
humanitarians alike.

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all
available related facts can valid and equitable solutions to com-
plex problems be attained.

 




 

The Animal Welfare Institute

Oﬂicers :
President ............ CHRISTINE STEVENS
Vice Prexident ..... ALFRED R. GLANCY, JR.

Secretary. . . .ROEERT A. HENDRICKSON, JR.

Treasurer ............. ROGER L. STEVENS
Au’t. Treamrer ....... HELEN HANZLICK
Executive Secretary ...... ESTELLA DRAPER

Correjporzderzce would be
addreued t0:

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

730 Fifth Avenue
New York 19, N. Y.

OCTOBER 1 , 195 1

 




MM. ...

. I.
(5 /

 

    

Eimmga E)
Publi

1% 3%.
%ME

 

 

2

%l%@

 

%a
@2235.
m
shed by the A

%

 

@@
m

j

7
Emm
@maéma

Vé/z/

%%

@g%

y
&@@E

w
%
HE@EE

gm
€33.

a

 

mal Welfare

% '9
2 Z
ma

 

0

El?
maﬁa

A
K"@ "
Mﬂ’a
I

%
A
a.
£6

2231 7/

. / xwv/Vf /

/7

nstttute

%

%( 37/

 

I?

 

4'

 

£09

a

 




Ernest P. Walker knows animals as an expert and as a friend. Recently retired as
Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in Washington, DC, he has spent
many years in the study and protection of animals for the United States Government.
His excellent publications, such as ”The Care of Captive Animals” for the Smithsonian
Institution and ”The Monkey Book” published by Macmillan in 1954, have contributed
greatly to a better understanding of animals and their needs.

At the suggestion of the Animal Welfare Institute, Mr. Walker has written ”First
Aid and Care of Small Animals”, a handbook for the guidance of young people and
their teachers in the first aid and care of small animals. It is a concise and readable
48-page booklet, with 23 beautiful photographs, many of which were taken by the
author. The Institute was proud to announce its publication late in September, 1955.
Topics covered in the handbook are:

Developing Humane Attitudes Amphibians
Learning with Free Wild Animals Toads
Teaching Nutrition and Hygiene
First Aid for Wild Animals
Rehabilitating Wild Animals
Injured or 111 Animals.

Final Disposition of Animals FOOd Cultures

Housing How to rear wax moths
Observations on Feeding How to rear meal worms
Mammals
Birds

Reptiles _
Turtles How to rear ﬂies

Salamanders
Fish
Invertebrates

How to rear enchytraeid
How to rear cockroaches

Snakes Maintaining earthworm cultures

Lizards Bibliography and index

The Animal Welfare Institute is offering this publication free to teachers in both
primary and secondary schools. If additional copies are desired, they may be purchased
for 35¢ each.

Persons who would like to receive a copy of this booklet may ﬁll out the blank
below, and mail it to the Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3,

 

Animal Welfare Ins’rifui'e
22 East l7+h S+ree+
New York 3, N. Y.

Please send me one free copy of ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals” (1 am
a teacher.)

Name ...............................................
Address...
School........

 

 

 

Please send me ........................... copies of ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals” at 35¢
each. I enclose money order (or check).

Name .......................................................

Address

 

 

 




LABORATORY DOGS

16mm, black and white, sound film.

Running time —— 17 minutes.

Produced for the

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

by

CRAWLEY FILMS,

Ottawa, Canada.

The purpose of the film is to demonstrate a practical method of housing and caring for research dogs
without the use of cages, to show the value of careful, individual attention to experimental dogs, and
to encourage provision of the best housing by administrators of research institutions.

The film contrasts the life of a caged research dog with that of a group of compatible dogs that have
undergone different types of experimental surgery at the modern animal lab at the University of Ot-
tawa Faculty of Medicine. Useful advice on animal care includes stress on the importance of a clean,
large room for the dogs to live in, daily exercise on a long roof runway, and the availability of enough
food and water. Postoperative care of a dog whose leg has been severed and replanted is shown; im-
mediate postoperative care includes the administration of pain—relieving drugs and'fluids throughout
the night. Later treatment and special feeding emphasize the importance of humanitarianism in research
and experimentation with dogs.

The film would be of special interest to veterinarians, animal technicians, all schools of the health sci-
ences, research foundations and hospital administrators.

If you would like either to rent the film or purchase a copy, please make use of the order blank below as
indicate-d, and mail to Animal Welfare Institute, P. O. Box 3492, New York, New York 10017.

PLEASE SEND LABORATORY DOGS TO:

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

ZIP CODE

 

 

ATTENTION OF:

 

PLEASE BILL FOR:

C] Purchase of 1 copy at $50.00

[3 Rental at $3.00 per week.

 

The following date would be desirable for rental

An alternate date would be

 

 




Frisky and Blacky are living testimony to the method
of housing and caring for research dogs demon-
strated in the film LABORATORY DOGS.

Frisky, only a puppy when the film was made, has
undergone surgical removal and replantation of one
leg. In the film, Blacky, a new arrival in the labora-
tory, was shy and clearly showed apprehension and
mistrust. Blacky too has had a replantation of his
right rear leg.

Both dogs reflect in these pictures, taken one year
later, the good care and attention they received.
They are in good physical and mental condition and
show their confidence in the people around them.

Laboratory
Dogs

AN AWI EDUCATIONAL FILM

 

 




By Felicia Ames
© 1973 The American Humane Association

The dog was the first ani—
mal to be domesticated.
For 10,000 years he has
served man as hunter,
worker, guard, shepherd,
and above all as loyal
friend and companion. As early as 5,000 years ago,
several distinct canine breeds had developed. Today
there are several hundred recognized breeds, and just
as many differing opinions as to which breed is best.

One kind of dog, however, is universally loved,
regardless of his ancestry—the cute, plump, waddling
puppy. These little tykes return your love a thousand-
fold, and ask only a little care, based on common
sense, in return. We hope this pamphlet will help you
enjoy your pup as you raise him to healthy maturity.

FEEHHTE

Puppy feeding is the mother dog's job for the first
four weeks of life. Keep her well fed and watered.
She will pass on, through her milk, important
immunities against disease to protect the puppies
until they build up their own resistance.

There are cases, however, when bitches do not have
enough milk for their litters, or when puppies have to
be separated from their mothers because of accident
or illness. If this happens, you’ll have to take over.
Equip yourself with a plastic eye dropper or very
small nursing bottle and nipple (dolls’ bottles and
nipples are about the right size), and be prepared to
feed your puppy every three to four hours. Your
veterinarian can advise you on formulas. One substi-
tute for bitch’s milk is Esbilac, available at drugstores,
pet shops, and some markets. Or you can use
evaporated milk and water, in equal parts, with one

tablespoon of white Karo syrup and two or three
drops of cod liver oil added to a day’s ration. Another
nutritious formula is goat’s milk diluted with equal
amounts of water. Serve the formula warm, not hot,
and slowly increase the quantity as the puppy grows.

At around two weeks you can begin gradually to
introduce solid foods, in addition to his formula. A
little Pablum mixed with formula, cottage cheese, egg
yolk moistened with milk, or lean beef scrapings
mixed with cooked mashed vegetables are all good
starters. Puppies who are perpetually hungry soon get
the idea of dish feeding. By four weeks your pup
should be weaned. Keep him on a soft diet a little
longer, but at around six weeks he should be ready to
cross oven-gradually again-«to a diet of high grade
pet foods. There are prepared puppy foods on the
market which make a good transition diet.

Your puppy will need four meals a day—morning, ,

noon, late afternoon and bedtime—until he is three
months old. You can drop the night feeding at three
months and the noon meal at six months. By one
year of age most dogs thrive on a single daily feeding

More important than how

often to feed your dog is

the question of What to

feed him. Dogs have pre-

cise food requirements.

They need protein, fats, carbohydrates, water, min-
erals and vitamins in exact proportions. The lack of
any of these can result in retarded growth and health
problems.

The easiest and probably most economical way to
provide a nutritious diet is by feeding your dog
prepared pet foods which are scientifically formu-
lated. But some important warnings here: not all
commercial foods are completely balanced. Some are
meant only as supplements—“extras" to add to a
basic diet. Choose foods labeled ”complete," “baln
anced,” or “fully nourishing.” Such claims are regu-
lated by law and mean that your dog will be getting

all his nutritive needs. And choose products of high
quality, because some prepared foods lack essential
nutrients. Read the labels! Buy the best!

For quantity, follow instructions on the carton or
can, making allowances for your pet’s appetite and
temperament. Quantity is based on the weight of the
dog, but remember that puppies need a great deal
more food per body weight than the mature animal.
Do not overfeed. Obesity, with all its attendant
health problems, is becoming almost as common in
dogs as in people. Give your pet 15 to 20 minutes to
finish his meal, and then remove his dish. If food
remains, slightly decrease his servings; if he cleans his
bowl and still seems hungry, give him a little more
next time.

Commercial dog foods come in three forms—canned,
dry or semi-moist. Your dog’s tastes will probably
determine your choice. Be sure to introduce new
foods very gradually, because an abrupt change in
diet can be upsetting. You can add taste treats of
your own, of course. Red meats, fowl and fish must
be cooked. It’s a good idea to add a little fat to lean
meats to make them more digestible. Cooked
chopped vegetables, a limited amount of starches,
such as cooked rice, oatmeal, or potatoes, and an
occasional cooked egg are all good additions. Stay
away from rich gravies and sweets, and never feed
your dog chicken, turkey or chop bones. These
splinter easily and can do serious damage to the
intestines.

Dogs do not need variety in food. A good rule-of-
thumb is to never let supplements amount to more
than 20 percent of your pet's basic diet of scientifi-
cally balanced dog food.

One final, all-important
word on feeding. AL-
WAYS keep fresh, clean,
cool water where your dog
can help himself when he’s
thirsty. A dog without
water suffers real anguish. Water is vital to his health.

THE HEALTHY DOG

Anyone who takes an ani-
mal into his family is mor-
ally obligated to give that
pet the same care, when it
is ill or in pain, that he
would give to himself. You
have an invaluable ally in
caring for your dog—your
veterinarian. Choose a vet-
erinarian, get to know
him, keep his address and telephone number handy in
case of emergency, and depend on him—not on
guesswork—when your dog is ill or injured.

'w x-..\ -.
2m» ”£977,

15,

f 6“}? R“ 4 FAQ) 4
’Q‘
33: go» 3.":

Your first visit to the veterinarian should be when
your puppy is around six weeks old. The doctor will
examine him thoroughly and schedule the shots
needed to protect him against the most common
dog-killing diseases: distemper (which requires peri-
odic booster shots), hepatitis, leptospirosis, and rabies
(shots required by law in most communities).

Twice-yearly examinations by the veterinarian are the
best health insurance for your dog. The dedicated
professional will help you raise your pup to vigorous
maturity and help ease the aches and pains of old age.
Remember that you are your dog’s guardian, respon-
sible for his food, water, exercise, cleanliness, and
general good health. But you are NOT the doctor.
When trouble strikes, turn to the professional.

GOOD GROOMING

Grooming is not simply a matter of good looks,
though this certainly is a side effect. A better word
for it would be cleanliness. Nothing is more impor-
tant to the health and well-being of a dog than regular
grooming. It takes only a few minutes, and yet it is
the most commonly neglected part of dog care.

Long-haired dogs should be combed and brushed
daily to remove dirt, tangled or matted hair, burrs,

and other uncomfortable ob-
jects. You can buy equipment
for this in any pet store.
Short-haired breeds require less
attention, but they should be
brushed at least twice a week.
Nail clipping (especially impor-
tant for inactive older dogs) and cleaning tartar from
teeth are also part of good grooming. Both can be
done at home, but you’d better get a demonstration
from your veterinarian first.

With regular grooming most dogs rarely, if ever, need
a bath. In fact, frequent bathing can be harmful,
because it removes natural oils and may cause skin
inflammations. When your dog gets into something
that only a bath can handle, use warm water and a
mild soap, protect his eyes and ears, rinse him very
thoroughly, and keep him out of drafts until he is
thoroughly dry.

r-"a rt 9... ft m w “a" 1"“ ».
ﬂ ‘ I" M . _ I r,— ".-
i‘i“ rt”). 3' t it") :3! l.) “1.“. »‘

Regular grooming is also one of the most effective
ways to protect your pet against pests. Fleas, ticks,
lice and mites are the most common ones. Any one of
these can make a dog’s life miserable, and a serious
infestation can cause disease or chronic skin ailments.

Cleanliness is the best prevention. As you groom your
dog, keep an eye out for fleas and ticks; it takes only
a few to start a colony. And give your dog’s bed or
kennel a good brushing, scrubbing and airing every
few months. If, in spite of your best efforts, the
critters get a foothold, there are cures in the form of
sprays, powders or dips. Be very sure the product you
use is labeled safe for dogs. If in doubt, consult your
veterinarian.

Every dog needs a bed of his own, in a quiet spot well
protected from drafts. This is his refuge and haven,

 




and even the puppy will

quickly adopt it as his private

property, where he can get

the undisturbed rest that he

needs. Any box or basket

padded with old towels or

blankets, or a sack stuffed with cedar shavings will
do. If possible, the bed should be indoors. If he is to
live outdoors, make sure his kennel is wind-tight,
water-tight and well insulated against heat and cold.
And be consistent; dogs cannot tolerate abrupt
changes in temperature. With the exception of very
small breeds, most dogs can stand cold, but not
drafts, so make sure his bed is in a protected spot.
Dogs are clean by nature; help him by keeping his
quarters clean.

HOUSEBREAKING

Puppy’s first lesson in discipline will be inspired by

necessity, when you see that first spot on the rug.

Scrub it up, then set out patient/y to teach puppy the

wONDER WHERE TH house rules. For the first

FUNNYLPGPERS 496; week or two confine him to

”’- one room as much as pos-

sible, and keep a large area of

that room covered with news-

papers. Place puppy on these

papers frequently—as soon as

he wakes up, after all meals, whenever you see him

circling or squatting, and just before bedtime. When

he performs well, praise him. When he makes a

mistake, scold him with a firm “no," and place him
on the papers.

Remember, he’s only a baby. A scolding must come
instantly or it will have no meaning, because puppies
have short memories. Don’t spank or strike him for
his mistakes, and never rub his nose in the mess. Your
puppy wants very much to please you, and you'll find
that praise works better than punishment.

As you see signs of progress, gradUally cut down on
the size of the papered area. Give him the run of the

house now and then, but keep an eye on him, because
mistakes are inevitable. Outdoor training can be
started at three to four months of age, or earlier if
climate and easy outside access make this possible.
The approach is the same as in the paper training,
with frequent regular trips to the backyard.

A mischievious puppy is cute, but an untrained adult
dog is a nuisance. There are certain basic commands
your pet should respond to, not for show, but for his
safety and others’ sanity. He should learn to come
when called, to sit or stay, to “heel” on leash, and to
obey “down” and ”quiet.”

Dogs like to be trained, and
you can easily teach your
pet these basic rules of good
behavior at home. Get a
book of simple instructions M

from your library, and set ”I

aside a quiet time and place It

to work every day with your pet. All experts agree
that dogs learn more quickly with kindness than with
punishment. Be firm, but patient. Work for short
periods at a time only, always use the same com-
mands, and always praise him or reward him when he
performs well. Never strike your dog for failure. It
accomplishes nothing and could make him fearful.
Training should be fun for both master and pet.

Almost all communities now have restraint laws.
Observe them. Pet ownership is a privilege, and you
have no right to allow your dog to be a nuisance.
Keep him home and keep him quiet. Remember that
the laws are for your protection too!

Undisciplined dogs, such as the roamers or constant
barkers that can be the plague of a neighborhood, are
very often neglected dogs. Just giving your pet lots of
love and companionship will go a long way toward
making him quiet and content. Play with him, walk

with him, let him feel secure in your love. Then add a
few obedience lessons, and you’ll have a good canine
citizen.

DOGS AND CHILDREN

Dogs and children are classic companions, but keep in
mind that training is a two-way street. Caring for a
pet teaches a child kindness and responsibility.
Neglect or abuse teaches callousness and cruelty.

Start off right by showing your . ,
children how to" handle the very ' 09
young dog when he arrives in your

house. A puppy is a fragile little

fellow, not to be grabbed, hugged,

dropped, maured, or teased. He

should be picked up gently—one

hand firmly under his belly, the

other under his rump-to make

him feel secure. He needs lots of time to explore and
get acquainted, and he needs almost unlimited sleep.
A little playtime is fine, but remember that an infant
tires quickly.

Teach your children to care for and respect this pet,
who will do everything he can to please them. Give
them the responsibility for at least part of his care. In
return, they will receive an incomparable lesson in
love and loyalty.

BREEDING

The best advice about breeding is DON'T. Thousands
of unwanted puppies are born every year. Animal
shelters and municipal pounds are flooded with
surplus animals. Humane organizations work hard to
find homes for even a small percentage of strayed and
abandoned pets. We strongly recommend that you
spay your female dog. Contrary to legend, this will
not make her fat ‘and lethargic. The best time for

spaying is when she is fully developed but still young,
at around six or seven months of age.

When you adopt a dog he will depend on you for all
his needs. If for some compelling reason you can no
longer keep him, he will also depend on you to find
him a good home with another family who will give
him the same good care you did. If your pet is too
sick to enjoy life, offer him the greatest kindness—a
painless sleep.

When you again can care for and want to share your
home with a dog—a cute puppy or a homeless
animal—you will find one at a humane agency or a
registered kennel, ready and eager to share his life
with you.

AMERICAN HUMANE

The American Humane Association
5351 S. Roslyn Street
Englewood, CO 80110

 




CARE OF BIRDS

Birds have been kept as pets since the beginning
of written history. Catullus, an early Roman poet,
grief—stricken over the death of his belovedpetca—
nary, penned an ode to it, which is studied even today
in schools. Through the years many persons have
enjoyed the companionship and bright cheer of birds .
Few pets give so much as our “feathered friends”
and ask so little in return. A minimum of food and
a little care based on common sense is all that is
required.

We hope that this pamphlet will be of assistance
to you and will enable you to enjoy the full measure
of pleasure your pet is capable of giving.

4 4 4
PARAKEETS

Shell parakeets, or budgerigars have become one
of the most popular pets in America. They are dif—
ferent from Love Birds, but requirements of bud—
gerigars and Love Birds are similar.

Every pet supply store now sells packaged bud—
gerigar seed mixtures. This usually is close to:
large red millet, one part; large yellow millet, two
parts; small sunﬂower seed, one part; ordinary ca-
nary seed, two parts. The birds also should get
green, leafy vegetables frequently——except that
some budgerigar experts say that lettuce is likely
to cause diarrhea. Leaves should be dry——never
dripping water. Cuttlebone should be provided, and
hard, sharp grit must be always available.

Old seed should be thrown away every other day
and all dishes must be kept strictly clean.

For ALL birds, clean drinking water must be
kept in the cage at all times. Commercial cages are
likely to be too small for the birds’health and hap-
piness. Provide as large a cage as possible--at

least 24 by 14 by 20 inches. Birds hatched and
reared in captivity probably are happy in confine-
ment but they need room to exercise.

The cage should have a removable bottom tray,
and a feed dish, a grit dish and a water cup that can
be fastened to the side of the cage above the floor.
The cage must have perches. The cage should be
movable, so that it can be placed ina sunny window
for brief periods, then moved back to a spot shel-
tered from drafts and excessive heat.

Provide bath water, in a shallow dish, at least
three times a week.

Most people frequently let their ‘ ‘budgies” out of
their cages and with windows and doors carefully
guarded, let the birds exercise throughout the house .

It is no trick at all to induce a parakeet of any
kind to allow gentle handling. If patience is used,
and movements are slow and quiet, these birds read—
ily learn to ride on a finger, to sit on a shoulder,
and to pluck curiously at one’s hair and ears. They
will even fly to the table to share one’s meals. All
that is required, for this kind of training is gentle—
ness and patience.

Many people also want to teach budgerigars to
talk-—which the birds can do amazingly well. This
is a special branch of bird training, however, and
this leaflet cannot cover the subject. There are many
good books that will tell you how it is done.

AILMENTS

Birds have ailments, just as humans do, and the
humane bird owner will be as solicitous of a sick
bird as he would of himself. On the other hand, a lot
of bird misery undoubtedly is caused by people who
are continually dosing their birds for illnesses
which are not understood and may be only imagined.

if a bird has a persistent illness, or a serious
injury, it should be taken to a veterinarian.

The first treatment to try on a bird that seems
ill is to move its cage toaslightly warmer spot (not
in direct sunlight) cover the cage with alight cloth,
and let the bird rest. Be particularly sure that feed

dishes are clean and all food and water is fresh.
Added warmth, even in summer, often is a life—saver
to sick birds. But if the illness continues, consult
your veterinarian-—at least until you become thor—
oughly experienced with birds and can distinguish
between a simple cold and pneumonia, or simple
diarrhea and dysentery.

PARROTS , MACAWS

Parrots and Mac aws require much the same kind
of care. Macaws are the largest members of the
parrot family and usually are not kept as small cage
birds.

Parrots do well on many types of food. Most fan—
ciers regard sunflower seed as the staple, basic
food. Pet stores sell packaged seed mixtures for
various varieties of parrots. Green, leafy foods
must be provided. An occasional slice of apple, ba-
nana, or pear is enjoyed and probably is beneficial.
Crackers, toast, zwieback——all are liked but should
be fed as a treat, not as a principal item of diet.

And, always, water.

A large cage is better for a parrot than an open
perch with leash. Provide a LARGE cage-~at least
3 feet by 2 feet. The remarks above about cleanli—
ness and sanitation, under the heading “Parakeets ’ ’,
apply also to parrots.

So do the remarks about care in illness. The
larger psittacine birds are particularly affected by
cold and by drafts. It is good practice, with any
bird of the parrot family, to cover the cage at night
with a porous but nearly opaque cloth. This allows
the bird to go to sleep at sundown—-the natural
time——and protects it from cold and drafts.

CANARI ES

Feeding a canary is made easy by packaged
seeds, available at every pet store and in many
groceries. The staples are what are known as canary

seed and sweet rape. The commercial mixtures are
a complete diet if supplemented with a green, leafy
vegetable every day, and with cuttlebone.

Grit must be available, always. Water, too.

Get the biggest cage you can afford. To be happy
and strong, the bird needs to fly—~not merely hop.
Keep the cage near a sunny window, although not in
direct sun, and provide a light cloth cover for use
at night.

Most commercial cages are well equipped with
bird “furniture”--water cup, food cup, perch and a
clasp for cuttlebone. The bottom should be easily
removeable to facilitate cleaning.

It cannot be too often repeated that cleanliness
is e s s ential to bird—keeping. The cage bottom,
perches, and food and water dishes must be scrubbed
regularly and often. Uneaten food should be dis-
carded every second day.

As to ailments, the remarks under “Parakeets”
apply to canaries. It usually is far more humane to
grant a pet bird the mercy of euthanasia than to
subject it to a long siege of amateur doctoring for
any serious or prolonged disease or any serious in—
jury. If you are in doubt about what to do in such a
case, consult your veterinarian or your local hu-
mane society.

SPECIAL PROBLEMS

There is not space in this folder to deal speci—
fically with the care of birds that are less commonly
kept as pets than those above. In general, the needs
of all finches are similar to those of canaries. Night—
ingales, tanagers, and thrushes are “soft—billed”
birds and require insects, worms and other soft
foods.

All birds need opportunity to bathe once or twice
a week. Most of them will be better off if allowed to
bathe daily. For small birds, any shallow dish, with
perhaps a half-inch of water at about 100 degrees,
will do (the body temperature of birds runs from
108 to 112 degrees).

Give a bird plenty of peace and quiet.Birds that

 




are frequently excited, alarmed, or teased are un—
likely to sing well or to learnto talk well. They al—
so are likely to eat irregularly, with resultant di—
gestive troubles.

If you wish to breed birds--—a fascinating hobby— —
get at least one recent book on the subject. Nests
and special diets must be provided.

Don’t mistake the annual (or semi-annual) moult
for illness. The bird will lose feathers, appear dull
and drooped, and stop singing. During the moult,
keep the bird warm and unusually well guarded a—
gainst drafts. The moult is a heavy strain on the
bird’s physiological processes and it needs extra
careful attention until it gets its new feathers.

Wild, native birds should not be imprisoned. In
most states it is illegal and it usually is inhumane.
If you find a baby bird, in 99 cases out of 100 it is
best to let it strictly alone. Its parents are almost
certainly nearby. If you find an injured adult bird
and think it might be saved, try a common-sense
adaption of foods and procedures recommended for
cage birds. Provide plenty of water. Give the bird
warmth, rest, and quiet. Release it as soon as pos-
sible.

Baby chickens should never be bought (or ac-
cepted even as a gift) as pets.Chicks are wonderful-
ly appealing, but by the time they are 7 weeks old
they are an almost impossible burden in the average
home. A chick can be fatally injured by the clutch
of a child’s hands, in any event it needs a regulated
temperature of 85-90 degrees, it needs special foods
that usually are sold only in large lots, it is sus—
ceptible to a great variety of diseases. The Easter
traffic in chicks is cruel and shouldbe disCouraged.

MAKING A FRIEND

People who have had experience only with the
relatively demonstrative friendship of a dog or other
mammal have a special treat in store when they first
make a friend of abird. The clasp of a canary’s tiny
feet around a finger is one of the most satisfying

testimonials of trust that the animal kingdom offers
to man. And the subtleties of character amongpar-
rots and parakeets are a never ending fascination.

When youtake anewbird home for the first time,
do everything possible to make the experience easy
on the bird. Have its new cage well stocked with
water, food, grit. Have the cage in awarm location
but not in sunlight. Slip the bird gently into the cage.
And then, even more gently, slip a light cloth over
the cage AND GO AWAY.

You may return in a few hours, after the bird
had rested, and slowly remove the cage cover. But
the introductory procedure outlined here sets the
pattern that should be consistently followed-~be
gentle, move slowly when near the bird, speak soft-
ly, give the bird ample time to rest, always have
clean food, water, and grit available.

In short, stretch your imagination a bit, try to
understand a bird’s needs and fears——and then ap-
ply the Golden Rule.

Many cage birds live 10 years or longer-~par—
rots may live very muchlonger. It is worth time and
trouble, even from a strictly selfish standpoint to
induce your bird to like and trust you.

#44

YOUR HUMANE ORGANIZATION

There are more than 600 societies concerned with
the prevention of cruelty to animals in the United States
and Canada. Your own organization may be known as an
SPCA, a Humane Society, or an Animal Rescue League.
Whatever the name, most of these societies, federated
in The American Humane Association, are working
constantly to protect animalsfrom cruelty. Itis worth—
while for any animal owner to know about his'local hu-
mane organization. If you have any problem that might
involve suffering for your pet, your society will be hap-
py to offer advice and help.

Most humane organizations operate animal shel-
ters, which provide temporary homes for animalsthat
are unwanted or that have strayed and got lost. All
of these shelters offer dogs, kittens, cats and other
animals for adoption by people who will give the ani-
mals good homes.

Many humane organizations also provide ambulance
service for ill and injured animals.

In addition, humane society experts investigate re-
ports of cruelty; they make regular inspections of
stockyards, poultry markets, and slaughter-houses;
they advise law-makers on many kinds of legislation
affecting animals and animal owners; they conduct ed—
ucational programs that teach kindness and compas-
sion to hundreds of thousands of children; they provide
euthanasia (painless death) for animals for which that
is the most merciful course.

All of this is important to you as an animal owner.
Learn the name and address of your local humane or-
ganization and get acquainted with it. If you do not find
a humane organization in your immediate vicinity,
ask The American Humane Association, 896 Pennsyl-
vania Street, Denver, Colorado, for the name and ad—
dress of the society nearest you. Then, when you need
advice and help in any animal problem, you will know
where to turn for expert and friendly help.

Your local organization will be happy to have your
financial support. A letter or phone call will bring
information about the local program and how it is
financed.

 

 

The American Humane Association, Denver, Colo.

 




 

 

Mortinsbu rg

Winchester

D .
Berryvulle
Woodstock

0
Front Royal

0

Harrisonburg Luray

Charlottesville
Staunton

Covingmn Waynesboro

Lexington .

Lynchburg

 

 

ACTION 3

Rt. 2, Box 151
Berryville, Va. 22611

703-955-127 8
703-662-0773

 

icmzms vs.

 

 

lst PRINTING
2nd REVISED
PRINTING

3rd REVISED
PRINTING

4th PRINTING

5th REVISED
PRINTING

SUMMER,

FALL , ' 76

SUMMER, '77

FALL '77

SPRING '78

1000 COPIES DISTRIBUTED IN '76,'77.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

7 035-955-1278

CTION a

, Rt. 2, Box 151
Berryville, Va. 22611

703-662-0773

DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE

 

 

1'":

“'-1F”’ « ”V MARY WARNER 703-95ﬁ‘1278
Actlon .1 IS CITIZENS vs. D NAPPING ! ! I RT. 2 BOX 1 51 ’
It started in communities along the Va. and W'. Va. stretch of BERRYVILLE , VA. 2261 1

Interstate Highwfy 81. It now has members all across the U.S.A.
If YOU want to help STOP DOGNAPPING,

Y
JOIN ACT|0N a and: Wow AND FOUND DOG REGISTR

WATCH for vehicles hauling dogs. These may be station wagons, ESTHER BOYD 703‘- 662-0773
campers, horse trailers, panel trucks, livestock trucks, RT. 1 BOX 178

tractor-trailer rigs. STEPHENSON, VA. 22656

 

REPORT license tags, description of driver, time, date, and area
where seen.

WATCH for places where dogs are collected. 951 CALLS ON LOST DOGS IN 1977

ATCH for instances of persons picking up dogs.

- . 22:: 2::
EPORT As SOON AS POSSIBLE! z EVERY MINUTE COUNTS ! z, 325 DOGS RETURNED To THEIR OWNERS
OUR AREA NUMBERS ARE: ACTION 81 qutrs. 703-955-1278 9
703-662-0773 I

Collect calls accepted in emergency. g
1 -

 

 

 

ACTION 81 IS A CITIZENS' EFFORT TO PREVENT DOGNAPPING. IT WAS STARTED IN

NORTHERN VIRGINIA IN MARCH, 1976, WHEN DOGNAPPING WAS VERY WIDESPREAD IN THAT
AREA. II5_EuE2QEE_1§_IQ_ALEBE_QQ§_ANQfCAT OWNERS AND THEIR COMMUNITIES TO THE
1331 REAL DANCERS 0F PET LARCENY. ACTION 81 HAS DISTRIBUTED MORE THAN 10,000
"ALERT" POSTCARDS THROUGHOUT VIRGINIA , ITS NEIGHBORING STATES, AND STATES IN

THE MIDWEST AND OTHER PARTS OF THE UNITED STATES. ACTION 81 HAS MAILED MORE

THAN 1000 COPIES OF THE DOGNAPPING BOOKLET TO OWNERS OF MISSING DOGS. ACTION 81

HAS CONTACTED AND RECEIVED THE BACKING OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, 11g;

HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES, THE AMERICAN KENNEL CLUB, AND DOG CLUBS!
IH_IIBGINIA. IEE.IIE§IHIA_EEDEBAIIQE 0F HUMANE SOCIETIES HAS BEEN 0F TREMENDOUS
EELE TO AQIIQE 81. DISTRIBUTING ITS MATERIALS AND EXCHANGING INFORMATION ON
.QHEBENI_2QQEAEEIE§_IBQHBLELSEQI§. DOGNAPPING IN THE COUNTIES WHERE ACTION 81
OPERATES HAS BEEN REDUCED TO A MINIMUM.. ACTION 81 RECENTLY MADE A SPOT SURVEY

OF DOGNAPPING PROBLEMS IN MANY PARTS OF THE UNITED STATES. THE RESULTS ARE INCLUDED

IN THIS BOOKLET. ADVICE ON PROTECTION AND RECOVERY OF MISSING DOCS IS PRESENTED.

 




 

 

 

PAGE 1
Martinsbu r9 703-955-1 27

m9"; ACTION 6

Winchester Ferry R1. 2, BOX 15‘.

Berry.ville , - A ~ S
Fronf.RoYa| [A I ‘ A . ;Be B‘te 6066’

o | F‘htm‘év

703-662-077.

ow

ow“

Charlotfesville

esboro

 

 

S—WHERE THE DOGS (30 AND WHY—DOGNAPPINGI

Worker‘s for Sfol en Dogsj

 

 

 

 

 

PET BREEDING RACKET

‘ R 'S TRL._.I‘(

DOG AUCT 5 DEALER' KENNELS SPECI ‘ s PURCHASER
‘v\ v
LABORATORIES GUARD DOC DOG FIGHTI‘ - RESALE AS PE":1 MONEY F OR DRUGS FURS

fighting type dogs dis_§______ppear

POUND TO POUND
DEALER TO DEALER
STATE TO STATE

 

 

 

 

MICHIGAN TO OHIO TO PENNSYLVANIA TO NEW JERSEY
VIRGINIA TO PENNSYLVANIA

VIRGINIA TO NORTH CAROLINA

MINNESOTA TO ILLINOIS TO PENNSYLVANIA

TEXAS TO MEXICO

OKLAHOMA, ARKANSAS, LOUISIANA TO TEXAS

 

 

 




 

 

PAGE 2

Martinsburg 703-955-1278

ACTION ﬁ

Winchester Rt. 2, Box 151
Berryville, Va. 22611

703-662-07 7 3

 

Page 1

Dog Owners Unite“

MAKING THE COMMUNITY SAFE FOR DOGS

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION 81 GRASS ROOTS OPERATION

 

L

 

o ' o
LWWhNHQ cNotices in press that dog theft is prevalent.
Roanoke ' o to k e v d et und r su ervi ion
Radio program discussions on current theft of pets.
.Nide distribution of postcards or neighborhood signs warning of dOgnapping and alerting
persons to report instances of dog theft— ligense tag numbers— area— description of
thieves and vehicles— date and time—.A local tel. number should be furnished to
receive reports; Action 81 distributed iOLQOO of such postcards in Virginia and
neighboring states.

Warn the community that women andpjuveniles have been involved in petnapping. Vehicles
may include sedans. station wagons; vansL horse trailersL,and pickup trucks and campers.

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
3====================5

"Talk it up!!!"
Appeal to local dog clubs! humane groups, schools, retired persons, gas stations,

.mail carriers, power repair crews, road crews, and farmers,

IDescribe the methods of stealing dOgs.

 

r —..: .
‘THIS DOG Is A FAMILY Iggy]

COOPERATION WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL

This can be a TOUGH area but don't give up ! !!!!!!!!! Time and patience needed!!!!
Sheriff's dept.- police dept.- state police

_The dog wardens and pound personnel. Offer to help find the owners of dogs in pound.

Try to work out an easy relationship and ask their help in keeping the communityp

_SAFE for taxpayers' dogs. Many dog wardens appreciate public interest in theird

difficult and often unpleasant jobs. An expression of appreciation to them will

go farther than criticism and confrontation. An article in the local paper on the

pgroblems of the dog warden and featuring thegpound MAY have good results!!!!!

[I Haven’t Seen V

My_Dog Since'
STRONG SECURITY MEASURES , ,
_

MAKING THE HOME SAFE FOR DOGS.
.==================::_—

 

 

, High fence that cannot be climbed easily.
Obtain advice from security gropps on security equipment for your yard.
Vary the dog's routine. DO NOT LET DOG OUT AT REGULAR HOURS!!!!!

 




 

 

A c T I o N ﬁ 703-955-1278

Rt. 2, Box 151
Berryville, Va. 226"

somebody murab him!

SmﬁONﬁ SECURITY MEASURES CONT.

DO NOT LET YOUR DOG OUT ALONE‘if dog theft is prevalent!!!
The constant complaint of owners of missing dogs is:‘“ I 1ei_
my dOg out at his usual time , and I never saw him again!!!"
Don' t let this happen to you and your dog!!!!!

703-662-0773

 

 

 

 

 

OOI'O

Put up a sign near the dog pen. "THIS COMMUNITY ALERTED TO
DOG THEFT!!!!! YOU ARE BEING WATCHED!!!!"

 

 

' Have a neighborhood party or meeting to alert everyone.
LWWhm"9 Warn your neighbors that dog theft can hit an area at any
time. Describe the methods and tricks used to steal dogs.
Agree to watch each other' s yards and premises when families
are gone. Cooperative surveillance in a ne_ghborhood will discourage thieves and break- -ins.

w . 1 .. w. ' EGISTER 3
THE DOG ITSELF. TATTOO — Y0” 9'09 (0r dOQST with your =—--—-—-—-~ .. -

. . Social Security number
, NDR-Re t - . V°"'

. 9'88"” s°°'a' sec" with the NATIONAL DOG
My number.

Tattoo and register ~ ﬁvJﬁﬁ§ﬂ§IICY1__

_The National Dog Registry will register all the dogs you own in your lifetime
for an initial fee of $25. 00. Information may be obtained by writing_them at
227 Stebbins Road, Carmel, New York, 10512. Tel. 914— 277—4485

 

 

 

 

 

There are several other tattoo svstems in various areas.1None,can be effective_
unless the dog is REGISTERED with the central. office of the group._
COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION TAGS.

If the dogiis STOLEN. the collar will be removed. If the dog has STRAYED, the;
collar and tags will enable the finder to locate the owner:

 

OBEDIENCE TRAINING

_This makes for ease in handling and increased enjgyment of your dog. HOWEVERL it
is no guarantee against theft since the training may help the thief obtain the dog.
It is a question for each owner to decide. Thieves can obtain even the most unrulv

dog simply by administering a sedative. Action 81 reoQmmen_s_2_§Qi§nQ§_irainingl~
SPAY AND NEUTER.

Many dogs. stolen for breeding purposes, have been "dump_d" and later recovered
Where breeding is the reason for the theft; spaying and neutering may save the dog.
THE DOG THAT LOVES TO RIDE.

Great fun for owner and dog. BUT unquestionably easier for the thief to lure the
dog in to his vehicle. Again. a question for each owner to consider.

i6 REMEMBER! '!!! !!!! GUARD YOUR DOG AS YOU DO YOUR PURSE! ! !!
ANY DOG CAN BE STOLEN IE_THE OWNER OR FAMILY‘IS NOT PRESENT!!

 




 

mmmm ‘ PAGE A m W 703-955-1278

W n.9,... , ACTION W W 703-662-0773

WWW” W" . o . LOST DOG REGISTRY
a I t __'
Bemrwi"e oca Eng ROUTE #1 BOX 178

STEPHENSON, VA

200 REWARD ? 9 Lost ng

k

WHAT TO DO IF YOUR DOG DISAPPEARS Eczilf‘ﬁzvéz“°wm ”m ”1

 

. omeone that help
fmd lost pets- Thanks Action 81,
==== .Chggmmmg_m _

HAVE DESCRIPTION OF ANIMAL ON HAND AT ALL TIMES
Breed— age— size- color- sex- spayed or neutered-

photograph— distinguishing marks- tattoo number-
type of collar- rabies tag no.- dOg tag no.

 

 

 

CIRCUMSTANCES OF DISAPPEARANCE

Date- removed from yard or car— strange truck or car in area?- lic. no. of truck or car-

w

Description of any strange person in area--

H
ADVERTIZE 'Do You Know Where I Am?§
4-==—=1 V

Local papers— radio- put up signs throughout your neighborhood-

Display the animal's picture- put signs in supermarkets, liquoR stores, drugstores,
postoffices- gas stations

Advertize the lost animal in neighborhood schools- ask to have it put on the
public address system- talk to neighborhood children- they often see a lot!!

'V 37'

REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO THE RETURN OF YOUR DOG. $200.00 REWARD FOR INFORMATION
M LEADING TO THE RETURN OFHZ DOGS.

The reward question is complex.

In faVOr of offering a reward:

. V . If the motive of theft was RANSOM, and you do NOT offer a reward, you
For mermahon
'ébdhkgtothe . may not get your dog back.

recoven/cﬁ Against offering a reward:

"Loddie"

Encourages theft for ransom. This is on the increase, especially
among juveniles.

VISIT IN PERSON : pounds, shelters, kennels, pet shops, dog collection places.
ASK YOUR NEIGHBORS— CHECK WITH HIGHWAY AND SANITATION CREWS WHO REMOVE DEAD ANIMALS-
'—

NOTIFY ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES- DOG WARDEN- VET CLINICS- MAIL CARRIERS -DELIVERY MEN
_ABOVE ALL. DO NOT GIVE UP!!!!! !!!!!!'!.!!.!!! P HARD l!!!!!!!!

‘OMF Info. supplied by Action 81 Lost Dog Registry. In '22, 451 lost dog calls, 325 returnedl
and IEileen Mgﬁhane. Madison Co. Dog Warden, Rt. 5, BLD. 4,‘Box 294, Canastota, N.Y. 13032.“

 

 




 

 

 

 

I - _
i
I
!

v . k
0 p F 703-602-0773
--—~ , ,. ._l.« I

~‘.__—-.— M

 

 

 

I
I

:45noy SURVEY FY ACTIQ§ﬁ81~ JANYARYL_1978

 

 

 

 

PURPOSE OF SURVEY:

__
.sar

DOGNAPPING IN OTHER AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES

 

 

CURRENT TRENDS IN METHODS AND MARKETS

THIS SURVEY IS NOT INTENDED TO BE COMPREHENSIVE OR PROFESSIONAL.
IT WAS UNDERTAKEN AS A GRASS ROOTS, "PERSON TO PERSON" EFFORT
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE EXTENT AND METHODS OF

DOG LARCENY IN THE UNITED STATES.

DOGNAPPING IN OTHER AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES:

 

DENVER. COLORADO

Denver Dumb Friends League— its own separate building for Lost and
Found animals. Separate staff and tel. lines. 15-20,000 calls
per yr. on lost dogs. 50% rate of return. 10,000 unaccounted.

Professional Agencies in Denver;
Pet Recovery
Canine Detective Agency

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS AREA

Bob Frank— St. Francis Society— Works constantly to return lost dogs
to owners. Rate of return to owner in Chicago area — 10%.
Theft for ransom and dogfighting very strong.
Increasing involvement of juveniles in dog theft.

 

”*— ___..

1

|
a

ozg Owners Unite]

 

 

 




 

 

 

,5, Wm, ”Po—lice Probing
39.1.: Th ef is of D993

3;on Owners Ila...

0akland:_John Keane, alias Sherlock Bones— professional

I
Active dognapping rings— juveniles involved.
. Theft for ransom—Keane takes 3—4 cases weekly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dobes and German Shepherds chief victims.

Covingfon W, .- «

Los Angeles: Petfinders of LoszAngeles

L.’ t 4'
9““9°“ = Average 100 calls daily— Open 5 days per Wk-

Rate of return to owner high— 70%

KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
.lIl-I-IIIIIIIIIIIII-I

 

 

The Lost DOg Registry:
Volunteers. Handle about 90 calls daily on
lost dogs. 23,000 lost dogs yearly. Rate of
return 50%— 11,500 dogs unaccounted for.
Kansas City has 22 holding facilities where
lost dogs also may end up. Rate of return 3%.

MICHIGAN
======lll

Kalamazoo: Humane Society- 10—15 calls daily on lost dogs. Definite indications
of theft. All dogs go to Dog Warden. Low rate of return to owner.

Ann Arbor:.HurQn yalley Humane Society— average 5-7000 calls on lost dogs per yr.
Return to owner 10%.

Detroit:.Michigan Humane Society-Several branches— the Detroit shelter reported

40—50 calls daily on lost dogs. The owners feel theft is going on.
Calls on lost dogs are also directed to the pounds and other shelters.

The Pontiac shelter reported 60—70 calls daily on lost dogs. Detroit
reports many stray purebreds in the city. Many owners feel that their
missing animals have been STOLEN.Guard dog and dogs for fighting are
markets for stolen dogs.

OHIO:
"""" Columbus: Humane Society reported about 20 calls daily on lost dogs. Rate of

return to owner very "bad."

Athens:Mr; Dave Sturbois and Mrs. Jody_Smith. Reported to Action 81 that "many
valuable dogs, both mixed breeds and purebreds, have been reported missing
on Saturdays." Mr. Sturbois and Mrs. Smith are conducting a survey of missing
dogs in an effort to get more info. about a possible dog theft ring.

TEXAS:

Corpus Christi: Bernard Weller, Field representative for the HSUS. Travels 4
states: Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Louisiana. "I travel 4 states
and do look in to petnapping. I am very concerned about the problem
and work at it constantly, especially in and around Canton, Texas.

Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Arkansas bring animals to Canton to trade,

 




 

 

‘3’

Ha rrisonb' 0

5.
Martinsburs‘ 703-955-1278

4‘“, A C T I O N 6 703-662-0773

Rt. 2, Box 151
Berryville, Va. 22611

Winchester

Woodstock _ 0
‘9 ‘ .oyal

PAGE 7

sell or barter to a licensed dealer from.Fayettsville, Ark.
ray

MissionI Texas: P.A. Scott wrote to Action 81 to report
a major problem of dog theft in the Mission area.

Charlottesville
. s O O Dobes and Ger. Sheps. Thieves very bold. Homes

Covin'

 . Qo

,‘ , Roanoke

0b broken in to, fences cut, whole litters stolen.
wayn“ °'° Possibly theft for breeding of guard dogs. Stolen
dogs believed going to Mexico and Houston.

NEBRASKA:

‘ Curtis: Ms. Kris Puhl wrote to Action 81 after
Lynchbufg finding the DOGNAPPING booklet in the library of
the Univ. of Nebraska School of Technical Agric.

 

 

She wrote" I am not aware of any particular dOg—
napping rings, but I do know that dogs are stolen from the Omaha area on occasion.
In reading the Lost and Found section, there's often 4 or 5 of the same breed of dog
missing at a time. I also know of incidents where a stranger will approach a young
child with his dog and tell the child his dog's tags are not the required kind. Then,
he'll take the dog. It's not uncommon. This has occurred in my area in Omaha."

ARKANSAS: _Art'n Ruth Knowlton Kennels in North Little Rock. Wrote to.Action 81.
Reported many purebreds missing. Missing dogs in '77 up about 5—1 in '76.

UTAH: Salt Lake City:;Mr. R. Wagner Jones' Ger. Shep.'missing with $1000 reward.
Mr. Jones and Ms. Sally Johnston have started.ﬂauality_for
Animal Life, ing" to aid missing animals and other animals.
They will work for a new tattoo system. A new guard dOg training
center has opened in S.L.C..

 

TENNESSEE: Memphis Janis Bobo of the Dobe Rescue Squad wrote to.Action 81," There is
a definite pattern and purpose to the theft of Doberman Pinschers.
They are being stolen for Attack and Guard purposes. Also believed
to be bred for same purpose. The dogs are usually 3 mo.s to a yr.
tho' some are older. In the case of older dogs they are returned for
a reward. The young ones are never seen again."

NEW YORK: Reports from New York City indicate strong theft for ransom.

The Yonkers, N.Y. Herald Statesman published an article 1/15/78 about the

large numbers of purebreds apparently abandoned by their abductors after
Christmas. All the dogs were of high qualityJ obviously well trained and

cared'for, and longing to get home. All appeared totally confused and lost.

 

 

MARYLAND, VIRGINIA, WEST VIRGINIA, NORTH CAROLINA, TENNESSEE, SOUTH CAROLINA, GEORGIA,

5N2 FLORIDA, _B§ports are received often by’Action 81 concerning theft of dogs in;
these states.

When YOur Dog (if Cat ls ilﬁéf

Be {insistent—Remember he is lookinifor you.

 

 

.’

 




 

     
 

Martinsbu rg

   

. 703355.127
g. . ACTION 5

~ Rt. 2, Box 151
/ Berryville, Va. 22611

7 03-662-07 7

   
 
  

 

Woodstock

 
 
  
  
  
 
   

CURRENT TRENDS IN METHODS AND MARKETS:

m

 

 

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIONVHAS BEEN REPORTED TO ACTION 81.:

METHODS OF STEALING DOGS.

 

The whistle and the reward:

  
 
    
    
    
   
    
  
   
  
    
  

 

mehmﬂg Leaving food or bones in the area of the dOg's home
Alt" Using a dog whistle when the dog comes. After a
Rm"mke few times the dog will come willingly.

 

 

 

Claiming "Found" dogs and re~selling_them.

A woman did this repeatedly in Kansas City until caught.
All persons and agencies releasing "Found" dogs to other persons must be very
sure that the dog is being claimed by the REAL owner.

Involvement of juveniles.

Juveniles stealing dogs in Chicago for dogfighting.

Juveniles picking up dogs and demanding ransom from owners. Up to $200 !
The "wrong license tag" racket.

Persons stopping small children with a dog and taking it because of "wrong
tags." This has been done with adults and their dogs also.

The old methods.

 

The bitch in heat to attract male dogs.

Tranquillizer guns for more difficult dogs.

Dog traps. Drugged meat. Cutting the chain. Breaking in to the house also!
Posing as Humane Society agents- taking the dog for "humane" reasons.

MARKETS FOR STOLEN DOGS: ‘*““‘
g — s I\_N_here are these dogs?
6 >\\\\ Laboratory reguests to dealers

X

 

 

 

 

    
  

Specific types of purebreds
Specific quotas by a certain date.

"Backyard" breeding.

 

Often encouraged by large pet food manufacturers.
Puppies will be purchased by Pet Shops.
Puppies for guard dog purposes.

for Re—sale as pets. Usually in another state. :LSfOIen: Dosls i

I How many dogs strayed or were st01en 1n your commumty last month alone?

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

    
 




 

 

1’
y,“
Lexington .

Roanoke

 

ACTION a“,

Rt. 2, Box 151

7 015-955-127 8
703-662-0773

Berryville, Va. 22611

PAGE 9

 

D oﬂﬁghts .

 

Holding for ransom .

Prevalent in large metropolitan areas.

Re—sale as guard dogs.
Guard dogs bring high prices. Up to $500 often.

German Shepherds and Dobermans are being stolen
in many areas for this purpose.

This is on the increase in the United States.

Large purebreds are used to "warm up" the pit bulls.

Furs

Pictures available of incidents in New York.

Re—sale to obtain money for drugs;

Use in transporting drugs.

W-

 

PET
OWNERS!!!!!!
Theft of Purebred dogs
and cats is going on. Keep

valued pets under super-
vision at all timesllllll

Report Missing Pet To:

ACTION 81
Route 2, Box 151,

LBerryville, Va. 22611

 

_.._.._5.5.Z.;0..Z?.1 1....

 

With reference to The Post story on

dognapping (April 14), there is no fugi-

' It is an unpleasant
fact that should be brought before the
public more often. During several years
with the Washington Humane Society,
I was frequently confronted with the
heartbroken pet owner whose dog had
“mysteriously disappeared.” _

The daily lost and found column in

rious that a very small percentage of
the “items” advertised as lost are
material possessions, and that the bulk

‘ of the column consists of len 15

 

 

‘ 0 0st 0 s and cats? One must draw
'ilie conclusion that the average pet

owner in the Washington area is either
careless or unaware. ,

 

V
i

The Post is quite revealing. Is it not cu- d

 

ANIMAL FARM

in The lerock Mall
AKC Registered Puppies

AVAILABLE NOW
alrn Terrier .............................. $159
cattle Terrier ............................ $169

orkshlre ﬁerrler ...................... .3225

altese ...................................... S250
ocker Spanlel ............................ $139

Lhasa Apso ................................. sm
lnl. Schnauzer .......................... $169

 

 

Pet The-fa; Big Easiness 2

ll “m“

Several situations make a dog ideal
l prey for the professional dognaper.
I The rise in crime has prompted many
citizens to leave a dog in the yard for
protection-WW
112 become the victim of theftI whereas
a dog inside the home can, in many

WW-
,leg in unattended cars are oftep

' tched. Do 3 allowed to run at lar e
,. if not killed m traffic, are apt to be

. e 0
H

 

.restauran u
Mrs. W ’ “ ' ' 'nia

is performing a vitally important func-
tion. I urge The Post to continue bring-

ing this matter to the attentiongtm

. MARION A. WILSON
: Washington

f—g--ur sun—v”. 'v—J

 

 

 

L“... L

Washington Post 4/ 28/ 77.

 




PAGE 10
s200- REWARD! [DST
Forsatereturnotthisdog. BLACK MALE DOBERMAN ”"56"“! m
___ // vicinity of Route 723 near Boyce.
‘\ ‘QUIRES BLENDED FOOD

 

 

 

Am Reward - Plane 837-1475

 

 

 

75 lb. y0ung male Golden Labr ’
Scottsvme and Eemont on '
wearing brown leathr
Telephone number 0'

295 3880 any time '

009$

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I—Where are theseiogs?

ere the! transported across state lines.

1

 

 

 

 

 

‘ For the return ot—or informmion on the where
l abouts of "Sam", 0 Blue Tick Hound. ,

 




