OF VIVISECTION

21 “Reply to

1%mn HORSLEY,mm DR RUEFER

I3 Y

ERNEST BELL

CHAIRMAN VICTORIA S'I‘REE'I‘ SOCIETY

[Reprz’xzz‘edfmm THE CONTEMPORARY REVIEW Dec. 1892] O

“ A u'm'lng f/zysz'ologz'sl 01' p/zj'sz'vz'an is rarely ﬁtted either
by cdzu‘ut'imz 01’ by opportunity to (z’a‘z'dc m'c‘c que’stz‘ons of morals
for himsclf ’

DR. \VICKHAM LEGG
Times jan. 16 1885

10110011
VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION
so VICTORIA STREET SW.
I893

 




 

 

 

3»... ..

 




 

 

3 K: Ian—bl

. i .. , - . v x ' » W x —- " _,._,. ,_ _,, _ . e
-. "~ . . ' a - 4 « . hug/1' _ w _.«-- ., v - , -' x 1., m. _. ., n ., _ _ _ . ~ ”n L.
'I" » .. . , , -»,..:.~ ‘1‘, . .. - ~ ,. «.4 . ‘ - ._ . .A n- J . .1. 1- ,. "van": .,
i " 5}“ ‘23:: i ‘ ‘ x ' ‘ n" : L’quo'gv'ﬂff‘Y'f"¢‘~u':W"‘ w ' (y , "as, Yr. ‘ .. a. . .
' . '7 ' ' ' ‘ ’ ' _,_ .1 . .’
. , » .

THE

MORALITY OF VIVISECTION.

HE well-written article on the “Morality of Vivisection,” contri-
buted by Dr. Buffer to the November number of the Nineteenth
Century, is probably as good an exposition of' the subject from the

' physiologist’s point of View as we are likely ever to get, and it

demands the serious attention of the anti—vivisectionists. It is an
able, and on the Whole, a very fair defence of the practice, though in
a few passages the author has condescended to arguments of the cod
eaptandnqn sort, which are unworthy of the subject and himself: as,
for instance, when he urges that “There is not a mother who would
not kill with her own hands a score of animals, rather than that her
child should perish.” The question is not of killing, but of torturing,
but were it otherwise the behaviour of mothers under trying circum-
stances could hardly be accepted as a rule of conduct for physiologists.

Again, when Dr. Buffer speaks of his opponents as “those who
object to science,” he is doing them an injustice, and unfairly stealing
an argument. In like manner, he is not wholly ingenuous in his
ﬁnal sentence, when, in speaking of medicine, he says: “ If it is ever
to take its place among the exact sciences it can be advanced only by
reasoning based upon observation and experiment, and constantly
controlled by both, especially the latter.” This is doubtless true,
but it is no proof that experiment on living cent/male is necessary or
desirable. Of all exact sciences, astronomy is probably the most
exact, and the reason is not far to seek. The stars are so happily
situated that they can be approached only by the mind, and their
movements investigated only by minds of ability. Were it possible
to apply pulleys, levers, and ladders, there is no doubt they would
soon be hauled from their positions, and while little minds, unable to
grasp principles, were revelling in minute details, the science and the

 




 

 

 

4 THE MORAL-[TY ()F VIVISECTION.

universe would be reduced to the chaos in which physiology at present
is, and seems likely to remain, as long as every youthful investigator is
at liberty to start his own theory, based on abnormal and misleading
conditions.

Before considering the main argument of Dr. Buffer’s essay, it will be
well ﬁrst to get rid of the side issues, which, while adding much to the
interest of the article and containing fair argument, still confuse the
main train of thought. First, with regard to Bishop Moorhouse’s rule
of life, namely—“ The service of love to God and man and all crea-
tures,” and the physiologist’s rule—namely, “ The search for truth for
truth’s sake,” I cannot agree with Dr. Buffer that the latter includes
the former. In fact, he inadvertently himself admits that it is not
so, when he says that “the searching for truth is likely to enable us
to render efﬁciently those services to men and animals.” The tribu-
taries which enable the river to carry the vessel to the ocean are not
greater than the river itself. The search for truth for truth’s sake,-
as a rule of life, is good or bad, according to the nature of the truth
sought. I am told that Zola’s novels present a very truthful picture
of one Sort of life, but we should not search them for guidance in life
with so much chance of an edifying result as the works of Herbert
Spencer or John Ruskin, who are equally seekers after truth. The
occupation of the physiologists seems, in some cases, to be of the
Zola type, and even though it may be well to seek for truth in the
entrails of beasts and the functions of animal life, it is not Wise to
make the pursuit of such truth the law of one’s life, especially if in
doing so one loses sight of the higher truths implied in the pursuit
of mercy and justice.

The vegetarian question is another side issue of interest. Whether
it is inconsistent for a person to object to physiological cruelty and
still to eat meat is a matter which I cannot decide; but, granting
for argument’s sake, that it is so, the fact does not prove that vivi-
section is right. A physiologist also is inconsistent when, while com-
plaining that he is called abusive names, he retaliates in similiar style.
Inconsistency is, indeed, a normal attribute of the human mind, and
it, hasabeen said that if we were all consistent with our best moments,
there would be little ill will or evil conduct left in the world. I think
there would be little cruelty, except possibly in the laboratory, where
the occasional torture of an innocent animal seems essential to the
attainment of the highest morality recognised by the physiologist.
At any rate, an argument, to be sound and conclusive, must commend
itself to all who are capable of understanding it, and to me, and of
course to all other abstainers from meat, the vegetarian argument has
no point. Even Dr. Buffer will admit that the moral right and
wrong of vivisection must not be made to depend on the diet of
the Bishop of Manchester. The other argument, based on the cruelty

 




THE MORALITY 0F VIVISECTION.

CI

of warfare, falls equally flat to a member of the Peace Association.
In fact, while we cannot be too grateful to all physiologists who
draw attention to other forms of cruelty, which must in the long
run tend to bring their own into disrepute, it is obvious that all
arguments founded on other cruelties are from their nature a little
weak. I am aware that, in this, I have Sir James Paget, Sir Andrew
Clark, Dr. Samuel Wilks, and others against me, and I have no doubt
that if the proposition were put to a meeting of the British Medical
Association, the whole profession would dutifully vote that two blacks
do make a white on this particular occasion. But yet, most thinking
people will still agree with me that they do not.

Three important admissions, bearing directly on the matter, must
also be noted, before we consider the main argument.

1. That animals are capable of suffering intense pain, amount-
ing to torture, for Dr. Buffer tells us of “ the horses which
remained in a mangled condition on'the battle-ﬁeld, and which
suffered torture for weeks.” This is important, not as adding to
our knowledge, but because an attempt is often made by physio-
logists to make us believe that “ pain is far less appreciated by
animals than by man.”

2. That vivisection is not always done under anaesthetics, and
when that is the case, is not, as the Parliamentary Return
(1892, p. 3) says, “ practically always of the nature of hypo—
dermic injection or simple inoculation.” For if it were so, how
could Dr. Ruﬁ'er so “much deplore the necessity of inﬂicting
pain” in his experiments, and be at such pains himself, to show
that the end justiﬁes the means?

3. That “if experiments were absolutely useless, then they
would certainly be immoral.” To this pregnant sentence I hope
to return presently.

Having now cleared the ground, let us consider the main argu-
ment, which seems, when reduced to a syllogism, to be as follows :

(a) “ It is not possible to disconnect the morality of this
subject from its utility.”

(b) Vivisection is useful, because, as Sir J. Paget says, “the
opinion of the members of the medical profession and of other
scientiﬁc men is, on this question, as nearly unanimous as is any
opinion held on any subject by any large number of men.”

(0) Therefore vivisection is right,

The major premise here, unfortunately, is not axiomatic, and many
people will dispute it. Why should the morality in cruelty be
inseparable from the utility any more than in (say) theft? To feed
the hungry is as much a Christian duty as to tend the sick ; and to
accomplish this feeding efﬁciently it would. be “ necessary” to appro-
priate the possessions of the rich, but we could not as a nation for

 




 

6 THE MORALITY OF VIVISECTION.

one moment entertain the idea of setting aside a class of gentlemen
Specially licensed to appropriate other peoples’ goods for the beneﬁt
of widows and orphans.

The failure of the major premise is enough to invalidate the con-
clusion, but still I should like also to draw attention to the fact that
the minor premise also rests only on assertion, and is denied by some
persons competent to judge.

The physiologists will never be able to, build up a consistent theory
until they have revised their premises, and this leads us to the con—
sideration of the words above quoted, to the effect that experiments
would certainly be immoral if they were useless. Perhaps Dr. Buffer
has never paused to consider why that should be the case. The ex-
periments, we may assume, would not be immoral because they were
useless, and the only other grounds on which they could be pronounced
so are either (a) because they demoralise the 'practiser, or (Z7) because
they give pain to unoffending animals. Though Dr. Buffer might
admit the former alternative if we were treating of other cruelties, he
strenuously denies it with regard to vivisectors; and we are conse-
quently driven to the latter—viz., that they are immoral because they
give pain 250 emoﬂendmg animals. This is practically an admission
that animals have some sort of rights, for otherwise the view of a
well-known German professor is the only logical one~——that if you buy
an animal it becomes your property, and you are at liberty to do
what you please with it. As a nation we have long passed this
elementary stage of morality, and by legislation have practically ad-
mitted that animals are something more than animated chattels. The
exact limit of an animal’s rights may not be easily ﬁxed; but it is
certain that they cannot be made to depend on the question whether the
animal is on the one side or the other of the wall of a laboratory, or
whether or not the man who is accused of infringing those rights is
certiﬁed as competent to do so by others engaged in the same pursuit.
The present law, being founded on no deﬁnite mOral principle, is un—
satisfactory. It makes no attempt to place any limit either to the
duration or intensity of the pain which a man may inﬂict on an
animal when once he has a certiﬁcate, albeit the Report of the Royal
Commission admitted that “ it is not to be doubted that inhumanity
may be found in persons of very high position as physiologists.”

The anti-vivisectionists are not so unreasonable as their opponents
would have people believe. They do not wish to stand in the way of
the advance of science by scientiﬁc means, or to frustrate legitimate
experiment, but they do claim that vivisection as a legalised method
shall be totally abolished—ﬁrst because no means have been or ever
can be devised by which the abuse of it can be provided against, and
secondly because any arguments which may be urged in defence of it
apply equally well to experimentation on the inferior members of

' é...

 




“‘1'“

 

THE MORALITY 0F VIVISECTION. 7

the human race, and there is not wanting evidence that hospital
patients have been unjustiﬁably utilised for experiment. Vivisection
is the only form of cruelty which is specially protected by law, and we
claim that, like theft or any other crime, it shall be made a penal
offence. Though as in one case, so in the other, instances may
occur of so trivial a nature as to be unworthy of recognition by law,
that cannot alter the principle. The law must forbid absolutely,
and the interpretation of the law be left to the common sense
of the community. V

The paper by Professor Horsley is of different calibre. It hardly
touches the question under discussion, and is indeed, to use his coad-
jutor’s words, an essay on the “ Immorality of Antivivisectionists.” A
reply to it as such could have little interest to readers of the CONTEM-
PORARY REVIEW, though possibly in a society journal it might be ap-
preciated. There are, however, two points of interest in it, one
medical and one otherwise. In speaking of rabies, the writer says,
“M. Pasteur . . . discovered the means of saving fourteen out of
ﬁfteen persons doomed to die of the disease.” This statement is on
a par with that extraordinary one of Sir Joseph Lister, that Pasteur
has saved 12,000 lives, or with Professor Horsley’s own statement on
a previous occasion before the Lords’ Committee on Rabies, that the
death—rate from hydrophobia in Scandinavia in one year reached one
hundred and eighty-one, when, on inquiry being made, it was found
that there was no evidence of its having ever reached eighteen
even. Professor Horsley, as an advocate for “ truth for truth’s
sake,” should not have allowed his partisanship to run him into
such extravagances. The manner in which both he and Sir Joseph
arrive at their ﬁgures is apparently by assuming that all» the patients
who have flocked to Paris, whether bitten, licked, or only frightened,
were “doomed to die of the disease.” But I ﬁnd that Pasteur in
his statistics divides his cases into three classes, in which the dogs
were—(A) shown to have been mad by experiment, ( B) by veterinary
examination, and (C) only suspected of having been mad. In
making up his results, however, we ﬁnd that he adds up all, and appa-
rently, like Professor Horsley, assumes that all were “ doomed to die”
but for him. Such slipshod statistics were probably never presented
to the world before by a scientiﬁc man. Their value was well shown
by the Report of the Local Government Board Committee appointed to
inquire into Pasteur’s treatment, of which Professor Horsley cannot be
ignorant, as he was himself the secretary. The Committee took for
investigation ninety cases, selected as being within reach of Paris. Of
these, from one cause or another, they threw out sixty-six, leaving
twenty-four, in which they say the dogs were “ undoubtedly rabid.”

Of these twenty-four cases the Committee “believed” that not

 




8 THE M ORAL] TY 0F VI VI SE C TI 01V.

less than eight would have died if they had not been inOculated. The
grounds for this belief are not given, and a percentage of thirty-three
is a very large one. The Committee, indeed, themselves admit a little
higher up that “the percentage of deaths among persons who have
been bitten by dogs believed to have been rabid has been in some cases
estimated at the rate of only ﬁve per cent.” If the lower percentage is
the correct one, there is nothing surprising in the fact that no case of
hydrophobia should occur among those twenty-four taken at hap-
hazard, even if they were all genuine. Moreover, two deaths did
actually occur in Paris during the period “covered by the investiga-
tion, and it is very remarkable that the Committee passed over them
in silence. Had they been included with the twenty-four the argu-
ment would have been spoilt.

So that, instead of showing that Pasteur had saved fourteen lives
out of ﬁfteen, the Committee left it doubtful Whether he had really
saved any at all. On the other hand, the Report admitted that
“deaths have occurred under conditions Which have suggested that
they were due to the inoculations rather than to the infection
from the rabid animal; ” and they also said that, to stamp out hydro-
phobia, “ police regulations would sufﬁce, if they could be rigidly
enforced.” Can Mr. Horsley explain his apparent contradictions P

The other point of interest is Mr. Horsley’s manner of meeting our
not unreasonable demand for some deﬁnite instance of the beneﬁt
derived by medicine from vivisection. “We are,” he characteristically
tells us, “ uninstructed, and almost mercenary, questioners.” “The
miserable spirit of cm 607w .7 ﬁnds its highest development within our
shores.” The application to surgery by Sir J. Lister of Pasteur’s
experiments and discoveries with regard to fermentation (made
without vivisection) ought to be, we are told, “a perennial ex-
ample of the fatuity of the eternal demand for so-called practical
results.” ’

Dr. Buffer says that vivisection would certainly be immoral if it
were useless; and, when we ask for evidence of its utility, Professor
Horsley replies that we are “ an evil and adulterous generation that
seeketh after a sign.” Will no sign then ever be given ? There has,
apparently, been none vouchsafed as yet.

ERNEST BELL.

 




