COLLECTIONS BY CHILDREN,

From “ Society for the Protection of Birds.”

One foremost duty of the Society is to foster in the minds of the
young a loving observance of the beauty, habits, and usefulness of wild
creatures. Children are often said to be naturally cruel, but those who
watch them most, know best, how often they act in ignorance, or in'
accordance with early, very early, evil inﬂuences. Mrs. Sewell, no
mean authority on the subject, writes, that the hearts of children, unless,
perverted, are always in sympathy with happiness, and that therefore,
the happiness of birds and insects, and of all things living a natural life,
should he often brought before them. “Bring your little children,”
she pleads, “into harmony and friendship with all God’s works; and
keeping this tender relationship in view, never suffer them to make col-
lections of insects. I say never, for directly the greedy spirit of acquisi-
tion ﬁnds place in a child’s mind, the whole range of their feelings is
changed towards the creatures which they had cbefore admired with
sympathy and something approaching love. Now it is only to possess.
Directly a lovely creature meets their eye in sun or shade, to capture,
to destroy, to appropriate is the sole object; all desire to know or
observe them is gone, all sympathy with their innocent enjoyment is
ﬂed. When persons grow older, these collections may be made with
less damage to character; but the effect is baleful to the character of
little children, in whom one should endeavor to form an open heart of
love towards all God’s creatures. The accounts of naturalists’ murder-
ous tours have been often very revolting to my mind; but the plea of
scientiﬁc discovery turns black to white.”—T/t0ug/zz‘s on Educaz‘z’m.
Mrs. Sewell. ’

 

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained of the Humane Education Committee No. 61 Westminster Street,
Room 20 (Elevator 3 Exchange Street), Providence, R. I. Price 15 cents per hundred, postage
paid.

At same address may be obtained other leaﬂets, books, etc., On the care and kind treatment of
animals, Suitable for use in schools and Bands of Mercy.

Send postage stamp for price list.

A sample set of leaﬂets will be sent on receipt of 9s cen‘"

SONGS OF HAPPY LIFE—A new and ﬁne collect one thing we must never for-
of Mercy, Will be sent mapaietz on receipt of I: cents get, namely 3 that the inﬁnitely ‘
most important work for us is the",
humane education of the millions.
who are soon to come on the ‘

stage of action.

Wth A. -:

'm‘:.7.zr.;.; . ._gg§lm

‘..:_.;..___...~_-a.~v

 

 

GEO. T. ANGELL. ,

 




 




