 

ANIMAL WELFARE. INSTITUTE

 

 

 

CHRISTINE STENENS
73o FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 19, N. Y.

 




THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE:

An organization founded by a group of persons interested in the promotion of
humane treatment of animals.

The Institute will be incorporated as a non-profit organization under the laws
of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be nationwide.
Headquarters will be at 730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y.
PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The aim of the Institute will be:
To promote the welfare of all animals.
To reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on.animals by man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of animal welfare, it will,
at present, concern itself particularly with humane safeguards in the use of animals
for research and medicine.

This is one aspect of humane work that has received very little practical
attention in the U.S. As a result, standards for the use of laboratory animals-vary
frmm individual to individual, from institution to institution.

At present, animal experimentation is a subject on which opinion differs
importantly:

.l. Antivivisectionists demand the abolition of animal experimentation.

2. Same experimental biologists. deeming themselves hampered by unsatis-
factory supplies of animals needed for research and by antivivisectionist
activity, counter by demanding the forced surrender of unlimited numbers
of animals frdm public and semi-public sources.

3. Sincere humanitarians who have not opposed animal experimentation are
having their constructive work made difficult, and in some instances
impossible, by those scientists who react to antivivisectionist extremes
by themselves going to opposite lengths.

On the urgent problem.of laboratory animals, therefore, the Institute will have
the following immediate aims:

1. Care:- The establishment of a code for the handling and use of laberatony
animals which would serve to implement existing legislation.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experimental.animals.

Research: The encouragement of medical research of the highest possible
quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a minimum.both the pain
suffered by animals and the number of animals required.

 




3.

2.

Procurement Programs: The survey of existing and proposed programs for
the procurement of laboratory animals in an effort to discover the best
method of satisfying the needs of humanity in the advancement of medicine,
public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing practical animal
welfare_work or the general advancement of humanity through increasing
consideration for all living creatures.

SOME BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR THE INSTITUTE:

In its efforts to promote animal welfare, the Institute will be guided by
certain basic considerations:

1.

2.

Animals feel_pain (distress, anxiety, discomfort).

There is every scientific reason for concluding that vertebrates are
capable of suffering. With the lower animals, the evidence may be less
direct, nevertheless observation even of the invertebrates strongly
suggests their sensitivity to pain and discomfort hence they cannot be
safely overlooked.

Criteria for pain-infliction in scientific experimentation and standards
for its justification must be established as clearly as possible.

No units exist for the measurement of pain. Nevertheless, criteria for
judging pain-infliction quantitatively should be defined. These would
include such factors as:

a) Intensity of suffering.

b) Duration of suffering.

c) The number of animals affected.

Justification for pain infliction in every instance should take into
account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.
b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear, anxiety,
worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for deciding upon the
proper limitation of pain infliction. These means should be based on
the proposition that the end justified the means only if these means fall
within reasonable limits.

 

A broader ethics is imperative:

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the Institute have
been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweitzer, world renowned physician,
clergyman and philosopher:

"Ethics in our western world has hitherto been largely limited to the
relation of man to man. But that is a limited ethics. we need a boundless
ethics which will include the animals also."

 




3.

And again: "What does reverence for life say about the relations between
men and the animal world? Whenever I injure any kind of life I must be
quite certain that it is necessary. I must never go beyond the unavoid-
able......."

"Those who experiment upon animals by surgery and drugs, or inoculate
them.with diseases in order to be able to help mankind by the results
obtained, should never quiet their consciences with the conviction that
their cruel action may in general have a worthy purpose. In every single
instance they must consider whether it is really necessary to demand of
an animal this sacrifice for man, and they mmst take anxious care that
the pain be mitigated as far as possible.......

"By the very fact that animals through these painful experiences have
contributed so much of value to suffering mankind, a new and special bond
of solidarity has been established between them and us. From this arises
the obligation for each of us to do every possible good to all animals
everywhere."

New developments may'mitigate animal suffering.

The Institute's emphasis throughout will be on the needs of animals apd
human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimentation in medical

and other scientific research, the Institute will investigate and seek
to foster developments in experimentation whereby animal suffering may
be minimized.

Fields of investigation might include:

a) Practical replacement of the higher mammals by much lower
forms of life or life in lower stages of embryonic development
(such as chick embryos) with a view to reducing the_suffering
undergone by animals with highly developed nervous systems.

Practical replacement of chronic experiments involving pro-
tracted physical or mental suffering by properly conducted

sacrifice experiments with a view to reducing the number of
painful experiments.

 

The efficient statistical design of experiments so as to effect
a systematic economy in sampling. For example, methods whereby
limitation of the number of variables introduced in an experiment
makes possible the reduction of the number of animals necessary.

The substitution of chemical and physical methods, whenever
possible, for biological methods in experiments or tests.

9) The means of avoiding_unnecessary repetition of experiments.
5. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that humanitarianism and science, far from.being
antagonistic, should complement each other if civilization is to progress.

 




OPERATION:

A.

It opposes, at one extreme, the fraction of opinion which would abolish
all animal experimentation. It also opposes at the other extreme, that
fraction of opinion which dismisses the problem.raised by animal suffer-
ing as trivial and which is willing to accept, as an unqualified justifi~
cation for this suffering, the general aim.of increased human comfort

and knowledge.

The Institute will proceed on the assumption that all human beings,
whatever their specific beliefs or training, have a common goal of humanity.

It believes that by informing the public and arbitrating between extremes,
the Institute can foster a climate favorable to scientific progress and
animal‘welfare.

As Dr. E. C. Stakman stated last year in an address as retiring president
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science:

"There is a need for*more understanding and tolerance between scientists
and humanists: properly motivated, all are humenists, and their joint
contribution can accelerate man's evolution toward intellectual enlighten-
ment and spiritual refinement."

To achieve the purpose and spread the viewPoint outlined above, even beyond
the narrower scope of its direct operation, the Institute will make surveys and studies
of such.matters as these:

1.

Practice:

Codes and practices currently in effect governing the handling and use
of laboratory animals.

Research needs:
Estimates on.numbers, types of animals, sources.

Legislation:

State and local legislation, effective or pending, involving treatment
of animals or their procurement. "

Techniques:

Investigation into methods whereby animal suffering may be minimized and
numerical requirements reduced.

The Institute will seek to function with a solid background of fact as
aseiclearing house of information on animal welfare, especially on the
use of laboratory animals.

Results of the Institute's research surveys will be made available to
the public through bulletins, factual releases and other media.

 




In its operation, the Institute will support the good work done by other
organizations and enlist their aid in its own endeavors. Such organizations would
include:

a) Departments of the Federal and State governments.
b) Humane Societies.

Scientific and technical associations.

Conservation groups.

Livestock protection groups.

1

.../ ‘ “A:
., l a

“ma”? ww~* ; ,, .wV
All other bodies interested in animal welfare. ~”“*“**6‘“
A.

.iﬁ'x‘k
Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public acceptance of

the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum and clearing house for the legitimate

claims o; scientists and humanitarians alike.

(1] 1.2%» ”f,- r

 

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all available related
facts can valid and equitable solutions to complex problems be attained.

 




This yoar tho annual‘mooting of tho.Animal welfare Inotituoo will be held at

Michigan State College (UhiVersity?) at East Lansing in conjunction with the mootings
of the.Amorioan Institute of Biological Scionooo, ﬁoptembor §F9. The Albert Sohwoitmor
Medal will be awarded for the first time, at a ceremony'to which not only all members
but all ﬁhoSe attenﬂing tho.AIBS mootinga are iavitoﬁ. Er. Loo 3. Dice, Eireotor of tho
Institute of Euman i“323.0104:,fo at tho Univorsity of Hicb‘gan and a member of tho.Animal
wolfaro Institute Advisory Committee, will preside. A ghort yoport on the progross of
humane slaughtor'will be given by Dr. Ralph Earner of the Department of Patholoﬁy'at
Hichigan State College (University?) and *ho modal will ho awarded by'ﬂoanuemoritus
Edward H. Kraus of the University of Michigan. The Homo of ﬁho rocipient will ba announced
later. Following the ceremony, toa will be served.

Throughout the couroe of the four~oay'moetings, an.Animal Jolfare Instituﬁo booth
exhibit will be on ﬂisolay'whoro those in attendance may obtain free literature on the
proper oaro and housing of experimental animals and information on other animal protective

problems.

 




AM tﬁiibl‘w "mm: tilts

Goo of tho oruoloot inventions of man is tho stool trap, which oatcizos an animal
by one paW’amd holdo it in a pa inful, oruo hint grip until the trappo r rovisits hm
traplino . 1:118»; oomotimos is. a poriod of so oral ﬂays. E‘iot infrequent 115!" g MRW'
the animal in ito awony‘gnaos its 1:oot off in orior to escape (somo muskrat trappors
report ?O~30“ “wriog~offs", as a matter of agar: so) The Institute beliovoo that
'if animals owe to to trapped for their for, they'should be killed instantly; .Although
many'trappors agree with this in principlo, only a'small proportion haVe as yet adopted
the nov'hamgno traps.

“he institute maintained a display booth at which.various humane traps, including
the now Zip Trap, wore exhibitoﬁ at the annual Sports‘and'Vaoation Show hold in,March
at Ki Ulgf? shri one Ariaony, Neau'lork, whichw ' attended by thousands of sportsmen and other
interested persons from.ﬁow”¥ork and neighboring states. Literature condemning the
use of the stool trap was_&istributod and hundreds of trappors stopped to examine the
instant-killer traps on,display; Few lad ever before seen the Zip trap, which was
invontoﬁ by‘a professional trapper in Canada. Light, practical 321d efficient, the

n,

Zip trap after extensive testing has become commerciaily‘availaolo this year. AWI

' volunteers who manned the booth urged substitution of the Zip or ‘ igoIOW'instantnkiller

traps for the cruel oldpfashionod trap ago were much encouraged by the responso of the

majority of trappors.

 




TYPICAL

COMMENTS

. . . . about the Animal Welfare Institute

 




P ROMIINENT leaders in the ﬁelds of scientiﬁc research
‘and animal protection have commented most favorably
on the establishment of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Some typical observations:

CONFIRMING THE NEED FOR THE INSTITUTE

"I bave been greatly interested in tbe prospectus of tbe
Animal Welfare Institute. Your plans seem to me to be
sound and well worked out. Tbere is need for sucb an
institute. In particular, I like your constructive approacb
to tbe problem of tbe bumane bundling of laboratory
animals." Lee R. Dice, Director,
Institute of Human Biology,

University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.

"I have great hopes that the Animal Welfare Institute
will be able to obtain some constructive suggestions for
solving our research problems and wish you all success
with this project.”

Rutherford T. Phillips, Secretary,

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals,
Philadelphia, Pa.

”1 was mucb interested in your outline for a prospectus for
tbe betterment of tbe status of small animals in tbe role
tbey, play in tbe ﬁeld of buman and veterinary bealtb work.
It is certainly time tbat tbe opposing factions are united
in an eﬂort to bring about bumane but continued use of

small animals in tbis ﬁeld.”
D. B. Meyer, D.V.M.,
Division of Laboratories,
Michigan Department of Health,
Lansing, Michigan.

"You are to be congratulated for setting forth so clearly
your aims and plans and when the program is brought
to fruition, it will be a real contribution to all con-
cerned.”

Gerald R. Dalmadge, Superintendent,

The Palo Alto Humane Society
Palo Alto, California.

"Tbe outline indicates tbat you bave given tbe subject
tbougbt and tbat tbose responsible for its preparation bave
made a good approacb.”

J. V. Lacroix,

THE NORTH AMERICAN VETERINARIAN,

American Veterinary Publications, Inc.,
Evanston, Illmoxs.

“It seems to me very well organized and certainly con-
tains the basis for the Animal Welfare Institute to
begin sound operation. Its purpose and scope should
be of extreme interest to everyone in the humane ﬁeld
as well as those using animals for experimentation.
The whole ﬁeld of animal experimentation and control
—including the source of supply—needs a study that will
be based on facts.”

Carlton E. Buttrick, President,

The Animal Rescue League of Boston,
Boston, Massachusetts.

ENDORSING THE OBJECTIVES OF THE INSTITUTE

"Animal welfare societies in tbe United States sbould form
an organization comparable to tbe Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare in England, tbus giving a service tbat
would assist in tbe care and treatment of all animals used
in med’ml researc/a.” Albert H. MacCarthy, President,
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals of Anne Arundel County,
Annapolis, Maryland.

"I cannot help but voice commendation for the practical
and ambitious aims of the Institute in its endeavor to
promote the welfare of all animals.”

Tom Justice, .
The Humane Society of the City of Columbus,

Columbus, Ohio.

”Tbe aim as outlined in your prospectus to promote tbe
welfare and reduce tbe total pain of all animals is well
taken.” Harry G. Herrlein (Breeder),

Rockland Farms,
New City, N. Y.

“We will follow the development of your Animal Wel-
fare Institute with much interest. The objectives seem
clearly deﬁned and very worth while.”

C. M. McCay, Professor of Nutrition,

Department of Animal Husbandry,

New York State College of Agriculture,

Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.

"I subscribe one bundred per cent to your outlined objec-
tives. You seem to bave comprebensive knowledge of tbe
problem and your approacb to resolving tbis problem
sbould bave tbe support of all bumane people and organi-
zations and also sbould receive tbe consideration of tbe
scientists.” B. P. Sook, General Manager,

Mohawk & Hudson River Humane Society,
Albany, New York.

 




"In my opinion your basic principles for the Institute
are sound and thoughtful, and I do not know a scientist
who would take serious exception to this statement of
them.”

Ray D. Owen,

Kerckhoff Laboratories of Biology,

California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California.

APPROVING THE PROGRAM OF THE INSTITUTE

"An excellent job ha; been done in developing an outline
for the Institute. You have implied at Jet/era] point; the
need for conference: with all of the diﬂerent interest;

' n . . .
"waived Sydney H. Coleman, Executive Vice-PreSIdent,
The American Socxety for the Preventio

of Cruelty to Animals, ~
New York, N. Y.

"As long as the two factions sit with their backs to each
other, and call each other nasty names, they will remain
where they have been for years and make no progress
toward solving the real problem. But, if, as, and when
they will face about and gather around a conference
table, they can and will make progress which will beneﬁt
all animals as well as mankind.”

Dr. W. A. Young Managing Director,

The Anti-Cruelty $0c1ety,
Chicago, Illinois. -

"I am in tympathy with any organization which seehs to
promote the humane treatment of animal; while at the
Jame time recognizing the extentiality of animal experi—
mentation in biology and medicine.

"I believe that lahoratorie: engaged in animal experimenta-
tion thould he required by law to meet intelligent require-
ment: at to homing the animal; and at to humane care.
I believe that all individual; who are trained to do animal
experimentation .rhould he taught to give the animal; the
heit ponih/e (are and to avoid pain where pouihle.”

Dr. Dwight J. Ingle,

The Uijhn Company,-
Kalamnzoo, Michigan.

”We are much interested in the prospectus for The
Animal Welfare Institute. There has been a great deal
of guesswork about the extent to' which animals suffer
and deﬁnitive data is highly desirable.”

Richard W. WeStwood. President,

American Nature Association,

Editor. NATURE Magazine,
Washington, D. C.

The Animal Welfare Institute, 730 Fifth Ave., New York I9

 




ANIMAL WELEAIIE INSTITUTE

350 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK I, N. Y.

 

January-February, I953

IMPORTANT NEW USE FOR ANES'I'HESIA

The most important new development for the prevention of cruelty to animals in
the United States in 1952 took place in Austin, Minnesota at the George A. Hormel
packing plant. Ten thousand hogs are received daily at this plant, and all of them

fsmwwwmwwwewareenowanesthetized prior to slaughter. Pain and fear are eliminated-and, at the

? same time, the efficiency of the operation is increased through the use of an in-
genious device described by L.W. Murphy in the paper reprinted below. It was pre-
sented at the annual convention of the American Meat Institute. The diagram shows.
how the apparatus is constructed.

John C. Macfarlane, Director of Livestock Loss Prevention for the Massachusetts
SPCA, and one of the most experienced and able protectors of livestock in the United
States, had this to say about his visit to Austin: “For the first time in over a
quarter ofzicentury, I was able to stand on the killing floor of Hormel’s very clean
plant in Austin, Minnesota and observe several hundred hogs prepared for slaughter
without any qualms whatsoever....The hog hsno longer hoisted while kickingzuuitwist-
ing to arrive at another level excited and exhausted, subjected to great physical
painzunioften arriving with damaged hams...When you bmypork products from the Hormel
Packing Plant at Austin, Minnesota, you can be assured from now on that the animals
were rendered completely unconscious, that there was absolutely no pain and no suf-
fering, and that from the moment they were anesthetized to the very end, they never
oncé regained consciousness."

The Animal Welfare Institute urges readers of the Information Report to give
these facts to their local meat markets, and to show their approval by purchasing
Hormel pork products. ~
N Text of Address by l W. Murphy, Service Division

George A. Hormel & Co.

The new method of hanging hogs is the result of considerable research, long
study and as always much trial and error.

The project started simply enough. Some one suggested the need for improved
working conditions and economies in the operation prior to scalding.

Unfortunately ﬁrrthose oflnswho had to come up with the solution the suggestion
came from H. H. Corey* so immediate action was deemed advisable.

Indeed, ourentire management realized that the cost of shackling was high; that
shackling was a rough job for man and hog; that it was noisy and dirty, and in some
degree dangerous and that it probably involved Operative losses.

As we all know, consistently good sticking is difficult to accomplish with an
active hog threshing about suSpended on a chain. Ever present is the possibility of
harm to meat from overheating a hog and a shock condition caused by climbing a ramp
and resisting the drag of the shackling chain.

We needed an immobile hog. Anesthesia was the answer. It may be relevant to say
that the discovery and successful use of anesthesia in humans, with the surgeon operat-
ing on a quiet and unconscious patient, has been called the greatest advance in the
history of the human race. ~

At the least, there is a parallel in our method, in the opportunity provided the
operator of the knife to do his work better.

At first we tried various methods to improve shackling, working with the fully
conscious hog. All of these methods were less than satisfactory. We began to make
real progress when we tried anesthesia.

We built a good-sized pilot plant and fully tested various kinds of gas that
would put a hog under, but not out. We were entirely successful w1th C02, Carbon

Dioxide, converted, in our case,from dry ice.

* 1].”. Corey, President, Geo. A. Hormel 5 Co.

 




We found thathecould get complete immobility and insensitivity, withzimoderate
inhalation, lasting from 4OtX)50 seconds. We found also that we could fix the amount
of gas inhaled and the duration of its effect within quite narrow 1imits.**

The 15‘UJ20 seconds that we settled upon as the period in which to have the hog
in this condition was more than ample for both the hanging and the sticking.

Now, Unahog was presented for shackling on a conveyor, at a level waist-high to-

the shackler, permitting him to do his job with complete safety, with ease, without
having to bend over, or dive down for a hind leg, without having to lug the shackled
hog to the traveling hoist, and with cleanliness to himself.

Indeed, pilot plant and working plant demonstrated that in this method, the
shackle could be put on the hind leg of a hog with no greater effort than a ring may
be placed on a lady’s finger, and without the labor of persuasion occasionally as-
sociated with the latter job.

In this new method, a man places a chain around the motionless leg as easily as
placing a rope around a post.

Similarly,lﬂu3hog was presented tothe sticker so that he could operate at arm’s
length, accurately, safely, unhurried, and, also, with cleanliness to himself.

 

 

 

 

We were able to work this out on a pilot plant scale. We also were able to ex-
plore for any possible harmful effects upon blood and meat. We found none and feel
certain that there are none. Our laboratory men as well as our practical meat men
of the packinghouse could not distinguish meat from hogs run through the pilot plant
and meat from hogs handled in the standard way.

Also, hithis period, we provided the meat inspection division of the department
of agriculture with full opportunity to investigate any possibilities of harmful ef~
fects. Meat from anesthetized hogs was shipped to the Washington Laboratories. The
M.I.D. found no harmful effects and gave its approval to the method.

[kszestill had to build a working plant, and we still had unanswered the ques-
tion of how to get the hogs into the CO2 chamber, one at a time, in succession, and
fast enough so that at least 600 hogs could be handled in an hour.

We built the working plant<nithe ground floor nexttxithe livestock pens, start-
ing with one immobilizer. The problem of getting the hogs into the unit was not an
easy one. Despite all we thought we knew about hog behavior, we found that we didn’t
quite know it all. We have madezinumber of improvements in our solution of the pro-
blem since we first built the working plant.

In the picture, you will see large rubber fingers operating on a continuous
chain which maintainziseparation of the hogs as they go through the immobilizer. The
gate, you will see first, separates the hogs. It also is of rubber. It is power
-operated but manually controlled.

We expecttx)have the second immobilizer in operation some weeks hence. When it
is completed, we will handle all our hogs at Austin by the new method.

We are sure the method can be applied to other packinghouse livestock.
The gas chamber is lower thaniﬂneworking level because C02 is heavier than air.

The carbon dioxide, of course, is a familiar gas. One gets it in the soda of scotch
and soda, or in any carbonated beverage. In our use, in the hog immobilizer, it is

of sufficient concentration to drop the hog motionless and insensible on the moving,

conveyor but in no way to injure it.

*tIn reSponse to inquiry about the immediate effects of mg on hogs, Mr. Murphy States: "The hogs' reaction to
the C302 atmOSphere upon entry is nothing more observable than a sniffing of the air, comparable to a hunting
dog. The hogs are in the 002 atmosphere not more than 7-12 seconds before losing consciousness. "

 

\. .21 ll
-.__ my“

In all our testing and in our present use, accounting for 300,000 hogs, we have
not lost a hog. The hog, if permitted to live, will be rid of the C02 and be able to

walk off on its own power in less than a minute after becoming unconscious from the
breathing in of the gas.

The C02 unites with the hemoglobin of the blood and thereby causes the uncon-
sciousness. But the compound formed is unstable. The C02 component rapidly separates
off and is discharged by exhalation as the hog continues to breathe fresh air before
and after sticking.

The carbon dioxide is effective, but, as used, it is harmless.

We have found in a test of 19,000 hogs that our new method had an appreciable
reduction in bloody trimmings.

In our plantzitAustin the new methodINillenable us to put a number of shacklers
and drivers to more productive work. One man now can hang twice the number of hogs
with half the effort.

We feel certain that there is an appreciable savings in blood. The scalding tub
by its paler color reveals less blood carried into it.

 

HI
I'LL A A...

C02 GAS
#-

 

 

 

 

 

 

The cost<3fthe C02 runs at less than three-quarters of a cent a hog. .The lift-
ing of the carcasses after sticking to the fourth floor, as is the case in our in-
stallation, is done by a 20 h.p. motor at a cost of 15 cents an hour.

Thus far, speaking hiconclusion, our known, demonstrable gains are in operation
savings and in working conditions. They alone more than compensate to us the costof
our years of research. We are eagerly watching all aspects of the processed hog for
other, improved, anticipated effects. The motion pictures, we believe, will interest
all packinghouse people. They reveal a basic and important, and I believe I can say
with propriety, a revolutionary improvement in this business in which we are all en-
gaged.

INSTITUTE EXHIBITS Af AAAS MEETING

At the 119th annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, a group of 237 affiliated and associated societies, held in St. Louis in
December, the Animal Welfare Institute for the second year had an exhibit at the Ex-
position of Science and Industry. This exhibit called attention, with pictures and
captions, to the great progress made during the past century in various fields--com-
munications, science, medicine, child welfare, transportation, industry--and asked:
“Why so little progress in laboratory animal welfare?” The central panel listed Six

areas especially in need of attention:

PERSONNEL Many laboratorieSIuwvemploy untrained, underpaidrman classed as unskilled
workers, who have little interest in caring for animals. As a result, both animals

and research suffer.

AWI RECOMMENDS: Sound training of animal technicians, selected for competence and a
liking for animals; adequate budget appropriations to insure fair salaries; a title

commensurate with their responsibilities.

HOUSING Overcrowding of animals is a major problem in modern laboratories. For ex—
EEBIET'dogs and cats are often left for months or years with no provisions for re:
gular exercise, in cases only large enough to permit them to stand, 11e and turn,
rabbits are frequently confined to cages too small to allow them to stretch out in

their natural resting position.

AWI RECOMMENDS: Intelligent, thoughtful planning of housing, including a practicaé
study of the natural habits of the animals being used. The size of enclosure shoul
take into consideration the size of animal involved and the duration of confinement.

 




SANITATION AND DISEASE CONTROL Some laboratories, superficially clean, encouragetﬂue
spread of disease by failing to sterilize equipment passed from one group of animals
to anotherznniby not isolating sick animals. Other laboratories are actually filthy.
An attitude of “this is the best we can do” will not stop the spread of disease.

AWI RECOMMENDS: An efficient cleaningzuxlsterilizing programlnrpersonnel who under—
stand how communicable diseases spread; adequate heat, light and ventilation; avail-
ability of veterinary advice for all animal colonies; an isolation period for newly
received animals, as well as isolation, treatment or destruction of sick animals.

MENTAL WELL-BEING Many laboratory animals suffer severely from fear, loneliness and
anxiety. Studies in psychosomatic medicine indicate the importance ofnental states.

AWI RECOMMENDS: Kind treatmenttmfall animals, adequate space and companionship, and
.a special effort to keep contented the animals being held for long periods of time.

PHYSICAL COMFORT Animals<xfall kinds frequently are deprived ofzicomfortable rest-

ing place,2ux3maintained on metal grids, without bedding or resting boards, and some
are kept without water for long periods.

AWI RECOMMENDS: The provision of simple comforts for all experimental animals.

REDUCTION OF PAIN-INFLICTION Thoughtlessness in the planning of experimentation and
teaching results in much unnecessary suffering. For example, why should nine conse-
cutive experiments be performed by students in practice surgery on a single dog?

AWI RECOMMENDS: Careful planning of all experimental and teaching practices with. a
[View to eliminating unnecessary suffering and reducing the number of animals used;

use of non-survival experiments wherever possible; more extensive use of anesthesia
.and pain-relieving drugs.

At the bottom<1fthe panel, in large type, appeared the statement which it would
be profitable for everyone concerned with laboratory animals to bear in mind: “All

laboratory animals are entitled to water, food, rest, exercise, companionship, sani-
tation and kindness.”

Considerable interest among visitors to the Exposition was aroused because the
exhibit of the AWI stood side by side with that of the National Society for Medical
Research. A story in the St. Louis Post Dispatch, headlined “Animal Lovers, Vivi-
sectionists hiSame Exhibit”, stated: “Animal lovers and research scientists who use
animals inexperimentation, bitter opponents for many years, will have booths side by
side at the annual Exposition of Science and Industry....The exhibits, pointing up a
growing spirit cd?conciliation between the two groups, are among about 70 that will
occupy an entire floor of the Convention Hall.”

The NSMR had, as part of its exhibit in the next booth, living animals current-
ly:hiuse for experimental purposes. Although the cages in which the dog and cat were
housed were the commonly-used, mesh-bottom type without resting places, NSMR repre—
sentatives remedied thesituation by providing newspapers on which to rest,as well as
a sand box for the cat, and gave both animals frequent exercise outside their cages.

The Institute has moved its offices from 730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, to tem-

porary quarters in the Empire State Building where its mailing address is 350 Fifth
Avenue, New York 1.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
35fl Fifth Avenue, New York 1, N.Y.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Dr. Robert Gesell,
Director Institute of Professor of Physiology,
Human Biolo y, Univer- University of Michigan.
sity of Mic igan.

Dr. Eric H. Hansen, Dr. Peter Okkelberg,

President, Massachusetts Emeritus Progessor of

Society for the Preven- Zoology and meritus As-

tion of Cruelty to soczate Dean of the

Animals. Graduate School, Univer-
sity of Michigan.

David Ricardo,
Secretar , British Columbia Society
for the revention of Cruelty to Animals

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.,
President Viceépresident

APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP (non-voting)

[:1 ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP, ten dollars,

Open to individuals and organizations. This en-
titles the Inember to the full Inablication and
information services of' the Institute, the re-
gular periodical Reportsznuiinvitations to mem-
bership meetings.

[:] CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP, two dollars,

Opentx)individuals only. This entitles the mem-

bertx>the regular periodical Reports of the In—
stitute.

NAME

 

Estella Draper, Roger L: Stevens,
Secretary Treasurer

Helen Hanzlick,
Assistant Treasurer

ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

 

’MNMMMSMBKFGIHX’H- .W.I} WMKSFGTWEM”

 




AEIAIAI WELEAIAE INSTITUTE

730 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 19, N. Y.
JUdson 6-3180

November - December, |952

THE w PROCUREMENT ISSUE

Among all the issues relating to animal experimentation which have been de-
bated for nearly a century in the United States, the current battle over the pro-
curement of experimental dogs and cats has aroused the most widespread controversy
and bitterness. Legislation which would force humane societies to provide animals
for painful research has opened up a whole new field for strife and propaganda
which did not exist a few years ago. As a result, both the medical profession and
the animal protective cause have suffered from a variety of confused and frequently
erroneous impressions which have been created in the public mind. Any solution to
the relatively minor problem of procurement of dogs and cats which reflects on the
honor and integrity of medicine, the biOIOgical sciences, and the humane movement.
means a sacrifice of the basic values of our civilization to a purely utilitarian'
expediency.

Practical solutions to the problem have been found. They depend upon the im-
~portant distinction between (1) chronic experiments, in which the animal is alive
and conscious for varying lengths of time, and (2) non-survival experiments under
full anaeSthesia in which the animal is first rendered unconscious, then used for
-any of a variety of scientific purpoSes, and, at the concluSion of the experiment,
killed without ever having been permitted to recover consciousness. The second
type of experiment, if properly conducted, is entirely painless. The first type,
on the other hand, may cause varying degrees of distress ranging from minor dis-
comfort to severe and prolonged physical pain and mental suffering.

Procurement bills make no distinction between experiments nor do they put any
limit on the degree of suffering which may be inflicted on the animals they seek'
to force animal shelters to release. It is obvious that humane organizations are
ethically bound to resist such legislation, and at its annual convention in Boston,

 




 

the American Humane Association, the national federation of SPCA’S and humane
societies, strengthened its establiShed stand in opposition to such bills. The
delegates voted to set up a special committee to bring greater assistance to local
groups threatened by the legislation. The delegates also expressed by vote strong
disapproval of the actions of the ASPCA, which was the only animal protective so-
ciety operating a pound in New York State that failed to oppose the Match Metcalf
animal seizure bill and is now releasing animals to laboratories. The ASPCA also
was recently dropped from membership in the New York State Humane Association.
(Founded in 1866, the ASPCA is a New York City society only, and not a nationewide
organization.)

Ironically enough, the pressures which brought about the defection of the
oldest humane society in the United States, and Which aroused in the minds of
thousands of citizens a new-found oppositionix)the demands of science, have achieved
neitherCHTthe much-publicized aims which were stressed by the New York State Society
for Medical Research as reasons for passing the Hatch Metcalf Act: the acquisition
of thousands of dogs for laboratories and the elimination of the use of dog—dealers.
New York laboratories find heterogeneous pound animals unsuitable for many scienti~
fic projects, and the purchases from dog-dealers continue. *

But these problems can be met. The example seti11Vancouver where David Ricardo,
a member of the Institute’s Advisory Committee, has worked out a cooperative ar-
rangement with local medical authorities deserves careful study by all biologists
and animal protective workers. Stray dogs which would otherwise be destroyed at
the pound are available to authorized medical institutions, provided that they are
lused onlyikn‘those experiments in which theyare first placed under full anaesthesia,
never permittedix>recover consciousness, but pass directly into death. The agreement
provides for inspection by the SPCA at any time, unannounced without appointment.
These facts were published ten months ago by the Institute, which believes they de-
serve reemphasis. DOgs for chronic experimentation at the University of British
Columbia are bred for the purpose, and cooperation between the SPCA and the medical
faculty concerning the treatment of these and other animals used for chronic exper-
imentation provides practical protection for them. At the same time this cooperation
gives biologists protection from unfounded charges of cruelty by irresponsible per-
sons. As a scheduled part of the curriculum of the medical school, Mr. Ricardo
gives a lecture on humane treatment of animals, which encourages respect for the
experimental animals that the students will use throughout their careers. An ar-
rangement similar in many respects to the one in Vancouver has been in effect for
many years in Louisville, Kentucky, under the direction of Miss Carolyn Verhoeff
of the Animal Rescue League.

To summarize, the distinction between chronic experiments and non-survival
experiments under full anaesthesia may be recommended for the following reasons:
1) Impounded animals which must be destroyed may be humanely killed either in a
pound or in a laboratory. Sacrifice experiments under full anaesthesia provide a

 

 




humane death. 2) Heterogeneous pound animals are suitable for many such experie
ments, but for chronic experiments a thorough knowledge of the heredity and history
of animals used is a recognized scientific desideratum. 3) The reduction of vari-
ables through the use of animals bred for the purpose reduces the number of animals
required for chronic experiments. 4) The efficient and humane operation of im—
pounding agencies requires full public cooperation in the control of homeless ani-
mals. 5) The public expects impounding agencies to dispose of animals received in
one of three ways: a) return to owner, b) placement in a new home, 0) painless
destruction. 6) The surrender of animals for non-survival experiments under full
anaesthesia does not change this established pattern. The surrender of animals for
chronic experimentation revolutionizes it in a manner which is wholly unaccephﬂﬂe
to large numbers of humanitarians.

 

" ANIMAL CARE - PANEL

 

The annual meeting of the Animal Care Panel was held at the University of
Illinois, December third and fourth. Disease control in laboratory animal colonies,
the construction of animal quarters, and breeding programs for various species were
discussed in a series of ten papers. The need for a thorough knowledge of the
physical condition, history and heredity of animals used for experimentation was
repeatedly emphasized. It was recommended that autopsies be made of all animals
which die or are killed under experiment in order to establish the validity of the
data. The importance of establishing colonies as nearly disease-free as_possible
was stressed. A recent statement from the News Reports of the National Research
Council was quoted in a paper on the breeding of rats and repeated by the Chairman
.of the Panel: “It is obviously just as improper for a scientist to work with in-
adequately defined animals as it is for him to use impure drugs or badly calibrated
measuring instruments.”

The implications of this scientific approach have very considerable humane
significance. Low standards of animal care in laboratories, the acquisition of
heterogeneous animals from a variety of sources, the use of sickly or undernourished
animals, failure to give veterinary treatment or to destroy sick animals, and other
similar practices which lead to unnecessary suffering also contribute to the use of
the ”inadequately defined animals” which is condemned on scientific grounds.

At the Animal Care Panel well-designed animal quarters were shown, including
desirable provisions for the comfort of experimental animals —— such as bedding and
a constantly available supply of clean water for laboratory rodents and, for dogs,
inside kennels equipped with resting boards and self-operating doors leading to out-
side runways. The Institute likewise approved the dissemination of sound veterinary

3

 

 




 

 

 

 

knowledge of disease control for all species, and the advocacy of humane breeding
practices such as the provision of both bedding and nesting material for pregnant
mice and the avoidance of disturbance of new litters till the young are at least
nine days old.

Examples such as these indicate a wide area of common interest on the part of
the Animal Care Panel and the Animal Welfare Institute. Good animal husbandry may
be motivated by utilitarian considerations, humane considerations or a combination
of both. Because the Institute seeksix>create a better understanding between science
and humanitarianism, it is very appreciative of every indication that the well—being
of experimental animals may come to be widely considered not only as a means to an
end but also as an end in itself. The contributions which animals nuﬂue to scienti—
fic research create a debt which can be repaid only by expression in practical“terms
of consideration for all currently being used.

HUMANE SLAUGHTER" or": ,Hoosf

 

The December issue of ”Our Dumb Animals’t published by Massachusetts S.P.C.A..
. announces a revolutionary development in slaughtering methods which will be of
interest to all persons concerned with animal welfare. According to Dr. Eric H.
Hansen, President of the Society, “The Hormel Packing Company, at its Austin, Minne-
sota, plant has developed, with great credit to itself, and is now successfully
operating,the first really humane hog-killing department. The animals are carefully
anesthetized with carbon dioxide gas and never regain consciousness.”

The Institute will report more fully on this important development in its next
InfOrmatiOn Report. '

Meanwhile it desires to congratulate the Hormel Packing Company for this great
step forward in humane slaughtering methods.

A BRITISH MEDICAL PERIODICAL

oIScussss ANIMAL WELFARE

 

Two articles which discuss problems relating to the welfare of laboratory
animals, procurement of eXperimental dogs and cats, and the position of the Animal
Welfare Institute, appeared in the May 31 and August 23, 1952 issues of The Lancet.

4




-‘w~w-v-~r .,.. w . ﬁvww—xcn—y.
V. . , ~~ , .

a leading British medical periodical. They constitute a mature and disinterested‘
View of some of the problems which have developed into major controversies in the
United States. The first article gives a summary of the development of laboratory
animal protection in Great Britain and discusses animal welfare and procurement in
the United States. The single error which appeared in this article is corrected in
the second which further amplifies the provisions of the Hatch-Metcalf Act of New
York Stat:, noting good and bad features of both the protectivezuulprocurement parts
of the Ac . V

In reprinting these articles with the kind permission of the Editor (xf The
Lancet, the Animal Welfare Institute wishes to call to the attention of readers that
rn3provisicm1has been madeiku‘determiningijuaexact meaning of the words "commensurate
with experimental needs and with the physiologic funCtion understudy” as it relates
to the use of painful procedures withOut anaesthesia. The Institute will seek to
acquire and publish informationijithe near future relative to the functioning of the
Act including the way in which directors of laboratories, upon whose shoulders so
much responsibility for the welfare of animals is placed, deal with the problems

confronting them.

The Lancet

May 31. 1952

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE IN THE UNITED STATES

 

WE have been exceptionally fortunate in the way our
legislation for the protection of laboratory animals has
matured; for it arose directly from the opinion of the
scientists engaged in experiments requiring the use of
animals. The British Association for the Advancement
of Science resolved, as early as 1871. that no experiment
Which can be done with the animal under an anzesthetic
.Bhould be done without it ; that no painful experiment
18 justiﬁable for the mere purpose of illustrating a law
or fact already demonstrated (i.e., such experiments
should not be used in teaching); and that when, in
order to obtain a new fact, it is necessary to cause pain,
every effort should be made to ensure success, so that
pain is. not inﬂicted uselessly. These Opinions, which
provided the basis for the relevant sections in the Cruelty
to Animals Act of 1876, are now reinforced by a growing
conviction among research-workers that animals should
“N be used in large numbers for painful experiments
When the facts can be established equally well by the
use of a few. This reasonable and moderate approach
to a difﬁcult matter has put our scientists in a very strong
Position to meet the arguments of antivivisectionists.
Moreover it has not hampered their work in any way:
Indeed they regard the legal requirements as a valuable
safeguard of their interests.

 

In the United States the situation has developed along
different lines. Angered by the attacks of antivivi-
sectionists, members of the National Society for Medical
Research are not only insisting on their right to be free
of restrictions on animal experiment, but are going
farther and launching an attack on their opponents.
This has taken the form of applying, in several States, for
legislation compelling animal welfare organisations to
hand over, for experiment, stray animals brought to their
animal-pounds for humane care or destruction ; and in
some States such legislation has already been passed
and is now in force. This has had the eﬁect' of
shaking the confidence of ordinary people in the purpose
and integrity of such organisations ; and some voluntary
bodies have thought it better to close down rather than
become procurers of animals for experiment. Such a
Bill is now pending in the New York State Assembly, and
if passed will make it a misdemeanour to harbour a stray
animal without reporting to a designated authority within
24 hours.

In an attempt to offer a more temperate and con-

structive programme, a group of interested people—-
including Dr. Lee R. Dice, director of the institute of

 




 

 

human biology, and Dr. Robert Gesell, professor of
physiology, in the University of Michigan—have formed
a new Animal Welfare Institute (A.W.I.) to promote
the welfare of all animals and to reduce the total of fear
and pain inﬂicted on animals by man. Like our own
7 Universities Federation for Animal \Velfare (UFAW),

members of this body are not Opposed to animal experi-
ments but merely wish to ensure, as far as possible, that
the ultimate value of any such experiment justifies the
pain inﬂicted, that the feasibility of other, less painful,
methods is always considered, and that laboratory
animals are not subjected unnecessarily to fear, dis—
comfort, or loneliness. They are anxious to work, 'as
UFAW does, in cooperation with research-workers, but
they have been hampered at the outset by a demand
of the New York State Society for Medical Research
that they should “ unreservedly back ” an animal-pound
Bill of the type described. This, of course, the A.W.I.
are not able to do; for while it is one thing to accept
that stray animals brought to a public pound may
reasonably be used for research, it is quite another to
agree that a welfare society, formed to satisfy a different
purpose, and supported for that end by voluntary subscrip-
tions, should be diverted to uses which its sponsors
have not selected and of which they may strongly
disapprove.

The new institute is therefore being attacked both by
the antivivisectionists, because it does not condemn
animal experiments, and by " the research scientists,
because it does not approve their policy towards animal
welfare societies. This opposition to a middle course
seems as remarkable to us as the assertion in one of the
letters sent to the A.W.I., that “ the great majority of
experimental biologists and medical research investi-
gators do not want the counterpart of the laws and

The Lancet

regulations that the English have imposed, and are
entirely behind the Medical Research Pound Bill pending
in the New York State Assembly.” Every country
must work out its own ethic in cases like this; and
there is every reason to believe that individual research-
workers in America impose on themselves a code of
humane regard for animals every bit as stringent as that
accepted here. Regulations are designed not for well-
doers, however, but for the aberrant; and, mankind
being what it is, these are as likely to be found among
research scientists as any other group. Dispassionate
consideration of principles should convince our American
research colleagues that if they are going to insist on
freedom for themselves from restrictions imposed from
without they should, in common fairness, insist equally on
freedom from similar restrictions for the animal welfare
societies. For, after all, the broad aim of these societies
is identical with that of medicine—they are merely more
catholic in their choice of the animals they befriend.
Moreover, if American scientists cannot tolerate restric-
tions imposed from without they can counter antivivi-
sectionist propaganda in another way—by drawing up
their own code of humane behaviour and requir-
ing members of their scientiﬁc bodies to conform
to it.

Meanwhile those interested in the care of laboratory
animals will wish the newly founded Animal Welfare
Institute well ; and some may feel inclined to forward its
work by becoming members. The address of the institute
is 730, Fifth Avenue, New York, 19, N.Y., but Mrs.
Christine Stevens, the president, is at present over here,
staying at Grosvenor House, Park Lane, London, VVJ,
and would welcome inquiries.

August 2., 1952

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE LEGISLATION IN AMERICA

 

Tm: new Animal \Velfare Institute (A.\V.I.), lately

founded in the United States, is experiencing the unpopu- ,

larity usual among those who try to hold fairly to a middle
course. In setting out its position,1 however, it seems we
have not adequately ﬁlled in the background. Dr.
Herman E. Hilleboe, commissioner of health for the
State of New York, writes :

“ The Hateh-Metcalf Act, which is now Section 5-a of the
Public Health Law, does not ‘ make it a misdemeanour to
harbor a stray animal without reporting it to a designated
authority within twenty-four hours,’ nor was such punitive
action ever contemplated by the men who drafted the bill.

The only penalties are those which are designed to discourage
experiments upon animals without the approval of the State
Commissioner of Health. The Act outlines the restrictions
which are to be placed on the use of animals for experimental
purposes and requires the Commissioner of Health to prescribe
in detail and enforce the stipulated regulations.

“ I should like also to observe that this legislation which
contains ‘ restrictions imposed from without ' was requested
by research workers of the New York State Society for
Medical Research who actively sponsored the law. The
provisions of the law do indeed permit the requisitioning by
the Commissioner of unlicensed, unwanted or unclaimed
animals that are seized by municipalities or by legally desig-

6




nated private organizations. The bill also emphatically
declares that no animal, licensed or unlicensed, may be
requisitioned contrary to the wishes of the owner.”

Certainly the Act makes no attempt to penalise those
who harbour a stray animal without reporting it within
24 hours to the authorities; and we regret having
erroneously combined facts relating to New York legis-
lation and that of Illinois, where a Bill as ﬁrst proposed
did contain this clause.

The animal protection clauses in the llatch-Metcalf
Act to which Dr. llilleboe refers, are for the most part
not new: they very largely restate an Act which has
been on the statute-books of the State of New York for
ﬁve years. But they contain the important new provision
that violation of the law shall be a misdemeanour. The
Commissioner of Health is authorised to approve labora-
tories and institutions where experiments on living
animals may be conducted, and to prescribe the rules
under which such approval will be granted. These rules
will require that all such animals shall be kindly and
humanely treated, properly fed and suitably housed, and
that “ commensurate with experimental needs and with
the physiologic function under study " all experiments
causing pain shall be done under adequate anaesthesia.
The Act also provides that the State Commissioner or
his duly authorised representative shall inspect the
approved laboratories and institutions to ensure that the
rules are being kept. Any failure to keep them may lead
the Commissioner to revoke his approval; and in any
. ease approval will only be for a year at a time. A tenta-
tive “ plan of operation," which. Dr. llilleboe has sent
us suggests that laboratories and institutions will be
inspected annually, but that those using cats and dogs
will be inspected quarterly. It is clearly specified in the
plan that animals should be given sufﬁcient water and
whalesomc food, and kept in clean well-lighted and Well-
ventilated quarters maintained at a proper temperature 4,
and that quarters or cages should be large enough for the
animal to sit, stand, lie, and turn round with ease.

.The Act itself lays down that the rules shall be con-
spicuously posted in each laboratory and institution, so
they may themselves serve an educational purpose; but
their inﬂuence, of course, will really turn on the character
of the. head of the laboratory. Approval is granted tothe
laboratory in his name and is not transferable; and it is
revoked if he ceases to be in charge. If he is humane. all
should be well ; but it has to be borne in mind that some
Who have a genuine warmth for cats or dogs. or both,

AWI

ADVISERS HONORED

 

The Advisory Committee of the Animal

look on rats and mice much as they look on test-tubes.
Responsibility ultimately lies with the State Commis-
sioner of Health, but will be delegated by him to the
division of laboratories and research, and to the district
health otﬁeers, and sometimes to veterinarians, who will
be the actual inspectors. In Great Britain, of course, the
pattern is rather different, for responsibility lies with an
authority entirely outside the health services—the Home
Office—sand the inspectors are highly qualiﬁed and
carefully selected for their task.

The above provisions of the llatch-Metcalf Act, if
applied vigorously and sincerely, should serve their
purpose well ; but there is still the question of the source
of animals for experiment. Stray or unclaimed animals
brought not only to municipal pounds, but to the pounds
of private organisations, may be requisitioned for
laboratory use—though, only, it seems from those private
organisations which receive subsidies from municipal or
State funds. This is the 'aspect of the Act which the
A.VV.I. found it impossible to support, since private
animal welfare societies are formed to serve clearly
deﬁned purposes, and voluntary subscriptions are given
to them on the understanding that they will be spent
on those purposes. Some of the subscribers may dis-
approve entirely of animal experiment ; many others feel
an objection—possibly sentimental, but easy enough to
understand—to handing over an animal to those who
may cause it pain, in however good a cause. True, the
Act provides that licensed dogs surrendered to either
private organisations or municipalities may not be
requisitioned without the written consent of the owner ,2

and that other animals shall not be requisitioned if the

owner so requests in writing. Moreover it a lost animal is
requisitioned an extra three days’ grace is allowed to give
the owner a chance to claim it. Nevertheless the hard
fact remains that private societies are compelled by the
law to hand over animals whether or not they object in
principle. It may be argued, of course, that they areaat
liberty to forgo their municipal subsidies and maintain
their right of choice; and it is true that most of our
own humane societies would regard it as a bad principle
to become dependent in any way on an agency, such as a
State department, which had a vested interest in their
affairs. But a private organisation which is ﬁnancially
committed—which, before this crisis arose, had accepted
a municipal subsidy for building a pound, for instance—
may not be free to choose independence. We still think
the Hatch-Metcalf Act, good in so much, is marred by this
arrangement.

Welfare Institute comprises men who have

distinguished themselves in the biological sciences or in animal protective work.
Their caliberijsa source of pridetx>the Institute,zuuitheir knowledge and experience

7

 




make their advicxa extremely valuable in studying complex‘problems relating to the
welfare of laboratory animals.

Itijsa pleasure to report honors recently conferredcnithree Institute Advisers.
Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director of the Institute of Human Biology at the University of
Michigan,'was chosenikn'the presidencyrxfthe Ecological Society of America. Ecology,
which bathe scientific study of animals and plants in relation to’their environment,
is of major importance to sound animal protection. Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President of
the American Humane Education Society, the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, and the Angell Memorial Hospital, became President of the
American Humane Association. Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of Physiology
at the University of Michigan, was appointed Hon. Secretary for the United States of
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare of London, England. Dr. Gesell was also

selectedknrthe Research Club of the University of Michigan to give the annual Russel
Lecture.

 

ANIMAL.WELFARE_INSTITUTE

 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee'R. Dice, Director Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor Dr.‘Eric H. Hansen, President,
Institute of Human Biology, of Physiology, University of Massachusetts Society for the
University of Michigan. Michigan. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus David Ricardo, Secretary, British
Professor of Zoology arid Emeritus Columbia Society for the Prevention
Associate Dean of the Graduate of Cruelty to Animals.

School, University of Michigan.

 

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, Alfred B. Glancy, Jr., Estella Draper
President Vice-President Secretary

Roger L. Stevens Helen Hanzlick,
Treasurer Assistant Treasurer

I---,--_--------—-'---------------_---------------—

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUIE 730 Fifth Avenue New York 19, N. Y.

APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP (Non-Voting).
D ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP, ten dollars

Open tX) individuals and. organizations. This entitles the member to the full
publication and information services of the Institute, the regular [HﬁTlOdlcal
Reports and invitations to membership meetings.

I] CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP, two dollars _
Open to individuals only. This entitles the member to the regular periodical
Reports of the Institute.

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
750 Fifth Avenue New York 19, N.Y.

APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP

I am interested in the purpose and scope of the ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
and hereby apply for membership in the following category: (Please check one)

[3 $10. ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP (non-voting)

Open to individuals and organizations. This entitles the member to the
full publication and information services of the Institute, the regular
periodical Reports and invitations to membership meetings.

[3 $2. CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP (non-voting)

Open to individuals only. This entitles the member to the regular
periodical Reports of the Institute.

 

 

Name .......................

Aﬁdress ......................................................

 

Ci ty ............................. State .................................. -

 

"ANIMALS WORK FOR YOU ~— A. W. I. WORKS FOR THEM"

 




ANIMAL WELEAEE INSTITUTE

March - April. I957

REPRESENTATIVE OF L.A.B. AND A.T.A.
TO VISIT UNITED STATES

On April fourth the Animal Technicians Association
held-its seventh annual meeting in conjunction with the
Laboratory Animals Bureau Congress at the Royal (Dirk)
School of Veterinary Studies of the University of Edn-
burgh. The remarkable work of these two organization :,
the LAB and the ATA, has, within the space of a few
years, brought the care and handling of laboratory animals
in Great Britain to a level far surpassing that in any other
country in the world. American scientists who are dis-
satiﬁed with the care their experimental animals are re-
ceiving have written to the Animal Welfare Institute for
information on proven methods of selecting and training
animal room personnel, and this has been supplied insofar
as possible. However, the Institute has been unable to pro-
vide the ﬁrst-hand consultation with an experienced repre-
sentative of the LAB and the ATA which is called for
in many cases.

It is now a great pleasure to announce that the Medical
Research Council of Great Britain has very kindly given
a three months leave of absence to Mr. G. Porter of the
aboratory Animals Bureau so that he may come to the
United States.

Mr. Porter is expected to arrive in September and will
dividc 1;.s time between the Animal Welfare Institute, to
which he will give technical advice on its animal care
program and publications, and the scientiﬁc institutions in
various parts of the country which he will arrange to
visit. He is an eminently well qualiﬁed member of the
staff of the Laboratory Animals Bureau where he has served
for four years under Dr. W. Lane-Fetter, Director of the
Bureau and the President of the Animal Technicians Asso-
ciation. Prior to his work with the LAB, Mr. Porter was
Experimental Ofﬁcer at the Agricultural Research Council
in Aberdeen where he spent six years in charge of an
unusually wide variety of laboratory animals. He has
worked closely with the ATA, and has written several
Technical Notes for the LAB, as well as a chapter for the
forthcoming ”UFAW Handbook on the Care and Man-
agement of Laboratory Animals.”

UNIVERSITIES FEDERATION FOR
ANIMAL WELFARE PUBLISHES
A NEW EDITION OF

"The UFAW Handbook on the Care and
Management of Laboratory Animals”

The second edition of ”The UFAW Handbook on the
Care and Management of Laboratory Animals” is expected
to be ready for distribution early this summer. This greatly
enlarged edition is the most comprehensive text on the
subject ever to be published. Every laboratory which uses
experimental animals should have a copy. Quotations from
the reviews of the ﬁrst edition by the Journals of the
American Medical Association and the American ' Veter-
inary Medical Association are included in the leaﬂet en-
closed with this Information Report. A listing of the
74 chapters and an even larger number of distinguished
authors appears in the leaﬂet.

An order form is enclosed. Readers are urged to order
promptly to ensure delivery as soon as the books are re-
ceived from England.

22 EAST |7+l1 STREET. NEW YORK 3. N. Y.

Vol. 6 No. 2”

CONGRESSIONAL HEARING ON
HUMANE SLAUGHTER BILLS

Urging passage of compulsory humane slaughter legis-
lation, humane societies from all parts of the country
were represented at the hearing called on April 2 by the
Hon. W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the Sub-Com-
mittee on Livestock of the Committee on Agriculture of
the United States House of Representatives. Other groups
testifying in favor of compulsory legislation included the
Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of
North America, the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, and the National Farmers’ Union.

The AInimal Welfare Institute exhibited four of the
humane stunning instruments now on the market and
readily available to packers who wish to kill animals
humanely. It arranged the showing of Mr. Arthur Red-
man’s sound ﬁlm which documents with devastating
clarity the cruel method of slaughtering hogs used by the
great majority of this country’s packing plants today.
Written testimony was also submitted by the Institute, extra
copies of which may be obtained by writing to its ofﬁce.

In order to make ﬁrst-hand observations on humane
and inhumane slaughtering methods, the sub-committee
made a series of slaughterhouse inspections. The hearings
have provided an additional body of information. Human-
itarians throughout the nation are anxiously hoping that
it will recommend enactment of one of the seven com-
pulsory humane slaughter bills which have been introduced

this year.

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS USED TO
ATTRACT CHILDREN TO SCIENCE

If it were the purpose of educators to develop callous—
ness in the coming generation, to train y0ung people to
inﬂict suﬂ‘ering without a\qualm and to stiﬂe the normal
human feelings of kindliness and pity for small, helpless
animals, no better way could be chosen than that described
in a New York Timer article of February 28th as a means
of ”attracting” high school students to science. The article
begins by stating: "Viiu Viljur, 16 years old, trembled as
she held the squirming white mouse in her left hand. In
the other hand she held a hypodermic needle. It had
looked easy when Dr. Norman Molumut, director of the
Waldemar Medical Research Foundation, had explained
the technique to the class. But the mouse was not co-
operating. It snapped at the hand holding it. Viiu gritted
her teeth and tried again. She jabbed the needle, contain. '
ing cancerous tissues, into the mouse.” It further states
that the boys and girls are conducting experiments "to see
whether mice made cancerous through injections will trans-
mit cancer to their offspring.”

Such experiments are a simpliﬁed repetition of experi-
ments which have already been frequently repeated. For
children to repeat again such unnecessary animal suffering
is not only unjustiﬁed, it is profoundly immoral. It should
not be tolerated—except by those who want to turn back
the progress of our civilization and encourage the growth
of cruelty.

 




 

A MAJOR ADVANCE IN CAGE DESIGN

Reprinted with the kind permission of the Animal Tech-
nicians Association Journal, the following article describes

one of the few intelligent advances ever made in cage
design and construction. It gives details on a metabolism
cage which measures 6’7” x @6143” x 4’ and which pro-
vides a comfortable resting place for the dog. The cage
should be adopted by. progressive laboratories everywhere.
In the United States, the major cage manufacturers are
prepared to make cages to order in any amount.

Mr. Worden has also designed a metabolism cage for
cats on the same principles as the dog cage, except that he
has placed two rests in the cage 16” from the ﬂoor because
it has been shown that cats acclimate themselves to a cage
more rapidly if they have a resting place well above the
ﬂoor. The internal dimensions of the cat metabolism cage
are 42” x 32” x 36” high. The construction is similar to
the dog cage illustrated in the following article, except
that it is lighter.

Reprinted from the A.T.A. journal,
Vol. VII, No. 3, 1956

A Metabolism Cage for Use With Dogs
of Varying Sizes

By A. N. WORDEN, Nutritional Research Unit,
Huntingdon, & C. E. WATERHOUSE Research
Laboratories, Bob Martin Ltd, Southport.

ETABOLISM cages for use with dogs are of many

and varied designs, but for periods of collection
lasting for 5 days or longer, few of those in common use
would appear to provide adequate environmental condi-
tions for the comfort and optional performance of the
animals. Even over short-term collection periods, urinary
retention may occur (Worden, 1939) and some American
workers appear to have practised regular catheterisation in
order to secure representative samples (e.g., Murlin, Hayes
and Johnson, 1953). Such procedures can scarcely be re-
garded as satisfactory for studies designed to investigate
the normal dog.

In the course of our own studies, we found that a
relatively large metabolism cage (of ﬂoor area approx-
imately 3ft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in. and interior height 3ft.)
while suitable for use over periods of 5-12 days with dogs
of several breeds varying in bodyweight from 20 to 42
1b., was clearly inadequate for animals of the 65-75 1b.
class. These larger dogs were obviously ill-at-ease, uncom-
fortable (despite the provision of an adequate ledge for
rest) and passed irregular urine samples, the chemical
composition of which reﬂected some metabolic disturbance.
This disturbance was comparable with that found in dogs
such as certain spaniels that are temperamentally unsuited
to this type of work, despite the use of a cage of adequate
size (Worden, Waterhouse 8: Partington, 1952).

Environmental temperature may inﬂuence several factors
operative in metabolism trials. Thus, in some of our recent
studies, We found that an increase in environmental tem-
perature of the order of 20°F. decreased the 24 hr. urine
output to between one-half and one-third of its original
volume.

In studying the urinary excretion of riboﬂavin, we found
that the daily excretion was about 75% greater at the

 

20°F. higher environmental temperatures (Worden & W3-
terhouse, 1955). Tarbin (1955) has shown that at higher
environmental temperature dogs consume larger volumes
of water daily, although this is achieved by taking more
drinks daily rather than by any change in the amount of
water taken at each drink. Indeed, a given dog appears
to favour a characteristic size of drink that is not markedly
affected by the total water or food intake. Thus, while
for many types of metabolism trial it is permissible to offer
the food as only one or two meals daily, a suitable water
intake may be effected only through the process of a con-
tinuous supply or, when the total has to be restricted, as
several drinks each of the size favoured by the individual
dog.

With these considerations in mind, a metabolism cage,
suitable for use even with large dogs, has been designed,
and is depicted in Figs. 1, 2, and 3.

® I. 3.
M

 

 

 

 

 

3' 0'

I
MESH "ED 30!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The main features of the cage and the materials from
which it is constructed should be clear frOm these illus-
trations, but attention is drawn to the following points:——-—

Trolley

The trolley consists of a metal frame on which is
mounted, on three sides, tubular heaters, controlled by a
simmerstat which can be set to provide an even and con-
trolled environmental temperature within the cage. After
withdrawal of the trolley the collecting funnel together
with the lower mesh which rests in it may be withdrawn
in order to facilitate collection of the faeces sample and
for cleaning purposes.

Balance and Weighing Platform

The Salter balance is maintained permanently in position
as shown, but the weighing platform, the surface of which
is covered with a corrugated rubber sheet, is attached only
when the dog has to be weighed. Experience to date
indicates that quite large dogs up to at least 80 lbs. body-
weight can be trained to sit quietly on this platform while
being weighed.

F eed box

The sliding door may be adjusted and ﬁxed so as to
give the proper degree of access to the feed‘box for the
dog under study. At other than feeding times the door
is kept shut. The construction of the box itself is such
that spilling cannot readily occur and accessibility by
vermin is prevented.

 




Rest Shelf

This is of sufﬁcient dimensions to permit even a large
dog to lie fully stretched upon it, and it slopes very slight-
ly from back to front so that in the event of any urine
being voided on or above it this will run forward and
through the upper mesh forming the floor of the cage.
In practice, urine has not been voided, on or above the
shelf, but tests with small volumes of water have indicated
that it runs quite freely off the shelf and through the
mesh ﬂoor.

Maximum and Minimum Thermometer

This is suspended, facing inwards, within a metal con-
tainer, just visible in Fig. 2 on the gauze above the
Perspex on the right-hand side of the cage as viewed
from the front. It is out of reach of the dog.

Collection Vessel

This is not shown in the illustrations, but in practice is
protected by a wire mesh so as to prevent access by vermin
and also accidental displacement.

Water Holder

This too is not shown in the accompanying illustra—
tions, but consists of a detachable, graduated aluminum
vessel which fits within a ring at the front right-hand side
of the cage. In practice this water has not been contam-
inated nor does the arrangement interfere with the normal
passage of urine. '

This cage has thus far given excellent results, and dogs
of the larger breeds may be housed within it in comfort
for periods of 5 days and longer. Such animals pass
normal volumes of urine daily, and do not give any indi~
cation of psychological or physiological disturbance as they
had done in a cage of internal dimensions 60in. x 40in. x
33in. and similarly fitted with a rest shelf.

 

 

Fig. 2

 

 

 

HI‘N l'

 

Ill

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I
I
I
cannon w mamas
IIIIIQIS '
| .
I
I
I
I
I
HIS" : mum PER‘PEX PERSPEX PERSPEXx PERSPIX SHELF
«com [ . s’u‘x3’e' _._J.._..
n ““““““
f '
. I
I
' / I
run no: “""—
IDS

 

 

 

   
 
  

 

  
 

FIN! MEIR HEAVY HE."

 

 

 

i" ‘"
SCALE 1' - Voo'
1, ° 6'7. —%
Fig. 3
Acknowledgments

We should like to acknowledge the assistance of Mr.
R. N. Jackson and Mr. F. Sim of Bob Martin Limited
who carried out the constructional work on the cage and

who also made valuable suggestions in connection with
its design.

References

Murlin, J. R., Hayes, A. D., Johnson, K. (1953). Cor-
relation between the biological value of protein and the per-
centage of creatinine in the urine. J. Nutr., 51. 149-161.

Tarbin, B. J., (1955). Thirst and hunger behaviour in
normal dogs and the effects of vagotomy and sympathec-
tomy. Amer. ]. Physiol, 182. 377-382.

Worden, A. N., (1939). A note on some experiments
involving the collection of 24-hour samples of dog urine.
Vet. Rea, 51. 271.

Worden, A. N., Waterhouse, C. E., (1955). The effect
of environmental temperature on the urinary excretion of
riboﬂavin by the dog. Brit. ]. Nutrit.., 9. 5-10.

\Y/orden, A. N., Waterhouse C. E., Partington, H.,
(1952). The urinary excretion of vitamin B1, riboﬂavin
and nicotinic acid by the dog. Vet. Rea, 64. 836-840.

IRANIAN GOVERNMENT NAMES
HUMANE SLAUGHTER EXPERT

The Iranian Government has taken a praiseworthy action
in appointing Dr. M. J. M. Houthuis as slaughterhouse
expert to advise and assist the Government on all matters
regarding the reorganization of slaughterhouse affairs and
the construction of slaughterhouses. There can be little
doubt that under the direction of Dr. Houthuis the slaugh-
terhouses of Iran will soon be killing animals more
humanely than most American slaughterhouses do at
present.

Prior to his new appointment, Dr. Houthuis was Di-
rector of the exceptionally well-operated Public Slaughter-
house of Rotterdam, Netherlands, where all animals are
humanely stunned prior to slaughter.

 




NEW FINDINGS ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF EXERCISE FOR EXPERIMENTAL MICE

Persons who still believe that any kind of a cage is
good enough for an experimental animal are urged to
consider the study being carried out in the Netherlands
Cancer Institute on the effects of environment on the
incidence of mammary cancer in mice. Quotations from
a paper on this subject by Dr. 0. Muhlbock are reprinted
below with his permission. The paper was ﬁrst published
in Acta Unio Internationalis-Contra Cancrum (1951, No.
2, P. 351-53).

It is noteworthy that by far the highest incidence of
the disease occurred when animals were kept in solitary
conﬁnement without opportunity for adequate exercise.
Animals kept in large groups in large cages or provided
with exercise wheels showed a much lower incidence.
Exact ﬁgures are given in the tables below.

Two important principles of animal welfare are involved
in Conclusions which may be drawn from these experi-
ments. First, the provision of quarters which allow for
adequate exercise are essential to sound animal husbandry.
Second, in painful experiments (such as many cancer ex-
periments are) no animals should be needlessly used.
Since differences in type of housing can result in differ-
ences-of more than 100% in the incidence of cancer, it is
clearly essential from the humane standpoint, and also
from the standpoint of scientiﬁc accuracy, to stop using
cages which are too small and to substitute comfortable,
roomy accommodation designed to ﬁt the needs of the
animals housed. By reducing mortality caused by unsuit-
able housing, many animals would be spared needless suf-
fering which, so far from advancing scientiﬁc knowledge,
can only serve to confuse and retard it.

Inﬂuence of Environment on the Incidence
of Mammary Tumors in Mice
by 0. Malalboc/e, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam

It is known that a variety of factors inﬂuence the inci—
dence of mammary cancer in mice. A group of factors
which has been examined more closely of late, the environ-
mental factors, includes inﬂuences such as temperature,
light, diet, etc. These factors have been shown to inﬂuence
the occurrence of mammary tumors to a surprisingly high
degree, though little of their mechanism of action is known.
Some years ago ANDERVONT (1) showed that the in-
cidence of mammary tumors in segregated CSH mice was
higher than in non-segregated mice. STRONG (2) made
similar observations.

To test the inﬂuence of crowding, isolation and activity
on the mammary tumor incidence experiments were carried
out on virgin females of the dilute-brown strain. Litter-
mates were distributed at weaning age over four types
of cages:

1. A zinc cage containing 50 animals, 37 x 47 x 20 cm.

2. A similar cage, sub-divided into ten sections by means

of partitions, each of which contained ﬁve animals.

dba it;

3. A glass jar containing five animals, 12 x 17 x 15 cm.
4. A round pot containing one animal, with a diameter

of 10 cm. .

TABLE 1 shows the following results: 90-100 ani-
mals per group were examined. The incidence was only
29% in the cage containing 50 animals. In the second
(partitioned) cage the incidence was almost twice as high;
56%. This difference is signiﬁcant. In the glass jar con-
taining 5 animals, the incidence was 67%, whilst it was
highest in the separated animals of the last group: 83%.

The average tumor age did not show any differences.

Thus by placing various numbers of animals in a cage
the mammary tumor-incidence is altered.

TABLE I

Memmery-tumor-incidence in 4 different cages
Non-
Average tumor

Nr. ‘Z, ma.-ca. tumor age age

29% i4.8 17 m. 17m.

 

50 animals in a cage 91
same cage divided

in 10 sections 90 56% + 5.2 16m. 18 m.
5 animals in a cage 103 67% £46 16m. 17 m.

1 animal in a cage 99 84% i3] 16 m. 18 m.

There are various possible causes for this marked dif~
ference in tumor percentage. As far as possible, all other
factors were the same in those experiments. It is known
that the amount of food is of great importance. Although
food was given ad libitum, the possibility is not excluded
that the animals kept in larger groups consumed less food;
this was found to be the case by SHIMKIN and GRADY
in CSH males (3).

A second factor may be the extent to which activities
are possible in the cages; the animals in the larger cages
could move much easier than those in the smaller cages.
In the second experiment the inﬂuence of bodily activity
on the incidence of mammary tumors was examined. Five
littermates of dba females were kept in a cage as described
in group 3 of the ﬁrst experiment. Wheels were placed
in the cages. The animals used the wheels ambitiously, as
shown by measurements (they walked several kilometers
per night per group).

TABLE 2
Inﬂuence of activity on mammary-tumor-incidenee

Littermates Average Non-tumor

% me.-ce. tumor age age

43% _—_l—_ 5 16 m. 18 m.
67% i4.6 16 m. 17 m.

 

with wheel 98
without 1 03

TABLE 2 shows the inﬂuence on the incidence of mam-
mary tumors. 100 animals per group were examined. The
incidence in the group with wheels was 43%, in the con-
trol group it was 67%. Activity was therefore shown to
have an inhibiting effect upon the incidence of mammary
tumors. Again there were no difference in average tumor
age. There was no marked difference in the general ap-
pearance of the animals, nor in weight.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg

Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens,

Alfred R. Glan , 1'.
President cy J

Vice-President

Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer
Mary M. Richards,

Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary

 




um I II II II

 

 

November-December I963

LABORATORY ANIMAL CONSULTANT

Beginning January ﬁrst, Thomas L. Kind will join the
staff of the Animal Welfare Institute working on a special
projeCt on laboratory animal welfare which will include
preparation of a ﬁlm on care and housing for distribution
at cosr to laboratories throughout the country.

Mr. Kind will visit laboratories, bringing with him
praCtical information on the handling and treatment of
animals, and assembling material for publications to sup-
plement the existing AWI manuals, "Basic Care of Ex-
perimental Animals” and "Comfortable Quarters for La-
boratory Animals.” New, humane techniques will receive
special attention.

Mr. Kind was educated in London and spent several
years on the Veterinary Staff of the London Zoo, where
experience with the large variety of animals gave him a
broad background on the care of different species. Mr.
and Mrs. Kind ﬁrst met through her research on otters, a
project which followed her study on the ecology of the
wild rabbit for the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
The Kinds have two young sons.

In 1955, the Kinds came to the United States to man-
age a wildlife sanctuary which was, unfortunately, de-
srroyed by freeway construction. Mr. Kind then joined
the staff of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County,
Ann Arbor, Mich., where he is now Executive Director.

Because of the wide experience he has had in the
management of all types of animals, Mr. Kind’s advice
will be of unusual value to scientiﬁc insritutions. He is
prepared to travel to all parts of the country, and there is
no fee for consultation. A limited number of reference
books will also be available free through Mr. Kind to
laboratories whose budgets for such purchases are in-
adequate.

The AWI is indebted to a generous donor who has
made possible these valuable new services.

Insritutions wishing Mr. Kind to advise them on the
care, treatment and housing of their animals after the
New Year should write now to the New York office of
the AWI, suggesting a date when they would like to have
him come.

SCHWEITZER AWARD TO
ANN COTTRELL FREE

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist well known
for her humane writing, has been named the Schweitzer
Medalist for 1963. The ninth annual Albert Schweitzer
Award of the Animal Welfare Institute will be presented
to Mrs. Free at the Institute’s annual meeting, December
16th, by Dr. Fairﬁeld Osborn, world leader in conserva-
tion, Director of the Conservation Foundation, President
of the New York Zoological Society, and author of ”Our
Plundered Planet” and many other books and articles.

Mrs. Free’s effective efforts on behalf of the test beagles
of the Food and Drug Administration, caged for two to
seven years in windowless sub-basements not far from the
Nation’s Capitol, are familiar to readers of the Informa-
tion Report. It was she who ﬁrst learned of the existence
of the subterranean dog rooms. The new kennel-runways
(Vol. 12, No. 3) are now complete, and if all goes well,
at least some of the dogs will have been moved from
their grim conﬁnement into the light and airy quarters
at Beltsville before December 16th.

”Forever the Wild Mare”, a new book by Mrs. Free,
has juSt been published by Dodd, Mead and Company,

22 EAST l7+h STREET. NEW YORK. N. Y. l0003

Vol. l2 No. 5

New York. The Story of the adventures of a fourteen-
year-old boy, a Przewalski horse, a Scottish Major, a
Buddhist lama and a United States Senator, to name a few
of the main characters, it follows a ﬁne tradition of boy-
hood adventure stories in American literature, and it bOth
symbolizes and explicitly emphasizes respect for nature
and the rights of living creatures. “Forever the Wild
Mare” won this year’s Dodd, Mead Boy’s Life Writing
Award.

Mrs. Free was the author of a series of articles released
this summer by the North American Newspaper Alliance
on current conditions for animals in laboratories and legis-
lation proposed to correct inﬂiction of needless suffering
on them. Her many other articles on humane subjects
include reports on humane slaughter, peSticides, and wild-
life. Mrs. Free, who lives in Washington, is the wife
of Washington correspondent James Free, and mother of
eight-year-old Elissa.

 

EDITORIAL FROM “THE CHRISTIAN
CENTURY”, OCTOBER 2, 1963

Laws for Humane Treatment
of Animals Proposed

"A BILL to provide for the humane treatment of ver-
tebrate animals used in experiments and tests by recipients
of grants from the United States and by agencies and
instrumentalities of the United States Government and for
other purposes.” So reads the preamble to identical bills
sponsored by Senators Joseph S. Clark, Maurine Neuberger
and Stephen Young and by Representative Thomas L.
Ashley. A careful reading of S. 533 and H. R. 5430
makes one wonder why any humane person would object
to their passage. Opponents of the bills are not necessarily
cruel; they simply do not want to be bothered with estab-
lishment of standards and regulations that would make
humaneness in the use of animals obligatory. But it is an
open fact that the absence of standards, regulations, and
powers to penalize offenders leads to neglect and some-
times ‘to willful cruelty in the use of animals for experi-
mental purposes. A member of the faculty of the Oregon
Medical School told Senator Maurine Neuberger that "no
good research can be carried on on an animal that is not
well treated.” ”Well, then,” said Senator Neuberger, "you
surely would not mind legislation which just guarantees
that treatment.” But the opponents of the humane treat-
ment bills do mind. They don’t want government inter-
ference with their freedom to treat animals as they please,
even though neglect and cruelty result. They want the
freedom to play God in deciding for themselves how and
when and in what way they will use vertebrate animals for
experimentation. That kind of freedom does not belong
to them, and a society of responsible men has no right to
grant such freedom. Care and consideration are owed to
animals, especially when they are being used for man’s
beneﬁt. Beyond that the nation owes to itself not only the
prevention of cruelty to animals but also the cultivation of
a civilization in which brutality, whatever its object, is
eliminated. S. 533 and HR. 5430 would not eliminate the
use of animals for scientiﬁc experimentation; they w0uld
merely put such experimentation under regulations which
would encourage decency in men and humaneness toward
the whole animal kingdom.

 

 

 

 




JUNIOR ANIMAL TECHNICIANS
COURSE

At the November 13th session of the course being
conduCted by the National Capital Area Branch of the
Animal Care Panel for Junior Animal Technicians in
the area, held at Howard University Medical School,
Washington, DC, Dr. Jules Cass, Chief, Research in
Laboratory Animal Medicine and Care of the Veterans
Administration, discussed the reasons for and the plan-
ning of animal experiments with the Technicians, draw-
ing upon their varied experience and knowledge in de-
veloping their understanding of the scientiﬁc method.
Dr. Cass asked the President of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute to speak about "The Principles of Humane Ex-
perimental Technique” by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch
(Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, Ill., 1959). This talk is
printed below.

The Three R's

“Dr. Cass has asked me to talk with you about the
book, ‘The Principles. of Humane Experimental Technique,’
to whose preparation we in the Animal Welfare Institute
contributed in various ways because we believe the sub-
jeCt is so very important. Dr. Russell and Mr. Burch are
the authors, and they divided the main body of the book
into three parts that they are called 'the three R’s’. Just
as reading, writing and arithmetic are basic to all further
learning, so Replacement, Reduction and Refinement are
basic to the humane planning of biological experiments
which may involve animals.

"All of you know that it is a big job to take good care
of animals. They must be kept clean and well-fed, fresh
water must be constantly before them, they must have a
comfortable place to rest and sleep, and if they become dis-
eased or injured they need special attention and care. It is
a big job just to keep an eye on every one of the animals in
your charge, checking to see that they all are eating nor-
mally, examining any that show signs of ill health—a
ruffled coat, a hunched position, running eyes or noses,
unusual scratching or biting, unaccustomed quietness, a
peculiar gait or stance or manner of holding the head. As
you all know these are just a few of the signs that
something is wrong and that you need to draw it to the
attention of the veterinarian or of the research worker
whose animals they are.

"Vertebrate animals—mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits,
dogs, cats, monkers and others—are subject to the same
sort of ills that we are, and while this is one of the rea-
sons they are valuable for research, it is also one of the
reasons why they present serious problems in research,
for when they are ill, uncomfortable, frightened, or even
just anxious, their response to the experimental procedure
may be abnormal, and the experimental results may be-
come confused, and sometimes completely wrong. I re-

member hearing a veterinarian at one of the national

Animal Care Panel meetings report on a product manu-
factured by his company which had been shelved because
the dogs on whom it had been tested had died. Every-
body thought it was highly toxic. Two years later it was
tried on a new group of dogs—healthy dogs this time,
kept in good quarters—and it turned out nor to be toxic
at all! Rechecking of the old results revealed that the
.- dogs had died of distemper. That is a simple, straight-
forward example, but sometimes the results may be much

more seriously misleading. Research often builds on past .

research, and any 'link’ in a chain of experiments may

prove the old saying that no chain is, stronger than its I
weakest link. Every experiment, if it is worth doing at .
all, should be done right, and that means that where ani- .

 

 

mals are used they must be in top condition and given
the very beSt care and most comfortable quarters pos-

sible.

"To return to our three R’s and particularly to the
ﬁrst one, ‘Replacement’, it is obvious that whenever it
is possible to dispense with the use of vertebrate animals
for any experiment or test, it is humane, scientifically
sound and economically reasonable to do so. For example,
all vitamins used to be tested on chicks, rats or other
vertebrates. Today bacteria are regularly used for some of
these tests, and by their very nature a colony of baCteria
is much more uniform than any colony of rats could
be. Moreover, vaSt numbers of bacteria can be maintained
on one little plate of agar jelly, so all the effort involved
in maintaining a rat colony and all the space it takes are
eliminated at one stroke. Similarly, tissue cultures have
offered a fertile field for research and testing. Their use
led to the discovery of the ECHO viruses and the adeno-
viruses—both well known to the readers of newspapers.
As Dr. F. K. Sanders states in this connection, ‘the animal
virologiSt has great cause to rejoice at his liberation from
the hazards and uncertainties of animal experiment’
through the use of tissue culture. ‘The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique’ also discusses the uses
of chemical tests and of micro-organisms and tissue cul-
ture in relation to toxicity testing, carcinology, chemo-
therapy, pharmacology and bioassay.

"Then it turns to the second 'R’: Reduction. Reduction
here applies to experiments and tests which require the use
of animals. The aim—and this is of particular importance
if the procedure is painful or otherwise distressing to the
animals—is to use just as few animals as possible. Even if
the test is not painful, it is desirable to keep animal num-
bers as low as possible in the interests of control of disease
and the provision of adequate space for each individual. I
am sure you already know that overcrowding makes good
animal husbandry virtually impossible. Disease can sweep
an overcrowded animal room and destroy the basically
Stable conditions upon which most research depends. Even
if the animals do nor come down with an infectious
disease, experiments have shown that overcrowding in
itself has an adverse effect so that in a given test, over-
crowded animals will show a far wider variation in re-
sponses to the same dose of the same drug than do animals
kept in reasonably comfortable and roomy quarters.

"AnOther important reason to keep the numbers of
laboratory animals within bounds is to allow you to care
for them as individuals. There is still much to be learned
about the effect you may have—for good or ill—on experi-
ments through the kindness (or lack of it) and care you
give the animals in your charge but it it known that an
individual animal technician can keep mortality in his
colony low and that his absence may result in an increased
death rate. Here is a real test of your skill and under—
standing. And to do a ﬁrst—rate job you musr nOt rush,
slamming cage doors, tossing animals around or mistreat-
ing them in Other ways, that I have seen in some labora-
tories. Such practices, like overcrowding, have an adverse
eﬁ‘eCt on the animals and an adverse effect on the research
which is the purpose of the animals being in the laboratory.

"Thus, the second ‘R’, Reduction, helps improve scien-
tiﬁc accuracy as it increases humane treatment of animals.
The careful, personal attention of each animal technician
or handler for his charges, each important as an individual,
is possible when numbers are nor too great. Each of you
has the role in the laboratory that nurses have in human
hospitals, for you carry out the routines prescibed by the
doctor and keep the patients as comfortable and contented
as possible. Just as good nursing can make the difference

between continued illness or a return ‘to health in a human

 




patient, so your considerate care can do the same with
animals undergoing tests or treatments.

"The laSt of the three 'R’s’, Reﬁnement, is closely re-
lated to this faCt. It is the scientist’s way of making an
experiment as humane—as painless and undistressing for
the animals—as he possibly can. He may have to think
hard in order to ﬁnd a means of obtaining the information
he seeks without causing unnecessary suffering. For ex-
ample, if you asked a layman if he thought it would be
necessary to inﬂict pain on an animal in order to test the
potency of a pain-relieving drug, he would be likely to
say yes. A good pharmacologist, however, will point out
why this is not so. He could show you various tests for
analgesics far more accurate than a crude inﬂicrion of
pain; for example, the moment at which a guinea pig
injected with a particular analgesic ﬂicks his skin as a
point of light focused on his shaved back becomes in-
creasingly warm, or the point at which a rat lifts his tail
from a surface which becomes increasingly warm, or the
point at which he leaves that surface to sit in a cooler
spor. Such tests, when standardized, give comparative
porencies so the experimenter knows whether his test
substance is more or less effeCtive than, for example,

"Research men who devise new humane methods de-

serve the very greatest credit and respect. To use crude and
needlessly painful methods is not the mark of a good

scientist. To quote 'T he Principles of Humane Experi-
mental Technique’ again: ‘Violence is the last refuge of
the incompetent.’

“Your cooperation in the reﬁnement of technique can
be important, and your presence in the animal room and

prompt reporting of changes in the condition of individual

animals or groups of animals can be of great value to the
busy experimenter who does not have the animals under
his eye at all times. It is you who can let him know if an
animal appears to be suffering and is in need of a seda-
tive, a tranquilizer, or an analgesic—or, if the animal is
very badly off, of euthanasia, a vital humane duty in the
laboratory.

”A painless death is the right of animals in the labora-
tory, and it should be administered to any suffering animal
just as soon as you are directed or allowed by the research
worker to do so. As Dr. Carrier said when he spoke to the
National Animal Care Panel here in Washington a few
years ago, ‘We won’t allow them to die in agony.’ It was

thus that he summarized the British Act which has hu—
manely regulated animal experiments in Britain for the

pasr 87 years. Dr. Carrier was the Chief Inspector for the
Home Office for 14 years, so he knew whereof he spoke.

‘ "In conclusion, I would like to emphasize how important
the Animal Welfare Institute considers your work to be.
Your observations can be as valuable to the research
worker as the nurse’s report to the physician, and your
easing of pain or of fear should be such as you would
like yourself to receive at the hands of the nurse if you
were hospitalized. ’

“Many of you may be familiar with the manual pre-
pared by the Animal Welfare Institute and available free
on request to all animal technicians and handlers. If you
wish to have a copy, you may obtain one by writing your
name and address on this paper. Unlike the book I have
been discussing, 'Basic Care of Experimental Animals’ is
entirely composed of practical information on the care
of animals, and I am conﬁdent that you will ﬁnd it useful.”

SIXTH PRINTING FOR
“FIRST AID AND CARE OF
SMALL ANIMALS”

In response to the continuing demand by teachers for
the Institute’s manual "FirSt Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” which was ﬁrst published in 1955 for use in
primary and secondary schools, this publication has just
gone into its sixth printing. It is provided without charge
upon request to teachers, scout leaders, librarians and
others who work with children; additional copies may
be purchased at cost, 35¢.

"First Aid and Care of Small Animals” is a concise and
readable 48-page booklet, with 23 phorographs, many of
which were taken by the author, Ernest P. Walker, former
Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in
Washington, DC. who is now completing a monumental
three-volume work on the mammals of the world.

The Institute’s Other publication for school use-—
“Humane Biology Projects”———also continues to be avail-
able without charge to biology teachers, superintendents,
librarians, etc. Prepared especially for high school use,
this is a 44-page illustrated manual containing over 100
experiments and demonstrations for teaching and help-
ing students with their Science Fair projects. It was pre-
pared by the Institute with the assistance of research
scientists and educators and designed to aid the teacher
in developing in his students original thinking, pains-
taking observation, understanding of scientiﬁc procedures
and respect for the rights and feelings of all forms of life
which possess sensibility. '

THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1963.

 

 

HUNT CONTINUES
FOR CANCER DRUG

Chemicals Tested in Last 10
Years Fall Short of Coal

 

 

By ROBERT C. TOTH
Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, Oct. 12—Ten
Years ago, at the height of the
wonder-drug breakthroughs, the
Government embarked on a.
search for a. chemical to cure
cancer.

It has been a massive effort
~as close to a. medical “crash
Program” as yet seen. ,It has
ggzt $234,500,441 so far, but has

n unsuccessful ’ ' '
goal. 111 its primary

The search has helped de-
velop new knowledge about can-

drug that is dramatically better
than those available before the
tients, but it has found no new
program began.

More than 27,000 Americans
have had one or another of the
poisonous, but promising, chem-
icals dripped into their veins in
hopes that the substances would
kill cancer cells faster than
they killed healthy tissue.

More than 170,000 chemicals,
from antibiotic “beers" to syn-
thetic war-gas derivatives, have
been screened at scores of med-
ical institutions and drug com—
pany laboratories, Most were in-
jected into animals with tumors.
One year more than 1,000,000
mice wereused in the tests. ‘

The program, directed by the
National Cancer Institute, has
been derided as a “shotgun” ap-
proach—one that puts the cart
before the horse by searching
for a. cure before knowing the
cause.

It has also been called “Con-

 

cer, and helped prolong the life gressional medicine."

and ease the suffering of pa-

lcancer experts did not want the
program at first, fearing that
lthe “engineered, developed pro-
lgram" that Congress was push-
ling was neither feasible nor
desirable. ,

An expert committee set up
by the institute at the direction
of Congress in 1953 explored the
possibility of such a program,
but recommended against it.

Congress then got the insti-
tute to form a second commit-
tee, this one headed by a chemo-
therapy champion, Dr, Sidney
Farber of Boston's Children's
Hospital. It found in favor of a
program. i
The budget for the program
has risen steadily.. It is now
$44 million, including about $12
million for grants outside the
program but related to chemo-
therapy. , ’

“We have certainﬁy not found
a. cure for caanr,” said Dr.
Kenneth M. Endicott director
of the institute and first chief
of the chemotherapy program.

which are somewhat better than
those known before the pro-
gram began but none are dra-
matically better," he said. “They
prolong the patient’s life some-
what and make him more com-
fortable, but that’s all."

Two types of cancer have
reacted favorably to chemical
agents: acute leukemia, for
which about a half~dozen chem-
icals help to prolong life, and
choriocarcinome, a very rare
uterine cancer. One chemical
has made the latter disease dis-
appear for at least five years
in about 15 women.,

Half of these chemicals, how-
ever, were known before the
program began, and the newer
ones are not much, if at all,
better than the older ones.

59 New Substances Found

All told, 138 of the 170,000
screened compounds have been
tested in patients; and 59
“new” substances have emerged.
Of these, 10 have been found

 

 

Most Government and private

“We have a dozen chemicals

to have as good or slightly

 

better antitumor properties
than previously known sub-
stances, according to Dr. T.
Phillip Waalkes, associate di-
rector of the institute for col-
laborative research.

In addition, two steroid der-
ivatives have been found that
are as good as the naturally

occurring testosterone for
breast cancer, Dr. Waalkes
said.

The basic probiem remains:
There is no drug that cures any
of the 20 to 30 common types of
cancer in man, nor any that is
always effective against any one
of the 70 or more rarer cancers.

This makes it very difficult
to devise a laboratory test cer-
tain of detecting a chemical that
might be effective against hu-

4 man cancer.

In 1955 scientists decided on a
test using the tumors in three
types of mice. This “screen”
had a 90 per cent chance of
detecting the chemicals then
known to be active in some way
against tumors.

 

 

Copyright 1963 by The N ew York Times C 0171/7any. Reprinted by

permission.

 




SHOOTING DEER WITH BOW AND
ARROW OUTLAWED IN BRITAIN

The Deer ACt, 1963, came into effect in Great Britain
November lst. Of particular signiﬁcance among its pro-
visions is the outlawing of bow and arrow shooting which
had previously been permitted in Britain, as it is in our
country. A special listing Of prohibited ﬁrearms and am-
munition is also provided under the Act. This should
prevent the use of inadequate weapons capable of wound-
ing but nor of killing a deer, a vitally important humane
requirement.

Close seasons and other conservation matters are also
dealt with in the new Act, which prohibits night shooting
and shOOting from vehicles. It provides a penalty of twenty
pounds for the ﬁrst offense and ﬁfty pounds or three
months in jail for a subsequent offense.

The Deer Bill was promoted jointly by UFAW (The
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare) and the
British Field Sports Society, with the active support Of the
National Farmers’ Union, Country Land-Owners’ Associa-
tion, Fauna Preservation Society, Council for Nature, For-
estry Commission, Nature Conservancy, and British Deer
Society. The London Gun-makers Association gave tech-
nical assistance.

In order to understand the importance of outlawing
bow and arrow hunting, two quotations from experienced
sources follow:

"If there is any sure way to kill a deer instantly with
a bow I—l—and a great many other archers—would
certainly like to know about it. It would prevent
untold suffering each fall . . . I still believe that
target shOOting, competitively or Otherwise, is an ab-
sorbing and worth-while sport. But unless big-game
archery can be made deadly, I think it ought to be
outlawed in every state. So far as I am concerned
personally, however, a law won’t matter. I have seen
enough and I am through—Clare Conley.” ("True,
The Man’s Magazine” November, 1959)

"Five days after the opening of the season for hunt-
ing deer with bows and arrows in 1958, a deputy
State Game PrOtector erte: 'I have seen 11 deer
in the woods with arrows sticking in them. Today
I shot an eight point buck with my riﬂe that had
an arrow sticking in its stomach . . . There was a
doe in my yard this morning with an arrow sticking
in the side Of its face. It gOt away before I could
shOOt it. This is the most vicious and cruel thing
that has ever happened in Pennsylvania.’ ” ("Animal-
dom” November, 1959)

HUMANE RULES AT INLAND EMPIRE
SCIENCE FAIR

The Science Fair to be held in Spokane, Washington
in April is governed by humane rules sent out well in ad-
vance Of the Fair. In a bulletin announcing the eleventh
annual Inland Empire Science Fair, the following sound
requirements are included:

"Dangerous chemicals, open ﬂames, explosives, poison-

ous , reptiles or starvation experiments on animals may not
be exhibited. Live animals must be fed and watered by
the exhibitor, who must also clean cages daily. NO verte-
brate animal used in a project may be subjected to any ex-
periment which interferes with the animal’s normal health
or causes any pain or distress.”

Congratulations to the science teachers and sponsors re-
sponsible for this wise and humane ruling!

SWISS SYMPOSIUM ON LABORATORY
ANIMALS

A symposium on "The Environment Of Laboratory
Animals and Its Standardization in Biological Tests” was
held in the Institute of Physiology, University Of Bern,
Switzerland, on May 4, 1963. At the request of the Animal
Welfare Institute, Dr. W. H. Weihe, Of the Institute Of
Physiology, has written the following brief report on
the symposium.

"More than 100 scientists of different disciplines of
Biology and Medicine attended. The aim Of the sympo-
sium was to discuss the various factors in the environment
Of laboratory animals, which must be taken more into
consideration in setting up animal experiments, in order
to improve the reliability and reproducibility Of results.

“Seven main lectures, prepared in the form Of review
articles, were presented. The titles of the lectures were:
Breeding and Housing of Laboratory Animals (H. Hurni,
Bern); The Genotype as a Variable Factor in Animal Ex-
periments (R. Loosli, Basel); The Significance Of Bio-
logical Rhythms for Animal Colonies and Animal Experi-
ments (J. Aschoff, Erling-Andechs, Germany); The Im-
portance Of Nutrition Of the Rat as Laboratory Animal
(H. Zucker, Munich); The Inﬂuence Of Temperature
as a Factor Of the Physical Environment on the Metabo-
lism Of the Rat (W. H. Weihe, Bern); Mortality Curves
and Growth Features Of a Breeding Colony Of Wistar
Rats for Age Studies (D. Gsell, Basel); The Standardiza-
tion Of Laboratory Animals for Hormone Bioassays and
the Statistical Evaluation of Results (H. Weiser, Basel).

“The enlarged text of the lectures given in German
will be published in a supplemental issue of Internationale
Zeitschrift fur Vitaminforschung (Hans Huber, Bern), to
be available by December, 1963.”

In the introducrion to the supplement, which will be
approximately 160 pages, Dr. Weihe very kindly ex-
pressed his appreciation tO the Animal Welfare Institute
for supplying 100 copies Of its publication ”Basic Care
Of Experimental Animals,” stating: "In North America
the Animal Welfare Institute Of New York endeavors
to provide enlightenment about experimental animals. I
mention this organization especially because it supplied
us with 100 free copies Of the booklet “Basic Care of
Experimental Animals” for distribution. This booklet pro-
vides a solid foundation Of preparatory knowledge on re-
search animals, nOt only for laboratory personnel but for
academic personnel in experimental biology as well.”

NOTICE

Several readers have notiﬁed us that they have failed
to receive several INFORMATION REPORTS The Institute
has recently changed its mailing service arrangements, and
trusts that from now on the REPORT will reach all readers
promptly. Meanwhile, we would appreciate hearing from
any persons who may not have received all issues; back
copies will be sent promptly upon request.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Rachel L. Carson

Dr. joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens,
President

Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.
Vice-President

Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer

Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fiflh Avenue
New York 22. New York

Augusl 9. I963

To Humanilarians:

The greal Dr. Schweilzer has senl from Africa his expression of supporl for lhe CIark—Neuberger bill.

"The elhic of Reverence for Life," Dr. Schweilzer wrole, "obliges us lo be walchful always lo lreal animals wilh
compassion. and all lhe more so when il concerns lhose crealures lhal serve medical research. If you pass such a law
in lhe Uniled SlalesI il will have imporlanl meaning for lhe world."

The enclosed reprinl of lhe Congressional Record reporls lhe colloquy belween Senalor Clark and Senalor Neu-
berger on lhe Senale floor when Senalor Neuberge-r placed lhe Schweilzer leller in lhe Record.

Senalor Clark said, "I should like lo emphasize whal seems lo me lo be lhe greal imporlance of having Alberl
Schweilzer. one of lhe greal philosophers of lhe worldI as well as one of lhe leading doclors in lhe world. wilh a
career in helping lo cure people of illness. supporl lhe measure which I was happy lo sponsor."

In our July 24lh newslellerl we asked you lo lake Cleveland Amory's arlicle in lhe Jul 27lh Saturday Evening
Post lo your local newspaper edilor. Now we hope lhal you will follow up by Ielling him know aboul Dr. Schweilzer's
Ieller and urging him lo wrile an edilorial or arlicle on lhe need for enaclmenl of lhe Clark-Neuberger bill (S. 533)
and lhe idenlical Ashley bill (HR. 5430). (Nole: There is underslandable confusion in some people's minds because
so many bills are pending. Congressman Ashley helped reduce lhis confusion by making his bill idenlical wilh lhe
Clark-Neuberger bill. and lhis accounls for lhe differenl number of lhe firsl Ashley bill. HR. 5430 is now lhe correcl
number. The facl lhal many bills have been inlroduced is a sign of lhe inlense inleresl in lhe legislalion and should
nol be a discouragemenl lo any humanilarian. The vilal poinl is lhal all humanilarians make sure lhal any bill lhey
supporl conlains lhe basic principles circulaled repealedly by lhis Socielyl placed in lhe Congressional Record by
Senalor E. L. Barllell whose speech we senl you wilh our lasl lellerI and available on requesl lo our office. Bills now
pending lhal conlain lhese principles are: CIark-Neube-rger (S. 533). Ashley (HR. 5430). Randall (HR. 4856). Bills lhal
do not conlain lhese principles and which musl be firmly opposed are Randolph (S. I04I). Fogarly (HR. 4840) and
Roberls (HR. 4843). If is expecled lhal more bills will be inlroduced and lhe opponenls will do lheir very ulmosl lo

ass a weak bill which will nol prolecl lhe animals. We will keep you informed of any new aclion and of how you can
help oblain lhe effective legislalion so desperalely needed lo prevenl needless suffering in laboralories.)

Senalor Clark summed up lhe purpose of S. 533 when he said. "In general. we wish lo give lo lhe animals of our
counlry who unwillingly and unwillingly lo be sure. are making such a greal conlribulion lo scienlific developmenl.
lhe kind of decenl lrealmenl we would unhesilalingly give lo our own cals and our own dogs.'I Read lhe "Firsl of lhe
Monlh" by Cleveland Amory from lhe Augusl lhird issue of The Saturday Review, and you will see some of lhe
reasons why lhis modesl aim is so difficull lo a.llain. (Senalor Clark pul "Firsl of lhe Monlh" in lhe Congressional
Record — see page 4 of lhe enclosed reprinl.)

IF YOU WANT MORE COPIES, LET US KNOW. THEY WILL BE SENT ON REQUEST.

We are informed lhal reporls on lhe pending bills have nol yel been submilled lo lhe 88lh Congress by lhe
Deparlmenls of Governmenl lhal use Iaboralory animals and give money lo privale inslilulions for animal experi-
menlalion. Lasl year. lhe reporls submilled by agencies of governmenl using Iaboralory animals were opposed lo lhe
bills lhen pending. The new Clark-Neuberger and Ashley bills allempl lo meel reasonable obieclions made in lhese
reporls. and il is hoped lhal lhey will be carefully reviewed now.

YOU CAN HELP TO FOCUS THE NECESSARY ATTENTION ON THE BILLS BY WRITING TO
THREE MEMBERS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S CABINET:

Hon. Anlhony J. Celebrezze Hon. Roberl S. McNamara Hon. Orville L. Freeman
Secrelary of HeaIlh. Educalion & Welfare Secrelary of Defense Secrelary of Agricullure
WashinglonI D.C. WashinglonI D.C. Washinglon. D.C.

Respeclful lellers lelling why lhe CIark-Neuberger and Ashley bills are so badly neededI poinling oul lhal lhey
will nol harm responsible research bul will prevenl large amounls of needless suffering. will help. Please ask Secre-
lary CelebrezzeI Secrelary McNamara and Secrelary Freeman lo recommend enaclmenl.

Sincerely.

Madeleine Bemelmans. Presidenl
Chrisline Slevens. Secrelary

 




THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

A TEWIAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

 




THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York, N. Y. 10003
(July 1, 1963 to June 30, 1964)

Laboratory Animal Consultant Service

A new service was offered this year by the Animal Welfare Institute, made
possible by the generosity of an interested donor. This special project, which
began on January ﬁrst, 1964, includes. collecting and distributing valuable infor-
mation on the care and housing of experimental animals, giving advice and assist-
ance to institutions who wish to improve their old facilities or plan to build new
ones, and the preparation of a ﬁlm on care and housing which will be distributed
at cost to laboratories.

Visits have been made to 45 scientiﬁc institutions in the District of Columbia,
Maryland, Michigan, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Louisiana,
Texas, California, Utah, Oregon, Illinois, New York, and Canada. At some of
these visits the attitudes were friendly and cooperative, and we received helpful
ideas and information; at others, the inspections discovered miserable conditions
with animals suffering without any scientiﬁc justiﬁcation. Sometimes. we were able
to bring about changes and relief for the research animals that were housed in
cramped quarters and neglected; sometimes we” were able to help in planning new
facilities and thereby help the laboratory to avoid mistakes that would be both
costly and troublesome to correct later on.

A start has been made on the ﬁlm which will present good conditions and
proper treatment of experimental animals in research institutions. The proper
handling of animals by caretakers and technicians which will also be demonstrated
in this ﬁlm will provide information and examples which will assist in the training
of these men. It shOuld be an important supplement to the literature now being
provided to laboratories by the A.W.I. on housing and care of animals.

Many copies of our manuals, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” and
“ComfortableQuarters for Laboratory Animals,” were distributed free of charge
tointerested persons, and a limited amount of work was done in inspecting ken-
nels where dogs are boarded following laboratory use and inspecting animal
suppliers. -

Our visits strongly conﬁrmed the fact that, although recommended standards
of good laboratory animal care now exist and most institutions are aware of them,
they are at best only suggestions. Until there are ways and means of clearly deﬁning
and legally enforcing humane standards, many institutions will continue to in—
terpret the suggested ones loosely or ignore them altogether.

I

 




 

Animal Protective Bills

In March the eighth bill, HR. 10138, for the humane treatment of experi-
mental animals was introduced in the US. House of Representatives by Repre-
sentative George M. Rhodes (D., Pa.). This bill is identical to the Ashley bill
(H.R. 5430) and the Clark-Neuberger bill (S. 533). Additional bills in the House
add to the strength of a bill that has already been prOposed, just as additional
sponsors of a bill help it in the Senate.

Although hearings were held in the 87th Congress on bills to require humane
treatment of experimental animals, and although bills were again introduced in
the 88th Congress when it convened in 1963, nothing has been done about con»
ducting further hearings and bringing these bills out of Committee. Early this year
we were told that there would be hearings but they failed to materialize. Many
ﬁne editorials in support of the bills have appeared in newspapers all over the
country, including The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The
Bee of Sacramento, Modesto and Fresno, California, The Philadelphia Inquirer,
The Christian Century, The Miami News, The Mobile Re gister, The Waco (Texas)
Times Herald, The Vine3ard (Mass) Gazette, The Palo Alto (Calif. ) Times,
The Texarkana (Arkansas) Gazette, The Paducah (Ky) Sun- Democrat, The
Springﬁeld (Mass) Daily News, The St. Augustine (Fl/a.) Record, The Atlantic
City Press, The Fort Wayne (1nd.) News-Sentinel, The Erie (Pa) Morning News,
The Portland (Maine) Press Herald, The Kennebec Journal, The Pasadena (Calif)
Star-News, The Wa aterbury (Conn) Republican and others However, opposition
from organized science is strong. The American Medical Association has developed
what it describes as a task force” to block the legislation that is needed Weak,
substitute measures will be pushed by opponents of the Clark- Neuberger, Ashley
and Rhodes bills in order to prevent their passage when the 89th Congress con-
venes in 1965.

No action was taken on HR. 10026, introduced by Representative Rhodes
to require humane treatment of livestock transported by truck from one state to
another. This long overdue legislation would extend the 28- hour law (which nOW
protects animals travelling by rail) to help animals being shipped by motor ve-
hicles. Since about 90% of livestock are now transported. bby truck with crippling,
bruising and death common occurrences, the need for legislation is evident. A
decade ago large trucking interests defeated similar legislation with the result that
at present there are no humane controls on the transportation of most lambs, calves,
cattle and swine, and abuses are continuing without abatement.

Wild Animals and Birds Bill

In JUIY, 1963 the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on H. R. 1839 a
bill which had passed the House without hearings earlier in the year. The bill
would have permitted the duty- free importation of wild birds and animals by com-

2

 

 

 

an
in1

W2

lei




mercial animal dealers and exhibitors at fairs and roadside zoos where forlorn
and mistreated creatures are on display to amuse and obtain money from an un-
informed public. Testimony against the bill was presented on behalf of the Animal
Welfare Institute and other humane and conservation organizations, and no action
was taken on it for eleven months.*

Proposed Revision of State Criminal Laws

The Temporary State Commission on Revision of the Penal Law and Criminal
Code of New York has published their suggested revision of the New York Laws.
Section 250.35, Cruelty to Animals, is less than a page in length and half of it is
devoted to exempting laboratories from the prohibition against cruel mistreatment.
The proposed revision would reduce the present laws to a mere token law. New
York humane groups and individuals are strongly opposed to the proposed dele-
tions and weakening of the anti-cruelty laws. It is difficult to help animals as it is,
but with the present laws curtailed, it would be almost impossible to prosecute
anyone for cruelty. A similar battle has been fought and won in Minnesota, where
although revised laws were adopted, the cruelty to animals sections of the law were
left intact.

Schweitzer Medal and Annual Meeting

At the annual meeting of the A.W.I., December 16th, Ambassador Richard
C. Patterson, Jr., Commissioner of Public Events of the City of New York, pre-
sented the Schweitzer Medal to Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, for her
effective endeavors in helping to free the test beagles of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration from the windowless sub-basement where some of them had been
caged for seven years. Ambassador Patterson made a second unexpected presenta-
tion of a Certificate of Appreciation from Mayor Robert F. Wagner.

Mr. Leo Miller, Deputy Commissioner of the United States Food and Drug
Administration, in his speech to the A.W.I. members, emphasized the gains which
will be achieved in forthcoming tests in the new quarters, pointing out that test
dogs are indeed valuable animals and that humane housing and care of them not
only decreases waste, but increases scientiﬁc accuracy.

At this meeting, the President of the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tiOn, Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans, urged continued efforts to bring about enactment of

*The bill ﬁnally came to the ﬂoor of the Senate in July, 1964 with a major bill on meat
imports attached to it as a “rider”. As a result of widespread public protest, the section
referring to wild animals and birds was deleted. Senator Kenneth B. Keatmg (R., N.Y.)
offered the humane amendment, and Senator Jacob K. Jav1ts (R, N-Y-) and. Senator
Joseph S. Clark (D, Pa.) joined him as co-sponsors. The Senate was unanimous in
voting deletion of the wild animal and bird provision. However, m a Senate—House con-
ference to which the bill was next referred, a minor compromlse was made Wthh allows
a dealer to import an animal for sale to a municipal zoo Without a spec1ﬁc order from
that zoo. This will give the US. CUStoms additional work checklng the ultimate des—
tination of animals, but if strictly enforced should not be seriously detrimental.

3

 




 

 

S. 533, the Clark-Neuberger bill and H.R. 5430, the Ashley bill, for the humane
treatment of experimental animals. She emphasized the need for increased public
demand to obtain favorable action especially in the face of vehement opposition.

Publications

The A.W.I. continued to distribute thousands of copies of its manuals which
are free to teachers, librarians and other educators, on request, one copy to a
teacher. During the year we distributed 4,714 copies of “Humane Biology Projects”,
a 44-page illustrated manual prepared for high school use, and 3,819 copies of
”First Aid and Care of Small Animals.” A concise and convenient 48-page booklet,
illustrated with 23 photographs, it was written for the Institute by Ernest P. Walker,
former Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C.,
and is a source of information on the care of many small animals with which we
are familiar but about whose care most people know little.

In addition, 60,000 copies of ”Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by
High School Biology Students” were distributed by the National Science Teachers
Association, and hundreds of small booklets and leaﬂets sent to children who re-
quested help in caring for their pets.

Meetings and Conferences

A.W.I. representatives attended the following:

Conference on Veterinary Toxicology, New York Academy of Sciences,
New York City, July 26, 1963

American Veterinary Medical Association, annual meeting, New York
City, July 29-31, 1963

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., Oct. 1-4, 1963

New York State Humane Association, annual meeting, Port Jervis, N. Y.,
October 24-25, 1965. The President of A.W.I. spoke on humane treat-
ment of laboratory animals

National Capitol Area Branch, Animal Care Panel, Washington, DC,
November 13, 1963, President of the A.W.I. spoke on ”The Principles

of Human Experimental Technique”. (see. INFORMATION REPORT,
Vol. 12, No. 5)

Animal Welfare Institute meeting, New York City, December 16, 1963

Florida Federation of Humane Societies annual meeting, March 20, 1964-
The President of A.W.l. spoke on humane legislation for experimental
animals.

Ral

the
can
live
‘ ‘Tl
its

con

was
it 1:

of 1
its

to I
mm

of:

An

0115

Ne

has
1‘60
anc

haV

COlt




Rachel Carson

On April 14th, 1964, Rachel Carson died. A life that had been devoted to
the observation of nature and pursuit of knowledge which she wished all to share,
came to an end. Our loss is great, but the world has been enhanced because she
lived. The books she wrote, “The Edge of the Sea,” “Under the Sea Wind,” and
“The Sea Around Us,” brought to many readers a richer experience of the sea and
its mysteries, and “Silent Spring” to which she devoted four of her last years,
compellingly called attention to the fact that the indiscriminate use of pesticides
was endangering life of all kinds. Although her warnings were disparaged by many,
it became evident before she died that her warnings had been timely and true.

Rachel Carson was quiet and modest, intelligent and well-informed. Because
of her great love of nature she wrote poetically, becaue of .her longing to preserve
its beauty she wrote sincerely, and because of her determination to do something
to correct the appalling mistakes that are being made, she wrote forcefully. The
result was one of the most memorable books of our time and will long remind us
of a great service to mankind by a gentle and courageous woman.

For many years Miss Carson was a member of the Advisory Committee of the
Animal Welfare Institute, and we will always be grateful for her wise and gener-
ous counselling.

New Advisor and Staff Appointments

We are happy to announce that Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD.
has joined the Advisory Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. Orlans
received her degrees from Birmingham University and the University of London
and has spent four years in research at the Laboratory of Chemical Pharmacolog ,
National Heart Institute, National Institutes of Health. A number of her papers
have been published in American and British journals of physiology, pharma-
cology and experimental therapeutics.

Working under the British Act of 1876 and in the United States has given
Dr. Orlans a wide range of experience and understanding of how legislation affects
the welfare of experimental animals and the attitude of labrato-ry personnel. We
are most fortunate in having the beneﬁt of Dr. Orlans’ good judgment and advrce.

New Staff appoints include Mr. Thomas Kind, Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Mrs. Robert DYce, Assistant to the Laboratory Animal COHSUItant’ MISS Alexandra
Peschka, Executive Secretary, replacing Miss Estella Draper, and Mrs. Paul Lewrs,
Technical Secretary.

Student Cruelty Prevented

In January, the New York State Senate was asked to consider a bill to exempt

5

 

 




 

 

biology classes from the anti-cruelty laws. Its passage would have meant that high
school and even grade school students could perform painful experiments on living
animals.

Upon being notiﬁed that such legislaton was imminent, the public, deeply
shocked, ﬂooded the legislators with vehement protests. The sponsor, Senator
George Metcalf withdrew the bill, stating that the Department of Education, at
whose request he had introduced it, had given him ”misleading information.”

At the request of Raymond Naramore, President of the New York State Hu-
mane Association, Senator Thomas Laverne and Assemblyman William Rosenberg
introduced bills speciﬁcally to prohibit high schools or grade schools from using
live, vertebrate animals in any experiment that would adversely affect the animals’
health and comfort. Unfortunately, the measure, which was introduced shortly be-
fore the New York legislative bodies adjourned, was not reported out of committee.

In the State of Washington, humane rules governed the Science Fair held in
Spokane in April. Starvation experiments were not permitted, nor was any verte~
brate animal allowed to be used in a project which interfered with its normal health
or caused it pain or distress. This was in line with the bulletin issued in December
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the state, in which he said, ”Many
sensitive youngsters can very readily form lasting impressions and prejudices which
are not at all desirable if their science classes include callous treatment or neglect
of living things. . . A general philosophy of thoughtfulness and consideration for
living things should be incorporated and repeatedly emphasized in all science teach-
ing.” It is hoped that this enlightened point of view will spread to Boards of
Education in other states.

Conservation and Wildlife

The most important conservation measure to pass this year was the Wilder-
ness Bill.

A major conservation discovery with important humane implications is a
chemical that separates oil from salt water. Its use was begun this year by three
of the biggest oil companies. Formerly, ballast water was pumped overboard before
taking on a new cargo. Now it is treated with a demulsiﬁer, and the oily residue
which has caused the death by starvation of thousands of sea birds when dumped
into the sea, is retained on board.

British legislation has again led the way with passage of the Deer Act which
outlaws the use of bow and arrow, a method of deer hunting which causes vast
amounts of needless suffering. The new law also prohibits night shooting and
shooting from vehicles.

In the ﬁeld of water pollution, the US. Department of Health, Education
and Welfare identiﬁed Endrin and Dieldrin as the chemicals responsible for the

6

 

 




 

 

killing of millions of ﬁsh in the lower Mississippi drainage basin. Though the indi-
vidual citizen is powerless to prevent agricultural use of these dangerous pesticides
at the present time, he can contribute to the general effort by refusing to buy de-
tergents which contain alkyl benzene sulfonate (ABS) the most toxic and long-
lasting component of about 859} of all detergents. There is no known way to
remove ABS from water once it has entered a stream.

Predator control was the subject of an editorial in the New York Timer, April
eighth. It pointed to the dangers of aerial broadcasting of grain treated with So-
dium ﬂuoroacetate and made it clear that the present army of government predator
hunters and the funds apprOpriated to maintain them are doing great harm.

Information Reports

The INFORMATZON REPORTS are now sent to about 13,000 readers. Follow-
ing are notes on additional subjects reported in them:

Humane Posters by Young African Artists (Vol. 12, No. 4). The
100 best entries among over 800 submitted in a poster contest held by the Humane
Education Institute of Africa, were shown at the Hudson Branch of the New York
Public Library and will be available for display by other interested organizations.
Ten African countries are represented. For information, please address the A.\X/.I.

Dissemination of Knowiedge of Anesthesia (Vol. 12, No. 4). On
May 22nd a Committee for the Preparation of a Guide on Laboratory Animal
Anesthesia met in W’ashington to plan a technical guide on anesthesia and pain-
avoidance. In Britain a symposium on the same subject was held in July.*

The American Physiological Society has revised its ”Guiding Principles on the
Care and Use of Animals” to include the statement that “Curarizing agents are
not anesthetics." The use of curare and similar “relaxants” which paralyze but
do not cause the animal to lose consciousness, can inﬂict terrible pain on animals
5Ubl€Ct€d to surgery, and we heartily approve the issuance of this statement by the
PhYSiOIOSiCal Society. Curare-like drugs are being more widely used today than
ever before, and their use shOuld be strictly controlled.

Repeated experiments on a single animal were outlawed by the Con-
necticut State Health Commissioner under the ”Dog Law.” (Vol. 12, No. 4).
cine manufacture may end as the

Mass shi ments of monke s for vac
P Y he subject was written for A.W.I.

result of studies of cell cultures. An article on t
by Dr. Leonard Hayﬂick. (Vol. 13, No. 2)-

Press, under the auspices of the Univer-
British Small AnimalsoVetermary Asso—
mall Animal Anaesthe51a.’

*NQW Published in book form by the Pergamon
81416.3 Federation for Animal \Velfare and th€
elation: “Proceedings of the Symposmm on S

7

 

 

 




 

U.S. Vivisection Battle: a British Denial was the subject of an article
in The New Scientiit correcting misstatements by the National Society for Medical
Research about the British Act of 1876 and the present Royal Commission. (Vol.
13, No. 3). Additional information on the British Act appears in INFORMATION
REPORT, Vol. 13, No. 1.

Humane Slaughter. France has now joined the list of nations requiring
humane slaughter. A decree issued this April provides that livestock must be
rendered unconscious prior to shackling, hoisting and bleeding. An exemption
from prior stunning is made for ritual slaughter with the condition that, within
one year, means are provided to avoid bruising the animal before it is slaughtered.
A television appeal by Brigitte Bardot resulted in tens of thousands of letters call-
ing for an end to needless cruelty, and the April decree marks the successful result
of that demand. (Vol. 13, No. 3).

Animal Machines. A shocking report on ”factory farming” in England
was written by Ruth Harrison. Published under the title of ”Animal Machines”, it
describes methods of producing chickens, hogs, and calves by modern intensive
methods which are brutal and callous. In a preface to the book, Rachel Carson has
written, ”I ﬁnd it inconceivable that healthy animals can be produced under the
artiﬁcial and damaging conditions that prevail in these modern factorylike instal-
lations, where animals are grown and turned out like so many inanimate objects.”
Production of eggs and broilers by the ”battery system" originated in and is ex-
~-tensively used in Our country. (Vol. 13, No. 2).

l A symposium on laboratory animals was held in Bern, Switzerland,
May 4, 1963 under the direction of Dr. W. H. Weihe. Over 100 scientists of
different disciplines and nationality attended seven main lectures. The A.W.I. ap-
preciates Dr. Weihe’s comment: ”In North America the Animal Welfare Institute
of New York endeavors to provide enlightenment about experimental animals.”
(Vol. 12, No. 5).

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Oﬁicers
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

 

 




 




@2424 @1%%@%%%

Emmet R Weééaem @eeiemm @ieeetem
Wetieimé Zeeéegiwé Eyeﬁg

@mitheeﬂiem Emetitmiem

Published by the Animal Welfare Institute

 

 




 

Copyright 1955 by Ernest P. Walker

Printed in the United Stories of America

Fifth Printing

 

 

Cover Photograph: Baby ”Flying” Squirrels about One Month Old. Photograph (by ]

Ernest P. Walker

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W

 

/ V 9/
27/ ’/y

é, /. é

'/ 7 7/ 7

,, // / /

w/ , / /

”/4, % / é
’ 4 A

   

by

Emmet R Weaken Aegismm @imemm
Watimmﬁ Zeeﬁegieaﬁ ?aw§a

@mitﬁasenian Eastit‘mien

Published by the Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

Price: $35

 




 

 

 

ews Photos

ional N

hat

Photograph by Int

 

 

used on a Bottle

Red Fox Puppy Ra

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

%l%7 '_

 

An interest in and fondness for animal
life is apparently a part of every child and
it is during childhood and youth that the
greatest good can be accomplished in in-
stilling a knowledge of animals and an in-
terest in our interdependence with animals.
During this period much can be accom-
plished in guiding the student towards a
sympathetic understanding of all living
things as well as the humane and consid-
erate attitude which results from such un-
derstanding. Many valuable object lessons
can be taught during this time.

It should be borne in mind that children
and young people, however fond of animals
or interested in them, may/through careless-
ness or ignorance cause the animal serious
harm. Also, there are individuals who wil-
fully try to injure an animal, and there are
those who have received erroneous informa-
tion at home or elsewhere that are disposed
to destroy every living thing. Therefore, in
teaching the handling of animals, one should
be careful to observe the peculiarities of the
individual student and not only show him
how to care for the animal properly, but
correct him should he be disposed to injure
the animal wilfully. This should be a partic-
ularly important phase because the spirit of
cruelty to animals and wilful disregard of
their rights and comforts can readily be a
fore-runner of antisocial behavior with seri-
ous consequences in later life.

There are few subjects as complex as biol-

\

\
\
mm

magma rrmraaa

\

ogy that are so simple to teach in the ele-
mentary form. Begun even in kindergarten,
it can well be studied to the highest college
course. One ﬁeld of biology teaching that
is altogether too often neglected is that of
correcting the innumerable misapprehensions
and superstitions that exist regarding ani-
mals. There appears to be an almost inﬁnite
number of these, and even old biologists
are constantly hearing of superstitions and
notions that are new to them. Some are
merely the erroneous use of an Old World
name applied to a New W/orld form, such
as the error of calling the North American
skunks “pole cats,” when the term ”pole
cat” is properly applicable to a weasel-like
creature in the Old World. The well-known
Ground Hog Day fable is as persistent as
if it were true. Regarding the reptiles and
amphibians, the percentage of superstitions
and groundless fears is much higher than
regarding the birds and mammals. By skill-
ful leadership, these superstitions and erro-
neous notions can be scrutinized and the
students disabused of the wrong notions,
perhaps with the result that they may help
to educate their elders. The prevalence of
such false beliefs leads to extensive destruc-
tion of valuable animals and on many oc-
casions to wanton cruelty. The teachers who
undertake to combat such remnants of the
dark ages will be pioneers indeed and the
most fertile ﬁeld for undertaking this is
with young people.

Childhood as well as early youth is a

 




 

 

valuable laboratory session and yet no formal
laboratory is necessary or teaching. In every
community children come into possession of
little creatures that interest them. Some of
these creatures are in need of help anc the

 

 

child can learn valuable lessons as to their
requirements by being taught how to care for
them. Thus they develop their interest in ani-
mals and learn the basic principles of caring
for both the Wild creatures and themselves,

Photograph by International News Photos

Young Hummingbird Being Fed from an Eye-Dropper

 

 

 




 

 

 

\\\\“z

\\\\\
\
W ‘

fif2i%%l% 21% %

One of the easiest methods of stimulating
interest, and satisfying children as well as
adults, is to put out food for animals to at-
tract them to a given location where they can
be readily observed. This can be done with
a surprisingly simple array of food and is not
limited to birds and squirrels as many people
suppose. Food placed on a window ledge
in a city will almost invariably be found by
some animal if the food is suitable. Insects
can be attracted in this way in even the most
thickly populated areas. The window ledges
of tenement houses thereby become almost
as good feeding stations as the homes of the
wealthy. Sparrows, pigeons and other birds,
squirrels and insects are all fascinating crea-
tures that can be studied at close range by
the observer who will put out suitable food
and water for them and remain quietly inside
the room. Such feeding and watering need
not be limited to the winter but can properly
be carried on throughout the year. Birds that
are nesting are especially glad to have a
source of supply of such materials as raisins,
peanut hearts or crushed peanuts, bits of
meat and seeds.

Feeding and watering stations can also be
provided in back yards on the ground, on
posts, or on other elevated places.

In their active lives, children frequently
find baby birds that are just out of their nests
and learning to ﬂy; sometimes, due to the
death of the parent birds, the young are
really in need of help. Baby squirrels are
sometimes found which have fallen out of
their nests; they have become hungry when
the mother squirrel has met with some acci-

lei

 

mm anraraaa

dent and failed to return. During drives in the
country, people frequently find small crea-
tures along the roadsides, particularly turtles,

‘ and sometimes baby skunks, baby opossums,

and other young animals. Some are in need
of assistance; others are adults or are able to
care for themselves. Unless the people who
pick them up have a genuine interest in try-
ing to save them and will take the pains to
provide proper conditions for their survival,
the story is usually a short one—the animal
soon dies, most often through well-inten-
tioned ignorance or neglect. It is to focus
attention upon What can and should be done
for small wild creatures which either appear
to be, or actually are, in need of help that
this pamphlet is prepared. It is not intended
to stimulate or encourage the capture and
keeping of more wild creatures, but rather to
assist well-intentioned people to do the right
thing in the right way for the animals that
fall into their hands.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Wa

 

A Yellow Jacket AHracted to Meat on a
Window-Ledge

 




 

 

ews Photos

 

2

7,9

5

.5

‘3

ET)

‘4

;

>~.

.o

.2

o. I-

f“ O

__ ,-

é" a

o

.c U!

D.
‘
O
0
-:
U
V)
-:
In
'—

Iniured Squirrel Rescued and Adopted by H

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

 

  

V%L%M%@%

I know of no better way to teach young
people the importance of their own proper
nutrition and care than to let them learn how
to care for animals properly. It can be a valu-
able object lesson. Indeed, to emphasize the
proper care of different kinds of animals gives
an even wider scope to teaching than is pos-
sible by some of the laboratory experiments
in which a single animal or groups of ani-
mals are mistreated by being fed deﬁcient
diets in order to show the results of such
deﬁciencies. Such laboratory experiments, if
carried on by qualiﬁed research workers, have
a place in scientiﬁc studies, but ordinarily
only a single phase of nutritional deﬁciency
can be shown. The young person who is
shown the numerous steps necessary to pro-
vide for the requirements of different kinds

@Wf

Baby Opossums Eat Watermelon for a Change

 

 

EV%@@

of little animals learns far more than he can
by trying to bring about one given deﬁciency.
He learns to take pride in his accomplish-
ment in raising each animal successfully and
in keeping it in good health. To do this he
must learn much regarding the requirements
of the animal in the wild—i.e., how it lives.

This involves consideration of the group to

which the animal belongs —- whether bird,
mammal, reptile, ﬁsh, insect, etc. Consider-
ation must then be given to the age of the
animal, its temperature requirements, the fre-
quency with which it should be fed, whether
or not it is able to feed itself or must be
hand-fed, and the kinds of food —- whether
milk, meat, soft proteins, insects, fruit, or
green vegetable material — and the type of
housing and exercise required.

 




 

 

 

The requirements of animals are almost as
varied as the number of different kinds of
animals. Obviously it would not be possible
in a small publication to go into details con-
cerning requirements for all species of ani-
mals that might be encountered, or concern-
ing all the afﬂictions and accidents to which
they may be subject. Therefore, the aim in
this is to outline a few general principles
for the care of wild things — a sort of an
abridged ﬁrst-aid manual.

When a wild creature is found, the ﬁrst
question that should be considered is: Does
it really need help, or is it able to take care
of itself either at the location where found
or in some adjacent, more favorable location?
A baby bird just out of the nest, learning
to ﬂy, does not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, it is much better to go quietly
away and leave it alone so that its parents
can attend to feeding it and so that it can
learn to ﬂy and take care of itself. Some-
times it is down on the ground where there
are cats or dogs or where it may be subject
to other dangers. Then a human can some-
times help it by putting it up on a limb,
back in the nest, or in some protected place.
Or, if the cat or dog can be put under re-
straint or removed, the little creature can be
left where it is. Occasionally nestling birds
are found on the ground after a severe storm.
Some of them can be saved by taking them
in, warming them and feeding them until
they are able to be released safely.

If a human being does decide to take an
animal into his possession because it is in-
jured or the parents are dead, he should at

@T a??? ma Wifﬂ MW

 

% a i

once consider what it needs in the way of
food, warmth, and protection. A great many
people immediately think of feeding birds
bread and milk. But no wild bird ever re-
ceives milk in its normal life and there is
doubt as to whether the bird’s digestive sys-
tem is adapted to handle milk to good ad-
vantage. The great majority of small birds

W

are fed worms, insects, spiders and fruit
when they are little. When they become
older, their food may be very different.

It is important that young birds have a
warm dry place to stay. A depression in a
mass of tissue paper in a cardboard box
makes a good temporary home for a young
bird.

Turtles, snakes, lizards, salamanders, frogs
and toads that are found along the roadside
ordinarily need no help; unless they are in
some situation from which they cannot ex-
tricate themselves, they are well able to take
care of themselves and most of them would
be far better off if left alone. Almost every
one of these groups has requirements pecu-
liar to its kind, so before a person takes them
into his possession he should make certain
that he knows how to care for them or has
a source of information that will enable him
to give them proper care.

Baby opossums found in the pouch of the
mother or clinging to her after she has been
killed or injured on the road usually need
help. But frequently baby skunks, raccoons,
rabbits and other young animals are brought
in, and the person thinks that he has done
an admirable rescue job whereas probably
the little creature could have done very well

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

for himself if he had been left alone. Perhaps
he has lost his mother, but by the time an
animal is old enough to be out following
mother through the woods he is usually able
to obtain food for himself.

Young furry creatures that require human
help and are taken home should be offered
warm milk, somewhat diluted in accordance
with the formula on page 22.

Anyone contemplating taking an animal
home should consider whether ’or not it will
be accepted by other members of the family.
Sometimes members of the family are so
strongly prejudiced against animals that they
will be seriously upset by its presence or will
do the animal harm. On the other hand, since
many such prejudices and notions are the re-

.sult of ignorance, these persons often change

their viewpoint when they have an oppor-
tunity to see the animal at close range and
to come to understand something about it,
and may become interested and fond of the

animal.

Practically every wild creature is afraid of
humans, and until the human has demon-
strated his kindness to it and has convinced
it that he is not dangerous, the little creature
will be fearful and will usually fight to pro-
tect itself. Taming newly caught animals re—
quires varying lengths of time, but the basic
principles are the same: it should at first be
allowed to be quiet, its food and water being
supplied by only one person who makes all
moves very gently and quietly and speaks

gently to it at frequent intervals. As the wild
thing gradually becomes accustomed to hu-
man presence, one can eventually touch it
and finally handle it; but caution should be
used that the animal is not injured, that it
does not bite one, escape, or hurt itself. Bear
in mind that the one thing above all others
feared most by wild creatures is to be re-
strained. If they are held firmly in the hand
before they are accustomed to human pres-
ence, they may injure themselves or become
so badly frightened that they are more difﬁ-
cult than ever to tame. Also, a person will
often injure the animal by holding it too
tightly in his efforts to prevent it from es-
caping.

Persons who render aid to animals that
are in difficulties and in need of help will
ordinarily have nothing to fear as to legal
consequences; but they should not intention-
ally capture them or keep birds or mammals
beyond the time necessary for them to re-
cover sufﬁciently to take care of themselves.

There are both Federal and State laws that
give protection to many of the wild creatures.
These laws were formulated because of the
great need to prevent excessive destruction
of the wild life; many of the laws also cover
taking animals into one’s possession even
though the animals are not killed. Informa—
tion regarding such matters can usually be
obtained from the local law enforcement
agencies, the Game Department of each
State, or the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, washington, DC.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PthOgraph by International News Photos ‘

A Young Crow which Enioys Human

Companionship

8

 

 




 

 

 

 

Those of us who are engaged in zoo ad
ministration become painfully aware that a
large proportion of the people who obtain
animals with great enthusiasm soon lose their
enthusiasm when they ﬁnd that caring for
the animal involves regularity and some
work. We are constantly having offered to
us animals which people have picked up on
the aSSumption that they are rescuing them,
or which they have kept for a while until
they have tired of them. Sometimes the
owner has concluded that the animal is fail~
ing in health and he wishes to get rid of it
before it dies. This suggests that teachers
could well emphasize that children and adults
not take animals into their possession unless
they are certain that they know how to care
for them properly and are equally certain
that they are willing to devote the time and
effort to give them proper care.

Animals that have been captured as babies
and raised in captivity are poorly prepared
to make their own way if liberated without
a preliminary training period in the wild. If
people are so situated that they can permit
their pet to obtain a portion or much of its
food with them and go out into the surround-
ing region and gradually aCCustom itself to

a wild life, they can frequently give the pet
a good opportunity to establish itself in ad-
jacent regions with fair chances of survival.
It should be borne in mind that an animal
which is accustomed to receiving its food and
shelter from humans and has not had enough
exercise to ﬁt it for a strenuous life in the
wild requires such a preliminary training.
Many animals when liberated are afraid of
the wild and will come back to their homes.
but will gradually extend their explorations
as they gain conﬁdence and eventually take
up their abode in the wild, often near by.
and will return occasionally to visit their
human friends. The preliminary try-out pe»
riod is of great importance for another rea~
son. If there are other animals of the same
kind living in the vicinity, they generally
have the feeling that they have a prior claim
on the surrounding territory and the pet is
likely to be attacked by them. Therefore,
the liberated pet should have the Opportunity
to return to the shelter and food supply with
its human friends until it has gradually won
a place for itself in the surrounding territory
and is able to compete with the wild crea-
tures of that vicinity for both food and
shelter.

 




 

 

 

Photograph by International News Photos

Baby Robin with Broken Leg in Splint

W @R ANIMALS

Injuries and sickness are of course proper-
ly subject for treatment by a veterinarian, but
often a veterinarian may not be available or
the person who ﬁnds the animal victim may
not feel that he can afford to pay for veteri-
nary services. Therefore a few brief sugges-
tions may be of some assistance, but it should
be borne in mind that they are not offered
in. lieu of advice of a veterinarian or a physi-
cian but rather as tentative suggestions that
may be of some assistance if a veterinarian’s

or physician’s advice cannot be obtained.
Injured animals that are most frequently
found are those that have been hit by a car
or occasionally those that have been injured
by hunters. When they are hit by cars, they
may be only temporarily stunned. Sometimes
they recover fairly quickly and are able to
continue on their way. On other occasions,
théy may have suffered serious internal in-
juries that cannot be determined from ex-
ternal examination. Still others may have

 




 

 

sustained broken wings or broken legs. The
first rule, like that advocated by physicians
for humans, is to make sure the patient is
made as comfortable as possible and kept
quiet. If they are stunned or subject to shock,
they may make a fairly quick recovery and
require no treatment other than protection
from further injury. If possible, they should
be liberated at the same location that they
were found. If there are severe internal in-
juries, it is rarely possible to do anything
for them other than to keep them quiet and
provide food and water in the hope that they
may gradually recover. If there are broken
wings or legs, sometimes a simple splint de—
vice can be improvised with match stems,
stiff cardboard, adhesive tape, or other ma-
terials at hand. Such efforts of repair work
should, however, be done only by an adult
or an older child who will take pains to see
that the break is set properly. If there are
no other serious injuries, the natural rapid
healing of animals will sometimes permit a
satisfactory recovery and repair of the broken
member.

During the period of recovery, it is gen-
erally a good plan to keep the animal in sub-
dued light or a darkened room, and to screen
it from view in such a manner that it can feel
secluded so that it will not worry so much
regarding danger from humans, dogs, cats,
or other enemies. As it gradually recovers,
it may become somewhat tame and develop
into a pleasing pet, or it may remain fearful
of humans and their surroundings. Of those
that recover, some can resume their lives in
the wild. Others may be so handicapped that
they could not make their own living. In
that case, the animal must become the special
charge of one member of the class.

ié’é-xg‘r;

711$

Sick animals are not found so often, but
they are occasionally picked up. Usually,
however, by the time they are so sick that
humans can take possession of them, they
are past recovery; about all that one can do
is to try to make them comfortable, provide
food and water, and/hope for the best. be
verely injured animals should be painlessly
destroyed by the means described on page 12.

In handling and caring for animals, people
will frequently sustain scratches or bites, but
for the most part if reasonable precautions
are taken there is not much more danger to
the human than there would be from a sim-
ilar break in the skin or mutilation of the
ﬂesh from some mechanical injury. Anysuch
breaks in the skin :should be washedﬁthor-
oroughly with plenty of soap and treated
promptly with iodine or other antiseptic
preparation. ,

The experience of zoologists and members
of the staffs of zoos who are frequently in-
jured by animals indicates that there is very
little danger from rabies or other diseases
carried by wild animals. However, reason—
able precaution should be taken in all cases
to avoid injuries and to care for wounds from
bites or scratches of such animals as foxes,
skunks, raccoons, and opossums, as in Some
regions these may carry rabies. Other animals
also sometimes carry rabies. There are even
a few records of North American bats having
rabies. An animal that has bitten a perSon
should be kept under observation for 14
days. If within this time it becomes ill or
dies, its brain should be examined by the
local health department. If it is still healthy
at the end of 14 days, it could not have
transmitted rabies.

 




 

 

 

 

\ssssss

Bear in mind that when ﬁrst captured,
almost all animals are scared and wish to
seek seclusion. Also, many of them through-
out their lives try to keep out of sight and
in protected locations. Indeed, some will fret
themselves to death if they cannot get out
of sight and. be in the dark, or at least feel
that they are away from observation. Noc-
turnal animals must be able to get into
dark retreats.

Even animals that are often observed sun-
ning in the wild need to be able to get into
the shade at will. Turtles, amphibians, and
invertebrates have often been killed by hav-
ing their terrariums left on a window ledge
unprotected from hot, direct sunlight.

Good teaching of biology requires that
accidents such as these do not happen. Many
teachers have found that although a group
may join in caring for any animal or animals
in a classroom, the ﬁnal responsibility for
the animal’s health and well-being must
be placed with one individual who makes
a daily check on food, water, cleanliness of
housing, and health of the animal, and per-
forms any tasks which may have been for-
gotten or neglected. Care of animals over
week-ends or longer holidays must be care-
fully provided for. 80 must ﬁnal disposition

 

12

of animals at the end of the school term.
It should be the aim of the class to have
rehabilitated any wild creatures which may
have been cared for so that they have be-
come self—supporting by the end of the term.
Those which cannot be successfully rehab—
ilitated, and any domestic animals such as
mice, rats or guinea pigs which the class has
maintained might be adopted by members
of the class. The progeny of such animals
should not be allowed to increase beyond
that which can easily be provided with
homes. However, should this occur, the ani-
mals can be turned over to the local humane
society for placement or painless destruction,
or the teacher can destroy them painlessly
by putting them in a covered container in
one corner of which a chloroform-soaked
cloth has been placed. Animals should not
be put in direct contact with wet chloroform
because it burns; chloroform vapor, how-
ever, renders small animals and birds un-
conscious in a short time and they die
painlessly by a means which is easy to ad
minister. The animals should be left in
the chloroform chamber for at least one
half hour to be sure that they have passed
from unconsciousness to death. Stiffness (rig-
or mortis) indicates that they are dead and
may be disposed of.

 




 

 

 

 

b manager—cox 20:3 «03330336 .anomnmwml hwnzo—msu r< 15 9.2653

 

5

I. .
VEW
om .‘ .3

328$? 3 m3?» v. <<m=§

.6 2m 23; max

 

 




 

  

 

 

Space does not permit a detailed discussion
of the many different kinds of cages, aquaria,
and enclosures that may be used to house
animals, for they are varied and depend. on
the requirements of the different kinds of
animals, where they are to be kept, and the
expense if any that is to be incurred. Nice-
ly constructed cages, aquaria and yards are
desirable, but frequently the animal can be
cared for almost as well by the use of in-
genuity in adapting whatever may be at
hand or readily available to accommodate it.

Creatures that require water in which to
swim, or soil in which to burrow and live,
can often be accommodated in such aquaria
as are available at many stores. Also, it is
possible to use S-gallon oil cans, that have
been thoroughly cleaned, and other con-
tainers.

One type of cage that is inexpensive, easy
to construct, and adaptable to several dif-
ferent types of creatures is composed of a
pan (preferably of the enameled type) about
12 by 18 inches, and two to three inches
deep, into which is set a strip of one-fourth
or one-half inch wire mesh fabric. The height
of the cage is determined by the width of
the strip of fabric. Fifteen inches is a good
average height. The tOp can be constructed
of wire fabric slightly larger than the sides
of the cage. If the portion projecting beyond
the sides of the cage is bent downward,
it overlaps the sides like the top of a suit-
case or trunk. The top is hinged to the

upper edge of the side of the cage with
soft wire.

This type of cage will accommodate such

 

small mammals as mice and rats and even
little creatures that need only shallow water
in which to swim or rest. A nest-box, such
as an empty rolled-oats or corn—meal box,
can be provided with a hole in the end
and soft paper furnished for nest material.
Fine clean soft sand in the bottom of the
pan helps furry creatures to keep their fur
clean.

Animals are naturally clean about their
persons so that those that are being kept in
captivity should have an opportunity to keep
clean. Their cages and nest boxes should
be carefully cleaned at regular intervals.

Most small mammals require a great deal
of exercise; therefore, if they are to be kept
in captivity for more than a few days, suit-
able provision should be made for them to
exercise. Such creatures as moles should have
earth in which to dig. The considerable array
of mouse-like creatures —— squirrels, ﬂying
squirrels and others —— should have one or
the other of two types of exercise wheels,
described as follows:

The ferns wheel type, similar to a drum
without the heads, should have a diameter
at least three times the head and body length
of the animal. That is, an animal which is
10 inches from the tip of its nose to the base
of its tail should have a wheel about 30
inches in diameter.

The width of the wheel is not important.
Even a SO/inch wheel need not be more than
10 inches wide. Wheels may be very simply
or elaborately made. The picture shows a tYPC
of construction that has been found quite
satisfactory. A strip of wire fabric of fairly
small mesh is bent into a circle of the proper
siZe for the wheel, and it is supportcd by

  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
    
   

 

  




 

 

 

 

Waiker

Photograph by Ernest P

that She Has Adopted

l

” Squirre

mg

IIF'y

fa her Nest a Baby

ies

fe Raf Carr

A Laboratory Wh

 

 

 

 

Walker

Photograph by Ernest P

her Cage

irrel on Top of Nest Box

Squ

She Nurses the

 

1s

 

 




 

 

Ferris Wheel TYPe Exercise Wheel. (The diameter should be Phomg"aph by Erne“ P- Walker ‘
at least three times the head and body length of the animal.) ‘

 

 

  
 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Big-cared Cliff Mice (Peromyscus truei) Running on Inclined Disc
Exercise Wheel

  

\‘
a a a . . xxx:

\4.

. _ ‘. . - - :~-\ WK
‘ -. ‘ ,- V . . . “ﬂ
‘ ‘ . .
\ \
x‘ ,Q
\- 1X“ \
\ ~'~§\‘-
\‘W ﬁx

1} Inclined Disc Exercise Wheel (See Text for size)

16

 

 

  
 
  
   




spokes on an axle held up by uprights at least
twice as far from the edges of the wheel as
the diameter of the body of the animal. That
is if the animal has a body diameter of two
inches, the supports should be four inches or
more from the sides. of the wheel. This is to
prevent injury to the animal by being caught
between a spoke of the revolving wheel and
the support for the axle.

The inclined disc wheel is easier to make
and is satisfactory for mice, hamsters, and
shrews. It should be made of a disc 10 to 15
inches in diameter, of one/eighth inch mason!
ite, plywood, or other rigid material that can
be easily cleaned. On the bottom side of the
disc, at the center, a piece of sheet metal per
haps an inch square should be placed under
a block of wood two or three inches square
and one and one/fourth inches thick. In the
center of the hole in the block of wood,
there should be bored a hole of proper siZe
to ﬁt freely over a nail or small rod that
projects upward through a wooden base that
is at least six inches square. This nail or rod
is bent slightly so that the disc stands in an
inclined position. The little square of metal
between the block and disc is to keep the axle
from wearing a hole in the disc. The wheel
must run very easily, as you will have only
one mouse/power to run it.

Such wheels give the animals a great deal
of pleasure and much needed exercise, and
in many instances they deﬁnitely contribute
to the animals’ health and longevity.

Digging and tree climbing animals are ac—
customed in the wild to a great deal of wear
on their toe nails. In captivity they do not
have the opportunity to keep the nails worn
down by climbing or digging so it some-
times becomes necessary to cut the nails

'17

back. However, it is preferable to provide
tree-climbing creatures with rough limbs to
climb so that they can keep their claws worn

down to some extent; sometimes burrowing

animals can be induced to dig into holes in
lean concrete.

The front or incisor teeth of rodents grow
continuously throughout life and they must
be kept worn down or they will grow so
long that the animal cannot eat. Therefore,
plenty of hard nuts should be made avail-
able, which the animals must gnaw into in
order to get the nut meat. Also, freshly cut
green limbs and roots will frequently be
gnawed by many animals such as porcupines.
Such woody material is particularly valuable
in helping them keep their teeth in proper
condition.

It should be borne in mind that close
physical restraint is the one thing that ani-
mals fear most. If they are held in the hand
before they are accustomed to contact with
humans they will often struggle so Violently
they will injure themselves. Also if they are
put into‘a small container without a place
to hide they may~=~ injure themselves. One
method that "will sometimes help them to
feel less "exposed and frightened is to put
material in the: container before they are
put into .— it, under which or behind which
they can hide. For example, small burrowing
creatures are greatly relieved if there is leaf
mold, soil, or sand in the cage or box. Other
small mammals will be best satisﬁed if there
is a mass of leaves or loose cloth.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

A

To those of us who are somewhat familiar
with animals, the ignorance displayed by
many people regarding them is incredible.
We receive many calls from people saying
that they have come into possession of an
animal. They usually, but not always, recog-
nize it as a bird or a mammal (they usually
say animal), but they rarely distinguish
between reptiles and amphibians. Many
think that bats are birds and few have the
slightest conception of whether or not the
animals are young or adult, and what they
would normally eat. Very few realize that
reptiles must be kept warm to be active. Still
fewer realize that the amphibians must be
kept moist. Very few have the slightest con-
ception of the various kinds of invertebrates
or their requirements.

It is therefore essential that the informa-
tion supplied be most elementary, simple,
readily understood, and speciﬁc.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to give
much of the needed information in written
form without assuming that the recipient of
the information has at least a fair knowledge
of the various kinds of animals. It therefore
appears advisable to adopt a method of feed-
ing that I have found over many years to
be helpful, without much danger of causing
speciﬁc harm or injury to the animals: I urge
people to offer the animal that falls into
their hands the widest possible variety of
foods and let it make the choice. I suggest
fruits, both fresh and frozen (thoroughly
thawed); fresh wholesome uncooked meat,
such as hamburger; worms and insects; eggs
in almost any form, both cooked and raw

 

18

magma @@ %%%%21%@

(the yolk of hard-boiled eggs is relished by
many creatures); fresh milk or milk with
raw egg and hamburger mixed in it; such
fresh green material as lettuce, cabbage, kale,
spinach, and other leafy material including
lawn clippings, the leaves and twigs of
forest trees and shrubs, root vegetables such
as carrots, sweet potatoes, and Irish potatoes;
also grains, such as dry uncooked rolled oats,
sunﬂower seeds, and packaged bird seed.

The prepared commercial baby food called
Pablum is a nutritious combination that is
relished by many different animals, not only
in the dry form as it comes from the pack-
age, but also moistened or cooked.

People often ask whether or not the food
should be cooked. I have found that it will
stimulate their thinking to ask them who
cooks food for the animals in the wild, and
follow this up by an admonition that they
bear in mind how the animal lives in the
wild, that it will necessarily obtain its shelter
and food in the immediate vicinity in which
it is living. Since the availability of the foods
and the kinds will vary with the seasons,
the animal will normally vary its diet some-
what with the seasons, and it will have a
wide variety of plant and animal material
from which to select. In general, I believe it
safe to inform people that if an animal is
not suffering from some serious dietary de-
ﬁciency, it is well to offer it a very wide
variety of foods so that the animal can make
its own selection. With such a wide selection
before it, there is little or no danger that it
will take food which is not good for it.
This method of feeding animals has been

 




a L

In
lag]?
' Q

.~ 547%?
2&5;
’34: .
‘7 "13ml:

"4“

r: r ‘5
. - ~11
43%,,
~ z~

I:

x J 1::
ﬁﬁﬁﬁm e4“
.
ﬁe #913

“‘7 .1

 

Photograph by International News Photos

Recently Hatched Baby Bird in Cotton-wool Nest
(Although this bird is being fed with an eye-dropper, it needs solid food such as worms,
small bits of meat and fruit.)

A Glass Tube Made into a Feeder for Hummingbirds.

(It is provismned With a liquid made up of about equal

parts of honey, Mellon’s food and water. Such a feeder

can be placed on a window ledge or elsewhere that

IS accessible to hummingbirds It can be decorated to
look like a ﬂower.)

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

19

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

given a thorough tryout with creatures re- r.

garding which little is known or which are
known to be very difficult to keep in cap-
tivity. Also, this method has generally been
well accepted by thousands of people to
whom it has been given.

With such a wide variety of food offered
to the animals, it is then an easy matter
to observe what they like and also to offer
some prepared foods. Indeed, there are a
few foods, like sweet potatoes, that seem
to be more acceptable to the animals when
cooked. However, cooking often destroys the
vitamins or washes out valuable minerals
and it is obvious that in the long run the
tastes of the animals indicate a preference
for the natural raw foods.

It should be borne in mind that the car—
nivorous animals, and others that eat animal
life, generally consume the entire body of
their victim which includes the glands, blood,
hair, or feathers, and often the bones. The
whole animal is a complete food or bal-
anced diet for those creatures that live on
animal food, but red meat which humans
usually use lacks much that is essential.
Therefore it is desirable when feeding meat-
eating animals to let them have, at least at
intervals, dead whole mice, rats, pigeons, or
other animals.

- Vitamins have been used with remarkable
success in many instances in building up
animals that were obviously failing and in
keeping others in good health. In general,
we do not know enough about the vitamin
requirements of animals to be able to pre-
scribe speciﬁcally, but fortunately un-needed
or excess vitamins apparently do no harm,

1’1)

and if the animal needs any portion of the
vitamin mixture that is given, it may be
distinctly benefited. Therefore, it is some-
times a good plan to make a palatable vita-
min mixture available to animals. Such mix-
ture should be of types that can be mixed in
the milk or water or placed on food, or that
the animal will take voluntarily. Veterinari-
ans can give much good advice regarding vi-
tamin and mineral preparations for animals.
One should not attempt to force animals
to take food or medicine unless the person
prescribing and administering is well qual-
ified to determine what should be given and
how it should be administered. Fresh clean
drinking water should be available at all
times, and while the addition of vitamins
to drinking water was mentioned above, it
should not be a regular practice. It should
be done Only occasionally to facilitate the
animal in taking the vitamin mixture. Cod
liver oil is a valuable supplement to the
regular food.

In View of the foregoing discussion, it
will be seen that when an animal is to be
cared for, it is important first to determine
as nearly as possible the kind of animal

 

whether it be a mammal, bird, reptile, am-
phibian, ﬁsh or invertebrate. If it is a quite
young mammal, its normal food would be
its mother’s milk. If it is past the baby stage,
it should have made available to it the type
of food it would obtain in the wild or as
close an approach to it as possible. If it is
a young bird of the passerine type, which is
the most plentiful, it will probably accept
worms of many different kinds or hamburger
and small bits of fruit. If it is an adult of the
small bird type, it will probably thrive on

 

 

 




this, but may also take seeds. If it is a hawk ﬁsh—either small whole ones or strips of

or an owl, it should have liver, and other larger ﬁsh. It should be released just as soon
organs. If it is a sea coast type of bird, or as it can take care of itself in the same area
one of the herons, it will probably accept in which it was found.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Baby Pipistrelle Bat Taking Milk from or Medicine Dropper
while it Rests on the Arm of the Author

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

@Ahﬁhﬁaiﬁ

This group includes the host of furry and
hairy creatures that range in size from the
tiny shrew—smaller than a mouse——to ele-
phants, and includes such spiny, scaled or
plate-covered creatures as the porcupines,
pangolins, and armadillos, also the otters
and seals that inhabit both fresh water and
salt water, and the whales and porpoises.

In this very abridged account we can con-
sider only the more common small land
forms. All of these young are nursed on
their mothers’ milk. Most of them are help-
less when born and must be kept warm and
be fed milk at frequent intervals. In general,
they can be kept warm by being placed in
a box or basket with plenty of clean, soft,
dry material such as woolen cloth or soft
cleansing tissue paper. If they are cold to
the touch, artificial heat can be supplied by
placing them near the pilot light of a gas
stove or an electric heating pad turned low,
or near a lamp bulb. Care should be taken
in all such installations that there is no
danger of starting a fire and that the little
ones do not become too hot. In general,
they should be offered food at two-hour in-
tervals or even more frequently, from early
in the morning until evening, and some
will probably thrive better if they are fed
occasionally through the night. Several dif-
ferent milk formulas have been used suc-
cessfully. The one that is listed below has
been particularly satisfactory:

Two ounces of homogenized milk diluted with
one ounce of water

OR

Three ounces of cow’s milk from which about

22

one-half of the cream has been removed
One teaspoonful raw egg yolk

Four drops of Jeculin

One drop Vavitol or Viosterol

One-fourth teasposnful calcium gluconate

Stir until thoroughly mixed. Keep in refrig-
erator. Warm to bocly temperature the small
amount needed for each feeding.

If the vitamin and food concentrate in-
gredients are not avaifable, some animals
will survive on fresh cow’s milk from which
about one-half of the cream has been re-
moved. Also, evaporated milk diluted with
about an equal amount of water has been
successful in some instances. The length of
time that the young should be on milk
varies greatly with the kind of animal. With
baby shrews it varies from a few days to
about two weeks. Baby ”ﬂying” squirrels
and baby tree squirrels nurse about two
months. If one does not have specific in-
formation as to the period over which it
should be given milk, he can learn from
the animal by making available to it various
kinds of solid food in addition to the milk.
When the animal has reached the proper
stage of development, it will naturally begin
to nibble on suitable foods if they are
offered. This is the beginning of a transition
period during which the animal will volun-
tarily reduce its consumption of milk and
increase the amount of solid food that it
takes. However, milk should be made avail-
able to it for as long as it will take it, even
at irregular intervals.

Doll nursing bottles can usually be ob-
tained at ﬁve and ten cent stores. These are




A Bat and a

IIF'

and could not i?

ymg
nd i

ll

Squi

ts way out.
but these pets tolerated one another.

In the wi
)

rrel that are Pets of the Author.
Id,
2

 

bats and

(The bat had
”ﬂying” squi

entered a bui
rrels are not fri

[ding
ends,

Photograph by E.

rnest P.

Walker

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

fairly satisfactory for the feeding of small
animals. In selecting such bottles, it is well
to choose one that has the smallest opening
in the nipple; this will help to prevent
strangling the little creatures by giving the
milk too fast. Medicine droppers also can be
used on very small creatures. When giving
milk to the helpless young, great care should
be taken to give it slowly so that they do
not strangle. Milk bubbling out of the nose
of the little creature is a certain sign that
the milk is being given too rapidly.

Such creatures as mice, rats, rabbits,
squirrels and other rodents should be of-
fered dry oats, peanut hearts, peanuts, other
nut meats, green foods such as lettuce, car-
rots, kale, etc., and some fruit; some will
take bits of meat, cottage cheese, etc. As
soon as they are able to open the harder nuts,
such as acorns, pecans, walnuts, and hickory
nuts, they should be given plenty of these
nuts whole so that they must work for a
considerable time to open them. The front
or incisor teeth of these creatures grow rapid-
ly and continuously throughout life and must
be worn down by a great deal of gnawing.
Otherwise they will grow so long that the
animal cannot eat even though plenty of
food is available.

Young skunks, opossums, raccoons, foxes,
and other meat-eaters should be offered ham-
burger and other meats, ﬁsh, uncooked eggs,
an assortment of fruits, green vegetables, and
table scraps. Some will eat considerable fruit
and vegetable material, while others will
take very little of this and will prefer the
meat, eggs, milk, etc. Shrews must have an
abundance of food constantly available. Their
preference is earth worms, other worms, in-

sects, meat and eggs, although some will
also eat many different kinds of food includ-
ing nut meats, sunﬂower seeds, and some
fruit and green material. Seals are mainly
ﬁsh eaters, but they should also be offered
crabs, crayﬁsh, and shrimp.

Fish will frequently be taken by many of
the mammals. Canned salmon and canned
tuna are often relished.

Rabbits can be kept either indoors or out—
doors. If outdoors, they should be securely
enclosed so that they will not be killed by
predators. They should have a snug shelter
in their hutch where they can get away from
inclement weather, and there should be am-
ple shade so that they can get out of the
sun in hot weather. They can be fed
rabbit pellets which are available at many
of the pet stores and feed stores; grains,
such as oats and wheat; green material, such
as grass, clover, some seeds, lettuce, carrots,
kale, etc. Perhaps the most important factor
for keeping rabbits successfully is cleanliness,
because they are far more susceptible than
most animals to digestive disturbance from
soiling of their quarters and food. Their food
should be clean and fresh.

Enclosures for rabbits should have a mini-
mum of 8 square feet for the smaller kinds
of rabbits and 15 square feet for the larger
breeds. There are many different types of
enclosures that can be provided — portable
ones with wire fabric bottoms so that they
can be moved onto clean grassy areas 01‘
be permanently located. Any enclosure for
rabbits should be so constructed that it can
be kept thoroughly clean. Wire mesh bOt-
toms are used in commercial rabbit raising.

 

 




 

 

‘ They should be protected with a roof over
1 at least a portion of the cage and there
should be a nest box with an end or side
opening in which the animal can take
shelter.

Small mammals should have a nest box

 

~15 -,-< gin
1.55575
”h-

,7;

b. - ”#513 °
Ziggy”
‘4

’7‘
1,1,:

Motherless

a . .

#157 ° aa' I , 1"”!
#71.” a :1" ‘ A: q . - l ‘1-
~ " warms: . ”a - , .w ,,
‘i °.a5 57:: g . H :2- . V II”

a

in which they can hide and feel secure away
from any disturbance, and many of them
will beneﬁt by having clean nest material
such as paper or dry leaves. Those from
desert regions should have clean dry sand
to help keep their fur in good condition.

”1,, ‘37,,“

I 'I‘u‘ 5,,

$12,725“ gr

’ ,h 'Ltzg a '
a

r .o .75

,. ‘03,,

a
7" b‘
., .
7,310
1’!" "

”é

.
”ﬁbﬁﬁa’s
:25? Z 9
a at,“
“I f
.
Ito»- g,
#1,” a
a ‘7... a " 7
‘- . "75:: g! a
ﬂaw

”a3”? '
z-wﬁ£ﬁ¢¢utﬁéﬁﬁzf§
l’zr",,:’:{[$"””577,,“’.
uryh ,ozﬁ avg

”I

, z b ,

1”,], Nahum" :

c ‘1: may»:

, ‘4 1'3 0241,1252” inn, ‘ 4N

.14] ’- ‘ ,I I. ’1 1,, 1,
07’2“ 5;, 5,13%!!! ’2 I "h

z .' . .3: ..
gzgw°§zﬁ§zi~m (4%;
17‘ ‘r ”ml #h-"u ‘
52%;?” 5.2%:sz ”on". up}? ”-
wish :,.°~ .: b£757: Ania mi?
“532$ng '7 MM ~

:2
,
112- 3'3
. iﬁizi‘ ‘4'.”
n a:

, lair/slow
4m ’ , 7f; [y/I’ .“ {ll/AH”
u Wig/ii éZZiZ/
’ ‘4 7/7‘29/1 ‘
”z ’ {415% l .

l
I

' f

,Z%[77.,'°
1/:

’75 7

7
r1 ’1 '
'2’5-21 l
£74226 ‘ 7 é/L

.1], 'Ir l
”VWIZEE

 

Photograph by International News Photos

Baby Rabbits Being Fed Milk in Do" Nursing Bottles

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

%E%%%

The birds that most frequently fall into
the hands of humans are small and medium
size types, which are nestlings or youngsters
just out of the nest. If they have just left
the nest, their parents are usually around
and ready to take care of them, so it is well
to let them alone. Some birds that are in-
jured, usually by ﬂying into a building or
being struck by automobiles, can best be
cared for by being kept quiet in a somewhat
darkened box or cage for a short time.

The young will almost always require some
insulating material around or over them to
assist them in conserving their body warmth,
in lieu of the hovering and warming parents.
If they feel cold to the touch, artiﬁcial heat
can be sup-plied as suggested for mammals.

Almost all birds of this type, whether
young or adult, can live on a diet of worms
and insects, or bits of hamburger supple-
mented by berries and other fruits; some will
take considerable quantities of seeds, grain,
and other farinaceous material such as dry
breakfast foods. The yolk of hard-boiled egg
can well be offered to many of them. Fresh
water should always be available. A good
food mixture that can ordinarily be made up
at most homes is:

Equal parts of raw hamburger, boiled eggs
(hard), and pablum.

Mix these ingredients together and roll into
small balls the size of the bird’s throat. Give
by means of a pair of tweezers. Feed every
twenty minutes during the day. Place the
food far back into the mouth of the bird.
Give several drops of water by means of an
eye dropper slowly.

Parent birds feed their young at very
frequent intervals, many as often as every
15 minutes or even more frequently. This
suggests that the best method of caring for
such small birds is to feed them moderate
amounts at very frequent intervals.

Other birds, such as eagles, ospreys, hawks
and owls feed their young on small animal
prey such as mice, rats, ﬁsh for the ospreys
and large insects for the sparrow hawks.
Hawks and owls do well on meats, including
some liver, and ﬁsh. This is good food to
provide when it is necessary to keep them
captive in order to administer ﬁrst aid. These
birds should be released as soon as possible
in the locality where they were found.

The young of herons (long-legged, long-
necked birds that usually frequent the vicin-
ity of water) usually eat ﬁsh, frogs, and
crayﬁsh, and they will thrive best on such
a diet. However, comparatively few of these
birds fall into human hands.

Gulls, terns and their relatives, and such
sea-coast birds as murres, pufﬁns, and guille-
mots, feed almost entirely on ﬁsh.

The young of quail, grouse, and pheasants
feed on a considerable assortment with em-
phasis on insects, but also seeds and plant
food. The diet of the adults is composed of
a considerable proportion of grain, seeds,
and insects, supplemented by green food and
fruit. In captivity the young can be offered
hamburger, ground-up hard-boiled egg, bits
of such green material as lettuce, fruit, seeds
and grain.

At Easter time many children are given
baby chickens and ducks, but they are not

 

 




 

 

 

given information as to how to care for
them. This often leads to much suffering
and early death, with heartbreak for the
children. It has also led to legislation in
many areas making it illegal to sell these
creatures as toys.

Baby ducks and chickens can be kept out-
doors, provided the weather is above freez-
ing, but very young ones (the kind usually
sold for the Easter trade) should be kept in
a temperature range between 50° and 800 F.
In the wild, they would normally pick up a
considerable assortment of plant and animal
food such as insects, worms, grubs, seeds and
grass, clover, etc. In captivity, they can be
fed the duck starter or the chicken starter
that is ordinarily available in pet stores. This
should be supplemented with such green
food as grass clippings, clover, or lettuce,
and other leafy vegetable material. If the
duck or chicken starter is not available, a
fairly satisfactory diet can be provided by

pouring hot water over corn meal to moisten
it so that it forms small balls or masses that
can be eaten by the chickens and ducklings.
Also give small amounts of hamburger,
small pieces of lettuce, and other leafy vege-
tables. The yolk of hard-boiled egg is also
often relished.

Parent birds do not carry water to their
young, but the food that they carry contains
a high proportion of moisture that is ordi-
narily adequate. However, it does no harm
to dip in water the food that one is going to
give to young birds so that they get some ad-
ditional moisture in this way. Raisins soaked
in water are often enjoyed. A small water
dish should be kept in the cage so that they
can drink when they want to do so.

It should be borne in mind that many of
the small North American birds are pro-
tected by Federal and State laws. One should
not plan to keep them in captivity but should
conﬁne one’s efforts to first aid.

 

Photograph by International News Photos

A Friendly Dog Warms Ducklings

27

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It should be borne in mind that reptiles
must be kept rather uniformly warm if they
are to remain active and eat. The North
American forms should not be subject to
temperatures much below 65° F. and they
stand the best chance of thriving if main-
tained at temperatures about 80° F. If they
are subject to chilling at night, even though
they may be warm enough during the day-
time, they will refuse to eat; but being some-
what active, they will be using up energy and
will starve to death. There-fore, persons who
have reptiles of any kind are confronted with
the problem of maintaining them at a con-
stant temperature that is acceptable to the
reptiles or letting them go into hibernation
during the colder period of the year.

Hibernation is a long winter sleep that is
enjoyed by practically all reptiles in the wild
state. During this period they are entirely
inactive, their temperature is lowered and
their breathing and heart beats are greatly
reduced. If they have gone into hibernation
in a good physical state and are kept under
favorable conditions, they regularly survive
for periods of six months or more and some
have survived for much longer periods. The
aquatic forms usually hibernate in mud or
moist locations. The dry land forms usually
burrow into the soil or go into locations
where they will be protected from extremes
of temperatures and have some slight degree
of moisture about them.

Reptiles are generally much less active
physically than birds or mammals, so they
require much less food for their size. Fre-

28

quently they will eat only at intervals of
several days or longer.

Alligators, crocodiles and their relatives
eat ﬁsh and meat. It is essential that they
be kept warm, preferably not below 80°;
they should be in a well-lighted location but
should have an opportunity to get out of the
direct rays of the sun. They should have a
pan or pool in which to swim and there
should be ample space above the water level
for them to dry off and bask in the sun. If
kept warm, they will usually eat meat and
ﬁsh in small amounts; the young eat daily,
but as they become older, they need not be
fed so often. Caution should be exercised
not to be bitten by them.

Turf/er

Turtles do not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, they are generally better off
if left in their natural surroundings. How-
ever, they may be kept for a few days in a
school room without harm and then returned
to the locality where they were found. The
land forms, such as the box turtle, should
not be put into deep water but should be in
an enclosure in which there is a shallow pan
of water into which it can scramble to drink
or to soak when it wants to; there should be
a dry area, which can be sand, earth, boards,
or paper. The dry land forms eat worms,
insects and grubs, and will often take ham-
burger in captivity. They also eat some plant
material such as lettuce and kale, and some
fruit such as tomatoes, strawberries, app1€Sa
grapes, etc. I have known a wild one that

 




A Little Girl Fondles

29

her Pef Green Snake

 

Photograph by Ernest P.

Walker

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

lived near a picnic area that would come to
get bread and butter and sugar. It is well
to put one or two drops of cod liver oil on
each feeding of hamburger for small and
medium size turtles and three or four drops
on the hamburger or ﬁsh for the larger size
turtles.

The fresh water forms, such as are found
around our streams and lakes and which are
sold in stores, thrive in an aquarium but
must have a dry area above water where
they can come out, dry, and sun themselves.
They are particularly fond of worms and in-
sects and will take hamburger and bits of
ﬁsh, also small amounts of fruit and green
food. Care must be taken to keep the turtle’s
terrarium in a location which does not com—
pel the animal to remain in hot direct sun-
light for hours. Captive turtles and other
animals left on window ledges exposed to
the direct rays of the sun are sometimes
killed.

Snapping turtles (fresh water forms) reg-
ularly feed on ﬁsh and animal food. They
are aggressive and vicious, and give severe
bites. Anyone handling them shOuld use
considerable caution not to be bitten, for
they draw their heads back and strike quick-
ly and at a surprising distance. They are
best left alone.

Marine turtles are not ordinarily taken
into captivity, except occasionally along the
sea coast. They rarely thrive in captivity un-
less one is particularly well equipped to care
for them. Their food consists of ﬁsh and
other kinds of animal life, and some eat
considerable vegetable material.

Snakes

Snakes hold a remarkable fascination for

30

many youngsters and very few children are
afraid of them. It is apparently the adults
who pass on from generation to generation
the strong aversions, erroneous beliefs and
superstitions regarding snakes which in most
cases have little or no foundation of truth.
In North America, poisonous snakes com-
pose a very small percentage of the total
number of species and individuals. There
are only two groups that are poisonous: the
pit-vipers, including the rattlesnakes, copper-
heads, and true water mocassins, and the
elapine snakes, including the coral snakes.
All other North American snakes are not
only non-poisonous but are generally beneﬁ-
cial in the balance of nature because they
prey upon rats and mice which are so de-
structive to our crops. Like turtles, they may
be brought to the classroom for a few days,
then returned to the place where they were
found. Most snakes can be kept in captivity
for short periods with only moderate facil-
ities and without much difﬁculty. Tluey do
not require much care nor elaborate cages. A
box with a glass front, and a few holes or
cracks in it to admit air, is usually adequate.
\Water should be available at all times.
Snakes in general eat whole animals rang-
ing in size from worms, grubs, insects, mice,
rats and squirrels to larger creatures for the
larger snakes. Many snakes also eat eggs.
The non-poisonous North American snakes
—particularly the small ones and the young
~should be offered worms, grubs and in-
sects. The large kinds, if taken at all, should
be kept no more than a day or two, during
which time it is not necessary to feed them.
They should then be returned to the place
where they were found. Most snakes are
rather irregular in their feeding. After hav-

 




 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P.

1m“ r .
7!? J1 . : .

 

Sim ulates Desert Conditions. (There are sand, a
h they may hide. There is also a small dish of
ade of pebble glass on the two sides and the

Horned and Other Lizards in a Cage that
small cactus plant and stones under whic
water. The cage is well lighted, being m
back, while the front is of clear glass.)

J .

Walker

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ing eaten a good meal, they may go for sev-
eral days or weeks without eating again. If
they are cold they will not eat at all. Ere»
quently they will refuse to eat when they
are preparing to shed their skins. At this
time they should have a slightly moist loca-
tion to facilitate the loosening of the skin,
and it is well for them to have rough objects
against which they can rub to help them
remove the old skin.

Lizards

Like other reptiles, lizards must be kept
warm; otherwise they become sluggish, will
not eat, and will want to go into hibernation.
Some lizards eat plant food such as fruits
and green leaves; others eat a mixture of
plant and animal foods, including insects and
worms. Practically all of the North Amer-
ican forms feed almost entirely on worms,
grubs and insects.

The little green or brown lizards sold at
circuses and carnivals as. "chameleons,” are
really anolis, which inhabit the southwestern
United States. Purchasers are sometimes told
that they need be fed only sweetened water.
This, however, is erroneous. They require
living insects such as ﬂies, moths, or meal
worms, and they will eat many other kinds.
Qne good way of restraining them and giv-
ing them an opportunity to get live food is
to build a cage of mesh small enough to
keep the lizard from escaping but large
enough to admit insects. The cage can have
in it a growing plant so that the lizard can
climb about on the plant. The cage, plant,
and lizard can be kept on a window ledge
or other location where insects can get to it

but it should not be constantly in the direct
rays of the sun. Insects can be induced to
come into the cage by placing water, bits of
fruit, syrup, or meat in the cage. When the
live insects come to these baits, the lizard
will have an opportunity to catch them. The
American anolis will sometimes eat some
very ripe banana, which helps to supplement
its diet.

Horned lizards of the southwestern United
States are frequently kept in captivity. They
feed most readily on ants and if one cannot
otherwise provide them with suitable food, a
small cage can be constructed of wire fabric
and placed on the ground in the vicinity of
an ant colony. With baits of sugar or other
food placed in the cage to attract the ants,
the horned lizard can be left there for a few
hours at a time to catch them.

All lizards require water but some will not.

drink it freely. However, a shallow dish of
water should be made available to them. One
way of giving them water is to spray the
lizard and plant with lukewarm water at fre-
quent intervals, as lizards take up moisture
through the skin. The false Chameleon or
anolis will rarely drink from a dish, although
occasionally one will drink from a teaspoon
held to its mouth. The best way to make cer-
tain that they are adequately supplied with
water is to sprinkle them, and the surface
on which they rest, with lukewarm water.
Another way that will sometimes help those
that appear to be drying up is to let them
stand brieﬂy in a shallow pan of warm
water. It is usually necessary to hold the
lizard, but keep its head out of the water;
you can sometimes see the skin absorbing
moisture like a blotter taking up ink.

 




 

 

 

f%%%%% f?

The best temperature range for amphib-
ians is from 650 to 80°, a temperature lower
than 630 will cause most of them to cease
to eat, become sluggish, and want to go into

hibernation

This group includes the toads, frogs and
salamanders and the immature forms of the
toads and frogs that are known as tadpoles.
They have relatively smooth, moist skin and
must be in fairly moist surroundings to

survive.

The North American frogs and toads feed
almost exclusively on worms and insects, and
if they are to be kept in captivity, they should
be offered a good assortment of these until
the person learns deﬁnitely the kinds that

they will accept or refuse.

Very satisfactory containers are aquariums
partially filled with water and with some
area above the water level, perhaps covered
with moss. Also large cans containing water
and stones can be used, but the cans should
be discarded when they begin to rust.

Toads and Frogs

A terrarium can be arranged in an aqua-
rium, or in a box or big pan provided with
a dish of water large enough for the frog 0r
toad to get into. The terrarium should also
include an area, preferably with soil and per-
haps some moss or living plants, where the
animal can get out of water. Most toads and
frogs feed mainly on worms, grubs, and in-
sects, and they can often be kept with good
Success. They lay their eggs in fresh water,
usually in pools in the spring time. The eggs

5 3

 

soon hatch into tadpoles that have a tail.
They grow for a period in this stage. Finally,
the tail is absorbed, legs are developed, and
they become fully formed little frogs or
toads. Tadpoles live entirely in the water
and breathe through gills, but by a gradual
transition they become air-breathing creatures
with lungs. This is a remarkable phenom-
enon of nature that is a fascinating study

for children.

Most tadpoles feed almost exclusively on
soft plant tissues such as algae and soft
green leaves. If they cannot be provided
with water, soil, and vegetation of the type
among which they would normally live, they
can sometimes be raised on very soft lettuce
leaves that are dropped in the water and
allowed to disintegrate still further. Tiny
pieces of meat or fresh bones or bone mar-
row should also be put in the water to take
the place of the minute animal life some of
them would eat in the wild.

It is essential that tadpoles be in water
until they are ready to leave it voluntarily
to go on to adjacent drier areas after they
have absorbed their tails and gills and de-
veloped legs. At this time they are ready
for small worms and insects such as their
parents consume, but of smaller size.

Salamander:

Salamanders have tails throughout their
lives, in addition to their arms and legs. In
their early stages they have gills which are
later absorbed in most forms; some breathe
through the skin. They feed mainly on mi-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

nute animal life and should be offered small
worms, insects and grubs. Some Will also
take bits of hamburger and ﬁsh if attached
to a straw and moved slowly before them.
A terrarium or aquarium with some space

Two Argentine Horned Frogs in a
Earth and Growing Plants

above x'ater on which they can rest is ade-
quate for salamanclers. Very attractive eX-
hibits can be provided by the use of aquatic
plants, moss or other types of plants.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Cage that has a Shallow Pool of Water,

'\ J a
;.i

 

 




 

__ _ 2.1 _nv4“,r 4.. 4/

 

 

Fﬂiﬁ

Children playing near shallow fresh and
salt water frequently capture small ﬁsh and,
sometimes take them home alive. To care
for them, the ﬁrst requirement of course is
to provide either fresh or salt water, depend-
ing upon the kind of water from which they
are taken. The aquarium need not be elab-
orate. Indeed, almost any sort of a container
that will hold enough water can be used. But
it is important that there be a considerable
volume of water in order that the oxygen
necessary for the ﬁsh to survive will not be
quickly depleted. The larger the exposed
surface of water the better. Depth is not of
so much importance but the sides of the con-
tainer must be high enough above the water
level to prevent the ﬁsh from jumping out.

\Without attempting to designate the kinds
of foods that are best for the many different
kinds of ﬁsh, it is suggested that the ﬁsh be
supplied with the widest possible variety of
insects, worms, and grubs and with bits of
hamburgers, as well as small amounts of
such green foods as lettuce, cabbagE, graSS,
clover, and tiny bits of fruit. Small amounts
Of cooked cereal can also be offered in the
water. Some satisfactory packaged ﬁsh foods
can be obtained at the better pet stores.
From this array of material, the ﬁsh will
Perhaps be able to obtain food that is suit-
able for its requirements. Bear in mind that
ﬁSh eat but small amounts, so be sparing in
the quantities given.

. Livmg aquatic plants growing in the aqua-
rium Will assist in keeping the water in suit-
zlble condition for the welfare of th€ 05h.

7":
:- F

Indeed, if a suitable balance of plant and
animal life is provided, it will not be neces-
sary to change the water in the aquarium.
However, if there is not enough growing
plant life, and if an excess of food is left in
the water, it will be necessary to change the
water in the aquarium at fairly frequent in-
tervals or at least syphon off from the bottom
a portion of the water and add fresh water

to keep up the supply.

SALT WATER FORMULAS

Formula Formula
1 2
SALT 6/0 670 Pounds Ounces
Sodium chloride 2.700 2.840 28 6
Potassium chloride 0.075 0.078 12%,
Calcium. chloride
(anhydrous) 0.113 0.125 1 4
Magnesium chloride
(6H20) 0.295 0.547 5 71/;
Magnesium Sulphate
(7H20) 0.682 0.719 7 3
Potassium bromide 0.010 ........
Sodium carbonate
(10H20) 0.033 ........
Sodium bicarbonate 0 193 0.013 2
Potassium nitrate ........ 0.013 2
Sodium monohydrogen
phosphate ........ 0.001 1/6
Ferric chloride ........ 0.0005 1/12

The pounds and ounces in the last column are for
100 gallons of formula 2, using 50ft fresh water or
distilled water. The last three ingredients in the table
should be added after the ﬁrst group has dissolved.
The resulting solution should have a speciﬁc gravity
of about 1.025, and, since most marine species do very
well at 1.020, it may be diluted to that reading if re-
quired. Some queer and interesting effects, varying
greatly with species, are sometimes seen as a result
of such speciﬁc gravity changes. Fish obviously un-
happy at 1.030 may perk up and look ﬁne at 1.020.
vet others which are dashing around and eating well
at 1.030 may decline at 1.020. The majority seem to
prefer the rather more diluted water.

17772111 “CH/lure JUN/100’s

‘,..' a .";,_:-':.
fnr [777'i77‘ILFfNYI/Y‘ Klmmalx " 1

 

 

 

 

 




 

(Animals without backbones,
mainly small to minute creatures.)

be kept moist if they are to survive. Those

There are many different kinds of inver-
that are accustomed to sea water should

tebrates, almost every one of which has its
own peculiar requirements, so it is not ad-
visable to do much more than outline a few
basic principles for their care.

have salt water.
There is no satisfactory substitute for sea
water, so if one intends to keep marine

Observe where they are found and the forms he should make plans to obtain fresh
conditions under which they are living, and clear sea water regularly or to arrange to
.try to simulate the conditions that nature ﬁlter and aerate his supply. Some forms. of
would normally have maintained for them life can be kept fairly well in a solution
at the location where they are found. That consisting of either one of the two formulas
is, are they living in fresh water? In salt liStfid on Page 35.

water? In moist earth? In dry sand? Among
the rocks at high altitudes, or low altitudes?
In a hot climate, or in a cold climate? Then
consider the type of food that would be

 

available in those locations. By such obser-
vations and the exercise of ingenuity, even
the novice can learn to maintain very attrac-
tive and successive exhibits of invertebrates.
Containers for such exhibits can range from
cans, jars, or inexpensive aquariums to elab-
orate cages and tanks. There are a number
of handbooks and manuals that tell how to i
care for some invertebrates. A few are listed
in the bibliography.

Insects are particularly interesting subjects
that are usually readily available and can
provide attractive and fascinating exhibits,
in which one can witness the remarkable
changes in the form of an individual during
the course of its life. ‘ l

Creatures of the sea coast are commonly
found. Perhaps the most frequently taken of
these are the crustaceans, such as the hermit
crabs, crayﬁsh, other little relatives of the
lobster, shrimp and edible crab. They breathe
through a gill type of apparatus and must

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Laboratory Jar Culture of Wax Maths and Wax Worms

36

 

 

 




 

 

l
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Most of these creatures feed on a consid-
erable variety of animal and plant material
so they may well be offered bits of ﬁsh,
meat, worms, and insects, and small amounts
of green plant material—or, better yet, the
algae of the sea coast.

Clams, mussels, snails, and snail-like crea-
tures that frequent marine habitats, fresh
water streams and lakes, and dry land plants
are all found by children. Those native to
ocean beaches should be provided with salt
water and sand in which they can burrow,
or rocks on which they can climb or under
which they can hide. Sea weed and algae

and minute animal life native to the beaches
can be put into the aquarium. Such food
material as pieces of lettuce and other green
plant material and bits of ﬁsh and meat can
be supplied in the hope that some may be
suitable for the kinds of creatures being kept.
Fresh water forms should, of course, be
kept in fresh water aquariums with plants.
The minute animal life of fresh water
streams and ponds might also be introduced
in the hope that some of it might be suitable
food for the larger creatures in the aquarium.
In addition, such food material as was men
tioned for the marine forms can be offered.

 

A Pyramidal

37

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Hy Trap made of Fine Mesh Wire Fabric. (See text page 40).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

3

ﬂ, /’
9 f2
4/ I

 

%@@

If it is not convenient to obtain live insects
and worms for food from pet stores or other
sources, it is possible to establish and main-
tain cultures for this'purpose. A few of the

/

more important ones are as follows:

H ow to Rem” [Vim] 117017725

Meal worms (Tenebrio molitor or T. ob-
scurus) are greatly relished by many different
kinds of creatures. They can be raised easily
in pans, jars or cans that have smooth sides
and a depth of 8 inches or more. They are
generally given as food in the larval or
worms stage, which is about an inch long
and 1/8 inch in diameter. However, the bee-
tles are also relished by some animals, and
these insects are excellent food.

In the National Zoological Park, the meal
worm cultures are maintained in trays or
drawers about 40 inches long, 20 inches from
front to back, and 8 to 10 inches deep, with
metal bottoms and a metal overhang around
the edge at the top. Bran or corn meal is
put in the drawers to a depth of 2 t0 3 inches
and two layers of burlap are placed on the
bran. The culture is occasionally sprinkled
lightly with water to supply moisture, and
pieces of potato, apple, and banana peel are
put into the bran to supplement the meal
worms’ diet. Do not make the bran or corn
moist, or it will mildew.

When the larvae are full grown, they con-
gregate between the two layers of the burlap.
It is then an easy matter to scoop up quan-
tities of them. It is also possible to separate
them from the bran by sifting through a

(3%

V
a

a
a.

\

TllEe

coarse-mesh screen, allowing the bran with
the dusty residue and small worms and eggs
to fall back into the tray.

Small cultures can be kept in pound coffee
cans, or in almost any container that has
ventilation and will retain the insects.

Meal worms do not deveIOp rapidly, so
one should have as much as 2 square feet
of floor space in the containers if he expects
to feed many worms to an animal. All stages
of the meal worm are relished. The worms
are preferred, but the beetles are probably
more valuable food as they are the mature
(sexual) form.

The original stock for starting a culture of
meal worms can be obtained from some pet
stores or animal dealers. Persons who do
not have access to such sources might be
able to obtain wild ones from granaries or
other places where the worms and beetles
have established themselves in grain, bran,
meal, or flour.

H 020 10 Rear 1?sz Moth

Wax moths and wax worms (Galleria
mellonella) are relished by many animals,
though refused by some. These insects can be
raised easily and rapidly by establishing a
culture in a can or jar of at least One-gallon
capacity with a close-ﬁtting, fine-mesh wire
screen top. Fill the container about half full
with beeswax from which the honey has
been extracted, leaving the wax loosely ar-
ranged, that is, not packed down in the jar.
If bee comb is not available, the insects will
thrive on the following mixture: 1 part ﬁne

 

 




 

corn meal, 2 parts whole-wheat ﬂour, 2 parts
skim milk powder, 1 part powdered dried
yeast, and 2 parts standard wheat middlings.
This should be thoroughly mixed. When
ready for use, it should be mixed with equal
parts of honey and glycerine until it is about
the consistency of wet sand.

Start the culture with a few newly-emerged
wax moths, or wax worms in any stage of
development, and put on the wire lid so it
ﬁts snugly. If humidity is low, a tablespoon-
ful of water should be sprinkled over the
wax about once a week. If the humidity is
high, no additional moisture is likely to be
needed. Keep the culture at room tempera-
ture, and within a week or two there should
be worms, and perhaps some moths. The
growth is very rapid and the food is quickly
consumed. If properly cared for, a can or jar
of about two gallon capacity should produce
almost a quarter of a pound of worms and
moths a week.

When the moths or worms are to be given
as food, take out masses of the cocoons or
wax with worms and moths on it, and let
the animal catch them. Replenish the wax,
and the culture will continue with the great
number of tiny worms that remain in the
jar. Be certain always to leave a few newly
emerged moths in the jar to lay eggs for the
next crop.

Don’t allow the worms to escape where
they can damage cloth, paper, books, or
Wood. The moths do no damage by eating,
and apparently any eggs they lay in house-
furnishings do not batch, or at least do not
survive. The worms can do considerable
damage,

The moths or worms for starting the cul-
ture might be obtainable from bee raisersa

who ﬁnd them to be serious pests in apiaries.
How to Rear Eﬁcbytraez'd W/ormr

Enchytraeus are white worms only about
the size of a No. 20 thread and an inch long.
They are easy to raise and are particularly
good food for small ﬁsh and some other
small creatures such as crayﬁsh.

They can be raised in tight containers
such as a wooden box or dish pan. In the
container, place rich leaf mold and soil to
a depth of 3 to 4 inches. Stock the culture
soil with worms obtained from dealers in
aquarium or biological Supplies or from
other sources. Rolled oats, cereals, cracker
crumbs or pieces of boiled potato can be
used as food. The soil should be kept
slightly moist; it is well to have a cover
that will rest on the soil and yet will pro-
vide some air around the edges of the cover.
This will keep out light and help to prevent
too rapid evaporation. The culture container
should be kept where the temperature is
about 600 F. and the culture should receive
almost daily attention to make certain that
food, moisture and temperature conditions
are maintained satisfactorily.

The worms breed rapidly, and after the
culture has been going a short time, it will
be found that the worms. have collected in
groups like tangled string, for breeding. A
portion of these can be used for food for
animals and the culture can be kept going

indeﬁnitely.
How to Rear Cockroaches

Cockroaches are relished by many different
kinds of animals and since they can often
be readily obtained in the wild and can be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

reared easily, they are of considerable im-
portance for animal food. There are several
different kinds, all of which have their own
pecularities. of habits as well as form. Con-
siderable detail regarding this can be found
in the publication ”Rearing Cockroaches for
Experimental Purposes” by P. G. Piquett and
J. H. Fales, Agricultural Research Admin-
istration, US. Department of Agriculture,
Publication No. ET-301.

A simple way to maintain a culture for
supplying only a few cockroaches for pet
animals is to keep them in metal boxes. A
good size is 14 x 18 x 7 inches, with a
screen mesh wire top. Convenient shelters
for the insects can be provided in the cage
by notching the upper edge of round pint
ice-cream cartons and inverting them in the
cage so that the insects can get inside the
cartons for shelter. A cage of this size will
accommodate about 600 adult cockroaches,
if it has about 11 of the round pint cartons
inverted in it. Other boxes and devices can
also be used. The inside of the cage should
be smooth and about 2 inches of the upper
edge should be smoothly and evenly smeared
with vaseline to prevent the insects from
climbing up the edge of the cage. The in-
sects can be fed many different kinds of
food. Some laboratories have standardized on
some of the dry dog rations, but a variety
of table scraps will sufﬁce for maintaining
a small colony. Water must be provided.
This can be arranged in various ways. The
insects to start the culture can be obtained
from some biological laboratories, if they
cannot be caught locally. They thrive best
at a temperature of from 70° to 800 F

40

How 10 Rear Flier

Common house ﬂies (Musca domestica)
and other ﬂies are relished by many different
kinds of creatures, particularly by insect-
eating lizards. If the lizards or other pets
are kept in cages with wire mesh large
enough to admit ﬂies, these insects can fre-
quently be enticed into the cage with food
that appeals to them so that the pet can
capture the ﬂies itself. However, during the
colder months of the year this method can-
not be followed.

A ﬂy culture can be started and maintained
without much difficulty. An excellent method
is to make a funnel-shaped device of wire
fabric, with a door in the side of it. Invert
the funnel in a pan, in which meat or ﬁsh
is placed, and leave the door on the side
of the funnel open so that ﬂies can enter
to feed on the meat or ﬁsh and to lay their
eggs. If one desires to use the ﬂies immedi-
ately, an empty milk bottle can be inverted
over the small end of the funnel and when
the ﬂies have laid their eggs, the door to the
funnel can be closed. By gentle tapping on
the cage, the ﬂies will be induced to go up
into the milk bottle which can then be
placed in the cage of the pet which is

to be fed.

The ﬂy eggs will hatch and the worms,
called maggots, will feed on the meat or
ﬁsh. When they have reached about their
full growth at this stage, they will want
to go downward into soil or sand. It is
therefore a good plan to have fine sand
in the bottom of the pan into which the
“138ng can go to pupate, that is, to g0
into their inactive Chrysalis state. If the

 




 

weather is warm, they will remain in this
stage only a few days before emerging as
adult ﬂies. If one desires to provide for a
supply during the winter period, the pupae
can be placed in a refrigerator or other cold
place and held dormant until ﬂies are re-
quired for food. Then as many pupae should
be taken out of the refrigerator as ﬂies are
needed; if they are kept warm (750 to 800
F.), the adult ﬂies will emerge within a
few days.

With careful attention and some practice,
it is possible to accumulate considerable
quantities of the ﬂy pupae during the sum-
mertime; if they are maintained Within a
temperature range of 350 to 500, and if the
sand or the surroundings are kept slightly
moist, they will be available to provide adult
ﬂies throughout the winter.

Another food mixture that was developed
by Henry H. Richardson for raising ﬂy lar-
vae throughout the year is as follows:

”Wheat bran ............... 31/4 lbs. .

Alfalfa meal ............ 13/4 lbs.

Water .............................. 5000 cc Mix thoroughly
Yeast suspension ...... 300 cc

Diamalt ........................... 25 cc

Add the water mixture to the bran mixture
and stir thoroughly. The amount of water used
in the medium is of considerable importance
and depends to some extent on the type of rear-
ing jar used and the tightness of the cover.
Tall narrow-mouthed containers need less water
as evaporation from such jars is less. The
amount of water should be such that the me-
dium will dry out on top as incubation pro-
gresses, as the mature maggots pupate here.
If too much water is used, the top of the
medium remains wet and the larvae will tend
to migrate out of the jar in their effort to ﬁnd
a dry place for pupation. Trouble with fungus
growths may also be experienced. The medium

may be used as soon as prepared.”
From “Culture M'ethods for Invertebrate Animals”

41

Maintaining Earthworm Cultures

Earthworms can usually be obtained in
considerable numbers during or following
light rains and they are most active in the
earlier portion of the night. If they are col-
lected at that time, they can be kept easily
under conditions that can ordinarily be pro-
vided in the home or small laboratory.
Boxes with 8 to 12 inches of rich loam,
leaf mold and dead leaves provide good
conditions for maintaining the worms. The
leaves and soil should be moistened at fre-
quent intervals but should not be saturated.
It is preferable that the temperature be
below 600 F.

Injured earthworms should not be put
into the culture but can be used for food
immediately if needed. '

The earthworms commonly found around
manure piles are usually not acceptable to
animals, so while they are easily obtained
and easily raised, it is usually a waste of
effort to keep them.

While earthworms normally feed and
thrive on decaying vegetation such as leaves,
they appear to be benefited by the addition
of small amounts of corn meal or rolled oats
in the soil. Care should be taken not to
moisten the culture so much that it sours
or molds.

* * *

The larval and pupa forms (the quiet
stages in the bee comb) of honey bees are
relished by many animals. Cultures of honey
bees can be mintained by the same method
that bee raisers employ or the larvae can (
sometimes be obtained from bee raisers.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

There are many publications that contain infor-
mation regarding how animals live in the wild
and how animals can be cared for in captivity.
Pet stores, as well as book stores, handle publi-
cations relating to care of animals. Some relate
speciﬁcally to certain kinds of animals, but often
the basic information in them can be applied to
the core of other species.

The listing herein of a publication does not
necessarily indicate that it is deemed better than
publications not listed; nor does failure to list a
publication imply that it is not satisfactory. The
list is made up of publications that have come to
the author’s attention. Since there are so many
publications on these subjects, it is not possible
to list even a large proportion of them.

* * *

The United States Department of Agriculture,
through its Animal and Poultry Husbandry Re-
search Branch (Washington 25, DC), issues pub-
lications for free distribution on the care of mink,
chinchillas, rabbits, hamsters guinea pigs, etc.
Upon request, the Bureau will furnish a list of its
various publications on these and allied subjects.

* * *

Publications of the New York Zoological So-
ciety listed below are of outstanding usefulness.
(Orders for publications should be addressed to:
New York Zoological Society, The Zoological
Park, New York 60, New York, and should be
accompanied by money orders or checks made pay-
able to the New York Zoological Society.)

POISONOUS SNAKES OF THE NEW WORLD.
POPE. 56 pp., 42 illus. (2 in color) ......... 50¢

SNAKES OF THE NORTHEASTERN U.S.
POPE. 52 pp., 33 illus. (2 in color) ......... 50

CARE OF TURTLES AND SMALL ALLI-
GATORS. COATES. 8 pp., 3 illus. ............ 20¢

Popular Series Booklets:
No. 3—NORTH AMERICAN BEARS ...... 10¢

No. 7——HUMMINGBIRDS ................................. 10¢

¢ .

42

The BULLETIN of the New York Zoological
Society and its successor ANIMAL KINGDOM,
(a periodical issued bi-monthly), contain the fol-
lowing articles of unusual interest: (Back numbers
may be available.)

The amphibians. MELLEN. 29 pp., 18 illus.

The care of salamanders and frogs in cap-
tivity. MELLEN. 5 pp., 9 illus.

Vol. 30, No. 6 ............................................................... 60¢
The owls. CRANDALL. 24 pp, 23 lllLlS.

Vol. 33, No. 5 ............................................................ 60¢
The crocodilians of the world. DESOLA.

24 pp., 40 illus. Vol. 36, No. 1 .................. 60¢
The smaller carnivores. DITMARS.

24 pp., 36 illus. Vol. 36, No. 5 .................. 60¢
The rodents or gnawing animals. SANBORN.

34 pp., 59 illus. Vol. 36, No. 6 .................. 60¢

Feeding the animals. BRIDGES. 11 pp.,
11 illus. The giant orioles of the tropics.
CRANDALL. 4 pp., 5 illus.
Vol. 40, No. 3 ............................................................... 60¢

Canaries have come a long way. GORDON.
7 pp., 15 illus. Vol. 40, No. 4 ..................... 60¢

The woodchuck: lord of the clover field.
SCHOONMAKER. 11 pp., 16 illus. The
species of ﬁsh in New York harbor. BREDER.

7 pp., 3 illus. In quest of the quetzal. VON
HAGEN. 7 pp-., 8 illus. Vol. 41, NO. 1 ...... 60¢

Keeping the animals well. BRIDGES.

1‘4 PP» 19 illus. Vol. 41, No. S ..................... 60¢
Handling the animals. BRIDGES. 13 pp.,

13 illus. Fish out of water. NIGRELLI.

8 P11, 8 illus. Vol. 42, No. 2 ........................ 60¢

Mammal life of the forest ﬂoor.

HAMILTON. 10 pp., 12 illus. Horses

and men. BEEBE. 8 pp., 5 illus.

Vol. 43, No. 6 ............................................................... 60¢
Ten ways of helping baby birds.

CRANDALL. 3 pp., 1 illus.

Vol. 46, No. 2 ............................................................... 60¢

 

 




 

 

Chipmunk secrets. ALLEN. 8 pp., 7 illus.
Vol. 46, No. 6 ......... 60¢

The gray squirrel—nature’s Johnny Appleseed.
McCLUNG. 9 pp., 3 illus.

 

 

Vol. 54, No. 4- ...................... 60¢
Frogs as friends of man. OLIVER.

8 pp, 8 illus. Vol. 55, N0. 2 ........................ 60¢
MISCELLANEOUS:
Prevention & Treatment of Snakebite.

OLIVER. 32 pp., 31 illus. ................................. 30¢

A practical handbook telling you how to avoid
being bitten by a poisonous snake, and what to
do about it if you are bitten.

ALL-PETS Magazine (Fond du Lac, Wisconsin)
frequently has helpful articles and carries many
advertisements of books and booklets on the care
of animals in captivity; the publishers also sell
books and booklets on this subject.

ALL-PETS BOOKS (Fond du Lac, Wisconsin)
——Books and booklets handled by this concern are
mainly simple instructions for the care of animals.

AMERICAN CAGE-BIRD MAGAZINE (a
periodical). 3449-51 N. Western Avenue, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES OF THE PA-
CIFIC STATES. Gayle Pickwell—Stanford Uni-
versity Press, Stanford University, California; 1947

ANIMALS AS FRIENDS AND HOW TO
KEEP THEM. Margaret Shaw and James Fisher——
New York, E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.; 1940

THE AQUARIUM (a periodical). Innes Pub—
lishing Co., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

( valuable periodical on the care of ﬁsh.)

AVAILABLE PUBLICATIONS ON WILD-
LIFE. Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 186,
US. Department of Interior.

AVICULTURAL MAGAZINE (a periodical).
Journal of the Avicultural Society and the Avi-
cultural Society of America; Hertford, Stephen
Austin 8; Sons, Ltd., 1951, London.

(This periodical and the earlier series of both
the American and the British Avicultural Maga-
zines, of which this is a successor, contain many
useful articles regarding the care of birds.)

 

43

BIRDS. Herbert S. Zim and Ira N. Gabrielson
—New York, Simon & Schuster; 1949 (Golden
Nature Guide Series)

BIRDS AS INDIVIDUALS. Len Howard——
London, Collins; 1952 A

BIRDS OF THE OCEAN. W. B. Alexander—
New York, Putnam Press; 1954, new and revised
edition—(Putnam’s Nature Field Books)

BIRDS OF THE PACIFIC COAST. W. A.
Eliot—New York, Putnam Press; 1923 (Putnam’s
Nature Field Books)

THE BOOK OF WILD PETS} Cliﬂ‘ord B.
Moore—New York, Putnam Press; 1937

(A valuable and comprehensive book)

CANARY. Gustav Eckstein—New York, Har-
pers; 1936

CANARY JOURNAL (a periodical). 20-02 S.
17th East Street, Salt Lake City 5, Utah

CANARY WORLD AND CAGE-BIRD DI-
GEST (a periodical). Lecanto, Florida

THE CARE AND BREEDING OF LABORA-
TORY ANIMALS. Edmond J. Farris—New York,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; 1950

(While intended for laboratories, the layman can
obtain considerable valuable information from it.)

CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY ANIMALS (Revised Edition). Edited by
Alastair N. Worden and W. Lane-Petter. Univer-
sities Federation for Animal Welfare. 7a Lamb’s
Conduit Passage, London WC. 1; 1957

(Mainly valuable for laboratories but the lay-
man can obtain considerable valuable information
from it.)

CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS. Ernest P.
Walker—Smithsonian Institution Report for 1941.
pp. 305-366, US. Government Printing Office;
1942. (This publication is now out of print, but
might be consulted in libraries that have the
Smithsonian volume in which it apppears.)

CARE OF TURTLES AND SMALL ALLI-
GATORS. Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No.
91, US. Department of Interior; 1945

CULTURE METHODS FOR INVERTEBRATE
ANIMALS. Paul S. Galtsoff, Frank E. Lutz, Paul
S. Welch and James G. Needham—Ithaca, N. Y.,
Comstock Publishing Co.; 1937

(A valuable volume for laboratories and much
of the information it contains can be adapted for

use by the layman.)

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

EVERYDAY MIRACLE. Gustav Eckstein—
New York, Harpers; 1948

EXOTIC AQUARIUM FISHES. William T.
Innes——Philadelphia, Innes Publishing Company,
11th edition; 1950

(A valuable book regarding the care of fish.)

FACTS ABOUT SNAKES. Fish and Wildlife
Service Leaﬂet N0. 257. US. Department of
Interior; 1944

FEEDING AND CARING FOR SQUIRRELS.
Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 302. US.
Department of Interior; 1948

FEEDING WILDLIFE IN \WINTER. Fish and
Wildlife Service Conservation Bulletin No. 13.
US Department of Interior; 1941

FIELD BOOK OF INSECTS OF THE
UNITED STATES. F. E. L'utz—Putnam Press;
1948 (Putnam’s Nature Field Books)

FIELD BOOK OF SEASHORE LIFE. R. W.
Miner—New York, Putnam Press; 1950 (Put-
nam’s Nature Field Books) ~

FIELD BOOK OF THEJMARINE FISHES
OF THE ATLANTIC OCEAN. C. M. Breder
—New York, Putnam Press; 1929——(Putnam’s
Nature Field Books) ,

A FIELD GUIDE TO THE MAMMALS.
W. H. Burt and R. P. Grossenheider—Boston
Houghton Mifﬂin Company; 1952

FIELD BOOK OF ANIMALS IN WINTER.
Ann H. Morgan—New York, G. P. Putnam’s
Sons; 1939

FIELD BOOK OF SNAKES of the United
States and Canada. Karl P. Schmidt and D. Dwight
Davis—New York, G. P. Putnam’s Sons; 1941

(Valuable for the identiﬁcation of North Amer-
ican snakes.)

THE FIRST BOOK OF SNAKES. John Hoke
——New York, Franklin Watts, Inc.; 1952

FISH. Herbert S. Zim—New York, Simon 8:
Sch'uster; 1955——-(Golden Nature Guide Series)

FRESHWATER, TROPICAL AQUARIUM
FISHES. G. F. Hervey and Jack Hems—London,
The Batchworth Press; 1952

44-

A GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF FRESH
WATER BIOLOGY: WITH SPECIAL REFER-
ENCE TO AQUATIC INSECTS AND OTHER
INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS AND PHYTO~
PLANCTON. James G. Needham and Paul R.
Needham~1thaca, N. Y., Comstock Publishing
Associates (Cornell University Press); 1938

(A useful book by an outstanding authority.)

HANDBOOK OF AMPHIBIANS AND REP-
TILES OF KANSAS. Hobart M. Smith—Fred
Voland, Jr., State Printer, Topeka, Kansas; 1950

HANDBOOK OF FROGS AND TOADS OF
THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. Albert
Hazen Wright and Anna Allen Wright—Ithaca,
N. Y., Cornell University Press; 1949 (Comstock
Handbook Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HANDBOOK OF LIZARDS: LIZARDS OF
THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. Ho-
bart M. Smith—Ithaca, N .Y., Cornell University
Press; 1946 (Comstock Handbook Series)

(Useful for identification.)

HANDBOOK OF NATURE STUDY. Anna
Botsford Comstock—~—Ithaca, N. Y., Comstock Pub-
lishing Associates (Cornell University Press); 1941

HANDBOOK OF SALAMANDERS: THE
SALAMANDERS OF THE UNITED STATES,
OF CANADA, AND OF LOW/ER CALIFOR-
NIA. Sherman C. Bishop—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell
University Press; 1947 (Comstock Handbook
Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HANDBOOK OF TURTLES: THE TURTLES
OF THE UNITED STATES, CANADA, AND
BAJA CALIFORNIA. Archie Carr—Ithaca, N.Y.
Cornell University Press; 1952 (Comstock Hand-
book Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HINTS ON THE CARE OF OPOSSUMS.
Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 187. US.
Department of Interior; 1941

HOME—MADE ZOO. Sylvia S. Greenberg and
Edith L. Raskin~NeW York, McKay; 1952

(Prepared for use in schoolroom and home.)

HOMES FOR BIRDS. Fish and Wildlife
Service Conservation Bulletin No. 14. US. De-
partment of Interior; 1942

 

 

 

 




 

""

 

 

HOW TO KNOW THE AMERICAN MAM-
MALS. Ivan T. Sanderson—Boston, Little Brown;
1951 (The New American Library)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HOW TO KNOW THE IMMATURE IN-
SECTS. P. Chu—Dubuque, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown
Co.; 1949 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

HOW TO KNOW THE INSECTS. H. E.
Jacques—Dubuque, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown Co.;
194-7 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

HOW TO KNOW THE LAND BIRDS. H. E.
Jacques—~Dubuque, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown Co.;
1947 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

INSECTS. Herbert S. Zim and Clarence Cot-
tam—New York, Simon & Schuster; 1951
(Golden Nature Guide Series)

KEEP THEM ALIVE! E. Ross Allen and W.
T. Neill——Ross Allen, Silver Springs, Fla.

(Covers care of reptiles and amphibians and is
based on practical experience of the authors.)

KEEPING AND BREEDING AQUARIUM
FISHES. C. W. Emmens—New York, Academic
Press, Inc.; 1953

(An excellent work that treats not only of keep-
ing ﬁsh but the raising of ﬁsh food and the numer-
ous problems of maintaining aquaria successfully.)

KING SOLOMON’S RING. Konrad Lorenz—
New York, Crowell; 1952

LIVES. Gustav Eckstein—New York, Harpers;
1932

MAMMALS. Herbert S. Zim and Donald F.
Hoffmeister~New York, Simon & Schuster; 1955
(Golden Nature Guide Series)

THE MAMMALS OF EASTERN UNITED
STATES; AN ACCOUNT OF RECENT LAND
MAMMALS OCCURRING EAST OF THE
MISSISSIPPI. William J. Hamilton, Jr., and
Earl L. Poole—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell University
Press; 1943 (Comstock Handbook Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

THE MONKEY BOOK. Ernest P. Walker——
New York, The Macmillan Company; 1954

(One section assists in the identiﬁcation of
monkeys and the other section gives general in-
formation regarding their care.)

MONKEYS AS PETS. Leonard Brandt—All-
Pets Magazine. Fond du Lac, Wisconsin; 1951

45

(Gives instructions for the care of monkeys.)

MONKEYS, THEIR CARE, TRAINING AND
FEEDING. J. Jay Segal—Printing Arts, Tropical
Hobbyland; Miami, Florida.

FIELD BOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN
MAMMALS. H. E. Anthony—New York, The
Knickerbocker Press; 1928 (Putnam’s Nature
Field Books)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

OUR SMALL NATIVE ANIMALS, THEIR
HABITS AND CARE. Robert Snedigar—New
York, Random House; 1939

PETS. Frances N. Christie—Boston,
Brown & Co.; 1953

PETS, THEIR HISTORY AND CARE. Lee S.
Crandall—New York, Henry Holt & Co.; 1917

PHEASANT FANCIERS, GAME BREEDERS
AND AVICULTURISTS’ GAZETTE (a periodi-
cal). Allen Publishing Co., Salt Lake City, Utah

RAISING SMALL ANIMALS FOR PLEAS-
URE AND PROFIT. Frank G. Ashbrook—New
York, Van Nostrand; 1951

(Treats of the care of many of the North
American species.)

REARING COCKROACHES FOR EXPERI-
MENTAL PURPOSES. P. G. Piquet and J. H.
Feles—Agricultural Research Administration Pub~
lication No. ET-301, US. Department of Agri-
culture; 1952

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. Herbert S.
Zim and Hobart M. Smith—New York, Simon &
Schuster; 1954 (Golden Nature Guide Series)

SEASHORES. Herbert S. Zim and Lester Ingle
—New York, Simon & Schuster; 1955 (Golden
Nature Guide Series)

THE SPIDER BOOK. John Henry Comstock
—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell University Press; 1940
(Comstock Handbook Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation and popular ac-
counts of their habits.)

TROPICAL FISH. Lucile Quarry Mann—~New
York, Sentinel Book Publishers, Inc.; 1954

(A valuable book.)

VIVARIUM LIFE. Alfred Leutscher and Hum-
phrey Dakeyne Cleaver—London, Hume Press
Ltd.; 1952

WHAT SNAKE IS THAT? Roger Conant
and William Bridges—New York, D. Appleton-
Century Company, Inc.; 1939

(Valuable for identiﬁcation)

Little

 

 

 




 

 

Alliga’rors ................................................................ 28
Amphibians ............................................................ 33
Amphibians. femperafure for .............................. 33
Aquaria ....................................... 35
Affracfing wild animals ........................................ 3
Baby animals in fhe wild .................................... 3
Ba’r and "flying" squirrel (picfure) .................. 23
Baf. Pipis’rrelle. baby (picfure) .......................... 2|
Bees. honey. for food .......................................... 4|
Bibliography ............................................................ 42
Bird recen‘Hy hafched baby (picfure) .............. I9
Birds .......................................................................... 26
Birds. food for ...................................................... 26
Birds. legal profecfion for .................................. 27
Birds. nesflings. warmfh for ................................ 26
Birds. wafer for .................................................... 27
Bifes on humans ................... II
Cages and housing .............................................. I4
Care, responsibili’ry for ...................................... I2
l'Chameleons" ........................................................ 32
Chickens. baby. food for .................................. 27
Clams ...................................................................... 37
Claws ........................................................................ I7
Cockroaches. rearing ............................................ 39
Coffonfail rabbif. baby (picfure) .................... 25
Crabs ...................................................................... 36
Crayfish ....... I .......................................................... 36
Crocodiles .............................................................. 28
Crow (picfure) ........................................................ 8
Cruelfy ..................................................................... I
Developmenf. rafe of .......................................... 22
Ducks. baby and dog (picfure) ...................... 27
Ducks. baby. food for ........................................ 27
Earfhworm cul’rures .............. L ................................. 4|
Easfer pefs ............................................................ 26
Enchy’rraeid worms. rearing ................................ 39
Erroneous beliefs .................................................. I
Eufhanasia .............................................................. I2
Exercise .................................................................... I4
Experimenfs. obiecfionable .................................. 5
Feeder. hummingbird (pic’rure) ........................ I9
Fish .......................................................................... 35
Feeding requiremenfs .......................................... I8
Feeding sfafions .................................................... 3
Flies. rearing .......................................................... 40
Fly frap (picfure) ................................................ 37
"Flying" squirrel and baf (pic’rure) ................ 23
Food cquures .......................................................... 38
Food. kinds of ........................................................ I8
Fosfer mofher (picfures) .................................... I5
Fox. red. baby .................................... Fronfispiece
Frogs ........................................................................ 33
Grasshopper mouse (picfure) ............................ I3
Green snake. pef (pic’rure) ............................... 30
Hibernafion ............................................................ 28
Horned frog in cage (picfure) ........................ 34
Humane deafh ...................................................... I2
Hummingbird (picfure) ......................................... 2
Hummingbird feeder (picfure) ............. , ............. I9

Inifial handling ...................................................... I2

Injured animals .................................................... IO
Insecfs .................................................................... 36
Inver’rebrafes .......................................................... 36
Laborafory ra’r (picfures) .................. . ............... I5
Laws profecfing wildlife .................................... 7
Lizards .................................................................... 32
Lizards. horned ...................................................... 32
Lizards in cage (pic’rure) .................................. 3|
Lizards. wafer for ................................................ 32
Mammals ................................................................ 22
Mammals. food for .............................................. 24
Meal worms. rearing ............................................ 38
Mice. big-eared cliff (picfure) ........................ I6
Milk formula ............................................................ 22
Misapprehensions .................................................. |
Mussels .................................................................... 37
Nesf boxes ............................................................ I4
Nursing bo’r’rles ...................................................... 22
Opossums. baby (picfure) ................................ 5
Rabbi’r. coffon’rail. babies (picfure) ................ 25
Rabbifs. enclosures for ........................................ 24
Rabies ....... I|
Releasing wild animals ........................................ 9
Repliles .................................................................. 28
Rep’riles. femperafure for .................................. 28
Requiremen’rs of animals .................................... 6
Responsibili’ry for care ........................................ I2
Robin. baby (picfure) ........................................ IO
Salamanders ............................................................ 33
Salf wafer. formulas for ........................................ 35
Scra’rches on humans ............................................ I|
Shrimp .................................................................... 36
Sick animals ............................................................ II
Snakes .................................................................... 30
Snakes. poisonous ................................................. 30
Squirrel. baby "flying" (pic’rure) ........ Fronl' cover
Squirrel. Igrey—Baby. feeding (picfure) ........ 4
Squirrel. 'flying”. babies (picfure) .................. I5
Supersfifions .......................................................... I
Sympafhy ................................................................ I
Tadpoles .................................................................. 33
Taming wild creafures ........................................ 7
Teefh. care of ............................................ I7 & 24
Temperafure for rep’riles .................................... 28
Toads .................................... . .................................... 33
Toenails .................................................................... I7
Tur’rles ...................................................................... 28
Turfles. marine ...................................................... 30
Turfles. snapping. caufion .................................. 30
Ve’rerinary care ...................................................... I0
Vi’ramins. use of .................................................... 20
Yellow iackef (picfure) ...................................... 3
Warm’rh .................................................................. 22
Wafer drinking .................................................... 20
Wax mo’rhs and worms (picfure) .................... 36
Wax mofhs. rearing .............................................. 38
Wheels. exercise .................................................... I4

 

 

 

 




 

s§

CH ANWA‘

OR RESE kQ

 

moms F

 

 

 

A: ._..,. . A“, . .m
arm}; ,

 

 




