 

7.

H.\©

FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

THE‘é FALLACY OF RESTRICTION

APPLIED TO VIVISECTION.

BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

,__.__.___.

SECOND EDITION .

To those who have taken part in the vivisection controversy
since it began in England in 1874:, there‘is no need to address
any argument concerning the right policy to be adopted by the
opponents of the practice. They know, and no doubt the
vivisectors know equally well, that it is a case of “all or
nothing.” The cruel and misleading Method of Research
must either continue to be legalized, and used as a Method,—-—
with or without a few formalities, possibly harassing to the
physiologists, but of little or no practical use to the victims,—
or it must be forbidden as a method, and Mr. LAWSON TAIT’s
aspiration be fulﬁlled and the practice “ stopped in the interests
of Science, so that the energy and skill of investigators may be
turned into better and safer channels.”

A new generation of Anti-Vivisectors has, however, risen.
up since those distant days of our ﬁrst warfare against scientiﬁc

 




 

2

cruelty, and some have very naturally questioned the necessity
for assuming our extreme position. They perceive the sad
remoteness of the fulﬁlment of our hopes in the ﬁnal suppres-
sion of Vivisection, at once by law and public opinion, and, in
their humane impatience on behalf of the poor brutes, they
cast about for some compromise Which may be obtained, as
they fancy, much more quickly. They cannot persuade
themselves that the “ reconciliation of Humanity and
Science,” which the Royal Commission point-ed out as the
proper goal of legislation, is really unattainable, or, if it should
prove so, that it is impracticable for them so cunningly to
frame an Act of Parliament as that, while seeming to those
who pass it to leave scope for Science, it shall actually secure
the claims of Humanity, and make any really cruel experiment
impossible under its provisions. Thinking in this way it is
inevitable that these friends should regard us, who hold
tenaciously to the programme of Abolition, as injudicious and
fanatical; and they repeat to us once more the proverb which
has become one of the stock-phrases of our Weary controversy,
that “Half a Loaf is better than no Bread; ” to which
we would fain reply, “Not so, if the half loaf be mere
flummery, and by accepting it we relinquish the whole loaf
for ever.”

In the hope (always a precarious one i) of conveying to our
friends the fruit of our own hard-earned experience, I propose
here to state as succinctly as possible the reasons why we hold
it to be a grievous mistake to demand anything short of the
total prohibition of Vivisection.

Let the history of the Victoria Street Society be brieﬂy
reviewed at starting, that the moderation of its policy, and
the caution wherewith its leaders have advanced, may be borne
in mind.

In November, 1874, a Memorial to the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was prepared by the
present writer, and, on the 25th January, 1875, presented to

 

 

 

 

 

 

AAA‘

 




 

 

44A

 

3

the Committee of that Society, with the signatures of 600
persons, praying that action might be taken to obtain the
legal restriction of Vivisection. On the 4th of May, 1875,
a Bill for Regulating the Practice of Vivisection, drawn up at
the same writer’s instance (after consultation with Lord
COLERIDGE and many other men of experience), was introduced
into the House of Lords by Lord HENNIKER. Then followed
the Royal Commission, and it became evident that a Society
was needed to carry on the work. The Association, afterwards
named the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY, was founded in
November, 1875, and was awkwardly, but most carefully,
named the “Society for the Protection of Animals liable to
Vivisection.” Its prospectus announced that its aim was “ to
obtain the utmost possible protection for ” such animals. The
Society so constituted, urged on the Home Ofﬁce, in the
following March, the introduction of a Bill to carry out the
recommendations of the Royal Commission; and the Com-
mittee subsequently sketched the measure which Lord
CARNARVON introduced on behalf of the Government, and
which, while affording entire immunity from vivisection to
dogs, cats, horses, and asses, placed the vivisection of other
vertebrate animals under a restrictive system of Licences. In
July a great Medical Deputation invaded the Home Ofﬁce, and
induced Mr. R. CRoss (now Lord Cross) (into whose hands the
Bill had passed for presentation in the House of Commons) to
mutilate it so deplorably that, on becoming law as the Act 39
and 40 Vict., c. 77, it has proved the almost futile measure we
know it to be.

Up to this epoch, the hope that a really effective restrictive
measure was possible and might be obtained from Parliament,
never deserted the founders of the Victoria Street Society ; and
the obvious moral difference between painful and painless
experimentation was insisted on by no one more anxiously
than by myself, with a View to attaining the apparently feasible

object of a, valid “reconciliation of science and humanity ; ”
B

 




 

 

 

and of preventing the strength of the agitation being wasted by
the larger and (as I was often assured) hopeless demands of the
Internatimml and the London Total Abolition Societies, by
that time at work. But the utter transformation of Lord
CARNARVON’s Bill by the aid of the “amendments” of Mr.
CROSS, and the subsequent exasperating experience of the
Inspector’s delusive Beturns, were lessons which the most
bigoted adherent of half-measures could not fail to learn and
which the whole body of the Victoria Street Society, with very
few exceptions, actually learned. In the case of the chief
workers the change of policy was likeWise enforced by the
growing conviction (derived from study of the principal
Manuals of Vivisection, and only to be conveyed by such
cumulative evidence as they afford) that the aims, sentiments
and methods of Vivisectors are not, and never can be, amenable
to humane restrictions. On the 27th April, 1877, a great
meeting of the Society supported Mr. HOLT’s Bill for total
prohibition; and on the 7th August, 1878, the Committee, by
the advice of the President and of nearly all the leaders of the
Society, passed the following resolution :——“ That the Com-
mittee will henceforth appeal to public opinion in favour of the
‘ Total Abolition of Vivisection.” Thus it was not till nearly
four years’ experience of Parliamentary action on the subject,
and of very arduous and painful study, that the programme of
Restriction was ﬁnally abandoned by the originators of the
movement. To ﬁnd themselves now told by those who have
come at the eleventh hour into the vineyard, that they have
been hasty, and understand much less than these novices of
the practical working of such a cause in Parliament and of
the real nature of Vivisection, is, no doubt, one of those
“afﬂictions which are common to men” who start public
agitations. I shall, however, state as clearly as may be
some of the reasons which I know induced the late Lord
SHAFTESBURY, and I may presume also Lord COLERIDGE,
Cardinal MANNING, the Bishop of WINCHESTER, Mr. STANSFELD,

 

 




 

 

 

5

Lord TENNYSON, Lord MOUNT-TEMPLE, Mr. BROWNING, and all
the other honoured Vice-Presidents of the Society as at present
constituted, to accept the principle of Total Prohibition instead
of Restriction.

1st. No Restrictive Act of Parliament which human
ingenuity may devise can afford efﬁcient protection to animals
delivered over to a Vivisector. The advocates of Restriction
fondly imagine that they can devise such provisions; but
with all respect for them, I unhesitatingly assert that no one
who understands the purposes and methods of Ivivisectz'orzal
research can believe that such provisions are possible. It is of
course easy to devise a Bill which, e.g. might provide that
every Vivisection should be described exactly beforehand and
announced for a month in the Times ; and that it should take
place on a table, in the middle of Exeter Hall, in the presence
of the Committee of the Jermyn Street Society. But no one
who has read the books of CLAUDE BERNARD, CYON, and
BURDON-SANDERSON could, for an instant, suppose that any
such plan would meet the ever-varying, ever-shifting sugges-
tions of scientiﬁc curiosity; or that inﬁnitely delicate and
difﬁcult experiments, often extending over days and weeks,
and requiring perpetual variation, could be performed under
any similar circumstances. A Bill embodying provisions in
any way resembling these would be simply held by all
physiologists to be practically a Bill for the total prohibition
of Vivisection ; and though its promoters might say “ Trent
mieux, if it prove so,” the general opinion would be, that such
a Bill was an insult to Parliament ; and, in any case, it would
as certainly be thrown out as a Bill frankly prohibiting the
practice altogether,-—with the additional scoff that its pro-
moters stultiﬁed themselves by admitting that Vivisection
ought to be sanctioned and then, practically seeking to make

it impossible.
Again, the advocates of Restriction fall back on the old
fallacy of Anaesthetics, and vaguely conceive they could pass a

 




 

 

6

measure forbidding all experiments except on animals under
complete anaesthesia. But even a superﬁcial acquaintance
with the works of vivisectors shows that they would be
stopped at every turn could such a condition of experiments
be really secured. That it could not be secured by any
conceivable precautions, is almost equally clear. Once more
the words of Dr. HOGGAN in his famous Letter are veriﬁed.
“Anaesthetics have proved ” (by the delusions which humane
people indulge about them) “ the greatest curse to vivisectible
animals.”

If Vivisection can neither be performed under full public
inspection, nor under any certainty of complete anzesthesia of
the victims, it becomes obvious that real safeguards against
abuses of the practice cannot be obtained. A poor dumb
brute shut up in a laboratory with one or two, or half a
dozen physiologists and students, all imbued with the “joyful
excitement” wherewith CYON says they ought to “approach
a difficult Vivisection,” can, from the very nature of the case
have NO protection against the uttermost extremity of torture.
In other words, there can be no line drawn by the Legislature
between the Use of Vivisection ; and the cruellest Abuses into
which it has perpetually and notoriously fallen. But whenever
the abuses of a practice are very great, and they cannot be
separated from the use, then, according to a well recognized
principle of legislation, the use itself must be forbidden. This
principle has been already actually carried out by Parliament ;
and also in the case of animals. By the Act 12 and 13
Vict., c. 60, the employment of Dogs for draught of any kind,
is totally prohibited.

2nd. The incentive to Vivisection is, unquestionably, in the
vast majority of cases, the honour and distinction obtained
among the confraternity by successful researches respecting
large or small points in physiology; such distinctions culmi-
nating in the statue recently erected in Paris to Claude
Bernard, which represents him as standing beside a torture

 

 




 

7

trough. To obtain such kudos it is indispensable that the
vivisector’s experiments be published in the scientiﬁc journals.
So long then, as, under any restrictive law, Vivisection is per-
mitted in a country, so long such publications (with due caution
in alleging the use of anaesthetics or submission to other legal
conditions) may safely go on*; and if Anti—vivisectionists
attempt through such publications to bring the experimenters
before a court of law, friendly witnesses, such as appeared
in the Ferrier case in Bow Street in 1881, may, no doubt,
always be relied on to get the vivisector triumphantly out
of his scrape. But if, on the other hand, Vivisection be
nncond'itt’onally forbidden, then, and then only, the great
incentive to the practice will be removed. No vivisector
will dare publish any experiment at all; and it may be
safely prophesied that the zeal of the investigators will
thenceforward be very quickly turned into other channels,
and, like other heroes, they will “go where glory waits
them.” It is also to be noted in this connection that the
trade of dog and cat-stealing and selling for vivisection,
might be stopped under a prohibitive, but not under a
restrictive law.

3rd. The results of vivisection being, according to our
contention, worse than nit—misleading and injurious to
science—we shall best befriend Science itself by closing up
that false path altogether and not making a stile to enable
travellers to walk there. In pretending merely to restrict
it we are practically admitting our opponents’ assertion
of its utility; and if we do this, we involve ourselves in
inextricable difﬁculties to determine, next, the point where

* A medical man of repute has described as a frequent joke of
Vivisectors the placing of a bottle of chloroform on a shelf over the torture
trough, thereby justifying their statement that “the experiment was
performed under anaesthetics.” This kind of grim jest may or may not be
practised, but the public has no guarantee whatever that the licensed
Vivisectors’ assertions that they employ efficient anaesthetics when not
allowed by certiﬁcate to dispense with them, are aught better.

/

 




 

8

a little pain,——or a greater pain,——to one animal or to a
thousand animals,—ought to be sanctioned to obtain beneﬁt
for mankind—and how great or direct that beneﬁt ought
to be,——-—and how far it must be likely of attainment. We
ﬁght the battle, in short, thenceforth on our enemy’s
ground; and must infallibly be pushed back and back, till
all the excesses of scientiﬁc cruelty be justiﬁed; just as they
were by the different witnesses before the Royal Commission.

4th. Every imaginable law sanctioning in any measure
Vivisection is not only fallacious as regards the protection
of animals, but demoralizing to the men who pursue the
practice, and injurious to the community which, at one and
the same moment, institutes Bands of Mercy and treats
domestic creatures as pets, servants and playmates, and then
authorizes physiologists to dissect them alive as mere parcels
of bone and tissue. Either Vivisection ought to be wholly
scouted and forbidden, or the whole movement on behalf of
kindness to animals which has been the glory of England
since the days of ERSKINE and MARTIN, ought to be abandoned,
and the hypocrisy renounced of caressing a dog today and
consenting to his vivisection—restricted or unrestricted,—
to-morrow. So long as we regard a sentient and intelligent
creature as a mere mechanical clock which we may open at
will to see how it works, so long as we think of a brain which
holds all the wondrous instincts and reasonings of the dog and
the ape as a lump of grey matter to be scooped out and broken
up, as GOLTZ says, “like a potato ﬁeld ” to note what
happens after its mutilation,——so long as we think of the little
heart which beats with joy for the return of a beloved master,
or breaks for sorrow on his grave, as a “ musc1e” into which it
is “interesting” to push a catheter to ascertain its exact
temperature,—so long as we regard the frames of animals in
this fashion, the spirit of a Cyon and a MAJENDIE will rise up
like a hideous mental disease amongst us. Nothing but
absolutely forbidding a practice, linked and associated for ever

 

 

ux‘

 




9

with the most reckless cruelty, (even when for the nonce
carried out without actual offence), can stop the contagion of
this New Vice of Scientiﬁc Cruelty. Every system of Law is
a system of Education to the public conscience, and the State
trains men in materialism, selﬁshness, and contempt of the
rights of the weak and helpless by every concession it makes to
the demands of a curiosity which knows neither sympathy nor
pity. Even if it were expedient (which we deny) to sanction

' restricted Vivisection in the interests of Science and Medicine,

a still higher expediency would require that such interests
should be disregarded rather than that the hitherto rising
current of humane sentiment in the nation should be driven
back, and the portentous type of character formed by
Vivisection be developed in our highest seats of culture.

To sum up our conclusions. No Restrictive Bill cOuld be
devised which would protect vivisected animals from torture ;
and if such a measure could be drawn, it would meet in
Parliament precisely the same opposition as our Bill for the
Prohibition of Vivisection—for the simple reason that it would
be tantamount to Prohibition. Exactly in proportion as a Bill
afforded real checks and not sham ones, it would be virulently
opposed, and only suffered in the last resort to pass when the
efﬁciency of the checks had been nulliﬁed by Amendments.
To introduce such a measure would therefore be only to lower
our ﬂag; to admit that Vivisection is useful; to consent to
educate the rising generation in CYON’S sentiments ; and,
ﬁnally, to open the way to a fresh series of hoodwinkings and
deceptions of the public worse than those miserable ones which
accompanied and have followed the Act of 1876.

Neither a Total Prohibition Bill nor any Restriction Bill has,
alas! any chance of passing into law for a long time to come,
and the latter not a day sooner than the former, unless it be a
mere sham and wholly inoperative for its purpose. But there
is this essential difference between the two programmes. Public
opinion cannot be educated on the subject by men who treat

 




 

10

Vioisection as a thing to be sanctioned under restrict/ions ; and,
should they ever succeed in passing some measure in accord-
ance with their views, the result would be the cessation of all
agitation, the disbandment of the Anti-vivisection Societies,
and the enjoyment thencefOrward by the physiologists, ﬁrst of
such easy terms as the new law may allow, and soon of such
unopposed liberty to torture, and teach the art of torturing, as
they may please to take. On the other hand when, at last, the
public opinion of the nation has been educated by our patient
efforts up to the point of recognizing Vivisection to be, as Lord
SHAFTESBURY called it “ an abominable Sin,” then the practice
will be absolutely stopped, simultaneously by that public
opinion and by an Act of Parliament following thereon ;—
stopped utterly, completely, and for ever. Were the Restric-
tionists to carry their point, the Viviseoting Table would
remain to all future generations a well-used instrument of
research. When we, Abolitionists, carry ours, that hideous
implement will be consigned to the museums of chains and
“ Maidens” and thumbscrews, and will be described by the
historian of the future as the barbarous invention of Science in
his cruel boyhood ;—to be bracketed with the Rack of the
mediaeval Judge, and the Stake of the Inquisitor, as things over
which men may blush, and angels weep.

NMlUNAL ANTWIVISECUUN SOCIETY
L)lllolished by the Vlzﬁioﬂlmlﬁﬂﬂmmreﬂlwmdggn 81$. PROTECTION OF

ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIA-
TION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET,
WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W. 8.95.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




11111111112511?”ng 201113117131111111111101111$011111;fu1

1111 aﬁmtnﬁnu cf 231111112115 1511111 19111151111011.

 

OFFICES: 20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.

 

Vice-Presidents :
THE DUKE OF PORTLAND. THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.

The MARQUIS OF BUTE. LORD COLERIDGE, QC.

The MARQUIS OF HERTFORD. VISCOUNT POLLINGTON.

The MARQUIS OF WORCESTER. LORD CARDROSS.

The DOWAGER MARCHIONESS OF ORMONDE. Her Excellency LADY PAGET.
The EARL OF DELAWARE. Rt. Hon. JAMES STANSEELD.
The EARL OF DARNLEY. Rt. Hon. EVELYN ASHLEY.

The DOWAGER COUNTESS OF PORTSMOUTH. SIR GERALD CODRINGTON, BART.
The COUNTESS OF CAMPERDOWN. WILLIAM ADLAM, Esq., F.S.A.
VISCOUNT SIDMOUTH. FRANK MORRISON, Esq.

The ARCHBISHOP OF TUAM. SIR ROBERT T. REID, Q:C., M.P.
The BISHOP 0F MANCHESTER. CHAS. J. WELD—BLUNDELL, Esq.
The BISHOP 0F LIVERPOOL. REV. CANON WILBERFORCE.

The BISHOP OF SOUTHWELL. The LADY ABINGER.

The BISHOP 0F WAKEFIELD. LADY EDITH ASHLEY.

BISHOP BARRY. The Hon. MRS. R. C. BOYLE.
BISHOP CRAMER-ROBERTS. MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE.
BISHOP BAGSHAW (NOTTINGHAM). The LADY MOUNT-TEMPLE.
LORD CONGLETON. The LADY WINDSOR.

LORD LEIGH. J. PASSMORE EDWARDS, Esq.
LORD ROBARTES. MISS MARSTON.

Central Executive , Committee :

MRS. ADLAM. MRS. LEYCESTER.

SIR ARTHUR ARNOLD. W. S. LILLY, Esq., LL.M.

LADY ARTHUR ARNOLD. MISS S. S. MONRO.

REV. J. P. BACON-PHILLIPS. MRS. FRANK MORRISON.

ERNEST BELL, Esq., M.A. MRS. JAMES PENDER.

COL. S. M.~BENSON. F. E. PIRKIS, Esq., R.N., F.R.G.S.
MRS. BENSON. MRS. LLOYD PRICE.

EDWARD BERDOE, Esq., L.R.C.P. LESTER REED, Esq., F.C.S., F.I.C.
MISS RHODA BROUGHTON. MISS ELLEN E. REES.

MISS OLIVE BRYANT. GEORGE W. E. RUSSELL, Esq.

The COUNTESS OF CAMPERDOWN. . MARK THORNHILL, ESQ.

JOHN H. CLARKE, Esq., M.D. DEP. SUE-GEN. THORNTON, C.B.
HON. STEPHEN COLERIDGE. MRS. ARTHUR J. WALTER.

MRS. E. M. JAMES.

Hon. Treasurer—HON. STEPHEN COLERIDGE.
Secretary—BENJAMIN BRYAN, Esq.
Assistant Secretary—SIDNEY G. TRIST, Esq.

 

 

THE object of the Society is the Total Abolition of the practice of Vivisectionlas
deﬁned In the Report of the Royal Commission.

Those who sympathise with this object are most earnestly entreated to afford the
Society all the help in their power, by subscribing, and inducing others to subscribe,
liberally to its funds; by obtaining signatures to Petitions to Parliament, and also
by disseminating the publications of the Society, and especially its organ THE
ZOOPHILIST, wherein the latest information respecting the Anti- vivisection agitation
is to be found.

Member’ S Annual Subscription, 10s. Life Membership, £5. Subscription to THE
ZOOPHILIST, the Organ of the Cause, 3S. 6d. per annum, post free

 

Miller, Son, (6' Campy, Ltd., Steam P11711613, Fc1kenham and London.

 




