 

 

 

 

 

5.30mi)”, 1942 T HE Price 3d.

ANIMALS
F ' IEN I

 

Sheep and Comic ax pack animalx. A Caravan on Me roaa’ in #26
lower nil/J, Himalaya.

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE

52, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSW/ELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.
Subscription for One Y ear, p057 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is publisbed montbly by tbe National Council for Animals’ Welfare
at Queen’s Lodge, 52, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N .10, and all communications

regarding tbe magazine sbould be addressed to tbe Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

 

 

 

 

Vol. XLVIII. September, 1942. No. 9
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
REPORTING CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
SCOTLAND ' I74 OF CRUEL SPORTS 18 5
CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL—LOVER. | FROM ONLOOKER’S N OTE—B 0 OK 186
Geoﬂrey H. Bow/eer I76
‘ , \‘C’ISDOM IN EATING. Stella Lie 18
SEABIRDS OF THE PACIFIC, THE. Eric f 7
Hardy, F.Z.5. I78 NIGHTINGALE SANG ON. Cbarles A.
FAIRFIELD REFUGE 180 wemmﬁ 188
ANIMALS’ FRIEND CALENDAR, 1943 131 SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF VIVISECTION 8
STORY OF “ THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND ” AND _ I 9
ITS EARLY CAMPAIGNS. fesszy Wade 183 ORPHAN CHICK, THE. Edmund Barlow . 190

 

 

 

 

Reporting Cruelty to

Animals in Scotland

Tbe Secretary of tbe Scottisb Society for tbe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals bas drawn our attention to tbe
difference between tbe Scottisb and Englisb law wit/J regard to tbe powers of tbe Animal Welfare Inspectors.
Tbe leaflet publisbed by tbe National Equine Defence League and reprinted in tbe fuly number of THE ANIMALS’

FRIEND, entitled “ You, tbe Law,

tbe .Police and Cruelty to Animals ” refers only to England. We are

printing below a statement issued by tbe Scottisb S.P.C.A. wbicb sbould prevent any misunderstanding in tbe

minds of our Scottisb readers as to tbe position of tbe
bear about.

LL Inspectors of the Scottish Society
Afor the Prevention Of Cruelty to Animals

are duly admitted Justice of the Peace
Constables for the counties in which they
work, each taking the oath do fideli administra—
tione before the appropriate County Justices.
As ].P. Constables, the Society’s Inspectors
are expressly included in the deﬁnition of
“ Constable ” in the Slaughter of Animals
(Scotland) Act, 1928, and the Protection of
Animals (Scotland) Act, I9Iz—the latter a
separate Statute, be it noted, from the corre-
sponding English Act of 1911, which makes
no similar provision for any Constableship
other than that of the Police Constabulary.
It follows, therefore, that the Scottish S.P.C.A.
Inspectors have for long had the powers of
police constables for the purposes of the
Protection of Animals (Scotland) Act, 1912,

174

public wit/.2 respect to any acts of cruelty tbcy may see or

and the Slaughter of Animals (Scotland) Act,
1928. A further important distinction in
Scottish legal practice consists in the procedure
whereby information concerning an Offence is
compiled by an Inspector of the Society,
usually, but not invariably, with police
corroboration, after which such information
is lodged with the Public Prosecutors (Pro-
curators Fiscal), with whom rests the decision
whether or not to take Sheriff Court pro-
ceedings. It is a matter of constant satisfaction
to the Directors that good relations and close
co—operation are maintained between the
Police and the Society’s Inspectors. ’

LYNDESAY G. LANGWILL,
Secretary, Scottisb ~S‘.P.C..AL
I9, Melville Street,
Edinburgh, 3.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

September, 1942

Notes and Comments
Singing With Mouth Full.

A correspondent writes : “ One of our most popular
poets in Wales describes a yellow little bird singing
with a leaf in its mouth. I dared to criticise him!
But now one of our divines says that he saw a black—
bird last week singing with a worm in its mouth. Is
this possible? ” Enquiry from a well-known society for
the protection of birds elicited the information that
they could not say definitely whether it were true or
not, but that they had seen letters from readers of
TlJe Field giving instances where birds had been observed
singing with something in their mouths. If any reader
of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND has seen anything of the
kind we should be glad to hear about it.

The “ Grand National” Disgrace.

The \World Anti-Vivisection League have published
an excellent little leaﬂet on the Grand National. Most
people know that this is probably the most cruel of
all horse races, but many do not know why. The
following are reasons enough. We quote from the
leaﬂet.

I. Horses are forced to take the most difﬁcult way
across country, over made obstacles.

2. Gate—jumps, with loose top-spar, cause pain if
the horse fails to clear.

3. Water-jumps cause risk of suffocation in shallow
water. .

4. Hedge-jumps, i.e., jagged posts concealed by
twigs, may cause laceration or tear off a hoof.

5. The siZe and weight of a horse render ALL falls
dangerous.

6. The following injuries occur frequently :———Broken
heart or wind, broken legs, torn flesh or joints,
broken blood—vessels, dislocated back, broken
neck, impalement, contusions, ricks, etc.

In 1928 only 2 out of 42 horses ﬁnished the course.

3) I930 9) 5 9’ 4I )7 3) )3
J, 1931 ,3 12 J) 43 2, )3 ’)

Spectators gloat over “ thrills,” i.e., scenes of blood
and anguish, and pay highly for seats to view the
worst obstacles.

Can the spectacle of such horrors be anything
but demoralizing?

From the Mouth of Babes and Sucklings.

It would appear that at least one of the children
who listened to the talks by Miss Dorothy Barrs during
the early part of the year, took what she said to heart !
One of the teachers tells the story of a little girl, aged
ﬁve years, who woke her mother up at 2 am. and said :
“ Mummy, that lady who came to talk to us about the
animals said God wanted us to build a new world and
I don’t know what to do about it ”I

The horse is a noble creature and there is no doubt
that man rode to civilisation (so—called) on his back.
In all fairness we must refuse to agree with the opinion
given several times by children to a speaker during
this year’s Animals’ Welfare Weeks. She asked ques—
tions of her youthful audience as to the services per—
formed by animals for man. In a number of schools
she was told that the use of the horse was to give meat
for cats and dogs!

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Elephants and Memory.

Douglas Wilkie, writing in the Evening Standard
about the Burma Front, speaks of the many elephants
found in the Assam jungle and gives an interesting side-
light on their memory.

“ When the railways were first carved from the
jungle, elephants often charged the trains. Later
they appeared to compromise with the invaders of
their demesne by granting free passage to trains
running on schedule and obstructing specials or
single engines.

“ Since the war the time-tables have been revised
and the elephants are living up to reputation and
refuse to forget the old running times, and are a
constant menace to some sections, and also resent
British patrols hacking the paths of virgin forest.”

At the risk of being thought unpatriotic our sympathies
are all with the elephants?

Animals’ Fair. ,

Readers are asked to keep in mind the need for gifts
of all kinds for the stalls of The Animals’ Fair at the
Caxton Hall, Westminster, on Friday and Saturday,
December 4th and 5th. Full details will appear in the
October issue. ~

Cause and Effect?

“. . . The world of ‘Love on the Dole ’ inevitably
gives way to a world of violence ; frustration does not
last for ever. Want, heart sickness and humiliation are
followed by war or revolution, ‘more probably both,
not by accident, but causally.”——“ Critic ” in A7622)
Slaterrnan and Nation, September 6th, 1941.

Is there also a eamal connection between the whole—
sale slaughter of animals for food, for instance, and the
outbreak of war and violence? Clearly, we cannot have
cause and effect applying to human behaviour in one
direction and not in another. Rightly did Blake say:
“ The lamb misused breeds public strife.”

D. J. W.

 

Nature’s Way Best

There can be little doubt that if Nature were allowed
to have her way the natural enemies of the Rabbit
would see to it that its numbers are kept within bounds ;
but unfortunately, these animals will not confine their
hunting to rabbits. Stoats are perhaps the best of
rabbit killers, but if one advocates their preservation,
one is up against poultry keepers and gamekeepers, for
the stoat is a killer of anything he can capture and
master, though I think he prefers fur to feather.
\Veasels certainly kill a few birds, especially young ones
in the spring, but rats, mice and young rabbits please
them most and there should be no excuse for their
destruction.

Badgers occasionally raid hen-roosts and do con-
siderable damage, but, as a rule, they are more or less
harmless to poultry and game. In the spring and
summer they smell out the rabbit “stops ” in the
ﬁelds and, however carefully the mother rabbit has
covered her nest, dig out the family and enjoy a tasty
meal. ‘

( Exlraeied frenz an article entitled, “ W/yaz‘ of Me
Rabbit,” lgy David Set/J Snail/J, inbieli appeared in Me
journal of tee Seeiez‘y for fee Prerernatien of tbe Fauna of
the Empire, May, 1941.)

175

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

September, I 942

Confessions of an Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

My Dogs.

HAVE already mentioned in the secon-
I fessions the frail and ailing Sealyham puppy

my landlord brought in one evening as
“ something to amuse the children.” By the
time she was fully—grown little Judy had
gradually acquired a reasonable measure of
health, and in fact when in due course she
produced a family, they all stood up to
existence as uncommonly vigorous and vital
dogs

Everyone who has bred puppies knows at
what a surprisingly early age they begin to
appreciate the society of their human friends.
When only three or four weeks old, Judy’s
sons and daughters would welcome one’s
visits to the kennels with every manifestation
of cordiality, and crowd and jostle in almost
frantic competition to be made a fuss of.

All, that is, except one of them. In this
case no ' advances whatever came from the
canine side. Instead, she—for it was a she——
would remain in the darkest corner and growl
horribly at the two—legged interloper. Small
wonder that hints began to be dropped that
perhaps this surly and self—centred member
had better be painlessly despatched from a
world which plainly failed to- please her.

However, I determined to see if it was
possible to make a soul for poor benighted
Tilda. In the sequel, she became my constant
and devoted companion for nearly sixteen
years. I never cured her of unnecessary and
meaningless growling and snarling. But-—
like some exceedingly bad-tempered human
beings—she could be both affectionate and
charming when she chose, and the two or
three people who knew her really well had no
difficulty in keeping a warm place in their
hearts for Tilda.

A dog was, of course, a useful addition to
the crew during the years when I was taking a
propaganda caravan round the country for the
National Anti—Vivisection Society. Not to
speak of companionship for a frequently lonely
man, one always slept more comfortably with
the knowledge that any person who approached
the van during the night would be immediately
detected by those exquisitely acute canine ears.

On the other hand, a domestic pet was a
further complication in an already somewhat

complicated life. And most certainly the very
last thing I wanted was a second dog.

None the less, a second one I was destined
to possess. It was again of the Sealyham
breed and feminine sex, answering to the name
of Girlie, and the property of the landlady of
my winter quarters in London.

This Mrs. X, without being in the least
deliberately cruel, was for various reasons
unfitted to keep a dog. At length she light—
heartedly announced an intention to sell it, ’
and there seemed nothing to be done but to
buy the unwanted one, with the idea that I
might find her a good home in the country she
had never known since puppyhood.

However, it quickly became evident that the
only good home Girlie desired was one pre-
sided over by myself. She was then seven years
old—middle—aged with, you would have ex—
pected, a character and affections settled for
life. Actually, no sooner had I taken her over
than she began to avoid and ignore her former
mistress in a way that was marked, to say the
least. For instance, it would often happen
that, after taking the two dogs for a run,
I had occasion to stop and speak to my land-
lady in her ground—floor sanctum. Tilda had
no objection to enter and be patted. Girlie,
on the contrary, always darted past and up to
the ﬁrst landing where, with signs of eager
impatience, she would wait until I ascended to
admit her to my, bed—sittingroom.

The affection and devotion with which I was
thus honoured was fully reciprocated. In—
deed, although like so many highly—bred dogs
she was far from noticeably intelligent, she
was upon the whole the sweetest, thing of her
race I have ever been privileged to know
and love.

r}: :k :k

When I look back upon those years in which
I owned (or was owned by P) two Sealyhams,
there is one characteristic picture that im-
mediately comes to mind.

The caravan is drawn up in a sunny street
of some holiday resort. I have been away for
an hour or so making calls, having left the
dogs in the safe care of my assistant. In such
circumstances fat, lazy, sybaritic Tilda would
customarily retire to my bunk and sleep in

176

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

September, I 942

profound contentment. Not so Girlie.
Determined to get the earliest possible view
of returning me, her chosen vantage—point
was the driving seat of the van, with her
front paws on the steering wheel and her eyes
ﬁxed on the road ahead—an attitude which
frequently seemed to amuse passers—by.

Then when I appeared in the ofﬁng, my
assistant would let the pair of them out, and
they would come racing towards me with that
tail-wagging welcome which joys the heart of
the returning dog—lover. Or rather, Tilda
would come half—way and then conclude that
there was no point in exhausting herself
further on a warm summer day. Girlie, how—
ever, was never content until she had reached
me as quickly as her short legs could carry her ;
a pat, a word responded to by a short, joyous
bark, and she would waddle by my side back
to the caravan, happy (I hope and believe) as
it is possible for a dog to be in this vale of tears.

Girlie was afflicted with a distressing phobia
-——unreasoning terror of anything in the nature
of whistling.

One Saturday afternoon, after the usual
strenuous week of caravan crusading, I decided
to indulge in a rest and sleep on my bed. Some
children in the next meadow were laughing
and screaming at their play—an imitation of
whistling gbod enough to throw my un-
fortunate canine companion into a bout of
panting, trembling and restless moving about
the van.

Having vainly tried to pacify her, I allowed
my annoyance at being disturbed to take the
form of putting her out of the van. Ten
minutes later I suddenly realised the unwisdom
of what I had done. Springing up and out,
my fears proved only too well justiﬁed——my
dog had gone.

The next two hours were among the most
miserable of my life. I dare not move far
from the van lest the stray should return, ﬁnd
her master missing, and go off again in quest
of him. Frantically I kept running to the gate
of the field and endeavoured to hire every
passing boy—preferably on a bicycle—to scour
the country.

At the end of two hours I heard the sound
I longed for more than anything in the world
——the scrabble of little paws on the running—
board. By chance I was subsequently able to
gather what had happened. Terriﬁed by the
“ whistling,” she had ﬂed blindly for a couple

177

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

of miles or more. Then, having calmed down,
she was observed to turn and unerringly home
her way back.

I think I understand as well as most people
the feelings of the man in the parable who
rejoiced because he had found his sheep which
was lost.

* 3k ’8

When people entertain me with reminis—
cences of their dogs, I always want to be told :,
“ And what happened to him (or her) in the
end?” »

\Well, the end of both Girlie and Tilda was
that, after living to about sixteen, they began
to fail badly, and when at last it was obvious
that they were really suffering, I steeled myself
to take them to be electrocuted—within a few
months of each other.

I remember—and always shall——how, )ust
before I carried Girlie out to the taxi, I gave
her a farewell caress, and the little creaturew—
now blind, bewildered, and barely conscious——
tenderly licked my hand. She could not
comprehend the cruel kindness I was about to
render her, but at least she showed her love
and trust in me to the last. '

(Next month : “ Animals and the Occult”)

 

«L,
E
3%
., .,
l’ﬁ‘
a:
~-
T‘
'i
. a?
I ]§
z“\
E
,.\
- Q
'3:
Q
- re
.‘_ v ’&
._\
Q

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

September, I 942

The .Seabirds of the Pacific

By ERIC HARDY, F.Z.S.
(Author of Tbe Birds of i/ye Liverpool Area.)

will, indeed, take many British and

Americans to strange places and to see
strange things, not the least of which will be
the birdlife of that great ocean from Singapore
and Australia to Hawaii and the Phillipines.
There is no other ocean so richly varied in its
birdlife as is the great Paciﬁc, and this I think
is due not to the size of the ocean but to the
multitude of small islands which afford
breeding places for these seabirds. In some
cases the birds remind one of familiar birds at
home, although they are not quite the same
species, and some of these Paciﬁc seabirds
have on very rare occasions visited Britain.
For instance, a few years ago when I was at
the big Ravenglass seabird sanctuary on the
Cumberland coast, the keeper told me he had
recently watched the sooty tern, a rare visitor
from the Paciﬁc, at the dunes, but although I
looked eagerly for the wanderer, I was not so
fortunate as he. Some of the Paciﬁc petrels,
like the Kermadoc or Shlegel’s petrel. which
was found in Cheshire early this century, are
also rare British visitors.

THE new war zone in the Paciﬁc Ocean

 

5002*} Tern.

At Singapore island and the Straits of Johore,
for instance, over one hundred interesting
birds make their homes. Not all of these are
seabirds, but they include two of our rarer
British shore birds, the lovely roseate tern and

the gull—billed tern. The Kentish plover nests

on the sandy shores at Singapore where, in due
season, the Visitor will see many familiar
British birds which have come here from their

arctic haunts—the redshanks, the long-legged
godwits, the turnstones, the greenshank and
the grey plover. But they have come down
the Asiatic coasts of China and Japan to reach
Singapore.

Singapore is a great bird haunt with sixteen
sorts of kingﬁsher, many of which never
catch a ﬁsh but live on mice and lizards ; with
ﬁshing owls which catch rats and beetles as
well as ﬁsh, and with little birds called swiftlets
whose nests, made of their own saliva, are
gathered by the Chinese for soups. These
swiftlets live also in the Dutch East Indies
and Borneo, and the birds’ nest soup trade
normally runs into thousands of dollars
annually. The rollers, bee-eaters and sunbirds
of these regions are amongst the loveliest birds
in the world, and the little ﬂower-peckers
have almost unbelievable beauty despite
their tiny size.

The surf-bird (Aphriza virgata) is one of the
marvellous migrants of the Paciﬁc, and it was
only just over ten years ago that its nest and
four eggs were discovered in Central Alaska
by California University naturaliSIts. For cen—
turies this bird had been observed on migra—
tions along the Paciﬁc coasts of both Americas,
but its nesting haunts were long unknown.

'The bird is about ten inches long, and it

ranges from the rocky coast of Alaska to the
Straits of Magellan. The ﬁnding of its eggs
in 1927 on Mt. McKinley was something of an
ornithological sensation in America: they
were on a rocky ledge a thousand feet above
the timber line. These falcon—like eggs were
reddish—brown and buﬂC in colour, so that, like
our European dotterel, the surf—bird seems to
nest on the tops of the mountains. Its Latin
name of Aphriza comes, I suppose, from
Aphrodite, the Greek goddess of beauty who
sprang from the sea foam.

Quite a diﬁferent bird is the mutton bird,
one of the Paciﬁc Ocean petrels, a relative of
our Manx shearwaters, and which nests on the
Australian coasts, laying its single white egg
at the end of a burrow four-feet deep. It nests
on Cape Woolamai and other places about
Bass Strait, but also known in the Indian and
Japanese seas, it is one of the most familiar
birds to the Paciﬁc mariner. A near relative

178

 

 

i
t
|

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

September, 1942

The [Wilton Bird.

of the same seas is the sooty shearwater or
short—tailed petrel which haunts such widely—
separated places as Samoa and North Japan,
Tasmania and New Zealand as well as the seas
off Queensland. Some of the Paciﬁc islands
are honeycombed with the nesting burrows of
these petrels so as to resemble vast rabbit

.warrens, but for many years they have been

persecuted for their ﬂesh and their plumage
so that efforts have been made in Australia to
protect the mutton bird by law. In winter
the birds leave their nesting haunts and roam
the warmer waters of the Paciﬁc, and probably
never come near land until the next nesting
season, for like all true oceanic or pelagic birds,
they can roost on the waves at sea. The sea~
shore birds, like the surf—bird, the waders and
many of the gulls, cannot sleep at sea, hence
their reluctance to ﬂy too far from land.

These shearwaters or petrels are generally
very dark in plumage above, and lighter
beneath, and they belong to the same primitive
group of “ tube—nosed birds ” as the albatross
and our familiar storm petrel, birds that are
easily recognised by their peculiar bills with
the nostrils like two tubes along the top.
They cannot perch or stand on land like most
other birds, but are so weak in the leg that
they rest back upon their heels. In 1798,
Matthew Flinders, the navigator, mentioned
seeing enormous ﬂights of these birds in the
Bass Strait, passing without interruption for a
full hour. He estimated at least a hundred
million birds! In more recent times, R. H.
Davies found that they arrived back at their
nesting haunts on Green Island in such clouds
that they caused darkness to appear ten minutes
earlier than usual, and wherever he sailed for
eighty miles from Flinders Island to Tanar
Head the sea was thick with them. Over
two—and~a¢half million birds were estimated

 

l

.l.
/

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

to be nesting on four islands alone. Only
the small islands are sought by the birds, the
larger ones remaining unused, but in modern
times their numbers have been greatly reduced
by persecution, the young birds being salted
and pickled in barrels or used for the prepara—
tion of oil for the leather industry.

In habits they much resemble the puﬂins
and shearwaters of our own rocky coasts.
Their nesting season begins in mid—September,
when they return to their nesting burrows,
and after mating, they clear out the old
burrows which have been the haunts of
snakes during the winter, then for some strange
reason they return to sea for a short spell—a
habit we have noticed with the Welsh pufﬁns
after mating; but they return in just over a
week, settling down to nesting at the end of
November. The female returns to sea to fatten
on ﬁsh after laying her eggs, and meanwhile
the male sits on them for the ﬁrst week. Then
she takes over a long spell of eight weeks
duty. The young mutton—birds remain a long
time in the nest burrow—until the following
April, when they have grown fatter than their
parents; but all the birds leave the colonies in
May and are not seen on land again until the
following spring—our autumn. V

The Southern Paciﬁc is also a haunt of
Australian and'New Zealand gannets, some of
which are only slightly different from our
northern gannets, and others are the broWn
gannets. These Paciﬁc gannets are generally
nicknamed boobies : indeed, American sailors
know them by no other name. They include
the blue-eyed gannet, the red-footed gannet of
Australian coasts, and the white—bellied gannet.

 

Brown Gamez‘.

They nest with the noddy terns on the cliff
edges of the Paciﬁc Isles.

9

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

lVadely Tern.

Loveliest of all the terns is the snow—white
fairy tern which nests on Laysan Island,
Hawaii, where the pure white birds exist in
myriads. Here also nests the Laysan alba—
tross, a beautiful seabird which, according to
an American naturalist who photographed it
the other year, “ at times does aweird comical
dance upon the beach, not unlike the Charles—
ton.” The dance would, I presume, be part
of the bird’s courtship display. But the
delicate fairy tern is not without strange
habits. Most terns lay their eggs on the sand
or shingle beach, but this Hawaiian fairy tern
lays its single egg on the rough bark of the
bough of a tree, upon a broken stump or even
the shaft of a palm frond.

One of the loveliest of oceanic birds is the
red—tailed tropic bird nesting in Polynesia;
pure white with a red bill and long red forked
tail, it is a robber bird unequalled in skill and
speed. Nicknamed the “ Boatswain,” it is
rivalled in flying speed by the frigate bird or
“ Man—o’—\War” of Christmas Island.

 

Masked Gmmet.

180

September, I 942

Fairfield Refuge

Report, 1941.

The year 1941 was not an easy one for the
work at the Fairﬁeld Refuge, and although
quite as much effort to rescue worn-out and
unfit horses was made, a smaller number than
in the previous two years passed through our
hands. These horses which did pass through
were, without exception, very bad cases, and
we were thankful indeed to be able to ensure a
swift and merciful end to their sufferings.

The prices of old horses have increased very
considerably, and the resources of the Refuge
have been severely strained at times. Un—
fortunately one or two extremely bad cases
which we were most anxious to secure at sales
made such big prices that we lost them and
to our sorrow they went on to further hard
labour, even though they were worn out and
unﬁt for further toil.

A larger amount was spent on fodder during
the past year—the reasons being the increase
in the price of hay, and the fact that a con—
siderable amount of hay and other food was

given to the owners of working ponies who

had genuine difficulty in obtaining enough for
their animals’ needs. The ponies thus supplied
were inspected from time to time to make sure
that they were in good condition and were
benefiting by the extra food.

The number of animals received during
the year was 67. Out of these, 64 horses and
ponies and one cow were humanely destroyed,
and two hunter mares were kept in the Refuge
ﬁelds, their owners being willing and able to
provide them with hay when necessary.

At the end of the year the number of animals
actually belonging to the Refuge was 10 ponies
and 2 donkeys—8 of the ponies being lent to
suitable homes in the district, on Refuge
conditions.

Our most grateful thanks are due to all the
subscribers for their continued interest and
support—to Mr. E. J. Hampton, who devotes
countless hours to the work of the Refuge,
tending the horses, and giving invaluable help
and advice at all times—to Mr. B. Kutley and
his sons for their willing co—operation with
Mr. Hampton in ensuring a painless and quiet
end, entailing sometimes much patience and
care in difficult cases.

The need for funds continues to be urgent,
as much work remains to be done. Please
give as generously as ever.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

September, 1942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Ehe
- Elm’mals’ jfrienb
Galenbar.

 

in?“ '- »' 35:1“
P 5’ 5‘1

 

 

    

49%
3 59a};

\\\\ 1943

For particulars please see neXt page.

 

181

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Septanber, I942

The Animals’ Friend Calendar, 1943

The publication of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Calendar this year has not been without several
anxious moments when its fate hung in the
balance. There was a possibility at the very
ﬁrst that the necessary permit would not be
granted and later on that it would be cancelled;
then there was shortage of helpers in the
N.C.A.W. Ofﬁce, combined with an increase
in activities I However, all. obstacles have been
surmounted and, barring last minute accidents
such as an unlucky bomb or things of that ilk,
the Calendars should be ready in September.
Below we give a short description, together
with a form. If readers have not yet ordered,
we Would advise them to send in the form at
once if they want to make sure of having
copies. On the previous page we give a
facsimile reproduction of the Cover, which is
a design by Lawrence East, the well—known
portrait painter.

 

The Calendar will have quotations as usual
relating to animals, birds and kindred subjects,
sent in by subscribers whose names and towns
are given, together with the authors. Each
week has a page with a quotation for each day
and a picture of an animal, bird, etc. The
Colours are as follows :—

Cream cover with gold inside pages.

Buff cover with buff inside pages.

Blue cover with blue inside pages.

Biscuit cover with blue inside pages.
Grey cover with pale green inside pages.

The price is I /5 each, postage extra. This will
be 2d. per copy, except when more than three
are sent together, when the postage will vary.
If envelopes are required for posting on to
friends, these will be 1d. each and will not be-
sent unless specially ordered.

 

 

 

 

Please send... ............................................................. Calendars, for which I enclose ........................................

Colours preferred ..................................................................

.......................................................................................................

.........................................................................................................

I enclose ........................................ donation for Calendar Fund.

Please send ........................................ forms for sending to anyone who might be interested.

NAME (Mr, Mrs., Miss) BLOCK LETTERS please ........................................................... . ..............................................

ADDR Ess

.......................................................................................................

........................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................

IMPORTANT. If you have already ordered all the copies you want, please only give

colours required.

 

CALENDARS WILL BE ON SALE A T:—

THE ANIMALS FAIR

CAXTON HALL, WESTMINSTER
FRIDAY & SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4th 8: 5th

 

182

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

September, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Story of “The Animals’ Friend” and its Early

Campaigns

By JESSEY WADE.

HE war by humanitarians against cruelty
Thas been waging for a long time and the

ﬁghters for justice to animals have been
involved in many campaigns, some of which,
I think we may say, had successful endings.

It has been suggested that it might be
interesting to those of the Old Brigade, as also
to the later and younger friends of animals, to
recall or to learn of, as the case may be, the
various “ causes ” which have been taken up
in the .pages of this magazine. We might
perhaps start with the date of its arrival from
the care of the National Anti-Vivisection
Society where it made its debut in June, 1894,
to its second home at York Street, Covent
Garden. This was in the following year and
the magazine was then a Slender four-page
sheet issued at the price of one halfpenny. Mr.
Ernest Bell thereupon undertook the sole
responsibilities of proprietor and publisher
while Mr. Sydney Trist remained for a time
the Editor. They could not long remain
content, however, with anything so limited
in size for their endeavours, and very soon it
appeared enlarged, wearing a cover and con-
taining a Supplement Page for Children. It
found favour and all went well except for the
one thing needful—money to cover expenses.
The bank balance had sunk down to less than
J€20 and an appeal for funds was promptly
responded to; the “ AF.” was to go on.

It was just about this time that my own
connection with that faithful and fearless
humanitarian, Mr. Ernest Bell, began, which
was destined to last for thirty—seven happy
years. I had everything to learn but where
could I have found a surer, safer guide to
knowledge? .

Shortly after, he handed over to my care the
“ Children’s Supplement ” as a separate pro—
duction instead of including a page for them
in the adults’ paper.

In its early days we find that the chief
subjects dealt with were : (I) Vivisection, and
very ably was it dealt with by experts in the
Medical profession and by dignitaries of the
Church from the ethical standpoint. (2) The
cruelties engendered by the importation and

183

wearing of fur and feathers. (3) Cattle traffic
and evils of butchery. (4) Very earnest appeals
for the abolition of the Royal Buckhounds
under the organisation of the Rev. J. Stratton.
These appeared to be at that time the causes
most needing the sympathy and help of the
ANIMALs’ FRIEND readers.

We are able now to look back and to rejoice '
that “ murderous millinery ” has, by subse-
quent legislation, gone “ out of fashion ”;
that humane slaughter has become largely com—
pulsory and that the Royal Buckhounds (tame
stag worrying) were, through the desire of
Queen Victoria and Edward VII, abolished,
technically; but I need not enlarge upon how
much is (still to be desired before complete
victory can be claimed in that direction.

Being so closely in touch with the Humani—
tarian League as he was, Mr. Bell was always
well posted with facts and news of what was
being done, and humane teaching in schools
being one of the League’s departments among
his ﬁrst efforts to help that important move—
ment was to arrange for and publish a set of
Animal Life School Readers. This led to the
providing of many specially prepared lantern
slides and printed lectures upon the treatment
of animals, and children’s favourite stories
were also illustrated. These were available,
free of charge to any willing helper. To me
fell the duty of arranging the lectures, packing
and booking slides, etc. How all that came
about is another story dating from the time he
first heard of Mrs. Suckling, of Romsey, and
her wonderful “ Bands of Mercy.” An invi-
tation to visit her resulted in a friendship of
many years. It was at her home that we spent
many week ends and summer days of special
“ Command performances.” The grounds
were then ﬁtted up with a stage and the village
children, or others from Romsey itself, acted
plays she had written, one entitled “ The New
Law Court ” being the first I recall. In
succeeding years there were fairylike operettas
from her pen, and all, of course, in the interests
of the sub-humans, including bees and birds.
The audiences then were usually the teachers
from schools at Southampton and district,

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

often the Director of Education joining the
party, with a sprinkling of London guests.
"Those were great times and we went home full
of enthusiasm over Mrs. Suckling’s lifelong
work. I hope there are still many others who
remember her.

Thinking over those early days of lantern
lectures in outlying village schools one
realises how times have changed. To—day in
’Welfare Week we can travel down in a car and
ﬁnd the scene all laid, the ﬁlms ready for show
and perfect order reigning in the hall among
the juvenile audience, but some of us could tell
a different story when the lecturer, operator,
lantern (often an 02'! lantern) and box of slides
were all packed into a cab to the station, then
a train journey with arrival at a village school—
room. The sheet to be ﬁxed up and other
preparations before the croWd swept in, often
a disorderly young audience who enjoyed
being disorderly under cover of the darkened
room. If the oil lamp smoked, which
occasionally happened, it did not improve
matters. Such, I should in justice add, was
about the worst sample of what could and did
happen, and anyhow, it makes the pleasure of
appreciating (and here thanking for it as I do)
the ever—increasing help and sympathy we
receive to—day from heads and staffs of schools
everywhere with the humane education
movement.

The Bearing Rein.

Another cruel practice at that time was the
torturing of carriage horses with tight bearing-
reins and a real and vigorous campaign
against it was started through the columns of
the magazine owing to Mr. Bell taking over
the Anti—Bearing—rein Association which had
become homeless. Much propaganda was

done by the billposting on walls and
hoardings of an enormous Trio Poster
depicting harnessed horses in “ Comfort,

Discomfort, Torture.” This was effected by
the generosity of one lady of the committee.
Posters for carters who, from prejudice and
long usage, could not be persuaded that the
'hame rein was cruel and unnecessary, were also
designed and circulated extensively.

It would take too much space to pass in
review the many appeals made for reforms
and to mention the names of those who came
forward to help. After a time the ANIMALS’
FRIEND ofﬁce became to some extent a centre
of humane work and people wrote there as if
it were an established society, and not simply

September, 1942

a magazine of information. To this Mr. Bell
did not object, and decided that it would be
well to make ourselves into the kind of organi—
sation that people already considered us to be.
So from October, 1910, we became the
Animals" Friend Soez'ezjl. At the same time he
made it clear this was with no desire to overlap
the special work undertaken by existing
societies. All he desired was to supplement
these various efforts by utilising the help of a
number of persons doing little or nothing for
the animals. Such a society would be run

without office expenses or membership. Every—
one who subscribed to the magazine would
z'pm faez‘o be a member of the society.

(To be eone/zzded ﬂex; womb.)

 

 

AUTHORS invited submit MSS. (especially
Fiction and Poems) to London Publishers of
43 years’ standing. Advice free—Stockwell,
Ltd., Elms Court, llfracombe (Duration
address).

184

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

September, I 942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National'Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

H072. Secret/.701: BERTRAM LLOYD,

. Crooked Arguments.

ln Tbiméiiig to Some Purpore (published by
Penguin Books), Professor Susan Stebbing
points to a fox—hunting correspondence in the
Maneberz‘er Guardian (19 37) as an example of
the error into which both disputants in an
argument are prone to fall of “ casting un-
pleasant aspersions against the arguer whilst
ignoring the argument ” or—in the words of
the logician de Morgan—“ proving something
that is not contradictory to the thing asserted.”
At the beginning of this correspondence, in
which members of our Society participated,
it was asserted that “ fox—hunting is an eX—
tremely cruel sport.” The opposition replied
that we are like the Puritans (according to
Macaulay) who “ objected to bear—baiting,
not because it gave pain to the bears, but
because it gave pleasure to the spectators.”
“ This accusation,” writes Professor Stebbing,
"‘ even if true, is irrelevant to the point at
issue, for the point is whether pain is felt by
the fox. It is as crooked an argument as that
often urged (but not by any of these corre—
spondents) by ‘the pros ’ that those who
condemn fox—hunting have ‘ no guts ’! ”
Other “ crooked arguments,” familiar to us,
against the accusation of cruelty in spOrt are,
iiiier alia, that the fox often escapes, that he is a
sly, marauding animal, that the pageantry of
the meet has become an integral part of the
countryside, that animals must play their part
in keeping Britons hardy, etc.

F ox-shooting Records.

At the annual meeting of the Mendip
Farmers’ Hunt the chairman stated that the
Hunt was being kept on only to kill foxes and
not for sport. The absurdity of this oft—
repeated wartime claim is again apparent
when we compare the results of controlling
foxes by hunting and by other methods.
During lastseason this Hunt killed 41 foxes on
55 days. On the other hand, we learn that
in three months 200 foxes were shot in East
Merioneth, and that the Dales Fox Extermina-
tion Fund received 110 fox tails in less than

185

c/o 255, Cowley Road, Oxford.

eleven weeks. Further, in a “ houndless fox—
hunt ” in the Yorkshire Dales, supported by
three men and a terrier, no less than nine foxes
were bagged in one day.

In spite of this overwhelming evidence that
the long drawn out process of killing foxes
by hunting is in the main no more than an
expensive pastime, its followers will no doubt
continue to assert that in wartime “ sport is
not even a secondary consideration.”

Big Game Hunting.

A series of articles by “ Uncle Martin ”
entitled “ Letters to Young Big Game
Shooters,” appeared recently in The Field.
Although we feel that the wanton slaughter of
any wild creature which does not threaten the
existence or, at least, the well—being of man is
to be deplored, it is. clear that even the sporting
world has no longer a place for the ruthless
big game hunter, who cares nothing for the
extermination of a rare species or the cruelty
involved in his conquest so long as he can
acquire a photograph of himself astride some
huge carcase. “ Uncle Martin ” respects the
point of view of those who say, “ I don’t care
about shooting the animals. I prefer to
photograph them,” his main criticism being
that “ not a few reputations for intrepidity
have been made with pictures of lions taken
from motor—cars under conditions of almost
complete safety.” He puts before his
“ nephews ” the joys of hunting with a gun
or a camera, and adds : “ Each has a part to
play. But do not think of them as easy
alternatives. For the one lacks the final
criterion of any blood-sport—the kill; and it
is just how you feel on that subject which must
govern your point of view.” Representatives
of the British Field Sports Society laid much
stress in peacetime on their belief that hunting
is a mere matter of pageantry, good fellowship
and healthy exercise, but we share the writer’s
View that “ #96 final eriz‘erion of my; blood—rparf is
#93 kill.” Were it not so there would be
rejoicing when a fox escapes after providing
a good day’s sport.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

September, 1942

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Autumn.

Tbe feat/oer from tbe rat/en’s breast
Falls on tbe stubble lea,
Tbe aeorns near tbe old erotu’s nest
Drop pattering do run tbe tree ;
Tbe <grunting pigs, tbat wait for all
Scramble and burry iubere 1‘ng fall.
JOHN CLARE (1793—1864).

Tbe squirrel gloats on bis aeeomplisb’d board,
Tbe ants bane brimm’d tbeir garners witb ripe
grain,
And bone} bees bane stored
Tbe streets of Summer in tbeir luseious eel/s ;
Tbe swallows all bane wing’d aeross tbe main;
But bere tbe Autumn melanebobr dwells,
And sigbs ber tearful spells
Amongst tbe sunless sbadon/s of tbe plain.
From Autumn—THOMAS HOOD (1799—1845).

Shakespeare and Sentiment.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, in its issue of
September, 1896, which, by the way, was the
last month in the second volume, contains a
charming article by M. Surtees Townesend,
who thus made her debut as a contributor. In
this article, entitled Sba/éespeare and Sentiment,
Miss Townesend suggests that :—

No one can accuse Shakespeare . . . of a sickly
sentimentality or of a lack of robustness; and yet
his writings teem with allusions which show him
not only to be a keen observer of the animal world,
its manner of life and nature, but also . . . that
tender-hearted pity of the strong for the weak,
which is the characteristic of the true animal
lover. .

It may be said that Shakespeare, writing as
dramatist, had no didactic purpose, and did not
make his characters mouthpieces for his own views
of things, but that he merely put into the mouths
of each personality the words suited to the character
he would represent. This is very true, but at the
same time it- is impossible in reading his plays to
doubt on which side his own personal sympathies
lie. Like all great souls he needs must love the
highest when he sees it. . . .

Shakespeare’s plays are not a treatise on natural
history, but from a sentence thrown in as it were
by chance here and there we gather, were it only by
the number of animals mentioned, that Shake-
speare’s knowledge of zoology was extensive.

The Wisdom of the Wise.

“ The history of those animals with which
we are best acquainted, forms the ﬁrst object
of our chiefest curiosity.”——-OLIVER GOLD-
SMITH (1728-1774).

Browncoat.

Here is a picture of one of the early inhabi—
tants of this world taken from Wben Mam-—
motbs Roamed tbe Frozen Bart/9, by Heinrich
Schutz :

“ A shadow emerged on the bare boulder slope
at the foot of the mountain—the bear. His lair was
high up above, in a great crevice in the rock. The-
entrance was protected from sun and rain by the last
thiCk ﬁr tree which had advanced between the rocks.
Browncoat had walked from the darkness out into.
the green moonlight. He sat up on his haunches,
scratched himself here and there with his long claws
and washed the sleep from his eyes.

“ Suddenly he stopped this comfortable per-
formance, and every muscle stiffened while his wet,
black nose sniHed the air. Then he sank down from
his erect position until he lay like another rock
among the boulders. Only his ﬂashing eye betrayed
life.”

Scotchie.

In Tbe Animals’ Guardian, May, 1909, the
then Editor, Mr. Sidney Trist, tells the story of
Scotchie, one of the dwellers in the paddock
belonging to Charles Bell Taylor, the famous
surgeon and humanitarian.

“ Scotchie . . . was being taken in a butcher’s
cart from the farm on which it had been reared to the
private slaughterhouse. Whether it was the un—
accustomed surroundings, or that the sheep had some
premonition of its fate, we cannot say, but the fact
remains that on passing Dr. Bell Taylor’s house the
creature managed to scape from the cart and sought
sanctuary in the. paddock. The butcher’s boy
instantly walked in to drag the sheep out, but Bell
Taylor happened to be near, and, having observed
the incident, he warned the lad off. ‘ The sheep has
sought sanctuary,’ he said, ‘ and he shall have it.’ So
the butcher was sent for and was paid the value of
the sheep, and Scotchie survived ‘ amid green pas-
tures and still waters.’ until he reached the mature
age of thirteen years, when, dying a natural death,
he was buried in the paddock.”

My Friend the Horse.
Extract from the Evening N eons, of July 24th,
I942 :—
STONE—AGE HORSE FOUND.
Madrid, Friday—Excavations at Sabadell, near
Barcelona, have revealed remains of stone-age

animals, including an early ancestor Of the horse and
a hedgehog hitherto unknown in Spain.——REUTER.

Thought for the Month.

The natural dignity of animals must be
preserved and not tampered with by teaching
them ridiculous tricks.

ONLOOKER.

186

 

 

 




 

 

 

Seplember, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Wisdom in Eating

By STELLA LIEF.

eating, and people are at last beginning

to realise that there is a deﬁnite con—
nection between food and health and that our
ignorance of the fundamental principles of
dietetics is the greatest cause of the illness and
disease that seem to be the common lot of
most men.

In short, they are beginning to see that
“ as a man eats, so is he ” and that we cannot
feed on foods of the highest toxic nature and
expect to be well.

Our decaying teeth, our weak eyes, our
falling hair, our ragged nerves, our irritated
appendices, our everlasting colds, our head—
aches, our gastric troubles, our high blood
pressures, our “bad” legs, our chilblains,
our ricketty babies, the swollen glands of our
‘ schoolboys, and our feeble and doting old
men all tell tales of violations of Nature’s laws.

Many people imagine that a meal is well—
balanced if it consists of proteins, starches and
sugars in the shape of meat, potatoes and a
pudding. Such a meal, they believe, is all that
can be desired with its so—called building
materials and energy-giving foods.

But recent studies in dietetics have shown
that such a meal is not complete, nor well
balanced, nor scientiﬁc, nor health-producing.

The most important essentials of diet are
organic salts, natural acids, bulky innutritive
material (roughage) and vitamins.

The tissues of the body are not composed
of proteins, starches, sugars and fats, but of
sixteen elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen,
nitrogen, calcium, chlorine, iron, iodine, Sul-
phur, silicon, potassium, phosphorus, man-
ganese, magnesium, sodium and ﬂuorine.
These elements make up the body and are the
essentials of the organic salts that the body
needs.

These organic salts are found abundantly
in uncooked vegetables and fruits.

Seneca said : “ Many dishes, many diseases
. . . be not startled by the multitude of diseases,
count the cooks.” Food reformers say the
same thing and call cooking the “ fatal pro—
cess,” holding it responsible for most of the
maladies affecting mankind. I, myself, am
convinced that unseasoned and uncooked foods
are the only foods that will bring perfect and
abundant health, the highest mental and moral
powers and vital stores of energy.

DIETETICS is the science of correct

187

Hippocrates said: “ In the beginning man
subsisted on the spontaneous products of the
earth and received his food in the same simple
and direct manner as the animals did.”

Nature created her foods perfect and man
has evolved to subsist on these foods with their
constant constituents and ﬁxed properties.

Is it not obvious, therefore, that if man
interferes with these perfect foods, by remov—
ing, let us say, the outer coatings of grains,
the skins of fruits and vegetables or by boiling
vital salts from vegetables he denatures these
foods and renders them useless to his own
undoing? In his native wildness, man, like
the animals, was healthy and powerful, sub-
sisting on uncooked and natural foods—fruits,
nuts and berries.

But what does civilised man eat?

Tea, bread, jam, cakes, boiled vegetables,
fried foods, tinned foods, custard powders,
jellies, sloppy puddings, stodgy puddings,
pickles, sauces, meat extracts, sausages, bacon,
white sugar, coffee, mineral waters, pasteurised
milk, mushy stewed fruits, vinegar, offal, ﬁsh
pastes, corned meats and all kinds of starchy
products.

All these are practically useless and acid—
forming and result in all the common diseases
like colds, rickets, inﬂuenza, catarrh, appendi—
citis, constipation, bad teeth, anaemia, varicose
veins, bronchitis, measles, rheumatism, head—
aches, convulsions, tonsilitis, colitis, indiges—
tion, nervous breakdowns, whooping cough,
swollen glands, cancer, Bright’s disease, and
so on.

Then, as a result of subsisting on these
common articles of diet, we ﬁnd in most of
our houses contraptions called medicine chests
which are full of aspirins, cascara, celery pills,
liver pills, bromides, nerve tonics, iron tonics,
inﬂuenza “ cures,” gargles, hair foods, wind. ,
pills, cod—liver oil, gripe water, etcetera.

But our ill-health is simply the result of
living wrongly, and emptying the contents of
our medicine chests into ourselves will result
merely in still more chronic conditions of ill-

' health.

You must eat for vitality and perfect health
and you don’t want vitamins out of bottles I

Vitamins are elusive food—factors that are
known by their effects. If they are lacking
there can be no health and it has also been
proved that cooking destroys vitamins. Cook-

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ing converts food into a useless mixture of
devitalised, denatured, degenerated stuff: by
its utter worthlessness it has developed in us
a taste for food that is too highly—ﬂavoured, too
sweet, too spicy, too hot, too rich, too salty,
too peppery, too concentrated, too soft and
too clogging.

Disease is not an error of nature but a result
of man’s errors in living.

The natural state of the body is one of
health, and disease is merely the result of
wrong living. Man is a frugivorous animal,
yet he feeds upon denatured and cooked foods
and dares to imagine he is eating for health
and energy!

The body needs organic—salts, natural acids,
_ roughage and vitamins, and these are found in
their greatest perfection in uncooked fruits,
nuts, berries and vegetables.

Another thing about this vegetarian diet is
that it is a humane diet. It doesn’t necessitate
terrible cruelties to animals and it doesn’t force
man to take advantage of the helplessness and
defencelessness of gentle creatures. By this
diet man doesn’t have to live by the deaths
of others.

We cannot be spiritual beings and animals
of prey at the same time.

Again, civilisation can only be true when it
upholds the rights of all animals and when it
realises that all life is a part of one gigantic
whole.

 

Next mom/J A’Irr. Liey‘ will give rome rpeez'a/l I ”ref/4!,
eary and good reaper.

 

 

Photo by]

. [E. K. Robins
A Ier—z‘zme V egez‘ariem.

188

September, 1942 .

The Nightingale Sang On

By CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

HE eve of May 31st, 1941, being such a

beautiful evening the opportunity was

taken by a party of four to make for
neighbouring woods, one of our group having
expressed himself of opinion that there was no-
place like the woods for hearing the nightin— ,
gale. “ I heard them about midnight,” con—
tinued the speaker, “ the place was full of
them, all answering ‘one another.”

Our way lay alongside green ﬁelds inter—
sected by rines from one of which a snow—white
bird resembling a lesser tern was disturbed.
Soon after a lapwing swirled above the
meadow as he made for a late night rendezvous.

It was getting dark when we arrived at the
fringe of the wood where it had been promised
that we should hear the

[got—winged Dryer! of flee freer.

The crescent moon illumined the sky; a few
stars were dimly visible through the branches
overhead.

We listened. . . . We were rewarded by
the hoot of an owl, followed by the ominous
drone of ﬂying engines of destruction, “ Making
night hideous.” It must have been half an
hour after this when a clear note rang out to he
succeeded by an answering call.

The serenade had commenced. There was
no mistaking, though in the distance, Philo—
mel’s sweet tones. We all moved nearer,
trying ﬁrst one spot and then another till only
the hedgerow separated us from the nocturnal
songster. Long we luxuriated in the melo—
dious chords.

A second symphony—of scientiﬁc mechani—
cal sounds threatening disaster followed. . .
Then a calm to be broken by that heart—stirring
appeal of

T/oe sweez‘ert rz'ﬂger in 4/! Me forest’r quire.

Darkness and a mist now enveloped the
countryside as we ﬁnally left the enchanted
woods and made for home. “ The blasts of
war ” acted as a strange accompaniment with
intermittent rumble of guns and explosions as
the dragons of death manoeuvred over our
heads. while long rays of light searched the

sky. Yet . . the nightingale sang on.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

September, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Seerez‘agy: MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Officer: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—147, BATH STREET.

From “ T/ye Vaccination Iﬂgm'rer and Hea/fb Review.”

Soldiers and Vaccination.
The Secretary of State for War wrote to

' Mr. S. P. Viant, M.P., on 24th January, 1942,

in reply to Mr. Viant’s letter asking for a copy
of the form that objectors are requested to
Sign :— -

“ Both vaccination and inoculation are
entirely voluntary under present regulations.
A Soldier who refused this treatment would be
eligible for pay, pension and medical care in
the same way as any other serving soldier. At
the same time. we do our best to explain to
objectors that vaccination and inoculation are
not only undertaken in the interest of pre—
serving their own health, but also to protect
the Army from the occurrence of epidemics.”

Forcible Inoculation of a Soldier in Bombay.

Gunner Blackie of the Royal Artillery, sent
the League an airgraph on 24th April, which
arrived on ZISt May, reporting the outrageous
treatment to which he had been subjected in
Bombay. Knowing that vaccination and in—
oculation are not compulsory in the British
Army, he exercised his right to refuse these
operations. He was placed under arrest for
refusing, then held down while the medical
ofﬁcer inoculated him by force with anti—
cholera vaccine. He was taken in front of the
Major the same morning and charged with,
while on active service, conduct to the preju—
dice of good order and military discipline,
i.e., endangering his comrades by refusing
inoculation in a cholera emergency. He was
given seven days’ field punishment, which
caused him the loss of a week’s pay.

As soldiers have to obey only lawful orders,
and the order to be inoculated against cholera
was not a lawful order, the officers responsible
for his forcible inoculation and subsequent
punishment have committed an assault on this
man and inﬂicted an illegal punishment. Mr.
William Leach, M.P., took the matter up with
the War Secretary directly it was brought to
his notice, and as will be seen from Questions
in Parliament, three other M.P.’s put questions
about it. Details of the case were sent by the

189

League’s Secretary to 75 M.P.s with extracts
from King’s Regulations and from Answers.
in Parliament from the \X’ar Secretary, showing
that vaccination and inoculation are voluntary
operations for men going overseas as well as
for those on home service, and that anti—cholera
inoculation is perhaps the most ineHective of
all the inoculations. Lieut.—Col. H. J.
Bensted’s statement in his Harben Lectures,
December, 1940, was quoted, namely 1——

“ The long array of earnest workers since
Ferran first made his injections in 1885 have
not yet proved the case for the value of anti—
cholera inoculation.”——(Briz‘z'.rb [Wee/zeal jet/ma],
4th January, 1941.

Lady Astor, M.P., wrote to Miss Loat about
the case: “ I am very glad you wrote to me
about Gunner Blackie, who was forcibly
inoculated against cholera in India. It is really
disgraceful, and I am putting down the
question you sent me, and will let you have
the reply.”

The Annual Meeting Resolutions.

The resolutions passed at the Annual
Meeting of the National Anti—Vaccination
League were sent to the Government Depart—
mental Heads whom they concerned, and to
responsible members of the Government.
Lieut.—Col. H. J. Bensted, on behalf of the
Director—General of Army Medical Services,
acknowledged the War Ofﬁce resolution,
which, he was instructed to say, “ will receive
consideration.” Sir Stafford Cripps expressed
his appreciation of the resolutions having been
brought to his notice.

Vaccination Regulations for Soldiers (zrst
May, I942)-

Mr. A. Edwards asked the Secretary of
State for War whether, in View of the assurance
given on 16th May, 1959, that no pressure
with regard to vaccination would be put on
militiamen by medical ofﬁcers, and to paragraph
81 of the regulations for militia notified in
Army Orders for June, 1939, that vaccination
will not normally be carried out for militiamen

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

and no pressure brought'to bear on‘ them;
and, as no cases of smallpox have been recorded
amongst soldiers during this war, he will give
orders that vaccination is only to be carried
out at the request of individual militiamen P

Sir J. Grigg: Vaccination and inoculation

in the Army are not compulsory and there is .

no distinction in this respect between men
who originally joined the militia and others.
A number of unvaccinated soldiers in certain
theatres of war have died from smallpox, and
I do not therefore propose to issue instructions
restricting vaccmation.

(NOTE.——-Mr. Edwards is trying to get from
Sir Jas. Grigg particulars of smallpox in the
British Army during this war, but in the
meantime it will be remembered that down
to November, 1941, no cases of smallpox had
been recorded. As for unvaccinated soldiers
dying of smallpox, Sir Jas. Grigg must know
that during the last war 287 recently and
successfully vaccinated soldiers took smallpox
in Mesopotamia and 29 of them died. The
British Army in India has always had a certain
amount of smallpox, although the men were
regularly vaccinated and re—vaccinated. Of
two fatal cases in 1902, the Army Health
Report says : “ one . . . had been vaccinated
on enlistment in 1892 and again in November,
1899, and bore successful marks of each
operation; the remaining fatal case . . . had
seven good marks of previous vaccinations,
the last operation being done in 1898.” In
1901 “ one of the fatal cases had been re—
vaccinated in four places only a few weeks
before he contracted the disease”)

The Orphan Chick

SUPPOSE even an egg can be left an
I orphan if a chick is cheeping away inside.

This one was, and as there wasn’t another
broody hen available the egg was brought
inside to hatch out on a hot—water bottle in
front of the ﬁre. Eventually a wet, limp chick
struggled out of her shell. I tucked the chick
up on her hot—water bottle that night and came
down next morning hardly expecting to ﬁnd
her alive. She was very much alive and
cheeping loudly.

She lives in a comfortable box with a fre—
quently—changed hot—water bottle and is well
supplied with grit, food, water. But what
she wants most is mafberz'ng. She seemed
somewhat mystiﬁed at ﬁrst by my absence of
feathers although she is now completely

UM. WMN.A&«,. Li- . «iv-1,17 '

September, 1942

,‘Wiwﬂ‘

/

reconciled to snuggling up against human
ﬂesh and clothes. She cheeps loudly until I
pick her up and she makes contented noises.
I never realised until then what a variety of
sounds, all meaning something different, a
chick can make. She has also learned 'to
respond to my voice. I named her Solitaire
because her mother was named Dodo (after
that other extinct bird). I have only to say,
“ Hello, Soli ” for her to set up a loud chirping.
The chick has learned that her foster mother
has a pair of big feet and wherever the feet go
the chick runs and ﬂutters after. The chick is
still ﬂourishing and is getting quite big. She
likes to get inside my shirt, or climb up inside
my trousers’ leg, or perch on my shoulder,
where she stays perfectly happy.

The hatching out of a solitary chick in front
of a ﬁre and rearing her from so tender an age
without other chicks for warmth or company
must be, I think, very unusual. I am wonder-
ing what I have let myself in for. I can only
hope that when she is returned to the run she
will gain some independence, but if she is going
to regard me literally as a fellow creature the
consequences are going to become embarrass—
ing 1 Anyhow her conﬁdence is not misplaced

———I am not a cannibal! _
E. G. BARLOW.

190

 

 

 

 

 




 

September, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained‘or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to pro/Jibit tbe viniseetion of dogs.

Membership 5s. 0d. upwards.

CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary,

VICTORIA STATION HOUSE. S.W.l

 

‘ OLD VICTOR ’

A Short Story (about a prize pit horse).
By B. L. COOMBES (Ant/Jar of “ Tbese Poor
Hands ”). 2d. post free.

‘ PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE
WITH THE DONKEYS ’
Poem translated from the French of Francis
Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted

from Tim Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”————
T/Je Anima/s’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free.

Otber leaflets on Pit Ponies. l

The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society,
69, CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N.W.8

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Sh0uld Join

The Cats Protection

League

The one society devoted solely to the welfare
of cats and kittens.

MEMBERSHIP 5 /- PER ANNUM,

including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,

“ THE CAT ”
Associate Membership Subscription 3s. 6d. p.a.

 

Write for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,
Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

 

 

The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

Temporary Address: 2 39 HURS T ROAD, 5 I DCUP, KENT.

President: HAMILTON FYFE

Secretary: J. C. SHARP

Chairman: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals What other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership zs. 6d. upwards.

 

Latest Publication

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Cbairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR.

Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER.

DEER HUNTING AND SHOOTING ON

Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD

EXMOOR 2d. '
By M. Chapman

 

 

 

 

All subscriptions and communications for Me Magazine sboald be addressed “ The Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’s Avenue, Aimee/l Hi/l, London, N .10.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND September, 1942

 

 

 

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

for 1942 will he held on

27th OCTOBER

in the

F BEEMASONS’ HALL, 96, George Street,
EDINBURGH 2

 

PLEASE NOTE

Miss N. Ivory will be grateful to all who send in their Contributions

as early in the year as possible, addressed to:

MISS N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary,

(to Whom all cheques should be madeépayable)
at 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

in aid of
THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Miss N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary, 10, Queensferry Street, Edinburgh

(to Whom all communications should be addressed)

(Please carefully note alteration in month to October
this year, and not November as in the past).

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.10.

 

 




