Published by ‘
UFAW . 1g
’2‘ (The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare) ‘6
284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, N.3 .

5 .
I. ‘ , 4.»

Price 3d.

 




 

SELECT LIST OF UFAW PUBLICATIONS

The UFA W Handbook on the Care and Adahageirzeiit of Laboratory Animals
'" (London: Balliere, Tindall and Cox, 315. 6d. First published 1947,
reprinted 1949). Chapters on : Law and practice (the rights of laboratory
animals) ; The animal laboratory ; Pests of the animal house; Housing,
feeding, anaesthesia euthanasia, handling and hygiene of the rabbit,
guinea—pig, rat, mouse, vole, hamster, ferret, hedgehog, pigeon, canary,
amphibia, and ﬁsh; Bibliography for other species; Elements of
statistical analysis.

ANTI/Mal Reports (gratis).

Pamphlets and leaflets on trapping and pest—control. Instructions for Dealing
with Rabbits ; Humane Destruction of Rats and Mice ; Canada’s Beavers ;
The Countryside of Britain (photographs of trapped animals) ; Blind
Spots ; Living on the Farmer’s Charity ; Lord Elton’s and Lord Merthyr’s
Speeches in the House of Lords on the Spring Traps Bill.

Other pamphlets and leaflets. Expanding Justice; Expanding Mercy; The
Inﬂuence of Religion on Man’s Attitude towards Animals ; The Sense of
Pain in Animals; Animal Welfare and the Teaching of Biology, 6d. ; A
Survey on Importation of Irish Cattle into Scotland, 3d; Transit of
Animals between Scottish. Islands and Mainland, 6d. ; Ugh ! (learning to
Live with animals); Kind Killing (Vinter, Emergency euthanasia for
small animals), 6d. ; How to Befriend Laboratory Animals (Hume), 3d. ;
National Book League Book List, No. 57, Animal \Nelfare; Electric
Stunning of Pigs (Croft). The Scientiﬁc Basis of Kindness to Animals
(Baker).

The UFA W Courier, twice yearly, price 3d. gratis to members.

Papers for children. Lecturettes with pin-up pictures (10in. x 7%in.) ;
A Few Bird Friends of Ours; Frogs and Toads; British Snakes and
Lizards ; Pigs and Dairy Cows ; Tame Rabbits ; Animals of the Country-
side; The Sheep ; The Dog ; The Cat. Cost price, 1d. each. “ Good,
Kind, Lion,” text and coloured illustrations by Fougasse (leaﬂets, gratis.)

Coloured strip posters by Fougasse, cost price 4d. each. 'I, “ When you ﬁnd
a bird’s nest, don’t touch, don’t stay long, don’t go often.” 2, “ It’s all
right, humans don’t feel.” 3, ” Don’t let anybody knock the stock about.
How would you like it yourself ?”

.Eceonon’zy labels by Fougasse. ” Utopia—private,” coloured, 50 for 2s. 6d.

Gammed strip by Fougasse. Two—colour coils lin. wide, 250 ft. long, 45. 0d.

Christmas Cards, 6 for 35. 6d.

Postcards, 12 for 1s.

(ii)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The UFAW Courier

P771777shed by U174 W (The U7777767/57757es 17077877777077 f07 A777777al VI €1fa7€),
824 Reamzt’ s P0717 Road, F777ckley, 107771077, N 3

EDITOR: MARGARET P. WILLIAMS, B.Sc. (Econ).

 

NO. 6 . 4 SPRING, 1952

 

CONTENTS

Page
THE DUTIES OF A DECENT BEAST OF PREY—G7lbe77 M777777y,

O.M., D.C.L. 2
THE ANIMAL-PROTECTION MOVEMENT—e17". jean V777777, M1). 6
SHEEP AND SHEPHERDS IN FRANCE—D7. Med. Vet. P. C. B7777,

Chef des T777v7777x d’ A7777707777e Ecole N77770777776 Ve’té77777777e,

Alf077 . 9

ELECTRICAL STUNNING—Phyllis G. C70f7, P77.D.,.M.R.C.V.S. 15

REVIEWS OF BOOKS 19
The Life of V ertebrates— ] Z. Y07777g, M. A. ,F. R. S.

Handbook on the Handling of Animals and First-aid—

N7777077777 Vete7777777y M 67770777 Assoc7at7077, 77077 the 137777817
Vete7777777y Assoc7at7077

Daily Farmers’ Encyclopazdia—Alcm M07ley.

Wild Mammals and the Land—F. Howoml L7777c77777.
Circus Doctor—j. Y. Hende73077 777777 R7ch777d T7777777g67.
Sold for Two FarthingS—F. D. 57777717 777777 B777b77777 W7lcox.
The Study of 'InStinct——~N. T777be7ge77

Cat EncyclOpaedia——-K7zf W7Zso77

The Story of Our Cattle—E. /. R0be7ts, M. A. (@7777),
M.SC. (Waléé) . , .. . . . ..

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT 24
NOTES 27

(UFAW accepts no responsibility for opinions expressed in individual articles
in this publication.)

I

 

 




 

THE DUTIES OF A DECENT BEAST OF PRE‘Y; '
' GILBERT MURRAY, O.M.,’ID.C.L.

“ T he Duties of a Decent Beast of Prey ” was the subject of
an address by Dr. Gilbert Murray in the Anatomy Theatre, U ni—
versity College, Gower Street, on Wednesday, 21st November, 1951.
Professor P. B. Medawar, who presided, said the Universities Federa—
tion for Animal ~Welfare promoted research into the welfare of animals
and among other things considered how best and most humanely
to reduce their numbers when they got out of hand and became pests.
Dr. Gilbert Murray, who is a Vice—President of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare, Greeted his audience as “ ill y
fellow beasts of prey lr’.’ He continued .—

Let us look at the main problem as I see it. We are, of course,
carnivorous ; we are beasts of‘prey ; but we have a conscience and we
have a particular hatred of cruelty. There is nothing which puts an
ordinary Englishman into such a fury as seeing cruelty done to an
animal. And when you travel abroad in many places, especially in
a south—easterly direction, you come across things done to animals
which make the average Englishman extremely angry.

And yet when there are too many of these animals we just kill
them. We habitually take away their young without paying any
attention to the suffering we cause. And we kill them for fun. It
is not only that we kill things we think we must eat. You might
almost say that killing things is our chief pleasure. If you consider
the landed aristocracy in this country, who can choose how to spend
their time, what is it they do? Huntin’, shootin’, ﬁshin’ ! That is
man’s main amusement in a civilized country. And it is the same,
of course, with savage societies. I suppose there remains there some-
thing of our very primitive “ beast of prey ” instincts. I speak in trem—
bling in the presence of Professor Haldane, who may be able to correct
me on this. But that is the way it strikes me. Some remote ancestor
of ours used to spring on his prey and kill him. A man once told
me that pig—sticking was the most thrilling and delightful form of
hunting because your lance was actually stuck into the pig and you
saw the blood spurt out in fountains.

Well, that is what we are and I do not think we can do much to
change our nature. And yet we have not only this strong sentiment
about cruelty. Some people exalt it into a religious principle. Is
there any real fundamental solution of the problem ? Well, I remember
two stories about Buddha. One was that he saw a tiger pursuing a
deer and he saved the deer. Then he saw that the poor tiger would
have no food, so he let the tiger eat him. That was a very good,
clear, logical solution but, you will agree, it is exposed to many practi—
cal objections. Another story about Buddha was that he found
a tiger with a festering wound. He cleaned out the wound and saw
that there were worms in it and he was causing them to die. 80 he

0

.1

 




 

made a hole in his own arm and put the worms in there. That, too,
was an attempt at a real solution but it Was not the way that we,
as practical masters of this world, could run the earth seriously.

We are in a tremendous position of mastery. We have most of
the animals at our mercy. Vegetarians make an attempt at a solu-
tion by not eating meat, but that is no real solution at all. It does
not solve the question. If you do not eat the animals you will not
keep so many alive, not allow so many to live. At present we are
keeping cows alive because we eat them. If we did not we should
have to keep them down, like rabbits. The animals, if we were all

- vegetarians, would be competing with us for food.

What about blood-sports P The great majority of mankind
seem to like them. ; I do not. My own feeling is that it may be necessary
to kill things, but I do not like the idea of taking pleasure in killing
them. Still, I do not see any possibility of stopping blood—sports.
There are many other particular practices .that people very much
object to. One is vivisection. I do not quite see how it is possible
to stop that. It is so deeply ingrained in our whole habit of treating
certain diseases. I could not profess to stop it because some years
ago I had pernicious anaemia and was being kept alive with injections
from the liver of a pig. We have to make up our minds that what—
ever idealists may say, man will hunt, shoot and ﬁsh and use animals
for food and curing disease.

UFAW maintains that there must be some real study of the
problem in an attempt to get some sort of reasonable compromise.
Let us consider the lines of compromise. We do a lot of killing and
the ﬁrst thing is to make that killing as little cruel and degrading
as we can. Slaughter-houses can be very horrible indeed. I remember
a case where boys used to pay about one shilling to go in and join
in the slaughtering. That is one of the clear remnants of the beast
of prey. In recent years there has been a great study of the best
way to kill animals for food. Research is still required. Electro—
cution seems to be very successful, but there are possible dangers.
Sometimes it does not work. Then what about the pests ? Rabbits
are pests. But don’t we all of us rather like a rabbit P In a way we
hate to see them exterminated, particularly in traps. Yet it has got
to be done. There is the old—fashioned gin trap, which has been
described by the Scott—Henderson Committee as “ diabolical,” which
is the laziest way. The rabbit is left with its leg broken and the
trapper can come round and finish it off perhaps in a few days’ time.
They can also be killed by using ferrets and by gassing them in their

holes with carbon dioxide. Then there are rats. -There again we .

have dOne an extremely cruel thing. Because we do not want the
dead rats smelling we give them a poison which will burn out their
bowels and that is about as cruel a poison as we could possibly use.
All these subjects have to be studied.

Then there is vivisection. The British law is pretty severe in its
control of vivisection, and UFAW made a considerable contribution
to that question in the publication of The UFAW Handbook on the
Care and Management of Laboratory Animals. That is an example of

‘3

 

 




 

the good that can be done by a reasonable and friendly approach
on both sides. I have already mentioned how I would have succumbed
to a disease many years ago but for vivisection research. It is a queer
business. Then what about sickness in animals ? There is a branch
of UFAW for veterinary surgeons who are interested in saving animals
from needless pain. Almost more important than the care of sick
animals is the care of animals in ordinary health. Farmers can be
careless and. very ignorant about the welfare of their beasts. I think
it would greatly diminish the amount of animal suffering if we could
get farmers to consider the welfare of their animals in a scientiﬁc way.

Here is a clear instance of the sort of mistake we may make and ‘
not realise. I was on the Committee of a Dog and Cat Home in Glas—
gow. We thought they were all very well looked after. The cats
were in a ﬁeld of their own, with shelves facing the sun. Then some—
one wrote a letter to the “ Glasgow Herald ” accusing us of abominable
cruelty to the cats. And apparently he was quite right. The cats
were dying fast, and we could not think why, until a man from the
Dogs and Cats Home in London came to visit us to see what was
happening to the cats. He pointed out that the cats had been placed
too close to the dogs, which were only just on the other side of afwooden
partition. They could always hear the dogs close to them, and being
in a state of constant fear they died. 80 they were given a rather
less pleasant place with less noise from the dogs and after that they
were all right. That is an instance of the way in which we may cause
suffering from mere lack of thought.

May I sum up this situation? I think roughly there are two
bad things that we must. not be afraid of combating. One is the
actual cruelty that does seem to lie in human nature. There is no
doubt about it that we have the instincts of beasts of prey. In
ancient times .the way for a ruler to make himself popular with the
democracy was to have plenty of gladiatorial games. Then think
of the extraordinary cruelty of religious persecutions. You can see
there that religion gave them an excuse for doing something which
they actually enjoyed doing. Think again of the common cruelty
practised by little boys. I do not say that all boys do those things,
but the cruelty is there. Psychologically it is rather hard to under-
stand. Cruelty does not come from ill-will. I suppose it partly
belongs to the ﬁghting instinct. ~When you get the better of your
opponent you knock him down and smash him up. That is part of
the fun. I am pretty sure another part of it is just a feeling of pride
that you are so strong. I think it is a strong element in all the emo-
tions that we enjoy. These are two motives at work at the same time.

I remember a case of some children in New Guinea who got hold
of an opossum. They fed it for some time and then someone threw
it on to a ﬁre. And when it got out they threw it back. They did
not dislike the opossum. They had no ill—will. They just regarded
it as good fun.

The other thing we have to resist is mere carelessness. We
do not think about the animals and they have no voice to remind
us. They cannot tell us or warn us. A great deal of suffering is

4

 




 

inﬂicted through carelessness. There are such a lot of problems
' for us to bear in mindwslaughter-houses, rabbits, rats, wild animals.
They all want studying. These are the forms of cruelty that we have
to ﬁght against.

Then there is the ordinary, natural process of biology which
we have to accept. There is competition among all living creatures
for the needs of life. We must face the problem. This is illustrated
by the state of the cows in India. In that country they will not kill
a cow. But they will let it go about in a starved condition. If that
happened here we should, say the cow was in a shocking state, and
insist on its being killed.

So far as I can see, the general principle is that while we have to
kill a great deal we should not enjoy killing and certainly should not
enjoy torture, and ought to do our best to see that. these creatures
so dependent on our mercy should live with a certain standard of
enjoyment. Cows and sheep ought not to be kept in a state of suffering
and disease in a ﬁeld. We must see that the animals we do keep
alive are reasonably treated and have a decent life.

And when we begin to face that question, after the studies which.
have been made recently into the problems of population, we see we
shall have to face the same problem in the case of man and of seeing
that he should live on this earth both in reasonable health and strength.
There is too much disease in the world, too much hunger. The popu—
lations of many countries are increasing to famine point and we do
not want that.

Here is a very serious problem for the future. In the meantime
it is actually facing us in the case of animals. All we Can say is that we
must accept the facts which cannot be altered, alter those that can
be altered, and give scientiﬁc study to each problem as it occurs.

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMAL-PROTECTION MOVEMENT

F. JEAN VINTER,‘ M.D.
Technical Secretary of UFAW

THE animal protection movement began early in the last century.
Before this time only a very few exceptionally kind-hearted
and stalwart persons had ventured to express in public their horror
of cruelty to animals. For instance in 1567, Pope Pius V had issued
a general prohibition'against bull-ﬁghting and bull—baiting, saying
that they were contrary to Christian mercy and charity and suitable
to demons rather than to men. In this country in 1742 Hogarth
had drawn his pictures of the four stages of cruelty, saying “ If my
pictures have the effect of checking cruelty to dumb animals I am more
proud of having been their author than I should be of having painted
Raphael’s cartoons.”

Conditions in this country early in the last century were bad
alike for man and beast. England was in the throes of the Napoleonic
wars and of the Industrial Revolution. Cruel sports were freely
practised ; bull—baiting, which. had been the favourite sport of Henry
II, was falling into disrepute, but cock—ﬁghting and dog—ﬁghting
were still enjoyed. In the streets the wide—spread martyrdom of the
horse was obvious. Animals were killed for food by pole—axe or knife
with great brutality; calves were bled slowly, sometimes for days
on end, in order to obtain white ﬂesh. Dogs were used in carts and
as turnspits. Song—birds were blinded with intent to make them
sing better; fowls were plucked and animals were skinned alive.

Into this welter of misery stepped the early reformers. The ﬁrst
attempt to put down bull-baiting by Act of Parliament was made in
1800 and, though it failed, it was supported by some notables including
Richard Brinsley Sheridan, William Wilberforce and Richard Martin.
Simultaneous movements towards reform were taking place in other
spheres. It was the time of the campaigns against slavery and the
death penalty for picking pockets. Elizabeth Fry was working for
prison reform and Lord Shaftesbury was struggling against the employ—
ment of child labour. _

In 1809 Lord Erskine, then Lord High Chancellor, tried to pilot
an animal protection bill through Parliament, and, though he failed,
he paved the way for Richard Martin whose famous Act went through
in 1822. Martin was 67 at the time of his triumph, he was a great
humorist and a wild Irishman addicted to duelling. His Act protected
only horses and cattle; bull—baiting was not, however, suppressed
by it since it was held in law that bulls were superior to cattle. It
was not till 1835 that a second Act was pushed through which protected
all domestic animals.

In 1824 the ﬁrst animal protection society in the world was
founded at Old Slaughter’s Coffee House, St. Martin’s Lane, London.

6

 




441.1 ._ , _.-

 

Its ﬁrst honorary secretary was the Rev. Arthur Broome. Two
sub-committees were immediately formed, one to issue literature
and the other to carry out inspection work, and, if necessary, to
prosecute offenders. By 1826 the society was in seriOus ﬁnancial
difﬁculties and the unfortunate Mr. Broome, who had given up his
living in order to devote himself to the work, was imprisoned for the
society’s debts. These debts were paid by a member of the committee
and from that time the society has grown continuously in inﬂuence
and usefulness. In 1840 it was greatly helped by receiving the Royal
patronage of Queen Victoria so that it became the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Her Majesty was amazingly
ahead of the times, for in a letter written a few years later to the
R.S.P.C.A. she said : “ The Queen hears and reads with horror of the
sufferings which the brute creation often undergo from the thought—
lessness of the ignorant, and she fears also sometimes from experi-
ments in the pursuit of science. For the removal of the former, the
Queen trusts much to the progress of education ; and in regard to the
pursuit of science, she hopes that the entire advantage of those anaesthe-
tic discoveries from which man has derived so much beneﬁt himself,
in the alleviation of suffering, may be fully extended to the lower
animals.” By this time the animal protection movement had become
respectable and a few years later, curiously enough, the National
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children arose out of the
R. S. P. C. A.

In 1877 “ Black Beauty’ was published, having been written
by a cripple lady on her death— bed. It was immediately popular
and has been one of the most successful pieces of humane propaganda
ever produced.

Since the beginning of the movement three events of outstanding
importance have affected the fate of animals. These are the invention
of the internal combustion engine, the rise of the veterinary profession
and the invention of the humane killer.

The motor car and, of later years, the tractor, have to a very
large extent replaced the horse, but this change has not yet occurred
to the same extent underground, for pit ponies are still used 1n nearly
half the coal mines of Great Britain, their conditions being partially
controlled by the Coal Mines Act of 1911.

Just as the doctor has emerged from the barber so at a somewhat
later date the veterinary surgeon has emerged from the farrier and the
cow leech. This emergence, carrying with it the scientiﬁc treatment
and prevention of animal disease, has been of immense beneﬁt to
animals. In this country for instance glanders and rabies have been
stamped out; the former was a scourge of horses and the latter of
dogs and cats. A further great beneﬁt due to the veterinary profes-
sion has been the use of anaesthesia for animals.

In this country humane slaughter is now compulsory for all
animals killed in slaughter-houses except in the case of Jewish or
Mohammedan slaughter. A humane-killer is a specially—designed gun
ejecting a bolt, which is ﬁred when it is actually in contact with the
animal’s forehead and so stuns the animal instantaneously. Much

 

 




 

 

suffering of animals before slaughter still occurs during marketing
and transport.

It is under the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, that the work of
animal inspection is chieﬂy carried out. This Act protects domestic
animals and captive wild animals; it does not therefore apply to
hunting and coursing. Laboratory animals are speciﬁcally excluded
from its clauses ; they receive protection from an old Act passed in 1876.

It is not uncommon to meet people who say “ there is no cruelty
to animals nowadays.” What they really mean is that as they walk
about the streets they actually see no animal suffering. When,
however, we consider that our civilisation is largely built up on animals,
that they provide us with food, clOthes, recreations and medicines,
we must realise that there is a vast potential ﬁeld where suffering
may still occur.

In contrastthere are others who say, if they see an animal abused,
“‘ this is shocking, why isn’t it stopped at once, the animal protection
societies aren’t any good.” In this case we must remember that
inspectors can only work within the limits of the law, that the law
expresses the stage which public opinion has reached, and that we
are individually responsible forcreating an enlightened public opinion.

At present there are in this country about 50 animal protection
societies of varying types and sizes. In the ﬁrst place there are what
one might call the “ territorial societies,” particularly the R.S.P.C.A.
and the Scottish S.P.C.A., which employ inspectors who can be appealed
to by the general public whenever the condition of an animal is in
question. The ' whole of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland is covered by these societies. None of them receive State
grants. '

Several of the societies in this country do educational work and
have junior branches. Others specialise in one or more aspects of
animal protection work, or in the care of one particular animal. The
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare endeavours to put animal
welfare on the map in university and scientiﬁc circles, to study the
problems of animal welfare dispassionately, and to remedy existing
abuses. ' '

A deve10pment of comparatively recent years has been the
starting of animal missionary societies. These set out to convert,
not the animals who certainly don’t need it, but their users and abusers.
These societies are largely English—speaking institutions. Even so,
there are still huge tracts of the world, particularly in Africa and Asia,
where no protective laws or protective movements exist.

LD-

 

For the history of the animal protection movement I am indebted to “A Centurv of Work for
Animals,” The History of the R.S.P.C.A., 1824—1934, by Fairholme and Pain. '

8

 




 

‘l
1
'f

#42 .

 

 

SHEEP AND SHEPHERDS INFRANCE

Dr. Vet. P. C. BLIN

Chef des memx' d’Amztomz'e, Ecole Nationale Ve’te’rmaz're, Alfort;
some time Director of the School for Shepherds, Rambomllet. (This
paper was ﬁrst presented at the UFAW Summer 5011001, 1951).

The state of farm stock

sHEEP-FARMING in France is less important now than it used to

be, and cattle and pigs take priority over sheep for meat—produc—
tion. As for the textile industry of France, our sheep provide less
than ten per cent of the necessary wool. Ewe’s milk (from which
Roquefort cheese is made) is only used in a small proportion of our
total cheese-output.

During the last century the number of sheep in France has been
going steadily down, as the following ﬁgures show :——

1850 33,000,000 head.
1852 32,281,000 ,,
1882 23,809,000 ,,
.1902 18,476,000 ,,
1912 16,000,000 ,,
1932 9,702,000 ,,

After 1936 there was a slight yearly increase of about 200,000
head, bringing the total pOpulation to about. 10 million ; in 1942,
however, the ﬁgure had fallen to 4,405,000. In 15 years there has been
.a fall of more than 2,500,000. What is the reason P

The war caused France to be cut in two, into the Vichy part and
that of the occupation, and so stock—raising was slowed down. People
leave the land and go to the towns, and this happened even during the
occupation: “ Return to the land” was preached in vain. Except
for certain ﬂocks belonging to rich farmers, the sheep became rather
like the goat, “ the poor man’s cow.” The sheep was condemned

'to poor pastures and the land was abandoned to weeds.

Two factors led to this state of affairs 2—.
Firstly the peasant, if he stayed on the land, became less interested
:as the land grew poorer. After the last war large-scale mechanized

farming and the raising of beef stock was more attractive to him and

many were deceived by the economic instabilitywthe result, it must
be admitted, of our unstable governments.

Secondly, as a result of agricultural progress, arable farming
pushed out many of the sheep, and so did the beef cattle.

In spite of this falling off, there are still 30—38 breeds and varieties
of French sheep. This shows how sheep reﬂect the different kinds of

countryside, and it is well-known that France is especially varied.

The Southdown, imported from England a century ago, is found

«especially in La Vendée and in the centre. This breed matures and
.fattens quickly and provides excellent meat. The cradle of the

 




 

Merino sheep is at Rambouillet, near Paris, where there is the National
School of Shepherds. This breed has a very valuable thick ﬂeece,
which covers even the eyes. Merino rams have been used for a long
time to improve local breeds, and many varieties have thus been
produced. Merinos are found in the Aisne (east France), in the
Pyrenees (where the herds travel in summer from the valleys to the
mountains), in La Crau (near Marseilles), where they are hardy and
good walkers, and in the Chatillonnais, where they live on a chalky
plateau in a rough climate. These are very-early—maturing animals,
bred chieﬂy for meat but also for wool. They are also found in
Champagne, in the Soissonais (Aisne et Oise), in Brie (south of Paris),
and in Beauce (west of Paris). ' '

In the Ile de France round Paris, and in neighbouring provinces,
there are sheep descending from Merinos and Dishley sheep imported
from England a century ago.

On the coast of the Channel there is a breed called the Cotentin,
a large sheep—rearing pasture with beef cattle, and excellent for meat.
In Auvergne there is the Bizet—a hardy breed perfectly adapted to.
mountain life. They are especially good for meat and for milk.

In the Berry district, with dry chalky plains and thin vegetation,
there are many types of sheep. The Berrichon, of the Indre, are hardy
and good for meat.

The Berrichon, of the Cher, were improved by crosses with Dish-
leys, Merinos and Southdowns. ,

In Sologne, near Orleans, there is another breed resembling the
Berrichon of the Indre. These do not mature early, but are well
adapted to local conditions. In the South of France is found the
breed of Les Causses (great chalky plains)——hardy sheep of slow
development, providing good meat. Here, however, the quality of
milk is of greater importance. The Roquefort breed is kept entirely
for milk production. According to the prices obtainable, farmers
specialize more in milk or in fat lambs. The cost of producing a kilo-
of milk is equal to that of producing a kilo of meat.

Finally, Ivmust mention the Charmoise breed, developed more
than a century ago from the Kent crossed with the Berrichon and
Merino. It is an example of a sheep raised entirely in the open, and
is very early—maturing and excellent for meat.

At present sheep-farming tends to remain stable in France.
Some breeds, however, become more popular, while others disappear.

The stability of sheep-farming in France is explained thus :—

Firstly, mechanization has brought with it the problem of manur-
ing the land. Sheep are useful for ﬁnishing the grass which the cows
leave, and are very good for the humus content of the ground. Thus
the wise farmer keeps a ﬂock of sheep, and that is why you can see
good ﬂocks in the rich plains where wheat is grown, such as the Beauce,
la Bue, and the Ile de France.

' Secondly, the international tendencies of agriculture are such
that we have had to concentrate more on sheep, especially for wool.

The fact that sheep have become more stable in France since
the war has had good results. A national census has been made

10

,s._aw““ - J:

 




 

 

possible, and some order obtained. - The National Federation for
Sheep (FN O), which has made a ten—year plan, has gathered together
certain identical breeds which used to have several names. Only,
a limited number of breeds are accepted at shows. Crossing is forbidden
and selection is encouraged. This is to a large extent simpliﬁed by
artiﬁcial insemination from the centre at Rambouillet.

One point I must stress concerning certain breeders of sheep (which
applies equally to cattle) is that to limit the number of breeds does not
mean giving up those specially adapted to any given environment.
It must not be forgotten that an animal which has lived for a long time
on a certain type of land transmits its suitability to its descendants.
In other words, certain local breeds can be kept, as for example the
*Cauchois, which lives opposite the Romney Marshes on the other
side of the Channel. However thinly distributed, it is perfectly suited
to the soil on which it lives.

Conditions of life

Let us see now how the French sheep actually lives.

Some years ago it was thought that sheep had to be sheltered
from cold and bad weather and from the heat, and that the lambs
and their mothers should be isolated from the rest of the ﬂock and put
on specially good ground where they could have careful feeding and
wastage could be avoided.

The experience of certain large stock—raising countries (Australia,
Argentine and Normandy) shows that the animals live just as well
in the open (we have had occasion to study 'a ﬂock between Rouen
and Dieppe). I will return to this question later.

Buildings for sheep have been specially studied in France. Opti—
mum temperatures have been ﬁxed and dampness avoided. Ventila—
tion has also been studied a good deal : it is known that the grease
on the sheep gives off a heavy vapour, which can pollute the atmosphere.
Openings are large, doors wide, and windows low. The best position
for the building has been found to be north~south. A grass enclosure
is connected to the southern side, where the sheep can go out in the
best hours of the day and gradually become acclimatized to living
in the open.

. These sheep enclosures are not builtbeneath a hay—loft; at one
time, if the ceiling was in bad condition the ﬂeeces of the sheep were
dirtied and the hay spoiled by the vapours arising from their bodies.
In districts where there is foot—rot the sheep pass through shallow
dips of copper sulphate before going inside the enclosure. When fat

. lambs are required the sheep are kept entirely in such buildings.

Open buildings, like Dutch barns, are preferred now to closed
ones, but very often the sheep stay outside in the ﬁne weather—some-
times for nearly the whole year. In this case pasturing is controlled
with hurdles, which are moved in the morning and the evening, the
sheep returning home at night. In certain places, where there are
neither trees nor bushes and the sun is too hot for the sheep to be out
all the time, a portable shelter is sometimes put up, as on the plain -
of Beauce. A tarpaulin is used for the roof, and this protects the ani—
mals from sun and rain.

11

 




 

Sheep-farming carried out entirely in the open is tending to spread
in France. A report made under the direction of the “ Services.
.Agricoles du Cher ” has just publicized some facts from Bussy, where
a ﬂock has been in the open air for 14 years, with a Dutch barn as the
only shelter. The lambs born in such conditions are better, and receive
more milk. Rams and ewes live together in these Dutch barns, and
twin lambs are more frequently born.

Horses are kept in the pastures to keep off wandering dogs. In
snow or drought the'animals are not brought in, but hay is taken
to them. Hedges are carefully looked after, to shelter the sheep.

In mountainous regions such as the Pyrenees or Alps the food
is more specialized. In the heat of the summer the pastures of the
valleys are burnt up and are useless for grazing, so the sheep are
taken up to higher altitudes. This practice has been carried out
for a very long time, and has a special name—transhumance. At
the beginning of May the ﬂocks are collected at centres at the foot
of the mountains and depart together for the high places, sometimes
in thousands. By short stages, walking in the cool early hours of the
morning or in the evening—or even at night—they reach the pastures
' where, under the guidance of shepherds, they find green grass. The
height to which they travel depends on the rate at which the snow
melts; towards the middle of August they may reach a height of
2,500 or 3,000 metres. Rams and ewes are mixed, and mating
goes on in the open. The manure is good for the soil and improves
the grass. At the same time the plains are harvested, and food is
kept for the ﬂocks in winter, when they are in shelters at the sheep
farms. The return starts at the end of September or the beginning
of October, when the snow drives the ﬂocks from the mountain tops.

The descent to the plains takes place gradually; each ﬂock
arrives in time for the lambing, which starts soon after their return.
The lambs are born in the sheep farms, and spend the winter there in
shelters. The next year they follow the ﬂock in its movements.

Shepherds in France

Now we will look at the French shepherd—what he is like and

what he does. The life‘of the shepherd is always simple and hard,
and more specialized than that of all other farm workers.
. On a big farm there are many machine—drivers, carters, cowmen
and milkers, but there is only one shepherd. Each day the workers
go out after the farm manager has given his orders, but the shepherd
18 independent. Certainly he works under the ﬂockmaster, but he
organizes his own work and ﬂock, controls his dogs, and chooses the
times of going to and coming from pasture.

Before the last world war the profession of shepherd was not
very popular. The exodus from the country to the towns seemed
to speed up the extinction of this profession, and the farmers found
. so few competent shepherds that they gave up their sheep, thus
forming a vicious circle. A great effort has been made recently in
France to encourage the shepherds. The School of Shepherding at
Rambouillet, where I recently taught for two years, assures the

12

 




 

 

upholding of the profession. Each year about 100 shepherds come
to this school after doing some practical work. The students are
of all kinds, but every one, at the end of his studies, has learnt to love
sheep.

Arrangements have had to be made .about money, for too often
the shepherd has been put off by the small salary offered by the
employer, or by the cost of accommodation. Work was done badly
in accordance with the small wages. Now the farmer understands
that he gains by paying the shepherd well, for the sheep then pay
well. Apart from the ﬁxed salary, the shepherd often gets paid for
lambing and for weaned lambs, for animals sold-to the butchers or
for breeding, and for shows. He can also breed and train good dogs
for sale. He nearly always lodges at the farm, and efforts are made
to ensure that he has good accommodation. Even in his caravan
the shepherd is no longer isolated : often he has a Wireless set. He can
also become an owner of sheep, for the farmer may give him a certain
number of animals in addition to his salary.

How does the shepherd manage his sheep? Every shepherd
knows that you can never get hold of a sheep unless it is with others,
and that in a corner it cannot move easily. The shepherds in France
take hold of a sheep by a hind leg, above the hock—~a method found
to be better than the practice of holding a forefoot, as in this case
the sheep struggles more and may strain a shoulder or leg. To steer
the sheep where he wants it, the other hand is placed on the opposite
ﬂank and the sheep lifted gently as though it were a wheelbarrow,
the front feet representing the wheel.

To keep the sheep still it has been found best to turn it on to its
back. To do this, when it has been seized by the hock, it is turned
by taking the foreleg on the same side and pushing with the knee,
and lifting gently. To tie the feet of a sheep for shearing, for example,
it is ﬁrst turned over, then the end of one fore-leg is placed between
the corresponding parts of the two hind—legs. Three legs are thus
tied together, and the fourth is tied to them. Special attention is
needed with rams, which may get congestion during shearing.

The shepherd now has efﬁcient methods of combating parasites.
Because of great losses through lack of care, prevention is strongly
advocated, and FNO has taken up this work.

Dosing against parasites is done at regular intervals, these being
shorter in wet years. There are some excellent remedies for use
with a dosing gun, such as phenothiazine or thiodyphenylamine
against strongylosis of the intestine, and carbon tetrachloride against
liver ﬂuke. Dips are used against sheep scab, and footbaths are also
used, especially in Aveyron, where the sheep population has increased.
Cooper’s powder, comprising an arsenic base together with soda and
sulphur is used for the footbaths.

Usually the sheep are dipped 4 to 6 weeks after shearing, when
there is enough ﬂeece to hold the powder. They are also dipped in
the autumn, to protect them during the winter when scab is more
serlous.

The ﬂockmaster, when lecturing to his students at Rambouillet,

l3

 




 

 

insists on good and careful management of the sheep, and the following
is an example of what he may say 2——

” The shepherd lives and works among his sheep. It is
essential to be patient with animals, which have no power to
complain. ‘The sheep is defenceless. To hit a sheep is not
allowed among shepherds. I have watched the work of many
shepherds. At the sheep farm the doors are carefully kept shut
to prevent mixing of the animals at the wrong times. Lame
and unwell animals without appetite are carefully watched,
rams are watched so that they do not get caught by their horns in
the racks. and troughs are well cleaned out. When travelling,
the ﬂock must move slowly and the dogs musr be supervised.
The ﬂock is to be stretched out at narrow places on the road,
and at turnings must be watched and the dogs must be made to
lie down.

“ Particular care is given to ewes in lamb, food is im—
proved during the 4th and 5th months, and the less patient dogs
are taken off. Jumps, running, and too long walks are avoided.
Fermented food must not be given, nor that which is spoiled,
mouldy or frozen.

“ Weaning is done at ages varying with the use of the special
breed of sheep. Late weaning favours the good development
of a lamb for show or for the butcher. But in milking ﬂocks
weaning is always early, so that the milk can be taken for the
Roquefort cheese industry. Even in this case, however, the
separation of the young lambs from their mothers should not be
too sudden; otherwise the ewe would suffer in milk secretion.
Lambs are left to suckle only after being given a meal of food
with a ﬂour base. Immediately the ewe is milked out, and little
by little the lambs are prevented from suckling, all the milk being
left for milking.” .
One word about the ewe’s—milk cheese industry, so important

in our economy. The milk of the Roquefort sheep is slightly heated,
then coagulated with rennet and strained, and the paste which results is
put into round tins after special mould-covered bread has been mixed V
with it. The cheese is left to mature in cellars or natural caves where
secret methods are employed to cause the fermentation which makes
the cheese. Outside the region of Roquefort, the shepherds themselves
make ewe’s—milk cheese to supply home or local needs. The blue
cheese of Auvergne is made thus.

The most common surgical operation practised on the sheep
is castration. Antiquated and barbarous methods are no longer
used, having been replaced by bloodless castration with a castrator
of the Burdizzo type. There is no breaking of the skin nor danger
of tetanus, and no haemorrhage. Pain is diminished.

If the care given to sheep on the farm is better, the same is not
always true of their transport. The shepherd is less to blame
than the transporter. Sheep often suffer from over—crowding in lorries,
and exposure in open markets to the very hot sun is also common.
Lately, some efforts have been made to improve this. Lorries are

14

 




sometimes divided into ﬂoors, ventilation being provided and water
being given on the way.

Finally, it can be said that the raising and protection of sheep
in France has a good future. A school trains shepherds specially,
and has proved successful ; an organization works on diseases and their
prevention ; products from sheep are again of importance, especially
wool; veterinarians have lately become concerned especially with the
Astrakhan breed of sheep; new questions are being tackled for
example artiﬁcial insemination, which is favoured at Rambouillet.
From America has come the possibility of having two lambings
yearly, by producing a second period of heat in the ewe by means of
hormone injections.

There is just one shadow on the picture: the mortality rate is
still rather high, in spite of success in veterinary work. It is 5 to
10 per cent in sheep and 20 per cent in lambs up to two months old.

It is still necessary, however, for every sheep—rearing nation to
persevere with promising investigations, whether for the advancement
of science or for the protection of this noble animal.

 

ELECTRICAL STU N NI NG

PHYLLIS G. CROFT, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S.

U F A W Research Fellow, the N ewopsychiatm'c ResearehCemﬁI/e, l/Vhitehm/ek
H ospiml , C ardiﬂ.

ELECTRIC currents have been used as a means of producing un—

consciousness in man and animals for a long time; Benjamin
Franklin in the eighteenth century experimented in this ﬁeld, and
there are a number of scattered references to electrical anmsthesia
in scientiﬁc journals of the past 150 years. In recent times, electric
shock has occasionally been used for both general and local anaesthesia
in verterinary surgery, and is used as the routine method for pro—
ducing general anaesthesia in certain human brain operations. A
similar procedure is applied as a form of treatment in some mental
diseases.

The main veterinary application to—day, however, is in bacon
factories, and a few slaughter—houses, where the animal is stunned
by electricity before being killed by bleeding. The head of the animal
is grasped between the arms of a pairof large tongs connected to the
mains, and current passes from one arm to the other, through the head
and brain, for about 10 seconds. The animal has an “ electroplectic ”
ﬁt, from which it would recover in a few minutes if left ; in practice,
the animal is bled almost as soon as the tongs are removed, while
apparently unconscious.

From time to time people have doubted whether application
of an electric shock in this way (usually known as electroplexy) pro—
duces true' unconsciousness, or whether it causes muscular paralysis
so that the subject seems to be unconscious, but is actually able to
feel pain. This paralysed state is known as “ curarisation,” since

,-

lo

 




 

 

 

 

it was originally produced by the action of the drug curare ; interroga—
tion 0f human beings who have had electric shocks during their work
has shown that curarisation can occur as a result of such accidents.
If an animal was curarised, it would not be possible to discover the
fact by subsequent interrogation, and since the vocal muscles would
be paralysed as Well as those of the limbs, it would be difﬁcult to recog-
nise the condition by casual observation; even if the animal was.
conscious of pain, it would not be able to run away or to squeal and
hence would seem to be unconscious. ,

UFAW has been concerned about the possibility of pigs being
curarised rather than unconscious, as a result of electropleXy in
bacon factories, for many years, and recently it has conducted a careful
scientiﬁc investigation into this subject. This research has resulted
in the discovery of tests which will distinguish between true uncons-
ciousness (when pain cannot be felt) and curarisation (when the animal
is aware of pain, but cannot move or cry out) ; optimum conditions.
for electroplexy have also been investigated, so that the necessary
strength of electric current and the best position in which to place
the tongs are known. .

Similar problems have recently occurred in the medical world,
since the new muscle relaXants, and other untried anaesthetics, have
produced conditions of curarisation in human patients. UFAW’s
investigation has given results which are being used. by some workers
in this ﬁeld of medical research; co—operation with doctors using
electroplexy for treatment of mental disease has also been of mutual
beneﬁt to UFAW and the clinicians.

The research can be divided into two parts; ﬁrstly, laboratory
work to establish valid tests, and secondly, ﬁeld work when the usual
procedure in a number of bacon factories was observed, and when the
results of the laboratory work were extended from rabbits to pigs.

Laboratory work

The essential problem was to ﬁnd some organ or system in the
animal which would respond to pain, even during curarisation, and
which would give a- response that could be easily recorded or observed.
Previously, one of UFAW’s workers had suggested that the heart
rate might be used for this purpose, and preliminary experiments.
in the present investigation showed that it was likely to be very
suitable. The heart rate quickens when an animal feels pain, and
unlike the voluntary muscle, heart muscle is not paralysed by curarisa-
tion; moreover, the heart rate can be easily recorded in ink on a
moving roll of paper, by electrical means. When an animal is truly
anaesthetised, the heart rate is not affected by a painful stimulus,
so alteration of the rate with pain, was used as a criterion of whether
or not the animal could feel pain.

It is always unwise to rely on any one test for information, so
a second line of investigation was pursued at the same time as the
heart rate experiments. This was done by studying the electrical
activity of the brain cells themselves by a machine known as an
electro—encephalograph (EEG) ; this machine is used in human

16

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

medicine for detecting tumours in the brain, and for studying the
behaviour of the brain cells in people subject to epileptic ﬁts. The
EEG also produces an ink trace on a moving roll of paper, and the
trace of an anaesthetised rabbit is quite different from that of a cons—
cious one. Thus, by comparing the trace of the EEG of a rabbit
after electroplexy, with that of the same animal when (a) conscious.
and (b) anaesthetised, information as to the actual state of activity
of the brain cells could be obtained. EEG traces were also taken
from human patients after electroplexy and compared with the state
of consciousness, as revealed by questions.

Apart from these two main lines of research, the animals were-
carefully observed during and after electroplexy, so that features.
which might be of assistance to slaughtermen, in the future, could
be noted, since they would obviously not be interested in EEG’s
and heart rate recordings. . .

A variable electric stimulator was built so that different current
strengths could be used, and these currents were applied to different
parts of the brain, so that the optimum conditions could be determined.
The rabbits were not apparently at all disturbed by electroplexy,
and often ate well a few minutes after regaining consciousness ; many
of them lived and reproduced healthily for months after electro-
plexy, and“ showed no reluctance to come to the laboratory a second
time. Human patients who have courses of electroplexy have no
unpleasant recollections of the treatment afterwards. This absence
of pain applies to adequate electroplexy, but if for some reason the
current is too weak, or applied incorrectly, a condition of “ missed
shock ” occurs, which is painful and in which there is no unconscious-
ness.

As a result of this laboratory work, it became obvious that when-
ever adequate electroplexy (as opposed to “ missed shock ”) was given,
the animal showed. characteristic involuntary movements which
included a violent extension and stiffening of the hindlegs; this
occurs in many different species, and also when chemical convulsants
are used to produce unconsciousness. It could thus be used as a
criterion of an electric shock which would cause subsequent uncons—
ciousness, and it is a characteristic which a busy slaughterman could
observe. '

, EEG and heart rate recordings indicated that true unconsciousness
existed during the involuntary movements of an electroplectic con-
vulsion, and for a short time after these movements ceased ; following
this period of unconsciousness, there Was a stage when the animal’s
heart responded to pain, but when it made none of 'the commonly
observed reactions to a painful stimulus, such as withdrawal of a
limb. It is reasonable to assume that during this period an animal
feels pain, but cannot demonstrate to a casual observer that it is
conscious ; therefore it is impOrtant to ensure that any animal which
has been stunned electrically, prior to slaughter, is actually killed,
while still truly unconscious, before it reaches the curarised state.
This anomalous condition only lasts a short time (less than a minute),
and then the animal regains control of its muscles and can move, or

cry out, when hurt.
17

 

 




 

 

Field work

' Observations at bacon factories showed that the behaviour of
pigs after electroplexy was essentially similar to that of rabbits, and
it therefore seemed reasonable to assume that they would be able
to appreciate pain at the same stage of the recovery period. The time
which elapsed between stunning and killing was measured in many
factories, and it was found that, in practice, the pigs were bled while
still in the truly unconscious state ; the possibility of a state of curarisa—
tion is not generally appreciated by those concerned with electric
Stunning, but it is a factor of some practical importance, because
any slight hold—up in the stunning or bleeding pens might increase
the interval between stunning and killing.

The time during which the current is passed is left to the judg—
ment of the slaughtermen, and although normally it is quite adequate,
there is always the possibility that if a man was pressed for time,
he would take off the tongs too soon and a ” missed shock” would
result. This could be obviated by ﬁtting an automatic timing device
to the tongs. The current strength is usually checked by a voltmeter,
and experiments in the laboratory have shown that this does not
measure the most important characteristic of the current ; amperage
values are the factors which determine the efﬁciency of the electric
current as a stunning agent, and these could only be measured by an
ammeter. In normal circumstances, however, there is nothing to
Suggest that routine stunning as practised in bacon factories and some
abattoirs is not humane and efﬁcient ; it is only if the routine is dis—
turbed that “ missed shock,” or the bleeding of a conscious animal
might occur. I

Some very interesting phenomena were seen in the EEG traces
of animals after electroplexy; some of these were very like those
which are considered diagnostic of Petit Mal epilepsy in humans,
and others gave evidence of marked local damage in the brain. In
both instances the animal appeared completely normal. Suggestions
are made from time to time that electroplexy would be a convenient
form ‘of anaaesthesia, or of control, in veterinary work; chemical
anaesthetics often have toxic after—effects which delay the recovery
of a healthy patient, or make them unsuitable for administration
to 'a weak animal. Electricity would not have these disadvantages,
but this investigation has shown that it may have other unsuspected
after—effects, in the form of local brain damage, and recently other
workers have shown that electroplexy retards the healing of a normal
wound. It appears therefore that any future work on the develop—
ment of electrical anaesthesia should take these various factors into
account, as well as the possibility of curarisation.

On the theoretical side, UFAW’s investigation has made a small
contribution to the understanding of the action of the brain under
different conditions, and on the practical side it has provided informa—
tion, which has been summarised in the form of a pamphlet, and which
will be of assistance to all who are concerned with electrical stunning
of animals, prior to killing for food. This information is being used
by humanitarians in other countries, where stunning is not practised ;
such people are very grateful for reliable information which they can
. present to the authorities.

18

_ 4,- _. _
.

 

 




 

 

REVIEWS OF BOOKS

The Life of Vertebrates by J. Z. Young,
M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy

at University College, London.
(Published in 1950 by Geoffrey
Cumberlege, Oxford University
Press, Amen House, London,

E.C.4), 772pp., illus.: 428.

One of the most controversial sub-
jects in zoology is how best to teach
it. The “ backbone ” course in most
zoology departments consists of a
systematic and predominantly anato—
mical survey of the entire animal
kingdom, founded upon a rather
detailed study of a series of “ types ”
(like the earthworm and Hydra)
which are almost without exception
quite unrepresentative of the groups
to which they belong. The teaching
of “ types ” and the “ systematic
zoology” course that develops frOm
it seems to have been introduced by
George Rolleston at Oxford during
his tenure of the Linacre Chair, and
at Oxford, during E. S. Goodrich’s
professorship, it reached its fullest
development.

The comparative physiology revolu—
tion that arose after the ﬁrst world
war began for the ﬁrst time to give
the activities of animals their proper
due: animals, it was now openly
taught, had functions as well as
structures: and by grafting further
courses upon the stock course of syste—
matic anatomy, it came to be learnt
that animals had a behaviour, a geo—
graphical distribution, a scheme of
dependence on other living organisms,
and an array of speciﬁc defence
mechanisms as well. '

Although we all realise that struc-
ture, function, behaviour, distribution,
defence, and so on, are not independent
or dissociable attributes of animals, it
is still too widely thought that a
syllabus which deals with each one
separately is, from the standpoint of
teaching technique, an all but obliga-
tory choice. Young now shows how
wrong it is to have made a didactic
principle out of a lazy—minded pedago-
gic practice; and since Oxford was
responsible for our present unprincipled
confusion in teaching practice, it is
just as well that an Oxford zoologist
has shown everyone the way out of it.
Young deals, as the title of his book

19

afﬁrms, with the lives of vertebrate
animals: i.e., with the integrated
sum of that which makes them living
things and keeps them going in a
partly hostile, partly co-operative,
always changing world. This is not,
therefore, a textbook of comparative
anatomy inspirited by conscientious
references to function; nor a text—
book of comparative physiology ren—
dered solidly nourishing by details of
anatomy. It contains the matter of
both, but the manner defies the con-
ventional subdivision into anatomy
and physiology.

All this makes Young’s book sound
rather formidable, but it is in fact
uncommonly good reading for any—
one with a genuine interest in animals.
The text can be read as a narrative:
of what other text book of zoology
can this be said? The illustrations,
all of them line drawings, are particu-
larly abundant ; a high proportion are
of entire animals in characteristic or
representative surroundings. They
serve their purpose, but they are of no
particular distinction. There are a
fair number of technical mistakes in
the text; but since no one reader
can detect all of them, a single author
must be forgiven for making some of
them. That is about all there is to
be said by way of criticism and detrac—
tion. Let there be no mistake about
the fact that this is the best text
book of vertebrate zoology that has
yet been written, and that, by and
large, it is a work of some considerable
distinction.

P.B.M.

Handbook on the Handling of Animals
and F’tl/st-A’ld (Published by the

National Veterinary Medical Asso—

ciation of Great Britain and Ireland,

now the British Veterinary Associa—
tion, in conjunction with Bailliere,

'Tindall and Cox, Henrietta Street,

London, W.C.l). 172pp. with 31

ﬁgures ; 65.

This book is planned on similar
lines to the well-known St. John
Ambulance and Red Cross First—Aid
Handbooks, and is intended to serve
much the same functions for animals
that they serve for human beings.

A short preliminary section deals
with the methods of handling the

 




 

 

 

various species, while the rest of the
book describes in turn each region of
the body, its injuries, their recognition
and their ﬁrst—aid treatment.

The book contains a great deal of
information and care is taken to
explain in detail the reasons for the
advice given, yet the style of writing
is very'readable and the layout clear
and concise enough for rapid reference
in an emergency.

The Preface states that the book was
prepared for use by young people
attending courses in the subject of
animal ﬁrst—aid. I feel, however, that
its application is far wider and that it
will be of service to many other people
who have to deal with animals and
who have not had a great deal of

experience.
A few minor points are perhaps
open to criticism. For instance,

securing a savage cat with a “ dog—
catcher” is rather more simple to
describe than to carry out in practice.
Also the method of administering
pills to dogs is important enough to
warrant a more careful description.

The text is illustrated With a number
of clear line drawings and with three
plates. These plates are well—produced
but suffer from their small size and
the unhappy practice‘of labelling the
details with small numbers referring
to footnotes, instead of printing the
legends on the plate itself.

The book iS‘printed in large clear
type, is strongly bound and represents
very good value for the price charged.

E.C.A.
Dairy Farmers’ Encyclopaedia, by Alan
VMorley (Right Way Books, pub—
lished by Andrew George Elliot,

Kingswood, Surrey, 1950; 65.).

There is so much to commend in
the pages of Morley’s Dairy Farmers’
Erzcyclopaedia that it is difﬁcult to
assess and classify and still do justice
to the books as a whole. It is more
than a practical book lucidly written,
for it has a personality expressing
in a compressed space the essentials
required by those having the care
and control of animals. Rarely do we
ﬁnd compelling facts, set in words
and language that conﬁrm and classify
so agreeably, that wealth of experience
gained by the long—practised, pro-
found and progressive farmer, whilst
also providing sure guidance along- a
proﬁtable path to success for the
beginner. Only those who have
laboriously and over many years

acquired comparable knowledge realise
the worth of such an interesting and
progressive book. Those who have
the pleasure of reading it will ﬁnd proﬁt,
besides a stimulus to mind develop—
ment, and the author may well be
proud to have produced so balanced—
and again I emphasise—so agreeable
a. stock book which should be read
and treasured by many.

When dealing with breeding,
feeding, and diseases, the encyclo—
paedia sets out much in little space,
and is effectively co—ordinated. The
pictures are good and, like the written
matter, very true to sound practice
This magazine notes with special
pleasure that obviously animal hap—
piness could and would be greatly
increased if such a model book be-
came the textbook that its quality
and sureness deserves. Animal well-
being through happiness in care and
environment might well have been
chosen for its title. C.H.G.

W'ild .Mammals arid the Land, by F.
Howard Lancum. (Bulletin No.
150, published by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries ; H.M.S.O.,
Kingsway, W.C.l.) 25. 6d.

Mr. Lancum’s sequel to his Wild
Birds and the Land appears, like its
predecessor, as 3 Bulletin of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries,
No. 150. It is a valuable summary
of the economic status of certain
of our native and introduced mammals.
It was perhaps excusable to omit the
bats, because so little is known about
them, and it is hard to imagine how
they could possibly do any harm to
agriculture or anything else. The
omission of deer, however, on the
grounds that they are of local occur—
rence only seems to overlook recent
research, which has shown that wild
or feral deer are present in almost
every county on the mainland of
Great Britain except for Middlesex.
They certainly do a great deal more
damage than the water-shrew, the
fat dormouse and the yellow-necked
mouse, which are included. Mr. Lan—
cum, whose recent retirement from the
Ministry has been widely regretted,
condemns outright as pests the rabbit,
the grey squirrel, the brown rat, the
ﬁeld— and bank—voles and the wood—
mouse. I remain unconvinced by

his statement that the grey squirrel.

1s a pest to agriculture comparable
with the rabbit and the brown rat.

 

 




 

 

I know of no quantitative data to
prove this, but only repeated assertions
by people who seek to blacken its
character compared with that of the
red squirrel. Both squirrels, of course,
are serious pests to the forester,
and both rob birds’ nests right and
left. During the years 1903—17 the
Highland Squirrel Club acco‘unted for
over 60,000 red squirrels which were
devastating the woods of Easter
Ross and the neighbouring parts of
Sutherland and Inverness-shire.

Of the remaining mammals dealt
with by Mr. Lancum, the fox, hare,
red squirrel and mole are adjudged
to be on balance harmful to agricul—
ture (forestry and ﬁsheries are not
taken into account), and the badger,
hedgehog, stoat, weasel and shrews
to be beneﬁcial on balance. The
otter, water—vole, dormouse and har—
vest—mouse are neutral. R.S.R.F.

Circus Doctor, by J. Y. Henderson,
D.V.M., as told to Richard Tap-
linger. (Published in 1952 by
Peter Davies, Ltd., 38, Bedford
Square, London, W.C.1). 224pp.,
illus.; 123 6d.

This is an account of the experiences
of Dr. Henderson during the years
he has spent as Veterinary Surgeon
to Ringling Brothers Circus in America.
It is written in a free and racy style
which is easy to read but which can.
prove somewhat irritating when used
to describe surgical operations and
clinical diagnosis and treatment. One
example is the habit of referring to the
sulphonamides simply as “ sulfa,”
but doubtless this is due to the fact
that the book was actually written
by a layman.

The circus contains. about two
hundred horses and several hundred
wild animals and one must admire Dr.
Henderson’s courage and resourceful—
ness in tackling such a task. His
descriptions of the way in which he
goes about the job and of the colourful
atmosphere and people of the circus
are very entertaining.

Perhaps the most interesting parts
of this unusual book are those devoted
to the training methods used with the
wild animals. The fact is often
stressed that any form of cruelty would
make training impossible and also that
a wild animal, however well trained, can
never be considered tame, but may, at
any time, revert to its naturalfe rocity.

Some of the scientiﬁc data appear

21

to me to be questionable. For instance,
it seems doubtful if an intra-venous
injection of strychnine is the most
humane method of destroying horses.
This is not a text— book, however,
and is undoubtedly well worth reading
from many points of View

Finally, as one who has had a little
experience of them, I should like to
associate myself with Dr. Henderson’s
remark that : “ Camels are the hardest
animals to work on, and the most
unpleasant to deal with.” That is
undoubtedly a statement of fact.

E. C. A.
Sold for Two Few/things being the
views of countryfolk on cruelty to
animals, by F. D Smith and

Barbara Wilcox. (Published by

James Barrie Publishers Ltd., 3 & 4,

Clements Inn, London, VV.C 2.) 155

Anyone who is interested in the
welfare of animals will pick up a
great deal of useful information from
this book. It puts before the reader
most of the animal protection problems
with which the country dweller is
concerned. Each problem 15 presented
in the form of a series of quotations
linked together with explanatory para—
graphs. The problems are ably pre—
sented, they are by no means solved.
In short the book is both informative
and provocative of thought, but it
makes few original suggestions for
improvement and it is a literary
scrap- -book and not a vade mecum.

The parliamentary controversy over
hunting is so fresh in all our minds
that it is not surprising that the issue
of ﬁeld sports occupies ﬁve chapters of
the book. The chapters on farm
animals are, at any rate to this reader,
more interesting and helpful, parti—
cularly the one on dogs which includes
such subjects as sheep- worrying and
the training of working dogs.

Some of the quotations refer to
customs now fortunately dead in this
country, and it is not always clear
from the text whether the abuses
mentioned are of the past or still of
the present.

The book is pleasantly illustrated
with 22 half—tone pictures, but no
acknowledgement of the source of
these is made except in the case of two
by Gustave Dore. Apart from a
drawing of a coach horse of 1780 the
dates of the illustrations are also
not stated. F.J.V.
(with acknowledgements to the School
Nature Union).

 

 




 

 

The Study of Instinct by N. Tinbergen.
(Published in 1951 by Geoffrey
Cumberlege, Oxford University Press,
Amen House, London, E.C.4.) ZlOpp.
with 130 illustrations and biblio—
graphy _; 25s.

Tinbergen’s encyclopaedic know-
ledge of his subject, the clarity of his
analyses, and the astuteness of his
experimental methods have put him
in the front rank of animal psycholo-
gists. This important book, written
with a lucidity that is all too rare in
scientiﬁc work and published at a very
reasonable price, will meet with a
warm welcome.

All scientiﬁc thinking is analogical.
In trying to explain why animals
behave as they do you can use analogies
taken from machinery or analogies got
from introspection of the workings
of your own mind, or both. Objecti—
Vists, as Tinbergen calls them (or
positivists, as their grandfather Comte
called them) use the analogy of
machinery only; they will have no
truck with introspection, and recog—
nize only observables as capable of
being usefully studied. Of course,
they never keep rigorously to their
principle or they would get nowhere.

Tinbergen calls himself an ethologist,
which is one species of the genus
Objectivist. The other species com-
prises the behaviourists, but he differs
from them in recognizing the im-
portance of innate instincts as opposed
to habits acquired by conditioning,
i.e. learning. He deﬁnes behaviour as
consisting of muscular contractions,
and looks for its sole cause in
physiological processes in the nervous
system, undertaking to turn a blind
eye to purposiveness and subjective
phenomena. But his common sense
saves him from being blinded by the
blinkers he tries to wear. It is signiﬁ-
cant that his ﬁrst two illustrations show
a male. stickleback “ in threat posture ”
and a gull chick “ begging for food.”
If he did not use subjective concepts
like threat and begging he would have
no clue to. guide him in grouping
individual muscular contractions under
appropriate separate instincts.

Chapter II describes the sensory
stimuli which call forth various innate
responses; these sign stimuli are
elements selected out of the totality
of sensations obtaining at a given
time and are capable of triggering a
corresponding innate releasing mecha—

22

nisin (IRM). A number of them have
been sorted out by means of ingenious
experimental techniques : for instance,
the sign stimulus for triggering the
mechanism that releases hunting be-
haviour in the Water—beetle Dytiscns is
chemical and tactile, not visual, for
he ignores a tadpole enclosed in a glass
tube, but attacks every solid object
he touches if he encounters a watery
meat extract. A nestling thrush’s
innate tendency to gape for food is
released by the sight of any sizable
object above, but not below, the
plane passing through his eyes.
Chapter III deals with the innate
physiological factors affecting the
intensity or frequency of responses;

these are taken to be hormones,
internal sensory stimuli such as
” hunger ” (written with inverted
commas, presumably by way of

homage to objectivist principles), and
intrinsic central-nervous factors which
constantly tend to initiate action but
are inhibited from doing so until
released by a sign stimulus. Chapter IV
studies sign stimuli in .more detail
and ﬁnds their action to be much
more complex than it has often been
supposed to be. A distinction is drawn
between releasing and directing stimuli;
any rounded object, simulating an egg,
may release a grey—lag-goose’s tendency
to roll the object towards itself, and
this activity may run its course after
the releasing stimulus has been
removed. But the tendency of the
object to roll awry constitutes a
directing stimulus, which evokes in
the goose’s beak sideways balancing
movements that continue only so
long as the stimulus continues. This
chapter also deals with various taxes.

In chapter V the author puts
together a working neurological hypo—
thesis, admittedly tentative and based
on evidence that is full of gaps, but
intended to furnish pointers for
further research. Instinctive be-
haviour is seen to be so complex that
“ previous attempts at systheses, such
as Pavlov’s reﬂex theory and Loeb’s
tropism theory, now appear as gro—
tesque simpliﬁcations.” Instinctive
reactions vary greatly in complexity
and rigidity and can be arranged in a
hierarchy. At the top level are
tendencies of a generalized character,
such as the mating instinct of the
stickleback which is capable of many
different manifestations (nest—building,
ﬁghting, fanning and so on) and is

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

awakened by the advent of spring.
These higher tendencies are character—
ized (let us note) by “ plasticity and
purposefulness,” and gate those at
lower levels. At the bottomlevel are
narrowly stereotyped and relatively
mechanical reactions, such as the
stickleback’s fanning of his eggs in
response to the deoxygenation of the
water. Corresponding to each level
there is assumed to be in the nervous
system a CEM (central excitatory
mechanism) inﬂuenced by internal
(“ motiVational ”) factors but inhibited
until the corresponding IRM (innate
releasing mechanism) is triggered by
the appropriate sign stimulus.
action of different instincts at the same
level is postulated.

Chapter VI deals with the develop—
ment of behaviour in the individual
animal and wrestles with the problem
of distinguishing between acquired
habits on the one hand and, on the
other, innate instincts which mature
during an animal’s lifetime. Chapter
VII deals with the directiveness of
behaviour; i.e. the purposes it serves
in advantaging the individual, the
community, or the species. The last
chapter deals with the evolution of
behaviour, and since fossils do not
behave, and behavioural characters
refuse to keep their places in embryonic
recapitulation, the theory has here to
rely on indirect inferences and ex—
trapolations that take us a very long
way indeed from the objectivist
standpoint with which we started.

Already in chapter II we had got
down to “ hunger ” (in quotes) which
(p. 5) “ can only be known by
introspection,” and in chapter VII
we are studying directiveness. Has our
author ratted? I think he himself
would say (p. 3) that he is still an
objectivist for the “ causal study” of
behaviour but recognizes the im—
portance of directiveness and subjective
phenomena for a “ general under—
standing” of it. Well, if he had
analyzed fully the concepts he denotes
by the words “ causal ” and “ under—
standing ” we might have had some fun.

It is impossible to do justice in a
short review to the wealth of observa—
tional and experimental results which
are lucidly described. The book is a
treasure—house of such information.
.It concludes with a very brief note on
“ the ethological study of man”
which gives the lie to the notion that

Inter- .

the animal mind is so unlike the
human mind as to be incomprehensible
to us. C.W.H.

Cat Encyclopaedz'a by Kit Wilson, with
decorative drawings by E. F. Coote
Lake. (Right Way Books, published.
by Andrew George Elliot, Kings-
wood, Surrey.) 65.

While this is a handy. little book,
full of interesting and useful informa—
tion, the title, Cat Encyclopaedz’a,
seeming as it does to promise a full
and comprehensive treatment, is too
grandiose.

It is a pity, also that the chapter on
diseases is not accurate. Some of the
information is incorrect and even
misleading. While the author is rightly
careful to stress the necessity of calling
in veterinary advice, it would have
been better, either to have conﬁned
herself to a description of those signs
which would indicate the advisability
of calling in a Veterinary Surgeon (the
use of the colloquialism Vet., should

’have been avoided), or to have been

more careful in checking her facts.
Furthermore, in cases where expert
advice is necessary, the simpler the
ﬁrst—aid treatment the better.

The book is well—illustrated with
photographs. An index is provided.
The pen and ink drawings by Miss E. F.

Coote Lake are excellent. And the
price (65.) seems, for these days,
very good value. P.W.

The Story of am Cattle by Professor
E. j. Roberts, M.A., (Cantab)
M.Sc. (Wales). (Young Farmers’
Club Booklet No. 22, published by
Evans Brothers Ltd, Montague
House, Russell Sq., London, W.C.1.)
48pp. illus: ls. 6d.

This well—produced booklet studies
the history of cattle in Britain from
pre-historic times to the present day,
tracing the gradual domestication of
wild cattle, the introduction of different
types, and ﬁnally the scientiﬁc breeding
which has produced the many breeds
which. we know to—day. ‘ Two British
breeds, the Shorthorn and the Ayrshire,
are given special attention and in the
ﬁnal chapter the author considers
British inﬂuence on the world’s
cattle. This is a . very interesting
booklet and makes a valuable addition
to the excellent series of Young
Farmers’ Club Booklets. M.P.W.

 

 




 

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
Cruelty to Animals (Penalties), lst February, 1952

MR. NIELD asked the Secretary of State for the Home Depart-
ment if he will consider taking steps to increase the penalties which
may be imposed in the magistrates’ courts upon those who are con-
victed of cruelty to animals.

SIR DAVID MAXWELL FYEE: The law provides fora maximum
penalty of three months’ imprisonment, either in addition, or as an
alternative, to a ﬁne Of £25. Where the owner of an animal is con-
victed of cruelty to it, a court has power to deprive him of ownership.
I have no reason to think that these maximum penalties are not
adequate.

Milch Cattle (Marketing), let February, 1952

LIEUT:COLONEL SIR T. MOORE asked the Minister of Agricul—
ture what steps have been taken by him to ensure that all. milch
cattle shall. be milked out upon arrival at markets; and Whether
he will consider the desirability of making this condition obligatory
in all markets.

SIR T. DU GDALE : Ofﬁcers of my Department have been instructed
to use every opportunity to discourage the practice of exposing over—
stocked cows in markets ; the co-operation of the N.F.U., the Breed
Societies, market authorities and the Auctioneers’ Institute has been
sought; and Press notices have been issued from time to time. I
have no power to require milch cattle to be milked out upon arrival
at markets, but it is an offence under the Protection of Animals Acts
to cause unnecessary suffering to an animal, and proceedings can be
taken under those Acts where cruelty is caused as a result of over—
stocking.

Cattle Transport by Air, 11th March, 1952

MR. ANTHONY GREENWOOD asked the Minister of Agriculture
when it is intended to introduce regulations regarding the transport
of cattle by air, on lines similar to those relating to the transport
of cattle by rail and‘sea.

SIR T. DUGDALE : The transport of cattle by air in any numbers
is a very recent development, but I am having the possibility of making
regulations examined.

Emergency Slaughter, 13th March, 1952

MR. PHILIPS PRICE asked the Minister of Food whether he will
arrange, with a view to preventing delay in the slaughter of acci-
dentally—injured stock, that the name, address and telephone number
of the slaughterman on duty shall be posted outside every abattoir
when this is closed, and notiﬁed to all veterinary practitioners in the
area served by it. A

MAJOR LLOYD GEORGE: It would not be practicable for my
Department to undertake to provide a 24—hour service every day of the
week at slaughterhouses and consequently provision is made in the
Livestock (Restriction on Slaughtering) Order to permit casualty
stock requiring immediate slaughter to be dealt with on the farm
or elsewhere provided that within 24—hours the carcase is delivered

24

 




 

 

to a Government slaughterhouse or notice is given to the nearest
district chairman of auctioneers.

Local arrangements have been made voluntarily in many places
by the slaughtering contractor, and in agreement with the farmers’
organization, for a Slaughterman to deal with casualty animals outside
normal working hours and for his name and address to be posted up
outside the slaughterhouse.

Rabbit Clearance, 19th February, 1952, in the House of Lords

LORD MERTHYR: My Lords, I beg to ask the Question which
stands in my name on the Order Paper.

(The Question was as follows :—-—

To ask Her Majesty’s Government what steps, if any, have
been taken to implement the policy with regard to rabbit clearance
which was announced on July 27, 1950 (M.A.F. 2612), as having
been agreed upon by representatives of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries, the National Farmers’ Union, the Country
Landowners’ Association, the National Union of Agricultural
Workers, the Transport and General Workers’ Union, and the
Nature Conservancy).

THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY, MINISTRY OE AGRICUL—
TURE AND FISHERIES (Lord Carrington) : My Lords, following the a11-
nouncement in 1950 of the rabbit clearance policy—with which, I
may say, the Government agree—the National Farmers’ Union and
the Country Landowners’ Association asked their county organisations
to convene joint meetings of interested persons to arrange voluntary
area schemes of control. At the same time the Ministry instructed
county agricultural executive committees, who weie to be invited
to send representatives to the joint meetings, to assist and advise
in planning schemes and to use the powers they possess where voluntary
effort was not forthcoming.

A Special headquarters “Action Committee” was set up c0111—
prising representatives of the Ministry, the National Farmers’ Union,
the Country Landowners’ Association, the Forestry Commission, the
Railway Executive, and Service Departments, to examine and con—
sider the progress of the campaign. Reports have been received from
counties from time to time and, where action has fallen Short of
what was required, special representations have been made to the
county organisations concerned. The latest reports Show that well
over 200 area schemes have been planned and the majority of these
have been put into operation. Experience shows that success is most
likely to be achieved in those counties where joint committees have
been set up consisting of representatives of the National Farmers"
Union, the Country Landowners’ Association and the agricultural
executive committees, and where an approach has been made to
occupiers by these committees.

LORD ELTON : My Lords, I beg to ask the Question which stands
in my name on the Order Paper.

(The Question was as follows :—

To ask Her Majesty’s Government : (1) What ﬁnancial
arrangements are made when rabbit catchers employed by a

25

 




 

 

 

county agricultural executive committee are detailed by a pests

ofﬁcer to kill rabbits on private land; (2) What approximately

is the price for which rabbits killed by ofﬁcial pest control person—
nel are sold).

LORD CARRINGTON : My Lords, the county agricultural executive
committees have been instructed to charge Gs. 9d. per hour per opera—
tor when the services of their rabbit catchers are required by farmers
or other occupiers of land. \Vhen gassing is carried out an additional
charge is made to cover the cost of the gassing powder. Some reduc—
tion in these charges is allowed in exceptional cases: for example,
when a large compact area is to be treated. The charges are intended
to cover the cost of the work ; that is to say, wages, transport, use of
traps, ferrets and snares and supervisory and administrative costs.
Rabbits caught by county agricultural executive committee rabbit
catchers are the property of the occupier with whom the contract
has been made, and they are therefore normally handed to the occupier.
But if the occupier wishes the committee to dispose of the rabbits
caught, they would be sold at the normal market price and a handling
charge of 2d. per pound would be made. The net proceeds would then
. go to the occupier . . . In point of fact, at the rates which are charged
by the county agricultural executive committee operators there is
really no charge whatever on the farmer, as there is usually a proﬁt
when the rabbits are sold.-

Killing of Rabbits, 8th April, 1952, in the House of Lords

LORD ELTON : My Lords, I beg to ask the Question which stands
in my name on the Order Paper.

(The Question was as follows :~——

To ask Her Majesty’s Government whether they are satisﬁed
that sufﬁcient use is being made by the Ministry of Agriculture
of the compulsory powers under Sections 98 and 100 of the Agri—
culture Act, 1947, for the purpose of preventing damage to crops

. by rabbits).

THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY, MINISTRY OF AGRI-
CULTURE AND FISHERIES (Lord Carrington) : My Lords, there are
serious limitations to the use of the statutory powers provided by
Sections 98 and 100 of the Agriculture Act, of 1947. There is, for
example, a specific legal duty on a person to control rabbits on his land
only if he has been served with a notice to remedy conditions found
to exist at a particular time, and that duty is fulﬁlled when the require-
ments of the notice are satisﬁed. The proCedure of individual inspec—
tion and the service of individual notices requires much time and effort,
and as each notice must provide for a reasonable period for compliance
it is impossible to arrange for collective action over an area where this
is dependent on such notices. Within those limitations, however,
we are using the powers as effectively as possible. As I indicated
in the debate on November 28, on the Second Reading of the noble
Lord’s Bill, we shall also consider the need for more effective powers
when a favourable opportunity presents itself.

26

 

 




 

 

N OTES

The (Animal Welfare Institute (New York)

The aim of the Institute, which was founded in 1951, is
“ to promote the welfare of all animals, and to reduce the total of
pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by iman.” Its membership is not
restricted as UFAVV’s is, but is made up of persons engaged in scientiﬁc
work and persons engaged in animal-protective work. It has dis-
tinguished biological scientists on its small advisory panel, a particularly
active member being ‘Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor of PhysiOlogy in
the University of Michigan. Hitherto the Institute has concerned
itself with laboratOry animals. It circulates a periodical bulletin
to members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology, representatives‘of animal—protectiOn societies, and others,
and it gave a booth display at the convention of the American Associa—
tion for the Advancement of Science, showing photographs and plans
of well-designed animal quarters, photographs of different species
of laboratory animals used for various purposes, and a statement on
the ethics of the use of these animals.

Most unfortunately for the Institute, however, violent party
passions have been aroused in America over a matter that affects
only a tiny percentage of experimental animals, namely the dogs,
and relates not to the way they are treated but to the way they are
procured. The anti—vivisectionists seek to prohibit experiments
on dogs altogether, and their opponents seek to force those animal-
protection societies which rescue stray dogs to hand them over for
medical research. Both sides have conducted their campaigns in an
excited, vituperative frame of mind. The attitude of the Institute
amid this warfare can be judged from the fact that it looks with
favour on an understanding reached ”in VancOuver, where unclaimed
dogs from the municipal pound are made available for experiments
under anaesthesia without recovery, representatives of the S.P.C.A.
have been accorded free access to the laboratories, and the medical
curriculum of the University includes lectures on the humane treat-
ment of animals.

” Some representatives of medical research groups and of anti-
vivisection societies have asserted that the Institute is secretly in
league with ‘the opposition.’ Simultaneously misrepresented as a
mysterious and potent advocate of the abolition of experimentation
and of the unlimited expansion of ‘torture,’ the Institute has been
used in connection with fund-raising or membership campaigns by

' groups on both sides of the argument.” Curiously enough both sides

have applied the word “ subtle ” to the Institute’s work. American
research—defenders could learn a lesson from our own Research Defence
Society which, though working within its prescribed limits, does
try to be dispassionate and objective.

It is signiﬁcant that both the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology and the Anti—vivisection M agazme are
bitterly hostile to the Animal \Velfare Institute, and both condemn

27

 




 

 

the British system for regulating experiments. “ The Federation
is unequivocal in its points of View and is not interested in any com—
promise position . . . It is entirely opposed to legislation patterned
after the present laws in England.” That is the ofﬁcial attitude.
Nevertheless, a circular issued by the Institute to individual members
of the Federation elicited many friendly replies ; a number of scientists
and some laboratories have joined the Institute.

A number of years ago Dr. \Valter B. Cannon, Professor of Physi-~
ology at Harvard, secured wide acceptance of a code of ethics relating
to experimentation, but no provision was made for giving continuity
to his inﬂuence. When the passions aroused by the dog-procurement
issue have died down the Institute might come to provide that con--
tinuity, for its aims include inter alia “ the establishment of a code
for the handling and use of laboratory animals ” and ‘f the encourage-x
ment of medical research of the highest possible quality as opposed
to mere quantity.”

C. W. HUME.
Animal Welfare and the Teaching of-Biology

An address on this subject was. given by the late Sidney T." E.
Dark, B.Sc., M.R.S.T., F.Z.S., at the let Annual Conference of
Educational Associations in January, 1933, and was subsequently
published as a ULA\VS Monograph. This has just been reprinted
and is strongly recommended to all those who teach biology and kindred
subjects. (Available on application, price 6d).

Branch News Sheet

This News Sheet, issued each term, is circulated among UFAW’s

student members and contains information about our many activities,
news from different branches, etc. \Ve shall be pleased to send a.
copy to any graduate member who expresses a wish to receive it.

Broadcast Appeal

The appeal by our Chairman and Hon. Artist, F ougasse, which

was broadcast by kind permission of the BBC. on Sunday, 24th
February, has brought in £2,360. ‘ -

 

 

k -

 




 

 

 

 

FOR SALE

16mm. CINE CAMERA AND

EQUIPMENT
Paillard Bolex H.16 camera with lin., 4m. and wide
angle lenses and View ﬁnder, in leather case £125
Tripod with pan and tilt head £ 15
Kodascope Movie Viewer 16mm. with resistance £ 7

This equipment was used by the UFAW members who
produced the ﬁlm THE CARE OF A CAT.

Offers and enquiries to the Editor, UFA'W Courier, 284
Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, London, N3.

 

 

 

 

 

THE MINERS’ ARMS GUEST HOUSE
PRIDDY, Nr. WELLS, SOMERSET (Pm’ddy 264)

A house of historical interest at 900 ft.

An excellent centre for W'ells, Glastonbury, and Cheddar.
Swimming, golf and ﬁshing.

Riding, hunting and livery stables.

Moderate terms, modern comfort, country food.

 

 

 

For particulars about Advertising

Space in this publication please

write to the Editor, UFAW Courier,

284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley,
London, N.3.

(iii)

 




 

THE AIM AND METHOD OF UFAW

The aim of UFAW is to promote humane behaviour towards
wild and domestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce
the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by man.

This aim will be pursued by

enlisting for that purpose the energies of members of univer-
sities and professional men and women ;

obtaining and disseminating relevant knowledge;
helping teachers to provide humane education ;

co— operating with Government Departments, Parliament,
the Churches the learned societies and othei bodies in action
favourable to humane behaviour;

pursuing any other charitable activities conducive to the end
in view and appropriate to the character of a university
organization.

MEMBERSHIP

ORDINARY MEMBERS must be graduates, undergraduates or
members of the teaching or administrative staffs of a University or
hold such professional qualiﬁcations as may be approved by the
Board of Governors.

ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP is open to any person who is in sympathy
with the aim of UP AW.

SUBSCRIPTIONS

Undergraduates minimum /—
Other ordinary members ,, /
Associate members 1/—

))

Subscribers of smaller sums are welcomed and will be kept informed
of UFAW’S activities.

 

Courier (20., Ltd” Timbridgc Wells

 




