“A Sound, Speedy and Humane method.”

THE COLLINGTON
PATENT RABBIT NET DEVIC a.

(Recommended by the R. S. P. C. A.)

LONG NET, WITH COLLINGTON SUPPORTS, IN RAISED POSITION.

 

 

LONG NET, WITH COLLINGTON SUPPORTS, IN DROPPED POSITION.
(Photos by courtesy of The University of London Animal I/Velfm’e Society.)

PRICE.

 

One set of 10 Supports and Rods for 100 yards Net
(carriage paid) £2 0 0

Full details regarding Nets and Release Line (specially
dressed to Withstand weather) may be had on application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALL ORDERS AND ENQUIRIES SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE INVENTOR :—

Mr. H. COLLINGTON,

ICE AND COLD STORES,
Salisbury Street, Loughborough, Leicestershire.

 




Instructions.

   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   

SET RODS AND PATENT SUPPORTS.

(1.) Slip long rod through rings of support, and bury point of rod at least
siX inches in ground to ensure stability. (Should ground be very hard,
as in frosty weather, a tool should be used to make the necessary hole.)

Place rods with supports at intervals of about ten yards or less,
to suit the convenience of the operator.

/‘\
..
[v
V

(3.) The drilled holes in rods should face the way the net is run.

TO SET LONG NET.

 

(1.) Run out net in ordinary way, and peg down each end with iron.
staple. Each end should extend about ten yards past the ﬁrst and
last rods. .- _ , ,

(2.) Connect net to supports by twisting top and bottom lines round the
respective bobbins.

(3.) Run out release line and connect pins. The line can be extended
to any place required.~

(4.) To raise net, slip supports up rods and place pins through drilled
holes in rods, taking care to see that pins are all placed the same
way. It is advisable, to facilitate the dropping of the net, to place
the pins in the lower holes of the rods at each end.

(5.) To drop net, take the end of release line and give a sharp pull, at
the Same time running back a few yards to allow for any slack in

” the line. The pins, which hold the supports in position, will thus
be jerked from holes, and the net will drop down into position, ready
for the rabbits to be driven into it from the feeding ground.

Hints to Operator.

The appliance can be set on most types of ground, but is especially
suitable for burrows, woodsides and hedges. Where the ground is uneven,
small weights can be attached to the net to ensure that no space is left
between ground and net when dropped.

The operator should avoid, if possible, getting to the windward of rabbits
when about to drop net. It is advisable, therefore, that the direction of
the wind should be taken into consideration when setting the pins and release
line. Strict silence should be observed before net is dropped.

 




  
   
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

. Immediately the net has been released, the operator should run a
1t to make certain that everything is in order. Should the net lines, '
example, be slack, an extra turn round the bobbins will sufﬁce; or, shou

the meshing of the net, due to a sideways Wind, be “ gathered,” it ca
be quickly pulled out. v

The rabbits should be driven into the net at high speed from the 9
feedng ground, and it will be found that a dog, which can easily be trained,
is most suitable for this purpose. When the drive takes place at night,
torches are particularly useful.

After the drive is over, the operator should run along the net and
despatch the rabbits at once. They are usually found to be hopelessly
entangled (though quite unhurt), and in order to kill them, grasp the head
ﬁrmly in one hand and the shoulders in the other, and force the hands
together, thus causing death instantaneously.

On a site where rabbits go both ways to feed, either erect an

additional set of supports, _etc., or stretch a string (soaked in “ Animoil ”
and fixed on pegs a few inches high) in its place. This will prevent _
rabbits going in that direction to feed,

Intending Customers should give a description of the places V
where they wish to catch i Rabbits, and any information or

advice required will be gladly supplied by the Inventor.

, Advantages.

' (1.) The appliance can be set at any time, and is effective under
“ ‘ practically all weather conditions.

(2.) It requires comparatively little effort or time to erect. (A person
with normal experience can set a hundred yards net and supports
in less than half an hour).

(3,) It is simple to operate.

(4.) The carcases of rabbits caught by this method are unspoilt, and
are therefore ﬁt for commercial purposes.

(5.) It is as effective as any other method of trapping, and is
particularly valuable in places where there are large numbers of.
rabbits.

1 (6.) It is Humane because the rabbits, when caught, are unhurt tthey
' are not held captive for long periods, as the operator, who is 011
the spot, can despatch them 'at once.




ﬁll,“

\
,, 2

Testimonials.

 

 

TRUTHWALL,
MARAZION, CORNWALL.
December 10th, 1932.
“ Having seen the Collington Patent Rabbit Net Device demonstrated
I should like to say that in my opinion it is a very efﬁcient and reliable-
device With which large numbers of rabbits could be caught, and is a great.
improvement on the old method of netting rabbits. It would seem important
that the net should be used on rabbit infested land. . . . If the’net is given a.
fair trial, very little trapping Will be necessary.”
' D. CAPP
(Head Keeper to Lord St. Levan).

 

 

TREGILLIOWE,
- LUDGVAN, CORNWALL,
December 625b,1932.
. Re Mr. Collington’s Patent Net, I witnessed same set, and was
very well satisﬁed with the catch. I should say same would be a great
help to farmers and market gardeners in the Spring when rabbits are most
destructive.”

(‘

J. TREVASKIS
(Farmer and M arket Gardener).

 

 

PRIMROSE HILL,
GOLDSITHNEY,
NR. - -MARAZION,. CORNWALL,
December lst,1932.
. I feel certain that, provided the net is used solely from the
beginning of the season onwards and no trapping or snaring done, there
is no reason Why the net should not be a success It is quite easy to set,
simple to Operate, saves a considerable amount of time compared With traps,
and I think the results would compare favourably With other methods.’

H. BURGAN
(Game/beeper).

((

 

 

LANHYDROCK,
BODMIN, CORNWALL,
THE COLLINGTON RABBIT NET DEVICE ' December 23rd,1932.

This is to certify that the above net has been demonstrated on this:
Estate WIth every success. I consider it a sound, speedy and humane method
Of reducing rabbits, especially where plentiful. An order for a set Of 150 yards for
this Estate has iust been placed, and I will do my best tO recommend it to others

E. H. COAD
(Head Gamekeeper t0 Viscount Clz'fden).

5m/9/33. M. & C.

 




