SECOND EDITION

SHOOTING
FOR SPORT

 

By
PHYLLIS CLODD

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION,
' OF CRUEL SPORTS
4‘ TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, w.c.1

I957

Publication No. 3!, ‘ - Price Threepence

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

SHQOTJING
FOR 8 PORT

By
PHYLLIS CLOUD

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITIO‘N
OF CRUEL SPORTS
4, TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I

I957

 




 

 

 




 

 

SHOQTING FOR SPORT

” I think it is an unfortunate thing that part of the education of the
governing classes of this country has always included the doctrine that the
bird was created for the purpose of being shot. It was never suggested to
the nobleman that a live bird is one of the most wonderful and beautiful objects
in the world. I am not at all sure that the cult of making a sport of the
slaughter of birds has not a great deal to do with that sport of kings—as it
has been called—the slaughter of men. If we could make the whole world a
bird sanctuary, might it not be one of the most important steps towards
making it a human-being sanctuary P ”——-BERNARD SHAW (1934).

§ N 71THOUT its risks and lacking the appeal of horses,
hounds and pink-coated huntsmen, of the horn and the
baying of the pack, shooting has, admittedly, less hold on the
imagination than fox-hunting. Being so mechanical an art,
it has failed as an inspiration to poetry. Yet it is not without
its glamour. Acclaimed as it is for the contact into which it
is said to bring man with nature, treatises on shooting are
seldom without passages upon the exhilaration of the walk
through the corn stubble in the nip of the autumn air, “ trees
just showing the first kiss of autumn . . . fields just getting
over the dry brown of summer . . . acres of heather still
showing a glint of purple.” A Thursday article in The Times
of August is generally devoted, a little naively, to the sensations
of the punt-gunner hearing through the mist the calls of lately
returned curlew, while in November we read ecstatic descrip-
tions by wild-fowling journalists of geese coming over in
V—shaped skeins against the background of a wintry sky.

Exercise with an object is urged in favour of shooting.
No less is it praised as a promoter of conviviality. The genial
host has become a hackneyed figure, the good-fellowship
among the “ guns ” a commonplace. “ We get from shooting,”
says The Shooting Times (24/3/1928), “ What cannot be
substituted, the joys of living, the pleasures of true comrade-
ship, delights of life in entertaining others, and a host of
values like good health and so on that are inestimable.” In
keeping with this widely held view is the exhortation of a
well-known firm of gunmakers to “ consider for a moment
the character-building value of a B.S.A. Air Rifle and you
will realize that it is a gift your boy must have.”

But the highest claim that is made for shooting is its relative
humanity as compared with other bloodsports. Comparative
innocuousness and ethical superiority are claimed for a sport,
of which the aim is to kill quickly, over one in which a long run
before the death is a matter for congratulation, and complaint

3

 




r s; nor/x- 111%. .39
4,.MJV.¢-¢_1qu.:¢;a 1.11.32!

:11: .~

A . 5,. .‘ ‘4: ,
...5 11:1 my. : r,- v
.9' .‘a.>’;‘.1f'5=l_.f

”may;

4.3:; '

tune:

1.24:}. 5

. .55‘3- _,::-;;.:,s- ‘- f-_;.—‘f:.-.: .7
&&€££b§.ﬁ2(:l

.23;

m .- <<~ ~_ 2.7:,

“n .._ . c.

‘l
r. ’4
522':
‘.-"
,2, 4

LE

A:
. '3

”2.,
, I
,,Y '1
H

.(i'

(I
' u}.
.‘E‘H
r'nf.‘
: ix
“dill
2‘24
AM“

.33
rial
.1 It
,5;

‘1.“

"m

3, .15 s- 1

_.k'3.:i

~ 5 ‘ disk-m

 

1 r*._'_"'1“4A
1.21345.‘i..'.“/.<='.“_‘7:;.:s€”:.'3'». ' ‘5‘"? ﬁg’fua'ijlh : . 1.3 . ~ .. . . .'

.3; <1. - _~, .f._-~-. . .. 1.. ,., <- «.~':~ . :2~
_.___. x— .;, 234.1.-V.‘.._.. ~x_H.:..,:N-<;__-w_~ ‘1 r.‘. ' ‘ .A.r""u. '
- 4 . .. ...... .--_<...u-__.._.> 4...-.. maﬁa!“ .. ..._..= ....).£‘. $,_-_‘,;1:g..,_x ~...

 

is made, as in a description of the hunting of a bitch otter in
The Shooting Times (16/6/1934) of “ rather too quick a kill.”

THE CASE FOR SHOOTING CONSIDERED

“ Custom being,” as Montaigne says, “ king of all,” it is
difﬁcult to View this complacency with entire detachment——
to question whether the sport is productive of so little evil
and its devotees such Galahads as is currently assumed. But,
with the growth and greater dissemination of population, ever
increasing facility of transport and the multiplication of
syndicate shoots, consideration becomes urgent and there are
heretical voices raised in opposition.

Contributory to this rude awakening are such pronounce—
ments as Major J. C. Darling’s in The New Chronicle of
Christian Education (2/10/1930). ” Hunting,” he says, “is
less cruel than angling or shooting. . . . Many sportsmen who
fish or shoot reckon the quality of the day’s sport by the
number of lives taken, that is of birds shot or fish caught.”

“ Game-shooting is a far greater cause of suffering than
fox—hunting, because of the trapping which game-preserving
entails,” is a drastic statement which I heard from a well-known
naturalist, who is himself a keen shooting and hunting man.

Typical of criticism under a different head is that of

- Major Van der Byl, well known for his valiant work for the

suppression of the steel trap, who in an unpublished letter
writes : “ The cruellest sport in England is pheasant shooting,
because of the large number of wounded birds after a battue,”
and such reflections as that of Lord VVinterton (in his Introduc-
tion to J. R. Young’s Fox-Hunting) : “ Foxes do not, as a
result of being hunted, go about for hours—it may be days——
with broken limbs, gs happens to game birds, even in the best
regulated shoots.” It is for this reason that Major Harding-Cox
writes in his recent book A Sportsman at Large: “ I have
pointed out that the ordinary pheasant battue (where a holo—
caust of feathers is systematically arranged for ; where birds
are methodically shepherded to fixed rises and where a certain
percentage escapes sorely wounded) compares very unfavour—
ably with a pigeon—shooting event. That is to say on the score
of humanity or the lack of it.” This point of view has
freshness !

WOUNDING—THE “ PICK-UP ”

With regard to the shooting of driven game, what are the
actual facts, where the convenient assumption is that death

4

 

 




 

 

has been instantaneous? There are those which are killed
outright or so badly injured that they can shortly be collected
and those with life in them finished off (often by having their
heads crushed between human teeth) or thrown still quick to
die in the game cart. These are the fortunate. Very many
birds, as also hares and rabbits, get away with shattered limbs
or bleeding internally. Some are found next day and put out
of their misery. Too many die still more wretchedly from
wounds or starvation, or, surviving, do so maimed. ” As the
dead birds and also wounded fell into thick heather, some
were more difﬁcult to find,” says J. Whitaker after a description
of a partridge drive in Nimrod, Ramrod, F ishirig-rod. That a
number of hen pheasants and partridges are incapable of
breeding through shot—injuries to ovaries and oviducts is
accepted.

The joyous author of the work above quoted has many
references to birds and rabbits not killed outright. Of the
rabbits he says, “ I only broke his leg, so a second shot was
required,” and again, “ when bolting rabbits shooting a bit far
back, I smashed both his hind legs.” These were finished
off by later shots. The birds were not always so lucky. After
a day’s wild—fowling he writes: “A close look for dead and
wounded birds took place; but as the reeds were over our
heads, many were lost, I fear.” And again : ” My mate knocked
a curlew down, it was winged, and getting on to some soft
mud ran away and was not bagged.”

These were cases of shooting by day. “ Flighting ” in the
gathering dusk is a still surer cause of crippling; but the
pleasant theory of shooting as a “ clean sport ” is most ob—
viously disproved by the dastardly punt—gun, which mows a
lane of dead and wounded through a flock of wild-fowl.

Records of punt—gunning exploits come in for censure
even by a reviewer in The Times Literary Supplement (6/12/1934)
who says :

“Mr. Day mentions, without a hint of misgiving, numerous instances of
single shots which have killed over 100 birds, and seems curiously indifferent
to the inevitable suffering involved in such methods of mass destruction.
He tells us, for instance, how ‘a professional puntsman killed in 1931, 72
widgeon with one shot—one less than his last year’s record. He picked up
72, but next morning’s longshore prowlers gathered another 15, so if we allow
at least another dozen or so as prey of the blackbacks and flotsam of the tide,
we have a total of 100 birds to one shot—possibly this year’s record.’ The
devotee of more ‘ artificial ’ sports can at least claim that he does not compile
records on this principle, and that his amusement has never involved anything
like such a percentage of wounding and waste.”

5

 




;-2an;i§mm._xgmﬁ‘mﬂmm‘xﬂxfdmmgwkmn #"AA *1" "" " c; =-- A . .. =3 U - :9 LJ‘: ‘--An_.: ‘-.+.~.. ‘. .. A . . ; _ A .. .

many-3x1-9ngmix: «2323: mm. ~ ..:A Risa-1 e... -A_:2x:'«_‘«..:mﬁa Mas»: ALA-.2; A4245

‘A.._. 3;}.

s :3; - .; _~, E‘cl‘ﬁigﬁlﬂ :5];

 

 

It does not make for peace of mind to think of the cripples
after any shoot, but the number of wounded and lost is highest
in wild-fowling, even when this is carried out with the shoulder
gun. Wild-fowling is generally free shooting and inexperienced
and unscrupulous men will fire a right and left into a flight
of duck coming overhead instead of picking out a bird on the
outside, or fire at geese at 90 yards, so that, as around the Wash,
the dying and maimed are becoming a scandal. In the absence
of a dog, the poor light adds to the difﬁculty of finding a
wounded bird. After big shoots round some waters, the crippled
and dead are collected from among the rushes with long rakes.
These are incidents regrettably inseparable from the sport of
shooting.

It is recorded of Darwin that “ While at Cambridge he was
out shooting and on the day after picked up a bird not quite
dead but lingering from a shot received the day before ; and
this he said, ‘ had made and left such a painful impression on
his mind, that he could not reconcile it to his conscience to
continue to derive pleasure from a sport which inflicted such
cruel suffering.’ ”—-—(Lz'fe and Letters of Charles Darwin, vol. I,
1887.)

SUFFERING CAUSED TO SO-CALLED VERMIN

The suffering of those members of our native fauna, whom,
for their depredations, real or supposed, among the species
we Choose to foster as game, we, in our arrogance, call “ vermin,”
appealed strongly to the sportsman—naturalist whose words
I have already quoted. On the other hand, the lay attitude
is often typified by a remark addressed to me still more lately,
“ I can’t bear rabbits being trapped, but I don’t mind people
trapping stoats.” Having classed many among the most
beautiful, highly organised and intelligent of our surviving
mammals and birds as “ vermin ” we do not care by what
prolonged tortures of trap or poison they die so long as we kill
our tale of pheasants, partridges or grouse.

To these so-called vermin falls the worst suffering. Game
birds and wild-fowl are not molested in the breeding season.
but all the year round, without pause or pity, the Moloch of
game-preservation presses on the alleged enemies of game.
The last buzzard to breed in my county—SuffolkA—was shot
on her nest. Sparrowhawks are very frequently so shot.
Then is the war against all so—called vermin waged most
savagely, for then are they most vulnerable and then does the
unnatural crowding of pheasant chicks on the rearing field and

6

 




 

of mice and rats attracted by the pheasants’ food, tempt furred
and feathered carnivores.

N o depths of meanness have been left unplumbed in the
cause of the destruction of so—called vermin. G. C. S. Ingram
and H. M. Salmon in their Birds in Britain To-day (1934)
remind us that in many places the unspeakable practice is
” quite common ” of setting a steel gin in a hawk’s nest along-
side the helpless young and using them, in effect, as the bait to
catch their parents. For the trapped bird and its starving
young to be left for half a day and then the trap re-set to catch
the mate is not unusual. This is in keeping with cases that
have been known of a hawk caught in a pole-trap being put in
a cage at the foot of the pole to attract its still free mate ; for
although the conscience of the nation has been waked so far
as to make illegal the brutal pole-trap, this horror is still widely
used, openly, or disguised under various fancy names, up and
down the country—and this, as the above-named writers say,
” in the name of sport ! ”

POISON—AND THE GAME LAWS

Shooting is in fact the method least in vogue for killing
off the enemies of game. Few hawks are shot. For these,
besides trapping in its various forms, e.g. the pole-trap, the
baited gin and the decoy trap, there is in use the most potent
of all methods of extirpation. This is poison.*

In Ireland poison is so freely used that to-day (1936)
afﬁxed to the trunk of a tree on a main road close to the city
of Clonmel is a placard on which is printed in bold characters :

 

Poison Notice

The lands of Kilcomma and Kilnamack are poisoned
for the preservation of game.

JOHN BAGWELL

 

 

 

* In an article on “ Game Preservation without Destruction of Wild Life "
printed in the Annual Report (1936) of the Irish Society for the Protection
of Birds, Major J. W. Seigne, the well—known ornithologist, writes: " An
object lesson on how not to do it has recently been provided in Connemara.
A committee (of game—preservers) there organised a cruel and senseless
campaign against the wild life of the district by poisoning and trapping.
Here is the bag they boast of for their first year (1935) : 152 hawks, 217 grey
crows, 328 magpies, 264 foxes, 120 badgers. And this does not nearly represent
the splendid total, as many victims must have perished secretly. Among the
hawks there were certainly merlins and kestrels ; possibly the rare and noble
peregrine falcon, which is preserved for its rarity in most Irish counties.”

7

 




 

 

 

 

In the utterly unscrupulous treatment meted out to species
inimical to the preservation of game, we see at work the very
spirit which made the brutality of the old game-laws possible-—
laws by which poaching was punishable. by mutilation and
death, only later lightened to transportation. So by the
Act g, Geo. I, (3.22, poaching with blackened face or otherwise
disguised was punishable by death without benefit of clergy,
and this Act was actually tightened up by that of 10 Geo. II,
(3.32, while not until an Act of 9 Geo. IV, G69 do we find
any tendency towards milder methods. Even here we find
provision for transportation in certain cases up to 14 years.
The shameless cruelty practised to-day upon so-called vermin
is lineally descended from this, which provoked Sydney Smith,
writing on the Game Laws in The Edinbnrgh Review of 1819,
to say that “ the very mention of hares and partridges in the
country too often puts an end to common humanity and
commonsense ” ; and, sterling humanitarian that he was, he
would surely find it still necessary to remind us of “ those
principles of justice which (incredible as it may appear) are of
infinitely greater importance than the amusements of country
gentlemen. ’ ’

WHAT ARE “VERMIN ”?

What are vermin? “ The definition of vermin,” says
Lord Walsingham in a standard work in the famous Badminton
Library, ” according to the game-preserver’s view, includes
every living creature, four—footed or winged, which can by
any possibility or even by any stretch of imagination, be deemed
to interfere with the rearing of game, or destroy one single
head thereof when full grown.” * “ In this list,” he goes on
to say, “ as it is ordinarily accepted by the average and
therefore ignorant game—keeper, are included many animals
which are perfectly harmless and the persecution of which
benefits in no degree the cause which it is desired to promote.”

PRESERVED AND PERSECUTED SPECIES

There are, for practical consideration, three species for
whose maintenance in grossly abnormal numbers it has been
necessary, in the words of Sir Herbert Maxwell (Memories of
the Months, 1932, Second Series), “ to kill down other animals
no less beautiful ”———the introduced and mongrel Pheasant, the

* Shooting, by Lord Walsingham, etc. (edn. of 1902).
8

 




 

 

 

 

._._..m iozsmm» a»: Know—2A 3:»... Eu : cum :.
2....03 :6 $132 $53.28 Nmzzzm. 5n: $26362. 5:9

 

 

 

 




 

 

i £5

al. J

 

 




 

 

 

native Grey Partridge and, on the moors of Wales and the
North, the Red Grouse.

What are the “ no less beautiful” species which it has
been necessary to kill down ? Sir Herbert Maxwell instances
marten, polecat, stoat, peregrine falcon, hobby, sparrow-hawk
and the harriers. He makes no attempt at a full list.

A fuller list is given by one signing himself “ LBS.” in
an article “ The Classification of Vermin” in The Shooting
Times (20/10/34). The writer classifies vermin in his sense
of the word “ in the order in which they should be placed in
accordance with the damage they do.” The following is his
list, in order of de—merit :

cat stoat
little owl black-backed gull
fox weasel
peregrine falcon magpie
sparrow-hawk jay
golden eagle jackdaw
merlin hedgehog
carrion crow grey squirrel
raven - rook

badger

He has omitted the rat, he says, as he puts it “ in a class by itself
——the most destructive of our rodents.”

The omission of mention of owls, other than the Little Owl,
is welcome. Despite the Wild Birds Protection Act, many
gamekeepers still kill other species of owl. Few nests escape
because of the mewing calls of the young which give the site
away. There was a nest of Long Eared Owls in a wood not
far from where I write and the keeper speaking of hearing the
young said, “ I will take care none of them get off.”

The Kestrel is also frequently killed by keepers, for, as
Charles St. John, epitomising the gamekeeper’s attitude
towards hawks, says : “ It is impossible to persuade a keeper
that any bird called a hawk can be harmless, much less can
one persuade so opinionated and conceited a personage (as
most keepers are) that a hawk can be useful.”*

“ In August 1934,” writes Mr. Charles Oldham in the
Transactions of the H erts. Natural History Society (Vol. 20, 1936),
“ a gamekeeper in the employ of a firm of game-farmers at
Berkhamsted, Herts, was fined ls. for contravening the Wild
Birds Protection Act (1880) by shooting a Little Owl. The

* Wild Sports and Natural History of the Highlands (lst edition, 1846).
9

 

 




 

particular kind of lawlessness inherent in the killing of birds
that are specially protected is frequent in that district. Within
the past ten years I have seen gibbeted on keepers’ rails,
Kestrels on five occasions in different places, as well as, and
more often, Tawny and Little Owls, and once two Green Wood-
peckers. Whether regarded from the aesthetic or the economic
standpoint, such destruction is deplorable.”

Commenting on the apparent increase of the Kestrel in the ’
Ashridge district during the last few years, Mr. Oldham says
(loo. cit.) : “ These figures are eloquent of the asylum afforded
by the Ashridge property of the National Trust to this beautiful
and economically valuable bird, Which, despite the law, is
still killed all too often in Hertfordshire by people interested
in the rearing and preservation of game.”

So ingrained indeed becomes the itch to kill things that a
keeper at Ashridge, debarred from killing hawks, expressed
his relief and appreciation at being allowed to kill grey squirrels
on the grounds that “ they do kill the little song-birds.”
Keepers are, as a rule, surprisingly unobservant and, even
when they make use of their unparalleled opportunities for
intimacy with wild life, their desire to kill one species and
“ control ” the numbers of another persists, as is only to be
expected from their training.

This typical attitude of mind is reflected in the following
quotation from The Shooting Times (23/2/1935). I have
italicized one word only.

“ While the gun may account for crows, jays, magpies,
hawks and little owls, not to mention rooks and jackdaws,
where they constitute a menace to game-birds’ nests, systematic
trapping with tunnel and baited traps should reduce the
number of stoats, weasels, rats and hedgehogs. The gun can
be used for all manner of vermin, and many profitable and
interesting hours may be spent with it waiting at some quiet
and likely spot for undesirable members of the predatory
brotherhood.”

To all this intentional killing must be added the uninten—
tional but inevitable. The steel trap is not discriminating.
The last two red squirrels seen on the farm from which I write
were on a keeper’s gibbet, having been caught in a trap set
for stoats. A trap set in the open in a favourite place for
stoats accounted for as many blackbirds. “ I am very
sorry,” said the keeper, “ to catch so many blackbirds,
which are very useful, letting me know when there are stoats

10

 

 




 

 

and weasels about, but I must trap the stoats or there would be
no pheasants, and I should lose my job. But it is a cruel
business.”

UPSETTING THE BALANCE OF NATURE

And much of this killing, to quote again that most ardent
of shots, Lord Walsingham, “benefits in no degree the cause
which it is desired to promote,” much less does it benefit
agriculture.

Naturalists and other practical men go further, maintaining
that the destruction, even of admitted enemies of the game-
preserving interest, does great harm in upsetting the balance
of Nature and leads indirectly, as well as directly, to widespread
suffering. Thus, in an article in The Field (9/6/34) on the
“ Carmarthenshire Rabbit Problem ” the writer deplores the
destruction of “ vermin,” necessitating, as it does, increased
employment of the barbarous steel trap, which kills both
rabbits and their natural enemies—a vicious circle. How
desirable is the increase of “ vermin ” in the estimation of
this writer in, be it noted, a paper devoted to field sports, is
emphasised in his lament that, even if trapping were abolished
on a farm,“ there would for a season or so be no vermin to
keep down the rabbits.”

THE SMALL MAMMAL PROBLEM

The divergence between the game-preserving and agricul-
tural interests is well illustrated by the case of the hedgehog,
scores of whose dried—up skins figure on keepers’ gibbets,
Professor J. Ritchie saying in his Beasts and Birds as Farm
Pests, “ it is a creature which the farmer, for the sake of his
crops, should spare” ; while of the owl and the weasel (the
latter figuring as twelfth in L.B.S.’s list) M. A. C. Hinton,
Deputy Keeper in the Department of Zoology in the British
Museum (Natural History), says:

“ Everybody in the countryside, from the squire to the schoolboy, should
be taught to look upon the wanton destruction of an owl or a weasel as one
of the blackest crimes possible among rural surroundings.”

Summing up the matter in his standard work History of
British Mammals, Vol. 2 (1921), G. E. Barrett-Hamilton says :

“ It is of vital importance to general agriculture and to the nation at
large that we should preserve a sufﬁciently strong carnivorous element in
our fauna. We possess no better friends (against Rats, Mice, Voles, etc.) than
the Weasel, the Stoat, our native Owls and the Kestrel, since small rodents
form the staple food of all these animals.”

11

 

 




 

 

“ It seems hardly fair,” says Professor Ritchie (op. cit),
“ to class the gamekeeper as an agricultural pest, but the web
of life has strange ramifications and a man who kills stoats
and weasels, which in turn would have slain mice, voles,
rats and rabbits, or shoots owls and kestrels which depend
largely upon the small destructive mammals, has something
to answer for to the farmer ”——and surely we may add not to
the farmer only, for man does not live by bread alone. Those
who love their land love its spirit and its history and care for
its future. They would not lose one form of life which through
the years has shared their country with them.

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SHOOTING

“ The essence of sport is the matching of one’s skill against
that of the wild animal.” “ In the Sportsman’s mind there is
always the conflict between the hunting instinct and abhorrence
of giving pain.” These are quotations from a talk with a
hunting and shooting man, who is also a naturalist. They show
the Sportsman’s mind at its best. But the matching of human
skill against that of the wild animals seems hardly descriptive
of the reality in the case of big drives of grouse over sportsmen
advantageously placed behind butts. The word “ matching”
seems derogatory to our species, since all that money and
mechanical science can produce in the way of equipment is
put into the scales with the Sportsman’s “ skill” against the
quarry.

The conflict referred to is, however, real. Even the seasoned
J. Whitaker, after the description of a great partridge shoot,
says in a passage chiefly suggestive, however, of luxurious
relaxation, “ As I walked home through the dusk of evening
partridges were calling on all sides : brothers calling for sisters,
parents for children, which they would never meet again, and
I must own a shade of sadness came over me as I heard these
plaintive cries.” This passage shares qualities with the best
emetic medicine !

CALLOUSNESS

Qualms of this sort seem easily to be ignored and soon to be
replaced by a callousness amazing to a mind not dulled by
custom. It was hardly fair to quote this maudlin passage from
the cheerful author of N imrod, Ramrod, Fishing-rod, who
usually speaks in a vein entirely typical of the ordinary sports—
man, his attitude seeming to be one of complete obliviousness

12

 




 

 

to any suffering felt by the birds and beasts which afford him
and his kind their sport. Thus, after describing a day, when
hecatombs of partridges had died, he says : “ It was delightful
to see the happy faces of all, especially our kindly host’s, who
is never happier than in giving pleasure to his friends ; for
what can be a more delightful thing than giving good sport
to one’s friends and seeing them so thoroughly enjoying
themselves.’ ’

Almost as perfect in its way is the smug insensibility of the
reflection which J. E. Harting makes after giving a long list
of slain birds. I have italicized a few lines.

“ To give an idea of the variety of birds that might be procured with an
ordinary 12-bore shoulder gun, here is a list of birds killed one day at the end
of August, 1867 : 1 Sheldrake, 2 Teal, 2 Curlew, 1 Grey Plover, 21 Ringed
Plover, 11 Knots, 4 Turnstones, 3 Greenshanks, 6 Redshanks, 1 Ruff, 2 Com—
mon Sandpipers, 2 Curlew Sandpipers, 24 Dunlins, 1 Little Stint, 1 Black
Tern, 1 Black-headed Gull, 3 Herring Gulls and 1 Lesser Black—backed Gull.
On another day in September of the same year, the bag was : 6 Grey Plovers,
1 Curlew, 1 Whimbrel, 1 Bartailed Godwit, 4 Oystercatchers, 2 Redshanks,
3 Lapwings, 13 Knots, 10 Ringed Plovers, 1 Turnstone, 1 Common Sandpiper,
1 Curlew Sandpiper, 34 Dunlins, 4 Little Stints, 4 Grey Phalaropes, 1 Arctic
Tern, 1 Black—headed Gull and l Herring Gull. None of these birds was really
wasted. Some of the best of each species were generally skinned and preserved
either for the shooter’s own collection, or that of some friend ; while such
uneatable birds as Gulls, Terns, Scaup Ducks, Scoters, or what not, if not
required for the collection, were given away to the fishermen, who either cut
them up for bait for the lobster pots or sold them to the nearest dealers in Chichester
for what they would fetch.”*

“ None of these birds was really wasted.” Yet they had
been those which, as W. H. Hudson puts it, give life to the
waste places of marsh, shore, and mud flat—“ Waders ” who
pattern the sky with their wheeling battalions, whose calls
once heard are, perhaps, the most haunting sounds in nature,
were not wasted when cut up for lobster bait !

The most revoltingly cruel form of the sport is Big Game
shooting, and it is so of necessity, since to stop a possible
charge by a powerful wounded animal soft-nosed, explosive
and bone—splintering bullets must be used. The cruelty of
this pastime was lately emphasised by Lord Mottistone, himself
a big game shooter, in a debate in Parliament, May 12th, 1936,
on the use of poison gas by the Italians in the Abyssinian War.
” ‘ It is more cruel,’ he said, ‘to employ soft-nosed bullets
than poison-gas.’ Taking a soft-nosed bullet from his pocket
he remarked : ‘ I picked this out of my game bag. This would
leave a hole at its exit as big as the palms of both hands.’ "

* Recreations of a N atnralist, by J. E. Harting.
13

 

 
    

”-4-;:SL“._‘.;.;;;;‘;‘A.;_A__;_:..‘..L‘-_ ., _ 1‘ ...-, V5.3.”

* 311'; x: :..

A : awn—Mrmmamum a “1:5; 0):. :EL‘». ‘.L‘~"_2<-7-_

.v;_~_:.—,;-. arnmﬁ—ur: V:.\'_:.. «2

‘ rain-Norr- —_n

2.7;” -‘~\.ud‘—V - .— ~,‘ :-.~.~ u. 2 a;

ram

5
:l
1
l
l
3
if
!
i
l
l
l
l




 

 

 

 

THE VULGARITY OF BIG BAGS

Something more positive than callousness must be at the
bottom of the lust for big and ever bigger bags to Which the
annual August correspondence in The Times bears witness.
T he exact figures are a little wearying to the outsider, but it
seems important that one titled correspondent should know
whether 2,697 grouse in one day constitute a record and for
another to inform him that “ It does not! On August 12th,
1915, 2,929 grouse were shot at Abbeystead, Lancashire, on the
moor of the Earl of Sefton.” . . . “ Nor do I believe,” the letter
goes on, “that even this bag constitutes a record. I understand
that over 3,000 birds have been killed in one day,” and so on,
giving the number of grouse, 2,843 (or insportsman’s language
1,421—5— brace) which as few as eight guns killed in one day.

The desire to kill vast numbers becomes a craze. So shooting
over dogs has fallen into desuetude. On some moors in the
North of England, where some of, the biggest bags have been
made, no one thinks of shooting over dogs and grouse are
invariably driven. This plan, of course, when successfully
carried out, yields the largest results. The largest number
of grouse obtained by shooting over dogs does not exceed
200. Lord Walsingham obtained 1,056 grouse in fourteen
hours at the butts to his own gun. Actually on another
occasion he seems to have beaten this record, for the editorial
answer to a question in the Shooting Times (8/9/1934) “ What
is the greatest amount of grouse killed by one gun in one day
and who killed them ” is :

“ Lord Walsingham, shooting over the famous Blubberhouse
Moor, in Yorkshire, on August 30th, 1888, killed 1,070 grouse.
He used 1,550 cartridges, including 40 signal shots. Actually,
1,036 grouse were brought home that evening, 22 were picked up
next day, and 12 two days later when the moor was shot again.”

A big bag is the criterion of other shoots than grouse.
Not long since it was reported in the press that an English
Royal Duke and Duchess had “ good sport,” shooting two
thousand pheasants in three days—good sport, but long behind
that record day at Hall Barn when the bag of a Royal party
was 4,000 pheasants.* '

Grimmest of all is the tale of the slain by the brutal punt—
gun. Twenty thousand wild-fowl did Colonel Hawker slay
in Southampton Water with his famous double 1%in. gun of
2001b. weight, bringing down at one discharge 100 brent-geese.

* See The Evening News, 22/11/1934.

14

 




 

KILLING FOR SPORT

Of fox and stag hunting it is claimed that the lure is to a
great extent the joy of physical exercise with an element of
risk afforded by cross-country riding, etc. From the actual
kill, many of the field turn away and many profess satisfaction
when a fox escapes with his life. The values of the sport of
Shooting are however entirely different. As Sir Herbert
Maxwell remarks in Memories of the M onths, “ shooting involves
more killing than any other field sport.” It is true that there
are rules in game-shooting (though not in wild-fowling). It
is held to be unsportsmanlike indeed to shoot game-birds on
the ground or on a tree, but that, Sir Herbert tells us, “ is from
consideration for the sportsman, to whose advantage it is to
practise dexterity of hand and eye.” There is nothing in
shooting to equal the physical joy of riding, no sight to compare
with that of the horses, the riders and the pack, no sound with
that of the baying of the hounds.

Killing is an even more important part of the sport of
shooting than it is of hunting. No one says of the high pheasant
he has missed, “ I am glad that stout fellow got away,” or
of the successfully dodging woodcock, “ Game little chap.
I am all the better pleased to think of him alive and about his
ways to-night.” The big game-hunter who is glad when he
misses the black buck, as a one-time Anglo-Indian sportsman
told me he became, is not long before he gives up shooting.

In considering shooting as a sport, due weight must be
given to the enjoyment to the sportsman of exercise of skill in
marksmanship—of calculating the precise meeting-point of
the projectile with a living thing taking an erratic course, but
marksmanship could be satisfied without such multiplicity of
moving targets. Shooting is to kill. It is accounted a happy
thing to kill vast numbers. So .we have the great story told by
the Earl of Warwick in Memories of Sixty Years (1917) of
his grandfather, Lord Wemyss, who made a record by killing
200 grduse with his own muzzle-loading gun in one day :

“ He shot over dogs and the keeper who was loading for him and carrying
the bag fainted towards the close of the afternoon quite suddenly from sheer
exhaustion. It was clear that the dogs were worn out too. He was still
short of his hundred brace, but he was a man of resource. He helped the keeper
up and sent him home with the dogs, hurried back to the house, whistled a
black French poodle that had a good nose and would retrieve, and then
hastened back to the moor. He had to do his own loading and carry his own
game, but he stuck to his job, and turned the hundred brace before dark.”

In the same spirit Lord Dorchester in The Field (4/8/1934)
prefaces his ecstatic description of the best drive he ever

15

 




 

 

had, when he counted 71 grouse, without the pick-up, to his
single gun, by the description: “ Settled at last, I prop my
shooting stick at a comfortable angle and gloat [italics mine]
in fat satisfaction over good work well performed during the
past drive,” when seventeen birds were collected as due to -
his gun. But, oh, the glorious killing of the “ best drive.”
“ The tragedy ” was that the loader ran out of cartridges and
had to go for a fresh supply. “ I could almost weep with
rage and the moments pass like hours,” says the writer, who
for more dramatic emphasis has given his account in the
present tense. But that loader was really doing his best.
Purple, sweating, panting he “struggles up the hill.” So
blown was he that Lord Dorchester took the bag and loaded
for himself. In short, although human nature did its best,
Lord Dorchester will “ never cease to speculate upon what
my bag might have been had I not run out of cartridges.”
It seems hardly possible to believe that the truth in these
cases of mass slaughter can wholly escape realization; that
sensibility can be so entirely atrophied. To believe that
callousness can be so complete is not less degrading to 0m
species than to accept the alternative, which can only be that
the deaths are realized and felt to be somehow of value, are
somehow appreciated as a means of escape for the soul. It
'is estimated that ” Olly” de Grey, afterwards Lord Ripon,
who is held to have been the greatest shot of all time, must
have killed over half a million head of game merely for sport ;
and in that he fell dead in the heather having just brought off
a tremendously long shot at a snipe, his death has been
described as “ as he would have wished.”

Thinking of this slayer of half a million warm-blooded
creatures the tremendous passage in F laubert’s Legend of
St. jiilicm rises to mind:

“ Sometimes, in a dream, he would see himself like Adam, the father of us
all, in the midst of Paradise, among the beasts. Stretching forth his arms, he
would have them die. Or, again, they would pass before him, two by two,
according to their size, from the elephant and the lions to the ermines and the
ducks, as on the day when they entered Noah’s ark. From the shade of a
cave he would hurl javelins on them, and would never miss one: others
would follow them, and there would be no end to the slaughter, and he would
awake with wild eyes rolling.” '

* * * * *

CONCLUSION

In this essay I have offered for consideration a few aspects
of shooting as a sport and only as a sport. Despite reference

l6

 




 

to cases of wounding, I have not considered shooting as a
means of killing : as such it is often the best, Sometimes the
only way. Neither have I attempted to discuss the economic
soundness or otherwise of game-preserving. This would have
involved much fuller treatment of the question not only of the
direct damage to crops by game, but by rats, mice and rabbits,
which flourish in the absence of those of their natural enemies,
including hawks, owls, stoats and weasels, which are killed in
the interest of game—preserving; for let it be fully realized
that, although the majority of keepers trap and shoot beyond
the needs even of game-preserving, there can be no great
numbers of artificially reared pheasants without widespread
trapping. .

The great question of the balance of nature could be no
more than touched upon. My subject has been shooting birds
and beasts as a form of amusement. I have tried to suggest
that the man or woman must be dull of soul, however quick of
hand and eye, who can see in a bird no more than a moving
target and can shoot it with the complacency with which a
golfer hits the ball, or can write with smug satisfaction of a
shooting contest when “ two teams of three guns came into
opposition at driven partridges ” and counted the birds killed
against shots fired as callously as though scoring at cricket.

Conventionality still prescribes shooting as a sport, affording
as it does a motive for days spent in the country, offering as it
does scope for exercise of skill. But no pleasure, however
health—giving, no satisfaction in successful endeavour can
compensate for ,the staggering and irreparable change the
well-directed shot has wrought. Nothing in nature is more
wonderful than a bird. In nothing does the spirit of life burn
more brightly. And though after that shot there is the same
weight of flesh, the same number of feathers, the soul has been
torn out. Deprivation of life has destroyed a bird and substi—
tuted carrion. In Andrew Young’s words:

Ah, that was but the wind

Your soft down stirred,

O bird, lying with sidelong head ;
These open eyes are blind,

I cannot frighten you away ;
You are so very dead

I almost say

‘ You are not a dead bird.“

* “ The Dead Bird,” in Collected Poems (London, 1936).
17

 

$27 “2Tb. , , ., . ”I.“ _ r . , , ,T - .. , 5 aw 1..“ a“..- «name»... My 5-55 . - 4.,
A.1951”. . :_.~. . a“, eaz-v—z5r‘r»- -.=:5.- .:;~e::=r"e4 a a s‘-‘u ‘ 217A. an: - ~=-*'- Max: e “45*“ ‘2» 2‘42: " ‘ ‘ '- - l
. A N. ._ . c.- a e a“ . . 3 ‘ ‘ <~ as“ ' .‘z-A. 2 A.” ~:-__,_.

a;

557‘;- .6:’“.~S‘|-<

#1
i
l

1:

Li
E:
.,i

20.1557;

.43
r,‘

5,
\'-'.'
, ‘f
l K 3-
1‘ r
3“},
, l

r i.
x:
1):
A\
i“:

K

§

3»;
2» A
in
His.
m;
g.
l
.1,-

”>5, w

wrmc'aeﬂﬂzr'wvwzrm «- at:-

,7. t’rﬁfﬂ" ’75.??—

xg~ .-
— ~"—-—:-r~ur: = L.. "a

.2...

'3" A; ~- .
_,— -3352»?

- m “r . 24¢.- 7.2-2”;

 




 

 

One of the aims of the National Society for the Abolition of
Cruel Sports is the preservation, in the true sense of the word, of
the mammals and birds of that native fauna which ought to
form part of our national heritage. This is an ideal impossible
of achievement so long as shooting for sport, with all the
slaughter of wild life which game-preserving entails, is sanc-
tioned by public opinion—so long as hedgerows, woods and open
moors are inevitably set with traps and the whole country,
in effect, even where not literally, is like the lands of Kilcomma
and Kilnamack——“poisoned for the preservation of game.”

 




 

Bibliography

G. E. H. Barrethamilton. A HISTORY OF BRITISH MAMMALS (London, 1901, etc.)
J. Wentworth Day. THE MODERN FOWLER (London, 1934).
J. E. Harting. RECREATIONS OF A NATURALIST (London, 1906).

Col. Peter Hawker. INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG SPORTSMEN IN ALL THAT RELATES
To SHOOTING (1824). New edition edited by Eric Parker (1922).

M. A. C. Hinton. RATS AND MICE AS ENEMIES 0F MANKIND, British Museum
Economic Series, NO. 8 (3rd edition, London, 1931).

W. H. Hudson. THE LAND’s END (London, 1908).

KILLING FOR SPORT. Essays by various writers. Edited by Henry S. Salt, with
a Preface by Bernard Shaw (London, 1915).

Sir P. J. Mackie. THE KEEPER’S BOOK (1903, 16th edition, London, 1929).
Eric Parker. ELEMENTS OF SHOOTING (London, 1924).

Llewelyn Powys. FASHION-INFECTED SPORT. Leaﬂet (Nat. Soc. Abolition of Cruel
Sports, 1936). '

James Ritchie. BIRDS AND BEASTS AS FARM PESTs (Edinburgh, 1931).

Canon 8. N. Sedgwick. THE CRUELTY OF SHOOTING. Leaﬂet (Nat. Soc. Abolition
of Cruel Sports, 1936).

A. J. Stuart-\Vortley, etc. THE GROUSE (London, 1894), THE PHEASANT (London,
1896), THE PARTRIDGE (London, 1894).

Lord Walsingham and Sir R. Payne-Gallwey, etc. SHOOTING : FIELD AND COVER
(7th impression, London, 1904).

J. Whitaker. NIMROD, RAMROD, FISHING-ROD (Nottingham, 1909).
J. R. Young. Fox-HUNTING (London, 1934).

ug-wsrnf—w ««~....ﬂ w—«_ :13, - 1%,,

thaws—'35} ~73} -.:

_ .. «21:1:5... L _._ _~_{'_._~_‘.;_LL:..-'. .‘ 1

.31 “1:34:23;

«2 - =4 1:53-3:29 5..

.. 0.2,

igrw

. .— :w7~c:-w¢ww~“f’r"rii" &?£“—+“7 3“ "
- < - 13.3.. ‘agkgﬁgg...

a 13 -c :14“

<9.

.33?

Egg,

JV.»-
1....

3.1%.} '~
.-.;-..- -

‘ %=-’

«:9

,5: E : r»;

I 81*2'2'0 ,,

-'.‘mm~<..

- vuvrwcvifxﬁwﬁ“

£2211“ Raﬁ:

4.4.; «(w-v1,
Ls .xl‘ir.):n

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

,. 1-5.!”
1‘ 1,1)"
1.3%,
lxlnj‘

 

Publications

National Society for the Abolition
' of Cruel Sports

_~_——~.—__—~.—-

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F. L. S. Id.

WHO ARE THE KILL— JOYS. 3 By Henry S. Salt. Id.

DRAG HUNTING. By Basil T ozer 5d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West- -Country Sketch
by A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. ' 2d. post free. .

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT. '9 The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

IN AT THE DEATH: Freeman on Cruelty 1n Sport. Id.

ETON COLLEGE HARE- HUNT. A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 34'.

THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. ByT. E. B. Clarke. Id.

TWO SIMILAR PASTIMES: SPORT AND WAR. By
Henry S. Salt. Id. ' ~

OTTER-HUNTING. By John Tunnard. Id. ‘ .

DIGGING- OUT AND EARTH-STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 20’.

THE END OF A FOX-HUNT. Eye Witnesses’ Account.
By the Students of Paton College. Gratis. .

FASHION—INFECTED SPORT. By Llewelyn Powys.1d.

SHOOTING FOR SPORT. By Mrs. Edward Clodd. 5d.

‘ Junior Series Leaflets:

(1) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals?

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death. '
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of Hares and Rabbits.
(5).. Is, Otter-hunting Fair (Sport?
(6) The Cruelty of Shooting. .

Price 151.0451.) or 25 capiesfor n

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY-_ FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.l
Information from the Secretary

 

 

 

Publication No. 51 1.] Price 3d.

Printed by Me Weardale Pram, Ltd” 20, Gordon Square, London, W. C. I
’ and N ewnbam Street, Bedford

 




 

 




