munch safe. senate

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 20, 1981

Ms. Eva~Rugg
Rt. 5, BOX 31 A
Ft. Myers, Florida 33908

Dear Eva :

Thank you for your letter concerning the humane treatment
of animals.

Heightened public awareness has led to several recent and
promising developments in this area. Revlon has committed
750,000 dollars to an independent effort to develOp non-
animal testing procedures. On the government level, the
Environmental Protection Agency has placed a freeze on in-
house use of the Draize rabbit eye irritancy test. The
Senate is currently considering a resolution which pro-
poses that resources be devoted to developing alternative
testing procedures for the Draize test. A bill which
would establish a National Center for Alternative Research
has been introduced in the House of Representatives and re-
ferred to the House Committee on Science and Technology.
Measures to establish a natural refuge for the harp seal
and prohibit the manufacture and sale of the leg—hold trap
are also pending in Congress. '

Although a certain degree of medical testing mandates the
use of live animals, any feasible alternatives to such
practices merit investigation. These proposals, as well
as other legislation dealing with the preservation of en-
dangered species and humane animal treatment, will receive
my careful consideration. Thank you again for your com-
ments and concern. Please keep in touch.

Sincerely,
W
Paula Hawkins

United States Senator

PH/czm

 




PAULA HAWKINS
FLORIDA

anifeb .Sﬁafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

August 13, 1984

Mrs. Robert H. Olson
123—6 Cedar Point
Stuart, Florida 33494

Dear Mrs. Olson:
-hank you for your interest in protectinc seals.

I understand your concern for these animals and agree that the
United States must afford them protection. On June 11, 1981, the
Senate unanimously passed a protocol to extend a four—year agree-
ment controlling the harvest of northern fur seals. wghis agree;
_g§nt must be renegotigpeémsesn- “”“M”“”“”””
The Pribilof Islands, the breeding grounds for fur seals, were
discovered in 1786. Since that time, millions of seals have been
destroyed for their hides. By 1911, the population of these
seals had reached a low of 200,000, but treaties enacted after
1911 led to the recovery of the Pribilof seal population.

“Shewfourgysntwprctocolithich,gwsuppogggg,,al§9mnroyidestfor
studisswgi the Aleutian economy, its ecssyetsm. tbs rssidsntstsf

‘tﬁ§:§}ibilot TETEHEEZfand the fur sears th§m§§l§§$. “Tress”
studies will better enable the United States to fulfill its
responsibility to the continued well—being and protection of the

Pribilof seals.

“V”, A

Thank you again for your comments and concern.

Sincerely,

PaulatHawkins
United States Senator

 




GORDON J. HUMPHREY COMMITTEES:

NEW HAMPSHIRE ~ ARMED SERVICES
LABOR AND HUMAN
4203 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING RESOURCES

mum ﬁfcdes $enafe

NEw HAMPSHIRE TOLL FREE NUMBER
“800-852-3714 WASHINGTON, DC 20510

March 27, 1981

Ms. Katharine F. Hinckley
55 Cascade Road
Mason, New Hampshire 03048

Dear Ms. Hinckley:

Thank you for your recent letter in favor of Senate Resolution
65.

As you know, S. Res. 65 would promote research methods which
do not involve live animals.

My greatest concern is for the continuation of the medical and
scientific research upon which the world depends. However, I am aware
of the concerns of those who oppose live animal research, and I shall

consider the content of S. Res. 65 with their views in mind.

Sincerely,

FEDERAL BUILDING, ROOM 424 FEDERAL BUILDING, ROOM 730 FEDERAL BUILDING, ROOM 209

55 PLEASANT STREET 275 CHESTNUT STREET 80 DANIEL STREET

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE 03301 MANCHESTER, NEW HAMPSHIRE 03103 PORTSMOUTH, NEW HAMPSHIRE 03801
(603) 228—0453 (603) 666-7691 (603) 431-8760

 




GORDON HUMPHREY ARMED SERVICES
NEw HAMPSHIRE HUMAN RESOURCES
VETERANS' AFFAIRS

@Cniieh ﬁfafez ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 12, 1980

Mrs.Frances Hoiway
Box 47
Rye, New Hampshire 03870

Dear Mrs.Ho]way:

Thank you for your ietter expressing support
for Secretary Andrus' stand on eiiminating cruei predator
controi measures.

Hopefuiiy, more humane methods of deaiing with
this probiem can be found and appropriate iegisiation passed.

With kindest regards, I am

Sincerely,

“41‘va Av...“

~

ﬂHumphrey,\dSS

GJHzMJA

 




'Qlfniieb .gﬁafes .ﬁcnaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. ZOSiO

February 17, 1984

1....— ..~

Ms. Esther Lin Black
525 Maxwell Street
Charleston, West Virginia 25311

Dear Ms. Black:

Thank you for your comments concerning various issues before
the Congress.

Legislation promoting humane care and substitutes for ani—
mals used in research concerns me a great deal and I bel1eve we
must strike a reasonable balance between the interests involved

 

 

While We must strive to assure the humane treatment of animals
uSed in scientific research; and testing, we must also bemmindful

not to exCessively regulate scientific procedures andmthus 1mpede,
the progress and_growth of our research industries.

 

 

 

 

 

With this balancing objective inmmind, I have cosponsored
S. 964 which has been incorporated into S. 773, the BiOmedical
'Research, Training, and Medical Library Assistance Amendments of
1983. This provision of the bill requires the Secretary qunm
Health and Human Services to conduct a study with respectmto the
use of live animals in biomedlcal and behaV1oral research,m~The
Secretarymxillubelleguiredmto file a report to Congress 1nclud1ng
the following information: (1) an assessment of standards of
care provided live animals in biomedical and behavioral research
facilities:_(25 a review of state and Federal laws regarding anim

mal research;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1_-"_ and

 

(4) a review of the number_and type of 0animals used in research;
and whether there have been trends indicating an increase or
deCrease of such animals used in research over the five yearsi

 

The informatlonugathered from this mandated study will
indicate what, if any,_course of action Congress must take to
assure that the balance between humane animal care and research
flexibility is struck._

 

 

 

 

 

 

HJ. R. 1797 is presently pending in the House Committee on
Energy and Commerce. While there is no Senate companion at this

 

 

,- _,_.a.4-q

time, pleaSe be assured that _ will keeplanweyamgnmths House
action.

With kindest regards, I am

STnc:rely,

4171611111- 50’ Cﬁﬁ‘amuﬁ

 




PETE V. DOMENICI, N. MEX., CHAIRMAN

WILLIAM L. ARMSTRONG. COLO. ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. S.C.
NANCY LANDON KASSEBAUM. KANS. LAWTON CHILES. FLA.
RUDY BOSCHWITZ. MINN. JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR., DEL.
ORRIN G. HATCH, UTAH J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, LA.

JOHN TOWER. TEx. JIM SASSER. TENN. we .f a ﬁi £ $ £
MARK ANDREWS, N. DAK. GARY HART, COLO.

STEVEN D. SYMMS, IDAHO HOWARD M. METZENBAUM. OHIO “1 e a eg an“ 9
CHARLES GRASSLEY, IOWA DONALD w. RIEGLE. JR.. MICH.

ROBERT w. KASTEN, WIS. DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN, N.Y. COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

DAN QUAYLE. IND. J. JAMES EXON. NEBR.

SLADE GORTON, WASH. WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

STEPHEN BELL. STAFF DIRECTOR
LIZABETH TANKERSLEY, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR

April 17, 1981

Mr. John H. Madge
5601 Seminary Road
Falls Church, VA 22041

Dear Mr. Madge:

Thank you for your comments regarding the reauthori-
zation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act. It is not clear
how many years the act will be extended. However, I can_
assure you that I support the reauthorization of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act, and it is my hope that we will be
successful in seeing it extended for m9£§i§béﬂm99§m¥§§r{W.
which is what the Administration is currently propos1ng?

I appreciate hearing from you on this. You have my
best wishes.

E; HOllin SEE
jStates Senatbr

 




/

”PJCniteb ﬁfafeﬁ ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 24, 1977

Ms. Haze} A. Watts
R.F.D. 1
Londonderry, New Hampshire 03053

Dear Ms. Watts:

Thank you very much for your recent 1etter concerning the
Marine Mammal Protection Act. The U. S. Senate Committee

on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, of which I am a
member, is presentiy hoiding oversight hearings on this

matter. We are receiving some expert testimony and are iooking
at a1] the facts very carefuiiy.

I appreciate your writing to me and can assure you that I
wi11 keep your views in mind as we consider this very
1mpotmntmﬁsue “W%*“W“““”” “

I (//

, ERNEsg HLLI was V1Cha1rman
Natio Ocean Po cy Study

EFH $1111»wa

 




f1T3$¢1V 3:3“?

LEE? “2‘
5.3.“; Em} Hi}

_EEE@IR3$§ SOUTH ﬁAROLIEE

MEMBER 0F GONMERC FEE ONNITTWW

1...! 1...!

.92..E:< E 1:13.51;EfE'E‘ELE'E}3i" :3 if ‘EiEESEE:
CqEviEEE iiEl}
‘1; E3) EE”E;EEE:E§.§E‘ "E337;
Emu EhE.

EEEEEEEE ﬂammittEE§ I wouid mEturEllv
EE C”W EEEMEE EEEEE gimme I would hEVE
‘tEMGmT -mE EvidEnEE. I EEEEEEEEEEE van?

“1' " '6 \ ,r (5 f . . ‘ .. n .. 1* ARE, . w .. .1.
i. «‘3 i «‘1. E' 3.1.“! «Es... E‘J ELuL E. yr t3 E. “5 (.1 4:1,“? 53‘ f u il‘! gﬁfl‘tgll V Q I A»?
1;} "'1‘ LE my, 5:“? fl“ ‘3:

. .M. J1EE.

pEEfEW that thiE bill
E much bettEW Eppmrtunity
VlFWM on his mEEsurE End EEEuﬁ
GammantE in mind.

EEE mEtEEiEl was lEft fEr thE SEEE 0“? LE

1&5. S E

 




 

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS

COMMITTEES:
APPROPRIATIONS

SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

Qlfnifeb ${afcs ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September 15 , 1972

Mrs. Roger Harty
lI016 83rd Street, N.
St. Petersburg, Florida 33709

Dear Mrs. Harty:

Many thanks for your recent communication.

I assure you the basic substantive concepts embodied in both pieces
of legislation, 8. 3818 and S. 3331+, have my full support and I hOpe to
see them enacted into law. However, before we report any final version
of either bill, they must be given detailed consideration by the full
Commerce Committee.

I appreciate very much having the benefit of your comments on this

matter and I will certainly hear them in mind.

  

Ern st F. Hollings

  

EFH/se

 




COMMITTEES:

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS APPROPRIATIONS'
COMMERCE

SOUTH CAROLIN
A POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

Q'Cnifeb SJfafcs $9naf¢

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

SepteMber 21, 1972

Mrs. Edward J. O'Malley
3O Bradish lane
Bay Shore, New'York 11706

Dear Mrs. O'Ivalley:
Ivany thanks for your recent communication.

I assure you the basic substantive concepts embodied in both pieces

of legislation, S. 3818 and S. 3331b, have my full support and I hope to

see them enacted into law. However, before we report any final version

of either bill, they must be given detailed consideration by the full

Commerce Committee.

I appreciate very much having the benefit of your comments on this

matter and I will certainly hear them in mind.

Ern at F. Hollings

 




Mr. Phil R. Love, Assistant to the Manager

Ann Arbot, Bank,
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107

Dear Mr. Love,

Thank you for your letter of June 28th. in accordance with the information
you have sent, I am enclsoing passbook number 20-945310~j and request that all
funds and accrued interest from this account be transferred to American Security
and Trust, Georgetown Branch, l)j9 wisconsin ﬁve., N.W. Washington, v.0. 20007.

With reppect to Special Passbook Savings account number z0-000375-j, there is
no emergency involved, and so I have not filled out the form you sent. 1 weould
like to make the qithdrawal at the time specified, September 1 through 10 and
have the Eunds transﬁerred to ﬁmerican Security anu 1rst as noted above. Blease
let me know how to proceed on this. V I It i r r 1 ¥

Sincerely, ..

(Dara. Zeef 616351” ﬂ

 




ERNEST F. HOLLINGS . COMMITTEES:
SOUTH CAROLINA APPROPRIATIONS
SuaCOMMITTEEs:
OFFICES: LEGISLATIVE: CHAIRMAN

SEN”; OFFICE BUILDING f) O LABOR, HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
”Enrich ﬁfafes ﬁenate Mum CW”

202-225-61 21
STATE, JUSTICE, COMMERCE, AND
FEDERAL BUILDING, COLUMBIA, S.C. WASHINGTON. DC. 20510 THE JUDICIARY
803-765-5731 AGRICULTURE

FEDERAL BUILDING, SPARTANBURG. S.C. COMMERCE

803-585-8271 J u 13’ 2 4: l 9 7 3 SUBCOMMITTEES:
OCEANs AND ATMOSPHERE: CHAIRMAN
AVIATION
MERCHANT MARINE
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION
COMMUNICATIONS

141 EAST BAY, CHARLESTON. $.C.
803-723-521 1

POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE
SUBCOMMITTEES:
POSTAL OPERATIONS: CHAIRMAN

COMPENSATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS

Ms. Ann T. Reynolds
4649 Oxford Road
Columbia, South Carolina 29209

Dear Ms. Reynolds:

Thank you for your recent card. Your idea sounds
like a reasonable and good one, and I will keepitin mind.

We do owe a lot to these research animals and too
few stop to appreciate our debt.

With kindest regards, I am

EFH:clm

 




COMMITTEES:

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS APPROPRIATIONS
COMMERCE

SOUTH CAROLINA
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

Qlfnifeb rgﬂafes $2ua1¢

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 18, 1973

Ms. Ann T. Reynolds

#619 Oxford Road.

Columbia, South Carolina 29209
Dear Ms. Reynolds:

I am writing to you because of your interest in S. 819 , the Predator
Control Bill. S. 819 was sponsored by Sentor Birch Bayh and is currently
pending before the Commerce Committee.

I appreciate having your comments as they can only be helpful to me
as I study this legislation.

With kindest regards, I am

/"/A'
fﬁdnc’er ely/
.r J/ I {’ “MM . “.1:

I X I“ 1 3".” “

_."I :9"
tax” K Imﬂr‘g *4 a! V 1“ --..nf>-.:._.;w'”

Ernest F. Hollings‘w

 




COMMITTEES:

ERNEST F'. «OLLINGS , ' APPROPRIATIONS
. - ‘ - . . COMMERCE

. so ' A ‘ '
‘ UTH CAROLINA ~ POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

QJCnifeb ${afcs $9na§¢

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

Ivarch 6, 1972

Mrs. K. W. Haggblom
11 Orchard Rd.
Mahopac, N. Y; lO5hl

Dear Mrs. Haggblom:

I appreciate your correspondence urging me to support legislation
which would protect the live . 7.25- .I... .4 I,” Q. “I I. I,

.94 . :iII-E‘
E , . :3 4!”
t‘ :‘of‘: 4|; #:wa _ ‘9’" I. fig“: "“' ~..,. -

I ‘5‘ ' e caducted hearings on this
I .- W‘d ‘16“ There are a number of bills on the subject,
and we are now a empting to find the best possible means of dealing with
this serious problem.

It is obvious that the government must take action to protect these
threatened animals. It is highly possible that ocean mammals are a vital
link in the chain which binds together all living things. We already know
that pollution of the ocean and mass fish ._ . - » . ' '- - » . ,

I appreciate your thoughts on this matter and will give them every
consideration as we deliberate this matter in the Subcommittee.

E est F. Hollings

 




WARREN G. MAGNUSCN. W'ASH.. CHAIRMAN

JOHN O. PASTORE. RJ. NORRIS COTTON. N.H.

VANCE HARTKE. IND. JAMES B. PEARSON, KAHS.
PHILIP A. HART, MXCH. ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, MKS”.
HOWARD W. CANNON. NEV. HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

PUSSELL a. LCNG, LA. HARLOW w. COOK. KY. ’3 .

FRANK e. moss, UTAH TED STEVENS, ALASKA It _ i a ($f . i u ’g f
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. s.c. J. GLENN EEALL. JR., MD. . n1 9 Ci 93 91161 9
DANEEL K. moqu. HAWAII LOWELL P. WEICKER. JR.. coma. _

WlLLlAM a. SPONG. JR.. VA. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE

FREDERICK J. LORDAN. STAFF DIRECTOR WASH INGTON. 0.0. 20510
MICHAEL PERTSCHUK, CHXEF COUNSEL

May 19, 1972

Mr. John M. Sine

Dean of the College

Charles County Community College
La Plata, Maryland 20646

Dear Mr. Sine:

I have received your letter of May 12 relating to the preservation
of sea mammals and political leadership. 'I am enclosing a c0py of

Committee Print No. l of the Senate Committee on CommerCe relating to

ocean mammals. i think upon close scrutiny you will find that this
bill does es aMish U.S. policy on the protection, preservation and

M_,.'...—
M o~~~

r 1"
.10 5‘ .MI-ur’muel g .-, a
‘ ’ .. at; l ' '
. ' . , -‘ - m ‘ .41» >
' "'""" - M‘O‘Wwv .“l‘r u'r '

.-., -.. . 1""
’ ' ,,. -.".,»A A--',& .'. "

‘:.$‘: 1%?

‘ Chairman
Oceans and Atmosphere Subcommittee

EFH:jhg

“alt-AAWL‘ 1.“ ywaJynwrMHAu'oo-o'u. bn“L-:-m-' , ‘

; AMM .n‘.w>w‘r.

 

 




WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH., CHAIRMAN

JOHN O. PASTORE, RJ.
VANCE HARTKE, IND.
PHILIP A. HART, MICH.
HOWARD W. CANNON, NEV.
RUSSELL 3. LONG, LA.
FRANK E. MOSS, UTAH
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C.
DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII

NORRIS COTTON, N.H.

JAMES B. PEARSON, KANS.
ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, MICH.
HOWARD H. BAKER. JR., TENN.

:wwm ”PJCniteh ﬁiafez ﬁenafe

J. GLENN BEALL, JR., MD.

WILLIAM B. SPONG, JR., VA. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE

FREDERICK J. LORDAN, STAFF DIRECTOR WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510
MICHAEL PERTSCHUK, CHIEF COUNSEL

Dear Friend:

I must apologize to you for answering your recent
correspondence by means of a form letter. The volume of
mail on the subject of ocean mammal protection legislation
into my office has increased so that it is impossible for
me to answer it all personally.

I can certainly understand your concern about the
pending ocean mammal legislation before the Subcommittee
on Oceans and Atmosphere, which I chair. The subcommittee

has completed hearings on the bills and will now begin deli-
berations to report out to the Senate ﬂoor a fair and compre-

hensive bill.

I can assure you that I will take your Views into
consideration during these committee discussions.

Chairman
Subcommittee on Oceans
and AtmOSphere

 




COMMITTEES:

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS APPROPRIATIONS

SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

Qlfnileb ${afes $¢naf¢

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

March 6, 1972

Ms . Ma ry Wood
116 WinthrOp.Avenue
.Albany, New York 12203

Dear Ms. Wood:

I appreciate your correspondence urging me to support legislation
'which would protect the lives of ocean mammals, including porpoises, dolphins,
whales, and other Species.

My Subcommittee on Oceans and Atmosphere conducted hearings on this
legislation February 15 and 16. There are a number of bills on the subject,
and we are now attempting to find the best possible means of dealing with
this serious problem.

It is Obvious that the government must take action to protect these
‘threatened animals. It is highly possible that ocean mammals are a vital
link in the chain which'binds together all living things. We already know
that pollution of the ocean and mass fishing techniques are threatening sea
life to dangerous prOportions. I think we must act now to prevent their
destruction'before it is too late.

I appreciate your thoughts on this matter and will give them every
consideration as we deliberate this matter in the Subcommittee.

 




O
WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH" CHAIRMAN
JOHN O. PASTORE, R.I. NORRIS COTTON, N.H.
VANCE HARTKE, IND. JAMES B. PEARSON, KANS.
PHILIP A. HART, MICH. ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, MICH.
HOWARD W. CANNON, NEV. HOWARD H. BAKER. JR., TENN.

RUSSELL 8. LONG, LA. MARLow w. COOK, KY. ,
FRANK E. Moss, UTAH MARK o. HATFIELD. OREG. :Ilc f a $£ 1 $ £
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C. TED STEVENS, ALASKA at e a 95 an“ e

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII J. GLENN BEALL. JR.. MD.
WILLIAM B. SPONG, JR., VA. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE

FREDERICK J. LORDAN, STAFF DIRECTOR WASHINGTON, 0.6. 20510
MICHAEL FERTSCHUK, CHIEF COUNSEL

March 6, 1972

Ms. Olga Hoback
616 Oakdale Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Dear Ms. Hoback:

Thank you for your letter pertaining to S. 2084 and H.R. 8784
relative to animal trapping. Our concern at this time is ocean
mammals which we are working up new legislation to protect. I
will look at this legislation and give it every consideration.

Chairman
Subcommittee on Oceans
and Atmosphere

 




92D CONGRESS "‘ " ‘ '
21) SESSION S 3 1 1 2
O _ .

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

FEBRUARY 2, 1972

Mr. HOLLINGS introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
' to the Committee on Commerce

 

I w, ,u‘ . . WA
3-. " hi ~—.:'
:31... '5‘ , .
,i‘ ',' ”L .2 , _ J

To protect marine mammals; to establish a Marine Mammal

Commission; and for other purposes
1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
2 tines of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3 That this Act may be cited as the “Marine Mammal Protec-
4: tion Act of 1971”.
5 FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY
6 SEC. 2. The Congress ﬁnds that—
7 (1) certain species and population stocks of marine
. mammals are, or may be, in danger of disappearance
or depletion as a result of man’s activities;

II

 

 




10
11
12
13
14
15

16

17

18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

2

(2) such species and population stocks should not
be permitted to diminish beyond the point at which they
contribute effectively to the health and stability of the
ecosystem of which they are a part, and, consistent with
this major objective, they should not be permitted to
diminish beyond the point at which they can maintain
that equilibrium. at which they may be managed on an
optimum sustained yield basis. Further, measures should
be immediately taken to replenish any species or popula-
tion stock which has already diminished beyond that
point;

(3) there is inadequate knowledge of the population
dynamics of such marine mammals and of the factors
which bear upon their ability to reproduce themselves
successfully ; A

(4.) negotiations should be undertaken, as soon as
possible, to encourage the development of international
arrangements for research on, and conservation of, all
marine mammals;

(5) marine mammals and marine mammal products
either~

(A) move in interstate commerce, or
(B) affect the balance of marine ecosystems in
a manner which is important to other animals and

animal products which move in interstate commerce,

 

 

 

 

 

.wwom.

 

 

 




 

.wm-..“

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

241.-

3.
and that the protection and management of marine mam—
mals is therefore necessary to insure the continuing avail-
ability of those pro ducts which move in interstate come
merce; and

(6) marine mammals have proven themselves to be
resources of great international signiﬁcance, esthetic and
recreational as well as economic, and it is the sense of the

' Congress that they should be protected and encouraged
to develop to the greatest possible extent commensurate
with sound policies of resource management and that
the primary objective of their management should be to
maintain the health and stability of the marine eco-
system. Whenever consistent with this primary objec-
tive, a secondary objective should be to obtain an opti—
mum sustained yield.

DEFINITIONS

SEO. 3. For the purposes of this Act—

(1) The term “depletion” or “depleted” means any case
in which the number of individuals within a species or popu-
lation Stock has declined to a signiﬁcant degree over a period,
of years and, if that decline were to continue, would result
in that species or population stock being threatened with ex—
tinction and therefore subject to the provisions of the Endan—

gered Species Conservation Act of 1969.

 

 




 

{DOD-JOEOTl-P-WNH

10
11
12
13
14.
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

4.

(2) The term “district court of the United States” in—
cludes the District Court of Guam, District Court of the
Virgin Islands, District Court of Puerto Rico, District Court
of the Canal Zone, and in the case of American Samoa and
the Trust Territory of the Paciﬁc Islands, the District Court
of the United States for the District of Hawaii.

(3) The term “humane” in the context of the taking of
a marine mammal means that method of taking which in—
volves the least possible degree of pain and suffering prac-
ticable to the animal involved.

(4) The term “marine mammal” means any mammal

which (A) is morphologically adapted to the marine en—

‘Vironment (including sea otters and members of the orders

Sirenia, Pinnipedia, and Cetacea) , or (B) primarily inhabits
the marine environment (such as the polar bear) ; and, for
the purposes of this Act, includes any part of any such
marine mammal, including its raw, dressed, or dyed fur or
skin.

(5) The term “marine mammal product” means any
item of merchandise which consists, or is composed in whole
or in part, of any marine mammal.

(6) The term “Optimum sustained yield” means the
sustained yield that results in a pepulation of an optimum
number of animals, keeping in mind the health of the eco—

system of which they form a constituent element.

 

 




 

L\'> 1—1

OD

{DOG-JOAOTt-P-

10
11
12
13

14

16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24:

5

(7) The term “person” includes (A) any private per—
son or entity, and (B) any ofﬁcer, employee, agent, depart-
ment, or instrumentality of the Federal Government, cf
any ”State or political subdivision thereof, or any foreign
government.

(8) The term “population stock” or “Stock” means a
group of interbreeding marine mammals of the same species
or smaller taxa in a common spatial arrangement.

(9) The term “Secretary” means—~—

(A) the Secretary of Commerce as to all respon—
sibility, authority, and duties under this Act with respect
to members of the order Cetacea and members, other
than walruses, of the order Pinnipedia, and

(B) the Secretary of the Interior as to all. responsi-
bility, authority, and duties under this Act with respect
to all other marine mammals covered by the Aot.

(10) The term “sustained yield” means a harvest
equaling the net population growth of a species or stock
at any selected population level.

(11) The term “take” means to harass, hunt, capture,
or kill, or attempt to harass, hunt, capture, or kill any
marine mammal.

(12) The term “United States” includes the several

States, the District of Columbia, the Commimwealth 0f?

 

 




 

1.;

IX)

l-Ps ‘00

4

©

10
11
12

H
CO

14

16
17
18

19

 

6

Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone, the possessions of the United
States, and the Trust Territory of the Paciﬁc Islands.

(18) The term “waters under the jurisdiction of the
United States” means—

(A) the territorial sea of the United States, and

(B) the ﬁsheries zone established pursuant to the
Act of October 14, 1966 (80- Stat. 908, 16 U.S.O.
1091—1094).

TITLE I—OONSERVATION AND PROTECTION
OF MARINE MAMMALS
PROHIBITIONS
SEC. 101. (a) Except as provided in sections 103 and
107 of this title, it is unlawful——

(1) for any person subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States or any vessel or other conveyance sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States to take any
marine niilan’n'nal on the high seas; K

(2) for any person or vessel or other conveyance to
take any marine mammal in waters or on lands under
the jurisdiction of the United States except as expressly
provided for by an international agreement to which the
United States is a party and which was entered into

before the effective date of this title;

fl) .— ,.
(a) [01 any person. to use any port, harbor, or

other place under the jurisdicthm of the United States

 

 




 

10
1

(.1
I: H

13
14
15
16
17
18

19

7

for any purpose in any way connected with acts pro—

hibited under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsec-

tion; and

(4) for any person, with respect to any marine
mammal taken in violation of this title——

(A) to possess any such mammal; or

(B) to transport, sell, or offer for sale any
such mammal or any marine mammal product made
from any such mammal.

(1)) Except pursuant to a permit for scientiﬁc research
issued under section 103 (c), it is unlawful to import into
the United States any marine mammal if such mammal was—-

(1) pregnant at the time of taking;

(2) nursing at the time of taking, or less than eight
months old, whichever occurs later;

(3) taken from a species or population stock which
the Secretary has, by regulation publislmd in. the Federal
Register, designated as a. depleted or endzjingered species
or stock; or

(4) taken. in a manner deemed inhumane by tliie
Secretary.

(c) It is unlawful to import into the United States any
of the following:

(.1 ) Any marine mammal which was-—

(A) taken in Violation of this title; or

 

 

 




 

1—1 H
HO

H
N.)

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

22

8

(B) taken in another country in Violation of the
law of that country.

(2) Any marine mammal product if—-—

(A) the importation into the United States of
the marine mammal from which such product is
made is unlawful under paragraph (1) of this sub-
section; or

(B) the sale in commerce of such product in
the country of origin of the product is illegal.

(3) Any ﬁsh, whether fresh, frozen, or otherwise
prepared, if such ﬁsh was caught in a manner determined
by the Secretary to be injurious to marine mammals,
whether or not any such mammals were in fact taken
incident to the catching of the ﬁsh.

(d) Subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not
apply--

(1) with respect to any article imported. into the
United States before the effective date of this title;

(L) in the case of articles to which subsection (b)

(3) of this section applies, to articles imported into the
United States before the date on which the Secretary
publishes notice in the Federal Register of his proposed
rulemaking with respect to the designation of the species
or stock concerned as depleted or endangered; or

9

(. ) m the case of articles to which subsection (c)

 

 

 




 

o

10

16

17

18

$19

9

(1) (B) or (c) (2) (B) of this section applies, to ar-

ticles imported into the United States l1.)efore the effective

date of the foreign law making the hiking or sale, as the
case may he, of such articles unlawful.

LIMITATEON s 0N Cl‘AKlNG on :aminloin MAMMALS

SEC. 102. (a) The Secretary, on the basis of scientiﬁc
evidence (lCDlt‘iIlSi‘l‘tltiljlg' the need for limitations, shall
prescribe such lin‘iitatiens with respect to the taking of.
animals from each species of marine mammal (including lim-
itations on the taking of individuals Within population stocks)
as he deems necessary and appropriate to insure that such
taking Will not he to the disml‘vantage of tlmse species or
population stocks and will he consistent with the purposes
and policies set forth in section 2 of this Act.

(b) In prescribing such limitations, the Secretary shall
give full consideration to all factors which may affect the
extent to which such animals may be taken, including but
not limited to the effect of such limitations on—

(1) existing and future levels of marine mammal
species and population stocks;

(2) existing international treaty and agreement
ohligaticns of the United States;

(3) the marine ecosystem and related environ.—

mental considerations;

S. 3112-———2

 

 




N

Cf!

CB

00

16
17
18
19

20

[O
[O

[0
0'0

[\9
CV.

 

10

(4) the conservation, development, and utilization
of ﬁshery resources; and

(5) the economic and technological feasibility of
implementation.

(c) The limitations prescribed under subsection (a) of.
this section for any species or population stock of marine
mammal may include, but are not limited to, restrictions
with respect to———

(1) the number of animals which may be taken
in any calendar year pursuant to permits issued under
section 103;

(2) the age, size, or seX (or any combination of
the foregoing) of animals which may be taken, whether
or not a quota prescribed under paragraph (1) of this
subsection applies with respect to such animals;

(3) the season or other period of time within which
animals may be taken; and

(4:) the manner and locations in which animals
may be taken.

((1) Limitations prescribed to carry out this section
must be made on the record after opportunity for agency
hearing, except that, in addition to any other requirements
imposed by law with respect to agency rulemaking, the ‘Sec—
retary shall publish and make available to the public either

before or concurrent with the publication of notice in the

”.4

 

 

 




 

 

1—1

N

05

C5!

16
17
18
19

20

11
Federal Register. ofhis intention to prescribe limitations
under this section——
(1) a statement of the existing levels of the species
and population stocks of the marine mammal concerned;
(2) a statement of the expected impact of the pro-
posed limitations on such species or population stock;
(3) a statement describing the evidence before the
Secretary upon which he proposes to base such limita-
tions; and
(4) any studies or recommendations made by, or
for, the Secretary or the Marine Mammal Commission
which relate to the establishment of such limitations.
(e) Any limitation prescribed pursuant to this sectiOn
shall be periodically reviewed, and may be modiﬁed from
time to time in such manner as the Secretary deems neces—
sary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
PERMITS
SEC. 108. (a) The Secretary may issue permits which
authorize the taking of any marine mammal.’
' (b) Any permit issued under this section shall—
(1) be consistent with any applicable limitation
established by the Secretary under section 102, and
(2) specify—
(A) the number and kind of animals which

are authorized to be taken,

 

 

 

 




 

CT!

Q

16
17
is
:19

20

12

(B) the location and manner (Which manner
must be determined by the Secretary to be humane)
, in which they may be taken,
(0) the period during Which the permit is
valid, and
(D) any other terms or conditions which the
Secretary deems appropriate.
In any case in which an application for a permit cites as a
reason for the proposed taking the overpopulation of a par-
timilar species or population stock, the Secretary shall first
consider whether or not it would be more desirable to
transfer a number of animals (but not to exceed the number
requested for taking in the application) of that Species or
stock to a locatimr not then inhabited by such species or stock
but previously inhabited by such species or stock.

(0) Any permit issued by the Secretary which author—
izes the taking of a marine mammal for purposes of display
or scientiﬁc research shall specify, in addition to the condi-
tions required by subsection (b) of this section, the methods
of capture, supervision, care, and transportation which must
be observed pursuant to and after such t

aking. Any person

authorized to take a marine mam W ~ ~ ~ i ~ w‘ r v
.. mal for purposes of display

or scientiﬁc research shall furnish to the Secretary a report

on all actiVitlos carried out by him pursuant to that authority.

(d) (1) The Secretary shall prescribe

such procedures

 

 

 




 

10

11

12

113

14

16

17

18

'19

13
as are necessary to carry out this section, including the
form and manner in which application for permits may be
made.

(2) The Secretary shall publish notice in the Federal
Register of each application made for a, permit under this
section. Such notice shall invite the submission from inter-
ested parties, within 30 days after the date of the notice, of
written data, Views, or arguments with respect to the taking
proposed in such application.

(3) The applicant for any permit under this section
must demonstrate to the Secretary that the taking of any
marine mammal under such permit will be consistent with
the purposes of this Act and the applicable limitations estabé
lished under section 102.

‘(4) Upon written request of any interested party, if
such request is filed within thirty days after the date of pub—
lication of notice pursuant to paragraph (2) , the Secretary
may grant a hearing of record with respect to the applica—
tion. It granted, such hearing shall be comlucted on an
expeditious basis.

(5) As soon as practicable (but not later than thirty
days) after the close of the hearing or, if no hearing is
held, after the last day on which data, Views, and argu—
ments may be submitted pursuant to paragraph (2) , the

Secretary shall (A) issue a permit containing such terms

 

 

 

 




 

 

14

1 and conditions as he deems appropriate, 01" (B) shall deny
2 issuance of a permit. Notice of the decision of. the Score-
3 tary to issue or to deny any permit under this paragraph
4 must be published in the Federal Register within ten days
5 after the date of issuance or denial.

G (6) Any applicant or party opposed to the permit may
7 obtain judicial review of the terms and conditions of any
8 permit issued by the Secretary under this section, or his
9 refusal to issue such a. permit. Such review, which shall be
1-0 pursuant to chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, may be
11 initiated by ﬁling a petition for review in, the United States
12 district court for the district wherein the plaintiff resides, or
13 has his principal place of business, or in the United. States
14 District Court for the District of Columbia, within sixty days
15 after the date on which such permit is issued or denied.

16 (e) (1) The Secretary may modify, suspend, or revoke
17 in whole or part any permit issued by him under this section-—
18 (A) in order to make any such permit consistent
19 with any change made after the date of issuance of such
20 permit with respect to any applicable limitation pre-
21 scribed under section 102, Or

22 (B) in any case in which a Violation of the terms
23 and conditions of the permit is found.
:: (2) Any mOdl—ﬁcatiOH, SuSpenSion, or revocation of a

permlt under this subSCCUOn shall take effect at the time

 

 




 

 

16

1'7

18

19

20

15

notice thereof is given to the permittee. The permittee shall
then be granted opportunity for eXpeditious hearing by the
Secretary with. respect to such modiﬁcation, supension, or
revocation. Any action taken by the Secretary after such a
hearing is subject to judicial review on the same basis as is
any action taken by him with respect to a permit application
under paragraph (5) .

(3) Notice of the modiﬁcation, suspension, or revoca«
tion of any permit by the Secretary shall be published in
the Federal Register within ten days from the date of the
Secretary’s decision.

(f) Any permit issued under this section must be in the
possession of the person to whom it is issued (or an agent of
such person) during——

(1) the time of the authorized taking;
(2) the period of any transit of such person or
agent which is incident to such taking; and
(3) any other time while any marine mammal
taken under such permit is in the possession of such
person or agent.
A duplicate copy of the issued permit must be physically
attached to the container, package, enclosure, or other means
of containment, in which the marine mammal is placed for

purposes of storage, transit, supervision, or care.

 




 

 

 

16

(g) No permit shall be issued. pursuant to this section
for the taking of any marine 111ai11n1al during the sixty—day
period connnencing on the effective date of the initial limita—
tions prescribed pursuant to; sectitm 1102 with respect to the
speeies or population steels; eoneerned.

(h) The Seeretary shall estabiish and charge a. reason-
able fee for permits issued under this section.

(i) flonsistent with the lin1itation:~3 prescribed pursuant
to section 102 and to the requirements of this section, the
Secretary may issue general permits for the taking of nmrine
mammals, together With regulations to cover the use of
such. general permits.

PENALTIES

Sno. 104. (a) Any person who violates any provision

of this title or of any permit or regulation issued thereunder

may be assessed a. civil penalty by the Secretary 01‘ not more

than $10,000 for iach such Violation. No penalty shall be

assessed unless such person is given netiee and opportunity

for a lwarmg With respeet to such Violation. llaeh Violation

«he '1‘ S)'r"s Lmn‘; ‘4 q 7 7' '
s all be a .epaiate olltnse. Any sueh eiVil penalty may be

remitted or 1111t1gated by the Secretary for good cause shown.

Upon any failure to pay a. penalty assessed under this

subsection, the Secretary may request the Attorney General

to institute z. 7' c a,” , '- .° .
1 on .1l dCthll in a. d1st11et court of the United

iii. 1"“ " "_." o .
States for any distutt 111 which such person is found, resideS,

 




 

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24;

17

or transacts business to collect the penalty and such court
shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action.

(b) Any person who knowingly violates any provision
of this title or of any permit or regulation issued thereunder
shall, upon conviction, be ﬁned not more than $20,000, or
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. The Secre-
tary of the Treasury shall pay to any person who furnishes
information which leads to a conviction for violation of this
subsection an amount equal to one—half of the ﬁne incurred,
but not to exceed $2,500 for each violation.

VESSEL FORFEITURE

SEC. 105. Any vessel or other conveyance subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States that is employed in any
manner in the unlawful taking of any marine mammal shall
be subject to seizure and forfeiture. All provisions of law
relating to the seizure, judicial forfeiture, and condemnation
of a vessel for violation of the customs laws, the disposition
of such vessel, and the proceeds from the sale thereof, and the
remission or mitigation of any such forfeiture, shall apply
with respect to any vessel or other conveyance seized in con-
nection with the unlawful taking of a marine mammal inso-
far as such provisions of law are applicable and not incon-
sistent with the provisions of this title. For the purposes of
this section, the term “vessel” includes its tackle, apparel,
furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and stores.

S. 3112—3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

LO

C51

'7

1o
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2o
21
22
23

24

1-8
ENFORCEMENT

SEC. 106. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this title,
the Secretary shall enforce the provisions of this title. The
Secretary may utilize, by agreement, the personnel, services,
and facilities of any other Federal agency for purposes of
enforcing this title.

(b) The Secretary may also designate ofﬁcers and em—
ployees of any State or of any possession of the United States
to enforce the provisions of this title. When so designated,
such ofﬁcers and employees are authorized to function as
Federal law enforcement agents for these purposes, but they
shall not be held and considered as employees of the United
States for the purposes of any laws administered by the
Civil Service Commission.

(c) The judges of the United States district courts and
the United States magistrates may, within their respective
jurisdictions, upon proper oath or afﬁrmation, showing prob-
able cause, issue such warrants or other process, including
warrants or other process issued in admiralty proceedings in
United States district courts, as may be required for enforce-—
ment of this title and any regulations issued thereunder.

((1) Any person authorized by the Secretary to enforce
this title may execute any warrant or process issued by any

ofﬁcer or court of competent jurisdiction for the enforcement

fi‘ww' r

.l/

._-."—




19

1 of this title. Such person so authorized may, in addition

2 to any other authority conferred by law——

3

4

10
11

12

14
15

16

(1) with or without warrant or other process, ar-
rest any person committing in his presence or view a
violation of this title or the regulations issued. thereunder;

(2) with a warrant or other process or without a
warrant, if he has reasonable cause to believe that a
vessel or other conveyance subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States or any person on board is in violation
of any provision of this title or the regulations issued
thereunder, to search such vessel or conveyance and to
arrest such person;

(3) seize any vessel or other conveyance subject to
the jurisdiction of the United States, together with its
tackle, apparel, furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and
stores, used or employed contrary to the provisions of
this title or the regulations issued hereunder or which
reasonably appears to have been so used or employed;
and

(4) seize, whenever and wherever found, all marine
mammals and marine mammal products taken or retained
in violation of this title or the regulations issued there-
under and shall dispose of them in accordance with

regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

 




 

 

CD $03139

{COO-ll

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

20

(e) (1) Whenever any marine mammal or marine mam—
mal product is seized pursuant to this section, the Secretary
shall expedite any proceedings commenced under section 104
(a) or (b) . All marine mammals or marine mammal prod-
ucts so seized shall be held by any person authorized by the
Secretary pending disposition of such. proceedings. The owner
or consignee of any such marine mammal or marine mammal
product so seized shall, as soon as practicable following such
seizure, be notiﬁed of that fact in accordance with regulations
established by the Secretary.

(2) The Secretary may, with respect to any proceeding
under section 104 (a) or (b) , in lieu of holding any marine
mammal or marine mammal product, permit the person con-
cerned to post bond or other surety satisfactory to the Sec-
retary pending the disposition of such proceeding.

(3) (A) Upon the assessment of an penalty pursuant to
section 104 (a) , all marine mammals and marine mammal
products seized in connection therewith may be proceeded
against in any court of competent jurisdiction and forfeited
to the Secretary for disposition by him in such manner as he
deems appropriate.

(B) Upon conviction for violation of section 104 (b) ,
all marine mammals and marine mammal products seized in
connection therewith shall be forfeited to the Secretary for

dlsposition by him in such manner as he deems appropriate.

 

 




 

C7!

’7

10
11

12

21
Any other property or item so seized may, in the discretion
of the court, be forfeited to the United States or otherwise
disposed of.
(4) If with respect to any marine 111an1111al or marine
11111111111211 product so seized—-

(A) a civil penalty is assessed under section 104 (a)
and no judicial action is commenced to obtain the for—
feiture of such mannnal or product within 2:30 days after
such assessment, such marine mammal or marine mam-
mal product shall he immediately returned to the owner
or the consignee; or

(B) no conviction results from an alleged Viola—
tion of section 104 (lo) , such marine mammal or
marine mammal product shall immediately be returned to
the owner or consignee if the Secretary does not, within.
30 days after the ﬁnal disposition of the case involving
such alleged Violation, connnence proceedings for the as-
sessment of a civil penalty under section. .104 (a) .

’IGXUEPTIONS "1901:, CERTAIN N ATIVES
SEC. 107. (a) The provisions of this title shall not apply
with respect to the taking of any marine mammal (other
than a, marine mammal classiﬁed as one belonging to an
endangered species pursuant to the Endangered Species Con-

servation Act of 1969) by any Indian, Aleut, or Eskimo

 

 




 

 

H

[~13

CO

10

11

12

13
14

5...;
U!

16

17

18

19

 

22

who dwells on the coast of the North Paciﬁc Ocean or the
Arctic Ocean if such taking—-
(1) is for subsistence purposes and in accordance
with traditional customs,
(2) is not accomplished in a wasteful manner, and
(8) is not done for purposes of direct or indirect
commercial sale.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section,
When the Secretary determines it to be in the interests of.
any species or stock of marine mammal, he may prescribe
limitations upon the taking of such marine mammals by
any Indian, Aleut, or Eskimo, described in subsection (a)
of this section. Such limitations may be established With
reference to species or stocks, geographical description of
area included, season for taking, or any other basis re—
late-d to the reason for establishing such limitations and con—

sistent With the purp oses of this Act. Such limitations shall

 

be removed as soon as the need for their imposition has
disappeared.
INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM
SEC. 108. The Secretary, through the Secretary of State,
shall——
(1) encourage the entering into of bilateral or multi-

lateral agreements With other nations for the protection

of speciﬁc ocean and land regions which are of spe~

 




 

23

1 cial signiﬁcance to the health and stability of marine
2 mammals ;

3 (2) encourage the amendment of any existing in-
4 ternational treaty for the protection of any species of
‘5 marine mammal to which the United States is a party
5 in order to make such treaty consistent with the purposes
7 and policies of this title;

8 (8) seek the convening of an international minis—
9 terial meeting on marine mammals before July 1, 1973,
10 and included in the business of that meeting shall be (A)
11 the signing of a binding international convention for the
1., protection and management of marine mammals, and
13 (B) the implementation of paragraph (2) of this sec-
14 tion; and

15 (4) provide to the Congress by not later than one
16 year after the date of the enactment of this Act a full
17 report on the results of his eﬁorts under this section.

18 FEDERAL PREEMI’TION; COOPERATION WITH STATES
19 SEC. 109. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b),
20 no State may adopt any law or regulation relating to the
21 taking of marine mammals or attempt to enforce any State
22 law or regulation relating to such taking.

23 (b) The Secretary is authorized and directed to enter
24 into cooperative arrangements with the appropriate ofﬁcials

c’ r' - '
~30 of any State for the protection and management of marine

 




 

.4'f1
“vs

24
Hitlvll’lllmls ; except that any such arrangements must be con-
sistent with the purposes and policies of this title.
Man NE MAMMAL RESEARCH GRANTS

SEC. 1.10. (a) The Secretary is authorized to make
grants, or to provide ﬁnancial assistance in such other
form as he deems appropriate, lto any Federal or State
agency, public or private institution, or other person for
the purpose of assisting such agency, institution, or person
to nmlertake research in subjects which are relevant to the
protectiim and management of marine mammals.

(lo) The Secretary is authorized to make grants or
provide other ﬁnancial assistance to any State agency to
enaihle such agency to develop and implement a State pro-
gram for the protection and management of marine mam-
mals which is consistent with the purposes and policies of this
title.

(1:) Any grant or other financial assistance provided
l‘iy the Secretary [mrsuant to tl is section shall be isu‘bjggt
to such terms and comlitions as the Secretary deen‘is neces—
sary to protect the interests of the United States.

(d) There are authorized to be appropriated for the
ﬁscal year in which this section takes effect and for the next
four ﬁscal y iars such sums as may be necessary to carry

out this section, but the sums appropriated for any sugh year




m

C)

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

 

 

25

shall not exceed $1,000,000, one—half of such sums to be
available to each Secretary.
REGULATIONS AND AperitNISTRATION

SEC. 111. (a) The Secretary, in consultation with any
other Federal agency to the extent that such agenry may be
affected, shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary
and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title.

(b) Each Federal agency is authorized and directed to
cooperate with the Secretary, in such manner as may be
mutually agreeable, in carrying out the purposes of this title.

(c) The Secretary may enter into such contracts, leases,
cooperative agreements, or other transactions as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this title and on such
terms ; s he deems appropriate with any Federal or State
agency, public or private institution, or other person.

(d) The Secretary shall review annually the operation
of each program in which the United States participates in-
volving the taking of marine mammals on land. If at any
time the Secretary ﬁnds that any such program cannot be
administered on lands owned by the United States or in which
the United States has an interest and in a manner consistent
with the purposes and policies of this Act, he shall suspend
the operation of that program and shall forthwith submit to

Congress his reasons for such suspension, together with rec—

 




 

 

00

CT!

10
11
12
13
14c
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

23

25

'26
ommendations for such legislation as he deems necessary
and appropriate to resolve the problem.
APPLICATION TO OTHER TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS;
REPEAL

SEC. 112. (a) The provisions of this title shall be
deemed to be in addition to and not in contravention of the
provisions of any existing international treaty or convention
which may otherwise apply to the taking of marine
mammals.

(b) The proviso to the Act entitled “An Act. to repeal
certain laws providing for the protection of sea lions in
Alaska waters”, approved June 16, 1984. (16 USO. 659) ,
is repealed.

AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 118. (a) There are authorized to be appropriated
the sum of $1,500,000 for each of the ﬁve ﬁscal years
following the date of enactment of this Act to enable the
Department of Commerce to carry out such functions and
responsibilities as it may have been given under this title.

(b) There are authorized to be appropriated the sum of
$700,000 for the ﬁrst ﬁscal year following the date of en-
actment of this Act and the sum of $525,000 for each of
the next four ﬁscal years thereafter to enable the Depart-
ment of the Interior to carry out such functions and respon—

sibilities as it may have been given under this title.

 




 

 

(.4.

CO

10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

 

27.
TITLE II—MARINE MAMMAL OOMMISSION

ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION

SEC. 201. (a) There is hereby established the Marine
Mammal Commission (hereafter referred to in this title as
the “-Commission”) .

(b) (1) The Commission shall be composed of three
members who shall be appointed by the President. The
President shall make hisselection from a list, submitted to
him by the Chairman Of the Council on Environmental
Quality, of individuals knowledgeable in the ﬁelds of marine
ecology and resource management and who are not in a
position to proﬁt from the taking of marine mammals. No
member of the Commission may, during his period of service
on the Commission, hold any other position as an ofﬁcer or
employee of the United States, except as a retired ofﬁcer or
retired civilian employee of the United States.

(2) The term of ofﬁce for each member shall be three
years; except that of the members initially appointed to the
Commission, the term of one member shall be for one year,
the term of one member shall be for two years, and the term
of one member shall be for three years. N 0 member is eligible
for reappointment; except that any member appointed to ﬁll
a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for
which his predecessor was appointed (A) shall be appointed

for the remainder of such term, and (B) is eligible for reap-




 

 

15

16

1'7

28:
pointment for one full term. A member may serve after
the expiration of his term until his successor has taken ofﬁce.

(0) The President shall designate a Chairman. of the
Commission (hereafter referred to in this title as the “Chain
man”) from among its members.

(d) Members of the Commission shall each be compen—
sated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the rate for
GS—18 of the General Schedule under section. 5332 of title 5,
United States Code, for each day such member is engaged
in the actual performance of duties vested in the Connnission.
Each member shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, includ-
ing per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section
5703 of title 5, United States Code, fer persons in Govern-
ment service employed intermittently.

(e) The Commission shall have an Executive Director
Who shall be appointed (Without regard to the provisions of
title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
competitive service) by the Chairman with the approval of
the Commission and shall be paid at a rate not in excess of.
the rate for SIS—18 of the General Schedule under section
5332 of title 5, United States Code. The Executive Director
shall have such duties as the Chairman may assign.

DUTIES CF COMMISSION.

SEC. 202. (a) The Commission shall——

(1) undertake a review and study of the activities

 




10
11
12

13

1'7
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24:

25

 

29*

of the United States pursuant to existing laws and inter-
national conventions relating to marine mammals, in—
cluding, but not limited to, the International Convention
for the Regulation of Whaling, the WThaling Conven—
tion Act of 1949, the International Convention on the
Conservation of North Paciﬁc Fur Seals, and. the Fur
Seal Act of 1966 ;

(2) conduct a continuing review of the condition of
the stocks of marine mammals, of methods for their
management, of humane means of taking marine mam~
mals, of research programs conducted or proposed to be
conducted under the authority of this Act, and of all
applications made pursuant to section 103 of this Act for
permits for scientiﬁc research;

(3) undertake or cause to be undertaken such

studies as it deems necessary or desirable in connection

with the protection and management of marine
mammals ;

(4-) recommend to the Secretary and to other Fed—
eral ofﬁcials such steps as it deems necessary or desir-
able for the protection and management of marine
mammals;

(5) recommend to the Secretary of State appro-

priate policies regarding existing international arrange—

ments for the conservation and management of marine

 




30

1 mammals, and suggest appropriate international ar—

2 rangements for the conservation and management of

3 marine mammals;

4: (6) recommend to the Secretary of the Interior such
5 revisions of the Endangered Species List, authorized by
6 the Endangered Species Conservation Act of 1969, as
7 maybe appropriate with regard to marine mammals; and
8 (7 ) recommend to the Secretary, other appropriate
1 9 Federal ofﬁcials, and Congress such additional measures
10 as it deems necessary or desirable to further the policies
11 of this Act, including provisions for the protection of

12 the Indians, Eskimos, and Aleuts Whose livelihood may
:a 3 be adversely affected by actions taken pursuant to this
14 Act.
15 (b) The Commission shall consult with the Secretary

l
l

w , . . .

‘1: 16 at such intervals as it or he may deem des1rable, and shall
} 17 furnish its reports and reconnnendations to him, before

3 lb publication, for his comment.

. C ' ‘ 0 . x
p 1*) (e) The reports and recommendatmns which the Com—
‘) . o ‘ ' 0
I “0 nussion makes shall be matters of public record and shall
C)‘ . o o
“1 be available to the public at all reasonable times. All other
22 t"t' Eu 0-! " 1 '
ac iVi 1es 0 re omnussron s 1all be matters of public record
2;) . V . , . - - .
‘3’ and av ailable to the public in accordance With the provisions
24:

of. section 552 of title 5, United States Code.

 




10
11
12
13

14

1.8
19
20
21

22

31

(d) Any recommendations made by the Commission
to the Secretary and other Federal officials shall be re—
sponded to by those individuals within one hundred and
twenty days after receipt thereof. Any recommemlations
which are not followed or adopted shall be rereferred to the
Commission together with. a detailed explanation of the rea—
sons why these recommendations were not followed or
adopted.

COMMITTEE OF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORS 0N MARINE

BIAMMALS

SEC. 203. (a) The Commission shall establish, within
ninety days after its estz‘iblishment, a Committee of Scientiﬁc
Advisers on Marine Mammals (hereafter referred to in this
title as the “Committe0”). Such Committee shall consist of
nine scientists knowledgeable in marine ecology and marine
mamn1al affairs appointed by the Chairman with the advice
of the Director of the National Science Foundatimr, the
Clmirnmn of the National Academy of Sciences, and the Sec—
retary of the S111it1l1s¢mian Institution.

(b) Members of the "lornmittee shall 3ach be compen—
sated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the rate for
CS~18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of
title 5, United States Code, for each day such member is
engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the

lommittee. Each member shall be reimbursml for travel

 




   

OD

coco-acacia;

10
11

14:
15

 

16

17

19

21

22
23

 

    

32

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as au—
thorized by section 5703 of title 5', United States Code, for
persons in Government service employed intermittently.

(c) The Commission shall consult with the Committee
on all studies and recommendations which it may propose to
make or has made, on research programs conducted or pro—
posed to be conducted under the authority of this Act, and
on all applications made pursuant to section 103 of this Act
for permits for scientiﬁc research. Any recommendations
made by the Committee or any of its members which are not
adopted by the Commission shall be transmitted by the Com—
mission to the appropriate Federal agency and to the appro—
priate committees of Congress with a: detailed explanation of
the Commission’s reasons for not accepting such recom-
mendations.

COMMISSION REPORTS
SEC. 204. The Commission shall transmit to Congress,
by January 3]. of each year, a report which shall include——
('1) a- description of the activities and accomplish—
ments of the Commission during the immediately preced—
ing year; and
(2) all the ﬁndings and recommendations made by
and to the Commission pursuant to section 202, together

with the responses made to these l'OCOI'HInOndations,

 




 

GUI-POO

7

00

10
1

1—K

12

18

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

22

M
CO

24

25

33
COORDINATION WITH OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES

SEC. 205. The Commission shall have access to all
studies and data compiled by Federal agencies regarding
marine mammals. With the consent of the appropriate ‘Sec—
retary or Agency head, the Commission may also utilize
the facilities or services of any Federal agency and shall
take every feasible step to avoid duplication of research and
to carry out the purposes of this Act.

ADMINISTRATION OF COMMISSION

SEC. 206. The Commission, in carrying out its respon—
sibilities under this title, may——

(1) employ and fix the compensation of such
personnel;

(2) acquire, furnish, and equip such ofﬁce space;

(3) enter into such contracts or agreements with
other organizations, both public and private;

(4) procure the services of such experts or consult-
ants or an organization thereof as is authorized under
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code (but at rates
for individuals not to exceed $100 per diem) ; and

(5) incur such necessary expenses and exercise
such other powers,

as are consistent with and reasonably required to perform its
functions under this title. Financial and administrative serv—

ices (including those related to budgeting, accounting, ﬁnan-

 




     
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

‘ r 10
l 11

12

14c

15

 

 

 

84
cial reporting, personnel, and procurement) shall be pro-
vided the Commission by the General Cervices Administra—
tion, for which payment shall be made in advance, or by
reimbursement from funds of the Commission in such
amounts as may be agreed upon by the Chairman and the
Administrator of the General Services Administration. ‘
AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 207. There are authorized to be appropriated for
the ﬁscal year in which this title is enacted and for the next
four ﬁscal years thereafter such sums as may be necessary to
carry out this title, but the sums appropriated for any such
year shall not exceed $1,000,000. Not less than three-fourths
of the total amount of the sums appropriated pursuant to
this section for any such year shall be expended on research

and studies conducted under the authority of section 202 (a)

(2) and (3) .




92D CONGRESS
21) SESSION

 

 

To protect marine mammals; to establish a
Marine Bylammal Commission; and for other
urposes.

 

 

By Mr. HOLLINGS

 

 

FEBRUARY 2, 1972

Read twice and referred to the Committee on
Commerce

 

 




ERNEST F. HOLLINGS ' APPROPR'ATMHS
. COMMERCE

SOUTH CAROLINA -
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

’Qiﬁlﬂed ﬁfaécs $811631?

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

January 20, 1972

Mr. Norman W. Hammett
3730 Windom Place, N. w.
washington, D. C. 20016

Dear Mr. Hammett:

‘ _

I appreciate your letter urging me to support legislation which would
jprotect the lives of ocean mammals, including porpoises, dolphins, whales
and other species.

I can assure you that my Subcommittee on Oceans and Atmosphere will
conduct hearings on this legislation as soon as possible during the opening
months of the second session of Congress. There are a number of bills on
this subject, and we will attempt to find the best possible means of dealing

with this serious prdblem.

It is Obvious that the government must take action to protect these
threatened animals. It is highly possible that ocean.nsmmals are a vital
link in the chain which binds together all living things. we already know

that pollution of the ocean and mass fishing techniques are threatening
- sea life to dangerous preportions. I think we must act now to prevent
their destruction before it is too late.

I appreciate your thoughts on this matter and will.give them every
consideration as we prepare for subcommittee hearings.

With kindest regards, I am

 




COMMITTEES:
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS APPROPRIATIONS

SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

Qlfnifeb agﬂafcs $¢na1¢

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

October it, 1971

" ” A ‘ Protectiife Legislation
Box 3719 Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Ms . Stevens:

of the Senate version of this legislation, and agree with the thmghts which
you have expressed. Ivany thanks for writing.

With kindest regards, I am

 




BANKING AND CURRENCY 'I
COMMERCE

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS
SOUTH CAROLINA
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

anifeb Sides ﬁenafc

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 11+, 1971

Mrs. Harry J. Long

Box 21h
Greens Farms, Connecticut

Dear Mrs. Long:
I sincerely appreciate your interest in legislation presently

pending before Congress regarding the protection, management and

control of'wild, free-roamﬂn QOTS;M¢M;5g$
a???” “I”: f 1” $2,333 szg_“5«%a;;; g '*

~-+»,.xuupu;ﬁyﬁiﬁweuﬁteniaa§ﬁmﬁﬁnéV
the tim you have taken to inform me of your thoughts.

We have many

«(a 3-.
' .

W
‘1

" or .

5 ‘ 2‘,
_ . “4'4" ‘ g 1‘21.” «5-. ‘ = > «
‘ aura 1%; A . , , I.
w“: 1&1 “32,; a; ﬁ,.;.‘ :7?" b -‘ F; --“-»‘, \ -* ’ ' "4 ' ,
: ' W "

 




HOLLINGS, Senator Ernest F.
South Carolina

7/17/69 To CS

"Thank you for your letter... this bill will be referred to
the Commerce Committee of which.I am a member; At that time, be assure
that I will thoroughly review this bill."

Non committal.

 




/"
I

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS BANKING AND CURRENCY
SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE

POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

’QICnﬂeb ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 1t, 1971

Ms. Ann Shryock
10 Mitchell Place
New York, New'York 10017

Dear Ms. Shryock:
I sincerely appreciate your interest in legislation presently
pending before Congress regarding the protection, management, and
* Limit

control or wild, prmmmgharsesmsbwms as public land.

.2, u.

Ifullwagree with-the intent “of, this legislation and I appreciate

the time you have taken to inform me of your thoughts. We have many
precious resources in this country, not the least of which are our
wild animals, and I believe our government should take steps to
protect them.

With warmest best wishes, I am

 




.«-*\‘

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS BANKING AND CURRENCY
SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE ~—-~
POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

I"

”Etnifcb ${afez ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

Mrs. Edward J. O'Malley
30 Bradish Lane
Bay Shore, New York 11706

Dear Mrs. O'Malley:

I appreciate your recent letter and share your concern over

matter.

Many thanks for letting me know of your interest in this

legislation.

With kindest regards, I am

Ernest F. Hollings

 




ERNEST F. HOLLINGS BANKING AND CURRENCY
SOUTH CAROLINA COMMERCE

POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE

QICnifeb ${afes ﬁeuafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 18, 1970

v“... .W-n ~ .« .ﬂxvi'dﬂ'F-W‘“ "' “" 7' ‘
Wu » >-

Mrs. Lilian Gregory
60 Commodore Place
Milford, Connecticut O6h60
Dear Mrs. Gregory:
I appreciate your recent letter and share your concern over
the need for legislation for the care and treatment of animals

being used for laboratory purposes. I have supported this concept

and believe action will be taken by the Senate on this important

,1 -
., -M—ggvaw'w‘

matter;
Many thanks for letting me know of your interest in this
legislation.

With kindest regards, I am

 




ERNEST F. HOLLINGS
SOUTH CAROLINA

OFFICES:

"5 SENATE OFFICE BUILDINO
WASHING'IDN. D.C. 20510
202-224-6121

306 FEDERAL BUILDING
COLUMBIA. SOUTH CAROLINA 2920!
003-765-873!

@Cnifeb Sﬁafes $enafc

WASHINGTON. [3.0. 20510

103 FEDERAL BUILDING
SPARTANBURG. SOUTH CAROLINA 29301
803-888-3702

October 20, 1977

242 FEDERAL BuILDINO
GREENVILLE. SOUTH CAROLINA 29603
803-233-8366

141 EAST BAY STREET
CHARLESTON. SOUTH CAROLINA 294m
803-728-821!

Mr. J. Wiiiiam F. Hoiiiday
Route 3
Gaiivan s Ferry, South Caroiina 29544

COMMITTEES:
APPROPRIATIONS

STATI. JUSTICE. COMMERCE. AND
Tm: JUDICIARY: CHAIRMAN

DEFENSE

LABOR. HEALTH. EDUCATION AND WILFARI
Puuuc WORKS

INTERIOR

BUDGET
DEFENSE: CHAINHAN

COMMERCE. SCIENCE. AND
TRANSPORTATION
COMMUNICATIONS: CHAIRMAN
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION
SCIENCE. TECHNOLOGY, AND SPACE

DEMOCRATIC POLICY COMMITTEE
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT
NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY STUDY

Thank you very much for your recent Ietter about the
bowhead whale situation. I can certainly appreciate your
concern about the existence of the bowhead whaie, as I, too,

am disturbed about the fate of these marine mammais.

Questions

have been raised recently, however, about the accuracy of the

data used to estabiish the hunting moratorium.

I am studying

this matter very carefuiiy and can assure you that any action‘
that I take wiii be in favor of the continued existence of the
bowhead whaie.

HOLLINGSX

 




 

”PJCniieh ﬁfaicz ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 18, 1979

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Segrell
86—02 Park Lane South
Woodhaven, New York 11421

Dear Mr. & Mrs. Segrell:

Thank you for your letter regarding additional personnel for
the Land and Natural Resources Division of the Department of
Justice.

Last year the Subcommittee on State, Justice, Commerce and
the Judiciary provided 45 additional positions in order to meet
the increased workload in this Division. In working out the
final bill with the managers of the House of Representatives we
had to compromise at 25 additional personnel. After a long
delay, the Department is now filling these critically needed
positions. A budget amendment will be submitted to sustain the
25 positions in 1980, and in addition provide for 30 additional
positions for toxic substances.

As you know, on June 4th the Senate approved the Department
of Justice Authorization Act for fiscal year 1980 authorizing the
addition of 66 attorneys and 65 support personnel to the Land and
Natural Resources Division at a cost of $5,185,000. This amount
includes the 55 positions mentioned above as well as personnel
for pollution, wildlife, marine resources, etc. We now have the
room to appropriate more for the Division, and I am sure that the
Subcommittee will be receptive to adding additional personnel
over the original budget levels.

The Subcommittee is also concerned about the proposed 50
percent reduction to the Bureau of Oceans, International
Environment and Scientific Affairs. If this action is not
reversed when the bill is before the House of Representatives, I
will see to it that the funds are restored.

 

EFH/wk

 




      
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
    
  
  
  

”PJCnﬁeh ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. 13.6. 20510

June 12, 1979

Ms. Janet K. Cathcart
1317 Warrick Lane
Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina 29454

Dear Ms. Cathcart:
Thank you for your letter regarding additional personnel for

the Land and Natural Resources Division of the Department of
Justice.

 

Last year the Subcommittee on State, Justice, Commerce and
the Judiciary provided 45 additional positions in order to meet
the increased workload in this Division. In working out the
final bill with the managers of the House of Representatives we
had to compromise at 25 additional personnel. After a long
delay, the Department is now filling these critically needed
positions. A budget amendment will be submitted to sustain the
25 positions in 1980, and in addition provide for 30 additional
positions for toxic substances.

As you know, on June 4th the Senate approved the Department
of Justice Authorization Act for fiscal year 1980 authorizing the
addition of 66 attorneys and 65 support personnel to the Land and
Natural Resources Division at a cost of $5,185,000. This amount
includes the 55 positions mentioned above as well as personnel
for pollution, wildlife, marine resources, etc. We now have the
room to appropriate more for the Division, and I am sure that the
Subcommittee will be receptive to adding additional personnel
over the original budget levels.

The Subcommittee is also concerned about the proposed 50
percent reduction to the Bureau of Oceans, International
Environment and Scientific Affairs. If this action is not
reversed when the bill is before the House of Representatives, I
will see to it that the funds are restored.

With kindest regards, I am

    
   
 

   

~st F. Hollings

EFH/wk




QICnifeb ﬁfafes ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 28, 1979

Ms. Janet Cathcart
1317 WarrickLane
Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina 29u6ﬂ

Dear Ms. Cathcart:

Thank you for your comments concerning the moratorium on
commercial whaling which will be voted on at the International
Whaling Commission meeting. I support the position of the
U. S. delegation in this matter, and can assure you that efforts
are being made to encourage other countries to vote with the
U. S. position.

The Commerce Committee had an oversight hearing on pirate
whaling Friday, June 22, 1979 at 10:00 a.m. in Room 235 of the
Russell Senate Office Building. The hearing was chaired by
Senator Warren G. Magnuson. If you wish more information or
want to submit testimony, please call Debbie Sivaslain of the
Commerce Committee staff at 202/220e9321. The hearing record
will be kept open for a week or so for receipt of testimony.

With kindest regards, I am

EFH/ds

 




WARREN G. MAGNUSON. WASH.. CHAIRMAN

JOHN C. STENNIS. MISS. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.

ROBERT C. BYRD. W. VA. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG.

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS. TED STEVENS, ALASKA

DANIEL K. INOUYE. HAWAII CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS. JR., MD. .

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. S.C. RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA. wt f b ${ £ 1% i
BIRCH BAYH, IND. HENRY BELLMON, OKLA. “1 e a cg en“ 9
THOMAS F. EAGLETON, MO. LOWELL P. WEICKER, JR., CONN.

LAWTON CHILES. FLA. JAMES A. MC CLURE, IDAHO

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON. LA. PAUL LAXALT. NEv. COMM. I 'EE ON APPROPRIATIONS
WALTER o. HUDDLESTON. KY. JAKE GARN. UTAH

QUENTIN N. BURDICK. N. DAK. HARRISON SCHMI‘I‘I'. N. MEX. WASHINGTON' D'C' 20510
PATRICK J. LEAHY. VT.

JIM SASSER. TENN.

DENNIS DE CONCINI. ARIZ.

DALE BUMPERS. ARK. June 2 2 , 1 979

JOHN A. DURKIN, N.H.

W. FEATHERSTONE REID, STAFF DIRECTOR
JOEL E. BONNER. JR.. MIMRITY STAFF DIRECTOR

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

Thank you for writing about the 50 percent reduction made by
the House Appropriations Committee to the budget of the Bureau of Oceans,
International Environment and Scientific Affairs. From all I can gather,

this was a completely arbitrary cut and would undermine all the advances
made by the Bureau.

Please be assured that I will support full restoration of this
reduction when the Subcommittee meets to work out our recommendations.

With kindest regards.

Subcommittee'

EFszkc

 




~ .Cdpw

f
"Etnifeb ${a-[ez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 4, 1985

Miss Maria E. Sommer
2660 Robinhood Road
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27106

Dear Miss Sommer:

Thank you for taking the time to share with me
your views on a bill to amend the Wild Free—Roaming
Horses and Burros Act. I have supported and will
continue to support reasonable proposals for the
protection of wild animals.

However, to protect public lands under the
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land and Mines, removal
of some wild horses and burros is necessary.‘ The
application of the principles of multiple use and
sustained yield by protecting rangeland from
overgrazing also protect the animals inhabiting such
lands as well.

Like you, I do not want to see any needless
slaughter of excess wild horses and burros. ‘The
Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Land
Management are required by the Wild Free-Roaming Horse
and Burro Act of 1971 to control the population of wild
horses and burros in the manner explicitly set out in
the law.

I can assure you that I will keep your V1¢WS.iauw.
mindshould any legislation amending this Act reach the
”’Senate floor.

Thank you again for sharing your views with me. I
hope that you will continue to do so. '

with kindest regards.
Sincerely,
QWM*
Jesse Helms '
United States Senate

 




 

_ IL 4' i7
. ‘y . ﬂ .
June 29, 1.98.1 @430 ’o:+~-

stamp program had gone completely
out of control. The distinguished occu-
pant of the chair probably remembers
that debate when it was first brought
up. There was a great deal of argu-
ment over how we would control the
cost of this runaway program, the cost
that was going to escalate to as much
as $5 billion a year. _

There were great differences of opin—
ion about how you go about control~
ling the cost, because it was a period
of high unemployment and economic
recession. The cost of the program
went up automatically, in effect, be
cause if a person was entitled to bene-
fits under the terms of the law, the
Government appropriated the dollars
to meet its obligation.

There are a lot of programs like
that.

It is not a pure entitlement program,
because it does come up each year for
direct appropriations under the law by
which it was created. But it was never
intended, and this came out in debate
several years ago and I am sure other
Senators are familiar with this, that
the Congress would act to control the
program by capping the level of spend
'ing available during each fiscal year.
That was tried That is what is being
attempted here, in a way

I am not suggesting that the shroud-
ment is not straightforward, because it
certainly is. But what it would do, in
effect, is hold the level of funding at a
point below which we anticipate the
programs to actually cost.

The point is that in the House we
tried to legislate control of this pro
gram by imposing a cap—by saying,
“During this fiscal year, we will spend
no more than $5 billion on the food
stamp program.”

As I remember, about 8, 0, or l0
months of the year went by, and we
were about to run into that cap. The
question became, did the Congress sit
back and watch all of the beneficiaries
of these programs lose total benefits
or suffer acrossthewboard cuts for the
balance of the year by the Congress
ebid ing by the legislated cap? ‘

What happened was, the Congress
voted to raise the cap. We went
through this every year—imposing a
cap and then voting to raise it.

I am afraid that is what we will be
putting ourselves through, Mr. Presi-
dent, if we adopt this amendment. ‘We
would, in effect. be approaching a
limit on funding that we know is not
going to be adequate to provide bene—
fits to those who are eligible for bene-
fits under the law.

For that reason. I am hoping the

' Senate will see that we are making an

effort to fully acquaint Senators with
the facts about the inadequacy of the
requested funding unless legislative
changes are made to cut the cost of
the program. If weare going to cut the
cost of the program, these cuts ought

to be made by the authorizing commit- .

tee, not by the Appropriations .Com-
mittee.

I i

Th PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Senator om North carolina.

Mr. HEM f , I thank the Chair.

First let me int out for the record
that what we a r talking about is a
food stamp progra,
for this fiscal year slip billion. The
emphasis of this amendment, Mr.
President, is not on" the merits of indi-
vidual programs. What we Ere really
talking about is the integrity of the

appropriations process
This happens to be the first

only bill reported by the Appr013'

ations Committee which includes pa
tial year funding, the only one. All the
other programs in all the other De-
partments have been given full- -year
funding. I have to wonder what is so
unique about these programs that
causes us to make an exception in the
process for them alone.

I am willing to enter intoany sort of
agreement with my friends who are
members of the Agriculture Commit-
tee and Senators who are not. But I
agree with the administration, and the
administration agrees and support
this amendment, that partial—year
funding involves arithmetic that will
mislead not only Members of Congress
but the public in terms of the cost.
This is the reason that the cost of gov-
ernment has escalated.

I have worked with Senator DOLE in
so many areas to reduce spending, It
pains me to differ with Senator DOLE
and Senator CocHnAN, two of my best
friends in the Senate. But I just do not
understand why we shouldsingle out
one group of programs for partial-year
funding when partial-year funding has
not been included for any other de—
ps1 tment or any other program in
Government

The reason why the Appropriations
Committee did not recommend higher
levels of funding is, perhaps, that the
total cost would, have given great con-
cern to a lot of people who are watch-
ing the cost of the Federal Govern-
ment.

I am in sympathy with a lot of pro-
grams, but I think we ought to be up
front and forthright and say what
they are going to cost. Then, if not
enough has been appropriated, the
authorizing committee can monitor it,
study it, and make whatever recom—
mendations to the Senate that would
be appropriate.

I say to the Senator as chairman of
the Agriculture Committee I will be
glad to call hearings and schedule a
markup for anything that is necessary,
but I am just arguing for the process. I
confess a measure of concern when we
single out one group of programs for
partial-year funding. If we start this

sort of business with one program, it is
‘ going to spill over into others. ‘

The budget process of the Senate is
already in trouble. We all know that.
It may be that it has broken down.
But Icertainly do not want the appro-
priations process to follow in that sort
of difficulty. I frankly have that con-

g ESSIONAL RECORD --— SENATE

which would cost

  
  

 

wasnlngton, Uab'. ZUUUU
Date: JUN. 29 1983
_ ._ ',S 9449.

cern, Mr. President, if this amendment
is not approved.

I say again the administration-

strongly ' supports this . amendment,
and I would‘hope we would-approve-it.

nays.
there a sufficient second? There is a

sufficient second ~
The yeasand hays were ordered

rile ”PRESIDING OFFICER Is .-

 
  
  

. rther debate?

Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and

r. President, I 37 _.
e objectionable

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is'

before we go to the vote on the Helms '

aside temporarily

beaccepted?

HELMS.‘ Mr. President I cer-'

tar 1' ly have no objection to accommo-
dating the Senator if that is his wiSh

The PRESIDING OFFICER. 18'

there objection? Without objection, it
is so ordered.
AMENDMENT 130.1445

(Purpose: To provide an appropriation of . ,
$5, 000, 000 for additional Animal Cancer .

Research within the amount appropriated

in the bill)

Mr. MELCHER. Mr President, I
have an amendment at the desk. I ask
for its immediate consideration.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The », i '

clerk will state the amendment.
The bill clerk read as folloWs:
The Senator . from Montana

 
 
 
 

,7 (Mirf

MELCIIER) proposes an amendment hum!

.bered 1445.

On page 8, line 10, strike out the period, '

and insert the following: “ .Prom'ded further,

That of the appropriations hereunder not . ’-
less than, $5,000,000 shall be ayailable for ‘ - 4' '

additional animal cancer research to carry
into effect the provisions of Public Law 96-

469. ’

Mr. MELCHER. Mr. President,th_is
proposal is not an add-on. It is ‘e’ar~
marked within the $57,682,000 of basic

I

research money that is available to. ‘-

Agricultural Research Serviéce.

for animal cancer research.

There is in the bill, contemplated'~ ,
among that $57 million-plus for re- ,_
search by the Agricultural Research
Service, approximately $7,250,000 that

would be for animal or bird cancer re—

search. I am suggesfﬁ‘fg’tme ear—

mark another $5 million of these
funds in order to make sure that we

have a greater effort in animal cancer
research. There is concldmlé 'need
for pursuing it with a little more vigor.

The amount we appropriate annuala.
ly for our research on humans is about

We, _
would include an additional $5 million E“ .

a billion dollars to the National Insti- '

tutes of Health. So the amount I am
proposing seems very low. Neverthe—
less, it is a very important part of the

cancer research we do.

We do have economic loss in, domes-
WIS that “are produced‘for con“ -
sump 10‘ here in this cauntry or ’for‘
export, so that is one faCetu'of it. To .
minimize that economic loss, we need,

' research ”on -
animals ' through the Department =10L ,

to continue our ca

 




7‘ value for Cu

1 , 'Antibodies
Choriogonadotropin Like Protein on

 

, S .9450

I 1 Agriculture annually. The two dovetail

' together—that is, the research we do

on animals and the research we do for

i human beings.
> . _ As an example of that, there has

‘ been an outstanding breakthrough in
animal cancer research that occurred
just this past spring, when the Ribi
' Immune Chem Research Laboratory

~. . . in Hamilton, Mont, got licensed by

the Department of Agriculture for

‘ ‘_ ‘immuno-therapy treatment for cancer

*eye in cattle and sarcoid tumors in
horses. This type of vaccine proved to

' be successful in the tests that were

.. run on both cattle and horses, ranging

from '35 pereentup to 93 percent cure.
This lair-oralery has told us that
' they filezfi with the Food and Drug Ad-

. ‘ ministration a notice of claimed inves-

tigational exemption for a new drug.
If that is accepted by the Food and
Drug Administration, the Ribi
Immune Chem Co. will conduct clini-
cal trials to determine the treatment’s
in combating human
cancer.

In addition to that, Mr. President, at

- , this spring’s meeting of the American

.Association for Cancer Research, a
couple of very interesting papers were
given on the subject of the “Effect of
to Bacteria Containing

Growth of a Transplantable Tumor”
. and another one along the same line,
the “Effects of Antibodies to Chorio-
gonadotropin (CG) in Malignant
Growth. III. Lewis Lung Carcinoma.”

' ‘I mention all this, Mr. President, be-
cause the public law we are adding
earmarked funds for specifically
allows for grants to be given to col-
leges and accepted research laborato-
ries throughout the country to further
the research for animal cancer con-

' , trol.

, I strongly urge the acceptance of the
amendment. I think it is very reason-
able and wise.

* Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I
thank the Senator from Montana for
offering this amendment and bringing
to the attention of the Senate the fact
that it is very important for the Gov-
ernment to continue its. work in
animal cancer research. We are ad-
vised by the Agricultural Research
Service that it is conducting about $6.5
1. million of' research in this area in
fiscal year 1983. The amendment

would clearly indicate the intention of

7 Congress that a specified amount of

money would be made available for

this work. It does not add any new

money to the bill. We recommend that
the amendment be accepted.

. Mr. EAGLETON. Mr. President, “I

have no objection to the amendment.

7 The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is

there further debate? If not, the ques-

- tion is on agreeing to the amendment.

The amendment (No. 1445) was
agreed to. ’
Mr. MELC Mr; President, I

.' wonder if it would still be agreeable
and in order for a brief colloquy to

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— SENATE

transpire between myself and the
manager of the bill.

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that we set aside
the Helms amendment for the purpose
of a colloquy with the Senator from
Montana. ‘

The PRESIDING OFFICER. ._ Is
there objection? Without objection, it
is so ordered.

Mr. BAKER. Mr. President, I under~
stand the legislative appropriations

conference report is at the desk. Is

that correct?
' The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Senator is correct. -

Mr. BAKER. Mr. President, I hope
we can take that up next if the manag-
ers would agree to temporarily lay
aside the pending measure. i believe
the minority leader is on his way to
the floor.

I am told that the Senate is ready
for the vote now on the Helms amend—
ment. I believe we can do the legislas
tive appropriations conference report,
though, without a roilcall. If we could
wait just a minute to see if I can clear
that, it might expedite it.

Mr. COCHRAN. If the Senator will
yield, we can proceed, then, with the
colloquy.

Mr. BAKER. Yes, Mr. President.

Mr. MELCHER. Mr. President, the
Senate recently approved, in the
Senate supplemental
bill, an add-on for soil conservation
work, approximately $35 million. The
add-on is in several conservation pro—
grams for use throughout the United
States. Since that supplemental appro-
priations conference report has not
come back for final action by the
Senate, I ask the chairman of the Sub—
committee on Agricultural Appropri-
ations if it is likely that that amount
or nearly that amount will be accepted
by the conferees, and if whatever is ac-
cepted by the conferces is included in
this bill, can they be melded together
for a sensible, sound conservation
effort in. the coming year?

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, if
the Senator will yeild, we are very
hopeful that the amount of funding
that is contained in this bill, together
with that provided in the supplemen-
tal appropriations, will be adequate to
help move us forward in the effort to
protect the soil and water resources of
the Nation. We know we are confront-
ed with an increasingly serious prob-
lem when we find in our farmland re-
sources today—«we are seeing some 10
times per acre per year eroding away
into the streams, silting up the
streams, and causing flood damage in
many areas.

In my State, I know- we have seen
the ravages of the flooding and ero—
sion occur in a very dramatic way in
this year.

. There is, in this bill, about $600 mil-
lion fo'r the Soil Conservation Service
and about $220 million for the Agricul-
tural Stabilization and Conservation
Service. These are conservation agen-
cies which are charged with the re-

appropriations-

June 29, 1.983

sponsibility of administering technical
assistance programs for farmers, land-
owners, and ranchers, providing funds
which, in many cases, are matched
with local funds to help create protec-
tion for land and water resources.

I cannot assure the Senator, howev-
er, that the conference on this bill or
on the supplemental appropriations
bill will keep the total amount of
funds that we have provided for soil
conservation activities, but I can
assure the Senator, and do that in
behalf of the Senate, that I will urge
acceptance of the Senate figures that
were added in the supplemental.

I do know, too, that the chairman of
the House Appropriations Committee
is a strong proponent and supporter of
soil conservation activities. I’am opti~
mistic that a substantial portion of the
funds that were included in that bill at
the request of the Senator from Mon-
tana will be retained. I could be sur-
prised, and I cannot make that assur-
ance, but I certainly do assure the
Senator that I will make every effort
to see that a substantial amount of
those funds or all of them are retained
in that bill.

I appreciate the Senator for bringing
that to our attention at this time.

Mr. MELCHER. I thank my friend
from Mississippi.

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, inas-
much as the majority leader was con,
sidering asking that we turn to the
legislative appropriations conference
report and I do not see him on the
floor at this time, I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum. '

The PRESIDING OFFICER. (Mr.
WILSON). The clerk will call the roll. .

The assistant legislative clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll. ‘

Mr. BAKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. With-
out objection, it is so ordered.

 

ORDER OF PRQCEDURE

Mr. BAKER. Mr. President, as I in—
dicated earlier, the conference report
on the legislative appropriations bill is
here. I have consulted with the minor-
ity leader, with the ‘ distinguished
chairman of the Rules Committee, and
the chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, and i am prepared on this
side to go forward. with consideration
of that conference report at this time,
if the minority leader is.

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I have

checked the matter on this side. There

is no objection.

Mr. BAKER. I thank the minority
leader. .

Mr. President, then I ask unanimous
consent that the business pending
before the Senate be temporarily laid
aside and the Senate proceed to the
consideration of the conference report
on H,R. 3135, the legislative branch
appropriations conference report.

 




JESSE HELMS
NORTH CAROLINA

QICnifeh .gﬁafes ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

November 4, 1982

Mr. J. Scott Douglas

Secretary

Childrens Rights, Inc.

Suite 814, u8u9 Connecticut Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20008

Dear Mr. Douglas:

Thank you for sending me a copy of your telegram
to Senator Hatch regarding S. 2948, the Humane Care and
Development of Substitutes for Animals in Research Act.

I sense a growing concern on Capitol Hill and
throughout the nation for the large number of live
animals used for experimentation.

Senator Dole's bill certainly deserves a close
look. I will keep your views in mind as I consider
this bill during our recess.

Thank you again for the telegram.

Kindest regards.

‘- »‘m~:2:.....

* v»
“’1‘“

Sincerely,l S \

JESSE HELMS:gwh

 




’mﬁtﬁeh gﬁafez Syntafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 19, 1987

.Dr. Maria Sommo

2660 Robinhood Road

Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27106
Sommo:

Thank you for sharing with me your views on
S. 2636.

You can be sure that I will bear in mind the
points you have made when this matter comes up for
discussion on the Floor of the Senate.

Thanks for taking the time to write.

Sincerely,

Jesse Helms ‘
United States Senate

 




GRESSIONAL RECORD -- SENATE

rising costs of exhibitions. Richard Daugher-
ty, vice president for public affairs at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York,
says the “Treasures of Tutankhamen" ex:
hibition, which in the late 19703 cost the
participating museums $1.5 million for ships
ping, travel and curatorial expenses, might
cost double or triple that now.

In view of inﬂation and the threat of dew
clining subsidies, cultural, organizations will
have to seek ways to increase earned income,
arts managers say. Mr. Bonine says Pillsbury
will try to help arts groups do that. “The
next decade is going to be tough for all or
us," he says. _

Daytondludson Corp, Minneapolis, gives
ii percent oi‘ its federal taxable income to
nonproﬁt organizations; (the maximum (lee
Vuctible charitable contribution allowed by
the internal Revenue Service). Wayne E.
Thompson, senior vice president for environe
mental development, believes the President
should announce a “public policy" encoura
aging the private with to do more.

Corporations are bracing for a wave of new
money requests from arts groups. "Requests
from the cultural sector have increased more
than any other sector in the past two years,"
says A’I‘éisz lvlir. Thlil. Odiie Beech, manager
of cultural allairs at Philip Morris, estimates
that the company gets 30 to 50 such letters
a week from dance, theater and Opera come
panics, museums and], other arts organiza-
tions. . 2‘

Leonard Fleischer, J’senior adviser for the
Exxon arts program, Says, “Inflation is really
a killer for the arts groups." If the Reagan
program succeeds in bringing it under cone
trol,_he observes, “That will help all the arts
groups} lotxi @434 ,. [l . , .

By “Mr. HELMS (by request) :

S. 1936. A bill to extend the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act, as amended for 2 years, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.

asamnosrzarron or FEDERAL mssc'rrcmu,

rouorcros, AND aoosurrcmo ACT

Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, at the re-e
quest of the administration I am today
introducing the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency’s bill “to extend the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodeo--
ticide Act, as amended, for 2 years.” I
have also included EPA’s request to ex-»
tend the Scientiﬁc Advisory Panel.

One part of this legislation simply ex-
tends the authorization of FIFRA
through September 30, 1983, and puts a
cap on authorized appropriations for
carrying out the act of $55 million for
ﬁscal year 1982. That represents a $9.5
million decrease in authorized expendi-a
tures from what the Carter administra—o
ticn proposed in its January budget.

The other part of the legislation ex-
tends the authorization of the Scientiﬁc
Advisory Panel until September 30, 1983.
Under current law, that panel is only
authorized through the end of this ﬁscal
year.

Mr. President, I am introducing the
administration’s legislation today with
the hope that the Agriculture Committee
can complete a very simple markup this
week while it is working on the 1981
farm bill. In order to comply with the
1974 Budget Act, we must report this leg-
islation out by May 15.

The committee has had—~and I am
sure will have—no time prior to May 15
to engage in substantive oversight hear-
ings on FIFRA. Budget concerns and the
1981 farm bill have been priority issues.

CONGRESS I ONAL RECORD CLI PP I NGS

1868 Columbia Road, N.W.

Waslh'n ton DC. 20009
Date: JPﬁ 239198?

N
S 4135

Because there are a number of con-
cerns with the pesticide registration
process which I feel sure members of the
committee vish to examine in some de-
tail, I intend to schedule comprehensive
oversight hearings during the summer.
At that time, we will be able to discuss
substantive amendments to current law.
I hope that by then EPA will have a. con~
firmed Ad- inistrator to address the pol-
icy and administrative concerns of Sen-
store on the. committee.

I ask unanimous consent that the bill
and the transmittal letters from Acting
Administrator Walter C. Barber be
printed in the Rococo.

There being no objection, the bill and
the letters were ordered to be printed in
the Rococo, as follows:

S. 1036 .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Gongress assembled, That section
251,121) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 13.8.0.
136w), is amended by striking the words
“September 30, 1981” and inserting in lieu
thereof the words “September 30, 1983”.

SEC. 2. Section 31 of the Federal Insecti-
cide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as
amended (7 (1.8.0. 13657) , is amended by add-
ing at the end thereof the following new
sentei‘ice: “There are hereby authorized to
be appropriated to carry out the provisions
of this Act for the period beginning Octo-
ber 1, 1981, and ending September 30, 19829
$55,089,000, and for the period beginning
October 1, 1982, and ending September 30.
1983, such sums as may be necessary.”

US. ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY,
Washington, 17.0., April 2?, 1981.

Hon. JESSE HELMS,

Chairman, Committee on Agriculture, Nun
trition, and Forestry, (LS. Senate,
Washington, D.C'.

DEAR Ma. CHAIRMAN: Enclosed is our pro-
posed bill "To amend the Federal Insecti—
cide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.” This
bill would amend section 25(d) of the Act
to extend the activities of the Scientiﬁc Ad-
visory Panel until September 30, 1983.

Section 25(d) of the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA)
established the Scientiﬁc Advisory Panel
(SAP) to advise the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency (EPA). The SAP is comprised
of seven members chosen from among‘
twelve nominees—six nominated by the
National Institutes of Health and six nomi-
nated by the National Science Foundation.
The Act requires that all proposed and ﬁnal
regulations issued under section 25(3) and
proposed cancellations or changes in the
classiﬁcation of pesticides be submitted to
the SAP for comment as to their impact on
health and the environment. Further, the
SAP is empowered to advise the Administra-
tor on improving the agency’s scientiﬁc
analyses for FIFRA purposes and to select
additional scientists to form sub-panels for
the review of major scientiﬁc studies con-
ducted pursuant to FIFRA. The present
language of the statute calls for the panel
to terminate its activities at the end of
ﬁscal year 1981.

Since its establishment in 1976, the SAP
has been active on several matters. In 1979
twelve meetings were held to deal with ﬁve
regulation proposals and four cancellations.
During 1980 thirteen meetings were held
covering six regulations and four cancel-
lation classiﬁcation actions. In addition, the
panel assisted EPA with a scientiﬁc review
of six issues of concern to public health.
The SAP has been regarded by the scientiﬁc

 




S 4136

community, the agricultural community,
the chemical industry, and the Congress as
an important checkpoint for EPA actions
under the FIFRA. Under the Act, EPA'S
charge is to insure that pesticides do not
cause “unreasonable adverse effects on the
environment”, including “any unreasonable
risk to man or the environment, taking into
account the economic, social, and environ«
mental costs and beneﬁts of the use of any
pesticide”. The SAP serves the vital func-s
ticn of providing information on health
and environmental effects of proposed EPA
actions and of providing disinterested and
scientiﬁcally rigorous review. The various
interested parties to pesticide regulatory
actions are inclined to view a SAP opinion
as disinterested and therefore to accept it,
which is crucial. if our pesticide regulatory
program is to progress.

The Agency has determined that the
SAP’s continuing review of Agency actions
is an essential element of the difﬁcult do»
cision-making processes under the FIFE-A.
The panel’s past record has been exemplary.
The enclosed draft bill. therefore, amends
the Act to extend the life of the SAP for
another two years. We recommend that this
proposal be favorably reported and that it
be enacted.

The estimated annual operating cost of
the SAP is $206,000, which includes an al-
lowance for 3.0 workyears of staff support
provided by the orifice of Pesticide Programs.
This amount has been included in the Presiw
dent’s Budget for ﬁscal year 1982.

The Office of Management and Budget
advises that there is no objection to the
enactment of this legislative proposal from
the standpoint of the program of the
President.

Sincerely yours,
WALTER C. BARBER, 312,
Acting Administrator.
8.
A. bill to amend the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in. Congress assembled, That

Section 25(d} of the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended
(7 USE). 136w), is amended by striking the
words “September 30, 1981” and inserting in
lieu there-of the words “September 30, 1983”.

US. ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY,
Washington, 13.0., March. 26, 1981.
Hon. GEORGE BUSH,
President of the Senate,
Washington, DC.

DEAR Ma. PRESIDENT: Enclosed is our pres
posed bill f‘To extend the Federal Insecticide.
Fungicide, and Rodent-icicle Act, as amended,
for two years.”

The bill extends our appropriation au~
thorities under section 31 of the Act through
ﬁscal year 1983. These authorities expire on
September 30, 1981.

This extension will enable the Environ-i
mental Protection Agency to continue the
non-research programs envisioned by the Act.
We have requested extension of related re~
search and development appropriation ans
thorities in another draft bill, “The Envirom
mental Research, Development and Demon-
stration Authorization Act of 1982.” The horn
research, activities for which appropriation
authorization is sought under the enclosed
draft bill include: registration and reregis-w
tration, classification and labeling of pestle
cides, training and certiﬁcation of pesticide
applicators, assistance to State pesticide
regulatory agencies, registration and regula«
tion of pesticide—producing establishments,
and funding for basic operating expenses and
salaries. We recommend that this bill be re«-»

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD~ SEN '

ferred to the apprOpriate Committee for con—

sideration and that it be enacted.

Our request of appropriation authorizae
tion in the enclosed draft bill for fiscal year
1982 for these nonresearch activities under
the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rm
denticide Act is $55,089,000. This is the
amount requested in the Presiden“s 1982
Budget for these activities. '

The Ofﬁce of Management and Budget
advises that enactment of this legislative
proposal would be in accord with the pro—w
gram of the President.

Sincerly yours,

WALTER C. BARBER, Ja.
Acting Administrator.
S.

A bill to extend the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticlde Act, as amend-v
ed, for two years.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United. States of
America in Congress assembled, That section
31 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide. and
Rodenticide Act, as amended (’1 U.S.C. 1361;),
is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new sentence: “There are herew
by authorized to be appropriated to carry
out the provisions of this Act for the period
beginning October 1, 1981, and ending Seps
tember 30, 1982, $55,089,000, and for the

period beginning October 1, 1982, and ends
ing September 30, 1983, such sums as may
be necessary.” ,7.

By Mr. MELCHER:

S. 1037.. A bill entitled the “National
Rangeland Research Act of 1981”; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.

NATIONAL RANGELAND RESEARCH ACT OF 1981

G Mr. MELCHER, Mr. President, last

year I introduced a rangeland research
bill whose purpose was to direct research.
related to America’s rangelands in order
to improve their productivity.

These lands comprise 60 percent of the
Nation’s land area, yet they are unduiubtw
edly the most neglected lands from the
standpoint of productivity improvement
and conservation.

My bill followed in the tradition of
similar legislation which was promoted
for a number of years by the great Con-P
greesman from Texas, Bob Pogue, who
was chairman. of the House Agriculture
Committee. '

As strongly as we advocated a separate
research program for rangeland, neither
Congressman Pogue} nor I were able to
achieve enactment Of our legislation.

Now, under the leadership of the
House Agriculture Committee’s new
chairman, Mr. on LA GARZA, range re~
search. legislation is being seriously cone»
sidered as a part of the House version of
this year’s farm bill.

I believe this is totally appropriate.

Therefore, I offer my bill once again
in the hope that the Senate Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
will take this matter up for consideration
when it marks up the section or” the bill
dealing with agricultural research and
extension.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con—v
sent that S. 1037 be printed in the
RECORD in. its entirety at this point.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as
follows:

 




JESSE HELMS
NORTH CAROLINA

QJCnifeb ﬂocks ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

April 12, 1977

Miss Sylvia D. Wilson
427 6th Avenue
Hendersonville, North Carolina 28739

Dear Miss Wilson:

Thank you for your views concerning the killing of
porpoises. Please be assured that I share your concern, as
it has always been my belief that the Government should oppose
the needless slaughter of animals.

This matter is presently being investigated by the
House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries. When the
issue reaches me for consideration in the Senate, I shall be
especially mindful of your thoughts and concerns.

Again, thank you for giving me the benefit of your
thinking. Please feel free to do so again.

Sincerely,

JESSE HE LMS: Si

 




JESSE HELMS
NORTH CAROLINA

QWnifeh ﬁfafez ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

January 25, 1973

Ms. Olga Hoback
616 Oakdale Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Dear Ms. Hoback:

I'm sure that you realize how helpful it
is to this freshman Senator to have a letter
like yours. I am grateful that you would share
with me your views on canceling a Presidential
order curtailing the use of poisons for predator
control.

The points_you have made will be carefully
reviewed should this matter come before the
Senate.

Thank you again for taking the time to
write.

JESSE HELMS:CC

 




JESSE HELMS
NORTH CAROLINA

’PJﬁnﬂeh ﬁfafez ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. 0.6. 20510

June 28, 1977

Miss Sylvia D. Wilson
427 ~ 6th Avenue West
Hendersonville, N. C. 28739

Dear Miss Wilson:

Thank you for your letter.

It has always been my belief that the
Government should oppose the needless
slaughter of animals.

I will certainly bear your thoughts
in mind should the legislation affecting
porpoises come before the full Senate.

Please continue to give me the benefit
of your thoughts.

Sincerely,
:(m Mg...

5’s
K' 1"...“ W ”qum myd‘M'M' NJ '

JESSE HELMS:Bj

 




HELMS, Senator Jesse A. Dem. - North Carolina

New 1973- 93rd Congress

 




’mc'nifeb $£afez $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 8, 1984

Ms. Melanie Julian
Box 8257
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15218

Dear Ms. Julian:

Thank you for expressing your concern about the use of
live animals in laboratory research. I share your belief
that efforts must be made to eliminate the pain, suffering,
and fear that research animals experience.

I am pleased to inform you that I am cosponsoring a
Senate bill, S. 657, to ensure the proper treatment of
laboratory animals. I will continue to support efforts to
enhance the development of alternative methods of research
because existing evidence indicates that in many cases these
alternative procedures are cheaper, faster, and more reliable
than the methods which require the use of animals. I believe
that continued reliance on animal experimentation will only
delay the development of new, more effective procedures, such
as mathematical models, tissue or cell cultures, simulated
tissues and body fluids, and computer simulations.

I appreciate knowing of your concerns in this area and I
will continue to work toward improving humane research
procedures. If I can be of any further assistance to you
please don't hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely,

 




QICnﬁeb ﬁfafes $cnafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 8, 1984

Mr. Edward Blotzer, Jr.
716 Braddock Road
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15221

Dear Mr. Blotzer:

Thank you for expressing your concern about the uSe of
live animals in laboratory research. I share your belief
that efforts must be made to eliminate the pain, suffering,
and fear that research animals experience.

I am pleased to inform you that I am cosponsoring a
Senate bill, S. 657, to ensure the proper treatment of
laboratory animals. I will continue to support efforts to
enhance the development of alternative methods of research
because existing evidence indicates that in many cases these
alternative procedures are cheaper, faster, and more reliable
than the methods which require the use of animals. I believe
that continued reliance on animal experimentation will only
delay the development of new, more effective procedures, such
as mathematical models, tissue or cell cultures, simulated
tissues and body fluids, and computer simulations.

I appreciate knowing of your concerns in this area and I
will continue to work toward improving humane research
procedures. If I can be of any further assistance to you
please don't hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely,

 




wtnifeb ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 26, 1985

Mrs. Betty Sauerwald
4470 Garden Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19137

Dear Mrs. Sauerwald:

Thank you for contacting me to express your concern over the
slaughter of the North Pacific fur seals on the ribilof Islands and
the role of the United States Government as a party and signatory of
the North Pacific fur seal interim convention ("the Convention").

I share your outrage over this annual event—-which the Commerce
Department calls a "harvest"—-and do not believe that our
Government, using tax dollars, should be in the business of
slaughtering about 25,000 seals annually. It was for this reason
that, in March 1984, I joined with 22 of my Senate colleagues in
writing to the Secretary of Commerce, Malcolm Baldridge, expressing
our strong support for discontinuation of the annual slaughter of
the North Pacific fur seals.

As you may know, the Convention, which must be ratified every
four years, is a treaty between Japan, Canada, the Soviet Union, and
the United States, that gives authority for a Commission to meet and
determine the level of seals to be harvested each year. The
Convention was first ratified during the late nineteenth century,
when the fur seal was faced with extinction, in order to ban the
"pelagic"——or open sea—~slaughter of fur seals. In exchange for
agreeing to the ban on open sea slaughter, Japan and Canada receive
a share of the U.S. harvest.

The United States has tried in past negotiations with these
other nations to extend the coverage of our Mammal Marine Protection
Act to the North Pacific fur seals; unfortunately, the other
countries of the Convention have refused to agree to such coverage.
In fact, these other nations—-Japan, in particular——are anxious to
remove the prohibitions contained in the Convention against the open
sea slaughter of fur seals.

It is necesary for the Convention to be reauthorized every four
years in order to enable the Commission to continue its work and to
extend the prohibition on the open sea slaughter; the Commission met
this past October to discuss the reauthorization of the Convention.
The report from the October meeting, called a "protocol," must be
approved by the Senate if the United States is to continue its
adherence to, and membership in, the North Pacific Fur Seal
Convention.

 




February 26, 1985
Page 2

The Senate will not receive the protocol from the Department of
State until mid-March. Upon receipt of the report, the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee will hold hearings and make
recommendations to the full Senate. When the North Pacific Fur Seal
Treaty comes to the Senate floor for consideration, please be
assured that I will remain committed to a sensible resolution to
this conflict.

I am pleased you apparently share my desire to see hasten the
day when the United States Government will no longer sanction the
slaughter of fur seals, when we protect them as a valuable natural
resource rather than senselessl' and brutally exploitino them as
another commodity.

18’:

Please accept my deep appreciation for taking the time to-
inform me of your views on this issue. I hope that you will not
hesitate to contact me again on this or any other matter of concern
to you.

Yours sincerely,

 




J0“ Hem ‘ QWnifeb gﬁafes $enafe C“'"'“_“‘ees‘
Pennsylvania 7 . Aging

@ - Finance

Banking, Housing and
U rban Affairs

Energy and Natural Resources

Washington, DC. 20510

June 14, 1983

Mr. Edward J. Blotzer
P.O. Box 8257
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15218

Dear Mr. Blotter:

Thank you for writing me concerning S. 49, the Alaska
National Hunting Bill.

S. 49, introduced by Senators Stevens and Murkowski,
would open 12 million acres of Alaskan land to sport hunting
and trapping through a reclassification of this land from
national park land to park preserve.

Proponents of S. 49 believe that because the land is
already open to hunting by Indians, it should be accessible
to all hunters. In addition, because so much of the Alaskan
land is not suitable for any type of hunting or trapping, and
because the designated 12 million acres of land represents
only one—third of the national park land in Alaska, it is
argued that this bill poses no threat to the future of the
Alaskan wilderness.

Opponents of S. 49, however, believe that this bill does
indeed pose a threat to the Alaska, as well as the nation's
entire wilderness system. They believe that the Alaskan
National Hunting Bill could pave the way for development by
oil and mining interests, and that it could also set a
dangerous precedent for hunting in national parks throughout
the United States. In addition. they believe this specific
bill is a premature attack on the environmental directives of
the Alaskan Lands Act of 1980.

1' Hearings on the Alaska National Hunting Bill were held
on April 22, 1983 by the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Reserved Water.

In view of the difficulty that was involved in forming the
compromise between hunting and environmental concerns on the
Alaska Lands Act of 1980, P.L. 96—487, I believe we must
proceed cautiously with S. 49. I am currently reviewing the
entire hearing records in preparation for the full committee
debate on S. 49. I assure you that I will keep your views in
mind during committee debate and final consideration.

 




June 14, 1983
Page 2

I welcome your comments, and hope you will continue to
contact me in the future on this or any other matter of
concern to you.

Yours sincerely,

n ted States Se

 




alg'z‘riiea ﬁlmies ﬁenais

‘h‘V'AYS 3'" i NC- ‘7 C- N . 3.2:. .'_OE:10

7.": ...,‘ r-n .7, W,“ In." ”H, *1: 0 par. @M .91. ,m VA" 'k
'E': ;: s 1114’», Lin L, balm:

tt Square, Pennsylvania
Mr. Albert:

Thank you for expressing your concern about the use of
‘Vanimals in labora ory research I share your concern

EILGLcS 1USL 08 made to n-11m11e anu elim1nate the pdi'i
ering, and fear that research animals exper1 enc e.

I will continue to support efforts to enhance the
development of alternative methods of research, as existing
evidence indicates that in many cases these alternative
procedures are cheaper, faster, and more reliable than the
methods which require the use of animals I feel that
continued reliance on animal experimentation will only delay
the development of new, more effective procedures, such as
mathematica models, tissue or cell cultures, simulated
tissues and body fluids, and computer simulations.

I appreciate knowing of your concerns in th; area and
will continue to work toward improving humane research
procedures. If I can be of any further a551 st anc to you
please don't hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely.

' [IA/Jﬁ Mix
éf$he Reins

nit d Sta
/

9

T
.L

 




JOh“ Hem Etnifeh ﬁfafee ﬁenafe “mm.“‘ees‘
Pennsylvania ' Aging

Finance

Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs

Energy and Natural Resources

r“ »
April 16. 1982 i «$7‘;

%

Washington, D.C. 20510

".é

,.

.. .3
“‘5“ a

Mrs. Betty Evans
102 Niagra Road i~
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15221

Dear Mrs. Evans:

_ H c. ontanting me if, ‘ concernm
about ‘1 ' ‘ e animals in 4 ;ory research. E‘
share yo i - that efforts must be made to minimize and
eliminate t‘ - ': suffering, and fear that research animals
experience.

I am pleased to inform you that I am cosponsoring a
Senate bill to encourage non-animal testing methods. I will
continue to support such efforts to enhance the development
of alternative methods of research. as existing evidence indi—
cates that in many cases these alternative procedures are
cheaper, faster, and more reliable than the methods which
require the use of animals. I feel that continued reliance
on animal experimentation will only delay the development of
new, more effective procedures, such as mathematical models,
tissue or cell cultures, simulated tissues and body fluids,
and computer simulations.

I appreciate knowing of your concerns in this area and I
will continue to work toward improving humane research
procedures. If I can be of any further assistance to you
please don't hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely,

 




QWnifeb ${aies $01111“

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 10, 1981

Mrs. Pat Kelly
P.O. Box 8257
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15218

Dear Mrs. Kelly:

Thank you for contacting me expressing your concern
about the use of live animals in laboratory research. I
share your concern that efforts must be made to minimize and
eliminate the pain, suffering, and fear that research animals
experience.

I am pleased to inform you that I am cosponsoring a
Senate bill to encourage non-animal testing methods. I will
continue to support such efforts to enhance the development
of alternative methods of research, as existing evidence indi-
cates that in many cases these alternative procedures are
cheaper, faster, and more reliable than the methods which
require the use of animals. I feel that continued reliance
on animal experimentation will only delay the development of
new, more effect1ve procedures, such as mathematical models,
tissue or celI Cultures, simulated tissues and body fluids,
and computer 51mulations.

I appreciate knowing of your concerns in this area and I
will continue to work toward improving humane research
procedures. If I can be of any further assistance to you
please don't hesitate to cont act me. -

Yours sincerely,

John Heinz
United Stat Senate

 




QJCnifeh ﬁfafeea facade

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

April 27, 1977

Mr. & Mrs. C. A. Pfleegor, Jr.
l2h5 Louisa St.
Williamsport, PA 17701

Dear Mr. & Mrs. Pfleegor:

Thank you for contacting me in support of legislation to protect
our wildlife. I share your concern, and want to let you know of current
activities in this important area.

As you are probably aware, there has been a great deal of controversy
surrounding the Commerce Department's enfbrcement of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, a bill which I strongly supported while serving in the
House of Representatives.

Environmentalists have become increasingly alarmed at the large numbers
of porpoises which were allowed to be killed incidental to tuna fishing in
accordance with the Commerce Department's regulations. As a result Of this
widespread public criticism and court intervention, the Department has
issued stringent new regulations, effective this month, to sharply reduce
the killing of porpoises in tuna fishing.

You may also be interested to know that the Senate Commerce Committee
recently held hearings on the need to strengthen the Marine Mammal Protection
Act to provide greater safeguards for our oceanic wildlife.

In a related area, legislation has been introduced, S. 212, to amend the
Pittman—Robertson Act, a wildlife protection measure. 8. 212 would prohibit
the use of federal taxes for habitat manipulation and hunter training, while
encouraging ecolOgical research and the purchase of federal wildlife refuges.
S. 212 is now awaiting action by the Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee.

I want you to know that I remain committed to protecting our wildlife,
and that I will continue to closely follow the progress of each of these bills,
keeping in mind your personal interest and concern.

Best wishes.

Sin erely,

ohn Heinz III, U.S

 




”Etniieb .gﬁafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

October 7, 1980

Mr. H. A. Downing
1129 Termon Avenue
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212

Dear Mr. Downing:

Thank you for contacting me expressing your concern
about the use of live animals in laboratory research. I
share your concern that efforts must be made to minimize and
eliminate the pain, suffering, and fear that research animals
experience.

I support efforts to investigate the continued develop—
ment of alternative methods of research, as existing evidence
indicates that in many cases these alternative procedures are
cheaper, faster, and more reliable than the methods which
require the use of animals. I feel that continued reliance
on animal experimentation will only delay the development of
new, more effective procedures, such as mathematical models,
tissue or cell cultures, simulated tissues and.body fluids,
and computer simulations.

As a result of the rising consciousness over the plight
of research animals and what appears to be a lag in the
adoption of such technological advancements, the House of
Representatives has asked the National Institutes of Health
to hold a symposium to determine the "state of the art" of
alternatives to live animal research. I feel that reviewing
the strengths and limitations of animal research in this way
will prove helpful to both the scientific community at large
and to the congressional investigative committees. This
symposium is tentatively scheduled for this fall, and the
analysis of data gathered here will serve as a basis for
further congressional action.

At present, there are three measures before the House
which concern the use of live animals in research. These
are: ~

—- H.R. 6847, a bill introduced by Representative
,Schroeder on March 18, 1980, amends the Animal Welfare Act.

 




Mr. H. A. Downing
October 7, 1980
Page 2

In this act, the definition of pain is broadened to include
not only hurtful immediate physical sensations, but debili-
tation and significant physical or behavioral distress. The
act is intended to minimize the pain inflicted on research
animals by requiring that certain methods determined to
produce less suffering be utilized by research facilities
using live animals for research, testing, teaching, or for
the production of medical or veterinary products. The estab-
lishment of an advisory committee will be required to ensure
the humane treatment of the animals used in these
laboratories. Criminal penalties would be imposed on those
found violating the Animal Welfare Act. This bill has been
referred jointly to the Science and Technology, Agriculture,
and Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committees in the House.

-— H.R. 4805, the Research Modernization Act, introduced
to the House on July 16, 1979, by Representative Richmond,
would establish a National Center for Alternative Research.
The purpose of this Center would be the development and
coordination of alternative research and training methods

which do not involve the use of live animals. The prime
objective of this legislation is the elimination of dupli—
cation and unnecessary research on live animals where
feasible alternatives exist.

-— H.R. 4479, the Protection of Animals in Research Act,
was introduced June 14, 1979, by Representative Weiss. This
act establishes a commission to study and evaluate the
effects of laboratory research and testing using, methods
other than live animals.

I support efforts to improve the development of humane
research procedures which take into account modern research
techniques. I would appreciate knowing of your concerns in
this area.

 




Mr. H. A. Downing
October 7, 1980
Page 3

Once again, I want to thank you for taking the time to
write. As your Senator I need to know your views, and I hope
that you will continue to write to me about any other issues
of concern to you or your community.

Yours sincerely,

‘\.
.
N

 




PAULA HAWKINS
FLORIDA

wfniieb ﬁfafes SJenafe

WASH l NGTON. D.C. 20510

May 18, 1981

E. Rugg
Route 5, Box 3lA
Fort Myers, Florida 33901

Dear Friend:

Thank you for your letter concerning several issues of
importance to you.

As you know, the Marine Mammal Protection Act seeks to

protect marine mammals and their habitats. The bill will

be brought up for reauthorization during this Congress,

and hearings have been held by the relevant committees in

each house. Depending upon what reauthorization period is
Specified, some attempts to amend the measure could also occur.
Because this act has a vital effect on the protection of

marine mammals, it will receive my careful attention. At

this time I am favorably inclined towards its reauthorization.

While many others agree with your position on abortion, I

must inform you that I support a Human Life Amendment. AlthOugh
this is my firm stance on this issue, I appreciate hearing

your thoughts and hope that our divergent positions on this
issue do not prevent our working together on other areas of
mutual concern.

With reference to your final inquiry, gun control is an

issue which I feel is most appropriately and effectively dealt
with at the state level. While gun control is one proposal

for dealing with our rising crime rates, I do not feel that it
alone can effectively deter criminals. Rather, we must streng—
then law enforcement and impose stiffer sentences on convicted
criminals if we are to halt this violent trend.

Thank you again for sharing your concerns with me, andgpleaSe
keep in touch.

United States Senator

 




QICnifeb ﬁfafes $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 30, 1981

Ms. Carol McCulchean
1317 Placid Palce
Jacksonville, Florida 32205

Dear Carol:

Thank you for your letter concerning the humane treatment
of animals.

Heightened public awareness has led to several recent and
promising develOpments in this area. Revlon has committed
750,000 dollars to an independent effort to develOp non—
animal testing procedures. On the government level, the
Environmental Protection Agency has placed a freeze on in-
house use of the Draize rabbit eye irritancy test. The
Senate is currently considering a resolution which pro-
poses that resources be devoted to develOping alternative
testing procedures for the Draize test. A bill which
would establish a National Center for Alternative Research
has been introduced in the House of Representatives and re-
ferred to the House Committee on Science and Technology.
Measures to establish a natural refuge for the harp seal
and prohibit the manufacture and sale of_the leg-hold trap
are also pending in Congress.

Although a certain degree of medical testing mandates the
use of live animals, any feasible alternatives to such
practices merit investigation. These prOposals, as well

as other legislation dealing with the preservation of en-
dangered species and humane animal treatment, will receive,
my careful consideration.

Thank you again for your comments and concern. Please
keep in touch.

Sincerely,

Paula Hawkins’
United States Senator

PH/CZIn

 




PAULA HAWKINS
FLORIDA

WCnifeh ibfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

July 20, 1981

Mrs. P. W. Sliker
29320 La. Rd.
Leisure City, Florida

Dear Mrs. Sliker:

Thank you for your letter concerning legislation affecting
our nation's wildlife.

The Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 would prohibit interstate
or foreign trade in any animal or plant which was protected
in the state or foreign country in which it was taken. This
bill has been favorably reported from committee and could
come before the full Senate at any time. I share your desire

to stem illegal trade in wildlife and will give this and related
1 eg i S l a t iO n my eve ry con 5 id e ra t io n . . .. , ,. , ,.

Your des1re to lim1t the spending of federal funds on recrea-
tional activities is a valid one. I support all intelligent
efforts to curb government spending and will carefully study any
initiatives in this regard.

Thank you again for your interest, and please keep in touch.
Sincerely,

Q22...

// Paula Hawkins ;
UnitedetateSESenator

. . ,.v,()"’
’ ’N‘Imvrw vwml.‘

 




. PAULA HAWKINS
FLORIDA

alfniich 31.1.1122; ﬁcnaie

WASHINGTON. DHC 20510

February 15, 1984

Esther-Lin Black
525 Maxwell Street
Charleston, West Virginia 25311

Dear Esther:

Thank you for expressing to me your views about the steel-jaw
leghold trap. I appreciate hearing your objections to the use of
these traps. '

Understanding the concerns of my constituents is an important
part of my job here in Washington. Your communication is
essential if I am to represent the people of Florida fairly and
accurately. I appreciate your contacting me. Please be assured

’ that I will keep your views in mind as I consider related
legislation in the 98th Congress.

Thank you for your interest.‘ Don t heSitate to contact me again
about matters of concern to you.

Sincerely,

/ 4
[W

Paula Hawkins 1/2L4’&52144
United States Senator

 




PAULA HAWKINS
FLORIDA

Qlc'nifcb ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

September 25, 1984

Mrs. Fasano
633 Unabelle Street
Holly Hill, Florida 32017

Dear Mrs. Fasano:

Thank you for advising me of your concern over the proposed deer
hunt at Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge.

The Loxahatchee refuge is owned by the State of Florida, and
managed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. The
State requested the hunt, and both state and federal wildlife
biologists have certified that the deer herd on the refuge will
not be adversely impacted. They have made a similar finding with
respect to any endangered species which might be present on the.
refuge. These findings have been upheld by the courts.

The people of Florida years ago established the Game and Fresh—
water Fish Commission as a constitutional agency to make
decisions about Florida's fish and game from a professional
standpoint. The Congress, recognizing its general lack of
expertise in the field of wildlife management, similarly created
the Fish and Wildlife Service. I would be extremely reluctant to
interfere in a matter where both agencies were in agreement, and
particularly so when the courts have already examined the
decision.

Accordingly, while I share your feelings over the shooting of
individual deer, I do not see any justification for Congressional
intervention in the matter. You may be assured that I will
continue to monitor the situation closely, and I will review my
decision if circumstances change.

Sincerely,

Paula Hawkinsﬁf
United StatesfSenator

if}

,.
,. ,i
“W.“-

 




