THE BLOEMFONTEIN HOSPITAL FIASGO.

 

 

The following Letter appeared in the Westminster Gazette.
July 6th :—

Sir,—One reason why the War Ofﬁce failed to make proper
provision against an epidemic of fever in South Africa seems
obvious enough. As Mr. Winston Churchill remarks; “No
system of inoculation against bullet wounds has yet been in-
vented ” ; so our Government, misled by no vain hopes, provided
good surgical care for our wounded soldiers. But it was asserted
conﬁdently by the bacteriological clique, on whom Government
implicitly relies on all matters, that a serum had been discovered
which secured immunity against Fever; so the War Ofﬁce
ordered 40,000 doses of it from the Professor at Netley (who,
as Mr. Wyndham told Mr. Pease, had the “ credit ” of suggesting
its use), and, having allowed the inoculating doctors to harangue
Tommy Atkins on all the transports and persuade him to be
inoculated, it was, perhaps, considered that all had been done
which was necessary to avert danger. At all events less anxiety
to provide against enteric and typhoid was probably felt than
would have been had there been no delusive promises of
immunity by inoculation. And, as there was to be no fever,
there was no need to take advantage of the advice or help of
older and wiser physicians, or of Lord Wantage’s oﬁers. The
scientiﬁc gentlemen were, of course, enchanted to try their new
nostrum on the huge scale of an Army; and everybody else was
snubbed and put aside. The soldiers did “volunteer” as
Mr. Wyndham boasted in the House; and endured the pain
and sickness following the inoculations, as they would have
volunteered,——poor brave fellows l—to do anything else recom-
mended to them by their doctors and chiefs; and the upshot
has been,—-What Mr. Burdett Coutts saw at Bloemfontein !

The Medical Press and Circular of June 20th, grudgingly,
confesses that the serum has proved a failure; and that “the
hope of having at last discovered a means of affording immunity
against the fell disease must be abandoned; ” while the Court
Journal, June 30th, justly remarks: “ Great and needless pain
has been inﬂicted upon our soldiers absolutely for nothing, for
enteric has been as prevalent in the present campaign as ever it
was, and has carried oﬁ more men than have fallen to the
bullets of the enemy.” Surely Parliament should now face the
question ; “By what right did the Government sanction all this
colossal gambling with the lives of our soldiers? ” Is the
British War Ofﬁce a department of State maintained, inter
(did, for the Advancement of Science by Experiment ? Has it
any mandate to use our soldiers, as, (what German doctors call.
the wretched patients in their Hospitals) Versuchtsthierc,——
“Animals for Research? ” If it have no such business, let it
explain how it came to give (as the Medical Press says) “per-
mission to the experimental and voluntary application of the
method to soldiers going to the front; ” and over and above such
“ permission,” to supply serum for at least 40,000 inoculations ‘2

In any case it is to be hoped that the lesson of this great burst-
bubble of Serum Inoculations will be universally understood.
We have once more, and on a still more disastrous scale, the
story of Koch’s imaginary cure (by similar inoculations) for
Consumption. Another “ Sedan of Science! ”

FRANCES POWER COBBE.
July 5th, 1900.

 




