SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

January 14, 1991

Dear Friends,

As long-time supporters and adherents to the principles of
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, you are aware
of our distinguished record of achievement in the formulation
of laws to protect animals. The enclosed folder documents
the bills we have helped pass. It is a simple statement of
fact, not a boast, that we have been instrumental in the
passage of sound animal legislation, far out of proportion to
our size and resources»

Having said that, we want to begin the year by reminding you
that you are our sole support. We receive no grants, private
or public. We can only continue to function with your good
help. Will you open your hearts in 1991 by contributing to
the further protection of animals through legislation? For
we live in a time of soaring costs, and our modest income
simply does not meet our needs.

Our greatest need is for generous contributions to mount two
major campaigns against the steel jaw leghold trap. One must
be carried out in Brussels, Belgium, seat of the European
Community (EC), comprising fourteen nations, the other, in
our country, to pass Congressman Scheuer's bill to end the
use of the steel jaw leghold trap.

The enclosed letter tells how you can help to get action on
the Scheuer bill.

In the EC, we have made important progress. Due, in no small
part, to SAPL's effective efforts, the European Parliament
has passed a Regulation to abolish importation of the
majority of wild furs from countries that have not banned the
trap. The Regulation is now pending before the European
Council and Commission, for final action. We must work hard
against entrenched opposition and, in-addition, endeavor to
move the date to 1992 from 1995.

This work will be expensive in terms of time and money. When
you are considering your contribution, please remember the
vast numbers of animals struggling and slowly dying in
leghold traps which are so brutal, and, so unnecessary.

Remember that gifts to SAPL cannot be deducted from your
taxes, so that every dollar you send us is a true gift of
love and compassion. We hope the New Year will be filled
with hope and promise for you and yours. Helping animals by
ending the use of this terrible trap can make it much richer
and more significant.

With our best wishes,
Sincerely,
j>jh094L¢£Lb¢“4L‘ ééitan‘44€;uJZA~o
Madeleine Bemelmans
President

 




The Work of The Society for Animal Protective
Legislation from 1955, When Only Two Federal Laws
to Protect Animals Existed, to 1986, when Fourteen

Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was
founded at the time of the introduction of the first
federal bill to require humane slaughter of animals.
Till then, humane organizations had had little
success in obtaining needed federal legislation
because they spent most of their efforts in caring for
lost and stray animals, and they were concerned
about losing their tax-exempt status if they did much
work on legislation. Until 1977, United States law
specified that an organization could not retain such

status if it spent a “substantial” amount on lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation registered under the Federal
Lobbying Act and devoted its efforts entirely to
passage of needed laws. From 1955 on, it worked
intensively to obtain enactment of the following
major federal legislation:

1958: The first federal Humane Slaughter Act
was passed, requiring all packers selling to
the US. government to provide
anesthetization, mechanical or electrical
instant stunning prior to slaughter for all
animals in all their plants except for kosher
slaughter. The law covered 80% of animals
slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening and
strengthening of the law.)

The Wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits
poisoning of waterholes where wild horses
and burros drink and use of aircraft to
round the horses up for sale to
slaughterhouses.

The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was
passed (after years of work). It set minimum
standards of care and housing of dogs, cats,
primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in
the premises of animal dealers and
laboratories and identification of dogs and

cats to prevent theft. Dealers are licensed,
laboratories registered. (See 1970, 1976, and
1985 for broadening and strengthening of the
law.)

The Endangered Species Act was passed,
providing for listing by the Secretary of
Interior of Threatened Species and
Endangered Species and prohibiting
importation of the latter for commercial
purposes. (See 1973 for strengthening of the
law.)

A measure to prohibit soring of Tennessee
Walking Horses for show purposes was
passed. (See 1976 for amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protection of the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act to all

species of warm-blooded animals, throughout
their stay in the laboratory and in the
wholesale pet and exhibition trades as well,
was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress. The bill was renamed “Animal
Welfare Act.”

A law was passed to provide a criminal
penalty for shooting animals and birds from
aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses was
passed.

Resolutions passed by both Houses of
Congress requested the Secretary of State

to call for a ten-year international
moratorium on commercial whaling.

Based on the adoption of the 1971
resolutions, the United States delegation to
the Stockholm Conference on the Human
Environment proposed the moratorium on
commercial whaling, and it was adopted by a

53-0 vote.

an,

Ea! .i l 1.4. .{l

 




 

1973:

1974:

1975:

The Society worked for passage of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act, which prohibits

killing, taking or harassing of any marine
mammal without a permit and bans importation
of any part or product of a nursing marine
mammal or its mother. It sets the goal of zero
mortality or serious injury rate for dolphins
caught incidental to tuna purse seining. (For
extension of the law’s jurisdiction, see 1976.)

Resolutions in the House and Senate calling
for international protection of polar bears
were passed.

An amendment giving the Department of the
Interior power to enforce the law providing a
criminal penalty for shooting at animals from
aircraft was passed.

Prohibition of Poisoning of Predators on
Public Lands was passed by the House but not
by the Senate.

US. action to protect endangered species
was greatly strengthened: ( 1) the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora was concluded in
Washington after 92 nations took part in a
three-week conference; (2) to conform with
the requirements of the Convention, the
Endangered Species Act was strengthened and
broadened.

Hearings were held against the poisoning of
predators on the public lands.

A bill which included authorization of
funds for research on methods of animal birth
control was passed by the House and Senate
but vetoed by the President; nine days of
hearings were held on legislation to regulate
air shipment of animals; oversight hearings
were held in the Senate to strengthen the

Horse Protection Act. Continued efforts
were made to enact legislation against the

poisoning of predators. The Executive Order
banning predator poisoning on public lands

was threatened and had to be forcefully
defended.

The Executive Order on predator poisoning
was modified to provide for experimental use
of cyanide with a view to developing a cyanide
collar for sheep to kill only predators
actually attacking sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to restrict
the cruel steel jaw leghold trap and on a
bill to invoke economic sanctions against
whalers. The Senate passed a bill
substantially strengthening the Horse
Protection Act of 1970.

1976:

The Animal Welfare Act was broadened to
(1) regulate carriers, intermediate handlers,
and animal brokers, requiring them to adhere
to humane standards; (2) specify that all
dogs—including dogs for hunting, security,
or breeding purposes—be protected by the
Act; (3) prohibit C.O.D. transportation of
animals unless the shipper guarantees payment
of round-trip fare and costs for care of
animals not claimed at destination. Also,
animals cannot be transported at an age less
than the Secretary permits; and dealers,
exhibitors, auction sale operators, and
Federal, State and Local agencies are
required to obtain a veterinarian’s certificate
before delivering animals for transportation
affecting commerce; (4) extend the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate
handlers and carriers and authorize a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation of
the humane standards; (5) impose a uniform
civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all persons
regulated under the statute, and eliminate
the requirement that the Secretary issue a
cease-and-desist order before imposing a civil
penalty on research facilities; (6) make it a
crime punishable by fine and imprisonment
knowingly to sponsor, participate in,
transport in interstate commerce, or use the
mails to promote fights between dogs or other
mammals or between cocks, except where state
law permits it; (7) require all government
agencies—including the Army, Air Force, and
National Institutes of Health—using
laboratory animals to prove that they are
fully in compliance with the Act.

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill, providing
protection for a species found only in parts

of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972
was amended to increase its coverage from 12
to 200 miles, consistent with the new
200-mile—limit law extending U.S. jurisdiction.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was
revamped, civil fines being increased from
$1,000 to $2,000 for each offense, and
criminal penalties raised from a maximum fine
for first offenders of $2,000 and/ or a six-
month jail term to a maximum $3,000 and/ or
a year in jail. A second criminal offense can be
penalized by a fine up to $5,000 and/ or two
years in jail. Other sections provide:

authority for the US. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal equipment
as evidence for trial; authority for USDA to
detain a horse for 24 hours for further
examination; power to subpoena non-




1978:

1979:

1980:

 

government witnesses in civil cases; penalties
for assaulting, intimidating or interfering with
federal agents; penalties for knowingly
making false reports or entering a horse in a
show under a false name. Authorization for
funding was increased.

The Federal Humane Slaughter Act was
significantly improved by requiring that all
animals slaughtered for meat imported into
the US. be humanely slaughtered. Foreign
packers importing to this country must meet
standards equal to those required of US.
packers. Further, the Federal Meat Inspection
Act was amended for all federally-inspected
plants to empower the inspectors to stop the
slaughtering line on the spot if any cruelty is
observed. Slaughtering may not recommence
until deficiencies, whether of equipment or of
abuses by personnel, are corrected. The
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
played a major role in obtaining enactment of
this legislation, which had been pending for
years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was
amended on the Senate floor to authorize use
of funds for research on animal birth

control, but the US. Department of
Agriculture failed to make use of the funds.

The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to the
International Fishery Conservation and
Management Act was passed, providing
important protection for whales and other sea
creatures. The amendment cuts a nation’s fish
allocation by 50% on certification by the
Secretary of Commerce that a nation has not
lived up to the Act. All allocations would be
stopped in a year if such nation persisted in its
violation, thus providing a powerful incentive
for whaling nations to adhere to rulings of
the International Whaling Commission.
Terrestrial as well as marine animals were
included in the embargo sanctions of the
Pelly Amendment of the 1967 Fisherman’s
Protective Act. All threatened or
endangered species are covered in the new
amendment so the President can embargo all
wildlife products from any nation that
diminishes the effectiveness of an international
wildlife conservation agreement such as the
Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
The House of Representatives passed the
Elephant Protection Act by unanimous
consent and sent it to the Senate.

Amendments to the Lacey Act making this
1912 statute enforceable and increasing

1981:

1982:

1985:

penalties for willful importation of wildlife
obtained illegally in a foreign country or
transported illegally across state lines were
passed by the House and approved by the
Senate Committee on Environment and Public
Works, but blocked by the objection of
individual Senators.

Hearings were held on an International
Wildlife Protection Bill introduced as an
amendment to the Elephant Protection Act
but despite support at the hearings by every
organization except the ivory dealers’ lobby,
the bill was blocked.

The enforcement provisions of the Lacey
Act were substantially strengthened.
Violation of the Lacey Act now carries
penalties of a maximum fine of $20,000 and/ or
5 years imprisonment for each violation of the

Act.

The Elephant Protection Act died without
action.

The Endangered Species Act was reauthorized
after a vigorous battle with special interests
who tried, for the most part unsuccessfully,

to weaken it.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act was
reauthorized.

The Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act passed unanimously. The new law
which amends the Animal Welfare Act is
designed to minimize animal pain and distress.

It establishes an information service in the
National Agricultural Library in cooperation
with the National Library of Medicine to
provide data on alternatives to laboratory
animals, help prevent unintended duplication
of experiments and tests, and provide
information to institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane
practices as required by the new law.

Each registered research facility must appoint
an institutional animal committee including a
veterinarian and a person unaffiliated with it
to represent the general community interests
in the proper care and treatment of animals.
The committee must inspect the animal
laboratories twice a year and report
deficiencies to the institution for correction.
If not corrected promptly, the US.
Department of Agriculture must be notified
for enforcement action, and any funding
agency involved informed for a decision on
whether the grant should be suspended or
revoked.

 




Investigators are required to consider
alternatives and to consult with a

veterinarian before beginning any experiment
which could cause pain They must adhere to
standards set by the Secretary ofl

Agriculture for pre— and post- -surgical care,
use of pain relieving drugs or euthanasia,
against use of paralytics without anesthesia,
and unnecessary use of the same animal for
more than one major operation.

Exceptions to the standards may be made only
when specified by a research protocol and an
explanation given for any deviation. Fines for
violations were raised from $1,000 to $2,500
and from $500 to $1,500.

The Society is working for the enactment of a bill to
end the use of steel-jaw leghold traps.

Of the existing laws to protect animals, twelve were
passed since the founding of the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation and, to a large extent, because

of the Society’s work. The two previously enacted
laws are the 1906 “28-hour Law” protecting

livestock shipped by rail, and the 1948 law
authorizing the US. Customs to prosecute shippers
of animals if they fail to maintain reasonable humane
standards. These two dates and the 42 years between
them speak for themselves of the lack of action on
legislation to protect animals before the founding of
the Society.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation

prepares information for use by members of Congress
and their staffs. It sends circular letters to a large
mailing list of individuals interested in animal

protective legislation, informing them of ways in

which they may help, principally by writing to members
of Congress or other government officials and to the
editors of newspapers.

The Society needs your help to continue its essential
work. If you believe in protection of animals by law,
please give generously.

Society For Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719, Washington, D.C. 20007

(202) 337-2332

 

 

,WAMING

Home

CaesSrNo

 

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals. Please add my name to your mailing list.

Enclosed is my contribution of $

 

. (Not deductible in computing income tax because the Society for

Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

Name

 

Address

 

City

 

Zip Code

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O.Box3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334

IMPORTANT CALL TO ACTION!
January 14, 1991
To: Humanitarians
From: Christine Stevens, Secretary

The steel jaw leghold trap continues to slam closed upon
victim after victim, whether raccoon, fox, beaver, domestic
dog or cat, songbird, raptor or swan. All suffer
excruciating pain. Broken teeth from frantic biting at the
hard steel, torn ligaments and fractured bones result from
the frenzied struggle to escape, but freedom can be gained
only when an animal chews off his own foot.

Congressman James Scheuer
(D,NY), leader in the fight to
end the use of the steel jaw
leghold trap, will reintroduce
his bill in the new session of
Congress. It's important that
many of his colleagues join now
as original co—sponsors to make
a strong showing for the bill.

 

You can help sy writing today
to your own Representative, as
$511 as any others from your
state, asking that he/she co-
sponsor this essential humane
legislation. To be listed as
original co—sponsors they
should call Carrie Chernov in
Congressman Scheuer's office
promptly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All letters to Representatives may be addressed:
House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515

If you don't know your Representative's name, call your local
library or this office.

Thank you very much for your efforts on behalf of all
innocent victims of steel jaw traps.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

(202) 337-2332

AIMS AND PROGRAMS OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951 by a group of persons interested in the
promotion of humane treatment of animals, and incorporated as a non-profit organization
under the laws of Delaware. lts interests and membership are nationwide. Its purpose is to
promote the welfare of all animals and to reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on animals
by man.

Major aims of the Institute are:

0 Humane treatment of laboratory animals and the development and
use of non-animal testing methods wherever possible.
The preservation of species threatened by extinction.
Reform of cruel methods of trapping wild animals.
Prevention of cruel experiments on animals by untrained youths.
Reform of cruel methods of raising food animals in “factory farms.”

To achieve its goals, the Institute:

(1) studies the current practices governing the handling and use of laboratory animals;
numbers, types of animals and sources; Federal, State and local legislation involving
treatment of animals or their procurement; and methods whereby animal suffering may be
minimized and numerical requirements reduced;

(2) studies current methods used in commercial exploitation of animals, including trapping
for fur, intensive livestock husbandry, tuna fishing, the pet trade and other animal dealer
activities including international smuggling of live animals, ivory, and other wildlife
products —— in order to institute reforms;

(3) publishes and distributes The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly to members, public
libraries, Deans of medical and veterinary medical schools, humane societies, and
thousands ofveterinarians, teachers, scientists and administrators who ask to receive them;

(4) distributes free and inexpensive materials on the subject of animal welfare to research
institutions, libraries, humane societies, teachers and individuals interested in animal welfare;

(5) publishes books and manuals on different phases of animal welfare, some free to

members of special groups who can put them directly to use helping animals, to others
at cost;

(6) provides representation, speakers and exhibits at important meetings and conventions;
(7) awards the Schweitzer Medal and $1,000 each year for outstanding achievement in the
advancement of animal welfare.

The Institute supports the good work done by other organizations and strives for professional
and public acceptance of the best in animal welfare.

Attached is a listing of educational materials available from AWI and a leaflet describing the

work of a companion organization which is devoted to obtaining legislation, the Society of
Animal Protective Legislation.

 




Oe

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

The entire program of the Animal Welfare Institute depends on
contributions from individuals, organizations or firms who desire
to see the continued protection of all animals. This is the sole
aim of the Institute and we earnestly solicit your financial
support.

All contributions and dues are tax deductible.

I want to become a non-voting member of the Animal Welfare
Institute and enclose a check or money order for the following
category:

l:l LIFE $100.00 I: SUSTAINING $10.00
B ASSOCIATE $ 2500 IS CONTRIBUTING $ 5.00

D My check includes the amount for the category checked
above plus an additional contribution

All members will receive the quarterly Information Report

Cl Please send me information about procedures which can be
used to give the Institute a gift of investments or property or
about naming the Institute beneficiary in a will.

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute’s latest annual report
filed with the New York State Board of Social Welfare is
available upon written request to the Institute at the address on
the masthead, or to the New York State Board of Social
Welfare, Office Tower. Empire State Plaza, Albany.

NY‘ 12223.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 PHONE: 202-337-2332

 

 

YES, I WOULD LIKE TO ORGANIZE A DEMONSTRATION. I BELIEVE I CAN EF-
FECTIVELY DISTRIBUTE SAVE THE WHALES LEAFLETS,

 

BUTTONS, POSTERS, BUMPER STICKERS,

 

 

 

TIONS. I EXPECT THE DEMONSTRATION TO TAKE PLACE ON

 

(date)

 

(place)

§'4 s'; s'o s'; s'; s'; "a s'o s" 5'4 §" y'u s'a s'p §'; §'5 s'a s" s“ §Ia
l\ l\ l\ l\ I\ I\ l\ I\ I\ l\ I\ l\ l\ l\ I\ l\ I\ l\ l\ l\

I REGRET I AM UNABLE TO ORGANIZE A DEMONSTRATION, BUT WOULD LIKE TO
CONTRIBUTE S TO HELP PAY FOR MORE NEWSPAPER ADVERTISEMENTS,

 

AND FOR MATERIALS TO USE AT DEMONSTRATIONS.

t\ I\ l\ l\ l\ l\ t\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ as l\ 4\ (\ l\ l\ l\ I\

Note: The necessary number of leaflets, buttons, petitions, posters,
and bumper stickers will be sent free of charge to persons who let
us know they are organizing a demonstration.

l\ 4\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ t\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ 4\ as as l\ I\

Name

 

Address

 

ZIP CODE

 

 

My phone number is

 

(area code)

as l\ l\ 4\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\ l\

Remarks and/or Questions:

 




 

  

HOW TO ORGANIZE A DEMONSTRATION TO SAVE THE WHALES

 

Demonstrations can be large or small. These directions are intended
for a modest but effective event which can be repeated several times.
It can be expanded, if the group wishes, to a large march, but we
recommend simplicity and frequency.

A group of six or more willing workers is needed. One automobile,
preferably a station wagon, to carry signs, card tables, folding
chairs, petitions, clip-boards and leaflets must be available.

To make sure that you are complying with all local regulations,
telephone the Police Precinct where you plan to hold the demonstra-
tion, tell them your plans, and, if necessary, apply for a permit.
In New York and Washington, D. C., no permit is required for a
sidewalk demonstration.

Choose a good location in front of a Japanese or Soviet establishment
(for example, Japan Air Lines) or a busy shopping center.

Decide on a date or dates and times when all six of you and, when
possible, additional friends and acquaintances are free. The middle
of the morning to the middle of the afternoon is generally best.
Phone your local news media to tell them your plans.

Hang around the neck of each demonstrator an Animal Welfare Institute
"Save the Whales — Boycott Japanese and Russian Goods" poster or make
signs of your own. Make the message brief and clear, for example,
"Stop the Whale Killers — Boycott Japanese and Russian Goods." If
you can create a big whale to attract attention, that is helpful, but
not necessary. Each group can devise its own special means of focus—
ing on the plight of the great whales.

On the morning of the demonstration, phone the Police Precinct again
and take the name of the officer with whom you speak so you can give
it to any other officer who may request it.

If possible, park your car at the curb where you will demonstrate,
take out the materials, attaching petition forms to the clip-boards
and spreading them over the tables so there is room for several people
to sign the petitions at the same time.

Two people should stand and walk a few yards to the right of the
tables, two to the left, offering whale leaflets to passersby and
inviting them to help save the whales by signing the petitions. The
greatest courtesy should be used in seeking support. ("Excuse me" or
"How do on do, Sir, would you sign our petition to help save the
whales?"§ It is important that the demonstrators present a friendly,
kindly, and neat appearance to obtain maximum cooperation from the
public. Needless to say, only peaceful, orderly and lawful demon-
strations should be undertaken. Law-breaking of any kind, or even
rudeness, will only hurt the cause of the whales. Urge those who
are too hurried to stop to write the letters to Japanese and Russian
companies, as suggested on the leaflets. Such letters are of great
importance and should be encouraged at every opportunity.

 

Be sure that all Japanese passersby receive the leaflet, for their
letters will be of particular importance. We need the help of
Japanese conservationists in changing their government's policies
on whaling.

If the leaflets are dropped, pick them_up, to avoid littering.

Offer buttons, posters, and bumper stickers at the tables where
people stop to sign.

GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR DEMONSTRATION! PLEASE KEEP US INFORMED OF YOUR
PLANS AND THE RESULTS YOU HAVE. THANKS FOR YOUR HELP FOR THE WHALES!




JV

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951 by a group of
persons interested in the promotion of humane treatment of
animals, and incorporated as a non-profit organization under
the laws of Delaware. Its interests and membership are nation-
wide. Its purpose is to promote the welfare of all animals and
to reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by
man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of animal wel-
fare, a major concern is humane safeguards in the use of animals
for research and medicine. On the problem of laboratory animals,
the Institute has the following aims:

Care: ’The establishment of a code for the handling and use
of all species of laboratory animals and the full enforcement
of existing laws on this subject.

Research and Testing: The encouragement of medical research
of the highest possible quality, as opposed to mere quantity.
and the development and use of non-animal methods wherever
possible.

Other major aims of the Institute are:

oThe preservation of species threatened by extinction.
-Prevention of cruel experiments on animals by untrained
youths.

°Reform of cruel methods of raising food animals in
"factory farms."

°Reform of cruel methods of trapping wild animals.

To achieve its goals, the Institute:

(1) studies the-current practices governing the handling

 




and use of laboratory animals; numbers, types of animals
and sources; Federal, State and local legislation involving
treatment of animals or their procurement; and methods
whereby animal suffering may be minimized and numerical
requirements reduced;

(2) studies current methods used in commercial exploitation
of animals, including trapping for fur, intensive livestock
husbandry, tuna fishing, the pet trade and other animal
dealer activities including international smuggling of live
animals, ivory, and other wildlife products-~in order to
institute reforms;

(3) publishes and distributes quarterly Information Reports
to members, public libraries, Deans of Medical and Veterinary
Medical Schools, humane societies, and thousands of veteri-
narians, teachers, scientists and administrators Who ask to
receive them;

(4) distributes free and inexpensive materials on the sub-
ject of animal welfare to research institutions, public
libraries, humane societies, teachers and individuals
interested in animal welfare;

(5) publishes books and manuals on different phases of animal
welfare, some free to members of special groups who can put
them directly to use helping animals, to others at cost;

(6) provides representation, speeches and exhibits at impor—
tant meetings and conventions;

(7) awards the Schweitzer Medal and $1,000 each year for
outstanding achievement in the advancement of animal welfare.

The Institute supports the good work done by other organizations
and strives for professional and public acceptance of the best in
animal welfare.

Attached is a listing of educational materials available from AWI
and a leaflet describing the work of a sister organization which

is devoted to obtaining legislation, the Society for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, n.c. 20007

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478

December 6, 1990

Dear Member:

1990 brought major progress for animals on whose behalf AWI has
been fighting for decades: creatures caught by the loathsomely
cruel steel jaw leghold trap, dolphins drowned and mutilated in
tuna purse seines, and many other small cetaceans unprotected
from relentless intentional killing. With your support, we'll
continue to fight and follow up each success, and we'll battle
for laboratory animals, animals in factory farms, and birds
cruelly captured and sent halfway round the world for the
commercial pet trade.

Please help to keep AWI on the front lines, for 1991 can bring
more long overdue reforms. So please make as generous a
donation as you can. We'll take care that your gift is used to
maximum effect to stOp animal suffering and human cruelty.

Here's the latest news from AWI--

LAWS TO PROTECT ANIMALS

The new edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights has just been
published. This is the fourth edition, comprising 441 pages of
valuable information on U. S. and foreign laws for the
protection of animals. A single free copy is being offered to
chiefs of police, public libraries and animal protective
organizations to spread knowledge of what can be done under
federal, state and local legislation to shield animals from
cruelty and neglect and bring violators to justice. Years of
research went into the production of this comprehensive
reference volume. The 16 chapters were written by 11 different
authors, representing wide expertise. The Appendix contains
hard—to—find information useful to law enforcement agencies and
private citizens alike. This report on the status of existing
law is essential for animal advocates seeking to advance their

cause .

 




ANIMAL DEALERS

Next on AWI's publication schedule is The Animal Dealers:
Evidence of Mietreetmeut of Animals in the Growing Qemmereiel
Trade, l9§2:l999. Results of a survey on missing pets are
being tabulated, as are reports obtained under the Freedom of
Information Act on inspections of dealers' premises under the
Animal Welfare Act. AWI's extensive files, going back into the
19505 and '60s before any federal standards existed, provide
the background against which to assess today's painful loss of
cherished pets. Photos taken in happier times are often sent
us by bereaved owners. Many who responded to the survey list
other "large friendly d0gs" missing in the neighborhood at the
same time their dog disappeared forever. They emphasize the
fruitless efforts they made over long periods of time to locate
each pet, but only very rarely did they succeed.

TRAPPING

Those of you who have been following AWI's work in Brussels and
Strasbourg are aware that the EurOpean Parliament has approved
a Regulation against the steel jaw leghold trap, an enormously
important develOpment in the lengthy struggle to end its use in
the United States.

Three AWI monographs on traps and trapping, by Tom Garrett,
were prepared to provide reliable and concise information on
existing devices used to capture animals for the fur trade and
predator control. Despite the stubborn insistence of the fur
industry that the steel jaw leghold trap must be used, a number
of far less cruel methods are readily available, as clearly
demonstrated by AWI. We sent copies of the monographs to each
Member of the EurOpean Parliament before the vote, which
finally took place on September 10, 1990. We also published
and distributed a full-color leaflet showing the terrible
injuries inflicted by the steel jaw trap on the unfortunate
animals-~including pets.

We have now sent these to the Council of Ministers and the
Permanent Representatives of each of the 14 nations who make up
the European Community (BC). The Ministers of the Environment
will make the final decision on the contents of the Regulation
before it becomes mandatory law for all EC countries. As it
now stands, it will ban fur imports from January 1, 1995, of
beaver, coyote, wolf, lynx, bobcat, sable, raccoon, muskrat,
fisher, badger, marten, and ermine from countries that have not
banned the steel jaw leghold trap and met international
trapping standards. It prohibits importation, exportation,
manufacture, sale and use of this trap within the EC itself, as
well as importation of pelts. It calls for an interim labeling
measure to identify fur from animals caught in steel jaw traps
or other indiscriminate trapping methods until the import ban
takes effect.

 




AWI is strongly supporting the Regulation and further urging
that it require a ban on imports of all wild-caught fur and
that the Regulation take effect by 1992 rather than 1995.

The United States, Canada and the Soviet Union are the main
fur—producing countries who still tolerate use of the steel jaw
leghold trap and export wild-caught fur to the EurOpean
Community. AWI will vigorously pursue all available means to
achieve this vitally important international goal.

WHALES AND DOLPHINS

For the first time in its history, the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) adopted resolutions on dolphins and small
whales which will help stem the ferocious destruction they are
suffering. The IWC has repeatedly insisted on turning its back
on the 65 cetacean species that didn't fit the "great whale"
category. But the shocking report, The glebal War Against
Small Ceraeeane, and accompanying videotapes produced by the
Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) just before this
year's meeting in Noordwijk, The Netherlands, powerfully
affected the attitudes of the Commissioners.

We held a reception for Commissioners and members of their
delegations to view the video footage of dolphin slaughter in
Japan and Peru, and pilot whale and dolphin gaffing and killing
in the Faroe Islands.

Although we were frequently warned that the IWC wouldn't adopt
resolutions to reduce the kills of small cetaceans, we lobbied
hard. providing COpies 0f Whales ye. Whalers and The Animal
Welfare laetlture Quarterly featuring articles on dolphins and
whales to all Commissioners, and urging them to prevent
extinction of the Dall's porpoise, more than

two—thirds of whose population has already been destroyed by
Japanese fishermen. We urged the IWC to endorse the United
Nations resolution against driftnets and to adOpt the
resolution by New Zealand for study of small cetacean kills by
the IWC's Scientific Committee. To the surprise of the cynics,
every one of these resolutions passed by large majorities. The
moratorium on killing the great whales was maintained despite
attempts to set a quota for minke whales.

Earlier this year, dolphins got corporate help on a grand scale
when the Heinz Corporation's StarKist subsidiary announced its
"Dolphin Safe" tuna. The biggest American company in the
business no longer buys tuna caught by the million-dollar purse
seiners setting on dolphins, nor do they buy driftnet-caught
fish of any kind.

The efforts of AWI and its companion organization, the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation (SAPL), began in the 19605
and '70s with the successful fight to pass the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, followed by the long, frustrating struggle to

-3-

 




try to get it fully enforced. For years, the organized tuna
industry held at bay the law's stated goal of "zero mortality
and serious injury rate" for dolphins swimming with tuna.

Things began to change when Sam LaBudde went undercover as a
cook on a foreign purse seiner. The videotapes he made
appeared on national television, spurring huge public demand
for Dolphin Safe tuna in the United States. (AWI gave
financial assistance through a member's great generosity.)

But the fight to change the ways of the foreign fleets is far
from won, and false claims are being made by merchants in other
countries. Fortunately, the U. S. Congress passed a tuna
labeling bill at the end of the session, and the
reauthorization of the Marine Mammal Protection Act includes
specific standards for importation under which Mexican tuna
ought to be embargoed. Final decisions haven't been reached,
but all in all the many battles for dolphins are beginning to
pay off.

ELEPHANTS

The price of ivory crashed after the ban on international trade
of parts and products of the African elephant was voted by the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES)
last year. Fortunately, there is no sign of any increased
market, although poaching and smuggling have not entirely
stopped. China and Hong Kong's reservations are no longer in
existence. A few illegal shipments to Japan have been
intercepted.

Japan is using its large stockpiles to continue to make
"hankos," or name seals, which remain popular, and it would
provide a ready market should Zimbabwe and other southern
African countries succeed in their aim for a "split listing"
allowing them to sell ivory again. The appalling losses of
elephants to poachers in East Africa are less in Zimbabwe. But
the murder of Captain Nleya, who had uncovered poaching by
Zimbabwean officers in Mozambique, and the major illegal
exports which poured out of South Africa, make the southern
African countries' bid to continue the ivory trade highly
suspect. It would be disastrous for the elephants if the trade
were reopened in 1992 when the CITES meeting will take place in
Japan.

Very dangerous is the apparent intention of the U. S.
Department of the Interior (USDI), at the instigation of trOphy
hunters, to recommend a Split listing. This would set a
disastrous precedent. A decision is expected soon on the
petition to list the African elephant as endangered under the
U. S. Endangered Species Act.

We won the first round, but the war for the elephants isn't
over yet.

 




LABORATORY ANIMALS

Regulations under the 1985 Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals amendments to the federal Animal Welfare Act have
inched forward during the year. Still remaining to be made
final are the hotly contested, Congressionally mandated
exercise for laboratory dogs and a physical environment
adequate to promote the psycholoqical well—being of primates.

Principal Opponent of humane standards, the National
Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), is crowing over the
revised prOposal which leaves it up to each of the 1,200
registered institutions to write a "plan" for compliance which
the government inspector is supposed to absorb and then try to
figure out whether the laboratory is complying with its own
unique standards for dogs' exercise and primates' well-being!
One might suppose this to be some sort of nightmarish joke were
it not for the solemnity with which officials at the
President's Office of Management and Budget (OMB) (who have
done NABR's bidding to perfection) pontificate about the
wonders of these plans.

At a recent meeting, an OMB Deputy Administrator suggested, in
all seriousness, that AWI should write up a model plan and
persuade the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to write us
a letter approving it. Then, he said, AWI should go out and
"market" its plan to the research facilities! When I declined
this peculiar prOposal, I was adjured, on leaving, to "think it

over."

I had many things to think over after that meeting, not least
the flat assertion by the young woman assigned to assess the
pending regulations, that it is quite all right to hose or
steam cages with animals in them. Thousands of angry letters
to both USDA and OMB have been received from outraged citizens
protesting this particularly appalling provision, but they have
had no effect on her arbitrary pronouncement. Neither common
sense nor elementary compassion influenced her stubborn defense
of the indefensible.

What lies ahead? The will of Congress has been flouted by
vested interest lobbying. We will do our utmost to reverse it
and to protect animals in laboratories to the greatest degree
possible.

DISSECTION

The vested interests in dead animals for dissection are less
powerful and ubiquitous than the live animal dealers, and AWI's
work to encourage use of alternatives in this field has had
valuable results. Working under a grant from the Geraldine R.
Dodge Foundation, Dr. Barbara Orlans' presentations at biology
teachers' conventions have been highly effective, as have AWI
booth exhibits managed by Cathy Liss. The National Association

-5...

 




 

  

of BiOlOgy Teachers' (NABT) policy now favors alternatives to
dissection and vivisection. -

The recent Peter Jennings' (ABC) television special on the big
purveyor of animals for dissection, Carolina Biological Supply,
profoundly shocked all who viewed it. Undercover footage by
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) left the
company's president speechless on national television. At the
November 8-9, 1990 NABT convention, teachers were eager to hear
about alternatives to dissection from AWI after seeing exhibits
by both Carolina Biological Supply and PETA, where the
undercover videotape was running.

FARM ANIMALS

Interest in changing from the hideous factory farm practices to
natural, ecoloqically sound ways of raising pigs is growing
among independent pig farmers, but the enormous farms where
thousands of sows are held in strait-jacket-like crates for
their entire lives are growing, too, and they are backed by
powerful financial interests. New ways to fight for a decent
life for animals capable of so much enjoyment of simple
pleasures must be found. AWI is pursuing its Pastureland Farms
project on a limited scale and joining new efforts of the
Humane Farming Association.

"A ROBIN REDBREAST IN A CAGE PUTS ALL HEAVEN IN A RAGE"

The sickening cruelty of the capture, transport, quarantine and
sale of wild-caught exotic birds by the pet industry cannot be
tolerated. AWI's Wildlife Consultant, Greta Nilsson, has
documented, with painstaking care, the tragic statistics in two
volumes which cover importation of birds into the United States
from 1985 to 1988.

The evidence points to a small number of big dealers (including
a convicted felon) responsible for most of the worst abuses of
overcrowding, general negligence, and penny-pinching that

causes literally thousands of their delicate charges to suffer
and succumb. They are rich and influential in the pet

industry, and they have blocked all attempts to ban importation
of wild-caught birds except in New York. Legislation is
pending in New Jersey at this very moment, and AWI's companion
organization, the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, is
pressing hard for passage.

Both AWI and SAPL are unflagging in their attendance at the
long series of one— and two—day meetings of the Cooperative
Working Group on the Bird Trade, organized by the World
Wildlife Fund two years ago. We confront the representatives
of the Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC) and
importers/breeders with the facts, but the theory of "conflict—
resolution," on which these meetings are based, is sorely
tried. At the most recent meeting, Greta Nilsson, whose

-6—

   

 

  
   




  

  

encyclOpedic knowledge of the facts on bird importation is
unrivaled, represented AWI, and Peter Knights, the

Environmental Investigation Agency's bird expert, represented
SAPL.

    
     
    

 
 
 

Legislation is being drafted. If, as promised when we agreed
to take part in the meetings, it succeeds in phasing out
imports of wild-caught birds for the pet trade in five years or
less, it can stOp massive suffering and death. It would be
unwise, however, to underestimate the wiles of the commercial
'trade's legal advisors in finding or creating 100pholes to
circumvent the ban.

 
         
     
  
 

 
 

Although we beat them in court when they got the USDI to
withdraw its Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and
Birds regulations in 1988, the regulations have not been
enforced, and only now, new prOposed rules have been published
in the Eederal Register for comment. The motto of the anti—
regulatory lobbyists in the 19908 appears to be, "Delay, delay
and more delay," while assuring the public that they agree with
animal welfare and conservation goals.

 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE

We need your help to combat the anti—animal lobbyists and the
commercial interests they represent. We need your help to
advance our educational prOgrams in every area that AWI is
engaged in. We will watch over your contributions with careful
scrutiny and save money wherever it is possible to do so
without impairing the vigor of our work.

As you can see from this letter, we are in the midst of a
series of critical struggles where the scales can tip either
for or against the welfare and the very existence of animals
who are helpless without our intervention. Each individual
animal that can be protected through AWI's efforts in the
coming year must depend on funds AWI is able to raise. Your
kind support in the past—-and we hope in the future——is most
deeply appreciated. Donations to AWI are deductible in
computing your income tax.

 

We look forward to hearing from you soon.
With very best wishes for the holidays,
Sincerely,

6&2; 5%

Christine Stevens
President

        




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478

December 11, 1991

Dear Member:

This year, every member of the Animal Welfare Institute can
celebrate. Together we have achieved victory in a major battle
against that vilest of cruel inventions, the steel jaw leghold
trap. Please help us pursue this victory to the very end of the
trapping war by making your most generous possible gift to AWI!

IMPORT BAN

The Regulation adopted November 4, 1991 by the European Community
(EC) will prohibit use of this trap by its 12 member countries
and ban importation into the EC of fur of 13 species of animals
from any country "where the leghold trap is still used or where
trapping methods do not meet the internationally agreed humane
trapping standards." The Regulation goes into effect January 1,
1995. We'll work to see that it is put into practice at the
earliest possible moment.

The enclosed Annual Report tells of some of the many obstacles
that had to be overcome in recent months. The long struggle that
began with the vote in the European Parliament in 1988 has been
described in The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies as the
campaign gained momentum. Those of you who have been supporting
AWI's efforts over the years are aware of the three separate
editions of Facts About Furs that laid the documented groundwork
for the protracted war against the steel jaw trap. AWI's
persistence has paid off. And we won't stOp till we're certain
that international standards have banned all cruel traps. We've
asked to participate in the discussions of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Standards
Organization (ISO). We'll keep you informed.

 

AIRLINES SAY BIRDS CAN'T FLY

Major gains were made this year in AWI's long struggle against
capture of wild birds for the massive U. S. pet trade. Since we
published The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird
Trade, by Greta Nilsson, in 1977, followed by a series of
extensive reports documenting huge mortality and great suffering,

(over)

®

recycled pa per

 




attempted progress was thwarted over and over again by the pet
industry. But this year, more than 40 airlines refused, one by
one, to transport wild-caught birds. The big dealers are
furious. They are threatening to charter their own airplanes to
bring birds from their native jungles to U. S. and European
markets. The large expense this would incur would work to reduce
the terrible abuses of the bird trade until the Wild Bird
Protection Act can be enacted.

AWI's companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, is pressing hard for passage of the Act, which is
pending in both the U. S. Senate and House of Representatives.

It would place an immediate ban on importation of wild-caught
birds. A similar law was enacted in New Jersey this year despite
frantic opposition by the industry. If you'd like SAPL to add
your name to its mailing list so you'll be kept informed on
legislation, just let me know. I'm a volunteer worker for both
AWI and SAPL, putting in at least 60 hours a week.

ELEPHANTS

A Donnybrook on the endangered African elephants is expected at
the next meeting of the nations party to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in Kyoto, Japan, March l-l3, 1992. AWI has just designed
T-shirts to distribute at the conference, with the message in the
three CITES languages: "Save the elephants. Keep them ALL on
Appendix I."

As you may recall, at the 1989 CITES meeting, international trade
in any part or product of the elephant was banned by putting them
on Appendix I of the Convention. Appendix I is the "endangered"
classification. Before 1989, African elephants were listed on
Appendix II ("threatened"), and their ivory could be traded. The
permit and quota processes were easily evaded by the many
practiced smugglers in the international criminal network, and
the African elephant was on a rapid road to extinction until the
landmark CITES vote.

Zimbabwe, South Africa and some other southern African countries
are trying to get their elephants back on Appendix II. Not
satisfied with the money they make from tourists viewing
elephants, they want to cut elephants to pieces and sell hides,
elephant hair bracelets and elephant foot wastebaskets as well as
ivory. This revolting trade must not be permitted to start up
again.

If you are an admirer of these magnificent animals, whose
sagacity and care for one another places them high in the moral
order, please give generously to AWI to carry on the urgently
needed campaign to protect them from the killing, culling and
international selling the southern Africans are so eager to
pursue.

 




  

 

AWI has given financial assistance to the courageous on-the-spot
investigations of the Environmental Investigation Agency. Some
of their remarkable successes are noted in the attached Annual
Report in the Albert Schweitzer Medal section. More such work is
urgently needed now to win in Kyoto for the elephants, as we did
in Lausanne in 1989. If you would like more information on how
you can help this special effort, let us know. Dollars for
elephant protection today mean elephant survival into the future.
We must not fail them.

 

   
 

WHALES AND DOLPHINS

Japan has promised an end to the "walls of death," the driftnets
that have entangled thousands of dolphins and whales in their
inexorable toils. Driftnets deny these fellow mammals access to
the air they must breathe. Set to catch squid for the markets of
the Far East, the tough netting is so fine, no inhabitant of the
oceans can detect and avoid it.

Over the protests of the Japanese fishing industry, the
government of Japan has agreed to remove 50% of the driftnet
boats by June 1992 and 100% by December 1992. Taiwan and South
Korea have not agreed to stop, however.

In the struggle over "Dolphin Safe" tuna fish, a federal judge
came down on the side of the dolphins, but a ruling by a panel of
three obscure foreign officials meeting in secret, called for the
U. S. Congress to repeal dolphin—saving provisions in the Marine
Mammal Protection Act in the name of "free trade." The ruling
was issued under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT), but Congress is having none of it.

Instead, the Administration is being urged by key legislators to
block the ruling and to change GATT itself. The plight of the
dolphins has focused attention on the dangers to labor, public
health and the environment in general, of GATT's tunnel vision on
free trade.

AWI works cooperatively with the many groups involved in these
broad international issues and welcomes their help for the sea
mammals.

For a report on the last meeting of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC), we refer you to the enclosed Annual Report.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The outcome of the lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund
will dictate AWI's next moves with regard to laboratory animals.
We earnestly hope that the will of Congress in passing the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments will be
recognized and required to be lived up to. The Annual Report
describes the current situation.

(over)

  




The emphasis by USDA on "education" as a substitute for law
enforcement has enfeebled the Animal Welfare Act compliance
inspections. The number of legal cases submitted has dropped
from 184 in 1988 to only 63 in 1990.

The bad influence of the National Association for Biomedical
Research, the National Institutes of Health and the Office of
Management and Budget on USDA must be constantly countered. The
Council on Competitiveness, headed by Vice President Quayle, is
also implicated through its opposition to regulatory enforcement.

AWI has two books in the works which bear heavily on laboratory
animals. First, the book on animal dealers, noted in the
enclosed Annual Report, and next, the third edition of Animal
Expressions, A Photographic Footnote to Charles Darwin's
"Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals." We are even
adding some artists' renditions of animals showing emotions
ranging from affection to terror. Darwin was the first to
recognize, in scientific terms, the wide range of feelings shown
by familiar animal species. The sorrow plainly stamped on the
faces of experimental dogs photographed in Japanese laboratories
is unforgettable proof of their suffering. We hope this new
edition will have a wide circulation in American scientific
institutions and that it will help to achieve the psychological
well-being required for laboratory primates under the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments. .

 

 

AWI is in all the battles we've told you about for the long pull.
Sometimes the opposition is too strong to break through, but our
constant presence and pressure means that we're there at the
ready whenever an opportunity opens up. To make progress in
protecting animals, persistence is the greatest virtue. It's the
one we live by.

A word about direct mail campaigns, in which it is estimated that
five million trees are cut down each year just to keep these
mailings going. AWI takes no part in such operations, lucrative
though they may be. We don't bombard our members and friends
with constant pleas for donations. We rely instead on this
end—of-the-year letter, which we hope will bring us the funds we
must have to keep winning for all the different creatures whose
lives depend on our work.

We entreat you to give generously. Contributions are
tax-deductible in computing income tax. The just pride you can
take for charity to the world's most downtrodden and abused, the
animals, will repay your generosity many times over.

With best wishes for the holidays,

Sincerely,

(am-xi $2.;

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478

December 11, 1991

Dear Member:

This year, every member of the Animal Welfare Institute can
celebrate. Together we have achieved victory in a major battle
against that vilest of cruel inventions, the steel jaw leghold
trap. Please help us pursue this victory to the very end of the
trapping war by making your most generous possible gift to AWI!

IMPORT BAN

The Regulation adopted November 4, 1991 by the European Community
(EC) will prohibit use of this trap by its 12 member countries
and ban importation into the EC of fur of 13 species of animals
from any country "where the leghold trap is still used or where
trapping methods do not meet the internationally agreed humane
trapping standards." The Regulation goes into effect January 1,
1995. We'll work to see that it is put into practice at the
earliest possible moment.

The enclosed Annual Report tells of some of the many obstacles
that had to be overcome in recent months. The long struggle that
began with the vote in the European Parliament in 1988 has been
described in The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies as the
campaign gained momentum. Those of you who have been supporting
AWI's efforts over the years are aware of the three separate
.editions of Facts About Furs that laid the documented groundwork
for the protracted war against the steel jaw trap. AWI's
persistence has paid off. And we won't stOp till we're certain
that international standards have banned all cruel traps. We've
asked to participate in the discussions of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Standards
Organization (ISO). We'll keep you informed.

 

AIRLINES SAY BIRDS CAN'T FLY

Major gains were made this year in AWI's long struggle against
capture of wild birds for the massive U. S. pet trade. Since we
published The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird
Trade, by Greta Nilsson, in 1977, followed by a series of
extensive reports documenting huge mortality and great suffering,

(over)

®

recycled paper

 




attempted progress was thwarted over and over again by the pet
industry. But this year, more than 40 airlines refused, one by
one, to transport wild-caught birds. The big dealers are
furious. They are threatening to charter their own airplanes to
bring birds from their native jungles to U. S. and European
markets. The large expense this would incur would work to reduce
the terrible abuses of the bird trade until the Wild Bird
Protection Act can be enacted.

AWI's companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, is pressing hard for passage of the Act, which is
pending in both the U. S. Senate and House of Representatives.

It would place an immediate ban on importation of wild-caught
birds. A similar law was enacted in New Jersey this year despite
frantic opposition by the industry. If you'd like SAPL to add
your name to its mailing list so you'll be kept informed on
legislation, just let me know. I'm a volunteer worker for both
AWI and SAPL, putting in at least 60 hours a week.

ELEPHANTS

A Donnybrook on the endangered African elephants is expected at
the next meeting of the nations party to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in Kyoto, Japan, March l—l3, 1992. AWI has just designed
T-shirts to distribute at the conference, with the message in the
three CITES languages: "Save the elephants. Keep them ALL on
Appendix I."

As you may recall, at the 1989 CITES meeting, international trade
in any part or product of the elephant was banned by putting them
on Appendix I of the Convention. Appendix I is the "endangered"
classification. Before 1989, African elephants were listed on
Appendix II ("threatened"), and their ivory could be traded. The
permit and quota processes were easily evaded by the many '
practiced smugglers in the international criminal network, and
the African elephant was on a rapid road to extinction until the
landmark CITES vote.

Zimbabwe, South Africa and some other southern African countries
are trying to get their elephants back on Appendix II. Not
satisfied with the money they make from tourists viewing
elephants, they want to cut elephants to pieces and sell hides,
elephant hair bracelets and elephant foot wastebaskets as well as
ivory. This revolting trade must not be permitted to start up
again.

If you are an admirer of these magnificent animals, whose
sagacity and care for one another places them high in the moral
order, please give generously to AWI to carry on the urgently
needed campaign to protect them from the killing, culling and
international selling the southern Africans are so eager to
pursue.

 




AWI has given financial assistance to the courageous on—the-spot
investigations of the Environmental Investigation Agency. Some
of their remarkable successes are noted in the attached Annual
Report in the Albert Schweitzer Medal section. More such work is
urgently needed 29w to win in Kyoto for the elephants, as we did
in Lausanne in 1989. If you would like more information on how
you can help this special effort, let us know. Dollars for
elephant protection today mean elephant survival into the future.
We must not fail them.

WHALES AND DOLPHINS

Japan has promised an end to the "walls of death," the driftnets
that have entangled thousands of dolphins and whales in their
inexorable toils. Driftnets deny these fellow mammals access to
the air they must breathe. Set to catch squid for the markets of
the Far East, the tough netting is so fine, no inhabitant of the
oceans can detect and avoid it.

Over the protests of the Japanese fishing industry, the
government of Japan has agreed to remove 50% of the driftnet
boats by June 1992 and 100% by December 1992. Taiwan and South
Korea have not agreed to stop, however.

In the struggle over "Dolphin Safe" tuna fish, a federal judge
came down on the side of the dolphins, but a ruling by a panel of
three obscure foreign officials meeting in secret, called for the
U. S. Congress to repeal dolphin-saving provisions in the Marine
Mammal Protection Act in the name of "free trade." The ruling
was issued under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT), but Congress is having none of it.

Instead, the Administration is being urged by key legislators to
block the ruling and to change GATT itself. The plight of the
dolphins has focused attention on the dangers to labor, public
health and the environment in general, of GATT's tunnel vision on
free trade.

AWI works cooperatively with the many groups involved in these
broad international issues and welcomes their help for the sea
mammals.

For a report on the last meeting of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC), we refer you to the enclosed Annual Report.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The outcome of the lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund
will dictate AWI's next moves with regard to laboratory animals.
We earnestly hope that the will of Congress in passing the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments will be
recognized and required to be lived up to. The Annual Report
describes the current situation.

(over)

 




The emphasis by USDA on "education" as a substitute for law
enforcement has enfeebled the Animal Welfare Act compliance
inspections. The number of legal cases submitted has dropped
from 184 in 1988 to only 63 in 1990.

The bad influence of the National Association for Biomedical
Research, the National Institutes of Health and the Office of
Management and Budget on USDA must be constantly countered. The
Council on Competitiveness, headed by Vice President Quayle, is
also implicated through its opposition to regulatory enforcement.

AWI has two books in the works which bear heavily on laboratory
animals. First, the book on animal dealers, noted in the
enclosed Annual Report, and next, the third edition of Animal
Expressions, A Photographic Footnote to Charles Darwin's
"Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals." We are even
adding some artists' renditions of animals showing emotions
ranging from affection to terror. Darwin was the first to
recognize, in scientific terms, the wide range of feelings shown
by familiar animal species. The sorrow plainly stamped on the
faces of experimental dogs photographed in Japanese laboratories
is unforgettable proof of their suffering. We hope this new
edition will have a wide circulation in American scientific
institutions and that it will help to achieve the psychological
well-being required for laboratory primates under the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments.

 

 

AWI is in all the battles we've told you about for the long pull.
Sometimes the opposition is too strong to break through, but our
constant presence and pressure means that we're there at the
ready whenever an opportunity opens up. To make progress in
protecting animals, persistence is the greatest virtue. It's the
one we live by.

A word about direct mail campaigns, in which it is estimated that
five million trees are cut down each year just to keep these
mailings going. AWI takes no part in such operations, lucrative
though they may be. We don't bombard our members and friends
with constant pleas for donations. We rely instead on this
end-of-the-year letter, which we hope will bring us the funds we
must have to keep winning for all the different creatures whose
lives depend on our work.

We entreat you to give generously. Contributions are
tax-deductible in computing income tax. The just pride you can
take for charity to the world's most downtrodden and abused, the
animals, will repay your generosity many times over.

With best wishes for the holidays,

Sincerely,

(ﬁg-A; (@LM

Christine Stevens
President

 




   
    
       
       
   
 
   
   
 

Yes, I wish to support your work!

 

Membership (non-voting)
Amount enclosed

Cl Patron $100 to $500 $
Cl Supporter $25 to $100 $
E] Regular $15 $
1] Student or Senior Citizen $5 $

Contributions

   

El I enclose the amount checked plus $ _.___. as an additional contribution.
All contributions are deductible in computing income tax.

Total contribution enclosed

 
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
       

Please use my contribution for:
El Campaign against use of the steel-jaw leghold trap

El Reform of cruel methods of raising food animals in “factory farms”
D Reduction of laboratory animal suffering

Cl Campaign to preserve whales and other endangered species

C] Contributors who send $20 or more may, if they wish, have a copy of the newly
revised “Facts About Furs.” Please check here if you would like to receive a copy.

El If you would like a copy of our publications and film catalog, please check this box.
If your address has changed, please fill in your correct address below:

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY STATE ZIP

The Animal Welfare Institute is a non-profit, educational organization established in 1951 to reduce animal
suffering and protect endangered species. A copy of AWI’s annual report is available on written request to
AWl or to the NY. State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY. 12223.

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

Dear Friend,

Welcome to membership in the Animal Welfare Institute. As
a member you will receive the following benefits:

0 A year’s subscription to the Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterly

0 An invitation to the annual presentation ceremony
of the Albert Schweitzer Award and to the reception
in honor of the recipient

0 The opportunity to obtain a single free copy of
new AWI books and other publications as they are
issued

0 Interim special information mailings about whales
0 An annual report

Book selections currently available to new members are:
Whales Versus Whalers
Facts About Furs

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial
Cage Bird Trade

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Animals, Nature & Albert Schweitzer

If you wish to check one of these and return this note to us,
we’ll mail you the one you choose.

Best wishes,

5mm; mm

Christine Stevens
President

Name

 

Address

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Dear Friend:

If you saw an animal being cruelly treated, you would be deeply
upset and want to intervene. Naturally. But most of the suffering
animals are hidden from view. To fight for their rights, to stop
needless cruelty, you cannot act alone. You need to link your
efforts with others who feel as you do.

You can help by becoming a member and contributing to the Animal
Welfare Institute. We will soon reach our 30th anniversary.
Animal protection is now stronger than it was, but much, much
more requires doing. And urgently. We need your support.

~Support to reform the methods by which food animals are
raised in "factory farms.“

-Support to stop inhumane trapping. We must ban steel—jaw
leghold traps which cause untold suffering.

-Support to save the whales and other species in danger of
extinction.

-Support to reduce the suffering of laboratory animals.
-Support to encourage effective testing which does not make
use of live animals.

Your membership includes a subscription to our expanded quarterly
newsletter. The text and illustrations contained in the "Information
Report" are clear, informative and timely.

With each contribution of $20 or more, we will send you, if desired,
the third edition of "Facts About Furs." This 258-page book, illus~
trated throughout, takes a worldwide look at trapping and trade.

Please show that you care by contributing to the Animal Welfare
Institute. AWI is fighting for animals, and it must have your

help to do the job.
Sincerely, (:g:2::£%%&{

Christine Stevens
President

 




ERRATUM
Facts About Furs

$3.00

 




 

p U C AT 1 0 NAL
M AT ERIALS

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION
8: MATERIALS ORDER FORM

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

I wish to become a non-voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute: Cl $100 Life
Cl $25 Associate
[:1 $10 Sustaining
Cl $5 Contributing
(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)
NAME ..................................................
ADDRESS ..............................................
............................ ZIPCODE..................
INSTITUTION (if any) ..................................

........................................................

Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $ .....
Payment Must Accompany Order

Additional order instructions: .............................

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
.........................................................

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

Please use the form below for SAVE THE WHALES
campaign orders.

NAME ..................................................

ADDRESS ..............................................

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

ZIP CODE
CONTRIBUTION $ ......................................

BRO




 

SAVE THE WHALES
CAMPAIGN ORDER FORM

 

SAVE THE WHALES flier explaining how you can help- Free

Articles published from 1971 to 1978 in the AWI Infor-
mation Report on national and international efforts to
prevent extinction of whales ............. Single copy: Free

Report on the 29th and 30th meetings of the Internation-

al Whaling Commission, June 20—24, and December
6-7, 1977 .......................................... Free

Whales, Dolphins and Men

comprehensive study of cetacea and their persecution
by man. 16mm, sound, color, 45 minutes. One week

rental .............................................. $10.00

Last Days of the Dolphins?

Dick Cavett narrates this film containing footage ob-
tained after a court fight with tuna interests showing the
tragic killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines. 16mm,
color, sound, 27 minutes. One week rental ............ $10.00

Vanishing Giants
The History, Biology and Fate of the Great Whales.

24- pages ........................................... $2.00
How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales

For teachers, 2 pages ............................... Free
A Whale of a Friend

an ocean giant and man play together in a historic
happening. 4 pages. Reprint from Toronto Star,

February 28, 1976 .................................. Free
A Letter from a Whale

by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. Animal

Welfare Institute, 1977. 4 pages ...................... Free
Campaign materials:

Poster ..................................... One tree

Button ..................................... One free

Bumper sticker ............................. One free

T-shirts, Adult small, medium, large or x-large . . $6.00

Children’s medium or large .................... $5.00

Six-color print, measuring 20”x26”, of an original paint-
ing by Richard Ellis of a mother Humpback whale and her
calf. Suitable for framing, it is available to anyone donat-
ing $15 or more to the Animal Welfare lnstitute’s SAVE
THE WHALES campaign.

BROCHURE & SYMBOL DESIGN: CACHALOT DESIGN GROUP
MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS

 




 

 

GENERAL

 

Animal Expressions

a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sion of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword by
F. J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute. Free on request to veterinar-
ians and persons employed by research institutions in
the management of animal colonies and care of
animals. To others ............ I ...................... $1.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights

by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Summary and his-
tory of laws affecting the welfare of animals in the
United States. Animal Welfare Institute, 1978. One
copy free upon request to libraries and humane soci-

eties. To others ..................................... $2.00
The Neighbours

anthology of animal poems. Illustrated by Fougasse,

1 17 pages. Published by UFAW ..................... $2.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London, Illustrated

by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW ..................... $2.00
Let Us Live

leaﬂet on trapping, illustrated in full color ............. Free
Facts About Furs

by F. Jean Vinter, M.D. Revised edition, Animal Wel-
fare Institute, 1973. 106 pages of information on the
way furs are obtained throughout the world. 28 illus-
trations. Indexed for easy reference. One copy free to
humane societies and libraries. To others ............. h

$23-00
Canada’s Shame
film produced by the Association for the Protection of
Fur-Bearing Animals showing the extreme suffering

undergone by animals caught in leghold traps, 16mm,
color, sound, 15 minutes. One week rental ............ $10.00

Predator Control

report to the Council on Environmental Quality and
the Department of the Interior by the Advisory Com-
mittee on Predator Control, January 1972 ............ Free

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, April, 1974 ........................ Free

The Bird Business
by Greta Nilsson. A Study of the importation of birds
into the United States. Animal Welfare Institute, 1977.
81 pages ........................................... $3.00

Dognapping
by Mary Warner. A study of the spread of dognapping,
prepared for Action 81, a citizens’ group devoted to its
prevention and arrest. Animal Welfare Institute, 1977.

50 pages ........................................... $2.00
Information Report

Animal Welfare Institute quarterly .................... $2.00
Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter ................. Free
HUMANE SLAUGHTER
Uniform State Humane Slaughter Bill

by Council of State Governments .................... Free

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Laboratory Dogs

16mm. sound film showing humane care and housing
of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory. Pro-
duced by Crawley Films. One week rental ............ $10.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
illustrated manual, designed for those planning to build,
remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal Welfare
Institute (Revised edition in preparation). One copy

free on request to scientific institutions, veterinarians, or
architects. To others ................................ $2.00

Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals

by William Hoffer. Reprint from College Management,
3 pages, May, 1973 ................................. Free

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch, 238 pages ........... $5.00

The Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio-Medical Research
proceedings of the UFAW Symposium, including dis-
cussion of tissue cultures and other substitutes for test
animals for certain purposes. October 1971 ........... $1.

More About Alternatives

by Dr. T.W. Hegarty of the Fund for the Replacement
of Animals in Medical Experiments. Reprint of article
from Parenthése, Summer 1975 ..................... Free




Beyond Adequate Veterinary Care

address delivered at American Veterinary Medical
Association Convention, Anaheim, California, 1975,
by Dr. Marjorie Anchel .............................. Free

Humane Considerations for Animal Models

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal
Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases.
National Academy of Sciences, 1976. 8 pages ........ Free

Humane Perspectives

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future
of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research,
Development, Education and Testing. National Acad-
emy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages ...................... Free

THE FOLLOWING TWO ITEMS ARE AVAILABLE
ONLY TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN
SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS.

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

fourth edition. Written simply, designed for animal
room personnel, 78 pages, illustrated. Animal Welfare
Institute. Free upon request only to persons employed
in scientific institutions. Available in English or Spanish.

Handling Laboratory Animals.

16mm. sound film showing proper handling of 12
common species of laboratory animals. Produced by
MacQueen Films with cooperation of National Institute
for Medical Research, London, England. One week
rental .............................................. $10.00

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

Humane Biology Projects

Animal Welfare Institute. Revised edition. 21 contribu—
tors, 57 pages, illustrated. Designed for use in secon-
dary schools. One copy free upon request to teachers,
librarians, humane societies. To others ................ $1.00

First Aid and Care of Small Animals

by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use in primary and
secondary schools. 46 pages, illustrated. Animal Wel-
fare Institute. One copy free upon request to teachers,
librarians, scout leaders, humane societies. To others . .$1.00

Canada’s Experience with Student Use of Living Animals

by HG Rowsell, D.V.M., D.V.P.H., PhD. Reprint of
article from The American Biology Teacher, January,
1974 .............................................. Free

Regulations for Animal Experimentation in Science Fairs
new humane rules for Canadian Science Fairs, 1975 . .Free

Better Nutrition Studies

by F. Barbara Orlans. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, 3 pages, November 1970 ........... Free

Live Organisms in High School Biology

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 4 pages. September 1972 .Free

Attitudes Towards Animals

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February, 1970 . .Free

Sanctified Torture

by John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Scientist,
1 page, January 1969 ............................... Free

Administrative Control Over Science Fair Projects
by William Dunkum, 1969. 4 page leaflet ............. Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, October 1974 ............ Free

Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools
by Dr. W.W. Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary

Medicine, Michigan State University, 1 page .......... Free
Good Kind Lion

for primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW. One Copy ....... Free

Additional copies ................................... 20¢ ea.

Kittens and Cats
for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane

societies. To others ................................. 20¢
Additional copies ................................... 20¢ ea.
You and Your Dog

for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy

free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane
societies. To others ................................. 20¢
Additional copies ................................... 20¢ ea.

Befriending Animals

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Childhood
Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ............... Free

NOTE: Teachers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets can be provided
free to student teachers. Orders for manuals should be

accompanied by payment.

(Order blank on reverse side)

 




 

DR SC HWEITZER’C) MESSk ,GI: TO
THE ANIMAL W LFARE INSTI : UTE

 

 

I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my
name to the medal you have created. I give you this right
with all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassion-
ate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it is the great and
moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to witness
this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged to
intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little
interest in them.

Lambaréné
May 2, 1951

PRINTED ON 100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




 

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Presented Annually with an Award of $500 for

an Outstanding Contribution to Animal Welfare

In 1954 a gold replica of the Medal was presented to
Dr. Albert Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where
Dr. Schweitzer had gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

SCHWEITZER MEDALLISTS

1955 Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony
of 500 experimental beagles, whose humane treat-
ment of the animals and high standards of care
and housing exemplify the purpose for which the
Medal was struck.

1956 Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M. 1.
Biol., Director-General of the Universities Feder-
ation for Animal Welfare, London, England, au-
thor, speaker, Founder of U.F.A.W., which pion-
eered in enlisting scientific efforts for animal wel-
fare.

Paul Kearney, author of ”The Case for Humane
Vivisection,” the first article calling for humane
treatment of research animals to appear in a na-
tional magazine.

Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, then Sen-
ator Humphrey, author of the first humane slaugh—
ter bill introduced in the Congress of the United
States and Chief Senate Sponsor of the Federal
Humane Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

Congressman W. R. Poage, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, United States House of
Representatives, then Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief House
Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

1960 Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief

Z. S. Fundikira, President, of the Tanganyika
Branch of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, numbering 40,000 African
members. Presentation of the Medals in Africa
was made by the Honorable G. Mennen Williams.
In New York the Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson
made the Schweitzer Award address.

William H. A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal
columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose
discovery and reporting on hundreds of Food and
Drug Administration test dogs perpetually caged
in a sub-basement led to Congressional action pro-
viding comfortable kennel runways for them.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police
Force, whose prompt reporting on suffering and
neglect of experimental animals led to improve-
ments in their care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States Abe Fortas, author of the first Fed-
eral bill to require humane treatment of research
animals, and counselor to the Animal Welfare In-
stitute and Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion, to which he donated his services until his ap-
pointment to the Court made it necessary for him
to give up the private practice of law.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A. S.
Mike Monroney, who sponsored and fought for
enactment of P. L. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act, passed by a vote of 85 to 0 in the
United States Senate.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Box 3492, GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

 




 

BOOKS AND RECORDINGS FOR
STUDY, DISCUSSION 0R DEBATE

 

ANIMAL BEHAVIOR AND OBSERVATIONS OF
ANIMALS IN THE WILD

Adamson, Joy. Born Free. New York: Random
House, 1974.

Burkhardt, Dietrich, Wolfgang Schliedt and Helmut
Altner. Signals in the Animal World. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Campany, 1967.

Crisler, Lois. Arctic Wild. Westminister, Md.:
Ballantine Press, 1973.

Douglas-Hamilton, lain and Oria. Among the
Elephants. New York: The Viking Press, 1975.

Eckstein, Gustav. Everyday Miracle. New York:
Harper & Row, 1965.

Lives. New York and London: Harper and
Brothers, 1932.

Goodall, Jane Van Lawick. My Friends the Wild
Chimpanzees. Washington, DC: National Geo—
graphic Society, 1967.

Hancocks, David. Master Builders of the Animal
World. New York: Harper & Row, 1973.

Kieran, John. A Natural History of New York City.
Garden City, N.Y.: Natural History Press, 1971.

Linden, Eugene. Apes, Men and Language. New
York: Saturday Review Press/E.P. Dutton and
Co., Inc., 1974.

Lorenz, Konrad. King Solomon’s Ring. New York:
New American Library, 1952.

Man Meets Dog. New York: Penguin, 1965.

Portmann, Adolf. Animal Camouflage. Ann Arbor,
Michigan: Univ. of Michigan Press, 1959.

Ryden, Hope. America’s Last Wild Horses. New
York: E.P. Dutton and Co., Inc., 1970.

God’s Dog. New York: Coward, McCann and
Geoghegan, Inc, 1975.

Schaller, George B. The Year of the Gorilla.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1964.

Schulberg, Budd. Swan Watch. New York: Delacoite
Press, 1975.

Tinbergen, Niko. The Animal in Its World. Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University
Press, 1973.

Curious Naturalists. New York: Basic Books,
1958.

Social Behavior in Animals. New York:
Halstead Press, 1966.

RECORDINGS OF ANIMAL VOICES

A Day in Algonquin Park, William W. H. Gunn,
Boston; Houghton Mifflin Co.

And God Created Great Whales, by Alan
Hovhaness, Andre Kostelanetz conducting

(Columbia M30390), side one. An unusual
composition based on and including actual re-
cordings of humpback whales.

Antarctica. recordings of the sounds of several Ant-
arctic species, recorded by Edwin Mickleburgh,
Saydisc Specialized Recordings, Ltd., England.

Deep Voices, Roger Payne, Capitol Records. ‘

Paul Horn: Inside II, Killer whale recordings with
flute accompaniment, side two, Epic KE 31600.

The Frog Pond. Providence, R.l.: Droll Yankees Inc.,
1969.

The Language and Music of the Wolves. Narrated by
Robert Redford, New York: American Museum
of Natural History, Tonsil Records, 1971.

The Sea at Castle Hill. Providence, R.l.: Droll.
Yankees Inc.

Songs of the Humpback Whale, Roger Payne,
Capitol Records. _

The Songs of Insects. Richard D. Alexander and
Donald J. Borror. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

The Swamp in June. Providence, R.l.: Droll
Yankees Inc, 1975.

Voices of the Night. (34 frogs and toads) Peter
Kellog and Arthur A. Allen. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.

Voice of the Whale (Vox Balaenae) by George
Crumb. Played by the Aeolian Chamber Players
(Columbia N32739), side one. Inspired by the
songs of the humpback whales.

BASIC REFERENCES

Red Data Book. Morges, Switzerland: International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources, 1976.

Walker, Ernest P. Mammals of the World. Baltimore,
Md: The Johns Hopkins Press, 3 volumes,
Third Edition, 1975.

Predator Control - 1971, Report to The Council on
Environmental Quality and The Department of
the Interior. Advisory Committee on Predator
Control, Institute for Environmental Quality,
Ann Arbor, Michigan: The University of
Michigan. (Available from the Animal Welfare
Institute).

. . Conservation and Environmental Laws, A
Compilation of Federal Laws Relating to Con-
servation and Development of Our Nation’s
Fish and Wildlife Resources, Environmental
Quality and Oceanography. Washington, DC.
US. Government Printing Office, 1975.

 




 

BIRDS

Austin, Oliver L. Jr., Families of Birds. Illustrated by
Arthur Singer. New York: Golden Press;
Racine, Wisconsin: Western Publishing Co.,
1971.

Bijleveld, Maarten, Birds of Prey in Europe. London:
The Macmillan Press, Inc., 1974.

Craighead, John J. and Frank C. Craighead, Jr.
Hawks, Owls and Wildlife. New York: Dover
Publications, 1969.

Heilmann, Gerhard. The Origins of Birds. New York:
Dover Publishing, Inc., 1972.

Hickey, Joseph J. A Guide to Bird Watching. New
York: Dover Publications, 1975.

Hyde, Dayton O. Sandy. New York: The Dial Press,
Inc., 1968.

Pearson, T. Gilbert, Editor. Birds of America. New
York: Doubleday, 1936.

Skutch, Alexander F. Illustrator, Arthur B. Singer,
The Life of the Hummingbird. New York: Vine-
yard Books, Crown Publishers, Inc., 1973.

Welty, Joel Carl. The Life of Birds. Philadelphia, Pa.:
W.B. Saunders Company, 1975.

Zeleny, Lawrence. The Bluebird, How You Can
Help Its Fight for Survival. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press, 1976.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Ira A. Gabrielson. A Golden
Guide to Birds. New York: Golden Press, 1949;
Racine, Wisconsin: Western Publishing
Company, 1956.

RECORDINGS OF BIRD SONGS

Allen, Arthur A. and Peter Paul Kellog. American
Bird Songs, Vol I & II.
- Bird Songs in Your Garden.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Song Birds of America.
Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co.
. Baird, James. The Edge of the Meadow. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees, Inc., 1969.
Borror, Donald J. Common Bird Songs. New York:
Dover Publications.
Songs of Eastern Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Songs of Western Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Finches.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Prairie
Spring. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Warblers.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, A Day at
Flores Moradas. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Borror, Donald J. and William W.H. Gunn. Sounds
of Nature, Thrushes, Wrens, and Mockingbirds
of Eastern North America. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.
Kilham, Peter. Songs of the Forest. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees Inc., 1964.

Krutch, Joseph Wood and the Cornell Laboratory of
Ornithology. Bird Songs in Literature. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co.

Peterson, Roger Tory. A Field Guide to Bird Songs.

Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

Bird Songs of Dooryard, Field and Forest, Parts I, II,
and III, Ficker Records, Old Greenwich, Con-
necﬁcut

Birds on a May Morning, Droll Yankees, lnc..
Providence, Rhode Island.

Sapsuckers and Flickers, Droll Yankees, lnc., Provi-
dence, Rhode Island.

Song Sparrow, Droll Yankees, lnc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

Spring Morning, Droll Yankees, lnc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

The Brook, Droll Yankees, lnc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

The Farm, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

ENDANGERED SPECIES

McNulty, Faith. Must They Die? The Strange Case of
the Prairie Dog and the Black-Footed Ferret.
New York: Doubleday and Company, Inc.,
1971.

Cox, James A. The Endangered Ones. New York:
Crown Publishing, Inc., 1975.

Green, Ivah. Wildlife in Danger. New York: Coward-
McCann, Inc., 1959.

Moorehead, Alan. No Room in the Ark. New York:
Harper & Bros, 1960.

US. Department of Interior. Endangered and Threat-
ened Wildlife and Plants. Washington, DC:
Office of the Federal Register, National Archives
and Records Service, General Services Admin-
istration. 1976.

World Wildlife Conference: Efforts to Save Endan-
gered Species. US. Department of State Pub-
lication 8729. Washington, DC: US. Govern—
ment Printing Office, 1973.

INSECTS

Borror, DJ. and D.M. DeLong. An Introduction to
the Study of Insects. New York: Holt, Reinhart
& Winston, 1970.

Brues, Charles T. Insects, Food and Ecology. New
York: Dover Publications, 1972.

Butler, Colin G. The World of the Honey Bee. New
York: Taplinger, 1974.

Dadant & Sons. The Hive and the Honey Bee.
Hamilton, 111.: Dadant & Sons, 1975.

Fabre, J. Henri. Unabridged Works. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Company.
Bramble Bees and Others
The Glow-Worm and Other Beetles
The Hunting Wasps
The Insect World
The Life of the Caterpillar
The Life of the Fly




The Life of the Scorpion

The Life of the Spider

The Life of the Weevil

The Mason-Bees

More Beetles

More Mason-Bees

The Sacred Beetle and Others
Social Life in the Insect World

Grzimek, Bernhard. Grzimek’s Animal Life En-
cyclopedia, Insects. New York: Van Nostrand
Reinhold Company, 1975.

Holland, W.J. The Butterfly Book. New York:
Doubleday & Co., 1947.

The Moth Book. New York: Dover Publications,
1969.

Huxley, Julian. Ants. New York: Jonathan Cape and
Harrison Smith, Inc., 1950.

lmms, A.D. Textbook of Entomology. New York:
E.P. Dutton & Co., 1948.

Maeterlinck, Maurice. The Life of the Bee. Trans-
lated by Alfred Sutro. New York: Dodd, Mead,
and Co., 1912.

The Life of the White Ant. Translated by Alfred
Sutro. New York: Dodd, Mead, and Co., 1927.
Mead, and Co., 1927.

Morse, Roger A. Bees and Beekeeping. Ithaca, New
York: Cornell University Press, 1975.

Sharp, David. Insects, (Cambridge Natural History).
New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 2 volumes,
1970.

Sudd, John H.. An Introduction to the Behavior of
Ants. New York: St. Martins, paperback, 1967.

Teale, Edwin Way. The Golden Throng. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Co., 1945.

Tweedie, Michael. Atlas of Insects. New York: The
John Day Company, 1974.

von Frisch, Karl. The Dancing Bees. New York: Har-
court, Brace & Co., 1955.

Wilson, Edward O. The Insect Societies. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1971.

INVITATION TO ACTION

Amory, Cleveland. Mankind? New York: Harper &
Row, 1974.

Batten, Peter. Living Trophies, A Shocking Look at
the Conditions in America’s Zoos. New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1976.

Grzimek, Bernhard. Serengeti Shall Not Die,
London, Hamish Hamilton, 1960.

Harrison, Ruth. Animal Machines, The New Factory
Farming Industry. London, Vincent Stuart Ltd.,
1964.

Inskipp, T.P. and Thomas G.J. Airborne Birds.
Sandy, Bedfordshire, England: Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds. 1976.

Inskipp, T.P. All Heaven in a Rage. Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds, Sandy, Bedfordshire,
England, 1975.

Osborn, Fairfield. Our Crowded Planet. New York:
Doubleday, 1962.

 

Pratt, Dallas. Painful Experiments on Animals. New
York, Argus Archives, 1976.

Regan, Tom and Peter Singer. Animal Rights and
Human Obligation. Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1976.

Regenstein, Lewis. The Politics of Extinction. New
York: MacMillan, 1975.

Scheffer, Victor B. A Voice for Wildlife. New York:
Charles Scribner’s & Sons, 1974.

Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation. New York: The
New York Review. 1975.

OCEANS. LAKES AND STREAMS AND THEIR
INHABITANTS

Burton. Maurice and Robert. The Encyclopedia of
Fish. London: BPC Publishing, Ltd., 1975.

Carson, Rachel. The Sea Around Us. Garden City,
New York: Natural History Press, 1954.

Carrighar, Sally. The Twilight Seas: A Blue Whale’s
Journey. Illustrated by Peter Parnell. New York:
Weybright & Talley, division of McKay, 1975.

Cousteau, Jacques-Yves. The Undersea Discoveries
of Jacques-Yves Cousteau. New York: Double-
day & Co. (series).

Hervery, GE and Jack Hems. The Goldfish. Levit-
town, New York: Transatlantic Arts, 1968.

McNulty, Faith. The Great Whales. New York:
Doubleday_& Co., 1974.

Whales: Their Life in the Sea. New Yc k:
Harper & Row, 1975.

Mostert, Noel. Supership.

Mowat, Farley. A Whale for the Killing. Boston:
Little, Brown & Co., 1972.

Payne, Roger S. and Scott McVay. Songs of Hump-
back Whales. SCIENCE, August 13, 1971.
Riedman, Sarah R. and Elton T. Gustafson. Home is
the Sea: For Whales. New York: Abelard-

Schuman Ltd., 1971.

Scheffer, Victor B. The Year of the Whale, illustrated
by Leonard Everett Fisher. New York: Charles
Scribner & Sons, 1969.

Small, George. The Blue Whale. New York: Colum-
bia University Press, 1971.

Stenuit, Robert. Dolphin: Cousin to Man. New York:
Sterling Publishing Co., 1968. '

PHOTOGRAPHY

Field Photography. Alfred A. Blaker. San Francisco:
Freeman Publishers. 1976.

Here’s How. “Nature Photography”, pp. 1—9,
Kodak Publication No. AE-81, Rochester, New
York: Kodak Consumer Markets Division.

Photographing Nature. (series). Hertfordshire,
England: Fountain Press, 1975.

Trees
Insects
Seashore
Photographing Nature. Life Library of Photography.
New York: Time-Life Books, 1971.

 




PLANTS

Baylis, Maggie. Plant Parenthood. San Francisco:
101 Productions, paperback, 1975.

Better Homes and Gardens Books. Better Homes
and Gardens New Garden Book. New York,
1968.

Bush-Brown, James. American Gardening Book.
New York: Scribner, 1966.

Elbert, George. Indoor Light Gardening Book. New
York: Crown Publishing Company, 1974.

Faust, Joan Lee. The New York Times Book of
House Plants. New York: A & W Visual Library,

The New York Times Book Company, paper-
back, 1973.

Wyman, Donald. Gardening Encyclopedia. New
York: MacMillan, 1971.

WILD FA UNA AND FLORA AND THE LAND

Bates. Marston. The Forest and the Sea, A Look at
the Economy of Nature and the Ecology of
Man. New York: Random House, 1960.

Bigelow, Howard E. Mushroom Pocket Field Guide.
New York: Macmillan Press, 1974.

Butcher, Devereux. Exploring Our National Parks
and Monuments. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin
Co., 1969.

Carlquist, Sherwin. Island Biology. New York and
London, Columbia University Press, 1974.

Krutch, Joseph Wood. Grand Canyon. New York:
Morrow 8: Co., 1971.
The Desert Year. New York: Viking Press,
1963.
The Great Chain of Life. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co., 1957.
The Twelve Seasons. Plainview, New York:
Books for Libraries‘, 1949.
The Voice of the Desert. New York: Morrow 8:
C0,, 1955.

MacClintock. Dorcas. Squirrels of North America.
New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Company.
1970.

Mcllvaine. Charles and Robert K. Macadam. One
Thousand American Fungi. New York: Dover
Publications. Inc. paperback, 1973.

Matthiessen, Peter. Wildlife in America. New York:
Viking Press. 1964.

Milne. Lorus and Margery. The Balance of Nature.
New York: Alfred Knopf, 1960.

Teale. Edwin Way. Autumn Across America. New
York: Dodd, Mead and Co., 1969.

Journey Into Summer. New York: Dodd, Mead
and Co., 1969. ,

North with the Spring. New York: Dodd, Mead
and Co. 1951.

RECOMMENDED BIOLOGY PROJECT BOOKS
High School Level

1) Experiments in Animal Behavior, Marguer-
ite D. Hainsworth, Houghton Mifﬂin Co.,
Boston, 1968.

2) How to Follow the Adventures of Insects,
Vinson Brown, Little Brown and Co., Boston,

1968.

3) Experiments with Microscopic Animals:
Investigations for the Amateur Scientist,
Philip Goldstein and Jerome Metzner.
Doubleday and Co., Inc., New York, 1971.

4) Manual of Field Biology and Ecology, A.H.
Benton and WE. Werner, Jr., Burgess
Publishing Co., Minneapolis, 1972. 408 pp.

5) Experiments in Visual Science for Home
and School, James R. Gregg, The Ronald
Press Co., New York, 1966.

6) Field Ecology, E.A. Phillips, BSCS
Laboratory Block, D.C. Heath and Co.,
Boston, 1964.

7) Air Pollution Experiments for Junior and
Senior High School Science Classes, Eds,
D.C. Hunter and HG Wohlers. Published by
Air Pollution Control Association, 4400 Fifth
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
1969.

8) The Curious Mollusks, Marie M. Jenkins,
Holiday House, 18 East 56th Street, New
York, NY. 10022, 1972, 224 pp.

9) Insects in the Classroom, J.H. Borden, and
8D. Herrin. British Columbia Teachers’
Federation, 105—2235 Burrard St., Van-
couver 180, British Columbia, 1972, 172 pp.

10) Anti-Pollution Lab, Elliot H._ Blaustein,
Sentinel Books Publishers, Inc., New York,
1972, 128 pp.

9

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

 




$34,
a. w? V
x»? ‘ .. .

3c. ~23

.9 TM
a...)
a

..
m:

.4 m.» ~ in?
I 3.4

o. A n.
Awwﬁzg

I # 3]
gm.“

1.
H
3
S
3
H
M
H
I.
Z
a
H
W
3
m
m
I.
S

 

 

 




 

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Presented Annually for an Outstanding Contribution to
Animal Welfare

‘In 1954 a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr.
Albert Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr.
Schweitzer had gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

1960

1961

SCHWEITZER MEDALISTS

Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of
500 experimental beagles, whose humane treatment
of the animals and high standards of care and hous-
ing exemplify the purpose for which the Medal was
struck.‘

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B. Sc., M.l.
Biol, Director-General of the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare, London, England, author,
speaker, Founder of U.F.A.W., which pioneered in
enlisting scientific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of “The Case for Humane
Vivisection,” the first article calling for humane treat-
ment of research animals to appear in a national
magazine.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author of the first
humane slaughter bill introduced in the Congress of
the United States and Chief Senate Sponsor of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

Congressman W. R; Poage, Chairman of the
Committee on Agriculture, United States House of
Representatives, then Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief House
Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief Z. S.
Fundikira, President, of the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, numbering 40,000 African members.
Presentation of the Medals in Africa was made by the
Honorable G. Mennen Williams. In New York the
Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson made the Schweitzer
Award address.

William H. A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal
columnist.

1962 Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

‘ Dr. Bay later resigned after being refused permission by new management
to end the suffering of a beagle with 24 fractures.

11




1963

1964

1965

1966

1967

1968

1969

1970

1971

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose dis-
covery and reporting on hundreds of Food and Drug
Administration test dogs perpetually caged in a
sub—basement led to Congressional action providing
comfortable kennel runways for them.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force,
whose prompt reporting on suffering and neglect
of experimental animals led to improvements in their
care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States Abe Fortas, author of the first Federal bill to
require humane treatment of research animals.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A. S.
Mike Monroney, who sponsored and fought for
enactment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act,
passed by a vote of 85 to O in the United States
Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhern and Dr. Earl Jones of the United
States Department of Agriculture, who prevented
much suffering by meat animals through their work in
disease eradication and by laboratory animals
through effective implementation of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan
Department of Agriculture, who created the first
Animal Welfare Committee of the United States
Animal Health Association.

Stan Wayman, Life photographer, whose “Concen—
tration Camps for Dogs” and other picture stories
brought recognition to millions of people that animals
need protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard-hitting columns against
cruel experiments by school children resulted in
Westinghouse science fair prizes being changed to
eliminate any experimention on captive vertebrates.
The Medal was presented by Senator Charles Percy
(R., 111.).

Hon. Thomas Foley (D., Wash), who won enact—
ment of the Animal Welfare Act amendments of 1970
including the requirement for “appropriate use of
anesthetic, analgesic and tranquilizing drugs” for
experimental animals. The Medal was presented by
Senator Warren D. Magnuson (D., Wash).

 




Hon. Russell Train, Chairman, President’s Council
on Environmental Quality, who was successful in
obtaining unanimous adoption of a resolution for a
ten-year international moratorium on commercial
whaling. The Medal was presented by Hon. S. Dillon
Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Scott McVay who pioneered in obtaining the listing of
all the great whales on the US. Endangered Species
List. The Medal was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot,
Senior Scientist, the President’s Council on En—
vironmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poisons
spread on federal lands and who has sought a mora—
torium on commercial whaling. The Medal was pre-
sented by Hon. Russell Train, Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency.

Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by
laboratory dog dealers in the 1960’s and initiated an
animalport in Washington, DC. to help animals
transported by air. The Medal was presented by
Senator Lowell Weicker (R., Conn.)

Daniel Oduber, President of Costa Rica, for outstand-
ing achievement in creating major national parks, in
Costa Rica, where wildlife can flourish. The Medal
presentation was by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.

Yoko Muto, animal caretaker at Tokyo University,
and representative of the Japan Animal Welfare
Society, for her seven years’ unstinting efforts to allay
the suffering of thousands of dogs used for experi—
mental surgery, by gentle, personal nursing given
each animal. The presentation was made by Ambas-
sador Mike Mansfield.

Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, and author of A Policy for National Conser-
vation, for his contributions to wildlife conservation
and humane education as Indian Minister of Finance.

Roger and Katharine Payne, for their leadership in
the protection of whales, through meticulous scien-
tific study and close observation of living Humpback
and Right whales. Medal.presentation"by‘Senator
Paul Tsongas, (D., Mass.)

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 




The Animal Welfare institute. 1981. 257
pages, 79 illustrations, 18 appendices.
$4.00 prepaid.

This study, four years in the research and
writing, covers animals killed for their fur
throughout the world, the traps used, en~
dangered species and trapping legislation,
retail sales, and exports. it is the most com-
prehensive report on fur—from wild animal
to fur coatwever published.

The Table of Contents is on the reverse.

A young bobcat
photo by Hope Ryden

 




Here’s what readers are saying about FACTS ABOUT FURS:

“I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your most worthwhile contribution to the welfare of animals. Cruel and inhumane
practices are indeed deplorable, and it gives me great pleasure to note that our country’s role in ending these has been recognized.”
H.E. Sidi Bouna Ould Side, Ambassador of Mauritania

“The book is well compiled and interestingly edited. . . . Our congratulations go to you and the Institute for a job well done.”
H.E. Wright Brewer, Ambassador of Liberia

“Facts About Furs has become a veritable encyclopedia. My hearty congratulations to all concerned.”
F. Jean Vinter, MD, Author of the first and second editions

“It brings together a vast amount of information on traps, trapping and the fur trade. . . . We certainly need more education in this regard.”
C.R. Gutermuth, Honorary President, World Wildlife Fund—US.
. very useful . . . comprehensive volume with detailed statistics available.”
Kai Curry-Lindahl, Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs
“Wow! Socko! Hear, Hear! Congratulations to everyone for Facts About Furs!”
Bina Robinson, Allegany County SPCA, Swain, NY
“. . . This is an excellent book.”
Dick Randall, Defenders of Wildlife
“Thank you again for doing such a good job for the furbearing animals.”
Jean Stewart, Research Associate, Argus Archives, NY
“Many thanks for the copy of Facts About Furs, third edition. It is not pleasant reading. However, showing it to any legislator ought to cure his
(her) feeling that humane people proceed merely on emotion!”
Mildred M. Lucas, Connecticut Council for Humane Education
. very informative and interesting . . . we would appreciate receiving four additional copies .
Patricia L. Stewart, Michigan Department of Natural Resources

Over 96 million animals were trapped in the United
States between 1970 and 1978.

Most of these animals were trapped in the steel jaw
leghold trap

A recent survey conducted by the Yale School of
Forestry and Environmental Studies reveals that
three quarters of the American public favor a ban
on the steel jaw leghold trap.

48 countries already have banned this trap.

Far more wild animals than ranched animals are
killed for fur in the United States. Over 18 million
wild animals were trapped in 1977-78, while only
3 million mink and fox were ranched.
Endangered species are still being killed in substan-
tial numbers for the international fur trade.

In 1979, the US. fur industry was estimated to be a
$700 million business.

One copy of FACTS ABOUT FURS is free on
request to libraries and humane societies.
Please use the coupon on the reverse of this
leaflet when ordering.

Bobcat dead in leghold trap
photo by Dick Randall

 




CONTENTS

Foreword
Pain Perception in Mammals, by Samuel M. Peacock, Jr. MD.

1.
2.
3.

4.

5.
6.
7.

The Fur Trade, a Short History, by Greta Nilsson
Animals Killed for the Fur Trade, by Greta Nilsson

From Fur Bearer to Fur Wearer: the Agony of the Transition,
by Christine Stevens

Apologists for the Steel Jaw Leghold Trap with Countering Views
by Medical Men, Hunters, and Pet Owners, by John Gleiber

Legislation Regulating the Taking of Furbearers, by Greta Nilsson

The Fur Trade and Endangered Species, by Greta Nilsson

Alternatives to Fur, by Greta Nilsson

Appendices

Index

@333

Copies of FACTS ABOUT FURS are available at cost
price of $4.00 each. Please use the coupon below
when ordering.

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

.1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I

Please send me __ copies of FACTS
ABOUT FURS at $4.00 each, for which I
enclose $

Name

Address

 

 

 

(zip code)

 




é
%

9

Emmet 2% % er9 Aeeiemm Iﬁweetem
Wetiemel eelegieel 'eﬁg

@mitheenieﬁ Emeti‘t‘miee

Published by the Animal Welfare Institute

 




Ernest P. Walker knows animals as an expert and as a friend. Recently retired as
Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in Washington, DC, he has spent
many years in the study and protection of animals for the United States Government.
His excellent publications, such as ”The Care of Captive Animals” for the Smithsonian
Institution and “The Monkey Book” published by Macmillan in 1954, have contributed
greatly to a better understanding of animals and their needs.

At the suggestion of the Animal Welfare Institute, Mr. Walker has written ”First
Aid and Care of Small Animals”, a handbook for the guidance of young people and
their teachers in the ﬁrst aid and care of small animals. It is a concise and readable
48-page booklet, with 23 beautiful photographs, many of which were taken by the
author. The Institute was proud to announce its publication late in September, 1955.
Topics covered in the handbook are:

Developing Humane Attitudes Amphibians
Learning with Free Wild Animals Toads
Teaching Nutrition and. Hygiene Salamanders
First Aid for Wild Animals ,.

Rehabilitating Wild Animals high

Injured or Ill Animals Invertebrates

Final Disposition of Animals FOOd CUItUICS

Housing How to rear wax moths
Observations on Feeding
Mammals

Birds

Reptiles .
Turtles How to rear flies

How to rear meal worms
How to rear enchytraeid
How to rear cockroaches

Snakes Maintaining earthworm cultures

Lizards Bibliography and index

The Animal Welfare Institute is offering this publication free to teachers in both

primary and secondary schools. If additional copies are desired, they may be purchased
for 35¢ each.

Persons who would like to receive a copy of this booklet may ﬁll out the blank
below, and mail it to the Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3,
New York.

‘---‘.A -AA--------A-_---- --
vvvvvwv'v v'v 'vv'v-vvvvv- v

Animal W Itare Institute
22 East |7th Street
New York 3. N. Y.

Please send me one free copy of "First Aid and Care of Small Animals” (1 am
a teacher.)

Name ................................................
Address...
School .......................................................................................... '

 

 

Please send me ........................... copies of ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals” at 35¢
each. I enclose money order (or check).

Name .............................................................................................
Address

 




