$Eﬁ%%§ﬁ£ﬁgﬁgﬁEEEEEEEE§%EEEEEEEE%EEEE$§§E§$3EEE$$E§EE§EEEE

Tyranny of an Ancient
Superstition

Vaccination causes Disease and Death

FACTS UPON WHICH THE OPPOSITION
TO VACCINATION IS BASED

By
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY

Reprinted from The Ant-1} Vivisectz'on and Humanitarian Review

NEWADDRE88:15,ST.JAMES'SPLAUE, _
$1“. JAMES’S STREET, "‘
LONDON, aw,

Issued by
THE ANIMAL DEFENCE & ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
"Q, 3:9 9" i5t£ﬂ§hlan®ﬁdﬂﬁ31wihaﬂd 4 C011? 81:. Pierre,
Geneva, Switzerland

EEEEEEEEE Eﬁé’ﬁgﬂigﬁgﬁEﬁgﬁ‘éﬁgﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁﬁﬂﬁEgﬁﬁgﬁFmEﬁEﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁﬁﬁgﬁiﬁﬁéﬁﬁﬁgﬁéﬁﬁ

LE

g
EH:
3%
an
HR
ER
g
BE
g
EE
ES
as
55
E;
3%
BE
g
$5
E
E
E
EH
SE
SE
EH
EH
5%
E
35
‘35
as
%
a
35
BE
BE
5%

Eﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁﬁgﬁgﬁgﬁ'ﬁgﬁgﬁﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁéﬁﬁEﬁﬁgﬁéﬁﬁgﬁgﬁﬁaﬁﬁﬁEEﬁEEE.

 

 




 

A

 

 




 

 

 

TYRANNY OF AN ANCIENT
SUPERSTITION

—_—.————

THE PUBLIC SHOULD KNOW :-——-

I. That the opposition to Vaccination has arisen
through the accumulated evidence that it has caused
many deaths, disease and suffering.

2. Vaccine used “ to prevent smallpox ” is a ﬁlthy
substance produced in the following manner: A calf
is tied to a tilting table by its head and legs, and the
table is tilted so that the whole of the side of the animal
can be shaved by the operator. About thirty horizontal
incisions are made in the skin and into each of these
incisions some vaccine lymph is rubbed. The calf’s
head remains tied so that it shall not lick the sores.
Scabbed vesicles from two to three inches in length
form after the operation. At the end of ﬁve or six
days the calf is again tied to the table and tilted up
to enable the operator to clamp the vesicles and
extract their contents. The crust of each vesicle is
ﬁrst carefully removed with the edge of a lancet,
and then the vesicle itself is thoroughly scraped with
the edge of a somewhat blunt lancet and the resulting
mixture of lymph, skin and blood is transferred to a
small crucible. Before the vesicle is scraped with
a blunt lancet it is clamped in order to squeeze out
the lymph. The Director of the Animal Vaccine
Station told the Royal Commission on Vaccination
that this pressure also squeezes out the blood, “ and
you cannot obtain the calf lymph without taking also
a certain amount of blood which is at the same time
pressed out of the vesicles by these clamps.”

3

 




The abdomen of the calf is made into a raw bleeding
surface by this scraping. Hair and skin come away
with the matter and it is therefore put through a sieve,
after which it is mixed with glycerine, oil of cloves
and distilled water, and issued to public vaccinators
as “ pure ” glycerinated calf lymph. What is termed
lymph is simply the product of diseased matter culti-
vated in the bodies of calves. Although the adjective
“ pure ” is sometimes introduced by ignorant advocates
of Vaccination, it must be pointed out that such a
description is carefully avoided in the Government
publications. Before the Royal Commission on Vac-
cination it was acknowledged by the Local Government
Board’s bacteriologist and it has since been admitted
in Parliament by Presidents of that Department, that
they do not guarantee the purity of lymph.

Vile Compounds.

Since its introduction over a century ago, the
following viruses have been in vogue :—

(I) Cow Pox. (2) Horse Grease. (3) Horse Grease
Cow Pox. (4) Swine Pox. (5) Donkey Pox
(introduced by an Irishman named O’Hara).

(6) Goat POX. (7) Buffalo Pox. (8) Humanised
Lymph. (9) Calf Lymph. (Io) Glycerinated
Calf Lymph. (II) Chloroformed Calf Lymph.
(12) Smallpox, Monkey, Calf Lymph.

(I3) Smallpox—Corpse, Monkey, Calf Lymph. (I4)
Lymph originally derived from smallpox
matter, subsequently passed through the
bodies of numerous calves and other animals.*

 

* These and other statements in this article have been taken
from various publications of the National Anti-Vaccination
Ltﬁivgue, Denlson House, 296, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London,
8. .

4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Further Details of the Preparation of
the Mixture Now Used.

After scraping the calf the resulting mixture of lymph,
epithelial tissue (skin) and blood is transferred to a small
nickel crucible set in a wide wooden stand on a table close to
the operator.

To the pultaceous (gruelly) mass contained in the crucible
there is added about an equal quantity of glycerine.

The mixture of pulp and glycerine is triturated in a mixing
machine driven by a small electric motor.

The mixture, having thus been rendered thin and homo-
geneous, is received in a clean sterilised nickel crucible placed
beneath the machine, but with a View of still further improving
its appearance and of removing any extraneous matters, such
as hairs, it is afterwards passed through a small brass-wire
sieve, consisting of extremely ﬁne gauze, into an agate mortar.
This is done by means of a bone spoon, and there is left on
the surface of the gauze nothing but a very small quantity
of epithelial tissue together with a few hairs. The mixture is
further triturated in the mortar with an agate pestle, and is
then ready for ﬁlling into the tubes in which it is distributed.

We quote the following from the article by Miss
Lily Loat, on “ Vaccine Lymph,” which appeared in
this Review of January-February, 1927 2——

The disease of cowpox in cows must have caused those
animals considerable pain and distress. Dr. Ceely, in 1838—40,
investigated various outbreaks and described in realistic terms.
the horrible ulceration, sometimes so deep that it destroyed half
the udder, caused by this disease. Jenner declared that the
true cowpox came from a disease of the horse called the grease,
and that this must be passed through a cow’s teats in order to
secure the genuine variety of the lymph. Jenner’s idea was to
give the cow this ﬁlthy disease, which might destroy half its
udder, in order to provide lymph for vaccination against small-
pox.

Fortunately for the cows the system of arm-to-arm lymph
production was carried on for some years, but from about the
year 1830 Estlin, Ceely and others who were dissatisﬁed with
the arm-to-arm lymph looked for cowpox and experimented
with it. Mr. Ceely also inoculated animals with human small-

5

 




pox and vaccinated 2,000 children from “lymph ” obtained
in this way. Dr. Badcock, of Brighton, in 1840 variolated a
cow, and between 1840 and 1868 he succeeded by inoculation
of cows with human smallpox in raising stocks of vaccine lymph
on no fewer than 37 separate occasions. Ceely took the natural
cowpox and inoculated young heifers with it, and afterwards
vaccinated young children with the product, some time between
1830 and 1850.

In 1881 calf lymph was supplied by the Government from
the Institution of the Animal Vaccine Establishment. Three
different kinds of lymph were used at that establishment. One
was derived as follows: spontaneous cowpox was found at a
village near Bordeaux ; it was inoculated from calf to calf until
the seventeenth calf was reached; and it was then sent over
to England to start a lymph stock at the establishment. Another
lymph was obtained from Dr. Simpson, of Aberdeen, who had
obtained it by inoculating a cow with smallpox.

A lecture delivered on April 25th, I924, at the
Victoria University of Manchester by S. Monckton
Copeman, M.D., Medical Inspector to the Local
Government Board, Lecturer on Public Health, West-
minster Hospital, disclosed the fact that smallpox
material was taken from Middlesbrough, West Ham
and Glasgow, and not only taken from the bodies of
living patients, but from corpses of those who had
succumbed to smallpox. This human smallpox matter
was passed through monkeys and calves and a number
of children were vaccinated with it.

To increase its potency the lymph is sometimes passed
through rabbits. Monkeys were used in experiments
with smallpox matter 20 years ago and have been
used again quite recently. On the Continent mules,
donkeys, goats and other animals are used for propa-
gating or testing vaccine lymph. That these operations
are by no means trivial is shown by the experience
of a vaccine farm in India some years ago Where some
of the calves died after being inoculated with the
lymph. I

6

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

What Happens to the Calves.

They are eaten by the obliging public! The calves
are killed and any carcases which show evidence of
tubercular disease are destroyed. The rest are sold
for veal. 277 calves were used for vaccination during
1924 at the Government Lymph Establishment at
Hendon.

The Public Should Also Know 2——

3. That Vaccination does not prevent smallpox.

4. That a large number of medical men have been,
and are, strongly opposed to Vaccination, and that
compulsory vaccination in face of the facts relating
to the damage caused to health is iniquitous.

The Vaccinated Die of Smallpox.

Jenner introduced vaccination with cowpox in I798.
In 1802, Jenner said that a person once vaccinated
was protected for life against smallpox. This state—'
ment was accepted by a Committee of the House of
Commons. Parliament voted Jenner a reward of
£30,000. The supposed period of protection has gradu—
ally been reduced from ten years to seven years, then
to ﬁve years, then to two years, to one year, and lately
to two months.

Can disease produce health? Jenner’s promise of
lifelong immunity from a single vaccination had to
be surrendered during his lifetime, a number of people
Whom he had himself vaccinated developing smallpox
later. Yet it was that same promise of immunity
after one vaccination that induced the Government
of the day. to pass the ﬁrst compulsory Vaccination
Act (in 1853), although as early as I839 Sir Henry

7

 




 

Holland had called for re-vaccination on account
of the failure of primary vaccination in the severe
smallpox epidemic of 1838. Dr. Scott Tebb, in his
“ A Century of Vaccination and what it Teaches,”
quoting from ofﬁcial records of smallpox epidemics in
London and other towns in England, and in certain
towns in Germany, between 1853 and 1894, showed
that out of 129,567 smallpox patients whose vaccinal
condition was recorded, 110,470 or 86 per cent. had
been vaccinated. The Dissentient Commissioners in
their Report issued nearly 30 years ago remarked:

” It is, however, superﬂuous at this stage to prove,
what is no longer denied by- anybody, that smallpox
attacks the vaccinated.”

Nor are the vaccinated safe from death from small-
pox should they contract the disease. The Registrar~
General has recorded the deaths from smallpox of
3,960 vaccinated persons in the years 1881 to 1923.
Re-vaccination does not save from smallpox. The
most thoroughly re-vaccinated body of men is the
British Army, yet in that Army 5,108 cases of smallpox
with 492 deaths were recorded from 1860 to 1913.

In the terrible Berlin epidemic of 1871—2 there were
259 cases of smallpox in vaccinated children under
one year of age, of whom 136 died; in Shefﬁeld in
1887-8 there were 7 cases in infants under one year
in whom smallpox developed from 14 days to 7 or 8
months after most perfect vaccination; in the
Gloucester outbreak of 1895-6 there were 5 cases ofﬁcially
reported in persons successfully re-vaccinated from 19
days to 3 months before attack; and in the London
outbreak of 1901-2 there were 13 cases which occurred
from 5 weeks to 5 years after re-vaccination, whilst
amongst the fatal cases in that outbreak there were
5 that had been successfully re-vaccinated from 2-}? to

8

 

 




 

 

 

II years before attack. The oﬁicial History of the War
admits that in Mesopotamia 287 men in the British
Army developed smallpox in spite of having been success‘
fully vaccinated or re—vaccinated within the three preceding
years, and 29 of them died.

In 1853 was passed the ﬁrst Act of Parliament
making Vaccination of infants compulsory.

1854-1867, Vaccinations per cent. of births greatly
increased.

1867, STILL CONTINUAL EPIDEMICS 0F
SMALLPOX.

Act of Parliament strengthening the Vaccination
Law was passed. In consequence the percentage of
births vaccinated rose to nearly the maximum possible.

In 1871—72 occurred the most fatal epidemic of small-
pox in Britain.

In England and Wales, in a well-vaccinated popula-
tion, 42,000 persons died in those two years from
smallpox.

This epidemic proved that Vaccination did not protect
from smallpox.*

Diseases Caused by Vaccination

Vaccination as stated by the highest medical authorities
causes Erysipelas, Syphilis, Lupus, Eczema, Cellulitis,
Sleepy Sickness (Poliomyelitis, Encephalitis Lethargica,
etc.), (Ministry of Health, Andrewes and Rolleston
Committees), and many other serious ailments. (See
“ System of Medicine,” by Professor Sir D. T. Clifford
Allbutt. Also Drs. Creighton, Crookshank, Hutchinson ;

 

* From statement by Mr. Arnold Lupton entitled “ The
Vaccination Acts of Parliament ought to be immediately and
entirely Repealed ” (1929).

9

 




 

 

 

 

Professor James McIntosh, M.D., Hubert M. Turnbull,
M.D. ; and others.)

Two Government Committees recently have inquired
into a considerable number of cases of post—vaccinal
encephalitis in this country, and so serious has the risk
become in Holland that the Government has suspended
compulsory vaccination for two years. The suspension
was followed by a big decline in vaccination and a
similar decline in encephalitis cases. Since the second
of the English committees ﬁnished its labours in Sept-
ember, 1927, a great many more cases of post—vaccinal
encephalitis have been reported in England and Wales.
The statistics in the reports of the committees show that,
for children under 15 years, the risk of dying from
encephalitis from vaccination is greater than the risk of
dying from smallpox.

The reports of the Registrar—General for England
and Wales show that during the 36 years, 1875-1922
inclusive, 1,453 deaths were registered as due to cow-
pox and other effects of vaccination. Of this number,
1,095 may be classiﬁed as the result of the arm-to-
arm system of vaccination from 1875 to 1898, whilst
the remaining 358 were the victims of glycerinated
calf lymph during its ofﬁcial use from 1899 to 1922.
In any case vaccination during the years 1905-1921
killed nearly four times as many children under ﬁve as
died from smallpox.

There is always the danger of tetanus following
vaccination .

Deaths from Vaccination.

Details of a large number of deaths caused by vac-
cination in Great Britain have been published by the
National Anti-Vaccination League, of Denison House,

IO

 

 




 

296, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London. We refer our
readers to the well authenticated publications of this
League. The record of deaths from vaccination is a
tale of the murder of innocents through the enforce—
ment of a medical theory based on gross superstition.
The League publishes reproductions of certiﬁcates of
death directly attributed to vaccination. The following
is taken from the Report of the Commission on Vaccin-
ation presented by the Minister of Health to Parliament
in July, 1928 : “ If London be excluded, the prevailing
type of smallpox in England and Wales has been mild
since the beginning of the century. Witnesses have
appeared before the committee, who have held that
there are now two distinct types of smallpox, the mild
and the severe. . . . Witnesses afﬁrmed that the bodily
disturbance and discomfort produced by the vaccina-
tion of an adult is as great, if not greater, than the
disturbance produced by an attack of smallpox of a
mild type.” The committee also stated that 93 cases
of post-vaccinal nervous disease With 51 deaths have
been reported in this country, between November,
1922, and the end of September, 1927 . . . that 124
cases with 38 deaths have been reported from Holland,
between 1923 and August, 1927.

Extracts from the Report of the Commission on
Smallpox and Vaccination of the Health Organisation
of the League of Nations, Geneva, August 27th, 1928 :—

In the Netherlands, 139 cases of disease of the central
nervous system following vaccination were described
during 1923 to 1927, of which 41 died. In England
and Wales, taking the arbitrary periods dealt with
respectively by the Andrewes and Rolleston Commit-
tees, 62 cases with 36 deaths occurred between Novem-
ber 14th, 1922, and November Ist, 1923, while a further

II

 




 

 

 

group of 40 cases occurred between January Ist, 1926,
and September 30th, 1927. Of these 40 cases, however,
15 were excluded by the Rolleston Committee on
account of their doubtful nature, leaving for consider—
ation 25 cases, of which 12 died, in the second period.
The two combined, on this basis, gave a total of 87,
of which 48 were fatal, for England and Wales during
the two periods under investigation by these committees.

The following list of deaths from vaccination in
Pittsburgh, Pa., U.S.A., is taken from “The Facts
Against Compulsory Vaccination,” by H. B. Anderson
(Citizens’ Medical Reference Bureau, 226 W. 47th
Street, New York City).

Arthur Santoro, age ﬁve years, 1509 BelaSco Avenue (Beech-
view), Pittsburgh, Pa., vaccinated at school, October 131:, 1924,
died October 17th, 1924.

Blanche Jarmalowski, age IO months, 2741 Mulberry Street,
Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated July 14th, 1924, died July 3ISt,
1924.

Minnie A. Hill, 1000 Greenﬁeld Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.,
vaccinated at the Court House Clinic, July 23rd, 1924, died
August 8th, 1924.

Agnes Bik, age two years and ﬁve months, 955 Herron Avenue,
Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated about June 25th, 1924, at Monteﬁore
Hospital, died August 24th, 1924.

Helen Schamming, age seven years, Grant Street (Wall),
Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated about July 15th, 1924, died August
16th, 1924.

Antoinette Oleniacz, age one year.and six months, 5112
Carnegie Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated July 10th, 1924,
died July 28th, 1924.

Hilda Fleishauer, age 12 years, I 564 Westmoreland Street,
Pittsburg, Pa., re-vaccinated July 9th, 1924, died August 5th,
1924.

Mary Florence McGovern, age three years and eight months.
529 North Euclid Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated July 21st,
1924, at Lincoln School, died August 23rd, 1924.

Alice Welsh, age 19 years, 2411 Westmar Street, North Side,
Pittsburg, Pa., vaccinated July 8th, 1924, died July 14th,
1924.

12

 




 

MEDICAL DOUBTS ABOUT VACCINATION.

Declaration by Dr. William Brady, in a syndicated
article in the Ohio State journal, Columbus, Ohio,
October ZIst, 1923 :

“ No one knows What vaccinia is, whether a ‘ take ’
gives the subject cowpox or a modiﬁed form of small-
pox. No one knows whether cowpox is a distinct disease
or smallpox modiﬁed by passing through the animal.
Nobody has discovered the germ or organism which
we believe causes smallpox. Nobody has isolated a
speciﬁc germ or organism from the virus employed
for vaccination. No one can be absolutely certain
that the virus employed for vaccination will not convey
to the subject vaccinated some accidental infection as
well as vaccinia.”

(From “ The Facts Against Compulsory Vaccination,”
by H. B. Anderson.)

Dr. C. Killick Millard, Medical Ofﬁcer of Health for
Leicester, wrote in IgI4 (The Vaccination Question) :

“ For forty years, corresponding roughly with the
advent of the ‘ Sanitary Era,’ smallpox has gradually
but steadily been leaving this country (England).
For the past ten years the disease has ceased to have
any appreciable effect upon our mortality statistics.
For most of that period it has been entirely absent
except for a few isolated outbreaks here and there.
It is reasonable to believe that with the perfecting and
more general adoption of modern methods of control
and with improved sanitation (using the term in its
widest sense) smallpox will be as completely banished
from this country as has been the case with plague,
cholera, or typhus fever. Accompanying this decline
in smallpox there has been a notable diminution during
the past decade in the amount of infantile vaccination.
This falling off in vaccination is steadily increasing
and is becoming very Widespread. I believe that the
sanitary condition of the country has been so greatly

I3

 




 

    

 

improved, and alternative measures for dealing with
smallpox have been so highly evolved, that we shall
never revert to the state of things which existed in the
days before vaccination was discovered.”

Dr. Walter Carr, in his presidential address to the
Medical Society of London at its annual general meeting
on October 8th, 1928, said (on the subject of vaccina-

tion against smallpox) :——-

“ Are we adapting ourselves to the marked changes
in type of that disease which have developed during
the last few years. . . . Is it not obvious that the
present system of registration is grossly inaccurate
and that the real mortality from that disease must be
almost negligible? An exceedingly mild form of
smallpox has now been epidemic in this country for
several years; ought we not seriously to consider
whether a disease which causes such slight constitu-
tional disturbance, such an almost inappreciable num—
ber of deaths, and so few—if any—after-results, really
calls for the elaborate and most expensive system
of hospital isolation which we maintain for it, especially
as we are told that.in some districts it is considered
preferable to have a pleasant three weeks in hospital
with smallpox than to suffer from vaccination at
home. Also, if the disease is really not more serious
than chicken-pox, let us treat it accordingly and not
try to prevent it by giving another disease which may
cause as much, or more, constitutional disturbance,
and in some cases as long, or even a longer period of
incapacity for work.

“ The results of vaccination are not absolutely neg-
ligible and, unfortunately, whilst the number of deaths
from smallpox is now certainly much over-stated,
there is a possibility that those from vaccinia may
be under-stated.”

Dr. Carr is a believer in vaccination, but he asked
I4

    

    
  
 
  
 
 

4




 

“ whether the present form of smallpox is worth being
protected against.” Alluding to the very modiﬁed
form of vaccination recommended by the Depart-
mental Committee of Vaccination, Dr. Carr said:

“Evidently our views about vaccination are changing;
they would probably change even more quickly had
it not become a part of the ofﬁcial creed, established
by law and therefore as dogmatic and as difﬁcult to
alter as the Athanasian Creed itself.”

At a meeting of the Section of Epidemiology and
State Medicine of the Royal Society of Medicine, Dr.
F. Fremantle, M.P., took the chair. Professor Leding-
ham said that :—

“ The vaccination problem in its various aspects
required review in the light of recently acquired
knowledge.”

He went so far as to suggest that compulsion might
be abolished :-——

_“ Under present conditions it might be debated
whether compulsory vaccination were justiﬁed, and
whether the prophylactic would not meet with fuller
acceptance if it were purely optional and introduced
to the people with the accompaniment of a sympathetic
and informative propaganda.”

Dr. Major Greenwood, Professor of Statistics, and
Chief Statistician at the Ministry of Health, declared
that a dreadful amount of nonsense was perpetually
talked about vaccination, and that was the difﬁculty.

“ In Jenner’s classical paper no mistake was omitted
that could possibly have been made, and there was
a good deal of evidence that Jenner had been a
rogue.”

1:»

 

 




 

 

 

It is true that Dr. Greenwood added» that Jenner
had been perfectly right in his guess, but he asked:

“ Why should they not treat vaccination like any
other form of prophylaxis and advocate it only when
circumstances of special risk were incurred? The
whole problem of herd immunity and individual immun-
ity was in its infancy and nobody knew the truth about
it.” *

RESULTS OF VACCINATION.

Extracts from book entitled “ The Principles and
Practice of Medicine,” by the late Sir William Osler,
M.D., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians,
London ; Regius Professor of Medicine, Oxford Univer-
sity ; and Thomas McCrae, M.D., Professor of Medicine,
Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia ; (Ninth edition,
1924) :—~

P. 333. ” Generalized Vaccim'a.——It is not uncommon
to see vesicles in the vicinity of the primary sore. Less
common is a true generalized pustular rash, deve10ping
in different parts of the body, often beginning about
the wrists and on the back. The secondary pocks
may continue to make their appearance for ﬁve or
six weeks after vaccination. In children the disease
may prove fatal. They may be most abundant on the
vaccinated limb, and occur usually about the eighth
to the tenth day.

“ (e) C0mplicati0ns.—In unhealthy subjects, or as a
result of uncleanliness, or sometimes injury, the vesicles
inﬂame and deep excavated ulcers result. Sloughing
and deep cellulitis may follow. In debilitated children
there may be a purpuric rash with this. Acland thus
arranges the dates at which the possible eruptions and
complications may be looked for :

 

* Quoted from pamphlet issued by the National Anti-
Vaccination League.

16

l
\

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The picture of the calf used in the manu-
facture of Vaccine is taken from the Report
to the Local Government Board on the
preparation of Glycerinated Calf Lymph.

 

 




 

 

 

 

EW THORNTON, Colne. Vaccinated on
ht arm about 12 years prev10us
Became para

MATH
the r1 g

2.

to the
lysed and

SOI‘CS

ible

taken
ith terr

mg

ed w

photo be
ict

afﬂ

 

 

 




 

MONA STEVENSON. Vaccinated at the age
of 5 weeks with ofﬁcial Glycerinated Calf
Lymph by a Public Vaccinator. Death
certiﬁed as “generalised vaccinia.”

 




4. ROSINAA SANDALL. Vaccinated. Became
terribly ill. Sores broke out on her foot.
Limbs swelled. Became later like a living
skeleton. Died. Question about the case
was asked in the House of Commons by
Mr. Arnold Lupton.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

” I. During the ﬁrst three days : Erythema, urticaria ;
vesicular and bullous eruptions ; invaccinated ery—
sipelas.

“ 2. After the third day and until the pock reaches
maturity : Urticaria ; lichen urticatus, erythema multi-
forme ; accidental erysipelas.

“ 3. About the end of the ﬁrst week: Generalized
vaccinia; impetigo ; vaccinal ulceration; glandular
abscess ; septic infections ; gangrene.”

Extract from article by H. E. Hasseltine, published
in Public Health Reports, the weekly bulletin of the
United States Public Health Service, January 5th,

1923 2——

” After observing this small series of cases one cannot
escape the conviction that vaccinia had something to
do with the appearance of the leprous manifestations in
the successfully vaccinated cases. This phenomenon
may also explain some of the opinions held by the older
Hawaiian laity, that in many cases vaccination was
the cause, or at least the exciting cause, of leprosy.
During the days of arm—to-arm vaccination the possi-
bility of the spread of leprosy by this procedure must
be admitted. It is more probable, however, that the
vaccination served to bring to light latent or unrecog-
nised leprosy.”

” The symbiosis between the infections of vaccinia
and foot-and-mouth disease is especially interesting.
Animals vaccinated with the mixed virus, as a rule,
show only the lesions of one of these diseases, namely,
vaccinia; nevertheless the infectious principle of
foot—and-mouth disease remains in the vaccinal erup—
tion.”

Extract from Farmers’ Bulletin, No. 666, by John R.
Mohler, V.M.D., Assistant Chief, Bureau of Animal

I7

 




 

 

 

 

Industry, in an article entitled “ F oot-and-Mouth
Disease,” published by the United States Department
of Agriculture, April 22nd, 19I5.

P. 15. “ Foot-and-mouth disease is primarily and
principally a disease of cattle ; secondarily and casually,
a disease of man. . . . It is doubtful whether the
disease can be transmitted to man by cutaneous or
subcutaneous inoculation, though it is probable that
the infection may be communicated if the virus directly
enters the blood through wounds of any kind. . . .
The symptoms in man resemble those observed in

animals.” *

THE CIRCLE OF THE POISON—FROM CHILD
TO CALF AND CALF TO RABBIT, THEN
BACK TO CALF AND CHILD.

THE ROLE OF MICE.

Extract from “ Epidemiology and Public Health,” Volume I,
1922, by Dr. Victor C. Vaughan, former President of the American
Medical Association.

P. 199 “ According to Park, the most reliable seed virus
is what he calls the human-calf-rabbit virus. Crusts from
healthy children are collected on the nineteenth day after
vaccination and worked into an emulsion with sterile water.
With this material an area of about 6 inches square on the
prepared abdomen of a calf is inoculated, while the remainder
is planted with the ordinary vaccine. The virus from the
limited space is separately collected and, after being glycerinated,
is diluted with 12% parts of a normal salt solution and planted
on the properly prepared shaved skin of the backs of rabbits.
The pulp from the rabbit vaccination is used for vaccinating
calves. Usually within 24 hours after vaccination the scratches
become pink, within another day slightly raised and papular,
and within from four to six days typical vaccinia vesicles are
developed. In removing the material the scariﬁed surface is
washed with warm water and soap and then thoroughly with
sterile water. The crusts are carefully picked off with sterile

 

* From “The Facts Against Compulsory Vaccination,” by
H. B. Anderson, Citizens’ Medical Reference Bureau, 226,
W. 47th Street, New York City.

18

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

forceps and the contents of the vesicles removed with a curette-
The mass of material thus obtained is placed in sterile beakers
or tubes and treated with a mixture of water, glycerine and
carbolic acid, as given in the English formula. According to
Park, one calf should yield about IO grammes of pulp—enough
to vaccinate about 1,500 people. The efﬁciency of the virus is
determined by inoculation on the shaved backs of rabbits.
Dilutions of the virus, I to IO and I to 100, are made, and a
proper virus should produce vesicles on the rabbit in a dilution
of I to 500 at least. The number of bacteria in the glycerinated
preparation can be determined by the plate method. Usually,
practically all bacteria disappear from the glycerinated preparation
within a month. However, in all instances white mice should be
inocalated in order to prove the absence of the tetanus bacillus.” *

THE GREAT SMALLPOX SCARE.

In consequence of an outbreak of virulent smallpox
in the liner Tascania, which arrived in Marseilles and
later on in England from Bombay, the French Govern-
ment became greatly alarmed.

On April 16th, 1929, it was announced that the
French Government had imposed drastic regulations
on all British travellers who wished to enter France.
It was stated that on and after Thursday, April 18th,
all passengers landing in France from England would
be required to produce a statement signed by a qualiﬁed
practitioner to the effect that they had been vaccinated
within the last two months. Details of the decision were
communicated to all shipping companies concerned.
Ships entering French ports from England were required
to ﬂy the quarantine ﬂag and all crews were to be
compulsorily vaccinated. This included crews of ships
which had only touched British ports. The names
and addresses and destination of all passengers were
to be supplied. Passengers unable to produce a certiﬁ-
cate of vaccination within the last two months would

 

* From “The Facts Against Compulsory Vaccination,” by
H. B. Anderson, Citizens’ Medical Reference Bureau, 226,
W. 47th Street, New York City.

I9

 




 

 

 

 

 

either be vaccinated on landing or refused landing.
The regulation also applied to travel by air, and arrange—
ments were made for passengers to be vaccinated at
the Croydon Aerodrome or at the ofﬁces of the Imperial
Airways.

It was the intention of the French Government to
enforce these regulations already on April 17th, with-
out notice, for the ﬁrst news only reached England on
April 16th, but the Southern Railway and the London,
Midland and Scottish Railway Companies represented
to the French authorities the inconvenience which
would be suffered by travellers because of the short
notice given, and a postponement was secured. The
London, Midland and Scottish Railway arranged for
the attendance of a doctor to vaccinate passengers on
the boats from Tilbury to Dunkirk.

INTERNATIONAL SANITARY CONVENTION
——HOW THE PEOPLE MAY BE SUB-
J ECTED TO COMPULSORY VACCINATION.

The French Ministry of Hygiene, which was responsible
for the order, based its action on Article 42 of the
International Sanitary Convention of June 2Ist, 1926 :—

Each Government can take whatever measures it thinks
advisable to ensure the inspection of passengers who are not
protected by vaccination and who arrive in ships which have
not yet had cases of smallpox on board, but which have cleared
within I4 days from an infected area.

This agreement has, it appears, been signed by
France, Great Britain and. other nations. It was also
stated in defence of the decree that the French Govem-
ment had decided “ to apply the clauses of the F ranco~

20

 




 

 

 

 

British Convention of 1926, dealing with certain con-
tagious diseases.”

Vaccination is compulsory throughout France.
Britain has been and is the pioneer in enlightening
the public with regard to the dangers and the useless-
ness of vaccination. Vaccination against smallpox is
the stronghold and basis of that medical superstition
which upholds the theory that you can conquer disease
by injecting ﬁlth and diseased matter into healthy
bodies. The fact that hygienic enlightenment has
made it possible for British subjects to refuse vaccina-
tion, and for British children to live unpoisoned by
the loathsome concoction which goes under the name
of vaccine, has caused irritation and bitterness in those
medical and vivisectionist circles, British and foreign,
which would like to force compulsory inoculation and
vaccination against a number of diseases on an ignorant
and credulous public. Hence the present hope that a
“ scare,” inconvenience to travellers, irritation between
two great countries would force the British Govern-
ment to issue an order for compulsory vaccination,
The Paris journal suggested that the Department of
Hygiene of the League of Nations should use its in—
ﬂuence to persuade Great Britain to adopt compulsory
vaccination and thereby “ destroy the last centre of
smallpox infection of Europe.” (T he Times, April
17th.) Le journal further recorded that there would
“doubtless be gnashing of teeth at Calais, Boulogne,
Dieppe, Dunkirk and other places when our dear
Londoners on their way to spend a week—end in France
found themselves compelled to submit to the little
pricking which they evade so easily in their own
country.”

A glance at the statistics of actual deaths from small-
21

 




 

 

pox in European countries, during the years 1919-1927,
would have had a sobering effect on some scribes—but
they either could not or would not look. These are

the ﬁgures:
SMALLPOX DEATHS 1919-1927.

England and Wales 165
Italy (thoroughly vaccinated and re-

vaccinated). . . 28,889
Spain (very well vaccinated) . . 13,193
Portugal (several years missing) . 10,670
Egypt . , . 3.957
Germany (vaccinated and re—vaccm-

ated) . . . 1,197

France (ﬁgures very defective; very
thoroughly vaccinated and re- vac-
cinated) * . . . . . 6oo

Travellers

Great inconvenience was caused to holiday—makers.
Messrs. Thomas Cook and Co. complained that they
had received on April 17th no advance orders of the
new measure, and that they had 400 people booked to
cross on the 18th. Messrs. Pickford, Ltd., stated that
nearly all their usual passengers had cancelled their
bookings, but that those clients whose business com-
pelled them to go to France would get vaccinated.
Messrs. George Lunn’s Tours, Ltd., stated that the
order would mean a falling off of about 95 per cent.
of cross-Channel trafﬁc to France. Holiday folk, they
said, will not get vaccinated just for the pleasure of
going to France.

The French Government suspended the ﬁrst order
issued, and arrangements were made for a conference

 

* From Mr. George Cope’s Open Letter to Lieut.-Col. Fre-
mantle, M.P. Issued by National Anti—Vaccination League.

22

 




 

 

 

between the British and French health authorities to
be held in Calais. The conference was held on April
ZIst. Dr. Nepoty represented the French Government,
Colonel Stock and Dr. Sturdee the British Ministry of
Health.

The result of the conference was described in several
English newspapers as a failure. At 2 a.m. on April
22nd, M. Loucheur, the French Minister of Health,
issued a decree to the effect that from that day all
persons travelling to France from Great Britain who
had not been vaccinated during the last ﬁve years must
be placed under surveillance for at least fourteen days
during their stay in France. The surveillance measure
meant that each passenger would be given a special
“ sanitary passport ” on landing, to be submitted for
inspection to the medical authorities of each French
locality visited or passed through by the bearer. It
appears that the French Government had demanded
from the British representatives that the British
Government should impose medical examination on all
travellers leaving Britain for France, and that this had
not been agreed to by the British representatives.

Meanwhile the Mayor of Havre, being ﬁlled with
fears of smallpox and having complete conﬁdence in
vaccination, acted independently, and compelled British
Visitors to France to be vaccinated.

The decision of M. Leon Meyer, Mayor of Le Havre, to insist
on the vaccination of passengers from England was carried out
yesterday morning without incident.

Instead of the usual 170 to 200 passengers only 39 were on
board the steamer Antonia when it arrived from Southampton.

Sixteen passengers, ten men and six women, had no certiﬁ-
cates of vaccination and were vaccinated‘on board the ship.

Half a dozen members of the English crew who were not
vaccinated refused to be vaccinated, and said they would rather

stay on board the ship until it returns to Southampton.
~—From the Daily Express, April 22nd, 1929. ..

The new French decree threw hotels and shops in
23

,I .q ' -
‘5'" ‘ '7
M",
. i
.3,
'.

 




 

 

France into a state of excitement, for large sums of
money are spent by British visitors every week in
France. Large numbers of British subjects cancelled
their intended visits to France.

Meanwhile the Daily Express of April 22nd contained
the following :——

FRANCE’S DEATH RATE FIGURES.
SIX TIMES AS HIGH AS IN ENGLAND.

Smallpox, as a matter of fact, has been much more of a scourge
to France than to Great Britain in the last ten years. As recently
as July last the Smallpox and Vaccination Committee of the
Health Organisation of the League of Nations gave the following
ﬁgures of the death rate per million living for the years 1919—
1927:

France England
2.9 0.46

The French ﬁgures for those years were incomplete, and
were in'all probability higher than the percentage quoted. In
1926 and 1927 there was an epidemic in France which raged
for the best part of a year, and the mortality was high, and the
six or seven cases which occurred in London towards the end
of 1926, two of which were fatal, all came from Paris.

Fewer Deaths from Smallpox in England and
Wales than in Other Countries

SMALLPox DEATH-RATE PER MILLION, 1919—1927.

England and Wales (little vaccinated) 0.46
Switzerland * . . . . . 0.50
Germany (well vaccinated) . . 2.I
Belgium ,, . . . 2.1
Austria ,, . . . 2.4
France ,, . . . 2.9
Poland ,, . . . 10.3
Czecho—Slovakia ,, . . . 23.4
Spain ,, . . . 65.7
Italy (very well vaccinated) . . ' 101.1
Portugal ,, ,, . . . 386.0

 

* Switzerland is not a “ well vaccinated ” country.

24

 




    
    
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
     

Note, in particular, the position of Italy, one of
the bestwif not the best—vaccinated and re-vaccinated
countries in Europe.

Table taken from ﬁgures published in the Report of the
12th Session of the League of Nations Health Committee
and quoted in a Memorial to the Minister of Health by the
Council of the National Anti-Vaccination League.

The mild form of smallpox still existing in England
is not dangerous, and the death-rate is very small in
comparison with that from other diseases over which
no panic is raised.

During the last complete decade, 1911-20, the
average annual deaths from smallpox and other well-
known diseases were as follows :

Phthisis . . . . . . 41,285
Measles . . . . . . 10,065
Wh00ping cough . . . . 6,734
Diphtheria . . . . . 5,160
Diabetes . . . . . . 4,154
Scarlet Fever . . . . 1,702
Typhoid Fever . . . . 1,263 ;

Smallpox . . . . . 14 I

and the ratios between the smallpox deaths and the
others were, therefore, as follows :

Phthisis . . . 3,000
Measles . . . 719l :
Whooping cough . 481 l
Diphtheria . . 368 to 1 of smallpox ‘
Diabetes . . . 297
Scarlet fever . . 121
Typhoid fever . . 90

(From Mr. Cope’s Open Letter to Lieut.-Col. Fremantle,
already quoted.)

25

‘ \Z‘. t:

 




 

 

Meeting of French Cabinet.

On April 25th, at a meeting of the French Cabinet,
M. Loucheur, Minister of Health, described the latest
regulations to prevent the spread of smallpox from
England to France. —-

(I) Medical ofﬁcers at the French ports have power
to examine the passengers and crews of ships coming
from places which are known to be affected by small-
pox, and may, if necessary, vaccinate them before
landing or refuse them permission to land. The usual
quarantine rules by which a ship may be forbidden to
enter a port may be applied.

(2) All passengers from England to France or mem-
bers of ships’ crews who wish to land must be vaccinated
before landing or produce a certiﬁcate showing that
they were vaccinated not more than ﬁve months or
less than 10 days ago, or if they wish to stay in France
ﬁll up a sanitary passport which will enable the medical
authorities to keep in touch with them for a period of
I4 days. This regulation has now been extended
to cover air services.

(3) On arriving at their destination travellers must
report to the local mayor or medical ofﬁcer, and they
must notify these authorities of any change of address
which they may make within I4 days of landing. After
this period they are free.

(4) Travellers going straight through France by
train without breaking their journey are not affected.

(5) Travellers who have vaccination certiﬁcates need
no sanitary passports. Local authorities have no right
to demand vaccination certiﬁcates from visitors who
' haVe sanitary passports or passports from those Who
have vaccination certiﬁcates. The sanitary passports

26

 




 

    

 

  

are issued to passengers either on board ship or at the
port or aerodrome of arrival, and no steps need be
taken to obtain them before leaving England.

———From The Times, April 26th, 1929.

On April 25th, the British Ministry of Health issued
a statement declaring that the “risk of any general
outbreak from the Tuscam'a’s source of infection is
now at an end. Forty-ﬁve out of one thousand ﬁve
hundred and eighty-nine people on board the Tuscania
caught the disease, but the rigorous measures which
have been taken in this country have been effectual,
and the English ports have been kept free.”

The statement also contained the following :

“ Smallpox of mild degree has been prevalent in England
and Wales, as in other countries of Europe and America, during
the last few years, and the following table sets out the number
of cases since 1926 :

SMALLPOX: ENGLAND AND WALES.

Cases Deaths
1926 . . . . 10,141 11
1927 . . . . 14,787 36
1928 . . . . 12,420 53
1929 approximately
to 13th . . . . 3,899 16
April (Exact ﬁgures

not available.)

“ It should be understood that these returns include a certain
small number of cases of smallpox of severe degree in 1926.

CONTINENTAL REPORTS.

“ It has also been stated in the Continental Press that small-
pox was ‘ rampant ’ in London. In point of fact there have
been 167 cases of mild degree in the administrative county of
London this year, among a population of 4%- millions. This
ﬁgure cannot, of course, accord with the number of patients
treated in the Metropolitan Asylums Board’s hospitals, because
cases are admitted to these hospitals from outside London.

“ It will be seen from this statement that the great bulk
of cases which have occurred in recent years have been mild

27

 




 

 

ln degree, and that while the Tuscania cases have resembled
the more virulent type formerly prevalent, the number of such
cases has, thanks to the precautions taken, been comparatlvely
small, and any danger of widespread infection from this source
may now be said to be at an end.”

“ Potential Murderers.”

Some newspapers showed their complete ignorance
of the failure of Vaccination and their pathetic faith in
exploded theories. The medical correspondent of the
Daily Mail let himself go in the following statement
which was published in the Daily Mail under the heading
“ Potential M arderers ” :—

“ England is in the unenviable position of being
regarded by the rest of the world as a plague spot
(i.e., by granting exemptions from vaccination). It
is the only country in Europe where vaccination is not
compulsory.

“ It cannot be too strongly urged that an unvaccin—
ated person is not only a potential suicide but a potential
murderer.”

The same paper gave the case for vaccination away
in the following statement published in a leading
article :

“The present outbreak of virulent smallpox in
England may be expected to subside before long,
thanks to the excellent system of sanitation which has
cut short so many epidemics.”

What P Has sanitation cut short so many epidemics P
That is exactly what the anti-vaccinationists and anti-
vivisectionists say, and not only say, but know. The
Daily Mail goes on to say that a more general use of

28

 




 

 

 

 

 

the facilities for vaccination would have prevented
the outbreak. The Daily Mail also found that the
French had been guilty of “, excessive caution,” and
stated that when the French authorities insisted that
the vaccination should have taken place within the last
two months, they went considerably beyond medical
opinion, which is agreed that successful vaccination
remains eﬂective for several years (1.)

This is precisely where the Daily Mail was grievously
wrong. For medical opinion has never been agreed
about vaccination, and the period of protection has
varied from time to time and from mind to mind.

If the ﬁrst French decree based on the theory that
vaccination protects for a period of two months were
enforced, unfortunate human beings living 80 years
would have to be vaccinated 480 times.

The Times stated in a leading article that “it is an
ironic commentary on the work of Jenner, the discoverer
of vaccination, that his countrymen should be suspect
in the eyes of their neighbours because of the refusal
of so many of them to take advantage of the means of
safety he left behind him.”

It is perhaps only the ﬁrst symptoms of recovery
from madness.*

British anti-vaccinators have gained the following
points:

I. Repeated penalties for failure to vaccinate the
same child are abolished. 2. The doctor must vaccinate
at the parents’ house if so desired. 3. Exemption from

 

* In June, 1929, all the French vaccination regulations and
orders regarding sanitary certificates were withdrawn.

29

 




 

prosecution if the father signs a statement of conscien-
tious objection in the presence of a magistrate or com—
missioner for oaths, and delivers it to the vaccination
ofﬁcer before the infant is four months old. 4. Terri-
torials are not obliged to be vaccinated. 5. Soldiers
during the war were not obliged to be vaccinated, but
now men are not recruited unless they promise to be
vaccinated. 6. The Board of Education does not
insist on the vaccination of school teachers. 7. In the
Post Ofﬁce and Civil Service conscientious objectors
need not be vaccinated. 8. As a result of the conscience
clause (Vaccination Act, 1907), only about 45 per cent.
of children annually born are now vaccinated, and
there are now (1929) in England and Wales about six
million unvaccinated children under ﬁfteen years of
age. In the 17 years ending 1928, the annual deaths
from smallpox averaged only 16.

 

(See statement issued by National Anti-Vaccination League.)

30

. ‘ 1.1%

 




 

 




TONBRIDGE PRINTERS AND BOOKBINDERS
PEACH HALL WORKS TONBRIDGE

 




