Gratis

 

PRESS AN D PUBLICITY

WHAT IT IS AND WHAT
IT DOES

THE [ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS, 105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.1

Teleplzoz/ze—GERRA RD 5433/5434
DEC., 1927

 

 

 

 




 

HOW TO JOIN.

The following terms of Membership, etc., will be found useful to

Animal lovers desirous of identifying themselves with the Society.

ANNUAL
MEMBERSHIP

ANNUAL
SUBSCRIBERS

DONORS

LIFE
MEMBERSHIP

SUBSCRIPTIONS
TO
PUBLICATIONS

, .REMITTANCES

The gift of a minimum Annual Subscription
of ONE GUINEA constitutes the subscriber
an ANNUAL MEMBER who will, on
application, receive a Badge of Membership.
Members are also entitled to a copy of the
Annual Report and to attend the Annual
Meeting.

Annual Subscriptions of amounts less than
ONE GUINEA constitute the Donors ANNUAL
SUBSCRIBERS, though NOT Members.

Donations of any amount are very gratefully
received.

A Donation of TWENTY GUINEAS and
upwards, paid in one amount, constitutes
the Donor a LIFE MEMBER, with, of course,
the privileges of Annual Members.

The Annual Subscription to “ THE ANIMAL
WORLD ” is 4/- per annum, post free, and
to “THE BAND OF MERCY” I/- per
annum, post free.

Cheques, Money Orders and Postal Orders
should be made payable to “The Secretary,
R.S.P.C.A.” and crossed “ Coutts & Co.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The R.S.P.C.A.
What it Is and What it Does

 

 

HISTORY

THE R.S.P.C.A. has the distinction of being the oldest existing
animal protection Society in the world.

Its inception, in June, 1824, was the ﬁrst successful attempt
at the organised care of animals and birds, and from this Society have
sprung the many hundreds of sister institutions, not only in this
country, but all over the civilised globe.

The pioneers of the Society, Arthur Broome and Richard Martin,
aided by a few sympathetic humanitarians, met at ﬁrst with every
conceivable opposition and difﬁculty in their humane efforts. This
is understandable when one realises the condition of our own country
a century ago. v

England, where to—day animals are better treated and under—
stood than in most other civilised nations in those days was remarkable
for peculiar brutality towards them.

Practically every sport, headed by the national pastime of bull-
baiting, appears to have involved suHering, in some form or another,
to animals or birds. Many practices, such as the skinning of cats
alive and the use of dogs as draught animals, were common and
apparently excited no particular comment.

Not least remarkable to the student of to-day is the fact that,
until 1822, not a single-law existed, in this or any other country, for
the protection of animals.

In that year, owing to the courage and pertinacity of Richard
Martin, the ﬁrst measure of this kind became law, and the formation
of the Society, two years later, provided machinery to make this Act
effective.

 




 

 

 

4

This humble body, consisting of some twelve people, without:
money, precedent or effective legislation, undertook no small task
in attempting to combat the existing evil, and necessarily the progress
made was slow.

Support, ﬁnancial or parliamentary, from the Public or Press,
was very tardy in materialising and some anxious years were passed
before the Society became in any way firmly established. The ﬁrst
great impetus to the work came in 1835, when Princess, afterwards
Queen Victoria, became its Patron, and it is interesting to note that
her courageous and wise example has been consistently followed
by members of the Royal Family to the present day.

As its aims and methods became better known and understood,
so the Society rapidly gained in support of every kind, and its bene—
ﬁcent activities spread from London to the provinces, and were imitated
gradually abroad.

One by one the grosser forms of cruelty were made illegal, and
fresh measures brought forward for the benefit of the dumb creation.

Educational work amongst the young materialised in this, and
many other countries, proving, as it does to—day, the value of organised
instruction as a remedy for thoughtless and ignorant cruelty.

In June, 1924, the R.S.P.C.A., now a great and powerful
organisation, celebrated its centenary.

To an International Conference held at this period came the
delegates of over seventy Foreign or Colonial Societies, from twenty-
three different countries.

In that year also the detailed history of the R.S.P.C.A. was
published in. book form, under the title of A Hundred Yeai‘r’ IVomé for
Air/77241;, and can be obtained from the Headquarters, at 105, Jermyn
Street, S.W.1., for 7s. 6d. nett. Postage 6d.

CONSTITUTION

The Society’s Headquarters, containing a lVIuseum of considerable
interest, are situated at 105, Jermyn Street, Piccadilly, close to the
Tube station. '

Members of the public are cordially invited to call and discuss
any matter of interest to them, affecting the welfare of animals, or
to report to Jermyn Street direct by post, or telephone, any case of
cruelty to animals that may be brought to their notice.

 




 

 

5

\Work in the provinces is carried on through the Branches and
Auxiliaries of the Society, in England and Wales, which number
some 1,600. The names and addresses of Branch Secretaries and
Inspectors are published in full in the Annual Report, supplied gratis
to all Members.

Matters of policy and internal administration are dealt with at
Headquarters, and all prosecutions are considered and decided upon
at Jermyn Street. _

, The Society has a Corps of uniformed Inspectors, numbering
some 200 men, distributed throughout the Society’s Branches, with
the exception of a small staff at Headquarters, for work in LondOn
itself. Incidentally, the R.S.P.C.A. is the only Society employing
such a body of specially trained men.

Subscriptions, Donations or other gifts can be sent direct either
to the Chief Secretary, at Jermyn Street, or through any of the Branch
Secretaries.

Regarding Foreign and Colonial Societies, though these institu—
tions work under their own executives, the R.S.P.C.A. maintains the
closest possible liaison with them, and is always willing to forward
complaints to the proper quarter, and to co—operate whenever possible.

A complete list of Sister Societies in all parts of the world is
published in the Society’s Annual Report, with the names and addresses
of the various Secretaries.

 

Aw. '

POLICY

It must be remembered that the Society’ssif-‘Vpolicy is as much
directed towards the Promotion of Kindness as it is to the Prevention
of Cruelty.

Prevention alone is negative and the spirit which inspired the
founders of the R.S.P.C.A. was positive in every sense.

Their aim was to create a new public opinion in regard to the
question of the treatment of animals, and to elevate the public sense
of responsibility in this matter.

Accordingly, the Society devotes energy and time at its disposal
to Humane Education, particularly amongst the rising generation.

Prosecution unfortunately still plays a considerable part in the
work of the R.S.P.C.A., and probably will do so for many years to
come, but it is in no sense primarily a prosecuting body.

3..

 




 

 

 

6
Brieﬂy, the present policy of the R.S.P.C.A. is to promote kindness

and prevent cruelty, first by Education, second by Caution and
Warning, and lastly by Prosecution.

EDUCATION

The founders of the Society realised that a large portion of
existing ill—treatment of animals was due either to ignorance or to
prejudice, and equally clearly they saw that the remedy for both was
Knowledge.

Accordingly, Humane Education, particularly amongst the
young, has always occupied a prominent position in the Society’s
programme since its inception, and never has this policy been more
vigorously pursued than at the present time.

Brieﬂy, this juvenile education is carried on through two great
channels, the Schools, and the Junior Branches of the R.S.P.C.A.
(known as the Band of Mercy Movement and Animal Defenders’
Corps).

In the Schools the Society’s aim is to introduce the subject of
animals and their care and treatment into as many of the existing lessons
as possible.

The Society’s Humane Education Organiser, having ob ined
the premission of the Directors of Education for any district, visits
all schools under their jurisdiction, gives addresses to students and
interviews the principals. '

The subject of animals and birds, and the responsibility of human
beings towards them, can be easily introduced into such lessons as
Reading, Dictation, Composition, Silent Reading, Essay \Vriting,
etc., without trouble to the teacher, and without adding to the ordinary
curriculum.

Further to facilitate matters for the teaching staffs, the Society
endeavours to obtain permission from the local or County Education
Directors for its various publications, specially prepared for school
work, to be placed on the requisition lists. This enables teachers
to obtain suitable literature with the utmost facility.

At the same time, efforts are made for an annual essay competition
to be held in the various schools on animal subjects, for which prizes
may be given by the local Branch of the Society.

These essay competitions are very generally held in the Society’s
larger Branches, and in London, by the permission of the L.C.C.,

.




7

a great yearly competition is held in connection with Headquarters.
For the latter a yearly average of 250,000 to 300,000 children enter,
and the Society from Jermyn Street gives some 3,000 prizes and
certiﬁcates.

The second method of juvenile education, which can be, and
frequently is, merged into the first, is that of the Band of Mercy
movement. This in effect is the gathering of children into a Band
under the administration of an adult secretary for the purpose of
receiving instruction about animals and birds.

The children are asked to take a very simple pledge to try and
be kind to animals and they meet together once or twice a month.

Instruction is given by many different means. By the lantern,
and by the Society’s cinematograph, by means of the Society’s own
Instructional Films or through Nature Films hired for the purpose
by the Society, by lectures, nature rambles, readings, essay writings,
etc., and in this connection there is issued a monthly magazine, specially
written for children, entitled The Band of Mercy. Subscription 1/— per
annum, post free.

‘ owever the instruction may be carried on, and it varies a good
deal according to local facilities, the basic idea is always the same.
To in'stil into the mind of a child, at as early an age as possible, not
so much a love of animals as an understanding of them.

There are now several hundreds of Bands, embracing in the
aggregate many thousands of children, and the movement is spreading
rapidly.

It is interesting to note that this juvenile work is being carried
on successfully in many different countries, particularly in America and
Canada, and has within the last two years developed in Northern Africa.

Adult education is also a strong feature of the Society’s activities,
chieﬂy through its large publications department.

Booklets, leaﬂets and pamphlets on the care and treatment of
all the more familiar animals, reptiles and birds are issued, lectures
and addresses are given by the Society’s speakers, donkey and horse
shows are held throughout the country, and an adult magazine,
1796 Animal World, is published every month. Subscription 4 /— per
annum, post free.

A particular feature of adult education is the enlisting of the
sympathy and interest of such men as drovers, drivers, and other
people who come into continual and close contact with animals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

CAUTION AN D WARNING

It is, and always has been, the aim of the Society to avoid prose-
cutions if possible, and to this end many warning and cautionary
devices are employed.

A great number of posters are issued informing the public of
new Acts of Parliament or of matters in which the Society is interested.
Others are issued calling attention to common forms of cruelty and
bearing always at the foot the penalty for committing the offences
mentioned. These are affixed in places where they are likely to be
needed, so that all passing may read, mark and learn.

Probably more cruelty is prevented, by caution and warning,
through the corps of Inspectors than by any other means.

These men, in their ordinary routine duty of patrolling roads,
fairs, cattle markets, railway sidings, performing animal shows, etc.,
caution in a vast number of minor cases of ill—treatment of animals,
and put matters right in a friendly and helpful manner.

The number of cautions given yearly by the Society’s Inspectors
and reported to London averages about 22,000, which when com—
pared with the annual average of 5,000 convictions, proves once
again that the R.S.P.C.A. cautions ﬁrst and prosecutes last.

The Broadcasting service as a channel of warning as well as
instruction has already been exploited, and it is hoped to use this
valuable medium more frequently in the future.

The Society, in effect, does everything it possibly can to prevent
a person when charged with an offence from pleading ignorance as
an excuse.

PROSECUTION

That this section of the Society’s work will continue is unhappily
almost a certainty. Some people are naturally cruel, others so stupid,
careless, or truculent that they will neither learn nor take a warning.

These the Society deals with by prosecution. All cases, wherever
they may occur, are decided upon at the London headquarters, and
legal aid is given to the Inspectors if necessary when conducting them.

It is no doubt a good thing from the point of View of caution
and warning that the Society’s cases are so frequently reported in
the press, but such advertisement (for which, of course, we are
most grateful), in the absence of similar publicity for other forms

 

 

 




 

9

of activity, unhappily misleads many ill—informed people into the
,belief that the R.S.P.C.A. does nothing else. This, as already stated,
is very far from the truth.

It is outside the compass of this booklet to deal with the
many and varied forms of cruelty with which the Society comes in
contact. It may, however, be of value to mention a few of the
different kinds of creatures forming the subject of cases or of investi—
gation by the Society, if only to dispel the common and quite erroneous
idea that only horses are dealt with. The Society endeavours, as
its name suggests, to deal with all animals, including birds.

BIRDS

The Society’s Inspectors annually have many cases of ill—treatment
of fowls, mostly due to improper conveyance in some shape or form,
and consequently pay particular attention to fowls in transit on rail
or road, and exposed for sale.

The Society’s activities on behalf of birds, however, are by no
means conﬁned to those of the domestic varieties, and many prose—
cutions are undertaken for offences during the close season under the
\Wild Birds Protection Act.

In 1921 the Society was largely responsible for the passing of
the Plumage (Prohibition) Act, which reduced the varieties of skins
and feathers permitted to be imported to some twelve. That this
measure has done considerable good is undeniable, but unfortunately,
as the actual exposure for sale is not illegal the Act itself encourages
smuggling. The extent to which such smuggling takes place can
be estimated from the fact that in one single seizure by H.M. Customs
135,956 grebe skins were discovered. All these birds were killed
in full breeding plumage for merely decorative purposes. It is hoped
at an early date that legislation will be passed to prevent the actual
exposure for sale.

In 1925 the Society was successful in obtaining the Protection
of Birds Act, introduced by Sir Harry Brittain, which makes illegal
the three cruelties of bracing, liming, and confining in too small cages.
The maximum penalty for any of these Offences is three months’
hard labour and £25 Fine, and already several smart sentences have
been passed by different Benches. ,

A matter which has engaged the attention of the Society for
some time past is the difficult problem of sea—birds and oil on the

 




 

 

10

surface of the sea. The oil arrives on the water from oil burning
steamers and tankers, and having spread on the surface drifts in to
shore. In 1924 the Chamber of Shipping arranged an International
Conference, at which the Society was represented, and from the
evidence given at that period it was demonstrated that a vast number
of sea—birds had already been destroyed by means of the oil.

It is hoped in this case too that legislation will shortly materialise,
whereby oil burning ships will be compelled to carry adequate machi-
nery to separate the waste oil and prevent it getting on the surface of
the sea.

DOGS

Dogs enter very largely into the Society’s cases, which, con—
sidering the close relationship between this animal and human beings,
is, to say the least of it, extraordinary.

Apart from gross forms of cruelty, one species of ill—treatment
very common and almost always due to ignorance occupies a great
deal of the time of the Society’s Inspectors, namely the keeping of
a dog continually on a chain.

It is satisfactory to note that Benches appear to be taking a more
serious View of this offence, but as will be readily understood, direct
proof is not easy to obtain, and bodily suffering is not always very
evident.

The value of the running chain seems to be far too little known.

In connection with dogs, the Society annually pays the licences
for a great many poor people who otherwise would have to part
with their canine friends, and destroys a very considerable number
of these animals, either free of cost or at a nominal charge, at its
various places of destruction.

By arrangement with the Automobile Association and the Royal
Automobile Club, the various scouts and road guides of these bodies
are now all supplied with the names and addresses of the nearest
R.S.P.C.A. Inspector, police station and veterinary surgeon. This is
to enable any motorist who has the misfortune to injure a dog or any
other animal, or may find such unfortunate creatures, to know in
the shortest possible time to whom to apply for aid. Many of the
Inspectors have pistols for the humane destruction of hopelessly
injured animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

Incidentally, the Society is always willing to pay veterinary or
other expenses incurred in procuring first aid or painless destruction
for injured animals where the owner cannot afford to pay this, and
to assist in the purchase of licences in really necessitous cases.

CATS

Possibly no creature suffers more than the cat. Every year
in London alone the Society destroys some 60,000 cats, and in the
provinces during 1925 some 70,000 animals in addition were put
painlessly to death at various R.S.P.C.A. Branches.

The reason for this vast army of misery with which the Society
deals each year is largely due to the pernicious habit of keeping kittens,
or rather, keeping them when they are small and interesting, and then
turning them adrift.

The Society in this humane work of destruction performs a
duty not only to the animals, but to the public at large. It stands
to reason that an animal which resides in drains and dines from
dustbins, as these unfortunate animals mostly do, must be a potential
carrier of disease.

The question of the licensing of cats has several times been
considered by the Council of the R.S.P.C.A., but no feasible scheme
has yet been evolved.

Probably want of knowledge in the case of cats is more marked
than in any other creature.

Members of the public are cordially invited to visit the Society’s
Animal Rescue League, 397, City Road, London, E.C.1, where the
bulk of the London cats are destroyed, or the Mayhew Cats’ Home,
affiliated to the R.S.P.C.A., which is situated at Trenmar Gardens,
Ponsard Road, Willesden, N.W.10.

SHEEP, CATTLE AND PIGS

These animals form the subjects of many of our Inspectors’
cases, often as the result of rough handling in transit, or at markets.

In connection with these three animals, however, comes one
of the largest subjects in which the Society is at present interested,
namely the Humane Slaughter of Animals for food. This subject
is too large to be dealt with at any length in a general pamphlet, but,
in brief, what the Society desires is that every animal, before being
actually bled, shall ﬁrst be stunned with the mechanical instrument,

 




 

 

12

familiarly known as a Humane Killer. The use of the Killer has
been very widely taken advantage of by slaughtermen and others,
though a considerable amount of opposition to its use still remains.
The instruments are in two forms, either firing a free bullet or pro—
jecting a bolt, driven by a blank cartridge. They can be operated
with perfect safety and without damage to the meat, and their general
use is only a matter of time. As some criterion of the extent to
which the use of these instruments has arrived, it may be of interest
to note that in 1926 639,529 cartridges were supplied from the
Society’s Headquarters—this represents an increase of 40,460 over
the previous year.

The Society has also for some years been pressing the adoption
by local authorities of the l\lodel Bye—Law of the Ministry of Health,
which, if adopted, makes the use of the Humane Killers compulsory
within the area of the local authority concerned. 235 local authorities
have now adopted this bye—law, including the London County Council.

It is hoped that in the near future legislation will be passed making
the use of these instruments compulsory over the whole of England
and \Vales, but, of course, the country has to be carefully prepared
for such a necessary reform, and this the Society is successfully doing.

It is worth pointing out that the public can very largely assist
the furtherance of this movement by insisting on the purchase of
humanely slaughtered meat, and the names of butchers willing to
supply such meat can always be obtained from 105, Jermyn Street.

In regard to Cattle, the Society is making strenuous eﬂ‘orts to
suppress the cruel practice of the overstocking of cows at markets,
and it is gratifying to know that a great improvement has taken place
in this matter.

The Society has taken proceedings in many cases for this class
of offence, and will continue to do so.

RABBITS

The Society has for many years past endeavoured to ﬁnd a
substitute for the excessively cruel steel toothed trap, for these,
unfortunately, are still legal. To encourage inventors, large money
prizes haVe from time to time been offered for a suitable substitute,
but up to the present no effective design has been submitted.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

13

What is desired is a simple and light contrivance that will catch
a rabbit and hold it without hurting it, or kill it outright. The trap
must be cheap and durable.

The Society issues, however, a humane snare which catches the
rabbit alive and holds it without hurting it, and which is extensively
used by land owners, who have found them perfectly successful.

About 20,000 of these snares are sold annually from Head OHice,
and leaﬂets are issued explaining the very simple method of using
them.

The cost price of the snares is a 1d. each with trade discount.

Some years ago the Society was successful in obtaining legislation
to suppress the coursing of rabbits in enclosed spaces, and at present
has a Bill before Parliament which it trusts will put an end to the
equally cruel sport of the coursing of boxed rabbits.

This measure, incidentally, will not only protect rabbits, but
if successful will prevent the keeping of any wild animal in a state

of captivity for the purpose of being immediately released to be
coursed or hunted.

HORSES, DONKEYS AND MULES

These animals, particularly horses, enter of course very largely
into the work of the Inspectors. Very often the offence is due more
to ignorance and thoughtlessness than design, and it is the Society’s
ardent wish that its officers should be regarded by horse owners as
people to advise, rather than agents to punish.

One important work in connection with horses, with which
the Society has been associated for a great many years, is that of
the export of live horses to the Continent for butchery purposes.

Through the agency of the Society, much improvement has
already been achieved. Two Acts have been passed ameliorating
the conditions of these unfortunate creatures, and several Orders
have been issued, but the ﬁnal objective of the Society is for a trade
in carcases to be substituted altogether for the traffic in the live
butchery animals.

Not the least interesting of the Society’s activities in connection
with these animals are the annual horse and donkey parades and

shows organised throughout the country, at which the very poor owner ,
is encouraged to exhibit. -

 




 

 

 

14

In connection with donkeys and other animals plying for hire on
the sands at seaside places, the Society recently approached all the
local Authorities in England and Wales responsible for issuing the
licences. The Authorities were asked to include in the licence certain
Clauses with regard to the general treatment of the animals, such
as the provision of proper rest, meals, etc., and the restriction to
riders of certain age or weight.

In a great many cases the suggested clauses have been adopted,
and in others (no doubt due to the inﬂuence of the local Branches)
some such regulations were already in force.

Various schemes are in operation. throughout the Society’s
Branches which beneﬁt the poor man as well as the poor man’s horse,
in the form of Fields of Rest, where horses in low condition can rest
at the expense of the Society, while the owner is provided with a
substitute. Also Horse Purchase Schemes, where poor men are assisted
by the Society to purchase really sound animals on a deferred payment
basis, are worked successfully in one or two of the Branches.

The Society has also interested itself for many years in the
matter of slippery roads, and a suitable shoe for horses to wear under
such conditions. It has given its support to the ﬂat or Rational
Shoeing campaign, and has recently supplied all its Inspectors with
specimens of straw non—slip pads, brought to its notice by Captain
Janssen. Pamphlets on these two subjects can be had on application.

PERFORMING ANIMALS

As the result of an enquiry by a select committee of the House
of Commons into the matter of Performing Animals and the conditions
of their training and exhibition, a Bill was based on the report, intro-
duced by General Cockerill, and became law on the lst January, 1926.

All performing animal trainers and exhibitors from that date
have had to be registered, with particulars as to the animals and as
to the general nature of the performances. The measure also is
valuable as giving the police and also people appointed by certain -
local authorities, right of entry to inspect the training and premises.

MEDALS FOR ANIMAL LIFE SAVING

The Society has for many years past recognised the fact that
many exceedingly brave acts are performed every year by human
beings who risk injury or death on behalf of animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

15

The Society issues a silver and bronze medal as a tangible recog—
nition of such acts of heroism, and though these medals are only
issued after very careful scrutiny, it is gratifying for all animal lovers
to realise that since the Society decided to institute these Animal

'Life Saving Medals in 1909, up to the end of 1926 no less than 259

Silver Medals and 338 Bronze Medals have been awarded.

VETERINARY ADVICE FOR POUR PEOPLE

Dispensaries for the treatment of the animals of the poor were
started by some of our Branches so far back as 1917. These Dispen—
saries do wonderful work, but, of course, are rather costly to maintain.

Clinics, where a Veterinary Surgeon attends on stated days during
the week, have also been started by other Branches, and are meeting
with much success.

A system of Free Veterinary Advice to poor people, who are
supplied with “ recommends,” signed by Branch Hon. Secretaries,
Chief Constables, or Inspectors of the Society, is making great headway.
It was first tried in some of our Branches in 1909, and has met a long
felt want. The Society is most anxious that advice of this kind shall
only be given by qualiﬁed Veterinary Surgeons, and it is glad to
recognise the public spirited way in which many Veterinary Surgeons
have come forward and offered their services without charge, in
connection with this scheme. Every care is taken to see that only
genuinely poor people beneﬁt. ‘

The foregoing is in effect a skeleton of the various activities
of the R.S.P.C.A. Literature dealing very fully with any one depart-
ment mentioned can be obtained from 105, Jermyn Street, and we
shall be glad to supply this on application.

The Society is absolutely at the disposal of the public, and will
be pleased to give information on any subject having connection
with its work.

 




 

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY THE R-S.P.C.A.

These can he obtained from the Branch Hon. Secretary or direct from Head Quarters.

“U
2
H
O
O

NO.
14 BIRDS. — Feeding Birds 1n Winter
50 ,, In Prison for Life . .
How to treat Domestic Animals: Fowls . . . . . .
A Few Words about Birds . . . . . . . . per doz.
Fowls . . . . . . . . per doz.
Humane Killing of PoultryE . . . .
How to keep pigeons, ByE .J. Hickson
Management of Swans . .
,, Robbing the Birds , .
CATS. ——-————Left Behind: The Story of a Cat . .
,, How to Treat Domestic Animals: The Cat . . . . . .
A Few Words about Cats . . . . . . . per doz.
CATTLE. ———How to Treat Domestic Animals : The Cow . . . . . .
A Few Words about the Cow . . . . . . . per doz.
How to Treat Domestic Animals 2 The Pig . . . . . .
A Few Words about Pigs . . . . . . . . . . per doz.
Sheep .. .. . . . . per doz.
The Goat as a source of Milk . . . . . . . . . .
How to Treat Domestic Animals : The Goat . .
n H n 1! Sheep
,, Calves
—The Chaining Of Dogs . . . . . . . . . . .
A Few WOrds about the House Dog . . . . . . per doz.
,, the Yard Dog . . . . . . per doz.
Dogs in Fanciers’ Shops . . . . . . . . .
Training Dogs for Shooting
DON KEYS ———~On the Treatment of Donkeys . . . . . . . . . .
A Few Words about Donkeys . per doz.
HORSESE The Prayer of a Horse. (Card 11— —in. by 9- -in), %d each. . . .
3 A Few Words to Stablemen. Card 11-in by 9—in ) 5d. each
Common Sense Remarks on Bearing Relns
Take off that Hame Rein (Picture Pamphlet) . . . .
How to assist a fallen Horse (Card 11- -in. by 9 in. ), %d. each
Rules for Driving. By W. Winans. ..
A Horse’ 5 Petition to his Driver
,, ,, ,, (Large Card) . . ..
(Double Demy Poster) per doz.
. The Horse Book: Simple Rules for keeping a Horse . . . . each
The Prayer of a Horse . . . . . . . . . . .
The Problem of Horse Trafﬁc _ , , , , , , each
Bearing Reins: A Word to the Thoughtless . . .
The Hame Rein: Dapple’ 5 Appeal . . . . . .
The Crime of Docking Horses: By Stephen H. Terry each
How to Treat Domestic Animals: The Horse . . . . . . .
Hints on Horsemanship
A Couple of Down an’ Outs (which deals with the Butchery Trade
of Horses to the Continent). By W Townend , , , , each
The Docking Of Horses By Major R. S. Timmis, D. S. O. . . ,, .
A Few Words to Owners of Horses . . . . per doz.
,, ,, Horse Drivers . . . . . . per doz.
n ., Stablemen . per doz.
SERMONS Animals and the Bible. By the Rev. H. McGowan, M. A. each
,, Blessed are the Merciful: Sermon by Archdeacon F arrar each
Sermon. By the Rev. Basil G. Bourchier, M.A. each
Kindness to Dumb Animals : Sermon by Dean Pigon each
His Thanksgiving Sermon
Power and Trust: Sermon by Rev. G. S. Belasco. .. each
Kindness to Animals: Sermon by Rev. John Hudson each
‘8 ,, Sermon on Humane Slaughter .. each -
VARIOUS —— Best Method of Killing Crabs and Lobsters Merciﬁilly . .
0 Humane Education. By Captain E. G. F a1rholme O. B. E.
Hints on Rabbit Keeping .
The Treatment of Tortoises
A Singing Play for Girls
Charles Dickens and Public Abattoirs
How to Train Children to be kind to Animals -
Goldﬁsh . . . --
The Treatment of Parrots ..
The Management of Fallow Deer
The Management 0t Peafowl
The Care of Animals in Summer
Humane Snare for Rabbits
A Yuletide Greeting. By Arthur Taylor

OOOHOO‘JrPOOOO0OOOPOQOPAOOOOOIBAQHAQHAOOOQOOQIAOOOEl

00909030:©W®¢OWO§C§C§OOOHOOOOOOOOO remowoanoHpa-bmrpwonhmoc»chowwwwmooaowowwwwwaoowwmm
g.
..

oWoooocoowoooowwwawHprprw oor

* Alsopsupplied printed in Welsh.

 

 




