 

FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

Mr. LAWSON TAle" F.R.C.S., 0N VIVISECTION.

‘r<>0‘> (

 

THE following letter from Mr. LAWSON TAIT appeared in the columns of
the Birmiozghrmt Daily Post, December 12, 1881 :—

The question of vivisection’ has become a public one, and therefore it
must be discussed in the papers, no matter what be the difﬁculties. ‘ So
far, in the general discussion, the opponents have brought sentiment and
science apparently in opposition, and each seems to declare for the other
either an excess of sentiment or a lack of science. For my own part, I
confess I am largely governed by sentiment ; and though I cannot claim
to be a person of profound scientiﬁc erudition, yet I can claim such a
knowledge of physiology and the arts to which its conclusions are
applied, as places me in a position to give an opinion on the subject,
which opinion my readers may value just as they please. .

Like every member of my profession, I was brought up in the belief that
{by vivisection had been obtained almost every important fact in physiology,
,and that many of our most valued means of saving life and diminishing
suffering had resulted from experiments on the lower animals. I now
know that nothing of the sort is true concerning the art of surgery ; and
not only do I not believe that vivisection has helped the surgeon one bit,
but I know that it has often led him astray.

, Very many years ago, at the request of my master, the late Sir James
Simpson, I undertook a series of experiments on the lower animals, to
determine a doubtful question in the method of closure of arteries after
surgical operations. His restless genius had incited him to efforts for
the improvement of our means of arresting haemorrhage, and he intro-
duced what he termec “acupressure,” to replace the ligature. My
experiments were conducted under the advice and guidance of one of the
most eminent physiologists, still alive. The poor animals, chieﬂy dogs,
were operated upon under chloroform, and were spared as much suffering
as was possible. But, of course, they suffered, and I often thought of
those poor dogs with bitter regret. '

 

% The following words, from the British Medical Journal, of December 17th,
1881, show in what estimation Mr. Tait is held‘by the profession :—‘

“Thus we see that Lawson Tait has gone ahead of us all in opening up new
ﬁelds in the great domain of abdominal surgery. . . . By his daring and skill
he liasvma’de easy for us many things that were before attended with difﬁculty ,
and danger. He is now the leader in this department of surgery, and has
succeeded in opening up ﬁelds of great fertility, which we may all freely Cultivate
with proﬁt.”

 




.a

The conclusion of the experiments seemed absolutely perfect, and my
observations were quoted far and wide, were translated into foreign
languages, and everything looked as if “ acupressure ” was to reform the
art of surgery. But it did not ; it speedily died out, and, Ithink has been
almost forgotten. ' The explanation of _ this lay in the simple fact that the
closure of a dog’s artery is altogether a different process from that seen
in the human vessel, and my experiments were not only needless, but
they were absolutely misleading. Simpson’s inquiry, as we all know,
was altogether in the wrong direction, and the perfection to which this
part of our art has been brought has not been obtained by the aid of
Vivisection, but actually in spite of it. .

Here, then, is the great difﬁculty, an ct primal one, but, so far as I
can see, absolutely insurmountable. If we cannot apply the facts
observed in so simple a matter as the closure of an artery from the dog
to man, how can we in reason apply facts from the same sources in so
difﬁcult and complicated a subject as the action of the brain? I cannot
set my own opinion against that of Dr. Hughlings Jackson, recognised as
the greatest living authority in nervous diseases, but I do not accept his
as conclusive. I have followed with care the works of Ferriea‘, Hitzig,
and Nothnagel, and I have failed entirely to see what use they Can be to
us. If monkeys, dogs, and cats could make use of the observations for
their own kinds, I could understand the application. At present I must
confess I do not see it. >

My opinions are those of a convert, and therefore may be regarded as
of doubtful value, though, perhaps, this may increase their value in the
eyes of some. My conversion is, however, of long standing, and dates
from the accident of my witnessing an experiment of so brutal a character,
so wantonly useless, and so inhumanly cruel, as to decide me to oppose
vivisection in every way, unless some most abundantly good cause could
be shown for it. This I have not yet met with.

I am, etc.,
iLAWSON TAIT.

 

To the Editor of the “BIRMINGHAM DAILY MAIL.”

SIR,——The long extract from Professor Humphrey’s speech, which you give in
this evening’s Mail, contains only one point which I shall allude to, because it is
one upon which I can speak with authority. “ The man who ﬁrst employed the
carbolic ligature would never have ventured upon it on the human body, had he
not ﬁrst carefully tried it upon animals.” This is just one of the cases where
vivisection has led us astray. If the carbolic ligature had never been tried on
animals, where it seems to answer admirably, it never would have been tried on
human patients, where it fails miserably, and has cost many lives. 'l'he fact is
that the diseases of animals are so different from those of men, wounds in animals
act so differently from those of humanity, that the conclusions of vivisections are
absolutely worthless. They have done far more harm than good in surgery. In
fact, the late Sir William Fergusson, sergeant-surgeon to the Queen, declared in
his evidence that vivisection‘had done nothing at all for surgery, and I think his
authority on such a subject almost beyond appeal.

In my opinion, every other illustration given in Professor Humphrey’s address
is open to equal objection.

‘ I am, ete.,

LAWSON TAIT.

Reprinted from the “ BIRMINGHAM DAILY MAIL,” Jan. 21, 1882.

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM
VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL AssOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL
SUPPRESSION or VIVISECTION, 1, VICTORIA STREET, S.W. 10.87.

 




