JANUARY- FEBR UARY, - 1 945
'EI-lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'

 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII—E

O
1:

[I
H

 

 

THE JOURNAL OF THE
LARGEST AN TI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY IN THE WORLD

 

EVIDENCE OF THE GERM ' C O N T E N T S

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

New Year Outlook

Diphtheria Immunisation: Its
failure in Germany and
France, by M. Beddow
Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

 

The A.-V. Movement in South
Africa - - - _

Obituary: Dr. N. L. Joynt, M.C. . ’4

 

Notes and Comments - - 4-5

Health Practitioners and Vivisection ;
“ Punch ” on Vitamins; A Wasteful Corres-
pondence ; Horse Serum ; Smallpox in the
" Successfully Vaccinated ”; Penicillin and
Microbes Menace; Support from the Pulpit.

THE GERM: “I thrive on inoculations,
but if anything makes me ill . it’s fresh air
and hygiene! ”

'In‘ the House of Commons - 6-7

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

B.U.A .V. Chronicle 8

 

 

Published by the
BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION
(Also known as The British Anti- Vivisection Society)
At the Temporary‘ Address: 138, WIDEMARSH STREET, HEREFORD
:TIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII? ?

No. 1. Vol. XLVI. PRICE 2d. 1

 

"IIIIIIIIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

II

 

 

 




 

" British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection

. (Incorporated under the Companies Act, .1929)
Registered Oﬂice: 138, WIDEMARSH STREET, HEREFORD.
London Centre: THE HADWEN MEMORIAL, 47, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.l

 

Foundress :
FRANCES POWER COBBE

Late President :

DR. WALTER R. HADWEN
(Dr. Walter R. Hadwen, J.P., M.D., M.R.O.S., L.R.G.P., L.S.A., Gold
Medalist in Medicine and in Surgery, who died on the 27th December,
1952, was for 22 years President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection. He successfully contended that, besides being a cruel and
immoral practice, Vivisection was misleading to the medical profession.

Secretary :
MR. LEO ,RODENHURST
138, Widemarsh Street, Hereford.

Organising Secretary:
MR. WILFRID TYLDESLEY

London Representative : .

President: MR. G. E. BARNETT

LEONORA COUNTESS OF TANKERVILLE
- \ Bankers :
LLOYDS BANK LIMITED,
Cox’s & King’s Branch,
6, Pall Mall, London, S.W.1.

Hon. Treasurer :
LORD GREY DE RUTHYN

Hon. Secretary :
'MIs-s BEATRICE E. KIDD

 

 

VICE-PRESIDENTS :

Miss NANCY PRICE.

F. H. HAINES, Esq., M.R.C.S.

B. P. ALLINSON, Esq., M.R.C. .

G. N- W. THOMAS, Esq., M.
Barrister-at-Law. '

FAIRLIE, Viscountess HARBERT ON.
LORD GREY DE RUTHYN.

Mrs. ROSCOE.

H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq.

Dame Com. SYBIL THORNDIKE, O.B.E.

 

PARLIAMENTARY SUPPORTERS :

THOMAS GROVES, Esq., J.P., M.P. T. E. NAYLOR, Esq., J.P., M.P. WILL THORNE, Esq., O.B..,E M.P.
WILLIAM JOHN, Esq., M P. Dr. S. J. PETERS, M.A., LL.D.,M.P. ERNEST THURTLE, Esq., M.P.
A. GREEOH JONES, Esq., MP. G. L. REAKES, Esq., J.P., M.P. S. P. VIANT Esq., M.P.
WILLIAM LEACH, Esq., M.P. JOSHUA RITSON, Esq., M.P. T. WILLIAMS, Esq., M.P.
WILLIAM LEONARD, Esq., M.P. Sir F. B. SANDERSON, Bart., M.P. ‘
NEIL MAOLEAN, Esq., J.P., M.P. R. R. STOKES, Esq., M.o., M.P.
V.LaTOUOHE MCENTEE,Esq.,M.P. LORD STRABOLGI.

GEORGE MATHERS, Esq., M.P. R. J. TAYLOR, Esq., M.P.

JOSEPH BATEY, Esq., M.P.

E. A. BROAD, Esq., M.P. . .
001. H. W. BURTON, O.B.E., M..P. '
THOMAS OAPE, Esq., M...,BE M.P.
Sir THOMAS COOK, M.P.

G. DAGGER, Esq., M.P.

R. J. DAVIES, Esq., M.P.

Sir C. EDWARDS, C.B.E., M.P.

 

 

 

WHAT IS' VIVISECTIONP

IVISECTION is the term used for all experiments
upon living animals performed under the Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1876. These experiments, which are deﬁned
in the Act as “ calculated to give pain,” include cutting
Operations to remove internal organs or other parts of the
animal, inoculations, experimental burns, feeding on diets
that produce disease or fail to maintain life, etc., etc. This
cowardly practice is of no real value In the treatment Of
human disease. It is undeniable that it has led to confusion

THE AIM OF THE UNION

The aim of ' the Union is to oppose Vivisection
absolutely and entirely, and to demand its com:
plete prohibition by law, Without attempts at
compromise of any kind.

LAST WORDS OF ITS FOUNDRESS

“ To those of my readers Who may desire to contribute

and contradictory statements, the introduction Of many
dangerous medical treatments, and a deplorable waste of
public money, to the neglect of health—promoting measures.
Vivisection is practised by a. comparatively small body of

to the Anti-Vivisection Cause, and who have shared my
views on it as set forth in my numberless pamphlets and
letters, and to those specially who, like myself, intend to
bequeath money to carry on the war against scientiﬁc
cruelty, I now earnestly say, as my ﬁnal counsel,

men and women, who should not be confused with medical
practitioners, few of whom have any acquaintance withit.
No ﬁnal conclusions are reached by the experiments, Whlch
therefore increase in number every year.

‘SUPPORT THE BRITISH UNION FOR
THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.”’

Autobiography of F. P. COBBE.

 

 

 

 

 

 

___._———-——

CFORM OF BEQUEST

To those who desire to become Benefactors by Will to this Society, the following form is respectfully Suggested ;_

I bequeath unto the Society called the BRITISH UNION FOR. THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION (otheym'sg known as
THE BRITISH ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY) which has or had offices at 47, Whitehall, London, S.W.l, the sum

of ____________________ , free of Legacy Duty, and I direct that the same shall be paid to the Treasurer thereaffoy the time being.

N,B,——By virtue Of the Act Of 1 Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP
Life Members, £5. Annual Members, 10s. and upwards. Associates, sums under 103.
Subscription to THE ABOLITIONIST, 28. 6d. per annum post free.

 

 

 

 




 

Published by. the

BRITISH UNION FOR THE
ABOLITION OF \VIVISECTION

Late Preudent :
DR. WALTER R. HADWBN

London Centre: 47, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.1.
Editorial Ofﬁce: 138, WIDEMARSH STREET, HEREFORD.

Fonndress :
MISS FRANCES Pom Conn

 

 

No. 1. Vol. XLVI]

J ANUARY—FEBRUARY, 1945

[Price 2d.

* NEW YEAR OUTLOOK

E trust that our readers will welcome the new
feature in this issue of The Abolitioaiszf. These
sketches by an artist who is a keen worker

in animal-welfare movements illustrate some of the
points in our case against vivisection in a way that will
doubtless impress them on the mind of the public as
no written word alone would do.

In surveying the present position We must refer, in
the ﬁrst place, to the preparations for the launching of
another huge campaign in favour of immunisation
against diphtheria. Judging by the comparatively small
amount of opposition, it might be thought that the
medical profession and the local authorities were enthu—
siastically supporting the practice. But that is not so.
Two days before the end of" last year The Times said
in an editorial article that “ a recent circular from
the Ministry of Health suggests that plans should now
be made for a publicity campaign next year and an
attractive brochure has been sent to all medical ofﬁcers
of health. This explains the facilities that are available
for making the necessary local appeals. Last ' year
only 400 out of the 1,500 local authorities made any use
of the material offered to them.”

This is in accordance with the signs we have noticed
in various quarters that, despite the immense efforts
made to boost inoculations in the guise of preventive
measures, it is realised that more attention ‘should be
paid to the underlying causes of disease.

What, then, are the conditions necessary to ensure
good health ? Broadly speaking they appear to be ( 1)

a well-balanced diet, (2) adequate housing, (3) perfect
sanitation.

In regard to diet, it has been claimed that the better-
balanced diet now available to the entire , population
has been responsible for an improvement in health

during war-time, particularly among children in crowded
areas.

In one respect, however, the question of diet has not
been satisfactorily answered, and that is in connection
with the hospitals. Surely if a suitable diet is essential
to the maintenance of good health, it is a matter of even
greater concern in cases of illness. And yet, despite
all the protests which have been made by the public
for many years, the diet in hospitals remains notori-
ously inadequate. The King Edward VII Hospital Fund
issued a “ Memorandum on Hospital Diet ” in July, 1943.

 

 

Consideration” has been given to the information
supplied, and in some instances the standard of
feeding has been raised. But we gather that in most of the
hospitals war—time conditions have been made the
excuse for no change. This should not be accepted
as a valid excuse. If the Ministry of Food can raise the
standard for the general public, it should not be beyond
the power of the hospitals to raise it for the patients.

Overcrowding is known to be one of the chief con—
ditions in the spreading of diphtheria, and the'risk being
run with the present shortage of houses is only tem-
porarily lessened by the fact that many millions of the
population are serving abroad. But the danger will-
have to be faced on their return and until houses and
schools are built to replace those destroyed by enemy
action or that have become unﬁt for occupation. The
state of housing appears to be «worst in Scotland, and a
note on “ The Health of Scotland ”, published in the

Medical Officer of Sept. 2, 1944, ends with the following
comment :—

“ How far respectable housing will improve the unfavourable
health record of the Scottish people we cannotioretell, but we
do know that without it no health measures except adequate
feeding are likely to be successful.”

With referenCe to sanitation, upon which the country
relies as a safeguard against many infectious diseases,
it is interesting to note the following comments in an
article on “ Artiﬁcial Immunity ” in the Medical Officer
of November 4th, 1944:

“ Factitious immunisation is needed only for diseases we
cannot prevent by other means ; it is the last, not the ﬁrst, of
our resources. Its value is great and will become greater, but
its need is an admission of failure, and on a long term policy
we should aim at its falling into disuse because it will be no
longer needed. . . ."

“ The coming race of medical ofﬁcers will be keen on inocula-
tion, they will know more about it than we do, they will use it
more efﬁciently. The scene is being set for its extension. It
is a respectable part of medicine and not ‘dirty work ’, like
testing drains or killing ﬂeas ; but if it leads to shirking sanita—
tion, which we fear it may do, it will be detrimental to our
survival.”

We do not know whether the Medical Officer regards
inoculations of the intestines of disease-infested lice,
or the hormones of pregnant mare’s urine, as clean work
and “ a respectable part of medicine,” but at least we
are glad to see that a word of warning is given about

the fatal tendency tolose sight of the prime importance
of sanitation.

 

 

 

 




 

January—Febr‘uary, I945

 

2 - THE ABOLITIONIST

DIPHTHERIA IMMUNISATION
\ ITS FAILURE IN GERMANY AND FRANCE

By M. BEDDOW_BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.G.P.

F it were possible for the ofﬁcial medical _mind to
be impressed by evidence contrary to its cherished
, opinions, the history of the incidence of diphtheria
in Europe during recent years would surely have caused
deﬁnite misgivings in the minds of those who support
the practice of immunisation. .
. There can be no doubt that in Germany this practice
had been pursued with great thoroughness for many
years prior to the outbreak of the present war. J.
Wﬁstenberg, a German medical scientist, was quoted
in the British Medical joarnal1 of October 3lst, 1936,
as stating that “ although wholesale immunisation
against diphtheria has been undertaken in Germany
during the past few years, opinions are divided about
its value.” -
' Even . as early as 1932 the Deatsche M edizinische
onchenschrift (Nov. 25th) had reported that amOng
100,000 children,‘ immunised with three injections, 102
cases of diphtheria (3 fatal) occurred more than one
month after the ﬁnal inoculation, in the course of. One
year alone, thus indicating not only that large numbers
of “children were being inoculated, but that instances
of failure to protect were not infrequently recorded.
That immunisation was actually being carried out on
a large scale is also shown by the fact that in 1931
Dr. Friedberger, the distinguished epidemiologist, felt
justiﬁed in stating conﬁdently in an address to the
Eerlin Medical Society2 that “ as regards active
immunisation against diphtheria . . . . its introduc-
‘tion had not caused any change in the ”occurrence of
epidemics.” . 7‘ .
That opinions were still divided as to 'its value in
.1936 is no matter for surprise when we examine the
ﬁgures relating to diphtheria in Germany. Unfortu—
nately, it is impossible at present to obtain full and
satisfactory statistical data, but the following table
derived from ofﬁcial sources of information will be
found, in spite of its incompleteness, to justify the
conclusion that up to ‘the present time the practice of
immunisation in Germany has proved a disastrous
failure. ' \
Case-
Incidence

:YEAR ’ _CASES OF DIPHTHERIA' Number of Fatality-rate per
, ’ “ - Whole Year First 6 Months Fatal Cases per 100'Gases 1001000

11931. 3 ,_ , , _ llvmg

 

25,144 —— ~— 189
1932 64,138 —— 2,974 . .4.6 100
1933 _' 74,558 — 3,628 4.8 114
1934 . ‘ 114,007 —— 4,807 4.2 173
.1935; . , "132,930 —— 5,795 4.3 197
1936' _. 149,971 , ~— 5,783 _ 3.9 228
.1937 ‘. ; 146,733 ' — 5 400 — 218
.1938 . 148,627, , . ——+ ’ . —— ~—— 219
1939 143,585 65,144 —— 4.4 181
19.4.0 , 142,685 ~— . ~— _ __
7-1941, 173,052 65,777 ' —— ”—— ——
_ 1942 236,000 ~ ._ ._ _. E
,731943 —— , 119,276 — —— 287
,11944 _ —- 126,913 —— *6.0 ~—
~ - * First 15 weeks.

1 Epitmne of carrentmedical literature, p. 69. 7 .

2Lancet, March 14th, 1931, p. 598.

 

 

It 'shOuld be noted that the rise in the number of
cases of diphtheria cannot be accounted for to any
appreciable extent, ‘if at all, by the. increase in popula-
tion caused by the inclusion of annexed countries, as
the incidence per 100,000 of total population in 1943,
namely, 287, shows an increase of '86 'per cent. oVer
the average (154) for the ﬁve years 1931—1935.

Moreover, in 1939 the British Medical journal3
reported that “there has been a steady rise in the
incidence 'of diphtheria since 1928.” The following
year The Times (March 19th, 1940) stated that “ German
ofﬁcial sources are, now beginning to admit what
has been known fOr a long time, that N ational-Socialist
policy has been responsible for a tremendous increase
in the childhood disease of diphtheria.” We may be
quite certain, at all events, that under this régime
immunisation of the children will have been carried
out with the utmost thoroughness.

It was owing, no doubt, to the increase in diphtheria
and in pursuance of Nazi policy that, according to a
report in the Evening Standard, April 11th, 1940, Dr.
Frick, Minister of the Interior, “ ordered inoculation
against diphtheria to be compulsory throughout Ger—
many.“ The utter failure of this drastic procedure

,to-reduce the incidence of the disease is apparent from

the ﬁgures given in the ﬁireceding table, the number of
Cases reported in the t six months of 1944 being
nearly double the corresponding ﬁgure for 1941. In
fact, so great has been the increase in diphtheria that
the Lancet (November 11th, 1944, p. 628) devoted a
special article to an account of what it described as
“ a remarkable rise” in the incidence of diphtheria
in Germany, and warned its readers that “ the spread
of diphtheria among the peoples of western Europe
must be considered in relation to its possible effects
on the occupying armies of British, Canadian and
American troops.” It is characteristic that nowhere
in this article is any mention to be found of the tragic
failure of “ protective” inoculation to be 'effective
just when and where it was most required. Neither
is it suggested that the troops might easily be pro-
tected by immunisation.

Moreover, as the Lancet pointed out, “ since the war
began‘ the rise in incidence has been shared by other
countries in western Europe.” France, for instance,
has sustained a somewhat similar experience ; French

‘Vital statistics are notoriously incomplete and un—

reliable; nevertheless the following facts and ﬁgures
appear to be established. According to information
received by the English Ministry of Health in 1938,
the number of deaths from diphtheria had declined
from 4,181 in 1915 to 1,359 in 1925, in which year
immuniSation by ' inoculation was generally introduced.
By 1933 the deaths had risen to 2,101.

The number of cases in 1924, the year before immuni—
sation, was 11,569, and this had increased in 1930
to a total of 23,704. In a long report, contained in the

313.114.}, June 10th, 1939.
4B.M. 1., June lst, 1940.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

JanuaryJ—February, I945

THE AB-OLITIONIST j ' 3.

 

Bulletin of the International Bureau of Hygiene (Supple
ment), September, 1936, it was shown that,. in spite
of some 2,881,081 inoculations performed between 1925
and 1934, the diphtheria incidence of the whole country
remained higher in 1934 than for any of the 20 years
prior to 1927. ‘ ‘

Yet, in the face of this weighty evidence of the failure

of immunisation, the practice was made obligatory by,

law5 during the second or third years of life by the
French Senate and Chamber of Deputies in 1938.
With what result P The article in the Lancet supplies
the answer: “ The rates per 100,000 jumped from
35.9 in 1939_to 118.7 in 1943.”

We may be sure some ingenious explanation will be
forthcoming to save the face of immunisation. Already
in 1942 it was apparent that some change of front
was imminent. In a leading article in the journal of
the American Medical Association (January 24th, 1942)
attention was called to the fact that there is a newly

. recognised form of diphtheria, termed “ gravis ” or

“ malignant ” ; that “ diphtheria antitoxin is ineffectual
in such cases, and immunisation has no prophylactic
value.”6 ~

More recently, Dr. James Grant,7 referring in his

 

5 journal Officiel de la République Franeaise.
. 6 Actual quotation from Medical World report, April 17th,
1942, p. 168.
7 Medical Oﬁicer, December 23rd, 1944.

 

Annual~ Report on health conditions in Gateshead

during 1943» to the outbreak of diphtheria which
began in 1936, explained that. the “ predominance of
C .' Diphtheria Gravis also accounts for the somewhat
disappointing effect of diphtheria immunisation upon
the incidence of the disease.” - ~' -~ ‘

No one can deny that this would explain the position-
of affairs as regards diphtheria in many parts of Europe,
but the admission is so damaging to the whole ofﬁcial
outlook upon the treatment and prevention of diphtheria
that one is amazed that the latter can survive the
onslaught. As everyone knows, “ mild ” diphtheria
has been recognised since the 18th Century; its mor—
tality rate has always been extremely low ; it has been
amenable to the simplest 'of treatments. and to pre-
vention by improvement in the sanitary and hygienic
environment of the pOpulation. Apparently the ofﬁcial
medical mind is beginning to realise that claims
to prevent diphtheria by. the mass immunisation
of the entire child population, or the saving of
life by the inoculation of immense doses of antitoxic
serum, must be limited to this mild form of the
disease. ' i

This anticlimax to the extravagant promises hitherto
made by the inoculationists in this country, America,
and elsewhere—and still being made, despite contrary
evidence—does little credit to the integrity and 'dis-
crimination. of medical scientists.

 

 

THE A.-v. MOVEMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA

Those who read the account of Anti-Vivisection in
South Africa, which was published in our issue for
September-October, 1944, will doubtless be waiting
to learn of further developments, and we have, there—
fore, much pleasure in being able to give a report of the
progress made. ‘

The Johannesburg newspaper, The Star, published
in the issue dated November 14, 1944, a repert of a
meeting, held the previous day, of the Johannesburg
Branch of the S.P.C.A. The result of a questionnaire
sent out by the Society was given to the meeting. It
was as follows :
the Union had replied that they were against vivi-
section. Five favoured “ control ” ; three were divided
in opinion ; one was in favour of vivisection ; one was

.” opposed to all experiments which cause pain to

animals.” Seven did not reply.

Mr. F. D. Rose-Price moved that the Johannesburg
and 1.4 other societies, in conjunction with the Order
of the Golden Age, Natal, and the Dumb Friends’
League, Durban, should petition the Government for
legislation to abolish vivisection. Mr. S. E. Ellyson
seconded, and said that they had no right to exploit
animals for the beneﬁt of human beings. '

Dr. J. H. Mason moved, as an amendment, that
a committee should be appointed to inquire into vivi—

section and report to the Johannesburg Society. Dr.

M. C. Robinson seconded. _
The amendment was lost, and Mr. Rose-Price’s
motion was carried by 38 votes to 15.
At the adjourned Special General. Meeting of the

Johannesburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

Fourteen branches of the S.P.C.A. in ‘

 

 

to Animals, held on the let November, 1944, and.
reported in The Star of the same date, new articles of
association were adopted, and included the following :~—-
“ Any European shall be entitled to apply for membership
of the Society, except a person who performs vivisectioncr has
been convicted of any.kind of cruelty or ill-treatment of animals
in the Union of South Africa or elsewhere.” =
An amendment to this article wasput forward by‘
a veterinary surgeon, but after a long and energetic
debate it was rejected by 73 votes to 18. ' " .

 

 

 
   

"3555545.. '1 'i'l'i':-:-'5"" '

.. TALK ABOUT A NATION FOE HORSE-LOVERS, ALL
SOME FOLKS SEE IN us IS MATERIAL FOR ANTI-nu .
TOXIN!” . _ . . p

 

 

 




 

 

.44 , . THE ABOLITIONIST

January—February, I945

@hituarp

DR. N. L. JOYNT, M.C., M.Sc., M.B., B.Ch., B.A.O.N.U.I.

It is with great regret that we announce the death
of Dr. Norman Lockhart Joynt, who was killed last
November, when a ﬂying bomb fell on his town ﬂat.

Dr. Joynt, who was an Irishman and was 54
years of age, had served in, the previous world war
and had been awarded the Military Cross for conspicuous
gallantry. When the enemy ﬁlled a mine gallery
with foul gas, Capt. N. L. Joynt, M.B., R.A.M.C., “ at
once organised rescue work, going down repeatedly
with rescue apparatus. Through his cool bravery he
succeeded in personally rescuing two men, and ensured
the quick recovery of others.”

He was an ardent anti—vivisec‘tionist and took a keen
interest in the work of the B.U.A.V. Besides being a

 

member of the Executive Committee, Dr. Joynt was
Chairman of the London Branches Committee, President
of the Blackheath Branch, and Vice-President of the
Tunbridge Wells Branch. -

At the funeral service at Golders Green Crema-
torium on December lst, the B.U.A.V. was represented

”by Mr. G. E. Barnett, and ﬂowers were sent by the,

Executive and London Branches Committees. ’
Just before going to press, we have been grieved to
learn that Dr. Joynt’s father has died as the result
of the shock caused by the news of his son’s death; and
in remembering with gratitude Dr. Joynt’s support of the
anti-vivisection cause we desire to express our heartfelt
sympathy to his sisters in their double bereavement.

 

 

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Health Practitioners and Vivisection

We have received a copy of the Health Practitioners’
journal for June, 1943, and we note‘in it an article on
“ Infantile Paralysis”, by W. R. Bone.

The article gives’ an account of the experiments
performed by scientists in their endeavours to trace
the cause of this disease, which is known in the medical
profession by the term “ poliomyelitis ”.

Reference is made to “ a rather important discovery ”.
There had been an outbreak of the disease among a
party of children who were camping, and it was found
that some of the children, instead of using the camp
latrine, went amongst the bushes at the back of a
tennis court. A“ number, of the ﬂies found feeding
on the excreta were trapped, ground down to a purée
with distilled water and, when the sediment had settled,
some of the clear ﬂuid was injected into a monkey.
Within a fortnight the monkey’s hind legs were
paralysed. ‘

Further on, it is stated that “since ﬂies carry Virus
it seems most likely that their bite can carry the disease.
This has not yet been proved.” (Our italics). . . . .
“ Research workers to—day prefer to support the hypo-
thesis that there may be several methods of infection——
polluted water, be it drinking or bathing, milk, food,
and even other insects.” ,

No precise details are given, the experimenters’ names
are not mentioned, and there is nothing to show in what
country this “ research work ” was done, but an idea of
the natureof these experiments may be gathered from
the following paragraph :— \

“ Since the .disease had been found in intestinal discharges

it was reasoned that it should be found in sewage. This would
be another link in the chain of evidence that polio was a disease

of ﬁlth. Samples were taken from the sewage in areas where

the disease had broken out, and after careful preparation was
injected into the brains of monkeys. For some time nothing
appeared to happen, until a little rheus monkey from India
reacted. Up went his temperature from a normal of 102 degrees
to 105, and the life went out of his hind legs. He had polio
and had got it from sewage.”

No adverse comment is made on any of this incon-

clusive research ; nor is any indignation shown against

 

the perpetrators of these cruel and disgusting experi—
ments, which must, therefore, have been cited solely
for the interest of the readers of the Health Practitioners’
journal. . ‘

We see that Mr. W. R. Bone is a member of the
Council of the Health Practitioners’ Association, and
that one of the objects of that body is “ to circulate ’
by means of a Journal information and articles on
matters of interest to Health Practitioners, and their
methods of healing.”

As we cannot imagine any connection between the
Health Practitioners’ methods and these experiments,
we do not understand why a description of them has
been given so much prominence in the .Health
Practitioners’ journal. ' ' .

“ Punch ” on Vitamins

“ ‘Science Will Devour Us,’ says a headline. What for?
Does it want all its silly vitamins back ? ” .
Charivaria, December 27, 1944.

It _ It III
A Wasteful Correspondence

Some time ago the Secretary of the B.U.A.V. received
from Montreal, Canada, a letter signed H. Bruce Stuart.
The writer said that he was interested in the work of the
Anti-Vivisection League of Canada and asked for
literature. A selection of literature was sent in
response to his request.

Mr. Stuart now appears to have followed this up by
writing to the Branch Secretaries of the B.U.A.V. Each
letter contains the same question as to how the Branch
increases its membership, and a request for different
leaflets.

The Secretary of the Anti-vivisection “League of
Canada has been in communication with the headquarters
of the B.U.A.V. for many years, so he must know by the
reports published in the B.U.A.V. Chronicle the means
that are adopted by "Branches to gain members. Shop
Campaigns are, of course, the chief means employed, and
Mr. Stuart may have received a hundred or more
replies telling him so!

 

 




 

 

 

 

b

January—February, I945

‘

 

Above the names and addresses of the Branches shown
on the cover of The Abolitionist is a list of publications,
Single copies of the leaflets being offered free to inquirers,
and the direction is given : “ Write to the Secretary,

B.U.A.V., 138, Widemarsh Street, Hereford.”

' This instruction has been ignored, although it is only
natural to suppose that few, if any, of the Branches
would have all the leaflets in stock, and so the requests
have been sent on to headquarters . The result has been
a lot of correspondence, which seems to be neither helpful
to the cause nor to the national effort. What Mr. Stuart
expects to achieve by this stunt we do not know, but the
time, money and energy spent over it could have been
much better applied in opposing Vivisection.
° * * a

Horse Serum

In the jonrnal 0f the American Medical Association,
Feb. 18, 1939,.p. 590, Dr. A. E. Bennett quoted from 25
other authorities the dangers arising from the adminis-
tration of horse serum. He says :—

Horse serum neuritis, a severe sequel of serum sickness,
develops at the height of the serum disease, usually one week after
the injectlon of the serum. Any type of horse serum can produce
it, but. in the majority of cases it follows injection of tetanus

antitoxin.”
* >l< *

Smallpox in the “ Successfully Vaccinated ”

An article in The Lancet of Nov. 25, 1944, throws
a strong light on the futility of relying upon vac—
cination to give protection against smallpox. The
article, which is by two medical specialists in the
R.A.M.C.———Major R. S. Illingworth, M.D.(Leeds) and
Major W. A. Oliver, M.D.(Lond.)——gives a description
of 100 consecutive cases seen by the authors in a military
hospital during an epidemic of smallpox in Egypt in
1943 and 1944. With the exception of 5 cases, they
were all military personnel between the ages of 20
and 40. '

Only 4 cases had not been vaccinated ; and the total
number of vaccinations performed on the remaining
96 was 217. Seventy of the 96 had been vaccinated

 

 

 

 

 

M.O. : “ What ! Reporting sick again after
all the inoculations I’ve given you 2”

Private : “ Perhaps that is why, Sir ! ”

 

 

 

THE ABOLITIONIST _ i. .5“

successfully within 2 years, and 16 between 2 and 8
weeks before the disease started.

It is interesting to learn that 3 of these 16 vac-
cinations had been performed in that hospital “'and
the so—called immune reaction was observed after 48
hours, but one of the patients died '2 months later 'of
hamorrhagic smallpox.” ' ’

The 14 fatal [cases had had a total of 19 vaccinations,
and only one had never been vaccinated; 8 had been
successfully vaccinated within two years, . .

The authors of the article say: “ It is clear from
the foregoing facts that even very recent vaccinatiOn
is no guarantee of a modiﬁed attack, for one patient
vaccinated by one of us, and observed to have a typical
immune reaction after 48 hours, died with gross
hwmorrhagic' manifestations 2 months later.” '

We suggest that this conclusion be recorded in medical
text-books or, better still, that students be sent to
Egypt or India to make their own assessment of the
value of, vaccination. Like the late Major R. F. -E.
Austin, R.A.M.C., who was medical ofﬁcer at a hospital
in India, they would doubtless soon become convinced
of the uselessness of vaccination, and they could hardly
be ploughed in their examinations by giving ﬁrstéhand
information that was contrary to that in the text
books. , ‘ ' . '-
— a: :1: =2:
Penicillin and Microbes Menace

Sir Alexander Fleming, discoverer of penicillin,
said at the Public Institute of Hygiene, London, on

‘December 12th, that microbes are causing serious

trouble in the preparation of penicillin. The microbes
neutralise the preparation.

Of course the reason for administering penicillin is
said to be that it prevents the growth of germs. But
if the germs have neutralised the penicillin there Can
be no reason for giving it. The germs are evidently
putting up a good ﬁght! * - - A

According to the report in the Daily Mail, Sir
Alexander said :-—- _' _

“ It is essential that the person making up the penicillin
preparation has a knowledge of microbes. There are few
pharmacists who can do it. If you are not careful you will
not get penicillin but a nice culture which will infect, probably
not seriously, all the wounds on which you .put it.” 4 5‘.

It therefore looks as if the treatment is likelyto
prove more of a danger than a help in cases of injury.

Support from the Pulpit

We have been pleased to see a leaﬂet entitled “ Christ
and the Lower Creatures”, published by the National
Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue,
London, N.10, giving extracts from a sermon preached
by the Rev. Spencer Wade at Hexhamr Abbey, on
Sunday, 10th January, 1937. ‘ '

The preacher reviewed the references to animals in
the Bible, and what they meant to him. He showed
his sympathy for the sub-human creation by denouncing
the numerous 'cruelties that are still tolerated for the
sake of sport, fashion, diet and scientiﬁc research.

In speaking of vivisection, he said: “As far as
scientiﬁc experiments are concerned, I do not see how

any reasonable person can doubt that some of these

must involve such prolonged and acute suffering on
the part of the victim as can only be called, in perfectly
sober and restrained language, bY’ChC name oftorture." ’

 

 




 

~ 6 . ,_ , _ ’ THE ABoLITIONIST

January—February, I945

 

IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS

EXTRACTS FROM THE PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES

3rd September, 1944.
Anti-Typhoid Vaccine

Mr. VIANT asked the Sec1etary of State for the Home Depart-
ment why no inquest was held on Beatrice Cook of Dagenham,
a member of the ATS, who died at Southend- -on- -Sea from
anaphylactic shock caused by an injection of anti- -typhoid
vaccine, seeing that this death could not be considered as due
to natural causes as the girl was healthy when the injection
was made.

Mr. H. MORRISON: I have no information about the death
to which my hon. Friend refers, but the question whether a
coroner, should hold an inquest concerning a death which is
reported to him is one for the coroner to decide on the informa-
tion furnished to or ascertained by him. I have no authority
'to give a ruling, nor would it be proper for me to express an
opinion as to this or any other particular case.

29th September, 1944.

Vaccination (Deaths, Classification)
_ Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of Health whether deaths
registered as due to post-vaccinal encephalitis are classiﬁed as
deaths due to vaccinia or the sequelae of vaccination.
Mr. WILLINK : According to the International List of Causes
of Death, deaths registered as due to post-vaccinal encephalitis
are Classiﬁed as deaths due to vaccinia.

17th October, 1944.
Vaccination

Mr. VIANT asked the Secretary of State for War whether
any other soldiers on the Anzio beach- head refused to be vac-
cinated at the time Major Carson forcibly vaccinated Private
Butler; and whether any of them were also forcibly vaccinated.

Sir J. GRIGG: Apart from Private Butler I only know of
one man who refused to be vaccinated on this occasion. He
had cOnscientious objections and was not vaccinated.

Mr. A. EDWARDS asked the Secretary of State for War if he
will consider making a King’s Regulation prohibiting the vac-
cination or inoculation by force of any member of His Majesty’s
Forces and the imposition of any punishment or disability on
men who exercise their right to object to these operations.

Sir J. GRIGG : King’s Regulations lays down that inoculation
against tetanus and the enteric group of fevers is voluntary
and the Manual of Military Law states that a soldier cannot be
punished for disobedience of an order to be vaccinated or for
refusing to be inoculated. This is well understood, and I am
not aware of any need for further regulations.

ism October, 1944. , ,
Vacc1nat1on

Mr. VIAN’I‘ asked the Minister of Health what percentage
of infants were vaccinated in England and Wales in the year
1942.

Mr. WILLINK : The percentage of births registered in England
"and Wales in 1942 returned as having been successfully
vaccinated was 39.6.

Smallpox
Mr. VIANT asked the Minister 'of Health how many cases of
smallpox and deaths from that disease were recorded in England
and Wales in the year 1943.
Mr. WILLINK: No notiﬁcations of cases of smallpox were
received and no deaths from smallpox were registered in England
and Wales in 1943.

Diphtheria

Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of Health how many cases
notiﬁed as diphtheria were withdrawn from the diphtheria
classiﬁcation as unconﬁrmed in the ﬁrst quarter of each of the
years 1939, 1940, 1941, 1942, 1943 and 1944.

Mr. WILLINK: Returns of the numbers of cases of notiﬁable
diseases originally notiﬁed and the ﬁnal numbers after cor-
1ection are not available before lst January, 1944. The number

of cases of diphtheria in England and Wales 1eturned as-

originally notiﬁed in the quarter ended 31st March, 1944, was
9,137 and the ﬁnal number after correction was 7, 328 ,

 

24t.h October, 1944.

Vaccination (Anzio Beachhead)

Mr. A. EDWARDS asked the Secretary of War whether any
compensation has been offered to Private Butler for the assault
committed by Major Carson in forcibly vaccinating him on
the Anzio beachhead; and whether there has been any ex-
pression of regret to Private Butler for this breach of King’s
Regulations by a medical ofﬁcer.

Sir J. GRIGG : The answer to both parts of the hon. Member’s
Question is “ No, Sir.”

26th October, 1944.

Visiting Artistes (Vaccination)

Mr. LEACH asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware
that many artistes who desire to entertain the Services abroad
are prevented from doing so by the requirement that they must
be vaccinated and inoculated; and, if the members of the
Services they are going to entertain have the right to refuse
these operations, will he give the artistes a similar right.

Sir J GRIGG: I have been asked to reply. It is important
that in areas particularly liable to outbreaks of smallpox,
typhus and so on, the number of men and women who are not
protected by vaccination should be as small as possible. This
is particularly important in the case of those who like artistes
travel from unit to unit. It is therefore considered that the
present policy should be maintained.

26% October, 1944.

Anti-Typhoid Inoculation (Death) ....

Mr. VI ANT asked the Secretary of State for War whether any
inquiry has been made into the death of Beatrice Cook, aged
24 years, of the A. T. S, who lived at Camden Crescent, Dagen-
ham, and became ill shortly after being injected with anti-
typhoid vaccine and died on the way to hospita;l and what
conclusion was arrived at in regard to this case.

Sir J. GRIGG: Yes, Sir. A post-mortem examination was
held to establish the cause of death, and it is clear that this
auxiliary died of anaphylactic shock following an anti-typhoid
inoculation. The vaccine used on this occasion was examined
and was found normal. A case of this kind is very rare and a
full medical investigation of the circumstances of the auxiliary’ 3
death was carried out and the conclusion reached is that the
medical ofﬁcer concerned should not be held guilty of negligence.

6th November, 1944. _ ‘

Yellow Fever Inoculation

Mr. LEACH asked the First Lord of the Admiralty why the
right of the personnel of the R.N. and R.A.F. proceeding to
Gibraltar or Africa to refuse vaccination and inoculation has
been withdrawn in the case of inoculation against yellow fever ;
what is the nature of the inoculation; . whether it is given at
the same_times. as vaccination against small-pox ; and whether
medical ofﬁcers who order this inoculation have been reminded
of the number of cases of jaundice, some of them fatal, that
yellow fever inoculation has caused in the American Army and
of similar cases in the British Army.

Mr. ALEXANDER: The right of ofﬁcers and men of the Royal
Navy and Royal Air Force proceeding to Gibraltar or Africa
to refuse inoculation against yellow fever has not been with-
drawn. The inoculation consists of one injection of 1 0.0. of a
specially prepared vaccine to which there is extremely little
or no reaction. It may be given at the same time as vaccina-
tion against smallpox, but the instructions provide that where
possible inoculation. shall precede vaccination by not less than
ﬁve days. Cases of jaundice due to yellow fever vaccine do
not now occur in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force.

7th N ovember, 1944.

A.T.S. Private’s Death (Inoculation)

Mr. GEOFFREY HUTCHINSON asked the Secretary of State for
War upon what date the full medical investigation of the cir-
cumstances of the death of No. W /271804 Private ‘Beatrice
Cook, A.T.S., was carried out ; by Whom this investigation was

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

January-uFeerary, I945

THE ABOLI TIONIS T . ' 7

 

undertaken; and whether the results have been commu-
nicated to this girl’s parents.

Sir J. GRIGG: A post-mortem examination held at once into
the cause of the death of this auxiliary established that she died
of anaphylactic shock following an anti-typhoid inoculation.
The parents were informed of this. The vaccine used was examined .
and found normal; but, as I said in reply to my hon. Friend
the Member for West Willesden (Mr. Viant) on 26th October,
a case of this kind .is very rare, and in addition to the report
rendered by the Service administrative medical ofﬁcer directly
responsible a day after the auxiliary died, a special medical
investigation was, therefore, made by the Deputy Director of
Medical Services in the command, to inquire into what had
happened. The report reached the War Ofﬁce on 14th October.
This conﬁrmed that the inoculation had been properly carried
out by the medical ofﬁcer, and that she could not be held guilty
of negligence. The parents of the auxiliary did not, as far as I
know, ask for this information, and they have not been told of
it. I should like to take this opportunity to express to them
‘my sincere sympathy.

7th November, 1944. . ,
Diphtheria

Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of Health how many cases
of diphtheria in immunised children were recorded by medical
ofﬁcers of health in 1943 : and how many of these cases were
fatal. . . '

Mr. VVILLINK: According to returns received from all but a
few local authorities in England and Wales, the number of
notiﬁcations of diphtheria in 1943 among immunised children
was approximately 5,050. Information in the precise form
referred to in the last part of the Question is not available, but
according to the same returns, of 1,079 children who died from
diphtheria in 1943, 42 had been immunised at some time. To
make the general position clearer, I should add that, in the two
years 1942—43, the annual rate of incidence of diphtheria among
immunised children, based on the estimated time of exposure
to risk, was rather more than a quarter of that among those not
immunised, and the corresponding mortality ratio was about
one to twenty—three.

8th November, 1944.

Encephalitis and Myelitis

Mr. VIANT asked the Secretary of State for Air whether
cases of encephalitis or myelitis, following vaccination in men
or women in the R.A-.F., are reported by his ofﬁcers to the
Ministry of Health. .

Sir A.‘ SINCLAIR: Fatal cases of post-vaccinal encephalitis
and myelitis in the R.A.F. and the W.A.A.F. are reported to
the Ministry of Health.

‘

9th November, 1944.

Diphtheria Returns (Corrections) .

Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of Health why, in View of the
fact that the Registrar-General has recorded in his weekly
returns of disease for many years down to the beginning of the
present year corrections of diagnosis of diphtheria, he cannot
incorporate these in quarterly records for those years and thus
make them available for comparison with the new quarterly
returns, which provide for the correction of erroneous noti-
ﬁcations received during the quarter.

Mr. VVILLINK: Such corrections of notiﬁcations of infectious
diseases as the Registrar-General received prior to the present
year were regularly incorporated in his published Quarterly
Returns for the relevant period. Under the new system of
quarterly statements supplied by Medical Ofﬁcers of Health
throughout the country as from the beginning of 1944, the
information received is more complete and detailed than was
formerly the case, and it would not be practicable in present
cirCumstances to obtain a revision of the quarterly records
for previous years which would render them comparable with
the new returns.

9th November, 1944.

Scotland (Immunised Children)
Mr. VIANT asked the Secretary of State for Scotland whether
the Department of Health receives from medical ofﬁcers of

health information as to the number of children immunised

in plevious years who have passed the age of 15 years at the

time of making the return, and, if not, what was the number

deducted by the ofﬁcers of his Department from the totals
sent inin the returns of children immunised in 1941, 1942 and

 

 

 

 

1943, when the percentage of children immunised up to the
age of 15 years was calculated.

Mr. JOHNSTON : The information referred to in the ﬁrst part
of the hon. Member’s Question is not speciﬁcally asked of
Medical Ofﬁcers of Health, and I understand that the work
involved in supplying the information would be considerable.
In regard to the second part of the Question, no precise ﬁgure
can be placed on the. number of children passing the age of 15,
but it has been the practice to make a percentage adjustment
when calculating the percentage of children up to the age of
15 years who have been immunised.

Mr. VIANT asked the Secretary of State for Scotland how
many immunised children developed diphtheria during the ﬁrst
six months of 1944 ; and how many of them died.

Mr. JOHNSTON : According to returns received from Medical
Ofﬁcers of Health in Scotland, the number of immunised children
under age 15 who developed diphtheria during the ﬁrst six
months of 1944 was 827. The information at present available
shows that two immunised children died during the period.

14th November, 1944.

_ Inoculations‘ (Hospitals)

Mr. A. EDWARDS asked the Minister of Health whether he
will instruct hospital authorities that objectors to inoculation
have a right to refuse injections .of anti—tetanus .serum as well
as other injections. ‘

Mr. VVILLINK: It is unnecessary for me to issue any such
instructions, because the right of a patient to refuse the treat-
ment referred to in the Question or any other form of treatment
is well known to hospital authorities. .

Diphtheria, Trowbridge

Mr. V IANT asked the Minister of .Health whether he is aware
that out of six notiﬁcations of diphtheria recently reported
in the Trowbridge area the only serious case was an immunised
child ; that this case has been re—diagnosed and will not appear
among the recorded cases of diphtheria in immunised children ;
and as such re-diagnosis vit-iates the statistics compiled in regard
to immunised and un-immunised cases of diphtheria, if he will
take steps to introduce a better system of statistics. ' .

Mr. VVILLINK : I am not aware of the circumstances to which
my hon. Friend refers, but I am having inquiries made and will
communicate with him as soon as I have obtained the necessary
particulars.

lst December, 1944.

Chief Medical Officer (Broadcast Report)

Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of Health Why, in the Chief
Medical Ofﬁcer’s broadcast on 31st October, no ﬁgures for
tuberculosis were given; why the only disease for which the
number of deaths was given was diphtheria ; and whether he will
see to it that in future all such speakers shall give the deaths
for all zymotic diseases and for tuberculosis and other common
diseases so that a proper comparison can be made of the number
of deaths caused by the variousdiseases. .

Mr. WILLINK: A broadcast is not a suitable occasion for
setting out extensive comparative statistics. These can :be
found in the reports of the ‘Ministry of Health and of the Registrar
General. Special reference was made to diphtheria because
public co-operation in securing the early protection of children
can do much to reduce or eliminate this disease. The answer
to the last part of the Question is “ No, Sir.”

Diphtheria (Inoculation)

Mr. VIANT asked the Minister of ~Health whether he will
inquire into the death of Gillian Clair Moser, of Whittington,
near Lichﬁeld, aged 13 months, at the Children’s Hospital,
Birmingham, on 18th November, two days after being inocu-
lated against diphtheria, since she was well, except for a cold,
when she was inoculated, became seriously ill a few hours
afterwards, had an injection the following morning and ap—
peared allergic to the toxoid injected; whether the statement
on the .death certiﬁcate that one cause of death was acute anti-
diphtheritic injection referred to the injection of toxoid or to
the subsequent injection; and why the death certiﬁcate did
not record that this baby had been inoculated with toxoid two
days before her death.

Mr. WILLINK: I am making inquiries about the case to
which my hon. Friend refers, and will communicate with him.

 




 

 

‘THE ABOLITIONIST

 

January—February, I945

‘ B.U.A.V.. CHRONICLE

HEADQUARTERS

A striking advertisement Of the B.U.A.V., warning people
against Selling animals that may be used for vivisection, and
offering to send particulars Of experiments, was inserted in the
Reading Mercury of November 18th last.

There has been an excellent demand for the B.U.A.V.
Calendar, which many supporters considered was the best ever
produced, and all the stock of it is now sold.

, - . DONATION —
”The Secretary Of the B.U.A.V. acknowledges, with many
thanks to the anonymous sender, the receipt Of a donation Of
£1, posted in Newcastle—omTyne.

CONFERENCE OF A.-V. SOCIETIES
Representatives Of the Anti-Vivisection Societies met (by
invitation of the London and Provincial Anti-Vivisection
Society) at 76, Victoria Street, London, S.W.1, on Friday,
24th November, 1944. Various matters were “discussed. The
- Rev. Walter M. Long was in the chair.

. , ’ ANIMALs’ FAIR

’ The Animals’ Fair, organised by the National Council for
Animals’ Welfare, was held at the Caxton Hall, Westminster,
on Friday and Saturday, December lst and 2nd. It was a
mOst encouraging success. .

The Executive Committee of the B.U.A.V. is very grateful
to Mrs. Pater, who was, as, usual, in charge of the Union’s stall,
and tO her helpers, Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Barnett, Miss Hickman,
Mr. Isherwood and Mr. Jamblin; as well as to all supporters
who kindly helped by their contributions to achieve a result
that surpassed expectations.

GUILDFORD

Four meetings of the Speakers’ and Study Class have been
held since August, the last taking place on December 6th.
The President (Rev. Priestley Prime) has presided on each
occasion, and addresses have been given by Mrs. Neill ‘Natson,
Mr. Tidbury, Miss C. Pointer and Miss B. E. Kidd, who Opened
the last discussion, It was unanimously decided to continue
these meetings in the New Year.

LEICESTER

The Branch held a Public Meeting at the Bishop Street Church
Institute on the 27th November, 1944, when Mr. B. C. Elsmere
gave an address entitled “ How the Public are Misled.” There
was a good attendance, and the speaker effectively answered
some very interesting questions.

Mr. Elsmere also addressed a meeting Of the Church of Christ
Men’s Forum on December 16th. The Minister of the Church
was in the chair; and after the address the whole audience
appeared to be enthusiastically in favour Of the anti-vivisection
cause.

LIVERPOOL ~

A Shop Campaign was held at 7B, Allerton Road, Liverpool,
18, from September 28th to October 21st. A striking poster
display was made on the large window of the shop, and among
those who stopped to discuss the subject were some doctors
and medical students. Mr. F. R. Nolan was in charge of the
campaign. . *

Results : New Subscribers, 188; Signatures to Petition, 364.

MANCHESTER

Premises have been purchased at 65, Upper Chorlton Road,
Manchester 16, for use as a Branch Headquarters and Anti-
Vivisection Centre. ' The house, which is a large one, has a
hall that can be used. for meetings and other functions. Smaller
rooms are available for various purposes. The premises have
been named Hadwen House.

'A room in the Manchester “ Hadwen House ” has been allo-
cated for use as the Office of the North-Western Area, and the
Organlser, Mr. F. R. Nolan, has also a bedroom there. Furnishing
the rooms is difﬁcult at the present time, and if anyone who
reads this notice has a wardrobe to present as a gift or to sell
at a__ reasonable price, the offer of it would be very gratefully
received. Chairs for the lecture room are also required.

Arrangements are being made tO form a Speakers’ Class.
Any local supporters who are interested in this idea are cordially

 

 

invited to write to the Branch Secretary, at the above address,
for particulars.

A Bring and Buy Sale held in the new Hadwen House on
December 7th successfully resulted in Obtaining the sum of
£25 for the funds Of the Branch.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS

The preliminary meeting of the Junior Section Of the Tun-
bridge Wells Branch was held at Christ Church Hall on Nov. 4th,
and over 100 of the newly-joined members attended. They
were welcomed by Miss Barnett, who described the purpose
and aim of the B.U.A.V. and outlined the future work of the
Junior Section. Members would meet once a month for study,
talks, questions and suggestions.

Miss M. C. Bennett, Hon. Secretary Of the Putney Branch,
then gave a delightful cinematograph show of wild animal
life in South Africa and Rhodesia, which was thoroughly enjoyed.

The Rev. C. E. Austin concluded the meeting with a moving
appeal for justice and mercy towards animals, and a vote of
thanks to Miss Bennett was accorded with enthusiasm.

A report Of the meeting was published in the Kent and Sussex
Courier.

On November 30th Miss Barnett- gave a Talk to the Rusthall.

Youth Group at the St. Margaret’s Hall, Rusthall. Thirty-

ﬁve lads between the ages of 16 and 18 were present and proved
a keenly interested audience. Questions were asked and ten
Of the lads joined the Junior Section of the Tunbridge Wells
branch. Others have since joined. ~

WILLESDEN

It is with great regret and a deep sense of loss that the Branch
records the death Of Mr. P. Maull, who had very capably per-
formed the duties of honorary treasurer for the last ﬁve years.
Although Mr. Maull had removed to St. Albans, he kept in close
touch with the Branch, and proved a constant source of strength
and encouragement.

WORTHING

The short Service on behalf of Animals was held, as usual,
on the second Friday of the month, Nov. 10th, at 13, Railway
Approach, at 3 pm. It was conducted by Mrs. Eyre Heriot,
Hon Secretary Of the Worthing Branch.

On December 8th it was conducted by the President, the
Rev. C. A. Hall. At the suggestion of Miss Pyne, Mr. Hall
appealed for the Wood, Green Animal Shelter, and a guinea was ‘
collected for Miss Pyne to send from the meeting.

SCOTLAND .

Mr. Herbert Brown, Organising Secretary and Lecturer for
the Scottish Anti-Vivisection Society, has addressed the following
meetings :—

31/8/44. Ardrossan S.C.W.G.

3/10/44. Restalrig (Edinburgh) S.C.W.G.

9/10/44. West Benhar and Harthill S.C.W.G.

11/10/44. St. Giles’ S.C.W.G. *7

17/10/44, Burnbank S.C.W.G.

18/10/44, Plantation S.C.W.G.

19/10/44, Spring Gardens, Edinburgh.

19/10/44, Jewel S.C.W.G.

26/10/44, Musselburgh S.C.W.G.

1/11/44, Bridgetonr S.C.W.G.
9/11/44, West Kilbride S.C.W.G.

13/11/44, Mount Florida S.C.W.G.

15/11/44, Clydebank S.C. .G. (Central Branch).

22/11/44, Dollar S.C.W.G.

29/11/44, Dalmuir S.C.W.G.

I

 

 

 

 

 

BAZAAR

Branches and individual supporters are invited to
help Headquarters by sending gifts for the B.U.A.V.
stall at the next Animals’ Fair.

Parcels may be sent at any time, addressed to Mrs.
Pater, B.U.A.V., 47, Whitehall, London, S.W.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Branches and Afﬁliated Societies—contd.

CHELMSFORDu—Hon. Secs., Mr. and Mrs. PARISH, 16, Upper Roman Road.
CHELTENHAM.-——Hon. Sec., Mrs. WILLIAMS,“ Ilford,”Stroud Rd.,Tuﬁley, Glos.
CHESTER—Hon. Sec., Miss D. WILLIAMS, Holly Mount, Chester Road,
Hartford, N orthwich, Cheshire.
CHESTERFIELD.—President, LORD GREY DE RUTHYN. Hon..Sec., Mrs. M.
HAND, 299, Old Hall Road.
COLCHESTER—President, Rev. A. E. HOWE, M.A. Hon.‘Sec., Miss HARRIS,
2A, .West Lodge Road. . . , _
OLWYN BAY, QOLWYNZ & LLANDUDNO.-—President, Mrs. ANNE HYDE,
O.B.E., J.P. . Hon.~ Sec., Mr.. F. ALLANSON, Penrhyn New Hall, Oﬂ!
, Llanrh'os Road, Penrhyn Bay, LlandudnoL ‘
COVENTRY.-—’President, Rev. RICHARD LEE, M.A. Hon. Sec., Mrs. R. TOOBY,
-‘~88, Gretna Road, Green Lane. Auxiliary Hon. Sec., Mr. A. G. GOODWIN,
Logendale, ~Warwick Road, Kenilworth. .
CROYDON.-——~Hon. Sec., Miss P. Rogers, 16, Howbery Road, Thornton
Heath, Surrey.
DARLINGTON.———President, Mrs. I. GLENDINNING. Acting Hon. Sec., Mr.
A. Trobridge, 15, Flora Avenue.
DERBY.-—-—Hon. Sec., Miss J. A. WARD, Palmdale, 29, Palmerston Street.
DONCASTER.——Hon. Sec., Miss E. K. ASHE, 176, Thorne Road.
EASTBOURNE.-Hon. Sec., Miss II. M. BEAR, 57, Gore Park Road
EDGWARE.——President, J. STENSON HOOKER, Esq., M.D. Hon. Sec., Miss
E. WARNE, B.A., B. Litt., Newlands Dell, Green Lane, Brockley Hill.
ENFIELD.-—-Hon. Sec., Rev. P. L. QUILLET, 58., Central Parade, Green Street.
EXETER.———Hon. Sec., Miss M. I. HUGHES, Glebe Cottage, Down St. Mary,
Crediton, North Devon. Hon. Assist. Sec., Mrs. PENNELL, 7, Sylvan Avenue.
FLEETWOOD.——Hon. Sec., Mrs. D. MILLER, 205, Hatﬁeld Avenue.
~FOLKESTONE.-President, Miss E. FYNN. Hon. Sec., Miss K. A. PAGE,
26, Ashley Avenue, Cheriton, Folkestone. ‘
GLOUCESTER.——President, Ald. E. BYWATER. Hon. Sec., Miss F. M.
PRIDAY, Hucelecote Knoll.
GRIMSBY.———Hon. Sec., (vacant).
GUILDFORD.——President, Rev. PRIESTLEY PRIME. Hon. Sec. (pro tem.), Miss
B. E. KIDD, Hoe Cottage, Peaslake, Surrey.
HALIFAX.—-President, S. WORSNOP, Esq. Hon. Sec. (vacant).
HARROGATE.—~President, LADY MIDDLEBROOK. Hon. Sec., Miss A. MITCHELL,
9, Spring Mount.
HARROW &. PINNER.-——-Hon. Sec., Mr. W. G. BROOMHEAD, 219, The
Ridgeway, North Harrow.
HASTINGS & ST. LEONARDS.——President, Rev. A. B. TAYLOR, B.A. Hon.
Secs., Miss BLACKMAN, 361, London Road, St. Leonards; Mrs. HERDMAN,
2, St. Helen’s Crescent, Hastings.
HEMEL HEMPSTEAD.——President, Rev. A. F. ROBSON. Hon. Sec. (vacant).
HEREFORD.-——Hon. Sec., Mrs. ERIC NEWMAN, 64, Penn Grove Road. Acting
Secretary (pro tem.), Mr. L. RODENHURST, 138, Widemarsh Street.
_ HORSHAM.——Hon. Sec., Miss N. IRWIN, Le Bijou, Guildford Road.
HUDDERSFIELD.——President, H. DEAN, Esq. Hon. Sec., Mrs. WYLLIE,
43, Somerset Road, Almondbury, Huddersﬁeld.
HULL—Hon. Sec., Miss BLANCHE WATSON, 10, Ormonde Avenue.
ILFORD.—President Rev. W. J. PIGGOTT. Hon. See. Miss D. M. WHITBREAD
431, Romford Road, London, E7. ’ ’
ILFRACOMBE.——President, Rev. P. A. FOYSTER. Hon. Sec., Miss H. R.
HOGBIN, Overton, Old Sticklepath Hill, Barnstaple.
IPSWICH.—President, S. HARROP, Esq. Hon. Sec. (vacant). '
ISLE OF WIGHT—President and Hon. Sec. Mr. A. MAURICE TOMS G
Lodge, Vernon Square, Ryde. , ’ ray
KENDAL.-———President, MAURICE DODD, Esq.
1, Castle Riggs.
KENTON.——-Hon. Sec., Mrs. A. M. MOREY, 3, Alveston Avenue, Kenton, Mddx.
LANCASTER &. MORECAMBE.—President, Mrs. WOLFENDEN. Hon. Corres.
Sec., Mrs. ISHERWOOD, 19, Mount Avenue, Bare, Morecambe.
LANCING.-——President Rev. WM. POWELL. Hon. Sec. Mrs. FISIIBOURNE
Lynmouth, Chester,‘ Avenue. Assist. Hon. Sec., Miss STEVENS. Carisbrooke,
Third Avenue. ' ’
LEAMINGTON SPA.-——-President Dr. D. HOLMES. Hon. Sec. Mi M. B
so, Lime Avenue, Lillington: ’ 88 'SAM’
LEDBURY, NEWENT & DISTRICT.——President, Dr. GERTRUDE BEST, Mus.D.
Hon. Sec., Miss MARION BEST, Payford Knoll, Redmarley, Glos.
LEEDS—Hon. Sec., Mrs. PRATT, 36, Carrholm View, Stainbeck Lane, Leeds, 7.
ILKLEY AUXILIARY: Hon. Sec., Miss HORSFALL. M.A., 6, Alexandra Place.
LEICESTER.——Pres1dent, Canon DRUMMOND. Acting Hon. Sec., Mrs. W. H.
SMITH, 98, Wyngate Drive.
LEWES.-——Hon. Sec., (Vacant).
LIVERPOOL—President, Miss BEATRICE E. KIDD. Hon. Sec., Miss LOVOLD
Lonsdale, Barnston, Wirral. ’
LOUGHBOROUGH.—-—Hon. Sec., Mrs. C. E. FINDLAY, 86, Beacon Road.
LUTON.—-—Hon. Sec., Mrs. L. BUTLER, 96, Richmond Hill.
LYMINGTON.~—-Hon. Sec., Miss W’. WORTHINGTON, Innisfree, Avenue Road
Lymington, Hants. ’
MACCLESFIELD.——-Hon. Sec., Mrs. BARTINDALE, 156, Cumberland Street.
MAID ST ON E .-—-—(Vacant).
MALVERN.-——President J. COOKE Esq. Hon. S. . Mi
The Studio, Cradley. , PC ' SS M. OLDFIELD HOWEL
MANCHESTER & SALFORD.—President, Alderman G, TITT. Hon. Sec.
Miss E. SUTTON, 23, Warvnck Road, Heaton Moor. Sec., Miss WHITTAKER
65, Upper OPOﬂtOD Road, Manchester, 16. AUXILIARIES—ALTRINCHAM'
Hon. Sec., MISS N. DAVIES, 3, Southway, Gladstone Road. BUXTON; Hon.
Collector, Mrs. APPLETON, Abersoch, Green Lane. WILMSLOW ' Hon Sec .
MISS M. BROWN, Ivy Dene, Gr'a‘yel Lane. ' ' 1",

MAYFIELD.-—Hon. Sec., Miss HUTH, Martin Lodge, Mayﬁe]d_
MEDWAYTOWNS.——Hon.Secs.,MissJ. HOPKINS 2 Maidsto R

and Miss HOLLANDS, 68, Shakespeare R03, d, ’ G illinghamlieK ($35, Chatham,
MELTON MOIVBRAY-+Hon. Sec., Mrs. B. NEWMAN, 18. Jubilee Street.

MIDDLESBROUGH.—President SYBIL LADY EDEN,
LOWE, 116, Ayrsome Park Road. Hon. Sec., Mr. D. W. C.
NEWCASTLE-ONc-TYNEF President, Miss HETHA GREY ST. PAUL BUTLER
Hon. 880-" MISS Hui-DA BLACKHAI‘I" 0/0 31, Callerton Place, Newcastle:
Hon. Ass1st. Sec., MISS L. AULD, 31 Callerton Place, Newcastle.

Hon. Sec., Mr. ERIC MILLAR,

 

N ORTHAMPTON.-—-Hon. Sec. (vacant).

NORTHWICH.—-President, JOHN FOGG, Esq., J.I’. Hon. Sec., Miss V. D.
ARMITA‘GE, Hartford Manor, N orthwich.

NORWICH.—-—President, H. J. ARCHER, Esq. Hon. Sec., Miss J. CADAMY, 152,
Glebe Road.

N OTTINGHAM.——President, LADY BALL. Hen. Sec., Mr. DOUGLAS HALLEr,
Winsden, Ruddington Lane, Wilford, N otts.

OLDHAM.-—Hon. Sec., Mrs. ROBERTS, Car'tref, Primrose Bank, Greenﬁeld.

OXFORD.-——I’resident, Rev. Dr. S. H. DRANE-SCOTT, M.A., B.Litt. Hon. Sec.,
Mrs. HALLIDAY, 264, Ifﬁey Road, Oxford.

PORTSMOUTH & SOUTHSEA.—-Hon. Sec., Miss R. JEFFERYS, L.R.A.M.,
6, Pelham Road, Southsea.

PRESTATYN.——President and Hon. Sec., Mrs. CLARKSON, 61, Dawson Park,
Florddisa, Prestatyn. .

PRESTON.——President, S. R. SIMPSON, Esq., D.O., D.C. Hon. Sec., Mr.. A. F.

LOMAX, 1, Clifton Avenue. _
READING.-—President, Mrs. M. E. RICHARDS. Hon. Sec., MISS K. M. LAWRENCE,

10, New Road. _

RICHMOND ‘& TWICKENHAM.-President, MISWOH. Sec.,
Miss K. H. TEE, 26, Lancaster Park, Richmo , urrey.

SAFFRON VVALDEN.—President, Rev. L. HUGHES, M.A., D.D. Hon. Sec.,
Mr. G. C. MABERLY, M.A., LL.B., Castle Hill.

ST. ALBANS.——Hon. Sec., (vacant). ,

SALISBURY.—Hon. Sec., Miss BEER, 14, Fair View Road, Wilton, Salisbury.

SCARBOROUGH.———President, LADY GIMLETTE. Hon. Sec., Miss M. E. SWAINE,
Mulgrave House, 168, Castle Road.

SHEFFIELD.—-President, Rev. T. H. E. JAPING, B.A. Hon. Sec., Miss E.
ATKINS, B.A., 28, Mylnhurst Road, Ecclesall, Sheﬁield, 11.

SHOREHAM-BY-SEA.—President, Mi“ N CY PRI E. Hon. Sec., Miss I. M.
BERRIDGE, 428, Upper Shoreham a .

SHROPSHIRE.——Hon. Sec., Mr. W. STUART LAVENDER, 10, St. Alkmund's
Square, Shrewsbury. .

SOUTHAMPTON.—Hon. Sec., Mrs. PHELPS, 2, Lakelands Drive, Millbrook,
Southampton.

SOUTHEND, WESTCLIFF (Sr LEIGH.——President, Mrs. M. K. PEARSON,
Hon. Sec., Mrs. STACE, 27, Harcourt Avenue, Southend-on—Sea.

SOUTHPORT.-——Hon. Sec., Mr. THOS. A. ROSTRON, 31, Kent Road, Birkdale,
Southport.

STOKE-ON-TRENT.—-Hon. Sec., Miss LUCY JONES, 51, Elgin Street, Shelton.

STORRINGTON.-—Hon. Sec., Miss BURT, Trevarth, Hampers Lane.

SUTTON .-——-President, Dr. DOROTHY SHEPHERD, M.B., Ch.B. Hon. Sec.,
Rev. W. J. PIGGOTT, 65, St. James’s Road, Sutton, Surrey. Collector,
Miss E. CARR, 56, Manor Road, Wallington.

TAMWORTH.——Hon. Sec.,Mrs. ROBERTS, 38, Gillway, Comberiord Road.

TAUNTON.~—Hon. Sec., Miss SKELCHER, Yard House, Stanlegrove Road.

TORQUAY.——Hon. Sec., Mrs. VVELOH, 27, Three Beaches, Paignton. Hon.
Propaganda Sec., Mrs. G. M. BIRD, Ideen, Teignmouth Road, Torquay.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS 6t TONBRIDGE.—President, Lt.—Col. C. E. KITCHIN,
D.S.O. Hon. Sec., Miss BARNETT, M.B.E. Assist. Sec., Miss D. HARRIS,
10, Dorking Road, Tunbridge Wells. Aux. Hon. Secs.—-CROWBOROUGH:
Miss POTTER, Lexstone Cottage, Beacou Gardens. WADHURST:
Mrs. CORKE, Laura House.

UNITARIAN SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.——
President, Rev. JOHN C. BALLANTYNE, M.A. Hon. Sec. (vacant).

WAKEFIELD.—~President, Mrs. ARTHUR GREENWOOD. Hon. Sec., Mrs.
VVRIGGLESWORTH, 5, Westﬁeld View, North Avenue.

WALLASEY.——President, Miss BEATRICE E. KIDD. Hon. Sec. Miss D. PESKE’I‘T,
17, Roseberry Avenue.

WARRINGTON.—-Hon. Sec., Mrs. ELLISON, 19, Longdin Street, Latchford.

WATFORD.——Hon. Sec. Mrs. Melvill Wyon, 13, Monmouth Road.

WELWYN GARDEN CITY.——President, L. R. GLENISTER, Esq. Hon. Sec.,
Miss AGNES D. GEORGE, 5, The Quadrangle, Welwyn Garden City.

WESTON-SUPER-MARE.—~Hon. Financial Sec., Mrs. WILKINSON, 1, Claren—
don Road. .

WINCHESTER.—-Hon. Sec. (vacant).

WOLVERHAMPTON.-—-Hon. Sec. (vacant).

WORCESTER.—Hon. Sec., Mr. E. W. FOSTER, 6, Rose Hill Terrace.

WORTHING.——President, Rev. C. A. HALL. Hon. Sec., Mrs. EYRE HERIOT,
Oak Cottage, 41, Upper Brighton Road.

‘WREXHAM.—President, ARNOLD DAVIES, Esq. Hon. Sec., Mrs. MANTON
DENNIS, Rhydd Broughton, Wrexham.

YARMOUTH.——President, Councillor H. W. CASE, J.P. Hon. Sec., Mr. NORMAN
BACON, 7, St. Peter’s Plain.

YORK.—-—H0n. Sec., Mr. E. M. BYRON, 188, Mount Vale, York.

SCOTLAND

SCOTTISH ANTI-VIV'ISECTION SOCIETY.———President, JAMES B. MONEE,
Esq. Sec., Mr. HERBERT BROWN, 207, West George St., Glasgow, 0".
Hon. See. for EDINBURGH: Mr. E. MACRAE, 25, Spottiswoode Road.

IRELAND

BELFAST—Hon. Sec., Mr. T. BROWN, 350, Clifton Street.

CORK.—-H0n. Sec., Miss M. BARBOUR, e/O 52, South Mall.

IRISH UNION FOR ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.—Hon. Sec., Mr. G.
IRVINE, 6, Mountpleasant Square, Ranelagh, Dublin.

LONDONDERRY.—-Hon. Sec., Mr. J. O. BOAL, St. Columbs Court.

OVERSEAS BRANCHES

ADELAIDE (South Australia).———Pr(~)sident, Rev. W. HAWKE. Hon. Secretary,
Mrs. E. V. MC‘LELLAN, 94, Park Terrace, North Unley, Adelaide, S. Australia.

AUCKLAND (New Zealand).———Prcsident, S. OLDFIELD, Esq. Hon. Sec.,
Mrs. L. OLDFIELD, Box 647, G.P.O., Auckland.

GEELONG (Australia).-——President, G. KINGSLAND HARRIS, Esq. Hon. Sec.,
Mrs. G. K. HARRIS, 242, Ryrie Street.

MELBOURNE (Australia).-—-President, BAZIL J. PARKINSON, Esq. Sec., Miss
R. A. ELDRIDG-E, Room 3, Third Floor, Elizabeth House, 129, Elizabeth
Street, 0.1.

PERTH (Western Australia).——President, Miss CHARLOTTE PRIEST. Hon. Sec.,
Mr. C. J. HORROCKS, B.A., 46, Irvine Street, Cottesloe, \V.A.

TASMANIA.-—President, E. DWYER-GRAY, Esq., M.H.A. Hon. Sec., Mrs.
MAY L. PARRETT, ” Highlands,” Mount Stuart Road, Hobart.

 

Printed by The Hereford Times Ltd., General Printing Works (T.U.) London and Hereford, 1945.

 

 




 

PUBLICATIONS

[Write to the Secretary, B. U.A.V., 138, Widemarsh Street, Hereford]

PAMPI-ILETS Price i PAMPI-ILETS ’ [ LEAFLETS (Single Copies Free)
ANTISEPSIS OR ASEPSIS? by Dr. W. R.
HADWEN, J.P., M.D., etc. . . 3/6 per 100 Ad.
BLUNDERS OF A BISHOP, by Dr. Hadwen . . Ad.
CASE AGAINST THE RESEARCH DEFENCE
SOCIETY . .. 3/6 per 100 Ad.
CASE AGAIN ST VACCINATION, by Dr. IIadwen,
1/— per doz.1I}-d.
DIPHTHERIA IMMUNISATION IN BIRMINGHAM,
byI M. Beddow Bayly, M. R. C. S., L R. C. P.
1/6 per doz. 2d.
DO GERMS CAUSE DISEASE? 9d per doz.1d.

VIVISECTION PROBLEM OF TO- DAY . . POISON GAS .
VIVISECTION SYMPOSIUM 4d. per doz. “ PROGRESS ” OF MEDICAL SCIENCE
WAS IT FOR SCIENCE? (Runcorn Donkey Case) PROTECTION OF CHILDREN . _ . .
\VIIAT ABOUT ANAISTHETICS ? . . 3/6 Der 100 RADIO DEBATE ON VIVISECTION
SIGNIFICANT ADMISSIONS
SULPHONAMIDES, by AI. BEDDOW BAYLY,

M....,RCS L.RWCP .. .. ..
- - THE CASE AGAINST VACCINATION . . . .

LEAFLETS (Single Cop 195 Free) Per 100 THE CASE AGAINST VIVISECTION

ANTI' VIVISECTION, by JOhn COWper POW ys . . TIIE TJ‘RUTH: ABOUT DIPHTHERIA,
ANTI- VIVISECTION CAUSE . . . . 1 Valentine Knaggs, L R C P ect
APPEAL TO THE NATION T0 BOYS AND Gums (New Edition ,illustratcd)
DO YOU KNOW ABOUT VIVISECTION ? . 1d. APPEAL T0 PARLIAMENTARY ELECTORS TORTURED MOTHERHOOD
EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS, by Dr. A REASONED A.PPEAL TREATMENTS FROM VIVISECTION

Hadwen . .1/6 per doz. 2d. BOYS AND GIRLS—LOOK AFTER YOUR PETS! TWO DOGS UNDER EXPERIMENT (illustrated)
FEEDING EXPERIMENTS. 3/6 per 100 Ad. BRIEF REPLIES To THE R. D. S. .. TWO FAMOUS SURGEONS ,
FRAUD 0F INOCULATION (from Truth) 1d. CANCER DEATHS AND‘ ‘RESEARCH ” . . . 1QPHOID INOCULATION
FRAUD OF VACCINATION (from 177'Itfh) . . 1d. CATHOLIC PRIEST S VIEW OF VIVISECTION . . VACCINATION AND INOCULATION IN THE ARMY
HOPEFUL VIEW OF DISEASE by Major , CHRISTIANITY AND VIVISECTION - VACCINATION QUESTION: Views of Eminent

Austin, M. R. C.S L. R. C. P. 5/6 per 100 1d. CLAIMS OF THE MEDICAL RESEARCH COUNCIL. People . .
HOW TO ANRSWE . . 1/6 per doz 2d. CONTRAEICTIONS OF THE VIVISECTION ACT . . VALU] OF VACCIN1,S QﬁESTIONED '
IMMUNISATION AGAINST DIPHTHERIA, by DIPHTHERIA IMMUNISATION . VITAMIN H EXPERIMENTS

M. BeddOW Bayly, M.R. C. S, . ., DISTEVIPER INOCULATION
‘ 3/— per 100 DO YOU KNOW ?
INOCULATION AGAINST TYPHOID FEVER, DOGS AND MONKEYS IN LONDON (with phot6. )
- by M. Beddow Bayly, M. R. C. S., L. R. C. P. EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS DURING 1938 ..
Key to ‘ IN A VIVISECTION LABORATORY,” EXPERIMENTS ON DOGS’ KIDNEYS

9d. doz. EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS

LEAGUE OF NATIONS AND VIVISECTION ,3d. doz. EXPERIMENTS 0N MONKEYS (illustrated)
MEDICAL VIEWS OF 'VIVISECTION, by A. F. FACTS OF THE CASE ..

Whiteley 1/- per doz. FAILURE OF CANCER RESEARCH (illuStrated)
MODERN MEDICINE MAN (HOW Vaccines and FEEDING EXPERIMENTS (illustrated)

Serums are made) . . ..

Field DISTEMPER FUND
MDDERN MEPHISTOPHELES FOLLOWERS OF CHRIST AND VIVISECTION
PARABIOTIC RATS

.. HAVE YOU A CAT? (illustrated)
PASTEUR AND PASTEURISM, by Dr. Hadwen

HAVE YOU A DOG ? (with photo.)
PASTEUR AND RABIES, by Colonel Tillard. HORRIBLE EXPERIMENTS
POLICY OF THE B. U. A. V. . .

HUMAN VICTIMS OF MEDICAL RESEARCH
RATS AND FLEAS: A DISCUSSION ON PLAGUE,

by H.

VIVISECTION AND MORAL EVOLUTION

VIVIS ECTION IN THE U. S. A.

VIVISECTION 0F DOGS (illustrated)...

VORONOFF AND MONKEY GLANDS .. ..

WE ARE DETERMINED

WHAT BOYS AND GIRLS CAN DO (illustrated)

WHAT DOCTORS SAY ABOUT VIVISECTION . .

WHAT EVERY PARENT SHOULD KNOW ABOUT
VACCINATION AND IMMUNISATION .

WHAT IS VIVISECTION ?

WHAT YOU CAN DO

“ WHY I OPPOSE
Physician

WOMEN IN THE SERVICES

YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE

VIVISECTION, " by A

ILLEGAL AND LEGAL CRUELTY (illustrated)..
by Dr. H adwen . . .per doz. . IMMUNISATION
REGISTRAR- GENERAL’ S STATISTICS (Review). T? A VIVISECFON LABSRATORY B
SERMON by Dr Matthews ”9,1 per doz NOCULATION GAINST IPHTHERIA IN IRM-
SERMON by Leo Rodenhurst 9d. per doz. 3%{ég by M- Beddow Bayly, M- R- O S.
SEﬁgﬁsnngAVg FAﬁﬂgg déiirDB Slim 132%?) g0 INOCUL ATION AND VACCINATION IN THE R. A. F.
L. R C P .y y 376 per 100’ INOCULATION TREATMENTS: THEIR RISE & FALL

,, , ,, INSULIN
SCHICK INOCULATION FOR IMMUNISATION

) INTERNAL BALLOON TORMENT
ﬁfﬁlgsg DIE $333131?” WM BeddOW 133le . LEAFLET IN WELSH (A ELLIR CYFIAWNHAU

- - BYWDRYCHIAD ?)
SMALLPOX IN GLOUCESTFR (1896), by Dr LEGISLATIVE HYPOCRISY
Hadwen . .. 9d. per doz.

LIVING DOG’ S HEAD ..

STORY OF ANIMAL CRUELTIES told by photo- LORD MOYNIHAN AND SIR ARTHUR KEITH .

graphs. (New England A. V. Society) . . LOUIS PASTEUR (SOME COMMON MISTAKES). .
TETANUS OR LOCKJAW . . MAL-TA FEVER (THE MALTESE MUDDLE)
TUBERCULIN .. .. MEANING OF ANTI- VIVISECTION
TUBERCULOSIS AND Cow’s MILK, by Dr. MEDICAL EDUCATION

Hadwen, J. .P., M. D. ,etc. .. No BENEI IT FROM VIVISECTION, by Alice Ker,
USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION, M. D., L. R. C. P. S E.

Lawson T ait.

N0 INOCULATION—NO DYSENTERY.
VERBATIM REPORT OI QUEEN’ SHALL MEETING OUR “ NEGATIVE” MOVEMENT
VIEWS OF MEN AND WOMEN OF NOTE ON PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS
VIVISECTION .. 9d. per doz. “ PIN-PRICE” EXPERIMENT ..
VIVISECTION CONTROVERSY (Dr. Hadwen v. PLEASE SIGN OUR PETITION
Mr. Paget) .

“ POINTS FOR PARENTS ”

BOOKS

HADWEN 0F GLOUCESTER, by Beatricelﬂ. Kidd
and M. Edith Richards

TRIAL AND ACQUITTAL OF DR. WALTER B...
HADWEN, J.P., \I.D. M..R..CS, L.R...,CP
L.S.A., etc., ON A CHARGE OF “ MAN—
SLAUGHTER ”(complete verbatim report,with
numerous photographs and some notes) . .

MISCELLANEOUS
BADGES .. .. each 6d.
BLOTTING SLIPS .. . per 25 6d.
“BRANCH RECEIPT BOOKS .. .. each 9d.
COLLECTING BOXES .. each 1/6 & 2/6
COLLECTING BOX LABELS .. .. each 1d.
ENVELOPE ECONOMY LABELS per 100 1/6
IDENTITY BADGES (per 100, 10/ ) .. each 4d.
PICTURE POSTCARD RDS per 100 4/-
WRITING PADS of 50 Printed Headings each 1/6
POSTERS (various) . Supplied gratis
SUBSCRIPTION ENVELOPES per 100
SUBSCRIPTION “ REMINDERS " per 100 2/—
“ THE ABOLITIONIST ” ENVELOPES per 100 2/6

by PIISI'.

 

 

 

 

 

BRANCHES OF THE B.U.A.V. AND AFFILIATED SOCIETIES

LONDON

BLACKHEATH & DISTRICT.—Hon. Sec., Mrs. E. ASHCROFT, 68, Handen
Road, Lee, S. E 12
BRIXTON & STREATHAM. ——President, T. GROVES, Esq” J..,P
Hon. Sec., Mrs. L. K. CAMERON, 4, Medwin Street, Ferndale Roald, SW7 4
CHISW ICK. —Hon. Sec. ., Miss ROBSON, 21, Fairfax Ro,ad W. 4.
DULWICH AND PECKHAM. —Hon. Sec., Miss E. DAVIS, 10, Thornsett Road,
Anerley, SE. 20.
EALING AND ACTON. —President, Rev. A. H. COOPER,
FREEMAN, 6, Marchwood Crescent, W. 5.
FINCHLEY.-——Hon. Sec., Miss M. STEPHENS, 26, Moss Hall Grove, N.12.
HAMMERSMITH.——Hon. Sec., Miss A. BENNETT, 222, Hammersmith Grove, W.6.
HAMPSTEAD. —Hon. Sec., Miss E. BESWICK, 6, Clarence Gate Gardens, N. W. 1.

HENDON & GOLDERS GREEN. —Hon. Sec. (pro tem.), Mrs. PATER, 135,
Golders Green Road, N. W. 11.

HORNSEY. -—Hon. Sec., (vacant).

LEVVISHAM & CATFORD. —Hon. Sec. ., Miss A. M. HOLSMEYER, 361, High
Street, Lewisham, S. E. 13.

LEYTONSTONE. —Hon. Sec. ., Mr. J. VANN, 28, Kirkdale Road, E.11.

PUTNEY, WANDSWORTH AND SHEEN. — Hon. Sec., Miss M. C.
BENNETT, M. A., 11, Bede House, Manor Fields, Putney Heath, S. W. 15

ST. MARYLEBONE.~——President, Councillor the Rev. WALTER M. LONG. Hon.
Sec., Mrs. S. FENNER, 53a, Carlton Hill, St. John’s \Vood, N...W8

WILLESDEN & CRICKLEVVOOD. ———President, T. GROVES, Esq., MHP Hon.
Sec., Mrs. KNAPE, 1, Erne House, Rosebank Way, North Acton, W 3.

WIMBLEDON. —President. LADY TENTERDEN. Hon. Sec., Mrs. BARNETT,
62, Richmond Road, Raynes Park, S. W ..20

M.A. Hon. Sec., Mrs.

ENGLAND AND WALES

ABERYSTWYTH. —President, Rev. ELWYN THOMAS, M.A. Hon. Sec., Dr.
.J. DAVIES, Ph. D, Arfron, Caergog.
BANBURY. ——President, Mrs. SALMON. Hon. Sec. ., Miss M. SOUTH, 35, West
St., Grimsbury, Banbury. Hon. Assist. Sec., Mrs. L. WINCOTT, 47, Grange Rd.
BANGOR. (Wales). —Hon. Sec. ., Mrs. BERWICK, Ceinwen, Victoria Avenue.

 

‘ BARNET. —Hon. Sec. ., Mrs. FAGENCE, 155, Bells Hill, High Barnet, Herts.
‘ BARRO'W—IN- FURNESS. ———H0n. Sec. ., Mr. A. E. WISKEN, 36, Plymouth Street,

Walney Island.

BATH. —President, Rev. W. H. POWELL, D. D. Acting Hon. Sec., Mrs. SWAINSON,
Echo Villa, Batheaston, Bath.

BECKENHAM. —President, B. WINTER GONIN, Esq... M. R. C. S. L. R. C. P.
F. R. S. M., F. R. S. A. Acting Hon. Sec. ., Mr. C. R. JAMBLIN, 100, Farnaby,
Road, Shortlands, Kent.

BEDFORD. —President, B. C. Elsmere, Esq. Hon. Sec., Councillor T. W.
HAWKSLEY, C. C., 27, Conduit Road.

BEXHILL. ~—President, Miss OHLSON.H011.Sec.,
Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on- Sea.

BIRMINGHAM.—Hon. Sec., Miss W. N.
Erdington, 24.

BLACKBURN. —-President, Rev. D. G. KENNEDY. Hon. Sec. (vacant)-

BLACKPOOL. —Hon. Sec., MrS.H. WATERS, 80, Willowbank Avenue, Mar-ton.

BOLTON. ~President, Councillor W. M. FARRINGTON. Hon. Sec., Miss
SHEPHERD, 45, Knowsley Road. I

BOURNEMOUTH. ——President, F. H. HAINES, Esq., M..RC.S., L.R.C.P.,
D. P..H Hon. Sec. ., Miss SYDENHAM, 59, King’s Road. '-

BRADFORD & DISTRICT. —President, A. CREECH JONES, Esq. ., M..P Hon.
Sec., Mrs. A. CLAYTON SMITH, Manor View, 12, Leeds Road, Eccleshill.

BRIDLINGTON. ———Hon. Sec. (vacant).

BRIGHTON, HOVE & DISTRICT... Miss ADA BARNETT, M.B.E.
Hon. Sec., Miss G. E MARSH, MA., 28, Ripley Road, Worthing.
Hon. Assrst Sec., Mrs. ELLERCAMP, 68, Ditchling Road, Brighton.

BRISTOL & WEST OF ENGLAND. —President, Canon J. HUNTER ROBERTSON.
Sec. ., Mr. S. NORMAN, 25, Berkeley Square, Clifton, Bristol.

BROMLEY. —President, Dr. B. WINTER GONIN, M....,RCS L.R.C.P., etc.
Hon. Sec., Mrs. P. E. FOSTER, at 172, Pickhurst Lane, Hayes, Kent.

BURY ST. EDMUNDSr—Hon. Sec. (Vacant).

CAMBRIDGE. —President, Dr. GEORGE F. C. SEARLE, SCD., FWRS Hon.
Sec. ., Miss A. H. PINK, 15, Park Parade.

CANTERBURY. ——-Hon. Collector, Miss M. W. PAINE, 45, Roper Road

CARDIFF. —President, Dr.G. N. W. THOMAS, M. B. ,Ch. B.,D. P. M.,Barrister-at-
Law. Hon. Sec., Mr. G. D. LEVI, 9, Blenheim Road, Roath Park. Hon.
Assist. Sec. ., Miss LE HURAY, 22, Preswylfa Street, Canton.

Miss M. K. LYNN, 30,

MORTON, 63, Orchard Road,

 

 

 

 




