ULAWS

(The University of London Animal Welfare Society),

42, Torrington Square, W,C. I.

BU LLETIN OF ACTIVITIES

AUGUST l, I936—IANUARY 3i, I937.

 

V UNIVERSITY STUDENTS’ ACTIVITIES .

MEETINGS IN COLLEGE BRANCHES. In the period under
review (covering one college term) sixteen lectures have been
delivered to audiences of students in the ten branches in
colleges of the University of London. The majority of the
lecturers illustrated their addresses by lantern slides or ﬁlms .

WEEK-END CONFERENCE. Thirty students and nineteen
senior members attended the third annual conference for
students and members of council; this number was a consider-
able increase over previous years. Valuable discussion
meetings were held, when the aims and present activities
were reviewed and plans laid for future work.

EXCURSIONS. A party of student members visited Imber
Court to see the Establishment and Stables where horses are
trained for the Mounted Branch of the Metropolitan Police.

PANEL OF SPEAKERS .

A larger number of ULAWS speakers are available and
the number of platforms occupied Shows a gratifying increase.
Dr. Kirkman, the Hon. Secretary for Wild Life, continues
to ﬁnd time from his professional work to lecture. He has
delivered 5 lectures in schools, 6 at women’s institutes and
I college lecture.

Under the auspices of the Kent Education Authority, 20
talks (I4 in schools, 3 in clubs and 3 in colleges) have been
given in Kent by Mr. Rolfe and Mr. Pitcher (Wye Agri-
cultural College).

' Mr. Boddington has given 2 talks in Pettits Senior
Boys’ School, Romford, Essex, of which he is a member of
staff.

FILMS AND EQUIPMENT. ,

A cinematograph projector has been purchased, thanks
to generous ﬁnancial support. It is a second—hand Kodascope
in perfect condition and secured at a considerably reduced
price. It is now possible to accept many more invitations
for lectures.

 




 

ANN’S DOG (the ﬁrst ULAWS ﬁlm production). “Ann’s
Dog” has already proved its worth and many bookings have
been made; not only are the children interested in the ﬁlm
itself, but after the performance there is a lively discussion
during which the speaker can drive home points of construc-
tive animal welfare. A 16 mm. copy has been purchased by
the Scottish S .P .C .A. ; enquiries for copies have been received
from Greece and Peru.

CANADIAN NATURAL HISTORY FILMS. The Canadian
Government has kindly loaned two more ﬁlms entitled
“Stalking Big Game” and “Home of the Buffalo.”

PUBLIC MEETINGS.

LITTLE THEATRE. . At the instigation of Miss Nancy
Price and thanks to her generous co-operation, the Little
Theatre was crowded for a Recital of Animal Poems by Nancy
Price and Wilfred Fletcher. Yvonne Arnaud made a moving
appeal for more considerate treatment of animals. After an
address on the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill by the Honorary
Secretary, the- meeting closed with an appeal by Nancy Price
for funds for the ULAWS anti—gin—trap campaign which
resulted in a collection of £30.

BECKENHAM PUBLIC HALL. Mr. Marshall Freeman, a
keen supporter of the work of ULAWS , organised and presided
at a very well-attended meeting, at which Mr. Arthur R.
Thompson delivered a lantern lecture on “Wild Life in
Britain.” The General Secretary described the campaign
for the abolition-Of the gin trap.

HASTINGS. Thanks to the co—operation of Dr. Vinter,
. the Hastings Parliament, in conjunction with the R .S .P .C .A.
and ULAWS, organised a debate advocating the abolition of
steel traps. Dr. Kirkman, supported by Mr. Pitcher,
championed the motion, which was carried.

CONFERENCE OF EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS, LONDON.
ULAWS, one of the afﬁliated Associations, this year discussed
the subject “Animals of the Empire.” Addresses Were given
by, Mr. Seth Smith (“The Zoo Man”) and Dr. Kirkman (for
summary of Dr. Kirkman’s address see pp. 9, IO and II).
The Chair was taken by Mr. H. G. Maurice, Hon. Secretary
of the Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of the Empire.

EXHIBI TION S .

A stall was taken at the Animals.’ Fair, organised by the
National Council. for Animals’ Welfare in November. Litera-
ture was distributed and information given about ULAWS
and its activities. Humane perfumery was sold.

Literature was displayed in the exhibition at the Confer-
ence of Educational Associations at University College in
January.

2

 

 

 

 




 

INFORMATION BUREAU .

An enquiry regarding the prices of European draught
cattle and the conditions under which they are transported
and kept in markets has been received from the Agricultural
Marketing Adviser to the Government of India. Information
was collected from various countries, including Great Britain ,
and forwarded to the Senior Marketing Ofﬁcer, who is con-
ducting a marketing survey of cattle in India.

NEWS FROM ABROAD .

The Tenth Annual Report was sent to a large number of
foreign societies, many of which have forwarded exchange
reports. '

AFRICA. A letter was received from Mr. W. G. Beaton,
M .R.C.V.S., Veterinary Ofﬁce of Kano Province, pointing
out the great cruelty of the Hausa bit extensively used in his
district and appealing for disused bits to be sent from Eng-
land. He remarks: “It is probable that there are many
thousands of old bits lying around the countryside in Eng—v
land, and if these could be collected and sent out here I would.
see they were well distributed, and this would undoubtedly
advance the total abolishment of the present instruments of
torture.” Dr. Kirkman made an appeal in the Field, H 0786‘
and H ound, C ountry Life and the journal of. the Society for the-
Preservation of Fauna of the Empire, and was able to send
105 suitable bits to West Africa. Further bits will be grate--
fully received by Dr. A. H. B. Kirkman, Bangweolo,
Staplehurst, Kent.

JAPAN. A visit was received from Dr. Suzuki, Professor
of the Philosophy of Buddhism in the Otani University,
Kyoto, Japan. Dr. and Mrs. Beatrice Lane Suzuki are
mantaining an animals’ clinic in Kyoto. Prof. Suzuki gave
a lecture on “Man and Animals from the Buddhist Point of
View’ ' to the ULAWS branch at King’s College, where many
of the student members are studying theology.

TORONTO. A letter was received from Mr. A. F.
Stevenson, Professor of Applied Mathematics in the Univer-
sity of Toronto, informing ULAWS that a group in the
University were interested in the work done by ULAWS and
were hoping at a later date to start a similar society there.
Prof. Stevenson has recently become President of a Toronto
Branch of the Canadian Association for the Protection Of
Fur-bearers, which was founded by Dr. Niven in Ottawa.
The work for Dr. Niven’s society is keeping him so busy that
there will be some delay in his activities with the other
project, but he has been made a corresponding member of the
Council of ULAWS and will in this way keep in touch with
the work. ~,~,~;

 




 

PUBLICATIONS .
(Gratis unless otherwise stated).
ULAWS Tenth Annual Report, 1st July, 1935, to 31st July,
1936.

ULAWS Monograph 4e “Instructions for Dealing with
Rabbits.” By Capt. C. W. Hume, with Foreword by
Sir Frederick Hobday. .

Memorandum and selected précis of evidence of Witnesses
submitted to the Select Committee of the House of Lords

, (I/-)-

ULAWS Monograph 7b, “Rat-Control.” By j. D. Hamer.
ULAWS poster, No. 3b, “It Isn’t Cricket.” By Fougasse.

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK.
Volume IV.
This publication will not be ready for circulation til]

April. Active preparation has been in progress, however,
during the period under review.

CONTENTS:

'~‘ ‘The Tragedy of the Opossum.” By David G. Stead, Hon .
Secretary, Wild Life Preservation Society of Australia .

"Africa’s Vanishing Fauna.” By A. H. B. Kirkman,
F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.Lond., F.Z.S.

“The Inﬂuence of Religions on Man’s Attitude towards
Animals.” By The Rev. F. Harold Smith, D.D.,
Dept. of Theology, King’s College.

”Two Lecture Tours in Flintshire.” By M. D. Austin,
F.R.E.S., Assistant Lecturer, South-Eastern Agricul-
tural College, Wye, Kent.

‘ ‘Animals Abroad.” Edited by F. Jean Vinter, M.D., B .S.
‘ ‘ Some Current Problems. ’ ’

‘ “Some Recent Books dealing with Animals.” Edited by
C. M. Knight, D.Litt.

Pr ice 2/6, post free 2/9 .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN TRAP.

CENTRAL CHAMBER OF AGRICULTURE. A representative
of ULAWS was invited to meet a committee of this body
dealing with the rabbit problem. Although circumstances at
the last moment prevented a personal attendance, a brief
memorandum was furnished by ULAWS and circulated to
members of the committee by the Secretary of the Chamber.

SELECT COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS ON AGRICUL-
TURE (DAMAGE BY RABBITS). This committee heard 38
witnesses in the course of 5 morning sittings in November. and
December. A memorandum, supported by précis of evidence
from 35 witnesses together with documentary evidencefrom
Australia and elsewhere, was furnished by ULAWS. .The
memorandum with selected précis has been reprinted, andhas
been circulated for private information to the principal
agricultural organizations, agricultural colleges, and county
councils. The subject matter of the memorandum and the
names and brief description of the Witnesses will be found-on
pages 6, 7 and 8. ' . '

In View of the terms of reference of the Select Committee ,
ULAWS restricted its evidence to the subject of rabbits and
refrained from presenting any evidence to prove that the gin
trap is unnecessary for rats. Conclusive evidence is, however,
available to that effect.

The ULAWS evidence was taken at the ﬁrst public
sitting, November 26th, and was presented by Capt. W. H .
Buckley, with Major Francis and Messrs. Perkins (Pembroke-
Shire) and Tozer (Devon) in support. ‘

SEX RATIO OF TRAPPED RABBITS. A letter signed by the.
President and calling for information on this subject'was
widely published in the press. A considerable amount of
information was received in response. It is hoped that this,
when fully worked out, may throw light on the ecological
effects of rabbit—trapping.

PUBLICATIONS AND MEETINGS. These are reported else—
where in this bulletin. There is a continuous demand for the
Society’s publications from agriculturists who are troubled
with excess fauna. ' ‘ ' ‘

HUMANENESS OF CYANIDE FUMIGATION. Attempts. are
still being made by defenders of the gin trap to represent
cyanide fumigation as inhumane although conclusive evidence
of its humaneness has been published (see page 8). It is
possible that this misrepresentation of the facts may have
been due towant of sufﬁcient care in distinguishing between
cyanide fumigation, which is humane, and sulphur dioxide
and certain other fumigants, which are not recommended by
ULAWS. . , ' '

5

 




 

HEADINGS OF THE MEMORANDUM PRESENTED
BY [ULAWS TO THE SELECT COMMITTEE
OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

ECONOMICS OF THE RABBIT PROBLEM :

Rabbits a pest and not a legitimate agricultural product; Rabbits
not acheap food ; Increase in numbers not due to fall in price; Exploita-
tion of rabbits for proﬁt a main cause of the increase in numbers; The
hat trade and fur trade; Infestation from neighbouring property. No
legal redress. ,

TECHNIQUE, OF RABBIT-CONTROL:

The gin trap a means for exploiting rabbits for proﬁt, but ineffec—
tive for keeping them down; Use of the gin trap leads to increase in
rabbit population; The above facts conﬁrmed from hostile sources;
Views of Ministry of Agriculture; “Substitutes for the rabbit trap” ;
Recommended means for dealing with rabbits; Cyanide fumigation;
Objections urged against fumigation; Catching rabbits in warrens;
Rabbit—control on afforested land; Effect of ploughing; Virus.

A POLICY FOR RABBIT-CONTROL:

Needs for concerted action; A rabbit-control service should be
made available with assistance from public funds; Land of low rental
value; The problem of compelling land-occupiers to effect or permit
destruction of rabbits; Onus of making complaints should not be laid
upon {private persons; Criterion of failure to keep down rabbits;
Exploitation of rabbits for proﬁt to be discouraged; Legal status of
rabbits; ULAVVS memorandum and evidence restricted to rabbits;
Effect on rabbits ,Of abolishing gin traps in England and \Vales; Effect
on rabbits of abolishing gin traps in Scotland; Control of trapping
impracticable .

APPENDICES :

I. Effect of rabbits on pasture; report of experiments ; II . Summary
o’f‘the Rabbit Nuisance Act, 1928, of New Zealand; III. Australian
views; IV. Some statistics relating to the rabbit trade; V. Humaneness
of cyanide fumigation.

SUPPORTING STATEMENTS .

ULAWS presented précis of evidence from the following
witnesses, in addition to documentary evidence from Aus-
tralia and elsewhere:

MR. A. APPLEBY (Cheshire), farmer (300 acres) .

CAPT. W. H. BUCKLEY, M...FH (Carmarthenshire),
owner of 1,300 acres, farms 260 acres: knows
personally all the local farmers and trappers.

MR. J. N. CROOKS (Yorkshire), farmer (350 acres)

MR. P. CROWLEY, representing Cork County Council,
farmer.

6

 




 

MR. H. P. CUNDY, retired farmer (260 acres).

MR. J. W. DAVIES (Cardiganshire), farmer (two farms,
I30 acres).

.T.-COL. DAVIES—EVANS (Carmarthenshire), landowner
(1,260 acres) and farmer (427 acres).

MR. H. DICKER (Dorset), professional rabbit—catcher for
40 years.

MR. E. E. EDWARDS, Advisor in Agricultural Zoology,
University College, Cardiff.

_MR. L. EDWARDS (Carmarthenshire), farmer (45 acres).
MR. G. EVANS (Cardiganshire), farmer (200 acres).

.MAJOR JOHN FRANCIS, D.S.O., F.S.I., F.A.I.
(Carmarthenshire), Estate Agency (40,000 acres)
”seven counties in South Wales: selling, buying and
valuing (20,000 acres annually): farms 3,500 acres.

iMR. A. W. FRAZER (Pembrokeshire), eX-farmer (200
acres), Potato Marketing Board.

‘MR. A. S. FRY (Devonshire), farmer (230 acres).

MR.- ST. L. GORDON, Devonshire naturalist.

MR. D. GRIFFITHS (Montgomeryshire) , farmer (200 acres).
,MR‘. J. GRIFFITHS (Carmarthenshire), farmer (I40 acres).

MR. W. D. GRIFFITHS (Carmarthenshire), farmer (I40
acres). ‘

MR. F. H. HAINES (Hampshire), owns I9 acres Wild land.
MR. S. HOWELLS (Carmarthenshire), farmer (I40 acres).
MR. J. H. HUXAM (Devonshiie) farmer (300 acres).

MR. THOS. JONES (Carmarthenshire), farmer (127 acres).
MR, W. G. JONES (Cardiganshire), farms 50 acres
'MR. A. M. LUMSDEN (Scotland), estate factor.

MR. A. MASON, professional rabbit—catcher.

MR. DAVID PERKINS (Pembrokeshire), farmer (two farms,
' ' 427 and 370 acres) : 37 years’ experience.

MAJOR G. M. RICHMOND, Australian grazier (I60,000
acres).

MR. A. G. STREET (Dorset), farmer (320 acres) and
author. .

 




 

DR. R. L. THOMAS (Carmarthenshire), owns 104 acres.

MR. W. R. THOMAS ’(Pembrokeshire), farmer, retired
(370 acres).

MR. T. TOZER (Exeter), farms about 600 acres, 30 years’
experience.

MR. W. VAUGHAN (Carmarthenshire) , farmer (180 acres).

MR. H. WICKETT (Devonshire), professional trapper and
farmer (300 acres). . .

MR. D. WRAYFORD (Devon), farmer of 45 years’ experi-
ence.

THE HUMANENESS or CYANIDE FUMIGATION.

By MR. J. D. HAMER, F.I.C.,
Consultant Chemist to the Orient Line.

March 12, 1936.

I have working for me at present E. Paine, aged 50. This
man was opening containers of cyanide in preparation for
distributing the gas on the R.M.S. “Orama” in July, 1927.
He received a very severe dose of gas and was unconscious
Within two seconds. We treated him With oxygen and arti-
ﬁcial respiration for twenty minutes and his heart had
almost ceased to beat. Then his breathing became deeper
and he was fully conscious again ten minutes later. After
walking about in the open air he said he felt ﬁt enough to
carry on with his work. This man just remembers falling
off to sleep and says he had no nausea or distress of any kind,
neither were there any noticeable after— effects.

All my fumigation men have been gassed to the point of
insensibility from time to time and all declare the experience,
although frightening, is quite painless.

Dr. Chas F. White, the Port of London Medical Ofﬁcer,
was ﬁshed out of a hold of the S .S. ‘ ‘ Mauretania” some years
ago quite insensible from cyanide poisoning. He tells me it
was an absolutely painless experience and he can think of no
more humane method for ending life.

It IS quite easy for me to produce six witnesses who hav e
been in various stages of collapse up to complete uncon-
sciousness from HCN poisoning and who will swear to its
painlessness apart from mental nervousness. You have
permission to use this statement and Dr. White, I know, will;
be pleased to corroborate it. .

 

gm




 

gm

ANIMALS OF THE EMPIRE.
By DR. A. H. B. KIRKMAN,
Hon. Secretary for Wild Life, ULAVVS.

An address delivered at the Conference of Educational
Associations .

- We constantly hear it said that this is the close of the age
«of mammals. It is possibly correct, but it is no argument
that efforts should not be made to preserve for posterity many
of the interesting forms of animal life which we hold in trust.
Canada and the United States of America, through the
establishment of National Parks, have saved, and will
continue to save, the buffalo, the beaver, and other wild
animals, whilst an International agreement—agitated into
being by a Wild Life Protection Society—has permanently
«established the status of the North Paciﬁc fur seal. Many
empire animals can yet be saved from extermination in the
Far East, in Australia and Africa, if the wish of naturalists
and biologists is backed up by the “elbOw grease” of the
:sympathy and wealth of the Home Country.

THE FAR EAST.

Three varieties of rhinoceros are making a hard ﬁght
:against annihilation in the Far East. The Great Indian
rhinoceros, originally very plentiful over the greater part of
India and Further India, today remains only represented by
a few hundreds in Nepal, Assam and Siam. The numbers of
the Sumatran rhino amount to possibly twenty alive in
Upper Burma and Siam, whilst it is quite possible that the
last, the very last, Javan rhinoceros was the female recently

killed by Major Verney in Malaya, whose skin is now in our
Natural History Museum at South Kensington.

AUSTRALIA AND TASMAN IA.

Certain animals and birds have been exterminated in
Australia and Tasmania. The Tasmanian Devil and

Tasmanian Wolf are on their last legs. The Koala, or native

bear of Australia, a most charming and inoffensive marsupial,

has been killed in millions during the present century,

'6oo,ooo having been slaughtered in one open season of one
month’s duration in 1927. Today this animal, once so
common, has become practically extinct in New South

'Wales, Victoria and South Australia. In the North Central
portion of Queensland a remnant only remains.

9

 

 

 




 

The Australian opossums are still being cruelly per»
secuted. In Queensland in the 1919—20 open season
7,500,000 skins were recorded, in 1923, 1,200,000, and in
1931:, 700,000. These ﬁgures prove the rapid depletion of"
these animals. As late as last July an open season was
declared in Queensland, the excuses given by the Government
of the State being (a) employment of the unemployed, (b) that
Opossum furs might go out of fashion.

AFRICA .

The story of big mammal destruction in Africa makes-
pathetic reading. ‘ ..

SOUTH AFRICA. South of the Zambesi River during the
past hundred years the teeming masses of antelopes of all
kinds have been reduced to 10/0 or 2% of their original
numbers and several varieties have been practically exter-
minated and only maintain existence through the interest and.
kindheartedness of individual landowners.

The last quagga died in I882. Only forty—ﬁve mountain
zebras are alive to—day, but in this connection I have good.
news to report. In reply to a letter whiCh I addressed to the
Wild Life Preservation Society of South Africa, asking how
much money would be required to save the mountain zebra,
I received a cable ‘ ‘ Government providing funds.’ ’

WEST AFRICA. From Semigambia to Nigeria all the big
fauna are being year in and year out killed off unmercifully
and many varieties have ceased to exist. Unfortunately the»
natives—and there is a very big native population—are-
allowed to take gun licences, and many thousands of old guns.
are in general use.

CENTRAL AFRICA. The big pachyderms, now located
chieﬂy in the heart of Africa, are being killed by thousands a
year in excess of their reproductive ability. In the British,
dependencies of Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda thousands
of elephants and hippos are being killed annually in the
so-called interest of the white settler and the native. Just
lately, I am glad to say that a Game Warden has been
appointed to Central Africa, so we have reason to believe that
some protection is assured to the rapidly dwindling fauna.
population.

EAST AFRICA. In Tanganyika in two years, 1933 and
1934, there were 2,600 hippos killed. The natives said they
destroyed the crops, but is it necessary to kill 2,600 hippos?
They also killed in one year 2,716 elephants in the soecalled
“Thinning-out campaign.” . ' . '

The status of the White Rhino in the North—East Corner
of the, Belgian Congo and in the adjoining territory 0f the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan and the Uganda Protectorate is.

1,0

 

 




 

,. 4"“

 

assured, at any rate temporarily. In that region some 300
or 400 still exist. The status of the 200 White Rhino in the
two reserves in Zululand is less certain and tzetse ﬂy investiga-
tion ,may condemn these wild' animal reserves unless the
inﬂuence of conservationists makes itself felt.

It is to be hoped that the London Convention of 1933
will work out a scheme of National Parks to preserve the
remaining African animals.

Dr. Kirkman then moved the following resolution, which
was carried unanimously:
“This meeting, alarmed by the evidence laid before it of

. the rapid diminution of the numbers of the larger fauna of the

Empire, begs His Majesty’s Government to lose no oppor-
tunity of giving practical effect to the policy of protection
embodied in the Convention of the year 193 3 for the Protection
of the Fauna and Flora of Africa, and of suggesting a similar
policy to the Dominions.’ ’

LETTER FROM MR. J. MCMATH.

The following extracts from a letter dated January zoth
in Tanganyika from this staunch Ulawsian will be of interest

' to readers. The last sentence refers to a conﬂict of recollec-

tions; see lines 28—31 on page 42 of the 10th Annual
Report :—

‘ ‘A spot of fever conﬁnes me to camp—and makes a very
favourable opportunity for writing. ULAWS Annual Report
has just arrived and makes most interesting reading. May
the next report be as good, and I look forward to the year
book. ‘ ‘

”I think that I told you my serval kitten met with an
accident. It has been replaced by another animal. My gang
were cutting a base-line on top of the Saragusa Range and
slaughtered a bush pig—black mane and white stripes——
before I came up. I got up in time to save a two-day-old
piglet, who knows what condensed milk is and appears to be
thriving. Hope he does, for he has many engaging ways and
grunts. If he thrives and is not desired by the Z.S., he will
be kept as a local mascot. There is a quaint picture of Ali,
my boy, nursing the pig. And Ali is a Mohammedan.

”Native procuring of ‘meat’ takes. the following forms:
I. Blowing apart with an ancient musket; 2. shooting with
poisoned arrow—the poison appears to have a doping action;
3. pits with sharpened stakes; 4. snares for small animals——
Jack hare, etc.

“I must be off now, but please tell me how I can be of
service to ULAWS whilst I am out here. I hope you are
keeping ﬁt. My regards to ULAWS—and I never disposed
of ﬁreworks!’ ’

II

 




A NOTE ON ELECTROCUTION.
By C. W. HUME.

In view of the increasing use of electrocution for cats and
dogs, the following facts are of importance. The relevant
documentation will be given in Volume 4 of the Animal
Year-Book.

When 60-cycle alternating current passing from fore--
quarters to hind quarters is used, we may be sure that if it
exceeds 250 milliamperes in the case of a dog or 50 milli—
amperes in the case of a cat the circulation of the blood will
have been stopped within three seconds. In such cases.
electrocution is humane. " '

If on the other hand the current is less than 70 mA. in
the case of a dog or 19 mA. in the case of a cat, we may be
certain that death is preceded by a period of severe suffering
caused by muscular spasm.

If the current lies between the limits stated deathwmay
be humane or not, according to the constitution of the
individual animal.

The effect of electric current on an animal cannot be
reliably speciﬁed in terms of voltage.

 

 

 

 

_.._....__...M

WE’RE T ERRIBLY SORRY,

(aux Wave

BUT WE SIMPLY HAVE
TO DO THIS.

 




