MEN FIRS T, BEA 8 T8 N0 TVHERE

 

 

WHAT IS THE ROMAN CATHOLIC
DOCTRINE ON VIVISECTION P

 

 

The following letter by JVIz'ss F. P. Uobbe, appeared in the
CATHOLIC TIMES, rllareh 9th, 1894.)

SIR,—Pray allow me, as an old student of ethics, though
not a Catholic, to ask for information touching the doctrine
of your Church on the above subject. In writing upon it
hitherto, I have stated that Cardinal Manning deﬁned that
doctrine thus :—“ Though obligations and duties are between
moral persons ” (only), “ we owe a sevenfold obligation to the
Creator of the animals,” and “the limit and broad outline of
our obligation is His nature and perfections, and among those
perfections is that of eternal mercy ”—(see speech, March 9th,
1887. His Eminence on the same occasion described the
statement that “ we owe no duties to the animals ” as “ a hideous
and, I think, absurd doctrine ”).

Now I ﬁnd that a contributor to your paper, signing him-
self “John Vaughan,” treats the whole subject of duty to
animals with a certain boisterous levity which I am accustomed
to identify with the newspaper utterances of vivisectors, but
which I am at a loss to understand from the pen of a priest
(which I presume Mr. Vaughan 'to be) who accepts the late
Cardinal’s View of the serious and tender religious character
of our relations to the lower animals. Rev. J. Vaughan
says: “Neither drinking nor vivisection is wrong or sinful in
itself,—it is their abuse alone that is wrong. So, on the other
hand, to say that vivisection is lawful, is not in any sense to
excuse the inﬂiction of pain to no purpose or without a propor-
tionate result, or to satisfy idle curiosity.” It Will be observed
that these exceptions, which, in Mr. Vaughan’s opinion,
would make vivisection unlawful, do not include the torture
of the victim,——the only point, I believe, which Cardinal .
Manning Would have considered as determining the lawfulness
of the experiment. ‘

Now, sir, let me respectfully ask for some authoritative
statement as to whether an agonising and prolonged experi-

 




 

2

ment (such as any of those which Cardinal Manning described
and denounced in his seven great speeches on our platforms)
is, or is not, a sin according to the teaching of the Church
of Rome ‘2

It has been a common belief of Protestants that the mOral
teaching of your Church, whether sound or otherwise, was at
least uniform. But I ﬁnd here a deﬁnite point on which
there has come from the same “ ArchbishOp’s House," within
a decade, two entirely opposite “winds of doctrine,” and I
beg to know which of them is to be accounted the orthodox
blast, and what we are to think hereafter of the boast,
“ Quad smuper,” 850.

Further on in his letter, the Rev. John Vaughan speaks of
homes for dogs and horses thus: “It is not to the care
bestowed upon beasts that I object, but to the care bestowed
upon them while tens of thousands of human beings lie
uncared for.” I may say parenthetically that I am at a. loss
to guess where the “ tens of thousands of human beings who
lie uncared for ” are to be found—at all events, in England.
We have at least provided beds for all who seek them in the
Workhouses. But the drift of the observation—which may
be rendered, “Human beings ﬁrst'and animals nowhere ”—
(seeing that the time will never come when all human wants
will be supplied), has been so often resuscitated to the dis-
couragement of feeble-minded Zoophilists since it was used
seventy years ago by Sydney Smith and the other opponents
of Martin’s Act, that I shall ask from you the favour of a
little space to examine it carefully.

Is. it, I would ask, a sound principle of morals that, because
the claims of one person, or class, or race are paramount to
those of another, and must be given precedence when they
actually clash, the claims of the inferior person, class, or race
are ipso ﬂwto postponed sine die and relegated to—“ To-
morrow—come-never ? ” Because one human being—say our
father, mother, or child—has a prior claim upon us over
other .. men, women, and children, are our duties to other
human beings not merely subordinated to the ﬁrst, but
practically abolished? Because our own fellow-countrymen
have a claim on us before Malays, Mongols, Kaﬁirs, and
negroes, is it wrong on our part, while many Englishmen
have still unsatisﬁed wants, to send out missions to convert
these remoter races, or to spend thousands of pounds
annually in endeavouring to abolish the African Slave Trade ?




3

Surely the real rule of human duty must be to extend our
charity to all the creatures of God, even as His mercy is over
all ; helping ﬁrst those which come nearest to us in blood and
neighbourhood and those whose wants are most pressing, but
doing “with all our might whatever our hands ﬁnd to do ”
for others, and not waiting (as Emerson and Mr. Vaughan
seem to bid us) till we had weighed and measured rival claims
on our benevolence, like the man who hesitated whether he
should save his own father or a great philanthropist, till both

’ were drowned.

The chasm between human beings and the higher brutes,
which appeared to the old schoolmen a measureless gulf, is
every day narrowing under the deeper insight of our generation.
But granting it to be never so wide, and assuming (what we
have no sufﬁcient grounds for doing) that [we only are immortal,
the ethical difference of the claims of man upon our benevo-
lence and those of (equally sensitive) animals, concern
exclusively his spiritual and moral part. It is the soul of man
whose inﬁnite interests we are bound to revere supremely,
and whose mortal life, as involving those interests, is sacred.
As regards his bodily part and the pains it may undergo, I fail
(as the late Bishop Harold Br’bwne did) to see what peculiar
moral importance attaches to them, as against the equal
bodily pains of other creatures. As Sir Henry Taylor says :

“ Pain in man
Bears the high mission of the ﬂail and fan.
In brutes ’tis purely piteous.”

For the poor dog, or ape, or horse, pain is, so far as we can
see, an unmixed evil. Believing the animal of that physical
evil seems to me exactly the same sort of charity and one
likely to be equally pleasing to God (in one sense more so, as
having less prospect of thanks or reward) as relieving the
equal physical pain of a man. .To each case the fundamental
principle of benevolence applies : “ The creature can feel pain ,-
thergbre every rational free-agent is bound, so far as possible,
to spare it pain.” ‘

In those rare cases in actual life when there arises what
Kant calls an antinomy of duties, when we are forced to
choose between two good actions, our choice ought surely to
be guided by one consideration among others, namely, that of
the relative urgency ofthe wants of the two claimants of our
help. If men were being dissected alive in a neighbouring

 




4

laboratory we should move heaven and earth to release them
before opening a home for hungry dogs. But when the worst
evil with which a poverty-stricken man is threatened is the
Workhouse, and the dog is in danger of being vivisected, then,
I maintain, a good many human claims may, and ought, to be
postponed to the urgent duty of rescuing that miserable
creature from unfathomable agony.

Historically reviewing this controversy, I may venture, as
an outsider, to sum up my conclusions thus : Neither Hebrew
nor Greek Scriptures, neither Latin, nor Greek, nor Pro-
testant Churches, have ever yet included in their purview of
human duties the relations borne by the human race to the
inferior tribes of sentient beings which share with us the
globe. iTo search, then, in Hebrew Scriptures, or Decrees
of Councils, or Summaries of Theology, for authority
to determine questions relating to those duties is to
repeat the folly which was exhibited in America when the
clergy upheld negro slavery on the authority of churches and
texts, and the Mormons took their stand on the Old Testa-
ment in defending Polygamy. That morality has progressed
through the ages under the’joint inﬂuences of the Christian
spirit and of civilisation, that git has successively invaded and
conquered new realms, and that duty to non-human creatures
is one over which it is now slowly advancing cannot, I think,
be reasonably doubted.

It remains only for the churches to decide whether they
will identify themselves with this progress, or leave it to
heretics to carry it forward.

Viewing the question, lastly, from the standpoint of simple,
intuitive morality, it appears to me as plain as the sun in
Heaven that if anything in this world be a sin, it is a sin to
inﬂict for our own selﬁsh purposes, excessive .agony on a
sensitive creature who is incapable of having incurred any
guilt whatever. I cannot get behind this truth. To my
apprehension, it stands on no super-structure of theological
or ethical argument or of authority, but on the ultimate
ground of morality, and, I may add, on the ground, also, of
our faith in a righteous and merciful God.

Yours, &c.,
FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Hengwrt, Dolgelly, March 5th.

 

Printed for FRANCES POWER COBBE, Hengwrt, Dolgelly, by
PEWTRESS & Co., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.C.

 




