Ww‘
47
B...
sip

r.
I";
I ,
f

l ‘. ~ . . . ._ - 'I - ~“i r
,m &_‘_.1..; when), i-;,g..ind.

I
’e "l 1.... q. .."'i 'iasoatah Vitaligﬁzn‘.’ Mégqggﬁgi
FE? i 2“,
“ OUR DISTANT Kl. “m. 3....

B} Robert H. Spurrier ”Y

“ These creatures are our distant kin, collaterals on the tree of life.
They share with us the mystery of life and mind; they are products
of the same august will; they are sub—personalities claiming kinship
with us in endless'delightful ways.” ‘

Sir Arthur Thomson.

IN our own day the problems of animal life and behaviour are
engaging the close study and interest of a widening circle of thought‘

ful people, and, as the significance of the emerging facts with regard
to the feelings, activities and intelligence of. the so—called lower animals
is realised, the conception of the common origin and kinship of all life
———human and sub’huvman—abecomes more and more widely accepted.

The scientiﬁc basis of this solidarity has been given by Dr. Inge in
his C orzfejrz'o Fidei as the discoveries associated with the name of Charles
Darwin. “These discoveries,” he points out, “have proved beyond a
shadow of doubt, that the s-o—called lower animals are literally our
distant cousins,” who have as good a right on this planet as we have,
and are not made for our benefit as we used to suppose. Every intel—
ligent person has some knowledge of the discoveries on which Darwin
built up his theory of evolution, of the descent of man, as he termed
it, from animal ancestry. C'omparatively few people, however, have
realised that his researches led him far in the direction of recognition
of the existence of a kinship that extends beyond the region of the
physical and material into that realm of consciousness to which emotion
and reason belong. He pointed out, for instance, that

“ the senses and intuitions, the various emotions and faculties such
as love, memory, attention, curiosity, imitation, reason, etc., of which

man boasts, may be found. in an incipient, or even sometimes in a

well—developed condition, in the lower animalss”

Since Darwin’s day science has gone much farther in the “direction
of a recognition of this kinship of consciousness, if one may thus express
it. Sir Arthur Thomson, for instance, in his Gifford lectures, says:

“ As we follow the main line of animal evolution we see behaviour
becoming more complicated and masterly, more like our own. There
is evidence of a rill of life growing into astream, i.e., the-re is much
that we cannot describe in purely physiological terms, there is an
increasing difﬁculty in describing what we see without using psycho-
logical terms.”

The conception of a kinship of consciousness is not new in our day
and generation, indeed it has 'been held from time imme‘morial and
taught by great philosophers and by spiritual teachers of mankind.
Confucius-discoursed on the indwelling of every living creature by the
divine intelligence and declared:

“ The mind of man and the mind of trees, birds and beasts is just
the one mind of heaven and earth, only brighter or duller by reflec—
tion. As light looks brighter when it falls on a mirror than when it
falls on a dark surface, so divine reason is less bright in a cow or

sheep than in man.”
_ [P.To

 




Religion speaks in the language of Persian mysticism, of the God
Who “sleeps in the mineral, wakens in the vegetable, becomes con—
scious in the animal and self—conscious in man " and the Buddha spoke
of “all life as linked and kin.” And is not the same great truth
implied in the saying: “Raise the stone and there thou shalt ﬁnd Me:
Cleave the wood and I am there ”1“ i

In his book, T/oe Mngle in S‘zznlz'gbz‘ and Shadow, Mr. F. W.
Champion speaks of the inter-relationship between animal and animal,
or the “ balance of NatUre” as it is termed by naturalists, as “the
guiding principle on which the whole scheme of life is built up ” and

H

as the most marvellous organisation it is possible to imagine”.

Mr. Champion has much to say about the way in which the balance
of Nature is maintained, and in particular: as to the part played in. its
maintenance by such unpopular creatures as tigers, snakes and scorpions.
He points out, for instance, that rats destroy enormous quantities of the
cereals which provide the chief food for mankind and other creatures,
that they. are far more serious enemies than cobras, and that rats are
the chief food of cobras.

One way in which the balance of nature is upset by man with
disastrous results is by the introduction of some animal into a country
to which it is an alien and in which there may be no normal check to
its increase. He instances the introduction of rabbits into Australia
“where they have become an unmitigated nuisance” as the classic
example of this. In this country two well—known examples are afforded
in the introduction of the grey squirrel and the musk—rat.

Pursuing this principle it will be seen that the breaking or disregard
of the sacred chain of life at one point leads to a whole series of break—
ages or disturbances, and, that man in his ignorance and disregard of
the rights and feelings of other sentientcreatures, who inhabit the earth
with him and are his kin, is himself the author of evils of which he
‘ complains. ‘

“Let the principle once be grasped that man is not an isolated
struggling unit but part of the great circle of life, inseparably con—
nected from the highest to the lowest, responsible for the guardian—
ship of that part of life within his power, then not this or that par— ‘
ticular reform but our whole relationship with animals is in question.
Food, dress, medicine, science, sport, amusement, all these and our
habits and customs concerning them must be reconsidered in the
light of the new principle. No one change but a whole series of
changes in the life is then demanded.” (H. I. Stone),

 

Published by National Council for Animals’ Welfare,

32, Queen’s Avenue, London. N.Io.

 




