“IN AT THE DEATH”:

Freeman on Cruelty in Sport.

[The following excerpts representing the views of the historian
E. A. Freeman on an important aspect of blood sport are taken from
his reply to Anthony Trollope in the controversy on the morality of
ﬁeld sports in 1869 and 1870. ‘

Freeman’s essay, long out of print, cannot easily be obtained. His
opinions are of great interest, particularly as he could not be called
an extremist or a crank; and since the position has remained uns
changed for three-quarters of a century, it is felt that these passages
from a classic of humane literature will be specially valuable to—day
when cruel sports are at least as popular as they were at the time of
its ﬁrst appearance. How pertinent, for instance, to present-day
conditions in such sports as fox-hunting and stag—hunting are Free-
man’s barbed words on the “ disguises ” of cruelty]

FAVOURITE defence of ﬁeld sports is that, though they
A involve the suffering and death of the animals hunted
or killed, yet the pleasure is not derived from the suffering
and death inﬂicted, but from some incidental accompaniment
of the inﬂiction. In the case of shooting, I have heard men
say that they pity the birds which they shoot, that the
necessity of taking life is a sad drawback to the sport. Now
this is a very odd state of things. The essence of shooting
surely is shooting, that is killing or trying to kill. It is
passing strange when a thing is thus said to be a drawback
to itself. I can understand any accompaniment of shooting
being a drawback to the sport; I cannot understand how
killing, that is the shooting itself, can be a drawback. Surely,
if the pleasure be in something else, perhaps in the air and
exercise, the obvious remedy is to get rid of the drawback and
to take the air and exercise without the shooting. As for pity,
I can understand killing either man or beast and feeling pity

 




 

for the man or beast killed, if the killing is done as a matter of
stern, perhaps painful, duty, to which pity has to give way. .
But when a man says that he feels pity for creatures which he
is killing, not out of any duty, but in the sheer wantonness of
sport, it seems to me that he is pronouncing his own con-

demnation for killing them.

As to hunting, I am told that the pleasure is not derived
from the sufferings of the animal hunted . . . In a certain
sense I believe the assertion to be true. But in the sense in
which it is true of fox-hunting, I believe it to be also true of
bull-baiting and gladiator-ﬁghting. It is quite possible that
a man may have brought himself to such a state as to rub his
hands and say, “ How that must hurt the fox or bull or man;
how I like the thought that he is being hurt.” Now I feel sure
that this state of feeling is rare, perhaps utterly unknown in
an English hunting-ﬁeld. But then I have no right to suppose
it was a universal, or even a common, feeling either in an
Elizabethan bear-garden or in a Roman amphitheatre. In
this extreme sense we may well believe that direct and con-
scious delight in the inﬂiction of suffering, though a perfectly
possible state of mind, has not been at any time a common one.
When I say this I speak of a purely abstract delight in the
inﬂiction of suffering for its own sake, irrespective of the
individual human or animal which suffers. When the feeling
of vengeance comes in, as in the case of personal or national
enemies, delight in the inﬂiction of suffering has been common
enough. Galeazzo Visconti prescribed forty days of elaborate
tortures as the way of putting to death those who had con-
spired against him; it does not follow that he would have felt
any pleasure in the tortures of peOple who had not offended
him. We see a different stage in Gian-Maria, whose delight
was to have human beings, guilty or innocent, chased and




torn in pieces by his hounds. In this case, as man-hunting
was not an amusement conventionally recognised among the
princes of Italy, we have probably hit on an instance of real
delight in suffering for its own sake.

But I do not feel that I have any right to attribute this
extreme and ﬁendish atrocity to every man who looked on at
the ﬁghts and huntings of the Amphitheatre. In this sense
I fully acquit the mass of our modern fox-hunters of taking
direct pleasure in suffering.' But then in this sense I also
acquit the mass of the bear-baiters of a past age and of the less
aristocratic hunters of cats in our own day.

All three classes do take pleasure in the inﬂiction of
suffering. To be sure, if you ask what the pleasure is you
get all manner of different answers. Mr. Trollope, we know,
enjoys the hunt, but cannot bear to look on the “ death,” the
“ breaking-up”, or whatever is the proper technical language
of the shambles . . . Others are less squeamish; and certainly
to be “in at the death” is commonly looked on as a matter
:for more or less exultation. Some say the pleasure is simply
in the “ run ” and the “jump,” pleasures which may surely
be had without any fox at all. Others say that the pleasure
is in the “ pursuit ”; but the pursuit is itself the suffering——
suifering probably greater in the case of the hare, less in the
case of the fox, but, in any case, suffering. The plain fact is
that the suffering and death of the animal is not an accidental,
accompaniment of the sport, it is its essence. It is the direct
source of the pleasure. It is that which makes hunting
hunting; it is that which distinguishes it from a harmless
gallop for the sake of exercise. Men may shut their eyes to
facts and persuade themselves that they are taking pleasure
in something else; but they are taking pleasure in the inﬂiction

 




of suffering and death. If no suffering were inﬂicted, the
peculiar pleasure of hunting could not exist. ‘ When a man
goes hunting, whatever else he may think of or take pleasure
in, he knows that utterly wanton suffering is being inﬂicted
to procure for him a pleasure which, without that suffering, he
could not have. I have therefore a perfect right to say that
bear-baiter, cat-hunter, fox—hunter, all take pleasure in the
inﬂiction of suffering. They do so in a perfectly true sense,
though not in the same full sense as Gian-Maria. The only
difference between the cruelties of the hunting-ﬁeld and the
cruelties of the bull-ring is a difference of degree, not of
principle. In all these sports cruelty is the essence of the

whole thing; only in some cases it is more successfully disguised
than in others.

 

Other Publications.
THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham,F.L.S. Id.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. AWest-Country Sketch.
By A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.
WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.
‘Junior Series ’ Leaﬂets :

(1) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals?

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?

Price 1d. eaclz or 25 copies for 13.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
‘ 4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. I.

Information from the Secretary.

 

 

 

PUBLICATION No. 18.]

LONDON: STRANGEWAYS, PRINTERS.

 




