4500 Que lane N.W.
Washington 7, D.C.
November 11, 1963

Dear Christine:

I am sorry that I missed your phone call when you
were last in washington. Nettie, the maid, sﬂ d you
liked my book. This made me feel very good. he real
objective of the book is to instil kindness and respect
of animals.

oﬂﬂ’

So far I am yet to have anyAreactions from "humanitar-
ians" but I have been pleased when people not in the
humane field say to me: " You know I never thought about
animals in pens that way before. You made me see it
a new different way.“ In short, they really felt sorry
for Isabella being cooped up in the pen until she wore
down trenches on each side of her paddock, as she looked
at the green grass growing outside.

I wish you had let me send you a review copy direct
from the publisher, but in the early confusion of getting
the book underway I just supinely let you go ahead and
get your own copy.

Much to my sorrow the publisher got the book out to
reviewers in the magazine and special children‘s supplements
too late for this Christmas season. It was not in the
speical section of the N.Y. Times, Herald Tribune or Saturday
RevIEW. Thexe are all made up well in advance and the
deadline for books, I think, is early September or summer.

I am so anxious for the peonle kn the humane field
to know about the book. If you are planning a review or
notice it would be fine. You may already have written it,
but if not a line mentioning yhat your A.W.I. author Earnest
Walker was thanked in my preface might please Mr. Walker.

There have been a few nice stories about it. I will
enclose the one from the Washington Post. I wish Betty
Beale knew it was a strong plea for kindness to animals, but
I cannot do public relations for myself. T'aint fitting and
it is embarrassing., I was quite touched when Kenneth
Roberts, with such kindness, put a statement about the book
and me in the Congressional Record. I couldn't have been
more surprised.

 




Whenever the opportunity arises, I would appreciate
it very much if you could ask Cleveland Amory about
doing something about the book on the TODAY show.
lhey do book —- interviews with authors. I think that
he and I could have quite a terrific interview, don't
you? Do you know that I don't know him?

As you can see FOREVER TiE WILD MARE has been
much in my thoughts lately. I first thought about
this book, made early drafts etc. in 1958-9. Then,
in October, 1959 there was the discovery of the Food
and Drug beagles. I knew then I would have to make
a choice. ﬁn I let the book wait. Then, Jim and I
got involved in that daily<nlumn for a while and
then with my injured back from that auto accident, well,
I just thought I would never get back to it.

So you can see I am anxious now to get it launched
and try to get more people thinking in humane ways.
Then, I can get back to other things, not the least

being the laboratory animals. I think there willb
be hearings in early part of next session, probably

January.

Please give your Mother my regards and thanks
for her nice note about the lab. animal articles.
Could you supply me with her address.amd;l have buried
her note'somehhere in all this debris here. I had
good reaction to the articles, but too bad that more
papers couldn't get up courage to carry them. A
Boston paper planned to carry them and then apparently

lost its nerve at the last minute.

Best to Stell and Madeigéyne.

YOU-1:2 ’

‘
x. /»

 




I 4‘

(Mu )4, 1i

Stell:

What a villain I am. {ow many times I‘ve thought of getting
these paﬁere heck_to you, then at the moment conlﬂn't remenber where
I he” out them. My filing eyrtem is non-existent. I use 01'1 peete

ini—
boar”1 boxes,gﬁﬁarke” file Prewers, btok shelves etc. Fzr too much

a
has accumulate”. I'll heve to write another book, so I can get

ri’ of some of the raw material eroun’ here.
If this is northe complete list, ”0 let me k.ow. I am returning

herewith all that were in a folﬁer:
1. Cepers of Lebanon ”A 18. Mt. Sinai
‘2. UULn 2 19. Cornell
'3.Berg ;?’ 3 2 . Mich. State
4t. of mien. 21. Merck
Emery u M22. U. of Louisville
$e Jewish Menorial 23. St. Vincents
7. U. of Rise. 24, Clegelrn” City
3. Mount Sinai

,
q
./ .

argonne
l\ T _ (v. (if , /I 2 ) s: * %(
0 Pork DdViS 2 fﬂﬂkﬁ: 7éa égﬁf (LVJKL,:W~

Brooklyn .. " .1 \ J ‘
/('7él//MJ ﬂu éJiZO/ A0390 ' /

11 N.Y. BYE anﬂ Ear ,

13 ~ 1;; 16 :13 422/1 / ”W
E14 ‘° _ ' gm; {520,9 ﬂu" L JMLL /1 [ [1°17
15 2 [10 (/97); ﬁlm) [I Al/‘mjv 10 ﬂ V '

16.33r an” Lye lnftrmary
l7. Harvarra 2

(27375 21 W, /

 




huw/%DL
IR (19.74]
‘Aéﬁﬁ79-

4500 Que Lane, N. W.
Washington 7, D. C

December 1, 1963

Dear Stell' :

Getting all this thought through is some job. But
what I am trying to do is think of all eventualities,
particularly as connected with NANA a As I explained on
the telephone, NANA is not inclined to just send out a
re-write of a press release that everyone else has. NANA
is built on "exclusive" stories. We cannot afford to give
them it exclusive, so I suggested that NANA or its subsidiary
Women‘s News Service carry a supplementary feature in depth#,
which an NANA colleague of mine here will furnish. This
will give meaning to ﬁhe Schwiitzer Medal& AWI more thal
just a press release. I told Sid Goldberg, however, that
AW] would hold back NANA papers from the announcement list
if xx he preferred it that way. I gave him your name and
phone number. He is a very fine editor and has encouraged
me a good deal in the animal welfare writing and feels that
a moderate approach, such as AWI and I share, to the lab.
animal problem is desirable.

The press release attached just sort of grew as once
I got started it developed on its own. I do think that
the more emphasis you give on xhx what the Schweitzer Medal
means, the more impressed editors will be. I think that
quote from Dr. S. is wonderful and editors will like it.
I recapped, much as Christine had written, the things I had
done that prompted the award. There was a good deal man
to say in this one than in some of the other awards because ‘
it is for more things. So that's why it takes space! '

Incidently I will write my old friend Turner Catledge of
b managing editor of the New Tork Times and call his
attention to the release, which i hope you will mail to him
personally. Turner and I once shared a little office together
on the Chicago Sun. I will furnish you with some more names
later, people ( eidtors, that 18,) to whom I'll write notes.

Next mail for this.

The reason I am rushed is that these children came here _
this afternoon because their Mother is in the hospital. 5"“ ‘0'“!
Nowk guess who? Mrs. henneth Robertst In a little while
Kenneth will come over and we will have to Xxknxnnnm go to
dinner. This ptor Congressmen has had more accidents in his
family than anyone I know. Margaret broke her shoulder last
year. “e was saot by those Puerto Ricans on the House floor.
The kids are al :ys in hot water. One of them drank chorox

the laundress left ina glass in the kitchent

 




4500 Que Lane, N. W.
Washington 7, D. C.

That advice about the 8 by 10 negative is really
confusing. The Leica negative will be okay and if the
8 by 10 is as cheap as the 7 by 9, might as well go ahead
and use it. But as I said the other day, Hugh Miller,
Chief of Photography at the Washington Post,told me Friday
that they use 5 by 7 most of the time nowdays.

Now, on thinking about Betty Beale I guess I should
reverse myself. I uas worried that Betty might write
something if she received Ruth Desmond very effusive ani
wonderful "newsletter" about me and my actitities and that
would take the bmoom off the Schweitzer announcement. On
second though t to£tell Betty tOL early about the Schweitzer,
it might keep the S arns Woman's Secti n from using the
full story. Tomorrow a.m. I will be touch with somebomr
on the Star woman's 1‘age about tnis whole thing.

This is a complicated business. we should get a great

deal of cooperativé‘covera e, but,youvhave to think thngugh '
certain things. SUCH as no scooping yOuTcelf as in NANA case.

All the best.

XW/

/

 




 
 

 

4500 Que Lane, N. W.
Washington 7, D. C.

7);: // Mfr

 

 

Dear Christine:
ﬁhen are you planning to be in Washington?
There are a number of things that I would
like to discuss with you in re: the lab bill
and other subjects of mutual interest. I
started writing a long letter, but it seemed
so inadequate as a one- -way monologue, I felt
\_inquire

it was best first to ingmix/ when you planned
to be this way again, so we could schedule
a genuine get-together -- not one of our

thou h often lengthy
h‘rried‘ﬁele one ca 115'

I hOpe it will be soon as some very

basic things need to be discussed. ﬂ%“10/%L

11/? II /LA.) //_/etv<v
All the best for 1964.

."l I,
u‘ : ,
zp/ I h

  




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

. 22 East 17th Street
FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 12, 1963 New York 3, N.Y.

OR 5—1069

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist of Washington, D.C., has been named
recipient of the 1963 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute. It
will be awarded in recognition of Mrs. Free's contribution in advancing——through
articles, a prize—winning novel and personal action--Dr. Schweitzer's philosophy
of "reverence for life".

The medal will be presented by Dr. Fairfield Osborn, Chairman of the Board of the
Conservation Foundation and President of the New York Zoological Society, on December
16 at the Animal welfare Institute annual meeting. Rachel Carson was the 1962 recipient.

Mrs. Free first revealed to the public the conditions under which the research
dogs of the Food and Drug Administration were housed_-caged for life, sometimes as
long as seven years, in windowless sub-basements—-and worked for Congressional action
to provide proper quarters. The new FDA building authorized by Congress provides
greatly improved facilities for both animals and technicians and will be cpen this
month at Beltsville, Md.; its kennel-runways will serve as a model of good animal
housing for the entire country.

She is author of a new children's book FOREVER THE WILD MARE (Dodd, Mead) which
stresses respect for nature and rights of living creatures, and which won the 1963
Dodd, Head—Boys' Life writing Award.

Mrs. Free has written widely on all phases of animal welfare, wildlife, conser-
vation and environmental health. North American NeWSpaper Alliance recently syndicated
her six-part series on laboratory animals and pending bills to correct needless
suffering.

A native of Richmond, Virginia, she is a Barnard College graduate, wife of
washington correspondent James Free and mother of Elissa, age 8. She is a member of
the Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Commission of the Wbmen's National Press Club.

The Schweitzer Medal, which is awarded annually in recognition of a distinguished
contribution to the welfare of animals, was created in l95ﬁ, at which time a gold
replica was presented to Dr. Schweitzer. Authorizing the Medal, he wrote:

"I should never have thought that my philOSOphy which embodies a compassion—

ate attitude toward all creatures would be noticed and recognized during my

lifetime. I knew this truth would impose itself one day on thought, but it

is the great and moving surprise of my life that I should be witness to the

progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress.“

This statement was made to Mrs. Christine Stevens, President of the Institute,

which is a non-profit, educational organization that works to reduce needless suffering

of all animals.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ﬁ 22 East 17th Street
FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 12, 1963 New York 3, N.Y.

OR 5-1069

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist of Washington, D.C., has been named
recipient of the 1963 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute. It
will be awarded in recognition of Mrs. Free's contribution in advancing—-through
articles, a prize—winning novel and personal action-~Dr. Schweitzer's philosophy
of "reverence for life".

The medal will be presented by Dr. Fairfield Osborn, Chairman of the Board of the
Conservation Foundation and President of the New York Zoological Society, on December
16 at the Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting. Rachel Carson was the 1962 recipient.

Mrs. Free first revealed to the public the conditions under which the research
dogs of the Food and Drug Administration were housed—-caged for life, sometimes as
long as seven years, in windowless sub-basements——and worked for Congressional action
to provide proper quarters. The new FDA building authorized by Congress provides
greatly improved facilities for both animals and technicians and will be open this
month at Beltsville, Md.; its kennel-runways will serve as a model of good animal
housing for the entire country.

She is author of a new children's book FOREVER THE WILD MARE (Dodd, Mead) which
stresses reSpect for nature and rights of living creatures, and which won the 1963
Dodd, Head—Boys' Life writing Award.

Mrs. Free has written widely on all phases of animal welfare, wildlife, conser-
vation and environmental health. North American NeWSpaper Alliance recently syndicated
her sixapart series on laboratory animals and pending bills to correct needless
suffering.

A native of Richmond, Virginia, she is a Barnard College graduate, wife of
washington correspondent James Free and mother of Elissa, age 8. She is a member of
the Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Commission of the Nemen's National Press Club.

The Schweitzer Medal, which is awarded annually in recognition of a distinguished
contribution to the welfare of animals, was created in 1954, at which time a gold
replica was presented to Dr. Schweitzer. Authorizing the Medal, he wrote:

"I should never have thought that my philOSOphy which embodies a compassion-

ate attitude toward all creatures would be noticed and recognized during my

lifetime. I knew this truth would impose itself one day on thought, but it

is the great and moving surprise of my life that I should be witness to the

progress of ethics. Ybur medal celebrates this progress."

This statement was made to Mrs. Christine Stevens, President of the Institute,

which is a non-profit, educational organization that works to reduce needless suffering

of all animals.

 




 

Eh» Earning ﬁlm”
WASHINGTON. D. C...
D. 258,167 3. 313/412

,w

4* i ’ ,~ / *
DEC 12 1963 'yﬁllﬂ

Ann Free

Receives
Award

’ Washington author and
Journalist Ann Cottrell Free
has been awarded the 1963
Albert Schweitzer Medal of
the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute. ““
"1‘5? medal, received last
: year by Rachel Carson, will
I be presented to Mrs. Free
Monday at the institute’s an-
nual meeting in New York.
Dr. Fairfield Osborn,

chairman of the board of the
. Conservation Foundation and
‘ president of the New York
Zoological Society, will make
the presentation.

The award recognizes Mrs.
Free’s contribution, through
articles, a prize-winning nov-
el and personal action, to-
ward advancing Dr. Schweit-
zer’s philosophy of “rev-
erence for life."

The medal was created in
1954 and authorized by Dr.
Schweitzer with a note of as-
tonishment “that my philoso-
phy . . . would be noticed and
recognized during my life-
time. I knew this truth
would impose itself one day
on thought, but it is the
great and moving surprise of
my life that I should be wit-
ness to the progress of eth-
ics. Your medal celebrates
this progress."

Mrs. Free, wife of Wash-
ington correspondent James
Free, first revealed to the
public the harsh “housing”
conditions of the research
dogs at the Food and Drug
Administration, and she
worked for Congressional ac-
tion to provide proper quar-
ters.

The new FDA building will
open this month at Beltsville,
Md. with kennel-runways

w

MRS. ANN COTTRELL FREE
. . . with a friend

that will serve as a model for
the rest of the country.

Mrs. Free is also author of
the children's book ‘T'orever
the Wild Mare," stressing
respect for nature and the
rights of living creatures,
which won the 1963 Dodd,
Mead— Boy’s Life Writing
Award.

A native of Richmond, a
graduate of Barnard College

and the mother of an eight-
year-old girl, Mrs. Free is a
member of the Eleanor
Roosevelt Memorial Commis—
sion of the Women’s N ation-
al Press Club.

The welfare institute
which gives the award is a
non-profit, educational or-
ganization that works to re-
duce needless suffering of all
animals.

 

 




t~ - . n. ' A
ﬁovember 1;, lFCE

1 f7‘ , -
H-V’zi r136

I
.--¢ rr‘
1
, ‘15

tﬁw rmnv

» '9 w v :7“ [3.

l- L ‘ ‘_ I V ’
4
G 5. .‘ V.
N‘,‘ . .

I

v.
"Wat: '. ﬁ”r\
’,. _? ...~_..

~~1raqrz< 4:: mu.

thﬁfght Véu’d he V7QE¢¢F

.t , m ‘5. . 1 F
1 “ﬂ tha i SCGLOJS4

 




Bacember 7, 1962

Mrs. James Free
1:500 Que Lana, mar.
Washington 7, D. C.

near Ann,

Your lunch was a tremendous success ~ a marvellous idea in every
way, well worth the loss of a night's sleep which I hope you've since
made up, as well as all the work that i know must have ;one into it.

I wish I knew some of the people I was talking with. I know I
ought to know duo Mr. Barnett is, but I can't remember. 5180 Mr.
Knight who was at our table gave me his card and told me to 106% him
up, and if you could give me a word or two of background on him i'd
be very appreciative. Apologies for being so stupiﬂ.

Mr. Marks said he wouli arrange lunch with the Undersecretary
of HEN after Congress reconvenes. He seems as if he will be very help~
fol. I told him you hoped he could help with 63%.

Best wishes to you and Jim and congratulations again.

Yours,

 




** Affirmative: Scienfisfs

Manhand/e Hie Animals i

This is the first of six articles
by Mrs. Free,'a noted reporter
on animal welfare. Her earlier
stories have helped passage
of several bills on the humane
treatment of animals.

By ANN COTTRELL
FREE

North American Newspaper
Allianc‘e-

A NATION .that has long
championed the .rights of the
under dog may put the con-
} . 3 grass to the int-
’ ' ' 7 tual test of that

‘? philosophy in
coming months

It all depends

on whether the
campaign to

provide protec-

” tive legislation

for do g s and

other labora-

Mrs. Free to ry animals
continues to gather momen-
tum. And it shows no signs
of slackening.

The drive is not ant1v1v1-
sectionist (abolition of use of
animals for scientific experi-
ments) as many of its op-

Onents claim; If anything, it
is anti-anti-vivisectionist.

It is based on the premise
that if an animal is similar
enough to man to be used
for tests to benefit man, then
that animal deserves some of
the consideration given man
when it comes to care, com-
fort and lessening of pain.

In the opinion of many au-
thorities, sufficient evidence
has been disclosed to show
that animals do not always
get this consideration.

‘ Dogs and cats have been
found in death camps—rem-
iniscent of Bsuuchenw 1d—

animals to federally support- A

laborator 1es.

Monkeys are k e pt for
months at a time in virtually
immobilizing monkey chairs
that prevent nearly all nor-
mal movement.

Dogs have been discovered
in government, university and
commercial laboratories
spending their lives in small
grid-bottom cages. l

** Author's note:

 

And painful experiments
have been undertaken on ani-
mals when admittedly it was
too difficult to find whether
they had been performed be-
fore.

AT THE MOMENT the
chief battleground on Capitol
Hill is located in the “incom-
ing” mail baskets of mem-
bers of congress. Letters are
arriving at the rate of 1,000
a day in regard to the five
different laboratory animal
protection bills now pending
in congress. It recalls the suc-
cessful humane slaughter let-
ter writing campaign of the
late 19505.

“I am getting at least 250
letters a day,” says one con-

- gressman, Rep. Kenneth A.

Roberts, R-Ala.
to answer.”

Roberts is on the house in-
terstate and.- foreign com—
merce committee, a key body
for reform legislation.

Like concern over pesti-
cides that culminated in
Rachel Carson’s Silent
Spring, congressional hear-
ings and a White House re-
port, the battle to protect
laboratory animals has been
growing for nearly 10 years.
It has built Up in proportion
to the dramatic increase of
federal funds ~for animal-us-
ing research by at least six
government departments and

“Too many

agencies and then thousands
of grantees.

Funds for medical re-
search, for example, have
grown 12-fold since 1950. The
total bill for federally sup-

ported research using ani-'

mals is estimated at 2billion

dollars annually. The num‘

bers of animals used today

may be more than 200 million

annually. Probably two thirds

are rodents and other small
' animals.

Animals are being used in

virtually every state of the
union through grants and con-
tracts from the federal gov-
ernment and by pharmaceuti-
cal companies and a variety
of independent testing labora-
tories.

To give an idea of compara-
tive numbers,

annuaHy.

No 5 ucli l) lankot

assertion made in article.

England used
only about 4 million animals

1. PAUL SUNDAY l”lif§)NEER PRESS.

JULY 21, 1963

THE ()BVIOUS question,
are the animals making a
worthwhile contribution to re-
search, can be answered
“yes.” Advances in heart
surgery can be credited in
part to the use of dogs;
progress in cancer chemo-

therapy to white mice; astro-

nauts’ penetration of space to
monkeys and chimpanzees;
polio vaccine to rhesus mon-
keys; and terrifying refine-
ments of biological and chem-
ical warfare to a variety of
animals.

In fact, creatures-from
lightning bugs to whales—~are
being studied to give clues to

diseases and conditions that
effect man and o'therjanimals
as well. (It is only the cap-
tive vertebrate animals that
are the intended beneficiaries
of pending bills.)

The question has risen as
to why the federal govern-
ment has not pressed for
more of its funds to be spent
in providing proper housing
and care of animals. Also,
why hasn’t it put more re—
search effort to the question
of reducing the number of
animal—especially mammals
—— being used?

This could be done by find-
ing substitutes, cutting out
duplication, better r e c o r d
keeping and communication

and better statistical design
of experiments.

Not until several humane
groups began to press for

legal controls of the care and
handling of test animals did
the scientific community be-
gin to study the problem seri-
ously. But the National So-
ciety for Medical Research
(the fieicest fighter against
legislation) continues to
maintain that many labora-
tory animals live like “pam-
pered pets of millionaires.”

It took a recent $48,000
grant from the National In-
stitutes of Health to a quasi-
government group of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences
to discover what most human-
itarians suspected all along-—
that conditions of care and
handling in many laboratories
are not uniformly good.

*

THE ENTIRE problem of'
humane treatment of test ani-
mals has been enclosed be-
tween covers of a 375.page
book. This is the record of a
hearing held briefly last Sep-
tember by the health and
safety subcommittee of the
house interstate and foreign
commerce committee, headed
by Rep. Roberts.

 

1 ernment department Though

 

lto submit my article for re-
.view as a condition for a dis-
‘cussion with a staff scientist

 

'l‘ h o s e favoring a law
stressed moral and economic
principles. They offered docu-,
mented proof of neglect and
excessive cruelty and pointedl
to the British laboratory ani-,'
mal law of 1876. The names
of 85 leading members of the
Protestant, Jewish and Cath-.
olic clergy were recorded as
favoring some type of federal
control.

A Roman Catholic monsio
gnor urged a “great reform”
and passage of a law more
rigid in curbing pain than the
bills before the committee.
The Rt. Rev. LeRoy E, Mc-
Williams of Jersey City,
N. J ., president of the Nation.
at Catholic Society for Ani-
mal Welfare, did not object
to the use of animals, but
only the “misuse of God’s
creatures. " 1

His society last year re-
ceived the apostolic blessing
from the late Pope John
XXIII
' The opposition was repre-
sented by nearly every med- ,
ical, veterinary and medical
society and animal-using gov-

 

all favored humane treat-
ment, they protested that hu-
mane standards set by law
would require too much pa-
per work and red tape and '
would interfere with scientific
freedom and that “humane-
ness cannot be legislated".

*

SINCE THE hearings, the
scientific community has
mounted a publicity cam-
paign that pounds away on
the theme that the backers _' ~
of the major bills before con-

gress are either “subcon-
scious” or “disguised” anti- ’
vivisectionists.

(They fall to explain how
this could be so with such
sponsors of legislation as Sen.
Maurine Neuberger, D-Ore.,
widow of a cancer victim,
herself once a cancer suffer-
er and a supporter of medi-
cal research.)

Also road blocks, rarely
seen even in wartime, are
being thrown up before re-
porters inquiring into this
subject One animal . using
government branch -- as a
matter of routine—~asked me

on laboratory animal legisla-
tion. I declined. ,

If the scientific commun-
ity has made its mistakes in
a rather transparent public
relations campaign, the hu-
mane g r o u p s have lost
ground by not submerging
their differences and not lin-
ing up politically important
groups to help bring order
and to shed light on a situa-
tion that is confused and hid-
den from the public.

 

 




Negative: Animal
Research Aids. H Umans

The author-is executive sec-
retary of the NaﬁonaIHSociefy
for Medical Research of Roch- ’

ester, Minn.
By RALPH ROHWEDER

USE OF ANIMALS for
tests, teaching and research
has been the subject of
heated controversy for well
over 100 years. This is not
surprising because the prob-.
lems that we ask animals to
help us.SOIVe are often un-
pleasant. .

.The principal purposes of
animal tests and experiments.
are to explore diseases and
probable dangers.

' New drugs must be tested
first on laboratory animals
to determine their usefulness
and to discover possible harm-
ful effects. The thalidomide
tragedy, involving more than
10,000 pathetic malformed
children, illustrates what can
happen when animal tests are ‘.
not thorough enough.

Household substances,
beauty aids, industrial dusts,
fuum and process chemicals
all Lave in be checked first
with the help of animals. The
tests endanger the research
animals, of course, and many
will die,“ but ‘the public is
proteyted. , -

Vir
surgery and much surgical
teaching involves use of ani-
mals. ' Human patients and
veterinary patients are
spared many imperfections '
in technique.

' ‘ *

IS IT ANY WONDER that
these animal heroes of the
laboratory arouse sympathy?
They certainly deserve .our
gratitude and every considera-
tion that ‘we can give them. '

Until recent years there was
a major movement devoted
to the abolition of experiments

m--.

on animals. It was known as
the antivivisection movement.
The antivivisectionists argued
that no good came from sci-
entific investigations with ani~
mals.

When the sciences of biology
and medicine were in their
infancy research w o r k e r 3
found it diffiéult to justify
their tests. So half a century
and more ago, the antivivi-
section movement bo asted
many distinguished adherents.

For example, British Prime
Minister Disraeli, Queen Vic-
toria and George Bernard
Shaw believed that animal
studies should be stopped.

During Q n e e n Victoria’s
reign in Britain the antivivi-
sectionists attempted to per-
suade Parliament to adopt a
prohibition law. After much
study and debate, Parliament
compromised with a law
adopted in 1876 putting selen-
tists under special police su-
pervision and making it nec-
essary for British surgeons to
do all of their practicing on
human patients

uaily, all experimental «

ST. PAUL SUNDAY PIONEER PRESS. JULY 21, 1963

This law is still in effect. a,

The neo-antivivisectionists

Fortunately no other nation 3 bills before Congress have at-

i
l
i
‘ i
i

on earth h35.5‘..1_91.1._1§YY;_

The tremendous strides of
the health sciences in this
century have made it im-
practical for anyone to
claim that the methods used
by- biological and medical
scientists are not effective.
In a century the average life
span of Americans has
doubled. Agricultural produc-
tion of milk, meat, eggs and
wool has become so efficient
as to give our nation great
additional strength. Almost
every week we see new tri-
umphs.

*

HAS THIS great record
eliminated antivivisection sen-

. timent? No, but. it ni.’

changed its expression.
Antivivisectionists still are,
repelled at the thought of

' medical men deliberately in-
. fecting animals with diseases,

for instance, although they
have found it futile to argue
that such trials bring no bene-
fits. -

What can an antivivisec-.

”tionist say, for example, when

confronted with the statisti-
cal fact that more than 7 mil-
lion Americans alive today
will owe part of their lives
to the discovery of insulin?
The discovery was made .with
the help of 20 dogs that would
otherwise have been uselessly
killed in the Toronto dog;
pound. i
"I‘ a frank antivivisection
aboilionist moyement be-.
came obsolete as a political1
force, but more than 6 mil-'
lion antivivisectionists in the
United States felt as strongly:
as ever. It took a new con-
cept and a new approach to
reactivate the movement.

Two talented new leaders
appeared who recognized that
antivivisectionists antagonized
most people when they argued
against the 'life - saving re-
sults of animal experimenta-
tion. These new antivivisec-
tionist leaders turned around
and acclaimed the benefits of
research but intensified an-
tivivisectionist attacks on re-
search methods. Their most
ingenious device is legislation
that would cripple research on
animals without seeming to
have that purpose.

at .

PRESENTLY prOposals by
the two leaders are embodied
in four bills before Congress.
Mrs. Free, author of .the other
article on this page, is active‘
ly engaged in the promotion
of this legislation. Her article
typifies the new sophistication
of the antivivisection move-
ment that has scientists and
health workers across the ma
ilull Worried that the United
"nigh“. might ail-opt soliielhing

" .Iél ~‘. I . \ . ~~
iii-4‘“ Lilligllii ‘: \ it'lLii lull lull.

 

3 veal what we believe to be]

‘tractive titles. But their state-
'ments of purpose do not re-

their__ real purpose. The fea-
tures that would hamper re-
search are found in the fine
print,~ so to speak. ‘ “ " ' '

All of the bills would re-

 

quire scientists to predict the
course of their explorations of
the unknown in advance. Ob-

““‘viously, this is impossible, so

the effect of the bills would be
essentially the same as the

' old ahtivivisectlonlst abolition

proposals. -

All of the bills state: “Live
vertebrate animals shall be
used only when no other fea-
sible and satisfactoror methods
can be used to ascertain . . .
scientific information . . ."

Strictly enforced, this ro«
vision would limit rose to
animals lower than fishes un-
til it was certain that every
possibility for the use of lower.
forms of life had been .ex-'
hausted. 'Only then could the
full range of modern research
methods be employed.- Sabo-
teurs of science could use this
provision to challenge every
scientific study on higher ani-
mals -- like mice and guinea
pigs -- and it would be the
scientists' burden to prove
that they could not find other
ways.

One of the bills would pro:

hibit research by persons who
had not earned their doctor-
ate degrees. The authors of
the proposal know that re.
search is one of the require‘
ments for some doctorate de-
grees in the~sciences. Actual-
ly, advanced students conduct
a substantial amount of im-
portant research. Do you
know for instance, the Nobel
prize winner Charles Best was
co-discoverer of insulin while
a medical student? The neo-
antivivisectionists would stop
this kind of great service to
mankind in the future.
4 All of the bills imposes-sci-
entific censorship and Wbuld
bureaucratize an area of scr-i
entific activity. ‘

The recess of discovering
‘and do g new things .does not
thrive on regimentation. In.
deed, innovation, of all human
activities, 11 e e d 3 freedom
most. So these bills threaten
to cut drastically America’s
rate of advance in the biologi
cal sciences.

 

l

 

 

 

"k

‘ WHILE THE present con-
troversy over legislation: may
confuse the issue, it is cx~
tremely important that we
give every feasible considera- ;
tion to the animals who give:
their lives so that others may!
live. Good humane care of I
laboratory animals is both a
humanitarian and a scientilicj
necessity. l

\‘U Kaitlin. a: t Jillplrf,
the problem that a nutrition--
ist faces in trying to learn
wheeler there are subtle
harmful side-effects from a

 

di'L

preservative th at retards“
spoilage in food products;
He uses unusually“ great
amounts of the preservative,
in the food of his rats, mice. ‘
rabbits and dogs. All the .
while he conducts ' intensive
medical tests to determine
whether their? is any evidence .
of changes - body functions.
Some animals eat the preser- -
vative all. of theirllves, and
after they die autopsies are
performed. , . - - ‘
What happens to all oftthis "
work if theanimals become ,
ill with something that ,has '
nothing to ,do with this partin ,
cular study? Results ‘may .
mean nothing. . p
The scientist’s effort is
wasted and ’the’ solution of a
problem of great importance
to millions of people may be
delayed for weeks or months
or' even years -- depending
upon how far along the study
was when the results became

 

behind the fact that, of all

that the neo-antivivisection-
lists might become a little too

. obstructive program for the

fcate be done to serve the lab-
oratory animal heroes who

:«better methods of animal

confused. _
This is the practical reason

the contact man has had with
animals, none is generally so '
careful, so elaborate and so ,
expensive as the care of lab,-
oratory animals. »
This is why the Umversit
of Illinois spent nearly 3 mil-
1101] dollars on its animal
laboratory. This is why the
animal facilities in‘ some in-
stitutions are more costly
even than hospitals for hu-
man patients. Almost all lab-
oratory animal q u a r t o r s
cost more in relation'to‘size
than a fine new home. '
If it were not for the danger '

persuasive and put through
a disguised road—block to re- ,
search, scientists would wel-
come agitation for even finer
care of laboratory animals. -

Like workmen in other
fields, they are glad to have
better working conditions. ‘

So they re asking the
American public to choose a
constructive rather than an

advancement of laboratory
animal care. These are the
things that scientists advo-

serve us so well: . -
Constant development of

care. .
Training of more specialists
in laboratory animal care. . ,
Provide for more rapid dis-
semination of new animal
care knowledge.
Build better facilities where
needed.

t

 

 




‘Mon., July 22, 1963 ST. PAUL DISPATCH

‘ Dogs, C afs
Suffer, ,j Die _
. To Aid Labs

Some. of the masf famous research institutions in America
—-—haused in ultra-modern, glistening-clean buildings— rely on
filthy. overcrowded, slap-dash kennels for fheir laboratory
animals, many of them obtained illegally. The taxpayers are
subsidizing fhis needless cruelty. In the following articles,
second in a series, a reporter who is expert in this field dis-
closes fhe extent of the suffering/these animals are subjected
fa in their way-stations fo the research lab.

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

WASHINGTON —- (NANA) —— One bleak morning in
early March this reporter drove with four companions to
Prince William county, Va., about 25 miles from the
capital, on a grim excursion. 3r

We saw off in the distance a few miles
from Gainesville, Va., a large gray barn
that thousands of motorists had passed
daily for several years, never knowing
what went on inside. We knew this was the
place. We pulled over to a side road, and
parked the car. The mud from the spring
thaw was too deep for anything but a four-
‘ wheel drive vehicle. ‘

' We walked a quarter of a mile down '. .
the muddy road leading to the barn, muck. Mrs. Free
nearly sucking off our overshoes at eaett'kstep. As we
approached the barn, we could see, off to the side, two
men shoveling earth. A burly, blond young man put aside
his shovel and came to meet us. We told him we had
come to see the conditions disclosed by the Washington
Star the afternoon before.

: He could not stop us because we could already see
the death pits. Bodies of hundreds of dogs and cats were
lying in trenches filled with rain water. The shovelers
had been trying to. cover them. .

- This was the kennel-barn of Zoologicals Worldwide,
a.supplier of laboratory animals to the national institutes
'of health, the U. S, Naval hospital and Johns Hopkins
hospital. lts contracts ran into the thousands of tax-
payer dollars. .It presumably had been inspected by the
contracting institutions. It is listed in the Directory of
Commercial Sources of Laboratory Animals and Equip-
ment of the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources
of the National Academy of Sciences—National Research
council. This institute is supported by the U. S. public
health service, the 'office of naval research, the U. S.
atomicenergy commission, American Cancer society and
pharmaceutical houses. '

The great need for laboratory animals—especially
dogs and cats—as tools for well-financed, government-
sponsoredkresearch brought Zoologicals Worldwide into
existencera A corporation of 10 persons, none with any
exper‘oueeh animal unscientifiedields, took note of this
need in the research-crowded Washington area. ,

No embarrassing questions were asked as to the
source of each animal to be sold to laboratories. Only

~"- .1 i
.4, 1‘,

 

the humanitarians in the area grumbled, and nobody ,

Dogs. Cats Suffer

Continued from Page 15

listened, when pet dogs began to disappear. Cats being
given for adoption to good homes were speedily called
for by men, promising a “nice home in the country”,
Humane societies ran advertisements in the newspapers
urging people not to give up their pets unless they knew
positively where they were going. ' . ,

A bizarre chain of events involving two lost or stolen
dogs led to Zoologicals Worldwide. The Arlington, Va.,
animal welfare league closed down the operation when
its agents—notified by police—discovered. a barnful of
dogs and cats piled into cages without water. The pipes
had frozen. Humane workers went to a nearby stream
to scoop up water. The animals cried in the anguish of
anticipation when they heard the water sloshing. in the
bowls being brought to them. , .' , .

The barn was without heat. Dead. animals were found
in cages with live ones. The piles of dead dogs and cats
were found outdoors. The dead dogs had been shot by
the caretakers either because they had sickened or had'
been rejected by contracting laboratories as not the type
needed. Most of them were the collie variety. . '

Suits of cruelty to animals were filed and the animal
caretaker and the secretary of Zoologicals Worldwide
were fined $250 each.

There were other repercussions, too. Three more bills
to protect laboratory animals were introduced in congress.
Also it brought into focus a realization that most of the
dogs and cats used in research are former pets, fallen on
hard times. A great number are obtained directly by.the
laboratories from the pounds. (Studies show that most .
pound dogs are too unhealthy to make good subjects (or
longtcrm tests.) Eleven states permit this under pound sei-
zure laws. A few institutions, such as the food and drug
administration, raise their own. The balance are obtained
from dealers, such as Zoologicals Worldwide and are
listed in the directory.

(The ILAR is in an unenvlable’ and paradoxical spot.
It serves as an advisory body in the field of laboratory
animal supply and quality, yet, says its executive secre-
tary, Berton F, Hill, “it would take an act of congress to
permit us to rate the commercial suppliers.” He said he
personally advised the founders of Zoologicals Worldwide.
against going into a venture for whlclh they were so ill
prepared.) . j

Dealers obtain dogs and cats from farmers-or pet'
owners who sell them willingly. They have made arrange.
ments to buy them directly—and often illegally—from dog
wardens in various states. Recently such a practice was
disclosed at Camden, N. J. Dog-pound employes were
arrested and the humane society of the United States was
called in to operate the poun . '

Flagrant solicitation by dealers of dog wardens in ‘
Pennsylvania, where it is illegal for them to sell the dogs
for such purposes, has come to this reporter’s attention.
One dealer wrote dog wardens the following;

“I am writing to inquire as to the number of dogs and
cats you have or can get each week and to try and per-
suade you to sell them to us.

“We are the largest dealers in dogs and cats in. six
counties and would like to expand our pickup points in your
area. If you have only a few animals a week, we will
still come to your area for pick up.

“We pay cash, of course, and the prices vary from
one to three dollars each, on dogs over 16 pounds, and a

.dollar each for adult cats.”

Dogs that are not purchased are often stolen by the
dealers’ agents. In Syracuse, N. Y., in March police dis-
covered 18 pet dogs—all snatched from their owners—in
a hayloft and a hospital research laboratory.

A state police officer there termed this practice “the
meanest form of larceny.”

Evil conditions at kennels of a White Hall, Md., labora-
tory animal dealer brought suit by HSUS, resulting in a '
$50 fine and a judicial reprimand. .

This reporter recently received a letter from a Penn-
sylyania friend who visited, to View conditions, a supplier
listed by the ILAR directory.

“Inside the building I was appalled at what I saw.
A narrow, dimly lit corridor SEptti'aied two rows of pens. _
Each pen was jammed with dogs as” all sizes. 'lihere must '
have been 40 dogs in a pen big enough for only 5 or
6. The dogs’ coats were matted with filth, and the dogs
were crawling all over each other trying to get out. They
threw themselves against the steel doors. They tried to
crawl up the sides of the doors to look out through the
upper half which was made. of heavy steel wiring.

“it was impossible to see the floors of these pens. The
big dogs trampled the. little ones, and some of the small
ones were lying on their sides, motionless. There was no
Ventilation. The pens had not been cleaned, and the air
was salineatmg. .l saw one large poodle with a deep bloody
rash in his side. 'l‘hei‘e was no loud or water in any of the
pens. The «’ulm‘ made me lll, and i went out into the fresh
air.” (Next: The Laboratory "Homes")

 




ST. PAUL DISPATCH “Tues. July 23. ’63

 

 

Squalor Precedes Sacrifice

by Lab Animals

~iiy ANN COTI‘RELL FREE
Third in a Series

WASHINGTON—(NANA)—

On arrival at their new and

final homes dogs and cats

that once ran .

free, ,

have been . '

pressed into in-

voluntary serv-

ice to help man

conquer dis-

.ease, often face ,

sad days. "

The sadness
has nothing to ~22;
do with science Mrs. Free
—but neglect.

Conditions in some research
institutions and teaching hos-
pltals are frequently no bet-
ter than the barns, haylofts,
tarpaper shacks, and wire
pans of the commercial
dealers. Laboratory kennels

W

In an opposing view, the
dean of veterinary medicine
at the University at Minne-
sota notes that laboratory
animal care in the United
States is better than in an
other countr .. Dr. T. W. .
Tharp asks i we are lavish.
in more money on rats
’8’.” sick people. See Page
W
are. often overcrowded, un-
clean, orly ventilated.
And, 0 course, there is the
c a g e —— fast“ becoming the
symbol of the research ani-
mal.

Not long ago a highly moti-
vated, research-minded dog
breeder donated several sur-

lus’ dogs to a local teaching

capital. But after one look at
the accumulated filth and the
lack of water in the cages, the
Péieder took her animals and

n‘this institution, as in
m ny like it, there are no
caretakers on duty at night
and only for a few hours on
Week ends. Dogs and other
animals routinely die dur-
ing these hours. They often
die in severe pain and no-
body is there to relieve that
pain or even to hear their
moans, or to scientifically
observe why they suc-
climbed.

This reporter has entered
laboratory kennels early in
the themes. ,heforo, the. at-
tendants have collected the
bodies, and seen dogs that
clearly have died in agony.

A major aim of five bills
before congress is to insure
by law prOper housing, care
and handling of laboratory
animals. The upsurge of fed-
eral funds for animal-using
research has found many a
new-rich recipient frantically
getting his animals from any
source, sticking them away
in makeshift housing—often.
in the case of dogs, in cages
piled tier on tier in basement
r(toms.

,, pense.’ "

i,Congress cannot be totally A few years ago another only .1} had professional su-
‘blamed for these conditions. d 1', a m a t t c illustration 0f PerVISIOH- .

It offered years ago to give poor care and housing took Site inspection-s that the Na-
resciai'cfrhf institutions 50 per Pilace illl) a Franlgih, Nina; tional Institutes of Health Of-
cen o unds needed for re- c'nic. ogs use 01' ear

s e a r c h facilities, includ- surgery in NIH-supported ”cm“ a“ required t" make

- ing those for animals. A key research were put outdoors to institutions receiving isrant

senate committee in 1959 said in the cold Massachusetts money apparently have not

that “suitable and comfort-. winter after coming out of been much Of a stimMus 101'
‘ able quarters for animalst anesthesia. A few boards improvement. The NIH sup-

tused in federally sponsoredI were tacked on trees as ports at least 6,000 animal-
research is a ‘proper ex--l shelter. Garbage and a few [using projects, according to
i dead chickens Wereithroﬁn iits 011m calliulatgirtinmhoe:
so . ' to them. Their msera e :amp e, suc a ‘
reiugaemteﬁfhﬁg‘eg 3,1??“3135 plight was discovered and recipient of federal funds as
funds for animal quarters they were taken by state ~Harvard university until re-
let humanitarians r a i s é police to Boston’s Angeli centiy kept Its research ant-v
much of the other 50 per Me in or 1 a1 hospital, suf- malsinabasement called The
cent from the public. M'any faring from acute pleurisy Farm. Harvard received con-
institutions that have built and endocarditis- The Mas- siderable criticism by humane.
new animal quarters failed sachusetts Society for the groups for permitting such
to provide dog and cat'ex- Prevention of Cruelty to An- facilities. -
ercise facilities. The new- ““313 SWCCSSM‘Y brought ILAR and Animal Care pan-
est facilities are often win- “it. - e1. 899k establishment 0f 899'
dOWICSS. 311' - conditioned Visits to :laboratories by cific standards, th'h humane
mausoleums 0‘ gleaming Mrs. Christine Stevens of the 31'9“” would have no hand in
tile and row on WW 0‘ to!" Animal W elfare institute framing. But they would Mt
quality cases. (AWI) -— always in the com- .39.,_99mP“1503V°
A recent booklet, Labora-pany of an official of the in- All of this activity shows

tory Animal Facilities and . .
Care, prepared by the Ani- ,sritution __ have resulted in that the scientific community

mal Care panel under a $13; ia list of documented exam- is realizmg that a wechared.
350 grant from the National. pies ofdogs and o t h e I‘ an- for, 19“ miserable animal
,Institutes of Health, bears imals. in cages too small for makes a better research sub-
dmévn heavily and sanitation Stiiiidldig’ 08%;”: being hosed jecL But the question may
an means 0 re uce cross- w1 ogs Wl in, sometimes .
Iinfections. But when this acutely ill. boil down to whos concept 0‘.
study — sponsored by veter- The Humane Society of the 3°“ wm 'preva"? Or “a"
inarians and manufacturers United States has approached the“ be a meeting 0‘ the
0f laboratory equipment - the inspection problem some- “minds?
“33.0th the question 0f ex- what differently.“ has placed
erCise. for caged laboratory its own people within labora-
dogs 1t concludes that “it is tories to obtain photographs
best left to the professional and eye-witness accounts of
judgment of the user.” It dis- neglect. It filed complaints a
missed contentions that cage few years ago againstthe Col-
and penspace has an effect lege of Medical Evangelists
on chemise. - (now called Loma Linda uni-
Thls reporter in 1959 under ' versity) in Los A n g e l e s,
went a harrowing year-long Calif” and Leland Stanford
{experience regal-(1mg caged university. In both cases, the
dogs. On discovering that the society charged violations of
food and drug administration the California administrative
dogs were kept in grid-bot- code relating to care of labor-
tom cages from puppyhood to atory animals. Neither case
death —- sometimes sevenicame to trial.
years —— I was told by its This type of Insiiectlon
scientists the dogs “didn’t can have its drawbacks.
mind." Some of them, V
clearly, were psychotic, “stirl Fred Myers, of the Humane
crazy,” others appealed for' Society of the United States,
attention as they barked and visited 8 heart surgery lab-
whined and scratched theiri oratory merely as a friend
bars. I was told FDA would of an employe, He had to
continue to C a g 0 its. @088 watch without protesting—
when it got a new 26-mllh0n-. for f e a r of revealing his
dollar office building. identity and getting his
' friend in trouble - a sight
that was ignored by medi-
cal technicians. It was a

 

 

Again, congress made clear
to the scientific community
that such conditions were im- dog, cast aside as dead,

proper. Sen. Lister Hill (1)“. that re ained consciousness
Ala.) and ReP- John Fogarty i and trigd to rise. It was cut

(D'R' I.-——chairrne_n 0f pow-f from chest to abdomen.
erful appropriations sub—
committees ... saw to it that To date, scientistsmost con-
FDA build a new laboratory- corned Wlth test 89111181 care
kennel in Maryland where the'haVG 110 clear notion 0f na-
dogs will have outside and tionwide conditions: When re-
inside runs. The battle was suits of quosuonnalres to 600
not easy. It took more than ammal -usms Institutions are
a year. Scientists did not rally analyzed by the Institute of
to the support of humanitar- Laboratory Animal Resources:
ians, and court jesters of the (ILAR). the white W111 bei
high -living -for- Fido vari- clearer; On to basis of 58,
ety had a field day_ institutions visned, only fourl
had trained caretakers and

 




 

>~ ~.._"w...

("The author of this article ! Ltiffwme niﬁiéfé'_”'Wﬁat I" ‘ Etienne Drug Ad-

is dean, college of Veterin~
ary medicine, University of
of Minnesota. A member of
several national commit-
tees dealing with animal
care and facilities. "lie has
aided in the planning of.
numerous experimental ani;

mal facilities throu hout th
U. S. A. g e

By W. T. S. THORP, D.V.M.

 

”0 132W artistes. -in-.the
care of animals used for

scientific studies. One: Are:
we lavishing- more money on;

Two: is care of laboratory
animals good enough?

Peorile could get quite up;
set by the fact that in many
medical centers, the facilities
for animals are air condi-
tioned while many human pa-
tients do not have compa-
rable comfort. in many ofi
these same centers, the ani-
mal quarters are, relative to
‘ size, the more expensive parts
of the institutions.

The National Institutes of
Health spent more than $5,-‘
000,000 on its research ani.;
mal facilities. At the time
they were built they were
the most modern animal hos-
pital facilities anywhere.

The University of Wash-
ington, to .provide better ex- '
perimental facilities, spent
more per unit of space for‘
its animal hospital than for
its human patients. This i
was necessary because of
special utilities and air con-
tioning.

If there were a movementi
dedicated to human welfare
as i‘anatically energetic as
gthe anti-vivisection movement,
‘llilu'x: might ‘ be questions
fillies; about the large expen—
ditures for research animals
in many institutions that have
:not reached the perfection
needed in the care of human
patients. '

It is a fact that laboratory
animal care in the United
States is quite generally more
careful and expensive. than
in any other country. 3
Mrs. Free is ﬂinging
‘other question. Is laboratory
ianimal care good enough?
What is the truth? The facti
is that there are institutionsi
‘who could enhance the ef‘
ficiency of their scientifu;E
'work by improving their any:
mal facilities and methods»

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Free could do some hocaiiy. Additionally, ten to“

good if she did not exagger-
ate the occasional problem
and if she advocated progress
rather than obstructive pro-
‘cedures. i

There is raw material for ,

rats than on sick people'H;

ST. PAUL UlSi’A’i‘Lrl

inflict“ .
'1 «r
, ‘3
.. J’fa‘

1', tin

{mean when I refer to Mrs.
Free’s exaggerations.

She refers to seeing “dogs
i that have clearly died in
‘agony”. As a veterinary
1 pathologist for 20 years, I
' would question Mrs. Free’s

observations. In her medi- .

cal innocence she seems to
have been confused by the
usual rigor mortis of any
cadaver. Death is intrinsic-
ally unattractive. Perhaps
this is why doctors who see
people die day after day
feel more strongly about the
g urgency of unfettered re-
search to conquer the
causes of death.

lines, Jujy 23, ’53

ministration is about

move its animal test opera-
tions to a magnificent new
$26,000,000 f a c i l i t y near
Beltsville, Maryland. Mrs.
Free points out that test ani-
mals will be kept in grid
bottom cages to allow urine
and feces through to be col-
lected for chemical analysis
and- to keep the animals
clean. She seems to consider-
thls inadequate. Some tax-

a payers might disagree with

her.

 

 

The Franklin, Massachu-
setts case cited by Mrs. Free
illustrates how tightly scien-
tists are controlled by state
laws.

The Overholt clinic in
Franklin contracted with a
nearby farmer to care for
dogs used in experimental
heart surgeny. The dogs were
maintained inadequately. The
Surgeon who made this ar—
rangement for care of his ani-
mals was fined. 80, you see,
scientists who use animals in
scientific experiments are, if
.any_thimg.,.ina .more.__then 01;:
‘dinarily exposed position le-
gany. *

The anti~crueltiy statutes of
all states apply to ‘scientists
as they do to everyone else.
Some state anti-cruelty laws
specify that the laws cannot
be misinterpreted to prohibit
properly conducted studies of
animals. The proviso prevents

; doctrinaire antivivisection in-

terpretation of the law, but
does not protect a scientist
should he violate principlesi
of good practice. “

' Mrs. Free has presented an
inaccurate picture of the re-
search facilities program of

grass established this pro-
gram to expand medical re-
search laboratories and facili-
ties. The United States Gov-
ernment provides half of the
money. State governments,
charitable foundations and
the public generally provide
the other half.

From the time of the found-

 

ing of the program in 1956, I Q .
’ one of the bills would help

have been a consultant. and,
presently, a member of the
granting council. During that
time I have seen $10,000,000
of Federal, money spent on
laboratory animal facilities
; with every government dollar
L=nnatched by funds provided

ieleven million have been ap-
1 roved for animal facilities
Ebut not yet funded by Con-
Egressional appropriation. It
iwould seem logical if these
{people are really sincere
{about better facilities and

the Federal Government. Con- i

As Mrs. Free says some of

I the finest new labor a t o r yh

buildings have no windows.‘
These types are completely
climate controlled. Is this
scandalous? If it is, on.
which side is it scandalous?
Are we being too lavish or
are we being negligent?

Eleven institutions in this
{country have full-time veteri»
narians in charge of animal
facilities. These figures are
improving daily as funds be»
2come available. The field of

 

: like to achieve immort lity

 

 

laboratory animal medicine:
is evolving rapidly because of
expanded biological research.
‘ Only one humane society in
the United States has a per-
SOn in charge of animal. care
who meets the sta ndsrds that
we seek for all scientific in-
stitutions. '

1 would like to offer th at
personal opinion that rothing
could ever be done tosatisfy
the antivivisectionists. No
matter what guise they adopt,

studies and they will always
find some basis for objecting
regardless of what the scien~
tific community does to ad-
vance. and improve animal
care.

Mrs. Free says that the ’
major aims of the bills she
is supporting in Congress
are to “insure proper hous- _
ing, care and handling.”
But not one of the neo-anti-
vivisectionist bills support-
ed by Mrs. Free makes any
provision for better facili-
ties. None makes any pro-.
vision for the development
of improved methods. Not

 

train animal care special-
ists. Four of the nee-anti-
vivisectionist bills deal ex»
clusively in obstructions to
medical research.

Since when is progress
achieved by erecting block-
ades‘! Knowing Mrs. Free’s

Judge for yourseif‘t'ne rea-‘
sonableness of the following
statement: The persons who
genuir ely seek the peréection 2
of animal research a e the
scientists and technicians en-
gage-d in animal research.
Every scientist'would like to
win the Nobel prize, w‘ did

for finding, for instance, the
cure for cancer. So no scien-
tist opposes having the best
facilities that can be pro-f '1
vided. Furthermore, e v e ry
scientist who works with ants.
mals knows that his livin

test tubes can give, him in:
correct results, can waste his
time and ruin his reputation
if he does not care for the
animals to preyentgccid§HMI

v...“ ‘-m———‘

 

 

 

infections and other abnormal};
conditions. ' "

The fourteenth a n n u a 1'-
meeting of the Animal Care.

iPanel will convene at the
Ambassador Hotel in Lou Ann; I

geles Oct. 1i. and continue:
through Oct. 4;. ilipproximately,
1,000 persons professionally
engaged in laboratory animal
care will attend. They will
hear and discuss sixty -one
technical papers on housing,
feedin and disease control ill
labora ory animals. ’

The ‘instititiizns who send
delegates to :his meeting will
spend about ~#333,000 to, gather".
the late it information on ani-;
mal care. In mugement of fa:
chines: and 18".. ' .

Are they leing too lavish or'

 

they are opposed to animal, .

 

 

 

‘t‘LI-x. ut laboratory animals
filial tiny would support con-i
,tli‘iii'li'u: pic-litmus such as
'tins

constituents, I believe thati

they regard obstruction of re-i

Search in biology and medi-Z
(31116 as an end in itself.

too st'ngy‘. in behalf of their
animals? i'

Let me‘gve my opinion as
a veterinaran and as the ad-
ministratorpf your college of
veterinary medicine. G o o d
laboratory animal care actu-
tally saves money by improv-
ing the accuracy and effi~’
ciency of research; I adv0cato
excellent care for laboratory
animals not as a monetary
circumstance but b e c a u s a
they are liying creatures and.
we must use .themfas best
we can ‘to help others of
God’s creation. _ . . z.»

._..-._._.._ “- .—

1 .
V

 




acn-

s'r. PAUI’. DISPATCH

SCIENCE PRESENTS TOUCHY PROBLEM—-

 

~Can Animal Experiments Be PainlessP

‘ Fourth m a Series
By ANN COTTRELL FREE
‘ WASHINGTON-(NANA)—~
Can painful experiments on
1 animals be redaced or elim-
inated without interfering
With the march

(of science? ’ .
' This question

".éof exceedingly
It” =. ’tpainful experi-
‘ments on ani-
.. finals and claims
by s c i e n tists
, 1‘. Free that such pain
1 is necessary for the eventual
. benefit to man 1
1 Burning unanesthetized ani-
mals, shock from injuries in
flicted without pain killers,
and the final agonies of ani-
mals’ in testing toxic sub-
stances are often cited amon
the worst experiments. Bu
the list is long ~1- from the
‘: stress - provoking tests on
monkeys (to the point of pro-
ducing ulCers) to fantastic ex,»
ercises in experimental sur-
gery without proper post- op-
eratlve sedation.
~011e major bill on labora~
tor'y animal treatment would
' bar the burning of and ma-.
Jor surgery on experimeh»
tal animals without anesthe-
sia. Another bill would not
permitiplrolonged suffering.
. Bath 11 s demand that all
animals used by student
. surgeons be humanely de-
‘ strayed before recovering
;c o n s ’c i o u sness. (These
strongest of the current
'bills before congress are far

- milder than the British law '

”of 1876 which prevents stu-
- ' _dent surgeons from working
on any live animals.) ,
--To rule on how much pain
can be afﬂicted on animals
guts congress in a true King
olomon’ 8 position. 1
Those who cannot subscribe
to the philosophy of the end
justifying the means, say:
“Here is a line: To cross
it into an area of intense
agony is a sin against God
and man. We must not allow
science to walk across this
line 11
On the other hand, scien-
- tists with equal sincerity can
exhibit pictures of scalded
children who died because no
burn therapy had been de-
~ veloped sufficiently to saVe
them. Congressmen can be
' taken to mental hospitals and
. be shown people of all ages
who are withdrawn from life.
;,_.§;1§ntists claim, “Maybe we

can get a clue by setting up
psychoses in monkeys, ” and
they point to a variety of con-
trived emotional strains," such
as depriving infant monkeys
of their mothers or denying
cats their sense of smell, sight
and hearing, and studying
their reactions.

Neuro- psychiatrists a r e
searching for answers to emo-
tional ills by subjecting mon-
keys, with cathodes implanted
in their brains, to 1onstant
electric shock for days if they
do not push Certain buttons
as they sit in stockade-like
chairs. inside small closets
with solid doors. (Such rigged-
up monkeys are referred to
as “preparations” by scien-
tists )

Appreciating both t h e s e
points of view, congress may
have to search for another
road: One that can well out
down on pain and yet not
frustrate honest research.

\ First, it can hold before
the scientific community
these words of physician-
philosopher Albert Schweit-
zer when he spoke of ant--
mal-using scientists: .

“it is their duty to ponder
in every separate case
whether it is really and,
truly necessary thus to sac-
rifice an animal for hu-
manity. They ought to be
filled with anxious care to
alleviate as much as possi-
ble the pain which they
cause. ” ~

Congress can offer —~ by
law —-— three different steps
scientists muSt follow to re-
duce the number of animals
used: 1'

CUT DOWN on the repeti-
tion of experiments by better
1record keeping on animals
' and better communication on
animal experiments between
scientists. Some scientists, for
example, claim it is easier to
repeat an experiment than to
find out whether it’s been done
before

 

——in print somewhere,” claims
Sen. Hubert HUmphrey. “But
it may be buried so deep in
medical literature that it can-
not be found.” ;

The National Library of
Medicine is tackling this
gigantic problem by its mil-
lion-dollar MEDLARS pro-
gram that goes into operation
in 1964. Nearly all medical
literature will be indexed by
giant data - processing ma-
lchines so at least titles of ex.
periments can be found quick-

 

on putting into summary form
what the literature says. Ani-
mal use in detail might be
worked into this and other
such programs

Also, the granting system of
the National Institutes of
Health, for example, could be
more specific about the use
of animals by persons seek-
.ing grants. Before grants are

given, a search should be.

made as to whether painful
experiments have been done
previously A judgment on
the need fdr repetition should
be part of the criteria in be-
stowing the grants

CONGRESS SHOULD put
more emphasis on the devel-
opment of substitutes for ver-
tebrate animals. 1

The food and drug admin-
istration’ 3 recent progress in
using chick embryos to teSt
the effects of pesticides, food
additives and various chemi-
cals is encouraging. But it will
not eliminate the use of ani-
mals later. “It onlyihelpsms
to know what to‘look for,” an
FDA scientist says. “If we
had a placenta, within the
egg, then, we might be able
to reduce or skip animal
use. ” (Placenta is the mem-
branous sac that holds the”
mammal baby. It screens out
various elements before the
embryo is affected.) '

1117911.. 1121,1113.-. .. .. -

Also the uSe of tissue cul-s
ture as substitute for the whole
animal is bringing about ad-
vances in nutrition, study of
viruses and serum (1 velOp-
ment. ’

Progress is being made in
other fields. White mice have
been spared agony by the
substitution of shellfish for
the measuring of the venoms'
of snakes and spiders. And
certain drugs have been test-
ed successfully on spiders ins.
stead of mammals. ,

CONGRESS COULD encour-

age to ghe hilt better planning
a 11 st tistical design of ani-
mal using experiments to re-
duce wasteful use of animals.
An independent firm of bio-
statisticians — Westat Re-
search Analysts -- recently
analyzed all animal-using ex—
periments published in the
United States in 1961. It re-
ported that in 74.6 per cent
of the 'cases better statistical
planning could have reduced
the number of animals. The
study was made for the Hu-
mane Society of the United
States.

Dr. John T. Litchfield Jr.
of the Lederle laboratories told
the Pharmaceutical Manufacl.
turers ' association recently
that the answer to better test- i,
ing of drugs was not in using
more and more animals but

 

 

in better statistical __dGSigiL 9f

 

 

“A clue to the conquest of;
cancer and other dread dis-'
cases may be —— probably is‘

 

1y. Further work is needed,

experiments and more care-
ful observation of animals be-
fore and after death. _
Research grants bein g.
sought‘and given on ways to
reduce the use of animals,
to date, are relatively few. -
Another route to the re-
duction of pain —- in casej
scientists themselves cannot
make judgments as to how,
far they should go -— could,
come from scientific jourv
.nals. The American Journal
'of Physiology has led the
way with the editor reserv-~
ing the right to refuse pub-
lication of articles on inhu-
mane experiments. When
the National Society of Med-
‘1 cal Research, however,
queried 465 scientific jour-
nals as to whether they
would refuse publication on
such grounds, less than 1
; per cent felt it was a good
idea.

A national policy on I‘Cdu0°
tion of pain and stress in ex-
perimental animals w o u 1 (it
serve, in the opinion of many,
as the mark of a civilized
nation that wants future gen-
erations to be able to dis-
tinguish between a glass test
tube and a dog cat or any
Other life- endowed vertebrate
animal

(Thursday: The Baffle Lines)

 

 

 




" Wed, July 24. 1963

ST. PAUL DISPATCH

Dogs Play Vital Role
in Heart Research

The following article is
written by Dr. Owen ll.
Wangensteen, professor and
.chairman of the University
of Minnesota’ s Department
of Surgery.‘

By DR. OWEN H
WANGENSTEEN 1.

Research, research, and
more research, those stirring
words I have frequently heard
from the lips of Paul Dudley

White, distinguished Ame'riA;
can heart specialist, whether

speaking to the Heart Council
of the United States Public
Health Service or to large or

small groups of physicians in»
terested in spurring develop '

meats in the broader aspects
of medicine.

, There are but two objec-
tives in the use- of animals’
in r earch 1. Discovery of
me .1 of alleviating human
suffering o arrest cure or
reventiont of diSeaSe. 2.
raining o physicians and
medical specialists in pro«
cedures or operations de-
manding special skills which
only can be perfected in the
researCh laboratory, , ~. ('3

The startling and almost on i
believable progress in intra-
cardiac surgery during the
past dozen years is owing
solely to developments which
came out of the experimental
laboratories as a result of
operation; upon dogs and
other an1mals.-

aThese complicated surgi-
cal . procedures make . it

mandatory that any surgeon
aspiring to perform such in- .
tracardiac surgery upon
man have the opportunity to
gain orientation with the
many intricacies involved
and prove his technical skill
in the experimental labora-
tory befor‘e addressing him-
self to the problems in man.

The American ' public - has
long been convinced that bio-
logic ' research upon animals

 

pays usurious dividends. The
generous support of researchj
by our Congress has increased
steadily year by year since
the .g‘late President.’ Frank1:11
Delano Roosevelt in 1944 first‘
asked Vannevan Bush to as-
sess the research needs and
potential of the biological
sciences. Without the ap-
proval " and endo1sement by
the American public of ani-
mal 3288 Oh for the further-
ance ”a! medical pr ogr ass.
many of the medical adr

vnces to which we have been
w messes cduid not have hap-
pened.

Research involving animal
experimentation is at the
b is of every significant ad-

3 in medicine during the

 

 

l

“the Congress are approved,

past century. The control of
rabies, diphtheria, diabetes,
perniciOus anemia, and polio-
myelitis could not have oc-
curred without animal re-
search 3 .

If the. suggested strictures
in the proposals now before

progress in medicine will suf-
fer greatly. I have faith that

 

the American public will do
everything to thwart such an
unfortunate and disastrous oc-
currence. .

When I worked in' the Physi-
ological Institute of Professor
Asher at the“ University of
Bern‘e, Switzerland 35 years
ago, we could operate only
upon dogs freshly killed. The
primary reason the United

 

States is in the vanguard of-

progress in medical research
is because our experimental-
lists have not felt the heavy
and restraining. hand of those
who would 1
progress to a standstill by re.

'strictive and hampering meas- ,
T h o s e motivated to ‘

ures.
spend their lives in our re-
search laboratories do so only
because they feel that a life

laboratory will be looked upon

imai impetus to progreSs in
surgery, but it has become
increasingly evident, it is also
the best place in which to
train surgeons. The most com-
p e t e n t surgeons we have

trained at the University of
Minnesota are those who spent
one or more years in the dis-
ciplines of the experimental
laboratory. The time is prob-
ably not far away when pro-
ficiency in the animal research

as a pre-requisite to the priv-
ilege of operating upon man.

laboratory, knowing there he
would be showered with good
care and affection.

When man no longer slays
animals for food or clothing
or holds them subservient to
his will, the importance and .
value “of research to insure ‘
continuing medical progress
will fully justify experimenta- -

 

.tion upon animals.

 

 

research laboratory in which

ing medical -

 

spent in this manner may con-

tribute to impr0vement of
man’ 3 lot.

. All experimental labora-
tories receiving research
support from the United
i States Public Health Serv-
» ice must have well super-
vised animal quarters pro-
viding a high quality of
care. All the animal
quarters of the department
of surgery are air- c011-
ditioned as contrasted with
the wards and rooms for
patients in the University of
Minnesota Medical Center
which are not. All animals

submitted to operation are ,

anesthetized and are cared
for after operation as care-
fully and as thoughtfully as
any patient on the wards.
Many of our most skilled
1pcraLLg .99111 techmcrans

are in our research labora-
tories. Those most expert in
the art of yvenepuncture in the
University .of Minnesota Medi-

cal Center are the technicians
of our research laboratories. 1
have heard Mrs. Wangensteen
as well as members of my
staff say more than on one
occasion: “if all the interns
and house officers of the hos-
pital were as skilled at draw-
ing blood as Odell Cobbins,
who has performed these
punctures on our dog, Flink,
prior to and after operations
when he has been ill vene~
puncture would be a far more
pleasant procedure.

The experimental surgical
laboratory, involving opera-
tions upon animals, is not only

 

chief agency for lending max-'

For 40 years I have been
an" active participant in 11

animals, domestic and oth-
er, have been used to eluci-

 

date and clarify medical
problems. More than a bun-
dred surgeons grew up pro-
fessionally in this atmos-
phere. Some of them are to-
day leading surgeons in the

Twin City area known for 1
their sympathy, piety, kind-

liness, integrity, and human-

ity.
More than 50 are spending
thei1 lives as full trme teach-
ers of surgery in University;
Medical schools. More than
30 of these men are full p10-
fessors, chiefs of surgical divi-
sions or heads of departments,
Several of them are amongst
our nation’s leading surgeons.
None of them could have ac-
_qui_17ed their» professional com-

petence or succeeded to im-
portant posts in academic sur-
gery without exposure to ani-
mal research. A plaque on the
door to Dr. C. Walton Lille-

hei’s laboratory, famed heart
surgeon, bespeaks his and his

 

 

co-workers’ appreciation of,
{the contributions of dogs to
'the overall accomplishment of
our cardiac research team
It reads: This Plaque Com-'
memorates our Many Canine’
Friends who have given their
Lives for the Furtherance of
Cardiovascular Research. ”
One of the dogs in my labor-
atory that contributed signifi-
cantly to the evaluation and
appraisal of the stomach’s tol-
erance to withstand gastric
freezing, as a non-surgical

tic ulcer, after three” months'

participation in the experi-
ments, went home in the care
of one of our technicians, who
lives twelve miles from the
laboratory. Two days later on
3a cold Sunday morning be-
tween Christmas and New
_Year’s, the dog stood shiver-
mg outside our laboratory. He
had retraced his steps to the.

 

 

 




.si'. PAUL DISPATCH Thurs-July 25".!“

menous ,THWART. LAB use CONTROLS-

Bickering on Both Sides Sets
Back Humane Eii oris

secretary, Helen E. Jones,
offered documented ex-
amples from medical jour-
nals, such as "drumming"
of rats to induce injury
and shock. They are put
in open drum-like con-
tainers that are rotated
up to 600 revolutions per
minute.

The conservative, 86-
year-old American Humane
Association, headquartered
in Denver, Col. --known
for sponsoring ”Be Kind
To Animals Week"—-appears
to be sitting this out
despite protests from many

of its members.

Front runner of the scienti-
;fic community is the National
{society for Medical Research
:(NSMR). Its membership in-
,cludes the American Medical
association, the American Vet-
erinary Medical association,

 

scientists, including the
1960 Nobel Prize Winner for
medicine and physiology,
Dr. Peter B. Medawar. An
American, Dr. David Mch.
Rioch, Chief of neuro-
psychiatry at the Walter
Reed Army Institute of Re—
search, who has worked under
the British law, says this:
"It never hampered me; the
fact is, it helped to pro—
tect us from anti-vivisect—
ionists."

Dr. hioch, however,
felt that centralizing ad-
ministration of the law here
within one agency could not
be as workable as in England
because here more animals are
used and many more institut—
ions involved. Debate in Brit-
ain over the workability of '
the law has resulted in the
recent appointment of an off-
icial committee to re-examine
that law.

The solid front of the medi-
cal and scientific opposition
is beginning to break. When
hearings on proposed bills
were held by Rep. Kenneth
A. Roberts (D.-Ala.) last Sep-
tember there came to speak
for the animals Dr. William
gH e r b s t, president of the
'American board of urology,
chairman of the research
committee of the American
Urological association and as-
sociate professor of urology at
Georgetown university medi-
cal school. - ‘

Also. appearing before this
house and interstate and for-
eign commerce subcommittee
was Dr. Paul'C. Kiernan, pro-
;fessor of surgery at George-
:town university; He brought
a' letter from Mrs. John. F.
iKennedy’s obstetrician, Dr.
‘John W. Walsh, also_of
:Georgetown university, which
said in part: _

“There is no justification
whatsoever in causing undue
suffering to vertebrated ani-
mals in medical and surgical
.teaching of research. Animals
should be afforded the same
opportunities for pain relief,
as man and should be given
complete regional or general;
anesihﬁsiawheneyerjnylsur: i

'Fiﬂh of a series. ‘
By ANN COTTRELL FREE
WASHINGTON -— (NANA)
-— Few subjects —- including
politics, race and religion-

.rr‘.
'.,.’._._. . .. I
....‘

emotion than the .. «(7?» i
use of animals 41.".
in scientific ex- " ‘
periments. y . ."

But by an odd "t "3‘
reversal, many 3 v ~
of the o ponents.’ ' .
of legis ation to
provide humane ,3,

. reatment of lab-,».
oratory animals Mrs. Free
appear as? emotional as the
humanitarians are commonly
supposed to be. They have
called the latter “wolves in
sheep's clothing,” “swin-

. ldlers,” “confidence men” and
have implied that their pro-
posed laws were of Nazi in-i
spiration.

Humanitarians - but not in-
cluding the out-and-out anti-
vlviscctionist who would abol-
ish all use of animals-whavc; virtually every medical or-i
shown surprismg dismpline} ganization, college and insti-z
over their emotlons. 'Ihey' tution. Its publications and or-i

have astounded observers whol ficials have constantly brand-l
thought or them as hand- ed backers of test animal reg-
wringing do-gooders who ;ulatory legislation as “anti-

fail d to their Wizaediotngs‘C"; t 1 t i
charges. ‘ en e irs .moc erae-1

. t laborator animal 1e 18-
Perhaps they would have ype y g

_ lation was introduced in 1.960
shown more} belligerency to— (by Sen. John Sherman Coo-
ward _sc1entists if they hadn’t per (R-Ky.) the NSMR issued
“5.9!! “5 “P on each other *" a a press release that said this:
failing of_sen51tive people who “The Cooper bill is ir’entical‘
insxst their approach to a so-

. . . . in its major provisions to the,
.lution IS the right one. (With hen the
five different bills before the German law adopted w

congress on humane treat Nazis first came into powerin
‘ . ‘ 1 . Th azi law was s on-
1ment of test animals, the hu- 0 933 e N p

. . . . sored by Herman Goering,
mane movement 18 split five will? was” then honorarynresr

.diff ‘ . .
erent ways) .-_-. ‘dent of the Germannational
The primary (“37131011, tanti - vivisection soc1ety. The
however , is between liGoerinlg law .dld ilO‘gI‘lPtrgggt
anima experimen s . -
those who back the icumbered animal prenmem
Stringent bill drawn tation that it was Cited at the
up by the Humane Soc—

document

Nuremberg trials as one of

iety of the United ithe “335°“ Why some Nahzé

States ant the meet-t iminimises;at...

ate bill drawn up by imnamws” has;-

the Animal Welfare The first bill was
Institute and the Soc- compared ~~and correctly
iety for Animal Pro~ so-~to the British law
tective Legislation. of 1876, in spite of which
The latter two are more than 11 Nobel Prizes
directed by Mrs. Chris- for physiology and medicine
tine Stevens of New involving research on an—

York City.

None is strong
enough for the Nation—
al Catholic Society
for Animal Welfare.
This society --to which
the late Pope John gave
his blessing ~edoes not
believe there shouldlbe
any exemptions from anesa
thesia. Its executive

imals have been awarded.
There have been no reports
ed cases of involuntary
human experimentation.
Statements favorable
to the British law were
entered in the committee
record of last Fall's lab-
oratory animal hearings in
the House from a disting~
uished array of British

gicial procedure is contem-
plated. I further agree that if
any contemplated procedure
.will in any manner maim,
disable or result in postopera-
tive pain the animal would,
be better off if it were not
allowed to recover from anes-
thesia.”

 




. The pposition of the Ameri-
" can heterinary Medical as-
,socration has surprised many
(if the nation’s millions of pet«
. owmn g families. Its president,
Dr. L. Mayer Jones, said. that
'A.V.M.A. was “irrevocably”
opposed to legislation.\

One veterinarian, at
least, has taken publtc
issue with him in the
"letters" pages of the
A.V.M.A. Journal. Dr.
Gerry B. Schnelle of the
Angell Memorial Hospital
of the Massachusetts
Humane Society, wrote that
Dr. Jones "did not speak
for all its members."

He warned the A.V.M.A.
of teaming up with the
American Medical Assoc-
iation. He charged that
the "public image of the
physician has been tar-
nished during the past
decade or so" and "with
all the A.V.M.A. members'
money that is being spent
on somewhat nebulous 'pub-
lic relations' that higher
regard might be gotten
from the public if it
were to join forces" with,
the friends of protect—
ive laboratory animal leg—
islation and to help them
write "workable legislation."

l The unwillingness of the

“scientific community” to

meet even the most moderate

humane groups half way is

best illustrated briefly by the

sad little story of WARDS of

Washington. '

Its humane - minded leader

decided that better conditions

for test animals could be ob-

‘tained from the medical pro-

fession by cooperating and

working with it, even though

this meant alienating many

lhumane group associates. Af-
ter 10 years of. trying to bet
the humane member of the
“scientific community («Vega-t,
WARDS, moving spirit Witt}.
Peyton Hawes Dunn, publicly
announced: “The medical peo-
lple simply used us.”

l

She concluded: "It
became increasingly app-
arent that they were de-
termined to maintain the
status quo. In the last
year there has been much
activity, but no adequate
proposals for organization
to c0pe with this vast
area of neglect."

‘ THURSDAY: (What can be
2'9???) ’ ‘

TYPED INSERTS ON THIS AND PRECEDING
PAGE WERE DROPPED BY ST. PAUL DISPATCH
FROM ORIGINAL COPY DISTRIBUTED BY
NORTH AMQHICAN NEWSPAPER ALLIANCE

 




Thurs.,July 25, ’63

ANIMALS AID MEDICAL; STRIDES—

 

Mayo Asks "Constructive"

The following article is ,
written by Dr. Charles W.
Mayo, a member of the fa-
mous Rochester, medical
family. Dr. Mayo is the
present chairman of the U-ni
versity of Minnesota board
of regents

By 1111. CHARLES w. MAYO

It 18 distressing to be forced
into the positon of having to
defend that which should need‘

no (i e f e n s. e,

namely the pro--
longaiion of life _.

arid alleviation

of suffering in '. g.
man a n d' am: '53-.)
mals through su- 34,
pervised animal ’,
research. -
Many and de-
vious are the .°~
w a y s followed Dr. May

 

 

 

by those who would restiict
animal research. 'ihey would
take its logical supervisibn
from qualified scientists and
give it to persons who are
more likely to want to ob-
struct research than to ad-
vance it.

To tie the hands of scien.
tists with bureaucratic bands
of red tape would strangle the
future progress of all of medi-
cine.

It is the business of some
promotem to delude the pub-
' and arouse a false swell
of indignation about the way
in which animals serve in
laboratories. They are sup-
ported by not inconsiderable
unds wiiled to antivivisection
grou s by persons quite often
child ess, with an unusual per-
spective on animal welfare.
Perhaps the donors forget
that veterinary Science stems
from animal research also.

, The agitators, to my own
knowledge, have distorted
the views of my father, Dr.
Charles Horace Mayo, and
of my uncle, Dr. William
James Mayo, or have in-
vented statements attribut-
ed to them where none ext

 

isted in point of fact. Both

PM -...__..,_..‘

 

v—ﬁw' ,

men, and particularly my
father, were devoted to both

affection and respect\ for
animals all their lives, and
both were equally devoted
to medical research to
which the animal kingdom
has contributed such im-
pressive help.

I have always had a dog
and believe that no child
should be reaied without a pet
animal. It is an experience
that helps in the development
of growing youth. The train-

, ing, feeding and general care

of an animal develops respon-
sibility thatis of inestimable

if: value in adult life.

These sentiments are allied

;;._..__' with my concern that ani-
;=.' mals used in research be givg
,~ ..,:_’;i3 en excellent care. The Uni-

' versity of Minnesota profes-

ST. PAUL DISPATCH

sional schools in Minneapolis,
colleges of agriculture and

veterinary medicine in St.
Paul and the Mayo Founda-
tion in Rochester have com-
plex animal care organiza-
tions, expensive facilities and
a policy of seeking still better
methods continuously.

I hope that no reader will
be persuaded to support leg-
islation that, in the name
of animal welfare, will re-
strict vital studies in biolo«
gy and medicine. Such leg-
islation is likely to do much
more to impede scientific
progress than it will do to
advance laboratory animal
husbandry This is why the
scientific community favors
constructive rather than ob-
structive programs in this

 

field.

Goals

It is my considered opinion
that the obstructive bills hen
fore congress are a threat to
the public health and welfare.-

E v e r y true humanitarian
ought to oppose them I am
happy to see that the Ameri-
can Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, Ameri-
ca’ 3 first and oldest humane
society, has declared its op-
position to the destructively-
oriented bills before congress.

. q.

 

 

 

l

 

 




ST. PAUL DISPATCH

  Animal Care Bills Bare Teeth
But. Their Sharpness Varies

Last‘ of 'a series .

By ANN COTTRELL FREE A less complex bill is con

Fri., July 26,1963

Competition a m. 0 n g hu- ' The law would have teeth.

WASHINGTON—(NANA)-—— sponsored by Senators Maur-‘l

“They are willing that dogs
have teeth, but the laws have
$259» jiii :..?:v-:':r..‘--'is§:- n t' " ’. Rep. Leo

.‘ , . viii; (De
. ~_ N.Y.) remarked
wryly the other

. ing government
officials protest
how much they
wanted to pro-
tect laboratory
.. ., animals. '
' Mrs. Free The“teeth”in
the ' five different laboratory

animal bills before congress!
vary in sharpness. There'is.

little chance that any of these
bills, as presently written,
will become the final law.
Victory may lie ahead, how-.

ever, by combined elements";

of each designed to catch of-
fenders but not to hinder the
innocent.

The bill with the sharpest
teeth was introduced by Rep.
William J. Randall (D-Mo.)
and was drawn up by the
Humane Society of the United
States. This 13-page bill would
create the office of a pres-
identially appointed commis-
sioner of laboratory animal
control within the justice de-
partment.

All laboratories and indi-
vidual users of animals in
federally supported research,
plus laboratories selling their
products to g o v e r n m e n t,
would have to obtain certif-
icates of compliance and
. project plan approvals. In ad-

dition, each individual user
' of animals would have to ob-
tain an annual letter of quali-
ficat'ion.

,ine B. Neuberger (D-Ore.),
Joseph Clark (D-Pa.) and
lStephen Young (D-Ohio). A
similar version was intro-
duced in the house by Rep.
Thomas L, Ashley (D-Ohio).
It was drawn up by the Ani-
mal Welfare institute and the
Society for Animal Protective
Legislation. Mrs.

Christine

J
l

Stevensof New York City is,

 

the founder and guiding light
of these groups of non-voting
members. Clearly, she has
been the trail blazer in lab-
oratory animal care. Her bill
is modeled, in general, after
the British law of 1876 when
research animals were num-
bered in the hundreds, not
the millions.

This bill would require in-
idividual licensing of scien-
itists using animals in U. S:-
supported research to file
project plans, but they would
not have to wait for approval
before going ahead with their

work. It calls for humane’

care in housing, and general
comfort and exercise. It bans

prolonged pain, but permits

some painful experiments
without painkillers. It re-
stricts student use of animals

lin the same way as the Ran-
,dall bill. Inspection and puni-
Itive action is similar to the
Randall bill.

The secretary of health,
education and welfare would
administer this law. HEW,
'through its enormous nation-
'al institutes of h e alth re‘
search program, uses —- ac-
cording to NIH statisticians——
about one-eighth of all ani-
mals used in research annu-
ally in the U. S. The rest are

mane groups for public and
congressional s u p p o r t for

confusing and self-defeating.
In the long run, they may
realize that the best help for

 

many luckless animals lies
in uniting behind a new ap-

proach. Such a bill—-—if it is to

get through the congress --
must meet humanitarians’
views of animal needs, thus
must have “teeth.” Like-
wise, it must allay fears of
delay, paper work, red tape,
and limits on scientific free-
dom constantly repeated by
many scientists.

The main problem, as this
reporter sees it, is lack of un-
derstanding 'and the inability
of both sides to find a com-
mon ground,

That ground must be found.

 

used by the army, navy, air
force, national aeronautics
and space administration,-
atomic energy commission,
agriculture and interior de-
partments and veterans ad-
? -ministration.' Also, millions
’ =are usedby pharmaceutical

To obtain these permits,
animal users would have
to meet 14 requirements.
Among them: Proper care,
housing and normal exer-
cise; post-operative care;
record keeping on source,
use and .disreailion -of ant.

’nials, Animals would be thouses. _ _ ' ,
anesthetized for painful ex- i Sen. Jennings Randolph
- periments unless exemption I (D‘W' Vi” ‘3 k e s an ap- .
is obtained from the com— ‘ proach.approved‘ by . many
missioner and the surgeon~ j NIH screntists'. HIS b1“ lays

general of the U. s, No down guide lines for care ,

exemptions would be 31- and housing and P3,"! 0013‘ '

lowed for burning, scalding trol. It. instructs eacham- ~
and major surgery, mal-usmg agency to set and
enforce its own standards.

But no specific authority
within agencies is charged _

with “laying down the law”

even t h o u g h violations
could be punished by with-
drawal of federal funds.

A bill, introduced by Rep.
Kenneth A. Roberts (D.~Ala.)
and Rep. John Fogarty (D-
ch 1 . ries file and R. I.) instructs the surgeon-
reggiidsé b33310”; couid be. gﬁneral to fret Stﬁgfffgggtﬁgti

u - , ,' - . - .3 researci amn' -

pummed bi “‘tthIdmg 0i icipients of federal funds?

funds. :
iwould have to meet.

Anesthetics could only be;
given by holders of doctorate
degrees or persons under
ltheir immediate supervision.
All animals used by students
for surgery shall be under
anesthesia and should be hu-
manely destroyed before re-
'covering consciousness. In—t
spectors would be free to

 

 

I Otherwise, both. -SidQS. willbe.
iguilty of perpetuating suffer.
'ing that could be avoided.

The new approach—which
legislative experts believe
may be workable—could be
constructed along the follow-
ing lines:

Creation of the office of the
chief of research animal care
in each animaLusing depart-
ment or agency. It would be
a part of the agency’s secre-
tary of director’s office to
give it highest prestige and
authority.

These half-dozen or so
chiefs would compose an in-
ter-departmental committee
that would work out uniform-
ity of standards, means of
fast exchange of information
and other fine points. It would
be advised by a carefully se-
lected board balanced be-
tween members of the scien-

tific community, humane °

groups, the public and the
clergy.

Such an approach would
reduce red tape. It would
not center all authority in
one agency as is done in
Great Britain. There, about
4 million animals are
used each year. Here,
about 200 million. No one
agency would be poking its
nose into another agency’s
business, creating hard
feelings. Instead; they

-. .__-.__. ___.————————,

would work together t0-4i,‘

ward a common goal.

. Grant applicants would be'

s a v e d the complications
and delays of dealing with
two agencies of govern-
ment as would often be the
case. Humane groups would

not be locked out in setting .

specific standards as in-
the case of all bills before
the congress today.

their bills is disconcerting:

 

 

'It would spell out that ‘all
users of animals having any

have to meet certain stand-r
ards. It would affect suppliers
of animals as well as sellers
of goods to government agen-
cies that have used animals,-
as was done by the humane»
slaughter law. These standé
Eards, by and large, would,
meet those set down by the
'major bills before congress
and the penalties would .be
the same. It might even be
stronger than the Neuberger-

 

Clark-Young bills in that per- .
' mission for exceedingly pain- .

ful experiments without anes-

thesia would receive even '

‘ greater study, with the possi,
bility/of veto power being ex-
ercised by the respective

chiefs if thorough checking on ~

previous experiments showed
similar experiments had al-
ready provided an answer.
One of the most important
provisions of the new ap-
proach would be the strength-
ening of current regulations

 

in regard to grant and con- ;

tract applications. The buga-'

boo of certification and other ~

, paper approvals could be di-
minished by tieing in the li-
censing of animal users into
existing systems. The results
-—the protection of animals—
would be the same.

This reporter concludes this
series of articles on the acute

laboratory animal care prob- '

lem with this counsel from
Dr. Alebrt Schweitzer:
“When any animal is forced
into the service of man, the
sufferings which it has to
bear on that account are the
concern of every one of us.
No one ought to permit inso-
far as he can prevent it, pain
or'suffering for which he will.
not take the responsibility.
No one ought to rest at ease

in the thought that in so doing '

he would mix himself up in

the affairs which are not his "

business. Let no one sh-irk

financial dealings with the .
federal government would. ‘

 

the burden of "his responsi-
bility. ” .

l

 




‘CZﬁ‘RS FOR CANIN

ES?-—-

 

Illusions Inf/ate
‘ Cruelty Issac

The following article is by
Dr. Maurice B. Visscher,
head of the department of
physiology, University of
,Minnesota'.

,1.“ By on. MAURICE B.
‘ VISSCHER

2 The, proponents of federal
‘ legislation to control animal
experimentation ' edic l
veterinary, den '

biological
.search and
teaching sta r ..
from two un-‘
proven and er-
r0neous assump—_.
tions. They as .
some that such. ‘-
use of animals Dr.
is not now con- Visscher
trolled by laws with teeth.
Actually in all 50 States
there are laws prohibiting
Cruelty to animals, and in
several there are special laws
dealing with the conditions
for use of unclaimed im-
pounded stray animals. in
Minnesota, for example, by
legislative Act all such ani-
mals which would otherwise
be killed in the pounds must
be turned over to qualified
scientific laboratories that
have been inspected and cer-
tified by the state livestock
sanitary board. This board as-
‘ certains that institutions take
proper care of animals or it
. does not give. them a license.

‘ ‘4 As to the anti - cruelty laws,
there is no state in which
prosecution of a scientist
could not be carried out if
there were valid grounds for
such prosecution for cruelty.
In other words, if there are
any abuses one may properly
ask why interested citizens
have not instituted court ac-
tion.

Actually a few such actions
have been started. in one pub-
licized case in southern Min-
nesota a few years ago a high
school teacher and her pupils
were prohibited from further
use of. rodents in an ill-con-
ceived rocket experiment. In
all cases involving higher ed-
ucational institutions and ma-
jor research laboratories the
legal proceedings have re-
sulted in rejection of the
charges of cruelty on the part
of scientists as invalid.

The next unproven as-
sumption of persons like
. Mrs. Free is that wide-

ness and even sadism exist

atories full-time for more
than forty years. I have

sponsible for work employ-

cats, rats, and rabbits and
several hundred thousand
mice. I have seen animal
quarters which could be
improved, but I have never
seen an instance of cruelty
and only rarely have I
found it necessary to re—
mind a student or an asso-
ciate that more care should
or could be used in handling
animals.

that wanton cruelty actually
exists in significant degree
must be taken with many
grains of salt. She, and others
like her, who see an animal
dying from some experimental
procedure, as in experiments
that were necesSary to dis-
cover insulin to treat diabetes,
or heart surgery to learn how
to repair heart and bio od
vessel defects, are disturbed
by the sight of it.

Everyone is also greatly dis-
turbed by the sight of children
dying of poliomyelitis too. but
for persons who are more
concerned about human be-

 

mals the result is a resolve
to discover ways to prevent
suffering. A physician who
sees children (or adults) suf-
fering and dying from dis-
eases which are not now cap-
able of treatment feels that
it is his duty to learn how
to prevent future human pain
and death even if it involves

animals. The validity of as-
sertions as to cruelty needs
proof before a legal “remedy”
is applied for a disease that
may not exist.

A remedy is being recom-
mended which would have a
very different effect from the
one they say it would have.
I cannot read their minds so
I cannot know whether they
are intentionally-trying to de-
ceive the public, but I do
know that their “remedy”
would hurt the public.

Mrs. Free proposes a kind
of czar to control animal ex-

agency-which carries out or
supports such work. Shewould
give that czar authority to
determine whether or -liOt a
particular study had been

 

qfore “unnecessary.” If this

been administratively re- ,

ing many thousands of dogs, .

. In other words, the report.
' mg of persons like Mrs. Free

.it ,could not be isolated. We
probably would not have the ~
Salk and Sabin vaccines for ‘

 

ings than about lower ani-A

sacrifice of the lives of lower ‘

- be made, if at all, h

' the anti - scientific antivivi-

 

i
l

l

perimentation in each federal ‘

 

i f r an was there-i
spread carelessness, callous- tdone be 0 e d

, search on laboratory animal

ST. PAUL DISPATCH
Fri., July 26. 1M3

past we would probably not
have insulin today because
many experiments prior to its
discovery had “proven” that

polio because many scientists
had tried and failed before.

She would also give that
czar authority to decide on:
how much pain it would be
legitimate to make an animal
suffer. Would she also set up

 

a czar to decide how much
ain a human should be al-
owed to suffer from the dis-
eases the scientist was at-
tempting to understand and
control? Nature has not been
so kind to humanity as to re-
strict the pain and suffering
from disease, and laws to
hamper the study of disease
in animals similar to man can
only hurt the public interest.

Progress in solvin . the
man and animals wi not
be made by czars. It will
so -
entists who work with n the
humane laws already in
force in every State and who
stand ready at any time to
,defend themselves against
any legal accusations of
cruelty.

Mrs. Free and others like
her, despite their protesta-
tions to the contrary, are
really serving the cause of

sectionists. She suggests that
her proposed law would “push
research with non - verte-
brates.”

Why? Albert Schweitzer’s
“reverence for life” to which
she presumably subscribes
since she quotes him, extends
not only to nonvertebrate ani-
mals but to plants as well.

The scientists Mrs. Free crit- '

icizes probably have in gen-
era] as much genuine “rever-
ence for.1ife” as any other
group because they work with
life and living things and can-
not possibly escape recogniz-
ing the marvel of life. .

The laws that are needed
to prevent cruelty are already
on the statute books. Let Mrs.
Free and her friends see to
it ,that they are enforced. The
only kinds of new laws that
would make any sense from
the point of the public interest
would be those which would
provide funds for improved
animal housing and for re-

 

diseases and nurture.

‘ .'
l

. m“ “unseen—amumupuw- w..-

Mrs. Free has attempted
to portrar tli‘e problem as
a battle ,etweeuﬁ the scien-
tists and these-called hu-
manitarians. Actually the is-
sue is between the 'self- .
styled humanitarians ' and ,
the public Welfare. The no».
tion’s health, wealth, and
at present urgently, its 'mili- -
tary security ‘are all in-
volved. Few. more subver- ,
sive acts could be perform-
ed today tha’n,to hamstring
scientific research on which
our very survival as a na-
tion will depend in the
world power struggle. One
could hardly do the nation-
al ' defense effort of the
country more damage than
by emasculating the biologio'
cal scientific enterprise. '

This is definitely not the
scientists’ battle. It is' the
battle of these few who are
more emotionally involved in
animal than in human welfare

‘versus the majority of the
- public, which wants no gar:
, a

of cruelty but realizes
sacrifice of some lower ani-
mal ' life is necessary to hu-
man 5and' animal welfare.

 

 

in scientific laboratories I gruie had been in effect in the;

have lived in such labor 1

 




August 15, 1963

. Statement for St. Paul Pioneer Press and
Dispatch by Ann Cottrell Free, author of series
"Don't we Owe Them More?" Correspondent, North
American Newspaper Alliance, washington, D. C.

. ‘While on vacation I obtained the series on laboratory animals by.
Minnesota medical men and myself that appeared in the St. Paul Pioneer
Press and Dispatch newspapers July 21-26. This is my first opportunity
to write a full reply.

. iMy articles were distributed by the North American Newspaper
Alliance and those by the Minnesotans were written, in rebuttal, on
1nv1tatlon of the newspapers. .

They were headlined a "debate."

‘ Debate is essential to a demOcratic society. Any newspaper that
stimulates one is to be applauded. But when debate —~ through diversion-
ary diatribes and mis—statements on the part of the defense -- becomes a
travesty of time-honored dialogue, then-there is cause for concern.

Here are my comments on and corrections of mis-statements made by
several members of the Minnesota scientific community:

MR. RALPH.A. ROHWEDER, Executive Secretary of the National Society
for Medical Research, makes the same points, as do I -- that animal research
helps peOple. Then he turns around and says my article of July 21 "typifies
the new sophistication of the anti-vivisection movement." He claims that»

I am a promoter of legislation of which he disapproves.

 

He knows that those measures are not anti-vivisectionist. Other-
wise, he would not have written on August 3, 1962 "... despite a totally
different ultimate objective, the anti-vivisectionists oppose Federal
regulation for the same reason we do. The regulatory bills would not do
what they pretend to do."

This line apparently was drOpped. Now‘Mr. Rohweder is back to the
N.S.MQR. script -- that those who try to bring order to this field are now
"neo anti-vivisectionist."

Sometimes he forgets the "neo." He wrote recently that Fred Myers,
of the Humane Society of the United States is one of the "unsavory leaders
of the anti-vivisection movement."

How could I promote those bills when in my last article -- which,
I judge he read -- I presented a new approach, designed to unite humani-
tarians and scientists in what should be a mutual goal: protection of
animals from unnecessary discomfort and pain with a minimum of red tape?

. Those bills' objectives are admirable but their administration may
be unrealistic.

Mr. Rohweder and his colleagues are following a false lead in saying
that I am a Spokesman for any group. I am.a reporter of 25 years experience,-
‘who has had a long interest in animal welfare. ‘My obligation to my pro-
fession and to myself is to call the shots with honesty and accuracy.

Mr. Rohweder is also pursuing a poor practice if he thinks he can
silence a reporter by complaining to her syndicate.

DR. CHARLES F. MORGAN, U. of Minn. Medical School and Chairman of
Minnesota's Citizens Committee for Health and Research,-claims that the
195# ruling of the District of Columbia Commissioners on supplying Pound
animals to research labs has not gone "into full satisfactory operation"
due to "continuing pressure from the anti-vivisectionists." '

 




Dr. George D. Coffee of the District of Columbia Health Department,
who has authority over the Pound, stated, on Aug. 14, 1963 ”we have no
problems in this re ard." .Animals not returned to owners, adopted as pets,
or destroyed as unfit for research are sold to certain labs. The number:
958 for fiscal '63.

Trial, police and newspaper records refute Dr. Morgan's claim that
animal supplier, Zoologicals Worldwide, failed because laboratories with-
held their patronage due to Z.w;'s inadequacies. The truth; Z.W; was closed
down by police-empowered Arlington County Animal Welfare League agents on
viewing the miserable conditions.

He claims that bills I allegedly support would not touch operations
like Z.W._ The Randall Bill (H.R. 4856) would do so; also the "new approach"
outlined in Slxth article of my series.

.. . He criticizes H.S.U.S. incognito methods of gathering information
Within laboratories. I do not know these full stories, but 1n my third
artlcle I said that "this type of inspection can have its drawbacks."

No place in my series did I suggest that health scientists were
"sadistic monsters." And I firmly resent his implication. I am curious
as to why the St. Paul Dispatch reached down to the end of his rebuttal to
pick the sadist angle for a headline? Cruelty from sadism, I am confident,
is extremely rare, but stems from carelessness, callousness, ignorance and
overzealousness.

Dr. Morgan didn't stop there. He gets into a rather sticky, smeary
business when he continues to maintain that this is all an anti-vivisection
ploy and those people must be "terribly disturbed" to work as hard as they
do "to block, for instance, the search for better.weapons against cancer."

- DR. W. T. S. THORP, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, U. of
Minn., staffs his article by planting the idea -- duly reflected in the
headline: "Which Come First -- Rats or Sick People?"

This silly question was never raised by me. But by him. Surely,
there couldn't be any doubt in his mind.

His boners are many, so I'll take on the biggest first. Implying
I am an obstructionist and asking why I don't work for better conditions,
he points with pride to the Food and Drug Administration's "magnificent new
building" for test animals at Beltsville, Md.

Congressional leaders and F.D.A. can tell him.what modesty should
prevent me from saying. This reporter discovered the caged-for—life test
dogs. I then initiated and led action that resulted in the fine new
laboratory-kennel facility being built at Beltsville. I gave, in effect,
a year of my life to this.

The whole idea was to get dogs out of life-time cages, which Dr.
Thorp approvingly thinks will be housing in the new building. There will
be inside and outside runs -— which should be mandatory for most long—term
dogs in research.

The cost, incidentally, is not $26 million, Dr. Thorp, but $1.7.

I would ask Dr. Thorp to tell me where I presented an "inaccurate
picture of research facilities program of the Federal government?"

Also I would ask Dr. Thorp did I read him right when he said that
"every scientist would like to win the Nobel Prize and would like to achieve
immortality for finding, for instance, a cure for cancer?” I thought, Sir,
the reward would be of another kind. Perhaps the expression in the eyes
of a cured patient?

DR. OWEN H. WANGENSTEEN, Chairman, U. of Minn., Department of
Surgery, and I are in full agreement that animals are valuable to research,
especially in intra-cardiac surgery. I mentioned this snec1fically in my

 




 

Dr. George D. Coffee of the District of Columbia Health Department,
‘who has authority over the Pound, stated, on Aug. IA, 1963 "we have no
prdblems in this re ard." _Animals not returned to owners, adopted as pets,
or destroyed as unfit for research are sold to certain labs. The number:
958 for fiscal '63.

. Trial, police and newspaper records refute Dr. Morgan's claim.that
animal supplier, Zoologicals Worldwide, failed because laboratories with-
held their patronage due to Z.w.'s inadequacies. The truth: Z.W; was closed
down by police-empowered.Arlington County Animal Welfare League agents on
viewing the miserable conditions.

. He claims that bills I allegedly support would not touch operations
like_Z.W.. The Randall Bill (H.R. 4856) would do so; also the "new approach"
outlined in sixth article of my series. "

-. . He criticizes H.S.U.S. incognito methods of gathering information
Within laboratories. I do not know these full stories, but in my third
article I said that "this type of inspection can have its drawbacks."

No place in my series did I suggest that health scientists were
"sadistic monsters." And I firmly resent his implication. I am.curious
as to why the St. Paul Dispatch reached down to the end of his rebuttal to
pick the sadist angle for a headline? Cruelty from sadism, I am confident,
is extremely rare, but stems from carelessness, callousness, ignorance and
overzealousness.

Dr. Morgan didn't stop there. He gets into a rather sticky, smeary
business when he continues to maintain that this is all an anti-vivisection
ploy and those people must be "terribly disturbed" to work as hard as they
do "to block, for instance, the search for better weapons against cancer."

- DR, W. T. S. THORP, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, U. of
'Minn., starts his article by planting the idea -- duly reflected in the
headline: "Which Come First -- Rats or Sick People?"

This silly question was never raised by me. But by him. Surely,
there couldn't be any doubt in his mind.

His boners are many, so I'll take on the biggest first. Implying
I am an obstructionist and asking why I don't work for better conditions,
he points with pride to the Food and Drug Administration's "magnificent new
building" for test animals at Beltsville, Md. .

Congressional leaders and F.D.A~ can tell him.what modesty should
prevent me from saying. This reporter discovered the caged-for-life test
dogs. I then initiated and led action that resulted in the fine new
laboratory-kennel facility being built at Beltsville. I gave, in effect,
a year of my life to this.

The whole idea was to get dogs out of life-time cages, which Dr.
Thorp approvingly thinks will be housing in the new building. There will
be inside and outside runs —— which should be mandatory for most long-term

dogs in research.
The cost, incidentally, is not $26 million, Dr. Thorp, but $1.7.

I would ask Dr. Thorp to tell me where I presented an "inaccurate
picture of research facilities program.of the Federal government?"

Also I would ask Dr. Thorp did I read him right when he said that
"every scientist would like to win the Nobel Prize and would like to achieve
immortality for finding, for instance, a cure for cancer?? I thought, Sir,
the reward would be of another kind. Perhaps the expression in the eyes

of a cured patient?

DR. OWEN H. WANGENSTEEN, Chairman, U. of Minn., Department of
Surgery, and I are in full agreement that animals are valuable to research,
especially in intra-cardiac surgery. 'I mentioned this sneCifically in my




first article. I doubt very much if any of the bills before Congress or
my "new approach" would hamper this research. ‘My father died of a ruptured
aorta Just a year before great progress was announced in this field.

QR. CHARLES W.'MAYC, Chairman, U. of Minn. Board of Regents, does
not touch on anything specific in my articles. I thank him for his gentle-
manly approach: I am sorry that he is misinformed on the aims of most
humanitarians In this field. ‘He applauds the American Society for the .
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of New York for opposing "destructively
oriented bills." The ASPCA looks with some favor on the Roberts-Fogarty
bills that give full authority to the Surgeon General. But it suggests ways
of strengthening them such as establishing an Advisory Council, including
humane group members. I respectively suggest that Dr. Mayo look again at
my "new approach" to this problem. It would have such a council, cut red
tape and would snare offenders.

Probably to balance Dr.‘Mayo's short ~- 17 inches -- article, my
article for that day was cut by at least half. Since the St. Paul Dispatch
originated the idea of a debate, please let me summarize some of my edited
out items, which are essential to the full series and "debate."

1. The National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare refuses to
endorse any bill unless it Specifies that no painful experiments will be
performed without anesthesia.

2. The conservative 87-year-old American Humane Association, known
for sponsoring "Be Kind to Animals Week" appears to be sitting this out
despite protests from.many members.

3. Under the British lab animal law, ll Nobel prizes have been won
for medicine and physiology.

4. Dr. David MCK. Rioch, chief of neuro~psychiatry at Walter Reed“
Army Institute of Research, who worked under British law says: "It never
hampered me. Fact is, it helped to protect us from.anti-vivisectionists."
He believes,however,that centralization of a law here within one agency
would not be so workable.

5. Debate in Britain over the workability of law has resulted in the
.recent appointment of an official committee to re—examine it.

6. Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, chief of the Angell Memorial Hospital of
the Mass. Humane Society, takes issue with the American Veterinary Medical
Association Opposition to legislation. He wrote in the A.V.M.A. Journal
that "higher regard might be gotten from the public if it were to join forces
with the friends of protective laboratory animal legislation and help them
write workable legislation."

DR. MAURICE B. VISSCHER, head of the Department of Physiology, U. of
Minn., may‘Ee the ”Czar" of that department. But "chiefs of laboratory
animal care" in animal-using government departments proposed by me would not
be unsupervised "czars" as he charges. That's the whole point of the sug-
gestion: to get away from.¢omplete centralization in one department as
specified in the bills he loathes the most.

Dr. Visscher says "let mrs. Free and her friends" see to it that the
anti-cruelty laws on the State statute books are enforced rather than urging .
Federal protection. '

That would be fine, but: Most State laws were written long ago with
.an eye on dray horses -- certainly not on laboratory animals -- so offer
little judicial guide to laboratory cruelties. Their perpetrators can always
call for exemption on scientific grounds. In fact some States already have
such exemptions. It's not easy to get into laboratories -— announced or
unannounced. They have turned away humane society representatives.. But
finally, dogs, cats and other animals bought Wlth Federal taxes deserve
Federal protection.

 




-14..

Dr. Visscher and his N.S.M.R. colleagues may think they are masters
at the art of suggestion. I have seen their statements about others who
have dared cross them. He hits a new low when he tosses about such phrases

as "subversive acts" and implies damage to the national defense by espousal
of aims of humanitarians.

Dr. Visscher's little excursion into the world of philosophy-ecology
of Dr. Albert Schweitzer -- whom I quoted -- takes him.nowhere. How can I
say "push research on non-vertebrates,” he asks, when Schweitzer's "reverence
for life" extends to them.and plants, too?

Even though life may be of one fabric, necessity forces us to choose
between the forms of life. Therefore, whenever possible choose the lowest,
from the standpoint of feeling pain,for experimentation if it will help
preserve the highest. But even then, not wantonly.

- I wish to thank the St. Paul newspapers for printing this statement
in its entirety.

 




a

. Pk

(k. K . .9. .3 at V
1.. 3 .3: Q; gun-U1?) ‘ggigrfié

N.‘ . \

. .. h, . Cﬁegjﬁm

I

v

 




TH‘E JEFFERSON HOTEL
,0 1200 SIXTEENTH STREET N. W.
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

n

/" DISTRICT 7-4704

2C LL L dC/gpxt/L’Usdkﬂjé

[4/ )pt/L/L (C

Z )1 4/ {,4V/ /I,C.4_, /

f .
it, (,1
3)

.. "y ’4’
1’

J4.“ {If ‘ ’_ 3/3 ,- j' l/

/ " . 5‘
,1 5L1] /) ( 2‘
4 :44» W" ,/‘ ~

 




‘ the Food and Dru

a ., .«-‘_.'\
i'.,‘

POPULAR .
PHILADELPM, Fit
MONTHLY 20,300

- . E
_ _ _ -- w- ‘v \- \"\0\.\' \- \- \~

i)
gilt ,

\ .

”1‘ tx-
,. (.1 f.“

M‘s-cw
Y . I.

/

Airy "~
- l
‘I

\‘J/f

\" J

lit".
ii! iii
Wit

V‘kamn wﬁh‘ "i?‘9ll

Mrs. Ann Cottrell Free. pictured with a
Beagle—the breed used _b the govern-

QM‘.

ree gave
Congress acted to provide better 9
for the FDA laboratory ani is. It is be~
cause of such unnece suffering of
research animals that legislation is neces-
sary to force decent humane care {or
experimental animals.

' Schweitzer Humane Award
to Ann Cottrell Free

ANN COTTRELL FREE, author and jour'
nalist of Washington, D. C., was named re'
cipient of the 1963 Albert Schweizer Medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute. It will be
awarded in recognition of Mrs. Free's contri'
bution in advancing—through articles, a

, prize’winning novel and personal action~

Dr. Sweitzer’s philosophy of "reverence for
life." It is a well'deserved honor.

The medal was presented by Dr. Fairﬁeld
Osborn, Chairman of the Board of the Con!
servation Foundation and President of the
New York Zoological Society, Dec. l6, at
the Animal Welfare Institute’s annual meet,
ing. (Rachel Carson was the ‘62 recipient.)

Mrs. Free ﬁrst

revealed to the public the
conditions under

which the research dogs of
Administration Were

housed-caged for E e, sometimes as long as

" x- \- \~ \- \~ \- \- \- \- \- \' \' s.

“ \y‘
seven years, in windowless sub'basements.
She worked for Congressional action to pr0v
vide proper quarters. The new FDA build’
ing, authorized by Congress, provides greatly
improved facilities for both animals and tech'
nicians and was opened in December of 1963
at Beltsville, Md.; its kennel’runways will
serve as a model of good animal housing for
the entire country.

Nlrs. Free is author of a new children‘s
book, “Forever the \Vild lVlare" (Dodd,
Mead) which stresses respect for nature and
rights of living creatures and which won the,
'63 Dodd, Mead—Boy’s Life Writing Award.)
She has written widely on all phases of ani"
mal welfare, wildlife, conservation and en'
vironmental health. North American News,
paper Alliance recently syndicated her six,
part series on laboratory animals and pending
bills to correct needless suffering.

A [native of Richmond, Va., Mrs. Free is a
Barnard College graduate, wife of \Vashing'
ton correspondent, James Free, and mother of
Elissa, age eight. She is a member of the
Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Commission of
the \Vomcn‘s National Press Club.

The Schweitzer Medal, awarded annually
in recognition of distinguished contribution
to the welfare of animals, was created in 1954,
at which time a gold replica was presented
to Dr. Schweitzer. Authorizing the medal,
he wrote: “I should never have thought my
philosophy that embodies a compassionate,
attitude toward all creatures would be noticed
and recognized during my lifetime. I knew
this truth would impose itself one day on
thought, but it is the great and moving sur?
prise of my life that I should be witness to
the progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates
this progress."

This statement was made to Mrs. Christine
Stevens, President of the Institute, a non'
proﬁt, educational organization that works to
reduce needless suffering of animals.

/

4L .0. ‘

 




51" ﬂaih
gense cf

ha: act;

‘1 {3113?} i4: 933‘ 0

Eroaﬁegt at:

 




CITY OF NEW YORK
Know ye by these presents that 1’
Robert F. Wagner
Mayor of the City of New York
do hereby present this
CERTIFICATE OF APPRECIATION

to

ANN COTTRELL FREE

Authoress who has devoted her Splendid talents
to further the welfare of animals, particularly

those in laboratories; her crusading legislation
to

to ensure greater care and protection of animals

in a more sympathetic and humane society.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the Seal of the
City of New York to be affixed this
Sixteenth Day of December , 1963

 

 




January 15, 1933

Hrs. J3m33 Free
21500 Que Lam, NOW.
3333333303 1, 3.8.

Dear Ann,

Ruth Daamond writes m3 that you'V3 writt3n two
0x03113n3 articlea for the Virginian-Pilot about th3
pasticid33. 133 sorry 33: couldn't come to our annual
meeting, for we certainly trod in your footstaps fellowing
your Isadership and it would have been good ta have "ou
hare. 1 went to h33r 333 Gard3n CLzb 3p3ech, 303, 333
naxt day, and 3:3. 331133 333 3333033 33 have 3x+r3 339133
of 333 Woman's Press W333 393333 r393133wd in the
Infcrma.tinn R3pnrt. Th3333 0333 from 3‘33 printar just in
th3 nick of 3133- in.3123 mi~.¢3 of 333 333331 mseting,
in fact. 333;} you 1ik33 3* axtras?

1 339303 33 b3 33 3:: 3313,393 Fridﬁy and will call

B333 313333,

 




 

it?“

SRESSION AL RECORD ~4- APPENDIX

Where? Not in Greece, not in Turkey, not
in Iran where we took our stand 16 years ago.
Not in West Berlin where Americans stand
tonight. Not in Western Europe or south-
west Asia. Where we have committed our
Support, show windows of freedom are shin-
ing brightly. Where communism has com-
mitted its support—in Cuba, in North Viet-
nam, and elsewhere—curtains are kept drawn
3, on windows of failure.

‘ It is myopic to insist that America is
retreating.

Where? From none of the lines we have
drawn against aggression. Yet the most
conspicuous retreat of the cold war occurred
only a year ago in the withdrawal of com-
munist missiles from Cuba.

- - -. ‘- nvnain that American

 

 

,5 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPIN
1868' Columbia Road, N. ‘fé.

Washington 9, D. 0-
OCT 17 No.1

H

}
ls
l
l
I

Date:

A6499

Georgetown University, Harvard may have
been buried and Texas may have been si-
lenced—although either eventuality seems
remote. But free om will not have been
buried and neith r the members of that
class—nor any of heir forebears—will have
worn the chains 0 communism. Long be-
fore that time we an hope and today more
conﬁdently expect hat the world will have
come to an age .0 niversal peace, univer-
sal justice, and r-sal freedom.

\

 

A Tribute to Ann Cottrell Fre

EXTENSION OF REMARKS

HON. KENNETH A. ROBERTS

OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 17, 1963

Mr. ROBERTS of Alabama. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to take a few mo-

} ments today to recognize one of the es-

teemed members of the press, Mrs. Ann
Cottrell Free, a representative of the
North American Newspaper Alliance and
a member of the Press Gallery.

Ann Free is a person dedicated to polit-
ical aspects of conservation, animal wel-
fare, youth problems, and envmal

ea th. She is a founder of the Friends
of the National Zoo, vice president of the
Foxhall Citizens Community Association,
a member of the Ecological Society of
America, and active in the Audubon
Naturalist Society, the American News-
paper Woman’s Club and the Women’s
National Press Club and is also leader of
Girl Scout Brownie Troop 1410.

Not only is Ann Free a personal friend
but it has been my privilege to work with
her for a number of years in connection
with legislation coming before the Sub-
committee on Public Health and Safety
of which I am chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that Ann Free
is one of. the most dedicated members of
the press and that she is a forceful and
persistent person writing on matters dear

a to the hearts of all Americans.

Recently a book which has taken some
5 years to write and entitled “Forever the
Wild Mare,” was published by Dodd,
Mead & Co. The author of this book is
Ann Cottrell Free. It is a book to be read
by children from 9 to 90 and illustrates

‘ some of Ann Free’s deep feeling about
i the importance of a fundamental re-

spect for nature.

It is remarkable, Mr. Speaker, to see
such a publication as this in an area
where the greater mass of people does
not have the opportunity or time to
spend in developing an understanding of
animal life. However, Ann Free being
a nature lover at heart, and who has
spent much time in the National Zoo-
logical Park,,has written a remarkable

;story intricately woven around a boy

hero and a rare Mongolian mare and
using the National Zoological Park and
the Congress of the United States as a
background.

For her excellent writing, Ann Free
won the Dodd Mead-Boy’s Life Writing
Award.

‘ I might also say, Mr. Speaker, that in
addition to Ann Free’s great writing

 

 

 

 

 

 




A HUMANE QUESTION

 

THE SUNDAY STAR

3-3

Washington, D. C., November 15, 1959 *

 

Proper Care for Science's Animals

By ANN COTTRELL FREE
Contributing Writer

The increase in the use of ani-
mals in medical, military and
space science has created a new
national industry and has brought
with it problems now attracting
congressional concern.

Few persons outside the test
laboratories know that more than
51 million animals will be used
this year for research. Mass pro-
duction and consumption brings
headaches. But recent events here
make clear that if dividends are
to be realized in dollars, discov-
eries and goodwill, top priority
must be given to the care, breed-
ing and handling of these servants
of humanity.

“Good care is good business”
emerged as the synthesis of a re-
cent three-day session here of 700
experts in the test-animal world.
They were scientists, veterinarians,
humanitarians, animal breeders,
makers of cage equipment and
dog, mouse and monkey food.
Each had an important connec-
tion with this mushrooming $232-
million-a-year business —— which
may have a far-reaching effect on
the destiny of the American peo-
ple.

These experts at the 10th Ani-
mal Care Panel were still feeling
their way in this new complex
ﬁeld, even to the point of seeking
clearer deﬁnitions of good care.
They found a valuable guidepost
in the ﬁrst congressional policy
statement on this subject. The
Senate Appropriations Committee
recently declared that providing
“suitable and comfortable” quar-
ters for animals used in Federal
research is a “proper expense.”

British Authorities Here

Two visiting high authorities on
Great Britain’s laboratory animal
law reminded the panel, indirectly,
of what could lie ahead.

The holding of the panel here
pointed up the fact that Wash-
ington. occupies a unique position
in the test-animal kingdom. What
happens here, both from the
standpoint of policy and research,
can influence the Nation. Few
places use so many animals to
ﬁght so many different battles for
man. The enemies they are pitted
against range from deadly cancer
to colors and chemicals added to
food, medicines and cosmetics.
Also their [care and quarters vary
from the ideal to the medievally
inadequate.

One million mice are being used
by the National Cancer Institute

A National Institutes of Health
experiment with a rabbit.

alone in its $22 million chemo-
therapy program. Larger animals.
even horses and cows, are em-
ployed at the Army’s nearby Fort
Dedrick, Md., in germ and chemi-
cal warfare tests. Pigeons, beagle
hounds as well as rodents are used
by the Food and Drug Administra—
tion to test the purity of many
products.

Figuring high in the plans of
space experts are monkeys, chim-
panzees and man’s best friend, the
dog. (It has been revealed that
a dog is slated to help his master
explore the moon!)

Research Council Branch

In all, 14 test-animal labora-
tories are maintained in this area
by government, business and
university hospitals. Within a
100 - mile radius, 10 animal
breeders are located.

“V‘s

entist working on an eye disease

or particular importance here
in keeping lines of supply and
test-animal policy straight is a.
unique branch of the National
Research Council. It’s Institute of
Laboratory Animal Resources
knows more about the whys and
wherefores of germ-free mice and
other test animals than any place
you could name. Also it has is-
sued principles for laboratory ani-
mal care.

And it is over principles—such
as how long dogs should be caged
——that most questions arise. The
institute says that “it is generally
conceded that animals maintained
for long periods are in better
physiological condition if they
exercise regularly.”

But in practice this ideal is
rarely realized. Therefore, the
Senate Committee’s policy pro-
nouncement offers hope that
many deplorable conditions of

prolonged caging without relief
will be remedied.

Certainly, it should affect the
animals used in thousands of re-
search projects throughout the
country that are ﬁnanced with
NIH funds. The NIH itself at
Bethesda, with its $700,000-a-year
animal budget, is considered a
model.

But the Food and Drug Admin-
istration, which is under the De-
partment of Health, Education
and Welfare, as is NIH. has prob-
lems. It keeps thousands of ani-
mals deep in the sub-basement of
the south building of the Agri-
culture Department. There, for
example, in one room 100 beagles
live out their lives in small—-
30 by 36 inches—cages piled in
two tiers. They are brought as
puppies from Beltsville, Md.,
where FDA raises them. They are
used to test toxicity of colors and
additives to foods.

Congressional funds will be
sought soon for a $23 million
FDA building. But blueprints,
drawn up before the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee attitude
became known, do not provide
either indoor or outdoor runs for
dogs.

A Special Effort

When it comes to mobilizing
public interest in test-animal
quarters, Washington serves as a
model to the Nation. WARDS—
Welfare for Animals Used in Re-
search and Drug Surgery—has
raised $30,000 to match Federal
funds to build new quarters for
long-term dogs at two local medi-
cal colleges. Its membership in-
cludes a liberal sprinkling of Con-
gressmen and doctors.

Though the British system fo-
cuses on actual experimentation,
care of animals is of concern, too.
The 1876 law, pioneered by
Charles Darwin and Thomas
Huxley, was explained to the
panel by Maj. C. W. Hume of the
Universities Federation of Animal
Welfare and by Dr. P. L. C. Car-
rier, chief inspector for labora-
tories.

The law requires licensing of
researchers, inspection and safe-
guards against unnecessary pain.
Maj. Hume revealed that “no
fewer than 10 Nobel prizes for
physiology and medicine have
been awarded to scientists work-
ing under the law.”

These recent events here make
it quite clear that as the test-
animal world expands, there will
be greater public interest in all
phases of its development.

 




 

 

 

 

5.25:)
r LU

(Up

In-

) .7 9%. 43.4%.
5. Finally Frees i

l Laboratory Dogs

Editor's Note: The author received the 7963 Albert Schweitzer

Medal of the Animal Welfare

WASHINGTON
walk, I can walk,
walk."

This rewarding of Peter
Pan’s joyous “I can ﬂy, I
can fly” is being voiced in
dog language by the happiest.
dogs in the USA.

They are the now famous
Food and Drug Administra-
tion beagles that have spent
most of their lives in small
cages in a windowless sub-
basement ser'ving humanity.

But at last they are being
moved to hard - won lab-
oratory-kennels, leaving their
cages forever.

AFRAID TO LEAVE

At first they were afraid to
leave their cages. They had

“I can
I can

Institute for her NANA articles

on the governmentf,s..inhumane treatment of animals.
By ANN COTTRELL FREE

North American Newspaper Alliance

tested on them. Next year,
they will be autopsied. Other
FDA dogs are testing pesti-
cides, food dyes and arsenic.

iFrom 300 test dogs, soon
'some 600 will be in use.
Free of their cages, t h e

“flavoring” beagles took one.
timid step at the time. A
solid floor was new. Their
01d cages had grid bottoms.
A dog couldn’t walk in a six-
square-foot space. But now a
whole prairie lay before them.
A total of 64 square feet!

STRANGE FREEDOM

But they crouched a n d
slithered" along, their stom-
achs almost reaching the
floor. Freedom ~— even when
relative—was a concept UI‘l-'

 

become too: accustumedw at...
. their 26 - by - 30 - inch world.
. They had to be gently pushed
' or lifted out.

From 3 months of age their
only view had been other
caged dogs across the aisle.
They had not seen the sky
since puppyhood. Some were
caged more than five years;
a few went stir crazy. But
others still yelped in joy at
the sight of their supposed
best friend—man.

Their new world is 4-by-16
feet -—— the total depth and

runways of the new FDA
Pharmacological Facility at
Beltsville, Md. It was built
by public demand and spe-
cial congressional action after
the life-time caging was dis-
closed (by the writer and
NANA) in 1959.

FDA’s caging first started
in the 19305. It still exists in
many laboratories and bills
are pending in Congress to
correct such practices.

FIRST TO LEAVE

“flavoring” dogs. They were
nameless . only numbers
tattooed inside their ears.
They were 731, 872, 728, 717,
886. On the 18-mile ride to
their new home their dark,
trusting eyes were filled with
wonder. They were quiet save
for barkative 731.

Safety of a flavoring agent
used in a soft drink is being

 

 

 

width of the indoor-outdoor _

The first to leave were the

iIIUWIl'."
When they found they could
go forward, that there was no

immediate barrier, t h e y
traightened 1p —~ and found‘
hat walking 'as The] 1
To. 7‘ beer to exp ' l

faster and faster, he went. A
>ar": Another, another. .

“I can walk, I can walk. . .
and hey, I can run. . .” "

A bound, a bounce, a leap ‘
into the arms of a friend.
And a woof that distinctly
said:

“I love you.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Beltswlle 5 FDA”

Dogs Are

FREE?“

The author received the 1968 Albert Schweitzer medal of the

Animal Welfare Institute for her articles on the Government’s

inhumane treatment of animals.

By Ann Cottrell Free

Beltsville, Md, Feb. 2] (NANA)

“I can walk, I can walk, I can
walk.”

This rewarding of Peter Pan’s
“I can fly, I can fly" is
language

in the

joyous
being voiced in dog
by the happiest dogs
U.S.A. 1

They are the now famous
Food and Drug. Administration
beagles that have spent most of
their lives in small cages in a
windowless suhbasement in the
service of humanity.

But at last they are being
moved to hard-won laboratory-
kennels, leaving their cages for-
ever.

At first they were afraid to
leave their cages. They had be-
come too accustomed to their 26—
by~30~inch world. They had to
be gently pushed or lifted out.

Few Went Stir Crazy

From 3 months of age their
only view had been other caged
dogs across the aisle. They had
not seen the sky since puppy-
hood. Some were caged more
than five years; a few went stir
crazy. But others still yelped in
joy at the sight of the one they
thought their best friend—man.

Their new world is 4-by-16 feet
“the total depth and width of the
indoor-outdoor runways of the
new FDA pharmacological facil-
ity here. It was built by public
demand and special congressional
action after the life-time caging
was disclosed in 1959. FDA’s cag~
ing first started in the 1930’s. It
still exists in many laboratories
and several bills are pening in

 

Congress to correct such prac
tices.

The first to leave were the
“flavoring” dogs. They were
nameless —— only numbers tat-
tooed inside their ears. They
were 731, 872, 728, 717, 886. On
theIB-mile ride to their new home.
their dark, trusting eyes were
filled with wonder. They 'were
quiet save for barkative 731..
Safety of a flavoring agent used
in a soft drink is being tested
on them. Next year, they will
be autopisied. Other FDA dogs
are testing pesticides, food dyes
and arsenic. Soon 600 dogs will
be in use.

Step At A Time

Free of their cages, the
“flavoring” beagles took one
timid step at the time. A solid
floor was new. Their old cages
had grid bottoms. A dog couldn’t
walk in their old space. But now
a whole prairie lay before them.
A total of 64 square feet!

But they crouched and
slithered along, their stomachs
almost reaching the 'floor. Free-
dom-“even when relative—was a
concept unknown.

When they found they could go
forward, that there was no im-
mediate barrier, they straight-
ened up—and found that walking
was fun. Then No. 731 began to
experiment: Faster and faster,
he went. A bark. Another, an-
other.

“I can walk, I can walk.
and hey, I can run '

A bound, a bounce, a leap into
the arms of a friend And a woof

 

 

 

that distinctly said: “I love you."

 




i
l Hintiam: 'l‘rmt “11“,” L «it.
AminmlsIh‘l'lmi'ldi-d .
Sllt; Tho articlc (‘illlll(‘t'l "l“.(‘ltsﬁ
\‘illi‘~':‘4 l"‘l):\ hugs AWE! Vim"
\ihii'h Ft}‘t}‘)("rll'(‘(l in 7/20 Ei‘r'ninft:
Sun, I'vhi‘uzu'y :ll‘ ('(‘i‘tninly pl‘ttw‘ﬁ 3
that, ('untmls mo ti("(‘(l(,‘tl tu into-1
toot animals used in i'osmi'th V
The dogs being uwd hy thrj
Fund and Drug Adrninisti'atinni
were until quite t‘m-ontly huuscdl
in cages, with grid hnttmnx, so
("ramped and lllt('t')n1lt')l‘lFll’)lP thatt
ll'icy couldn‘t, walk :u'nund. Flumeg
dogs were huusml like ll'llS fm“
as lung as liw _\(‘{1l'.‘5l ‘
I‘msin'mlly. _l t‘étl'llltlt, unih‘ixrtand
Sllt‘l] (~i'ui‘lty. \ft the: m-iontistn
say thcy must list? HillleS and:
that, im ('i‘uclty exists. The lll‘:
liumm‘ic ti‘eati'nmit. of. the: Bolts!
Ville (lugs: did nothing: tu some
M'K‘llt'e and, rm duuht, this Slllli-t-l
lion (‘xistcd twi'uum n0 nnn ("arid l
'I shudder to think of this indil
l‘m‘cni'e‘ to animal ('l'lltf‘lly in other
research lal'mi'atm‘ii‘s.

 

There is pending in (Trtitgt'css:
litgislutii‘ii’i in control the use of
lHl‘NH'HlOt‘y anin‘ials. This l(‘lel?tv‘
timt n'uuld not stun the USP. 0t ani-j
. ”ﬁlls. in lT‘M‘Hl’t'll hut, it; would })l'()~l
gmio lttl‘ I'l‘tttl‘E‘. humane treatment ‘
3 nl thorn.

 

ll aninml» I‘t'lttrd hr? USFt‘l in this
Amy. thc‘n aywtrwe intmr‘stml it“
lhi—‘lt' \i'e’ll‘art“, >huulil l‘tP, SPl. Hp tn
(“t‘tttll‘t'tl their use: The Case Ol the;
Beltaxille (lugs. lR i'it‘m‘tf that; (V'lﬂ'Ut‘l;
cnnditinns dn exist, in some re !
Seal_‘(‘.l’t lal‘ini‘atni‘ie‘F-l.

.l,t'\l\'l£} R LAM}.
Battin'u‘n‘e. té‘ph. '24,.

 

 




4500 Que Lane,
Washington, D.

February

Dear Christine:

1 am sorry that I have not been in touch
with you further, but staying in Richmond so much
recently has kept me from catching up on lots of things.
Mother is still in the hospital but, I hOpe, will be
out near tne end of the month.

Kenneth and Margaret Roberts will be
going.to Englani and then to Geneva, leaving here on
the 3.3. United States February 22nd. He is to be a
Congressional adviser to the American Delegation to
the world Health Organization. he would like to see
and learn as much as possible fror Major dune while in
London. Wouldn‘t it be wonderful if Lajor Hume could
arrange for Kenneth and hargaret also to meet some of
the eminent british scientists such as Lord Draini or
Dr. Medawar?

Representative nncher Nelson is the
other house delegate going but I'm not sure whether he
will be in London at the same time as the Roberts.

Perhaps you will telephone or write
henneth in the next few days and work out details as
to where he will be staying in London and other such
arranging you can do from your end for a satisfactory
and fullsome visit with Major Hume and others you might
think helpful. I will drop Major Hume a little note
to this effect as Kenneth also asked me to tell him
that he wanted to see him. But obviously you are the
one who can best make the arrangements.

with his return not until late March
and other hearings and so on scheduled thereafter and
political campaigning ahead in Alabama, it looks as if
no date could be set for hearings any time soon.

and as you know, Senator Hill will be
closely involved with the major Civil Rights issue for
many weeks to come. I have no special information on

 




all of this but this is the we? the picture looks to
me.

Call we when you cone BO town ani I
hope I will not be in Richmond.

gircerely,

 




 

\

.23 {.1 ‘19
lEaSter
I Humane Law Protection

lettuce and 'egg‘,

f of these tiny balls of fluff will
be sold or given away in all kinds

"y'77’7‘gﬂ‘1 «it lff v; I
. L: Zia, "3; 5" 3! 3 .4 1},” 71' “K H‘-
.- . : animating :59 Jeff Limit.
: ‘ F'sf‘ﬂl ~wa 1‘ n
l . "t H < L. -. V ‘

‘ i x (but ’ iLftAﬁJ)

3222 (trauma)

{3 "
U

By ANN COTTRELL FREE
{)WASHINGTON—(WNS) Quiet

ut steady effort to reduce the
volume of “peep peeps” heard
each Easter season is beginning
to pay off.

But it’s not to lessen the noise
that state laws are being pass-
ed and city ordinances issued to
cut down on this Easter chick
traffic.

These restrictions are in re-
sponse to growing realiza-
tion that baby chicks —- whether
dyed pink, blue or green -
make unsuitable pets. They
cause grief of one kind or an-
other for parents, children and
themselves. . .

Even so, more than a million

of stores during the Easter pe-
riod. Spot surveys show that few
survive more than a few weeks.
Cause of death: mishandling,
starvation and neglect.
. . Pass Laws
l Virginia and New Hampshire
ﬁre the latest states to pass laws
iscouraging use of baby chicks
s novelties. This brings the
.tate total to 10, according to
he Ame» ican Humane Associa-
ion. These laws are not all
entical and some include duck»
ings, goslings and bunnies.
{ Eighty - three cities and coun-
ies are known to have special
)rdinances even though in
iome cases they duplicate state
aws. Others use the voluntary
approach. The Camden County
\I. J. Animal Welfare Associa-
:ion, for example, considers the
State law ineffective. So it has
asked 50 stores not' to carry
3hicks and ducklings’ this Eas-
ter. To date 27 stores have com-
plied and are displaying cer-
tificates of appreciation.
Why Easter?
Reminding of the fragility of
tiny fowl and thoughtless cruel-
y at the hands of little ' chi1~
”ran, the National Catholic So-
iety for Animal Welfare asks:
“What do baby chicks have ta
0 with Easter?” _ .
The Animal Welfare Institute
autioﬁwwmw’lﬁeksebe
{ept at warm temperatures, bui
not more than 80 degrees anc‘
suggests commercial food f 01
man fowl. Also it says that ho‘
vater poured over corn meal 86
that it forms small balls} is suit

 

Chicks To Get

\

hamburger,
yolk.
Stores left with chicks on hand
after Easter and city dwellers
whose chicks do manage to
reach chickenhood are advised
by the Humane Society of the
United States to consult their,
local humane societies. Only a,
few, such as the one in Balti-e
more County, Md., have space,
for chicken yards!

One of the simplest 'bans on
indiscriminate baby chick own-
ing is found in the nation’s cap-
ital. A police regulation 5 e t s
standards that only, commercial
poultry dealers could meet. And
they are uninterested in the baby
chick novelty trade. ~
States with “baby chick” laws
are Alabama, Illinois, New Jer-
sey, New York, New Hamp-
shire, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Michigan, Rhode Island and
Virginia.

Among the cities and coun-
ties: Los Angeles, Calif; Dade‘
County (Miami) Fla.; Tulsa,
Okla.; Fort Worth and Corpus
Christi, Texas; St. Paul, Minn,
Louisville, and Newport, Ky.,
Dayton, Cleveland, and Toledo,
Ohio; Denver, Colo.; and Chi-
cago, Ill.

 

 

ible, as are small amounts 01
. \ * ~...__ ‘ '

 

 




c ,, ‘5' Z
awanzozam um f'com
ANN COTTRELL. FREE

4 ' <
‘k 2&4sz 0" A g 1/2; t Z / Z
. 1V

a"

70 MA Mum 144 11% az.

MMa/é ,. it" //./k470u_.
W curl/L. I)?“ /a/Wu a; «0/

1,: 2M A!“ Admin" ‘4 M. ’///Z‘(. /é/ (
[‘1 LL) %‘ R (/4543!) IVcLL, {KHz/M (,3/211413 (/2 ’

Andi, ﬂ» 4157/22- A‘ 0/"
ﬂaﬂP/ & 9/‘Y/U1‘SFJ An 1 ”dw‘tééi.

, J, 1
£0» 1} OJ/Xé’ziu A A) 3551/ 404;:
,,

w m ,; ~ m. ,- Am ,_

59,7124, ,2) «($39- [ WNW/L, //

 




t ceapita-.' '
a the North

or“ the eight.

, fro " Guam
. Cong t1 00p
reported by

.— w

i
.-. .'
.. . - ..
i ,
.7122.
..
hum .
i,_‘., '1, ﬂ. - 3‘"

e bus and gave
lickly by Pvt.

dice he learned
a by studying

aade began at
e skipped his
31 education
ode a Trail-
, Washington
'lked to the
t 1110 New
ere he found
g with two

.. building.
from Nor-
, Hall was
'ing lunch,
. . ..m drive
Page A-11

a

 

‘ I. . ,L y. . v ,
bile, Division dropped a unit 0 ‘
helicopter in a mountainous
area five miles southeast of
Bong Son in a continuing sweep
near the coast 300 miles north
east of Saigon. Six Viet Cong
were reported killed in sporadic
skirmishes.

 

Province. on the Cambo. .
border northwest of Saigon, a
government spokesman said.

The attackers were driven off Sens

Morse, of. votg
against the tabling motion were
Ernest L. Gruening of

by artillery without any losses Alaska, Eugene McCarthy 0f

in the 120-man militia garrison.

See CONGRESS, Page A-ll

 

A paratroop patrol captured} PETS T0 GET T ATTOGED

 

 

rNNra .uorroorm:
A cannons RiSES

CHlNA—BORN MARK GAYN
revisits loner Mongolia and finds
a young town where once there was
endless grassland, in the final arti-
cle of his series on "Red China
Today,” on Page A-6.

Guide for Readers

Amuseme’ts, Baht-15 Features “HEM-13
Business ...... D-6-9 ! Obituaries ...... B-7
Classified ...C-l4’-24 Soci’tyuHome, C-l-12
Comics ..... Dnll~l3 Sports ........ D-1-5
Crossword ....D-l'l | Stocks ......... D—7
Editorial ...... 31-22 I Tom. in Wash. 13-13

Edit. Articles, A-23 TV-Radio '. . .D-l4-15

Have The Star Delivered
Daily and Sunday
Phone Llncoln 3~5000

 

 

 

Fa

/</M ) ’35?"

 

Little'
EWS;

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

North American Newspaper Alliance

The loss of “Little Bear,” a
big collie-husky, apparently to

“dognapers,” may lead to the
establishment of the nation’s
first National Dog Registry.

Little Bear’s disappearance
from his New Jersey home last
October inspired his irate
owner, Dr. David Timrud, to
start the project which he hopes
may embrace millions of dogs.

The key to the system‘is the
tattoo. Its aim is to foil dealers
who snatch pet dogs for sale
to laboratories.

Each dog would be tattooed on

 

seer s toss

lien retry

his right groin with his owner’s
Social Security number.
Timrud, a Princeton Univer-
sity psychiatrist, expects to out-
line his ideas Monday to a
House Agriculture subcommit‘
tee studying legislation licens-
ing dealers who supply the lab«
oratories and setting safeguards
in the care of animals.
Timrud said he has had
“splendid response from 1,500
laboratories, 98 deans of med-
ical schools and from the na-
tion’s state attorneys general.
“No scientist wants to work
on anyone’s pet,” Timrud said,
“any more than the pet owner
wants his dog to be worked on.”

F

1-1

 




4? 94nd; 3/4“ ,...

By Ann Cottrell Free

washington: The loss of "Little Bear". a big ohllie-
huskie .. apparently to "dognaéers"-o is leading to the
establishment of the nation's first National Dog Registry.

His mysterious disappearance from his New Jersey
home last October inspired his irate doctor-owner to
start this project that eventually may embrace millions
of dogs.

The key to the system is the tattoo and its aim
is to foil dog doelera who snatch pet dogs for sale to
laboratories. The "labs" currently have no way of knowing
which dogs are stolen, but the tattoo would tell theme

Each.dog would be tattooed on his right groin with
his owner's social security number. The "lab" would
immediately notify the Registry, which, in turn, would
notify the owner.

But the chief value. the Registry's founder Dr.
David Timrud say's, is that the tattoo acts as a
deterrent to». "dognspiing". "What dog thief will want a
dog with a tattoo?"

Dr. Tﬂmrud, a Princeton University psychiatrist,

will spell out details of the Registry Monday, March 7

at a Congressional hearing. A.House Agriculture Suboommittee
will be studying ten bills that provide for licensing

of dealers supplying the laboratories and the setting

up of Various humane safeguards in care and transporting.

But none of the bills provides for an; identification
system.of animals. Ebst veterinarians. he says, have tattoo

equipment and those who-don't can easily get it.

 




“2m

83. Timrud has sunk $500 of his own money into the project
already. But he does not expect to get it back because

the Registry is non-pnofit. The administrative costs

of the Registry will be degrayed by the ‘3.00 fee asked
wiﬁkéSQn of each owner. Owners of tattooed dogs should also

send social security number, name, address and telephone
number. The address: BoxSS, Stanton N.J.

Dr. Timrud reports that "so far, I have had sééifsplendid
response frOm the 1,500 lhboratories,*;gldeans of medical
school and from the nation's State attorneys general. "No
scientist wants to work on anyone's pet,’ Dr. Timcud stresses.
any more than the pet owner wants his dog to be worked on."

Though no public announcement has yet been.made,

response from pet owners is already gnderway.

Ca?

 




A. Roy de Putter
P.O.Box 8884
Houston, Texas 77009

Mr. N. Cottrelfry

(Author of "Pet Sales to Labs Probed")
c/o North American Newspaper Alliance
230 West #1 Street

New York City, New York 10036

My dog was stolen February 8, 1966 in Houston.
The Local Police and ads in the principal newspapers
proved ineffective.

Kindly inform me of anything you may have compiled
re dog traffic in Houston and Texas. If not on
hand, indicate how you obtained the info leading
to your article "Pet Sales to Labs Probed”;

you would enable me to follow the same pattern in
Houston.

I have contacted the National Association of
Animal Labs, c/o Executive Secretary J.J.Gaveny
P.O.Box1028, Joliet, Illinois in the hope of
obtaining permission to put a nationwide ad in
their monthly that is read by many labs.

I turn to you with the above requests because you
seem to have a considerable knowledge on that matter.

Yours Truly,

A. Roy de Putter

 




March 6, 1966
'Mr. A. Roy de Putter
9.0. Box 888k
Houston, Texas

Dear Mr. de Putter:

I am sorry that you have lost your dog and
that efforts to recover him.have been to no avail.

Your letter indicates that you suspect he fﬁﬁVéo
may have landed in a lab. somewhere. I wisgyl/”’ﬂ’ﬂ
could help you, but I have no knowledge of 0g
dealers or "dognappers," in your area. Most of
the knowledge I have pertains to this region and
and much.of my information is now available in
the printed hearin s on bills to regulate dog and
other animal suppl era to labs. You can write
to Rep. Richard Posge, who is from Texas and
chairman of an Agriculture Subcommittee for a copy
of these hearings. He is a sponsor of a bill
to set standards for dealers. In fact, he will
be holding hearings this week on his and other
such bills.

If no one in Houston can put you in
touch with suppliers to your local labs, I
suggest that you contact one of the teaching
hospitals or Baylor University Medical School
and ask for names of their suppliers. Also
you might isk if you could visit their animal
promises in the hope of finding your dog.
The Hospitals here gladly let people come in
for this. ANd scientists make a poinyt of
saying t, t they do not want to work on stolent
dogs. S this route might be your best bet.

.’\

I am enclosing a copy of a new systefn/,

of identification being set up. I just wrote“
an article on it.

Would you let me know how you.make out
and also how you happen to have the clipping
of my story that appeared either in August or
September. .Also let me know if you advertised
your dog in that magazine you.mentioned. ( I
suppose you saw Life magazine of February h on
dealers, thefts etc.)

With best wishes.
Sincerely,

(Mrs . James Free)

 




P.S. After finishing my letter, it occurred to

me that,

ind addition to the sources I suggested,
the Institute for Laboratory

Washington, 0.0.
2101 Constitutﬁion Ave fur
L/ /\

s a record,

you could write

Animgi Fesources,

g/h" ”""/
help. This Institute compile

in booklet form,

available

animals.

of xii dealers of lab.

8 of dealers in your areaﬁ

Write and ask for We
National Academy

This Institute is part at the

of Sciences.

 




NATIONAL DOG REGISTRY

Box 55
Stanton,New Jersey 08885

 

(201) 236-2244

DOG REGISTRY ANNOUNCEMENT

 

 

The National Dog Registry is now in operation. Its
purpose is to reduce the traffic in stolen dogs, and to
expedite the identification of lost, strayed, injured or
dead dogs.

Participating dog owners follow this procedure:

(I) The owner has his Social Security Number

tattooed in the RIGHT GROIN of his dog.

(2) He then files his number, name, and address,

with the National Dog Registry.

Anyone finding a dog so tattooed, alive or dead, or
discovering himself in possession of such a dog, no matter
how acquired, is requested to notify the National Dog
Registry immediately, giving the tattoo number and a
general description. The National Dog Registry will then
promptly advise the owner whose responsibility it will
be to take the necessary steps and to assume the expenses
of recovering his dog. The National Dog Registry serves
only as a channel through which the identifying infor—
mation is filed and transmitted.

The National Dog Registry earnestly solicits your
c00peration in helping return these singularly identifi—
able animals to their owners from whose care they were
lost, strayed, or stolen. We also request that labora—
tories refuse to accept dogs who bear a scar in the
right groin where a tattoo might have been obliterated,
since it is a reasonable presumption that such an animal
has been stolen.

 




W

r

v f ., .- f
(2.4/51- 6-"“/ L“ AW 1*»
j
4300 QUE LANE N. \V.

 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

October 24, 1964

Mrs. Christine Stevens

President, Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York, N.Y.

Dear Christine:

The presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal
was a high honor, which I shall always cherish. This
I have expressed to you many times. Also an several
occasions I have mentioned that the accompanying usual
@500 honorarium came as a complete surprise to me. My
impulse at the moment of presentation was to ask you to
use it for Animul'helfare Institute work. Instead, I
indicated that the funds would be used by me for alleviation
of animal suffering. My expenses in the past and, I assume,
again in the future,as I try to correct inhumane conditions,
are not light.

But as a writer, particularly for newspapers and
magazines, I believe my position is such that the Award
would be best confined to the beautiful medal with its
meaningful inscriptions and to your gracious thought
behind it.

This is particularly true in View of the pending
legislation to protect laboratory animals and the past
pattern of unscrupulous attacks on proponents of effective

legislation by the National Society for Medical Research.

 




:3 00 QUE LANE N. W,

WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 O 0 O 7

The ViCiousness of N.s.m.n. officials and their associates‘
attacks and many mis-statemants in rebuttal to my North
American Newspaper alliance series on laboratory animals
in July, 1963 is a case in point. Passage of effective
legislation in this fast-grcwing, relatively unsupervised
field must not be jeopardized by N.S.M.R. diversionary
attacks along the line of me being a recipient of an honorarium
of any amount from any humane group. I would not have the
time or energy to combat their charges and implications -~
but they could not go unanswered. With the upcoming legislative
battle, the N.a.M.R. may stop at nothing. The tragedy is that
many respected doctors and scientists do not understand the
tactics being~employad by that group. Perhaps the knowledge
of one of the reasons I am not using the Schweitzer honorarium
may have some effect.

Your Animailwelfare Institute does a magnificent job.
You, virtually single-handed, have helped to araken thousands
to abuses that must be corrected. You have financed much
of this from your own resources. lou may find the enclosed
1963 Schweitzer honorarimm beneficial in carrying on your
work.

Again, my deep appreciation for the honor you gave

paid me. And you have my continued good wishs

Sincerely,

o,h’
.. ,v" . x
f . ma!"
_,5;9ﬂ4 -

\

Ann Cottrell Free

 




y 4500 Que Lane, N. W.
., ‘ Washington, D. C. 20007

June 16, 1964

Dear Christine:

The last information report was extremely inter-
esting. I was glad to see that you drew attention to
Mrs. Harrison's book and Rachel Carson‘s introduction.

I ordered the book from England several months ago after
reading several chapters in the London Observer. Now
the Observer is running letters pro and con.

The plight of battery chickens here has never
had the attention it deserves. But there are so many
dreadful things going on.

Peyton Dunn had a letter in the Washington Post
the other day, which you probably know about, criticizing
the new monkey cages at NIH. They were much better in
the old days, she said. Her description of the cramped
conditions were very moving. waas astounded that Dr.
Gay and Dr. Eyestone would do anything like this. I
want to look into this further.

Kenneth Roberts is back and is still anxious to
see some signs of administration support of this legislation.
Do you have any further informationpin view of Liz telling
Betty that the Bresident was for it. That is really a
great break though; but has H.E.W. gotten the message? I'd
like to talk with you on the lay of the land in View of
these new developments. W ith Roberts and Hill being for
some type of legislation I should think we would be in
good shape.

I haven't been doing much writing on these subjects
recently as I had so many other obligations that were hanging
over me. But perhaps one of these days, I'll get caught up.

I am enclosing a story in the Washington Post on
Dr. Schweitzer and my reply. There's a book "Verdict on
Schweitzer" coming out seon.

Its wonderful that you're coming to Washington. Did
you get the house in Georgetown? It would be good to talk
to you in a more leisurely way once in a whileE

Yours,

‘ [M “r"

 




a,

ELM “BORN FREE," BASED ON HER BOOK OF
THE SAME IIILE, IS GREATLY TROURLEDWBY LIVE LIONS COMING SO NNCN IN
VOGUE. p._-* .ﬂ.‘éﬁ;cAI.-,...III I , 6
(THIS DNUSDAL IILN WILL‘QE’INII IN NOSI CIIIES ON MAY 24. )
EJSING A LIVE LION IO DRAW AIIENIION ID A RRODDCI IS A DEDASENENI
OF EVERYIHINC I HAVE NRIIIEN--IN IA CI, EVERYTHING IOR WHICH I AN
LIVING,“ SHE SAID ~ON, IRE EVE OI RER DERARIURE FOR HOME, RR; R IS IN
KENYA GAME PRESERVE.
~~NODEL DIIIEN~~
SDI ROINIED IO THE LION, USED IO RNDLICIIE CEANANV'S BAVARIAN NDIOR
WORKS (CAPS D,N,w> CARS AI THE INIERNAIIONAL AUIONODILE SHON RREDIEN
IN NEN YORK RECENTLY. GOADED AND PRODDED IO COME OUT OI IIS CAGE
A SECOND IINE IO ROSE NIIN A PRETTY YOUNG MODEL, THE CONFUSED LION
SUNK IIS TEETH INIO THE MODELfS INICN. IRE-MODEL, NELL INEODALD, IS
STILL NOSRIIALIEED; ' I '
”I AM NOSI GRATEFUL,“ JOY ADAMS ON SAI D AS  SRE DERLORED IRE INCIDENI,
"THAT THE ANERIC AN RRESS' DID NOI BLAME IRE LISNc IRE LION SHOULD

NLEQNS IoR THE RRONOICI N

ASIA ERS NERE

:W?

EMA L. L

I

.h

ISL-AN... 4...; ._.,-... LE..-

 

 




     
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 

L‘

«- NANA-7 ADD ONE; REE-ANIMALS
IHIs 20D, VISITED BY NILLIDNS DE TOURISTS ANNUALLY, Is IN THE MIDST
NF 32~EENR PROGRAM DESIGNED To SERVE ENE BEST NEEDS OF BOTH INMATE~
DEAsrs AND SPECTAIDENHANA THEE LIDNE NILL HAVE LARGER QUARTERS AND AN
IIS ENPECIALLY SAFETY~CDNSCIDUS AFTER
;IEILE GIRL NED SLIPPED THROUGH A RAIL~

'A~IHE LIONS“ DAAEA NAN INESE CAGES ARE

..
‘1:
‘l

As DELL As BARS AND WARNING SIGNS«~<CAPS>
'TENDDD ADNDAPSI~~AEE EVENINHEAE.

».A, _ DENT TO HELP NILD ANIMALS IN CAPIIVITY, JOY ADAMS DN
HA, Is DEDICAIING HEN LIFE AND EARNINGS FROM THE MOVIE AND HER BOOKS~~

I DEAD BY MILLIONS IN 2: LANGUAGE5~~T0 PRESERVING THE LIFE AND

A?” FREEDOM OF NILD ANIMAL§“IN.HER PART 0E KENYA.~ TO THIS END, SHE H s

 

 

I

a

 

 
 
    
  
 
 

 

 

ll

,;  ESTABLIsHED THE ELSA NILD ANIMAL APPEAL (ENAA) TO MAINTAIN THESE

\

CD SANCTUARIESA (CONTRIBﬂWIQNS ARE ACCEPTED'IN THE APPEAL'S (CAP 9*.)

.ggfi NAME BY THE HDALD NILDLIEE FUND (wwr) AT 1816 JEFFERSON PLACE N. w.,
L' ‘ WASHINGTON, DACA) '
~~ANIMALS HELP NAN--
”NOT ONLY MUST wE SAVE NILD ANIMALS IN AFRICA FOR THEIR DAN SANA
FROM PDACHEAS AND THE SPREAD or UAAANIZATIDN; NE MUST SAVE THEN DnA
STUDY IN THE WILD TO LEAD N ABOUT DUASELVES,' THE AUSTRIAN~BORN

E~’

MINENAE‘IISDNDSID IAN—A

I 2-.
AA, - ' ‘ f I‘ . A _v .- :9“ '1'. ., '3
. V ‘; ,- ‘ . ' > *".',~ ‘0‘“

 

4

   
    
    

        

  
       

M D S T

 
 

5 AA:
,;ILY AND LATER DIED OF
AN ID MRS. ADAMS ON, AND

 
 

     
   

)
.4

   

 
   

;¥DDES DDT CONE




x a‘ ‘ .
umVlC‘

V
y

1'» 1
one 11111.". ‘1

.13 'q"
\1 J. .

.Li

1;
, n -
.15le

I(~IL\_,LJ

11

«
r

2 ‘3 n1

-v

0:

u
(1’ fl
wd.

A

11 owner. anc

.~

V a
1,?»

his 0 '11

3
Us (‘1‘
'lle u

d

,

\
t

1131

.1-_ .
s '_; “u
4.: 'AK/

111

’10 1 WC

1

J.
1
A

138

4’ r «W ,' .
1311‘”):

A:
._,

.1

w
l

nut doc:

~
~

,I'
4.

’-~; #1 /\' 'GA
LLL.

:10"

I.

x)

C,

‘:
,.,,~\..V ‘
‘7‘. ‘1l\«~\.l

v

; not 0:;-

\‘ﬂ

1,)? .

.“1'
V
1.

‘ ~ “‘11 «1
11.1 111..

VI- {N11
110 1013'

L)

CU. f 1" 011‘

ki'if
U.L{

1.,

lit"-

I

\

,' 1'3
V,

1133111

A

fw‘ V‘-

“111

her”.n
i 11’:

I.
(,5

,¥,._

(1153:1131

Ina

'18 11138

5
1
t ,

-.‘T

0 1.

118

a «:1'
\1, \ ) l.

L

1

31311511171011

211;,1y to c1 ;_,

.. 17.

’r
V.

o p p

.‘
k

er-

Tn
1, “1

’1

- , 1 A
, ‘./ I
LL 1 AL

I

,.
(LC.

h“
L) .

r11:

4

A V“
.L Ail

1
A

rud, a

P

7NV‘~V
LLI

C ,

L
1

a
0.

2:11 the 1:11:11,
1 —
o o r

C
’7‘

M

t1: a ti)"

‘rp

»' .’ i

..w1.vl..4
mm: )x
{1\L'1L

w .i.
.1 ’

’t
z) m

A 11-.

J ' "ﬁ’
(_t;f._Z1n; ‘

311

1

'1“
A“.

5-1
1

1mm?
3| L"

n
‘

6y ('\‘ r
Q ~ -.
\J ‘J'

1' .

1.— 1?
f.
1.

5‘9-1.

"1 \
‘w

I

~vw'.~~,. v-Iu—

7‘-
“J

'{1

‘ .
I (..I
KL V v

I- n 41! “7‘
C1. 1. 1:,

L

ALL

 

,' v

.. A fit .11” T [1th
'v ‘ ’ ""‘- 1 ’1 t
Kr‘ u\,, 3.x $11.?‘V7’1L

1"! 1" 1’:
M J-

I

H A vwv

.(‘41

’1

«tacky, March 2, 1966

 

/

I

9: Jidué'jgt;

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,

22 Easi |71h Shee’r
New York 3, N. Y.

/ OR 54069

will sen her: 2-L33-5gh-ug5-E;b—E;9-5,lm-3

lO-S;ll~5; 12—1 and 12—5. Also 8th annual
renort because that tells of the awqrds

to Humphreyrl Poage,not mention d in I.R.

 




4500 QUE LANE N. w.
WASHINGTON 7, D. C.

May 7, 1964

Dear Stell:

Just a note to let you know I followed up
best I could on the Savannah Youth Museum situation
about which a Mrs. Swanberg wrote you.

I wrote hers myself -- but More important
I asked Michael Frome to help. He is an expert
on roadside zoos etc. and is even writing a
book or article about conditions along this line
in N.C. Happens he had friends in Savannah

~ I am enclosing letter from its v.p.
106$ Ola/x

Also I asked Hazell Harris of Defenders of
Wildlife to send material.

Whenever you can get to it, it would be
a nice thing to get together the pictures or
"write-ups" in the hn info. report or the
press release on all your Schweitzer Medallists.
Glen Everett, who keeps in contact'winhthe

Les Amis d' Albert Schweitzer in “lsace wanted to
send just my write up etc. hmﬁxixx to their
permanent collection of Schweitzerana, so I
suggested that the AWI furnish material on all.
435 ﬁrst” ,4" 04m W0“ m 9 -

You can send to him at the National Press
Bldg. Hehdoes books, articles, newswork and until
recently was corr. for Religious News Service.

Very friendly to our workl g
P.S. May I have some Yours, I

«‘2
extras of the last info. T€?01tf

f
{I L t: v

 




Ii
s
V Jl’f‘smutaiztlunz [Tum

ANN COTTRELL PIECE—Z

l’mé“ a: (Cﬂ/frv ///7
74 me, J //ﬂU

7*:[11'10/7 ,QC/v/é C
Li) mf gm #4411. - (“CK/21 L0

m/ (Ma/e, Coll/MW] W
Wm M» ”U“ U
J ‘ “2&1: ﬂoat/WWW)
W W W Mm

CHM“ ‘

 




‘ y/ A)
ale/{L ,.

4500 QUE LANE N. w.
WASHINGTON 7,13. c. , 'L/VV‘V
a; May 4, 1964 M
Dear Christine:

Welcome home. Your return was timed
just right to the beagles of the White House.

*3.
We can be glad for Kenneth Roberth)

willingness to speak out this way. Not 9
many committee chairman would do so, I am sure.
Not it is up to the rest of us to carry the

ball to the White House.

A signal from LBJ onld certainly
prompt HEW to take a second look —- and, if
nothing this session, get things smoothed
for early next. Sen. Bill was most cordial to
the idea when I saw him recently.

I hope you can get your friends at the
‘White House to bring up this lab. animal problem

with the Presiient as many of us are doing.

I am sending the clipping to Liz Carhenter and
Betty B. has also sent word that the lab.
animals are in the most trouble of all.

Hope to see you soon.

Y,urs,

 




 
 

\

1

Over the past few months,
Americans across the. land have
been sickened by tales of horror
in the treatment of dogs, ‘cats,
and other pets by unscrupulous
animal dealerswho sell them to
research laboratories for experi-
mental purposes. It’s estimated
that nearly 2 million dogs and
half a million cats are bought
each year by “Big Research” at
a cost of more than $30 million.
More than half are stolen.

CITY FINAL
9: *

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

WASHINGTON (NANA) —' On
some mornings the well-dressed,

.clean-shaven six-footer left fat

the office just like many other
family breadwinners in subur-
ban Washington. But other morn-
ings, he would leave unshaven,
roughly dressed in jeans, cow-
boy boots and worn windbreaké
er. And the neigthrs wondered
— and whispered.

The Weather Ahead
Clear, cold tonight, low 25-30.

Mostly sunny. tomorrow, high in 405.

 

I
1‘

99th Year —- No. 277

4 I. file Traces Pe‘ taupers Dis

Something hush-hush, they fig-
ured, but what?

Ian Hogan, 26, was on his way
to get the goods on dog and
cat dealers and thieves preying
on pets of thousands of Ameri-
‘can families, and the sensibili-
ties of millions more.

IN PARTICULAR, he was
after dealers who mistreat ani-
mals — obtained for sale to

 

   

_NEw TEEN QUEEN

  
 
 

 
 
 

.......

  

   
  

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IDEAL SENIOR _. The newi’America’s Junior Miss,

Diane Wilkins, 18, talks on telephone in Mobile, Aid,
to friends back home in tIIhe Milwaukee suburb of.

Wauwatosa Wis,

as she starts her official reign as,

nation’ 5 ideal high school senior girl She was named
the 1966 Junior Miss during pageant finals over the

.weekend in Competition with 49 other girls.

Telephoto)

(UIPI

 

,

 

 

 

 

years,

Fear Bed Shortage

Meditare Seen Taxing
North Hudson Hospital

By ARNOLD FREILICH

pital, Weehawken,

The administrative and medical staffs of North Hudson Hos-
are preparing for an expected influx of

patients when the medicare prograim goes into effect July 1.

The hospital estimates a 15 to
20 per cent increase in admis-
sions under the new federal
medical aid to the elderly.

ALTHOUGH in the past four
through .. rebuilding and
renovation, the hospital’s capac-‘
ity has increased from 120. to
150. beds, officials feel a serious
shortage of beds will result.

But it is not merely the in-
troduction of medicare that is
creating the problem, according
to Albert R. Sargent, adminis-
trator. -

He, said that, with the refusal

of. the Jersey City Medical Cen-I-

,Iter to accept out-of-town pa-
tients and welfare and indigent

cases, the burden of caring for

these cases from the six North
Hudson municipalities is falling
on the hospital

HE SAID there has also been
prdssure brought to re- establish
many clinics formerly conduct-

' ed by the haspitah

To meet the expected in-
crease in admissions. and serv-

ices, Sargent. proposed at last

week’s annual meeting of the
hospital’s ,board of governors

that a new hoSpital be built to,

double the size of the present

\ , 0118. He said the present hos-

—

 

pital should be maintained and
suggested a program to utilize
both buildings.

Sargent said the new hospital
would not have to be built near

the present institutioh- and that.

it could even be erected in an-'
other municipality.

HE SAID that the new North
Hudson Hospital’s health center
should provide means to treat
children with birth defects and
patients suffering from strokes;
that the public health nursing
service should be a division of
the hospital;
provided to train doctors, nurses

and technicians; and that _there '.

be formed a psychiatric in-pa-
tients department, a mental
health center for out-patients; a
diagnostic and treatment cen-
ter, including a cancer detec-

tion unit; a short-term conval- .

escent home for the elderly and
for children and a long-term
chronic disease unit.
Meanwhile, a meeting of North
Hudson mayors called for Fri-
day was advanced to tomorrow

in the office of Union City Mayor"

William V. Musto. The mayors
have been meeting on the North
Hudson Hospital financial Isit-

uatigi.

. /

 

    

Whelan

Summons

Solons
SaysCify Faces

Fiscal Ruin

Council.

“Rising taxes and the mount- .
ing ' costs of government are _

wrecking our economy, and if
we don’t act now there will be
no hope left for our taxpayers
who pay the bills,” Whelan said.

HUDSON’S three state sena-
tors and six assemblymen were
invited by Whelan to meet with

‘ him in his office at 10 am. Fri-

day and the Icouncilmen were in-
vited to a 3 ' p.m. meeting the
same day.

“For the sake of the people we

represent, we must all put aside

that education be .

petty political jealousies and
present a solid and united front

' in this campaign,” Whelan said.

He said the meeting With the
legislators would deal with
means of offsetting the “crip-
pling impact” of a $3 million
loss in railroad taxes this year,
which alone would account for
a $7 increase in the local tax
rate.

AT THE MEETING with the
councilmen, Whelan said he will
make a strong plea, for gov-
ernmental unity. “The peo-
ple have already reached the sat-
uration point in taxes, so we
must find ways of cutting the
costs of government while still
improving services, and we can
do this only by working togeth-
er,” Whelan said.

The reduction in railroad tax
assessments, announced Friday
in Trenton, would cost 10 Hud-
son County communities $4,428,-
773, with two-thirds of the loss
sustained in Jersey City.

For two and one half years,

‘Whelan warned about the im-

pending shift of the tax burden
and about the still pending pos-
sibility of 100 per cent revalu-
ation which would add more tax
burdens to homeowners.

 

'Ea5y. to Find

Wonderful World of Animals, Crossword P‘uz-_. I’si'
zle, Little People’s Puzzle, Horoscope, Word
Game and Dennis the Menace appear on page
14. The Column is on page 5, and Fortune,

Finder is on page 7.

Lenten Guidepost

They loUghed at Hans Christian Anderson.
bur world now reads his stories,

Jersey City fireman

,Also in Today's Journal:

CLASSIFIED 21425
COMICS 15
EDITORIAL 8
OBITUARY 7, 9
SPORT ' 19.21

 

On those unshaven days, Dec--

Second' Class Postage
Paid at Jersey City. N.

“Jersey City faces sudden

and members of the Qty “ ‘

   

research labs — through 116
lect and virtual starvation. '

This hard-to-uncover evidenc I
often/1 hidden away off co ’
roads, is helping to speed in
law provisions of 27 bills in‘tri.
duced in Congress. SuCh legisl
tibn will curb “petnaping”

compel dealers — and posbibll' .1
research facilities, too — I,

meet government standards 11;)
kindness and decency. None '5"
these bills, as presently vmrd‘v'If'} _

:‘5'

J.

’ affects the use of animals under
aCtual eXperimentation. (Other
bills have been introduced to
regulate this phase.)

5.5 “I figure,” the lanky New

YOrk-born Hogan told two con-
ﬁfessional committees recently,
that half the dogs supplied by
dealers are stolen.” He admits
e cannot prove this, because
animals, unless tattooed, carry
119- permanent identification.

SERVING the Humane Society.

of the Unit-ed States for seven
months as a special inv tigator
in the guise of a do dealer

”and thief, Hogan has traveled

35,000 miles in 16 states. He
has visited dealers, dog and' cat,
auctions, and . mingled with.
members of a new underworld-
brought into being by tax-sup-~
ported “big research’s” demand
for dogs and cats.

Nearly "two million dogs and
some half million cats are being
acquired at the cost of more than

a"? tram (whether

i Monday, March 28 1966

l

{I1

1 *5! ,1” Pl

7 «rat-5‘39

Ted as Dog Dealer an ”’9’

$30 million annually, according
to estimates of humane societies
and members of Congress.

When Hogan, a former restau-
rant operator and father of two
pre-school children, took the job
he had no previous experience in
humane, work. He admits, “I
was a bit skeptical of those
seemingly fantastic claims of
cruelty to animals.”

BUT HIS very earliest reports.
to HSUS chief Frank MacMahon‘,

 

  

 

   
 
 
    
     

   
    
 

 
 
  
  
 

 

  

 
 

CAN IT HAPPEN Tb THEM? __
and bulldog are reperted’l)

scrupulous animal dealers

y Pets like this cat
{being kidnaped by un-
I’n'd sold to experimenters.

    

C

Tales of horror about brutal treat-ment of pets for
research purposes have reached Congress, which

deliberatinng bills to stop

’petnqping.’

 

 

/ Heroic Fireman ..

I smoke-filled apartment. Page 6.

Mrs. Ghandl'
In CapItaI

WASHINGTON (UPI)—Mrs.i
Indira Gandhi, prime minister
of India, arrived in Washingtdh
today with a full portfolio of
problems -- most of them eco—
nomic—Ito discuss with President
Johnson.

The two-day state visit to thé
capital of the world’s most.
powerful democracy by the
leader of the world’s largest
democracy was to begin With

an official White House welg -'

come. Mrs. Gandhi flew from
Paris to the United Statés
yesterday, spending the night at
historic Williamsburg, Va.

She and the President, Whom.

she knows from previous U.S:.
visits and from a Johnson trip
to India while he was vice
president, were to begin their

talks soon after her arrival ”at;-
the White House.

SSE

, v
I .
' if:

\"

|
‘In

.I
s
I;
in
b
13’!

~15

 

rescues girl, 6, froth:
. i
TELEVISION "‘jf
THEATER. , , .

THE COLUMN any
WEATHER ‘ .5
\ WOMAN'S f] If:

. Page 10. '1

  

I
S

 

I To Propose Ordinance

352' 5 Pound

Mayor Wants New Board Red Targets
To Seek Ald‘I‘” To Head Medical Center

Mayor Whelan will present to the City Council next week an
ordinance to form a board of managers to operate the Jersey
Medical Center. “I want to remove once and for all the political

stigma the hospital has borne far
years and provide the best medi-
cal care possible at the least
Cost to the taxpayers,” Whelan
said today.

AS THE city’s chief executive,
Whelan would automatically be-
come a member of the board,
as would Finance Director Law-
mice J. Camisa. This is in ac-
co'rdance with the state legisla-
tion enabling a governing body
to organize a board of managers
for a municipal hospital.

The board, provided the mea-
Sure is approved by the coun-
Cil, would consist of not less
Ithan five or more than 12 mem-
bers Appointments to it would
be made by Whelan subject to
council approval.

Whelan said he has not yet
determined how large the board
Will be, and, if he has any ap-
Pointees in mind, he did not
name them. “Those chosen,” he
said, “will be community lead-
ers, persons whose integrity and
ability can not be questioned
and who have already demon-

strated their willingness to work

;.hard and to make sacrifices for
the people of Jersey City. They
Will make the Medical Center
a top-notch hoSpital.”

MEMBERS of a board of man-
agers of a municipal hospital

.must be residents of the com-.

”munity, according to the state
S,tatute‘ and Serve without com-

See HOSPITAL — Page 9

R

9- Year-Old Glrl

Becomes Mother

JOHANNESBURG (UPI)
An African girl said to be only
nine years old gave birth to a
baby at a hospital 30 miles east
9f here, it was reported today.

The girl, who came from the-

nearby town of Brakpan, and
the baby were reported well.
The baby was delivered by

Caesarlan section. ' . .

.’

 

60 Years

Later

Richard Dadaian of 3502 Park
Ave., Weehawken, and Charles
Trafficante of Union h a v e
worked side-by—side in the com-
posing room of The Jersey Jour-
nal for the last 15 years. This
weekend they discovered they
were born on. the same day—-
July 5, 1906. Trafficante was
born in New York; Dadaian, in
Armenia.

 

Showers Due

‘Wednesday?

The beginning and endof ‘this
Week will be cold with modera-
tion during the middle,
weather bureau said today in an
extended outlook.

“Precipitation may total one-
tenth of an inch or less, occurr-
ing as showers mainly about
Wednesay,” the bureau said.

The immediate forecast called

for a low temperature of 25-30-

degrees tonight, a high in the

_mid-40s tomorrow and milder

conditions Wednesday.

 

Longer on Friday

CHICAGO (UPI) — Persons
who enter a hbspital on . a Fri—
day tend to stay longer than
those admitted on any other day
of the week, an official of the
Blue Cross Association said Sun-
day. .

| TODAY 5 CHUCKLE |

What we need is not a more
elastic currency, but a more ad-
hesive one. _

 

    

I causing

. the-

was reported killed. ‘

Three Times

SAIGON (UlPI) —- U..S B52
bombers. today staged three
massive raids on Viet Cong
targets, including a strike in

support of US. Marine Opera-,

tion Jack Stay, the offensive
designed to secure Saigon’s
vital river link to the South
China Sea.

A US. military spokesman

said heavy monsoon weather
yesterday prevented carrier-
based Navy pilots from flying
any bombing missions over Com-
munist North Viet Nam. Air
Force pilots managed 18 mis-
sions over the North, but most
were radar-guided strikes with
no pilot visibility. .

There were few reported
demonstrations by anti-govern-
ment Buddhist students today
but a UPI survey. showed the
month - long I political unrest
caused by the ouster of a
popular Buddhist general was
skyrocketing inflation
in the key port of Da Nang.

One of the B52 raids today

was so close to Saigon that it,

rattled windows and shook the
ground in the capital. This has
been ' the case in several
previous . raids by .the eight-jet
Stratofortresses near the city.
Tons of bombs were unloaded
on suspected Cammunist troop
concentrations and a Viet Cong
factory area 20 miles southeast
of the capital in the Rung Sat
special zone

The other B52 raids were
against a Viet Cong, training
area 70 miles northwest of
Saigon and a suspected guerril-
la headquarters five miles
further north.

‘The' Rung Sat zone is the
region where thousands of US.
Marines stormed ashore. Satur-
day in .the southernmost. U.S.
landing of ”the war. The
Leathernecks, slogging through
the slime and muck of the
mangrove swamps on the Long
only sporadic sniper fire and
Thanh ,' IPeninsula, have met
light contact with the Commu-
nists. A handful of Communists

51.?

vi

body of a shapely blond {girl- 1 i

palice said. She attended school
~ in Newark. ' . .

I

a veteran of many raids on dog-I 1,

dealers, on his visits to dealers

carried paragraphs such as

these. .,
“I purchased two collie shep-
herds for three dollars. These
dogs were in small chicken
coops and when I removed them
they could hardly walk.

“Conditions were outrageous—.

"15 to 20 dbgs in five by six foot

bins —- little dogs in with the
See PETNAPLES 5- Page 5

 

5 cents

,_.

 

Find Teen
Half-Nude,
Dying

Left Her Home

2 Hours Earlier-
The blud‘geoned, "half-nude"

POLICE SAID. Miss Van i Oré
den apparently was home until
6:30 pm. yesterday, less than
two hours «before: her savagely
beaten body was found six feet
back from Porete Avenue, some
five miles north of ' her home.

Police had. few clues as they
took up the hunt for her slayer.

Two patrolmen making a rou-
tine check” stumbled onto Miss
Van Orden, her hands bound be-
hind her back, naked from the
waist down, and unconscious, ‘ at
8: 20 pm. '

SHE WAS RUSHED to West
Hudson Hospital, Kearny, where
she died at 10:10 pm. Without
regaining consciousness.

C. Q. Capt. Murphy Macaluso
said an autopsy showed Miss
Van Orden died of a skull frac-
ture, and that there was no evi-
dence of rape.

.WHEN FOUND, MiSs Van Or-
den was dressed only in' a bras-
siere, a blue flawered print
blouse and a black leather jac-
ket which reached to her hips.
Police theorized her other clothes
were removed by the assailant.

On her left hand was an in-
expensive gold ring set with two
small perals.

Police combed the immediate
area but found no other article ,
of clothing or property that
might have been the victim’s.

THE PRETTY Moot-5,105-
pound girl had been bashed re-
peatedly about the head with
some undetermined heavy instru-
ment and was bleeding frOm
multiple cuts when discovered
by Patrolmen Frank Dupree and
John Sullivan.

Police said her reddish blonde
hair was so saturated With blood
that they found it difficult to
determine, its color.

She was found near the. Hulls
Metal Manufacturing C0. The
spot is a lonely one at night
and, being almost entirely an
industrial area, is deserted on
weekends. '

 

Medicare Won't
Disclose Ages
Of AppliCanfs

Elderly persons, who cut years
off their age to get employment,
are hesitant about signing up
for Medicare because they think
they will get fired.

As a result, Social Security
persOnnel h a v e premised that
the applicatiOns for Medicare in-
surance Will remain strictly con-
fidential.

Thursday is the deadline for ‘
filing for the coverage, s’ched-
uled to begin July 1. Applica~ '
‘tions will not be accepted again
for another 18 months.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

r.-. s. #-

 

  
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 

 

'aﬁsocfﬁl‘vsaience major" '

'. Lake and honored at dance at-

—'.v-—vvv

 

 

 

By NAT BERG

Their FJrSI-Born

The Christopher A. Cooneys (he’s an electrician) of 236 Baldwin
Ave, Jersey City, named their firstborn Christopher A. Jr. . . .
Mrs. Kurt J. Méissner of 73-Bowers St., Jersey City, is back in town

~wearing. a Miami Beach tan . . Tom Spring Jr., Weehawken
High student, signed up for the US. Navy. He’ll leave for training
April 6. Tom’s four-year 1111313 will finish the day before his leI:
birthday . . 5 .John D. Guagliardo of 182 Webster Ave. ., Steel-
workers president of Local 3913, feted at dinner with committee

, bands, including Jersey City buddies Ferdinand J. Scerbo of 554

Palisade Ave, Fred Winters of 35 Melrose Ave., Richard Joyce of
39 Thorne St. and Frank D’Agosta of 439 Palisade Ave. .Sam
Colacurcio, Jersey City’s “Mr. Baseball,” spent last week in town.

‘ He drove back to his vacation place in Fort Lauderdale over

week-end.

     

lPalttd-Jean Me'Lellan John D. Guangzliardo

Sam Collacurclo

MILESTONES: Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hickman Sr. of 74 Nep—
tune Ave:, Jersey City, celebrating 35th wedding anniversary, and
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford McNalIy of 3 Heckm’an Dr. will be married
11 years April 7. Send congratulations.

POTPOURRI: Sister Rosarii, director of social services at
Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, listed in newly published fifth
editionof “Who’s Who Among American Women” . New radio-
.beer commercial voices: Hoboken mother—son team, ‘Eileen and
Jimmy Grogan . . . Add inseparable duos around the county:
Jersey City’s businessman Jack Steinman and legalite Israel Mis-
chel . . . Thomas Peterson Jr. of 121 Palisade Ave, Jersey City,
underwent surgery for removal of cataract from left eye. Send
get-well card to him at St. Francis Hospital.

Young ConcerI SoloisI

Teen-agar Antonio Favetta of
327 18th St., Union City, draws
soloist spot at Julliard School’s
spring concert May 8 . .. . Miss
Mildred Gilbert of 62 Bleecker
1'St., Jersey City, Dickinson High
science teacher and expert
skiier, celebrating a birthday.
'Send her a card . . Steve Le-
menille of 209 Washington St.,
elected Jersey City State College
sophomore class president. He’ 5
Carolyn Custy of 254 Columb1a 1
Ave, Jersey City, Bloomfield
College English major, practices
teaching at Clifton Senior High
. . . Mrs. Dorothy Cropley, for-
merly Jersey City, retired after
29 years’ teaching in Cupsaw

tended by more than 600 at
Ringwood Borough. She’s former
president of old Tioga Women’s
Club on West Side Avenue.

MILDRED GILBERT

NEWS IN BRIEF: Miss Elsie Alfonso of Danforth Ave, J er-
sey City, has a gift of a trip to Nassau for birthday present from
parents . . Miss Pati-Jean McLellan of Fair Haven, formely
11ersey'City, awarded scholarship to Mt. Aloysius Junior College,
resson, Pa. this fall. She’s a graduate of St. Paul’s grammar
chool-. , . Dr.' Harry LaBurt and Dr. William Layman, New
Jersey College of Medicine and Dentristry faculty members, attend

Conference of Northeastern Professors of Psychiatry at Univer—
ity of Rochester, N.Y., March 31 to April 2.

FROTHYFACTS: Send Bob Cutrillo of 47 Warner Ave, Jer-
ey City, patient at Gre'enville Hospital, get-well card. Hear
:bout well- known Union City restaurant that ran out of coffee at
eight of business? . Freeholder Barney Doyle of Jersey City
oined by Francis Dee of Hoboken in operation of Sophie’s New
orker, Five Corners catering outfit. ,5

Along Ihe Police Beaf

ALONG POLICE BEAT WITH LARRY BABICH: Jersey City
Police Department brass wondering why the fire department, with
seven new appointments, has 18 deputy chiefs while the cops
have none. Since the retirement two months ago of Thomas Dunn
and James McDonald the police have been operating without
deputy chiefs , . . Magistrate John J. Lemken will be toastmaster
tomorrow when Jersey City Police Anchor Club hosts a dinner
for representatives from police anchor clubs in New Jersey, New
York and Connecticut at Our Lady of Mercy Parish Hall. Detec-
tive Henry Gillen and Patrolman Edmund Keene are coichairmen
. . . Retired Jersey City Detective Ted Flanagan formely of
Bright Street shop, dividing time between Jersey City and Ocean
Gate . . . Charles Pritzlaff, son of Jersey City emergency squad
patrolman, an honor student at Newark College of Engineering,

sang with School’ 5 “Stony Brook Quartet” on Seton Hall Univer—
sity radio show. .Retired Jersey City Patrolman Frank Ziglear,
father-in— law of Policewoman Clara Ziglear, working with a law
firm in Newark . . . Retired Jersey City Patrolmanb Henry Grau-
Iich deep sea fishing in West Palm Beach, Fla, where he resides.
Retired since 1944, he has been a member of the PBA for 46 years.

an. Edwin Keno

I asze.4v11uoum damn. Int. 101111111211 Melisa

 

 

Continued

big, who ate up the food thrown
in —- usually slaughter— house en-
trails. ‘Some of the dogs were
' collars and ‘ license tags.

‘AT THE MANHEIM, P3,, dog

' cat auction, I saw dogs and cats

sold by the pound. One dealer,
known only as No. 10, purchased
about 20 dogs, 30 cats, several
guinea pigs, some rabbits, and
one goat for $131. Chicken crates
were used to store the animals
on the truck. As many as four
medium-sized dogs were placed
in one chicken crate.

“I saw a pointer with a vicious
looking gash on its hind quarters
that was shaking violently with
distemper. The dealer said the
wound would heal in a few days
and would be fit for lab use.
This fellow said he used to have
a $15,000-a-year contract with a
Baltimore hospital.”

Repeated visits to dealers as
a dealer-thief set the stage for
police raids. Captain Thomas S.
Smith, chief of the investigation
division of the Maryland state
police, told congressional com-
mittees he and his men, accus-
tomed “to crimes of violence,”
were “shocked and appalled.”
But raids, arrests, litigation,
.small fines, and appeals have
put few dealers completely out
of business.

' HOGAN explained how he fits
the pieces together in this huge
business that reportedly brought
one dealer $750,000 in one year’s
laboratory business — a dealer,

incidentally, against whom
cruelty charges have been
pressed.

“The way it is set up, research
institutions do not know which
dogs they are buying are stolen.
Some of their major suppliers
can pass their inspections. But
a major supplier, selling up to
1,500. animals a week, has to get
many of its animals on a “no-
questions-asked’ basis. They
come from middle-man dealers.
Middle-men may get their dogs
from county dog wardens and
‘runners.’ These fellows are
catch-as-catch-can types, who
pick up people’s pets for beer
and cigarette money. Of course,
middle-men drive out into the
countryside, especially around
here into the hollows of West
Virginia and Kentucky. They
pick up for free, or for a buck,
pretty much what they want.
But what a sorry-looking sight—
underfed, mange-ridden, sick.”

“Why,” Hogan was asked, “if
the turnover to labs is fast do
you find these starved, sick
creatures that apparently have
been 1 kept by dealers for,
weeks?” 1

\

, ‘SOME ARE too sick to offer,
or they have already been re-
acted Wthe labs-1”-
plained. “These bums keep them
around, hopping they ca‘ﬁ pass
them off in a job lot, like to
a med school, as “killer dogs.”
They figure anything breathing

I 1 is saleable.” “Killer dogs” are

usually gentle. They are killed
soon after arrival in labs for
immediate dissection, hence
their name.

Hogan told 'of the no-ques-
tions-asked policy as it affects
the top of the research pyramid
-—- the government’s National
Institutes of Health. He visited
NIH’s new animal farm at
Poolesville, Md., where dogs and
cats are put in condition for
research use. Though many of
its veterinarians oppose the
practice, NIH buys nearly $100,-
000 worth animals from dealers
annually. (Recently NIH reluc-
tantly released a dealer-obtained
dog to its owner, who claimed
it was stolen from his prop-

elrty)

SHOWING in word and ges-
ture he was after a buck and
cared nothing for animals, Ho-
gan sought out the procurement

veterinarian. Here’s Hogan’s
story: . 1
“Yes, I am the man you

want to talk to, but I wish I

could send you somewhere else,’

the vet said. Then he routinely
outlined NIH’s idealistic require-
ments for dealer care and hands
ling before delivery. I knew
from visiting their places that
some of the dealers he dealt
with didn’t qualify. He never
asked me for my references,

bacground, or anyhi'ng like that.

When he saw my pick-up truck
and asked how many dogs I
could carry, I said about 25 or-
30, medium-sized. The vet said,
1‘Well, if the humane society
ever catches you, they’ll have
you looked up.’ ”

Penalties in legislation that
Hogan’s‘ evidence is helping to
bring closer to law includes can-
cellation of federal licenses (to
day, not required) and fines, in
some bills, up to $10,000. '

The average fine, under state .
laws“ written before "‘big re-
search,” runs about $50. And
occasions of a man being locked
up for cruelty-to-animals are in
the class with “man-bites-dog”
—- rare indeed. 1

 

2,600 Employed

 

 

[Pelnoppmg Is Big Busmess in Ills U. S

 

A CRUEL BUSINESS —— oval $30 million a year is
reportedly spent by experimenters and researchers for
kidnaped pets. Over two million dogs are kidnaped
annually, reports say. Dogs such as this one, are
stolen by unscrupulous ahlmol dealers and are sold
for profit. 1:

.3:

 

 

 

Comparisons ,
Salaries oI f...;ersey Judges
Among BBSIIII Country

New Jersey judges are among the best salaried in the country,

according to an American Judicature Society survey The survey
shows that, generally, jud’ges salaries depend (in the states’ popu-

 

 

lations. But New Jersey is ahead
of other states with similar popu-
la-tions.

COUNTY JUDGES in New Jer-
,. 59y do not contribute to their
1"pensions and receive 50 per cent

he» ex- -~

HIGHEST paid judges are in”

New York; lowest, in North Da-
kota.

The top judge in New York
receives 1a salary of $412,000 a
year, $2,000 more than the US.
Supreme Court chief justice. The
New Jersey chief justice re-
ceives $32,000. A New Jersey as-
sociate justice of the Supreme
Court gets $31,000. In North Da-
kota the highest paid judge gets
a $14, 000 salary plus $1,000 ex-
penses.

The two states with popula-
tions closest to that of New Jer-
sey, Michigan and Massachu-
setts, pay their top judges $25,-
500 and $28,000 respectively.

..3: Milli I ; l -rm ,1 .

erior and county) judges are
paid $27,000 in New Jersey. Dis:
triot court judges and juvenile
and domestic relations court
judges receive $25,000. Municipal
court magistrates earn from $50
to $9,750.

All New Jersey judges receive
retirement benefits.

Supreme court judges must re-
tire at 70. Pension eligibility is
determined by the time a judge
served on the bench and the
age at which he retires. He con-
tributes 10 per cent of the dif-
ference between the annual sal-
ary paid before July, 1965, and
the salary at retirement. The
pension is 75 per cent of the

of their annual salary. Lower
court judges’ contributions to
their retirement payments are
actuarially determined and their
pensions are determined by the
11,. her of years they spent on
‘ bench and their final sal-
apes.
ifgetireonent benefits of the two
.. ilar-sized states, Massachu-
ts and Michigan are some-
' - better. Massachusetts

     
 

 

{aid c.2118 countries since 1948.

 

°°'" SKINNY

Don' t be thin. skinny

Ing desired pounds and
inches of welcome
.easier than

full of weight-gaining
calories. vitamins,
. minerals Iron quick
energy elements and
other weight-building
nutrients Fast weight

 

of 5440-15 unds andm DO-I'ted
Caliggks bustllne, $08.8 thighs and 0all the nobody
should develop. So don’ t be skinny! Get new
Si: or ‘Hato-On lst purchase
sat ﬁes or return to store for refund.
3 Flavors: STRAWBERRY- BUTTER“: SC-DICII BANANA
Super WATE-ON I.I OUID (pun: «TABLETS (SQ—4.50
ROIIIIII WATE 0N LIQUID (gt) a TABLETS (SD—3."

 

annual salary at retirement.

 

was—on

 

 

 

    

COUPON GOOD MON

 

 

 

HOMEFAIR
COUPON SALE
TCLIP THIS coupon
NOXEMA-f

MlEDICATED INSTANT

SHAVE BOMB
HOME FAIR

,. 2844 Kennedy Blvd» .GI' Journal Sq.

     
  

IIII...

6‘04;
Largo II oz. Con

.3129

,1, “was. & ewsb. ONLY

 
 

. -‘ 1'1’1’1’1’1’1’1’1’1 1’1’1’1’1’1’1’1’111’1

 

 

 

 

 

 

GIANT 20 OZ

COUPON GOOD MO

HOM1-1

2844 W'Kennedym Bl;

  
 

 

'°~-'1’l’l’1’l’~1 1'1’1’1’1’1 1’1 1’1 1’1' III ’5’? I

  

DECORATED PURE Milli

CHOCOLA;
MBUNNY g
N

    
 
   
   
 

’1’1’1’1’1’1 "1'1 do I’m

 

  

‘.

.....-G

on»

44.

177'

Reg. $2.98
Tues. a. wee. ONLY

‘1 FAIR

-. or "gJournul 'Sq.'

   
 

'E

   

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

SIudy Bill

1 Getting O.K.

By Speci Correspondent

TRENTO — The Assembly
was expected to approve today a
bill creating a 15-n‘1ember bi-
partisan commission to‘ study

’ county and municipal govem-

ment.

The bill, sponsored by Sen.
William V. Musto of Union City,
provides for the commission to
report its recommendations to
the legislature next January.

.ASSEMBLY Speaker Maurice

V. Brady of Jersey City pre-
dicted lower House approval of
the measure, adopted by the Sen-
ate Feb. 14. The bill appropri-
ates $5,000 for the study, sought
by Musto for years.
1 A 12-member anti-obscenity
study commission would be au-
thorized 1n another bill certain of
Assembly approval today. Pass-
.ed- by the Senate Feb. 7, it
was, introduced by Mrs. Mildred
Barry Hughes, D-Union, and co—
sponsored by Musto.

Veterans organizations would
be allowed to use profits from
bingo games and raffles to ac-
quire, erect and maintain head-
quarters buildings under another
bill headed for Assembly pas-
sage today. Assemblyman John
J. Fekety of Bayonne and John
A. McLaughlin of Kearny are eo-
sponsors.

THE SENATE is ready today
to adopt a bill that would post-
pone the June 7 primary election
to Sept. 6, but it will be amend-
ed in the Assembly to make the
date Sept. 13 to avoid conflict
with the end of the Labor Day
weekend.

Senate President John A.
Lynch, D-Middlesex, said the pri-
mary will be held the second
Tuesday in September except in
presidential election years re-
quiring earlier primaries for
election of delegates to the na-
tional conventions.

The bill was introduced, in the

Senate last Wednesday.

THE SEPTEMBER primary
would eliminate the April 11
court-ordered deadline for
realignment of the,15 congress-
ional districts on the one man,
one vote principle, Lynch said.

It is a thorny issue, overshad-
owed by legislative preoccupation
with Gov. Hughes’ defeated in-
come tax bill.

1.1;—,'1,'n..‘ 1 .1; 1
, g . .

 

~'

5'.

Icebreaker Gets, ~11
New Home Port-

The Coast Guard will change

the home port of the 269-foot ices

breaker Westwind from Brooklyn
to the Baltimore area in May.

The cutter normally berths at
the New York Naval Shipyard

.....

in Brooklyn , ..

 

DIAMOND

 

 

 

722.31 .
ENGAGEMENT moo
. :11. H. MACY APPRAISAL $650.-

WATCH MART

2737 Kennedy Blvd.. .Id-rsey City 1
Stanley Thea. Building

 

SILVER

 

 

 

 

  

Your Roll Films DeveIOped

ENIARGMENT

POCKET ALBUM
THE LoWEsr rules
‘l 91:- “

WHEN FILM IS PROCESSED ‘

90 KODACOLOR PRINTS
R01)

14 JOURNAL S0 AT PUBLIC SERVICE TERMINAL

 

 

FASTER ssnvncs
Lowesr mess

    

INA

   

IN TOWN

 

OPEN 7.315.111-1011-1‘
we DELIVER '

City Metered Parking Directly In Front Of Our Door

 

 

whoreyour
money earns

 

DRIVE-IN BAN

 

 

 

omvr-oNsmx.

4

Here’s where ogo in Hudson County to?

There' Is a Neighborhood office near you in Jersey city'

 
 
 
 
 

Kennedy Blvd. Cor. Leonard SI.

 

 

 

  
 

 

  
    

a year

  
 

UNION cm? '

  
 

TRANSFER STATION

  
 

 

  
 
   
    
 
 
   

Blvd. cor. Leon’ard St.

 

 

    
 
 
 

  

  
 
 

MAIN OFFICE
239 Washington St. ‘ g
,9.
Bergen Ave. g
Cor. Harrison Ave. 1 ”:E .
f

 

; ' Commonly" Au.
1:11.11:ch m.

  
 

I

 

 
 

NJ. TURNPIKE

BAYONNE

   

    

. ADD POLICE FLASHES: Sgt. William Carroll, reelected for
an unprecedented fourth term as president of Jersey City Police
superior’s Association, will be sworn into/1 office on April 5 at
Ilvento’ 5 Others elected unanimously: John Geraghty, first vice-

1 president; Fred Stevens, second vice-president; Joe Hayes, finan-

‘ .cial secretary; Dick Larsson, recording secretary; Art Londigan,,
' Isergeant—at-arms‘, and Joe Quik and Larry Bearse, trustees . . .
Jersey City Sgt. James Hogan of Chief Joseph L. Smith’s staff
named ticket chairman for eighth annual dinner of the Detectives
Crime Clinic. The event is scheduled for May 11 in Paramus, with
news commentator Walter Kiernan guest speaker . .Brian Vic-
1 tor, son of . Jersey City Patrolman Thomas Victor of the record
room, won agold medal in the third grade class of the Hudson
County Science Fair . . . 'Chief Smith is one of nine Jersey City
police officers starting their 42nd year of duty shortly. The others
are Inspector Stephen Nestor, Lts. Thomas Hynes, J 01111 McNamara,
Charles Melisa, James Murray and Edwin Kelly and Detectives

1 William Carroll and John Yorawitz. ‘

.
'/ , ,.

1
,. , .. ~ .h’h‘ . I ’ '
“u . . ' . 1 ‘ 1 1 .
. 1 . ’ - ' \. . 1 , '
’ a ‘ . , . l
.1" 'l 1 . _ . ,

Kennedy Blvd. Cor. Gates Ave.’

The! Patent Office employs 2,-
600 people. Half of them are ex-
aminers and technical supervi-
sors.

 

    
 
 
 
 
 

   
  
  
   
 

 

Tf—iE THE OLDEST MUIUAL SAVINUb BANK IN NEW lll'tli

PROVIDENT

INSTITUTION FOR

BRAICIH'S

BEANS

COUPON GOOD M05.“

HOM 3 FAIR

2344 Kennedy BI 11 9" burned Sci

    

 

 

ADVERTISEMENT

HEARTBULWJMN.

I III

I'll: emu: big medicine in the little green roll

 

  Upeooo Account
all’RlIVIlIENl

safe Way to
GET RICH

  
   

    

   

14l/2-Oz. Bog
was awso. ONLY

    
 

HUDSON COUNTY lARGE-ST MUTUAL

BANKNM

SAVINGS ’
INSURED BY FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP

   
  

 

    
 

 

 

 
     

,9

  

 

 

M
.. VHWHV ”I In
“YIIII II IIII IIIIIIIIOZ ’

 

 

 

 

 




4500 Que Lane N. W.
Washington, D. G. 20007

April 4, 1966

Dear Christine:

Here are the copies of the Jersey Journal with
my recent NANA articles. The second two are rather
drastically out, not by NANA, though, but by the
Journal. There is a great deal more on Mayer in
the original with examples. Also more on Dorothy
and Fay. In the last one on Poage lots was left
out, including some well~aimed comments on the
NSMR and Mr. Rohweder. These were lack of space
cuts, I am sure.

I am enclosing a carbon ( rather fuzzy but
the best I have) of the article that the Saturday
Evening Bost kept 6 weeks, trying to make up its
mind. It is now at the Saturday Review, plus some
addenda on equating of animal lovers with pepple
haters. Even Barbara Ward ( Lady Jackson) fell
into this trap the other night, noting 20,000
letters to Congressmen on animal care and none
on food~for~peace. This was an unreported speech
to doctors and scientists on undeveloped countries.
Her analogy (sic) came to me from a scientist present,
who feels as we do. I thought you and Roger might
feel like reading this on your plane ride or while
vacationing -a or do you really intend to getway from
it ALL?

Sincergly,

. ,I'
, LIX/‘f, .,,,\
' '1 x’ i" .v
. .5 .9“, " ‘9 ii“
.5 ,I/

 




Q, ﬁf «VI;

7,7,.— "37, .

 




 

 

 

(Second of Three Articles)

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

Washington (NANA) —- I have
seen conditions that my con—
science won’t forget,” the slight
young man told a Congressional
committee in a barely audible
voice.

Ralph Mayer’s voice may
have been weak, and his knees
shaking. For he was telling of
scenes of neglect and cruelty
he had seen in his job as an
animal caretaker in a govern-
ment laboratory in Minneapolis.
And the next day he had to go
back and face his superiors.

Here is what he said:

“The condition of some dogs
at arrival is truly revolting. I
have seen dogs with no teeth,
broken and improperly set
jaws, mange, fleas, worms, ad—
vanced pregnancy, and nearly
blind brought in for experi-
ments.

“Upon arrival at the kennel,
all. dogs are numbered, and
their number is attached, to
them by means of a neck chain.

' Since dogs are often quite young
when they arrive, a small neck
chain is placed on them. I
know of three occasions where
dogs outgrew their neck chains.
and it went unnoticed until the
chain was actually imbedded
over 14-inch deep in the ani-
mal’s neck. On one occasion I
could not pull the chain out;
after cutting it The dog tore itl
out.”

REASON FOR TESTIFYING ‘

After the hearing, Mayer ire-.1I
vealed, after close questioning 1
why he spoke out J

‘ “My minister has preached
many times on the importance
of doing what your conscience:
tells you. I had complained of

.conditions several times to m\ .
superiors. They would <~ do noth \
ing Finally, I got in touch)
with a local humane society.‘

 

Animal Rescue League. She first

went on the warpath against
unscrupulous dealers 4 years
ago after visiting the biggest
dealers in the East. (Since then
he has been arrested for cru-
elty —— with Miss Brisk in on
the raid -- but it didn’t put
him out of business.) “The
stench that first day, the suf-
fering --— dogs jammed in to-
gether, big ones trampling lit~
tle ones. It was too much. I
knew then that something had
to he done.”

What. has been done since
Fay Brisk made this vow? For
one thing, Pennsylvania now
has a dog law .. passed by an
overwhelming majority —- that
requires licensing of all deal-
ers within the State.

For another thing, her detec-
tive work last summer trying
to locate a stolen dalmatian
became avcause celebre. It was
climaxed with the introduction
by Representative Joseph Res-
nick (D., N. Y.) of the first of
27 dealer-control bills. Her ac-
complishments are well known

 

The 25- --year -old farmer’s son
said also that he had been
brought up to treat animals as)
servants to be treated respect- I
fully. l

Ralph Mayer does not present 1
the only profile in courage ap l,
pearing before Congressionall

 

committees lately to protest
procurement and handling of
animals inside and outside lab-
orato-ries.

Another —— in fact, she’s the
woman who started the ball.
rolling on legislation to curb
dognappers -— is a government
career woman, Fay Brisk. She
spends many evenings and
weekends checking with deal-
ers, hospitals, police and hu.
mane societies, trying to l.o«
cate dogs whose distressed own-
ers have turned to- her. She
gets calls from all over. ,

“It’s like looking for a needle .
in a haystack,” she says. “Hos—
pitals don’t want stolen pets. but
on the other hand they are afraid
to admit they might have one.
So when I report that the dog
might be in their lab, some
-— but a very few —— will look
and see. Sometimes. we are
lucky.”

Miss Brisk, a trim, 100-
pounde-r in her 405, is also di-
rector of the Berks County, Pa.

' ‘N

 

 

 

to her legislative opponents
One of them pointed to her
after a Congressional hearing
the other day and proclaimed:
“There goes the dog dealers’
Mme de Farge.”

Another upstream swimmer

who has searched his conscience
and acted is Dr. Richard G
Pearce, a Detroit veterinarian,
His conviction that research in-
stitutions have in no way made
any concerted effort to clean up
deplorable conditions in dog
dealers’ establishments has
brought him to Congressional
witness stands several times.
“Dog dealer holding stations,"
he said, “are both Belsens and
Buchenwalds for animals.”
This tall, soft-spoken man
also told Congressmen: ""lt
grieves me that the main body
of opposition to this type of leg-
isllition comes from my veteri
nary and medical colleagues.”
Since he spoke, the American
Veterinary Medical Association
—— ‘silent when humanitarians
first spoke up —— has now moved
up to a position in favor of mod-

 

3

THE RECORD, TUESDAY APRIL 5,1966

Battle For Dog Humaneness Being Won

ifie-d dealer-research
control.

These are a few of the per-
sons who have put their careers
or their place in the establish-
ment on the line, Others have
not had that problem. But they
often put their lives on the line.

One such is Mrs. Dorothy
Dyce of Detroit. This blonde,
friendly consultant of the Ani-
may Welfare Institute was sick
ened by the appearance of mi
mals at Chicago research labs.
She systematically followed the
trail back to their source of
supply -the hill country of
Tennessee.

In a rented car she ventured
forth to the farm of a Roy
Hargrove. “Not a soul was there
but I found 125 (logs in a ram—
shackled building,” she said.
“Others were lying in the weeds,
some so sick they couldn’t stand.
None had food or water.” ,

When she watered the dogs
with a hose, “they knocked each
other down trying to get to the
hose.” Mrs. Dyce, busy feeding
and watering the hysterical crea—
tures, heard a car drive up. A

facility

 

 

man yelled, “Get out.” And
of courage was made indelible
that; October night —- heeded.
Biit she returned,
with law enforcement. officers.
The rest of the story will come
outjat the tiial of dog dealer
Hargrove in May

Tomorlow: Pending Iegislationl

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dorbthy Dyce —« whose profile ,

this time ‘




 

Waite inlauli firm

JAMAICA, N Y
D. 321,828 SUN. 377402

MAY 2 2 1965 53/45

BATTLE OVER ANIMAL CARE

Surgeon' s Blasf of Proposed Bill Sets Off Spark

,{By ANN COTTRELL FREE ‘

I WASHINGTON __ A star-

studded cast is currently in-
f, volved in a .congressional ,
battle over whether research
animal care should follow.
.1 the dictates of the human

3: " heart or the purse strings.

The castincludes a world-

famOus surgeon, the sen-

” ate’s top authority on con-

9
3.
E

tarian wife or the White
cinemas culture ~"chief and. r.

 

by Sen. 'A. S. “Mike”

the namesake of Lord Lis-
ter, discoverer of antiseps'is.

Dr. Michael E. De Bakey
of Houston, Texas, recipient
of more than a million dol
lars in federal funds to de
velop a cardiac pump, bet
lieves that all control. of ani~

~mal care and housing be-
’longs with those who give?

and receive federal research

_funds
gressional re- organjzationfv ,

and husband of Q3 aﬁini’a
welfare leader, the human

t . I

government building this
week to hold a press confer-
ence to castigate a measure
Mon-

roney, to permit

D-Okla.,

the secretary of agriculture .
‘1 to set up care and housing .

standards for animals be-

” fore and after research. Spe-

cifically exempted is care
during actual experiinenta-

. tion.

“The Monroney
ment' could stop our pro.
gram," De Bakey charged,

, “if they set up regulations
.' We can't meet.” (His heart
L‘, program has used thousands

of animals.) Failing to say

mwhy agriculture would
want to put roadblocks in

complained of added costs. F

the way of research, he then

He did not have the amend-

: - ment with him, nor did the
" press at that time know its

ments, introduced in “execm.

committee,

exact contents. Such docu-

of a senate
are considered

tive session”

'f . confidential.

Hearing of the De Bakey

attack, Monroney, a long“

time fighter against life

time caging and storage

,5-meth0ds of research dogs,
‘ ’ hit back. Fear of costs to
'3. meet minimum standards,

-, being treated in‘humanely

he said, “is strong evidence\

that research animals are

BE USED an office in a

amend- -

‘ pharmaceuticals

today.” He disavowed any

" intention “to interfere with

medical research', inhibit it,
or restrict it in any way.”

_Monroney is a member of

the Appropriations Commit- ‘

tee that has voted billions
of dollars to medical re-

« search. Co-author of. the con-
gressional Re-Organization

Act of 1946, former news-
man Monroney’s wife, Mary
Ellen, is president of
WARDS (Welfare for Ani-
mals Used in Research and
Drug Surgery.) It has
raised money for hospitals
to build proper animal

quarters.
I . . .

MONRONEY seeks to
have his amendment at:
tached to a “pet-napping”
bill that gives animal hus-
bandary experts of agricu1~
ture the task of cleaning up
dogdealer-“buchenwalds.”

De Bakey threw his pres-
tige, now at a peak, behind
an animal bill .framed by
the Health, Education, and
,Welfare Department, and
just introduced by Sen. Lis-

1 ter Hill, D-Ala., the senate’s

medical research champion.

It increases federal funds

for building animal facili-

. ties from a dollar-for-dollar

to a two-for-one matching

‘ basis. It empowers Health,
, Education and Welfare De-

partment to designate an
outside- group to set stan-
‘dards and regulate facili-

' ties. HEW admits informal-
ly that this job will be given .

(and for pay) to a- new
group set up by recipients
of federal grants and manu-l
facturers of dog food and
and lab
animal equipment.

The bill also requires

grant-receiving scientists to

\ .

 

get the okay on the hu-
maneness of their experi-
ments by a committee of
scientists in their own labs.

Other bills before congress,

backed by humane groups,
are more specific and based
on a 90-year-old British lab
animal law. F

The HEW bill was called
a “cruel hoax" by Christine
Gesell Stevens, daughter
and niece of. two famous
scientists, head of two ani-
mal welfare groups and
wife of Roger Stevens, the,
government’s culture chief.

“Its passage," she said.
“would delude the public
into thinking action was
being taken because of their
protests." Members of the
accrediting body, she added, '
“would be placed in a posi-
rtion of certifying them-
Selves and their colleagues
eligible to receive federal,
money—an open invitation
to abuse.” 01' De Bakey’s
charges, she asked, “How
can anyone possibly say

_ that'decent care and house

ing of animals' at any stage ,
can impede research?”
* t O ‘
SEN. HILL appeared puz-
zled by the uproar. He said

once helped to rescue hun-
dreds of government test .
dogs from life-time caging.)
Clearly, not wedded to
every word of the HEW
bill", he said that hearings“
over which he will preside
——might, indeed, change the
contents. ‘1.
In the meantime, a spe-
cial hearing, due in part to
De Bakey’s blast, will be
held on the controversial

. Monroney amendment by
. the Senate Commerce C m-

mittee Wednesday.

. he wants a humane bill. (He ' ,

i
i

 

'\
“1

 

 




1 51's»? / .' 7“" - M”?
“I 'Vl,-,:"'.,.~-r. "
titan e . ~
3.1 vsAr ~ ' 1'. . . . s.
T7 l 2: 7 ~'\ f 1" 1:
“333.53“. 'H
r -. I ’

.3!
2; s
1. ,

‘ 33.

\

 

i.

”Man’s Best Friend Betrayed

‘. {ﬁt 3
“it"

, J . .
é ,, .. [r , '.

.4

tional Institutes of Health, With
“its billion. dollar budget and huge
, grant program, has moved slowly.

w ,.
assured: passage of the dealer

law and the success of a nOnprofit
National Dog Registry at Stanton,

3- . v’

 

 

 

.3111 Would Li

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

WASHINGTON
Poage has been a member of the
House of Representatives longer
than most—30 years. And it is like-
ly that he will be remembered
best by a large segment of the
pOpulation as the genial-but at
times, tough—Texan who has rid-
den to the rescue twice in 10
years to help animals in distress.
It was this man from Waco,

(NANAl—B o b.

 

who has saved m'l
mals from gruesom‘
pulling back hum

leaths by

. l slaughter

legislation from the ,
livion in 1958. Andno ,
ing notice on
dealers and thieves t f, ‘

it’s high noon.

Poage Operates fro
of power. He is Vic"
of the House Agric f
mittee. And chairman I.

chairman
e Com-
its Live-

 

._._.___

 

 

 

 

ense Labs, Ani

stock and Feed Grains subcom—’

mittee.

HE IS AS COMFORTABLE in
the capitals of the world as on
a cracker barrel at a cross-
roads store, drinking a bottle of
pop. For since 1947 he has been

a member of the Inter-Parliamen-
tary Union, which meets in a dif-
ferent country each year.

Since Poage introduced a bill
in February to regulate animal
dealers and laboratories handling
animals destined for research,
much of the die-hard opposition
to some type of “petnaper” con-
trol has dramatically subsided.

The first “petnaping” bill, in-
troduced last fall, was compared
at the time to “cruel frau ,”
such as “fake cancer es” by
a spokesman for the N tional So-
ciety for Medic . .. c . . so,
WWW?“ "Ralph

 

. , g-
Rehweder, termed y‘e first bill
“radica .” But by arch, NSMR
was back “dognapﬁing” bills
introduced by two

gressmen. And ,
known for his blas l at humani-
tarians,’ is no longer: on the NSMR
staff. '

REP. POAGE, who rarely has
opposition in his district, is be-
holden to no vote-wielding special
interest group. He'lcan be tough
or gentle as his conscience dic-
tates. ‘

His bill not only! requires deal-
ers to be licensed but animal-
using laboratories,‘ftoo. Both have
to conform to standards of care
——“this side of actual experimen-
tation”—-aset up by the secretary
of agriculture. Some of the 27
bills introduced were stronger

than his, some weaker. Several

humane groups fellthat all labora-

 

 

"|"_ "—’-
/

 

 

 

 

 

 

a1 Dealers

tory control should be confined
to the “lab bills" pending before
Congress. Others contend that it
is better to “take what you can

get while you can and come back.

for the rest later.”

Out of the last hearings has
come not only the clamor for li-
censing dealers, but calls for oth-
er backstopping solutions and safe-
guards.

“THIS PROBLEM falls into
three parts,” says Poage. “One,
we ought to tighten up on these
dealers and labs. Two, pet own-
ers should find better means of
identification to scare off thieves.

And three, and this is very im- 3

portant, r e s e a r c h institutions
should consider raising their own
dogs and cats. It probably won’t

cost them a bit more in long

Bob Poage then took aim:

. “I wouldn’t be a bit surprised;

 

 

N.J., serving as a clearing house
for information on dogs tattooed
with therfgowner’s Social Security

‘ ESTION remains, how
fast ‘willitiesearchers change over
to rais': their Own? Though the
Food .3; Drug Administration has
raiSed7< dogs for years, the Na-

if creation of this gigantic dog ~z -,-

and cat market—causing theft
"and misery—~hasn’t

Search's biggest blunder.”

been big re;

1 Two parts of his solution seem: .

‘, 'RESEARCH EQGSL—Jimmy Brown. manager of the Lex-

ington. Ky.. Humane Society holds one of more than l00 degs
g taken recently. The dogs were impounded temporarily. but
l later released. to the owner who took them to Ohio for sale

l to a kennel which will then sell them to government laborar
tories. (AP Wirephoto)

develop a new type of laboratory

 

It has one small pilot project 'to

dog. NIH veterinarians for .years
have pushed for breeding pro-
grams, but their appeals never
get as far” as Capitol Hill. (Also,
some of. them. would like to - see.
more goats and pigs used inplace
of dogs.) - . .

(End of Series) '-

 

 

v”

 




 

 

 

 

D 131 Ur ) .3“): «’

 

Mans Best Friend Betrayed

 

(7:. lilyﬂk

 

 

‘ Bill Would License Labs Be

.. . 5555:5553; .- ,:-:o 3‘» .-.- ” ;3. 3:55: ..... 3-3 .353: .33»:"-:;:;:;:;:;:;:.:;:;:; """" 5mm:- --------- 5 1

- gave] as a Texas Ranger ,

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE

North American
I Newspaper Alliance

Poage has been a manber
of. the House of Represen-
tatives longer than most;—
; 30 years. And it is likely
that he will be remembered
best by a large segment of
the population as the gen-
ial—but at times, tough—é-
Texan who has ridden to
to help animals in distress.

‘It was this man from
Waco, who has saved mil-
lions of animals from grue-

 

t’u‘ﬂkw 7‘- ¢-».v.,,, ._ .—

back humane slaughter
f legislation from the brink
~. , of oblivion in 1958. And
now he is serving noticeon
unscrupulous animal deal-
ers and thieves that, for
them, it’s high noon. '

Mr. Poage operates from

WASHINGTON .-—- Bob“

some' deaths. by - pulling _,

 

1 A

 

. coo
‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘‘

! Thls IS the last article in a series on “pet-

naping’ ’gand mistreatment of animals by

dealers who later sell them to research

     
  
  
  
 

with a gun. And he has

_ 'essed down witnesses
’ m. the “scientific com~
- unity” who have indulged
name- calling humani-

laboratories. 1 r ians.
I '1 HIS BILL not only re-
mem ”germ-aw :3:-:5., '9” 5:5’5: 5:5:5: ’W’L twat“ '5' 5"!“ :-:5:':' ,,,,.5:5:5:5:5:5:5:5:5:5:52525:}:525:5:5":5:5:5:5:5:55355555555 '9' #1: :32, 5:5: . . .
W4 '4' ‘44-}:- .4-.4 ...............u......$............u'-. .444: 3% .43.: ‘ lres d e a1 e r S to be 11-

a position of power. He is
vice chairman of the House
Agriculture C 0mm i t te e.
And chairman of its Live-
stock and Feed 'Grains Com-
mittee.

, He is comfortable in the
capitals of the world as on
a cracker barrel at a cross-
roads store, drinking a
.bottle of pop. For since
1947 he ha been a member
of the In er-Parliamentary
Union, which meets in a
different country each year.

Since Bob Poage intro-
duced a bill in February to
r e gulate animal dealers

animals destined for re-
search, much of the die-

type of “petnaper” central
, has dramatically subsided.

The first “petnaping” bill,
introduced last fall, was

Soclety for Medica ,,
search. (This society says

‘hard opposition to some

compared at the time toil?
“cruel frauds,” such as
'“fake cancer cures” by a

- al:’{j

’éJ '

   

spokesman for the ,N 1 '

it"T'Eﬁresents the opinions?
of 1200 medical and bio-,3.“

logical groups and lnStItH-«.
tions.) Also, its then execu— ,

tive director, Ralph Roh~

weder, termed the first bill.

“radical.” But by March.

NSMR was backing “dogw

napping” bills introduced by

tWo Minnesota c o n g r e s s-:
. men. And Mr. .Rohweder,

long known for his blasts at

and laboratories handling humanitarians 15 no longer,

on the NSMR staff.-
Mr. Poage, who rarely
has opposition in his"- dis-

trict, is beholden to no

note-wielding special inter-

est group. He" can be tough”
or gentle as his consicience'

dictates. He is as Quick with

 

 

 

IV.

   
  

_1 boratories, too. Both have
’ conform to standards of

  
   
   

' P'

the secretary of agri-
. lture. Some of the "27
lls introduced were
r o n g er than his, some

5&3?

eaker. '1

4 Several . humane groups
e1 that all laeratdry con-
, 01 should be. confined to

  
   
    
  

L;

in Congress. Others con~
‘nd that it is better to

\

While yOu can and come
back for the rest later”
These points were made
. clear to the HOuse Commit‘
tee, and again in the last
few days before the Senate
2Commerce Committee. Its
*jehairman, Sen Warren
.Magnuso-n (D., Wash), is

“7‘ - n s e d but animal-using

.re—-—‘th15 side of actual -
perimentation” —— set up:

e“1ab bills” pending be--

itake what you can get.

 

sponsor of dealer control

 

bills, along with two Penn-
sylvania senators, Joseph

- Clark and Hugh Scott.

1Out“of these last two sets
of hearings has come not
only the clamor for licens-
ing dealers, but calls for
other backstopping solu-
tiOns and safeguards.

“This problem .falls into
three parts,” says Mr.
Poage. “One, we ought to
tighten up on these dealers

and labs. Two, pet owners ~

should find better means
of identification to scare

off thieves. And three, and
this is very important, re-

search institutions should
consider raising their own
dogs and cats. It probably

1 won’t cost them a bit more

in the long run.”

Bob Poage then took aim
—-his shaft as straight as a
Commanche’ s arrow

“I wouldn’t be a bit sur-
prised if creation of this
gigantic deg and cat mar-
ket—causing theft and mis-
ery -——. hasn’t been big re-
search’s biggest blunder.”

TWO PARTS of his solu-

'tion seem assured: Passage

of. the dealer law and the
success of a nonprofit N a-

des Animal Dealers

tional Dog Registry at Stan~
ton, N. J., serving as a
clearinghouse for informa-
tion on dogs tattooed with
the owner’s Social Secur~
ity number.

The question remains,

how fast will researchers .5

change over to raising their

own? Though the Food ;
and Drug Administration 7
has raised its dogs for ‘

years, the National Insti-
tutes of Health, with its
billion-dollar budget and
huge grant program, has
moved slowly. It has one
small pilot project to de-
velop a new type of lab-
oratory dog. NIH veterinar-
ians for years have pushed

for breeding programs, but

their appeals never get as
far as Capitol Hill. (Also,
some of them would like to
see more goats and pigs
used in place of dogs.)
Mr. Poage believes the
changeover will come fast
“when those research folks
see dealer prices go up and
it sinks in on them how
they have shocked the tax-
payer and pet owner with
t h e i r ‘no-questions-asked’
policy in dog and cat pro—
curement.”

 

 




Deseret ‘News
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
D. 89,141

'JAN 13 1967 ggm.

 

 

 

’Petnapping' Storm Brews

WASHINGTON (NANA) — A
storm of protest, set off by the
passage last summer of the con-
troversial “petnapping” law, is
gathering over Secretary of
Agriculture Orville Freeman’s
head.

Under the law, Congress gave
Freeman authority to set stan-
dards for the pre-experimental
care and housing of dogs, cats,
hamsters, guinea pigs, mon-
keys, and other pets. Now,
Freeman is being reminded that
he promised to meet the “high-
est humane standards.”

Presently, many pets are kept

of Roger Stevens, President
Johnson’s cultural chief. Mrs.
Christine Stevens is president of
the Animal Welfare Institute,
and has published books on
decent ; nimal quarters.

; Many
e university’s medical

 

:have b4;

Mrs. Stevens’ Animal Welfare
Institute.

Under the new petnapping
law, the public has a right to
protest the 30-day caging. The
deadline, however, is Jan. 15.
Freeman already is deluged by
protest mail from pet owners.

Veterinarians at the world-
famous Angell Memorial Hospi-
tal in Boston emphasize that
perpetual caging of housebroken
animals is extremely harmful to
the animals. Dr. C. Lawrence
Blakely, the hospital’s chief of.
surgery, says it could lead to
“disastrous results.”

 

 

 

in small cages for as long as 30‘
days without outside exercise -—s
particularly dogs. This is con-'
sidered inhumane by most vet-
? erinary experts.

 

Leading the fight to spring
these animals from their cages
is the beautiful and brainy wife

 

 




0111 3311211 ﬂirt raw ittraiam‘
DES MOINES tOWA
D 231803 Sill 507,038

/,/”»

11.1.
JN

1‘

1967 W... 1;

 

 

(North American.“

WASHINGTON, D C. ——A storan of protest, set off by the pas-

1 .1...
1

sage last summer of the controversial “petnapping” law,
gathering over Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman’s head. i

1 Under the law, Congress gave
Freeman authority to set stand-
ards for the pre-experimental
care and hOUS-
’ ing of d o g s,
cats, hamsters,

 

ORVILLE
FREEMAN

mane
ardsf’

Presently, many pets are kept
._in small cages for as longas 30
days without outside exercise-
particularly dogs. This is con-
sidered inhumane by most vet-
erinary experts.

of Roger Stevens, President
‘Johnson’s cultural chief. Mrs.

cent animal quarters.

One of the prime opponents of
legislation calling for humane
treatment of laboratory animals
is Dr. Maurice B. Visscher,
physiology professor at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

Many dogs at the univer-
sity’s medical school are per-

 

‘Freemanj Faces Protests
On Laboratory "Animals 1

1 Free
per Alliance)

lS“

 

Leading the fight to spring3
these animals from their cages 1
is the beautiful and brainy wife 1

; Christine Stevens is president of ’
1the Animal‘Welfare Institute, _
‘ and has published books on de—

of their quarters—cages piled
in three tiers—have beenwide-
ly circulated by the Animal
Welfare Institute. 1

Under the new petnapping‘!
law, the public has a right to
protest the 30-day caging. The
deadline, however, is Jan. 15.
Freeman already is deluged by
protest mail from pet owners. 1

Veterinarians at the world-11
famous Angeli Memorial Hos}
pital in Boston, Mass, empha-1
size that perpetual caging of
housebroken animals is ex-
tremely harmful to the animals. .
Dr. C. Lawrence Blakely, the‘
hospital’s chief of surgery, says
it could lead to “disastrous re-~
sults.” J

a“ 1’

 

 

 

- "’

 

 

 

petually caged. Photographs

 




D. 321,828 SUN.

rl
V
W
W
0
WV
.N
..A

m
u
an
E
w.
W
m
H
5

377,402

 




MlAME, FLA.
11. WW SUN. 119,902

JAN ‘10 1967 13,11.

  

 

 

 

Growmg
By ANN OOTTRELL FREE,

WASHINGTON -—— (NA- 1
NA) -—— A . storm of protest, 1
set off by the passage last 1
summer 'of the controversial 1
“petnapping” law, is gather-

1 ing over Secretary of Agri-
1 culture Orville Freeman’s
1 head.

Under the law, Congress
. gave Freeman authority to
set standards for the pre-'
experimental care and hous-
ing 0f dogs, cats, hamsters,
guinea pigs, monkeys, and
‘ other pets. Now, Freeman is,
being reminded that he prom-
ised to meet the “highest
humane standards.”

Presently, many pets are
kept 1n " Small cages for as 1
long as 30 days without out- 1
side exercise --— particularly 1
dogs. This is considered inhu-
mane by mOSt Veterinary 1
experts. 1
Leading the fight to1

1
1

 

s_pring these animals from .
their cages is the beautiful
' and brainy wife of Roger ‘
Stevens, President Johnson’s
cultural chief. Mrs. Christine ,1
Stevens is president of the ‘
Animal.-. Welfare Instituteﬂ
5 and has published books on.
decent animal quarters.

One of the prime oppo-
nents of legislation calling
for humane treatment of .
gla'boratory animals is Dr.
’Mauri-ce B. Visscher, physiol-
ogy professor at the Universi-
ty of Minnesota. Many dogs
at the university’ s medical
. school are perpetually caged.
Photographs of their quart-
ers -— cages piled in‘ three
tiers -—- have been widely
circulated by Mrs. Stevens’1
:~Ani1nal Welfare Institute. ‘
33?? .-,nde1_: the new petnapping
the: publuzhas a right to
roeest the 30~day caging.

‘ deadline, hwwver, is
. January 15.Freema11 al-
,1 ready is deiuged by protest
Vfrompetowners. "

 

 

   

 

“1Hosp1tal in Beston empha-
size that perpetual cagmg at
musebroken animals is ex-
21“ f‘eiy harmful tothearﬁ-

 

 

 




lSt. Hubert’s Giralda

A talk by Edwin Sayres at the Annual Conven-
tion of the Humane Society of the U.S.. Sept. 64.
Shawnee on the Delaware, Pa.

THE following resume is based on our ex’
perience in the animal shelter and warden
service in our area. I speak of St. Hub‘ert‘s
Giralda, a non/profit organization, devoted
to animal welfare, Madison, N. J. I hope
that what I have to say will help and con!
tribute something to people confronted with
the problems of shelter management and pet
control programs. Our methods and approach
in the matter of pet control were basically
acquired from material available through na’
tional and state organizations in this ﬁeld.

We are especially indebted to the Union
County SPCA—«Kindness Kennels in Rah»
way, N. ].~—for its help when it was decided
that St. Hu-bert’s Giralda would offer a pet
animal warden service to our community.
After a survey, we found that the most
needed service to our local municipalities was
some agency that would and could handle
pets and small animal problems.

Since 1958, we have enrolled eight munici/
palizties covering an area of 90 square miles
with a people’s population of 120,000, num’
her of licensed dogs, 7500, an undetermined
number of cats and an undetermined number
of strays. We process about 2500 animals
per year.

Such an undertaking first requires laws
on pet Control, methods of enforcement and
penalties. Our first step was to suggest fair
and adequate control laws to suit the prob»
lem and at the same time not cause any hard”
ship on the pet owners or the animals theme
selves. We also include the beneﬁts to the
non/pet owner and the general welfare of
the community.

\Ve found that most existing laws were

antiquated, impractical and useless. (No pen"
alties, etc). In our explanation for supportr
ing good pet/control laws, we related our
feelings in that pets kept under control are
not exposed to injury and death on the roads;
they do not cause traffic problems, nor are
they apt to come in contact with rabid wild/
lifewthus protecting the community health,
wise and the neighbors trees and flower
gardens.

From our experience, to carry out a suc/
cessful and effective program, we found that
the cooperation of the following several
agencies was necessary: board of health; law
and public safety commissioners (P.D.); sup:
port in the local court: and newspaper and
radio publicity.

When and if you can talk to the top
people in these agencies and explain what is
involved, do so. From our experience we
found they were most cooperative and we
again strenuously pointed out how necessary
it was to have their support and enforce a
law specifically designed in the best interests
of the people and their community.

It was also suggested that any sizeable or
effective program must be manned by full-
time and adequately paid personnel. Volun-
teers are helpful but most are not in a posi-
tion to give the full time effort required.

Type of organizations in this ﬁeld~r

1. Private shelters with related services,
such as: Animal control officers on call or on
patrol; pet adoption programs; educational
programs in the form of lectures; appropriate
movies: literature; offering help to any group
or community formulating a pet program
within their scope.

2. Municipal or city pounds: Because of un’

available funds such added services as adop’
tion programs and public relation set/ups
are not available. It is an added expense.

Clean kennels adequately manned and
properly equipped is all that can be expected.
Any extra services could, in these cases, be
handled by volunteers interested in placing
animals or dispensing literature or just keep/
ing an eye on the operation.

In our case, to get the message over and
to constantly keep the public aware of our
services, the laws of the towns and various
situations pertaining to the animal world.
we had to resort to paid advertising, plus
several types of form letters to the people we
serve, plus welcoming inquiries and inviting
people to visit the shelter for consultation.

We feel that constant explanation in one

.POPULAR DOGS, FEBRUARY 1964

form or another, cooperation from all munici’
pal officials, the press and radio, all con/
tribute to an effective and successful com/
munity pet control program and an orderly
public or private shelter operation.

From our experience, results after five
years indicated a substantial increase in the
number of dogs redeemed by their owners;
cutting down considerably the number of ani/
mals destroyed. In fact, less than 30% are
put down of which many are unsuitable to
place. Also, the nuisance aspect in our areas
has been considerably improved.

Editor’s note: POPULAR DOGS com!
mends Mrs. Geraldine Dodge, sponsor of St.
Hubert’s Giralda and Edwin Sayres, manager,
on the excellent program of the above or’
ganiation. Combined efforts of communities
on animal control have proved to be most
effective. For detailed information, write St.
Hubert’s Giralda, Madison, N. j., or Kind!
ness Kennels, Rahway, N. ]. (Union County
SPCA) the orginaior (we believe) of this
program. Living within this control area,
the editor has ﬁrst/hand knowledge of the
eﬂectiveness of this pet/control program and
endorses it. without reservation.

u \cxu\.\o\u\o‘\~\o\n\~\o\.‘\u’\'~‘\~‘\n\o‘\o\~\o\o'\~\o\u\o\.‘\.\.‘\.\.\r.\.\.‘\.\

5,:

Mrs. Ann Cottrell Free. pictured with a
Beagle—the breed used by the govern-
ment Food and Drug Administration where
many Beagles were kept for as long as
seven years without leaving the cages for
exercise. Because of the publicity Mrs.
Free gave these unfortunate animals,
Congress acted to provide better housing
for the FDA laboratory animals. It is be-
cause of such unnecessary suffering of
research animals that legislation is neces-
sary to force decent humane care for
experimental animals.

Schweitzer Humane Award
to Ann Cottrell Free

ANN COTTRELL FREE, author and jourr
nalist of Washington, D. C., was named re/
cipient of the 1963 Albert Schweizcr Medal
of the Animal \Vclfare Institute. It will be
awarded in recognition of Mrs. Free’s contri/
bution in advancing—rethrough articles, a
prizewvinning novel and personal action~~
Dr. Sweitzer‘s philosophy of “reverence for
life.” It is a well/deserved honor.

The medal was presented by Dr. Fairfield
Osborn, Chairman of the Board of the Con/
servation Foundation and President of the
New York Zoological Society, Dec. 16, at
the Animal Welfare Institute’s annual meet/
ing. (Rachel Carson was the ’62 recipient.)

Mrs. Free first revealed to the public the
conditions under which the research dogs of
the Food and Drug Administration were
housed~~caged for life, sometimes as long as

seven years, in windowless sub/basements.
She worked for Congress1onal action to pror
vide proper quarters. The new FDA build/
ing, authorized by Congress, provides greatly
improved facilities for both animals and tech/
nicians and was opened in December of 1963.
at Beltsville, Md.: its kennel/runways will
serve as a model of good animal housing for
the entire country.

Mrs. Free is author of a new children‘s
book, “Forever the \Vild Mare” (Dodd,
Mead) which stresses respect for nature. and
rights of living creatures and which won the
"63 Dodd. Mead~~ Boys Life Writing Award.
She has written widely on all phases of run?
mal welfare, wildlife, conservation and en/
vironvnental health. North American News
paper Alliance recently syndicated her six’
part series on laboratory animals and pending
hills to correct needless suffering.

A native of Richmond, Va, Mrs. Free is a
Barnard College graduate, wife of \Vashing’
ton correspondent, James Free, and mother of
Elissa. age eight. She is a member of the
Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Commission of

the Women‘s National Press Club.

The Schweitzer Medal, awarded annually
in recognition of distinguished contribution
to the welfare of animals, was created in 1,954,
at which time a gold replica was presented
to Dr. Schweitzer. Authorizing the medal,
he wrote: “I should never have thought my
philosophy that embodies a compassionate
attitude toward all creatures would be noticed
and recognized during my lifetime. I knew
this truth would impose itself one day on
thought, but it is the great and moving sure
prise of my life that I should be witness to
the progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates
this progress.”

This statement was made to Mrs. Christine
Stevens, President of the Institute, a non!
proﬁt, educational organization that works to
reduce needless suffering of animals.

:1: >1: >1:

From the “Daily Mail”: Edwin Herzog,
president of New York’s animals’ medical
center, has condemned a U. 5. Atomic En-
ergy Commission plan to expose 1000 dogs
to radio-active air as “contrary to the morals
of the United States.” Beagle dogs are to be
bred especially for the experiments . . .
10,000 smaller animals will also be used.
Editor’s note: Do we hear a SINGLE Beagle
voice raised in protest . . .? (Our thanks to
I\Irs. Quigley for excellent news clippings.)

 




 

‘

.
0.1II’IROI5 '
‘..- 1“ 5-.
-.

 




E.
12

‘

,-' a ﬂy I?“

 




 




 

.ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street
FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 12, 1263 New York 3, N.Y.

OR 5—1069
Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist of washington, D.C., has been named
recipient of the 1963 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute. It
will be awarded in recognition of Mrs. Free's contribution in advancing-_through
articles, a prize—winning novel and personal action--Dr. Schweitzer’s philosophy
of "reverence for life".
The medal will be presented by Dr. Fairfield Osborn, Chairman of the Board of Law

Conservation Foundation and President of the New York Zoological Society, on De ember

16 at the Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting. Rachel Carson was the l962 recipient”

Mrs. Free first revealed to the public the conditions under which the research
dogs of the Food and Drug Administration were housed—-caged for life, sometimes as
long as seven years, in windowless sub—basements——and worked for Congressional action
to provide proper quarters. The new FDA building authorized by Congress provides
greatly improved facilities for both animals and technicians and will be Open this
month at Beltsville, Md.; its kennel—runways will serve as a model of good animal
housing for the entire country.

She is author of a new children's book FOREVER THE WILD MARE (Dodd, Mead) which
stresses respect for nature and rights of living creatures, and which won the 1963
Dodd, Mead—Boys‘ Life writing Award.

Mrs. Free has written widely on all phases of animal welfare, wildlife, conseru
vation and environmental health. North American NewSpaper Alliance recently syndicated
her sixppart series on laboratory animals and pending bills to correct needless
suffering.

A native of Richmond, Virginia, she is a Barnard College graduate, wife of
washington correspondent James Free and mother of Elissa, age 8. She is a member of
the Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Commission of the women's National Press Club.

The Schweitzer Medal, which is awarded annually in recognition of a distinguished
contribution to the welfare of animals, was created in 1954, at which time a gold
replica was presented to Dr. Schweitzer. Authorizing the Medal, he wrote:

"I should never have thought that my philosophy which embodies a compassion-

ate attitude toward all creatures would be noticed and recognized during my

lifetime. I knew this truth would impose itself one day on thought, but it

is the great and moving surprise of my life that I should be witness to the

progress of ethics. YOur medal celebrates this progress."

This statement was made to Mrs. Christine Stevens, President of the Institute,

which is a non—profit, educational organization that works to reduce needless suffering

of all animals.

 

 

 

 




 
   
 

   

iERGEN

Friend of the People R Serves

  
   
     

 

 

.-\ -t. Dl'E tSnday ,
~ 1W0 SPC‘UODS paigegcéngxaccliiisgggalgxf J. TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 1966 150 River 3c}? Hfgfé’nsagga Ny J. 07602 5 ‘1‘?

 

 

 




' x.

#;
MRSf'FREE gALLED. She wanted to draw to
your attention her article in yesterday's
Star;“page l, in the blue streak edition
concerning Princeton man setting up a
National Dog Registry. If you want reprints,
they may be obtained from the Star.

She has a letter from Mr. A. Roy dePutter,
P. 0. Box 8884, Houston, Texas, 77009, who
referred to an article written by Mrs. Free
last August and saying that his dog had been
stolen February 8, 1966. He wanted to know
what to do and where she got her information
to write her article. He has written to
what he called the "National Association of
Animal Laboratories, J. J. Gaveny, P. 0. Box
1028, Joliet, Illinois. He wants to place

a nationwide ad in their (NAAAL) magazine.
She thinks this is a rather queer letter

and is going to send us a copy. She thought
since Dorothy had been down around Texas,
you may want to follow it up. Please call
her. She also asked who we had testifying
for us, but I told her I didn't know. Two
copies of the LIFE article were sent to her.
FE 3-3674

OVER

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 37I9
GeorgeIown S+a+ion

Washing+on. D. C. 20007

Mr. Stevens has said you will attend the
reception at the Moe's house this evening.

MRS. KIERNAN called again to say that Dr.
Curry would be in his office today until
10 a.m. and in tomorrow from 1:15 to 2:30.

She talked to him, and he is familiar with
the problem.

MRS. JEFFERSON PATTERSON called regarding
the dinner on.April 15 before the ball.
She is going away on Saturday and would
like to hear from you before then. Please
call her at 333-5251.

MRS. FOX is back from.her trip and returned
your call. 337-5269

 




 

i
5
, 1
l
l

ry at etan- Z CPS‘
ting as a ."S'
r inform’a- i“

booed with ’ bat“
tial Secur- e ag-
timed
r1 remains, riotim
esearchezrs 3 W111
ising their have
the Food speak
inistration sntly
dogs for y un...
trial Insti- nonu-
With its a not
dget and iI be—
tram, has ialized
has one 1(1an
vet to de— 11 for-
1e of.lab- 1 grave
ve-terinar- ‘

ve pushed immu-
trams, but ar up—
er get as ; call
1111. (Also,
11d like to ted by
bind pigs Peping.
ogs) jhe Re-
[eyes the a crit-
:ome fast iique of

 

 

W“

ire ad»

chh folks

to up and

1cm how I. I;

l the tax— I, I

ner with 7

ms—asked’ . I

eat pro— } I
. 1 -

 

 

Judge Daniel Thomas
. rules for moderate 5

Negro Votes
Validated In

Selma Race

MOBILE, Ala. (UPI) «:- A ‘

Federal court,‘in effect, de-
clared ‘ Wilson Baker _'the
winner Tuesday over segre-

‘ gationist Jim Clark in the '
" Dallas County Democratic
primary for sheriff, but a

county official called the
ruling “meaningless”

U. s District Judge Daniels", ,
H. Thomas ordered the
Dallas County Democratic"

Executive K committee to

 

CLEVELAND 111°) . ”9* The
Ohio State Medical ASsocia-..
ticn opened its annual con-
vention here Tuesday night
with the president, Dr.
Henry A Crawford, ian—
nouncing a “declaration of
independence” 1 for Oh i 0
medicine '

Included in the declara-
tion was an OSMA state-
ment of policy to eliminate

.- goverment or any third
' party from the financial ar-
rangement between the doc-_
‘tor and the patient. -‘

The-statement also termed
“objectionable . and distaste-
ful” and “degrading and dis-
criminato’ry” any regulation
or requirement
physician. sign pledges or
produce statements that he
will abide or has abided by
the laws in providing his
professional services ”

The policy statement said .

in part

"
“indne'sr

_..._<..,_- H... -m

Ohio Medic * .

 

   

 

“Any ,,
tween 5.1,.
citizen ereby government
agrees 'w' ,‘Ipay for the citi-
zen ’s m ic‘al care does not
directly 1' by influence, in-
volve th hysic1an in a con-
t1 act w the government

The: hysiman is urged ,
" *tly and only.

to deal
with t
providi
billing. 5

It wa ammended that
the pol.apply now and
when 11 care rbecom'es ef-
fective . .

Dr.

’ 11331216111} both in

 
  
 
 

medical care and

 

“that a »

 

 

 

 

". ' Ohio. - - 1
' “We have received, from
- . coast to coast, numerous re- .

 

OSMA is intent on ridding
' itself of “threatened domi-

nation of medical practice
by hospital'ﬂs '

The association , he said, «-
. will resist “with every ounce
'of our energy any threat to

dominate and control any

segment of the medical pro- 2-.
fessicm ”.

Should the policies of
OSMA be adopted generally

it would mean'i'that the,"
‘ patient would have to collect

his insurance and. pay the»
various physicians to treat

him in the hospitals or out.
However,Dr. Crawford in-
» dicated that the pulicy so

far has had little effect in

quests from medical organi-

zations’ for additional copies;-
of the statement,” he 'said
“But most of our own memﬁj
bers couldn’t be bothered to; .

"con-con“ Imp "cm" M: REMSTEIED 'moamnxs ivmcu 161ml

  
  
 
   
    
  
 
  
   
 
  
  

take the time and read it: :
_ If most of our ocuntry medis-
‘ cal society officers read it,
' they apparently failed ti)
recognize its significance . .3 .. .

“Gentlemen, this was 0111113.

"fmedicine’s 1966 declaraﬁoﬁg
“of independence.

If o‘ii‘iw
county societies and 0%
individual members do n

1 support it forcefully it be?

comes empty words “f '
a er. ” 1 sign,

 

 

 

 

   

111101131an « ‘
9 SAVE _g¥
' ‘ 1111110113,, .3 . ' »

' Wat inhs‘ g\' c"
I nun (.0.

Tri—Si‘altg

 




 

 

 

 

1 rags-~44 '

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER

,1- 1

Tuesday, May 24:1:1‘9661 -
M

 

 

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE

. North American
Newspaper Alliance

WASHINGTON —- “I have

seen conditions that my‘

conscience won’t forget, ”,

the slight young man told
a congressional committee
in a barely audible voice.
Ralph Mayer’s voice may
haVe been weak, and his
knees shaking. For he was
telling of scenes of neglect
and cruelty he had seen

in Minneapolis, Minn And .

the next day he had to go
back and face his supe-
riors.

Here is what he said: ,

“The condition of some
dogs at arrival is truly re-
volting. I have seen dogs
With no teeth, broken and
improperly set jaws, mange,
fleas, worms, advanced
pregnancy and nearly blind
brought 1n for experiments.

“UpOn arrival at the ken- ‘

nel, all dogs are numbered,
and their number is at-
tached to them by means
of a neck chain. Since dogs
often are quite young when
they arrive, a small neck
chain is placed on them.
I know of three occasions
where dogs outgrew their
neck chains, and it went
unnoticed until the chain
was actually imbedded over
1,4. inch deep in the ani-
mal’s neck. On one occa-
sion, I could not pull the
chain out after cutting it.

The dog tore it out ”

AFTER THE hearing, Mr.
Mayer revealed, after close
questioning, why he spoke
out. .

“My minister (Apostolic
Lutheran) h a s preached

 

many times on the im-
portance of doing what
your conscience tells you.
I had complained or can-
ditions several times to my
superiors. They would do
nothing. Finally, I got in
touch with a local humane
society.”

The 25-year-old farmer’s
son said also that he had
been brought up to treat
animals as “servants to be
treated respectfully.”

Ralph Mayer does not
present the only “profile
in. courage” appearing be-
fore congressional commit-
tees lately to protest pro-
curement and handling of
animals inside and outside
laboratories.

Another—in fact, she’s
the woman who started the
ball rolling on legislation
to curb “dognapers”—is a
government career woman,
Fay Brisk. She spends
many evenings and week-
ends checking with dealers,
hoSpitals, police and hu-
mane societies, trying to
locate dogs whose dis-
tressed owners have turned
to her. She gets calls from
“all over. ”

“It’s like looking for a
needle in a haystack, ” she
says. “Hospitals don’t want
stolen pets, but on the
other hand they are afraid
to "admit they might have
one. So when I report that
the dog might be in their
lab, acme—but a very few
-——will look and see. Some-
times we are lucky. "

MISS BRISK, a trim 100-
pounder in her 40's, is also
director of the B erk s
Cdunty, Pa., Animal Res-
c11e League. She ﬁrst went
on‘the warpath against un-
scrupulous dealers f 0 ur

years ago after visiting the ,

biggest dealer in the East.
(Since then he has been
arrested for cruelty—with

Miss Brisk in on the “rai ” 1

-—-but it didn’t put him out
of. business.) “The stench
that first day, the suffer-
ing—dogs jammed in to-
gether,- big ones trampling
little ones. It was too much.
I knew then that some—
thing had to be done.”

1‘ What has been done since

‘.

 

 

Fay Brisk made this vow?

F:

For one thing, Pennsyl-
vania now has a dog law-—
Passed by an overwhelming
majority—that requires li-
censing of all dealers With-
in the state.

For another thing, her d-e~
tective work last summer
trying to locate a stolen
dalmatian became a “cause
celebre.” It was climaxed
with» the introduction by
Rep. Joseph Resnick (D.,
N. Y.) of the first of 27
dealer-control bills. Her ac-
c o m pl 1 s hments are well
known to her legislative op-
ponents. One of them
pointed to her after a con-
gressional hearing the other
day and proclaimed: “There
goes the dog dealers’ Mme.
1de Farge.”

Miss Brisk beamed.

ANOTHER upstream

swimmer who has searched

 

Man9 8 Best Friend Betrayed

 

 

 

This is the gecond in a series of articles

on unscrupulous animal dealers who steal

pets to sell to research laboratories. Legis-
lation which would compel dealers and re-
search faCIhtleS to meet government stan-
dards of deceilcy lS expected to he passed

by Congress 910011.

 

 

.his conscience and acted is

Dr. Richard G. Pearce a
D e t r o i t veterinarian His
conviction that research in-

111stitutions “have in no way
‘made any concerted effort

to clean up deplorable con-
ditions in dog dealers’ es—
tablishments” has brought
him to congressional wit-
ness stands several times.
“Dog dealer holding sta-
tions, ” he said,;§“are both

Belsens and Buchenwalds
for animals.”

This tall, soft-spoken man

also told congressmen: “It
grieves me that the main

body of opposition to this

type of legislation comes
from my veterinary and
medical colleagues.”

Since he spoke, the
American Veterinary Medi-
cal Association - silent

 

Anzmal Cruelty Expose Even In Government Labi

When humanitarians first
spoke up—has now moved
to a position in favor of
modified dealer-research fa—
cility control.

These are a1 few of the

persons who have put their
careers or their place in
the “establishment” on the
line. Others have not had

, that problem. But they

often put their lives on the
line

ONE SUCH is Mrs Dor-
othy Dyce of Detroit. This
blond, friendly consultant

of the Animal Welfare In»

stitute was sickened by the
appearance of animals at

Chicago research labs. She

systematically folloWed the
trail back to their source
of supply —- the hill coun-
try of Tennessee.

In a rented car she ven- 1

tured forth to the farm of
a Roy Hargrove. “Not a

1 125 dogs in a ramShackled

’ Was made indelible that

Ll

soul was there but I found

building,” she said. “Others
were lying in the weeds, ..
some so sick they couldn’t
stand. NOne had food or
water.”

When she) , watered the
dogs with a) hose, “they ,
knocked each other down
trying to get to the hose.”
Mrs. Dyce,buS1V feeding and g
watering the hysterical
creatures, heard a car drive 5
up A man yelled, “Get =
cut .” And Dorothy Dyce
——Wh1ose profile of courage

October night—heeded.

But she returned, this
time with law enforcement
officers. The rest of the
story will GO'I-ne out at the
trial of dog dealer Har-
grove.

TOMORROW P e 71 (1 ing
Legislation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE
‘ North American Newspaper
Alliance

, WASHINGTON—On some
mornings the well- dressed,
clean-shaven six— footer left
for the office just like many
other family breadwinners in
suburban Washington. But
other mornings, he would
(leave unshaven, roughly
dressed in jeans, cowboy
boots and worn windbreak—
. er. And the neighbors won-
dered —— and whispered.

S o 111 et hin g hush-hush,
they figured, but what?

On those unshaven days,
~Dec1an Hogan, 26, was on
" his way to get the goods on
dog and cat dealers and
thieves preying on the pets
-of thousands of American
families, and the sensibili-
ties of millions more.

In particular, he was after
dealers who mistreat ani-
‘mals —— obtained for sale to
research labs—through neg-
lect and virtual starvation.
This hard~to—uncover evi-
dence, often hidden away off
country roads, is helping to
. speed into law provisions of
_.“27 bills introduced in Con-
”;gress. Such legislation will
erub “petnaping” and com-
pel dealers —— and possibly
research facilities, too —— to
meet government standards
of kindness and decency.
None of these bills, as pre—
sently worded, affects the
use of animals under actual
experimentation (Other bills
have been introduced to re—
.gulate this phase.)

“I figure,” the lanky New~

York-born Mr. Hogan tom
two congressional commit-
tees recently, “that half the
dogs supplied by dealers are
stolen.” He admits he can-
not prove this, because ani-
mals, unless tattooed, carry
no permanent identification.

Serving the Humane so-

ciety of the United States

(HSUS) for seven months as -
/

 

 

 

hen U. S.

a special investigator in the,
guise of a dog dealer and
thief, Hogan has traveled
35,000 miles in 16 states. He
has. visited dealers, dog and
cat auctions, and mingled
with members of a new un-
derworld brought into being
by tax-supported “big re-
search’ 5” demand for dogs
and cats.

Nearly 2 million dogs and
some half million cats are

being acquired at the cost‘

of more than $30 million an-
nually, -according to esti
mates of ‘humane societies
and members of Congress.

When Hogan, a former
restaurant operator and fa-
ther of two pre-school chil-
dren, took the job he had no
previous experience in hu-
mane work. He admits, “I
was a bit skeptical of those
seemingly fantastic claims
of cruelty to animals.”

But his very earliest re-

 

 

 

Man s Best F riend Betrayed

 

Americans across the land have been
sickened by tales of horror in the treat:
ment of dogs, cats, and other pets by uns
scrupulous animal dealers who sell them
to research laboratories. It’ s estimated
that nearly 2 million dogs and half a mil-

ports to HSUS chief Frank
MacMahon, a veteran of
many raids on dog-dealers,
on his visits to dealers car-
ried paragraphs such as
these:

“I purchased two collie
shepherds for three dollars.
These dogs were in small
chicken coops and when I
removed them they could
hardly walk.

“Conditions were outrage-
ous ——- 15 to 20 dogs in five—
by— —six foot binsulittle dogs
in with the big, who ate up
the food thrown ill—usu-

 

 

 

 

 

\

ally slaughterhouse entrails.
Some of the dogs were col-
lars and license tags.

“At the Manheim, Pa.,
dog and cat auction, I saw
dogs and cats sold by the

pound. One dealer, known
only as No. 10, purchased
about 20 dogs, 30 cats, sev-
eral guinea pigs, some rab-
bits, and one goat for $13.
Chicken crates were used
to store the animals on the
truck. As many as four
medium-sized dogs were
placed in one chicken crate.

“I saw a pointer with a
vicious—looking gash on its
hind quarters that was
shaking violently with dis-
temper. The dealer said the

 

v—

atrlnlzes “Animal e

lions cats are bought each year by ‘Big
Research” at a cost of more than $30 mil. *
lion. More than half are stolen. This is
the first of three articles examining the
shocking trade in pets, and the correc-

tive measures proposed.

wound would heal in a few

days and‘he would be fit
for lab use. This fellow said

- he used'to have a $15,000;

a—year contract with a
Baltimore hospital.”

Repeated visits to dealers
as a dealer-thief set t h e
stage for police raids. Capt.
Thomas S. Smith, chief of
the Investigation Division
of the Maryland S t a t e
Police, told congressional
committees that he and his
men, accustomed “to
crimes of violence,” w e r e
“shocked and appalled.”
But raids, arrests, litigation,
small fines and appeals
have put few dealers com-
pletely out of business.

Mr. Hogan explained how

he. fits the pieces. together _

in this huge business that
reportedly _ b r o u g h is one

1 dealer $750,000 in one year’s

laboratory business -—— a
dealer, incidentally, against
whom cruelty charges have
been pressed.

“The way it is set up, re-
search institutions do not
know which dogs they are

buying are stolen. Some of ’

their major suppliers can
pass their inspections.- But
a major supplier, selling up
to 1500 animals a week, has
to get many of its animals
on a ‘no—questions-asked’
basis. They come from
middle—man dealers.
Middle-men may get their
dogs from county dog
wardens an d ‘runners.’
These fellows are catch-as-
catch—can types, Who pick
1113 people’ s pets for b e e r
and cigarette money. Of
course, middle-men drive
out into the countryside,
especially around here into
the hollows of West 'Vir-
ginia and Kentucky. They
pick up for free, or for a
buck, pretty much what

 

 

 

they want. But what a

. sorry-looking sigh‘t—nunder-

fed, mange-ridden, sick.” ‘
“Why,” Mr, Hogan was

asked, “if the turnover to

labs is fast do you find
these starved, sick creatures
that. apparently have been
kept by dealers forjweeks?”

“Some are too sick to
offer or they have already
been rejected by the labs,”

he explained. “Thesesbums

keep them around, hoping

they can pass them off in

a job lot, like to a med
5 c h o 01, as “killer dogs.”
They figure anything
breathing is saleable.”

“Killer dogs” are usually
gentle. They are killed soon
after arrival in labs for im-

mediate dissection, hence .-

their name.

Mr. Hogan told of the no-
questions-asked policy ‘as it
affects the top of the re-
search pyramid—~the gov-
ernment’s, National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH). He
visited NIH’s new animal
farm at Poolesville, Md.,
where dogs and cats are
put in condition for re-
search use. Though many
of its veterinarians oppose
the practice, NIH buys
nearly $100,000 worth of
animals from dealers an-
nually. (Recently NIH re—
luctantly released a dealer-
obtained dog to its owner,
who claimed it was stolen

‘ from his property.)

Showing in word and ges-i

  

humanity. )

ture he was after a buck
and cared nothing for ani-
mals, M.r Hogan sought out
the procurement veterinari-
an. Here’s Hogan’s story:

. “ ‘Yes, I am the man you
want to talk to, but I wish
I could send you some-
where else,’ the vet said.
Then he routinely outlined
NIH’s idealistic r e q u i r e -

‘ ments for dealer care and

handling before delivery. I

knew from visiting t h e i 1'

places that some of the
dealers he dealt with didn’t

_ qualify.

“He never asked me for
my references, background,
or anything like that. When
he saw my pick-up truck
and asked how many dogs
I could carry, I said about
25 Or 30, medium-sized. The
vet s aid, ‘Well, if the
humane society ever
catches you, . they’ll have
you locked up.’ ”

Penalties in legislation
that Hogan’s evidence is
helping to bring closer to
law includes CancellatiOn
of Federal licenses (t o d a y,
not required) and fines,
in some bills, up to $10,000.

The average fine, under
state laws written before
“big research,” runs about
$50. And occasions .of a
man being locked up for
cruelty-to-animals are in
the class with “man-bites-
dog”——rare indeed.

(TOMORROW. Man’s in-

 

 

 

 

 

LRT-BEd-VZ




 




Auth 19. 1966
Dear Dr. Krutch:

I have been thinking ebony your suggestion
for a much broader approach than one solely on
cruelty to animals.

Such a book would have to be very selective
and would have to steer clear from overlap with
such books as Udall'a "TherQuiet Crisis" therefore
freshness of approach is a necessity. Even though
there is growing awareness of the need to save the
land , xtreame, wildlife that is not stopping encroach-
ment. It is no longer a quiet crisis. This being
so, the public must be reminded to be more! --
and most important we must tell thdae ldered
people what to do. ,

(What is needed, in truth, is a "handbook
on How to Repel Assault". Not a very likely
title for a volume in this series even though
it might land us on the beateeeller list!)

Everything you suggested can be a major
part of this book. In the sense of what is past
in prologue, the book would tell of how defenders
of natural envirorment have gone about the job
of fighting exploitation. This will not only
take us into the "use" vs. ecological preservation
philosophy and ethic, but into its practical
application such as the legislative creation of
the Park System, wildlife refuges etc. But I
do not envision a mere recording of the institutional
type of conservation. This story has been told,
though to me it rarely becomes alive. We must who
it come alive. One way to do this and to make a
major point of the book is to aprinkle it with
lively examples of smaller groupa and individuals
winning fight“ sometimes losing them, too) against
the practioneers of technologr who have their eye
on our streams, foreat, animals. We must tell of
the houeewivee who just last year braved the bulls-
dozers come to root up the trees . I can even tell
a case history of my own .. how a handful of us
grew into a large and powerful enough force to stop
a highway going through a stream valley park here
in Washington. We used old techniques such an petitions.
but with political know-how, we found allies in the
Cabinet and the Conmea and we stopped the road:

 




The story of Nature Comervancy should be told.
And we must speak fully of the Sierra Club. the
Audubon Society Defenders of Wildlife. the Wilderneaa
Society. How did they get started? Whose were the
spirits that never flagged? What. their accomplieh-
manta ard techniques .'

By the ﬂu this book in published it would not be
too early to measure Lady Bird Johnaon't immct.
Laurence Rockefeller'a role. And throughout the book
the political. threads will be woven -- the pressures.
the lobbies.

Let us hope that when the reader finishes thi-
book. he will be up-and-at-m: At least. m should
have a better idea of how to handle the bull dam
threatening a clone-by park or the dam buildera at
a Gram Canyon: that he will know and care about the
Redwoods and he will mver again lat ouch tragic
nonsense as has been going on at the Everglades (first
a man-made drought. now a flood) be repeated. Not
only will the made:- have picked up practical tips
of "haw-to-do-it" through illustmtive examples. he
will have gaimd in historical background and philosoph-
ical perspective.

Clearly the objetﬂne. motivating you. Prentice-
Hall and me, is to bring mature and Natural History"
to more people. God knows they have a stake in it --
but how many people am aware at this? The book '

l have in mind would help ve Imderctanding. self-
identification and a cla ication of values. That's
what people need and want.

If the idea appeals to you. I will, of course.
outline it in far greater detail and cme up with
some titles. ( How about "Litelim to Natm'e")
but I would he wont appnciative of knowing «nothing
of the type of smut Prentice-Hall has in third.

Again, thank you for your interest. your letter
of July 28 with its actions and eepecially for
helping Prentice-Hall g such a fine madertaling .

Sincmly.
Dr. Jmeph Wood Krutch Ann Cottrell Free

50m. East Grant Road
meson. Arizona

 




A‘ ‘/l

A Buckingham Gate London SW7
{E> St. James Court Hotel Telephone V/Ctor/a 2360

v Te/egrams Court/fke London 8 W 7
L

L ) L

Telex 267674
Q?» Ell/$74727

A“! 1/0» ax A W76” ””“5
A AOuM -— fan/6 Ami; fatnlﬁxf/
rm/m, ta. 0... 17.4 N m A “ﬂunk
/M amt/Au 5- %?” W
/l, (that + A4115» (”cafedn My. ﬂ”,
[am am’ amp/1M ﬂ/mn’ ,0pr m A

“QM" 045”? 744-75 [9- 19mm.
/ ﬂlJWO’A a 30/) é" ﬁt]; A”,

I! kph 1&0» WM ﬁl/ﬂ/ Ad _
07t'mo, Mam/X7. 42's. mu If /:«

Centre Hotels for Comfort and Va/ue

124/, V’ “/711

l
\

 




M 4015);;(3/ Jﬂ/ayo/ ﬂwﬂa)
”(I ”9») I, Mkl— 191/}: A; 6"”
”Mid/i- :I/lag 5” A! [as/33 JAM-la

0’06» [(4 , ml. to In (1457!
x 7 /9 OM:/5)(Pﬂ/' Ma} VIL
’5 “’7 I ”’17‘ “A‘M Afﬁc (I A) Yt‘ll‘?’ (4 2”?“

A "M ﬂ 7"""‘" It: Wesiﬁmf

”40’ ﬁ‘ ml}. 4 hr’am «1‘le 3
70506 .« mica) W “@790

2’7 71.. 49):! [Ayn-Ira 2,9,; Sh...) A
WNMIUA/Jo ° #5» a/ro b‘ /J

€075.29. Us {VI/1» ””0. 9M Q Wm,
A (7074 r r‘n/Mt/fo /CM/ 0
RUM/0. /- WI“ JEaW A099. 1"

01, an” 01,5
731‘! [ug/ §//s:a A / 70/3. _
QDmono/ I £42 /L fw/W f- a
k m» 6w.»

 




A .
Buokmgham Gate London 8 W7
<E> St. James COUI’t H 019’ Te/ephone V/Ctorl'a 2360
V Te/egrams C ourt/I'ke London SW7
Te/ex 26 7674

”m7 ﬁﬁu‘. % 10344493 ab‘d f
7’4. All/ﬂu. not (973.0“ . 04’

{m1 7% L4 A. 7440.,pr “hm...
/0/o mﬂ’ 774.41 M7» M' Axuéuu
(m met/M, )7 A, u/M/ é/M.
70w (In/7 A (A ”4' A /N‘/
72“ Val/m: ﬂu ﬂm/l tau/mud f7

90”. __....,
/ W” A’ ’n /ﬂ’/é ﬂaw 4/5 71/47
“£0” A A ”(M/Mu, a//A( Inn’.

ﬂ»

/

Centre Hotels for Comfort and Va/ue

 




CINCINNATI ENdinRER - 5/22/66
How You Can, Combat

Professional Pet-Stealers

Over the last few months, Americans across the land
have been sickened. by tales of horror in the treatment of
dogs, cats and other pets by unscrupulous animal dealers
who sell them to research laboratories for experimental
purposes.

Starting in Monday’s Enquirer, a three—part series en-
titled “Man’s Best Friend Betrayed” examines the shock-
ing trades in pets, and the corrective measures proposed

by the government.

It’s estimated that nearly two million dogs and a half
a million cats are bought each year by “big research” at
a cost of more than $30 million. More than half are stolen.

Now that shock and numbness have worn off, aroused
pet owners are demanding that something be done to halt
“petnaping” and the mistreatment of animals by dog
dealers.

If you’re a pet lover, be sure to read this series ex-
posing a threat to animals and spotlighting ways to

ﬂ 1: it.
gh MRS. JAMES W. CROWE
6752 Belken’ron Avenue
Cincinnati 36, Ohio

 




  

Page 16

Man’s Best Friend Betrayed

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER ‘

 

  

...................................................................
- .;.;.;.;.;.;.-.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.; ~~~~~~ - ;.;.,. -.-:~...-.-.o:-:-.-.~:-:~:~:o:-:-:-:s:s:-.o.~.~:o:-:-:-:-:s:~:-:-.s: :. .................... . ;. ........... . ....... . .,.o.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.-.;.;.;.;.-.;.~.;.;.;.s.;.s.;.;.;.;.;. ...........

.........................................
................................................................................................................................................................... ' "" .. to...060!COCO-tub:onuoooscog..g...

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE
North American

Newspaper Alliance

WASHINGTON —-—~ Bob ‘
Poage has been a member
of the House of Represen-
tatives longer than most——
30 years. And it is likely
that he will be remembered
best by a large segment of
the population as the gen-
ialk—but at times, tough—-
Texan who has ridden to
to help animals in distress.

It was this man from
Waco, who has saved mil-
lions of animals from grue-
some deaths by pulling
back humane slaughter
legislation from the brink
of oblivion in 1958. And
now he is serving notice on
unscrupulous animal deal-
ers and thieves that, for
them, it’s high noon.

Mr. Poage operates from

     
   
   
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
     

This is the last article in a series on “pet-
naping” and mistreatment of animals by
dealers who later sell them to research
laboratories.

 

.......................................
..............................................................
.............

...............................................

compared at the time to
“cruel frauds,” such as
“fake cancer cures” by a
spokesman for the National
Society for Medical Re
search. (This society says
it represents the opinions
of 1200 medical and bio-
logical groups and institu-
tions.) Also, itsthen execu-
tive director, Ralph Roh-
weder, termed the first bill
“radical.” But by March,
NSMR was backing “dog-
napp-ing” bills introduced by
two Minnesota c o n gr e s 5-
men. And Mr. Rohweder,
long known for his blasts at
humanitarians, is no longer
on the NSMR staff.

Mr. “Poage, who rarely
has opposition in his dis-
trict, is beholden to no
note-wielding special inter-
est group. He can be tough
or gentle as his consicience

a position of power. He is
vice chairman of the House
Agriculture C o m m it t e e.
And chairman of its Live-
stock and Feed Grains Com—
mittee.

He is comfortable in the
capitals of the world as on
a cracker barrel at‘a cross-
roads store, drinking a
bottle of pop. For since
1947 he has been a member
of the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, which meets in a
different country each year.

Since Bob Poage intro-
duced a bill in February to
regulate animal dealers
and laboratories handling
animals destined for re- .-
search, much of the die-
hard opposition to some
type of “petnaper” control
has dramatically subsided.

  
   
  
     
   
   
    
  
  
  
     
  
 

 

   
  
     

Order To
The first “petnaping” bill,

Wednesday, May 25, 1966 .

a gavel as a Texas Ranger
is with a gun. And he has

dressed down w i t n e s s e s
from the “scientific com-
munity” who have indulged
in name-calling humani-
tarians.

HIS- BILL' not only re:

quires dealers to be li-
c e n s e d but animal-using
laboratories, too. Both have
to conform to standards of
care—“this side of actual
experimentation” —— set up

,_ by the secretary of agri—

culture. ‘ Some of the 27
bills introduced were
stron g er than his, some
weaker.

Seve1a1 humane groups"

feel that all laboratory cons
trol should be Confined to
the “lab bills” pending be-
fore Congress. Others con-
tend that it is better to
“take what you can get
while you can and come
back for the rest later.”
These points were made
clear to the House Commit-
tee, and again in the last
few days before the Senate

”Commerce Committee. Its

chairman, Sen. Warren
Magnuson, (D., WaSh-), is

sponsor of dealer control

    
 

bills, along with'i o Penn-
sylvania senato Joseph
Clark and Hughiscott.
Out of these la": two sets
of hearings has {ome not
only the clamor snr licens-
ing dealers, but. alls for
other backstop‘ g solu-
tions and safegu'i-s' ds.

“This problem alls into
three parts,” ajys Mr.
Poage. “One, we 6ught to
tighten up on thesé dealers
and labs. Two, pet? owners
should find bette means
of identification scare
off thieves. And three, and
this is very important, re-
search institutions" should
consider raising their oWn
dogs and cats. It probably
won’t cost them a bit more
in the long run.” ’

Bob Poage then took aim
—his shaft as straight as, a
Commanche’s arrow "

 
  

“I wouldn’t be a bit suit; ,

prised if creation of this
gigantic dog and cat mar-

 

ery —- hasn’t been g res
search’s biggest blu gs - '

TWO PARTS 01? hi F
tion seem assured:
of the dealer law a
success of a nonpro

  
    
  
   
 
   
 

,, ge

 
  
 

 

 

 

i . introduced last fall, was dictates. He is as quick with

  

__.g Ik'g...-= Lg“; 9.15“,

 

 

_ ‘H A-

Bill Would License Labs Besides Animal D alers

tional Dog Registry at Stan- ‘
serving as a
clearinghouse for informa-
tion on dogs tattooed with
the owner’s Social Secur-

ton,N.J.,

 

ity number;

The question remains,
how fast will researchers '
change over to raising their .. .
own? Though the Food
Administration
has raised its dogs for
National Insti-
o-f Health, with its
billion-dollar budget and: -
- huge grant program, has
It has one

and Drug

years, the
tubes

moved slowly.

small pilot project to de-
velop a ,new type of lab-
oratory dog. NIH veterinar-
ians for years have pushed
for breeding programs, but .
their appeals never get as '
far as ‘ Capitol Hill. ‘
some of them would like to .
see more goats and pigs
used in place of dogs.) _
Mr. ..Poage believes the
changeover will, come fast
. “When those research folks ,
" see dealer prices 'go up and .
2. it sinks in on them how ,_ '
, they haVe shocked the tax—
u-w payer and pet owner with ‘
t he 1 r fno-questions-asked’
e. poncy in dog and cat pro-
curement” ‘

 
  
 

.——-—-

 
 
  




 

Monday, May 23,1966

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIREE

 

 

Even . .

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE
North American Newspaper

Alliance

. F ‘

WASHINGTON—On some

mornings the well- dressed,
clean shaven six— footer left

ifor the office just like many

sother family brea dwinners in
" suburban Washington. But

other mornings, he would
leave unshaven, roughly
dressed in jeans, cowboy
boots and worn windbreak—

. er. And the neighbors won—
. dered —— and whispered.

' Something hush-hush,

' they figured, but what?

.JOn those unshaven days,

'._.._I)..eclan Hogan, 26, was on
, .« his way to get thegoods on
ﬁtting and cat dealers and

thieves preying on the pets

;of thousands of American

families, and the sensibili-
ties of millions more.

' In particular, he was after
dealers who mistreat ani—

- mals ~— obtained for sale to

research labs—through neg-
lect and virtual starvation.

,. This hard~to-uncover evi—

. dence, often hidden away off

country roads, is helping to

gispeed into law provisions of

3.2527 bills introduced in Con-
gress. Such legislation will

crub “petnaping” and com-
..,;. pel dealers —— and possibly

research facilities, too —~ to
meet government standards

“for kindness and decency.

.-.{'1None of these bills, as pre—

sently worded, affects the

. ”use of animals under actual

experlmentatlon (Other bills
have been introduced to re-

, p gulate this phase.)

“I figure,” the lanky New

York-born Mr. Hogan told ,
,, two congressional commit-
tees recently, “that half the
‘f‘dogs supplied by dealers are
stolen.” He admits he can-

' not prove this, because ani-
«,i-.;n;1als, unless tattooed, carry

no permanent identification.

Serving the Humane So—
ciety of the United States
(HSUS) for seven months as

a special investigator in the
guise of a dog dealer and
thief, Hogan has traveled
35,000 miles in 16 states. He
has visited dealers, dog and
cat auctions, and mingled
with members of a new un-
derworld brought into being
by tax-supported “big re;
search’ 5” demand for dogs
and cats.

Nearly 2 million dogs and
some half million cats are
being acquired at the cost
of more than $30 million an-
nually, -according to esti
mates of humane societies
and members of Congress.

When Hogan, a former
restaurant operator and fa~
ther of two pre-school chil~
dren, took the job he had no
previous experience in huo
mane work. He admits, “l
was a bit skeptical of those
seemingly fantastic claims
of cruelty to animals.”

But his very earliest re-

, . ,. b
.1 . k“
I
.5
,_"T
’ I“ O
. ,
, » . . - 1.
a“! 1,11.“
,
, “1.!"- I
l"
,
.
I
.
.
1

Americans across the land have been
sickened by tales of horror 1n the treat-
ment of dogs, cats, and other pets by un—
scrupulous animal dealers who sell them

to research laboratories. It’s

estimated

that nearly 2 million dogs and half :1 mil-

ports to HSUS chief Frank
MacMahon, a veteran of
many raids on dog—dealers,
on his visits to dealers car-
ried paragraphs such as
these:

“I purchased two collie
shepherds for three dollars.
These dogs were in small
chicken coops and when. I
removed them they could
hardly walk.

“Conditions were outrage-
ous __-,. 15 to 20 dogs in five-—
byasix foot binsmlittle dogs
in with the big, who ate up
the food thrown in” usu-

 

Webfooted Wedge

Mama and Pappa Goose of the colorful Canadian goose
family, form a protective wedge as they lead their young
safely along the water’s edge of the Nashawtuck Golf
Club in Concord, Mass—AP Wirephoto.

ally slaughterhouse entrails.
Some of the dogs wore col-
lars and license tags.

“At the Manheim, Pa.,
dog and cat auction, I saw
dogs and cats sold by the

pound. One dealer, known
only as No. 10, purchased

about 20 dogs, 30 cats, sev;

eral guinea pigs, some rab—
bits, and one goat for $13.
Chicken crates were used
to store the animals on the
truck. As many as f o u r
medium-sized dogs w e r e
placed in one chicken crate.

“I saw a pointer with a
vicious-looking gash on its
hind quarters that was
shaking violently with dis—
temper. The dealer said the

1 ea [9 rs

re bought each year by ‘Big

a. cost of more than $30 mil-
,than half are stolen. This is
17,, three articles examining the
shockmg_._f7ade in pets, and the correc-

tive meas‘

wound would al in a few
days and he ould be fit
for lab use. Th fellow said
he used to hays a $15, 000-
a-year contract with a
Baltimore hospital” ,

Repeated visits to dealers
as a dealer-this; set the
stage for polio raids. Capt.
Thomas S. S 1th, chief of
the Investiga 1011 Division
of the Maryland State
Police, told congressional
committees that he and his
men, accuse Qmed “to
crimes of viol'nce,” were
“shocked an 17* appalled ”
But raids, arre ts, litigation,
small fines jj‘d appeals
have put few ealers com-
pletely out of "usiness

Mr. Hogan captained how

 

These Signs 11811.?
Of Heart Troublf

NEW YORK (El—Ten tell~
tale heart signs mow prom-
ise of spotting young men
who may risk heart attacks
before age 45, a new study
ﬁnds .

Twenty men—mall but one
of them 45 or younger-«who
had survived heart attacks
were compared with 20
healthy men.

or the 10 signs or factors
that seem to distinguish be—
tween heart patients and
healthy men, the patients
averaged 4.9 factors per
man. The healthy men on

 

ing and here ﬂ.
Frederick T. H; h and As~
sociates of Massachusetts
General Hospital and Har-
vard Medical school.

The heart patients were
on the average, two inches
shorter than the healthy
men. Habitually, they
smoked twice as much, and
70% had a high “family his-
tory of oer heart dis-
ease, they write in Circula-
tion, a journal of tne Amer-
ican Heart Association

es proposed.

he fits the pieces together
in this huge business that
reportedly b r o u g h t one
dealer $750,000 in one year’s
laboratory business .._. a
dealer, incidentally, against
whom cruelty charges have
been pressed.

“The way it is set up, re—
searCh institutions do not
know which dogs they are

buying are stolen. Some of
their major suppliers can

pass their inspections. But‘
. a major supplier, selling up

to 1500 animals a week, has
to get many of its animals
on a ‘no-questions—asked’
basis. They come from
middle-man dealers.
Middle—men may get their
dogs fr om county dog
wardens a n d ‘runners.’
These fellows are catch-as-
catch—can types, who pick
up people’s pets for beer

and cigarette money. Of '

course, middle-men drive
out into the countryside,
especially around here into
the hollows of West Vir-
ginia and Kentucky. They
pick up for free, or for a
buck, pretty much what

they want. But What a
sorrynlookin‘g sight—under-

~ fed, mange—ridden, ~. sick.“ '

“Why,” Mr. Hogan Was
asked, “if the turnover to

‘ labs is fast do you find

these starved, sick creatures
that apparently have been
kept by dealers for weeks?”

“Some are too sick to
offer, or they have already
been rejected by the labs,”
he explained. “These bums
keep them around, h0ping
they can pass them off in
a job lot, like to a med
school, as “killer dogs.”
They figure anything
breathing is, saleable.” .

“Killer dogs” are usually
gentle. They are killed soon
after arrival in labs for im—
mediate dissection, hence
their name.

Mr. Hogan toldof the no-
questions-asked policy as it
affects the top of the re-
search pyramid—the gov-
ernment’s National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH). He
visited NIH’s new animal
farm at Poolesville, Md,
where dogs and cats are
put in condition for re-
search use. Though many
of its veterinarians oppose
the practice, NIH buys
nearly $100,000 worth of
animals from dealers an—
nually. (Recently NIH re-

' luctantly released a dealer-

obtained dog to its owner,

who claimed it was stolen

from his property.)
Showing in word and ges—

ture he was after a buck
and cared nothing for ani—
mals, Mr. Hogan sought out
the procurement veterinari-
an Here’. s Hogan’ 5 story.

. “ ‘Yes, I am the man you
want to talk. to, but I, wish
I could, send you some-
where else,’ the vet - said.

Then he routinely outlined

NIH’s idealistic r e q uir e -
ments for dealer care and
handling before delivery I
knew from visiting their
places that some of the
dealers he dealt with didn’t
qualify.

“He never asked me for
my references, background,
or anything like that,“ When
he. saw my pick-up. truck
and asked» how many dogs
I Could ‘carry, .I Said about
25 or 30, medium-sized. The
vet Sat (1, ‘Well, if the
humane sOciety’ ever
catches you, they’ll have
you locked up.’ ”

Penalties in legislation
that Hogan’s evidence is
helping to bring closer to
law includes cancellation
of Federal licenses (to d a y,
not required) and fines,
in some bills, (up to $10,000.
The average fine. under
state” laws written before
“big research,” runs about
$50. And occasions of a
man being locked up for
cruelty-to—animals are in
the class with “man-bites-
dog”——rare indeed. ‘
(TOMORROW: Man’s in-
humanity.)

 

 




nestle» M‘ay-s'11241‘; "1966

 

tan-”s. Best Friend Betrayed

:
v

nimal Cruelty Ex 039d Evenln Govern

BY ANN corTEELL FREE when humanitarians ; first Soul Was "there but. I'found
North American; spoke up—h-as now moved 125 dogs in a, ramshackled
Newspaper Alliance to a position in favor of building,” she said. “Others
WASHINGTON~ “I have modified dealer-research fa- were lying 1n the weeds,

 

vvvvo'vwv

9‘ Kooo.o(
”A's‘ ":
v." n

Jc'
”5 .
ill/x.

>4} 0

x

 

h ’3.
’>.\

For one t hing, Pennsyl-
vania now has a dog law-:-
passed by an overwhelming

“g... ., .,. ,, .,.

v
’9.

3:

0.x
’Jx'Six

This is the second in a series. of articles
on unscrupulous animal dealers who steal

4"
‘6'».

154

seen conditions that my
conscience won’t forget, ”
the slight young man told
a congressional cemmittee
in a barely audible voice.

Ralph Mayer’ s voice may
have been weak, and his
knees shaking. For he was
telling of scenes of neglect
and cruelty he had seen
in Minneapolis, Minn. And
the next day he had to go
back and face his supe—
rior-s. . ~

Here is what he said:

“The condition of some
dogs at arrival is truly re-
volting. I have seen dogs
with no teeth, brOken and
improperly set jaws, mange,
fleas, worms, advanced
pregnancy and nearly blind
brought in for experiments.

- . “Upon arrival at the ken—
nel, all dogs are’numbered,
and their number is at;
tached to'them by means
of a neck chain. Since dogs
often are quite young when
they arrive, a small neck
chain is placed on them.
‘I know of three occasions
where dogs outgrew their
neck chains, and it went
unnoticed until the chain
was actually imbedded over
.1/4. inch deep in the ani-
.mal’s neck. On one . occa-
sion' I could not pull the
chain out after cutting it.
The dog tore it out.”

AFTER THE hearing, Mr.
Mayer revealed, after close
questioning,» Why he spoke
out.

“My minister (Apostolic
Lutheran) h as preached
many times on the im-
portance of doing what
your conscience tells yOu.
I had com lamed of con-

e W011 1 do
nothing. Finally, I got in
touch with a local humane
society.”

The 25-year-old farmer’s
son’said also that he had
been brought up to treat
animals as “servants to be
treated respectfully.”

Ralph Mayer does not
present the only “profile
in courage” appearing be-
fore congressional commit-v
tees, lately. to protest pro-
curement and handling of
animals inside and outside
laboratories.

Another—1n fact, she’s
thewoman who started the
ball rolling on legislation
to curb “degnapers” is a
government career woman,
Fay Brisk. She spends
many evenings and week-
ends checking with dealers,
hoSpitals, police and hu-
mane societies, trying to
locate dogs whdse dis-
tressed owners have turned
to her. She gets calls from
“all over.” _

“It’s like looking for a
needle in a haystack,’.’ she
says. “Hospitals don’t want
stolen pets,, but on the
Other hand they are afraid
to admit they might have
one. So when I report that
' the dog might be in their
lab, some—‘—-but a very few
-——will look and see. Some-
times we are lucky. ”

MISS BRISK, a trim 100-
pounder in her 40's, is also
director of the B erks
County, Pa., Animal Res-
cue League. She first went

onth’e warpath against un-
scrupulous dealers f our
_years ago after visiting the
biggest dealer in the East.
(Since then he has been
arre ted for cruelty—with
Miss. Brisk in on the “raid”
Labut’ it didn’t put him out
ofrbusiness.) “The stench
that first: day, the suffer-

g—dogs jammed in to-
gether, big ones trampling
little ones. It was too much.
.1». knew then that some-

 

 

majority—that requires' li-
censing of all dealers with-
in the state.

For another thing, her de-
tective work last summer
trying to locate a stolen
dalmatian became a “cause
celebre.” It was climaxed
with the introduction by
Rep. Joseph Resnick (D.,
N Y.) of the first of 27
dealer-control bills. Her ac-
c o m p l i s hments are well
known to her legislative op-
p o n e n t s. One of them
pointed to her. after a con-
gressional hearing the other
day and proclaimed: “There
goes the dog dealers’ Mme.
de Farge. ” '

Miss Brisk beam-.ed

ANOTHER upstream
swimmer who has searched

pets to sell to research laboratories. Legis-
lation which would compel dealers and re-
search facilities to meet government stan-
dards of decency lS expected to be passed

by Congress soon.

 

his conscience and acted is
Dr. Richard G. Pearce, a
Detroit veterinarian. His
conviction that research in-
stitutions “have in no way
made any concerted effort
to clean up deplorable con—
ditions in dog d-ealers’ es-
tablishments” has brought
him to congressional" wit-
ness stands several times.
“Do-g dealer holding sta~
tions,” he said, “are both

Belsens and Buchenwalds
for animals”,

This tall, soft-spoken man
also told congressmen: “It
grieves me that the main
body of opposition] to this
type of legislation comes
from my veterinary and
medical colleagues.”

Since he Spoke, the
American Veterinary Medi-
cal Association —— silent

cility control.

These are a few of the
persons who have put their
careers or: their place in
the “establishmen "’ "on the

line. Others have not had“
that problem. But they

often put their lives on the
line.

ONE SUCH is Mrs. Dor-
othy Dyce of Detroit. This
blond, friendly consultant
of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute was sickened by the
appearance of animals at

Chicago research labs. She -‘

systematically followed the
trail- back to their source
of supply —— the hill coun-
try of Tennessee.

In a rented car she ven-
tured forth to the farm of
a Roy Hargrove. “Not a

some so sick they couldn’t

stand. None had food or
water.”

When she watered the.
dogs with a hose, “th ey
knocked each other down
trying to get to the hose.”
Mrs. Dyce, busy feeding and
watering the hysterical
creatures, heard a car drive
up. A man yelled,
out. .” And Dorothy Dyce
*Who'se' profile of courage
was made indelible that
October night—heeded

But she returned, this
time with law enforcement
officers. The rest of the
story will come out at the
trial of dog dealer, Har-
grove. ‘

TOMORROW. P e n (1 mg
Legislation.

“Get ‘

 

". ’6-

o'o’o' ’3'?

‘o

“is”

 




January 27* 1965

Mrs. Ann Cottooll Fran
#500 Qua Lana, NM.
WOShington. Do Co 20-007

\Donr.Ann,

Hero is tha writton analysis you asked no to sand you aftor our convonn
cation about tho draft bill. It was good talking with you and going over
tho basic pointo_wo agreed on, and though I know you havo plenty of copies
of than, I'm attaching on c for ready roforcnoo in discussing the bill.

The first one rolatos to inspection, and as no discusocd, I focr that
ditioion of tho inspectorato into fivo or more difforcnt categories necess-
itating vioits from all the different agoncies to a large institution that
receives grants from HEW, Atomic Energy Commission, USD?, and Dcionso would
make things very difficult for a university. At the some time, many of the
persons using animals would not bc inspected at all because they had no grant
from any agonoyk It might be difficult, too, in institutions where the
animal quarters arc centralized to draw the line between the jurisdiction
of ono agoncy and that of another. For simpler would be inspection by a
single unified group of inspectors, as has been done so successfully in
Britain for 89 years. It wouﬂd also be much more fair to all concerned,
and much mars economical. The travelling expenses of inspectors from all
the difforonﬁ agoncioc all over the country would be vory.largo if full.
timo qualified p6oplo more exclusively used, and I know you agree that they
should b0. Casual 1n526ction oy ooroons whose main cnpl oymcnt is something
different has circady been demonstrated 0 be ineffective in curbing abuses
in laboratorioo.

The National Society fonkodﬁcal Research has also written a bill in
which each agency is made rcsponsiblc for its own animals. It does not
require banana treatment of the animals, and does not contain any of the
basic points - no I need hardly montion to you who are so well acquainted
with tho cxtrom1ot position of this group.

2) Tho second point, individual licensing, is not in the bill as you
cont it to no. Soction 3 scans to be comparable to Section 3 of S. 533,
and this docs not provide for the licensing of each scientist who usco
animals in an institution. In S. 533, individual licensing is doalt with
in Section 6 (g) and Section 5. This is ono of the most important of the
basic points. You'll recall Dr. Carrier's pointing out without indivicual
liconsing it would be imposoiblc to onforco the British.Act...thio even
thoggh the British Act has been in affect for so long. The Sooicty for
.Aninal Protoctlvo Logislation would oppooo any bill that did not contain
individual liconoing.

 




, 3) Tm main part of paint mm is mum in the bill, that 1%., than
is ma requiramant that.animals auffbring savura, anduring pain he painlassxy
killad, and tha part that is that» is 103a dlfinits alsa. Tha spaifia pain
aonditiona atﬁachad to all iieensaa undar tbs Bwitish.Aat raad as follaws:

a) If.an animal at any tima during the said axparimanta is fauna to ba
suffmring pain whiah 13 «ithar savoro or is likaly to andure, and if the
main rasult cf tha axparimant has baon attainna, tha animal shall forthwith
be painlassly killed;

b) If an~an$mal at any time during any at the said expariments is
found ta ha suffering sevara pain which is likely to anduva, such animal
shall forthwith be painlussly killed:

a) If an aniMal appears to an Inspectar to be suffering cansidorabla
pain, and if‘such Inspecgor directs such animal ta be destroyed, it shall
forthwith b9 painlesa*y killed.

14') This; paint is vmll covered. Parhaps insertion of the word ”resting"
bafora ”place" {Section Bub) wnuld alarify the maaning.

5) Tharé is no provision fOr point fiva u requiring that wnrk by
undergraduata students be painless.

6) A vital yart of point six is omitted, that is, tha brief statement
of what is t0 be dmﬁe to the animala and why and the brief annual report.
The bill provides for identification of animal$ and eventual dispositicn
but inspaction 0f animals by ncn~grantees mauld be very time~consuming and
complicatad far any in5§ector if individuals are not licensed and no stateo
ment about thair activitiea is on record.

Therﬁ ara othar points which might be gone into, but the basic points
are clearly tbs mcgt important. If I havsn't been clear on any point, please
don’t hesitat$ to Call me, and I'll be glad to elaborate or help in any way.
W9 owa it to tha laboratory animals t0 pass a bill in our country that inn

eludes thase basic §oints.

Bgst wishes,

 




  
       
  
 
   
   
    

 
 

~ ,,_ Ann Cottrell Free
thT 4ﬂmimeme1La.
A Bill Washington 7, 9.0.

  

To provide for humane treatment of animals used in experiment and
and research by departments and agencies of the United States and

by recipients of grants, loans and contracts from the United States.

   
 
 
      
     
   
       
          
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

,ye Seiste 911 Hvlse 9" Rep e.ea at“ e, pm as U1. y!

That it is the declared policy of the United States that the use of

  

vertebrate animals for scientific purnoses should be reduced wherever

  

possible. But'when they must be used, it must be recognized that

humane care, handling, and elimination of pain, stress and fear is
.wm

not only necessary to main‘high quality of such animals and more

accurate test results, but is a moral obligation of a civilized society.

SEC. 2. There is hereby established in the office of the Secretary
nxxﬁxinx

or Director of each department and a gency of the United States Govern~
ment that uses animals for ex erimental purposes an Office of the Chief
of Research Animal Care. It would have the responsibility of carrying
out the provisions of this Act in its respective Department or Agency.
The Chiefs of Research Animal Care would compose an Inter-Denartmental
Committee or Board that would meet no less than once a month. Meeting
with this Committee or Board no less than four times a year would be

an Advisory Council on Research Animal Care. It would be composed of
two representatives on animal-using scientific désciplines who hold
advanced degrees and are not recipients of Federal funds either through
g ant, loan or contract; two representatives of recognized national or
State animal welfare societies; two members from the public. The members
would be appointed for varying terms of service by the President of the

United States. Tae purpose of the Coneittee or Board and Advisory Council

  




 

  

would be exchange of information as to developments and problems

 

within their reapective agencies and departments; development of
uniformity of standards; and to serve as a central clerring house

for scientific and animal welfare groups.

SEC.3. No instrumentality, nerson, laboratory, organintion,

institution or commercial firm receiving United States government

funds through regular budgeting procedures, grants, loans, awards,
contracts or Cash purchases may use vertebrate animals for research
pnnposes unless licensed by the Department or Agency from which it

is receiving funds. This provision also anplies to sunrliers of

animals to Federalli-sunported instrumentalities or individual recipeints

of’Federnl fUnds.

SEC.4. To obtain a license a person, labor torv, urganization,
institution,comnercial girm and animal supnlier would meet the following
requirements:

a. All animals shall be legally acou red and shall be maintained
by the supplier, whether a nrivate firms or Federal agency, in conformance
with the same princioles of handling and care of animals in whohly or

partially sunported Federal laboratories.

 

b. all premises where animals are kept shall trovide a comfortable
place, adequate spaces and facilities for exercise normal to the species,
ventilation '
sanitary surroundings, ligating and\txnkiixxat‘ anpronriate to the
species. Long~term caging of dogs and cats should not be permitted
unless determined by the Chief of Research Animal Care as necessary to

the test. Caging for acre than 30 days is considered ”long term."

  




 

and comfort and shall not be permitted to suffer pain or stress

through neglect or mishandling.

d. An accurate record shall be maintained of all experiments and
procedures nerformed and the records shall be in such form as to
identify animals used for exocrisents. Records shall Fe kept as to
whether an animal died during the experim nt or was humanely destroyed.
Ehthanasia should to standardized for each species and she ld be in
conformity with the highest scientific and humane standards.

e. Cages and enclosures of animals shall kn at all times be
identified by cards stating the nature of the experiment.

f. Each user of animals for research, whether individual, suprlier,
institution, commercial firm, government department or agency, receiging
United States government funds for research is required to hermit entrance
of authorized representatives of the Chief of’Research Animal Care of
the department\ or agency from which it is receiving such funds to
inspect animals, premises, records and other data.

g. No “sinful tests, which would r quire anesthesia and poct~test
sedation in a human being, may be undertaken without tux anesthesia and
post~test sedation without permission from the Chief of Research Animal
Care. Records of nermissions granted must be forwarded monthly to the
Inter-deaartmental Committee or Board and quarterly to the Advisory
Council. They should be open to public inspection. Requests for
burning, schlding, aanx tests for trauma produced hy pain, and exnerimental
surgery without anesthesia and post~test sedation require presentation to
and anrreval of the Interwdepartmental Committee or Board and Advisory
Uouncil. Allégztﬁggs must be employed to ascertain whether such tests

have been performed previously, for mh:t scientific objective, and with

snot results. Discovery of prolonged, unsedated suffering ~ﬁif3rhﬁﬁﬂﬁf

 




-4...

authorizes the representative of the-Chief'of’Reeeerch Animal Care to
destroy said animal paiwless7y, bat only after conferring with the
Chief of Research Animal Care or his denuty.

h. Animal caretakers and non~graduate technicians will be required

to meet standards set by the respective Chiefs of Research Animal Care.

1. Students receiving Federal financial aid or in Federally»
supported institutions must obtain special permission from granting
department's or agency's Chief of'Research Animal Care to allow experimental
animals to recover from anesthesia after exaerimentation.

SEC; 5 Licensing of wersons and laboratories under the immediate
jurisdiction of a Dehartment of Agency would be determined by the
r spective Department or Agency's Chief of Research Animal Care in
conformance with SEC. 4. Annlicants for grants, loans and contrasts
would be required to sign affadavits as to compliance, *reeent and
future, with SE6. 4 of this ACT as a hart of the procedure of ahplying
for a grant, loan or contract. The Office of the Chief of'Reseerch
Animal Care of that Department of Agency would be requ red to grant
its aeproval before the rent or contract is given. Inspection of
the premises of an a olicant may be made befdre a grant is acted upon.

SEC. 6. Infringement of provisions of the license or falsification

of data furnished the Department or agency granting funds could result
in withdrawal of 0.8. government funds.

SEC 7. Each animal~usigg Department or Agency is instructed to
devote funds where necessary to ascertaining methods to reduce the
numbers of vertebrate animals used in research by:

. . ‘\:§:§:mation
a. Irnroved record keeping and selentific ngexx
exchange to reduce dunlication of eXperiments.

b. Development of use of non—vertebrate substitutes.

c. Improved statistical design of eXperiments.

 




 

95'-

SEC. 8. This Aﬂt authorizes eeproerietion of funds for the

administration of the Act’s provision by respective Chiefs of

agencies _ .
Reaeerch Animal Care in departments and ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfﬁﬁ of the Unltea

States government.

 




4500 Que Lane, N. w.
Washington, D. G 20007

Jan. 18’ 1965

Dear Christine:

The enclosures are all self—
exnlanatory, though badly typed!

On Friday I had a good visit
with Senator Hill. I had been in comrunication
with him in Alabama before the holidays as
I knew that the "torch“ must pass to him in
View of Roberts defeat. You know, I am sure,
that I am for good strong legislation the same
as you. The route to that goal may now lie
before us.

Sincerely,

. 5/!” """
Ann Cottrell Free

 




LhﬂGﬁiTQRY leMhL LEGISLaTléN

In view of the humane movement's desire ( signified by the general
re—thinhing now sing on) to find a legislative arproach that would accommodate
various points 0% view and have a cod chance of passing Congress, I am
attachin a rough draft of a bill 0 protect animals that might be abused
in scien ific research financed in any manner by the Federal government.

This draft is an outgrowth of close study of the lab. animal problem
over a period of several years. It ,articularlﬁ results from my analySis
in a series of six articles 5 ndica ed by the orth enerican NeWSpaper
Alliance in 1963. In the lee of the series I outlined such an annroach
should no progress on a solution be forthcoming I made no attempt to have
%t introduced or to displace any strong bill. It was on hand should there
e a s a ema e.

Such a stalemate appears to have been reached, even before the 89th
Congress gets underway. The Committees have not shown any great interest,
narticularly in view of the lack of unity among humane groups, and the
Administration has not given it any public sunnort. Five years have nearly

gone by since the first legislation was introduced and the nroblem grows
more acute.

Perhaps the approach attached here, could be consider d seriously
by sponsors of previous legis ation now in the midst of looking fer ways
to meet the needs of the animals, the objections of the scient fic community
and, I hope, a road to unity. Ideally, one strong bill before the Congress,
to which strong Con ressional leaders, eshecially the chairman of one or
both of the concerned commi tees, have given their names would be the
most effective route to victory. Otherwise, who can say when the animals
will obtain the relief they so badly need?

There is no space here for detailed analysis of the attached.
Undoubtedly it can be iaproved tremendously. But a few words of exelanation:
Administration of a lab. animal law must be relatively sieple in View of
the already complex, ramified governmental scientific structure. Under this
proposed b 11 an ap licant for a research grant or contract from one dept.
or agency would not ave to approach another de artment or agency of govern
ment for a separate permit or license to use an male. This is required by
some of the legislation introduced in the last sessions. Permits or
licenses would be a part of the granting, lending contracting separatus,
based on strgng gzitggia in SEC. 4 of the attache .

,a~
To the objection that could be raiégd over the seeming apnerrance
that e de artment or agency would be poliqﬁ itself can be met bgithe fact
no c ng

that if HAW were the supervisory agency it would likewise be itself.
The joint chiefs concept slus the advisory council, will make sel£~§olicing
less of a danger as the Chiefs Inter~derar mental comrmittee or boar will
make the entire regulatory procedure less self~contained. Theoreticall ,

a seharate agency or comm ssion such as FCC or FTC, would be ideal bu

the paper work burden might be too great, as in the case of centralization
within HEW.

Failure to include specific criteria as to care, pain, inspection,
etc. could lead to an Ii§”ineffective law. In fact, the setting of criteria
by regulation could be done tomorrow by any animal—using agency. But it
could be abrogated the day afterl

 




The CttﬁﬂhCi CCCft iC CCiCC CCnt to wCV1111 WCCCCC 1CCCCC311CC
1Ct1C1 1&1 1amh11w M C CCCCCC. If Cuis CCCCCCCC CCCCS CDCEIV Cf
CurC1§C I C1u31 C*CCCciCCC 1Carng fCCm

Cg CCt Cn w» Cay i:CfCrC mCW'tu? L1 tCr 1’11.THC 1C C hClean C'f:
CCC CCC1tC CC'CittCC 1:1C LC10P n1 1C131c 111C PC CC W1ich CCCCCCQC
CCiCCl C1113 CCVC hwem CCCCCCCC. MCCCLLF C111 1C3 CCCC C draft Cf
CCis CCCCCCCCCC CCC C CC ft Cf tCC CCCCCCCC CCCCCCCC l’ﬁﬁCEatiﬁﬂ.
'CC 1C CCCCCCC tC CCC C CCifiCC C CCCCCC. C1, 113C C11 Cf CC, CCCtC
t0 CCCCCCC Cay CCCCC Cf‘ECCCrCCCry CCiCCiC.

CC Emu CCC rC1w CCCCCCC CCC lCCCC9 thC CtIOCk 13 CheﬂvTﬂg.
i“~*"-1tC 11111: 111,1. 8 111151 11 CCC'CCC. 1:11.... 1 3 he 1:111? 0f 11.31va 111111ij
CCCCCCCC Cf CCCCCCCC1C Ci1- étwry C1 Ct if'CC t1:Ce th CICEC tCCt
CrC t CCCC C; gCCd 1C? CCCCCCCﬁVC 7111CJ1t5Cn CCCd Cot be last
in tCe rush. CC CCi‘Cﬂ huzane 1CCCCCCC Cw1iww ' Cn itC MlﬁJﬁn CC
'itC CCC vCiCC tC CCC CCCCCCCC Cf tCC CC1tC C tCtCC is the bCCt
CCCCCC tC CCCtht CCC CC15111

W

CM00ttreli {£1

i3

33

£1pg 1we LC 1 .
a?" to Ti, 31:13.

Zak/TA/yéj/

 




But Their Sharp

‘ Lasf of 'a series .,

By ANN COTTRELL FREE
WASllINGTON-—-(NANA)-—-
“They are willing that dogs
have teeth but the laws have
Is?- not to,” Rep. Leo
- .3; "_" “an: 0’3 1' i e n (Dd
.,,w .7 ' ; N.Y.) remarked
g... wryly the other

., day after hear-

. wanted to pro-
;tect laboratory

._ M animals.

Mrs. Free The “teeth” in
the ' five different laboratory
animal bills before congress
little chance that any of these
bills, as presently written,
will become the final law.

Victory may lie ahead, how-,.
ever, by‘combined elements I

of each designed to catch of-
fenders but not to hinder the
innocent.

The bill with the sharpest
teeth was introduced by Rep.
William J. Randall (D-Mo.)
and was drawn up by the
Humane Society of the United
States. This 13-page bill would
create the office of a pres-
identially appointed commis-
sioner of laboratory animal
control within the justice de-
partment. ‘

All laboratories and indi-
vidual users of animals in
federally supported research,
plus laboratories selling their
products to go ve r n m e n t,
would have to obtain certif-
icates of compliance and
prOJect plan approvals. In ad-
dition, each individual user
' of animals would beam to ob-
tain an annual letter of quali-
fication.

To obtain these permits,
animal users would have
to meet 14 requirements.
Among them: Proper, care,
housing and normal exer-
cise; post-operative care;
record keeping on source,
use 3'34 .disnesiiion _of am:

"mals, Animals would be
anesthetized for painful ex-

- periments unless exemption
is obtained from the com~
missioner and the surgeon
general of the U. S. No
exemptions would be al-
lowed for burning, scalding
and major surgery.

Anesthetics could only be;
given by holders of doctorate
degrees or persons under
ltheir immediate supervision.
,All animals used by students
for surgery shall be under
anesthesia and should be hu-
manely destroyed before re-
'covering consciousness. In,
spectors would be free to
check laboratories, files and
records. Violations could be,
punished by withholding of
funds.

* ministration.’ Also,

ST. PAUL DISPATCH

Animal Care Bills Bare Teeth

A less complex bill is co~/

sponsored by Senators Maur-‘i
,ine B. Neuberger (D-Ore.),l
Joseph Clark (D-Pa.) and:
!Stephen Young (D-Ohio). A
‘similar version was intro-I
duced in the house by Rep.
Thomas L, Ashley (D-Ohio).
It was drawn up by the Ani-

. mal Welfare institute and the

Society for Animal Protective
Legislation. Mrs. Christine'
Stevensof New York City is
the founder and guiding light
of these groups of non-voting
members. Clearly, she has
been the trail blazer in lab-
oratory animal care. Her bill

 

vary in sharpness. There .18! is modeled, in general, after

the British law of 1876 when
research animals were num-
bered in the hundreds, not
the millions.

This bill would require in-
‘dividual. licensing of scien-
tists using animals in U. S.~
supported research to file
project plans, but they would
not have to wait for approval
before going ahead with their
work. It calls for humane
care in housing, and general
comfort and exercise. It bans
prolonged pain, but permitsI
some painful experiments
without painkillers. It re-
strictsstudent use of animals

Iin the same way as the Ran-
idall bill. Inspection and puni-
itive action is similar to the
Randall bill.

The secretary of health,
education and welfare would

iadminister this law. HEW,
through its enormous nation-
al institutes of h e a 1th re-
search program, uses —- ac-
cording to NIH statisticians-
about one-eighth of all ani-
mals used in research annu-
ally in the U. S. The rest are
used by the army, navy, air
force, national aeronautics
and space administration,-
atomic energy commission,
agriculture and interior de-
partments and veterans ad-
millions
=are usedby pharmaceutical
ghouses. .
{ Sen. Jennings Randolph
l (D-W. Va.) ta k e s an ap-
proach approved by many ‘
‘ NIH scientists. His bill lays
‘ down guide lines for care ,

and housing and pain con- i
trol. It instructs eachiani-
mal-using agency to set and
enforce its own standards.
But no Specific authority
within agencies is charged .
with “laying down the law”
even t h o u g h violations
could be punished by with-
drawal of federal funds.

A bill, introduced by Rep.
Kenneth A. Roberts (D.~Ala.)
and Rep. John Fogarty (D-
R. I.) instructs the surgeon-
’general to set standards that

 

iall research animal-using re-l

,Cipients of federal f u n d s i
i
would have to meet,

Competition 3 m o n g hu- '
mane groups for public and
congressional s u p p o r t for
their bills is disconcerting,’
confusing and self-defeating.
In the long run, they may

 

realize that the best help for
many luckless animals lies
in uniting behind a new ap-

proach. Such a bill—-—if it is to

get through the congress -
must meet humanitarians’
views of animal needs, thus
must have “teeth.” Like-
wise, it must allay fears of
delay, paper work, red tape,
and limits on scientific free-
dom constantly repeated by
many scientists.

The main problem, as this
reporter sees it, is lack of un-
derstanding and the inability
of both sides to find a com-
mon ground,

 

 

That ground must be found.
IOtherwise, bothsidcs willbe.
iguilty of perpetuating suffer-
ing that could be avoided.

The new approach—which
legislative experts believe
may be workable—could be
'constructed along the follow-
ing lines: ,

Creation of the office of the
chief of research animal care
in each animal-using depart-
ment or agency. It would be
a part of the agency’s secre-
tary of director’s office to
give it highest prestige and
authority.

These half-dozen or so
chiefs would compose an in-
terdepartmental committee
that would work out uniform-
ity of standards, means of
fast exchange of information
and other fine points. It would
be advised by a carefully se-
lected board balanced be-
tween members of the scien-

tific community, humane '

groups, the public and the
clergy.

Such an approach would
reduce red tape. It would
.not center all authority in
one agency as is done in
Great Britain. There, about
4 million animals are
used each year. Here,
about 200 million. No one
agency would be poking its
nose into another agency’s

Fri, July 26, 1963

9.55 Varies ~

p The law would have teeth.
It would spell out that ‘all
users of animals having any
financial dealings with the .
federal government would. '
have to meet certain stand-r
ards. It would affect suppliers
of animals as well as sellers
of goods to go‘Vernment agen-
cies that have used animals,
as was done by the ,humane=~

 

' mission for exceedingly pain‘ .

 

b u sin e s s, creating hard
f 9 e l__1 n g s. Instead, - they

would work together toxin

ward at common goal.
Grant applicants would be
saved the complications
and delays of dealing with
two agencies of govern-
ment as would often be the
case. Ilumane groups would
not be locked out in setting
specific standards as in-
the case of all bills before
the congress today.

 

slaughter law. These stand?
,ards, by and large, would,
meet those set down by the
‘major bills before congress
'and the penalties would .be
the same. ‘ It might even be
stronger than the Neuberger-
Clark-Young bills in that per- .

ful experiments without anes—
thesia would receive eVe'n '
‘ greater study, with the possi—
bility/of veto power being ex—
ercised by the respective
chiefs if thorough checking on ~ ‘
previous experiments showed
similar experiments had tal-
[ready provided an answer.

One of the most important
provisions of the new ap-
proach would be the strength-
ening of current regulations
in regard to grant and con-
tract applications. The buga-'
boo of certification and other .
paper approvals could be di-
minished by tieing in the li-
censing of animal users into
existing systems. The results
-——the protection of animals—
would be the same. ’

This reporter concludes this
series of articles on the acute
laboratory animal care prob- '
lem with this counsel from
Dr. Alebrt Schweitzer: . .!

“When any animal is forced
into the. service of man, the
sufferings which it has to
bear on that account are the
concern of every one of us.
No one ought to permit inso-
far as he can prevent it, pain »
or suffering for which he will
not take the responsibility.
No one ought to rest at ease
in the thought that in so doing -
he would mix himself up in
the affairs which are not his"
business. Let .no one Shirk
the burden o’f”"his”responsi-
bility.” .

 

 

 




Z/ﬂd NW1 #9 7., pm >///Mf1 /

28* M55"; UL 52V? P ~ 4A («to K IV ‘77” Q/ -
A " W 5 4/“ L'- , [5% MW 4 xiv; 7: 5/»; ,t 7‘: ,Mz cx

 




. .11“! I . a. . A"
A _-.....‘a_~-~.._.t n _ A

as: "HOE-NTWILD ANIMALS WITH YOUR FRIEND (New Action Target Game— lifelike Jungle Animals"

- u . A .A A .1 i and Swirl Stainless Steel offers. , A :5 “"1
lump "' the A" When Shot by Hunter’s Toy Riﬂe! £2;“rt:"attaining:W- . « w E

van ans msnc ANIMALS, HUNTERWthl RIFLE
Inna PLAYBULLETS(harmlessplastic),PlusCOLQRFUL ‘5

IUNGLE LANDSCAPE TARGETMAP!

. New fun game to play with friends or by yourself. You go?

-‘AA

 

Save these Kellogg’s Bonus Units AA A 14¢:
for Signature, Radiance Silverware ' . ' 2 quII

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

——1
—————m_—_——_———_————~—__—_

ORDER FORM FOR “JUNGLE JUMP-UP” GAME
JUNGLE GAME, BOX 318, BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN 49016

Please send me __._."Jungle Jumpvup” Game(s). l enclose 50:
(no stamps please) and one Kellogg's Variety “star" end panel or
box top from OKs for each game ordered.

(PLEASE PRINT PLAINLY)

on a make-believe jungle safari to hunt wild animals.
Jungle landscape target map marked ‘with point scores .A
so you can see who wins thegame. e ” =

Animals‘and hunter mold- A- Rubber-band-operatéd1

NAME

 

with one Kellogg's
Variety "star" end panel
or OKs box top

plastic.

pull trigger on hunter's
hack to fire harmless plas»
tic bullets.

ed from break-resistant

Hunter has toy rifle. You, I

catapuit on animal. targets 4
sends them romping Into ,

air when hit.

lsturdy‘ 17" x 20" jungle

landscape targetmap
printed In realistic jungle
colors. 2

SEND FOR YOUR “JUNGLE JUMP-UP" GAME TODAY!

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY STATF ZIP NO.____..___
Offer good in the United States and Puerto Rico, except where pro-
hibited. licensed. regulated or taxed. Make check or money order

ayable to JUNGLE JUMP-UP GAME. U. S. Military overseas, send
El. 8. currency and APO address. Allow approxrmately 28 days for
delivery.




 

 

 

 

 

 

l i r”. f“ —",
fir

LVwénz

a. "1'

'W» 3:1,".

I‘ l

1,9,5} ~

MAN'S BEST FmEND: BETRAYEDp-Il

’ l

 

 

 

C ongressmnal Witnesif

Of Buchenwalds

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

Special to Buffalo Evening News &
N orth American Newspaper Alliance

0 WASHINGTON, April 5 —- “I
have seen conditions that my
conscience won’t forget,” the
slight young man told a con-
gressional committee in a bare-
ly audible voice.

Ralph Mayer’ s voice may have

been weak and his knees shak-
ing. For he was telling of scenes
of neglect and cruelty he had
seen in his job as an animal
caretaker in a government labo-
ratory in Minneapolis, Minn.
And the next day he had to go
back and face his superiors.

Here is what he said:

“The condition of some dogs
at arrival is truly revolting. I
have seen degs with no teeth,
broken and imprOperly set jaws,
mange, fleas, worms, advanced
pregnancy and nearly blind
brought in for experiments.

a? * ﬁll

“UPON ARRIVAL at the ken»
nel, all dogs are numbered, and
,..their number is attached to
them by means of a neck chain.
. Since dogs are often quite young
when they arrive, a small neck
1. Chain is placed on them.

“I know of three occasions
where dogs outgrew their neck
. chains, and it went unnoticed
1 until the chain was actually im-

 

bedded over 1/1- -inch deep in the-

animal’s neck. On one occa-
1 sion, I could not pull the chain
"out after cutting it. The dog
tore it out.” ,
, After the hearing, Mr. Mayer
* revealed after close question-
ting, why he spoke out. ~ .

“My minister (Apostolic Lu:
, ,t'hefran) has preached many
1:" times on the importance of doing
:1;-'13,what your conscience tells yen.

:1. had camplained :of conduhons
diseveral times to my supermrsﬁ

T, 71;;4wou1d do nothing Finally,
' 1 “my touch With a local hu-

' afraid to admit they might have i

'of the Berks County, Pa.‘, Animal.

against

1suffe1ring—1—d1ogs jammed in 10+.

Quires licensin“i.t:

 

1 have been sickened byt

 

brought up to treat animals as " inted to her after a congres-
“servants to be treated respect-i sional hearing the other day and

fully.‘ 1,.11ptocla1med “There goes the
Ralph Mayer does not present‘, dog dealers’ Mme de Fargef’

the only “profile in courage”; Another upstream swimmer

appeamng before congresswnal ivho has searched his conscience

committees lately to proteﬂprd’and acted is Dr Richard G

cureme-nt and handling of anicfP-earce, a Detroit veterinarian.

mals inside and outside labasa; H15 conviction that research in-
tories 114.1.,st1tutions “have in no way made
\An‘ather-in fact Slh'e s tho, any concerted effort to clean up

woman who started the ball roll‘, deplorable COHdithnS in dog
establishments" has

ing on legislation to curb “dog;r dealers’
nal’eI‘S”---is a government calbiought him to congressional
reer woman, Fay Bris.:k She «Yfl‘t‘ness stands several times
spends many evenings and 11111131153111 DOg dealer holding stations’
ends checking with dealers, hasshe said, “are both Belsens and
pitals, police and humane so- “,Buchenwaldsfﬁfor animausf’

cieties, trying to locate dogsi
whose distressed owners have "i SINSE‘; HE SPOkGduthe Amer-
turned to her ,1, can e erinary Me ical Assoc-

, “It’s like looking for a needle" iation—silent when humanitari-

in a haystack, ” she says. “HoS— ans SpOke up—has now'moved 130
position in favor of modified

pitals don’ t want stolen pets, but: '11"
ealer-research facility control.
on the other hand they are 1These are a few of the persons

who have put their careers or
their place in the “establish—
inent” on the line. Others have

one. So when I report that the
dog might be in their lab, sOrne
—but a very few—will look and

see Sometimes,“ we are lucky-.2 , often put their lives on the line.

’ One such IS Mrs. DorOthy Dyce
of Detroit. This blonde, friendly
Consultant of the Animal Wel-
Rescue League ' («fare Institute was 51 ene y

She first went on the warpatih. e appearance of animals at
WSCfuPUIOUS dealer‘s; Chicago research labs. She sys-
four years ago after Visiting th6iematica11y followed the trail
biggest dealer in the East4 man yelled “Get out .11 And
(Smce then he has been ar- Dorothy Dyce—whose profile of
rested for CTQ?1'ty—)§“th M153 courage was made indelible thatl
Brisk in on the raid. October night—heeded

“The stench that flI‘S't day, the . But she returned, this time
with law enforcement officers
get‘her, big ones trampling 1111MB The rest of the story will come
ones. It was too much Iknew’aut at the trial of d0g deale
then that something had to be Hargrove in May.

What has been done since Fay-1;: NEXT—Pending legiSlation t
Brisk made th1$ vow? For 011360" ect cruelty

MISS BRISK is also director

done. ”

’.

thing, Pennsylvania now. has-a1

dog law—passed by an otter-
whelming majority "-1—: that re
“1‘ an: dealer§4

 

“Within the stat?

1' Pet Proiect

Over the past few months,
Americans across the land
tales
of horror in treatment of
dogs, cats and other pets by
animal dealers.

The public furor over “pct-
naping” and mistreatment
has resulted in congressional
action—27 bills have been
introduced to correct cruel
treatment of pets.

Ann Cottrell Free, in this
series of articles, eitmi'nes
the trade in pets, as well as
corrective legislation.

 

 

not had that problem. But they ’

 

 

 

 

back to their source of supply—
the. hill Country of Tennessee.

* * *

IN A RENTED car she ‘ven-.
tured forth to thefarm of a Roy
Hargrove. “Not a soul was there
but I found 125 dogs in a ram-
shackle building,” she said.
“Others were lying inlthe weeds,
some so sick they couldn’t stand.
None had food or water.”

When she Watered the dogs
with a hose, “they knockedcach
other down trying to get to the

hose.” Mrs. Dyce, busy feeding
and wateiing the hysterical c1ea- ‘
tures, heard a car drive up. A

 

 

1

l

 

 

 




51111: $171311; ﬁat->3? 3.
“‘1 E111; 1'1. 1 111:“? iii '1 , ~

- 1 1.1.2 , .1. 31-1111.

£21“
(“#1011

«J

rASHiNo‘rON (NANA)
111111 01 protest S: t off by th:

,1 11.1.1; summer of the con-1

'troversial "pctnapping" law, is;

atherincr o‘er Secretary 011
Amrultuie Orville Fieemansl
11:2 :ad

1-1 rider the law (Hongr SS gave
lireeinan authority to set stan~
dards tor the pre—experimentali
care and hiausing of dogs cats,
l‘ian‘isters. guinea pib US, monkies.
and. other pets. Nrm. lreeman
is oneminded that he prom~
ised to meet the “highest hu-
rn a he stand at (i. S.

T‘i‘escntlv man," pets are heat
in 82111811381205} lo;- aS 1.111; as 71‘)
day; 1111111111 outside exeicise 2—-
r‘n‘hcui 1‘11‘ 1] .This is ConSid—
(red inhuin 11:13 by most tete1111~
arv experts.

Leading the light to spring
these animals from their cages
is the beautiful and brainy wife
of Roger Stevens, Presidentt
Johnson’s cultural chief. Mrs;
Christine Stevens is president off
the Animal W-.elfare Institute!
and has published books on de-s
cent. animal quarte‘S. 1

One of the prime ei‘none. ts of
legislation calling for humane;
treatment. of laboratory animals.’
is Dr Maurice B Visscher. 1
rhvciolr .« note 1801’ at the Uni-1
versity of Minnoma Manv dogs1
at the university“ S medical
school are perpetually caged.
Photographs of their quarters“i
cages piled in three tiersuhavei
been widely circulated by Mrsi
Stevens’ animal welfare insti~1
tute.
Under the new petnap'pingj
lav-12‘. the public has a right to
~ protest the 30—day caging. Thef
dea line, however. is Jan. 15.1
Freeman already is deluged by?
protest mail from pet owners 1

Veterinarians at the world-1
famous Ar. Sell Memorial Hospt- 1
tal in Be. Ston emohasiz- that
perpetual caging of housebroken
the animals Dr C. Lawrence
Blakely the hospitals chief of
animals is extremely harmful to
surgery, says it could lead to
“disastrous re sul.S ‘ ”

1

 




  @ﬂr marriages ﬁrst J

AN INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER . WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1967/

l - I

 

 

 

Letters to the Editor

War. LA“ \

0n Displaying Animals
I have every sympathy with J
J Ann Cottrel'l Free (Letters, 3
J Feb. 5) in regard to the ex— 5
\ pl-oitation of animals, but I do J
not feel that the displays in .
Woodward and Lothrop’s win-
dows are true examples. Tlhose
pathetic roadside “zoos,” with
‘illded and housed beasts
should be abolished. But the
stdre’s beautiful displays of
birds, and the recent one,
were under the care of Wash-
ington Zoo personnel.

The little elephant appar-
ently had a congenital dis-
order, and would have died in J
any case. Also, I understand
; that c-heetas do not breed in J
5capitivity, so captured cubs J
.are the only source. These
two were about as “wild” as
a pair of kittens, chewing on
i their careta‘ker’s sleeve, while
being fed.

The Zoo—where animals
are more healthy and better
cared for than their wild
brothers—and the public, are

. the ultimate beneficiaries.

KATHARINE W. BURR.

Washington.

 

 

 




1. Al 151.1311»

y. .I..c c .«n

 




 

 

 

56m, CALlF. ‘
SOUTHEAST NEWS AND

CHAMPION.
ONLY-38,000

l967

JAN 9

W

; Protest ’Pefnapping’ Law

WASHINGTON -- A storm of
protest, set off by the passage
last summer of the controver-
sial “petnapping” law, is gath-
ering over secretary of Agricul:
ture Oville Freeman’s head.

Under the law, Congress gave
Freeman authority to set stand-
ards for the pre - experimental
care and housing of d o g s,
cats, hamsters, guinea \p i g s,
monkies, and other pets. Now.

; Johnson’s Cultural Chief. .
‘ Christine- Stevens is Prsident of
‘ the Animal Welfare Institute,

{legislation calling for
: treatment of laboratory animals
3 is Dr. Maurice B. Bischer phy,
siology professor at the Univer-

_ cal school are perpetually cag—
. ed. Photographs of their quart-
ers -— cages piled in three tiers
f -— have been widely circulated

Freeman is being reminded that
“highest humane standard-s.”

Presently, many pets a r e
kept in small cages for as long
as 30 days without outside ex -
ercise —- particularly dos. This
is considered inhumane by most

 

veterinary experts.

Leading the fight to spring
these animals from their cages
is the beautiful and brainy wife
of Roger Stevens, President

and has published.” books on de-
cent animal quarters. ~

One of. the prime Opponents of
humane

sity of Minnesota. Many dogs
at ,the University’s medi-

by Mrs. Stevens’ animal wel-

 

fare institute. .
.Under the new pet'napping

Mrs. ;

by protest ,mail from pet own-l

. ers.

Veterinarians at the world -
famous Angell Memorial Hospi-
tal in Boston emphasize th at
perpetual caging of house brok-
en animals is extremely harm -
fulto the animals. Dr. C. Law-g
rence Balkely, the hospital’s;
Chief of surgery, says it could;
lead t “disastrous results.” ‘

 

 

law, the public has a right t
protest the 30 - day caging. Th.

:

 

" deadline, hoWever, is Janua
{15. Freeman already is _ . we;

5

3,)» ~ ~"

 

 

 




.RT-BEl-VZ

 

"Ellie ﬁnnhag sitar
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SUN. 362,408

OCT 191989 gym )

 

$1

 

 

 

 

«assess

 

 

 

 

 

Wide World

Live rabbits have their. temperatures taken at a research institute in New Brunswick,»
N.J., during laboratory tests for antibiotics and other products. ‘

 

 

» By ANN COTTRELL FREE
,, .. .. _- . tag Special WH‘GF"

Seemingly it was a mere
handfl‘ﬂ—about 300 men and Wam-
en—that had assembled to fight
the cruelty inflicted on the living

non-human creatures of the earth;

They talked of ways and means
of bringing help to possibly 100 mil-
lion animals in distress—the mata-
dor’s brave and bleeding bull, the

raccoon chained to a log in a ,

stream and attacked by hounds
while men stand and cheer, the
fever-filled wounded deer still
carrying the arrow from the arch-
er’s bow. '

The list stretched on: hardships
often endured by livestock and pets
during transportation, overbreeding

of dogs and cats, perpetual caging .

of research dogs, incarceration of

wild animals in roadside zoos. Con- -

sidering the enormity of the prob«
lem, the annual gathering of lead-
ers of the Humane Society of the
United States at Hershey, .Pa.,
could have been an exercise in
futility.

New Advocates

But these leaders, it was easily ‘

apparent, represented a growing
constituency of thousands who will
not condone continued brutal
abridgement of the rights of ‘ani-
mals. This constituency, whether
members specifically of the hu-
mane society or other groups, has
made more progress in the legisla-
tures and the Congress in the last
dozen years than nearly ever be-
fore. Possibly, it could have done
even more. But in correcting
wrongs humanitarians have a prob-
lem. They cannot do their thing
with public demonstrations like

‘ many other groups. For then they

are further dismissed as ineffectu-
al, over-emotional bleeding hearts.

Today, the much-maligned “little
old lady in tennis shoes” is becom-
ing less visible (though her good

; works continue) and a wider repre-
, sentation of the economic, educa-
‘ tional and professional community

now seems to be in the forefront.
But, in the case of this, act, at least,
they are not merely “front men.”
Few cﬁticuould find it worth-

while to question the credentials or

commitment of the board chaire .

man, Wall Street lawyer Coleman

Burke or of author Cleveland

Amory.

Not only are members of state
legislatures and the United States
Congress becoming more conscious
of the growing power of the modern
humanitarian, television—often in
contrast to other media—is becom-
ing more aware of the large recep-
tive audience. The National Geo-
graphic Society’s presentation the
other night of “Animal Behavior”
helped to deepen the public’s under-

standing of animals—a goal long
sought by the humane societies.

Perhaps most significantly, there
emerged from this conference a
broader involvement with the great
ecological awakening taking place
in the country. It resolved to work
in close cooperation with the Audu-

' bon Society, Defenders of Wildlife,
. the Wilderness Society and Sierra

Club in vigorously opposing “any
thneat to the ecological balance un-
dermining the pyramid of life.”

If the humane movement can fol-
low through on this intention, it can
bring thousands of members to a
united front that is not only taking
on the builders of roads, dams, jet-
ports, but also is beginning to out-
strip the Fish and Game Commis-
sion philosophy that has been so
dominant in the conservation move-
ment. (The National Audubon So-
ciety, for example, chartered 23
new chapters during the past year
and brought up its membership to
80,000—an‘ increase of 15,000 in one
year. In fact, it has nearly doubled
its membership in two years.)

Teachers Heard

The role of the humanitarian in
the exploding conservation era new
opening up was urged by Roger
Caras, who, in himself, is living
proof of the public demand for
more light on sympathetic under-
standing of animals. He has written
eight animal books in eight years

and soon will start his own .TV

show-

The voice of the educator —
though not in full chorus —- is being
heard as more college professors,
such as Dr. Richard K. Morris of
Trinity College in Hartford Conn,

esentment Growing
Cruelty to Animals

call, as he did at Hershey 101‘ a halt,»

. to . misuse Wof animals in science

teaching.

A' young assistant f professor of
English at Youngstown State Col-
lege, Dr. Jean Kelty, sounded the
theme that it could be useless to
instill kindness to animals in chil- —
dren only to have them looked on
as “misfits” in a society that is so
excessively man-centered. The Uni-

‘ versity of Pennsylvania Professor

Ian McHarg, she noted, forecasts
ecological disaster in his new book
“Design with Nature” unless we
learn to pay more than lip service
to the other components of this
earth—soil, trees, rivers, hills,
animals. Dr. Kelty is the author of
the- handbook for the Kindness

‘ Club, which has nearly 50,000 young

members in the U.S.A.

Nelson’s Comments

The role of the humane ethic in
envirdnmental protection has been
called for by Senator Gaylord Nel-

. son, D.7Wis., “Man must stop set-

ting himself above nature’s scheme ‘
of things,” he said as he called. for
an environment teach-in in the
nation’s colleges this spring.

Nelson’s necognition, as well as
many other members of Congress,
of the rights of animals is specified
in the Endangered Species Bill.
Within a few weeks it may become
a law, thereby closing this nation’s
(10ch to the entrance of hundreds
of species of animals—alive or in
pelt form' —— that are on the verge _
of extinction due to overhunting or
destruction of habitat. ' '

As the sense of hunraneness
spread through the land at Her'shey‘
and elsewhere the crusading for-
mer executive director of theSiere
ra Club, David Brower, announced
the formation of two new conserva-
tion groups: The John Muir Insti-
tute and Friends of the Earth.

All of this strikes a reminiscent
note. The late Ernest P. Walker,
former assistant director of the 'Na-
tional Zoo and author of the classic,
three volume “Mammals of the
World,” was a man with a dream.-
He hoped to live to launch a'new
philosophy, “a new religion,” He
called it: “Be Kind to the Earth”

 

 

 

 

 

 




W "
emo

720 tﬂtbc/ ((45-3‘8
MM 7k ”ﬂ. [2&9,”
A“ ”A"; é yak”,

PK n M 024%; 4244

Fiﬁ” 17m 4’ / (to: algal.
l7. 310116»!qu I’m".

fan-mu x 0/ m/ﬁaé
Z/WM/m’rr XII/A 72/

”'01 I417“.

gym/7» 3%:

4:7,». ﬂ».

ANN COTTRELL FREE (MRS. JAMES FREE)
4700 Jamesfown Road Wesfmoreland Hills
Washingfon, D.C. 20076 307 - OL 6-3533

 




LEALTIMORE, mono MORNING, DECEMBER 1,1969

 

Sun

 

New Under t

‘ Washington.
The race against a clock prob-
ably can never b on by any
species. But long 0 ue action by
the United States te the other
day may help to e d the exist-
ence of. many cre es living on
. the frayed edges survival. In
fact, enactment i law of the
Endangered Specie bill conceiv-
ably could change nd even ex-
tend—the very life man as a
species, for be, h is mightily
threatened by for seen and
unseen. ‘

 

Locked into the g s of various
other creatures ar centuries-old
secrets of highly d eloped sight,
sound, touch, speed ecrets, once
revealed, that could lp to unlock
, the larger secrets the universe
' and of life itself. 0 erved in his
natural surrounding is there not
something to be lea ed from the
fast-disappearing fa st mammal
on earth, the cheet '3 And does
not the ' tamarau,
of the Philippine
Charles A. Lindber is trying so

hard to preserve, h e a message
for us?

Perhaps, if save today from.

overexploitation by unters and
destruction of habit t, they will
show us tomorrow h to survive.
That could be one g (1 reason for
such a law, but supp e the answer

from today’s 1,000 e angered ani»

mals, fish, reptiles, m llusks should
be: “No. We have not "ng for you.”

Do we, then, haveE :wisdom and
strength to pass theftest of our
own maturity? Does the non-human

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

creature have to justify its exist-
ence in terms that are only bene-
ficial to man? .
Passage of this bill in Congress
could well mark a new high in
altruism if we can save these crea-
tures strictly for themselves instead
of regarding their disappearing
numbers as symbolic of our own
approaching doom. With this soon-
to-be- new law, we might well de-
serve the name “man” with all of

its implications of superiority. For,

we will have embraced the con-
servation ethic voiced by Aldo
Leopold in his “Sand County A1-
manac.” “For one species,” wrote
the man who has influenced a new
generation of conservationists, “to
mourn the death of another is
something new under the sun.”

0 0

But whatever the reasons—ethical
or economic—for preservation of
these rare creatures (including our
southern alligator), the value of the
new law can be measured in a
variety of ways. Senate passage,
for example, saves face for Amer-
icans attending the late November
triennial meeting in New Delhi of
the International Union for the Con-

servation of Nature. (The IUCN,

among other things, maintains the
authentic “red book” list of en-
dangered species.)

Delays of more than a year in
action by Congress were due to
protests by furriers and pet shop
importers. But now most of their
problems have been ironed out and
soon United States doors will be
virtually closed to importation,
alive or in the form, of pelts or

other parts, of creatures that have
been decimated for wearing appar-
el or by destruction of their liv-
ing space. ,

United States action can lead the
way for 66 nations now studying a
ban. It is essential, for example,
for France, Italy and Germany to
follow suit as they are large con-
sumers of fashion furs, such as the
rare leopards. England has already
acted.

The ban on import of endan-
gered species will mean to many
outside this country that the United
States can make a “giant leap” for
all living kind that can be as mean-
ingful as the astronauts landing on
the moon. For both actions denote
a graduation from man’s more
primitive, hunting and killing past.
Coincidentally the House bill-
based in a version sponsored by
Congressman Edward A. Garmatz
of Baltimore—passed on July 21,
the day the first astronauts were
on the moon.

Passage of the bill is also a gift
to children of all nations, giving
them a chance to live in a world
that still contains the blue whale,
the graceful oryx, the Sumatran
rhino, the snow leopard. “How will
our children be able to relate to
the world as we know it if the
world as we know it is not here?”
asked Dr. Theodore Reed of the
National Zoo and Wild Animal
Propagation Trust during Senate
hearings.

Our predecessors denied most of
us, through their willfulness, the
chance of seeing the sky darkened

Protection, Belated, for Endangered Species

by passenger pigeons, of being
dazzled by the plumage of the
Carolina parakeet, or of the thrill
of knowing the great auk was again
crossing the ocean. In fact, each
generation is denied a few more
animals. In each year of this cen-
tury a Species of mammals has
vanishéd. '

The question of “why bother?”
was answered in many ways during
the several years of hearings in
both houses of Congress. When sta—
tistics failed, men like the Sierra
Club’s Lloyd Tupling looked to
Henry Thoreau. We want to know,
he said, “an entire heaven and an
entire earth”-not just the part the
mutilators have left behind.

O

O 0

And the Smithsonian’s Richard S.
Cowan gave rise to the thought that '
passage of the Endangered Species
bill could be a form of diplomatic
recognition of “other nations”-—the
animals. He looked to the little-
known author Henry Boston, who
wrote that animals “shall not be .
measured by man. In a world
older and more complex than ours,
they move, finished and complete,
gifted with extensions of senses we
have lost or never attained, liVing
by voices we shall never hear. They ~
are not brethren, they are not un-
derlings, they are other nations
caught with ours in the net of life
and time, fellow prisoners of the
splendor and travail oi the earth.”

These ,“other nations” have given
us much, and, undoubtedly, will
give us more. The Endangered
Species law' is one country’s Way
Of saying “thank you.”

 




w 77 ._
/ l WW.

 

 

 

Funeral
pre-arrangement.

A practical man
thinks about it.
A thoughtful man
does something
about it.

It’s always wise to plan
ahead, but pre—arrangement
involves more than practical
considerations. Pre-arrange—
ment requires thoughtful con—
cern. It takes a special kind of
caring.

By making decisions and
arranging funeral details in
advance of need, you relieve
family and friends of an added
burden at a time when they
may be distraught by tension
and emotion.

Pre-arrangement requires
no expenditure at Gawler’s.
Only the thoughtfulness to
think of those who think so
much of you. You may make
advance payment if you wish,
but you retain all withdrawal
rights and interest earned.

More detail on when and
how to make pre-arrange-
ment is provided in the book—
let, ”What Everyone Should
Know About Funerals.” This
booklet answers the twelve
most commonly asked ques-
tions about funerals and will
be mailed to you on request
without cost or obligation.

A quality Gawler funeral
is available in every price
range.

For example, of 1,000 con-
secutive Gawler services:

105 cost less than . . . . . . . . . $499
138 cost between $500 and $799
474 cost between $800 and $1499
283 cost more than . . . . . . . $1500

(Exclusive of vault, cemetery costs and
related expenses)

Josepn ,.

SONS.INC
Funeral Directors Since 1850

5130 Wisconsin Avenue, NW.
at Harrison Street

Private parking for more than 100 cars

 

 

 

BllllOP'S notes

 

Imagine a private organization which
tries to identify the needs of 3 million
city dwellers, ﬁnd the people best quali—
ﬁed to minister to those needs, tap
everyone for voluntary contributions,
and pass out the money in a responsible
manner. Then imagine hullabaloo at the
United Givers Fund.

Barbara Newman, author of our in-
depth report on the UGF (page 33),
spent several months in a swirl of heated

debate over UGF
performance —
especially its way
of deciding who
gets what. This
heat is hardly
surprising con—
sidering UGF is
an organization
which presumes
to carry out such
an exalted mis-
sion. And it may show that Washing-
tonians have hit on a useful forum for
hammering out a consensus on priorities.
Mrs. Newman’s report was partially
underwritten by a grant from the Fund
for Investigative Journalism. She last
appeared in the July 1969 WASHING-
TONIAN with an article on the Bureau
of the Budget’s timorous scrutiny of the
defense budget.

Stephen Clapp who covers welfare

politics for the nonpartisan National
Journal magazine, reappears in this issue
with a report on Nicholas Von Hoffman,
the enthusiastically partisan columnist of
the Washington Post (page 40). Clapp
says he undertook the story because he
was curious to learn how Von Hoffman
had developed his unique style in the
face of the many conventions of daily
journalism. He thinks the people who
complain about Von Hoffman continue
to read him because he provides “a hu-
mane response to what’s happening
around them and is probably the sanest
voice in the paper.”

The writing team of Winzola McLen-
don and Scottie Smith, whose last WASH—
INGTONIAN contribution was a proﬁle of
Georgetown’s Eva Hinton (May 1969),
returns with an article on how Washing-
ton women struggle to stay young (page
71). The authors’ own approach: “As we
advance into the sunset, we do every-
thing we can.” Their book on the Wash-
ington women’s press corps will be pub-
lished by E. P. Dutton in September.
Both are veterans of the corps.

A very different type of women’s
struggle—that against male overlordship
—is described by Barbara Raskin in an
article beginning on page 76. A warm
supporter of both the members and ob-
jectives of the Washington Women’s
Liberation Movement, she suspects that
the male chauvinism of WASHINGTONIAN
editors led them to suppress and edit out
her natural “enthusiasms and optimisms
for the movement.” We deny the charge.
Mrs. Raskin’s treatment of Barbara
Howar appeared in our January issue.

Ann Cottrell Free, whose report on
Washington’s environmental establish-
ment begins on page 42, was active

on the ecological

front before it

became fashion-

able. She led the

_ successful 1962

' battle to save

Glover — Archbold

Park fro-m road-

builders and more

recently succeed—

ed in her nation—

wide campaign to

have the government establish the Rachel

Carson National Wildlife Refuge along

forty miles of the Maine coast. Her writ-

ings in behalf of animals have won her

a number of awards, including the Albert

Schweitzer medal in 1963. Much of the

action of her children’s book, Forever

the Wild Mare, takes place in Rock Creek

Park. Mrs. Free is married to a Wash-

ington correspondent and is the mot-her
of a fourteen—year-old daughter.

Our special survey on how the mind—
less machines called computers dominate
the Washington scene (page 47) is the

work of William

D. Hickman, who

has spent two

years covering

communications

and computers for

the McGraw—Hill

news bureau in

Washington. A

graduate of La-

mar State College

. in Texas, he has

worked as a reporter for the Beaumont
Enterprise, the Houston Post, Fairchild
Publications, and Electronics magazine.
His book, Talking Moons, about com-
munications satellites, will be published
this spring by World Publishing Com-
pany. l3

 




_ " T E CONSERVAHON E

The People Who Protect Washington from Congress and Other Polluters.

F WASHINGTON CAN’T make it environ-
mentally, then probably no place can.
Name another city in this polluted——

but still lovely—world which has in resi—
dence so many defenders of air, water,
soil, wildlife, and general ecological in—
tegrity.

The Sierra Club and the Wilderness
Society are here because they look to
Congress and the Federal agencies to help
them pin down what’s left of our natural
treasures.

Others, such as the Wildlife Manage—
ment Institute and the Sports Fishing In—
stitute, need government help to save
game and ﬁsh habitat so that gun, ammu-
nition, and tackle manufacturers will not
fall on hard times.

Since Washington has some of the na~
tion’s dirtiest air and water, and some of
the most threatened open space, the ques—
tion naturally arises: How do all these
conservation outﬁts measure up in help—
ing Washingtonians ﬁght against bridges,
freeways, landﬁlls, open ditches, jet air-
planes, and poisoners of the air, soil, and
water? Are they too busy ﬁghting a dam
in Idaho or a jetport in Florida?

They’re busy, all right. The discovery
of the environment by both the politi-
cians and young people is putting con—
servation groups under heavy pressure.

“Everybody everywhere is asking for
help,” says Ed Chaney of the National
Wildlife Federation, who has a heart as
big as theoutdoors he’s trying to save.
“Dams, roads, landﬁlls, you name it. We
just don’t have the time, the manpower,
the money to handle all the requests.” He

held up a sheaf of letters. “It kills me that
we can’t help all of them.”

local conservation cause which

needed outside help but didn’t get

enough was Miss Raye—Page’s

ﬁght in 1967—68 against a road through

Rock Creek Park from North Bethesda
to Kensington.

For nine months, she and her neighbors
protested. They organized the Friends of
Rock Creek and worked their way
through hearings before the Montgom-
ery County Park and Planning Commis—
sion, the Montgomery County Council,
and the courts, but to no avail.

In 1888, when Charles C. Glover, the
longtime president of Riggs Bank, cru-
saded for the creation of Rock Creek
Park, he got a helping hand from the
establishment. One of his lieutenants in
getting Congress to acquire the land for
Rock Creek Park was Crosby Noyes,
editor of the Evening Star.

But by 1968 the establishment and the
Evening Star were more interested in de-
velopment, in better trafﬁc ﬂow, in build—
ing roads. When Miss Raye-Page called
for people “to shout loud enough to be
heard above the constant clamor of those
who work full time as land developers,
building contractors, and commercial en-
terprisers,” there wasn’t a peep from the
establishment or the Evening Star.

Finally, in July 1968, she and fellow

crusader Mrs. Wilbur Cohen, wife of the

then HEW Secretary, had nothing to give
but their bodies. The bulldozer operator

By Ann Cottrell Free

didn’t have the heart to run them down.
But the road was built.

Liz Hartwell of Lorton, Virginia, had
better luck. When she got wind of a
housing development to be built on the
Mason Neck peninsula of Gunston Hall,
the home of George Mason, she feared
for the bald eagles nesting there. Mason
Neck was a natural for a government
sanctuary, what with'those eagles soar—
ing over Mount Vernon and George
Washington’s tomb. But no money was
available for immediate purchase.

Enter the Nature Conservancy, which
has accomplished feats of real estate
acquisition in a class with Genghis Khan.
It buys up threatened areas for later sale
at cost to governmental and nonproﬁt
agencies. In nineteen years it has acquired
more than 100,000 acres.

So why not buy Mason Neck out from
under the developers before land prices
skyrocketed? The total cost of the 2,235
acres was more than $4.5 million. Six
hundred acres have been sold to the Fed-
eral government for a bald eagle refuge,
and the balance is being sold to various
Virginia park authorities.

By the time the next crisis developed
in her area, Mrs. Hartwell was chairman
of the Citizens Council for a Clean Po—
tomac. She pounced two years ago when
Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall
gave the green light to a landﬁll at the
foot of Hunting Creek. A luxury apart-
ment complex was to rise where the shore
birds ﬂourished. But over the Izaak Wal-
ton League’s dead body! Its VVashington
man, Ted Pankowski, along with Ameri-

 




can Forests magazine columnist Mike
Frome, worked with Mrs. Hartwell to
reverse the decision.

groups are forever coming to the

rescue of Glover—Archbold Park.
This wooded stream valley near George—
town Hospital has been in trouble since
Charles Glover and Standard Oil heiress
Anne Archbold gave part of their neigh-
boring estates to the District in 1923.

Both national and local conservation

The District highway department, in
particular, just can’t stop casting covetous
glances at the park. The Three Sisters
Bridge is the latest pass. Conservationists
say the bridge would point a freeway
arrow directly at the park—an arrow
that could slay the sometimes faint-
hearted National Park Service, which
is responsible for Glover—Archbold.

The Three Sisters Bridge, by pointing
arrows of concrete not only at Glover-
Archbold but also at black neighborhoods,
has acted as a catalyst to bring militant
inner-city groups together with activist
students and old—line conservation groups.
This coalition, the most broadly based
to appear on the Washington scene, has
lost most of its battles to the men who
dominate the Congressional public works
process, but it still hop-es to win the war.

A lawsuit to stop the bridge has been
brought by civic groups and individuals,
with conservation organizations giving
moral support as amici curiae (friends
of the court). Several of Glover—
Archbold’s longtime defenders, such as

PHOTOS BY J. WAYNE HIGGS

the Wilderness Society, were up front.
Exuberant, if not militant, the Wilder-
ness Society since 1935 has surmounted
all sorts of odds, held on to its tax—
exempt status, and saved 16 million acres
of the United States from exploitation.

Not unexpectedly, the Sierra Club and
its spin—off, Friends of the Earth, are on
the amici curiae list. Wherever the action
is, they can be found. Sierra’s Washing-
ton man, W. Lloyd Tupling, is unin—
hibited in his dealings with Congress
because he doesn’t have to worry about
loss of tax exemption. The Sierra learned
the hard way by losing its nontaxable
virginity in the Grand Canyon case.

The local Washington oﬂice of Friends
of the Earth is headed by biologist-viola
player George Alderson, who continued
in the Sierra Club after ﬁery Dave
Brower became executive director—out—
in-the-cold. Brower wasn’t down long
—he formed Friends of the Earth and
the John Muir Institute for Environ—
mental Studies, a research and publishing
group. Another Brower creation, the
League of Conservation Voters, may
raise the mOSt hell of the bunch. Head-
quartered in VVashington, it will keep a
sharp eye on Congressional voting rec-
ords, giving money and volunteer help
to campaigns of the candidates most
sensitive to environmental issues.

Congressmen from the Washington
area can expect to get some heat from
the league. Politically conscious conser—
vationists put Congressman Joel Broyhill
of Arlington and Congressman William
Scott of Fairfax at the bottom of the list.
They rank Congressman Larry Hogan of
Prince George’s very little higher. Sen-
ator William Spong’s performance, they
claim, rarely lives up to expectations.
Senator Harry F. Byrd, Jr., shows prom-
ise. Maryland Senators Charles “Mac”
Mathias and Joseph Tydings have mo-
ments of excellence, but are rated only
“pretty good.” Montgomery County’s
Congressman Gilbert Gude is at the top
of the liSt, but still has a way to go.

ther groups joining the amici

curiae liSt in the ﬁght against the

Three Sister’s Bridge are pretty
much a who’s who of the VVashington
conservation establishment.

The two Audubons chose to be
counted as amici curiae, perhaps further
confusing their connection with each
other. There is none. The Audubon
Naturalist Society of the Central Atlan-
tic States has a regional range of inter—
ests, but most of its 1,500 members and
much of its activity—save for ﬁeld trips
—is centered here. Thirteen years older
than National Audubon, it was out front
ﬁghting the decimation of egrets and
other birds whose plumage was used to

(continued 072 page 93)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ences, and pilot proiects NeWSletterv’is:

116 per year. 2 r. ‘
Defenders of Wildlife, 2000 N st, N.rw.;

 

223- 1993. Publishes magazine. Formed in
1925 as Anti~Steel Trap League, it conw
tinues crusading againsttraps, but has,

broadened its ﬁght to government preda-

tor poisoning programs, roadside zoos,

and unnecessary exploitation of Wildlife.
About 20,000 members.

Friends of the Earth, 451 Paciﬁc Ave,
San Francisco, Calif. 94133 (headquar—
ters); 917 15th St., N.VV. (Washington
ofﬁce); 5444000. Set up last year by
David Brower after he left Sierra Club,
it will pound away at the rascals of pil~
lage, plunder, and pollution. Deliberately
not tax~exempt to be free to lobby. Its
League of Conservation Vorers will work
for election of environment—minded Con—
gressional candidates.

Izaak Walton League of America, 1326
VVaukegan Road, Glenview, Ill. 60025
(headquarters); 719 13th St., N.W.
(\Vashington office); 347—5880. Neck
deep in every water issue, IWL concerns
itself with the rest of the environment,
too. Aggressive Washington ofﬁce. Pays
attention to local issues of parks, free-
ways, pollution. Publishes tabloid magas
zine and Washington newsletter.

John Muir Institute for Environmental
Studies, 451 Pacific Ave, San Francisco.
Calif. 94133 (headquarters); 917 15th St.,
N .\V . (Washington office); 544—4000.
Educational cousin of Friends of the
Earth. Also set up by David Brower. For
$50 annually- you can attend its earlier»
ences, help subsidize research and publia
cations. Tax~exempt.

League of Women Voters of the US,
1200 17th St., N.W.; 296-1770. Pioneer
in water pollution ﬁeld, it commands
highest respect for its educational and
action work on the environment.

National Audubon Society, 1130 Fifth

Ave, New York City 10028 (headquar‘
ters); 1827 Jefferson PL, N.W. (Wash-

ington office); 659—8898. No longer iust;

birds, but alligators and people as well.
Skilled leadership has taken it into all

environmental questions. Sponsors camps.

and sanctuaries, and has 23 chapters.
Membership 80,000. Publishes handsome
magazine which is included in $10 mem-
bership fee.

National Parks Association, 1701 18th St.,

N.VV.; 667—3352. Established in 1919, has,

wide range of interesrs besides saving na-

tional parks. Dominated by its president,

ﬁre—eating former labor lawyer Anthony
Wayne Smith. Locally, has done good

job‘prOtecting C810 Canal and ﬁghting

 

iNatiOnal. Recreation and Park Associa-
tion, 1700 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W.; 22 3~~

3030. Well-«heeled combination of five
recreation—oriented groups put together
by Laurance Rockefeller. Glossy publi~
cations. Rarely comes in on local issues.

National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16th
St., N.W.; 2328004. Claims affiliated

membership of 21/2 million through state

associations and their spin~offs. Does solid
informational and publications job, often
helpful locally. Opposes any gun con~
trols, but denies gun~industry support.
Dominated by state ﬁsh and game
groups. Sponsors conservation stamps,
National Wildlife Week, scholarships,
and a series of tours.

Natural Resources Council, 719 13th St.,
N.VV.; 737—0668. Forty national conser—
vation groups make up council which
keeps an eye on legislative matters and
issues newsletter. Current chairman is
Richard Stroud of Sports Fishing lnsti»
tute, succeeding another fisherman, Jo-
seph Penfold of Izaak walton League.

Nature Conservancy, 1522 K St., N.W.;
223~4710. This unique organization has
snatched more than 100,000 acres of pre-
cious land from under the nose of de-
velopers and despoilers. It has either kept
the land as sanctuaries or turned it over
woften for reimbursement—wto Federal,
state, or local agencies. Furnishes loans
and guidance to local groups.

North American Habitat Preservation So-
ciety, Inc., PO. Box 869, Adelphi, Md.
20783; 434-5 734. University of Maryland
area youth group, claiming 13,000 mem~
hers, is suing to protect Maryland wet~
lands, ﬁghting Calvert Cliffs nuclear
power plant pollution, and setting up
business~environmental research center.
President is zoologist Doyle Grabarck.
Rachel Carson Trust for the Living En-
vironment, Inc., 8940 Jones Mill Rd,
Chevy Chase, Md. 20015; 6524877. Try-
ing to carry out Rachel Carson’s wishes

that the gap between the public and sci-

entific community be bridged with the
same kind of information she offered in
Silent Spring. Executive director is her
longtime friend Shirley Briggs.

Resources for the, Future, Inc., 1755 Mas~
sachusetts Ave, N.W.; ‘ 4624400. As
sober— sided as the Brookings Institution
'wwith whom it shares a buildingwit
produces valuable studies. Has Rocke—
feller money.

Sierra Club, 1050 Mills Tower, San Fran?

cisco, Calif. 94104 (headquarters); 235
Massachusetts Ave, NE (\Vashington

high darn builders on the Potomac. Pub-f” I I
'lishes magazine.

ofﬁce); 547-4144. One of the mosr mili~
tant conservation groups. Established in
1892 by naturalist John Muir, it no
longer concerns itself just with red-
woods. Since it lost its tax~exempt status
over the Grand Canyon dam issue, it
freewheels itself into a variety of issues,
including those in Washington area. Pub-
lishes magazine.

Sport Fishing Institute, 719 13th St.,
N.W.; 737-0668. lndustry~supported, °
states its purpose on its newsletter mast~
head: “To help shorten the time between
bites.” It is for clean water, against ther—
mal pollution or anything else that could
affect the revenue of the tackle, sports
equipment, and powerboat industries.

Wilderness Society, 729 15th St., N.W.;
347-4132. Created in 1935 to help realize
the dream of a government‘sponsored
wilderness system. Its 50,000 members
promote the addition of suitable areas to
the wilderness system and the protection
of free—flowing rivers, small. marshlands,
and forest and prairie areas. Poorly ﬁ—
nanced, but willing to ride to rescue
everywhere. Highly dedicated staff. ls-
sues special bulletins and magazine.

Wildlife Management Institute, 1000 Vera
mont Ave, N.VV.; 347—1774. Objective is»
to create optimum environmental condi—
tions for game animals. Supported in
part by Remington Arms, this nonproﬁt,
tax-exempt insritute declines to disclose
names of supporters or board members,
other than board chairman Ira. N.Gabriel-.
son. Issues biweekly news bulletin and
sponsors annual wildlife and natural re»

 




 




 

Conservation

Establishment from page 45

 

 

decorate ladies’ hats. In fact, it was for
this very purpose that fourteen ladies
and gentlemen gathered in the George-
town living room of Mrs. John Dew-
hurst Patton on May 18, 1892, to form
the society. It has always served a useful
purpose, and it set a record of unmatched
accomplishment during and after World
War II under the leadership of Irston
Barnes—aided by Roger Tory Peterson,
Rachel Carson, Charlton Ogburn, Jr.,
Shirley Briggs, Louis Halle, and Alex-
ander Wetmore. It launched a magazine,
a lecture series, evening classes, ﬁeld
trips, exhibits, and ﬁnally a boOk shop.
This performance so impressed the late
Mrs. Chester Wells that she left. the
society her Woodend estate at 8940 Jones
Mill Road, Chevy Chase.

National Audubon is headquartered
in New York, but has a branch ofﬁce
here, manned by Cynthia Wilson, form-
erly of Mrs. Lyndon Johnson’s “beauti-
ﬁcation” staff. National Audubon is go-
ing places on all fronts under the
presidency of former Army Secretary
Elvis J. Stahr. Its number two man and
old Washington hand, Charles Callison,
spends a lot of time here, exercising his
knowledge of Congressional and bureau-
cratic folkways.

The proliferation of Izaak Walton
League chapters in the metropolitan area
could lead to confusion with its Wash-
ington ofﬁce, which in turn is sometimes
confused with the national ofﬁce in
Glenview, Illinois. Though the league’s
main interest is good ﬁshing, it is also the
“compleat””environmentalist. It is usually
up front on Washington area issues and
is an amicus curiae in the Three Sisters

suit. The league hopes to establish a
national conservation headquarters on
the thirty—nine acres of valuable land
near Gaithersburg, Maryland, donated
by Otis Beall Kent. Its conservation di-
rector, Joseph Penfold, has been sta—
tioned in Washington for many years.

Absence from the amirm (‘u-riae list of
groups such as the Conservation Founda-
tion is curious, but it does not necessarily
mean lack of cOmmitment to local prob—
lems. CF’s Sidney Howe and F. Fraser
Darling have turned on vast numbers of
people, and CF’s three—day seminar at
Airlie House on “Environment and the
Law” will inﬂuence conservation policies
for years to come. Founded in 1948 by
the late Fairﬁeld Osborn, author of
Our Plzmde‘red Planet, CF moved to
Washington in 1967 when Russell Train
took over the presidency.

National Parks Association, also a
missing a777icus curiae, does not take up
every local issue. But it has put in yeo—
man’s service over the years in keeping
the C&O Canal from being virtually
paved from here to Cumberland, Mary-
land. It has worked hard to stop the

 

Saturday
at Reynolds . . .

Peaceful.

Quiet.

And seasoned Account
Executives on hand ready
to take all the time you
want to take to talk about
investing.

Whether to buy, sell, or
hold any given security...

Or share a skilled and
objective look at your
complete portfolio. ..

Or block out a sensible
investment program in
keeping with your circum-
stances, funds, and ob-
jectives . ..

Or to introduce you to
the full range of Reynolds
services on all types of
securities, tax—exempt
bonds, mutual funds,
commodities.

That’s every Saturday
at Reynolds from 9 A.M.
to 1 RM. and a surpris-
ing number of investors do
come in to pick up facts,
news, information, and
opinion—people just too-

Reynolds 82 Co.

MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20006: 1 735 K Street, N. W. . .. . 296-2770
ALEXANDRIA, VA. 22234: George Mason Hotel ...... KI 8-4300

ARLINGTON. VA. 22209: 1701 N. Ft. Myer Dr... . . .. ..JA 5-5300

busy during the week to
devote the time that they
should to their ﬁnancial
well being.

You don’t have to be a
customer to come in, of
course. You don’t have to
open an account.

And as far as we’re con-
cerned, you’re not obli—
gated in any way for the
investment help we try to
provide.

So do consider yourself
invited to any Reynolds
ofﬁce listed below.

Any time you say be-
tween 9 A.M. and 1 RM.

Any Saturday that you
ﬁnd convenient.

You can call for an ap-
pointment if you like; or
if you’re in the neighbor—
hood, just walk right in
and ask for an Account-
Executive.

AND OTHER LEADING EXCHANGES

 

 

 

 

HOLD MEETINGS, seminars where
you’d like to be if you didn’t have
to attend a meeting. In refreshing
country-estate atmosphere. Golf, ten-
nis, lakes. Versatile new conference
and banquet facilities for up to 250.
Dining in historic Old Mill Room, new
Tack Room. Mixed beverages.

Write for Meetings Portfolio
THE or call (703)296-2181.

BOAR’S

Charlottesville. Va. 22901

 

 

 

 




Kabob 17, 1970

Era. 3amo’ p
2+?OO Jﬁﬂge S .
ﬂashingﬁong ?.C. EOﬁlg

Boar Kong

Enclosed aro ooyioo of lottooo I found in looking
through the £1165 which.would seoo to give you the kind
of material you are Soaking to demonstrate the breadth
.of iochol's intereot in animal welfare.

I had forgotton about the letter thﬁt Dr. :ohwoitzor
wrote her, and this, too, would be good for yooy article
because it omphasizos so otrongly the connection botwooo
our foelings for animals and ooologiool oomooquonces.

I was also romindod in going thromgh the files thot
ﬁarie Roﬁoll give Yalo the oorroopondonco botwoen ﬂoohol
and me after I had looked it over. So douot you would
find other relevant material in her correspondence with
mony coho? people, all of which is doubtloas ovailoblo
at Yale to writers anﬁ students.

Best Highes,

ginoeroly,

Christine Etevono
President

Enclosures
CS/mo

 




i .
i311“ D 205,715

1

Fee a 1967 W

“11‘ k H
came“ I “a“?

[Melon Deg
eeleg Hit

Washington, Feb. 8 (NANA)—
mA storm of protest, set off by
the“ passage last summer of the
controversial “petnapping” law,
is gathering over Agriculture
Seiitretary Freeman’s head

Under the law. Congress gave
Freeman authority to set. stench
aids for the pre—experimental
care and housing of dogs, cats,
l’iamsters, guinea pigs, finonkeys
and other pets. Now Freeman is
being reminded that he prom-
ised to meet the “highest hu-
triane standards.”

Many pets are now kept in
small cages for as long as 30
days without outside exercise—
particularly dogs. This is con-
sidered inhumane by most vet-
eri‘nary experts.

Leading the tight to spring
these animals from their cages
is the beautiful and brainy wife
of Roger Stevens, President
Johnson’s cultural chief. Mrs.
Christine Wovens is president of
the Animal Welfare Institute,
and has published books on de:
cent animal quarters.

Dog Caging Issue

One of the prime opponents of
legislation calling for humane
treatment of laboratory anin'ials
is“ Dr. Maurice B. Visscher
physiOloey professor at the Uni-
ye’iSity of Minnesota. Many dogs
at ' the university’s medca

t
l
t

 

school are perpetually caged.
Photographs of their quarters--
cages piled in three tiers—have
been widely circula ated by Mrs.
Sievens’s Animal Welfare Insti-
tute.

Under the new pet/napping
law, the public has a right to
protest the 30-day caging. The
deadline, however. is January
15. Freeman already is deluged
by protest mail from pet own-
ers.

Veterinarians a the world-
iamous Angeli Memorial. Hospi
la] in Boston e111phasize that
perpetua arena of housebrol;en
arﬁmals is extremely harmful to
the animals. Dr C. Lawrence
Blakely, the hospitals chief of

Jrgeiv says it could lead in

siwious l"~llll§

 




 

Q

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -- Extensions ﬁrmware;

my bill will provide hat full-time stu-
dents with more th 11 two dependents
would receive an .oditional $10 per
month per additiona dependent; veter-
ans with more than t ' o dependents pur-
suing a three-quartr time course of
studies would receiv $7 per additional
dependent; veterans 1 ith more than two
dependents pursuing a course of studies
half time would recei e $5 per additional
dependent; and vetew ns enrolled in co-
operative educationn programs would
receive an addition $7 per each de-
pendent over two.
Mr. Speaker, the

. ed for the bill I
have introduced '

. is obvious. I urge
join, with me in
working for prom” enactment of its

provisions. _

I

THE GREAT AWAKENING

HON. JOHN D. DINGELL

OF MICHIGAN _
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 21, 1969

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, April 14,
1969, marked the 5th anniversary of the
death of Rachel Carson, who through
her life’s work as a biologist and as an
author established herself as one of
America’s greatest conservationists.

Rachel Carson, in her books “The Sea
Around Us” and “Silent Spring,” aroused
much of the public to the fact that man
was despoiling his environment and
threatening the entire ecological bal-
ance of our planet.

The April 13, 1969, issue of This Week
magazine carried an excellent article on
Miss Carson by the respected author and
journalist, Ann Cottrell Free. As a mod-
est token of our respect for Rachel Car-
son, I insert the text of the article at
this point in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:

THE GREAT AWAKENING: CITY HALL, CON-
GRESS AND THE WHITE HOUSE ARE AWARE
OF OUR BATTLE FOR SURVIVAL

(By Ann Cottrell Free)

A cracked—and sometimes shattered—egg
in the bald eagle’s nest tells part of the
story of this spring of 1969.

Leading wildlife scientists have concluded
recently that DDT, absorbed by mother
eagles, is making eggshells too fragile to
protect the, babies within.

A few more of our national birds will re-
main unborn—and soon there may be none
in many areas. Loss of these symbols Of the
nation, possibly due to weird-acting chemi-
cals, tragically symbolizes much that is hap-
pening today. A mere look-around or a whiff
of our often ﬁlthy air and waters Offers proof
that something is wrong all over. .

From oil-slicked to oil-slicked shining sea
we are realizing, at last, that we are in an
incredible mess. And that is 'the other part
of 'the story this spring.

Our giant of a nation is stirring. It is in
the early stages of a “Great Awakening.”
Not only are some of us wondering about
the implications of the eagle’s eggs, many of
us realizing that our fouled air and water
could‘soon be seeded with destruction for the
human race. '

City Hall, the Congress and, the White
House no longer give us the same old brush-
off. For they are becoming aware that we

 

are now in a battle for survival. Eleven Con-g
gressmen are even seeking 'a Constitutional
amendment to’serve as a “bill of rights” for
the environment. And the United Nations is
calling a 130-natiom conference in 1972 on
the damaged environment. .

But it wasn’t always this way. A lake could
die, a river be a running sewer, robins dis-
appear and bulldozers uproot our parks. And
ofﬁcials only blinked when we cried “Stop!”

Then something happened. Could it‘ have
marked the beginning of what Senator Frank
E. Moss of Utah calls the “Great Awaken-
ing"? ‘

We discovered Rachel Carson. The year
was 1962.

This was a new Rachel Carson. The prose-
poet of The Sea Around Us, the gentle bi-
ologist became almost overnight the long-
needed leader. Her Silent Spring, appearing
that year, was, in truth, a call to arms to
save theen-tire environment from its many
enemies. She chose, however, to concentrate
her attack on the misuse of DDT and other
wonder chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides.
And in the process she gave us what Supreme
Court Justice William 0. Douglas called "‘the
most important chronicle of this century for
the human race.”

She rode no white charger (she drove a
rather tired green Oldsmobile), but she be-
came for many our country’s St. Joan,
preaching that when nature is out of joint,
so are we. Pesticide misuse, she claimed,
could convert the chain of life into the chain
of death. She raised many questions. Is there
a connection between these new chemicals
and cancer? Could they cause genetic
changes, thus cursing our descend-ants with
physical and mental abnormalities? “As
crude a weapon as a cave man’s club,” she
wrote, “has been hurled against the fabric
of life.”

An industry mobilized against Rachel
Carson, but she stood her ground even
though her health was failing. (She under-
went surgery for cancer in 1957, 1960, and
again in 1964.) Persons from all walks of
life wrote her, telling of unpleasant experi-
ences with pesticides and asking her for
guidance. Some of you reading this today
may be among them. Save her reply. Hand
it down to your grandchildren as a fragment
of a new kind of "declaration of independ-
ence”: man’s refusal to continue to be vic-
timized by unwise use of the gifts of science
and technology. ,

Your letters were answered even though
the sight in those deep-set blue eyes was
failing. Her brave heart was faltering. And
near the end she spent most of her time
in a wheel chair. “If people. care enough
to write,” she would say in her calm voice
when advised to rest, “I can certainly an-
swer, inform them and encourage them to
ﬁght back.”

But on Tuesday, April 14, 1964—ﬁve years
ago this coming Monday—she died of cancer,

- at age 56, at her home in Silver Spring, Md.

The torch was picked up. The shock of her
death galvanized people into action. It
seemed to amplify her message. Mrs. Lyndon
Johnson joined the crusade. Interior Secre-
tary Udall was already in it. The chorus
grew louder. The message: “Save our En-
vironment” was getting across. The “Great
Awakening” was truly underway.

In the ﬁve years since Rachel Carson’s
death, we can count at least ﬁve milestones
of speciﬁc progress:

Sixteen million acres of land——about the
size of West Virginia—saved from unbridled-
gobbling up, through placement in national,

. state and local parks, wildlife refuges, wilder-

ness areas, forests, recreation areas. (Nature
Conservancy in Maine—where she spent her
summers—holds a tiny part of this as the
“Rachel Carson Seacoast.”)

Drastic reductions of many pesticides per-
mitted on foodstuffs. Federal review and fre-
quent rewording of instruction labels on

View». ‘~WW>-‘-~-~ - “m ,.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N,W,
Washington, D,C, 20009

' .x‘ b .‘:v"f;
5; 'I’
A K: 3’...

.. 3‘ i ,1
‘1 f ‘34,... "1}

Date:

an,
April 21, 196.9

30,000 pesticide products. Virtual veto power
given to special governmental board over
choice of pesticides used on Federal property.
Discovery of safer substitutes. Advances in
biological control, harnessing nature to save
herself.

Federal pushing of Often reluctant states
into setting and enforcing standards to
reduce air and water pollution. Some
$251,000,000 spent by the Federal government
on pollution research and related activities
in 1968.

Greater Federal and State effort to save
vanishing American wildlife and to obtain
wetlands for waterfowl. More rapid growth
of birdwatchers than hunters.

‘ Soaring membership of conservation
groups, such as the National Audubon
Society and Sierra Club, creating a new
powerful force.

Even with this progress, the awakened
feel it is only a beginning. Land is being
used up at the rate of nearly a million acres
annually. Noise pollution is threatening our
hearing and our sanity. Overheated bays and
rivers, from electric power plants, are affect-
ing ﬁsh and tiny life-giving organisms. And
there persists the worry over escaping oil
from tidelands and tankers. (Memory of
those quarter-million gallons off California
this winter does not erase easily.)

Nor is the DDT battle over. Five states may
be on the verge of banning its use on their
property. Senator Gaylord Nelson, who is
from Wisconsin— where DDT is “on trial”—
is calling for a ban on its interstate shipment,
as well as complete tightening up Of pesti—
cide controls. Once the impact Of the thin
eggshells of the bald eagle sinks in, calls for
banning DDT may grow far louder. US. Fish
and Wildlife Service and University of Wis-
consin scientists report that DDT—absorbed
through DDT-inﬁltrated prey—stimulates
the birds’ livers to produce enzymes that
break down sex hormones in the blood. These
hormones serve as regulators in laying down
calcium needed to develop normal eggshells.
The peregrine falcon and osprey also seem
to be caught in this chain action.

To ﬁnd out just how big a mess we are in
here in the USA, Senator Edmund S. Mus-
kie of Maine, author of clean air and water
laws, is asking the Senate to set up a special
high-powered committee to examine all
technological effects on our environment.
“This job,” he says, “will take three years at
least.”

Such a look-see will help, but problems
are growing so fast and on so many fronts
that 90 Congressmen have just set up a pri-
vately-supported Environmental Clearing
House. This way, they can get quick and
ready answers as to the newest develop!
ments. .

But what of you and me? We want an-
swers, too. Do we need, perhaps a Rachel
Carson once again? She anticipated this, for
just before she died she asked that the work
of providing information to people like us
be carried on, because “I cannot continue
to do so much longer.”

The Rachel Carson Trust for the Living
Environment, 8940 Jones Mill Road, Wash- ,
ington, DC. 20015, plans to carry on for her,
helping to bridge the communications gap
between scientists and the general public, to
Whom it is looking for much of its ﬁnancial
support. Most of its distinguished members
are scientists and were friends of Rachel
Carson.

Even with so many dedicated persons, in
and out of government, working to save the
world around us, will we ever again be
awakened by'language as clear and beautiful
as a wood thrush’s song? With Rachel Car-
son we entered what has been called the
“age of ecology” to the sound of a kind
Of music.

How many of us can deﬁne ecology? The
interrelationship of all living things is the
usual deﬁnition of this science and philos-

‘E—‘i '

. (7:3
ophy. But Rachel Carson looked to these
lines of Francis Thompson, an English poet,
who died in 1907—the year she was born in
Springdale, Pennsylvania:

“Thou canst not stir a ﬂower
Without troubling of a star.”

ll.—

 

 




 

all; 2 Masliiuginn iiinai
WASHlNGTON D C.
D. 433 741 SUN. 530 647 J)

APR 1 s 1965

(“~th We Listened
To ‘ Silent S prm g”

By Ann CottreII Free

I A YEAR AGO yesterday Rachel Car.
5011 died at her home in Silver Spring,
Md. Three years have passed since she
raised her gentle voice 'in' Silent Spring
over the misuse of 'fpersistent, chain-
poisoning pesticides.

Many heard Rachel Carson. And, it
is clear, many heeded. More research
on the effect of these chemicals and
means of reducing their toxicity, for
other than. their specific target, is being
pursued. Greater controls for use have
been put into practice.,More substitutes,
particularly'in the biological control
line, are being fOund And most im-
portant, the public is more alert to the
problem.

This is not a progress report as to
the doings of Congress or Government
departments in this field, but an inquiry
as to why people listened to Rachel
Carson. And, had she lived, Would she
have been able to Correct other abuses
that so greatly troubled her?

Her’s was not the first accusing finger
pointed at the harmful side effects of
cholor‘iniated hydrocarbons. Scientists
like D-r.' Clarence Cottam and Dr. Rob-
ert Rudd had rung the warning bell .
repeatedly. .Good journalists, such as ‘
William Longgood in Poisons in Your
Food in 1960, presented some of the
material, found in Silent Spring.

‘ w

PERHAPS we listened to Rachel Car-
son because she was both poet and'
scientist. We were conditioned into
thinkingof their points of view as being
in conflict. But on discovering her, we
realized instinctively what we must
have always known," that, in their purest
form, poet and scientist are one and the
same: seeker after truth. And that’s
what we wanted to be, too.

Her Sea Around Us in 1951 gave to
a wide audience an "authentic prose poet
in the class with Thomas Wolfe of 20
years before. His prose may have rolled
and tumbled more magnificently— 1
crests higher and troughs deeper. But
she gave us something else. What was
her magic? How was it she could make
us think and feel as never befOre? The
stillness that was central to; her was
part of it. But her prose was never stag-
nant. If she described a wave beating
against the rocky 'shore, she never lost
the basic shape of the wave even though
-we could see the foam and feel the

gray - v.‘ .— 3 ~- 1 ..-_,_..,

But she kept us from floating com—
pletely away from reality, because. about
her there was a certain ~ primness.
-.—hallmark posSibly of the painstaking
technician. And this made those,
.- through whom the streakof poetry ran
not so deep, feel comfortable. Even the.
compulsive ash tray emptier could feel
at home with Rachel Carson’s talent of
keeping tidy both her thoughts and her
style. As a marine biologist with a
'master’s degree from Johns Hopkins,
she gave. “establishment” types a feel-
ing' of confidence... _

So, like-Zola, with a name already
made, she had a built-in audience when
she entered the field of polemics. She
foundshe had a talent for expressing
indignation—done rarely in the past,
except for one letter to The Washing-
ton Post defending an Interior Depart
ment official who had lost—or was
pushed—out.

   

 

 

 

N

TO MAKE SURE that at least some
of earth’s biotic community of forest,
stream and wildlife would not be vic-
tims of the bulldozer, she left half of.
her sizable estate to Nature Con
servancy, Inc, which buys and pre-
serves large acreages.

To guide parents—who might heed
her as a “mother” of an orphaned
nephew—in teaching respect of nature,
she left a manuscript: Help Your Child
to Wonder. It will be published in the
fall. To the millions of laboratory
animals used for Government- financed
1% she lent her support to legisla-
tion—not yet passed—for setting Fed-
eral standards of care and handling.

And to protect wildlife, to be pre-
serve-d for itself’s sake and as a part‘of
the American heritage, she joined the
growing band of dissenters to the In-
terior'Department’s poison and trapping
predator control program.

She wanted so badly to do more. “I
must not spread myself too thin,” she
Would say. The strength left had to be
used primarily in defending herself
against chemical industry spokesmen—~
with an occasional counter-attack. There
were times when she could scarcely
walk, her eyesight often failed and her
brave heart faltered. - \

But if she. had been in good health,
she would have brought to bear the.
Schweitzerian humane ethic and true
scientific logic—:clothed in the prose
of the poet—on dubious scientific

eans aimed at even the most glorious
nds. Undoubtedly, she would have
succeeded That is her legacy on “how
to proceed” to those who would
u .130 ahze her. ‘ ‘

   

 




 

 

 

 

To

 

Ikﬂe fiéﬂi»N-LV NELEA‘ Tune //’3;CN
WHILE YOU WERE OUT

M _/1 a”, '\ 1“;

of

 

Phone 33 V. {I 1/77?

Area Code Number Extension

 

TELEPHON ED PLEASE CALL

 

CALLED TO SEE YOU WILL CALL AGAIN

 

 

 

 

WANTS TO SEE YOU URGENT

 

 

IRETURNED YOUR CALL | I

 

 

,:

Message /’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Ann”Free:::::

If Pay signs it, it should say Mrs. Cameron McNeill
as Vaynor is such an unusual name they would not know
if it were a man or woman.

Perhaps it shouldn't be signed at all.

Perhaps it would be better to have a paragraph explaining
that at April 15th meeting Mrs. Cameron McNeill succeeded
Mrs. Alexander as President. Give biographical Sketch
of Vay Active in Animal welfare work - House Chairman
of ARL and xmkumtsax AWI, etc.

Also mention Mildred Maroney succeeding John Booth on

his resignation. Position similar to one held at

Brookings Institution. Position without compensation.

The Exec. Committee authorized a clerk-typist to take care
of the day-to-day work. Not paid job. None previously -
Mr. Booth did his own work(secl. that is.)

Perhaps it shouldn't be a Dear Member letter at all -- how
could Vay sign a letter mentioning her own election.

Actual body of letter:
Say "Two full time agents and one part time agent."

Say "Metropolitan Police"- unless Park Police are involved
also

Say "D.C. fine cooperation"
Say "Christine Dickerson, part-time agent”

In paragraph about agents getting dog - also include dog in
automobile and about prosecuting. Good case. Perhaps it
would be better not to mention agents names as people will
wonder why it required two agents. Perhaps it could start
with "We" rather than agents and names.

Also it should mention Mrs. Adams continuesas Executiv
Vice—President in deference to old guard.

(97(: Letterhead should say New address and new phone number.

AF: Unable to get letter retyped and to you. Likes your
letter - it flows. If you have any questions, please call
herOOOOOO

 




06310532300613 {sham hm hmml 0: H '

180013001: 0:: 0% 031303, ah mum:

Mariam . hm hhhhhﬂhh fumim It 15 0314523 What hf may
mm at hmhﬁhxm and mama hf hhh Wheat 013.01} M $1,330 “hm,

Tm hhmm em mt Wham“ aphrhthm 0000 3.000. Thhh 10- “55M WWW.
0210:; rahmmhhhmi fhh the hipplhsmhml mm .mm Th0 54mm hm mt um»;
harm “hum” “hh 303,500 magma the 3m 3.00:3 m hh hmwh mammhhmon
m- ‘m mm mm :gW at 1%

”Hm hmtmzhht “that a 0hmm~hhhhh th‘whhh mmhvhh we}: diffhru
gnaw-:3 0401.210 maggmht mm a Wmihh i‘w £3,000]. 19% hum 'mmhm
$300 ,000 and 50003000, *thm “in mm, with 1%»th hhhtxm imam 033%
mg 31m $3.. 5, :90 ,000 hr 01.200311 £00002th it.

h. mmiam hﬂh?’ 3m Wt; “bah hex-30y 13 mt 030% has" a “0&0th imam»
tam: 3:32-0ng huh rm» than whim whammy 102.10%: inﬂudm hhmrimemml 2.0m...
mmrihs ah 01.3.14,

I aim nah ham: mm ‘kihh hhht my hf £00110? with mm mﬂ'hcrial if; 0
Tha rest hf? thh mﬁtmia‘i 1h hmhlhhhta

In ﬁrm “$10M my Jmmh Wm, m mi ah the ahmmh m0 mwsm, thaw
mama We hum 3.03:3 hhmhuh chm-hm whﬁ. ah Mas-mm mundmi in we mh‘thrihlg
Thug; mama 3,.) the: h—mhmghnh 3mm tha hﬂﬁlﬁa‘iﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂg “@015. £321 1530:? he: mail ‘
mahmuhhhm mad. 3) him hmmhhh that. “The 3,3021th hut 0mm hr; $000 2.5300-
i’imm amwamimhh far ciaalm? inhphetimh “$43 000 ,000, g" E'hh fact, hmm
m2, ms that; has: mph}. 13.4 h. hhpmpﬂatihh "i003 hphmﬁhhily deaimw
far am away hf .zimlhm and lhhhmhhhihh in shrimp tea him: hm may hand

«he 2mm? thh hm’msmhh hf the heat 00%. £230 mung ma mgmlhtmmw In

 




mamay'wmg ﬁﬁﬂrwgyﬁgﬁﬁﬂ fa» ﬁﬁﬂiﬁﬁfimﬁﬁwaﬁimm in ﬁﬁa aﬁyﬁlawanﬁal apﬁraw

“gviﬁﬁiﬁmﬁ kﬁli gaagwﬁ gm i$ﬁéw

iii: W1...» gamers- 3:2. ”maxi Vim may “L? {Emma-ﬁrm am é‘éi‘m WW g 3 arm. tﬁa in &
,Wl,y%biﬁ wﬁy'ﬁﬁmpﬂy“aédgmg ﬁh&ﬁ.~%$ ﬁiﬁmﬁﬁﬁam fa? ﬁha g ﬁﬁﬁﬁmant wag
wwwm waywa iﬁﬂﬁ ha $%&%@é baaaagm ﬁhwrwmmra um.fanﬁw ﬁﬁ $31 tm in$;@a%
ﬁ$ﬂiﬁ?@* i ﬁ*%«ﬁ Waw 3&5“ ‘3 iﬁ‘wwmﬁﬁ %% all ﬂight ta éa tkiﬁ; anﬁ h$
was; 'éazl‘ijfng / it _ - . if. grim am azvtitzﬁa is amﬁwig am: Wimlu m

‘71;

ﬁmﬂiﬁﬂam

 




Ann Freencailed. She is seeing for lunch toadv
a womana ewwriter from the largest newspaper in
Japan. Ann will be talking with her teday about
some other problems but she would like to bring
up the subject of animals and try to interest her
in that. She is unfamiliar with situation in

Japan and would like to talk with you a couple
of minutes. The woman will be coming back here
in November and possible you would be able to
see them then.

Newpaper has a circulation of 6,000,000

 




 

, THE T
. ACOMA NEWS TRIBUNE

MONDAY, JUNE 22, 1970
In Congress, Too

Pet-Dealer Brutality Drawing
e Look by White House.

nt Nixon’s

Preside
onsumer

\Mrs. Knauer,
ant for c

special assist

told of blood leaders are

of er ran House agriculture
we tudying legislation t

e great dane puppy, as
its malforme such abuses.
Republican
em-

Virginia .
ters and phone calls
Whitehurst’s bl
ecre r gricul-r

Knauer and t e US. Congress. .
And both are listening. In- {1931“ in another ,5th
tently. . ignored.

For a r Agonizing Sight

once-small 0 e 13.3 . . has ‘ ad enough to
d t 1 b k piece of goods that turns out to
e e 00 be shoddy,” wrote a New Jer-

, “but the agony oi seeing

. . f
ammal d e, because Dorothy
" recentl

d

A;

mOthers
b ’ .Who 11
t :gtflyyh kllled byavteh ,b e e n
r_ s e told the 00mg?“ cap“
ee.

I Dead

Sh 0n Arri
mOnieygepOrted thaXalm
Were 109 IDment 310118 I‘lval.
certified 0 t S ' Veteri ’ .UWO
“dehydrat d e a t h d1? arlOrls
and mam loll, . heat pro 5' . to:
Crates gtrltlon-n SOm S Tatum :
birds ’Slfspeclally for ‘1 0f ‘the -.
be broke: Said. Would hrODICal
to be fed 0pen if the b' ave to

Animal and Watered ll‘dg are 3
Presid Welfare I ' , i
”RH-tea“ en t was? 1' t “;t e
mOnkeyS HECIdGHCes 0f 979."-
With b Wlth their bodi calftlv.
Captu uckshot used 1:8 flue
Same 1%] She reported 315 the
haVe nto (Egg; cugtops ofgiC'
cult) Oil'pitfy. 9¥dymg an'

. earl-mm ,
Federation of ' HUmV 1 r 51‘. '
rrrrrrrrrr rtrrrt t
la: St" BBmard thatS

ept In. thl’rsame pet ,- 1:: - ‘

 

 

 




”l. VUK-

Memoria

Some 1300 acres of Maine
marshland were dedicated re-
cently as a wildlife refuge hon-
orlng Rachel Carson, the gen-
tle researcher who charmed

readers with “The Sea Around

Us” and alarmed them with
her attack on chemical pesti-
cides in “The Silent Spring.”

The dedication was a per-

'&

THE EVENING STAR
Washington, D. C.
Wednesday, August 5, 1970

Woman’s World

 

\ ls Triumph for Carson Admirers

sonal triumph for one of Miss
Carson’s most ardent admir-
e r s, Washington freelance
journalist Ann Cottrell Free.

Mrs. 'Free ﬂrsz conceived

 

 

the idea of a memorial refuge
and suggested it in a This
Week magazine article in
April of 1969.

Response

In response to her article,
carried nationally by many
papers including The Star,
readers lobbied the Depart-
ment of the Interior to dedi-
cate a recreation area and re-
fuge in Miss, Carson’s honor.

The refuge, ’a conglomerate
of nine areas which will even-
tually total some 4,000 acres,
represents a new concept in
wildlife sanctuaries which in
the 'past have been single or
contiguous tracts of land.

More importantly, the ref-
uge represents the great re-
spect and trust the American
people had for Rachel Carson.

“I have had a really great
feeling for Rachel Carson,”
says Mrs. Free.

“I’m always amazed when I
talk to people—it can be at a
party or anywhere—and they
say, ‘This (ecological aware-
ness) all started with Rachel
Carson.’ ” .

Mrs. Free has kept copies of
all the letters and is still im-
pressed, she says, by the
scope of response. '

Eagerness

Children, housewives, organ-
izations such as the Business
and Professional Women’s
Clubs, businessmen, service-

Lrnen in Korea and members of

 

 

 

7 —Star Staff

ANN COTTRELL FREE

Congress wrote from cities,
small towns and farms.

The most rewarding letter to
her was one from an expectant
mother who wrote:

 

“I look forward to the fu- ‘

ture with eagerness . . to
cars that ride on air, to ex-
cursions toother planets, to
all the gadgets that shience

.L

fiction writers see in the com-
ing years, but I look forward
to visiting a place such as the
Rachel Carson Wildlife Ref-
uge, too.” .

Mrs. Free first met Rachel
Carson when the latter was
researching “The Silent
Spring.” Mrs. Free’s husband
is. Washington correspondent
for the Birmingham, Ala.,
News and she, as a writer
very much involved in envi-
r o n m e n t al issues herself,
“knew a little about” toxic
pesticides used in her home
state. ,

“Of course I5 was thrilled,”
she says. ;

“She didn’t’talk to too many
writers and’ reporters, but I
did several} stories on her. I
got to know her and felt she

, was a friend.”
She was surprised,§she said,-

by the speed and volume of

replies to her proposal for the

refuge and also gratified by
the eagerness with which In-
terior officials sought just the
right spot.

“On this Maine bit,” she
says, “I think it was a brilliant
idea.” ,

Rachel Carson had her sum-
mer home near Booth Bay
Harbor, Me., and made coast—
line or wood trail walks there
true adventures.

Also, unlike the Patuxent
Wildlife Research Center, an
earlier suggestion, the Coastal
Maine refuge — now the Rach-

el Carson Refuge—is a rec-
reation area. ’

This is important to Mrs.
Free “because I think she
symbolized the relationship of
all living things. And what

greater lab is there than the
outdoors?”

Most of Rachel Carson’s re-
search, she recalls, was car-
ried on outside. She would pick
creatures from the water,
Mrs. Free says, and return
them unharmed to the water
after examining them.

“This is the side of Rachel
Carson I’ll be writing more

about,” she says, adding that

she is as opposed “to willy
nilly overexperimenting on liv-
ing things” as Rachel Carson
was. ,

“I’m not talking about men
getting their Ph.D’s,” she
says, nor about legitimate
medical research humanely

tions which do not maintain
proper safeguards. ' '

Mrs. Free got involved in
the interrelated problems. of
environmental preservation
because of her “basic love of
animals,” but soon found her-
self delving into many aspects
of what is now called ecology.

“You start out with. love for
some creature and the next
thing you know you’re working
on zoning,” she says.

“I move so far from the es-
sential impetus or inspiration
that I’m always trying to get
myself back to center.”

—-M. M. FLATLEY.

 

- conducted, but about institu-"‘

..,. Ma’v~_ NV“ ._ - x \

,. —‘.‘ , , "NW .WW./~"~ -—~vv--r“

 




 

 

 
 
 
   

Q LLL

 

>IONAL RECORD— Extensions of Remarks

are necessary for the p rpetuation of a man’ 5
rights. Rights cannot ist’without order.

_ The temptation to esent America as a
republic of rebellious ngry people trying
to hold each other bac fromadopting the
changes which were co ing about prevails
throughout our countr . Everyday we hear
newscasts about all th absolute unrest in
“our society. “Establishm nt” is an extremely
dirty word. Just wait minute: Actually
our country is not anyth ng as it is pictured.
Our'country is now und rgoing a great evo—
_. lution. And no change 5 great as the one
occurring comes about thout a reasonable
amount of trouble. Toda ,changes are com-

 
    
 
 
   
  
   
  
 

ingabout becauSe of the oices of the young .

generation speaking out. This is a very vital
part of our country’s ex' tence. But-despite
what is being said and .espite the changes
which are occurring, the e is still very much
hope and promise in our land. Take a look
at the changes which am being made and
see if they are not fruitfuﬂ . '

This poem by '11 McC,..111am of the Hearst
Headline Service eems "appropriate to ex-
' press his opinion 0 g s nting voices and

 

  
  
  
  
  

he future’s fogged

LWhat’s real is now; th1 moment—all.”

 

 

3607a
NATURAL ESOURCE TANGLE

HON. FRANK E. moss

OF UTAH
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

’Wednesday, June 3, 1970

Mr. MOSS. Mr. President, the time is
surely near when the Nixon administra-
tion will advise the Congress of the rec-
ommendations of the Advisory Council
on Executive Organization, better known
as the Ash‘ Council, for the reorganiza-
tion of the executive agencies which deal
with natural resources and the environ-
ment.

The importance of doing something
about the “natural resources tangle” has
been discussed for years. Authority for
the administration of the programs
which shape“ the environment in which
we live—and upon which the future of
life on this \planet actually rests—is di-
vided among a dozen different agencies
and departments, with built-in conﬂicts,
overlapping, duplication, and confusion.
There is critical need for clariﬁcation. ‘

Five years ago I introduced a bill to
establish a Department of Natural Re-
sources and the Environment which de-
tailed how the reorganization might be
accomplished—by abolishing the Interior
Department, transferring those agencies
which deal mainly with human resources,
or not closely identiﬁed with the en-
4-LVironment, to other appropriate depart-
ments, and putting under an umbrella

of one great department all govern-
mental functions Which deal with our
water, our land, our air, our Oceans——
, any aspect of our environment. But even
._ such an obviously practical idea has its
‘: opponents .

Ann Cottrell Free, distinguished writer

6} written for the Wash-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS

Date:

in the conservatmn ﬁeld,- has now sum- .
‘4 ‘ armed the problem, and discussed the ,
"of the _As11 Council repel-t, in...

1868 Columbia Road, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009

JUN. 3 1970

M

printed in the Extensions of Remarks. .

The1e being no objection, the article "

was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
[F10m the Washington Star, May 24, 1970'] .
STRAIGHTENING OUT THE NATURAL
RESOURCES, TANGLE

(By Ann Cottrell Free)

If Aprii’ s “Earth Day” accomplished noth-
ing else, it posed, once again, in the govern-
mental sense a perplexing question.

“Whose Earth (the U. S. part) is this, any-
way? Interior’s? Agriculture’s? Commerce’s?
Army Engineers? Transportation’s? Housing
and Urban Development’s? Health, Education
and Welfare’s? Federal Power Commission’s?
Atomic Energy Commission’s? the Council
on Environmental Quality’s?

The list could go on and on. Nearly every
department or independent agency of the,
federal government is involved with nat- ,
ural resources or the environment—or both.
Nobody seems in charge. Conﬂict and over-
lap breed confusion. And confusion prolif-
erates. ‘

Air problems continue up in the air, with
at least a half-dozen agencies getting in the-
act, either as polluters or antipolluters. The

nation’ s water programs continue muddied L'

regardless of the interdepartmental Water
Resources Council and the Water Pollution
Control Administration The very soil itself
is subject often to conﬂicting approaches as .
to its best use ‘
The sight of the Corps of Engineers or the
Bureau of Public Roads being locked in battle

with the National Parks Service has become ‘

a commonplace

Twenty government departments or agen- - .
cies involve themselves with our coastal zones . -

and non-military oceanography.
There are at least 10 different federal ap- .
preaches to the uses of recreation grOunds.

enough to give even a sleeping bear a ner-
vous breakdown.

And when it comes to pesticides, authority
still appears diffuse—not only between de-
partments, but within departments.

Nearly everyone agrees that something
should be done about the jumble. But hardly
anyone agrees on what and how it shOuld be
done- -

So now it is the Nixon administration’s
turn to have a go at the increasingly com-
plex problem.

1 Philosophies toward wildlife are confusing .

‘That time is soon at hand. A fresh focus

and a new dialogue soon will reach center
stage as, a result of the Ash Council's re’---

cently completed study and recommenda- '

tions to the President on stream-lining of
natural resource and environmental re-
sponsibilities.

Roy L. Ash, president of Linton Industries,

' was appointed by the President a little more
than a year ago to head up the Advisory .

Council on Executive Organization.

The council'earlier his year recommended?
improvements in the Exectuive ofﬁce of the ‘

President itself and as a result President

Nixon asked for Congressional approval of-
a Domestic Council and an expansion and:
re-naming of the Bureau of the Budget to“

the Office of Management and Budget.
The President may ask for legislative action

on the eagerly-awaited Ash Council’s pro-

June 3, 197Q.

“Straightening Out the Natural Re-
sources Tangle. ” I ask unanimous cone; ,.
sent that this informative article be ..-..

 

 

 

 

 

L—J

posals. Or he could handle some of the sug— ,

geStions by executive order. Or, as the Wi1d-
life Management Institute, cynically com-.1“

ments, “he can do nothing." .

If nothing is done, it won't be the _

   

time. In 1935 Interior Secretary Harold 1111;

 

 
   
   

 

 

—~\/-‘~——§a

‘1
‘b-x~JL--...- M-.,__._A_U. J 1 1 _ .

 
 
 
 

 




: 6.5377 -
June a, 1970.

, iishment of which President Truman tried to

; obtain up until 1951. President Eisenhower

; asked that the water functions of the Army
.; Corps of Engineers be transferred to Interior.

And President Kennedy in 1961 pledged to

. do his best to make sense out of the conser-g
f vation cross currents in government.

But nothing has happened.

’ The Ash Council is thought to lean favor-
ably toward changing the name of the De—
partment of Interior to the Department of
Natural Resources and the Environment.
This approach has been spelled out in bill
form by Senator Frank Moss, D-Utah, since
1965. In brief, it would transfer to the re-
named department the Forest Service and
Soil Conservation Service from the Agri-
culture Department, the Corps of Engineers’
civil functions from the Army, and air pol-
lution jurisdiction from HEW. The Bureau
of Indian Affairs would go from Interior to
HEW.

Hearings held on the Moss bill in 1967 led
Senator Moss to the rueful comment that the
bureaucrats, whose departments would be
dismembered, “would rather ﬁght than
switch.” Though he“ would have become
more powerful with the Forest Service and
the Engineers under his Jurisdiction, then
Secretary of the Interior Udall was realistic
enough to know that the battle to wrest
these agencies away from their parent bodies
would be a losing battle. He did endorse the
change of name. Secrtary Hickel has made no
public statements on the Moss concept, but
he has shown considerable interest in the
reshufﬂing idea.

Regardless of the Ash Council’s speciﬁc
proposal, another View will soon come in for
a great airing. This is the Muskie approach.
The Maine Senator proposed recently the
establishment of an environmental super-
agency, called the National Environmental
Quality Admministration. It would group

together under one roof all the environmental
regulatory powers of the Federal government.

Muskie questions also whether “the De-
partment of Transportation should be the
agency to determine air pollution require-
ments for the transporation industry.” He
notes also that some of the responsibilities
for solid waste programs are lodged in the
Interior Department’s Bureau of Mines,
which has as its primary mission the promo-
tion of mineral resource development and
use. '

His approach could be quite appealing if
the Council on Environmental Quality had
not been set up less than six months ago.
Not an umbrella for environmental func-
tions of government, nor an operating agency,
this three-man council has tremendous pow-
er. Already, under the leadership of Russell

Train, it is knoCking agency heads together. ' 1

And the very Act that set up the Council——
the National Environmental Policy Act—has
been used to halt a variety of infringements.

Conservationists such as Spencer Smith of ,
the Citizens Committee on Natural Re.- ,

sources say “Give CEQ a change.” Lloyd

Tupling, Washington man for the Sierra?

Club, feels the same way.

, , i
As the various conservation groups and ;

bureaucrats prepare their positions in re-
gard to the Ash Council’s report, each is

taking a look backward and asking “How’

did we get into this mess?”

Interior, the key department in the en-
vironmental-natural resource tangle, is a
“just-grew-like-Topsy” kind of department.
- It was set up in 1849——the year of the great

Gold Rush. It was a combo of the old (1812)
General Land Oﬁice and the Indian Ofﬁce.

In 1905 Interior lost the Forest Service to
Gifford Pinchot and the Agriculture Depart-
ment. Between them ever since no love has
been lost. Interior’s Bureau of Land Manage-
ment—~which manages 176 million acres of
public. land in continental [IS—also sells
timber, but under different regulations.

The story of the controversial Corps of

CONGRESSIONAL

RECORD —- Extensions of

Engineers role in dam building, ﬂood con-,
trol, Waterway imrpovements and naviga-
bility began in 1824. Congress gave the Corps
$75,000 to clear out sandbars and other ob-
structions from the Mississippi and Ohio
Rivers. Since then the Corps has become
dearer than the ﬂag and apple pie to politi-
cians. The annual Rivers and Harbors Bill—-
which translates into “pork barrel”—-—keeps
Congressmen in ofﬁce and. the corps busy.
Realists, such as Tennessee Valley Author-l

'ity’s Frank Smith, see attempts to wrest

the Engineers or the Forest Service away
as “bone shattering” ﬁghts. Other realists
see a reshuffling as a possible affront to Con-
gressional committee seniority. What would
happen to the committees that ordinarily
keep the Forest Service happy? Would cam-
paign support from special lobbies leave .
them cold? _,

These and other aspects of re-alignment 2
of departments, agencies and committees
have been studied by a special group of the ‘
National Academy of Sciences and the Na- 1
tional Academy of Engineering. It suggested
the formation of a joint committee of Con-
gress, composed of chairmen of relevant
committees, to look into the problems. The
Wildlife Management Institute feels, also,
that some type ‘of co-ordinating council be
formed to take a long-range, in-depth study.

No easy task stopping the overlap. Nixon
may ﬁnd like Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhow-
er and Kennedy that straightening out the
natural resource tangle may be too much for »
him, too. But at least this time. around more '
steam, more thought is being put behind
the question. >

It;

 

 




‘lhIII-II

O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
I
O
O
O
O
O
O
I
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
I
O
O
O
O
C
O
O
O
O
O
D
O
C
O
O
O
O
O
9
O
O
O
O
I
O
O

 

 

 

 

‘J'A

Date 5;} / / 7/ - 2-:2" 4

‘6‘.an

WHILE you WERE OUT
1;; II 7/ LL‘ 7;)"

of 1;},yy llwé‘fx’yI Li‘s Mgi2t‘z‘s ALI/1V
3 L_ \'4—°“":, _, J!" 13 *7
hIz’x-IL 2422; 2722» 212.422 2222M. .72 2,224.72, 92/4
one

Area Code Number Extension

 

TELEPHONED PLEASE CALL

 

CALLED TO SEE YOU WILL CALL AGAIN

 

 

 

 

WANTS TO SEE YOU URGENT

 

 

 

 

 

l RETURNED YOUR CALL l
,2, 775‘ 2* .1

 

Messdg

”jg; i, *"Q‘e‘ "‘4" L

 

if 2 "2.12 2.22227, $1 2 “”7""? 177% “’:""f:"‘f'qu
2/1 L2 2. an}: ., 2:12;; 2:2,, ..

 

2;: ii. ' ,2: E2 2/”?

-, *' * » 2’ 27°F *9 7 ,S 4/2 2“

O erqtor *
é": 12.2913/M'J

 

 

 

 

 

EFFICIENCY® LINE No. 4725

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W
w
m
m
w
w
M

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

%/




 

 

R0 0111

S ave
in the
He art

The scandal of a city
that overbreeds its pets
then lets them suffer
and die. What can be
done about it?

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

PHOTO BY BARRY BLACKMAN

The big black Labrador looked slightly
bewildered when he saw the man with
the needle. But whatever was going to
happen, he was going to shake hands
ﬁrst. That’s the way they trained him,
before they turned him in because he
was “too friendly.” They told the man
at the humane society shelter: “He loves
everybody, licks them, shakes hands.
Damn nuisance—too much for us. Surely
you can get a good home for him.
Purebred, too.” The euthanizer ﬁnally
shook the dog’s paw, swore at the “son
of a bitch who turned you in,” and got
on with the job. Then he said, “Next,
please.”

Next,~ please. Those two words and
the ugly, sweet smell of death mean
there is no room—save in the heart—for
the animals which overcrowd the metro—
politan area’s shelters and pounds. And
so the puppies and kittens, the healthy,
the sick, the friendly, and the frightened

must be “put to sleep,” as the euthaniza— '

tion is called. The puppies pictured on
the cover were killed two days after
they were photographed.

But it is better—if good homes cannot
be found—that these unwanted creatures
die a painless death in a humane shelter
than suffer ordeals like that which took
place recently in Montgomery County,
and is duplicated in the District and
nearby counties:

“We found the dead beagle puppy
lying 011 the ﬂoor of the empty house.
His head was too large for his bony,
stunted body. Part of his right back leg
was 111issing. It had been chewed off and
eaten by the other two abandoned dogs.
One of them was also dead, the other
too weak to rise. The humane officers
took that one to the shelter, but they
didn’t pause before giving him the laSt
rite of kindness: a merciful death.”

In the words of a local humanitarian,
Phyllis Wright, “It’s not an animal prob—
lem, but a people problem.” All the
animals ask is the right not to be born.
This means control of breeding, and
until a safe and economical birth control
pill or vaccine is developed—and it’s
being worked on—spaying and neuter-
ing is the best answer.

Last year 110,000 of the area’s esti—
mated half—million dogs and cats were
handled by shelters and pounds in the
District, Alexandria, and Arlington,
Montgomery, Prince George’s, and
Loudoun counties. Not all were killed,
but far too many were.

The homeless stray or the lost animal
is no longer the chief occupant of the
shelters and the waiting lines outside the
euthanasia rooms. Today the“ turn— in is
the leading Victim. A surprising number
of the animals given up by their ovy ners
are purebreds—from poodles to Weimar-
aners—reflecting the diSposable product
pattern of our affluent society.

Some animals are given up for legiti-

mate reasons, such as the owner’s illness
or death, movmg from a home into an

apartment, going abroad, or no longer
being at home during the day. But others
are turned in for reasons as foolish as the
one for obtaining the animals in the
ﬁrst place.

“ ‘Grew too big,’ that’s a favorite,”
Gene Hogan told me. Hogan is man-
ager of the overcrowded Montgomery
County Humane Society shelter, which
handles more than 400 animals each
week.

“Hardly a day passes that we don t get
a whole litter of puppies or kittens
along with their mothers. Tired of all
these births, they tell me. But instead
of having the feinales Spay ed—ev en if
we offer to help them out VV 1th our
spay fund———thev sav, Take her too.’

“You ought to hear the excuses ‘Too
playful.’ ‘Always wants to go for walks.
‘We’re going on vacation.’ You ought
to hear the kids bawl when Mom and
Dad drop off the dog on their way out
of town—car all loaded—to the beach
or somewhere. Dad tells them to ‘stop
that damn crying,’ that he’ll get them
another pet when thev corne back home.
Not from here, he won’.’t

Our conversation was interrdpted by
the arrival of an up— —county farmer and
his wife, bringing seven little part coon
hound puppies they had found huddled
together on the side of a road. “How, for
God s sake, can we get homes for them
before a. new batch arrives?’ Hogan
asked. They were euthanized by injec-
tion a few days later.

hile the humane societies pray
for the right kind of owner to
drop 1n and save their dogs and
cats from the one- way trip to
the euthanasia room, many Washing—
tonians are going in the opposite direc—
tion looking for pets. They troop not
only to the “free—kittens” places and to
the professional breeders, but they also
are going by the thousands to pet shops,

 

 

 




 

many located in suburban shopping cen—
ters and department stores.

At some pet shops for $10 or $15 they
can pick up charming mutts bought by
the store manager for a dollar or two
from the owners of unspayed females
that mated with a neighbor’s male dog.
But most purchasers want pedigreed col—
lies pekes, pulis, poodles, shepherds, St.
Bcrnards. And if the animal is not in
stock, chain franchised shops, such as
Docktors (ﬁve locations), Pet Mart
(nine locations), or Puppy Palace can
get it for you. Many have standing or-
ders with “puppy mills,” which turn
out purebreds like doughnuts.

Purebreds are big business. Puppy Pal—
ace, for example, is part of the Mars
Candy Company’s holdings, along with
Uncle Ben rice. Some of the chain-
franchised shops deal directly with
breeders. Others work through‘ ‘collec-
tors” who travel their rural routes,
picking up puppies from small farmers
who have added puppies to their poultry
line. Bv the time they arrive, many have
been transferred from hand to hand,
crated, trucked, airshipped, and trucked
aga1n.

“The purchaser doesn’t mind the high
price tag of $200 and $300 because he’s
got the notion that he’ll get it all back
several times over by going into the
breeding business himself,” Bettijane
Mackall, Fairfax County humane oﬂicer,
told me. “just take a look any Sunday
at the classiﬁed ads of purebreds for sale
by home breeders.”

'Checking on the condition of animals
in pet shOps is one of Mrs. Mackall’s
duties, leading last year to successful
prosecution of the Docktors Pet Shop at
Loehmann’s Plaza in Falls Church for
violation of ' the state’s antieruelty law.
The shop closed soon thereafter.

0 discover why so many ﬁne,

healthy animals are killed when

people are buying so many new

puppies and kittens means a long
investigation of the little understood and
largely ignored animal welfare problem.
It involves turning your back on hun—
dreds of appealing, hopeful animals. It
means ﬁghting back bitter tears as you
see their freshly euthanized bodies
stuffed into trash cans for hauling away
to incinerators or rendering plants for
boiling down for soap and other prod-
ucts. It leads to stiﬂing such grotesque

thoughts as, Will the dog that licked
my hand today wash it tomorrow?

This kind of exposure to the animal’s
moment of awful truth involves you in
the technical study of gauge of the
needle, the number of ce.’s of sodium
pentobarbital, and the location of in-
jection—the heart or the vein of the leg?
You become more concerned about the
quality of death than the quality of life.

It also leads to damning not only the
breeders, the pet shops, and the can’t—
be-bothered owner, but also the indif-
ference of too many veterinarians, edu-
cators, newspapers, and radio and
television stations. And ﬁnally, there are
the overworked humane societies. -

Why haven’t ' they—as the self-ap-
pointed guardians for these speechless
creatures—done more to close the com-
munications gap? If more people knew
animals were available, wouldn’t they go
to the shelters?

But as you visit the shelters and talk to
the managers, kennel men, and humane
officers, you ﬁnd yourself face to face
with another heart—wrenching phase of
their responsibility—the cases of starva-
tion, abandonment, freezing, burning,
mutilation, hanging, and other tortures
inﬂicted on animals, not excepting man—
animal rape. (A coatimundi was the most
recent reported Victim. But she bit the
man.)

“We had nearly twice as many cruelty
calls in 1970 as in 1969,” Montgomery
County’s Polly Buel told me. In Fairfax
County, Pearl Twyne and Bettiiane
Mackall keep on the run constantly
checking cruelty reports. Recently, three
of their cases came up in court on the
same day and they got three convictions.
One was for the branding of a kitten with
a red—hot coathanger. In Prince George’s
County, humane oﬂicer Eleanor Hogan
handles calls, ranging from kids dropping
kittens down trash chutes into furnaces
to visiting a riding stable and ﬁnding
starved dead horses on which stray dogs
were feeding.

Edna Cooke of Alexandria tells of
ﬁnding houses and apartments contain—
ing dead and dying cats and dogs, aban-
doned by their owners. The Washington
Humane Society’s three agents and its
president, Vaynor McNeil], keep on the
go in the District, investigating cases
from upper Northwest to the heart of
the inne1 citx. Many involve mutilations,
bmnings, and hangings of animals, often

bx children. In the last two years the
Washington Humane Society has inves-
tigated more than 2,500 cases.

Increased use of guard dogs has also
added to the cruelty. “Shocking the way
people underfeed and chain out their
guard dogs 1n all weather,” says Vaynor
McNeill. “Much of the trouble comes
from security agencies’ renting out dogs
to warehouses, stores, used car lots. The
other day we found a dog that had been
chained to the bumper of a car for
two years.” In the winter dogs are found
frozen to death. In the summer they die
from the heat and no water, or being
locked in ovenlike cars.

Training devices to make dogs obedi-
ent or vicious bring constant complaints.
Spiked collars that cut into the ﬂesh are
too often used. One man fed gunpowder
to his dog to make it more vicious. Fast
action by Fay Brisk of Virginia Knauer’s
Consumer Advisory Committee at the
White House resulted in the removal by
the Food and Drug Administration of a
dog food containing the male hormone
testosterone from the shelves of Anlmal
T.V. Trainers pet shop on Seventh
Street. Owner Edward Tuck had
claimed the special food would make
dogs more aggressive.

The big societies and shelters carry the
brunt of the burden, but individuals and
smaller groups also help. People like Vir-
ginia Sargent, Kathy Sullivan, Bernice
Moss, and Catherine Briggs are nearly
always on call.

study of today’s animal welfare
p1oblems leads to the inescap—
- able conclusion that more c0111-
111unity understanding and sup-

port is needed.

“Can’t you go to the Washington
newspapers for help?” I kept asking.

“They don’ t seem to be interested un-
less it’s something like a dog ﬂoating
down the river on a piece of ice,”
an Arlington humanitarian complained.
“The suburban papers are better, but
the surface lsn ’t really scratched.”

Said a Chevy Chase matron: “We’ve
been screwed enough by the papers,
making us look like a bunch of little old
ladies in tennis shoes. Every time they
use the term ‘animal lover,’ I squirm, be—
cause there’s always the implication
‘people hater.’ I wouldn’t ask them for a
damn thing. But if we were hunters,
think of the publicity we’d get.”

 

 

 




 

But Betsy Kiernan of the Washington
Animal Rescue League took up for the
neWSpapers. “I just don’t know what
we’d do if the Evening Star didn’t run
that ‘Looking for a Home’ picture of
one of our animals each week. It does
bring in the people and sometimes they
adopt others if they can’t get the one
they wanted—but we still need more
help. We handled ﬁfteen thousand ani-
mals last year.” She also pointed out
that the Star, Post, and News carry
“found” 'animal classiﬁed ads, one time
only, free of charge.

Only the Fairfax County Animal Wel—
fare League and the National Humane
Education Center in Loudoun County
now run available—for—adoption adver—
tisements. NHEC’s Phyllis Wright often
brings dogs and cats that need homes to
her 12:30 P.M. Friday appearance on
WTTG’s Panorama show. The Fairfax
League has persuaded local radio stations
to describe some of their available ani—
mals. One of the league’s members, Anne
Lewis, writes a weekly column for
suburban Virginia newspapers that de-
scribes available animals. Bettijane Mac—
kall writes a similar column for the
Virginia Sentinel.

Other shelters shy away from adver—
tising or editorial matter on speciﬁc
animals. One reason is the fear that by
the time the information appears in the
papers, especially in a weekly, the arrival
of new animals will leave no room for
the ones advertised as available. The
Fairfax League handles this problem by
renting an additional kennel and asking
for a contribution from the new owners
to help defray costs of this extra shelter.
“We are getting good response,” shelter
manager Valerie Hougan told me.

wish we could get newspapers

to cover us as a regular thing,”

Montgomery County Humane

Society’s Polly Buel said.
“None of us here has time to work up
stories for them.” A tall blonde, she is
the society president plus the county
humane officer and state riding stable
1nspector.

“Look at a typical day for me. At the
shelter by ten after stopping to inspect
a couple of adoption homes. Hardly be-
fore I get in, there’s a cruelty case to
go out on. And the calls have already
piled up. Then I hear we’ve burned out
another bearing on one of the trucks.
The man at Rockville Courthouse wants
me to come out there to go over shelter
plans—we’re breaking ground in July.
I have to get material together for the
horse starvation case that’s coming up
next week. I go out on the cruelty case.
A neighbor’s feud most likely, but a cat
has been poisoned. Go to Rockville and
also catch a stable inspection. When I
ﬁnally get back, it’s more of same. Ex—
cept we have thirty more animals than
when I went out. Before going home, I
go out in the back room and before I’m

 

The DC. Pound uses an explosive decompression chamber to kill its animals;

 

they are then shove/ed into trash cans for disposal.

done I’ve euthanized twenty-ﬁve dogs
and cats. I’m home about ten at night.”

Mrs. Buel held up an eight—page news-
letter. “VVe’ve just started this and are
sending it out to a mailing list of six
thousand people, some of them very
influential. Maybe it will help to tell our
story if nobody else will.”

From these and other conversations, a
picture begins to emerge that accounts
for the lack of areawide attention to
this pressing community problem. The
media has too long had a stereotyped
idea. of humanitarians as slightly comical
ﬁgures. It has hung on to equally old-
fashioned ideas of what makes a good
animal story.

Humanitarians, on the other hand,
have not tried hard enough to over—
come these misconceptions. Some are un-
happy about the stories that have been
written about them, and thus harbor
hostility. Others, grateful for small fav—
ors, fear pushing their luck. hilany don’t
want to publicly discuss the ﬁnal dis—
position of unwanted animals; they are
afraid people with good reasons for dis-
posing of their animals will stop bring—
ing them in to shelters and the animals
will then suffer a fate worse than
euthanasia.

Hour by hour pressures prevent many
humane leaders from breaking out of
the very bind that has caused the over—
work; thus there are few innovative at—
tempts to solve the problem. Clearly, the
societies need more money and more
members, particularly those with “know
how” and inﬂuence: They need the in—
volvement of idealistic ' but practical
people like those who helped with Earth
Day and civil rights efforts. For animal
welfare is both an ecological and soci—
ological problem.

ue to a chance meeting in No—
vember between two twenty—
year—olds and Phyllis VVright at
the National Humane Educa—
tion Center, a beginning may have been

-made in bringing animal welfare into

the “now” world. Paul and Mary Jo
Smith of Arlington brought two cats to
Miss \Vright at the \Vaterford clinic for
spaying. It’s cheaper there because the
National Humane Education Center is
subsidized by the Humane Society of the
United States.

.“They had long hair, blue jeans—sort
of the hippy type,” Phyllis recalled. “We
don’t get many of that kind and l was
so glad to see them and to know they
cared about limiting their cats’ breed-
ing.”

She showed them around the center,
reeling off statistics as she went. “In a
year’s time. we’ve spayed six hundred
forty—seven female catsland dogs, and
neutered one hundred twenty-eight
males. That means maybe in one year.at
least ten thousand kittens and puppies
can’t be born. Did you know that from
one birth with all systems “go” down the
line for ten years you could have eighty—
four million, six hundred ﬁfty—two thou—
sand, six hundred and forty—four pup—
pies. ” .

The Smiths began to get the picture,
particularly when Phyllis turned down
a family that wanted a cat but d1dn’t‘
want it, spayed. The family wanted to
have one litter of kittens so the kids
could see “the miracle of birth.” _

“Would you want to bring your chil—
dren here sometime for witnessing the
miracle of death?” Phyllis asked.

A few days later Paul Smith tele—
phoned Phyllis Wright. “We think the
main problem is overbreeding. Too many




 

Cene Hogan, manager of the Mont-
gomery County Humane Shelter,
with a litter ofpart coon puppies who
lived only a few days before being
euthanized by injection.

animals.”

“What do you know, I
point,” Phyllis said dryly.

“We want to do something about it.
Tell people so they’ll understand. What
about us making a ﬁlm?” ,

“Just great,” replied Phyllis tone—
lessly, wondering what kind of trip he
was on.

Paul went on. “We ve just inherited
about thirty thousand dollars and we
want to produce a film for showing to
schools, clubs. .”

When she recovered from the shock,
Phyllis offered technical help, actors—
human, canine, feline—and all the as-
sistance possible.

Within a few months, the thirty-
minute 16 111111 color ﬁlm, “The Animals
Are Crying,” will have its premiere at
L’Enfant Theatre. It was written and
directed for the Smiths by Peter A.
Beltz (“The Medium Cool Filmmakers,”
WASHINGTONIAN, January 1970). It was
photographed in Montgomery County,
Alexandria, and Loudoun County by
cameraman George Voellmer. Most of
the actors were local humanitarians.
Paul’s father, Grove Smith, acts the part
of a man giving up his dog. Beltz’ three
stepchildren, Pim, Pam, and P0111, play
major roles. The ﬁlm can be purchased
from PMS Films, Inc., P.O. Box 9583,
Arlington, Virginia 22209. Telephone
527-1634. Paul and Mary Jo hope that
humane societies and conservation and
education groups throughout the country
will buy the ﬁlm, especially for distribu-

tion to schools.
“Lets hope it’ll turn on some of the

ecology types who are all hung up on
beer can pollution,” Beltz remarked as
we looked at the ﬁlm rushes.‘ ‘This is
so much worse.”

made 111V

hen the Washington humane
movement started 101 years
ago, the most powerful people
of the day were incorporators
of the Association for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (In 1885 the name
was changed to the Washington Hu—
mane Society). They got it chartered by
Congress and within a year’s time they
had one of the nation’s strongest animal
anticruelty laws on the books. Title 22,
Section 8, of the District of Columbia
Criminal Code reads:

“Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives
when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cru—
elly kills, or causes or procures to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor—
mented, deprived of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or
cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any ani—
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts
unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same
with proper food, drink, shelter, or pro-
tection from the weather, shall for every

 

such offense be punished by imprison:

ment in jail not exceeding one year, or
by fine not exceeding two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars, or by both such fine and

imprisonment.”

The law was eagerly enforced. By
1911 enthusiasm for arresting abusers of
animals—especially beaten and over—
worked dray horses—reached an all—time
Washington high with 2,017 arrests and
1,929 convictions. But even this was not
enough. (Or was it because mostly men
were running the humane society?) In
1914, nine ladies met at Woodward &
Lothrop’s and the Washington Animal
Rescue League was on its way. It pro-
vided for the ﬁrst time a decent shelter
for friendless animals. A close- knit group
throughout the years, the current pres1—
dent of the league is BetsV Simpson
Kiernan, daughter of one of its early
presidents, Mrs. C. Augustus Simpson.

In 1936 some of these same women,
led by Mrs. Henry C. Moses, now
ninety—four, and the late Mrs. Merton
Twogood, set up the Tailwaggers Club
and Clinic to underwrite veterinary care
for pets of the poor. It led the town in
awareness because of strong support from
Cissy Patterson, the dazzling, powerful
publisher of the Tunes-Herald. After
Mrs. Patterson’s death, Mrs. Frank Allen
West became the mainspring, enlisting
the support of newer members of the
power structure. When Mrs. West died
in 1969, the city lost some of its humane
spark.

In 1944 a new approach to animal
problems came from Pearl Rainwater
Twyne. Fresh out of Missouri with a
job at the Department of Agriculture,
the Indian-Irish girl and her husband
settled in Arlington. A chance encoun—
ter with a stray dog and one look at the

county pound led to her starting the
Arlington Animal Welfare League and
negotiating an agreement to take over
most of the county’s animal control
work. “This was the best of two worlds
for both us and the county. The league
could never have raised the money to
Operate the shelter, which replaCed the
old pound” she said.

This same type of arrangement is
used in Alexandria and in Montgomery
and Fairfax counties, .with the earmark-
ing of county funds solely for shelter
and animal control work. These sums
vary from $35,000 from the county for
the Arlington league, to $76,000 for
Alexandria, $61,000 for Fairfax, and
$125,000 for Montgomery. In several
cases, such as in Arlington, the tax-raised
funds are insufﬁcient and the societies,
have to foot the bills. This can be a great
burden when the societies’ small trea-
suries are already stretched to cover the
essentials of humane work: education,
public relations, advertising, cruelty in—
vestigations, and supplementary veteri—
nary and spaying help to deserving cases.

Prince George’s County’s new 300—
animal shelter is operated by county
government employees under the ad-
visory eye of an Animal Control Com—
mission. The local humane society han—
dles education, cruelty investigations, 3
lost and found center, and training
classes.

ost of the humane society-oper-
ated shelters have the same re-
quirements for adoption of
animals. “We do not release
animals unless the home is approved and
there is proper exercise space, such as a
fenced yard,” Margaret McHale of Ar-
lington explained “We require written
permission from the management if we
release a small dog or a cat to an apart—
ment dweller.” Some of the shelters will
not place animals under four months old
with children under six years of age.

“Our great focus is on obligatory
spaying of females and encouragement
of neutering of males,” Gene Hogan
said. At Arlington, male cats must be
neutered and at Phyllis Wright’s shelter
male dogs also must be neutered.

(To spay comes from the old French
“espeer,” which means “to cut with a
sword.” In reality, it is the surgical re-
moval of the ovaries of a female animal.
Neutering of a male animal can be either
the removal of the testicles or a vasec-
tomy, the removal or resectioning 0f
the cordlike canal that carries the sper-
matozoa. Clinical studies have shown
that the neutered animals do not suffer
either from obesity or a loss of verve or
Character. Veterinary studies have shown
that the incidence of cancer in spayed
and gelded animals appears to be lower.)

Each of these shelters has a plan for a
minimal prepayment spay fee. Some re—
quire payment at time of adoption;
others, such as Fairfax and Prince

 

 




 

George’s, have a $4 or $5 reimbursable
deposit plan, leaving it to the new owner
‘to select his own veterinarian and nego—
tiate a price. When a certiﬁcate or copy
of a receipted bill from the veterinarian
is submitted to the shelter, the new
owner gets his deposit returned. Charges
for spaying and neutering of dogs and
cats has increased considerably in recent
years, with the absolute minimum now
about $40 and in cases of large dogs re-
maining in the hospital for a few days
more than $50.

Arrangements with cooperative area
veterinarians have resulted in charges
at the Arlington and Alexandria shelters
of $15 for female dogs, and in Mont-
gomery County, between $20 and $30.
By supplementing the cost out of its
own pocket, the older Washington Ani—
mal Rescue League has been able to hold
the spay fee at a remarkable $8. Its total
mandatory cost for females, including
spaying and rabies and distemper shots,
is $15.25. Spay and neutering rates at the
nonprofit NHEC Clinic at Waterford,
where veterinarians are on salary, are
female dogs, $20; female cats, $15; male
dogs, $15; and male cats, $5. Some of the
shelters and the Tailwaggers Clinic have
small, special spay and neutering funds
to help hardship cases. Recently, a group
of Maryland and Virginia women or-
ganized SPAY (Society for the Prevention
of Surplus Animal Young), which offers
assistance to owners of dogs and cats in
need of spaying and neutering.

Other adoption procedures vary some—
what from shelter to shelter. The $4 li-
cense fee is paid at Montgomery County
shelter, while in the District the $3 fee
is paid either by mail or in person at the
District license ofﬁce. In Arlington and
Alexandria, license tags are $1 for males
and spayed females, but $3 for unspayed
females. Higher license fees for animals
able to propagate might be a deterrent,
some humanitarians believe. But to make
it effective, others point out, it should
be in the $25 to $50 range and this might
not be politically feasible. Columnist
Anne Lewis of Fairfax suggests a $100
license for the “backyard breeder.”

The dog tag can be a lost dog’s great-
est protection. Though it is against the
law for dogs to run loose, humane ofﬁ-
cers urge owners to keep their dogs’
collars and tags on them at all times.
“All of the shelters keep the tag num-
bers on ﬁle,” explained Montgomery
County’s Loretta Moon,” and if theV
have the dog’s license number, his owner
can be notiﬁed immediately. Of the
3,048 dogs picked up by her shelter’s
trucks last year, 1,206 were returned to
their owners. A redemption fee is re—
quired of owners by all the shelters.

Though the area’s humane societies
try to cope with animal overpopulation
through arrangements with cooperative
veterinary surgeons and establishment of
the spay clinic at Waterford, they look
longingly at Los Angeles, where a mu-
nicipal spay clinic was opened in No-

 

vember. Los Angeles hopes that the
city’s subsidy of the clinic will be offset
by savings in the handling and euthaniz—
ing of animals.

The Los Angeles plan lends itself to
adaptation here, beginning in the inner—
city Model Cities area, where hundreds
of animals run at large. It has been sug-
gested that Model Cities funds be ob—
tained to employ more dOg catchers and
buy another truck solely for collecting
and then killing animals from this area.
Costs would run at least $25,000 annu-
ally. Instead, after collecting, why not
use federal funds for the employment of
one or two veterinarians—either on sal-
ary or under contract—to spay and neu-
ter animals of low-income residents of
this area? It could be done free, as in the
case of the District’s rabies clinics, or
for under $5. It would result in reduc-
tion of births and greater enjoyment of
owned animals. The idea of this demon-
stration-type program is being Viewed
with interest by the Model Cities Ad-
visory Board, headed by Mrs. Caroline
Reese, and by William Cary, former
associate ,director of Environmental
Health for the District.

ithin the last twenty years, the
animal welfare effort in Wash-
ington has been considerably
broadened by creation of the
Humane Society of the United States.
This national organization has given ma-
jor support to all the animal protective
laws passed by the Congress, beginning
in 1958 with passage of the Humane
Slaughter Act. The leadership of Mrs.
Roger Stevens in the laboratory animal
protective ﬁeld has been nothing short
of brilliant. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the Animal \Velfare Institute and So—
ciety for Animal Protective Legislation
from her home here. (She and her hus-
band, who is head of the Kennedy Cen—
ter board of trustees, now live in Mrs.
l7 rank V’Vest’s old Georgetown man-
sion.)

The activities of these and other na-
tional groups in Washington are in star—
tling contrast to the District of Colum-
bia Pound—the only facility in the area
still retaining a name that goes back into
antiquity. Inspection of the pound can
leave you with the impression that phil-
osophically it has not changed since the
days of President Grant, when it im-
pounded a couple of his stray horses.

Today, the pound Operates under the
District Department of Health with an
annual budget of $118,000. This covers
primarily salaries and supplies, exclusive
of purchase and maintenance of vehicles,
buildings, or equipment.

The pound does not beneﬁt from any
type of citizens’ advisory committee to
help bring it up to modern standards.
For the following reasons, it can be con—
sidered the least adequate animal facility
in the area:

I It does not advertise found dogs.

 

 

 

WHO’S WHO
IN ANIMAL WELFARE

 

Local

Alexandria Animal Welfare League, 910 S.
Payne St., Alexandria, Va. 22314; 750-6597
(after 5 p.m., 549~7058). Estab. 1945. Mon.—
Sat. 9-5; adoptions, 10—4 weekdays, 11-3 Sat;
closed Sun., except for receiving animals.
Operates shelter, also two truck—ambulances
for animal control and rescue work, all
under city contract. 24~hour service. Ex—
cellent facilities. Handled 10,500 animals
last year. Animals released to approved
homes only; prepayment required for spay—
ing of females. League conducts cruelty in~
vestigations and sponsors obedience classes
and educational programs in schools. Mrs.
James H. Lazarus, pres; Mrs. Edna Cooke,
shelter manager.

Animal Protective Association, Box 172,
Garrett Park, Md. 20766; 942-2341. Estab.
1933. This small band of dedicated humani~
tarians is led by Virginia Sargent. She has
rescued countless animals and found good
homes for many.

Arlington Animal Welfare League, 2800 S.
Taylor St., Arlington, Va. 22206; 527—6055.
Estab. 1944. Mon—Sat, 10:30-4; closed Sun.,
except for receiving animals. Operates shel—
ter and 24~hour emergency service truck—
ambulances under county contract. Requires
spaying of adopted females, but minimal
rates available. Does not place animals out—
side of state. Animals released to approved
homes only. Handles 10,000 animals an—
nually. Mrs. Margaret McHale, pres.-, VVil—
liam Nash, shelter manager.

Fairfax County Animal Welfare League,
3613 Jermantown Rd., Fairfax, Va. 22030;
691—2363 (after midnight, 528-2347). Over—
ﬂow kennel, 13341 Lee Highway. Mon.—
Sat., 8:30—5; adoptions, 11—4; main kennel
closed Sun., except for receiving, but Lee
Highway open Sun. 12—5. League operates
shelter and injured animal pick~up service
under county contract. Requires spaying of
females with.$5 reimbursable deposit. Stanley
N. Gilreath, press, Mrs. Valerie Haugen,
shelter manager.

Fairfax Humane Society, (>33 River Bend
Rd., Great Falls, Va. 22066; 759—2200. Estab.
1966. Organized to curb cruelties in this
fast-growing county. It has won a number
of cases. Humane Society officers Pearl
vane and Bettijane A. .‘\‘lackall are among
the inost experienced in the state.
Montgomery County Humane Society, 8710
Brookeville Rd., Silver Spring, Md. 20910;
585—5484, 585—1203, 585—1263. Estab. 1945.
Mon—Sat, 9—7 for ofﬁce business, buying
licenses, redeeming pets; 11—3 daily and
Sunday for adoptions, 24—hour emergency
service. Four trucks for pick—up servrce.
Shelter and control work under county
contract. Handles 21,000 animals annually
in overcrowded shelter. Expects to move to
new quarters near Rockville. Conducts
obedience classes and rabies clinics. Also
requires Spaying of females through minimal
prepayment plan. Animals to approved
homes only. Issues newsletter. Mrs. Walker
Buel, pres; Gene Hogan, shelter manager.
Maryland Animal Welfare Associations,
P. O. Box 4157, Chevy Chase, Md. 20015;
299—5128. Many of Maryland’s animal wel-
fare groups have banded together to present
a united front for statewide action or to

 

 

 




 

backst0p each other on local problems.
Meetings provide valuable exchange of in—
formation. Currently working on state’s
trapping problems and illegal roadside zoos.
Mrs. Jane Ream, pres.

National Humane Education Center Shelter,
Rt. 9, Waterford, Va. 22190; 471-1600 (di—
rect dial, no toll). Mon—Fri, 9-5; Sat. and
Sun., 9—3 for ofﬁce business, turn—ins, and
redemptions. Kennel open for inspection
and adOptions 10—4 weekdays, 11—3 Sat. and
Sun. Owned and operated by Humane So—
ciety of the United States, the shelter serves
the metropolitan area, particularly Loudoun
County, which has no other animal shelter.
Handles about 6,000 animals annually. Ani—
mals to approved homes only. Requires
spaying of females and neutering of males
done at Center Clinic for nominal fees.
Keeps a few “rescued” monkeys and farm
animals. Tours for groups of all ages ar—
ranged and information given on animal
problems. Phyllis Wright, executive direc—
tor; Donna Truslow,_clinic supervisor.
Noah’s Ark Animal Society, 4405 East West
Highway, Bethesda, Md. 20015; 656—9043.
Primarily an 8 A.M.—11 P.M. telephone clear-
ing house offering assistance on locating lost
animals and finding good homes for those
needing them. Mrs. Kathleen Suma, pres.
Peace Plantation: P. O. Box 837, Leesburg,
Va. 22075; (703) 777—2504. Thanks to small
endowments, cats are received and given
comfortable homes in shelter. For extreme
hardship cases only. Catherine Briggs, pres.;
Ruby Brown, shelter manager.

Prince George’s County Animal Shelter,
8211 D’Arcy Rd., Forestville, Md. 21050;
336-3221. Mon.—Fri., 10—1, 2-4, 4:30—8; Sat,
11-4; closed Sun. Operated by county em—
ployees under an Animal Control Commis—
sion. Maintains high standards of care and
handling of 26,000 animals annually. Well-
designed, clean, all—indoor kennel. Only
shelter in area with evening hours. Operates
six vehicles. Requires $4 reimbursable spay
deposit on adopted females. Iverson W.
Gallihugh, Animal Control Ofﬁcer and
Shelter Supt. .

Prince George’s County Humane Society,
P.O. Box 261, Riverdale, Md. 20840; 864-
2434. Cruelty calls are investigated by well—
trained humane ofﬁcers.Mrs.GHogan, pres.
Spay; Society for the Prevention of Surplus
Animal Young, P.O. Box 7056 N. Station,
Arlington 22207. This newly organized

group provides assistance to» owners of dogs ‘

and cats in need of spaying and neutering.
SPAY raises its funds through ﬂea markets
and bazaars. D.C. and nearby Maryland resi—
dents, call Mrs. Emily Dassinger, 864—7744;
close-in Virginians, call Mrs. Marie Addi,
273—3692. Also assists in locating lost pets.

Tailwaggers Club and Clinic, 71 O St.,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001; 667—5731.
Estab. 1936. Mon.—Fri., 2:30—5. This non—

proﬁt clinic helps many pet owners, who.

last year brought in 11,343 dogs and 928
cats for treatment by its two veterinarians.
Same name as British society of similar
nature. Conducts dog obedience classes
every spring. Operates lost and found serv-
ice for members. Mrs. Hugh Gingerich,
pres; Nathaniel B. McPherson, exec. secy.
Virginia Federation of Humane Societies,
2112 Key Blvd, Arlington 22201; 525—1729.
Now headed by Mrs. C. Dodson Morrisette
of Norfolk, it was founded by former Ar—
lington Animal Welfare League President
Pearl Twyne. This statewide group of
humane societies has succeeded in getting
additional animal protective legislation

 

through the state legislature. Issues excellent
booklet on Virginia’s animal anticruelty

laws. Mrs. V. Allen Ratcliffe, secretary.

Washington Animal Rescue League, 71 O

St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001; 667-5730.

Estab. 1914. Daily, 9—5; adoptions Mon.—Sat.,
10-4; Sun., 11—3. 24—hour emergency service.
Independently supported, handles 15,000
animals annually. Ambulance and pick-up
service. Animals released only to approved,
preinspected homes. Provides distemper and
rabies shots at cost, requires nominal fee for
spaying of females. Issues humane educatitm
kits to schools. Mrs. Paul C. Kiernan, pres;
James Souders, shelter manager.

Washington Humane Society, 1621 Wiscon-
sin Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007;
333—4010. Estab. 1870. Daily, 9-4. Telephone
recording service after hours. This Con-
gressionally—chartered society investigated
more than 2,500 cruelty cases in the past
two years. It issues warnings and takes. legal
action under strong District anticruelty laws.
Relatively unaggressive for many years,
WHs has become more active since 1969.
Mrs. Vaynor McNeill, pres.

Naﬁonal

American Horse Protection Association, 633

’River Bend Rd., Great Falls, Va. 22066; 759-

2200. This new group is greatly responsible
for the new federal law forbidding the
f‘soreing” of Tennessee walking horses. Mrs.
Pearl Twyne, pres.

American Humane Association, P.O. Box
1266, Denver, Colo. 80201. Represented here
by lawyer Jo V. Morgan, Jr., Bowen Bldg,
’Washington, D.C.; 347—3450. Founded 94
years ago, now has 347 afﬁliates. Publishes
shelter management, animal care, and edu—
cational materials and magazine. Maintains
Hollywood ofﬁce. Recently, less aggressive
than other national groups in pushing for
animal protective legislation, but is giving
ﬁnancial help to animal birth control pill
research.

Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3492,
Grand Central Station, New York 10017.

Established and headed by Mrs. Roger,

Stevens in 1951, it has helped focus national
attention on animal abuses, especially in re—
search labs. Produces educational manuals,
ﬁlms, newsletter. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the institute from her home here. Awards
Albert Schweitzer Medal annually.
Defenders of Wildlife, 2000 N St., N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036; 223-1993. Crusades
against cruel predator control, trapping,
and other abuses of wildlife. Recently
named as a legatee of estate of California
multimillionaire who was impressed by its
magazine, which is edited by Executive
Director Mary Hazcll Harris. Victor H.
Cahalane, pres. .
Humane Society of the United States, 1145
19th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036;
338-6216. Founded in 1954 by prominent
members and staffers. of AHA. Has 5
branches and 27 local afﬁliates, but none
here. Maintains ﬁeld men to aid local
groups, issues educational materials and
newsletter. After period of unsettled leader-
ship after death of ﬁrst executive director
Fred Myers, it shows signs of moving ahead
again due to special efforts of board mem—
bers such as Roger Caras, counsel Murdaugh
Madden, and new president John Hoyt. Its
National Humane Education Center at
Waterford is an excellent facility. Patrick
Parkes, exec. v.p.

Kindness Club, Waterford, Va. 22190; 471—

 

1600. Children’s humane organization started
by Mrs. Hugh John Flemming, wife of
former New Brunswick governor, is now
sponsored by HSUS. Issues newsletter and
other educational materials. Dale Hylton,
exec. director.

National Humane Education Center, Water-
ford, Va. 22190; 471—1600. Conducts animal
welfare seminars for nation’s humane socie-
ties and maintains shelter for area animals.
Property was gift of late Edith Goode and
Alice Morgan Wright. Phyllis Wright, exec.
director.

Outdoor Ethics Guild, Rt. 2, Box 41—B, The
Plains, Va. 22171. Issues guides on how to
treat animals and other sharers of this earth.
Founded by Interior Dept. ecologist Bruce
Bandurski. ‘
Society for Animal Protective Legislation,
P.O. Box 3719, Georgetown Station, Wash—
ington, D.C. 20007. This is Mrs. Roger
Stevens’ lobbying arm. Stays on top of leg—
islation and can be credited with the differ-
ence between success and failure on such
bills as the Animal Welfare Act of 1970. Its
members write thousands of letters to Con-
gress. Madeline Bemelmanns, pres; Christine
Stevens, secretary.

Wards, 2225 Observatory Place, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20007; 337—2225. Founded
in 1950’s by Mrs. Peyton Hawes Dunn to
focus attention on care and treatment of
research animals. Raised enough money to
ﬁnance building of better kennels at most '
of the local research hospitals. Name is
acronym for Welfare of Animals Used in
Research for Drugs and Surgery. Mrs. A. S.
Mike Monroney, chairman.

International

ISPA. Known best by its initials, standing
for International Society for the Protection
of Animals, ISPA maintains its home ofﬁce
at 106 Jermyn St., London S.VV. 1, England.
Its main U.S. ofﬁce is at 655 Boylston St.,
Boston, Mass. 02116. One of its active board
members, Attorney Jo V. Morgan, Jr., 815
Bowen Bldg, Washington, D.C. 20005, can
furnish essential information. Its agents travel
throughout the world, offering technical
assistance for improved methods of handling
animals, ranging from seal hunting to better
ways of killing home—raised mink to saving
animals from rising ﬂood waters, oil slicks,
and painful slaughter. Individual member—
ship available.

WFPA. The World Federation for the
Protection of Animals maintains headquar-
ters at Alcred—Escher Str. 76 CH 8002,
Zurich, Switzerland, but one of its vice—
presidents, Oliver Evans, lives here; mailing
address: 1145 19th St., N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20036. WFPA assists animal welfare
groups worldwide on problems involving
protection of food animals and research
animals, surplus animal control, protection
of fauna and habitat. Has consultative status
with UNESCO and other international groups.

Individual memberships available.

Also noted

D.C. Dog Pound, 1201 New York Ave,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002; 629—2791.‘
Mon.—Sat., 7:30—3:30; closed Sun, Operates
three dog catcher trucks. Handles very
few cats. Sells dogs to area’s medical re—
search laboratories and to public. Handles
6,000 animals annually. The pound’s major
shortcomings are discussed in the ﬁnal sec—
tion of the main article. John R. King,
poundmastcr. .




 

 

 

I It does not check lost dog ads.

I It does not provide resting boards
in kennels.

I It does not require spaying of fe-
males.

I It does not have an approved homes
policy.

I It does not distribute information
of the area’s nonproﬁt animal clinics or
spay programs.

I It does not post notice that some of
its dogs are sold to research laboratories.

The District pound is the only area
facility continuing to use routinely the
explosive decompression killing chamber.
Due to the possibility of “excruciating
pain for a short time,” the American
Veterinary Medical Association does not
approve this method. It considers the best
method for the euthanizing of individual
animals to be intravenous administration
of barbiturates. These drugs produce
painless death, much like going to sleep,
but should be given by a veterinarian or
by a skilled technician.

Mrs. Kiernan of the Washington Ani-
mal Rescue League, where the intrave-
nous method is administered by a vet—
erinarian’s assistant, has tried to persuade
the pound to switch to the approved
method. But to no avail.

“We had such a chamber at the shel-
ter,” James Souders, league shelter man—
ager, said, “but the animals didn’t always
die. Something was always wrong with
the machine. The animals were fright—
ened and I think suffered. When Miss

Wright was here as manager she wanted

it out.”

Dr. Paul L. Romig, chief of the Dis-
trict’s Animal Disease Control Division,
which has jurisdiction over the pound,
maintains that the high altitude cham—
ber is an “acceptable method” and that
it is “expedient” for euthanizing large
numbers of animals. The pound han-
dles half the number of animals as the
league.

In the company of Dr. Charles Calao,
vice president of the Washington Hu-
mane Society, and Dr. Romig, I Viewed
the decompression chamber—ﬁlled with
four small female dogs. The dogs gasped
for breath and bit at the air as the oxy-
gen was withdrawn and they were taken
to a simulated height of 55,000 feet. Af—
ter a' period of convulsing, they lay still.

Later that day some of the same
group, including Poundmaster John R.
King, met with Dr. Raymond L. Stand-
ard, director of the District’s Health De-
partment. Also present was Dr. Charles
R. Haym'an, associate director for pre—
ventive service of the Community Health
Services Administration.

Dr. Calao and I passed on our unfa-
vorable observations and statements from
the A‘VMA in regard to the chamber. We
also noted that some facilities throughout
the country still using the chamber at
least sedate their animals orally to cut
down on fear and pain before placement
in the 'chamber.

Dr. Standard was sympathetic to the

idea of the most humane method pos-
sible. Because Dr. Romig does not wish

to perform euthanization by injection
and pound personnel do not want to be
trained for the duty, there seems to be
no alternative but employment of trained
outside personnel on a retainer basis or
the employment of an extra staff person.
In short, it is a matter of money. “It is
very hard for the pound to compete with
the needs of children and old people
for an extra dollar,” Dr. Standard said.
“But I would like to see it done if we
can ﬁnd the money, either through dona—
tions or appropriated funds. But you will
have to help us get the money.”

“In the meantime, however,” Dr.
Standard added, “we will start oral
sedation to cut down on fear and pain.”
This is now being done, but it is not a
long—term solution to the problem of
painless killing of animals.

To obtain this reform and other im—
provements to bring the District pound
up to area standards—and to establish
a citizens’ advisory council—expressions
of support can be sent to Dr. Raymond
L. Standard, Chief of.Health Service
Administration, 1875 Connecticut Ave-
nue, Washington, D.C. 20009. Copies
could be sent to Mayor Walter Wash—
ington at the District Building. He is
an honorary Vice president of the Wash-
ington Humane Society.

These and other improvements in
Washington’s animal world—not forget—
ting the Model Cities breeding—control
plan—would be a signiﬁcant step of the
kind taken in 1870 when the city, with
Congressional blessing, went on record
that, in its heart, it is humane. El

Reprinted from the April, 1971 issue of the WASHINGTONIAN magazine.

 

IIIIIOP'S IIOIBS

 

Ann Cottrell Free, whose. survey of
the area’s conservation establishment ap-
peared in our April 1970 issue, returns
~ ~ , .. w with a strong in—

dictment of our
cruel and waste-
ful treatment of
pets.

Her interest in
animal welfare
has continued
since she broke
into print as a
teen-ager with a
story in the Na-

tional Humane Review. It has led since
then to hundreds of other articles, a
novel, the winning, of awards including
the Albert Schweitzer Medal, and the
adoption of three foundling dogs. While
visiting the District of Columbia Pound
for this story she adopted another; then,
luckily, found a good home for it.

Copyright c 1971, The Washington Magazine, Inc.

 




 

 

UELTY T0 Am

* *

_ . It.
7}} ’
1'76 ' ’\ '
.:\’ 1
, .,
J‘ .

» * 'A' *

Federal CUrb,5Sough1‘ on Pef Dealers

By ANN COTTRELL FREE
Special to The PreSE W, .,

,c-

WASHINGTON -—-— Consumers
bilked by pet and. “exotic animal”
dealers-wwho sell them diseased and
c1ippled animals-~are appealing to
the White House’s Virginia H Knauer
and the U..S Congress.

And they are both listening. In~
tently.

For they are aware that a once
small operation has developed into
“big business,” that can abuse the
pocketbook as well as the heart.

“You are our last hope,” wrote an
Alabama woman to Mrs. Knauer,
President Nixon’s special assistant

' for consumer affairs.

The woman told of blood disease
of her brand new, $225 Great Dane
puppy, as well as of its malformed
bones. Her letters and phone calls
to the dealer in another state were
ignored. .

“It is bad eough to buy a piece of
goods that turns out to be shoddy,”
wrote a New Jerseyite, “but the
agony of seeing a helpless animal die
because of a shoddy dealer is not
erased from the memory.”

>i< * =i<

A NEBRASKAN WROTE of how
she and her husband both nearing
retirement, had saved up $85 to buy
1‘: om a Florida importer a little
voolly monkey “so we might take it
t, the state homes and schools for
retarded children to help with a little
laughter and happiness.”

“We went to the Omaha Airport
to meet the plane and the little mon-
key was barely alive,” she wrote. The
promised health certificate was miss-
ing as well as the warmer for which
they had paid an extra $5. ,

They took it to a veterinarian and
nursed it for weeks and when she
wrote Mrs. Knauer, she felt “the lit-
tle fellow has begun tolook as if he
is going to live.”

The dealer refused any rebate to

help them out with medical and other
expenses. She could not obtain help
from local or state officials since the
monkey moved in interstate com-
merce, which is under federal juris-
diction.

THESE COMPLAINTS and the 1e-
ports of animal welfare leaders are
being given to a Hosue agriculture
subcommittee studying legislation to
control such abuses. Virginia Repub-
lican William Whitehurst’ 5 bill would
empower the secretary of agriculture
to set standards for the care, trans— ,
portation of warm-blooded animals
used in research, for exhibition and
for sale by pet dealers.

Other stories of wololly monkeys
were told by the Animal Welfare In-
stitute’s investigator, Dorothy Dyce
of Detroit She recently observed the
arrival at Miami International Airport
of many loads of monkeys, ocelots,
tropical birds and other “exotics”
from South America.

“I’ve heard the pitiful cries of in-
fant monkeys that have been torn
from the bodies of their mothers who
have been brutally killed by their
captors,” she told the committee.

=8 *

SHE REPORTED that many men-
keys are dead on arrival. “In one
shipment alone, there were 1109 dead
monkeys, two dead ocel-ots.” Veteri-
narians certified death due to “de~
hydration, heat prostration and mal—
nutrition.” Some of the crates, espe-
cially for tropical birds, she said,
would have to be broken open if the
birds are to be fed and watered.

Animal Welfare Institute President
Christine Stevens reported incidences
of captive monkeys with their bodies
filled with buckshot used in their cap—
ture. She reported also that some
Florida custom officials have to de-
stroy dying animals out of pity.

Pearl Twyne, executive director of
the Virginia Federation of .H'umane
Societies, reported on her efforts to
rescue a St. Bernard that had been.
kept in the same pet shop cage from ~
6 weeks to 5 months of age. “Its hind
legs collapsed with cage paralysis
when I had it removed,” she said.

Last year 140,858 mammals Were
imported. Recent passage 'of the En-
dangered Species Bill will only affect
a fraction of this number. Most of the

imported animals are sent to research , .

institutions, to the’nation’s 12,000 pet
shops and zoos.

 

7/ 9/75

 

 




Ellie shuttling sister
WASHINGTON, D. 0.
SUN. 362,408

45 z.
I

Legal Protection on theWay for Animals Behind Bars ‘

 

l
l
l

 

 

 

 

lMore ,

By my COTTRELlGFREE

5 Star Special Writer ,
The. idea behind the proposed/An
imal li'elfare Act of 1970 has been
a long time coming into its own—m
it has been an uphill fight, often
resisted by powerful forces—but it
looks now as it it may come toa
final vote in the closing hours of the
Qist Congress.

deepened Congressional ecological
conscience. More and more mem-
bers of Congress are realizing that
all living creatures mustbe treated
with decency and respect-
regardless of whether they are en-
dangered species roaming in the
wild or animals doomed to spend
dreary lives behind bars in labora-
tories or zoos. _ g _ .

There can be little doubt that the
passage of the Endangered Species
Act one year ago this month and
the emphasis in the past year on
man’s relationship with the earth
and all its creatures have had a
profound effect on congressional
thinkin

g. .

The new legislation—which has
so many sponsors that this sentence
would be consumed by listing them
all—has it roots in proposals first
made exactly 10 years ago, in 1960.
Soon after the 1958 passage of the
Federal Humane Slaughter law,
humanitarians started laying con-
gressional groundwork to bring
some measure of federal supervi-
sion over the care and treatment
of laboratory animals.

 

’Humaniacs’

'I‘he well—funded research explo-
sion was using an unprecedented
number of dogs, cats, rodents, pri-
mates and a variety of other crea-
tures. EStimates have gone as
high as 300 million annually. They
were often obtained from question-
able sources and treated. with less
care than. the most expendable test
tube.

Those persons. who worked for
setting standards of care were im-
mediately called anti-vivisectionists
or branded as "humaniacs" by
some members of the scientific
community. In truth, they were vio-
lently opposed by the antivivisec-
tionists. who were working for total
abolition of animal use.

Though a number of bills were
introduced during those years. they
went nowhere. In desperation, hu—

lts passage will be a tributeto a ‘

mane organizations tried newsp-
proaches and often fell to quarrel-
ing among themselves as to bill
content and strategy. (Most of the
bills gave supervisory authority to
Health, Education and Welfare.)

But 1965 brought the beginning of
a breakthrough. Researchers’ de-
mands for dogs and cats had grown

Monkeys used by‘thc to

so great that unprincipled dealer-s
turned to stealing pets. Their bold-
ness and carelessness trapped
them.

As more and more “pet-napping"
cases turned up, there came to Con
gress also descriptions of
stomach-turning conditions within
dealers’ compounds. , Eyewitnesses

 

 

. . . x..-

derol government for

. told of seeing dead and dying dogs

mixed in with live ones in condi-
tions of indescribable filth. Such
testimony about this $30 million
business prompted passage of the
Laboratory Animi:l _ 7 ct of
1966. This legis a mu had more than
50 sponsors. '

Administration of the act was

 

 

 

research.

given to the animal health division
of the Department of Agriculture’s

Research Service. Dealers and pur-

chasers 'were licensed and required
to conform. to Agriculture’s stand~
ards of human treatment of dogs,
cats, hamsters, primates, rabbits
and guinea pigs.

More than 110 dealers went out of
business during the first three
years of the program. Licenses of
some of the larger dealers have
been revoked. Agents have been
cursed, threatened and shot at. But
even so, the act did not go far
enough. There were huge loopholes.

And it has been handicapped by .

lack of funds to employ more
inspectors -- most of whom are
veterinarians and have many other
Agriculture Department (1 u tie 3
within the states where they are
stationed.

Though the act has no authority

over care of animals actually being.

used in research, some institutions
have declared the animals “in re-
search” on the moment of arrival.
This clearly frustrates the intent of
the act to improve conditions of the
animals while awaiting research. .

More federal authority was need-
ed. In 1968 help came from an un-
expected source. A 43-year-old GOP

freshman representative from Nor— -

folk, . Va., introduced legislation
that filled the bill. Rep. G. William
Whitehurst would extend the man-
tle of enlightened care to animals
actually undergoing research. But
what’s more, he asked that the
same standards apply to animals in
circuses, zoos and the pet trade. .
Humanitarians soon learned that

' it was not only Bill Whitehorst they ‘ -

had to thank, but his wife, Jennette.
“I told the people at the Norfolk
SPCA, where I have helped with
humane education, that I’d try to
lend a hand when we got to Wash—
ington,” she said the other day.

Whitehorst’s bill actually was a
beefing up of the “pet-napping”
Act and was referred to the House

_-Agriculture Commitee, w h o s e

chairman has repeatedly shown
himself a friend of animals. Texan
W. R. Poage has been the key
man on the House side on both
the humane slaughter and “pet-
napping" bills.

Testimony, presented this June
before Rep. Graham Purcell's sub
committee, lifted once again the
curtain of secrecy on unspeakable
conditions among the creatures

that perform, amuse and give their
MmmmM,

“We, who worked there, were al—
ways pleased when some animal
died to be out of a miserable life,"
said June W. Badger of Middle
burg, Va. She told the committee of
conditions in some of the circuses
and zoos for which she had worked
in the last 19 years. Crampedmnu
ventilated cages, starvation, sadis
tic pimishments. A litany of misery.

The arrival from South and Con
tral America and shipment to pet
wholesalers of crates of birds and
monkeys were described by Mrs.
Christine Stevens.

She is the wife of Roger smvens,
president of the Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts and the
government’s former cultural chief.
Mrs. Stevens is president of the
Animal Welfare Institute and score
tary of the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation.

Imported Animals

She described wretched condi-
tions of animals that Custom
inspectors have overlooked. (They
are charged with checking on con-
dition of importedanimals.) Sic
told of continued conditions of
cramped laboratory housing and of
the inhumane environment in many
municipal and roadsxde zoos. Quot—
ing Dr. Desmond Morris, author of
the “Naked Ape,” she said, ,“If
zoos are to survive the m century,
they will have to reform.” She in-
troduced into the record a letter in
behalf of the Whiteharst bill from
Virginia McKenna and Bill Trav-
ers, stars of the film “Born Free”

and patrons of the Captive Animals

Protection Society.

The arrival of dogs and cats at
animal auction sales was de-
scribed by Frank McMahon. field
director of the Humane Society of
the United States. “I’veseen them
chained within the trunks of cars.
I’ve seen them jammed in crates
and cages. I’ve seen them sold by
the pound." Humane agents of local
societies are given rough treat-
ment, he said and under the exist-
ing. federal law these auctions are
exempt. from regulation.

The legislation now speeding to-
ward the congressional deadline
embodies many of the suggestions
made by the men and women who
know the problem first hand. Auc-
tions are included. Animal catego-

ries have been broadened. ﬁnes
for resisting agents have .er so -
fened. But most ImpOF‘a" tie Ag»
riculture Committee calico" iiﬁf‘ the
use of appropriate narzw- for
research animals whenever . '
ble.

(When Agriculture sets tn .w
ards for humane handiizg man.
humanitarians trust that hietim
caging of such research animal
dogs will be eliminated. ‘2

Some of the additions to the White-
hurst bill were called for in ‘1“
introduced by Rep. Thomas S. Fol-
ey, D-Wash., and in the Senate by
Warren Magnuson, lit-Wash... Alan
Cranston, DCalif., and William G.
Spong, D Va. When the bill was
favorably discharged from the
House Agriculture Committee, it
bore the name of each member. An
exact copy was mtroduced in the
Senate by Robert J. Doie. Iii-Kan.
Hearings by Senator Philip A.
Hart’s Commerce sub—committee
are expected any day.

Even with the evapor on of
much of the scientific community’s
opposition to lab animal legislation
and even with the good chance
that this measure will miraculously
pass this session, there are other
hurdles. One is money.

The burden on the Department of
Agriculture will be heavier, making
necessary the employment of more
inspectors. These men, also, have
the added duty in coming years of
policing the horse shows to see that
no “walking horse" brought across
state lines has been “sored” to
make it. step high. wide and
handsome; 'Tl1e famous. Tydings
“walking horse" bill is now await-
ing Presidential signature. Sen. Jo-
seph Tydings, D—Md., sponsored it
in this session of Congress.

As this session adjourns. left at
the post are at least 10 other ani-
mal protection measures: air trans-
portation regulations. cessation of
shooting wolves and other animals
from airplanes over federal lands,
elimination of use ‘of agonizing poi-
sons in the government‘s predator
control programs, better conditions
at the ports of entry such as Miami.
The list is long —-- but the abuse and
suffering have gone on a long time,
too.

But at. last. what has been do»
scribed as the "silent lobby" has
found its voice. Or conﬁd it be that.
man. for a change. listening to
voices other than his oun’.’

 

 

 




      
 

4700 J aaaaaaaa Road
Westmorelancl Hills
Washington, D. C. 20016

    
    
     
     
   
    
  
  
 
    

6% 1:. a a? /9 74
2;”, @4333» o

Um ad / WW» 1M.
ﬁr; t 240"» 9] It! ’9 dob“-
dgmcw

”2"‘2 [,Mrj III/a
M‘s/ Mu). (PM. 7/0?

JD/ 16’9".
HUM y}; I! all: M/anﬁ.

awn Win/9‘ Mia” A ﬂ/IIAI.
wa‘uu‘b (5,1)?) g“, d/UIJL
ulﬂkmé M// -“ 0"“ 9 PM" ""

top I» HIM/u; my




CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N,W,
Washington, D,C. 20009

 

 

 

.r" I A
C ,M.¢J‘7"W -
MORE LEGAL PROTECTION ON THE
WAY FOR ANIMALS BEHIND BARS

HON. G. WILLIAM’WHITEHURST

or VIRGINIA
IN. THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 10, 1970
Mr. WHITEHURST. Mr. Speaker, a
‘brief history of animal protection legis-
lation was published in the editorial sec—
tion of the Sunday Star newspaper last

weekend, December 6, 1970. The article “

was written by Ann Cottrell Free. It is
another in the outstanding series of ar-
ticles she has written about the great
need for expanded animal protection leg-
islation. It outlines brieﬂy the abuses
ended with the passage of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act of 1966, and the cov-
erage of portions of the Animal Welfare

it.

The article follows:

MORE LEGAL PROTECTION ON THE WAY. FOR
ANIMALS ”BEHIND BARS
(By Ann Cottrell Free)

The idea behind the proposed Animal Wel-
fare Act of 1970 has been a longtime coming
into its own—it has been an uphill ﬁght, of-
ten resisted by powerful forces—but it locks
now as if it may come to a ﬁnal vote in the
closing hours of the 91st Congress.

Its passage will be a tribute to a deepened
Congressional ecological conscience. More and
more members of Congress are realizing that
all living creatures must be treated with de-
cency and respect—regardless of whether
they are endangered species roaming in the
wild or animals doomed to spend dreary lives
behind bars in laboratories or zoos.

There can be little doubt that the passage
of the Endangered Species Act one year ago
this month and the emphasis in the past year
on man’s relationship with the earth and all
its creatures have had a profound effect on
congressional thinking. .

The new legislation—which has so man
sponsors that this sentence would be con-
sumed by listing them all—has its roots
in proposals ﬁrst made exactly 10 years ago,
in’ 1960. Soon after the 1958. passage of the
Federal Humane Slaughter law, humanitari-
ans started laying congressional groundwork
to bring some measure of federal supervision
over the care and treatment of laboratory
animals. ' .

HUMANIACS

The well-funded research explosion was
using an unprecedented number of
dogs, cats, rodents, primates and a variety of
other creatures. Estimates have gone as high,
as 300 million annually. They were 9ften ob:-
tained from questionable sources and treated

with less care than the most expendable test '

tube. -

Those persons, who worked for setting
standard of care were immediately called
anti-vivisectionists or branded as “hu-
maniacs” by some members of the scientiﬁc
community. In truth, they were-”violent1y
opposed by the antivivisectionists, who. were
working for total" abolition of annual use.

Though a number - of bills were intro-
, duced during those years, they went. no-
where, In desperation, humane; Organiza-
tions tried new -approaChes and .oftenfell to

Act of 1970. I urge my colleagues to read

SSIONAL RECORD -———- Extensions of Remarks

quearreling among themselves as to bill con-
tent and strategy. (Most of the bills gave
supervisory authority to Health, Education,
and Welfare.) ,_

But 1965 brought the beginning of a
breakthrough. Researchers’ demands for
dogs and cats had grown so great that 1111-,
principled dealers turned to stealing pets.
Their boldness and , carelessness trapped
them.

As more and more “pet-napping” cases
turned up, there cme to Congress also de-
scriptions of stomach—turning conditions
within dealers’ compounds. Eyewitnesses
told .. of seeing dead and dying dogs mixed
in with live ones in conditions of indescrib-
able ﬁlth. Such testimony about this $30
million business prompted passage of the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966.
This legislation had more than 50 sponsors.

Administration of the act was given to the
animal health division of the Department
of Agriculture’s Research Service. Dealers
and purchasers were licensed and required
to conform to Agriculture’s standards of hu-
man treatment of dogs, cats, hamsters, pri-
mates, rabbits and guinea pigs.

More than 110 dealers Went out of busi-
ness during the ﬁrst three years of the pro-
gram. Licenses of some of the larger dealers
have been revoked. Agents have been cursed,
threatened and shot at. But even so, the act
did not go far enough. There were huge loop-
holes. And it has been handicapped by lack
of funds to employ more inspectors—most of
whom are Veterinarians and have many other
Agriculture Department duties within the
states where they are stationed.

Though the act has no authorty over care-
of animals actually being used in research,
some institutions have declared the animals
“in research” on the moment of arrival.
This clearly frustrates the intent of the
act to improve conditions of the animals
while awaiting research.

More federal authority was needed. In 1968

help came from an unexpected sou-roe. A ‘

43-year-old GOP freshman representative
from Norfolk, Va., introduced legislation
that ﬁlled the bill. Rep. G. William White-
hurst would extend the mantle of enlight-
ened care to animals actually undergoing
research. But what’s more, he asked that the
same standards apply to animals in circuses,
zoos and the pet trade.

Humanitarians soon learned that it was
not only Bill Whitehurst they had ‘to thank,
but his wife, Jennette. “I told the people at
the Norfolk SPCA, where I have helped with
humane education, that I’d try to lend a
hand when we got to Washington,” she said
the other day. '

Whitehurst’s bill actually was a beeﬁng up
of the “pet-napping” Act and was referred
to the House Agriculture Committee, whose
chairman has repeatedly shown himself a
friend of animals. Texan W. R. Poage has
been the key men on the House side on both
the humane slaughter and “pet-napping”

ills. '

Testimony, presented this June before
Rep. Graham Purcell’s subcommittee, lifted
once again the curtain of secrecy on un-
speakable conditions among the. creatures
that perform, amuse and give their lives to
man.

“We, who worked there, were always
pleased when some animal died to be out of
a miserable life,” said June W. Badger of
Middleburg, Va. She told the committee of
conditions in some of the circuses and zoos
for which she had'worked in the last 19
years. Cramped, unventilated cages, starva-
tion, sadistic punishments. A litany of
misery. . ,

The arrival from,_South and Central Amer-L

, ica and shipment to pet wholesalers of crates-
of birds and monkeys were described by

Mrs. Christine, Stevens. . —

t

Date‘ DEC 1 0197::

M

- E10281

of the Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts and the government’s former cultural
chief. Mrs. Stevens is president of the Animal

"Welfare Institute and secretary of the So-

ciety for Animal Protective Legislation.
' IMPORTED ANIMALS ‘

She described wretched conditions ”of
animals that Custom inspectors have over—
looked. (They’are charged with checking on
conditions of imported animals.) She told of
continued conditions of cramped laboratory
housing and of the inhumane environment
in many municipal and roadside zoos. Quot—
ing Dr. Desmond Morris, author of the
“Naked Ape,” she said, “If zoos are to survive
the 20th century, they will have to reform.”
She introduced into the record a letter in
behalf of the Whitehurst bill from Virginia
McKenna and Bill Travers, stars of the'ﬁlm'
“Born Free” and patrons of the Captive
Animals Protection Society. ‘

The arrival of dogs and cats at animal
auction sales was described'by Frank Mc-~
Mahon, ﬁeld director of the Humane Society
of the United States. “I’ve seen them chained
within the trunks of cars. I’ve seen them
jammed in crates and cages. I’ve seen them
sold by the pound.” Humane agents of local
societies are given rough treatment, he said
and under the existing federal law these
auctions are exempt from regulation.

‘ The legislation now speeding toward the
congressional deadline embodies many of
the suggestions made by the men and women
who know the problem ﬁrst hand. Auctions
are included. Animal categories have been,
broadened. Fines" for resisting agents have
been stiffened. But most important, the
Agriculture Committee called for the use of

appropriate pain—killers for research animals .. 5i

whenever possible. ~
(When Agriculture sets the standards for
humane handling many humanitarians trust
that life-time caging of such research ani-‘
male as dogs will be eliminated.)
’Some of the additions to the Whitehurst ‘
bill were called for in bills introduced by
Rep. Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., and in the
Senate by Warren Magnuson, D-Wash., Alan
Cranston, D-Calif., and William B. Spong,
D-Va. When the , bill was favorably dis-
charged from the House Agriculture Com-'
mittee, it bore the name of each member.
An exact copy was introduced in the Senate
by Robert J. Dole, R-Kan. Hearings by Sen-
ator Philip A. Hart’s Commerce sub-commit-

tee are expected any day.

Even with the evaporation of much of the
scientiﬁc community’s opposition to lab
animal legislation and even with the good
chance that this measure will miraculously
pass this session, there are other hurdles. .
One is money. ' ,

The burden on the Department of Agri- "

culture will be heavier, making necessary

the employment of more inspectors. These
men, also, have the added duty in coming.
years of [policing the horse shows to see that -
no "walking horse” brought across state
lines has been "sored” to make it step high,
wide and handsome. The famous Tydings
“walking home” bill is now awaiting Presi-
dential signature. Sen. Joseph Tydings,

‘ D-Md., sponsored it in this session of Con-

gress. ‘ ,
As this session adjourns, left at the post

are at least 10 other animal protection meas-

ures: air transportation regulations, cessa-

' tion. of shooting wolves and other animals

from airplanes over federal lands, elimina-'

. tion of useof agonizing poisons in the gov-' " b:
- ernment’s predator control programs, better

Conditions at the ports of entry such as '
Miami. The list is: long—but the abuse and
suffering have gone on a long time, too. ’

But at last, what has been described as “*7 it

the f‘silent lobby” has found its v’oice. Or

. ., . . {3.5.3110}. it be that man, for a change, islistenj-
She is the wife of Roger Stevens, preSidegit' ' '

,1 ”to Voices other than his Own? . , .

 




 

 

     

   

 

   

 

 

   

 

;
|
i

, _vula
Policeman ‘

  
 

   
   

M: .

  

 

 




 




 

  R0 0111,
Save
111 the

 

The scandal of a city
that overbreeds its pets
then lets them suffer
and die. What can be

done about it?
By Ann Cottrell Free

PHOTO BY BARRY BLACKMAN

“-064!!!"

”,5..- .. .

The big b-lacle Labrador looked slightly
bewildered when be saw the main with
the needle. But whatever was going to

- happen, he was going to shalee hands

ﬁrst. That’s the way they trained him,
before they turned him in because he
was “too friendly.” They told the man
at the humane society shelter: “He loves
everybody, licles them, shalees hands.
Damn nuisance—too much for us. Surely
you can get a good home for him.
Purebred, too.” The euthanizer ﬁnally
shoole the dog’s paw, swore at the “son
of a bitch who turned you in,” and got
on with the job. Then he said, “Next,
please.”

Next, please. Those two words and
the ugly, sweet smell of death mean
there is no room—save in the heart—for
the animals which overcrowd the metro-
politan area’s shelters and pounds. And
so the puppies and kittens, the healthy,
the sick, the friendly, and the frightened
nuist be “put to sleep,” as the euthaniza—
tion is called. The puppies pictured on
the cover were killed two days after
they were photographed.

But it is better—if good homes cannot
be found—that these unwanted creatures
die a painless death in a humane shelter
than suffer ordeals like that which took
place recently in Montgomery County,
and is duplicated in the District and
nearby counties:

“We found the dead beagle puppy
lying on the ﬂoor of the empty house.
His head was too large for his bony,
stunted body. Part of his right back leg
was missing. It had been chewed off and
eaten by the other two abandoned dogs.
One of them was also dead, the other
too weak to rise. The humane officers
took that one to the shelter, but they
didn’t pause before giving him the lasr
rite of kindness: a merciful death.”

In the words of a local humanitarian,
Phyllis Wright, “It’s not an animal prob-
lem, but a people problem.” All the
animals ask is the right not to be born.
This means control of breeding, and
until a safe and economical birth control
pill or vaccine is developed—and it’s
being worked on—spaying and neuter-
ing is the best answer.

Last year 110,000 of the area’s esti—
mated half—million dogs and cats were
handled by shelters and pounds in the
District, Alexandria, and Arlington,
Montgomery, Prince George’s, and
Loudoun counties. Not all were killed,
but far too many were.

 

_ ...< 1r; "'3: ~
1 “ *22'...‘ZI"¥5- 33"“ "

The homeless stray or the lost animal
is no longer the chief occupant of the
shelters and the waiting lines outside the
euthanasia rooms. Today the “turn-in” is
the leading victim. A surprising number
of the animals given up by their owners
are purebreds——from poodles to Weimar-
aners—reﬂecting the disposable product
pattern of our afﬂuent society.

Some animals are given up for legiti-
mate reasons, such as the owner’s illness
or death, moving from a home into an
apartment, going abroad, or no longer
being at home during the day. But others
are turned in for reasons as foolish as the
one for obtaining the animals in the
ﬁrst place.

“ ‘Grew too big,’ that’s a favorite,”
Gene Hogan told me. Hogan is man-
ager of the overcrowded Montgomery
County Humane Society shelter, which
handles more than 400 animals each
week.

“Hardly a day passes that we don’t get
a whole litter of puppies or kittens
along with their mothers. Tired of all
these births, they tell me. But instead
of having the females spayed—even if
we offer to help them out with our
spay fund—they say, ‘Take her too.’

“You ought to hear the excuses. ‘Too
playful.’ ‘Always wants to go for walks.’
‘We’re going on vacation.’ You ought
to hear the kids bawl when Mom and
Dad drOp off the dog on their way out
of town—car all loaded—to the beach
or somewhere. Dad tells them to ‘stop
that damn crying,’ that he’ll get them
another pet when they come back home.
Not from here, he won’t.”

Our conversation was interrupted by
the arrival of an up-county farmer and
his wife, bringing seven little part coon
hound puppies they had found huddled
together on the side of a road. “How, for
God’s sake, can we get homes for them
before a. new batch arrives?” Hogan
asked. They were euthanized by injec—
tion a few days later.

hile the humane societies pray
for the right.kind.of owner to
drop in and save their dogs and
cats from the one-way trip to
the euthanasia room, many Washing-
tonians are going in the opposite direc-
tion looking for pets. They troop not
only to the “free-kittens” places and to
the professional breeders, but they also
are going by the thousands to pet shOps,

,;.¢vzamr.~.z-:—,;.., _ 5 1

 

,n

 




many located in suburban shopping cen—
ters and department stores.

At some pet shops for 1510 or 3515 they
can pick up charming mutts bought by
the store manager for a dollar or two
from the owners of unSpayed females
that mated with a neighbor’s male dog.
But most purchasers want pedigreed col-
lies, pekes, pulis, poodles, shepherds, St.
Bernards. And if the animal is not in
stock, chain franchised shops, such as
Docktors (ﬁve locations), Pet Mart
(nine locations), or Puppy Palace can
get it for you. Many have standing or-
ders with “puppy mills,” which turn
out purebreds like doughnuts.

Purebreds are big business. Puppy Pal-
ace, for example, is part of the Mars
Candy Company’s holdings, along with
Uncle Ben rice. Some of the chain-
franchised shops deal directly with
breeders. Others work through “collec-
tors” who travel their rural routes,
picking up puppies from small farmers
who have added puppies to their poultry
line. By the time they arrive, many have
been transferred from hand to hand,
crated, trucked, airshipped, and trucked
again.

“The purchaser doesn’t mind the high
price tag of $200 and $300 because he’s
got the notion that he’ll get it all back
several times over by going into the
breeding business himself,” Bettijane
Mackall, Fairfax County humane ofﬁcer,
told me. “Just take a look any Sunday
at the classiﬁed ads of purebreds for sale
by home breeders.”

Checking on the condition of animals
in pet sh0ps is one of Mrs. Mackall’s
duties, leading last year to successful
prosecution of the Docktors Pet Shop at
Loehmann’s Plaza in Falls Church for
violation of the state’s anticruelty law.
The shop closed soon thereafter.

0 discover why so many ﬁne,

healthy animals are killed when

people are buying so many new

pupples and kittens means a long
investigation of the little understood and
largely ignored animal welfare problem.
It involves turning your back on hun-
dreds of appealing, hopeful animals. It
means ﬁghting back bitter tears as you
see their freshly euthanized bodies
stuffed into- trash cans for hauling away
to incinerators or rendering plants for
boiling down for soap and other prod—
ucts. It leads to stiﬂing such grotesque
thoughts as, Will the dog that licked
my hand today wash it tomorrow?

This kind of exposure to the animal’s
moment of awful truth involves you in
the technical study of gauge of the
needle, the number of cc.’s of sodium
pentobarbital, and the location of in—
jection—the heart or the vein of the leg?
You become more concerned about the
quality of death than the quality Of life.

It also leads to damning not only the
breeders, the pet shops, and the can’t-
be—bothered owner, but also the indif-

52

The D. C. Pound uses an explosive decompression chamber to kill its animals;
they are then shove/ed into trash cans for disposal.

ference of too many veterinarians, edu—
cators, newspapers, and radio and
television stations. And ﬁnally, there are
the overworked humane societies.

Why haven’t they—as the self—ap-
pointed guardians for these speechless
creatures—done more to close the com-
munications gap? If more people knew
animals were available, wouldn’t they go
to the shelters?

But as you visit the shelters and talk to
the managers, kennel men, and humane
oﬂ‘icers, you ﬁnd yourself face to face
with another heart-wrenching phase of

tion, abandonment, freezing, burning,
mutilation, hanging, and other tortures
inﬂicted on animals, not excepting man-
animal rape. (A coatimundi was the most
recent reported victim. But she bit the
man.)

“We had nearly twice as many cruelty
calls in 1970 as in 1969,” Montgomery
County’s Polly Buel told me. In Fairfax
County, Pearl Twyne and Bettijane
Mackall keep on the run constantly
checking cruelty reports. Recently, three
of their cases came up in court on the
same day and they got three convictions.
One was for the branding of a kitten with
a red-hot coathanger. In Prince George’s
County, humane ofﬁcer Eleanor Hogan
handles calls, ranging from kids dropping
kittens down trash chutes into furnaces
to visiting a riding stable and ﬁnding
starved dead horses on which stray dogs
were feeding.

'Edna Cooke of Alexandria tells of
ﬁnding houses and apartments contain—
mg dead and dying cats and dogs, aban-
doned by their owners. The Washington
Humane Society’s three agents and its
president, Vaynor McNeil], keep on the
go in the District, investigating cases
from upper Northwest to the heart of
the Inner city. Many involve mutilations,
burnings, and hangings of animals, often

by children. In the last two years the
Washington Humane Society has inves-
tigated more than 2,500 cases.

Increased use of guard dogs has also
added to the cruelty. “Shocking the way
people underfeed and chain out their
guard dogs 1n all weather,” says Vaynor
McNeil]. “Much of the trouble comes
from security agencies" renting out dogs
to warehouses, stores, used car lots. The
other day we found a dog that had been
chained to the bumper of a car for
two years.’ ’In the winter dogs are found
frozen to death. In the summer they die
from the heat and no water, or being
locked in ovenlike cars.

Training devices to make dogs obedi-
ent or vicious bring constant complaints.
Spiked collars that cut into the ﬂesh are
too often used. One man fed gunpowder
to his dog to make it more vicious. Fast
action by Fay Brisk of Virginia Knauer’s
Consumer Advisory Committee at the
White House resulted in the removal by
the Food and Drug Administration of a
dog food containing the male hormone
testosterone from the shelves of Animal
T.V. , Trainers pet shOp on Seventh
Street. Owner Edward Tuck had
claimed the special food would make
dogs more aggressive.

The big societies and shelters carry the

brunt of the burden, but individuals and

smaller groups also help. People like Vir—
ginia Sargent, Kathy Sullivan, Bernice
Moss, and Catherine Briggs are nearly
always on call. '

study of today’s animal welfare
problems leads to the inescap-
able conclusion that more com—
munity understanding and sup—
port is needed.
“Can’t you go to the Washington
newspapers for help?” I kept asking.
“They don’t seem to be interested un—
less it’s something like a dog ﬂoating

 




Gene Hogan, manager of the Mont-
gomery County Humane Shelter,
with a litter ofpart coon puppies who
lived only a few days before being
euthanized by injection.

down the river on a piece of ice,”
an Arlington humanitarian complained.
“The suburban papers are better, but
the surface isn’t really scratched.”

Said a Chevy Chase matron: “We’ve
been screwed enough by the papers,
making us look like a bunch of little old
ladies in tennis shoes. Every time they
use the term ‘animal lover,’ I squirm, be-
cause there’s always the implication
‘pe0ple hater.’ I wouldn’t ask them for a
damn thing. But if we were hunters,
think of the publicity we’d get.”

But Betsy Kiernan of the Washington
Animal Rescue League took up for the
newspapers. “1 just don’t know what
we’d do if the Evening Star didn’t run
that ‘Looking for a Home’ picture of
one of our animals each week. It does
bring in the people and sometimes they
adOpt others if they can’t get the one
they wanted—but we still need more
help. We handled ﬁfteen thousand ani—
mals last year.” She also pointed out
that the Star, Post, and News carry
“found” animal classiﬁed ads, one time
only, free of charge.

Only the Fairfax County Animal Wel-
fare League and the National Humane
Education Center in Loudoun County
now run available-for—adoption adver—
tisements. NHEC’s Phyllis Wright often
brings dogs and cats that need homes to
her 12:30 P.M. Friday appearance on
WTTG’S Panorama show. The Fairfax
League has persuaded local radio stations
to describe some of their available ani—
mals. One of the league’s members, Anne
Lewis, writes a weekly column for
suburban Virginia neWSpapers that de-
scribes available animals. Bettijane Mac—
kall writes a similar column for the
Virginia Sentinel.

Other shelters shy away from adver—
tising or editorial matter on speciﬁc
animals. One reason is the fear that by
the time the information appears in the

. ' 2.31 . ..\.u '
’-.’:' *t‘h‘fwﬂ 4

papers, especially in a weekly, the arrival
of new animals will leave no room for
the ones advertised as available. The
Fairfax League handles this problem by

renting an additional kennel and asking

for a contribution from the new owners
to help defray costs of this extra shelter.
“We are getting good response,” shelter
manager Valerie Hougan told me.

wish we could get newspapers

to cover us as a regular thing,”

Montgomery County Humane

Society’s Polly Buel said.
“None of us here has time to work up
stories for them.” A tall blonde, she is
the society president plus the county
humane officer and state riding stable
1nspector.

“Look at a typical day for me. At the
shelter by ten after stopping to inspect
a couple of adoption homes. Hardly be—
fore I get in, there’s a cruelty case to
go out on. And the calls have already
piled up. Then I hear we’ve burned out
another bearing on one of the trucks.
The man at Rockville Courthouse wants
me to come out there to go over shelter
plans—we’re breaking ground in July.
I have to get material together for the
horse starvation case that’s coming up
next week. I go out on the cruelty case.
A neighbor’s feud most likely, but a cat
has been poisoned. Go to Rockville and
also catch a stable inspection. When I
ﬁnally get back, it’s more of same. Ex—
cept we have thirty more animals than
when I went out. Before going home, I
go out in the back room and before I’m
done I’ve euthanized twenty-ﬁve dogs
and cats. I’m home about ten at night.”

Mrs. Buel held up an eight—page news—
letter. “We’ve just started this and are
sending it out to a mailing list of six
thousand people, some of them very
inﬂuential. Maybe it will help to tell our
story if nobody else will.”

From these and other conversations, a
picture begins to emerge that accounts
for the lack of areawide attention to
this pressing community problem. The
media has too long had a stereotyped
idea of humanitarians as slightly comical
ﬁgures. It has hung on to equally old—
fashioned ideas of what makes a good
animal story.

Humanitarians, on the other hand,
have not tried hard enough to over—
come these misconceptions. Some are un-
happy about the stories that have been
written about them, and thus harbor
hostility. Others, grateful for small fav-
ors, fear pushing their luck. Many don’t
want to publicly discuss the ﬁnal dis—
position of unwanted animals; they are
afraid people with good reasons for dis—
posing of their animals will stop bring-
ing them in to shelters and the animals
will then suffer a fate worse than
euthanasia.

Hour by hour pressures prevent many
humane leaders from breaking out of
the very bind that has caused the over-

work; thus there are few innovative at-
tempts to solve the problem. Clearly, the
societies need more money and more

,members, particularly those with “know

how” and inﬂuence. They need the in-
volvement of idealistic but practical
people like those who helped with Earth
Day and civil rights efforts. For animal
welfare is both an ecological and soci-
ological problem.

ue to a chance meeting in No~
vember between two twenty—
year-olds and Phyllis Wright at
, the National Humane Educa—
tion Center, a beginning may have been
made in bringing animal welfare into
the “now” world. Paul and Mary Jo
Smith of Arlington brought two cats to
Miss Wright at the Waterford clinic for
spaying. It’s cheaper there because the
National Humane Education Center is
subsidized by the Humane Society of the
United States. '

“They had long hair, blue jeans—sort
of the hippy type,” Phyllis recalled. “We
don’t get many of that kind and I was
so glad to see them and to know they
cared about limiting'their cats’ breed-
ing.”

She showed them around the center,
reeling off statistics as she went. “In a
year’s time, we’ve spayed six hundred
forty—seven female cats and dogs, and
neutered one hundred twenty—eight
males. That’means maybe in one year at
least ten thousand kittens and puppies
can’t be born. Did you know that from
one birth with all systems “go” down the
line for ten years you could have eighty—
four million, six hundred ﬁfty-two thou—
sand, six hundred and forty-four pup-

ies. . . .”

The Smiths began to get the picture,
particularly when Phyllis turned down
a family that wanted a cat but didn’t
want it spayed. The family wanted to
have one litter of kittens so the kids
could see “the miracle of birth.”

“Would you want to bring your chil—
dren here sometime for witnessing the
miracle of death?” Phyllis asked.

A few days later Paul Smith tele-‘
phoned Phyllis Wright. “We think the
main problem is overbreeding. Too many
animals.”

“What do you know, I made my
point,” Phyllis said dryly.

“We want to do something about it.
Tell people so they’ll understand. What
about us making a ﬁlm?” .

“Just great,” replied Phyllis tone—
lessly, wondering what kind of trip he
was on.

Paul went on. “We’ve just inherited
about thirty thousand dollars and we
want to produce a ﬁlm for showing to
schools, clubs. . . .”

When she recovered from the shock,
Phyllis offered technical help, actors—
human, canine, feline—and all the as-
sistance possible.

Within a few months, the thirty-

53

-4-441NM“L t I”

 




. 0"
I .J
‘ maﬁa

minute 16 mm color ﬁlm, “The Animals
Are Crying,” will have its premiere at
L’Enfant Theatre. It was written and
directed for the Smiths by Peter A.
Beltz (“The Medium Cool Filmmakers,”
WASHINGTONIAN, January 1970). It was
photographed in Montgomery County,
Alexandria, and Loudoun County by
cameraman George Voellmer. Most of
the actors were local humanitarians.
Paul’s father, Grove Smith, acts the part
of a man giving up his dog. Beltz’ three
stepchildren, Pim, Pam, and Pom, play
major roles. The ﬁlm can be purchased
from PMS Films, Inc., PO. Box 9583,
Arlington, Virginia 22209. Telephone
527-1634. Paul and Mary Jo h0pe that
humane societies and conservation and
education groups throughout the country
Will buy the ﬁlm, especially for distribu—
tion to schools.

“Let’s hope it’ll turn on some of the
ecology types who are all hung up on
beer can pollution,” Beltz remarked as
we looked at the ﬁlm rushes. “This is
so much worse.”

hen the Washington humane

movement started 101 years

ago, the most powerful pe0ple

of the day were incorporators
of the Association for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (In 1885 the name
was changed to the Washington Hu-
mane Society). They got it chartered by
Congress and within a year’s time they
had one of the nation’s strongest animal
anticruelty laws on the books. Title 22,
Section 8, of the District of Columbia
Criminal Code reads:

“Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives
when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cru-
elly kills, or causes or procures to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or
cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts
unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same
with proper food, drink, shelter, or pro—
tection from the weather, shall for every
such offense be punished by imprison—
ment in jail not exceeding one year, or
by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment.”

The law was eagerly enforced. By
1911 enthusiasm for arresting abusers of
animals—especially beaten and over-
worked dray horses—reached an all—time
Washington high with 2,017 arrests and
1,929 convictions. But even this was not
enough. (Or was it because mostly men
were running the humane society?) In
1914, nine ladies met at Woodward &
LothrOp’s and the Washington Animal
Rescue League was on its way. It pro-
vided for the ﬁrst time a decent shelter

54

for friendless animals. A close-knit group
throughout the years, the current presi-
dent of the league is Betsy Simpson
Kiernan, daughter of one of its early
presidents, Mrs. C. Augustus Simpson.

In 1936 some of these same women,
led by Mrs. Henry C. Moses, now
ninety—four, and the late Mrs. Merton
Twogood, set up the Tailwaggers Club
and Clinic to underwrite veterinary care
for pets of the poor. It led the town in
awareness because of strong support from
Cissy Patterson, the dazzling, powerful
publisher of the Times-Herald. After

Mrs. Patterson’s death, Mrs. Frank Allen liceﬂem

375 'ilast year

West became the mainspring, enlisting
the support of newer members of the
power structure. When Mrs. West died
in 1969, the city lost some of its humane
spark,

In 1944 a new approach to animal
problems came from Pearl Rainwater
Twyne. Fresh out of Missouri with a
job at the Department of Agriculture,

the Indian-Irish girl and her husband if
settled in Arlington. A chance encoun—

ter with a stray dog and one look at the
county pound led to her starting the
Arlington Animal Welfare League and
negotiating an agreement to take over

most of the county’s animal control vi

work. “This was the best of two worlds
for both us and the county. The league

could never have raised the money to
Operate the shelter, which replaced the

old pound,” she said.

This same type of arrangement is

and Fairfax counties, with the earmark-
ing of county funds solely for shelter
and animal control work. These sums
vary from $35,000 from the county for
the Arlington league, to $76,000 for
Alexandria, $61,000 for Fairfax, and
$125,000 for Montgomery. In several
cases, such as in Arlington, the tax-raised
funds are insufﬁcient and the societies
have to foot the bills. This can be a great
burden when the societies’ small trea-
suries are already stretched to cover the
essentials of humane work: education,
public relations, advertising, cruelty in—

nary and spaying help to deserving cases.

Prince George’s County’s new 300—
animal shelter is operated by county "
government employees under the ad— .
visory eye of an Animal Control Com- -
mission. The local humane society han-
dles education, cruelty investigations, 3 '5
and training ._

lost and found center,
classes.

ost of the humane society-oper-
ated shelters have the same re- :
quirements for adOption of 33
“We do not release
animals unless the home is approved and
there is proper exercise space, such as a I

animals.

fenced yard,” Margaret McHale of Ar—

lington explained. “We require written

permission from the management if we
(continued on page 74) ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ _. excep
Operates shelter also two truck—an:
1 Inal control and resCue work
city contract :24; hour serVice. EX~
facilities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.iznually. Mrs Margaret McHale, pres.-,

used in Alexandria and in Montgomery j'vi-Vll’am NaSh shelter manager

Mrs. Edna Cooke, ,

Box 172,
Estab.

Association,

homes for many.

L *Arlington Animal Welfare League, 2800 S.
K'Taylor St, Arlington, Va 22206, 527 6055.
Vl-L'Estab. 1944. Mon.- ~Sat 10: 304, closed Sun,
except for receiving animals. Operates shel-
f to): and 24~honr emergency seruce truck— . g.
ambulances under county contract. Requires
H'é’spaying 0f adopted females, but minimal
rates available Does not place animals out— .3

side of state. Animals released to approved:
homes only. Handles 10,000 animals an-
W11» 3‘.

Fairfax County Animal Welfare League, 3

:3613 Jermantown Rd., Fairfax, Va. 22030, 3'
”1.69.1 2363 (after midnight, 528 2347). Over—
"ﬂow kennel,

13341 Lee Highway. Mon. .—9
Sat., 8: 30~5; adoptions, 11—;4 main kennel

' cloSed Sun, except for recen 111g, but Lee ‘
«Highway open Sun 12 5. League operates,
'rv'shelter and injured animal pick-up service ‘:
under county contract Requires spaying of
females with $5 reimbursable deposit. Stanley , '
N Gilreath, pres, Mrs. Valerie Haugen,
f .[shelter manager. . :
Fairfax Humane Society, 633 River Bend , .
)Rd Great Falls, Va. 22066, 759 2200 Estab. '
f 1966. Organized to curb cruelties in this: i
, . . §;.§""fast~grow1ng county It has won a number";
vest1gat10ns,and supplementary veterl- of f --

cases Humane 5:11:1er ofﬁcers Pear
.wyne and :Betti}ane A Mackall are among

2th” most experienced in the state.

‘ , y County Humane Socwty,
"'1 Rd, Silver Spring, Md 209 9
585—1203, 585—1263 EStab. 1945i;
. 97 for ofﬁce business buy-i g,
, redeeming pets, 113- daily and?
jfy‘ for adoptions 24-hour emergenc ,
. e; Four trucks fOr pick up service‘ii“
lter and control work under count"
_ HandIes 21,000 animals annuall“
Wded shelter. Expects to move tﬁ
Lb near Rockville. Conduct
lasses and rabies clinics Als
,qmres spaying of females through'minima
payment plan. Animals to approve
ﬁes only Issues nesvSletter. Mrs. Walke
' ,Gene Hogan shelter manager.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P O; Box 4157, Chevy Chase, Md 2001:

”99—5128. Many of Maryland’s animal w
grmips have banded together to pres
an: d, front for. statewuie action ’01: t

 

Handled 10 500 animals;
9 Animals released to approved
"vf’v‘hornes only, prepayment required for spay» .
3; ing of femanles League Conducts cruelty 111—:
’{sI‘yVesti‘gations and SponSOrs obedience classes-
(and educational programs in schools. Mrs
James H Lazarus, pres;
_ _;_shelter manager.

, "Animal Protective
,iﬁf‘Garrett Park, Md. 20766; 942-2341.
”.1933. This small band of dedicated humanin,
‘tarians is led by Virginia Sargent. She has 7
1:3...rescued countless animals and found goodﬂ




37 an 8
offering

vammals and ﬁnding
V needing them. Mrs.
Peace Plantation: P.
:Va. 22075; (703) 777
endowments, Cats
Comfortable homes '
hardship-v cases only.
Ruby Brown,‘ shelter
Prince

8211 D’ F
3363221.

114;

ployees

sum.

in
Y raises
jand bazaars.
dents, call
‘6

211 Key Blvd,‘
New headed by

of Norfolk, it
lington Animal 7
Pearl Twyne. This
humane societies has »
additional animal

 




 

\' lanﬁ'Fybn‘

 

No Room, Save in the Heart
from page 54

 

release a small dog or a cat to an apart-
ment dweller.” Some of the shelters will
not place animals under four months old
. with children under six years of age.

“Our reat focus is on 0in ator '
g g Y

spaying of females and encouragement
of neutering of males,” Gene Hogan
said. At Arlington, male cats must be
neutered and at Phyllis Wright’s shelter
male dogs also must be neutered.

(To spay comes from the old French
“espeer,” which means “to cut with a
sword.” In reality, it is the surgical re-
moval of the ovaries of a female animal.
Neutering of a male animal can be either
the removal of the testicles or a vasec-
tomy, the removal or resectioning of
the cordlike canal that carries the sper—
matozoa. Clinical studies have shown
that the neutered animals do not suffer
either from obesity or a loss of verve or
character. Veterinary studies have shown
that the incidence of cancer in spayed
and gelded animals appears to be lower.)

Each of these shelters has a plan for a'

minimal prepayment spay fee. Some re—
quire payment at time of adoption;
others, such as Fairfax and Prince

George’s, have a $4 or $5 reimbursable
deposit plan, leaving it to the new owner
to select his own veterinarian and nego—
tiate a price. When a certiﬁcate or copy

of a receipted bill from the veterinarian
is submitted to the shelter, the new
owner gets his deposit returned. Charges
for spaying and neutering of dogs and
cats has increased considerably in recent
years, with the absolute minimum now
about $40 and in cases of large dogs re—
maining in the hospital for a few days
more than $50.

Arrangements with cooperative area
veterinarians have resulted in charges
at the Arlington and Alexandria shelters
()f $15 for female dogs, and in Mont-
gomery County, between $20 and $30.
By supplementing the cost out of its
own pocket, the older Washington Ani—
mal Rescue League has been able to hold
the spay fee at a remarkable $8. Its total
mandatory cost for females, including
spaying and rabies and distemper shots,
is $15.25. Spay and neutering rates at the
nonproﬁt NHEC Clinic at Waterford,
where veterinarians are on salary, are
female dogs, $20; female cats, $15; male
dogs, $15; and male cats, $5. Some of the
shelters and the Tailwaggers Clinic have
small, special spay and neutering funds
to help hardship cases. Recently, a group
of Maryland and Virginia women or-
ganized SPAY (Society for the Prevention
of Surplus Animal Young), which offers
assistance to owners of dogs and cats in
need of spaying and neutering.

Other adoption procedures vary some-
what from shelter to shelter. The $4 li-
cense fee is paid at Montgomery County
shelter, while in the District the $3 fee

Nmrwnwwdﬂ
is paid either by mail or in person at the
District license ofﬁce. In Arlington and
Alexandria, license tags are $1 for males
and spayed females, but $3 for unspayed
females. Higher license fees for animals
able to propagate might be a deterrent,
some humanitarians believe. But to make
it effective, others point out, it should
be in the $25 to $50 range and this might
not be politically feasible. Columnist
Anne Lewis of Fairfax suggests a $100

license for the “backyard breeder.”

The dog tag can be a lost dog’s great-
est protection. Though it is against the
law for dogs to run loose, humane ofﬁ-
cers urge owners to keep their dogs’
collars and tags on them at all times.
“All of the shelters keep the tag num—
bers on ﬁle,” explained Montgomery
County’s Loretta Moon,” and if they
have the dog’s license number, his owner
can be notiﬁed immediately. Of the
3,048 dogs picked up by her shelter’s
trucks last year, 1,206 were returned to
their owners. A redemption fee is re—

.quired of owners by all the shelters.

Though the area’s humane societies
try to cope with animal overpopulation
through arrangements with cooperative
veterinary surgeons and establishment of
the spay clinic at Waterford, they look
longingly at Los Angeles, where a mu—
nicipal spay clinic was opened in No—
vember. Los Angeles hopes that the
city’s subsidy of the clinic will be offset
by savings in the handling and euthaniz-
ing of animals.

The Los Angeles plan lends itself to
adaptation here, beginning in the inner-
city Model Cities area, where hundreds
of animals run at large. It has been sug—
gested that Model Cities funds be ob—
tained to employ more dog catchers and
buy another truck solely for collecting
and then killing animals from this area.
Costs would run at least $25,000 annu—
ally. Instead, after collecting, why not
use federal funds for the employment of
one or two veterinarians—either on sal—
ary or under contract—to spay and neu-
ter animals of low—income residents of
this area? It could be done free, as in the
case of the District’s rabies clinics, or
for under $5. It would result in reduc—
tio-n of births and greater enjoyment of
owned animals. The idea of this demon—
stration-type program is being viewed
with interest by the Model Cities Ad—
visory Board, headed by Mrs. Caroline
Reese, and by William Cary, former
associate director of Environmental
Health for the District.

ithin the last twenty years, the
animal welfare effort in Wash—
ington has been considerably
broadened by creation of the
Humane Society of the United States.
This national organization has given ma-
jor support to all the animal protective
laws passed by the Congress, beginning
in 1958 with passage of the Humane
Slaughter Act. The leadership of Mrs.

WM

 




 

 

U 23%.: 1"" "i I

Roger Stevens in the laboratory animal
protective ﬁeld has been nothing short
of brilliant. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the Animal Welfare Institute and So-
c1ety for Animal Protective Legislation
from her home here. (She and her hus-
band, who is head of the Kennedy Cen-
ter board of trustees, now live in Mrs.
Frank West’s. old Georgetown man—
sion.)

The activities of these and other na—
tional groups in Washington are in star—
tling contrast to the District of Colum—
bia Pound—the only facility in the area
still retaining a name that goes back into
antiquity. Inspection of the pound can
leave you with the impression that phil—
osophically it has not changed since the
days of President Grant, when it im—
pounded a couple of his stray horses.

Today, the pound Operates under the
District Department of Health with an
annual budget of $118,000. This covers
primarily salaries and supplies, exclusive
of purchase and maintenance of vehicles,
buildings, or equipment.

The pound does not beneﬁt from any
type of citizens’ advisory committee to
help bring it up to modern standards.
For the following reasons, it can be con—
sidered the least adequate animal facility
in the area:

I It does not advertise found dogs.

I It does not check lost dog ads.

I It does not provide resting boards
in kennels.

I It does not require spaying of fe—
males.

I It does not have an approved homes
policy.

I It does not distribute information
of the area’s nonproﬁt animal clinics or
spay programs.

I It does not post notice that some of
its dogs are sold to research laboratories.

The District pound is the only area
facility continuing to use routinely the
explosive decompression killing chamber.
Due to the possibility of “excruciating
pain for a short time,” the American
Veterinary Medical Association does not
approve this method. It considers the best
method for the euthanizing of individual
animals to be intravenous administration
of barbiturates. These drugs produce
painless death, much like going to sleep,
but should be given by a veterinarian or
by a skilled technician.

Mrs. Kiernan of the Washington Ani—
mal Rescue League, where the intrave-
nous method is administered by a vet—
erinarian’s assistant, has tried to persuade
the pound to switch to the approved
method. But to no avail.

“We had such a chamber at the shel-
ter,” James Souders, league shelter man—
ager, said, “but the animals didn’t always
die. Something was always wrong with
the machine. The animals were fright—
ened and I think suffered. When Miss
Wright was here as manager she wanted
it out.”

Dr. Paul L. Romig, chief of the Dis-

trict’s Animal Disease Control Division,

 




«4 U

which has jurisdiction over the pound,
maintains that the high altitude cham-
ber is an “acceptable method” and that
it is “expedient” for euthanizing large
numbers of animals. The pound han—
dles half the number of animals as the
league.

In the company of Dr. Charles Calao,
Vice president of the Washington Hu—
mane Society, and Dr. Romig, I viewed
the decompression chamber—ﬁlled with
four small female dogs. The dogs gasped
for breath and bit at the air as the oxy-
gen was withdrawn and they were taken
to a simulated height of 55,000 feet. Af-
ter a period of convulsing, they lay still.

Later that day some of the same
group, including Poundmaster John R.
King, met with Dr. Raymond L. Stand-
ard, director of the District’s Health De—
partment. Also present was Dr. Charles
R. Hayman, associate director for pre—
ventive service of the Community Health
Services Administration.

Dr. Calao and I passed on our unfa—
vorable observations and statements from
the AVMA in regard to the chamber. We
also noted that some facilities throughout
the country still using the chamber at
least sedate their animals orally to cut
down on fear and pain before placement
in the chamber.

Dr. Standard was sympathetic to the
idea of the most humane method pos—
sible. Because Dr. Romig does not wish
to perform euthanization by injection
and pound personnel do not want to be
trained for the duty, there seems to be
no alternative but employment of trained
outside personnel on a retainer basis or
the employment of an extra staff person.
In short, it is a matter of money. “It is
very hard for the pound to compete with
the needs of children and old people
for an extra dollar,” Dr. Standard said.
“But I would like to see it done if we
can ﬁnd the money, either through dona—
tions or appropriated funds. But you will
have to help us get the money.”

“In the meantime, however,” Dr.
Standard added, “we will start oral
sedation to cut down on fear and pain.”
This is now being done, but it is not a
long—term solution to the problem of
painless killing of animals. 0

To obtain this reform and other im—
provements to bring the District pound
up to area standards—and to establish
a citizens’ advisory council—expressions
of support can be sent to Dr. Raymond
L. Standard, Chief of Health Service
Administration, 1875 Connecticut Ave—
nue, \«Vashington, DC. 20009. Copies
could be sent to Mayor Walter VVash—
ington at the District Building. He is
an honorary Vice president of the Wash—
ington Humane Society.

These and other improvements in
Washington’s animal world—not forget—
ting the Model Cities breeding-control
plan—would be a signiﬁcant step of the
kind taken in 1870 when the city, with
Congressional blessing, went on record
that, in its heart, it is humane. D

””5.
.. "1.

 

 




 

er~

;\‘»

   
   

:1}.

‘ , I' .
‘ .-.. .. .
't 'v ‘5

{“1 . ”(a ”My
' .f t1 '
‘ 2:2? '
‘ -

   

I .

 

 

P"

 

.THE SUNDAY STAR
‘Was‘h-ington, D. C., December 6, I970

 

, NOW

SR a t h e r T h a n

5’3): ROBERT PENN WARREN
'_: This is the moment of crisis, we
are: constantly being told -— the
crack-up of the Western World, of
the J udaeo-cnristian tradition, of
the American success story. In
such a moment, what are wedoing
here — .on this -- or any other -—
literary occasion? Are we - to use
the sacred word — relevant?
_ When I first entered this building,
the summer of 1944, I didn’t
oome in feeling relevant. A couple
of years earlier, in that time of
gerisis, I had offered my services to
the United States Navy, and they
had politely declined the offer. De-
fective viSion, they said. So as time
passed I got irrelevanter and irrel-
evanter until -I reached the nadir
ofssrelevance-é-which was being the
Consultant in Poetry at the Library
of Congress.
' But one morning my. pho e rang
and a Captain X introduced himself
éandiasked if I was the Consultant in
Poetry. Yes, I said. Well, he said,
General Y was writing the lyric for
a song to inspirit our boys -- that
was the word he used, “inspirit”-——
and - the General wanted to consult
the» Consultant in Poetry on a mat-
ter of meter. So at one end of the
line the General read his lyric and
tapped out .the meter, and at my
end, while he read, I tapped it out
with my finger. We did this several
times, and I told him it was fine
meter. Meanwhile I had memorized
most of his lyric, but now all I can
remember is two lines -— which I
Want to share with you:
We are the boys who don’t like to
.g brag, ’

(But we sure are proud of our grand

_ '- old flag.

“ The episode was a great comfort
to me. If, in the middle of World
War II, a general could be writing
a poem, then maybe I was not so
irrelevant after all. Maybe the gen-
eral was doing more for victory by
writing a poem than he would be by
“commanding an army. At least, he
might be doing less harm. By
applying the same logic to my own.
condition, I decided that I might be
relevant in what I called a negative

way». ~ I have clung to this concept

ever since -— negative relevance. In

. moments of vain-glory I even enter-

tam the possibility that if my con-
,cept ' were more widely accepted,
the world might be a better place
{tollive in. There area lot of people

M110 would make better citizens if
g ghe‘ygwere content to be justnega-
fitively relevant. _ .

r and "195 10"» 5’90!" 1~
‘ "that; mm. gm
t‘ : te'."‘comf0rt1n"" g
enoughThe awareness of crisis
has penetrated to the. ' furthest
reaches“ of society. The most illiter-
zate: ,gand pot-ridden of drop-outs

onenaii’nthis’brand or

nimble about their identity crisis,
along with the poets. Stick-up men
on ‘heiWOin plead alienation. Time
was when the bad news of Spen-
gler’s “Decline of the West” was
restricted to the more romantic
alumni of the University of Heidel-
berg, the heavy-thinkers of Green-
wich Villlage, and disillusioned

graduate students, but now an erst- ‘

while humor magazine spreads the

 

: By ANN COTTRELL Fang..."
Star Special Writer /

The idea behind the proposed An-
imal Welfare Act of 1970 has been
a long time coming into its own——
it has been an uphill fight, often
resisted by powerful forces—but it
looks now as it it may come to a
finalsvote in the closing hours of the
91st‘Congfress. ‘ .

Its j pass-age will be a tribute to a
deepened Congressional ecological
conscience. More and more mem-

bers of Congress are realizing that

all living creatures must be treated
with d e c e n c y and respect--
regardless of whether they are en-
dangered species roaming in the
wild or animals doomed to spend
dreary lives behind bars in labora-
tories or zoos.

There can be little doubt that the
paSsage of the Endangered Species
Act one year ago this month and
the. emphasis in the past year on
man’s relatiOnship with the earth
and all its creatures have had a
profound effect on congressional

' thinking.

.. .

The new legislation—Which has

so many sponsors that thissentence
would beconsumed by listing them
all—4has it roots in proposals first

made exactly 10 years ago, in 1960.

Soon after the 1958 passage of the '

Federal Humane Slaughter .glaw,

humanitarians started laying con-

gressional groundwork to bring

some measure of federal supervi-

sion, over the care and treatment
of laboratory animals.

’Humaniacs' '

The well—funded research explo-
sion was using an unprecedented
number of dogs, cats, rodents, pri-
mates and a variety of other crea-
tures. Estimates have gone as
high as 300 million annually. They
we‘re often obtained from questiOn-
able' sources and treated with less
care than the most expendable test

tube.

Those persons, who worked for
setting standards of care were im-
mediately called anti-vivisectionists
or branded as “humaniacs” by
some members of the scientific
coinmUnity. In truth, they were vio-
lently opposed by the antivivisec-
tionists, who were working for total

abolitiOn of animal use.

Though a number of bills were
introduced during those years, they
went nowhere. In desperation, hu-

   

glad tidings of great gloom accord-

ing 4 to Charles Reich and Lewis -

Mumford among suburban house-
wives on the cocktail circuit and
investment bankers , grieving be-
cause their children are apathetic
toward hard money and the Repub-
lican (or Democratic) Party.

I am not‘implying that Reich and
Mumford ' are overestimating the
war, race, the cities, bad schools,
irresponsible leadership, and all the
rest. In fact, I am inclined to think
they are underestimating the grav-
ty, in that their diagnosis is not
radical enough and their proposed
solutions overlook some important

aspects of our relation to technol-.

ogy, and at times are not far from
old-time revivalism and snakeaoil
remedies. In brief, they seem to
neglect the nature of the human
animal—what we used to. refer to
as Original Sin. In other words, the
need for “relevance” is greater
than even the prophets of doom, the
Black Panthers, Billy Graham,
Martha Mitchell, and the Students
for a Democratic Society, imagine.
But what is relevance?

Concerning literature - and liter-
ature is what we are here con-
cerned with—the most obvious
question is: What subject matter is
appropriate for our time? '

Almost a hundred and ﬁfty years
ago, the young Nathaniel Haw-
thorne sat in an upper room, totally
withdrawn from the real world, and
wrote stories. No doubt writing sto-
ries was bad enough, but his stories
were about the distant past. Later
on, still brooding over the past,
Hawthorne moved to Concord. But
there he had a neighbor who was
really relevant. The neighbor cer-
tainly didn’t write stories, he told
people how to live, and he took a
very dim View of the past. He was
a prophet with a crystal ball and
his crystal ball did, as a matter of
fact, show some important things
about the future.

It seem-s only natural that Haw-
thorne did not think very highly of

his prophet neighbor, any more ‘

than the neighbor did of him. Haw-
thorne and Emerson met on the
wooded paths of Concord, and
passed on, Emerson with his head
full of bright futurities and rele-
vances, Hawthorne with his head

full of the irrelevant past. As Henry

James was to say of them: “Emer-
son, as a sort of spiritual sun-
worshipper, could have attached

{but a moderate value to Haw-

thorne’s cat-like faculty of seeing in
the dark.”

We revere Emerson, the prophet
whose prophecies came true. But
having once come true, those
prophecies began g to come ontrue.

Mtii‘e‘ ‘ and ’ fﬁdfé"“Eﬁiéi‘-Sﬁﬁ "recedes

grandly into history, as the future
he predicted Lecomes apast. And
what the cat’s eye of Hawthorne
saw gave him the future —— and
relevance. He died more than a
century ago, but we find in his
work a complex, tangled, and revo-
lutionary vision of the soul, which
we recognize as our own.

Emenson spoke nobly about rele-
vance. Hawthorne was relevant.

The moral is that it is hard to tell
at any given moment what is rele-‘
vant. The thing so advertised is
likely to be as unrelated to reality

mane organizations tried new ap-
proaches and often fell to quarrel-
ing among themselves as to bill
content and strategy. (Most of the
bills gave supervisory authority to
Health, Education and Welfare.)
But 1965 brought the beginning of
a breakthrough. Researchers’ de-
mands for dogs and cats had grown

.................
...........

. to the

used by

  

onder

Robert Penn Warren, poet,
novelist and critic, delivered this
speech last Wednesday at the L1-
brary of Congress in accepting the
National Medal for Literature, an
annual award sponsored by the
National Book Committee.

 

as the skirt length is to the con-

' struction of the female anatomy —

to, be revelant, to change our meta-
phor, merely to a symptom and no

disease. The quest1on is not
that ‘of ‘topicality of a subject.
It, is that of the writer’s own
grounding in his time, thegrelation
paradoxically enough, of h1s res1st-
ance to his time. For there must be
resistance, and the good work 1s

' always the drama of the writer’s

identity with, and struggle against,

'his' time. John Milton was in the

profoundest way a man of the 17th
century, but writing “Paradise
Lost,” under the reign of Charles
II, was he in tune with his time?

Mass Poetry

The relation of topicality to rele-
vance is fascinating. Will “Naked
Lunch”, or “Portnoy’s Complaint,”
really turn out to be the Aeneid of
Our new Rome? But let’s push on
to the more radical question: Is
poetry per se—taking that as the
inclusive term for imaginative 11t-
erature—relevant to our time?

One could simply state that poet-
ry is unavoidable in any age, that
people inevitably demand poetry of
one kind or another, and then argue
about what kind of poetry would
make sense now.

And indeed, if we take poetry at
its broadest meaning of emotive
language, there has never been so
much poetry as in our age of mass
communication. The air waves are
full of it, it is heard on the hustings,
a million albums of so-called folk
ballads (being sung by some fa-
mous voice) are sold every year,
without poetry the advertising copy
writer’s typing finger would be par-
alyzed and the tongue of the RR.
man would cleave to the roof. of the
mouth. The Congressional Record
would, in fact, shrink to the translu-
cent thinness of a dragon fly’s wing
in bright sunlight.

Let {us meditate for the moment
on the poetry sometimes to be
heard across the street from here
(the Capitol). Marianne Moore has
said that her kind of poetry deals
with real toads in imaginary gar-
dens. The kind of poetry across the
street here might often seem very

g sirlnilar to hers, It' deals with real
so utions to imaginar .gro . = s...
SOIiié’ﬁhies,“‘howeVér, .i‘iealstie'iﬁi

imaginary solutions to real prob
lems. When genius begins to be
inflamed, it deals with imaginary
solutions to imaginary problems.
But occasionally it ascends beyond
the pitch of mortal thought and
imaginary problems of imaginary
people -« i.e., the people who are
supposed to give the poll-takers
their information, creatures more
ectoplasmic even than the Econom-
ic Man.

But if that kind of poetizing, like
that of the Rod McKuens and such,
can scarcely touch us where we

0re,..l-egal Protection on thefg:

so great that unprincipled dealers
turned to stealing pets. Their bold-
ness and carelessness trapped
them. .

As more and more “pet-napping”
cases turned up, there came to Con-
gress also descriptions of
stomach-turning conditions within
dealers’ compounds. Eyewitnesses

A3" 1

 

 

.
I l
v '
, .
~,. ; I I
' I ‘ e
u “ g
.
-I- ’
..- ~
u. .
. . g,
l’ L. "
" O
,., ‘5'
. '14
. ‘_ av
. . r"
I
. .
_.
. 'l.’ .
. .
3‘
. r‘,
.21.
.. ,0."
.
J .. .
. u: . .

11ve—-wha':.-, can? The answer is
easy. Amt-ind that is “real” — for
the diseaggi of our two is the sense
of being é’t off from reality. Man
feels thatia screen has descended
bfltWeen hiin and nature, between
him and ii"... men, between him

Hence we have the

ﬁne, the group grope.

 

  
   
  
 
  
   

  
 
    

      
 

Let usgnmgthink not of topicality
and subject? after but of a thing
inherent in? ‘e-I'very nature of poet-
g . Ofg 1ma“. tive literature, when
it realizesi , otentialities.

. To begin, th,‘ any kind of poetry
1s real” Cw 'ch there is an
awareness .i'gjgthe .real stuff of lan-
guage. Ingi-‘lur communication-
numibed Sgt we are buffeted
and (born a flood of language.
but 1t 1s ,a;‘ 1:5, guage that is de-
based, with’he make~do word

     

takmg the pl'gj of the right word.
Worse, even;.,ﬁn‘guage is used as
merely a COQUnient'WéIy of point-
lng. It becorﬁ bleached out, no

longer a Partl‘of experience and
an index of théggpeaker’s own reali-

tY; and 0f thefif‘eader’s or the listen-

 
 

(

:-

er’s, t00. assh‘gggs‘enses the ripple of
language mgtgétthroat, the deep
and ‘complegifsg bodily response.
“Rapid readingj .. however useful
1t may be for g. am practical pur-
poses —— repre’hnts the final cor-
ruption of langﬁ‘age, Poetry —— all
1magmatlve liteiatureof any quali-
ty — re51sts “1! id reading”; for
here to subue‘ ‘: Marshall Mc-
Luhan’s sloganéij" Our purpose, of
Whlch. he mightihmt ‘approve, the
“medium” is 5;; deed: the “mes-
sage,” agndgtheigg assage” to boot.

For primitive n, the word was
not an abstract; ing, a device of
pomtmg. If héfﬁttered whatever
sound was his wig. . for tiger, he
was not merely .jg.ting at (literal-
ly or symbolicr‘ﬂfg). some remote
ancestor of the or". 2, meet our time
known as Panthera ti ris‘, but was
also expressing a - ,. ear, admira-

0,3'

 
 

. ”5"“

 

   
 

.o.

 
  

tion. Nor is W. ,3,“ Blake merely

).

pointing at an an. do of the spe~ :-

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
   

cies Panthera : when be ex-
claims: , 'g.,:,
Tygei‘. tyger,‘ i may bright

In the forest ofgthe night

It is true that onlﬁby‘specializing
language, by deveia‘oingg it to ma-
nipulate abstracts, ,' have we
gained the vast hoot ofiknowledge
that is implied, fen j‘ ‘ '
very label Panther
vast power thatfje‘
purchase a high-."_ ,
Nepal and, as as:
free from awe, fear
personal risk, shoo
these and similar .-
have forfeited a ’

        
  
   
  
 

’~'- ’1‘: 2

  

MWC ‘i‘ “9
ture, root. 0,? I
But ca w g -
In so farsas a writ}; Ngnartist,
he creates a new .1 “age that
unites the primiti“: gleusity of
meaning and depth .1: g With
the civilized man’s ’ er ‘of ab-
straction. So Blake,.a he next two
lines of his poem, c ask the so-
phisticated theologi . . ggquestion:

What immortal ban»? lye

Could frame thy fea metry?

In the simplest
poem or in the .11.:

told of seeing dead ;,
mixed in with liv

tions of indescriba'
testimony about .

business prompted” e of the
Laboratory Animal are Act of
1966. This legislatio ., 3 j‘rmore than
50 sponsors. ' ” ’ ' -

Administration "of .1 act was

9:1

 

 

the federal
l?

t w and
A“. .. :g

g gé‘ .,
. fear. At the

y for

Robert Penn Warren (left), receiving the National Medal for Literature from Dr. Mason

W. Gross, chairman of the National Book Committee in ceremony last week. ,

scenes of a fiction, we find another
instance of this strange and healing
union of regression and sophistica-
tion. Here, in a parallel way, we
find not merely a verbal language,
but primary language of imagery
(the image of metaphor or the im-
age of scene), the pro-verbal“1an-
guage” that‘ reachosbg t inf ,

. their}

     
 
 

  

Jec deSn‘e, haw. 01'

     
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
     
    
    
  
 
  

only utters itself'in such a language

' that reminds us of our deepest

being, but embodies ideas and. val~
ues, and so its 1mages are, in one

dimension, a sophisticated dialec-

tic. The poem or fiction eventuates
in “meaning”---no, as “meaning.”

Literally, the process of com-
position is, in one degree or an-
other, a movement toward mean-
ing. The writer (like any artist)
is not a carpenter who builds the
chicken-coop according to a blue-

 

given to the animal health division
of the Department of Agriculture’s
Research Service. Dealers and pur-
chasers were licensed and required
to conform to Agriculture’s stand-
ards of human treatment of dogs,
cats, hamsters, primates, rabbits
and guinea pigs. .

More than 110 dealers went out of

gobusiness during the first. three

years of the program. Licenses of
some of the larger dealers have
been revoked. Agents have been
cursed, threatened and shot at. But
even so, the act did not go far
enough. There were huge loopholes.
And it has been handicapped by
lack of funds to employ more
inspectors —— most of whom are
veterinarians and have many other
Agriculture Department (1 u t i e s
within the states where they are
stationed.

Though the act has no authority
over care of animals actually being

7 used in research, some institutions

have declared the animals “in re-
search” on the momentof arrival.
This clearly frustrates the intent of
the act to improve conditions of the
animals while awaiting research. '
More federal authority was need-
ed. In 1968 help came from an un-
expected source. A 43-yeareold GOP
freshman representative from Nor-
folk, Va., introduced legislation

that filled the bill. Rep. G. William"

Whitehurst would extend the man-
tle of enlightened care to animals
actually undergoing research. But

what’s more, he asked that the.

same standards apply to animals in
circuSes, zoos and the pet trade.
Humanitarians soon learned that
it was not only Bill Whitehurst they
had to thank, but his wife, J ennette.
“I told the people at the Norfolk
SPCA, where I have helped With
humane education, that I’d try to
lend a hand when we got to Wash-
ington,” she said the other day.
Whitehurst’s bill actually was a
beefing up of the “pet-napping”
Act and was referred to the House
Agriculture Commitee, w h o s e
chairman has repeatedly shown
himself a friend of animals. Texan
W. R. Poage has been the key
man an the House side on both
the hu-maneI slaughter and “pet-
na in ” bi is. g -
'IPgtigiony, presented this June
before Rep. Graham Purcell’s sub-
. committee, lifted once again the
curtain of secrecy on unspeakable
conditions among the creatures

1

. or “mean” until the last word i

age. everyr. i!
gg .. g, ' ,5... W13,
ultiniately,‘ the “meaning.” And

same'time, poetry not .

print.If the carpenter has a blue-
print .he knows exactly what kind

of chicken-coop will be forthcom‘. .

ing. But the writer, no matter
h-ow clear his idea or strong his
intuition.- of the projected work,
can never know what it will “be”

in , lace. -— forgeyery,.word

 
   
 

 

  

' the reader- is made». ¢Q_..,Sh€li‘.e in this
-_ process; * ‘ -

"We are

:the advertising ‘man, the politi-
cian, the preacher, and suddenly
we are reminded that every truth
that is not lived into, not earned
out of experience, either literally
or imaginatively, is a lie. We are
redeemed from all our would—be
redeemers—especially from those
who would redeem us for their own
profit or power—and reminded that
we must, after all, redeem our
selves. How? By learning to respect

 

that perform, amuse and give their
lives to man.

“We, who worked there, were al-
ways pleased when some animal
died to be out of a miserable life,”
said June W. Badger of Middle-
burg, Va. She told the committee of
conditions in some of the circuses
and zoos for which she had worked
in the last 19 years. Cramped, un-
ventilated cages, starvation, sadis-
tic punishments. A litany of misery.

The arrival from South and Cen-
tral America and shipment to pet
wholesalers of crates of birds and
monkeys were described by Mrs.
Christine Stevens.

She is the wife of Roger Stevens,
president of the Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts and the
government’s former cultural chief.
Mrs. Stevens is pre-sident of the
Animal Welfare Institute and secre-
tary of the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation.

Imported Animals

She described wretched condi- "
' tions

of animals that Custom
inspectors have overlooked. (They
are charged with checking on con-
dition of imported animals.) She
told of ‘ continued conditions of
cramped laboratory housing and of
the inhumane environment in many
municipal and, road51de zoos. Quoté
ing Dr. Desmond Morris, author of
the “Naked Ape,” she said, “If
zoos are to survive the 20th century,
they will have to reform.” She in-
troduced into the record a letter in
behalf of the Whitehurst bill from
Virginia McKenna and Bill Trav-
ers, stars of the film “Born Free”
and patrons of the Captive Animals
Protection Society.

The arrival of dogs and cats at.

animal auction sales was de—
scribed by Frank McMahon, field
director of the Humane Society of
the United States. “I’ve seen them
chained within the trunks of cars.
I’ve seen them jammed in crates
and cages.‘ I’ve seen them. sold by
the pound.” Humane agents of local
societies. are given rough treat-
ment, 'he said and under the exist-
ing federal law these auctions are
exempt from regulation.

The legislation now speeding to-
ward the congressional deadline
embodies many of the suggestions
made by the men and women who
know the problem first hand. Auc-
tions are included. Animal catego-

  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

  
 

be sad
' ”maﬁa augday- long " -
by abstractions, by the- “truths” of

Beh

 

the self and respect experientia-
Chastened by a keener awuarenegss
of human possibility ofgsalvatgionjor

disaster, we may be a littleLmo’re'. g

certain of the terms by which the
individual fate will be determined.

If our current civilization

    

50,9 Sex. {’1

Am I offering my owniversion‘of .
old-fashioned rev i-ys—a It s m and
snake-oil? Not quite.- I am not“ Say-
ing that if we read g a. feW‘good
books we can save the country.
But I am saying that they might
help wake us to the fullness of-our
own nature, for good or evil. To
wake us, that is, from the torpor in.
which we now rest—from what
Blake called the “single viSion‘and
Newton’s sleep.” 3 '- g

ml Bars

ries have been broadened. Fines
for resisting agents have been Stif-
fened. But most important, the Ag-
riculture Committee called for the
use of appropriate pain-killers for

research animals whenever possi- '

ble.
(When Agriculture sets the stand-

ards for humane handling many -

humanitarians trust that life-time
caging of such research animals "as
dogs will be eliminated.)

Some of the additions to-the White-
hurst bill were called for in bills
introduced by Rep. Thomas S. Fol.
ey, D-Wash., and in the Senate by
Warren Magnuson, D-Wash., Alan
Cranston, D-Calif., and William G.
Spong, D Va. When the bill was
favorably discharged from the
House Agriculture Committee, it
bore the name of each member. An
exact copy. was introduced in the
Senate by Robert J. Dole, R-Kan.
Hearings by Senator Philip A.
Hart’s Commerce sub-committee
are expected any day.

  
 

 

 

 

  
   
     

,._ __- . .h.

 

. l‘&‘ ’w‘ . A... —

" Even-I— Withs- the-WW petition or“ to

much of the scientific cominunity’s
opposition to lab animal legislation
and even with the good chance
that this measure will miraculously
pass this session, there are. other
hurdles. One is money. _

The burden on the Department of
Agriculture will be heavier, making
necessary the employment of more
inspectors. These men, also, have
the added duty incoming years of
policing the horse shows to see that
no “walking horse” brought across
state lines has been “scred” to
make it step high, wide and-
handsome. The famous Tydings
“walking horse” bill is now await-
ing Presidential signature. Sen. Jo-
seph Tydings, D-Md., sponsored it
in this sessiOn of Congress. '

As this session adjourns, ‘left at
the post are at least 10 other ani-
mal protection measures: air trans-
portation regulations, cessation of
shooting wolves and other animals

from abiplane-s over federallands, ' i"

elimination of use of agonizing poi-
sons in the government’s predator
control programs, better conditions
at the ports of entry such as Miami,

The list is long -— but the abuse and g

suffering have gone on a long time,
too. '

But at last, what has been de-
scribed as the “silent lobby” has
found its voice. Or could it be that
man, for a change, is listening to
voices other than his own?

9
l

._ *_.___- _4-_‘MA-HMA ..__‘_I

 




 

 

@113 Evening gist

WASHINGTON, D. C.
0. 303,506 sun. 338,862

MAY 5 ‘97? W
Letters to the Editor

' Caged Animals

SIR: Amid all the trouble besettinganimgals these
days, there is one (most people thought it was correct-
ed) that is still with us. And it will continue to be Unless
immediate action is taken by people of good will and
common sense. ‘ '

This means persuading Department of Agriculture
veterinarians, with all the arguments we can muster,
that no animals ,— whether dog or tiger — should be
caged for life in space no larger than for Sitting, *
standing, lying and turning around. " ‘

Congress, with large national backing, gave Agricul-
ture the responsibiilty of writing standards of care and
handling for the Animal Welfare Act of 1970. When the
first draft was circulated laSt October, the act’s sup-
porters read with dismay the standards for space and
, xercise. Whether for anteater, beagle, zebra, all totally

inadequate. By and large, little improvement of condi-
‘ tions they were supposed to correct. -

Hadn’t they heard in congressional testimony, in
informal “skull” session or through correspondence the
serious requests for more space. The naked and cruel
cage must' go! That was the mandate. Didn’t they
remember the case of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion caged dogs? (Their dreadful existence in the sub-
basement of a government office building was first ,
revealed in this newspaper ' by this writer.) The Con— ?
gress eventually appropriated funds for a decent place ‘
for them as well as for the laboratory personnel. Could 1
they have forgotten WARDS’ efforts to raise money for
more spacious quarters for dogs in three of our D.C.
teaching hospitals? Could they have overlooked “Born
Free” and the rise of anguished consciousness over .
pitifully housed wild animals? ' "

, Protests over that first draft proposal brought a
gleam of hope when the final was issued on December
24. The standards of tight caging remained, but Agricul-
ture promised to ask the public later to submit evidence
of need to change.

It is now asking,_but little time is left to answer. So,
if you have ever seen cage paralysis, stir craziness, ‘
other physical and psychological abnormalities, please
report them; If you think all caged creatures deserve
the same spacious quarters as the Peking pandas,
explain why. ’

If. you think you can look into the heart of a dog, a
calf, a chimpaneze in the laboratory, please try. There
is a message there that says more than “I am giving my
heart, my life for you.” It says “please make it easier.”
And the zoo animal has a word for you, too. -

~ ' Ann Cottrell Free.

 

 

.1

 




I
T
x .

i

 

 

/\ , f.

$311 Eﬁranrisrn Examiner

D. 203,025

6'3

AUG 2 0 l972

Bill
Fights ‘
For .
  nimal

Rights .

By Ann Cottrell Free
' ASHINGTON ——

(WNS) —- Some p_eo--

ple think -so, but there’s
nothing tongue -.in - cheek
about getting an “animal
rights” plank in the up.-

dcoming GOP platform.

Rights of peOple rank
high with the congressman

; who is seeking such an un-

 

precedented plank. But

Virginia’s Bill Whitehurst
is convinced that animals

have been kicked around

. too long and they need a

break, too.

And he, 01’ all people, __

should know. For no other

member of Congress has
authored m or e' animal
protective legislation, nor
met with greater success.

Whitehurst Works for the
rights of animals out of
moral conviction (just as
did his fellow Virginian,

' James Madison, in fight-
ing for the Bill of Rights.)

Votes are incidental. A
realist, however, he main-
tains there are votes in it
for the party that stands
up for; animals. The size of
the potential humane vote
might be meaSured by re-

cent humane legislation.
successes.

Right now, for example,
the youthful 47-year-old

Whitehurst is standing up ‘

for polar bears.

“Bill looks out for all the ,

animals, but he’s a real
hear about bears,” jokes
his wife, Janie.

39111.9 is leadingthe way ,
‘on Capitol Hill in seeking
U.S. participation in an in- '

ternational treaty to stop
killing. these largest 0f
bears. The Soviet Union-a
which banned polar bear
hunting in '1956 — would

come in on the treaty.

(P r e 5 id 8. n t, Nixon, at
Whitehurst’s’. behest, may

have mentioned the U.S..

interest when he talked to

' Soviet leaders.)

Denmark, Norway and

. Canada [may also sign.

-'7 Scientists of the five na-
tions say that the polar
37: bears number between
10,000 and! 20,000. U.S.
hunters, legally and ille-
if gally, may be taking as

{swigt’zég‘

many as 1000 annually.

The list of Whitehurst -

. sponsored legislation is

5.4%..

 

3}

v

A CRUSADE to save the polar bears
* isjust one ofthe many animal
campaigns of a GOP Congressman.

impressive. It .includesthe
Animal Welfare Acts 'of
1966 and 1970, covering
thousands of animals in

. laboratories, zoos and cir-
, cuses.

He lent a strong handto
protection of. wild horses,

walking horses, H a W k s,

seals, whales. Thanks to .

him, 25,000 scarce wolves
got a new lease on life,

This former newsman,
college professor and dean
recently used his muscle
as an Armed Services
Committee member . and
stopped the. Defense De-

partment order for 277,000
parka hoOds lined with
real ‘ wolf fur. This humane
act resulted in the saving
of $1.11 million and thou-
sands of wolves —- by the
substitution of synthetics.

Whitehurst’s m a 1 lb a g
stays full of letters from
coast to coast, seeking his
help.

“We? must express con-
cern for the humane care
and conservation of our
wild and domestic animals
and birds,” he said. “Not
just. because the Demo-
crats forgot it, but” he
add-s, “because it’s right.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

 

 

 

 




 

@112 1 Wnrning $131?
With Sunday Morning Edition
Published by THE EVENING STAR NEWSPAPER CO., Washington, D. C.

CROSBY N. BOYD, Chairman of the Board
. JOHN H. KAUFFMANN, President NEWBOLD NOYES, Editor

 

FREDAY, MAY 5, 1972

 

\

Letters to the Editor

Caged Animals

SIR: Amid all the trouble besetting animals these
days, there is one (most people thought it was correct-
ed) that is still with us. And it will continue to be unless
immediate action is taken by pe0ple of good will and
common sense. .

This means persuading Department of Agriculture
veterinarians, with all the arguments we can muster,
that no animals — whether dog , or tiger —- should be
caged. for life ‘in space, no larger than for sitting,
standing, lying and turning around. -

Congress, with large national backing, gave Agricul-
ture the responsibiilty of writing standards of care and
handling for the Animal Welfare Act of 1970. When the
first draft was circulated. last October, the act’s sup-
porters read with dismay the standards for space and
exercise. Whether for anteater, beagle, zebra, all totally
inadequate. By and large, little improvement of condi-
tions they were supposed to correct.

Hadn’t they heard in congressional testimony, in
informal “skull” session or through correspondence the
serious requests for more Space. The naked and cruel
cage must go! That was the mandate. Didn’t they
remember the case of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion caged dogs?_ (Their dreadful existence in the sub-
basement of a government office building was first
revealed in this newspaper by this writer.) The Con-
gress eventually appropriated funds for a decent place
for them as well as for the laboratory personnel. Could
they have forgotten WARDS’ efforts to raise money for

' more, spacious quarters for dogs in three of .our D.C.

teaching hospitals? Could they have overlooked “Born
Free” and the rise of anguished consciousness over
pitifully housed wild animals?

Protests over that first draft proposal brought a
gleam of hope‘when the final was issued on December
24. The standards of tight caging remained, but Agricul-
ture promised to ask the public later to submit evidence
of need to change. ,

It is now asking, but little time is left to answer. So,
if you have ever seen cage paralysis, stir craziness,
other physical and psychological abnormalities, please

report them. If you think all caged creatures deserve

the same spacious quarters as the Peking pandas,
explain why. '

If you think you can look into the hear-t of a dog, a
calf, a chimpaneze in the laboratory, please try. There
is a message there that says more‘than “I am giving my
heart, my life for you.” It says “please make it easier.”
And the zoo animal has a word for you, too.

Ann Cottrell Free.

A. _.I a A

\~

 




 




H
g
x

'1" . « . “
tamestown :08C
‘*’R?3ﬁ25 3-5: 20016

W : \
1 r. .J. .1 ..

a

W- . Lhuvy
xVul g A1m n1m1- tor
AT“; ,1. mi}. :1; 3’ ’1 $9 1:: 11: 1311 131“;
1:1 1;; 1T: r‘ A ., 11:23 1, nis

Deg1a V “”1 5? Ag “iﬂﬂiutAQ
. (if 1.3.t1éIt7ﬁxfzy 3;, 33, f“(1 ~ .

,5

‘3V3h+rArl:
’ J
#161 to rm>r ratzls e yo1 Ar ywwA recognition of the depaT me1
wzntanahlw gwxsvt Cu 111 re egprd is the iHRWi‘” of szjxmils énﬁ for ycnxrrggued

)
Off103b 1m Wejgi-g to .pen up thy Asest1» :0. 111ther .1311s810n.
'As t:.11g up (-3 revieszr ‘ke grohgs Ans De1n11n£ to what
'I" I A 1 +- -: - M 33v" «’ .1 . ‘2 l . , ’ . -' r .. ’3 v - Lx ~ —. & ~- . .- -
,0 b5? f 1 1.: 52191115150 r. 11' 1.15:.‘111521: 3.12.11‘5235 ;. 1‘1 weruaps (.1111 92.33:;
'3 ’._ ‘4: 4-» ﬂ. , _ +~ ('3. _ . I '-.. I“ 'I | 1‘. ‘ V“ , . . .‘ ~q Q "I
Ah; me mage $3 suggvm 11T; pthlah’ CA {V‘s EWQ’BS-S 11 the

1».~-‘

.-‘ Aw -~ 7‘
.A : redsra. Aegigter,

‘ , n 1 ’ , , ’4‘. f... . .
Aeﬁéarw1 11? 131%? 11,vs' sgwec .eit 31‘ .1: ;nm§-g 1.1%.,1 1 1: ’91; ”YA-SﬂFQs
~ ‘ ~ ' 5' ' , ‘ "1 "" 3 ‘. ' '. ‘ " . "1 ~ . ‘4 1" ‘ ‘ . . - _. 1. .‘ u . '2 .1! 1
. LI, :- ‘- . ,, 1- “I. ...v' 13.11,?“ d .1 f3 1..» .3. Y; ' ‘ tj ,1 .1? Q '- .- C -' I 21 f}; t) ‘W m ,. ii 9 -_ \ 1 v -4 . :5. i . ,1 L." :3 . a; rid M‘. on g
t ”m 8:1va s.

.3oAt terwlsﬁvmiiﬁ ow defif£>. 1? no mwre tiuui l“ drﬂs. GFAAMB anianie
eeoa3 he h11sed in e “or3atAe with your cnrreht requiremwnts, except for
pr V Jing more shaoe and exfercise, for at gAest twr h11rs, da11y.

\. ’5,”
.1 P“;

1.13%“. .6211!) ‘1013he de 1.1111 21.; srv 11:32:11,113 (Hier- 11'4 Ivgfs. Ti‘lese animals
shoulﬂ he provsde1 m11e space 811d exe3; Ci 9 Opportunit es ‘ﬁan now accorded
them. 5390181 sth1110u S QUld b” 61V en 5 @06S39 CR 3 sub~human primates
from the stanipoint o? gro ”13111“~ some s‘iAzli 0A Ten51Len t1eax1ng olpprtunJAL
ities. For tze eats: ETTB hlng posts Qp )111Q+c to dive: *zhem. For dog's,
penning. when passitiwe. w..h other dogs 81d “UT01"JQV of harmless diversionerﬁ
05390t8* For S‘Ih h11sA 1 imates, Wars or hangi1a apparatae so that they
can carry out normal swinging mowewvr

The eAqr An t's insistence on scientific proof etc. files 11to
t1e face a? judg Aezt; made on eAFeri a: eviﬂence Thus has QQPFQVQ” to
, 11, , ~‘ . -1 rs x ‘:M 4 , Pﬂqﬂvq
12;: as elxargér111ent ftm 3121157 as we11 1s hm Q 1st1' 1:3. :5 .1 1

My 9Xp9r183”9 1r regarr to obtainimq bette~ @1111.
FA 01 and urzv labora wry dDES. fro A 1959 to 1Q6u puiw me
snima. behsJ1o1A1s s, Aaho3ﬁr and others A:
I am a‘t taohing a few stateme ts, articles: : “esp Raff
connection. I trust you wiii pasq all of th1s 1% ts an r
studyihg the prohlsm. Also, T woqu i111 very murh to he prcwent as
subsequent meeti.ngs; both for the .‘1, ; es hut ’oA thv ether animsls
now under your Larioliet1o* in zoos 4. ': giou k11c~ 7 am author of a book

"Forever the Wild Mare“ wh,Lch discus 1 animal hGuSiﬂg at length.

‘

{‘31'3‘170Y‘r‘6r‘ . [IT-'1:

I do hepe that Agri*‘t1re will he skis to carry out the mahdste of
supporters of the enactingc legislation and wili als«1 he abi~ to eliminate
any differences in judgement between the animal sucn s the monkey in the on
or in the laboratory, as to his requirements for spa<e 2nd exercise.

With best wishes.

MEL

ot rell Free

 




Dear Christine,

 

ThI115 f0? letting m9 886 your ImwgsmatIIIIT L qup
gent off Iome dItI whigh I beliIVI iI prettv @006 m Du1’1:1é>4 IIIIIII\
that Icient1f1c evidencetas IIIh 1I th necessary IIIIIII 1t III11 IIIII
be camclusive 1n I11 rgsyects mm and that IIyIr1II1 II1IIIII 13 III
.Iain criteria.

I hava 5816 II in III Ta; IIiIgI I've , ;. gr: to
various pr1icIt10II in the 1aIt ieI.I ‘

A130, 1 hIIVI gent mumI IhlnyI tc* Dr” MI7IIII, which
I trIIt he willl send 0m XIII t0 SaI1I0I, Fur“i wﬂh13Hd1amﬂHﬁo Hera II
the cavering letter to Dr. MIlhIrI.

._n, 1 Ibirk'A III,ﬂ<I1 III I6 III‘IVII.IH
this ;: 1.111ng, its Irgvmpnts f9? “war ,he ﬁOLHtfﬁkﬁ-I*H 'I u’
boxed In With I dauble Standard:cn1 fII III at I1 CTQQ+”WP%
another far the five Ipegies undeI IlI P1 99u5I4.

AS yam gay in yIur mete #K‘VWE’VI gat II III II1I

one.“

I am Sure that :IQII LOIIII Mt II wj11 II mmgt
convincing.

P.S. I have phaned aIOIId to OIVOIIT III Of thI fnmu?“ FII 1 II
coming in 1Iter than I haped due to the Ireblemm It NﬂPﬁQQMOTT CQIIII
Humane Saciaty. Last week I worked haId II get tWO III I1IWI: :III 1%?
off ice persconnel.overf1mw, the Ither 10x “Icrmme ate, II that a- _p CIIII
euthan Isis SpIce Oou16 he get up far the pmor Inlwalm and IIII1.I
kennglg could be put in nlace. .A gammy gIIIIIIQn,

Km g‘ y/uy 0/94» ﬂ/‘aé‘;

at...

13C
3“

 




 

 

 

WEI—EEG “guarantors

The C&O Canal: Disneyland or Muirland?

 

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

 

“improvements.”

In order to preserve and interpret the
historic and scenic features of the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Canal and to develop
the potential of the canal for public rec~
reation, including such restoration as
may be needed, there is hereby estab-
lished the Chesapeake and Ohio National
Historical Park. . . .
Sec. 3 (a) Public Law 91-664
[anuary 8, [971

How easily they could have pushed the
man from the National Park Service into
the drink. He Was. standing perilously
close to the Potomac’s edge'at Big Slack—
water on the towpath near Williamsport,
Maryland. But that was not the kind of
direct action the gathering of conserva—
tionists had in mind. .

Dunking the enemy—which the Na—
tional Park Service seemed to be—would
have solved nothing, except to blow ofI
steam over what NPS was doing to the
canal in the name of “restoration.” In the
ensuing rescue, the real reason for the
confrontation could have been lost: the
collision of two different value systems
for managing the 184-mile strip through
semi—wiiderness, stretching from Tide-
lock in Georgetown to old Shantytown
in Cumnerland, Maryland.

Brought into uncomfortably sharp
focus that morning were two recreation
philosophies that in their ultimate €X~
pression result in either a Disneyland or
a John Muirland. It is a conﬂict that has
dogged the development of nearly every
heavily used National Park in the nation.
NOW, with our new C&O National I-Iis-
torical Park, both sides are going to the
mat.

The battle revolves around these ques—
tions:

Should the principal aim of park res-
toration be picnicking, river power boat-

ing, and other outdoor mass recreation
PHOTOS BY TOM HAHN

 

The Ce’rO Canal towpath near Williamsport, before and after National Par/e Service

activities?

Should restoration be aimed at enhanc—
ing the intangibles of nature and history
without changing the essential character
of the area?

Is it possible to accommodate both
points of View?

Reports that mass recreation was over-
emphasized at the historic Williamsport
section were what brought out canal
backers in mid—October. They saw what
was happening to their beloved canal and
tOWpath that they—inspired by Justice
William O. Douglas—had fought so hard
to preserve.

This is what they saw:

'0 A section of the towpath paved with
solid concrete.

0 Portions of a spectacular cliff blown
away.

0 The towpath widened to accommo—
date trucks. ,

0 A ﬁfty—car blacktopped parking lot
placed—with the gloss of many trees—be-
tween the canal and the river.

50 An abundance of access roads.

0 Foliage killed by chemical herbi-
cides.

Outrage directed that day at George
Church, acting superintendent of the
Antietam area (who was not responsible
for the “restoration” policy), was re-
strained by the fact that the work had
been brought to a halt.

It had taken a federal court restraining
order to do it. This was followed by
angry letters from Maryland Senators
Mathias and Beall and Congressman
Gude. (They were sponsors of the Canal-
Park legislation.) And conservationists
themselves, led by the new Canal and
River Rights Council, were active.

The anger should have been tempered
by the warnings that conservationists
half-jokingly had made during the ﬁght
to win the park. “Let’s get the canal for

   

the Park Service now,” they said. “We’ll
save it from them later.” Some of this
skepticism of NPS stemmed from dis-
covery last year at VVidewater of bull-
dozed and gouged-out banks, felled trees,
and a widened and packed-down tow-
path. Banding together, the conserva—
tionists were able to save a challenging
rocky portion of the towpath between
Old Anglers Inn and Great Falls from
being blandly smoothed out. Also, they
thought they would be notiﬁed if NPS
planned similar “improvements.”

Dr. Hildegard Cannan, secretary of
the Potomac Valley Conservation and
Recreation Council, spearheaded the
canal ﬁght along with the Sierra Club’s
Dick Lahn. Other conservationists have
made a strong appeal at Congressional
hearings for preservation of the canal’s
natural values:

“The historic aspect of the canal is as
much in— the interaction of man and
nature as in the purely engineering as-
pects of the original structure.”—Shirley
Briggs, Rachael Carson Trust for the
Living Environment and Audubon Na—

turalist Society.
“It must not become another bedlam

of noise and fumes and trafﬁc, whether
of automobiles or high-powered motor
boats.”—Anthony Wayne Smith, National
Parks and Conservation Association.

“I would not like to see the entire area
become like the stretch from Great Falls
to Georgetown. Let us not create another
crowded and noisy picnic ground.”—Vic-
tor Conrad, C&O Canal Association.

In short, conservationists are unwilling
to have their hopes blasted as were those
of the canal’s early nineteenth century
builders who were unable to realize the
dreams of George \Vashington and John
Quincy Adams in linking east to west by
water.

In the early 1950’s the canal’s potential
as a naturalists’ paradise was almost
blighted by the proposal to build a road
along its full stretch. It was then that
Justice Douglas stepped into the picture.
\Vith his leadership of the dramatic 1954
Cumberland to Georgetown hike, the
highway was killed.

Somehow the environmentalists’ mes—
sage to go easy on “improvements” never
got through to the NPS. This deafness
was brought home last July to Jacob
Berkson. This government attorney,
whose roots are in the Hagerstown area,
saw the damage in the Dam 4 area near
\Villiamsport. He and his attorney, Oscar
Grey, swung into action. They demanded
that NPS ﬁle an environmental impact
statement as required by the Environ—
mental Protection Act of 1969 plus state-
ments required by the National Histori-
cal Preservation Act of 1966. Construc-
tion at Dam 4 stopped.

The new Canal and River Rights
Council also moved, calling for copies of
the mysterious NPS master plan for canal
restoration and for public input now
and after the long-delayed naming of

  




 

C&O Canal

the Congressionally—mandated nineteen-
member canal advisory commission. The
ball was carried by the association’s
twenty-ﬁve-year-old executive director,
Margaret Perkins. But the cheering (and
perhaps signal calling) on the sidelines
came from none other than the redoubt—
able Bill Douglas. He helped to set up
this new militant partner of his old hik—
ing group, the C&O Canal Association.
His wife, Cathy, serves on the six-mem—
ber board.

Canal and River Rights Council board
member Tony Smith, also president of
the powerful National Parks and Con—
servation Association, ﬁred off an indig-
nant letter to NPS director George Hart-
zog Jr., who thanked him and promised
to look into the matter.

But his look apparently did not extend
a few miles above the Dam 4 region to
Dam 5. During the week of September
20-25, part of the towpath there was
paved with concrete. Other parts were
graded and gravel-packed with accom-
panying destruction of plant life. And
lost forever were the cherished marks
against one cliff of towropes of barge-
hauling mules. Parts of the cliff were
gone—blasted by dynamite.

After this discovery, the next few days
were spent in trying—to no avail—to get
NPS’S explanation for its “ofﬁcial vandal-
ism.”

None came.

On October 1, Berkson obtained a
temporary restraining order from Federal
Judge C. Stanley Blair.

The protests went forth from Con—
gressmen Mathias, Beall, and Gude, and
Dr. VValter Boardman, chairman of the
ever—vigilant Potomac Valley Conserva—
tion and Recreation Council, putting
conservationists’ demands on the line.

Immediate replies came from the NPS.
Yes, they would ﬁle an environmental
statement. The master plan would be cir-
culated to the yet-to—be named advisory
councﬂ.

NPS offered no satisfactory explana—
tion of the crudeness of its “restoration.”
It seemed not to have heard the charge
that the towpath had been widened only
to accommodate Park Service trucks and
to facilitate the hauling of powerboats
for launching in Park Service marinas.
But NPS did say that it is dedicated to
improvements “to romance the imagina—
tion.”

A broken romance, some canal lovers
believe. And conservationists have a few
words of caution. Tom Hahn is author
of the Towpath Guide, chairman of the
C&O Canal Association’s Level Walkers
group, and editor of its newsletter. Justice
Douglas is looking to him, as well as the
CRRC, to carry on the old ideals. “There
is a basic issue here,” Hahn says, “and
we’ve got to get it straightened out. \Vin—
ning or losing a battle here or there is not
the way to proceed.” D

 

 

Ann Cottrell Free, who raises a warn-
ing ﬂag on page 15 about the future of
our new C&O Canal National Historical
Park, has lived for years near the canal.
Her previous \VASHINGibNIAN articles
were “No Room, Save in the Heart,” an
April 1971 report on our city’s over-
population of pets, and a guide to \\’ash—
ington’s conservation establishment, in
our April 1970 issue.

 

 

 

Reprinted from the December, 1971 issue.
Copyright c 1971, Washington Magazine, Inc.

thﬂwa I I - ﬁ -

MAGAZINE

 




«MEI/no .
990 (a); 7

3751/ [0/60/5740 .
AV) £9 hung

ﬂu... 01/1575» )5 (3/044 .
7i! £011.“. ?W/ﬂ M”

16” b4 m )éuQ’ 7:447

falcl )MMQAJ ML

r ou- J’Jtﬁnzu (“MAM/Tub
a; a.‘ ého-u) Clap-7%!“ SP/mZT/J"
‘0‘” [5‘7" ﬂ”! Afwdy/ua-
/ mall [ax gsf- Alnur

W [fax/d fizz”. M

/72,¢.b1’,

ANN COTTRELL FREE (MRS. JAMES FREE)
4700 Jamestown Road Wesfmoreland Hiiis
Washingfon, DC. 20016 301 »

 




@hc inciting glider?! it. CL.

\

 

V7 L
Jedi/if WM

WASHtNGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25, 197i

 

 

By ANN COTTRELL FREE
Special to The Star

Glad tidings are going forth
for 40 million animals this hol-
iday season. .

The unfestive-lOoking Feder—
al Register, published yester-
day, brings the tid in gs
couched in the legal language

of Department of Agriculture
veterinarians and lawyers.
They are the detailed regula-
tions for carrying out the 1970
Animal Welfare Act which
went into effect yesterday.

The regulations do not mean
freedom for dogs, cats, moo»
keys, ocelots, elephants and
other species incarcerated in
laboratories, zoos and circus—
es. But they do serve notice
that more humane treatment
is soon on the way.

Standards Framed

For the past 12 months,
since President Nixon signed
the legislation, veterinarians
of Agriculture’s Animal Health
Division have been framing
minimum standards for care,
handling, feeding, watering,
sanitizing transporting ani—
mals and for euthanasia.

The law goes much further
than the 1966 animal welfare
law, which covered a mere 4
million animals ~—- dogs, cats,
primates, guinea pigs, ham--
ters, rabbits -— handled by
research animal dealers and
by laboratories prior to actual
experimentation.

Now, 36 million more ani~
mats—according to a “guess—
timate” from Agriculture’s
Dr. D.F. Schwindaman -— are
covered. Not only are the rules
tightened for dealers and re—
search animal auctions, but
the standards are extended to
the laboratories for the first
time.

Some Still Excluded

Added to the six species a - I

ready covered is nearly every
known species, except aquatic
animals such as the dolphin,
birds, and the la b o r a t o r y
“workhorses” the lowly

white mouse and rat. These
could be added later when
more money is available Fm-
laz'in': more inspector

ltetail pet shops are exempt
but new regulations cover
many “wild” animals sold in
these l'tﬂlElli places as well as
wild animals behind bars in
zoos.

The sight of closely confined
animals will not immediately
disappear in zoo or laboratory,
since the new regulations re-
quire only space for comforta-
ble postural and social adjust-
ments. But perhaps due to
protests after draft proposals
were circulated in mid-
October, Agriculture now ex-
pects to study the space-
exercise problem further and
may propose some changes.

Am on g those protesting
were the legislation‘s original
sponsor, Rep. William White—
hurst, R-‘v’a., Mrs. Roger Ste~
vens of the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, Frank
McMahon of the Humane, So—
ciety of the United States, Jo
V. h’lorgan Jr. of the American
llumane Association, and local
leaders such as Mrs. Paul
Kiernarn of the \tt’ashington
Animal Rescue League, Mrs.
Pauline Buel of the Montgom~
ery County Humane Society
ant Mrs. Jane. Ream of the
Maryland Animal Welfare As-
socialion.

“Honor System"

Inspection will be carried
out by Agriculture veterinari-
ans and trained staffers. Pen-
M

alties for infractions are fairly
severe.

Locally, Agriculture inspec—
tors will be Checking on
eonuncrcial laboratories and
othil teaching hospitals as
Georgetown, George Washing-
ton and Howard Universities.
Federal animal-using estab-
lishments. such as the Nation-
al Institutes of Health, are ex—
pected to follow the “honor
system” in carrying out the
new standards, as is the feder-
ally supported National Zoo.

Any suspected unlawful con-
ditions can be referred in the
District and Maryland to Dr.‘
M. A. Mixon, Room 510, Hart-
wick Building, 4321 Hartwiek
Road, College Park, 20740.
Phone: 301-388-8707, and in
Virginia to Dr. E. C. Rouke-
ma, Room 204, 1444 East Main
St., Richmond, 23219. Phone:
703-782-2774.

l _
l
t
i
t
t
t
l
t

 

 

 




 

.wm-FE/ v

u N‘ v- ~— vyw v,

8:4“ THE SUNDAY STAR
. Washington, D; C., November It}, 7971

 

 

A Poisonou‘

{A
L.

3&3???

-3v‘%‘:'~;

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

, Special to The Star

For the past 25 years (and in some instances as long

‘5. 55 years) two kinds of anguished voices have been
crying out in ever greater intensity in two kinds of
wilderness of our land, _

. One is the voice of the wild creatures of the western
Wilderness and range, screaming in agony as poisons
tear at their vital organs. , ‘

The other is the voice of men and women of town,
city and countryside calling out in. the wilderness of
public indifference to “Stop, for God‘s sake,-this sense-
less slaughter.” ~

To them the poisoning, trapping, gassing, shooting
and clubbing of thousands of coyotes. bobcats, bears,
prairie dogs, foxes, badgers, porcupines and many
other animals . and birds is like the reenactment of

7‘ ying animal My-lais every hour on the hour.

But to others the poisoning and the pain are but
necessary steps toward reaching justifiable ends. Sheep
timbers, federal, state and private animal killers

' chin, for example —— but cannot prove mthat sheep

lad lamb losses are running to $17 million annually due
to coyOtes and other animals marked as predators. If
innocent, meaning “non-target,” animals get, killed, it is
Mt their tough luck.

. Much of the killing is done by 500 to 600 government
agents deployed throughout the Western states, scatter
ing strychnine pellets, setting thousands of cyanide
“coyOte-getters,” trapping, snaring and hunting from
airplanes, and injecting thousands of hunksof bait meat
with one of the world’s most deadly and painful poisons,
Gompound 1080. '

" ' A single ounce can kill 20,000 coyotes. or 20,000 dogs,
q; 70,000 cats, or 200 adult human beings. In addition,
animals feeding on the poisoned bodies of 1080 victims
become, in turn, victims themselves.

_' I first became aware of 1080 and the government’s

dator control program in 1959 through an article in

,_ old Nature Magazine by the late Marguerite Smelser
' 7 San Bernardino, Calif. Here is part of what she said

{the article, called "Uncontrollahle Control."

"The Long Fight Against

5 Program

 

l

.l

 




”ContesResoiution

The resolution was endorsed by leaders from the
Garden Club of America, the Humane Society of the
United States, the Massachusetts Audubon Society, Biol~
ogy Teachers of New York and many others.

.The resolution needed a congressional sponsor, so
Miss Harris, joined by rancher-naturalist Ian McMillan
of Shandon, Calif., visited key congressional leaders -—
but got nowhere. .

But a young Pennsylvania congressmanfSilvio
Come, advised instead introduction of a House resolu-
tion for the appointment of a special congressional com-4
mittee to study the problem. He introduced sucha res-
olution~but no action was taken. _

. Miss Harris and Defenders had lit a fire, however.
When Stewart Udall became Secretary of the Interior
glider John Kennedy, one of his first acts was to appoint
an impartial and prestigious five—man commission head-
bd by Dr. A. Starker Leopold professor of wildlife at the '
University of California.

During the three-year wait for the LeOpold report

other action came to a stop, save for the protests. '
Widely circulated were the remarks of the highly re~
spected Texan Dr. Frank Dobie, who wrote “I found out
while writing my book, ‘The Voice of the Coyote,’ that
the hierarchy of the ‘control’ cared for nothing at all
except to keep killing and to increasing their jobs.”
Fear increased that unless something was done
immediately to stop the poisoning of the “townships" of
the prairie dogs. not a single black-footed ferret would
be left. This little creature —-— now on the endangered
Species list of the same Department of Interior—has
the misfortune of depending only on the prairie dog for
its food. (The prairie dog is unpopular with sheepmen
because it likes the same grass land as the sheep‘
much of which is public land, belonging to the tax-
payer.) r

 




, .. ”Passion for Poisons’

“Such is the current passion for poisons that yearly,
upori‘imillion of American acres, federal and state
agencies are spreading tons of grain and meat impreg-
nated with the most spectacularly deadly poison known
to man, sodium fluoracetate. . . . Commonly called
Compound 1080 this all-killing poison was developed by
chemists during the second World War when red squill
was hard to get. This dastardly poison plays nofavor-
lies. Its chain action kills much of the Wildlife in target
areas. . . . Many scientists realize the danger, but are
unable to change official policies. Poisoning is big busi-
ness.”

Mrs. Smelser wasn’t the first to complain about the
government’s killing program. It had been set up in 1915
in the old Biological Survey of the Department of
Agriculture, and by 1931 the American Society of Mam-
malogists Was calling for an investigation. The survey
was termed “the most destructive organized agency
that has ever menaced so many species of our native
fauna.” Falling before the killers were rare timber
wolves. red foxes, golden and bald eagles, wolverines,
badgers, blackfooted ferrets, prairie dogs. In short,

’ almost everything that flew or ran free that conceiv-
ably could disturb the pattern of profitable CI‘Op, timber
and livestock agriculture.

The program eventually became part of the Preda
tor and Rodan control Branch of the Fish and Wildllir
Service of the interior impartment. it apparent},
turning aside protests as successfully as had its prede-
cessor.

One of the persons reading Mrs. Smelser’s article,
and at the same time gathering information on her own,
was red-haired Miss Mary Hazell Harris of Washington.
who was employed by the Public Document Library of
the Government Printing Office. Almost all of her free
tithe was spent carrying on the work of a small,
Washingtombased national organization, the Defenders
of Wildlife.

Western conservationists, and even several ex-
trappers, unable to get a hearing from either the De»
pertinent of Interior or their congressmen, had turned to
Defenders of Wildlife for help. With Miss Harris, who
was Defenders’ secretary, taking the lead, the gI‘OUp
decided to go all out and ask the entire Congress for
help by establishing a “Commission of competent ap-
pointees not connected with such activities to conduct
under congressional authority an impartial investigation
into predator control activities of 30vernment agen-
ales.”

 




{orgies Shootings

The ,‘sisoning and shooting from airplanes of bald
and golden eagles that came to light this summer in
hearings held by Senator Gale McGee, D—Wyo., may
have been in this tradition, but it held little weight with
congressional upholders of the flag, the eagle. God and
country. _

The eagle poisoning incident helped to trigger a
petition of seven conservation and humane groups to
William D. Ruckelshaus. administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, to help stop interstate ship~
ment of poisons used to kill coyotes. It named specifical-
ly Compound 1080, thallium sulphate, strychnine and
cyanide, claiming that widespreadeSe was claiming
many victims, including human beings, pet dogs and
birds.

These days on Capitol Hill, where Miss Harris and
Mr. l‘vchillan had such a cool reception 10 years ago,
congressmen are hastening to get their names on legis-
lation to curb predator control activities. To-date, more
than 4:? members have sponsored legislation.

in l‘lll. 867a, introduced by Rep. Morris Udall,
IT)--Ariz.. a new approach is taken: abolition of the
federal predator activities and substitution of a program
to reimburse ranchers {or their losses to predators
Lacking a “body count" ~u=liich is said to be impossible
due to the iria<wssibility oi the {locks on the range
~~~methods of counting could be difficult and as ques-
tionable as those used today.

This “body count." problem will be explored at
length in the upcoming hmrines before Dingell’s sub-
committee. At that time government experts will. defend
their positions on the grounds that ll’lCi't’ is less wastage
of animals and less cruelty it the job is done by experts.

A new dimension, however. will he added to the
hearingsmwhich probably will be delayed until the big}
gest blockbuster of all is dropped. This will be the report
on government predator control jointlv commissioned by
Interior Secretary Rogers Merton and Environmental
Quality chief Russell Train. A seven-man commission of
wildlife scientists is carrying it out.

Sounds like a replay of 1961434 with the old lealL
LeOpold study? Maybe. Maybe not. The climate of
concern is different today. The conclusions of the com~
missionwa'liich are apt to be even Stronger than those of
the Leopold groupmmay write an end to the program

Whatever the report says about coyotes and fast--
disappearing wildlife, time is running out. on sheep. too.
(In the early 605 when the Leopold study was made
there were 33 million sheep, in 1942, 56 million. Today
there are but 19 million). This is not due to coyotes ~--but
public preference for beafsteaks to lamb chops, orlon
and other synthetics to wool. imports to homegrown.

 




tiiicavenger Role

3 Throughout these years, scientists and naturalists
‘repeatedly furnished proof from post-rnortem stomach
examinations of coyotes that their main diet was com:
posed of animals other than sheep—animals such as
mice and rabbits. But as the poisons killed off their
natural prey, they were forced sometimes to depart,
from their scavenger role of eating sheep, dead of
natural causes or the bringing down of the weak and
the Crippled, and to seek the healthier ones.

Finally in March 1964 the Leopold report appeared.
Though it approved 1080 if used properly, its conclusions
Were devastatingly critical of Interior’s program:

'si “Far more animals are being killed than would be
~mquired for effective protection of livestock, agricultur-
‘31, craps, wildland resources and human health. This
unnecessary destruction is further augmented by state,
,county and individual endeavors. The federal govern-
ment, it would seem, should be setting an example in
proper scientific management. of all wildlife resources
with a View to the public interest and welfare. Instead,
the branch of Predator and Rodent Control has deveL
raped a semi—automonous bureaucracy whose function in
many localities bears scant relationship to real need and
less still to scientific management.”
As for the c0y0tes-which at that time were being
killed by goVernment men at the rate of more than
90,000 annually——the Leopold commission said this: "In

many regions. of the United States . . . wh'ire there are
m sheet“; ,I . the (ittjx't‘lt? nevertheless has been essential»-
ly extirpateti. . _ For ercry person whose sheep .mz:3: he
molested by a coyote there area thousanlother: who
would thrill to lzea: It coitote moms in the night."

The Leopold group asked for severaireforms: ap-
pointment of an art-vism‘ board. an amplified resei-ircti
program with less eiiip‘iasi: on Lifting and (fill‘ltillil’lé‘i'l'.
and more carct'ui use of lttttu.

Indeed, some t'liuz’ifgiw \H'l‘t" made. hot txz'iiiitilc. the
name of the bran-ch o: l"lt-‘tlliltl‘:‘ and Rodent Control was
changed to the. Division. of \tElillife Services. Within the
division, there are three hranetu’s: animal damage
control, l)t-35ll(:lt‘ltt monitoring and wildlife. enhancement
But. still most of the money ;-i\'.:-iilahle from Federal.
State and private funds is earmarked for the killing
arm. animal damage control.

After the Leonold report, some conservationiz-sts. re
laxed. .
But not Miss Harris. Mrs. Smelser andespeciiiiy
Defenders‘ western field representative. Dr. Alfred
litter. ills reports filled the pages of the l-)efender< of
Wildlife News. which had grown from a six. or eight-rings;
newsletter leaflet in a handsome 200-paee. quarterly.
edited by Miss Hindus-”who had retired from her grit»
e‘ntiimt ioh to become both editor (Fiﬁ-l e'iccuiixe
secretary of the increasinaty potent. organizatfsnn it;
fitter run only followed up on :‘Eil'tlly reports of pi ‘
damagewund found nnnem he had the ill lit-cit 1.1:? La ”.12.
his own dot; tilled by lithe hail, 3
Another person who did no: relmx w
Diiigelt. li-Mictr. win; introduce-d leuiaiw
examine the predator z-mairal program :1: . , .
activities. In February tutti; his. Fish and ti”zii;:::t’<= «:4:-
committee held two days of hearings, wlnrii tireiietw "il’
more evidence indicating: that the controi problem: '
out (if hand.

 




de Acts .

In 1969 a larger public began to learn more about
the poison programs and such innocent victims as the
black-footed ferret, whose virtual demise was described -
in the New Yorker by Faith McNulty, author of the
earlier “Whooping Crane.” Now in book form, “Must
They Die?” is published by Doubleday.

Public interest also was heightened by the passage
of the Endangered Species law and the 1969 Environ-
mental Protection Act. The latter calls on all federal
agencies undertaking action affecting the environment
to file statements on environmental impact with the
Council on Environmental Quality.

The lack of such a statement from, the Interior
Department will be the major thrust of a hearing within
the next few weeks before the US. District Court here,
Three conservation and humane organizations will seek
to enjoin Interior from‘carrying on its animal damage
control work until a statement is filedmand found ade-
quate. .

Last March attorneys for the Defenders of Wildlife
and the Sierra Club filed suit, asking not only that the
environmental impact statement be filed but that the
Interior Department cease its killing programs until
and unless better means are found to protect. 153 nan-
target animals, including badgers, ring~taih~ti inns, switt
kit and gray foxes and golden and bald eagles. it asked,
of course, for intensive studies of bitter :i'iethods
handling the suppression of the t.:i:g-;:jr-f_ animals, like.
coyotes, as well.

The Washingtonbased Humane Suclcijl shit the ljni'twi
States an! its California branch tiled a six" saint sin»-
1 a "’ “strain?“ T. 7.

4t "V “a Qttz‘izf‘t‘ti's“ ”Fin ”4' i . .
nah“: >li it as the tuymtts nt‘ in itzaiti‘: Sim :umr' urge?
exotics. it alleged that the animal damage control
practices amount to “a systematic. self-perpetuating
program of indescribable cruelties, willful torture. . .
It stated that a number of Federal laws have made it
clear that our na‘tiOn’s policy is one of “prevention of
needless suffering of animals.” ‘ ,

Public Enjoyment

It charged that placement of poisons and “coyote
getters” over large areas of public grazing land inter-
fered with “full movement and enjoyment . . . by the
public at large."

Further impetus was given to interest in the preda—
tor control program with the recent publication of
“Slaughter the Animals, Poiso‘n the Earth” (Simon and
SChuster) by a Colorado—based writer, Jack Olsen. Lash~
ing out, Olsen says: “Seldom has a government agency
spent so much time and energy in the official rapine of
its own lands, and seldom has the rapine been carried
out with such dedication, with such gusto and verve.”

But he has an explanation for some of this zest after
spending weeks with government agents:

“They were simply poorly directed inheritors of the
tradition that won the west, a tradition that there are
God-fearing Americans on the one hand, and every other
living‘thlng on the other hand, and the slaughter of
anything in this second group—~Indians, buffaloes, coy~
ateswisacoeptable. I concluded that there was nothing
morally i wron Ivan: these men; they were sun ly
trap. d” in, a 01m Wayne movie; they were locke in-
am rcentury.”

 




March 2A, 1971

Reprints Department
WASHINGTONIAN

1218 Connecticut Avenue, N.w.
'Waehington, D.C. 20036

Gentlemen:

Please send ten (10) copiee of the article, "No Room Save
in the Heart," by ann Cottrell Free which appears in
the April issue of the Washingtonian.

A check in the amount of one dollar and twenty cents is
enclosed to cover costs.

Ycur cooperation is appreciated.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. Charles W. Cooke)
Secretary to Hrs. Stevens

Enclosure

 




ﬁle madgonmg @mmfﬁ (.3me12 5001213, 1 nc.

8710 Brookville Road, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

David L. Scull
President

Mrs. Henry A. Gardner
First Vice-President

Thomas D. Coyle, Ph.D.
Second Vice-President

Mrs. Stephen B. Cooke
Secretary

Ms. Billie K. Long, CPA
Treasurer

Mrs. James 8. Free
Chairman, Executive Committee

Mrs. Stewart M. Brandborg
Mrs. Thomas D. Coyle
Mrs. M. F. Donegan
Mrs. Gerald R. Ewald
Mrs. Ralph Gordon
Joseph V. Grebb

Mrs. Edward Lewis Jr.
E. Brooke Lee Ill

Jo V. Morgan Jr.

Leo Paulin

Mrs. Peter W. C. Salem
Peter W. C. Solem
Robert Vechery

Ms. Bernice Warrington
Executive Director,
Animal Shelter

SUMMER 1973

585-2933
585-2934
585-2935

Dear Fellow Members:

It is with pleasure —— indeed, our
joy —- to bring you GOOD NEWS for the ANIMALS
Of MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

HIGHLIGHTS of the last 6 months:

 

* Nearly DOUBLE the Budget. Renegotiation
of the contract with Montgomery County will
mean:

-even greater concentration on the
welfare of animals.

-decent wages for employees,fringe bene-
fits and protections, never before
available.

-turnback of administrative duties to
the County (dog license processing,
complaint handling, leash law enforce—
mentiu 4

* New Shelter Approved. A site east of
Rockville has finally been acquired.

 

-a radical new design - clean, quiet,
spacious — is in progress.

* Animal Birth Control Clinic. The County
Council has given preliminary approval for the
first governmentally Sponsored Spay and Neuter
Clinic in the eastern United States!

-clinic to be located at the new
shelter (which incidentally will
mean regular medical service for
Shelter animals, for the first time.)

( This is recycled paper)

 




* New Animal Laws - stricter enforcement by new County Animal
Control Office. '

 

-Council Approval' of a new informal "appeals board" for animal
cases, promising speedy alleviation of cruelty and control
of dangerous animals.

New Fund-raising, Publicity and Volunteer Program.

—formation of Friends of Montgomery County Humane Society -
fund-raising‘unit.

-Horse show August 19, Potomac.

-County Fair Booth,(PleaseSUPply'"country items".)
—Flea Market, September 9, Potomac "Cross Roads".
—articles and pictures in local newspapers.

-volunteers vigorous in all phases of Society activity.

I . ANIMAL NEWS:

Our report to you opens with a few statistics about
animals MCHS has helped. In these stark facts lie the heart
of our program to alleviate suffering and to educate the public.

Animals Handled: In the,sig month period, January to June,
1973, we operated under financial handicaps, limited personnel
and equipment. Nevertheless,_we.handled 8,327 live animals,
ranging from horses to gerbils. Dogs and puppies accounted for
4,415 of these animals; cats and kittens for 3A67. We found
homes or returned to their owners 1,223 dogs and puppies and 283
cats and kittens. Trained technicians, in an atmosphere of quiet

 

 




dignity and solicitude, euthanized 6,569 animals. (Most of
these should never have been born and serve as a sad reminder
that we must bend every effort to cut down on needless breeding.)

 

Spay-neuter programs: No animals were released for adoption
unless they were already neutered or their new owners paid in
advance for spay— —neuter certificates that are honored by veter—
inarians. Your donations were used to give spay- -neuter assistance
to owners of 700 animals who could not afford regular fees.

 

Adoptions: During the six month period and to the date of
this letter, the adoption rate rose steadily. Homes of a pros-
pective dog owner are checked before release of the animal. Volunteer
Audrey Hatakayama has inspected many homes.

 

Cruelty: During the six—month period we investigated more
than 400 cruelty reports, ranging from beatings and torturing
to sheer neglect. We removed from owners or custodians 54
cruelly- treated dogs and puppies, 25 cats and kittens, one
lamb, two ponies, one goat, one guinea pig, two rabbits, a
number of birds and small animals such as gerbils. Two court
cases: a guilty verdict on one, not guilty on the other.

Three cases are now pending. Our principal investigator is
Ms. Ingrid Newkirk, assisted by Ann Campbell.

(Cruelty cases are prosecuted by the State's
Attorney under Maryland State anti-cruelty law. At our sug—
gestion, the County Council is now framing a general Montgomery
County anti—cruelty law as well.)

Wildlife: MCHS wildlife specialist, Mrs. Thomas D. Coyle,
repOrts that she and her hard- -working volunteer assistants
received since January more than 1,000 phone calls for advice
on what— —to— —do about wildlife in distress —- from raccoons in
chimneys to how to feed and handle baby birds, squirrels,
oppossums. Hundreds of wild Lreatures were raised or nursed
to health by Mrs. Coyle and her assistants in their homes,
and released to the wild when possible. Mrs. Coyle can be
reached by calling the Shelter.

II. SHELTER NEWS:

Staff: In March the Board appointed Ms. Bernice Warrington

 




of McLean, Va. as Executive Director of the Animal Shelter.

A dedicated humanitarian with practical experience in shelter
management, she is an immediate past President of the Fairfax
Humane Society. As a humane officer she has investigated and
prosecuted many cruelty cases.

Until Ms. Warrington came aboard, Ms. Edna Cooke kindly
obtained a leave of absence from her post as Executive Direc-
tor of the Alexandria Shelter, to direct our Shelter. Our
thanks not only to Ms. Cooke, but to the Alexandria Animal
Welfare League and the City of Alexandria.

We have a new and able kennel manager in,Ms. Carolyn
"Nicky" Ratliff.

Personnel benefits: The new contract negotiated with the
County's Department of Environmental Protection, provides for
putting our Shelter employees, who until now were the lowest
paid in the Washington area, onto County payscales and looks
forward to integrating them in the County's personnel benefits
system. Most important, our employees can now look forward
to regular annual raises of about 5 percent and periodic cost
of living boosts - the same as afforded County personnel.

 

Physical Plant: We continue to make the totally inadequate
Brookville Road shelter as comfortable as possible for animals and
personnel. Nearly all of the Society's trucks —- which it has
paid for in the past —- reached the point of no repair, so we
bought a new truck, but we will be reimbursed by the County,
which will also assume all capital expenditures, such as trucks,
and will take care of operating expenses such as utilities,
telephones and repairs. Shelter Chairman, Dr. Thomas Coyle,
put in many hours helping to arrange for improvements in equip—
ment and operating procedures? ‘

 

New Shelter: Conferences are being held with County archi- .
tects and planners on the long awaited new shelter to be constructed
on nearly a 5 acre tract, just East of Rockville, off Route
28 on Gude Drive. It will be situated in semi-wooded area and
will provide an ideal park—like setting, where we can conduct
obedience classes and hold other activities. The best examples
of modern shelters throughout the U.S.A. are being obtained and,

 

 




as far as money permits, the facilities will be top notch.
It should be completed by the end of 1974.

The County Council,at this writing, looks with favor on
county sponsorship of a non-profit spay clinic therefore we are
providing space for this badly needed facility ~ the second, of
this type in the U.S.A. and the first in the East! i

III. ANIMAL CONTROL NEWS:

County's role: Under the new contract being worked out with
the County's Department of Environmental Protection, its Animal
Control Office has taken over the processing of dog license
applications.’ This removes a heavy burden from us. Tags for
new owners of dogs adopted from the shelter will still be available
at our counter. Also, the County Office isfurnishimgus with
copies of all license records so that we can return lost licensed
dogs to their owners.

 

\ The Animal Control Office is assuming the responsibility
of managing the annual rabies clinics. The County's Animal
Control Office will also handle all complaints about barking
dogs and other nuisance problems. Heretofore, this has been

a Police responsibility —— but with the other demands on "Mont—
gomery's finest" animals didn't rate high in the priorities
along with people problems!

Important: The Animal Control Office will put eventually
l4 inspectors into the field to enforce the leash law. They
will be empowered to issues notices of fines -- like parking
tickets -- to ascertained owners.of dogs running at large.

 

These inspectors, however, will not physically handle
animals. All collections of animals whose owners cannot be
discovered —- or outright bewildered strays -— will continue to
be handled by our humanely trained personnel in MCHS vans.

They will answer calls about animals in distress and respond
for "pick—up" calls from the County inspectors.

License and Identity tags: We cannot stress strongly enough

 




how necessary itisthat you keep your dogs on your own property --
and to be sure that it -— or they -- are licensed. In this
connection, we might point out that the County Council is seriously
considering not only a house-to—house dog census for checking

on licensed dogs -— but an elevation in license fee of breedable
dogs, Le unspayed or unneutered.

If you get a fairly stiff fine for permitting your dog
to run at large, don't blame us. We have warned you. The
County is cracking down.

Underthe new system, lost or stray dogs can still be
traced by a call to the Shelter. For even faster identification,
you can purchase an I.D. tag. Get your I.D. tag through Ms.
Lawrence Lundy, 1610 Marshall St.,Rockville, Maryland 20851,
telephone, 424-8175 who is turningover all the profits of sales
to MCHS for the Spay Fund.‘ So send her $2.00, made out to
her if using check, listing dog's name, your name and address
and phone number; noting whether you want small, medium or
large. She will mail the I.D. tag as soon as possible.

Appeals System: Biting dogs can cause seemingly insoluable
problems. Resolution in the Courts takes a long time and finds
the judiciary not usually "up" on man—beast problems. The
County Council, therefore, proposes -— at our suggestion --
an Animal Matters Hearing Board. It will be composed of a
veterinarian, a MCHS member and public members. If its decision
is not accepted -- then, on to the courts!

 

MCHS' Review: This is an appropriate time to mention that
the MCHS, under the terms of the contract with the County, has
set up its own review and appeals board to hear complaints
from members of the public who believe they were denied service
from our Shelter. Some persons; though their yards are not
fenced and no one is home all day, continue to think they
should be permitted to adopt dogs.

 

IV. FINANCIAL NEWS:

Money: Central to the heart of the matter is money -
so we save it for the middle of our report to you!

Budget: The figure you have been waiting for is $232,000
annually plus takeover of operating and capital expenses.
Previously the MCHS struggled along on about $150,000 from
the County, never asking for more though the burden of handling
animal control and welfare grew heavier. Free of animal control
functions, we will now have enough monetary support from the
County -- supplemented by the funds that come from you, the
membership - to do properly the animal welfare and education
job that desperately needs to be done.

 




We have dug into our own pockets for veterinary medical
supplies, such as the distemper, hepatatis and leptospirosis
shots, we feel puppies should receive. We have often depended
on charitable service from.County veterinarians for emergency
help. Now, the County will give us an assist on this so we
can obtain regular veterinary help. But, this will not be enough,
so we will continue to depend on the good hearts of the community's
DVMs who, in the last few months, have rallied to our cause.

Money-raising: During the last months, MCHS held several
money-raising events like bake and rummage sales, raising
about $1200 —— thanks to the Ringland family and generous
donations of saleable goods and volunteer sales people. These
sales will continue so the need for "rummage" continues. If
you have household effects, furniture, books, objets d'art,UEHSSELLERS)
good clothing and "junque" please contact Mrs. Arthur Ringland,
562—4498; Mr. and Mrs. Peter Solem, 320-3983; Mrs. Edward Lewis,
530-5800 and Mrs. Dorothea Cooke, 299-5128. They will tell
you where to deliver your goods. Also, we badly need storage
places to keep things between sales. Notify any of the above
if you have space.

 

More Money—raising: The Friends of the Montgomery County
Humane Society (bless 'em), headed by Mrs. Gerald (Sue) Ewald,
have scheduled three events for the benefit of MCHS.

 

Free Horse Show, Sunday, August 19 at the Chauncey James
"High Horse" Farm on River Road near Potomac.

County Fair Booth, August 20—26, at Gaithersburg Fair
Grounds. Humane literature to be distributed and
handicraft and many attractive items for sale. Contact
Sue Ewald for details, 948-5540.

V .5 ~f)!

Flea Market, September 9 at the Cross Roads in Potomac.

Theater Party to be scheduled.

Obedience Classes: Next year we hope to resume our own
obedience classes. Apply to Shelter for a list of area obedience
classes.

 

V. EDUCATION NEWS:

Education: We are now holding discussions with Curriculum
officers of the County School system in connection with inte-
grating humane education into the regular curriculum in all
grades. We have furniShedthem with vast amounts of "resource"
material, teaching kits, supplemented by our own memoranda
and information about animals in this county. We hold out

high hopes.

 

 




To meet the every—day desperate need to keep our citizenry
informed and, especially our school children on animal control
and welfare problems, we have received a monetary green light
from the County tOEHﬁﬂxura full-time humane educator.

Media: Newspaper cooperation these past months has been
nothing short of fantastic. Our thanks to the Sentinel, the
Advertiser, the Journal, the Tribune and Gaithersburg Gazette.
They have all carried pictures of animals for adoption that have
been furnished to us by photographer Karen Selsky and the studio
of Paul Segal. Our thanks to them. The Sentinel has printed
a number of columns on animal care and MCHS role in the county,
written (but unsigned) by Joan Donegan, with the exception of
the wildlife column by Janet Coyle. Favorable response to this
column has resulted in the Sentinel's donation of 10 percent
of the proceeds from new subscriptions obtained during its
current subscription drive.

 

 

New Logos: Our new logos shown on this letterhead kindly
was designed by Mrs. Phyllis Connor and her daughter, Sandy
Connor. We want to broadcast our slogan far and wide —- for,
indeed, "Compassion is our Cause".

 

HELP! We need all kinds of volunteers, from expert typists
to people with "know how"in the media field, so that we can
help work—up T.V. spots which have been offered us by several
stations. Notify Mrs. Cooke, Mrs. Free, Mrs. Donegan or Mrs.
Warrington.

VI . MEMBER NEWS:

Heartfelt thanks: to those wonderful volunteers that have
given so much of themselves in behalf of the animals. The list
would be incomplete, because surely someone would be inadvertently
omitted. So to all of you: fhmmage sale workers, pre—adoption
house checkers, counter workers, rescuers of animals in distress,
contributors of materials or Checks —- heartfelt thanks from
the entire Society. Also a very special thanks to Representatives
of the County Executive and the County Council. They all have
showed empathy and understanding.

 

Memberships: Keep on —- right on... And though many im—
provements in financing and service to animals are now at hand,
support of a large and strong Society is absolutely vital to
their continuance. We, therefore, ask all of you to make a real
effort to renew your Membership and to recruit new members.

 

 

 




Important! Membership Renewals Due October l, 1973.
In order to simplify the Society's bookkeeping records and
curtail mailing costs, all memberships will henceforth date
from October 1. To be a member in good standing at the annual
meeting, all dues must be paid not later than 30 days following
September 1 of each year. However, those members who have joined
or renewed their membership at any time during 1973 prior to
Sept. 1 will be considered members in good standing through
August 31, 1974. Anyone who has renewed his/her membership
but has failed to receive a new membership card should contact

Mrs. Donegan (656-8755)

 

 

The form below is for your convenience. Please complete
and detach the form and mail with your check to 8710 Brookville
Road, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910.

Once again, our deepest thanks in behalf of the animals.

MONTGOMERY COUNTY HUMANE SOCIETY

3&4 K. (”42/

David L. Scull
President

{/m g/éZw/Vé‘stl ... ‘

Mrs. James S. Free
Chairman, Executive Committee

 

 

I would like to support Montgomery County-“Humane Society in its work for animals. i

$ Membership dues ($5.00 family, $3.00 single. Under 18 non voting. $1.00
Junior). 2 f

NEW C] RENEWAL D
$ The Spaying and Neutering Fund.
$ The Wildlife Fund.

Nmne

 

Address _

All gifts to MCHS are deductible for income tax purposes.

 

 

 




8710 BROOKVILLE ROAD - SILVER SPRING.
MARYLAND 20910

meamm

“a," n "M . *3
MI." (1-6 HIPS Z1

oq= Stevena
1686 34th 3 Peat, NW
Washington, 0.0 20007

 




 

 

@1112 Evening ﬁtter

THE WASHINGTON DAILY NEWS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
D. 303,506 SUN. 338,862

NOV 1 9 1972 55%

w
.. _ JV wd-N’hlf‘w

Posfai ,ServicemLoo

By ANN COTTRELLJ‘ FREE

Has the new US Postal Service—4 with the
dictionary’s unwitting help — found a new and
heretofore overlooked source of funds?

Is it so hard up that it now looks to lost, sick,
injured dogs, cats and other animals in distress
for help out of its current ﬁnancial hole of $2.1
billion? ‘

Those are the questions being asked by
hundreds of humane societies as they foresee their
special third-class bulk mail rate being taken
away.

Soon the Postal Service will give them the
answer they’ve been waiting for since late sum-
mer.

If the answer is “yes,” it will mean that
nationwide possibly more than 5 million animal
welfare dollars will be plunked down on postage.

That’s the amount the American Humane As-

 

sociation estimates will have to go for postage

rather than for aid «and shelter of animals.

“IF WE ARE denied the philanthrOpic rate of
1.7 cents per. piece of mail and have to go to the
4.8 cents regular third class rate, we will «go into
the hole at least $1,500,” says Dr.~Jean Kelty of
Ohio’s small but vigorous Animal Charity. “We
have a large mailing program to alert the public
and members to so many dreadful cruelties,” she
said. “We would hate to curtail it.”

The Postal Service’s answer is simple. Instead
of again raising the price of stamps, looking under
moss—covered rocks or into cookie jars 0r poorbox-
es, it looked into the dictionary instead.

It decided to define the primary purpose of
eight categories ' of nonprofit organizations to
which Congress has granted third-class bulk rates.
They are: Religious, scientific, agricultural, labor,
educational, veterans, fraternal and philanthropic.

ks to Its Dictionary

Humane societies, traditionally, are included un-
der the philanthropic category.

When the Postal Service. reached the word
“philanthropic” in the dictionary, it struck gold:

“Philos,” said the dictionary, is Greek for
“loving.”

“Anthropos” denotes “man.”

So, concluded the Postal Service, “philan-
thropic” means “to promote the welfare of man-
kind.”

So where did that leave those persons who .
love those other members of the animal kingdom
(to which man belongs) — the furred, feathered
animals, themselves? It left them out. '

SO THAT’S WHAT the Postal Service proposes
to do, giving notice of that intention in the Federal
Register on Aug. 26. It invited, as required by law,
comments from the public. .

But the American Humane Association coun-
sel, Jo V. Morgan Jr. went to the dictionary, too.
Citing Webster’s International he notes that the
“philanthropic” definition includes the word “hu-
manitarian.” ‘ '

Mr. Morgan, therefore, puts it squarely up to
the Postal Service to decide whether humanitari-
ans make up the membership of humane societies.

‘ By indirection, he raises another question. Is
not the Postal Service biting the hand that pro-
tects it — at least; its mail carriers from being

nipped? .

, 'For if it were not for the animal control Work
of many humane societies, Morgan points out,
more stray animals would be running at large and
more owners would be more careless about fenc-
ing in those they own. “This is the real test of
whether or not humane societies are forthe Wel-

fare Of man,” he says.
. as an“ .5 a:

Mrs. Free is a Washington freelance 'writer on
animal welfare and conservatzon.

 

 




J amary 26, 19713

Hrs. James FEM
W00 Jmnestwn Road, HM.
kshtngton, 13.0. 20916

M? Am,

121 mama ta yaw 3111mm eall message find walla-sad um
materials distributed by the Animal Welfare Insti tut-ca: 1:9 :31 mantary
and secandary whoa]. Marmara and litany-1M. All cf these matarials
are offared free, on a ﬁngla cepy basis, to any teacher er library
mlﬁng their reqnast diractly to the. Am.

iffhe distributmn palicy of the Institute alaa allows 10
fme capiem to banana sa-ciaitaa, an a one time basis.

Parkman tha hm 13:31 as m Spam af mld want to taka than sample
kits to the schmls along with arder blanks for the teachers use. We
am expecting 215w listings which shew our new mamas. and are: more current.
If yen mini lika t6 have game 917' the-m I mild be glad t0 sand them if
yw will let me know how many yam, require.

hath best wish-es, I am A

Sincerely yours ,

Barbara Gould
Ministrative Assistant

 




Postal Service_..Looks to its Dictionary

By ANN COTTRELL" FREE
Has the new US. Postal Service's—“"with the
dictionary’s unwitting help -— found a new and
heretofore overlooked source of funds? ,
Is it so hard up that it now looks to lost, sick,

injured dogs, cats and other animals in distress -

for help out of its current financial hole of $2.1
billion?

Those are the questions being asked by
hundreds of humane societies as they foresee their
special third-class bulk mail rate being taken
away. .
Soon the Postal Service will give them the
answer they’ve been waiting for since late sum-
mer.

If the answer is “yes,” it will mean that
nationwide possibly more than 5 million animal
welfare dollars will be plunked down on postage.

That’s the amount the American Humane As-
sociation estimates will have to go for postage
rather than for aid and shelter of animals.

“IF WE ARE denied the philanthrOpic rate of
1.7 cents per piece of mail and have to .go to the
4.8 cents regular third class rate, we will go into
the hole at least $1,500,” says Dr. Jean Kelty of
Ohio’s small but vigorous Animal Charity. “We
have a large mailing program to alert the public
and members to so many dreadful cruelties.” she
said. “We would hate to curtail it.” ‘

The Postal Service’s answer is simple. Instead
of again raising the price 'of stamps, looking under
moss-covered rocks or into cookie jars or poorbox-
es, it looked into the dictionary instead.

It decided to define the primary purpose of
eight categories of nonprofit organizations to

which Congress has granted thirdaclass bulk rates. .

They are: Religious, scientific, agricultural, labor,
‘ educational, veterans, fraternal and philanthropic.

Humane societies, traditionally, are included un-
der the philanthropic category.

When the Postal Service reached the word
“philanthropic” in the dictionary, it struck gold:

“Philos,” said the dictionary, is Greek for
“loving.”

“Anthropos” denotes “man.”

So, concluded the Postal Service, “philan-
thropic” means “to promote the welfare of man-
kind.”

’ So where did that leave those persons who
love those other members of the animal kingdom
(to which man belongs) —-— the furred. feathered
animals, themselves? It left them out.

SO THAT’S WHAT the Postal Service proposes
to do, giving notice of that intention in the Federal
Register on Aug. 26. It invited, as required by law,
comments from the public.

But the American Humane Association coun-
sel, Jo V. Morgan Jr. went to the dictionary, too.
Citing Webster’s International he notes that the
“philanthropic” definition includes the word “hu-
manitarian.”

Mr. Morgan, therefore, puts it squarely up to
the Postal Service to decide whether humanitari-
ans make up the membership of humane societies.

By indirection, he raises another question. Is
not the Postal Service biting the hand that pro-
tects it -— at least, its mail carriers from being
nipped? 4

For if it were not for the animal control work
of many humane societies, Morgan points out,
more stray animals would be running at large and
.more owners would be more careless about fenc-
ing in those they own. “This is the real test of
whether or not humane societies are for the wel-

' fare of man,” he says.

it Ill I it

Mrs. Free is a Washington freelance writer on
animal welfare and conservation.

‘ \r '. ‘ -

THE SUNDAY STAR? and DAILY NEWS,

Washington, D. (3., November 19, 1972
#_______________.__._———_—-————

 




  
 

i
l
l

 

 

 

__ , - W; N ew C‘onserv aii oni sis  
‘ # Find Leader in ' Train

  

....

'ing with outgoing :"FS Skiff-TE ; .

 

 

 

By ANN CO'l'l’RELL FREE
Sm such! Writer '.

if Russell 'n'ain' hadn’t looked a
few lions and rhinos in the eye in
1956 and wished long life for them
and * their descendants, Richard
Nixon would not be asking his ad-
vice today. Train would still be a
judge of the U. S. Tax Court instead
of one of the nation’s leading “new
conservationists.”

A few days after the election Nix-
on picked the .48~year-old president
of the Conservation Foundation to
head a special task force to guide
him and bring him up to date on

~ the nation‘s most pressing conser-

vation and environmental prob-
lems. »

This action made a lot of “new
conservationists” happy because
this new breed knows that Washing-
tonian Train represents their view
oh the desperate need to stem
the tide of pollution and over-
devetopment sweeping the land.
They hoped that his and their belief
that “people cannot be understood
apar t from their environment?’

would permeate the entlieNixon

  

administration.
" ' .. Li" H '$ '92 2..“‘74‘ h ‘ ""w‘k

.2

. , .7;.:.

a , ':
..

2 iﬁpuuled and wondering if Nixon

:frjeceived or read the Train con-
'" ,g'al report when he tapped
. ’s governor, Walter Hickel,
g, "erior Secretary. Or could he
been familiar with the stated
WVation philosophy of this for-
mer land developer? Hickel’s re-
cent remarks on conservation and
Pollution have raised"; strut-“M M

   
   

3’ controversy. in view of interiors

mains role in this area. To his
critics, Hickel‘s credo seems too
business oriented and not in keep

 
    
 
    

Udall’s. Laurence QR ‘ 2.; . _
Ghana’s. 32‘ ‘2‘

Train is a “new

rather-""‘than' p‘iécmeal, and takes
into consideration the relationship

. hf all living things. The late Aldo

iieopold and Rachel Carson in.
iitheir books helped to dramatize
S‘his ecological approach of man’s
- had ' nature’s “togetherness.” Train
notifies the new conservation as
Melting a more creative harmony
vréween all men and nature.”
tiecond, he is a relative newcom-
i to the field. His conservation

, .wscience' was awakened 12 years

:42“ as his first trip to East Africa.
%: realized then," Train explains,
that if something weren’t done to
gamma and manage their wildlife,
new there wouldn’t be any."
leaching, over~hunting and de-
sruction of habitat had to be con-
r--nlled-but who had' the “know-
hew” to do it, now that the Euro-
pean overseers had departed?
3%!) Train took a bold step. He led
the way in establishing the African

2 W- ailife Leadership Foundation.

Al'E‘l-ﬂng his associates were Arthur
W. Arundel. president of WAVA,
and the man Nixon picked the other
nay as Secretary of Commerce,
Maurice. Stans. its goal is to train
young Africans in conserVation and
game management. It is achieving
it by setting up schools over there
and bringing students. here fer spe-
cial courses.

”/W

in ﬁlm W333 than _ . 55‘“; ‘
_, Ms the enwronm oi as a whole,

ra '

It was not lonﬁlsbeforo Judge
Train was viewing own country-
with the same eyes he used for
Africa. But it wasn’t poachers he
slaw, bait polluters! Here at home

e so” air, water was bemg' poi-
soned by pesticides, carbon monox-
ide, smoke. Cities were falling to
pieces, highways and developments
were raping the land.

The problems and challe es of a
tax judge began to appear ass im-

t. “My wife tod me,” Train

recalled the other day, “you can’t
be both a full~time conservationist
and a judge, too.” At the same
time, the enthusiasm and ability of
Judge Train was making a terrific
dent in conservation circles. Fair-
fleld Osborn, noted naturalist and
founder, in 1948, of the relativefy
little-known New York-based Con-
servation Foundation started work-
ing on Train totakeoverthefoun-
datinn’s presidency as a full-time
o .
1 It took Osborn, in concert with
Laurence Rockefeller, and late Wil-
liam» VGSS and others, several years
to " ' 2212mm to his grave decision
' White prestige and security
' 3912:“: was a 1957 Eisen-
” " 3) for the money-
ug,._~:trqf_,f}hiazing career in a
ﬁewandniicertain field..But he did.
The date: Aug. 1, 1965.

There is little in Train’s back-
ground to destine him for such a
career. A member of a well-
established Washington family and
son of a rear admiral. Train is a
graduate of St. Albans School and
Pmton University. _ -

     
  

 
 
  

    
  

m moms , he,
cialized in tasted; on
2 staff of two for “ mum

t sional committeestﬁe is. a senior
lwarden of St. John’slpmcopal

      
 
  
    
    

" Chinch dip WraitheWash—
moat ' ‘ Wise mem-
rm an

Himse rather puzzled by his
abrupt change Train says: “You
know I never studied biology at
school and I wasn’t even a Boy
Scout." He does have a place on
Maryland’s Eastern Shore and he
sails a boat,,but his approach until
lately was more that of the coun-
try gentleman. .

Though he is the seeming] re-
laxed, understated type, the lue-
eyed, ruddy-faced Train is really a
Paul Revere, calling “wake up
America” on every possible occa-
sion. His only problem is the dan-
ger of riding off in all directions at
once. The Conservation Founda-
tion’s programs since he took over
do. in truth, cover the water
frank—whether the Potomac River,
Tanzania, Florida Gulf Coast or
places where polar bears scrounge.

The foundation’s purposes are all,

embracing: “To promote greater
knowledge about the earth’s re-
sources—its waters, soils, minerals,
plant and animal life; to initiate
research and education concerning
these resources and their relation
to each other; to ascertain the most
effective methods of making them
available” and useful to people; to

' assess population trends and their

effect upon environment; finally, to
encourage human conduct to sus-
tain and enrich life.”

To do all this takes money. Train

  

fl good at raising it. Largely due to
' ‘ from the ord, Rockefeller,
the Old Dominion, Avalon and other
wowed foundations, the CT. has

vma'e than a million dollars to

carry out its current programs.
Not a membership organization, it
comet rely on dues. .
From its headquarters, now in
Washington at 1250 Connecticut
Ave, Train and his staff of about
20 scientists and conservation spe-
ciah'sts are busy arranging confer-
enc‘el on the environment time and

"SerVice to special pilot projects.
One such was the setting up of .
a program near Naples, Fla., to~

develop ways. of resolving con-
flicts ’ between homebuilding devel-
opers and those who would pre-
serve shore bird sanctuaries that
cannot exist if the water becoma
polluted and people. intrude too se-

vere . .

Train's major emphasis has been
in the field of education, hoping to
into ate conservation ethics into
curr culum ‘f r o m kindergarten
through college. .

Russ Train spends a good deal of
time thinking about the city, as
well as the country. He feels that
“a civilian that alienates man
from nature is a civilization that is
doomed to maladjustment, neurosis
and worse.” .

Clearly, Train favors continua»
tion of Lady Bird Johnson’s “beats
tif i c at 1 o n program, so badly
mauled by the last Congress. But in
his task for-re 5 report to Nixon,
imdouhtndly he made some much,

Farm Problem
"Being a tax expert, it would not

be s, rising if Train asked the

Presi ant-elect if it would not be a
good idea ,to use taxation against

' thew who allow their land todete»
fierate from erosion and other neg--
ect. The way «it is now those who

prove their land are penalized
with higher taxes.

Also he might ask if farmers
who excessivley use pesticides and
fertilizers heavy in nitrate nitrogen
shouldn’t have to pay some penal-
ties. Nitrates erode the land and
the run-off contributes to the death
of fish in lakes and streams. Too,
5 h o u 1d n ’t the manufactureres,
whose factories emit noxious sub-
stances into the atmOsphere, have
to prove they are iharmless? In-
stead, the government or an in-
creased citizenry has to pay for the
scientific tests and carry the bur-
den of proof. - ,

Train is not talking about what he
and his group, possibly 12 men——
some from his own staff —-' told
Nixon about the environment. But
when the report is digested, it will
no doubt be circulated to the heads
of at least six departments: Interi-
or, Agriculture, Health, Education
and Welfare, Housing and Urban
Development, Transportation, Com-
merce and even State and the De
partment of Defense.

Though Russ Train is considered
a Republican, his approach to the
environment is bi-partisan. And
more than likely the elephants on
the blue necktie he often wears
stand more for the noble creature
itself -— as a symbol of the wildlife
he wants to save —— than the mascot
Of the GOP. r

1

Al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




x -
a 'v
4.

. . , ‘1.’ , . .r ’ '_ , bi}; _‘.
._ -..._.,..,......,..... ..~.......,..-..M.. adv-“*- rim-w.-

Theroar unansw- or'the
call of a wild goosewer his zoo

acres heartheChoptanlever'on by

the Eastern‘ﬂtnre say “the same
thing to Russell'E. 'll'ain. To him in
these days of pollution, over-popu-

lation and unwise land use, there

can be only one message: “Save
our environment." -

He himself has been saying it
loud and clear as we of then!)
‘tlon’s leadingconservationlsts. Bill
now, having been appointed under
Secretary of the Interior, Run
Train will be able to do even more
toward. saving the ' environment
than he could accomplish as presi-
dent of the Conservation Foundaa
M. . ‘. .-. g '

This «year-01d Washingtonian,
in less than for years, has stirred

mconsiderablethwghtandactiom

He has knight ecologisu, econo-
mists and sociologists together to
help chart the course for our onVl‘
ronmental future. He has worked

an educators. from kindergarten i.

the graduate school level, to weave
conservation education -. bio their

curricula. He has helped to raise

hlld

l] micr Setifretary Tmi n. the (Coilser

mm comm "a;

stone of their docfrhe ,
called‘eetilogy. , ' . .
Intense belief h; ,th‘h philosophy
. thousands of Americans prompt.
all We! the uproar over the
asthmatics: of Hillard. Hickel as

semianofﬂahwiur.rmabm-

noes-mm planar and governor of
our last frontier (Alaska) created
so m varlws off-

, _ remarks in December that
m might be expendable. A few
. later,
M .
"had been appointed. Train hadbeen
chosenbyRichardeon toheada

W‘Wk force" Ringing him'

nptodaee-onproblan'sdthemi-
ronmenl. No two men could have
seemed ftn'ths‘r anti in back~
grmmdandoutlook. ,

to a 0

After their hlﬂal January 3
meeting th , repcthdly, apart a
great deal time together. By the

time of the-Senate.,hearlngs oa-

Hiclsel’s confirmation, it was obvi-
ous that stains

.wm7ﬂiatTerouldbe

nearly a million dollars for iii '

year alone to stimulate research,
pilot programs and publications.

Hehasspokentokeygroupe»
anphaslshu

keen coast to coast,
the preservatin of natural sur-
roundings witlh an. as well as.
the wise use of and resources.
“A civilization that climates man
from nature,” he says "is a civill—
sation that’ia been“ h malad-
justmat, ”Norm.”

The blue-cystruddy-faced fer-
mer tax judge is W I
"new conservationist.” who _ ,

mete] met Russ Train-
the :ﬂrat time. Before Hickel

of'l‘rah‘s enthusiasm ~
(forte seed to preserve nature’s ~
balance was better uderstood by

my: SYN. surmountswung nonmwe. {glimmer .. .195“

I’aiiunisl

was me he used for Africa. In

stead of seeing. poachers, he was
seeing polluters. His cmcern over
what was happeningto-the air, soil,
water and wildlife from pesticides,

pollution and gobbling up of the

land by developers captured the
attention of Laurence Rockefeller
and Fairfield Osborn. Here was the
man, theifelt, to head the Comer- _
vaﬁon Mdatlon, which had been

founded by Osborn in. 1948.
M Train, this would mean giv-
IIP his ’meship and changing

‘ his and his family’s sense of direc-

tion. there was little in his back.
ground to destlne him for this kind
of ‘1 career. Sonof a rear admiral,
his upbringing was old-«school-tie
Washington. “I-wasn’t ever a Boy
w and never studied biology,”
he says. He went to St. Albans,
Princeton and Columbia. His place
at the Eastern Shore was not an
‘ t’s field laboratory, but a
not rest, have fun, and to keep
hisketCh. . .
, e I e e .
‘ Train made his decision. He was
never sorry. He was a success at
his new job, and he helped to awak-
en his countrymen. But he never
dreamed that it would lead to the
most challenging job ever to face
an Under. Secretary of the Interior.
For now he will haveto practice
what he’s been preaching for near-
ly four are. ~lle will have to con-‘
President and Cabinet

 




 

 

35mg listen?! lﬁrraa
JAMNCA, N. Y.
0. 441,961 SUN. 423,790

\ AUG 8 l972

f'Bears' down on animal rights

~ ‘13 ‘2? i”?

By ANN COTTRELL FREE

5’ WASHINGTON 9-:- Some people might
' think so, but there’s‘”""nothing tongue—in-
cheek about getting an “animal rights”
plank in the upcoming GOP platform.
‘ Rights of people rank high with the
Congressman who is seeking such an un-
precedented plank. But Virginia’s Bill
Whitehurst is'convinced that animals have

been kicked around too long and they
need a :break, too.

And he, of all people, should know.
For no other member of Congress has
authored more animal protective legisla-
tion, nor met with greater success.

W‘hitehurst works for the rights of ani~
mals out of moral conviction (just as did
his fellow Virginian, James Madison, in
fighting for the Bill of Rights.) Votes are
incidental. A realist, however, he main—
tains there are votes in it for the party

that stands up for animals The size Of 'hurst believes, if letters go to the Chair~

the potential humane vote might be mea-
sured by recent humane legislation
successes.

'* t3 9%

RIGHT NOW, for example, the youthful

47-year old Whitehurst is standingjip

for polar bears. “Bill looks out fora-ll the
animals, but he’s a real bear about bears,”
jokes his wife, Janie, a Plymouth,’ Mass,
native. ' _

So he is leading the way-son Capital
Hill in seeking U.S. participation in an
international treaty to stopilling these
largest of bears. The So_;_’ ”pUnion . . .
which banned polar bear; 3hunting in 1956
. . . would ceme- in on ,the treaty. (Presi-
dent Nixon, at‘White/hurst’s behest, may
have mentioned ,Qrur interest when he
talked to‘SDVi Headers.)

Denmark, 1\ o .- aged Canada may also
‘sign.'r‘5"eientistso the five nations say
that " the polar bears number between
' . "10,000 and :3290003, US. hunters, legally
» Vand illegally;.ﬁ'i"-§;:'”’be takingas many as

1,000 annuallyysggv '

The li,sit£§g'ﬁéWhitehurSt-sponsored .legis-
lation is iﬁipﬁ'eSSive. It includes the Animal .

. ——-————.—--————._. ___..,-_. AD

Welfare Acts of 1966 and 1970, covering
thousands of animals in laboratories, zoos
and circuses. He lent' a strong hand to
protection of wild horses, walking horses,

.- hawks, seals, whales. Thanks to him

25,000 scarce wolves got a new lease on
life.
3i: * bit

THIS FORMER newsman, college pro—
fessor and dean recently used his muscle
as an Armed Services Committee member
and stopped the Defense Department
order for 277,000 parka hoods lined with

real wolf fur. This humane act resulted :‘
in the saving of $1,110,000 —— and thous-

ands of wolves . . . by the substitution
of synthetics.

Whitehurst’s mailbag stays full of 1
letters from coast to coast, seeking his l
help. Help may come even faster, White-

man of the GOP Platform Committee,
Rep. John J. Rhodes at the House Office .
Building, Washington, DC. .

“The language,” he said, “doesn’t have ,

7. to be as formal as mine. I said: ‘We must

express concern for the humane care and i
conservation of our wild and domestic .
animals and birds.’

“A few words will do it: ‘Get with it!’ ,
“Not juSt because the Democrats forgot;
it, but” he adds, “because it’s right." 1

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

#Y-BEl-VZ

Wt hr ﬁliri 11111131 11:1 111 News

BIRWHNGHAm ALA.
a. 179,129 SUN. 219,330

JAN 13 1974 A”...

[3/ ”if"

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE

The caged screaming black dog chased his tail -— or what was 3

left of it. It was merely an ugly, bloody sturhp.

He bit the air in agony as he whirled And‘his soul- searing
shrieks filled the entire Rabies Control Center.

His tail had been chopped off by a hatchet or some other ,. '

crude instrument before he was brought to the Center.

This nomrabid animal had a message —- other than his own ,

pain -- for Birmingham and Jefferson County.

Likewise, the resigned German shepherd 1n the next cage had _

a message as she lay patiently on her side, her suckling puppies
busily pushing their tiny paws against her full breasts. Her milk
. washer last gift to them. She could not save them her herself.
For they were all hOmeless and forsaken. And they were all
doomed to die probably the next day.
3 The message from these miserable animals was simple,
clear, unforgettable

NEITHER SHOULD have ended their days in Birmingham’s

Rabies Control Center. They were innocent but typical victims of,

deplorable conditions an unaware community has allowed to
exist and to get out of hand.

But these are conditions -- once fully known -—- that should
bring Birmingham and Jefferson County to a crisis of con-
science.

 

First of a series 3

The community must decidehow itcaneffectively and

swiftly eliminate wanton cruelty to animals and how it can

reduce needless overbreeding of companion animals, namely -
dogs and cats.

Thinking about the animals from the animals’ interests -— as

well as from man’s -— would be a beneficial change, paying

dividends in the long run to man’s spiritual life, health and '

pocketbook.
That Is the sum total of their message.
Now for details: ’

Prosecution for cruelty rare

THE CASE of the black dog exemplifies the community‘ 3
disregard of deliberate cruelty. The dog’s mutilator was never
called (nor ever sought) to answer for his crime The Center 5

dog wardens had sufficient clues to pass on to the police. But '

follow up and prosecution of cruelty cases is rare. Conviction

' virtually unknown. The laws are on the books. The maximum

fine for mutilating an ammal 1s $500 and six months 1n jail.
The plight of the German shepherd and her four puppies
graphically relates to the community 5 reluctance to take

realistic steps to curb overbreeding This little family was,

typical of unwanted animals crowding the Rabies Control Center,

the Bessemer Pound and the Birmingham Humane Society
shelter. The puppies may have been born because someone
wanted to show their children the mirac1e of birth. But nobody
’ was on hand to witness the miracle of death.

Dogs in the area’s three holding centers range from the ‘

ferlorn, mange—ridden, trembling mixed breeds to frisky
terriers collies, poodles. Nearly all of them, products of
overbreeding. And it is the same with cats, most of which are
found at the Humane Society shelter.

3 In a year s time more than 40,000 cats and dogs of all ages
and types pass through these grossly inadequate facilities. Only

about 6, 000 leave alive —- reclaimed by their owners or adopted}
for a fee. Approximately 34, 000 are put to death because there IS 1

no room save in the heart. Methods used range from decompres-
- ‘ sion chamber, drowning, to gassing by using exhaust fumes from
a truck. condemned by all humane organizations and the
American veterinary Medical Association. 3

In” round numbers, the Birmingham Center handles
approximately 8, 000 animals annually; Bessemer, 5,000;
Birmingham Humane Society, 27 ,000.

The total cost for the area 5 animal control and welfare,

operation IS about $310, 000. _
But Birmingham and Jefferson County are not alone.

5,000 born per hour 111 U. S

THE COMPANION- ANIMAL overpopulation problem faces '3
‘ . nearly every community. Born at the rate of at least 5, 000 an

hour dogs and cats now number nearly 100 million nationwide.
More than 18 million are handled annually in pounds and
Shelters and more than 13 million of these are “put to sleep.”
(Countless others meet Smashed and mangled ends under wheels
of cars or die from malnutrition and disease.) The cost of
handling these unwanted creatures is more than $125 million. To

over Simplify this means seven dollars per animal. This also

happens to be the per animal cost 1n the Birmingham area.

Alarmed by the needless waste of life of animals and the high .
coSts, many communities are looking for new solutions to their

anirnals’ problems. Some devise new means of their own. Others
‘ seek guidance from national humane groups such as the

venerable American Humane Association Friends of Animals

and Friend for Animals, or the Humane Society of the United
- States. .

I said Miss Wright.

. inoculated dogs at large in Birmingham and Jefferson County.

. —but the old methods of handl

  
     
  

 

 

 

 

3 THE HSUS offers a three pron '37:! approach It calls LES . 1
. Lstands for legislation and lice "7mg 3.
. Emeans education on control, 93, treatment. {
Srefers to spaying neutering. 3;: ,
“Try LES, ” says HSUS’ an ital control expert Phyllis 1
Wright. “so you won ’t have m re dog, cat, puppy, kitten 1
problems. " 3% f

She was talking to Jefferson _ ty’s Joseph W. Bates who
directs the area ’s animal control 1111mm for the Department of
Environmental Health. Along witﬁ’ other sanitarians from many
parts of the nation, he was a riding Miss Wright’s special
animal control seminar at the; recent HSUS conference in
Atlanta. '

“You just can’t lick the problém with one single approach,”

 

3 Birmingham: Jefferson (39111113111111.1111: one single approach

IT IS EMBODIED' 1n the 1972 Dog Protection Act. It requires
your dog to be: ’

l. Confined within an enclosure or 2. On a leash 1n the hand
of a responsible person or 3. Leashed on owner’s property in a
humane manner and within sight ”of the owner.

Also all dogs muSt be inoculated against rabies

In 1972, more than 72, 000 dogs were inoculated. Fewer dead
dogs were found on the streets and fewer fracture cases were
reported by some veterinarians. More than 8 000 dogs were
handled at the center.

Despite this progress, there may he at least 100,000 non-

 

Claude Smithson, executive director of the Birmingham Humane
Society put the figure even higher. Many are partially owned 1n
the sense that families will feed them but will take no responsibil-
ity for them. To catch all these dogs would meanhiring even-
more “dog catchers” and building more and more dog pounds. In
short, the new law —- alone -- will not get to the heart of the
problem.

The Dog Protection Act appears to be an understandable
throwback to the successful 1954-1962 war against rabies,
transforming this “rabies capital of the world” into a rabies- free
area. The memory burns deep f hundreds of rabid ddgs (455 in
19461, thousands of Pasteur tr9%tments, and 14 deaths between
1930 and 1959. ' '

The horror of by dro a obia

IT IS NOT an easy death. ictims die in convulsions often
screaming for water yet hyst ically afraid of it — hence the_3
name “hydrophobia. "

Nor IS the sight of a rabid d1 easily forgotten -- even if seen
only in the movies. Who can for t the weaving staggering “mad
dOg” 1n Harper Lee’s “To Kill a ockingbird?” Her father came
out of the house and shot him. A elp, an agonized leap 1n the air
and it was all over.

UNLESS A false alarm t =onechilling number “50” for
“mad dog” no longer 13 heard 1 ohce rad1os. The W31” W38 W01]
dogs lingers on.

There has been testimony-3t. eging unnecessary brutality in
carrying out the letter of the 1 when dog catchers have taken
unleashed dogs.

The question 311595: Instea . taking SllCh dogs to “18 Babies

 
 

paying a fee —— a prodecure which invites poSsible injury to the 33
animal and frayed temper-s on the part of owners -- why not give
' fpw'ners of unleashed dogs a citation, like a traffic ticket, 1
. requiring them to pay $10 fines?

Revenue would be raised fOr the community and abuse of the
imal avoided. -

13 This and other questions will be explored in depth in
étomorrow’ s article -- which also will discuss the key role Mayer
George Seibels and Mayor Jess Lanier may be called on to play if

. they are to carry out the LES-1115p ired new animal control policy

‘‘‘‘‘

 

Control Center where owners . st come to reclaim them after

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ultra iiiirinin alarm Eileen:
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.

1‘0 9’30

D. 179.123 SUN, 214,.”

JAN 1 5 1.974

 

News photo by Beverly Taylor

PET CEMETERY BEHIND HUMANE SOCIETY ANIMAL SHELTER
. . . Symbol of dreams of early founders to some supporters

Money called problem .
Cltyhum anesoclety

doing‘inade

AM we “at, .

l BY ANN CO'I'I‘REbLFEEE-.. .,
’ There’s a cemetery in the rear of the
' , Birmingham Humane Society’s animal
shelter. Buried there, as well as cherished
pets, are the high hopes and dreams of
_ many of its founders and early supporters.
,Theydreamed of a large vigorous soci-
ety working to prevent cruelty and to help
mold the character of the people in the
bustling iron and steel community by

teaching-them to be kind to every living
creature.

=5"? '1' ' ’
a!“ (a it -

ua te job

-.1—‘ does not have its “death machine”
~—— , highly controversial decompression
ch‘” ber~-— checked frequently for leaks
an .,.. alfunction as advised by the manu-
fa erer and the American Veterinary
M {cal Association.

Ikdrowns its very young puppies,
because they survive the decompression
chamber. It declines to dispatch them via
lethal injection as is now done for puppies
at the Rabies Control Center. Drowning is

 

 

 

It was the first humane society in the
South and the 12th in the entire nation-The
year was 1883.

Their devotion was great. And when
they died, some of the most ardent sup-
porters left legacies to carry out the
dream. One such was Mrs. Christina
-. Webb, whose legacy was used 50 years ago
to build the shelter at 24 17th Street West.
It bears-her name -- but the extent it
graces her memory is hard to determine.

THE MAN WHO launched the dream
was Dr. John Herbert Phillips, who headed
‘ the Birmingham Public School system and

_. organized the first public library. Names
of its various leaders ring the resonant bell
of memory: Mayor A..O. Lane, Rabbi
Samuel Ullman, Maj. E. M. Tutwiler,
Charles De Bardeleben, Mrs. Charles
Whalen, Father Benedict Bellema, Police
Chief George Bodeker, Mrs. William N:

, Wood, Rabbi Morris Newfield, The Rev.

- W. E. Evans, Culpe’pper EXum, George
Cruikshank,'editor of the old Birmingham
Chronicle. - , . ,

Never enough money -

SOMEHOW, DESPITE the roster of
prominent supporters throughout the
years, the Birmingham Humane Society
never seems to have enough money to do
the job. '

 

Third in a series 8

Today, 91 years after its founding and 64'
years after it absorbed the Ensley Society

and was incorporated under state laws, it .

has only 54 members. .
--Its budget (and knowhow) appears to
’ be insufficient to take proper care of the
community’s unwanted and unfortunate
animals. ‘ , '»

-—IT IS UNDERSTAFFED and person-
nel underpaid. -

- -.It has not taken a cruelty case to court .

for years. _
-—It does not have a vigorous program of
humane education so desired by the found-
ers who established Bands of Mercy.
—'It sells animals with virtually no
questions asked as to suitability of the new
home.

I

—-IT DOES NOT require —4 or Strengly j

suggest -— that adepted animals be spayed
'or neutered. ,

-It has no informational program on
the urgent‘need to reduce pet overpopula-
tion. - . 1 , . .
-—It distributes few care and handling
leaﬂets. ;

—-'-It does not immunize adoptable young
animals against distemper, hepatitis or
leptospirosis. ‘ . .

e-IT HAS AN EMPTY unmanned clinic
on the premises. ‘ .
M

opposed by all national humane societies
and the A.V.M.A. i . ’.

-It has had the same president for 44 .
years. ‘ '

When BHS president, Marion Broadnax,
an investment "broker, was asked. about
the Humane Society’s shortcomings, his

- answer was “lack of money.”
' Major supporter ‘

AT THE HEART of his explanation was
the complaint that restrictions placed on.
the Society by its major supporter, the
United Appeal, was crippling the society. '

“The United Appeal will not permit us to

'do any money raising,” Broadnax said,

“so we have to depend on them and the

' sale of animals, cemetery lots, burials and

boarding animals. It just isn’t enough.”
The total budget for last year was

$79,312. Of this $31,000 came from United

Appeal. This year the Appeal is allocating

. only $25,000 to the BHS because the $0918”, 4
was notke‘eping' up to date drawingbn ‘

funds allocated toit. It was learned that by

the end of October, 1973, the Humane

Society was “under-expended” by more
than $8,000. '

With its $79,312 budget, the Society
maintains the large shelter, two trucks,

\paysrlo employees'and handles 'more than

28,000 animals annually.

' ' RECENTLY THE SOCIETY has been
under fire for placing sick animals —-

‘ especially puppies and kittens -— with new

owners. Many adoptors‘ feel this could be
avoided if BHS would inoculate against
the most common diseases —- distemper, ‘
leptospirosis and hepatitis for the puppies
and feline enteritis for kittens.

Some of the adaptors are particularly
miffed because BHS opened an immuniza-
tion clinic more than a year ago. Then, it
Was Closed. Broadnax and Claude Smith—
son say they couldn’t make suitable
arrangements for manning it. Money for
the actual clinic facility was left by long-
time board member and school teacher
Annie Castleman. \

. “We are still looking for another techni-

’ ‘cian,’” said Smithson. “The first one didn’t

work out,” he said.

several area veterinarians volunteered
their time at the clinic, but apparently this
arrangement didn’t work out either. One of

. them, Dr. John ‘Nall, also a former board
_ member, said he would return and so

would others and if invited and some

- changes are made.

A1380 THEY COULD demand more
humane methods of euthanasia,'prefer-
ablyf finding veterinarians or skilled
technicians to humanely put to sleep these
unfortunate creatures by intravenous
injection of sodium pentobarbitol preceded
when necessary by oral sedation. Com-'
munity veterinarians might be asked to

' lend aihand in bringing about all of these

improi'ements.

 

 

 

 

 




 

”.445.
\J

 

 

 

Ann Cottrell Free

. 'PreServing

_ Our Beautiful
"White-Robed '
. Angels’

Just because they are so beautiful should
we care so much about the death of greater
snow geese no longer flying safe and free
over our land and waters?

Some have already fallen. But the sharp
pain in the breast awaits the greater num-
ber of birds to be shot in coming weeks after
they have settled into their traditional win-
tering grounds along 'the Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina coast.

Will they fall as gracefully as they fly,
stretching across the heavens in great V

, formations, then again strung out single

Ann Cottrell ‘Free writes fre-

quently on the preservation of
nature and wildlife.

file? Or will they fall noisily, awkwardlyas
red Streaks stain their white feathers?
It makes no sense to play Shelley weeping

for Adonais. It is anthropomorphic to look’

upon greater snow geese as as the closest
we will eVer get to the angels. It will be
erng to look uncharitably upon Christmas
every time we see a greeting card of white-
robed angels in full flight.

Should we not deplore as much the mass
slaughter of . blackbirds and the routine
shooting of the widgeon, the'gadwall, the
handsome Canada goose?

We do.

It is only that beginnings are so hard to ac-
cept. And the opening of hunting seasons on
the greater snow goose, Chen hyperborea
atlantica, after 44 years is surely a begin-
ning. Many hunters were not yet born when
the season closed in 1931. Then, only 7,000
birds. Today, nearly 200,000.

Consolingly, we tell ourselves, ‘ the

‘Canadas and other waterfowl have wised

up to hunters. Survival goes to the brightest
— smart enough, for example, not to sally
forth when hunters, ringing the refuges,
are blasting away.

But the unsophisticated snows couldn’t
care less about that gunfire. For they have
learned during the 44 safe years in their
mid-Atlantic wintering grounds -— far
south of the Quebec staging areas where
they can be shot —— that no one dares draw a
bead on them.

Now all that is being changed, because
“through sustained management efforts
the population has grown to a level that a
harvest may be taken without jeopardizing
the resource.” These are Interior’s Fish
and Wildlife Service’s words for “expen-
dable angels.” ‘

, But it’s at the “naughty angels” that they _

are directing much of their public relations

fire. Those are the geese guilty of pulling at ’

the winter wheat in coastal Virginia and
North Carolina. , ‘ .

Not everyone accept-s Interior’s
justifications for the killingof up to 10,000
geese. Seven environmental and humane
groups sought a preliminary injunction in
the US. District Court here, contending
primarily that Interior had not complied
fully with the National Environmental
Protection Act. They élaimed that
“greater harvesting than estimated can
probably occur” because of the goose’s in-
experience and that hunters in larger num-
bers than ever, after years of denial, would
be out trying to get their four-bird bag limit.
Interior admits tothis danger, and says
further that “immatures and females” will
head the death list. In shbrt, Women and
children first. It is being appealed. But
whatever happens in the courts, it is likely
that in the larger court of public opinion
bird protectors may n0t fare too well. For
Interior, in a sense, has turned to
philosopher-naturalist Henry Beston’s
concept of animals (as foundin his “The
Outermost House”) to its own ends. With
Beston they decline to look upon geese as
brethern or underlings, but as “other
nations.”

He saw them “caught with oarselves in
the net of life and time, fellow prisoners of
the splendour and travail of the earth. ’ ’ But

a

.11".

j. \
vi”: '
. 1,,

.3 .
x \l‘:

‘-

‘\_ . 93.3-35.5 '\

\Kﬁ
. XV:- _““'\‘\~.\

Interior sees the greater snows as “other
nations” with designs on our territory --
our Tidewater winter wheat fields, yet!
This way they may win the support of some
patriotic non-hunters who would flinch at
the thought of killing expendable animalsin
cold blood. Interior knows this,
acknowledging that the open. seasons will
be “emotionally disturbing and will violate
the personal values” of many of these per-
sons. So now, possibly 10,000 or more geese
may have to pay with their lives for what a
fraction of their number — cast as the
“enemy” — may do.

If waterfowl destroy our crops, perhaps
another —- somewhat heretical -- look is
due at the use of “Duck Stamp” revenues.
Interior’s pitch this year to non-hunters to
buy stamps, used for purchase of wetlands
and other habitat, is surely an invitation to
give them a say on how the stamp money is
spent. Why not obtain hard data on crop
damage, then indemnify farmers; or even
lease .or buy up this relatively limited
acreage? Also, let nature take its course.
Once again, weather conditions in Arctic
nesting grounds will limit the birth rate. In
brief, let the purpose of Duck Stamps be
dedicated to saving birds, not producing a

- surplus to be killed for the birds’ and the

hunting. industry’s own good — and for
“sport.”

But there is a newer and more important
point to consider. Do we feel this horror
over the death of these unwily geese in a
special anthropomorphic way because of
something that is happening to us?

Paul MacLean, M.D., would probably

answer “Yes.” He is Chief of the

Laboratory of Brain Evolution and
Behavior at the National Institutes of Men-
tal Health. ’ ‘

Man is becoming kinder. Man is develop-
ing empathy. That is the big news Dr.
MacLean gave us recently at the L.S.B.
Leakey Foundation Symposium “In Search
of Man.” . , g

Man’s brain, this exact and disciplined
scientist (who no longer hunts or fishes),
told us in surprisingly symbolic language is

' becoming more like that of angels. His

pronouncement may initiate further
research into why man is kind and good as
well as cruel and aggressive. (Angels,
someday, ' may repleace demons-to—be-
exorcised as a subject of study!)

With "such talk of the angel-within-man at
a scientific forum is there any wonder that
those men and women - represented in
court by the seven plaintiffs -— identify with
those snowy angels flying along our Atlan-
tic coast? Is there any wonder, now that the
guns are pointed Skyward, that they con-
tinue to cry out “Stop! ?,” "

 

 

 




    

 

i

ll
l ‘:
’1
‘.

 

“v :*-.\._ A—g _ ..

i

1;"‘ ‘f

A
‘3
(A.
iiAzA.

(‘A Q.”
' i
l

t

Joseph Kraft

w

 

Far more than most of us, President
Ford is given to sounding sillier than he is.
He' is used, as a former Minority Leader in
the House to striking far- out rhetorical

positions.

He is also used to coming off those

positions in order to reach compromises

that make a true impact on events.

'AProbably the thing to be most thankful for ~

in Washington this year is that the
President is following that familiar pat-
tern of dark rhetoric and eventual com-
promise in the moSt important economic
issues new tip for decision—the energy bill,
the tax cut and the New York problem.

1. ,In the energy field, Mr. Ford started the.

yea. insisting that the United States
reduce consumption of petroleum products
by one million barrels per day—a figure
dreamed up by Secretary Kissinger to

impress foreign countries but without any.
rational basis in the American economy. .

The administration 5 preferred mode of
AreduCtion. was to raise prices so that the
poorest Americans would be forced to cut
down their consumption of gasoline and
fuel.

The Democrats in the Congress took the
position that energy policy should be
rooted in the domesticeconomy, not
promises to‘ foreign governments. They
argued that a serious cutback in con-
sumption Would deepen recession in the
early part of the year and delay recOv my
in the second half of 1975. They also wanted
a gradual decontrol 0f oil prices so that a
sudden rise would not worsen inflationary

pressures. And instead of relying entirely \

ton high prices to cut consumption, they
.Manted mandatory regulation forcing less

rik-‘i‘q;

h etor1c and Compromlses

use of petroleum in the new cars and by
industry

The battle Was fought hard and long.
Now, however, a compromise is finally
emerging.

All prices will become subject to con-'
trol—some at a lower level than presently.
Decontrol will take place but only
gradually. While there is no chance of
meeting the million barrel per -day con-
sumption cut, neither is the energy bill
going to clobber the American ecOnomy.

With respect to .taxes,'xthe Democrats
last year passed a $12 billion cut in per-

sonal income taxes—4a cut which is helping

to sustain the present recovery. This year,
to keep the “recovery moving, they have
preposed- a ' similar cut beginning in
January 1977. .

Mr.'Ford, in' a dramatic bid to outdo
them, came up ,With a plan for a $28 billion
tax cut, to begin this year, provided it was

tied to a $28 billion cut in government.

spending to begin with the new-fiscal year,
in July 1977. He claimed that that way the
economy wOul-d be stimulated, and
government expenses cut to curb inflation.

The Democrats argued back that the $28
billion cut in one year Would almost cer-
tainly. harm theAAold, the poor, the sick and
those most in need of help from govern-
ment programs. They claimed, rightly

again, that a continuation of last year’s tax;
cut would probably be sufficiently strong?

to sustain recovery.

The compromise now emerging from the

Congress provides for a continuation of
income tax cuts at last year' s level. There
will be no firm commitment to an Aexactly

Vﬁ—w‘t ~v
i- ‘

THE WASHINCTON POST“ F

 

.equ1valent drop in government;ex~

penditures. But the Democrats writ
probably recognize the need. to put an.
eventual ceiling on expenditures
Presdident Ford, confronted with the
danger that no tax cut would diminish
demand and thus hurt the reCov‘eryA, Will
almost certainly have to sign \thea-
Democratic bill

As to New York, the President had in-
sisted that any federal aid be preceded by
a recomposition of the debt owed to city
banks, new taxes raised by the city and“ .
state, and contributions from union pent
sion funds. At one point he even demanded
that New York put itself into bankruptcy

~ before becoming a candidate for any
AA fedeialhelp. ~

But Mr. Ford has now come off the
bankruptcy-first kicklt looks as though
all four elements of the package will be
brought together in time to prevent any
finanCialdebacle in the City ' ‘

This record to be sure is far from per.
feet. The country does not have a plan for
mobilizing its energy resources on a crash
basis. It lacks a program for getting a good
long-term grip on public spending at the
national level..The odds are that, even if
New York is saved financially,'its in—

' credibly poor manage-ment will put the
. city back in the soup again.

But the worst has clearly been avoided
Government policy, the favorite whipping
boy for practically everybody these days,
has helped the country emerge from a
truly dangerous recession. And that is
something for which all Americans can be

thankfuL

Field Enterprises

 

: Ann Cottrell Free

 

. The. Loch Ness Monster Conference
‘ .opensiin’Edinburgh on Dec. 10. It will be
attended by prestigious scientists and
'naturali'stsri'rom all OVer. New un-
' derwater photographs are leading to
the coAnviCtion that something is really

the imagination,
illusion—or the wish being father to the
monster

It could -,.be scientists postulate, a
marine dinosaur of some sortwith

eat on the bottom of the 750—f00t deep
Scottish highland lake ‘
Since they seem to have reached their

ference, I do not wish them well. Now

forgetit.
They are taking on a grave respon-

sibility. It s not just that they maybe
doing violence to the gossamer world’of
legend (and later, possibly, to" the
monsiters). They will also be poking
jagged holes in my description of the
AmOnster. My discovery came on a
summer 5 day in 1966.

’ “Come! Look! Quickly!” I called to
the others as the light and wind shifted
and the loch changed from a Shim-
mering blue to a sea of leaden ripples.
In the distance, near the far shore, my
straining eyes made out an objeCt. AA
shadow? No. A floating log?
Maybe—but no. Could it be a hump?
Steady theie, but what else? Of course,
of course. But no by gosh, two humps

 

19‘», versation ov

—-—and._.a head. The monster! The
monster! ~I~was seeing the, Loch Ness
monster! “Ceme quick, quickly, hurry,
hurry! ” I called again“ ‘

They came to the high bank wheie r'

i: i ' thod,’ breaking up their Serious con- .
t 8 er there by the Loch Ness .,

Observation trailei. This wasa small-

there in the loch. It is not a figment ofA. ‘
not an optical,

sense enough to' find the right things to '

conclusions in advance of the con-'

or in the future. Let them go home and

A I961 photo of something in Loch Ness;- Associated Press

And NOW: a Monster Conference?

fry telescope Operation run by an
Englishman—sin a kill. He and my
husbandlag‘ged behind, hysterical
women being nothing new.

But my daughter, age 10, 'came
runniiig,‘the first to stand by my side.
She saw it. Ofeourse she did. (That was
the sUmmer she carried, eVerywhereA
she went, a green- -haiied troll in her
jacket pocket.) What s moxe she saw
not only two humps—but three! And to
the head, she added horns. And-what .

 

The author, who writes on the
the environment, is. on the
board of the Rachel Carson
Trust for the Living '
Environment.

 

else? A tail. Natch. It was‘our monster, ',
hers and mine. Because theothers, now
peering through the telescope, couldn’ t
see it at all. They murmured something
about a floating leg

But now if the scientists follow
through on their virtual conviction that
there’s something real in Loch Ness,
eyeryone may soon see the monster or
monsters. (Sir Peter ScOtt, president of
the World Wildlife Fund, thinks there
may be 50. ) They may fashion some

kind of Contraption to bring it--'Aor

them— to the surface. (They must be '
studied, you know.) The best brains
would be tapped to design this device
even th’Ought they aieunable to find a
way to'save porpoises from drowning in
tuna‘nets. These smart and friendly
marine mammals lead fishermen to the
schools of tuna and then are netted with
them . ' ' t i
Man will consider the mon-

l

- species."

can get baby monsters. And then.

i be lining up for tiny monster tots. Andif :
hats.

. other.

perience with the monster' in 565 A. D.

ever-elusive world of elves, trolls,

‘ change, see hiMps, a head, horns, a} .

'your own minds the Monster
‘idaughters (with green haired trolls in ..

A their pocketsl at our side, callout to theAAfA
' whole wide World: ' ' ..

mirage of the storyboOk years we have‘

a

stcr~which will be given a taxonomic ‘
name-the super-most. “endangered '
And indeed it may be, Should
man get his hands onit. They may even
bring out a breeding pair to see if they"-

aquarium people from everywhere will

we thought there was a commotion over ' -
the Peking Pandas-,- hold on to your

The monsters, those taken away and
those lelt behind, may long for each
Who knows about their hearts-
-—whether they break or not? But do we:
really want to find out?

What good, really, veiifying their
reality? Do we ieally need base line
data on monsters to which~ other
monsters musteonform? No more
optical illusions or floating logs then
will be allowed. Goodness knows what 1. .
thisWill do to the reports of other -._:
sighters and to St Columba’ s ex-AA‘A." "

Verification will be a body blow to the .f

giants. For it means goodbye to the.
days when you could look across-the f "
great loch, and as the wind and light

tail—a monster of your own making. 3 f.
No, lean’ tsay goodby ‘ '
Let us forever diSregard scientific

findings and real mensters. Boyce t in A' .

on? .- I ‘

ference. Let us forever, with our small

”Come! Come! Quickly! Hurry,"
hurry! The monster, the monster!”j_
And admit to 'no one, not even to our— ».
selves, it is only make- believe: a

left behind

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

1., a. :— 2'

W5» 3'

 

A

Bill
Fights
FOI‘

nimal '

ights .

   

, By Ann Cottrelll Free“
A s H I N G T!
(WNS) ——-Some peo-
ple think so, but there’s
nothing tongue - in -cheek
about getting an “animal
rights” plank in the up-
coming GOP platform

 

Rights of people rank
high with the congressman
who is seeking such an un-
precedented plank. B ut
Virginia’s Bill Whitehurst
is convinced that animals
have been .kicked around
too long and they need a
break. too.

  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 

And. he, of all. peopl
should. know. For no oth
member 01’ Congress
authored more ani
protective legislation,
met with greater succ :ﬂ

Whitehurst works it .
rights of animals 1:
moral conviction (u
did his fellow Vi
James Madison.
.ing for the Bill of -
Votes are inc" 9
1ealist,howeve1‘§‘
tains there are llotes-

up for animals. The size 1,,

the potential humane vote“.
might be measured by re-
cent humane legislation

 
 
 
 
 

Right now, fo1 ex
the youthful 47-y
Whitehurst is stan '1 '
for polar bears.

l

successes. 5 l
l

|

l

l

:J it

“Bill looks out ford ‘ 1.",

animals, but he’s ‘._

bear about bears,” 33o,
his wife, Janie

.. So he is leading the 4;
on Capitol Hill in seeking
U S. participation in an in-
.ternational treaty to stop
" killing these largest of
bears. The Soviet Union—
which banned polar bear
hunting in 1956 — 'would
come in on the treaty.

 
  

(President Nixon, at
Whitehurst’s behest, may
have mentioned the U. S.
“f interest when he talked to
‘ Soviet leaders.) '

Denmark, .NorWay and
Canada may also sign.
Scientists of. the five na-
tions ‘say .that the polar
b e er s number between
310,000 and." 20,000. US.
lhunters, legally and ille-
gally, may be taking as
many as 1000 annually.

The list of Whitehurst -
sponsored legislation is

3..

 

 

 

A CRUSADE to save the polar bears
is just one of the many animal
campaigns of a GOP Congresswman

impressive. It includes the
Animal Welfare Acts of
1966 and 1970, covering
thousands of animals in
laboratories, zoos and cir-
cuses. ‘

He lent a strong hand to
protection of wild horses,
walking horses, hawks,
seals. whales. Thanks to
him 25,000 scarce wolves
got a new lease on life.

This former newsman.
college professor and dean
recently used his muscle
as an Armed Services
Committee member and
stopped the Defense De-

partment order for 277, 000
parka hoods lined with
real wolf fur. This humane
act resulted in the saving
of $1.11 million and thou-

sands of wolves —- by the

substitution of synthetics.

Whitehurst’s .m a ilb a g
stays full of letters from
coast to coast, seeking his
help

“We must express con-
cern for the humane care
and conservation of our
wild and domestic animals
and birds,” he said. “Not
just because the Demo
crats forgot it,~but” he
adds, “because it’s right.”

.._~..—-.-—.-—-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lino RI

 

 




ﬂ” Maui I
’04,. Day ”0/

9/“ ”we: (“AM
a’gﬂw-

ANN COTTRELL FREE (MRS. JAMES FREE)
4700 Jamesfown Road Wesfmoreiand Hiiis
Washington, D.C. 20016 307 ~ 01 0-3533

 




By Ann Cottrell Free

Since I returned from Hopkinsville, Ky. not long ago, I have 593n—
thinking more about its people than, even, of the blackbirds they
so badly wanted dead.

1’.

inhits own hysteria?

"Why?" I keep asking myself was "Hoptown" so uptight, so locked

Notice, I say "was." For surely, hysteria departed along with
the tiny last breaths of grackles, cowbirds, starlings, redwings,now
decomposing under the loblolly pines at nearby Fort Campbell.

Or certainly everyone is resting easy now that the escapee birds
are migrating northward.

The hysteria was really real. My handy Webster's defines it:
"Any outbreak of wild emotionalism; as war hysteria."

And that was a kind of war: two helicopters manned by "screaming
eagles" of the lOlst Airborne spreading a chemical that contributecto
either a fairly quick or a long drawn out death.

But what put the heliCOpters in the night sky was not the
Army's fear of the birds. It was the Army's fear of peeple, whose fear
had run wild because somehow the notion was abroad that dark, unseen
forces would get them all.

"What about our unborn children?" angrily asked a young

woman standing in the check out line with me at the Big K store.

"Are you for the birds?" she demanded after one innocent
question. ‘

I never had a chance to reply.

"Those birds are spreading disease. It gets into our Wheat.
It will get into our flour..."

Her eyes were blazing by now.

 




-2-

"And then it will get into the bread we eat. And what about our
unborn. . . . " [if

From other "Hoptowners" I heard of the man who lostapf.his lung
due to histoplasmosis spread by the blackbirds roosting at Fort Campbell.
And just as frequently I heard about the man who nearly lost an eye and
of a critically ill woman and child. Reports on losses due to agricultural
depradations by the birds went all the way up to $640 million.

If the Army hadn't gone ahead with the killings, they told me,
the 105,597—acre Fort Campbell with its 52,000 inhabitants would be

quarantined, totally isolated. For the County Board of Health had

petitioned the State to invoke statute 214.020 on the grounds of the

"probability" that an "infectious or contagious disease will invade

the state ...."
But, curiously, I never heard of the First Baptist Church in mid—

town HOpkinsville being quarantined by the State. For there, I learned

was the source of acute cases of histoplasmosis: an 18~inch accumulation

of histoplasmosis~infected pigeon manure in the belfry. The man with
resulting

theilﬁﬁg problem spent two days in the fall of 1973 removing the droppings.

Other cases of histOplasmosis wereucontnacted by persons at-the Child

Day Care Center across the street. The land around the church still

tests out positive despite two fumigations. ;

Expecting numbers of ill and hosgmalized soldiers at Fort

K
\

Campbell, I was told, officially, there had been none.
I looked again to the Army's own Environmental Impact Statement
containing the Surgeon General's views. He reminded that for years from
70 to 90 per cent of the persons of that general region show infection
when skin tested. They usually suffer no ill effects, other than an occasions:
flu-like spell. The man with eye trouble may have beemwzf the less lucky
=ane5 3, his trouble , admittedly, starting years benfore the blackbirds

came to Fort Campbell.

 




-5-

( HistOplasmosis, according to scientists, is contracted by frequent
or heavy inhalation of spores in infected soil, the organism being activated
. '1ch new”, or
by . ' ' ~ 1rds’checken, bat dr0ppings.)
In the midst of hysteria's heat, the Hopkinsville Holiday Inn
tried to steer a middle course, with its out-front sign:"STARLINGS ARE

DARLING, BUT PEOPLE ARE SNARLING."

. * . _ eva/AL-
Starlings (about half of the birds killed) were never d to

be anybody’s darling, even their protectors. But nobody could doubt the
prevalence of "snarling." And this brings me back to the nagging question:
"Why was 'HOptown' so uptight?"

Could the answer be found in other questions not asked early
enough by enough peOple in other times and other places when the victims
were, indeed, darling and human?

Could the fireS' of blackbird fear been fanned by thos who merely
wanted to rescue people from unknown sinsster forces, ’25»ch no thanks

but to be well remembered when the curtain closed behind them in the

voting booths?

###

(Mrs. Free, who writes about animals and the environment, was

present during the spraying of the blackbirds at Fort Campbell, Ky. )

 




i 6m: mama...

' Maday.Jan.14,1975 “‘7’“

_u*’ L .

' .SchWeitZer centenary ~ f?!

BY ANNCO'I'I'RELL FREE
Special to Relieve .
Walk along 'the Atlantic shore as I did
the other day. Look up and see a V of
. snow geese heading out. Look down and
see the gleaming brown .shell of a
beached horseshoe crab. And think of
Albert Schweitzer. .
1 Think of what Dr. Schweitzer -- who
would be 100 years old today -— would
' have thought. He would be pleased that
snow geese fly over our country safe
from hunters’bullets and can find feed-
ing grounds at our wildlife refuges. And
pleased, of course, that the family of
the horseshoe crab has hung in there
since Paleolithic tirnes. .

But, I suspect, when he heard of the
variety of threats against the safety
and habitat of these wondrous crea-
tures, Dr. Schweitzer would have
asked, “How much time is left?”

His questions, however, would not

have been confined to geese and crabs,

but to the destiny of man himself. For
Albert Schweitzer, though no ecologist

in scientific terms, saw years ago the ,

close relationship between all crea-
tures. For that is what his philosophic
legacy —- “reverence for life” —— is all
about. ’

Rachel Carson knew this. For when
she wrote Silent Spring and launched
the age of ecology, she dedicated it to
“Albert Schweitzer, who said, “Man
has lost the capacity to foresee and to
forestall. He will end by destroying the
earth’."

Schweitzer, who during his 90 years
lived the lives of many men — organist,
theologian, philosopher, physician,
missionary, writer - was baffled by
man’s renunciation of thinking. ‘ ’ ‘

“It remains incomprehensible," he
wrote, “that our generation, which has
shown itself so great by its achieve-
ments in discovery and inventions,

could fall so low spiritually as to give up ‘

thinking.”

These words were written before the“i

horrors of World War II and, unfortu-

nately, before he could command a '
'large audience. Clear-1y, too few were 1 .

listening —— let along thinking.

But now the audience is larger and is" ' '
listening as never before to the Nobel '

Peace Prize winner, whose early days
were spent in a small Alsatian French

town where his father was pastor of a ' ‘
Lutheran church. As we head into the

uncertainties of the last quarter of the

20th Century, men and women in dozens

_ of nations are proclaiming 1975 as the
Schweitzer Year.

Great organs in many cities —- in-

cluding the one in New York’s Carnegie

Hall tonight —— will ring forth with the '

affirmations of Schweitzer’s beloved
Johann Sebastian Bach.

debating the Schweitzerian ethic that is

so deeply grounded in the Christian doc- ~

trine of love. UN ESCO in Paris is con-
ducting an international Albert

Schweitzer symposium in June. The

, 1
School children and college students, - ‘
here and abroad, are discussing and ‘

' Schweitzer .

two Germanys are issuing postage,
stamps. Books, films, recordings are
being issued and re-issued. The Smith-
sonian Institution and the Albert
Schweitzer Fellowship are planning a

w grand climax next year to the Schweitz-
' er Year, which got underway in Wash:

ingtOn today with the granting of the 7
Schweitzer Medal by the Animal Wel- .
fare Institute to Dr. Lee Talbot of the~

. Council on Environmental Quality.

The most broad-gauged observance ..
of the hundreds in Western Europejv
Japan, Taiwan is being held in the.
American South. And it is hoped that " '
before the year is over that many other ’
communities will have joined Atlanta
-— where Schewitzer’s daughter lives —
in commemorations of their, own.
Rhena Schweitzer Miller is the wife of a
U. S. Public Health Service physician"
whom she met at her father’s African '
hospital. .

One day in 1915, on a trip away
from his missionary hospital at Lamba-
rene in French Equatorial Africa (now j
Gabon) —— as he sat on the deck of a '
small steamer —— the meaningful words
flashed across his mind. For Schweitz-
er, it was as if the “iron door had yield-
.ed and the path in the thicket had come
visible.”

The main problem, Schweitzer con-
ceded, was that all life cannot be spared
when it conflicts with the willoto-live of
other lives, including one’s own. Should .
the fish die, so the pelican can live? . ‘
Does not the bacteria destroying the pa-
tient have its right to live? And what . ’
about the lamb, the steer killed for
meat?

This is how Schweitzer answered
these questions for himself: “If man
has been touched by the ethic of rever-
ence for life, he injures and destroys ‘
life only under a necessity which he
cannot avoid and never from thought- ' ~
lessness.” .

The Schweitzer Year may get us
thinking. It may help us to “foresee and .
forestall”. It may make us stronger.
When seemingly insoluable criticali ,
choices face us, “reverence for life” -
in its truest sense — will guide all of us

. to right decisions. -

 




. ' '.' g, . ‘2'... . ‘.‘ . . ‘. ,.'.'.. .. I {Jar-1r. ._. ~:_-_- ’ ‘. _ '.' » -_-_~_v_ _ J .
- ‘4: -~'~=---v»:>.=- r> -

Are we treating

. V _
._. ._....,..._. ‘
.' ‘2‘ :.'.-.-.-¢i.u '.-. . t '. . a
it; -...\ v,-, IIV ‘1-9. ..-

ﬁﬂtv’JI-rzaz: -‘

.¢.:.§?§?

animals badly?

Are we failing our animals?
Ann Cottrell Free tells us"‘Yes.”
This skilled investigative reporter on national
, environmental and humane problems came to Birming-
ham and took a look at the area’s animal control and
welfare programs. ‘
She analyzes, eXpertly and frankly, the problem, and
outlines steps toward more effective and humane animal
, control methods in a six-part series beginning Sunday in

Eh: Birmingham News

'-';;:-:v';.,:-:-:.:-:-:-x':-:-:v:-> - -
.-:-.-.-,s->.:::::::::manifm

 

 

 

 

 

5‘ ﬁlm ‘ Birmingham News

 




 

. Must change attitude to solve
animal Pro b 16”] its: Birmingham News Stm...lan. 13,1974

BY ANN CO’I‘THELL FREE

The caged screaming black dog chased his tail — or what was
Ieftof it. It was merely an ugly, bloody stump.

He bit the air in aaonv as he whirled. And his soul'searing
shrieks filled the entire Rabies Control Center.

llis tail had been chopped off by a hatchet or some other
crude instrument before he was brought to the Center.
' This non-rabid animal had a message ~—- other than his own
pain— for Birmingham and Jefferson County.

Likewise, the resigned German shepherd in the next cage had
a message as she lay patiently on her side. her suckling puppies
busily pushing their tiny paws against her full breasts. Her milk
was her last gift to them. She could not save them. nor herself.
For they were all homeless and forsaken. And they were all
doomed to die, probably the next day. '

The message from these miserable animals was simple.
clear, unforgettable. ‘ ~

NEITHER SHOULD have ended their days in Birmingham’s

Rabies Control Center. They were innocent but typical victims of .

deplorable conditions an unaware community has allowed to
exist and to get out of hand.
But these are conditions — once fully known — that should

bring Birmingham and Jefferson County to a crisis of con» .

science.

 

First of a series

The community must decide how it can effectively and
swiftly eliminate wanton cruelty to animals and how it can
reduce needless overbreeding of companion animals. namely -
dogs and cats.-

Thinking about the animals from the animals' interests - as
well as from man’s -- would be a beneficial change, paying
dividends in the long run to man’s spiritual life, health and

pocketbook. ' .

That is the sum total of their message.

Now for details:

Prosecution {or cruelty rare

THE CASE of the black dog exemplifies the community's
disregard of deliberate cruelty. The dog’s mutilator was never
called (nor ever soughtl to answer for his crime. The Center’s
dog wardens had sufficient clues to pass on to the police. But
followup and prosecution of cruelty cases is rare. Conviction.
virtually unknown. The laws are on the books. The maximum
fine for mutilating an animal is $500 and six months in jail.

The plight of the German shepherd and her four puppies
graphically relates to the community‘s reluctance to take
realistic stepsto curb overbreeding. This little family was
typical of unwanted animals crowding the Rabies Control Center,
the Bessemer Pound and the Birmingham Humane Society
shelter. The puppies may have been born, because someone
wanted to show their children the miracle of birth. But nobody
was on hand to witness the miracle of death.

Dogs in the area‘s three holding centers range from the
forlorn, mange-ridden. trembling mixed breeds to frisky
terriers, collies. poodles. Nearly all of them, products of
overbreeding. And it is the same with cats, most of which are
found at the Humane Society shelter.

In a year‘s time. more than 40.000 cats and dogs of all ages
and types pass through these grossly inadequate facilities. Only
about 6.000 leave alive -— reclaimed by their owners or adopted
for a fee. Approximately 34.000 are put to death because there is
no room save in the heart. Methods used range from decompres-

sion chamber, drowning, to gassing by using exhaust fumes from '

a truck. condemned by all humane organizations and the
American Veterinary Medical Association.

In round numbers. the Birmingham Center handles
approximately 8,000 animals annually; Bessemer, 5,000;
Birmingham Humane Society, 27,000. ‘

The total cost for the area’s animal control and welfare
operation is about $310,000.

But Birmingham and Jefferson County are not alone.

5,000 born per hour in U. S.

THE COMPANION—ANIMAL overpopulation problem faces
nearly every community. Born "at the rate of at least 5,000 an
hour, dogs and cats now number nearly 100 million n_at_ignw1de. .

More than 18 minim handled annually in pounds and
shelters. and more than 13 million of these are “put to sleep."
(Countless others meet smashed and mangled ends under wheels

of cars or die frommalnutrition and disease.) The cost of'
handling these unwanted creatures is more than $125 million. To.

over-simplify this means seven dollars per animal. This also
happens to be the per animal cost in the Birmingham area.

 

 

 

 

Alarmed by the needless waste of life of an
costs. many communities are looki
animals' problems. Some
seek guidance from as
venerable American Hu
and Friend for Animals.
States.

imals and the high
. ng for new solutions to their
dewse new means of their own. Others
tional humane groups such as the
mane Association Friends of Animals
or the Humane Society of the United

THE HSL'S offers a three-pronged approach it calls LES.

L stands for legislation and licensing.

E means education on control, care, treatment.

S refers to spaying-neutering.

I“Try LES.“ says HSUS' animal control expert Phyllis
Wright. “so you won’t have more dog, cat, puppy. kitten
problems."

She was talking to Jctierson County's Joseph W. Bates who
directs the-area's animal control program for the Department of
Environmental Health. Along with other sanitarians from many
parts of the nation, he was attending Miss Wright‘s special
animal control seminar at the recent HSUS conference in
Atlanta.

“You just can't lick the problem with one single approach.“
said Miss Wright. .

Birmingham-Jefferson County has the one single approach.

IT IS EMBODIED in the 1972 Dog Protection Act. It requires
your dog to be:

I. Confined within an enclosure. or, 2. On a leash in the hand
of a responsible person. or 3. Leashed on owner's property in a
humane maimer and within sight of the owner.

Also all dogs must be inoculated against rabies.

In 1972. more than 72.000 dogs were inoculated. Fewer dead
dogs were found on the streets and fewer fracture cases were
reported by some veterinarians. More than 8,000 dogs were
handled at the center.

Despite this progress. there may be at least 100,000 non-
inoculated dogs at large in Birmingham and Jefferson County.
Claude Smithson, executive director of the Birmingham Humane
Society put the figure even higher. Many are partially owned in
the sense that families will feed them but will take no responsibil- -'
ity for them. To catch all these dogs would mean hiring even ‘
more “dog catchers" and building more and more dog pounds. In
short. the new law -- alone -- will not get to the heart of the
problem. ‘

The Dog Protection Act appears to be an understandable
throwback to the successful 1954-1962 war against rabies,
transforming this “rabies capital of the world” into a rabies-free

. area. The memory burns deep of hundreds of rabid dogs (455 in ,

1946). thousands of Pasteur treatments, and 14 deaths between "‘
1930 and 1959.

The horror of' hydron obia

IT IS NOT an easy death. Victims die in convulsions often

screaming for water yet hysterically afraid of it -- hence the
name “hydrophohia. "

Nor is the sight of a rabid dog easily forgotten - even if seen

‘ only in the movies. Who can forget the weaving staggering “mad

dog” in Harper Lee’s “To Kill a Mockingbird?” Her father came
out of the house and shot him. A yelp, an agonized leap in the air
and it was all over. I \

l. UNLESS A false alarm, the bonechilling number “50" for

M

“mad dog” no longer is heard on police radios. The war was won
- but the old methods of handling dogs lingers on.

There has been testimony alleging unnecessary brutality in
carrying out the letter of the law when dog catchers have taken
unleashed dogs._

The question arises: Instead of taking such dogs to the Babies
Control Center where owners must come to reclaim them after
iaying a fee -- a prodecnre which invites possible injury to the

inimal and frayed tempers on the part of owners - why not give '
wners of unleashed dogs a citation, like a traffic ticket,

_ sauiringthem topay 810 fines? - '

 

,1
'k

 

 

 




BY ANN COTTRELL FREE

- Gilt: Birmingham News Mon, Jan. 14, 1974

SEIBELS, LANIER LIKE PROGRAM

(CURRENTLY, THROUGH

MORE THAN FOUR billion

Mayors endorse Control of pets

Dreams never hurt, espe-
cially when there 15 something
to pin them on.

The dream of relief for the

area’s animal control and wel-
fare problems possibly could
be brought to reality by Mayor
George C. Seibels Jr. of Bir-
mingham and Bessemer’s
Mayor Jess Lanier, if - —

It’s a big, but important “if.”

If they really take seriously
the National League of Cities”
new and far-reaching policy on
animals in urban areas -- and
if they will work for its adop-

tion in their own cities.
' Second in a series

These two mayors recently
endorsed this policy as mem-
bers of the National League of
Cities.

VASTLY DIFFERENT from
anything practiced in this area,
the NLC policy -- designed to.
guide thousands of cities and
their mayors —- reflects much
of the LES program introduced
in yesterday’s article. (LES
stands for, Legislation-licens-
ing, Education, Spaying-neu—
tering.)

The policy adopted in
December at the League Con-
gress in Puerto Rico, is a giant
step from last year’s. Then, the
focus was on cleaning up litter
in the sense of dog waste.
Today‘s focus centers on find-
ing ways on how not to waste
litters!

(These litters are kittens and
puppies that can grow up to be
menaces, nuisances or beloved
“members of the family.”)

Here is the text of the policy
endorsed by Mayors Seibels
and Lanier:

“DOG AND CAT overpopu-
lation in urban areas is now
recognized as a threat to health
as well as an assault on aes-
thetics, a pollutant and safety
hazard. It also represents a
major city expenditure. Citi-
zens and government must be
made aware of the seriousness
of the problem. Education pro-
grams must be reinforced with

local requirements of owners 1

to restrain dogs and cats and
control their breeding. Licens-
ing fees should reflect the costs
of city animal control pro-
grams, including shelters,
mandatory sterilization of
adopted animals and cleaning
up of animal litters.”

THIS COMMUNITY carries
out only a fraction of the
recommendation: The Dog
Protection Act, requiring
leashing or confinement of
dogs and innoculation against
rabies.

Birmingham, Bessemer and
Jefferson County firmly resist
licensing of dogs —— keystone of
the National League of ‘Cities’
policy.

Why 1s the area disinterested
in receiving additional funds to
help defray its animal-control
costs?

Why does it place the burden
of financing the program
equally on petless people as
well as dog Owners?‘

a complicated arrangement
Jefferson County, 13 smaller
satellite cities and Birming-
ham spend —— with tax raised
funds -— $208, 000 for its animal
control program. Bessemer
spends about $30,000 from
funds allocated to the Depart-
ment of Streets. )

“We had licensing once,”
says Paul Pate, Jefferson
County’s environmental health
director, “but we couldn’t
enforce it.” His department
supervises the program.

The licensing receipts, how-
ever, went into general funds
when they could have been
earmarked for hiring inspec-
tors to carry out the licensing
law, thus adding to the reve-

nue. Persons with unlicensed
dogs or dogs running at large
could have been given citations
bringing in more financial
support. In fact a house- to-
house dog census could have
been taken flushing out even
more unlicensed and unvacci-
nated dogs.

It is not too late to begin such
-a program.

In Birmingham and Jeffer~
son County, the dog control
program could realize more

than $140,000 almost immedi-
ately if the owners of the 72,000
innoculated-against-rabies
dogs were required to pay a
two-dollar license fee. In short
order, with more inspectors in
the field, another 50,000 to
70,000 dogs might be discvoer-
ed and licensed. Hence, anoth-
er $140,000.

BEFORE EMBARKING on
such a program. however, seri-
ous consideration should be
given to using the price of the
license tag as an incentive to
have the dog spayed or neuter-
ed. Higher fees for the breed-
able ,animal could send the
owner ‘to the veterinarian for
this surgery (or to a non-profit
clinic if and when one is set
up).

More than 200 cities have
this differential. Among them:
Tulsa, Greensboro, N. C., Jack-
sonville, Fla, Raleigh, N. C.,
San Francisco, Denver, Boston
and Boise, Idaho. Some cities
issue three-year tags —-
twenty-one dollars for breed-
able animals and only- six
dollars for spayed or neutered.

These cities looked the emo-
tional and financial problem of

. animal control straight in the
‘ face. They realized that from

one unspayed female, her off-
spring, in seven years time,

‘ could number 4,400.

They knew that dog owner-
ship is increasing 4.5 percent
annually and doubling everx
fifteen years. They knew there

was one dog to every 13 per-

sons. They had become aware
that the pet industry is big
business.

a year is spent for pets, their
food, their care —- and the
“puppy mills” in the Middle
West are shipping puppies by
the thousands weekly to pet

shops in shopping centers 1:

throughout the land. And back-
yard breeders are turning out
nearly as many, hoping to

3 make a fast buck. Failing this,

they put out the sign “free
kittens” or “free puppies.”

And who pays the eventual

price? The cities and the poo‘

animals themselves as the-.3

‘ are herded into pounds she's

ters and death chambers. l
was for the high costs -— as we

as sympathy —— that the City c S
Los Angeles established a nor

profit low cost spay clinic

.1 Now three are in operation an ," ‘

by the end of this year 17,25 ,- 'A .

animals will have been spaye .55-

or neutered. The cost: $17 ‘i.
for spaying of dogs or cats an

$11. 50 for neutering. The clinic: ' . ' ,

not only have broken even b1
are now beginning to show '
surplus.

Many veterinarians oppos
the nonprofit spay clinic idea
because they could never begin
to compete. Their charges
usually begin at $40.00 for spay-
ing a female animal due to
their large overheads. But with

the increase in pet ownership,
veterinarians will probably
continue to have as much busi-
ness or more than they can
candle.

(The word “spay” comes,
, from the old French, “espeer”

meaning a “sword.” The sur-
gery is usually removal of
ovaries and uterus. For male
animals, surgery usually
means removal of sex glands.

BIRMINGHAM MAY NOT
be ready for such clinics just

yet, but it could begin immedi-
ately devising a program of
supplementary help for spay-
ing and neutering of animals
adopted from the local pounds
and the humane society shel-
ter.

In an increasing number of
communities -— New York,
Philadelphia, Montgomery
County, Md. -— no animals are
released for adoption unless
such arrangements are made.

In some places, hospitals are ,

on the premises. In others,
veterinarians offer reduced
“charity” fees or some areas,
public-spirited people donate
funds or raise money through
bazaars and cake sales to help
defray these costs.
Birmingham could do the
same, considering the goodwill
exhibited among humanitar-
ians and some veterinarians in
the area.

I

News photo by Bevel

OVERPOPULATION IS BIG PROBLEM
.Humane control program needed

 

Surgical procedures are the
only course open until safe and
economical chemical con-
traceptives are developed.
Research is being undertaken
by several universities,
particularly Colorado State.
Federal funds may become
available through a health
research legislation pending in
the Agriculture subcommittee
headed by Alabama’s Sen.
James Allen.

ALSO, LEADERS AT the
school of Veterinary Medicine
at Auburn University might be
persuaded to use some of a
multi-million dollar legacy left
the university for small animal
research. Work is also being
done on inserted devices and in

fact, one is already being mar—
keted.

But whatever the route,
steps must be taken — here and
elsewhere —- to stop dog and
cat overpopulation. And the
Seibels- Lanier - endorsed
League Of Cities policy is one
giant step in the right direc-
tion. It only needs carrying out.

‘-—-.-..

 




.........

......

 

. .1 filibua‘ ,_' m. 1 .. .

PET CEMETERY BEHIND HUMANE SOCIETY ANIMAL SHELTER
. . . Symbol of dreams of early founders to some supporters

Money called problem

City humane society ' .
doing inadequate job

BY ANN CO’I‘TRELL FREE
There’s a cemetery in the rear of the
Birmingham Humane Society’s animal
shelter. Buried there. as well as cherished
pets, are the high hopes and dreams of
many of its founders and early supporters.
They dreamed of a large vigorous soci-
ety working to prevent cruelty and to help
mold the character of the people in the
bustling iron and steel community by
teaching them to be kind to every living
creature. '

 

 

Today, 91 years after its founding and 64
years after it absorbed the Ensley Society
and was incorporated under state laws, it
has only 54 members. -

“Its budget (and knowhow) appears to
be insufficient to take prOper care of the
community’s unwanted and unfortunate
animals.

«IT IS UNDERSTAF FED and person-

nel underpaid.
.--It has not taken a cruelty case to court .

for years.

 

 

 

It was the first humane society in the
South and the 12th in the entire nation. The
year was 1883.

Their devotion was great. And when

. they died, some of the most ardent sup-
porters left legacies to carry out the
dream. One such was Mrs. Christina
Webb, whose legacy was used 50 years ago
to build the shelter at 24 17th Street West.
It bears her name -— but the extent it
graces her memory is hard to determine.

THE MAN WHO launched the dream
was Dr. John Herbert Phillips, who headed
the Birmingham Public School system and
organized the first public library. Names
of its various leaders ring the resonant bell
of memory: Mayor A. O. Lane, Rabbi
Samuel Ullman, Maj. E. M. Tutwiler,
Charles De Bardeleben, Mrs. Charles
Whalen, Father Benedict Bellema, Police
Chief George Bodeker, Mrs. William N.
Wood, RabbiMorris Newfield, The Rev.
W. E. Evans, Culpepper Exum, George
Cruikshank, editor of the old Birmingham
Chronicle.

Never enough money

SOMEHOW, DESPITE the roster of
prominent supporters throughout the
years, the Birmingham Humane Socrety
never seems to have. enough money to do
the job.

--It does not have a vigorous program of
humane education so desired by the found-
ers who established Bands of Mercy.

--It sells animals with virtually no
questions asked as to suitability of the new

home;

-—IT DOES NOT require -- or strongly
suggest —- that adopted animals be spayed
or neutered. ‘ -

—It has no informational program on
the urgent need to reduce pet overpopula-
lth—It distributes few care and handling
leaﬂets.

—-—It does not immunize adoptable young
animals against distemper, hepatitis or
leptospirosis. ‘

——IT HAS AN EMPTY unmanned clmlc
on the premises;

--It does not have its “death machine”
— the highly controversial decompression
chamber -— checked frequently for leaks
and malfunction as advised by the manu-
facturer and the American Veterinary
Medical Association.

-It drowns its very young puppies,
because they survive the decompression
chamber. It declines to dispatch them via
lethal injection as is now done for puppies
at the Rabies Control Center. Drowning is

News photo by Beverly Taylor

Tues, Jan. 15:1974 ' Gilt: Birmingham News

 

 

I ‘ Third in a series

opposed by all national humane societies
and the A.V.M.A.

-—It has had the same president for};
years. - - .
When BHS president, Marion Brﬂdna,
an investment broker,-was asked about
the Humane Society’s shortcomings, his
answer was “lack of money.”

Major supporter

AT THE HEART of his explanation was
the complaint that restrictions placed on
the Society by its major supporter, the
United Appeal, was crippling the society.

“The United Appeal will not permit us to
do any money raising," Brotdnax said,
“so we have to depend on them and the
sale of animals, cemetery lots, burials and
boarding animals. It just isn’t enough.”

The total budget for last year was
$79,312. Of this $31,000 came from United
Appeal. This year the Appeal is allocating
only $25,000 to the BHS because the society
was not keeping up to date drawing on
funds allocated to it. It was learned that by
the end of October, 1973, the Humane
Society was “under-expended” by more
than $8,000.

With its $79,312 budget, the Society
maintains the large shelter, two trucks,
pays 10 employees and handles more than

28,000 animals annually.

RECENTLY THE SOCIETY has been
under fire for placing sick animals —
especially puppies and kittens —- with new
owners. Many adoptors feel this could be
avoided if BHS would inoculate against.
the most common diseases — distemper,
leptospirosis and hepatitis for the puppies
and feline enteritis for kittens.

Some of the adoptors are particularly
miffed because BHS opened an immuniza-
tion clinic more than a year ago. Then, it
was closed. Bropdnax and Claude Smith-
son say they couldn’t make suitable
arrangements for manning it. Money' for
the actual clinic facility was left by long-
time board member and school teacher
Annie Castleman. ,

“We are still looking for another techni-
cian,” said Smithson. “The first one didn’t
work out,” he said.

Several area veterinarians volunteered
their time at the clinic, but apparently this
arrangement didn't work out either. One of
them, Dr. John Nall, also a former board
member, said he would return and so
would others and if invited and some
changes are made.

ALSO THEY COULD demand more
humane methods of euthanasia, prefer-
ably. finding veterinarians or skilled
technicians to humanely put to sleep these
unfortunate creatures by intravenous

' injection of sodium pentobarbitol preceded

when necessary by oral sedation. Com-
munity veterinarians might be asked to
lend a hand in bringing about all of these
improvements. , '

 

 

 

 

 




 

Gilt: aimingham News Wed, Jan. 16, I974

' Ilammer may symbolize

new attitudes in anim ‘

BY AN COTTRELL FREE
Special to The News

Jubilation over prospects of
a new animal shelter for Bir-
mingham and Jefferson Coun-
ty should not delay immediate
establishment of the Order of
the Golden Sledgehammer.

The Order could serve as a

significant symbol of the com-
munity‘s break with inhumane
‘ attitudes and actions.

But, most especially, it could
be a symbol for a real iron
Sledgehammer swung against
24 medieval three-tiered brick
“mad dog” cells still in use at

-’—-—¢‘ -

the Birmingham Rabies Con—
trolCcnter. ,
There hasn’t been a “mad
dog" in the area for 13 years.
Andto paraphrase the words
of a leading local veterinarian,
Dr. J. Russell Lindsey: The

cells are no fit places for any ‘

. animal -— especially “mad”
ones.

Quarantined in the cells for .

two miserable weeks are many
of the dogs that have bitten ~—
whether provoked or not -
human beings. “No dog de-
serves this punishment,"
maintains Mrs. Evelyn Wat-
son, president of the Alabama
Animal League (AAL). “And
just think how many thousands
have suffered this way. If only
we could do something soon.”

“Opce'the facts are known,

' maybe people will want to help

to replace them,” she said.

New portable enclosures could

later be moved to the new shel-
ter, Mrs. Watson said.

HERE ARE A few facts
about the cells:

—— Only toy breeds or beagles
can stand in them, turn around
or stretch but. Dimensions are
27 inches wide, 34 inches deep,
30 inches high.

—-Located in an unheated 15

. by 15 foot room, they are cold
in winter, hot and stuffy in
summer.

i“-‘-—-Ofl.ell wet, they are some

, times washed down with ani-
mals left inside.

If pounds and shelters were
covered by the Federal Animal
Welfare Act, government in-
spectors long ago would have
demanded replacement of the
cells, as well as numerous

other corrections of substand- ‘ .
' ~ no reference to taking munici-
pal steps for the reduction of -f
breeding, such as subsidy for ;
spaying-neutering surgery for .
animals adopted from the shel- '

ard conditions.

In fact, the city’s own anti-
cruelty law could be applied
here, because such incarcera-
tion is surely “unnecessary
cruelty.” '

If Birmingham cannot af.
ford the costs of demolition and
replacement with better pens
or cages, wrecking crews could
be paid with receipts from
membership in the the Order of
the Golden Sledgehammer.

Each. membership at five
dollars, or whatever the indi-
vidual could" afford, would
entitle the member to one
swing of thesledgehammer. If
not up .to it physically, a mem-
ber of the demolitioncrew
couldbedeputized. -

Lead off “swingers” at the
opening demolition ceremony
would be Councilmembers
Angi Grooms Proctor and Dr.
E. C. Overton, prime movers in
obtaining Council approval of
$225,000 of federal revenue

sharing funds for building a

modern and humane Animal '

Control Shelter. »

Other “swingers” are AAL's
Mrs. Watson and Dr. Lindsey,
leaders in the campaign for the
new shelter. Dr. Lindsey,
chairman of the Department of
Comparative Medicine of the
University of Alabama, Bir-
mingham, authored an evalua-
tion report on a study of the
animal control program under-
taken by a special League and-
City Council task force.

The report, though written in
a formal manner, minced few
words in condem ing the dete-
riorated Rabiesziontrol Cen-
ter, and its handling of ani-
mals. Not onlywere the “un-
believably small” quarantine
cells criticized, but it stated
that the personnel “had no
concept of humane care. ”

THE TASK FORCE report

recommended a number of '

changes at the new shelter —
one being the change of name
from “Rabies Control Center”
to “Animal Control Shelter."
(Not minimizing the horror of
rabies, it pointed out that the
center is involved in other
areas of animal control as
well.)

It recommended, especially,
hat the animal control Drn-

grams be --established' as a
separate division of the County
Health Department answer-
able directly to county health
officer Dr. George Hardy rath-
er than as a partof Environ-
mental Health Division. The
program and shelter would be
operated by county employes.
But the City Council, consult-
ing with the Alabama Animal
League, should appoint a

seven-member committee of -

animal experts and humanitar-
ians to serve as advisory com-
mittee. It would not have the
final “say—so” on policy mat-
ters, but its suggestions would

hold great weight. The task '
force also looks to the appoint- '.
ment of a part-time veterinar- ‘

ian. .
The report, however, makes

ter.

While awaiting the new shel-
ter (probably two years away) .

certain other improvements
could be started immediately
atthe old center:

--Separat_e feeding ofxani—
mals, rather than in common
rustedtrays. ,9; . -

-—Dividers placed in coma
munity pens to protect animals
while theirpensare hosed. ‘

-—Hard‘t'vood or fiberglass.“

resting boards placed inspens

to keep anhnals off cold and '

[ditch damp concrete.

~ —-Be_gin training program of
employes, inviting Humane

. Society of United States’ expert

Phyllis Wright to start it.

-Begin the change‘frorn
euthanasia by decompression
chamber to injection of sodium
pentobarbitol by veterinarians
or trained technicians. ‘

—_-Begin replacement of
trucks with those providing
proper ventilation.

The signal for the “kickoff”
of these and other improve
ments should come with -- or
even before «- the first wham ‘
of Councilwoman Proctor’s
Sledgehammer against the
“mad dog” cells.

1‘

lcareq

—‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Bessemer Pound

‘ _j§fis till in a deq ua te

s"
v

"f The Bessemer Dog Pound has all of the shortcomings

. fid'fthe Birmingham Rabies Control Center.

f And many, many more.
' Certain animals are kept from time to time in a
battery of tiny, dark, nearly airless cells.

' Stray, lost or givenoup dogs are kept in cement pens
for five days, with the puppies often lying in pans of
anenten dry dog food so as to keep off the cold damp floor.
The food is too hard for their tiny teeth to chew.

‘Mange-ridden, sick~appearing dogs are given no
medical attention and are kept five days in their

. weakened state before they are destroyed.
, Eninimals are killed by placement in an air-tight cement

Wiser filled with hot searing gases from the exhaust

hater of the pound truck.

‘j. ‘WJWEN BESSEMER MAYOR Jess Lanier’s attention
. ﬂeasdi‘awn to these inadequacies, he said he would look at

. . _. {torrents or materials from experts indicating other
:‘ :- 'ﬂipddfefhandling and destroying unwanted animals.

ﬁg;- ..
Tr. '.- all"
”.31 '
’Etvf.

,ﬁewas sent diagrams on the installation of a simple

ilfl’n‘iiipmsive system that cools and filters hot carbon
3 monoxide ;—- a system approved by the American

veterinary-Medical Association, the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, the Humane Society of the United States and
the American Humane Association.

He was also sent standard recommendations on the

it used of the frequent feeding of soft foods to puppies. The

"'{atCosbytHodges Dog Food Co. donated six cases of soft
r’canned food to the pound. ' ‘
. Lanier has not responded to any of these suggestions.

 

. _, ConditiOns remain the same at the Bessemer Pound.

 

 

 




- Gilt: Birmingham Nuns Thurs.,Jan. l7, 1974

Need for enforcing animal

anti-cruelty 13 WS

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE
Special to The News
Who remembers the last
time anyone in the Birming-
ham area spent even one night
in jail as punishment for wan-

Fifth in a series
L

 

tonly or maliciously killing,
maiming, scalding, poisoning,
blinding, disabling, burying

tinue to be committed. But,
increasingly, in the 91 years

since the passage of the major

Alabama anti-cruelty laws,
there has been less interest in
bringing culprits to justice.

“I haven’t taken a case to
court in the five years I’ve been
with the Birmingham Humane
Society.” says BHS’ executive

 

 

 

alive. strangling a dog, cat,
horse, raccoon, squirrel or any
other animal?

Does anyone remember
when even a five-dollar fine
was collected for any of these
wanton acts or for other cruel-
ties, such as depriving an ani-
mal of food, water or shelter?

If no one remembers, does
this mean that these cruel acts
never happen?

The answer is emphatically
‘tn0.9’
Nearly all of these acts con-

director Claude Smithson.
“But that’s not because there
are no cruelties—they’re on the
increase.

“You can’t get a convic-
tion,” he explained. “The
judges are not interested.

“Look,” he said, “at that
case last winter the sheriff’s
office took to court. You
remember it involved a kids
shooting out the eyes of a pony
with an air rifle;

“YOU KNOW WHAT hap-
pened to that case?" Smithson

asked. “The judge said ‘case
dismissed.’ ”

In 1972 Mr. Smithson investi-
gated 181 cruelty complaints
compared to 165 the year be-1
fore. They ranged from beat-
ings and starvation to leaving
animals out in the cold. The
worst case he ever encountered
involved a scalded dog - “the
skin slipped right off him,” he
recalled. -

Having little confidence in .

the courts, Mr. Smithson be-
lieves it saves courtroom wait-
ing time and it is just as effec-
tive “to warn people and show
them how to correct a bad
situation.” ‘

Mrs. Barbara Weber of the
Alabama Federation of Hu-
mane Societies takes another
view. “We are not taking
advantage of the laws on the
books,” she said. “The more
cases that get to court, the
more news will be printed
about them and the more
aware the judges will become
of these dreadful conditions.”

Mrs. Weber pointed out that
the Anniston Humane Society
is going all out taking cruelty
cases to court, winning three of
them in 1972.

A licensed practical nurse
and veterinarian’s wife, Mrs.
Weber says she would welcome
more cooperation from law
enforcement officers in the
Birmingham area. She pointed

IS cited

out that under state law, each
county is empowered to ap-
point a special deputy sheriff
whose only job is to investigate
cruelty. No such deputy has
ever been employed in this
community. Under the Bir-
mingham law, officers or em-
ployes of humane societies—p
such as Mr. Smithson—can
make arrests. But he never
does, and the sheriffs office
only rarely.

THE BIRMINGHAM anti-
cruelty law enumerates
twenty-one types of cruelty and
carries a maximum penalty of
$100 or six months in jail, or
both. The state cruelty laws
carry a maximum penalty and
six months for certain “wanton
or malicious” cruelties, but the
lesser penalty of up to $50 for
cruelties shown not to be wan-
ton or malicious. Attempts
failed to bring to a vote a bill
raising the penalty in the last
session of the Alabama Legis-
lature, but its sponsors plan to
try again.

Early founders of the Ala-x .
bama humane movement
sought laws guaranteeing the
teaching of humane concepts
as well as laws establishing

‘ penalties. Title 52, Sect. 546

requires the “teaching of sys-
tems of humane treatment” at
all levels including the teach-
ers’ colleges. It specifically

savs that at least twenty__

minutes a week must be spent
on certain phases of humane
education.

A check of Birmingham
schools revealed that in some
instances humane-minded

teachers are trying—but too
often curriculum materials are
unavailable.

“We need more than a few
posters or an essay contest
here and there,” says Mrs.

Edward Daddy of the Alabama

Animal League, Inc. “We need

to make kindness part of a

child’s way of life. That is the
. only way to cut down on
, cruelty.”

 




Fri.,Jan. 18, 1974 Gina Eirmingham New -

BY ANN CO'I‘TRELL FREE
Hopefu
unfortunate

mingham and
ty can take heart.

The year 1974 may bring a
new day, less miserable than
those that have gone before

This community has shown
on several occasions in recent
years that it faces its problems
-—listens and heeds.

In the last few days through
this newspaper some of the
800, 000 persons in the area
have learned that all is not well
with thousands of their non-
human fellow creatures living
intheir midst.

nimals of Bir-
fferson Coun-

MANY OF THESE animals
are neglected by their owners.
Others run loose, crouching
and lurking in alleys, running
the countryside or trembling
with fear in antiquated pounds.

The community may have
learned that its plan for animal
control is not well balanced
not geared to long-term solu-
tions nor in step with policies
advocated by the National
League of Cities.

It may have become aware
of the regrettable fact that the
Birmingham Humane Society,
as it enters its 91st year, is not
living up to the hopes of its
founders.

 

Last of a series

 

And it may have been shock-
ed that nearly all of the cruelty
goes unprosecuted.

BUT BIRMINGHAM and
Jefferson County may also
have become more aware of its
unusual assets in overcoming
these deficiencies.

Properly channeled, these
assets could lead the communi-
ty to a pre-eminent internation-
al status in an increasingly
important envirOnmentaLeth-

ical question facing much of '

the world.

Such an accomplishment -
_ giving balance to reality and
morality -- would be a credit,
also, to such efforts as Open-
tion New Birmingham and in
keeping with progress in the

I

. thousands of '

COULD HAPPEN HERE

New day for animals?

 

cultural, medical and industri-
alspheres.

CHIEF AMONG Birming-
ham’s assets are its citizens of
goodwill toward animals,
particularly members of the
Alabama Animal League,
headed by dynamic and re-
sourceful Mrs. Evelyn Watson.

In the City Council, it has
such animal-oriented members
at Mrs. Angi Grooms Proctor
and Dr. E. C. Overton who
have taken the lead in seeking
improvements in the animal
control programs.

It has the promise of a new
animal shelter — thanks to the

special efforts of Council mem-
bers Proctor and Overton -— in
obtaining approval of use of
federal revenue sharing funds.

it has young “with it” men in
the environmental health pro-
gram like Joseph Wayne Bates
and Dr. Michael Maetz. And
leaders, like Paul Pate and Dr.
George Hardy, who are willing
tolisten.

The community has dedicat-
ed veterinarians in its midst,
among them Schweitzer
Medalist Dr. Earl Jones, who is
also president of the Alabama
Humane Societies.

This list could continue. The

 

How to help animals
CONTACT City, County, United Appeal leaders for

 

immediate improvements .- care, housing, food,
euthanasia -- in animal shelters under their jurisdiction.

REPORT CRUELTY to: Birmingham Police, 328-
9311, Jefferson County Sheriff, 325- 5666, Birmingham
Humane Society, 788- 1681; Alabama Federation of
Humane Societies Humane Investigation, Barbara
Weber, 5926898.

OBEY THE LAW: Do not let dogs run at large, omit
rabies shot, abandon, deny food, water, shelter, exercise
or punish cruelly. Avoid tight collars, provide identity
tags, veterinary care, companionship.

CONTROL BREEDING. If you cannot afford spay.
neutering fees, seek help through City and County
officials, humane organizations or the Jefferson County
Veterinary Association or individual veterinarians.

SEEK LICENSING: To help raise revenue for animal
control programs. '

SEEK CITATION system of fines for owners of dogs at
large.

SUPPORT: for funds for additional construction costs
and equipment for expected new Animal Control Shelter.

. ESTABLISH ORDER OF GOLDEN SLEDGEHAM-
MER: Work for'immediate demolition of “mad dog” cells
at Rabies Control Center and similar cells for cats at

 

 

L Bessemer Pound. Replace with modern enclosures—ACE

depth of concern and search for
help exhibited by many of the
community’s citizens touched
the heart of this writer.

LOOKING AHEAD to allies
not yet fully drawn into the
battle against cruelty and igno-
rance are the mayor of Bir-
mingham, George Seibels, and
mayor of Bessemer, Jess Lani-
er. Hopefully, when they real-
ize they are out of step with the
policies of the organization in .
which they are influential
members — the National
League of Cities - they will
work for beneficial changes.

At the School of Veterinary

' Medicine at Auburn University '

and at the University of Ala-
bama School of Medicine in
Birmingham, there are re-
searchers who could work to-
ward birth control inhibitors. '

It can look to its US. Sen.
James Allen for help in speed-
ing research for better health
for all animals for he is chair-
man of a key agriculture sub-
committee studying such legis-
latjon.

And the community can ar-
range educational and training
programs and “know how”
seminars on humane animal
control.

Birmingham and Jefferson
County (once the rabies capital
of the world) have much going
for them. It is up to the people
— because the animals can’t do
it for themselves — to take
advantage of these Opportuni-
ties.

Irr return, the animals —
their numbers humanely regu-
lated, primarily through a drop
in birthrate — will enrich the,
lives of the people with loyalty,
companionship and love.

 

 

 

 

 




‘ We”...

ﬁx. 506078
({bDear Christine,

This is the first
informal poll of this kind I
have ever seen. I am surprised —
pleasantly -— at the resudts,
aren't you? You might want to
mention it in the AWI bulletin.
Of course, something like this
will only make NSMR redouble
its brainwash efforts, though.
Enclosing a piece from Star in

case you missed it. p

.z‘ . . /

ANN COTTRELL eFRéE’

4700 Jamestown Road Wesfmoreland Hills
Washing’ron, D.C. 2001.6 30] - 229-7533

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Animals ;

on the _

altar

of science

When should animals be used inv’experiments?
Anytime they’re useful ......... - . 35 percent
Rarely ........................ 25 percent

Never .......... , ............... 40 percent

Should animals be sacrificed for human welfare?

That question, as old as scientific research itself, was once
again brouaht to the public’s attention recently after baboons were
slated to die in a series of tests involving car safety devices.“

The tests were discontinued after citizens expressed concern
over the fate of the animals. However. in laboratories across the
country, animals are routinely used in the testing of new products.

Birmingham residents are just about evenly split over the
issued using animals in scientific research. In answering a
Birmingham News Pulse opinion poll, 40 percent said animals
should never be used, 25 percent said they should be used rarely
and 35 percent said they should be used anytime the animal can be
useful for research. ,

THOSE ANSWERING THE poll were asked: “Recently, the
use of baboons in deadly car safety testscaused debate over the
use of animals in experiments. What do you think? When should
animals be used in experiments that may kill or injure them?
Anytime they’re useful? Rarely? Never?" 5

The Pulse poll is an electronic telephone survey using the
Birmingham telephone directory and covering Jefferson, Shelby
and parts of Walker counties. There were 153 responses to the poll.
which is considered to reflect area opinion within spercent of
actual sentiment. . ~

In interviews conducted separately from the poll, people ex-
plained their thinking on using animals in experiments.

“They should be used 'only to save lives,” answered Mrs.
Coleman Johnson of Warrior. “If a human life is involved, then
they should be used, but I don’t believe in hurting animals need-
lessly.” , .

Mrs. AM. Bruce of. Birmingham said the animals should be
used rarely, but not to the extent of killing them.

“They should be used, but I don’t think they should use them
just to kill them,” she added. ‘ ' .

“I’m in favor of being kind to animals, but iiit serves a good , ,3 ,3
purpose in experiments where it aids humans, then they should be ;;é-:-
used when they’re useful," said Mrs. J .H. Guthrie of Montevallo. "'" '

 

 

 

 




ANN COTTRELL FREE: Another kind of violence. ~

NBC’s heart was in the
right place when it chose
“Black Beauty” for its re—
cent five-night “family
viewing hour" special. So
hugs and kisses, NBC, on
that score.

The anticruelty message
came across loud and clear.
Any viewer would under’
stand why this British navel
by Anna Sewall was hailed
in 1890 by its American
discoverers as “The Uncle
Tom's Cabin of the Horse."

But if murder and may-
hem is to be replaced at
family viewing hours should
another kind of violence be

\

substituted? _

Violence, for example, to
the truth?

Night after night that au-
thoritative off-screen voice
—— at the opening, the sta~
tion breaks, and at the end
of the hour — kept telling us
that the “Black Beuaty" we
were seeing was “exactly
as you remember it."

Remember what? _

Remember, for instance,

Mrs. Free, who lives in
Washington, writes, off and
on, about horses and other
creatures. ‘

 

Point of View

l
l

 

 

that the‘scene or the action
was in and around Balti-
more and Frederick, Mary-
land —-— with a little of Anne
Arundel County thrown in?
We could swear on a
stack of Biblesthat it all
took place in Lbndon and
the English Countryside. .'
Nor do ”we remember
Luke Grey.'In the NBC
“Black Beauty," there’s a

central character by that
name, who is , always
searching for his 01' pal,
“Beauty.” '

We’ve searched all of our
editions of “Black Beauty,"
but still can’t discover
Luke. _

These and a few other
changes may not be so
great a violence to the truth

. if we; are told the drama-

tization is “based on" or
“adapted from" the book.
Then, we might shrug it
all off as poetic license -—'
prompted by the need to
keep up ratings ,_ and to
snare advertisers of dry-

underarms and bouncy hair
concoctions.

Leveled with this way,
thus grateful for small
favors, we. might even hold
our peace should “Heidi”
be moved fromthe Swiss
Alps to the American
Rockies or “Hans Brinker”

brought from a Dutch canal

to a Minnesota lake. We
would only sigh in resigna-
tion, instead of screaming
in protest-,if the entire Ben-
net family of Jane Austen’s
“Pride «and Prejudice”
were airlifted. from England
deep into the heart of
Texas. -

“Yes," we would console
ourselves, “a good imitation
can; be more digestible than
the original. Weli~labeled
margarine instead of but-
ter, for example”;

The dire and irretriev-
able consequences of pass-
ing off imitations -— of
“Black Beauty" or
whatever —— as holy writ
are much too dreadful to
contemplate. But here are a
few of the possibilities:

A child comes across
“Black Beauty” for the
first time. Having heard
that authoritative off—

.screen voice about the au-

Friday, March 3, 1978

A-9 -

t

‘The WaSliinglon Star

 

thenticity of the. TV special,
the child quickly exclaims,
“Oh, no.”

For, in thumbing through
the pages, he finds neither
Luke Grey nor any place in
Maryland. The action is all
in England. Surely, this
“Black Beauty” is not the
one he wants. Orelse the
author Anna Sewall is the
liar, surely not NBC.

But hold on. More.

Someday, the child may
prove himself right -—- after
a fashion. For he will show
us an authoritative-looking
new copy of “Black
Beauty"—— profusely illus-

trated with NBC living
color pictures.

“This,” says the child-
(knowing he has won the
game),’ “is the real “Black

Beauty,” exactly how I

remember it."

I

 




ANN COTTRELL FREE
4700 Jamestown Road Westmoreland Hills
Washington, DC. 20016 301 - 229-7533

 




By Ann Cottrelllli‘ree‘
ASHSINGTON w (WNS) ._.... Reports of
animals .._.. especially just-weaned pup-

pies am dying during air shipments or in

express terminals has shocked Congress into
taking a close look at what’s going on.

“We were‘ astounded when we started
finding out what can happen to any of the 4
million pet animals that are air shipped

annually in this country,” says Rep. Floyd ’

Hicks (D—Wash.). His Special Studies Subcom-

mittee of the House Operations Committee

began hearings this week.

Kickoff witness was the woman. who es»
posed the air shipment problem when she was
with Virginia Knauer’s Consumer Affairs 0f-
ifice at the White House. She is Fay Brisk, who
almost single~handed set up the Washington.
Animaiport, where volunteers feed and water
animals, often near death, and particularly
puppies from mid-western “puppy mills.”

“We, had letters at the White House from
hundreds of private pet owners about the
conditions of the animals on arrival,” she says.
“But that was nothing to what I have since
learned.”

Some of these hapless creatures are in
crates for three of four days due to delays or

“Tisrouting, Some of them suffocate in the
alrvraft

_ . . 'u )
volunteers was Meta Heller;
stall-3' of Rep. Hicks. “'1 am sq"

(”18 01 lieu?
who was on the

A Bangle Puppy

glad she kept after me to hold these heals
ings.” Hicks said the other day.

The committee will also get an earful from

the administrator of Illinois” pet laws. Dr...

David Broniwell. Notiong’ ago this veterinarian

charged that “integrity has been replaced by

' greed at all levels of the pet industry. ”

{Pet industry dollar volume has hici'eased
by 55 percent in the last five years. according
to the industry itself. The entire pet trade.
including food and accessories, is now closets
$4 billion.)

The Us. Humane Societyts cinet’ hivestiga:
tor, Frank McMahon, said, “I have just come
back from Kansas, the puppywbreeding center
of the country. and I can tell you that the air
terminals are packed with hundreds of crates
of puppies every morning to be shipped to pet
shops all over America.”

More than. 7:25 breeders are. registered with
the Agriculture Department: under- the Animal

Welfare Act, but this does not begin to cover all
of them.

Sen. Howard, Baker l‘lts‘l‘ennn has sailed.

for a 60-day- study by the CAB and. the Depart

ment of Transportation of air-shipment regula
tions. In the meantime, bills to correct air
shipment problems and to license retail pet
shops wait in the wings of the House and
Senate. The Senate bill, which has more than
50 cosponsors, was introduced by Sen. Lowell
Weicker (R«-R.I.) and the equally wellwsupported
identical house bill was authored. by William
Whitehorst (lo-Va),

The Hicks hearings are expected to set the
stage for almost. immediate Zongressional
remedial action as the facts of death and
suffering of thousands of animals are revealed.

 




 




 

The Fellowship seeks to foster the ethic of Dr.
Schweitzer, “Reverence for Life” and to

)

provide support for continuing his
work at the hospital in Lambaréné.

 

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, New York 10017
(212) 752-1760

 




 

To Friends of the Fellowship:

During the course of his long and fulﬁlling lifetime, the many
facets of Dr. Schweitzer’s interests and inﬂuence have touched
and motivated many others to devote their own lives, in whole or
in part, to the ethic, “Reverence for Life.”

A few of those who have been so enriched share their thoughts
with us in this issue OfThe Courier.

“I do not believe that we can put into anyone ideas
which are not in him already. As a rule there are in every-
one all sorts of good ideas, ready like tinder. But much
of this tinder catches ﬁre, or catches it successfully, only
when it meets some ﬂame or spark from the outside, i.e.
from some other person. Often, too, our own light goes
out, and is rekindled by some experience we go through
with a fellow-man. Thus we have each of us cause to
think with deep gratitude of those who have lighted the
ﬂames within us. If we had before us those who have been
a blessing to us, and could tell them how it came about,
they would be amazed to learn what passed over from
their life in ours.”

Albert Schweitzer
——“Memoirs of Childhood and Youth”

The Fellowship continues its effort to bring a greater under-
standing and knowledge of the meaning of Dr. Schweitzer’s life
and actions as they relate to our world today. It is our hOpe that
you will ﬁnd this issue of The Courier pertinent and that you will
help us by sharing these ideas with your friends and colleagues.

 




 

 

The last issue of The Courier was devoted to a comprehensive
report on the Hospital in Lambaréné. We are gratiﬁed, as we hope
you are, with the progress made toward completion of the new
facilities which will provide improved services for the patients,
and this in keeping with the spirit and purpose of Dr. Schweitzer.

The Albert Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréné continues to
merit our concern and support. Your help —— now and for the
future — is deeply appreciated. At the same time, we value your
interest and dedication to “Reverence for Life” as it applies to us
all. We would welcome your advice on how we may better share
this ethic with others.

{eater M

LAWRENCE GUSSMAN
President

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship

 

 




   

 

    

lWY MOTHER: A Remembrance

by
RHENA SCHWEITZER MILLER

Helene Bresslau-Schweitzer died on June 1st, 1957, in a hos-
pital in Zurich. Her greatest wish had been granted: she had been
able to spend the last months of her life in the jungle hospital in
Lambaréné with her husband. Even before she became his wife
in 1912, she had dedicated her life to him. With him she had
founded the Lambaréné hospital, and had put in his service her
exceptional talents and an energy equal to his own. That her
physical strength could not match her spiritual one was the trag-
edy of her life.

Helene was born in Berlin on January 25th, 1879, the daugh-
ter of historian Harry Bresslau and his wife Caroline Isay Bres-
slau. However, she spent the most important years of her youth
in Strasbourg where her father was professor at the university.
Contrary to the customs of that time, the daughter of Professor
Bresslau had her mind set on a profession and succeeded in be-
coming a teacher and social worker. She insisted also on going
abroad, working in England and travelling extensively through
Russia —— at. that time quite an adventure for a young lady.

Even in her youth, Helene had developed a strong feeling of
social responsibility. This was the common ground for the be-
ginning of her friendship with my father. Soon, she assisted him
in the preparation of his ﬁrst publications. As one of the ﬁrst in-
spectors of the situation of orphans in the city of Strasbourg, she
had a job which carried a great responsibility. She was especially

3

 




 

 

 

concerned with the problems of unmarried mothers and their
children. Putting a great deal of time and effort into this project,
she managed to establish a home for them.

When my father decided to study medicine in 1905, with the
aim to work as a medical doctor in the African jungle. neither his
family nor his friends were able to understand his motivation.
Helene Bresslau grasped the meaning of his decision. however.
and she began her training as a nurse in order to be able to assist
him in his new activity, although her family and her friends
showed the same incomprehension toward her.

My parents were married on June 18th, 1912. Their marriage
was based on a common concern for people in need. The ﬁrst years
in Andende, the station of the Paris Mission Society where my
father founded his ﬁrst hospital, were probably the happiest in the
life of my mother, though the workload was often nearly too heavy
to bear. But she was my father’s assistant in his medical activities.
his helper in all his endeavors and the woman who shared his life.

The First World War, and as its consequence the long stay
in the tropics as well as the later period as prisoner of war in the
camps of Garraison in the Pyrenees and in St. Rémy in Provence
where Van Gogh had also been interned, undermined my mother’s
health. This was especially so, as after six years of marriage. at
the age of nearly 40 she was pregnant. I was born on January
14th. 1919, my father’s birthday, in Strasbourg shortly after the
end of the war. It was a hard time for both of my parents. My
father was ill and had to undergo major surgery. Also, he was
ruined ﬁnancially and saw no possibility to continue with his
work in Africa or resume his different careers in Europe. Help
came to him from Archbishop Nathan Soederblom, who invited
hlm to come to Sweden and lecture at the University of Uppsala.
Th1s gave him the necessary psychic encouragement and the op-
portunity to straighten out his ﬁnancial situation. In 1924 he was
ready to return to Africa.

For reasons of health and because I had to be taken care of,
my mother was unable to accompany him. She consented to
his return and, with this decision, gave him the greatest proof of
her love and understanding, although it was also her greatest
sacriﬁce. From that time on, she had to watch others do what she
would so much have liked to do herself and renounce many of her
Wishes in her personal life, respecting the priority of my father’s
work. However, she continued to assist him to the limits of her

4

 




 

 

concerned with the problems of unmarried mothers and their
children. Putting a great deal of time and effort into this project,
she managed to establish a home for them.

When my father decided to study medicine 1n 1905, with the
aim to work as a medical doctor m Hm A #m' nnnnn
family nor his friends v
Helene Bresslau grasp
and she began her trai
him in his new activi
showed the same inco

My parents were
was based on a commo
in Andende, the stati<
father founded his ﬁrst
life of my mother, th01
to bear. But she was rr
his helper in all his en

The First World
in the tropics as well
camps of Garraison i'
where Van Gogh had
health. This was esp
the age of nearly 40
14th. 1919, my fathe
end of the war. It wz
father was ill and ha
ruined ﬁnancially an
work in Africa or res
came to him from Ar
him to come to Swede
This gave him the nec
portunity to straighte
ready to return to Afri 99

For reasons of he
my mother was unab
his return and, with th
her love and understai
sacriﬁce. From that time
would so much have liked LU uu “use“ m-“ .

wishes in her personal life, respecting the priority of my father’s
work. However, she continued to assist him to the limits of her

iq enclosed as my contribution to help

 

is also enclosed to cover the cost ($3.50 each) for

Please send a free copy of “Schweitzer: A Biography”
copies of “Albert Schweitzer: An Anthology.”

 

 

in fostering Albert Schweitzer’s ethic of Reverence for Life,

and in supporting the Hospital at Lambarene.

 

$

4

 

 




 

capabilities. In 1937 and 1938 she gave many lectures in the
United States, and succeeded in bringing together a group of
Schweitzer friends who later founded the Albert Schweitzer Fel-
lowship, the organization which today gives effective support to
the hospital in Lambaréné as well as to the spiritual work of my
father.

During the beginning period of World War II, my mother
lived with my former husband, Jean Eckert and me in Paris. She
shared our ﬂight through France and ﬁnally found a refuge with
former Lambaréné friends. Mr. and Mrs. Gault, near Bordeaux,
while we -— after the arrival of German troops — returned to the
unoccupied zone. Through incessant efforts, she later succeeded
in getting permission to travel to Portugal and from there by ship
over waters threatened by German U-boats to Brazzaville. From
there she reached Lambaréné by road. It was a dangerous and
exhausting trip for a woman of her age and physical condition,
but once again she was able to be of assistance at the hospital in
Lambaréné. She relieved one exhausted nurse after another until
the end of 1946.

After a stay of ten years in the tropics, my father returned
to Europe in 1948. He had remained until he felt conﬁdent that
. he could turn over his hospital to the new staff members who had
arrived after war’s end. In 1949, my mother accompanied my
father on his only trip to the United States, where he gave a lec-
ture on Goethe in Aspen, Colorado and received an Honorary
Degree from the University of Chicago. He also visited friends
in Cleveland, New York, Boston, etc. In 1954, she stood beside
him on the balcony of the University of Oslo when, after having
received the Nobel Peace Prize, he received an enthusiastic ova-
tion from the students.

Helene Bresslau-Schweitzer’s life was divided between our
family with four grandchildren, and shorter or longer stays with
my father in Lambaréné. The last of those lasted for one-and-a-
half years and, only ten days before her death at the end of her
strength and not able to stand the heat anymore, she gave in and
decided to return to Europe with a Dutch hospital nurse. The
nurse, Tony Van Leer, gave her devotedly the best possible care
on this last exhausting ﬂight, returning herself to her dying father.

My mother was still able to enjoy the reunion with her grand-

children and, after a hard life full of sacriﬁces, she was granted a
peaceful death.

 




 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

DR. ANDREAS STEINER

VLAMBARENE: A Medical Report

From Dr. Andreas Steiner, Médecin-chef of the Albert
Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréné, this overview of the hospi-
tal’s medical work is given:

Since November 1976 a new medical direction has been insti-
tuted and since January 1977 the medical team of Africans and
Europeans has been completed. There are four doctors, all Euro-
peans: the Médecin-chef, a pediatric physician, and internist
and a surgeon. To ﬁll out the complement there are an anesthetic
nurse, an instrument nurse, a pediatric nurse, a mid-wife, a lab-
oratory technician, a radiologist and a medical secretary.

Among the Africans there are three qualiﬁed nurses in sur-
gery, internal medicine and pediatrics, as well as 41 nurses aides,
of whom 17 have been recruited in recent months.

The aim of the work is multiple: the best quality of medical
care for individuals, preventive medicine, special studies, pediat—
rics, internal medicine with emphasis on rheumatic diseases, and
surgery.

In addition, Dr. Steiner points out that the education of
nurses’ aides is of growing importance for their own beneﬁt as well
as for the beneﬁt of the hospital. A training course was begun
earlier this year for them by the doctors.

Concluding his report, Dr. Steiner states that the medical
service is on the way to establishing itself on a broad and varied
basis, and promises an interesting development for the future.
“But, ﬁrst of all, we are persuaded that such development is not
possible without personal cooperation between Africans and
Europeans, a cooperation that is based on respect and love of
each for his fellow-human being.”

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

“Some Sort of Help

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     

to Animals . . . ”

by
ANN COTTRELL FREE

Mrs. Free, a member of the Board of Directors of the
Fellowship, is a Schweitzer medalist, journalist and au-
thor of a book on certain aspects of animal welfare in a
changing world, to be published by H oughton M ifﬂin.

The Mississippi Animal Rescue League —— that State’s ﬁrst
viable, though struggling, humane society—heads its six-page
mimeographed Spring 1977 newsletter with some exceedingly
well chosen words by Dr. Albert Schweitzer:

The ethics of the respect for life makes us keep on the
lookout together for opportunities of bringing some sort
of help to animals, to make up for the great miseries men
inﬂict on them.

A California animal welfare group incorporates the Schweit-
zerian philosophy in a recent newsletter editorial. A mid-western
society carries “reverence for life” on its letterhead. And each year

7

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in Washington, DC. national and international leaders gather at
the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy Center or the Dirksen
Senate Ofﬁce Building to pay honor to Dr. Schweitzer. They come
to witness the presentation of the Animal Welfare Institute’s
Schweitzer Medal.

These are only a few examples of Albert Schweitzer’s con-
tinuing inﬂuence in the United States — an inﬂuence that was
to extend from the animal welfare movement to the Virtual launch-
ing of the environmental revolution.

Prior to 1949 Dr. Schweitzer and his animal-embracing ethic
were little known in the USA. But his trip to the Goethe Bicen-
tennial Convocation in Aspen, Colorado that year focused atten-
tion on his philos0phy. Workers in the bitter vineyards of animal
welfare, until then, had sought virtually in vain for an elaboration
of “unto the least of these.” They needed moral support. They
found it in Dr. Schweitzer’s writings.

In 1949, there was only one Federal animal protective law on
the books. Nearly obsolete, dating back to 1906, it required rest,
food and water at 28-hour intervals for livestock traveling by rail.
(By 1949 most of them traveled by truck so the law did not ap-
ply!) But today, 26 years later, there is a growing body of Federal
statutes protective of animals —— from whales to wild horses, dogs,
cats, primates, dolphins. Several omnibus laws — such as the An-
imal Welfare Act and the Marine Mammal Protection Act —
cover a variety of animals and conditions. We can add to these
countless new state, municipal and county laws and ordinances,
and credit their passage to the activation of the Schweitzerian
ethic. And even outstripping the new humane laws are those that
deal with preservation of the bio-sphere —- the air we breathe, the
soil and water that nurture us.

Passage of the animal welfare and environmental laws dur-
ing the last quarter century does not necessarily mean that all is
perfect: the job done. These laws have merely brought “some sort
of help.”

That is why the quotation selected by the Mississippi League
is so important. It contains four signiﬁcant words: “some sort of
help”. In the original German, it may read differently; but in
translation, the passage reﬂects the pragmatism of recent animal
protective legislation. ’

Of course, no humanitarian wants to settle for “some sort of
help”. But realists believe that it is often better to begin with half
a loaf rather than waiting forever for the whole one. Risk is in-

8

 




 

volved in taking the middle way between two distinct philoso-
phies: One is typiﬁed by the animal liberationists seeking to abol-
ish all use of animals. The other road is taken by the exploiters,
who use them — without controls -— for food, science, labor,
sport-fun.

Albert Schweitzer most likely would have adhered to the
Fuller Brushman’s foot-in-the-door approach because he knew
that “the extension of the principle of love to animal creation
means so great a revolution for ethics, philosophy that philosophy
shrinks from taking this step”.

With the foot in the door, both nationally and locally, the
essential next steps must be taken. To get down to cases: animals
are being rescued and sheltered from Mississippi to Manhattan;
but the numbers are great. More than 12 million must be eutha—
nized annually because there is no room save in the heart. Steps
must be taken to increase the license fees and ﬁnes on owners
whose animals are abused or are allowed to run loose.

The ﬁrst Federal law passed after Schweitzer’s philosophy
became widespread in the United States was the 1958 Humane
Slaughter Act. It brought “some sort of help” to millions, but the
next step lies ahead: coverage of foreign animals that are con-
verted into imported meat, coverage of plants that are exempt
because of technicalities of the law, and a ban on shackling and
hoisting prior to approved as humane ritual slaughter. Also, an
investigation as called for by Representative Edward I. Koch of
New York into the handling of animals in factory, assembly-line
farming may be next in order. Dr. Schweitzer’s awareness of the
respect due meat animals contributed to his personal vegetarian-
1sm.

Though endangered species, such as the bald eagle, the whale
and the red wolf are now protected, the unendangered creatures
ﬁnd the going rough — especially the poisoned and trapped ones.
Legislation is pending to ban, as in England, the steel leg hold
trap.

Being a physician, the plight of the laboratory animal par-
ticularly concerned Dr. Schweitzer. He was not an anti-vivisec—
tionist, but he hammered away constantly as to whether the ends
justiﬁed the means when especially painful experiments are
undertaken:

The very fact that the animal, as a victim of research,
has in his pain rendered such services to suﬁering men
has itself created a new and unique relation of solidarity

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

between him and ourselves. The result is that a fresh ob-
ligation is laid on each of us to do as much good as we
possibly can to all creatures in all sorts of circumstances.

A “pain rule” has been included in the Animal Welfare Act,
passed originally in 1966 and broadened twice since. It requires
anesthesia if it does not defeat the aim of the experiment. An
analysis of the pain exemption reports by animal-using labora-
tories ﬁled with the administering agency, the United States De-
partment of Agriculture, has been made recently by a physician
acting in the Schweitzer tradition. Dr. Dallas Pratt concludes in
his book “Painful Experiments in Animals” (Argus Archives, 228
East 49th Street, New York, N.Y. 10017) that extensive unneces-
sary suffering continues in our laboratories.

Though Dr. Schweitzer died before progress was made in
ﬁnding suitable animal substitutes, he had made known his inter-
est in this new ﬁeld. And undoubtedly he would have been pleased
to see the recently published National Academy of Sciences book
“The Future of Animals, Cells, Models, Systems Research, De-
velopment, Education and Testing”. It contains the proceedings
of an historic two-day conference in Washington. Another step
toward bringing more than “some sort of help” is found in “Animal
Care from Protozoa to Small Mammals” by Dr. Barbara Orlans
(Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., Menlo Park, California 94025).
It is designed toward classroom animal care and handling. Dr.
Orlans is a scientiﬁc advisor to the Animal Welfare Institute,
headed by Mrs. Christine Stevens —— that modern pioneer in ani-
mal protection.

Dr. Schweitzer’s ability to see the animal world as part of
the entire natural world was shared by Rachel Carson. Like him,
she cared deeply for all living creatures — but she aimed her ﬁre
at the mis-use of chemicals and pesticides that could destroy that
entire world. It was Schweitzer’s philosophy, working through
Rachel Carson in “Silent Spring”, that helped to set off the eco-
logical revolution. What further proof do we need than her own
admission? On the dedication page of her 1962 book are these
words:

To Dr. Albert Schweitzer, who said, ‘Man has lost

the capacity to forsee and to forestall. He will end
by destroying the earth.’

The bridge between the humane and environmental disci-

10

 




 

plines was fashioned by Dr. Schweitzer and Miss Carson. Its
strongest plank is the National Environmental Policy Act which
is pure Schweitzer. For What else is the Act’s Environmental Im-
pact Statement requirement? Such a statement (some running
hundreds of pages) must be prepared before any environmentally
disturbing action is taken. Consider, then, these words of Dr.
Schweitzer:

I f man has been touched by the ethic of reverence for
life, he injures and destroys life only under necessity
which he cannot avoid and never from thoughtlessness.

In short, the EIS is merely the Schweitzer admonition:
“Think, before you destroy. Justify.”

And now, as adjustments and retrenchments due to the
energy crisis lie ahead, the Schweitzerian ethic will be put to the
test. But it may lead us to a simpler, less technological life —— in
which the earth worm is seen as a creature often as helpful to the
soil as a chemical. We may turn to alternative technologies, just
as did Schweitzer in Lambaréné. And we may get to know each
other and the creatures around us a little better, just as did
Schweitzer. As a result, we may become a little wiser, a little
happier.

11

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Schweitzer Anthology Re-Issued

“Albert Schweitzer: An Anthology,”
edited by Charles R. Joy, has been re-issued by Beacon Press.

The paperback, originally published in 1947, contains over
300 pages of quotations from Dr. Schweitzer’s writings. A sam-
pling of the areas covered includes: reverence for life; the trans-
formation of society; the religion of the spirit; the ideals of civi—
lization. Sources for the quotations are given in all cases.

Readers of The Courier and friends of the Fellowship are
offered a special price of $3.50 per copy for the book that will be
sold in bookstores at $4.95 each. For those interested in obtain-
ing 10 or more copies, an additional ten percent discount will be
given.

Please order your copies on the special order form bound
into the issue of The Courier.

Samples of Anthology

Anyone whoproposes to do good must not expect people to
roll stones out of his way, but must accept his lot calmly if they
even roll a few more upon it. A strength which becomes clearer
and stronger through its experience of such obstacles is the only
strength that can conquer them. Resistance is only a waste of
strength.

— Out of my Life and Thought

I have not lost courage. The misery I have seen gives me
strength, and faith in my fellow men supports my confidence in
the future. I do hope that I shall find a sufﬁcient number of
people who, because they themselves have been saved from
physical suffering, will respond to requests on behalf of those
who are in similar need. . . . I do hope that among the doctors of
the world there will soon be several besides myself who will be

sent out, here or there in the world, by “the Fellowship of those
who bear the Mark of Pain.”

—— On the Edge of the Primeval Forest

. It is in reverence for life that knowledge passes over into ex-
perlence. . . . My life bears its meaning in itself. And this meaning
1s to be found in living out the highest and most worthy idea

12




l

which my will-to-live can furnish . . . the idea of reverence for life.
Henceforward I attribute real value to my own life and to all
the will-to-live which surrounds me; I cling to an activist way of
life and I create real values.

—- Civilization and Ethics

The ideas which determine our character and life are im-
planted in mysterious fashion. When we are leaving childhood
behind us, they begin to shoot out. When we are seized by
youth’s enthusiasm for the good and the true, they burst into
ﬂower, and the fruit begins to set. In the development which
follows the one really important thing is —- how much there still
remains of the fruit, the buds of which were put out in its spring-
time by the tree of our life.

The conviction that in after life we must struggle to remain
thinking as freely and feeling as deeply as we did in our youth,
has accompanied me on my road through life as a faithful advisor.

— Memoirs of Childhood and Youth

I feel it deeply that I can work as a free man at a time when
an oppressive lack of freedom is the lot of so many as also that
though my immediate work is material, yet I have at the same
time opportunities of occupying myself in the sphere of the spir-
itual and intellectual.

That the circumstances of my life provide in such varied
ways favorable conditions for my work, I accept as somethlng of
which I would fain prove myself worthy.

—— Out of My Life and Thought

 

The response from Courier readers to our offer of free copies
of the biography by George Marshall and David Poling has been
gratifying.

The Fellowship continues to make this offer, in the hope that
those receiving these copies will pass them on to friends and
colleagues, to libraries and schools. If you are interested in
securing additional c0pies of “Albert Schweitzer: A Biography”
in paperback edition, please indicate the number to be sent on
the attached return envelope. This book is a valuable source for
information and insights into the life of Dr. Schweitzer.

13

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14

 

“The Assurance that Somebody Cares”

Having read of Dr. Schweitzer’s conviction that it is man’s
moral duty to pass his blessings along to his neighbor, my
wife and I set out in 1947 to ﬁnd our own Lambaréné.

After a rather ﬂeeting look at Equatorial and Central
America, we settled on Haiti as the spot in the Western
Hemisphere where our personal service and fortune might
make the greatest impact on human need.

Since 1956, our service-station in the Artibonite Valley of

Central Haiti, dubbed H épital Albert Schweitzer in gratitude
to its spiritual author, has functioned tirelessly for the bene-

ﬁt of a population among the world’s densest and most eco-
nomically disadvantaged.

The ﬁfteen-or-so physicians and thirty-or—more nurses
who staﬁ‘ the hospital come from many countries in addition
to Haiti and serve for little or no pay. Several have worked

at the side of Le Grand Docteur and all have received motive
power from apostles of his ilk.

WILLIAM LARIMER MELLON

 




 

Larimer and Gwen Mellon were successful ranchers in Ari-
zona in November 1947 when an article about Dr. Albert
Schweitzer appeared in LIFE magazine. It was a picture story
that showed how he had decided to become a doctor and to dedi-
cate his life to the people in a small village in French Equatorial
Africa. .

Larimer Mellon read the article, thought about it and handed
it to his wife, saying, “I’d like to go to medical school. I want to
become a doctor and then a medical missionary.”

They were determined to apply Albert Schweitzer’s philoso-
phy of Reverence for Life to their own lives.

By the summer of 1948 they had sold their ranch and moved
to New Orleans, Louisiana where Larimer Mellon entered Tulane
University’s School of Medicine. Seven years later, he had re-
ceived his M.D., served his internship and completed a one-year
fellowship at the Ochsner Clinic. He was forty-three years old.

In the meantime, Gwen Mellon had received training in
medical technology and hospital administration.

Following travels during brief vacations from medical school
as described in his letter (opposite page), the Mellons visited the
Artibonite Valley of Haiti. There they saw two dispensaries each
staffed by a medical intern, a trained nurse and two or three aides.
The doctors had little or no equipment or supervision. In this
situation a simple bone fracture could become a permanent dis-
ability; a complication of pregnancy or a ruptured appendix
could cause death. These were the only clinics that directly
served some 250,000 people.

They had sought the place with the greatest need -— where
they could be of the greatest service. They found such a place
in Haiti.

The hospital opened its doors on June 26, 1956, with patients
travelling on foot or by burro to the low, one-story, gray ﬁeld-
stone structure. Today, patients ﬁnd a 200 bed hospital with 12
resident physicians, 30 registered nurses and 30 nurses’ aides
providing services in medicine, pediatrics, gynecology, dentistry
and opthalmology. Over the years, dedicated men and women
from all corners of the globe have shared their time and talents
to the hospital staff. But, from the beginning the Mellons have
believed that since the hospital was built to serve Haitians, it
should be managed and operated by Haitians. So the doctors in
charge of the various services, as well as an overwhelming major-
ity of the staff are from Haiti.

15

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Although the work is almost entirely supported by charitable
contributions from outside the country, the patients are required
(as in Lambaréné) to pay for their treatment. Many pay with a
small sack of rice, a few beans or a mango instead of the charge
of 40 US. cents for a physical examination; they all take pride
in contributing what they can.

The spirit of H6pital Albert Schweitzer is one of quiet deter-
mination but cheerful dedication — truly reﬂecting the spirit of
the man for whom the rural health center was named.

Gwen and Larry Mellon sum up their experience thus:

“In the more than twenty years of its existence, HOpital
Albert Schweitzer has gone through many changes to become the
solid but ﬂexible organization it is today. But one thing has not
changed since 1947 — our conviction that Reverence for Life is
the only cement that can hold civilization together. It’s impor-

tant that everyone alive has the assurance that somebody cares.
That’s why we’re here.”

16

 




 

 

Did Schweitzer Believe in God?

by
JACKSON LEE ICE

DURING the 1975 Albert Schweitzer Centennial Symposium
at UNESCO in Paris, psychoanalyst Erich Fromm raised a per-
tinent question: “Is Schweitzer’s religious ethic of reverence for
life dependent upon a belief in God?” The question is not as easy
as it appears, but it is my contention that, mutatis mutandis.
the ethic of reverence for life is not dependent upon a belief in
God.

A 1967 journal article by Erwin R. Jacobi discusses a pre-
viously unpublished letter from Schweitzer dated three years
before his death, in which Schweitzer makes the following state-
ment:

Hence there arises the question whether the religious ethic
of love is possible without the belief in an ethical God and
World Sovereign, or knowledge of this God, which can be
replaced by a belief in Him. Here I dare say that the ethical
religion of love can exist without the belief in a world ruling
divine personality which corresponds to such an ethical re-
ligion [“Fromm Sein. Gedanken zu einem Brief von Albert
Schweitzer,” Divine Light, Vol. 2, No. 1, June 1967].

I

According to Schweitzer’s own words, then, the ethic of rev-
erence for life is not founded upon a belief in a personal God. This
conclusion may seem strange to those who regard Schweitzer as
one of the 20th century’s greatest religious ﬁgures. It is discon-
certing enough to realize how theologically unorthodox —— in-
deed, revolutionary — he was. He denied, for instance, the
divinity of Christ, the virgin birth, the atonement, the miracles,
and the inerrancy of the Scriptures. But it may be even more
unnerving for some to ﬁnd that the concept of a Supreme Being
apparently does not play a central role in his religious philoso-
phy, at least not in his ethical teachings.

Dr. Ice is Professor of Religion, Florida State University

17

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

But the answer, as well as the question, contains implications
requiring further clariﬁcation. First, note the particular terms
Schweitzer used: he said that the religion of love is not depend-
ent upon belief in a “divine personality” (Gottespersb‘nlichkeit)
or “World Sovereign” (Weltherrscher). The more essential and
intriguing question is whether Schweitzer believed in God at all!
This must be answered ﬁrst; for the answer illuminates the sec-
ondary issue of the apparent nontheistic basis of his ethic.

For the general reader, the primary question usually comes
later, if at all —- partly because of Schweitzer’s “halo image” and
his prepossessing style of writing. His ideas are so unpretentiously
expressed in familiar language interwoven with biblical phrase-
ology, God-talk and personal spiritual insights that the agnostic,
radical outcroppings of his religious Viewpoint are ignored. Most
readers assume Schweitzer’s belief in God without debate. But
with a more critical examination of the deeper structures of his
thought, the issue inevitably arises and demands analysis.

Though the question “Did Schweitzer believe in God?” is
legitimate, it usually anticipates a Yes-or-No answer which is dif-
ﬁcult to give. An attempt to point to the multifunctional mean-
ings of the term “God” is often taken as a dodge. But to ask, “Do
you believe in God?” expecting a simple categorical Yes or No is
naive. To continue to draw up —— as many of our denominational
leaders do —- battle lines with humanists on one side and theists
on the other is specious and still reﬂects the popular, but otiose,
approach to the whole debate. One of the invaluable conse-
quences of the contemporary theological furor, particularly the
death-of-God debate, has been the resolve to root out this jejune
approach to the God-problem and to search for alternative cate-
gories of reﬂection which match the complexity of the problem.

II

Still the question must be asked. In regard to Schweitzer, the
reply has to be Yes and No. If by God is meant the Father
Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, who redeems his children
by the atonement and sacriﬁce of his Son Jesus Christ according
to the predestined plan of salvation revealed in the Bible and
ascribed to by the Christian churches, then the answer obviously
is No ——- Schweitzer does not believe in God.

If by God is meant a Being, supremely conscious, all-knowing,
all-powerful, completely self-sufﬁcient, who determines all things

18

 




 

by divine moral purpose, the answer is again No. If by God is
meant the Ground of Being, the Essence of Being, the Absolute,
the Weltgeist, and all similar expressions, the reply is still No, for
according to Schweitzer such terms “denote nothing actual, but
something conceived in abstractions which for that reason is also
absolutely meaningless” (The Philosophy of Civilization [Mac-
millan, 1949], p. 304).

If by God is meant a conceptual construct used within a cer-
tain linguistic frame of reference for the purpose of arousing
religious emotions and ethical sentiments in solemn assemblies,
the answer must again be No. Schweitzer gives little indication
that he believes that analyzing the function of a term linguisti-
cally or sociologically solves the problem of the reality or unreality
of God.

What then, does he mean by God? Schweitzer’s disenchant-
ment with theological conceptions of God and his passionate
belief in the reality of human spirtuality involved him in a quest
that inevitably forced his intellectual and moral concerns to move
beyond traditional theism. “It is my fate and my destiny . . . to
ponder on the question of how much ethics and religion can be
comprised in a Weltanschauung which dares to be inconclusive”
(Albert Schweitzer, by Oskar Kraus [Adams & Charles Black,
Ltd., 1944], p. 43). '

What does he mean by “inconclusive”? He means that he is
forced to ponder to what extent humanity can continue to be
religious in a universe devoid of pre-established meaning, moral
purpose and certainty; he means a religious outlook that must
continue to function within the impossibility of using God any
longer as a religious a priori, ﬁller of our intellectual gaps, or
solver of all problems; he means a world View that must remain
painfully honest and open-ended yet at the same time will be
optimistic, ethical and life-aﬂirming.

Schweitzer has his own variation on the death-of—God theme.
It comes in the form of an ethical mysticism or “ethical panthe-
ism” which he describes as “the inevitable synthesis of theism
and pantheism.” No mention is made of a Supreme Being in his
own religious philosophy, only of a mysterious life-force or uni-
versal will-to—live which appears as a creative—destructive force in
the world around us and as a will-to-se1f—realization-and-love
within us. Everything is in the grasp of this life-force, this “in-
ﬁnite, inexplicable, forward-urging will in which all Being is

19

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

grounded” (Kultur and E thik [Biederstein Verlag, 1948], p.
211).

For several reasons he does not speak of “God” when refer-
ring to the “universal will”: ﬁrst, because he arrives at knowledge
of the will-to-live through reason and not by revelation or faith;
second, because the life-force is not a thing or a person; and
ﬁnally, because the usual connotations associated with the term
“God” misrepresent what he is trying to say. “It has always been
my practice,” says Schweitzer, “not to say anything when speak-
ing as a philosopher that goes beyond the absolutely logical exer-
cise of thought. That is why I never speak of ‘God’ in philosophy,
but only of ‘universal will-to-live’ which meets me in a twofold
way: as creative will outside me, and ethical will within me”
(Kraus, p. 42).

If Schweitzer speaks of God at all, he does so in human, spir-
itual terms rather than theological, metaphysical terms. In his
typical humanistic, ethico-mystical way of thinking, he points to
a belief in the “evolution of human spirituality” where “the high-
er this deve10pment in the individual is, the greater his awareness
of God” (Dr. Schweitzer of Lambaréné, by Norman Cousins
[Harper & Brothers, 1960] , pp. 190-191).

III

Now the answer to the original question raised by Erich
Fromm can be modiﬁed for accuracy’s sake. Because of the mul-
tiple meanings which accrue to the protosymbol “God” and be-
cause of Schweitzer’s own particular reference to the term, it can
be answered both in the afﬁrmative and the negative. This is not
equivocation. If one accepts the word God with its usual conven-
tional connotations and traditional meanings, then the answer is
No, as Schweitzer himself made clear. He found that the facts do
not support such an anthropomorphic or optimistic postulate. On
the other hand, if one understands his concept of ethical panthe-
ism —— which holds that the ethico-rational, or spiritual, pro-
clivities of humanity are potentially grounded in, and part of, a
universal telos or will — then the answer is Yes: his ethical phi-
los0phy of reverence for life is dependent, in theory as well as in
practice, upon belief in God.

The phrase “reverence for life” is holophrastic: it means
and represents many things for Schweitzer. It does not serve
merely as an admonition or moral maxim as to what one ought to

20

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

do. It represents more than just his ethic; it includes his world
view; it is the heart of his religious phiIOSOphy. That is why he
could say, “and this ethic, profound, universal, has the signiﬁ-
cance of a religion. It is religion” (Albert Schweitzer: The Man
Brothers, 1947], p.

life” or “will-to-live,”

apsulized expression

“ethical pantheism.”

he Universal Will or

 

 

 

 

 

grounded. Through
nity seeks to become
'ves to overcome the
steriously and pain-
lent forms of energy
.9. ally concerned form,
N U itself.
0 Q, p...
e a ‘a’
>~ O "U .
a: .'= c) t may be a puzzling
0-: U “U . .
g 3 PD N panthelsm — but it
c}: 3'53 E E brms the basis of his
ff; 5 :3 ae theistic belief, and
.3 E g datlon for a religious
a: o .,_,
8. <2 *5 3 th 1 . . .
9}, b :9 a e comp ex1t1es in-
53 ﬂ is re Schweitzer’s belief
E <‘ 5 the belief of any in-
far beyond the stric-
d us to alternative
3; diﬁce of faith before
“8’ '3 ly the universe has
a: we a? ir traditional beliefs
2 <1 0

d. But according to
tion demands noth-
at his religious phi-
is enough.

deep religious-
ness are contained in the ethics of reverence for life. This

religiousness, however, does not build up for itself a com-

21

 

 




 

 

 

grounded” (Kultur und Ethik [Biederstein Verlag, 1948], p.

211).

For several reasons he does not speak of “God” when refer-
ring to the “universal will”: ﬁrst, because he arrives at knowledge

of the will-to-live thro
second, because the 1
finally, because the us
“God” misrepresent w
my practice,” says Scl
ing as a philosopher th
cise of thought. That i
but only of ‘universal
way: as creative will
(Kraus, p. 42).

If Schweitzer speg
itual terms rather the
typical humanistic, et]
a belief in the “evoluti
er this deve10pment in
of God” (Dr. Schwel
[Harper & Brothers, ]1

Now the answer
Fromm can be modiﬁ
tiple meanings which
cause of Schweitzer’s 1
be answered both in t,
equivocation. If one a
tional connotations ar

No, as Schweitzer him.

not support such an a1
the other hand, if one
ism —— which holds tl
clivities of humanity

universal telos or will

 

losophy of reverence
practice, upon belief
The phrase “re

[L C)

 

 

 

LIOOI >mox AAEIN ‘XHOA AA’EIN

 

 

VZV'IcI SNOILVN (IELLINII 998

(IIHSAAOTIHEI HEIZlIEIAAHDS lHEIEI'IV HHL

 

 

 

 

 

 

— Aa PM 93 111m aﬁvlsoci

 

 

’IIVW X'IJEIH SSHNISHEI

$91213 pagan 9111 U} paucw J} AJessaooN drums aﬁeisod o N

 

 

 

A N 51305. MEN
899817 “N .LIWHERI

and represents many things for Schweitzer. It does not serve
merely as an admonition or moral maxim as to what one ought to

20

SSV’ID lSHId

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

do. It represents more than just his ethic; it includes his world
view; it is the heart of his religious philosophy. That is why he
could say, “and this ethic, profound, universal, has the signiﬁ-
cance of a religion. It is religion” (Albert Schweitzer: The Man
and His Mind, by George Seaver [Harper & Brothers, 1947], p.
342). Giving ontological status to the term “life” or “will-to-live,”
the phrase “reverence for life” becomes a capsulized expression
for Schweitzer’s “mysticism of reality” or “ethical pantheism.”
It signiﬁes a reverence or veneration for the Universal Will or
Reality in which all life and all things are grounded. Through
this attitude, according to Schweitzer, humanity seeks to become
united with the Cosmic Will, and thus strives to overcome the
estrangement (Selbstentzweiung) which mysteriously and pain-
fully exists between the blind, groping, truculent forms of energy
in the world at large and the purposive, morally concerned form,
or will-to-love, which humanity discovers in itself.

IV

This is Schweitzer’s concept of God. It may be a puzzling
one— this strange mixture of theism and pantheism—but it
functions as a God-concept for him and forms the basis of his
thought. For many it will fall short of a true theistic belief, and
appear too meager to serve as a ﬁrm foundation for a religious
philosophy of life.

Perhaps the reader can now appreciate the complexities in-
volved in arriving at a univocal answer where Schweitzer’s belief
in God is concerned — or for that matter, the belief of any in-
novative thinker in the ﬁeld who has moved far beyond the stric-
tures of traditional theism which still blind us to alternative
modes of insight and expression.

Most people, I ﬁnd, demand a ﬁnished ediﬁce of faith before
they enter with conﬁdence to pray. Certainly the universe has
more to offer by way of guaranteeing their traditional beliefs
than what Schweitzer proﬂ’ers, they contend. But according to
Schweitzer, if we are honest —— and our situation demands noth-
ing less -— it does not. He openly admits that his religious phi-
losophy is incomplete, but he insists that it is enough.

The surmisings and the longings of all deep religious-
ness are contained in the ethics of reverence for life. This
religiousness, however, does not build up for itself a com-

21

 

 




plete philosophy, but resigns itself to leave the ca-
thedral by necessity unﬁnished. It is only able to ﬁnish
the choir. Yet in this, true piety celebrates a living and
continuous divine service [K altar and E thik, pp.
243-244].

In an age such as ours in which the old theistic idols have
died or have been broken, it might be more than important that
such pioneers as Schweitzer have had the insight and courage
to accept the challenge to take the next steps toward the light
and show us, in deed as well as in thought, how to “sing the
Lord’s song in a strange land.” D

This article is reprinted by permission of the author from
Christian Century.

 

 

 

22

 

 




 

ALBERT SCHWEITZER CENTRE
HOLLAND

,BRINK

5

DEVENTER,

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

LAWRENCE GUSSMAN ROGER F. MURRAY
President Treasurer
MICHAEL A. DIANA, M.D. MAURICE FREY, D.D.S.
Vice-President Secretary
W. O. BIERNACKI-PORAY GEORGE MARSHALL
RONDO CAMERON RHENA SCHWEITZER MILLER
NORMAN COUSINS LESLIE PAFFRATH
GRETCHEN K. DIANA ROBERT L. POLK
WILLIAM A. DIEHL EDWARD PONKOP
ANN COTTRELL FREE RICHARDSON W. SCHELL
DAVID R. HALPERIN CHRISTINE STEVENS
HOMER A. JACK ISAAC N. P. STOKES
JOHN KAREFA-SMART, M.D. MARK L. WOLF
ANTJE B. LEMKE MARY O. YATES

Honorary Members: EDOUARD NIES-BERGER
MRS. MYRTA ROSS

 




Not one of us knows What effect his life produces, and
what he gives to others; that is hidden from us and must
remain so, though we are often allowed to see some little
fraction of it, so that we may not lose courage. The way in
which power works is a mystery.

Albert Schweitzer
— Memoirs of Childhood and Youth,

 




. memo
2 w/: '- 74"

Dear Christine,

Did I send you a cOpy
of EnviroSouth with the
attached article? Meant to

do so. Anyway, the Dog

Writers' Association gave

me the magazine article

award this year. (Got it

a few years ago for a series
on Birmingham's poor animals.)

This Dog writers' group is

ANN COTTR '
4700 Jamestown Road . land Hills
Washington, DC. 20016 .u - 229-7533

 




so commercial that I am always
surprised when they pay attention
., to a humane aspect . I wish
\..
that Hun AWI or HSUS ( somebody

from such a group) would

arrange to he a speaker at the
DD, (0079M ’)

annual banquet. I didn't goﬁ.

this year. Just too much to

do here.

595*!
85/

 




Dog Writers’ Association of America, Inc.

President
John T. Marvin
3 l’llythewood Rd.
Doylestown, Pa. 18901
Phone: 215 345-0237

First Vice President
Maxwell Riddle

Second Vice President
Jane Bennett

Secretary-Treasurer
Sara Futh
Kinney Hill Road
Washington Depot
Conn.06794
Phone: 203 868-2363

Board of Governors
The Officers and
Jack Baird
Kathryn Braund
Walter Fletcher
Patricia Gleason
Elsworth S. Howell
Edna Travmek

December 15, 1977
sorry for delay - results
received 1-24-78

Ann Cottrell Free
4700 Jamestown Road
Washington, DC 20016

Dear Mrs .Free:

It is a pleasure to inform you that the judges of the annual
writing competition of the Dog Writers' Association of America
have voted the following award(s) to your entry/entries:

Best Magazine Article - in EnviroSouth

Formal announcement and presentation of certificates to the
winners will be made at the Association's annual awards banquet
at the Statler Hilton HotMMe and 33rd Street, New
York City, on Sunday{'IFebruary12, 1978 , the night before the open-

ing of the 102ml WeStfﬁiRS‘tﬁmeFf—‘QQEJ....CI‘UB dog show .

We hepe that you can be present in person to receive your
award, but if you cannot be with us , we would appreciate it if
you would designate someone else to attend and receive the
award in your name . If you cannot come in person, plea Je send
me the name of the person who will accept, So that apprOpriate
announcement can be made . *

Also, please do not announce the award (for publication) be-
fore the dinner.

Congratulations ! We look forward to seeing you.

Cordially,

gas, are

Secretary

*The certificate will be mailed to you after the banquet if you
cannot come and prebr this .

tirq‘»por£ [be Dogr H'rirt‘rs’ Iz'tz'ucutiomz/ Trust, sponsored by the Dog Writers"Association ofxlmcrzctz. Inc.

 




“ _ "3 ‘ ‘ .g " _ - ’ _‘ .
Dog Writers Association ofAmcrica, Inc.

WINNER: "BEST MAGAZINE ARTICLE“ AWARD —-l97‘7

Pet Population Problem
Stirring Citizens Response

‘

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

EnviroSouth

The magazine that focuses on the South’s
quality of life and balanced growth through
a practical application of its many resources.

 

 

 

Subscription prices: $3.50 a year in Southern
states and District oi Columbia. 85 outside Southern
sates. 86 outside the u.s.

Unsolicited manuscripts and photographs must .3
have return postage; otherwise. we cannot be E Editor: Martha MC/nnis

responsible lor returning them.

EnviroSouth is not responsible ior opinion or ‘ ASSOCiate Editor: Nancy cal/aha"

iacts oi authors. A
ENVIROSOUTH is published quarteriy by Enviro- ft DITGCtOI': Ray BI'OWH

South, inc. P. O. Box 17111, Montgomery, Alabama
361 17.

Copyright ©Envlro$outh, Inc. 1977. No part at
this publication may be reproduced In any term
without written permission of the publisher.

 

 

 

 

 




t

» f ’ Pet Population Problem

Stirring Citizens Response

 

Close your eyes, wherever you are, and
summon your favorite vision of the “Old
South’s” lazy charm.

Being seducedjby the scent and sight of
creamy white Magnolia blossoms? Finding
a certain nirvana in the motion of the
wooden porch swing hanging from the
ceiling of the broad veranda? Mint juleps,
cotton ﬁelds—and all the other post-card
stereotypes of other years?

Or would it be, perhaps, a scene of an old
hound dog lying in the sun or, as the case
may be, stretched out dab ﬂat in the shade
provided by a hospitable elm tree right
down there on Main Street?

That’s the kind of picture many of us
hang onto in our more nostalgic moments;
and certainly it is one that causes a pang of
memory, when we actually encounter it,
once in a while, while moseying around off
the beaten track of the hustle-bustle
progressive “New South.”

The scene has changed. ShOpping
centers, muzaked malls and plazas are
today’s focal points. The trees on Main
Street have long since been replaced by
parking meters. But the dogs are there, all
right, in the “New South.” Not just ole
hound dogs, but mixed collies, shepherds,
rough-coated terriers, dobermen, even
cockapoos. They festoon another part of
the Southern landscape: the highways.

Travel the interstates: 95, 59, 10, 65, and
what do you see?

Let’s not be overly dramatic, but isn’t it
death row?

You know for a fact, without looking at
a road sign, that you are indeed in Dixie.

“There are more dead dogs on Southern
highways than any other part of the
country.” A strong statement, a sting to
Southern pride—but made by someone
who knows the South and its animals.

Phyllis Wright, animal control specialist
of the Washington-based Humane Society

of the United States, has lived in the South.

Last year, alone, she traveled more than
15,000 miles in the region. Her mission:
conferences and seminars with local
governmental, environmental and humane

leaders on ways and means to cope with ,

their out-of-hand animal control prob-
lems.

It is a problem in which both man and
animal suffer. It is a problem that, at once,
is environmental and ethical. It is of public
health, public safety—and certainly public
relations—concern.

The Center for Disease Control of the
US. Public Health Service in Atlanta
reports that animal bites, fecal contamina-
tion and disease transmission can cause
severe public health problems.

Dr. Everette Baker Jr., veterinary
epidemiologist of the Viral Disease
Division of CDC agrees that it is a
“miracle” that more diseases have not been

30 BMW

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

transmitted from animals to pe0ple.

A survey undertaken by the National
League of Cities a few years ago identified
dog and cat and other pet control
problems as the most frequent topic of
citizen complaints to mayors and city
c0uncilmen.

Clearly, the South is not alone in
suffering from the various types of
pollution arising from pet over-popula-
tion. Whereas the South’s problem is made
visible by the bodies, in New York City its
visibility takes the form of animal waste
matter on streets and gutters.

The lack of animal-owner control, either
of birthrate or leasing, forces Ms. Wright
to speak with a bitter irony in regard to the
South‘s major solution to the problem:

“I don’t know what the South would do
without the automobile. It is the number-
one killer. Disease, such as distemper and
mange, I rank second. Death by farmers’
shooting or by a variety of means in
pounds and shelter, I rank third.”

(During our conversation Ms. Wright
and I agreed that except for the danger to
automobile occupants, sudden death on
the highway may be preferable for the
animal compared to some of the cruder
forms of killing in some pounds and
shelters. They range from target practice
shooting, injection with a paralyzing type
of drug, hot, unfiltered carbon monoxide
from pound trucks, faulty decompression
chambers, etc. Intravenous injection of
sodium pentobarbital by a skilled
technician or veterinarian is the method
preferred by the American Veterinary
Medical Association. More than 15
million dogs and cats are “put to sleep”
annually by one means or another.)

“Killing, by whatever means, or even by
spaying and neutering, is not enough. It is
not the total answer,” says another expert
on the South’s animals. Bill Smith of
Tuscaloosa, and his wife, Barbara,
represent the Denver-based American
Humane Association. These two Ala-
bamians advise and consult with environ-
mental, health, humane and government
leaders in 12 states.

“Public awareness is the number one
need,” Smith stresses. And he’s done his
part in swinging a lot of Southerners into
the awareness column. He did it via
country music, by helping to line up
Nashville’s Grand Ole Opry stars, Tom T.
Hall and Minnie Pearl. They acted as
honorary co—chairmen of “Be Kind to
Animals Week” this year. Both Tom and
Minnie are Nashville humane society
activists and have lent time and talent to
money-raising events.

There are some signs that the Southern

public is becoming more aware, thus
putting on the pressure for animal control
law enactment and enforcement.

Atlanta offers grim evidence that
tightened dog-control laws do work. “In
three years,” Bill Smith told me, “the 20
tons of dead animals picked up monthly
from Atlanta area highways has been
reduced to 12 tons.”

Insistence on rabies inoculations by

means of free clinics has certainly paid off.

In 1946, Birmingham reported 455 rabid
dogs. Since the 19605, there has been none.
In fact, in eight Southern states in 1976,
there was a total of ten dogs and five rabid
cats, according to CDC in Atlanta. These
cases come from rabid wildlife.

But rabies inoculations, without strict
leashing and licensing provisions, are only
part of the problem. Ms. Wright hammers
away at controlling puppy and kitten
litters if litter from overturned trash cans
is to be checked. Dogs running loose-—
especially those in packs left over in beach
areas by irresponsible vacationers—pose a
real headache. Hilton Head, SC has
recently issued an SOS to Ms. Wright for
help.

“You ought to see the letters I’ve been
getting from people traveling down South
and being scared out of their wits by packs
of hungry dogs hanging around vacation
and picnic areas. It’s a public relations
problem, too~——as well as one to break your
heart,” Ms. Wright says.

A spot check of Southern communities
reveals special efforts in certain areas are
raising the human consciousness and
awakening consciences. Phyllis Wright
rates high the Guilford County, NC
Humane Society that serves the Greens-
boro area. It has a strict policy on spay-
neutering on dogs adopted from its shelter.
In the Athens, GA area, the Humane
Society has interested the College of
Veterinary Medicine at the University of
Georgia. (In fact, the pre-vet students
sponsor an annual dog wash and flea dip,
giving half of the proceeds to the Society!)
In Columbus, MS, a “special” on spay-
neuter rates was offered one week by
veterinarians and the local society. In
Mobile, AL, one group devotes itself solely
to education and information.

There has been sufﬁcient interest in the
inter-related environmental-ethical as-
pects of the problem for the establishment
of the Southeastern Animal Control
Workers Association. Their challenge is to
strike a balance: to serve the people and to
protect the animals as well. But details as
ways and means of getting effective laws,
their funding and enforcement remain the
big headache.

Most progressive humanitarians believe
that effective animal control laws must
incorporate the following:

 




4

'3 Mandatory licensing and rabies
inoculations.

0 Reduced license fees for spayed or
neutered animals.

0 Mandatory spaying-neutering of
animals adopted from pounds and
shelters, providing ﬁnancial or reduced fee
assistance.

0 A strong leash law that penalizes the
owner (not the animal) through a fine
system.

0 Rigid specifications for the care,
handling, housing, euthanizing of un-
wanted animals.

0 Strong—and enforced—anti-cruelty
laws.

0 Last, but not least, fines for excessive
littering of waste matter on public places
such as playgrounds.

The proliferation of Southern humane
societies has been concomitant with the
growth of the region’s environmental
movement. Their basic interests are allied,
but there is ample opportunity for greater
cooperation. Reduction of pet population
through non-profit spay clinics should be
of interest to organizations concentrated
on all waste problems.

People in an interconnected world,
based for too long on a throw-away society
(beer can or puppy), can find common
ground in tackling a problem that effects
us ecologically and ethically.

And in the South where neighborliness
between man and animals has been a way
of life, (remember that ole hound dog
sittin’ in the sun)—-—-a more realistic
approach may be needed to combine the
best of the old with the best of the new. Cl

5

Ann Cottrell Free

A writer based in Washington,
DC, Ann Cottrell Free is a
contributor to The Birmingham
News, The Washington Post, and
the North American Newspaper
Alliance. Originally from Rich-
mond. VA, Mrs. Free has been
honored for her numerous articles
on environmental and animal
welfare problems. In 1974 she
received the “Best of the Year"
award from the American Dog
Writers Association for her seven—
part series in The Birmingham
News on “Animals in Trouble.”
She also is a recipient of the Albert
Schweitzer Medal, awarded by the
Animal Welfare Institute.

— f Editor's Comm em.
Growth Creates Problems

More than two years ago, the leaders in Alabama’s program for
environmental quality recognized the need to carry the grass root
environmental education and public service mission of the Alabama
Environmental Quality Association to other parts of the South, thus
setting the stage for a regional approach to environmental decision-
making based on “people participation.”

The EnviroSouth organization is the culmination of that regional
concept, and EnviroSouth Magazine is the ﬁrst major vehicle through
which the original AEQA philosophy can be put into practice across the
region, that philosophy being one of “citizen participation in
environmental decisions, based on sound, factual information.”

As you well know, the South has emerged as the most active region of
growth in the nation and this growth phenomenon has thrust upon
Southerners new challenges and responsibilities to preserve and protect
our air, earth and water in a manner beﬁtting a healthy, wholesome
environment. We believe EnviroSouth Magazine will help Southerners
meet the special challenges and responsibilities of growth with
environmental quality.

The publication is a medium through which- we will seek to spread
environmental education across the South, thus enabling the people in
this part of the country to develop a credible perspective on
environmental issues, and participate knowledgeably in the decisions
affecting the kind of life we want for our region.

We sincerely hope you benefit from EnviroSouth Magazine and that
you will call on us if we can ever be of service to you in your quest for a
higher quality environment in your home community.

Martha Mclnnis

' From Readers

Your first edition of EnviroSouth is a tribute to the South and her
foremost citizens. From cover to cover, it is a delightful treasury of
inspiration and information. Each illustration is a masterpiece in
itself. Even the advertisements are as original and educational as the
feature articles.

Dr. David Mathews’ unique ability to touch the pulse of our region
presents a thought provoking and timely article for planners,
environmentalist and idealist, alike. I hope that a copy of
EnviroSouth will find its way into every school and public library in
the South.

You and your staff are to be commended for providing a great
service to this region by publishing this superb magazine.

(Mrs.) Dot Smith
Tuscaloosa, Alabama

 

 

Thank you so much for sending me a copy of the “first edition”
issue of EnviroSouth. It’s a beautiful magazine and I’m sure you are
very proud of the results. It makes all the long months of work and
worry seem worthwhile.

You have done such a tremendous job that I cannot offer any
suggestions for improvement. All I can say is, “Congratulations”.

Jody Powell
The White House
Washington, D. C.

 




Pet Population Problem
Stirring Citizens Response

 

Close your eyes, wherever you are, and
summon your favorite vision of the “Old
South’s” lazy charm.

Being seduced by the scent and sight of
creamy white Magnolia blossoms? Finding
a certain nirvana in the motion of the
wooden porch swing hanging from the
ceiling of the broad veranda? Mint juleps,
cotton fields—and all the other post-card
stereotypes of other years?

Or would it be, perhaps, a scene of an old
hound dog lying in the sun or, as the case
may be, stretched out dab ﬂat in the shade
provided by a hospitable elm tree right
down there on Main Street?

That’s the kind of picture many of us
hang onto in our more nostalgic moments;
and certainly it is one that causes a pang of
memory, when we actually encounter it,
once in a while, while moseying around off
the beaten track of the hustle-bustle
progressive “New South.”

The scene has changed. Shopping
centers, muzaked malls and plazas are
today’s focal points. The trees on Main
Street have long since been replaced by
parking meters. But the dogs are there, all
right, in the “New South.” Not just ole
hound dogs, but mixed collies, shepherds,
rough-coated terriers, dobermen, even
cockapoos. They festoon another part of
the Southern landscape: the highways.

Travel the interstates: 95, 59, 10, 65, and
what do you see?

Let’s not be overly dramatic, but isn’t it
death row?

You know for a fact, without looking at
a road sign, that you are indeed in Dixie.

“There are more dead dogs on Southern
highways than any other part of the
country.” A strong statement, a sting to
Southern pride—but made by someone
who knows the South and its animals.

Phyllis Wright, animal control specialist
of the Washington-based Humane Society

of the United States, has lived in the South.

Last year, alone, she traveled more than
15,000 miles in the region. Her mission:
conferences and seminars with local
governmental, environmental and humane
leaders on ways and means to cope with
their out-of—hand animal control prob-
lems.

It is a problem in which both man and
animal suffer. It is a problem that, at once,
is environmental and ethical. It is of public
health, public safety—and certainly public
relations—concern.

The Center for Disease Control of the
US. Public Health Service in Atlanta
reports that animal bites, fecal contamina-
tion and disease transmission can cause
severe public health problems.

Dr. Everette Baker Jr., veterinary
epidemiologist of the Viral Disease
Division of CDC agrees that it is a
“miracle” that more diseases have not been

30 EmboSoufh

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

transmitted from animals to people.

A survey undertaken by the National
League of Cities a few years ago identified
dog and cat and other pet control
problems as the most frequent topic of
citizen complaints to mayors and city
councilmen.

Clearly, the South is not alone in
suffering from the various types of
pollution arising from pet over-popula-
tion. Whereas the South’s problem is made
visible by the bodies, in New York City its
visibility takes the form of animal waste
matter on streets and gutters.

The lack of animal-owner control, either
of birthrate or leasing, forces Ms. Wright
to speak with a bitter irony in regard to the
South’s major solution to the problem:

“I don’t know what the South would do
without the automobile. It is the number-
one killer. Disease, such as distemper and
mange, I rank second. Death by farmers’
shooting or by a variety of means in
pounds and shelter, I rank third.”

(During our conversation Ms. Wright
and I agreed that except for the danger to
automobile occupants, sudden death on
the highway may be preferable for the
animal compared to some of the cruder
forms of killing in some pounds and
shelters. They range from target practice
shooting, injection with a paralyzing type
of drug, hot, unfiltered carbon monoxide
from pound trucks, faulty decompression
chambers, etc. Intravenous injection of
sodium pentobarbital by a skilled
technician or veterinarian is the method
preferred by the American Veterinary
Medical Association. More than 15
million dogs and cats are “put to sleep”
annually by one means or another.)

“Killing, by whatever means, or even by
spaying and neutering, is not enough. It is
not the total answer,” says another expert
on the South’s animals. Bill Smith of
Tuscaloosa, and his wife, Barbara,
represent the Denver-based American
Humane Association. These two Ala-
bamians advise and consult with environ-
mental, health, humane and government
leaders in 12 states.

“Public awareness is the number one
need,” Smith stresses. And he’s done his
part in swinging a lot of Southerners into
the awareness column. He did it via
country music, by helping to line up
Nashville’s Grand Ole Opry stars, Tom T.
Hall and Minnie Pearl. They acted as
honorary co-chairmen of “Be Kind to
Animals Week” this year. Both Tom and
Minnie are Nashville humane society
activists and have lent time and talent to
money-raising events.

There are some signs that the Southern

public is becoming more aware, thus
putting on the pressure for animal control
law enactment and enforcement.

Atlanta offers grim evidence that
tightened dog-control laws do work. “In
three years,” Bill Smith told me, “the 20
tons of dead animals picked up monthly
from Atlanta area highways has been
reduced to 12 tons.”

Insistence on rabies inoculations by
means of free clinics has certainly paid off.
In 1946, Birmingham reported 455 rabid
dogs. Since the 19603, there has been none.
In fact, in eight Southern states in 1976,
there was a total of ten dogs and five rabid
cats, according to CDC in Atlanta. These
cases come from rabid wildlife.

But rabies inoculations, without strict
leashing and licensing provisions, are only
part of the problem. Ms. Wright hammers
away at controlling puppy and kitten
litters if litter from overturned trash cans
is to be checked. Dogs running loose—
especially those in packs left over in beach

' areas by irresponsible vacationers—pose a

real headache. Hilton Head, SC has
recently issued an SOS to Ms. Wright for
help.

“You ought to see the letters I’ve been
getting from people traveling down South
and being scared out of their wits by packs
of hungry dogs hanging around vacation
and picnic areas. It’s a public relations
problem, too—as well as one to break your
heart,” Ms. Wright says.

A spot check- of Southern communities
reveals special efforts in certain areas are
raising the human consciousness and
awakening consciences. Phyllis Wright
rates high the Guilford County, NC
Humane Society that serves the Greens—
boro area. It has a strict policy on spay-
neutering on dogs adopted from its shelter.
In the Athens, GA area, the Humane
Society has interested the College of
Veterinary Medicine at the University of
Georgia. (In fact, the pre-vet students
sponsor an annual dog wash and ﬂea dip,
giving half of the proceeds to the Society!)
In Columbus, MS, a “special” on spay-
neuter rates was offered one week by
veterinarians and the local society. In
Mobile, AL, one group devotes itself solely
to education and information.

There has been sufficient interest in the
inter-related environmental-ethical as—
pects of the problem for the establishment
of the Southeastern Animal Control
Workers Association. Their challenge is to
strike a balance: to serve the people and to
protect the animals as well. But details as
ways and means of getting effective laws,
their funding and enforcement remain the
big headache.

Most progressive humanitarians believe
that effective animal control laws must
incorporate the following:

 




a'Mandatory licensing and rabies
inoculations.

0 Reduced license fees for spayed or
neutered animals.

0 Mandatory spaying-neutering of
animals adopted from pounds and
shelters, providing financial or reduced fee
assistance.

0 A strong leash law that penalizes the
owner (not the animal) through a fine
system.

0 Rigid specifications for the care,
handling, housing, euthanizing of un-
wanted animals.

0 Strong—and enforced—anti-cruelty
laws.

0 Last, but not least, fines for excessive
littering of waste matter on public places
such as playgrounds.

The proliferation of Southern humane
societies has been concomitant with the
growth of the region’s environmental
movement. Their basic interests are allied,
but there is ample opportunity for greater
cooperation. Reduction of pet population
through non-profit spay clinics should be
of interest to organizations concentrated
on all waste problems.

People in an interconnected world,
based for too long on a throw-away society
(beer can or puppy), can find common
ground in tackling a problem that effects
us ecologically and ethically.

And in the South where neighborliness
between man and animals has been a way
of life, (remember that ole hound dog
sittin’ in the sun)——a more realistic
approach may be needed to combine the
best of the old with the best of the new. [I

Ann Cottrell Free

A writer based in Washington,
DC, Ann Cottrell Free is a
contributor to The Birmingham
News, The Washington Post, and
the North American Newspaper
Alliance. Originally from Rich-
mond, VA, Mrs. Free has been
honored for her numerous articles
on environmental and animal
welfare problems. In 1974 she
received the “Best of the Year”
award from the American Dog
Writers Association for her seven-
part series in The Birmingham
News on “Animals in Trouble.”
She also is a recipient of the Albert
Schweitzer Medal, awarded by the
Animal Welfare Institute.

Editor’s Comment

Growth Creates Problems ‘

More than two years ago, the leaders in Alabama’s program for
environmental quality recognized the need to carry the grass root
environmental education and public service mission of the Alabama
Environmental Quality Association to other parts of the South, thus
setting the stage for a regional approach to environmental decision-
making based on “people participation.”

The EnviroSouth organization is the culmination of that regional
concept, and EnviroSouth Magazine is the first major vehicle through
which the original AEQA philosophy can be put into practice across the
region, that phiIOSOphy being one of “citizen participation in
environmental decisions, based on sound, factual information.”

As you well know, the South has emerged as the most active region of
growth in the nation and this growth phenomenon has thrust upon
Southerners new challenges and responsibilities to preserve and protect
our air, earth and water in a manner befitting a healthy, wholesome
environment. We believe EnviroSouth Magazine will help Southerners
meet the special challenges and responsibilities of growth with
environmental quality.

The publication is a medium through which- we will seek to spread
environmental education across the South, thus enabling the people in
this part of the country to develop a credible perspective on
environmental issues, and participate knowledgeably in the decisions
affecting the kind of life we want for our region.

We sincerely hope you benefit from EnviroSouth Magazine and that
you will call on us if we can ever be of service to you in your quest for a
higher quality environment in your home community.

Martha McInnis

From Our Readers

Your first edition of EnviroSouth is a tribute to the South and her
foremost citizens. From cover to cover, it is a delightful treasury of
inspiration and information. Each illustration is a masterpiece in
itself. Even the advertisements are as original and educational as the
feature articles.

Dr. David Mathews’ unique ability to touch the pulse of our region
presents a thought provoking and timely article for planners,
environmentalist and idealist, alike. I hope that a copy of
EnviroSouth will find its way into every school and public library in
the South.

You and your staff are to be commended for providing a great
service to this region by publishing this superb magazine.

(Mrs.) Dot Smith
Tuscaloosa, Alabama

 

 

Thank you so much for sending me a copy of the “first edition”
issue of EnviroSouth. It’s a beautiful magazine and I’m sure you are
very proud of the results. It makes all the long months of work and
worry seem worthwhile.

You have done such a tremendous job that I cannot offer any
suggestions for improvement. All I can say is, “Congratulations”.

Jody Powell
The White House
Washington, D. C.

 




 

     
   

   

3‘33

1.
>
1

Summer,‘ 1977 .

0‘" l'.

   

‘(x
(Y‘s

         

Sou

‘ “M."

r 1&32‘9'5'5”
am. 2.
\

w=U~
“7“" ,
:.

“up
xuuy‘

$31”qu
’ i

”H“ '

mm”

 

     




 




 

 

R0 0111

S ave
in the
H6 2111

The scandal of a city
that overbreeds its pets
then lets them suffer
and die. What can be
done about it?

By Ann Cottrell Free

 

   

 

PHOTO BY BARRY BLACKMAN

The big black Labrador looked slightly
bewildered when he saw the man with
the needle. But whatever was going to
happen, he was going to shake hands
first. That’s the way they trained him,
before they turned him in because he
was “too friendly.” They told the man
at the humane society shelter: “He loves
everybody, licks them, shakes hands.
Damn nuisance—too much for us. Surely
you can get a good home for him.
Purebred, too.” The euthanizer ﬁnally
shook the dog’s paw, swore at the “son
of a bitch who turned you in,” and got
on. with the job. Then he said, “Next,
please.”

Next,- please. Those two words and
the ugly, sweet smell of death mean
there 15 no room—save in the heart—for
the animals which overerowd the metro-
politan area’s shelters and pounds. And
so the puppies and kittens, the healthy,
the sick, the friendly, and the frightened
must be “put to sleep,” as the euthaniza—
tion is called. The puppies pictured on
the‘ cover were killed two days after
they were photographed.

But it is better—if good homes cannot
be found—that these unwanted creatures
die a painless death in a humane shelter
than suffer ordeals like that which took
place recently in Montgomery County,
and is duplicated in the District and
nearby counties:

“We found the dead beagle puppy
lying on the floor of the empty house.
His head was too large for his bony,
stunted body. Part of his right back leg
was missing. It had been chewed off and
eaten by the other two abandoned dogs.
One of them was also dead, the other
too weak to rise. The humane ofﬁcers
took that one to the shelter, but they
didn t pause before giving him the laSt
rite of kindness: a merciful death.”

In the words of a local humanitarian,
Phyllis Wright, “It’s not an animal prob—
lem, but a people problem.” All the
animals ask is the right not to be born.
This means control of breeding, and
until a safe and economical birth control
pill or vaccine is developed—and it’s
being worked on—spaying and neuter—
1ng is the best answer

Last year 110,000 of the area’s esti—
mated half- million dogs and cats were
handled by shelters and pounds in the
District, Alexandria, and Arlington
Montgomery, Prince George’s and
Loudoun counties. Not all were killed
but far too many were.

The homeless stray or the lost animal
is no longer the chief occupant of the
shelters and the waiting lines outside the
euthanasia rooms. Today the “turn—in” is
the leading Victim. A surprising number
of the animals given up by their m1 new
are purebreds—from poodles to \V eimar—
aners—reﬂecting the disposable product
pattern of our afﬂuent society.

Some animals are given up for legiti—
mate reasons, such as the owner’s illness
or death, moving from a home into an
apartment, going abroad, or no longer
being at home during the day. But others
are turned in for reasons as foolish as the
one for obtaining the animals in the
ﬁrst place.

“ ‘Grew too big,’ that’s a favorite,”
Gene Hogan told me. Hogan is man—
ager of the overcrowded Montgomery
County Humane Society shelter, which
handles more than 400 animals each
week.

“Hardly a day passes that we don’t get
a whole litter of puppies or kittens
along with their mothers. Tired of all
these births, theV tell me But instead
of having the females spay ed—ev en if
we offer to help them out \\ 1th our
spay fund—they say, Take he1 too.

“You ought to hear the excuses. ‘Too
playful.’ ‘Always wants to go for walks.’
‘We’re going on vacation.’ You ought
to hear the kids bawl when .Vlom and
Dad drop off the dog on their way out
of town—car all loaded—to the beach
or somewhere. Dad tells them to ‘stop
that damn crying,’ that he’ll get them
another pet when they come back home.
Not from here, he won’t.”

Our conversation was interrupted by
the arrival of an up-county farmer and
his wife, bringing seven little part coon
hound puppies they had found huddled
together on the side of a road. “How, for
God’s sake, can we get homes for them
before a, new batch arrives?” Hogan
asked. They were euthanized by injec—
tion a few days later.

hile the humane societies pray
for the right kind of owner to
drop 1n and sav e their dogs and
cats from the one- -w ay trip to
the euthanasia room, many Washing-
tonians are going in the opposite direc—
tion looking for pets. They troop not
only to the “free- kittens” places and to
the professional breeders, but they also
are going by the thousands to pet shops,

 




many located in suburban shopping cen—
ters and department stores.

At some pet shops for $10 or 1115 they
can pick up charming mutts bought by
the store manager for a dollar ()1 two
from the owners of unSpay ed females
that mated with a neighbors male dog.
But most pu1chasers want pedigreed col—
lies pekes, pulis, poodles, shepherds, St.
Bernards. And if the animal is not in
stock, chain franchised shops, such as
Docktors (ﬁve locations), Pet Mart
(nine locations), or Puppy Palace can
get it for you. Many have standing or—
ders with “puppy mills,” which turn
out purebreds like doughnuts.

Purebreds are big business. Puppy Pal—
ace, fo1 example, is part of the Mars
Ca1id1 Company s hol dlings, along with
Uncle Ben rlce. Some of the chain-
franchised shops deal directly with
breeders. Others work through ‘collec—
tors” who travel their rural routes,
picking up puppies from small farmers
who have added puppies to their poultry
line. By the time they arriv,e many have
been transferred from hand to hand,
crated, trucked, airshipped, and trucked
again.

“The purchaser doesn’t mind the high
price tag of $200 and $5300 because he’s
got the notion that he’ll get it all back
several times over by going into the
breeding business himself,” Bettijane
Mackall, Fairfax County humane ofﬁcer,
told me. “Just take a look any Sunday
at the classiﬁed ads of purebreds for sale
by home breeders.”

Checking on the condition of animals
in pet shops is one of Mrs. Mackall’s
duties, leading last year to successful
prosecution of the Docktors Pet Shopa at
Loehmann’s Plaza in I‘alls Church for
violation of the states anticruelty law.
The shop closed soon thereafter.

(1 discover why so many‘ ﬁne,

healthy animals are killed when

people are buying so many new

puppies and kittens means a long
investigation of the little understood and
largely ignored animal welfare problem.
It involves turning your back on hun—
dreds of appealing, hopeful animals. It
means ﬁghting back bitter tears as you
see their freshly euthanized bodies
stuffed into trash cans for hauling away
to incinerators or rendering plants for
boiling down for soap and other prod—
ucts. It leads to stiﬂing such grotesque

thoughts as, Will the dog that licked
my hand today wash it tomorrow?

This kind of exposure to the animal’s
moment of awful truth involves you in
the technical study of gauge of the
needle, the number of cc. ’5 of sodium
pentobarbital, and the location of in—
jection—the heart or the vein of the leg?
You become more concerned about the
quality of death than the quality of life.

It also leads to damning not only the
breeders, the pet shops, and the can ’t-
be—bothered owner, but also the indif—
ference of too many veterinarians, edu—
cators, newspapers, and radio and
television stations. And ﬁnally, there are
the overworked humane societies. .

Why haven’t ‘ they—as the self—ap-
pointed guardians for these speechless
creatures—done more to close the c0111—
munications gap? If more people knew
animals were available, wouldn’t they go
to the shelters?

But as you visit the shelters and talk to
the managers, kennel men, and humane
oﬂicers, you ﬁnd yourself face to face
with another heart—wrenching phase of
their responsibility—the cases of starv a—
tion, abandonment, freezing, burning,
mutilation, hanging, and other tortures
inﬂicted on animals, not excepting man-
animal rape. (A coatimundi was the most
recent reported victim. But she bit the
man.)

“We had nearly twice as many cruelty
calls in 1970 as in 1969,” Montgomery
County’s Polly Buel told me. In Fairfax
County, Pearl Twyne and Betti1ane
Mackall keep on the run constantly
checking cruelty reports Recently, three
of their cases came up in court on the
same day and they got three convictions.
One was for the branding of a kitten with
a red-hot coathanger. In Prince George’s
County, humane officer Eleanor Hogan
handles calls, ranging from kids dropping
kittens down trash chutes into furnaces
to visiting a riding stable and ﬁnding
starved dead horses on which stray dogs
were feeding.

Edna Cooke of Alexandria tells of
ﬁnding houses and apartments contain—
ing dead and dying cats and dogs, aban—
doned by their owners. The Washington
Humane Society’S three agents and its
president, Va1 nor McNeill, keep on the
go in the District, investigating cases
from upper Northwest to the heart of
the inner city. Many involve mutilations,
burnings, and hangings of animals, often

by children. In the last two years the
Washington Humane Society has inves-
tigated more than 2,500 cases.

Increased use of guard dogs has also
added to the cruelty. “Shocking the way
people underfeed and chain out their
guard dogs 111 all weather,” says Vaynor
McNeil]. “Much of the trouble comes
from security agencies’ renting out dogs
to warehouses, stores, used car lots. The
other day we found a dog that had been
chained to the bumper of a car for
two years. In the winter dogs are found
frozen to death. In the summer they die
from the heat and no water, or being
locked in ovenlike cars.

Training devices to make dogs obedi—
ent or vicious bring constant complaints.
Spiked collars that cut into the ﬂesh are
too often used. One man fed gunpowder
to his dog to make it more vicious. East
action by FaV Brisk of Virginia Knauer’ s
Consumer Advisory Committee at the
White House resulted 111 the removal by
the Food and Drug Administration of a
dog food containing the male hormone
testosterone from the shelves of Animal
T.V. Trainers pet shop on Seventh
Street. Owner Edward Tuck had
claimed the special food would make
dogs more aggressive.

The big societies and shelters carry the
brunt of the burden. but individuals and
smaller groups also help. People like Vir—
ginia Sargent, Kathy Sullivan, Bernice
Moss, and Catherine Briggs are nearly
always on call.

study of today’s animal welfare
problems leads to the inescap-
able conclusion that more com—
munity understanding and sup—
port is needed.

“Can’t you go to the VVashington
newspapers for help?” I kept asking.

“They don’t seem to be interested un-
less it’s, something like a dog ﬂoating
down the river on’ a piece of ice,”
an Arlington humanitarian complained.
“The suburban papers are better, but
the surface isn’t really scratched.”

Said a Chevy Chase matron: “We’ve
been screwed enough by the papers,
making us look like a bunch of little old
ladies in tennis shoes. Every time they
use the term ‘animal lover,’ I squirm, be—
cause there’s always the implication
‘people hater.’ I wouldn’t ask them for a
damn thing. But if we were hunters,
think of the publicity we’d get.”

 

 




 

But Betsy Kiernan of the Washington
Animal Rescue League took up for the
newspapers. “1 just don’t know what
we’d do if the Evening Star didn’t run
that ‘Looking for a Home’ picture of
one of our animals each week. It does
bring in the people and sometimes they
adopt others if they can’t get the one
they wanted—but we still need more
help. We handled ﬁfteen thousand ani-
mals last year.” She also pointed out
that the Star, Post, and News carry
“found” 'animal classiﬁed ads, one time
only, free of charge.

Only the Fairfax County Animal Wel-
fare League and the National Humane
Education Center in Loudoun County
now run available-for-adoption adver—
tisements. NHEc’s Phyllis Wright often
brings dogs and cats that need homes to
her 12:30 P.M. Friday appearance on
WTTG’s Panorama show. The Fairfax
League has persuaded local radio stations
to describe some of their available ani—
mals. One of the league’s members, Anne
Lewis, writes a weekly column for
suburban Virginia newspapers that de—
scribes available animals. Bettijane Mac—
kall writes a similar column for the
Virginia Sentinel.

Other shelters shy away from adver—
tising or editorial matter on specific
animals. One reason is the fear that by
the time the information appears in the
papers, especially in a weekly, the arrival
of new animals will leave no room for
the ones advertised as available. The
Fairfax League handles this problem by
renting an additional kennel and asking
for a contribution from the new owners
to help defray costs of this extra shelter.
“We are getting good response,” shelter
manager Valerie Hougan told me.

wish we could get newspapers
to cover us as a regular thing,”
Montgomery County Humane
Society’s Polly Buel said.
“None of us here has time to work up
stories for them.” A tall blonde, she is
the society president plus the county
humane ofﬁcer and state riding stable
inspector. 7
“Look at a typical day for me. At the
shelter by ten after stopping to inspect
a couple of adOption homes. Hardly be-
fore I get in, there’s a cruelty case to
go out on. And the calls have already
piled up. Then I hear we’ve burned out
another bearing on one of the trucks.
The man at Rockville Courthouse wants
me to come out there to go over shelter
plans—we’re breaking ground in July.
I have to get material together for the
horse starvation case that’s coming up
next week. I go out on the cruelty case.
A neighbor’s feud most likely, but a cat
has been poisoned. Go to Rockville and
also catch a stable inspection. When I
ﬁnally get back, it’s more of same. Ex—
cept we have thirty more animals than
when I went out. Before going home, I
go out in the back room and before I’m

 

The DC. Pound uses an explosive decompression chamber to kill its animals;

 

they arethen shoveled into trash cans for disposal.

done I’ve euthanized twenty-five dogs
and cats. I’m home about ten at night.”

Mrs. Buel held up an eight-page news-
letter. “We’ve just started this and are
sending it out to a mailing list of six
thousand people, some of them very
inﬂuential. Maybe it will help to tell our
story if nobody else will.”

From these and other conversations, a
picture begins to emerge that accounts
for the lack of areawide attention to
this pressing community problem. The
media has too long had a stereotyped
idea of humanitarians as slightly comical
figures. It has hung on to equally old—
fashioned ideas of what makes a good
animal story.

Humanitarians, on the other hand,
have not tried hard enough to over-
come these misconceptions. Some are un-
happy about the stories that have been
written about them, and thus harbor
hostility. Others, grateful for small fav—
ors, fear pushing their luck. Many don’t
want to publicly discuss the ﬁnal dis-
position of unwanted animals; they are
afraid people with good reasons for dis-
posing of théir animals will stop bring—
ing them in to shelters and the animals
will then suffer a fate worse than
euthanasia.

Hour by hour pressures prevent many
humane leaders from breaking out of
the very bind that has caused the over—
work; thus there are few innovative at—
tempts to solve the problem. Clearly, the
societies need more money and more
members, particularly those with “know
how” and inﬂuence. They need the in-
volvement of idealistic but practical
people like those who helped with Earth
Day and civil rights efforts. For animal
welfare is both an ecological and soci—
ological problem.

ue to a chance meeting in No—
vember between two twenty-
year—olds and Phyllis VVright at
the National Humane Educa—
tion Center, a beginning may have been
.made in bringing animal welfare into
the “now” world. Paul and Mary Jo
Smith of Arlington brought two cats to
Miss Wright at the Waterford clinic for
spaying. It’s cheaper there because the
National Humane Education Center is
subsidized by the Humane Society of the
United States. '

“They had long hair, blue jeans—sort
of the hippy type,” Phyllis recalled. “We
don’t get many ()f that kind and I was
so glad to see them and to know they
cared about limiting their cats’ breed—
ing.”

She showed them around the center,
reeling off statistics as she went. “In a
year’s time, we’ve spayed six hundred
forty-seven female catsvand dogs, and
neutered one hundred twenty—eight
males. That means maybe in one year at
least ten thousand kittens and puppies
can’t be born. Did you know that from
one birth with all systems “go” down the
line for ten years you could have eighty—
four million, six hundred ﬁfty-two thou—
sand, six hundred and forty-four pup—
pies. . . .”

The Smiths began to get the picture,
particularly when Phyllis turned down
a family that wanted a cat but didn’t'
want it spayed. The family wanted to
have one litter of kittens so the kids
could see “the miracle of birth.” -

“Would you want to bring your chil—
dren here sometime for witnessing the
miracle of death?” Phyllis asked.

A few days later Paul Smith tele—
phoned Phyllis Wright. “We think the

main problem is overbreeding. Too many




 

Gene Hogan, manager of the Mont-
gomery County Humane Shelter,
with a litter ofpart coon puppies who
lived only a few days before being
euthanized by injection.

animals.”

“What do you know, I made my
point,” Phyllis said dryly.

“We want to do something about it.
Tell people so they’ll understand. What
about us making a ﬁlm?” .

“Just great,” replied Phyllis tone—
lessly, wondering what kind of trip he
was on.

Paul went on. “We’ve just inherited

about thirty thousand dollars and we
want to produce a ﬁlm for showing to
schools, clubs. . . .”

When she recovered from the shock,
Phyllis offered technical help, actors—
human, canine, feline—and all the as—
sistance possible.

Within a few months, the thirty-
minute 16 mm color ﬁlm, “The Animals
Are Crying,” will have its premiere at
L’Enfant Theatre. It was written and
directed for the Smiths by Peter A.
Beltz (“The Medium Cool Filmmakers,”
WASHINGTONIAN, January 1970). It was
photographed in Montgomery County,
Alexandria, and Loudoun County by
cameraman George Voellmer. Most of
the actors were local humanitarians.
Paul’s father, Grove Smith, acts the part
of a man giving up his dog. Beltz’ three
stepchildren, Pim, Pam, and Pom, play
major roles. The ﬁlm can be purchased
from PMS Films, Inc., PO. Box 9583,
Arlington, Virginia 22209. Telephone
527-1634. Paul and Mary Jo hope that
humane societies and conservation and
education groups throughout the country
will buy the ﬁlm, especially for distribu-

tion to schools._
“Let’s hope it’ll turn on some of the

ecology types who are all hung up on
beer can pollution,” Beltz remarked as
we looked at the ﬁlm rushes. “This 15
so much worse.”

 

hen the Washington humane
movement started 101 years
ago, the most powerful people
‘ of the day were incorporators
of the Association for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (In 1885 the name
was changed to the Washington Hu-
mane Society). They got it chartered by
Congress and within a year’s time they
had one of the nation’s strongest animal
anticruelty laws on the books. Title 22,
Section 8, of the District of Columbia
Criminal Code reads:

“Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives
when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cru-
elly kills, or causes or procures to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or
cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts
unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same
with proper food, drink, shelter, or pro—
tection from the weather, shall for every
such offense be punished by imprison:
ment in jail not exceeding one year, or~
by ﬁne not exceeding two- hundred and
ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment.”

The law was eagerly enforced. By
1911 enthusiasm for arresting abusers of
animals—especially beaten and over-
worked dray horses—reached an all-time
Washington high with 2,017 arrests and
1,929 convictions. But even this was not
enough. (Or was it because mostly men
were running the humane society?) In
1914, nine ladies met at Woodward &
Lothrop’s and the Washington Animal
Rescue League was on its way. It pro—
vided for the ﬁrst time a decent shelter
for friendless animals. A close—knit group
throughout the years, the current presi-
dent of the league is Betsy Simpson
Kiernan, daughter of one of its early
presidents, Mrs. C. Augustus Simpson.

In 1936 some of these same women,
led by Mrs. Henry C. Moses, now
ninety—four, and the late Mrs. Merton
Twogood, set up the Tailwaggers Club
and Clinic to underwrite veterinary care
for pets of the poor. It led the town in
awareness because of strong support from
Cissy Patterson, the dazzling, powerful
publisher of the Times-Herald. After
Mrs. Patterson’s death, Mrs. Frank Allen
West became the mainspring, enlisting
the support of newer members. of the
power structure. When Mrs. West dled
in 1969, the city lost some of its humane
spark. .

In 1944 a new approach to anlmal
problems came from Pearl Rainwater
Twyne. Fresh out of Missouri. With a
job at the Department of Agrlculture,
the Indian-Irish girl and her husband
settled in Arlington. A chance encoun-
ter with a stray dog and one look at the

 

county pound led to her starting the
Arlington Animal Welfare League and
negotiating an agreement to take over
most of the county’s animal control
work. “This was the best of two worlds
for both us and the county. The league
could never have raised the money to
Operate the shelter, which replaCed the
old pound,” she said.

IThis same type of arrangement is
used in Alexandria and in Montgomery
and Fairfax counties, .with the earmark-
ing of county funds solely for shelter
and animal control work. These sums
vary from $35,000 from the county for
the Arlington league, to $76,000 for
Alexandria, $61,000 for Fairfax, and
$125,000 for Montgomery. In several
cases, such as in Arlington, the tax-raised
funds are insufficient and the societies.
have to foot the bills. This can be a great
burden when the societies’ small trea-
suries are already stretched to cover the
essentials of humane work: education,
public relations, advertising, cruelty in-
vestigations, and supplementary veteri-
nary and spaying help to deserving cases.

Prince George’s County’s new 300-
animal shelter is operated by county
government employees under the ad—
visory eye of an Animal Control Com-
mission. The local humane society han-
dles education, cruelty investigations, a
lost and found center, and training
classes.

ost of the humane society-oper-
ated shelters have the same re—
quirements for adoption of
animals. “We do not release
animals unless the home is approved and
there is proper exercise space, such as a
fenced yard,” Margaret McHale of Ar-
lington explained. “We require written
permission from the management if we

 

release a small dog or a cat to an apart-

ment dweller.” Some of the shelters will
not place animals under four months old
with children under six years of age.

“Our great focus is on obligatory
spaying of females and encouragement
of neutering of males,” Gene Hogan
said. At Arlington, male cats must be
neutered and at Phyllis Wright’s shelter
male dogs also must be neutered.

(To spay comes from the old French
“espeer,” which means “to cut with a
sword.” In reality, it is the surgical re-
moval of the ovaries of a female animal.
Neutering of a male animal can be either
the removal of the testicles or a vasec-
tomy, the removal or resectioning of
the cordlike canal that carries the Sper—
matozoa. Clinical studies have shown
that the neutered animals do not suffer
either from obesity or a loss of verve or
Character. Veterinary studies have shown
that the incidence of cancer in spayed
and gelded animals appears to be lower.)

Each of these shelters has a plan for a
minimal prepayment spay fee. Some re—
quire payment at time of adoption;
others, such as Fairfax and Prince

 




 

 

George’s, have a $4 or $5 reimbursable
deposit plan, leaving it to the new owner
.to select his own veterinarian and nego—
tiate a price. When a certiﬁcate or copy
of a receipted bill from the veterinarian
is submitted to the shelter, the new
owner gets his deposit returned. Charges
for spaying and neutering of dogs and
cats has increased considerably in recent
years, with the absolute minimum now
about $40 and in cases of large dogs re—
maining in the hospital for a few days
more than $50.

Arrangements with cooperative area
veterinarians have resulted in charges
at the Arlington and Alexandria shelters
of $15 for female dogs, and in Mont-
gomery County, between $20 and $30.
By supplementing the cost out of its
own pocket, the older Washington Ani-
mal Rescue League has been able to- hold
the spay fee at a remarkable $8. Its total
mandatory cost for females, including
spaying and rabies and distemper shots,
is $15.25. Spay and neutering rates at the
nonproﬁt NHEC Clinic at Waterford,
where veterinarians are on salary, are
female dogs, $20; female cats, $15; male
dogs, $15; and male cats, $5. Some of the
shelters and the Tailwaggers Clinic have
small, special spay and neutering funds
to help hardship cases. Recently, a group
of Maryland and Virginia women or—
ganized SPAY (Society for the Prevention
of Surplus Animal Young), which offers
assistance to owners of dogs and cats in
need of spaying and neutering.

Other adoption procedures vary some—
what from shelter to shelter. The $4 li-
cense fee is paid at Montgomery Coun
shelter, while in the District the $3 fee
is paid either by mail or in person at the
District license ofﬁce. In Arlington and
Alexandria, license tags are $1 for males
and spayed females, but $3 for unspayed
females. Higher license fees for animals
able to propagate might be a deterrent,
some humanitarians believe. But to make
it eﬁective, others point out, it. should
be in the $25 to $50 range and this might
not be politically feasible. Columnist
Anne Lewis of Fairfax suggests a $100
license for the “backyard breeder.”

The dog tag can be a lost dog’s great-
est protection. Though it is against the
law for dogs to run loose, humane ofﬁ-
cers urge owners to keep their dogs’
collars and tags on them at all times.
“All of the shelters keep the tag num-
bers on ﬁle,” explained Montgomery
County’s Loretta Moon,” and if they
have the dog’s license number, his owner
can be notiﬁed immediately. Of the
3,048 dogs picked up by her shelter’s
trucks last year, 1,206 were returned to
their owners. A redemption fee is re—
quired of owners by all the shelters.

Though the area’s humane societies
try to cope with animal overpopulation
through arrangements with cooperative
veterinary surgeons and establishment of
the spay clinic at Waterford, they look
longingly at Los Angeles, where a mu-
nicipal spay clinic was opened in No~

vember. Los Angeles hopes that the
city’s subsidy of the clinic will be oﬁset
by savings in the handling and euthaniz—
ing of animals.

The Los Angeles plan lends itself to
adaptation here, beginning in the inner-
city Model Cities area, where hundreds
of animals run at large. It has been sug-
gested that Model Cities funds be ob—
tained to employ more dog catchers and
buy another truck solely for collecting
and then killing animals from this area.
Costs would run at least $25,000 annu-
ally. Instead, after collecting, why not
use federal funds for the employment of
one or two veterinarians—either on sal—
ary or under contract—to spay and neu-
ter animals of low—income residents of
this area? It could be done free, as in the
case of the District’s rabies clinics, or
for under $5. It would result in reduc—
tion of births and greater enjoyment of
owned animals. The idea of this demon-
stration-type program is being viewed
with interest by the Model Cities Ad—
visory Board, headed by Mrs. Caroline
Reese, and by William Cary, former
associate ,director of Environmental
Health for the District.

ithin the last twenty years, the
animal welfare effort in Wash-
ington has been considerably
broadened by creation of the
Humane Society of the United States.
This national organization has given ma-
jor support to all the animal protective
laws passed by the Congress, beginning
in 1958 with passage of the Humane
Slaughter Act. The leadership of Mrs.
Roger Stevens in the laboratory animal
protective ﬁeld has been nothing short
of brilliant. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the Animal Welfare Institute and So—
ciety for Animal Protective Legislation
from her home here. (She and her hus-
band, who is head of the Kennedy Cen-
ter board of trustees, now live in Mrs.
Frank West’s old Georgetown man—
sion.)

The activities of these and other na-
tional groups in Washington are in star—
tling contrast to the District of Colum-
bia Pound—the only facility in the area
still retaining a name that goes back into
antiquity. Inspection of the pound can
leave you with the impression that phil-
osophically it has not changed since the
days of President Grant, when it im—
pounded a couple of his stray horses.

Today, the pound operates under the
District Department of Health with an
annual budget of $118,000. This covers
primarily salaries and supplies, exclusive
of purchase and maintenance of vehicles,
buildings, or equipment.

The pound does not beneﬁt from any
type of citizens’ advisory committee to
help bring it up to modern standards.
For the following reasons, it can be con—
sidered the least adequate animal facility
in the area:

I It does not advertise found dogs.

 

WHO’S WHO
IN ANIMAL WELFARE

 

Local

Alexandria Animal Welfare League, 910 S.
Payne St., Alexandria, Va. 22314; 750-6597
(after 5 pm, 549~7058). Estab. 1945. Mon.—
-Sat. 9-5; adoptions, 10-4 weekdays, 11—3 Sat;
closed Sun., except for receiving animals.
Operates shelter, also two truck—ambulances
for animal control and rescue work, all
under city contract. 24-hour service. Ex—
cellent facilities. Handled 10,500 animals
last year. Animals released to approved
homes only; prepayment required for spay—
ing of females. League conducts cruelty in~
vestigations and sponsors obedience classes
and educational programs in schools. Mrs.
James H. Lazarus, pres; Mrs. Edna Cooke,
shelter manager.

Animal Protective Association, Box 172,
Garrett Park, Md. 20766; 942-2341. Estab.
1933. This small band of dedicated humani—
tarians is led by Virginia Sargent. She has
rescued countless animals and found good
homes for man .

Arlington Animal Welfare League, 2800 S.
Taylor St., Arlington, Va. 22206; 5276055.

.Estab. 1944. Mom—Sat, 10:30—4; closed Sun.,

except for receiving animals. Operates shel—
ter and 24-hour emergency service truck—
ambulances under county contract. Requires
spaying of adopted females, but minimal
rates available. Does not place animals out—
side of state. Animals released to approved
homes only. Handles 10,000 animals an-
nually. Mrs. Margaret McHale, pres; VVil—
liam Nash, shelter manager.

Fairfax County Animal Welfare League,
3613 Jermantown Rd., Fairfax, Va. 22030;
691-2363 (after midnight, 528—2347). Over—
ﬂow kennel, 13341 Lee Highway. Mon.—
Sat., 8:30—5; adoptions, 11-4; main kennel
closed Sun., except for receiving, but Lee
Highway open Sun. 12—5. League operates
shelter and injured animal pick-up service
under county contract. Requires spaying of
females with $5 reimbursable deposit. Stanley
N. Gilreath, pres.; Mrs. Valerie Haugen,
shelter manager.

Fairfax Humane Society, 633 River Bend
Rd., Great Falls, Va. 22066; 759—2200. Estab.
1966. Organized to curb cruelties in this
fast-growing county. It has won a number
of cases. Humane Society ofﬁcers Pearl
Twyne and Bettijane A. Mackall are among
the most experienced in the state.
Montgomery County Humane Society, 8710
Brookeville Rd., Silver Spring, Md. 20910;
585-5484, 585—1203, 585—1263. Estal). 1945.
Mon.—Sat., 9—7 for ofﬁce business, buying
licenses, redeeming pets; 11-3 daily and
Sunday for adoptions, 24-hour emergency
service. Four trucks for pick-up service.
Shelter and control work under county
contract. Handles 21,000 animals annually
in overcrowded shelter. Expects to move to
new quarters near Rockville. Conducts
obedience classes and rabies clinics. Also
requires spaying of females through minimal
prepayment plan. Animals to approved
homes only. Issues newsletter. Mrs. VValker
Buel, pres; Gene Hogan, shelter manager.
Maryland Animal Welfare Associations,
P. O. Box 4157, Chevy Chase, Md. 20015;
299—5128. Many of Maryland’s animal wel-
fare groups have banded together to present
a united front for statewide action or to

 

 




 

backstop each other on local problems.
Meetings provide valuable exchange of in—
formation. Currently working on state’s
trapping problems and illegal roadside zoos.
Mrs. Jane Ream, pres.

National Humane Education Center Shelter,
Rt. 9, Waterford, Va. 22190; 471-1600 (di-
rect dial, no toll). Mon—Fri, 9-5; Sat. and
Sun., 9-3 for ofﬁce business, turn-ins, and
redemptions. Kennel open for inspection
and adoptions 1.0-4 weekdays, 11-3 Sat. and
Sun. Owned and operated by Humane So-
ciety of the United States, the shelter serves
the metropolitan area, particularly Loudoun
County, which has no other animal shelter.
Handles about 6,000 animals annually. Ani-
mals to approved homes only. Requires
spaying of females and neutering of males
done at Center Clinic for nominal fees.
Keeps a few “rescued” monkeys and farm
animals. Tours for groups of all ages ar—
ranged and information given on animal
problems. Phyllis Wright, executive direc—
tor; Donna Truslow,_clinic supervisor.
Noah’s Ark Animal Society, 4405 East West
Highway, Bethesda, Md. 20015; 656—9043.
Primarily an 8 A.M.-—ll. RM. telephone clear-
ing house offering assistance on locating lost
animals and ﬁnding good homes for those
needing them. Mrs. Kathleen Suma, pres.
Peace Plantation: P. O. Box 837, Leesburg,
Va. 22075; (703) 777~2504. Thanks to small
endowments, cats are received and given
comfortable homes in shelter. For extreme
hardship cases only. Catherine Briggs, pres;
Ruby Brown, shelter manager.

Prince George’s County Animal Shelter,
8211 D’Arcy Rd., Forestville, Md. 21050;
336—3221. 1\’lon.-Fri., 10—1, 2—4, 4230—8; Sat.,
11-4; closed Sun. Operated by county em-
ployees under an Animal Control Commis—
sion. Maintains high standards of care and
handling of 26,000 animals annually. Well-
designed, clean, all-indoor kennel. Only
shelter in area with evening hours. Operates
six vehicles. Requires £154 reimbursable spay
deposit on adopted females. Iverson W.
Gallihugh, Animal Control Officer and
Shelter Supt. .

Prince George’s County Humane Society,
P.O. Box 261, Riverdalc, Md. 20840; 864-
2434. Cruelty calls are investigated by well—
trained humane ofﬁcers.:\lrs.GHogan, pres.
Spay; Societv for the Prevention of Surplus
Animal \,,'(,)’u'ng, P.O. Box 7056 N. Station,
Arlington 22207. This newly organized
group provides assistance to owners of dogs
and cats in need of spaying and neutering.
SPAY raises its funds through ﬂea markets
'and bazaars. D.C. and nearby hvl‘laryland resi-
dents, call Mrs. Emily Dassinger, 864—7744;
close—in Virginians, call Mrs. Marie Addi,
273-3692. Also assists in locating lost pets.
Tailwaggers Club and Clinic, 71 O St.,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001; 667-5731.
Estab. 1936. i\=‘lon.—Fri., 2230-5. This non-
profit clinic helps many pet owners, who
last year brought in 11,343 dogs and.928
cats for treatment by its two veterinarians.
Same name as British society of similar
nature. Conducts dog obedience classes
every spring. Operates lost and found serv-
ice for members. Mrs. Hugh Gingerich,
pres; Nathaniel B. McPherson, exec. secy.
Virginia Federation of Humane Societies,
2112 Key Blvd., Arlington 22201; 525—1729.
Now headed by Mrs. C. Dodson A/Iorrisette
of Norfolk, it \vas founded by former. Ar—
lington Animal Welfare League Pre51dent
Pearl vane. This statewide group .of
humane societies has succeeded in getting
additional animal protective legislation

through the state legislature. Issues excellent
booklet on Virginia’s animal anticruelty

laws. Mrs. V. Allen Ratcliffe, secretary.
IWashington Animal Rescue League, 71 O

St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001; 667—5730.
Estab. 1914. Daily, 9-5 ; adoptions Mon.-Sat.,
10—4; Sun., 11—3. 24-hour emergency service.
Independently supported, handles 15,000
animals annually. Ambulance and pick-up
service. Animals released only to approved,
preinspected homes. Provides distemper and
rabies shots at cost, requires nominal fee for
spaying of females. Issues humane education
kits to schools. Mrs. Paul C. Kiernan, pres;
James Souders, shelter manager.

Washington Humane Society, 1621 Wiscon-
sin Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007;
333—4010. Estab. 1870. Daily, 9-4. Telephone
recording service after hours. This Con-
gressionally—chartered society investigated
more than 2,500 cruelty cases in the past
two years. It issues warnings and takes legal
action under strong District anticruelty laws.
Relatively unaggressive for many years,

,WHs has become more active since 1969.

Mrs. Vaynor McNeill, pres.

National
American Horse Protection Association, 633

'River Bend Rd., Great Falls, Va. 22066; 759-

2200. This new group is greatly responsible
for the new federal law forbidding the
“soreing” of Tennessee walking horses. Mrs.
Pearl Twyne, pres.

American Humane Association, P.O. Box
1266, Denver, Colo. 80201. Represented here
by lawyer Jo V. Morgan, Jr., Bowen Bldg,
'Washington, D.C.; 347—3450. Founded 94
years ago, now has 347 affiliates. Publishes
shelter management, animal care, and edu-
cational materials and magazine. Maintains
Hollywood office. Recently, less aggressive
than other national groups in pushing for
animal protective legislation, but is giving
financial help to animal birth control pill
research.

Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3492,
Grand Central Station, New York 10017.
Established and headed by Mrs. Roger
Stevens in 1951, it has helped focus national
attention on animal abuses, especially in re-
search labs. Produces educational manuals,
films, newsletter. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the institute from her home here. Awards
Albert Schweitzer Medal annually.
Defenders of Wildlife, 2000 N St., N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036; 223-1993. Crusades
against cruel predator control, trapping,
and other abuses of wildlife. Recently
named as a legatee of estate of California
multimillionaire who was impressed by its
magazine, which is edited by Executive
Director Mary Hazell Harris. Victor H.
Cahalane, pres. .
Humane Society of the United States, 1145
19th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036;
338—6216. Founded in 1954 by prominent
members and staffers of AHA. Has 5
branches and 27 local affiliates, but none
here. Maintains ﬁeld men to aid local
groups, issues educational materials and
newsletter. After period of unsettled leader—
ship after death of ﬁrst executive director
Fred Myers, it shows signs of moving ahead
again due to special efforts of board mem-
bers such as Roger Caras, counsel Murdaugh
Madden, and new president John Hoyt. Its
National Humane Education Center at
Waterford is an excellent facility. Patrick
Parkes, exec. v.p.

Kindness Club, Waterford, Va. 22190; 471—

1600. Children’s humane organization started
by Mrs. Hugh John Flemming, wife of
former New Brunswick governor, is now
sponsored by HSUS. Issues newsletter and
other educational materials. Dale Hvlton,
exec. director. v
National Humane Education Center, Water~
ford, Va. 22190; 471-1600. Conducts animal
welfare seminars for nation’s humane socie—
ties and maintains shelter for area animals.
Property was gift of late Edith Goode and
Alice Morgan Wright. Phyllis Wright, exec.
director.

Outdoor Ethics Guild, Rt. 2, Box 41-13, The
Plains, Va. 22171. Issues guides on how to
treat animals and other sharers of this earth.
Founded by Interior Dept. ecologist Bruce
Bandurski. .
Society for Animal Protective Legislation,
P.O. Box 3719, Georgetown Station, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20007. This is Mrs. Roger
Stevens’ lobbying arm. Stays on top of leg-
islation and can be credited with the differ-
ence between success and failure on such
bills as the Animal Welfare Act of 1970. Its
members write thousands of letters to Con—
gress. Madeline Bemelmanns, pres; Christine
Stevens, secretary.

Wards, 2225 Observatory Place, N.W.,
VVashington, D.C. 20007; 337-2225. Founded
in 1950’s by Mrs. Peyton Hawes Dunn to
focus attention on care and treatment of
research animals. Raised enough money to
finance building of better kennels at most ’
of the local research hospitals. Name is
acronym for Welfare of Animals Used in
Research for Drugs and Surgery. Mrs. A. S.
Mike Monroney, chairman.

International

ISPA. Known best by its initials, standing
for International Society for the Protection
of Animals, ISPA maintains its home office
at 106 Jermyn St., London S.VV. 1, England.
Its main U.S. office is at 655 Boylston St.,
Boston, Mass. 02116. One of its active board
members, Attorney Jo V. Morgan, Jr., 815
Bowen Bldg, Washington, D.C. 20005, can
furnish essential information. Its agents travel
throughout the world, offering technical
assistance for improved methods of handling
animals, ranging from seal hunting to better
ways of killing home—raised mink to saving
animals from rising flood waters, oil slicks,
and painful slaughter. Individual member-
ship available.

WFPA. The World Federation for the
Protection of Animals maintains headquar-
ters at Alcred—Escher Str. 76 CH 8002,
Zurich, Switzerland, but one of its vice—
presidents, Oliver Evans, lives here; mailing
address: 1145 19th St., N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20036. WFPA assists animal welfare
groups worldwide on problems involving
protection of food animals and research
animals, surplus animal control, protection
of fauna and habitat. Has consultative status
with UNESCO and other international groups.

Individual memberships available.

Also noted

D.C. Dog Pound, 1201 New York Ave,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002; 629-2791.‘
Mon-Sat, 7:30-3:30; closed Sun. Operates
three dog catcher trucks. Handles very
few cats. Sells dogs to area’s medical re-
search laboratories and to public. Handles
6,000 animals annually. The pound’s major
shortcomings are discussed in the ﬁnal sec—
tion of the main article. John R. King,
poundmaster. .

 




 

I It does not check lost dog ads.

I It does not provide resting boards
in kennels.

I It does not require spaying of fe-
males.

I It does not have an approved homes
policy.

I It does not distribute information
of the area’s nonproﬁt animal clinics or
spay programs.

I It does not post notice that some of
its dogs are sold to research laboratories.

The District pound is the only area
facility continuing to use routinely the
explosive decompression killing chamber.
Due to the possibility of “excruciating
pain for a short time,” the American
Veterinary Medical Association does not
approve this method. It considers the best
method for the euthanizing of individual
animals to be intravenous administration
of barbiturates. These drugs produce
painless death, much like going to sleep,
but should be given by a veterinarian or
by a skilled technician.

Mrs. Kiernan of the Washington Ani-
mal Rescue League, where the intrave-
nous method is administered by a vet—
erinarian’s assistant, has tried to persuade
the pound to switch to the approved
method. But to no avail.

“We had such a chamber at the shel—
ter,” James Souders, league shelter man—
ager, said, “but the animals didn’t always
die. Something was always wrong with
the machine. The animals were fright-
ened and I think suffered. When Miss

Wright was here as manager she wanted

it out.”

Dr. Paul L. Romig, chief of the Dis—
trict’s Animal Disease Control Division,
which has jurisdiction over the pound,
maintains that the high altitude cham—
ber is an “acceptable method” and that
it is “expedient” for euthanizing large
numbers of animals. The pound han-
dles half the number of animals as the
league.

In the company of Dr. Charles Calao,
vice president of the Washington Hu—
mane Society, and Dr. Romig, I viewed
the decompression chamber—ﬁlled with
four small female dogs. The dogs gasped
for breath and bit at the air as the oxy-
gen was withdrawn and they were taken
to a simulated height of 55,000 feet. Af—
ter a' period of convulsing, they lay still.

Later that day some of the same
group, including Poundmaster John R.
King, met with Dr. Raymond L. Stand-
ard, director of the District’s Health De-
partment. Also present was Dr. Charles
R. Hayman, associate director for pre—
ventive service of the Community Health
Services Administration.

Dr. Calao and I passed on our unfa-
vorable observations and statements fro-m
the AVMA in regard to the chamber. We
also noted that some facilities throughout
the country still using the chamber at
least sedate their animals orally to cut
down on fear and pain before placement
in the chamber.

Dr. Standard was sympathetic to the
idea of the most humane method pos-
sible. Because Dr. Romig does not wish

to perform euthanization by injection
and pound personnel do not want to be
trained for the duty, there seems to be
no alternative but employment of trained
outside personnel on a retainer basis or
the employment of an extra staﬁ’ person.
In short, it is a matter of money. “It is
very hard for the pound to compete with
the needs of children and old people
for an extra dollar,” Dr. Standard said.
“But I would like to see it done if we
can ﬁnd the money, either through dona—
tions or appropriated funds. But you will
have to help us get the money.”

“In the meantime, however,” Dr.
Standard added, “we will start oral
sedation to cut down on fear and pain.”
This is now being done, but it is not a
long—term solution to the problem of
painless killing of animals.

To obtain this reform and other im—
provements to bring the District pound
up to area standards—and to establish
a citizens’ advisory council—expressions
of support can be sent to Dr. Raymond
L. Standard, Chief of.Health Service
Administration, 1875 Connecticut Ave—
nue, Washington, DC. 20009. Copies
could be sent to Mayor Walter VVash-
ington at the District Building. He is
an honorary vice president of the VVash-
ington Humane Society.

These and other improvements in
Washington’s animal world—not forget-
ting the Model Cities breeding-control
plan—would be a significant step of the
kind taken in 1870 when the city, with
Congressional blessing, went on record
that, in its heart, it is humane. D

Reprinted from the April, 1971 issue of the WASHINGTONIAN magazine.

 

BIIIIOP'S notes

 

Ann Cottrell Free, whose survey of
the area’s conservation establishment ap-
peared in our April 1970 issue, returns

with a strong in—

dictment of our

cruel and waste—

‘2 ful treatment of

pets.

' Her interest in

i‘ animal welfare

has continued

since she broke

into print as a

teen-ager with a

story in the Na-

tional Humane Review. It has led since

then to hundreds of other articles, a

novel, the winning. of awards including

the Albert Schweitzer Medal, and the

adoption of three foundling dogs. While

visiting the District of Columbia Pound

for this story she adopted another; then,
luckily, found a good home for it.

Copyright c 1971, The Washington Magazine, Inc.

 




RACHEL CARSON'S EASTER MORNING

Ann Cottrell Free

There is a certain symbolism at work this Easter, which also happens
be the tenth anniversary of the death of Rachel Carson.

After her death on April 14, 1964, her influence was so great that it
as if she had never died. It is fruitless therefore, to wonder —— as one
inclined to do -— what more she would have accomplished after "Silent Spring."

80 many people wanted so badly for her spirit to live that, indeed,
did. The past ten years have been Rachel Carson's Easter morning.

Hundreds of environmental laws were passed in the last ten years on
all levels —— local, state, Federal. They were designed to restore nature's
balance and to protect man from the deadly legacy of advanced but ecologicallv
immoral technology. ‘

Youth in great numbers took the environment as its cause and
thousands of persons of all ages looked at a bird, a deer, a tiger in a
different way.

It was as if she had spoken privately to millions of people throughout
this and other lands. Never mind that "Silent Spring” went into 21 foreign
editions and that "The Sea Around Us", published 11 years earlier, had gone
into 46 editions outside the U.S.A. The message seemed personal. And even
when describing the molecular structure of chlorinated hydrocarbons, her
words had a magic property.

The writer—biologist, born in 1907 in Springdale, Pennsylvania, has
taken her place alongside Henry Thoreau, John Muir, Aldo Leopold.

Books have been written about her.

The Rachel Carson Homestead Association was established to secure her
family home in Springdale and part of the Appalachian Trail, passing nearby,
is being named for her.

The Federal government named a national wildlife refuge in her honor
along 40 miles of the southern coast of Maine.

And some of her friends and fellow scientists formed the Rachel
Carson Trust for the Living Environment. It is carrying on her work in
alerting the public to the Continued dangers from such pesticides as dieldrin.

But now as we reach the end of the decade since her ashes were
given to the sea, there are dispiriting signs that the environmental age
may only bud, but never blossom. For all kinds of shortages are being used
as sufficient reason for putting aside hard-won gains.

 




Once again, expediency and profits ride high in the Saddle, just as
they rode, in the case of DDT, until finally unhorsed. But now DDT may be
creeping back. For timber shortages are making it okay for the Environmental
Protection Agency to approve provisional use of DDT on the tussock moth on
Douglas fir in the Northwest. '

Meat Shortages are making it okay for coyotes to be shot in the face
by cyanide "coyote getters" in an EPA—approved experimental program. It was
forced by sheepman, desperate for reminstitution of the government’s
barbarous predator control program, which, incidently, was deplored by
Rachel Carson.

These aberrations could be minor compared to what may happen in the
name of the energy shortage. Setting aside safeguards of the National
Environmental Protection Act —— as the Office of Management and Budget
apparently favors -— could result in an environmental nightmare.

Greatest caution must be exerted before gouging out coal seams of
Western states, drilling for oil off the Atlantic coast and the
proliferation of nuclear power plants.

Highest priority should be given to harnessing the sun, finding new
sources of protein, developing safer alternatives to "hard" pesticides, more
efficient use of human and animal wastes for fertilizer and as sources of
energy.

Re-thinking of life styles and re—cycling of materials, on a scale yet
unknown, should be the nation's major task —- not further expoitation of
finite resources.

In today's confusion, our leaders might well remember Rachel Carson's
advice.

"Instead of always trying to impose our will on nature," she told the
graduating class at Scripps College in 1962,.”we should sometimes be quiet
and listen to what she has to tell us."

Nature, I believe —- speaking through Rachel Carson —- is trying to
tell us this:

"So nature does need protection from man; but man, too, needs
protection from his own acts, for he is part of the living world.
His war against nature is inevitably a war against himself. His
needless and destructive acts enter into the vast cycles of the
earth and in time return to him."

The unassuming Rachel looked to the lines of the English poet,
Francis Thompson, for the essence of nature's message:

Thou oanst not stir a flower.
Without troubling of a star.

She need never have doubted, however, her own ability to speak for
nature. The message was clear in countless passages. If we cease to listen,
it is not only at our peril —— but the hastening of the second death of Rachel
Carson. For, then, for all that she symbolized, there would be no more long
Easter mornings.‘ '

April 14, 1974

 




