I.C.|.
GAME
RESEARCHES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADVISORY 'LEAFLET '

"No. .3.
GRIT AND DUST

‘Completeiy revised July 1937

 




 

 




 

 

 

|.C.|.
GAME
RESEARCHES

THIS is one of the series of informative and advisory leaﬂets
issued by the I.C.I. Game Research Estate, Knebworth.
Originally published in February 1934. under the title
Partridges: Winter Feeding, Grit, and Dust, it was revised
and republished in January 1935 as Partridges: Winter
Feeding, Grit, Dust, and Drinking Trays. Since that date
much further information on these subjects has been
acquired. No. 3 leaﬂet is now, therefore, entirely revised,
and deals with gritting and dusting only. Winter feeding
and watering will be made the subject of a separate leaﬂet
to be issued very shortly.

I. C .1. Game Research Estate
North Lodge

Knebworth Park

H erts

 




.Iv‘umz’rmmwrimmmwivgmmmrmm”.. Emir“ -.- <u., ~1V~<Rm mmra-nerw w.“ . 7.. "7-. V..-...-..—.» ._... ., . . ._ .. . _

GRIT AND DUST

What Grit Does

AN adequate supply of hard grit is essential to the health
of all British game birds. Birds have no teeth, but masti-
cation is nevertheless the ﬁrst process in digestion. ‘

“Chewing” is done in the gizzard, which must contain i

 

 

plenty of grits to function efﬁciently. The grits mix with

the food, and are rolled and pounded by contractions of . .
the thick and muscular gizzard wall, the action being one

of grinding or milling rather than of cutting.

Grits found in Partridges and Soils ,3
We are learning a good deal about the nature and im- 0‘

portance of grit supplies—

(a) By examining the gizzards of hundreds of wild
partridges and other game birds from different
parts of the country.

(1)) By washing out soils to ascertain their natural grit
supply.

(6) By putting down different varieties of grit at the
Knebworth observational feeding stations, and
then watching the birds from hides.

((1') By giving selected grits to penned birds.

Many areas, we ﬁnd, have an abundance of suitable grit
in the soil, and there is no reason to suppose that game
would beneﬁt if more were put down. The gizzard-contents
from other areas, however, show that the birds are obviously
not getting enough grit of the right size, shape, and texture,
and examination of the soil from such areas shows a deﬁ-
ciency of grit. Partridges must have grit, and if a suitable
grit is not to be found in sufﬁcient quantity on the land,
it should be provided artiﬁcially. Some limestone and
chalk soils, for instance, are very deﬁcient in grit. When
land is well gritted, about 12 oz. of soil contain a gizzard-
ful of grit for a partridge: and in a well-supplied partridge
gizzard one ﬁnds 800 to 1,000 grits of uniform size, con—
sisting mostly of quartz or of some allied very hard rock.

 

2

 

 




Advice on Grit Requirements

The ﬁrst thing to be done, therefore, is to ﬁnd out
whether one’s partridges really require more grit. We have
developed a technique for grit estimations by the washing
out of soil, and are prepared to give an opinion upon the
‘ grit content of samples of soil submitted to us. That is to

say, we will ascertain whether such samples show a deﬁciency

(@ or otherwise, and whether the grit is of the right kind.

‘ Samples of about I lb. of surface soil (preferably from

a newly ploughed ﬁeld) should be taken from several points

‘ on the estate. It will help us if a few partridge gizzards
‘5 are also sent.

The Right Kind of Grit

If grit is to be put down, it is of ﬁrst importance to
choose grit of the right size and shape, as shown by the
partridges themselves. When the grits taken from a large
number of partridges are examined, the extraordinary uni—
formity in the grit particles is at once noticed. They are
all “knobbly” grits—not sharp angular pieces; and nearly
all will pass through a sieve with a mesh of 3% in. Fresh
grits taken from the crops of partridges show no measurable
difference in size from those in the gizzards, so they are
evidently not worn down in the gizzard to any noticeable
extent, and it seems that partridges do not evacuate grit
in “packets” like grouse. This indicates that a partridge
probably makes use of a gizzardful of the right kind of grit
for quite a long time. Pheasants, we ﬁnd, are not nearly
so particular as partridges about the shape and size of their
grit.

 

(D Grit of the correct size for different game birds can be

‘ obtained if the ground-up quartz or other rock is passed
through two sieves of the‘proper mesh size—the ﬁrst mesh
able to pass the largest permissible size of grit and the
second mesh capable of retaining the smallest. The grits
retained by the second (small mesh) sieve will then all be
within the correct size limits shown overleaf.

3

D
i
i
. .l
,5
,
Vl
l
I I
i
l.
m
U
i
i
‘i
1i
’i
,.
v
‘i
u‘
l:
l
i
l‘
J

 

 

 




 

 

.m'wmmmmxmmwr.mrmm;~mh :za'n‘w: ,swu A;>vt‘"~uuﬂr- = mug-”mar _,._., "n, mm"..— ._.,, 1. 7.. . .7. w. - .. .

 

 

 

Average Slize of Size of
size of arge small
grit square square
required . mesh mesh
w1re s1eve w1re s1eve
in. in. in.
Pheasant .. £36 % l;
Black game _ , {.2 1% 51%.
Grouse and Ptarmigan . . % 352 .332.
Partridge . . 3% % 1_16.

 

 

 

 

The photographs of typical grit ‘ here reproduced are
shown in natural size and may be useful as a guide. Re—
member that partridge grit should not be larger than No. 5
shot.

Buying Grit

Practically all the grit sold for game birds is either pure
(foreign) quartz, or ﬂint. Though the hardness of these
materials is an admirable feature, they have one disadvan-
tage: when crushed, they are inclined to split up into ﬂat
planes and ﬁssures, so that quartz or ﬂint grit supplied for
game nearly always contains a large percentage of angular and
knife—like pieces which are quite unsuitable for birds, and
cannot be screened out. Incidentally, it is our experience
that partridges seldom use ﬂint—never if they can get
anything else.

Most of the grit sold for partridges is, moreover, far
larger than the birds require. If there is any difﬁculty in
obtaining the correct sizes, a small hand—crusher—costing
perhaps J{:3—and a pair of sieves of the above partridge
mesh sizes are well worth buying.

Impure British quartz or granite is probably a better
partridge grit than pure white quartz, as it is less likely to
form ﬂat, sharp pieces; and we have found that road grit
of the kind used by most county councils is usually quite
satisfactory when ground and sieved to the correct size. If

4

wﬂ

 




Ptarmigan

Blackgame

Pheasant

Grey
Partridge r Partridge

Typical grits used by game birds (actual size)

 




 

county council grit can be obtained, transport charges——
sometimes a heavy item in the grit account—are likely to
be much reduced. We have on trial at the moment a hard
limestone grit, quarried in this country, which we believe
will prove better and cheaper than quartz.

Cockle-shell or oyster—shell is a very useful addition to
the grit supply just before and during the laying period
(especially for penned birds), as it provides lime and other
minerals which assist egg formation.

Artiﬁcial Dusting Shelters

The provision of artiﬁcial dusting shelters on partridge
land is most strongly recommended. The best place is on
the south side of a good bank, on the edge of a covert, in
a dell hole, or at some similar (and dry) spot. If possible,
shelters should be fairly close to the feeding places, so that
in really bad weather—for instance, in heavy snow—they
can be used as an alternative feeding place as well as a dust
bath.

The type of dust bath here illustrated has proved most
effective at Knebworth. It consists of a shelter of old
weathered boards 6 ft. wide, 3 ft. deep, and 2 ft. high in
front, sloping downwards to the back, which should be
against a bank. The roof is covered with turf, sods, grasses,
etc. A tunnel trap is put in the bank on each side of the
shelter, as the scent of the birds is likely to draw vermin.

Such shelters should contain ﬁre Cinders, wood ashes,
road scrapings from lanes (not from main roads), leaf mould,
soil from ant-heaps (if available), and grit as described above.
A good insecticide should be added, but not until the birds
have become well accustomed to using the shelter.

In well—hedged country a dusting shelter for every 10
acres is desirable, but in open country one shelter to double
that acreage should be sufﬁcient.

It is worth mentioning that in 1934 a pair of wild par-
tridges actually nested in one of these shelters on the
Knebworth estate. They began their nest within a month
of its erection, and successfully took off a brood of fourteen.

6

Q)

 

#

B

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




Dusting and Health

The extent to which the wild partridges at Knebworth
took advantage of these shelters for dusting was specially
noticeable during the excessively wet months of January
and February 1937. At that time we had many reports
from various parts of the country of partridges being picked
up dead; and when we were given an opportunity of examin—
ing specimens, we found that with nearly every one the Q)
cause of death was pneumonia. At Knebworth, on the
other hand, though it was certainly “pneumonia weather,”
we picked up only three birds during those months; and
our land is so heavily keepered that few dead birds could
have escaped notice at that time of year.

 

 

We have told in Leaﬂet No. 12 of the association of lice
with pneumonia, and we believe that the success of our ‘
wild birds during those trying months must in great measure
be attributed to the facilities for dusting, which they used
continuously. In c0ntinued wet or damp weather a par—
tridge will certainly become infested with lice unless it can
dust itself; and lice, being blood—suckers, make the birds
unhealthy and anaemic, very liable to contract illness and
little able to resist it when contracted.

 

Gritting and Dusting Stations

It is our practice at Knebworth to site our feeding,
gritting, dusting, and watering stations in units, so that
certain locations become known to the birds as a kind of
“Tom Tiddler’s ground,” where they can ﬁnd all the good
things they need. Thus, every spot used for feeding has
one or more watering places close to it; it is served by
several dusting shelters in the banks nearby; and a grit
heap is made up (and kept made up) within call. The whole
unit lies well within the travelling range of a covey, and
thus consists of one feeding station, one grit heap, perhaps
four or ﬁve dusting shelters, and several drinking trays.

 

 

Detailed advice on winter feeding and watering is given
in a later leaﬂet of this series.

401/43/747 Printed in England at The Kynoch Press, Birmingham

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 




