 

 

 

 

CRUTELTY
ANIMALS
THEA NLAW

 

 

 

 

 

Issued by the .
ROYAL SOCIETY for the PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,

105, Jermyn Street . London, S.W.I.

 

 




 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page two

prevention of all cruelty to animals as recognised by law,
but as this work is not so simple as the catching of a‘pick-
pocket, thief or other breaker of the laws of this country,
it may be useful to give information to help those constables
who desire to do their duty in this particular direction.

THE many duties of a police constable include the

The inﬂiction of any unnecessary suffering, whether
bodily or mentally, is cruelty within the meaning of the
Protection of Animals Act, and any omission on the part of
the person responsible forthe welfare of any animal, which
results in the animal suffering unnecessarily, also constitutes

an offence.

The chief Act for the protection of animals from cruelty
is The Protection of Animals Act, 1911, which may be
called “ The Animals’ Charter.” It consolidates and

amends the law :—

Section 1, (1), (a), sets out and prohibits all the usual
ways in which animals are illatreated; beating, kicking,
ill-treating, over-riding, over-loading, over-driving, etc., and
anyone causing, or procuring an animal to be so ill-treated,
is made liable to punishment. A new offence is created by
this section, 72732.2, permitting cruelty by the owner of the
animal, and by sub-section (2) permitting cruelty is deﬁned
as “ failing to exercise reasonable care and supervision in
respect of the protection of animals from cruelty.” The
result of this is that owners may be convicted of permitting
cruelty even though they do not know the animals belonging
to them are being ill-treated, because the Act demands that
they shall exercise supervision over their animals, and it is
a question for the magistrates to say whether any particular
owner does or does not exercise prOper supervision. It is
also important to notice that this Act makes acts of omission
liable to punishment as well as acts of commission—~that is
to say, a person may ’be convicted for neglecting to do
something which he ought reasonably to do whereby the
animal suffers, in the same way a person may be convicted
for actively ill-treating an animal, ”5.9., by heating or kicking.

 

 

 




 

 

.1, -

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page three

OTHER OFFENCES AND THE PUNISHMENT.

It is also an offence to convey, or cause or permit to
be conveyed, an animal in such a manner or position as to
cause suffering.

It is likewise an offence to cause animals to ﬁght, or
keep a place for the purpose, or to bait any animal.

It is an oﬂence to administer a poison or injurious
drug to any animal.

It is also an offence to perform, or cause, or permit to
be performed, an operation on any animal without due care
and humanity.

The maximum punishment for any of the above offences
is a ﬁne of £25 and three months’ imprisonment.

It is important to notice that if an owner is convicted
of any of the above offences the Court may order, in addition
to any other punishment, the animal in question to be
destroyed upon the evidence of a veterinary surgeon that it
is cruel to keep the animal alive.

The Court also has power, in addition to any other
punishment, upon conviction of the owner, to deprive him
of possession of the animal in question, if it is shown by
evidence as to a previous conviction, or otherwise, that the
animal, if left with the owner, is likely to be exposed to
further cruelty.

It is an offence under this Act to sell, or offer, or expose
for sale, or give away, or knowingly be a party thereto, of
any grain or seed which has been rendered poisonous, except
for bona fide use in agriculture, or knowingly put or place
anywhere, or knowingly being a party thereto, any poison
or any ﬂuid or edible matter which has been rendered
poisonous except when poison is laid down to destroy
insects, rats, mice or small vermin, and all reasonable
precautions are taken to prevent access thereto of domestic
animals and wild birds. The penalty is £10.

 




 

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

Page four

The use of dogs for draught purposes on the highway
is prohibited. The penalty is £5.

All persons who set spring traps for the purpose of
catching any hare or rabbit are required under a penalty of
£5, to inspect the traps at least once every day between
sunrise and sunset.

INJURED ANIMALS.

The police have power to destroy any horse, mule, ass,
bull, sheep, goat or pig which is found to be so injured that
it cannot be moved without cruelty, upon a certiﬁcate of a
veterinary surgeon, if the owner is absent or refuses to
consent to the destruction.

Persons guilty of cruelty to animals may be apprehended
by a police constable without a warrant, either on his own
View thereof, or upon the complaint of any other person
who declares his name and address. This power, however,

only relates to offences under the ﬁrst section of the Act, .

which are punishable by imprisonment.

The police are also given power to take charge of any
horse or vehicle of which an arrested person is in charge.

The Act includes certain regulations with regard to the
management of knackers’ yards, that is to say, where horses
and other cattle not intended for human food are slaughtered.
These regulations are set out in the schedule to the Act, and
an offence is committed if any of the regulations are not
observed.

The Act protects from cruelty all domestic animals, and
also all kinds of wild animals in captivity, whether quad-
rupeds, or birds, or ﬁshes, or reptiles.

The above remarks give a short summary of the
Protection of Animals Act, 1911, and Amending Acts.
There are several other Statutes which should be mentioned
in this connection :—

 

 




 

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page ﬁve

The Animals (Anaesthetics) Act, 1919, makes it an offence
to perform the operations set out in the Schedules thereto
on domestic animals without a general or local anaesthetic.

Under the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894, the Ministry
of Agriculture has power to make regulations with regard
to the prevention of suffering to animals in transit, whether
by land or sea. Under the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894,
Railway Companies must have supplies of food and water
at certain stations, and feed and water the animals on
request.

The Ministry of Agriculture has issued the following
orders :—

ANIMALS IN TRANSIT.

Animals (Transit and General) Order, 1927, deals with
the care and treatment of cattle, sheep, goats and swine
while on board ship and on railways. Vessels must be
properly ﬁtted, overcrowding and the carriage of animals in
an unﬁt state from any cause is prohibited ; cows heavy in
calf, if likely to calve on the journey, must not be conveyed ;
large animals must not be conveyed in the same truck with
smaller animals ; recently shorn sheep must be conveyed in
covered trucks.

The Transit of Animals (Amendment) Order, 1931, has
similar provisions with regard to motor vehicles used for
carrying animals.

The Exportation and Transit of Horses, Asses and
Mules Order of 1921 makes similar provisions as regards
horses, asses and mules, and in addition it provides that any
horse, ass or mule carried by railway on a journey the
duration of which exceeds twenty-four hours shall, at least
once during each period of twenty-four hours, be supplied
with a sufﬁcient amount of suitable food and water by the
railway company concerned.

 




 

 

 

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

Page six

The conveyance of Live Poultry Order, 1919, makes
provision for the proper conveyance of live poultry by sea,
railway and by road. The poultry must not be overcrowded ;
the crates must be properly constructed and must not admit
of the protrusiOn of the heads, legs or wings of the poultry
through the top, bottom, or sides of the crates; poultry
must not be unnecessarily tied by the legs or carried head
downwards; no crate shall measure more than 24 square
feet, or any compartment thereof more than 10 square feet ;
masters of vessels or railway companies carrying poultry
must feed them if the journey is protracted by exceptional
causes.

The Protection of Animals (Cruelty to Dogs) Act, 1933,
empowers any court before which a person is convicted of
cruelty to a dog to order him to be disqualiﬁed from keeping

a dog and from holding or obtaining a dog licence for such '

period as the court thinks ﬁt.

The Protection of Animals Act, 1934, prohibits at any
public performance (a) the throwing or casting of any
unbroken horse or untrained bull, (b) the wrestling, ﬁghting
or struggling with any untrained bull, (c) riding or attempting
to ride any horse or bull which is made to buck by cruel
methods. Maximum penalty £100, and three months’
imprisonment.

The Protection of Birds Act, 1925, prohibits the use of
any live bird as a decoy which is tethered or secured by
means of braces or which is blind, maimed or injured, and
the use of bird-lime is forbidden—~also it is forbidden to
keep or conﬁne a bird in a cage which does not measure
sufﬁcient in height, length and breadth to permit the bird
freely to stretch its wings. Maximum penalty £25, and three
months’ imprisonment.

The Protection of Birds Act, 1933, prohibits the taking
of any wild bird to which the Act applies with the intention
that it shall be sold alive, and also forbids the selling,
offering for sale or having in possession for sale, any live bird

f

 

 




 

CRUELTY' TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page seven

to which the Act applies other than a close-ringed specimen
bird in captivity. The birds included in the Act are set
out in the schedule thereto, and include all species of
British wild birds which are usually captured and caged.
Penalty £2 ; second offence £5.

SENDING HORSES ABROAD.

The Exportation of Horses Act, 1914, prohibits the
exportation of any horse from this country unless it is
certiﬁed by a Government Veterinary Inspector to be capable
of being worked without suffering, and Veterinary Inspectors
are given power to slaughter any horse presented for export
which, in their opinion, is not ﬁt to live, or which is per-
manently incapable of being worked without suffering.
This Act, if properly carried out, prevents the horrors of
the decrepit horse trafﬁc to the Continent, but it does not
stop the collecting and travelling of old horses to the docks
with the hope that they may be passed as ﬁt for shipment.
Special attention should, therefore, be paid by all those on
duty near the docks so as to stop the travelling of unﬁt
horses.

 

Several Acts have been passed for the protection of
wild birds of this country. A general close time for birds is
prescribed by the Acts, but each county now has separate
orders extending or varying the close time, and some birds
are now protected in many counties all the year round,
Enquiries should be made of the Clerk of the Peace for each
county as to the extent of the protection of birds in that
county.

It is impossible in a comprehensive article of this kind
to go fully into the details of all the above Acts and Orders.
They can only be dealt with cursorily, but it will enable any
reader who desires a fuller knowledge of the contents of any
of the Acts or Orders mentioned to make enquiries and
obtain a copy of any of them and peruse the contents at
his leisure. This article is only meant to draw attention to
the principal Acts and Orders which deal with the alleviation
of suffering and the protection of animals and birds.

 




 

 

 

 

CRUEL‘TY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page eight

As in the ordinary course of duty the chief causes of
cruelty aﬁect horses, mules and donkeys—though all animals
are, unfortunately, subjected to bad treatment and neglect——
it may be useful, in the ﬁrst place, to give hints dealing with
these draught animals.

SORES UNDER HARNESS.

Sores are usually found under the collar, under the
saddle, under the tail and at the back of the elbow. They
may be old or of recent origin ; if the latter, they will have
a fresh red appearance, and will be only skin deep abrasions.
If, however, there is matter present, and the sores are deep
and discoloured, it is proof that the sores were there when
the animal left the stable. It is important to note whether
the harness has been eased or is stained with blood or pus
from the sores. Note the size of the wounds, and whether
the affected parts are painful to the touch. Sores are
frequently found upon horses in poor condition, and for that
reason animals of this description should be watched.

LAMENESS.

Lameness may be due to many causes ; it is a sign of
pain, and to work lame animals is an oﬂence. Lameness in

the fore limbs is shown by the uneven carriage of the.

animal’s head, and lameness in the hind limbs by the uneven
carriage of the hind quarters.

If a horse is lame on the near fore limb it will droop
its head when the off fore touches the ground, and raise its
head when the near fore reaches the ground, and vice versa.
This is done to take the weight off the affected limb. The
greater the degree of lameness, the more pronounced the drop.

If the animal is lame on both fore or both hind, the
lameness would not be so apparent, but the animal would
travel with a shuﬂling gait, and with difﬁculty. The
detection of lameness behind is similar to that in front, but
is more difﬁcult to determine. The animal drops on the sound
limb, which causes 3 raising of the hip of the unsound limb.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page nine

THE LANGUAGE OF PAIN.

All lameness causes pain, but there may be defective
action without pain. Lameness is the language of pain.
In examining horses to ﬁnd the cause of lameness, search
for heat, tenderness, swellings and any structural alteration
in the foot or other part of the limb. Compare the sound
limb with the unsound one, and note the difference, if any.

WEAKNESS.

Animals may be found working unﬁt from weakness,
due to under-feeding, old age, neglect, etc. If an animal is
in a very weak and poor condition, it is unﬁt for work, and
it is really immaterial what its condition is due to. Note
whether the animal has a staggering gait, a staring coat,
hollows over the eyes, is tucked up in the ﬂanks, is hide-
bound and listless, and has the lining of the mouth and nose
very pale.

OVERLOADING: SOME SYMPTOMS OF DISTRESS.

This offence is a common one, but rather diﬁcult to
prove, as there is no hard and fast rule as to what weight
a horse may or may not draw without suﬁering undue
distress. So much depends upon the attendant circum-
stances, state of the roads, distance travelled, gradients to
be negotiated, etc. Many eminent veterinary surgeons have
expressed the opinion that no horse should be made to draw
more than four times its own weight, but others do not
agree with this opinion. '

To prove a case of overloading it is necessary to show
that the animal was urged beyond its strength, and was
greatly distressed as a result of the overloading. Note
whether the animal exhibits any of the following symptoms,
all of which are consistent with over-exertion z—excessive
sweating and lathering, a leg-weary gait, eyes staring and
nostrils unduly dilated, limbs trembling, ﬂanks violently
heaving, breathing distressed, head drooping, and a general
appearance of complete exhaustion. The inside of the

__... ._.V..-,._ ._.._A

 

 




 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page ten

dilated nostrils will be very red. Ascertain weight of load
and vehicle, and, if possible, the weight of the animal, also
the distance travelled.

STARVATION AND NEGLECT.

The omission to supply sufﬁcient food or proper care and
attention to any animal constitutes an offence. The
symptoms of starvation are emaciation, weakness, eagerness
for food, etc. Offer the animal food and note‘ if it eats in
a ravenous manner. Note the conditions under which it
has been kept, if in a stable search for food or any evidence
of same having been supplied. If the animal is turned out,
note what herbage there is and whether water is within
reach. A veterinary examination is advisable in these cases
to prove whether or not the condition of the animal is due
to any organic disease. Disease might account for the
emaciation and weakness.

CRUELLY BEATING, KICKING, PRODDING, Etc.

To unreasonably beat or kick an animal is an offence.
To prove a case of this kind it is necessary to show the
effect it had upon the animal, together with any marks of
the ill-treatment found upon it. The weapon used must be
described, and, if possible, produced, and when possible the
number of blows given. When examining the animals
which have been ill-used in this way, look for weals, tender-
ness, cuts, bruises, etc. If any injuries are found, point
them out to the offender.

With regard to kicking, it is important to note the
boots worn. Whether studded with hob-nails, toe-capped
with iron, and where the kick was given. Generally this
class of offence is inﬂicted on the stomach, with great risk
of developing a permanent injury.

OVERSTOCKED COWS—SIGNS TO NOTE.

It is, unfortunately, the custom at Cattle Markets and
sales for dealers and others who have milch cows for sale,

 

 

 




 

 

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page eleven

to allow the animals to become overstocked with milk.
The symptoms of overstocking are as follows :——The animal
stands restlessly upon its feet, moving ﬁrst one foot and
then the other, its back is arched and the hind legs are kept
wide apart to avoid pressure upon the distended udder.
The latter is hard and hot, and the animal resents the
slightest pressure. The teats project from the udder in an
abnormal manner and are swollen and tender. When the
animal moves the milk may be seen to drop from the teats,
but as some cows relieve themselves very easily, the ejection
of milk must not in itself be taken as a sign of overstocking.
The distension of the udder will be more noticeable when
the animal is viewed from behind. The cow generally lows
and occasionally glances round at the cause of her trouble.
The pain is intensiﬁed if her calf is within sight or is muzzled
near her. An overstocked cow is seldom found chewing its
cud. Ascertain the time of last milking.

Make certain that the cow is actually suffering and not
merely in possession of a “full bag.” ‘

EXPOSURE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER.

It is an offence to cause unnecessary suffering to any
animal by exposing it to inclement weather, but much
depends upon the circumstances.

If an animal is well fed and has a thick coat it is better
able to withstand severe weather than if it were underfed
and in a weak condition.

Young animals can withstand the weather better than
old ones, and those that have been used to the weather are
less liable to suffer than those that have been kept in a
warm stable or under shelter.

In these cases it is necessary to prove that the animals
suﬁered substantially as a result of the exposure. Want of
a shed or shelter is not in itself evidence, as many animals
will not enter a shelter, no matter what the weather is like.

 




 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND THE LAW

 

Page twelve

SHEEP NEGLECTING.

During the summer months sheep are very liable to be
attacked by ﬂies, which lay their eggs in the animal’s wool,
with the result that maggots are soon hatched and commence
feeding upon the animal’s body, causing great havoc and
suffering.

It is no uncommon thing to ﬁnd sheep that have died
owing to their having been neglected when attacked in this
manner. .

It is an offence to omit to treat animals when attacked
with the fly, as much unnecessary suffering is bound to
ensue. It is also an offence to neglect to treat sheep
suffering from foot-rot or to travel them when very lame.
Sheep are very liable to foot-rot, and they should receive
proper attention.

CHAINED-UP DOGS.

Much unnecessary suffering is caused to dogs by keeping
them continually chained up—particularly on a short chain——
but, as in all other cases of cruelty, it is necessary to prove
substantial suffering.

It may be that the animal is in a bad conditionmdirty,
or verminous, and having the appearance of being generally
neglected. This, coupled with the fact that it is never
exercised, would constitute cruelty within the meaning of
the Act. Of course, if any dog is starved while chained up,
that would also constitute cruelty.

DUTY IN MARKET-PLACES.

Constables will have many opportunities of preventing
cruelty in market-places—drovers and boys employed to
take cattle to markets and railway stations require watching ;
children in the markets often tease the animals; also
overcrowding of poultry, etc., etc.

 

2.5M/12/34.

 




