The righteous are ever merciful.

TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE Y. M. C. A.

“Woe unto you, for ye neglect the wgti matters of the law—justice, ,.
mercy and faith.”——Matt. XXiii : 23. “Not one sparrow is forgotten before God.”
——Luke xii :5. ‘

“Man will not be truly Man, until he shall labor seriously for the paciﬁcation
and harmonious union of all living Nature.”—-—Michelet.

Responsibility inevitably attends power. In accepting from God
dominion over all other creatures, man incurs responsibility for their
happiness, which God desires, and which is inexcusably neglected.

Christians are beginning to realize God’s severe indictment that
“the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain under man,” and

their personal guilt in the case. The inherent wickedness of cruelty is
now, here and there, recognized; sundry pulpits echo with a new theme;
“Mercy Day” blessesafew Sabbath schools; “Kindness to Animals
Day” is observed in England and soon will be here; “Bird Day”
ennobles some public schools, “Bands of Mercy” multiply; the VVO-
man’s National Christian Union bravely opposes vivisection and other
cruelty; the W. C. 'T. U. has an efﬁcient “Mercy Branch,”-—but
where, in this new ﬁeld of blessing, are the Y. M. C. A.’s?

 

To aCcept clothing from the sheep, invaluable food from the cow,
laborious service from the horse and protection from insect ravages from
the birds while refusing to consider their miseries or protect them from
the neglect, abuse and outrage inﬂicted by wicked, stupid and avaricious
men, is not only a repudiation of our obligation to their All Merciful
Owner, but a most unmanly and shameful ingratitude, and
an inexcusable neglect of both justice and mercy.

[t is therefore proposed that all Y. M. C. A.’s organize a MERCY
DEPARTMENT to advocate justice and kindness to all animals, to proclaim
and protect their rights, to oppose the sin of cruelty in all its manifesta-

tions, to man or beast, and to fulﬁll our obligations to God in their behalf.

Also to secure “Kindness to Animals Sunday” and mercy sermons
in churches, as in England; “Mercy Day” and humane teaching in Sab-
bath schools, as in Colorado; inculcations in kindness to animals in
public schools by state law, as in Maine and Washington; laws against
vivisection, better laws for protection of birds and animals, and a public
sentiment that shall cause policemen to enforce'them and juries to con-

vict their violators; instruction in all schools as to kindly and economical

‘ care of our two thousand million dollars’ worth of domestic animals,

forty million dollars of which are annually lost by cruelty and by

ignorant mismanagement; and a distribution of humane literature to
promote these advantages.

(ovum)

 

 




 

\.

For thése reasons:-——1st. That cruelty is always wicked and
degrading, blunts the moral sense, hardens the heart, displeases God
and is incompatible with Christianity, while indifference to it is scarcely
less culpable and unchristianly.

 

2. Such action is necessary to place the Y. M. C. A. abreast of
advancing Christian sentiment, which it should actually lead.

3. The savagery of vivisection is a fad that disgraces many public
schools, menaces friendless hospital patients, and has already demanded
of the state of Ohio criminals for Vivisector’s experiments, all which
demand united opposition from all moral or Christian people.

4. The atrocities perpetrated by vivi'sectionists on defenceless
creatures, the fashionable cruelties to horses, dogs and birds, the starv—
ing, beating, overworking and needless whipping of horses everywhere,
and universal cruelty to cats, dogs, cows, etc. etc., demand the earnest
intervention of every servant of their Omniscient Owner and of the
compassionate Christ. The Y. M. C. A. should rebuke such wrongs
and insist on justice and mercy to these invaluable friends.

The enormous abatement of sins of cruelty possible to the Y. M.
C. A. will promptly enlist every right hearted man in this Christlike
endeavor, and surely every genuine Christian will gladly “do justly and
love mercy,” without‘regard to the rank of the creature to whom it is
due. In case of animals, even more than men, we are “our brother’s
keeper,” for they have, With us, one Father, “whose tender mercies are
over all his works,” who has entrusted them in our care for our beneﬁt,
and who holds us responsible for their happiness.

The dominant law of Christianity is Love, or kindness, and man’s
dominion over other creatures is inevitably subject to this beneﬁcent
and imperative law, and on no other terms can man claim authority over
animals. The universal disregard of this condition is a cause of divine
displeasure and inﬁnite misery to defenceless creatures.

,If “justice, mercy and faith,” Christ’s-“weightier” graces, are in a
man they will appear in all his deeds, and if they are not he should not
assume the name of Christian. If the Y. M. C. A. do “love justice
and mercy” it will become a centre of humane endeavor and inﬂuence.
Kindness, like light, blesses all beings regardless of rank or merit.

-

God’s creatures should be protected, and the command “Open thy
mouth for the dumb” be obeyed. “What does the Lord require of thee
but to do justly, love mercy and walk humbly with thy God?”—
Micah vi : 8. “The Lord delighteﬂs in mercy,” and the chief busi-
ness of a Christian is to imitate him—to be like him.

What will you do about it?

 

Order this leaf of c. A. HAMLIN, Syracuse, N- Y-

22 cents per 100 prepaid.

INDIFFERENCE TO CRUELTY IS LACK OF MERCY. ( )
‘ OVER.

 

 




_ J... 3-— 4... w w" " m-‘W'gP-i"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
il
l.

CRUELTY IS OUR MEANEST CRIME

THE COMING EDUCATION

“How can I teach your children gentleness,

And mercy to the weak, and reverence for life,
When by your laws, your actions and your speech,
You contradict the very things I teach?”

LONGFELLOW.

“The greatest need of America is more education of the heart.”
HIRAM POWERS.

“The lack of humane education is the principal cause of crime.”

“Show me the laws of a state for the prevention of cruelty to
animals and I in turn will give you a correct estimate of the reﬁne-
ment, enlightenment, integrity, and equity of that commonwealth’s
people.” HON. L. T. DASHIELL,

Speaker of Texas House of Representatives.

On the playground fence a teacher put a cake for the birds, telling
her pupils of their usefulness and intelligence, and the wrong of injur—
ing them. Next day her most unruly boy ate only half his lunch and
put the other half on the fence. Kindness is contagious and example
is powerful. That fence is now the favorite perch of many birds even
when the yard is ﬁlled with noisy boys, and the unruly boy has changed
for the better. Surely those boys will all be nobler men and better
citizens for the tuition of such a teacher.

While every child should be intellectually educated it is certain
that education of the heart is even more essential to the welfare of
society and to the individual happiness, and children are entitled to
both. -

A noted American has said: “The spirit of cruelty is the deadliest
enemy to a high civilization,” and Humboldt said “Cruelty to animals
is a characteristic vice of a Vulgar people.” As all crime is cruel, to
abolish cruelty is to abolish crime. '

The San Francisco Call says :~

“Today the Jefferson School is one of the most orderly in all the city.
The children don’t ﬁght as they used to; they don’t stone cats, or tie tin pails
to the tails of dogs,‘or molest the sons of the Flowery Kingdom. And why?
Because every school child down that way, as soon as he is old enough to write
his name, is made a member of the army for the preventionof all the old evils,
and no blue-frocked brass-buttoned guardian of the peace could ever have done
a tithe of the good that those children have accomplished. For four years the
principal has been organizing the pupils of all the various classes into Bands of
Mercy, and now every child seems proud of his enrollment. There are about

350 members.” .—

A strict regard for the rights and feelings of whatever has feeling
is the cardinal principle of civilization, of courtesy and of Christianity.
Children are fond of animals, and by no other means can kindness be
so thoroughly inculcated in them as by humane teaching. “I ﬁnd it
the best kind of discipline, and worth any amount of effort,” writes an
able teacher after two years’ trial. Such is the uniform testimony of
those who teach kindness to animals.

Sir Arthur Helps declares it “a duty to treat animals with cour—
tesy,” and Mr. Rarey insists that “a horse should be treated like a
gentleman.” The cardinal doctrine of humane education is that it is
impolitic and iniquitous to inﬂict avoidable suffering on any creature.
Teach children to do as they would be done by.

“It is not only the suffering of the animal that we are trying to prevent, it
is also the moral degradatIOn of the person who causes this suffering. It is the

ignorant person who is cruel to animals.”———B. I. TICE, A. M.
WV//

 




“I am convinced that kindness to animals is not only a powerful
~cause of material prosperity, but also of moral prosperity. Teaching
it need not disturb the routine of the school. One day in the week all
our lessons refer to this subject. In the reading class I choose a book
upon animals, and always give useful instruction. The results are
exceedingly satisfactory.” DE SAILLY.

“Russia, Germany, Norway and almost every European nation
has experimented with this instruction until it has become a matter of

statistics that humane education lowers the criminal record.”
MRS. REYNOLDS.

“This teaching kindness to animals may seem a simple thing; but the more
one looks into its merits the more penetrating this spiritualizing inﬂuence proves
to be, causing a change of conduct, inspiring justice and compassion in the
place of selﬁshness and cruelty; training the mind to apprehend, and the heart
to sympathize with the needs of the lowly creatures who form the theoretical
object lesson of such surpassing interest to the young; obviously the ‘protecting
Sympathy’ which a child may be taught to feel towards its helpless dumb com-
panion, may in after years inspire the life of the philanthropist.

“How much such teaching is needed is demonstrated by the incredibly cruel
deeds perpetrated by children even of tender years, which call forth neither re—
monstrance nor reproof from parent or guardian.” MISS G. KENDALL.

A teacher in Syracuse said: “Nothing ever helped me so much to
manage these rough boys as teaching kindness to animals.” In two
large cities have “tough” districts been civilized by the same means.
Any teacher can, in a weekly talk of only ﬁve minutes, impress upon
pupils the rights of animals and the duty and advantage of kind
methods in using them. Why not do so?

It is more a matter of character than of animals, and the chief
object of schools should be to make good citizens. “Goodness” is
merely kindness, and kindness produces happiness and peace.

In his preface to an admirable essay on education Mr. Cyrus
Pierce asserts: '

“Merely mechanical education is no security against immorality and crime.
That facts show that crime may increase at the same time with increased atten-
tion to education—the common education of the schools; that this is the case to
some extent in New England; and for the reason in part that the common
education of the schools has in it too little of the moral element. We cultivate
the head more than the heart. That there is hence a call upon teachers, com—
mittees, parents and all friends of true education to make a larger outlay for
moral instruction, assigning to it in our schools the high place its importance
demands.”

We appeal to all educators of youth—a class whose power and
responsibility are greater than that of any other, to adopt at once this
beneﬁcent instruction, to teach children that animals have rights which
they should respect, that cruelty is contemptible and degrading, that
kindness is the greatest promoter of happiness, and that justice, mercy
and compassion are the noblest of all virtues.

Into the hands then of the teachers of the public schools of
America is committed as into those of no others this noble task of
training a generation moulded by the principles of this “Coming Edu-
cation.” If this recognition of the sacred rights of the animal world
is clear in the soul of the teacher, if in his or her vision of the things
that constitute personal character at its best are these ﬁne and generous
impulses of kindness, mercy, thoughtfulness for all that lives with the
capacity for pain or pleasure, the children daily feeling the power of
such a teacher’s life will be fashioned into the same image.

The vitally important work for us is the humane education of
the millions of boys and girls who are to» be the future citizens of
the state.

Compliments of THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Fen‘way Station, Boston

 

 




