 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[anuagz’Februagz 1943 T HE Price 6d.

ANIMALS

 

 

 

Photo by] [Topical Press.
Camouﬂage. ‘ Canadian Wild Cat.

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE

32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSW’ELL HILL, LONDON, N.IO.

Subscrzptz'on for One Year, post free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is published inontbly by t/Je National Conneil for Anz'enals’ Welfare

at Qneen’s Lodge, 52, Queen’s Avenue, Mnswell Hill, London, N. 10, and all eonznmnieations
regarding tbe magazine s/oonld be addressed to ﬂee Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER. 4

 

 

 

Vol. XLIX, Jan—Feb. 1943 NO. 2 J
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL— MAN’S DOMINION OVER ANIMALS (Prize
FARE . . . . _ . . 23 Essay). Sneila Ron/e . . . . 29
LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS . . o
CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL LOVER . 24 _ 5
STOATS AND WEASELS. Erie Haraj/ . . 31
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF , .
EXCURSION. Nina M. Hosalz . . . 52
CRUEL SPORTS . . . . . 25
6 CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 34
3 v
ONLOOKERS NOTE—BOOK ' ' ' 2 SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
ANIMAL “ FLASHES ” . . . . 27 OF VIVISECTION . . . . . 35

The opinions expressed by Contributors‘to this Magazine
are their own and are not necessarily held by the Editors.

 

 

The Animals9 Friend Sustentation Fund
From June 26th to December 24th. 1942.

Mrs. E. M. Porritt, £1 IS.

Miss E. Bright, £1. ‘_

Mrs. D. Davies, Miss C. W. MacKay and Miss E. Manders, 163. 6d. each. I

A. I. H. “ In Memory Of Dear Old Puss.” IOS. 6d. 1

Mrs. E. G. Eaton (“ In Memory Of a Faithful Little Friend ”), Miss M. Forgas and Mrs. l
M. Morgan, 108. each";

Mrs. and Miss Blackhall, Mr. H. Davies (Jnr.), Miss L. Hampton, Mrs. C. R. King and
Mr. G. A. Patmore, 65. 6d. each.

. Miss E. Halman, 6S. 2d.

Miss E. Braby and Mrs. I. Wilson, 53. 6d. each.

Mrs. E. Payne and Miss M. B. Thomas, 5s. each.

Mrs. Brierley, 4s. IId.

Mrs. Goulding and Mrs..M. E. Holmes, 45. each. ’

Miss M. P. Campbelland Mrs. M. Spencer, 3s. 6d. each.

Mr. G. Irvine, 3s. 3d.

Mrs. S. Smith and Mrs. Whiteley, 35. each.

Miss Bayliss, Mrs; Flaks, Miss R. C. Lister, Miss J. Barker, Mrs. Cotterell, Miss L. M.

COWderoy, Miss F. M. Legge, Miss S. Phillips and Mrs. J. M. Seaton, 23. 6d. each.

Mr. E. S. Newman, Is. IId.

Miss A. Anderson, Miss M. Brett, Mrs. F. Ellen, Mrs. Falconer, Mrs. D. C. Godfrey,
Mrs. V. L. G. Gregg, Miss Harley, Miss H. Hawkins, Mrs. E. A. Hendley, Miss M. Jones,
Miss F. M. Keith, Mr. J. L. Kitts, Miss Lundie, Miss W. E. Marrs, Mr. G. T. Miller, Miss V. ‘
Montgomerie, Capt. W. G. Popplestone, M.B.E., Rev. H. Temple Robins, Miss M. Sandeman,
Miss N. Tiddeman, Miss I. Welshman and Mr. W. S. L. Wilkinson, 13. 6d. each.

Miss Dalglish, IS. 4d.

Mrs. Gordon, IS.

Miss M. C. F. Smith, Mrs. Goundry, J. E. H., and Mrs. E. Law, 6d. each.

22

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

fammngebmary, 1943

Notes and Comments

Animals and Peace.

In a “ Letter to Peace-Lovers ” written by Miss Vera
Brittain we ﬁnd many ideas that are constantly put
forward in these pages, and we hope the letter will
have wide circulation. “ I believe,” she says, “ that
there is an intimate connection between cruelty to
animals and the fratricidal cruelty among men which
we know as war. If you consider the implication of
St. Paul’s famous words——‘ the whole creation groaneth
and travaileth together until now ’——I think you will
agree that both kindness and cruelty are ‘ total’ . . .
we can only be sure of showing compassion and gener—
osity towards one part of creation by educating our-
selves and our children in a merciful attitude towards
all. . . . I believe that compassion for all living
creatures is the only sound basis for a Society of
Nations. . . . Those who have learnt in childhood to
be kind to animals will be kind to children from youth
upwards. And kindness to animals and children is a
quality difﬁcult to transform into that willingness to be
cruel to the children and adults of another nation, upon
which ‘ successful war ’ depends. . . . Cruelty, de-
grading in itself, acts as a boomerang upon its per—
former. A contempt for love, mercy, compassion, and
other so-called ‘ sentimental’ qualities ends, as we see
in modern warfare, by producing a type of behaviour
which approximates alarmingly to the very conduct
against which Britain’s rulers allege that they are
ﬁghting.”

Animals and War.

We are very glad to learn that the Air Ministry have
forbidden airmen to take their pets with them when
ﬂying. We always wondered how men could expose
their animals to the haZards and discomforts of the air
and risk a horrible death or maiming for them.

As an off-set to this we are very glad to hear that
the Senior School Boys of St. Helens have undertaken
to act as “ Animal Guards and Messengers ” in case of
air raids and will be given a course on ﬁrst aid for
animals by veterinary surgeons.

Animals and the B.B.C.

We have had several letters asking us to protest to
the B.B.C. against the inclusion of a broadcast from
a wild animal trainer in the Children’s Hour. This
matter was taken up very energetically by Captain
MacMichael, of the Performing and Captive Animals
Defence League at the Animals’ Fair, and many post-
cards were sent to the B.B.C. from people who were
present.

Cat’s Amazing Journey.

The story of the cat who was inadvertently packed
up with a’Diesel engine in Detroit and sent on a journey
of forty-one days to the Middle East is another instance
of the amazing endurance of the species. She was not
idle on the way, for she managed to produce four
kittens and she kept her family and herself alive by
licking cosmogene off the engine during the voyage.
How she was able to survive without water all that
time is a mystery to which Nature alone has the key.

23

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND-

National Council for
Animals’ Welfare

32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, LONDON N.IO.

The Animals’ Fair.

HE Caxton Hall, Westminster, was again the
meeting place of about 500 people all interested

in animals. The following organisations were
represented :‘—Ada Cole Memorial Stables,
Animals’ Help Society, Animals’ Pictorial, British

Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, Cats’ Pro-
tection League, Grey Owl Society, Hawksley Society,
Lady Margaret Fruitarian Hospital, League for the
Prohibition of Cruel Sports, London and Provincial
Anti-Vivisection Society, Nature Care Clinic and
Hospital, National Anti-Vaccination League, National
Anti—Vivisection Society, National Council for Animals’
Welfare, Our Dumb Friends’ League, People’s Dis—
pensary for Sick Animals, Performing and Captive
Animals’ Defence League, Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, R.S.P.C.A., Caged Bird
Poster Fund, Society for the Protection of Animals in
North Africa, and the University Federation of Animal
Welfare Societies. The National Council for Animals’
Welfare was responsible for the organisation, and the
Executive Committee wishes to record its appreciation
of the help so kindly given by many helpers on stalls,
in the refreshment room, at the door and, in fact,
anywhere where help was needed; also to thank those
who sent donations or food for the stalls and the
several friends who saved from their rations and
enabled us to provide such good refreshments. It was
a most successful Fair and everyone concerned seems
to have been well pleased.

The Joint Animals’ Flag Day, 194 3.

This is to be on Tuesday, May 2 5th. Please make a
note of this in your new diaries and make a New Year
resolution that you will help if possible. More of our
sellers will have gone off on war work so that greater
effort will be necessary this year if we are to obtain
the best results from the Flag Day. Animals have
come to the fore very much during the war and people
are very ready to give to promote their well-being so
that we must have plenty of people willing to receive
on the streets! Please send in your name to The
National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s
Avenue, London, N.Io, if you wish to help us, as
soon as possible. This will save a letter to you from
us asking you to do so!

Miss Nancy Price was present and kindly auctioned
a diamond ring which had been presented by Miss
Caroline Hartley.

The Animals’ Friend Calendar, 1944.

We fully expect to be able to print the Calendar for
1944. If you wish to make sure of a certain date, or
dates, please send your quotation at once, with 18.
towards the cost of printing, your name, address,
and author of quotation. We shall be sending the usual
circulars about it early in the year, and you will save
us postage and printing if you send ﬁrst. PLEASE do
not make quotations more than six lines. We have
to keep the weight of the Calendar to below two
ounces this time, so we shall have to be very careful
of space.

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Confessions of An

]anuaryFebruary, I943

Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

Lecturing for the Animals.

WHEN I was young I joined a village
. literary and debating society . To the
best of my recollection, I was a voluble
rather than an enthusiastic member. Certainly
I had no inkling that the “ papers ” one pre—
pared, the discussions in which one engaged,
were in fact the apprenticeship to a real job of
work in later life.

None the less, those Friday evening meet—
ings in the local parish hall were teaching me a
number of things which proved of value when,
in due Course, I became a regular lecturer for
the animal welfare movement.

One learnt, for instance, that the only way
to conquer that bugbear of all public per—
formers—stage fright—is to occupy the stage
so frequently that the situation becomes normal
and even slightly boring. Then practice and
experience inevitably brought some facility in
answering questions clearly and promptly and
in downing aggressive hecklers. Above all, a
literary and debating society career will tell the
aspiring platform speaker one thing it is vitally
necessary he should know : Am I really cap-
able of holding the attention of an audience
throughout an address which may take any
time up to “ a long hour by Shrewsbury
clock ”P

This last point is complicated for the kind—
ness—to—animals lecturer by the fact that his.
listeners are liable to be of the most mixed and
variegated types. In my time I have had the
honour of addressing Rotarians, Rover Scouts,
tiny tots, the somewhat bibulous members of
a working men’s club, Roman Catholics, Jews,
fundamentalist nonconformists, free—thinkers,
theosophists, drawing—room gatherings of
“ the county,” and the al fresco crowd in the
vicinity of Hyde Park’s Marble Arch. Conse—
quently, the knack of sizing up your audience
quickly is a desideratum if you do not want
to observe yawning, dozing, and other evidence
of lack of interest. How often I have gone to
a meeting fondly designing to give one address,
and then, ere the chairman has ﬁnished his
opening remarks, realising that quite a different
one was called for!

9% * 5%

The lot of a professional lecturer is not, in

my opinion, a particularly enviable one. Take

24

a typical evening programme.

Your engagement book. discloses that to-
night at 8 sharp you are due to hold forth at
a school or club—room in some remote London
suburb or Home Counties town. You must
not be late, and probably possess no accurate
knowledge of how long the journey will take.
The result being that you arrive at a locked and
lifeless building half an hour too soon, and
proceed to wander about in a totally uninterest—
ing and possibly extremely cold and damp
district until it is time to put in an appearance.

The secretary’s letter had said “ 8 p.m.”
But you know perfectly well that lecture
audiences invariably drift in late—optimistic-
ally assuming that they will drift in at all, and
have not been kept away by the weather or
some more amusing local attraction. '

Then, as likely as not, the chairman will
politely but confidently suggest that “ you are
not in a hurry to get away, are you? ” This
means that the lecture is to be preceded by a
business meeting, or there are to be games, or
just conversation, until nearing 9 o’clock——
cheerfully regardless of the fact that the last
train for London leaves at 10.15.

At length you are called upon to say your
piece. That concluded, you may, or may not,
be legaled with a bun and a bumper from
the tea urn, after which you depart—probably
at the run—~to catch your train or bus and
spend a pleasant hour or two travelling home
in the black-out.

*

Please will the reader take the above section
merely as an accurate description, not in the
least as a grumble. Actually, I am always only
too glad to lecture for the animals. The slight
discomforts and inconvenience involved are
only mentioned here as a joke. Also I never
seriously worry if the attendance is poor, since
this is a matter beyond one’s control. It must
be the case that, among the thousands of people
I have addressed at meetings during the last
twenty years, at least a few will have responded
by giving sympathetic attention to the appeal
for justice and mercy for the sub—human
creatures. If that has happened sometimes, as
surely it has, the animal welfare lecturer is not
unrewarded.

if: *

‘ u n
:1: .E.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. fnnungx’Febrnnry 1943

I have always enjoyed speaking at gatherings
of Jews. Invariably the standard of intelligence
has been above the average—not to mention
that many young Hebrews of both sexes are
comely to the eye. One evening after speak—
ing at a Jewish club in the suburbs, I had the
interesting experience of being shown round
the synagogue—having ﬁrst, by request, put
on my hat—with its strange ornaments and
Hebrew script and sacred objects.

The only time in my life when I found it
impossible to make the slightest impression on
a single member of my audience was once when
I talked somewhere in Gower Street to a group
of Indian medical students. I described to
them as forcibly as I was able the horrors of
vivisection; but came away realising that I had
been up against an impenetrable wall of cour—
teous, smiling, utterly heartless coldness and
indifference. (And yet of course it is far from
the case that all Hindoos are callous about the
suffering of animals.)

But among those of our own race it is
generally the dull—witted rather than the callous
and cruel who are a thorn in the lecturer’s
ﬂesh. Unless people possess a tolerable degree
of brains and imagination it is usually extremely
difﬁcult to make them appreciate the indisput-
able truth that, in the long run, cruelty simply
does not pay. And in an argument it is far
more difﬁcult to debate with a feeble than with
a forcible mind ; with the former you not only
have to conduct your own case, but to keep
your opponent on the rails of logic and
common sense.

The meaningless or hopelessly irrelevant
question is also a trial. One night at a large
and long meeting in the East End, just as I
was getting somewhat exhausted, a man de-
manded: Did I know if it was a fact that
birds were killed to make dye? This may be
a well-founded question, but it conveyed no
sense whatever to my faded brain. So I took
refuge in facetiousness and replied that it was
a fact birds were killed to make tbein die.

Believe it or not, this not very brilliant wise—
crack brought the house down.

(Next wont/9 : Why I am an Anti—
Vivisectionist.) '

 

The year 1762, or thereabouts—as we are
given to understand—marked the end of pre-
history, “ So, we like to think, fox—hunting
began,” writes the author, “ So history
dawned.”( !)

25

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Society for
Abolition. of Cruel Sports

\253, Cowley Road, Oxford.

Rations for Hunters.

T is with some surprise that we learn, as
Ia result of the questionnaire recently sent

out by the Masters of Foxhounds Associa—
tion, that there are 185 foxhound packs hunt—
ing in Britain to—day. This means that the great
majority of the packs (numbering some zoo)
in existence before the war still follow hounds
at least one day a week. It is true that one-
eighth of the usual number of hounds are in
use and that fewer hunters are kept up. None
the less, 47 tons of feeding stuffs are to be
allocated monthly to the hunts during this
winter. These facts were recently put before
the House of Commons by the Minister of
Agriculture.

Feeling as to the iniquity of such food ex—
penditure at the present time runs high in
certain journals. The writer of editorial notes
on the subject in the Evening Standard (28—1 1—42)
reports, however: “ I am assured that the
object of these hunts is to destroy foxes, rather
than to have a mere day’s sport.” He adds
(apparently in extenuation of this worthy
object) that an M...FH has been killed in the
Middle East, that many Masters are in the
Forces or in Government work, and that
another Master is a Regional Commissioner;
while a writer in a west country journal puts
forward the quaint argument that the men who,
through their training in the hunting ﬁeld,
once made good leaders of cavalry, are equally
efﬁcient in the Tank Corps! One might as
well assume that one—time punt—gunners now
achieve success as ﬁghter pilots in bringing
down Nazi raiders.

So History Dawned.

We have heard a great deal about the “ tradi—
tional ” sport of fox—hunting. According to
“ D. W. E. B.,” who lately writes under the
above heading in Tne Pie/(l, this particular
blood sport is no more than 180 years old. It
appears that in the latter half of the eighteenth
century, with the ever—increasing enclosure of
the countryside and the consequent destruction
of wild deer, the gentry who, then as now,
had to hunt something, gradually adopted the
pastime of killing that “ verminous little
animal,” the fox.

Continued in preview to/nnzn.

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

[anuaryFebmary 1943

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Lora’, w/Jen flee nzeaa’ow lea: grown eo/a’
Ana’ in tire slee/l—z‘orn villager
T/Je ange/ns is no more fol/ed
And Natnre Ibowr leer ravages,
Make t/Jenz a’eseena’frorn flee great bengfr,
Toe rookr, n7] a’ar/z'ngx and a’e/zg/n‘s!

ARTHUR RIMBAUD.
Translator—Norman Cameron.

Pierre Loti ( I 8 5 o- I 92 3), born January I 4th.

PIERRE LOTI was the pen name of Louis
Marie Julien Viaud. This French author wrote
novels reminiscent of his travels which were
many, his most famous book being Péebenr
d’Is/ana’e, descriptive of life among Breton
ﬁsher-folk.

His work was characterised by deep feeling,
tenderness and sympathy with Nature, as his
following few lines testify :—

“ I have seen with an inﬁnite sad disquietude the
souls of animals appear in the depths of their eyes
suddenly, as sad as a human soul; and search for my
soul with tenderness, supplication and terror—and I
have felt a deeper pity for the souls of animals than
I have for those of my brothers, because they were
without speech and incapable of coming forth from
their semi-night.”

“ Goosey, Goosey Gander.”

Looking through Oliner Gola’srnz'z‘b (I 728-
1774) by Stephen Gwynn, I was reminded of
“ Goldy’s ” great love of birds.

Robin’s song—“ soft, tender and well supported
and the more to be valued as we enjoy it the greatest
part of the winter.”

Rooks and their “plans of policy” he
watched with patient amusement “ from my
window in the Temple ” and described all
them operations. Writing of the HEN when
she has a family about her :—

“ Her affection and her pride then seem to alter her
very nature. When marching at the head of her

little troop, she acts the commander, and has a

variety of notes to call her numerous train to their
food or to warn them of approaching danger.”

Of all birds of the farmyard, none was so dear
to “ O. G.” as the goose, and he concludes
with
“ it is probable that there is not a more respectable
animal on earth to a goose than a gander.”

26

Ducks Will Be Ducks.
Extract from The Connhynzan, Autumn, 1942.

“ I was driving down the Exe valley, when I saw
at a distance a man apparently praying in the Oriental
fashion, kneeling, his forehead in the dust. On
getting closer I saw a wild duck walking round him,
quacking loudly as though in encouragement. On
pulling up, I found that the man had his arm up to
the shoulder in a drain. Presently he pulled out a
very young duckling, which immediately waddled
to its mother. He did this ﬁve times ; then, the roll
complete, duck and ducklings formed in line ahead
and disappeared toWards the river. The man rose,
brushed himself down, and walked OH with a shake
of his head at me, as if to say, ‘ Ducks will be ducks.’ ”
———U. P. C.

“ Busy, Curious, Thirsty Fly! ”

In Lyra EZeganz‘z'arnrn—“ A Collection of
some of the best Social and Occasional Verse,”
edited by Frederick Locker—Lampson, (\Y/ard,
Lock, 1891), I came across the complete poem
of which an extract appeared in my Note Book
for October last. Here it is.

ON A FLY DRINKING OUT OF HIS CUP.

“ Busy, curious thirsty ﬂy 1
Drink with me, and drink as I.
Freely welcome to my cup.
Couldst thou sip and sip it up ;
Make the most of life you may;
Life is short and wears away.

“ Both alike are mine and thine,
Hastening quick to their decline.
Thine’s a summer, mine no more,
Though repeated to threescore.
Threescore summers, when they’re gone,
Will appear as short as one.”
WILLIAM OLDYS.
(1696—1761)

John Ruskin (1819-190 0), born February
8th.

From childhood “ J. R.” was devoted to
art, poetry and science. As a protest against
the inclusion of vivisection among the methods
of teaching at the University of Oxford, Ruskin
resigned his chair in 1885 as Slade Professor of
Fine Arts. This practical, imaginative prose-
man left on record the following :—

“ There is in every animal’s eye a dim image and
gleam of humanity, a ﬂash of strange light through
which their life looks out and up to the great mystery

of our command over them, and claims the fellowship
of the creature if not of the soul.” ‘

ONLOOKER.

 

 

 

 

 

 




[anualvaebmary 1943 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Animal “ Flashes ”

From the Essays sent in
for the 1943 Competition

“ Animals do not ask whether a man is a must know how to use it, and when mankind
sinner or a saint, but take him for what he is ﬁrst received it, mankind did not know how
and repay kindness with love.” to use it, and only lately in the last hundred

“ Many people do not eat meat as the kind— or so years has he really begun to understand.
ness of their hearts abhors the killing of Deep down in the innermost depths of his
animals for meat. I honestly believe that they heart there is always that spark of kindness,
would do better if they did not eat eggs, drink and that shrinking of hitting something which
milk, or wear woollen clothes, for they would is dumb and defenceless, and cannot under—

‘ avoid bringing animals to a degeneracy in life.’ stand why. That is probably the reason he

“ Cattle, sheep and chickens have had the has responded in so many ways.”

 

 

balance of their lives altered to achieve certain DIANA WATSON.

purposes and consequently their brains have

suffered.” “ We all belong to the animal kingdom,
IRENE WILKLUND. and it will be well to remember that, when

we are apt to be cruel to animals. Yes, I know

“ And God said, ‘ Have dominion over the what you say, you are not cruel to animals.
ﬁsh of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, Well, let me prove to any pet-owner, what he
and over every living thing that moveth upon or she does, which is not intended cruelty.
the earth.’ When God said these words not Do you, pet—owner, put your cat out at night,
only was He paying a very great honour to whether it is a warm summer’s evening, or a
mankind but He also was giving him a very cold, stormy winter’s night, in the belief that
great burden to bear, even heavier than that cats should go out at night, and do not feel
of Christians. For this one cannot loosen the cold as we do? Do you, when playing
from off mankind’s shoulder and tumble away with your dog, handle him a bit roughly, and
out of sight. then wonder why he ‘ snaps ’ occasionally?
“ This burden is such a very great responsi~ Do you feed your pet regularly and on the
bility for though you may be given a gift you right food, or do you say, ‘Sorry Tim, no tea

 

The National Equine (and smaller AnimalS) Defence League.

 

Horse Protection Society—Pit Pony League.

Incorporating the Anti-Bearing Rein Association.

(Founded by Francis A. Cox, 1909)

An organisation which gives rest and treatment to Horses and their Kind, Clinical Treatment to Smaller
Animals and Humane Release when necessary. Works incessantly for the substitution of Pit Ponies by
Mechanical Haulage, for Slaughter House and Auction Mart Reform, and Reform in Transport. Seeks to
make compulsory the use of a Total Anaesthetic in many operations now performed without any anaesthetic
whatsoever, and the Total Outlawry of Hunting and Coursing, and Vivisection in all its Vile forms, etc., etc.

 

Literature and all particulars of the League from the Organising Secretary, Alfred Brisco,
Blackwell, Carlisle. (Tel.: Carlisle 1469.)

.

 

 

27

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND' fanuaryrFebmary, I943

to-night, I’m going to the cinema,’ and add, THE CAPTIVE LION.
under your breath, ‘ I can’t be bothered ’? ” - The captive lion was so sad,
JOAN W. BUTCHER. They’d taken her cubs away,
It nearly sent her raving mad,
She lay and grieved all day.

“ \W hen I was little I saw a man kick a horse
GWEN WILLIAMS.

in the belly and after that I always tried to be
kind to all dumb animals.”

“ My mother often tells Dad he feeds things
far too well, but he just says : ‘ Well, I’ve seen
a good many half—starved creatures in my time
and I’m going to look after mine the best I

THE LIONS.
The captured lion in its cage
Paced slowly up and down.
It really seemed to be an age

 

can.’ a» Since the Zoo had come to town.
DOREEN DYER- Another lion was wild and free,
. . , And with her cubs was strong.

FREE LION: “ What do you do With your And ’neath a cool and shady tree
time? Give me a brief summary! ” They rested all day long.

Zoo LION: “ Eat, sleep and squash the . JUNE ANDREWS.
ﬂies on my nose.”

FREE LION: “ Well, you know what I do, THE ELEPHANT-i
sleep, fight, eat and keep away from the tiger.” A young elephant Was plodding along,

Zoo LION : “ \Work, work, work, you work ' Swaying hits trunk to the gay, gay song,
for everything except sleep.” Of the I1V61’;

He suddenly heard a noise I What was that P
The crack of a riﬂe,‘ the bullet'spat,

Then down on the grass he was lying ﬂat,
JOAN BATEMAN. A prisoner. VALERIE MARINER.

FREE LION : “ Yes, I guess so, but were you
quite serious about those flies P”

 

 

____...‘

 

 

 

BELFAST AND NORTHERN IRELAND WORN-OUT
HORSE FUND '

Prerz'dent: CAPTAIN KER, D.L.
Vice-Preridenf: The Rt. Hon. LORD GLENTORAN, D.L., O.B.E.

Rescued during 1941
299 Horses and Ponies.

Funds Urgently Needed.

SPECIAL APPEAL.

On account of the short—
age of petrol hundreds of
these animals, quite unﬁt
for work, are now being
used, and increased prices
demanded, which delays
rescue.

They are worked till they
drop. _

 

“ The Horse is a NOble
Animal.”

Hon. Secrelwy:
-Mrs. K. M. Shewell,
90, University Street,
Belfast,
Northern Ireland.

 

T/Je Dead Harm—jinx worker] 1‘0 (lea/fl).

28

 




 

fdﬂuaOPFé‘bﬂ/ldol, 1943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND _

Man’s Dominion Over Animals

(First Prize, Senior Class, in Ema} Competition, 1942.)

N the long ages before man was created,
Ithe animals were the lords of creation. The

earth and its fullness was theirs to enjoy.
They lived in perfect freedom, rearing their
young and following their instincts, all were
taking part in the great and Wonderful scheme
of nature which the Lord God created for man
and animals alike.

It was a great sign of God’s love for us
when He gave us dominion over the rest of
the animal kingdom. Owing to man’s superior
. intelligence he has made use of his wonderful
gift. . Sometimes well, but alas! often in a
cruel and vicious manner, a way not intended
by God. Animals are not pieces of unfeeling
metal, but creatures to whom the joy of life
is clear. They are sensitive and intelligent,
with feelings like ours.

For them, as much as to us, God intended
free and happy lives. Is it in accordance with
that, when we deprive them of their liberty?
We are wantonly wasting their lives for the
pleasure of seeing them shut ‘up in cages,
[which ‘is as unnatural as it is unkind. Having
'them bullied into subjection and misery by
some hulking brute of a trainer and made to
perform in a stuffy circus ring. This in return
for the boundless spaces of the woodlands and
plains, the wide open sky and the comradeship
of their kind. Would a human like to be
laughed at and ridiculed by turns; animals
have feelings akin to ours. .

True, we are as a rule kind to our.domestic
cats and dogs, often we pamper them too much.
The fellowship of a dog chum, if not enjoyed
already, is something to be desired. He is, if
trained ﬁrmly and kindly, a loving and obedient
companion and faithful to one always. There
is a great gulf between being a dog’s master
and its owner. The amount required for a
licence will make a man his owner, but only
love and patience will induce a dog, or any
other animal, to recognise one as its master.
But homeless cats and dogs are taken to the
police. If they are not claimed, then they are
destroyed. This is betraying the trust which
animals have in us.

Then there is the killing of the fur—covered
animals : these beautiful creatures were surely
not meant to satisfy women’s vanity and com—
fort. I wish, when they put them on, they

would think that the skin once belonged to a
warm, breathing creature, throbbing with joy—
ous life ; that it probably suffered untold torture
in a trap before it was killed. All this is not
necessary as there is made to—day a cloth which
is very like in texture and appearance the
genuine article.

Then a point over which there are many
disputes—the slaughtering of animals for eat—
ing. Some people say that is the purpose of
animals. I think that it is a cruel and horrible
thing to kill dumb animals to satisfy our greed.
Think of the suffering of the sheep and cows
on market day, the bustle and noise, the coarse
voices and prodding by farmers out to gain, a
bargain. These and other things frighten and
confuse the poor creatures. What a life for
them, born, bred and destined for England’s
slaughter houses.

Sport is another enemy to animals. The hunt
is the cruelest. There is no need in England
for such needless cruelty. The poor animal is
hunted for miles until at last, cut and slashed,
it is pounced on by the angry hounds against
whom the poor fox has but little chance. It
makes a few painful gasps and its poor life
ebbs away. A more revolting practice would
be hard to find. Yet the cultured Christian
men and women who take part think it “ good
sport”, Surely it was not for that when God
created the animals.

But still more barbarous and inhuman is
the vivisection. It is surely not the fault of the
animals that we do not know how to live.
The injection of a terrible disease into an
animal causes acute suffering for weeks and
months. These are living, feeling, breathing
creatures, and yet they are used as living eX—'
periments. We call ourselves a Christian,
charitable people and yet there is a section of
this. country who practice this on God’s
creatures. Do people let their own pets suHer?
Why then, should animals, devoid of care and
protection by man, suffer? Their pain is no
less than that of a man under the same circum—
stances.

The feathered songsters of Britain, as well
as those of other countries, are often harmed.
The ones of our country suffer from three
things, mainly, egg collectors, small boys and
sport. All three are needless and cruel to the

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

last degree. The generation of children grow-

ing up ought to be taught to respect our

feathered friends. The egg collectors ought to
be ashamed of themselves. Imagine the anguish
of the little mother when she finds her nest
upset and riﬂed of its precious contents. The
shooting of birds in sport ought to be made
illegal. Birds, of course, have a few sinners
among them who eat our crops. But they do
a great deal of good by eating harmful insects
and the like. What is more beautiful than the
song of a bird? Just listen to the thrush after
a shower of rain. Then there are people who
keep wild birds caged up : before, their only
limit was the wide, blue sky; then caged in to
a few feet of iron bars and wire netting ! How
dreadful it is, the bird pines forits lost free-
dom, then slowly it droops and dies. In other
countries their cousins, who are highly coloured
but whose voices are not so sweet, live. These
lovely birds are shot solely for their glorious
plumes, just to ornament some hat. Are they
not far more beautiful while alive? This
should not be allowed, as there are plenty of
other decorations other than feathers.

By importing animals, whose proper environ—
ment is in another country, we have upset the
balance of nature. The little grey squirrel, for
instance, is a pretty little fellow, in his right
place. Some of these escaped into the English
countryside. They eat the food intended for
our brown ones. In consequence, there are
very few brown squirrels left. We have also
killed a great many stoats and weasels : this
has led to a great deal of money being spent
on destroying rats. Everything has its place,
even the poisonous snake, which checks an
undue increase in other animals. It does not
follow that an animal is no good because it is
of no direct use to man. '

These are but a few of man’s cruelties to
animals. God meant man to be protector and
friend of His creatures, not the tormentor. He
meant them to live in freedom and happiness,
to use their wonderful intelligence properly.
It is up to us to make their lot a better one.

SHEILA ROWE—Oxford Road Senior Girls’
School, Horsham, Sussex.

 

wish to dig a fox out, and see his baleful,
unforgettable eyes regarding me from the
darkness when the last spadeful is removed,
but I must hunt again.”

A pitiable confession !

30

jzznankFebrumy 1943'

The League Against
Cruel Sports

259, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.
They Know How the Animals Feel. i

Experience of Being Hunted at Dunkirk not For—
gotten—Will Never Hunt Again.
ERY few people would indulge in cruel

R/ sports if they had imagination enough to

realise what hunted animals suffer. A
good many soldiers who have been pitilessly
chased by enemy gunners and bombers will
never again inﬂict misery on foxes, hares, stags
or otters.

One of our members tells us of a young
soldier who came through Dunkirk and who
spoke of the terrible experience of being hunted
day and night with no available cover possible.
He ﬁnished up with : “ I used to be very in-
terested in hunting and thoroughly enjoyed a
day’s sport, but, since then, I am absolutely
against it, for now I know something of what
hunted animals go through.”

Even so well—known a fox-hunter as the
Master of the United Hounds, who is a pro—
minent contributor to Home and Hound, re—
solved, after being “ hunted from Arras into
Belgium and ﬁeld by field to Dunkirk,” that
he would give up making animals suffer as he

had suffered. But he has weakened. He is a '

slave to habitual thinking. His mind has
slipped back into its old groove.

Too Weak to Resist.

He has written in the journal named :

“ When one reads verses like those of Whyte—
Melville and looks at pictures like those of
Lionel Edwards, one realises again that the
killing is but a small part of all that goes to
make foX hunting. There is much more to it
all than that.

“ Of the future it is not possible to attempt
to prophesy, and some packs will inevitably
go down. For the moment I cannot see the
United surviving, but perhaps someone will
step in and carry them on. Although I do not
even wish to put on a red coat again, I still
want to see and hear hounds on the hills.

“ I do also want to see hounds of an early
morning working up on the ‘ drag ’ to where
their fox is kennelled, and hear that burst of
melody which proclaims him away. I do not

Continued in previous column

 

 

 




 

 

 

january’Febn/ag), I 943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Stoats and Weasels

By ERIC HARDY.

(President of the Grey Owl Society.)

HE ﬁrst time I saw a stoat was early one

morning in winter as I was walking along

the dry stone wall at the side of a wood.
Suddenly I came across a pile of faggots
heaped in the corner of the field, and in the
rank vegetation nearby something was bobbing
about in a curious manner : curious enough to
attract my attention although I was really
looking for bramblings that morning. The
creature bobbing about in the grass made no
ordinary movements as a cat or a rabbit would
make. Its back was arched almost like a little
snake: it seemed to writhe and skip about at
alternate movements, showing a brown arch-
way of fur, with a little black—tipped tail pro—
truding a short distance behind. Then the
creature suddenly sat upright upon its hind
legs, showing a sulphur—white breast, two beady
bright eyes, two small, rounded ears, a little
nose, and a set of whiskers. Its small fore—
paws clasped its breast and its head was
quickly turned this way and then that. It was
only for a few seconds that the creature sat
thus for in another instant it had ﬂopped down
again into the vegetation and, like a hopping
snake, was again bounding its way over the
tufts of grass.

 

JTOAT

It was a stoat, and it is generally like that
and in such places that one meets with a
stoat. Stony places like quarries and old
walls, or piles of faggots and brushwood by
the wood, are its chief haunts either in the hill
or the valleys, and on the very edge of town.
Many people want to know the difference
between a stoat and a weasel, for they are very
similar and very closely related. Although
there are not quite so many weasels as stoats in

31

the countryside, they are both amongst our
commonest mammals. More often than not
the country walker sees them hanging dead
upon the gamekeepers’ gibbet. The weasel
is much less frequently seen hunting than is
the stoat. But the difference between the two
is not difﬁcult to distinguish. ~

 

VVEA$EL

The weasel is distinctly the smaller of the
two, and less than eight inches long, whereas
some big stoats may be nine inches long. The
weasel has only the stump of a tail, much
shorter than that of the stoat, and it lacks the
latter’s characteristic black tip. The under-
parts of the weasel are white, those of the stoat
sulphur yellow, and you will see the light colour
of the underparts of the stoat extend up the
sides of its body, whereas the sides of the
weasel are all reddish brown. It is true that
the stoat often ' turns to ermine white in
winter, but this does not apply to all our
stoats and is mostly noticed in the cold hills of
Wales and Scotland. In Ireland, the Isle of
Man and most parts of England the stoat does
not turn white in winter.

Both these animals are carnivores or hunters
of the wild, living in burrows where fairly
large litters are reared. It is interesting to,
consider the natural position of these animals
in the wild. The natural prey of the stoat is
the rabbit, which is also the natural prey of
the fox. It is the persecution of these two
animals, the stoat and the fox, under the
notion that they are “ vermin ” to a very
limited number of people interested in pre-

Com‘z'nued on page 3 3.

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fanuarvaebmary; I 943

Excursion

By NINA M. HOSALI, M.Sc.

I knew wben I mounted tbe beast, tbat be was tired.

Tbrougb tbe warm contact of flesb on flesb I felt
bis weariness,

From tbe down—drooping ears I sensed bis un—
willingness.

I said to Brabim :
“ Tbe mule is tired; I cannot ride bim if be is
tired.”

Brabim said :

“ .He is not tired;

You saw tbe mules tbree days ago, and you were
satisfied.

You saw tbem in tbe fondouk, unsaddled, and you
saw tbat tbey were fine beasts.”

I said:

“ It is true I looked at tbem, for I would not ride
an animal witb sores,

But now tbe mule is tired.

Wbat bane you done witb bim tbat be sbould be
so tired? ”

Brabim said :

“ He is not tired;
mules tban mine.

You will enjoy tbis trip to Sidi Okba,

To tbe tomb of tbe great one;

In all Africa tbere is no more ancient relic of our

fall‘b tban tbis.”

in all Biskra tbere are no finer

 

I looked down at tbe small black boofs lifting
rbytbmicall ,

Tbe delicate fetlocks,

Tbe drooping ears,

And I said :

‘ Brabim, let us not go to—day ;

It is twenty kilometres to Sidi Okba,

Forty tbere and back ;

Let us go anotber day wben tbe mule is fresb.”

Brabim answered not, but bis eyes said :

“ Tbe Englisbwoman is mad, all women are mad,
or ratber—tbey bane no souls;

It is for tbat reason tbey are denied tbe joys of
Paradise.

Tbe Englisb are all mad, for tbey beliezre tbat

animals can feel.”

It is for tbat reason tbey are denied tbe joys of
Paradise.
Tbe Englisb are all mad, for tbey believe tbat

animals can feel.”

Tben be said :

“ You must not miss tbe tomb of Sidi Okba

On tbe mosque floor are priceless carpets wooen by
tbe women in tbeir buts;

Tbe colours are tbe colours of tbe flowers in spring-
time,

 

 

 

 

 

 

32

 

 




 

 

 

fanuaryFebruary, I943

Wben tbe bare and barren ground is sbeeted in a vast
unbroken stretcb‘, of intermingling vivid bues;
Tbus our carpets give us eternal spring.”

“ Brabirn,” I said, “ tbe inule is tired.”

“ In tbe niosque you will see silken banners carried
in tbe fngt,

Brass lanips of rare design, ostricb eggs and pictures
of tbe Propbet’s life,

All presents from tbe faitbfu .”

I felt beneatb 7726 tbe sboulders and bips in ceaseless
patient movement;

I saw tbe tbick grey fur wearing tbin over tbe
movzngyoznts ;

I wondered if tbe burdab rested, perbaps, on tbe
quick of tbe flesb.

I said, “ Brabirn, I rnust go back ;

I cannot ride a tired beast, or one in pain.”

do said:

“ It is a fine rnule, perfectl ' sound.

Have you beard bow S idi Okba rode bis borse frorn

, Egypt to Tangier,

And was onb/ balted by tbe ocean?

He wbo vanquisbed tbe Ronians. at Kairouan, and
traced witb bis lance—point tbe confines of tbe
future boly city ;

He wbo left in bis train an arrny of faitbful ones,

And wbo died at last by treacbeiy near wbere tbe
mosque now stands.”

I felt beneatb rne tbe weary plodding creature,

Endowed by I\Iature witb a body“ finely made, a
brain quick and alive,

Lacking only tbe gift of speecb,

And bands wberewitb to fasbion tools and weapons
of destruction,

And by tbat lack condernned to everlasting servitude.

“ I can ride no furtber on a tired beast,” I said, and
turned for bonie,
And cursed myself for baving conie tbus far.

So back we went :

Past tbe silvery, petrified dunes,

Tbrougb tbe soft wbite sand,

Past tbe first starveling palnis,

And into tbe dark green oasis,

Past tbe norias ceaselessly turning,

Worked by tbe blinafolded beasts witb twisted boofs
and sigbt/ess eyes—

Tbe scarred beasts blinded and maimed in tbe
service of tbe norias.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Brabirn said, “ Tbat is rny garden, and tbat is nay
noria.”

And as tbe noria creaked and turned, a sbudder
ran tbrougb tbe beast’s warni sides, and be
veered away.

So at last we carne to tbe yard wbere be was kept,

And as tbe beast stuinbled at tbe tbresbold, Brabini
said,

“ Perbaps after all be is a little tired, for be bas
turned tbe noria all nigbt;

Yesterday be carried a rnan to S idi Okba, and tben
be turned tbe noria frorn dusk to dawn,

So perbaps after all be is a little tired.”

Fondouk—a stable yard where animals are kept.

Burdah—Arab pack or riding saddle.

Nona—primitive wooden machinery used for raising
water from a well, and worked by a mule, horse or
camel.

NOTE BY MISS HOSALI.

. . . “ It describes a true incident which oCcurred
the ﬁrst time I went to N. Africa (in 1922), and I think
it gives a fairly vivid picture of the unbelievable over—
working of all beasts of burden, which Arabs habitually
inﬂict on them, without realising they are doing
anything wrong. The blinding, scarring and deforming
(crippling) of the animals in the norias (Arab wells) is
one of the worst evils, and as you will see, this is really
the subject of the poem. In these wells, the animal. is
fastened to a long wooden pole, and walks, blindfolded,
in a circle, thus working a mechanism which raises the
water to irrigate the palm gardens. After years of this
work, the animal becomes blind, and the one hoof and
foot becomes deformed. We have bought, and
destroyed, a number of such animals, and have brought
pressure to bear on the owners to have machinery
installed. Animals are used in the same way in native
ﬂour mills.”

Continued from page 31.

serving an unnaturally large number of
pheasants for sport, which is responsible for
the great increase of rabbits in this country
during the past two generations, and their
serious harm to agricultural crops. The
natural prey of the weasel is the ﬁeld—mouse,
and since the weasel has been so much perse—
cuted, farmers have periodically complained of
plagues of field mice ravishing their crops.
Nature has a natural balance of things, in
which the hunters of the wild form the
natural brake upon any possible increase of
other animals to a harmful degree. And the
stoat and the weasel are the natural brakes
upon the increase of the rabbit and the field
mouse. I wish I could tell you more about
the ways of these creatures, but space is short
these days and I must leave it for a future
article.

33

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

'CRUELTY AND POST-WAR INTERNATIONAL
TRADE—THE CASE OF FUR IMPORTS.

DEAR SIR,—We are told there is no simple solution
for the problem of post-war trade policy. Some leaders
of industry suggest that trade in general should be
made free of high tariffs, quotas, and discrimination.
Trade in certain basic commodities, on the other hand,
should have a right to special protection under rules
agreed by some international economic council, and
be subject to output and price regulation by inter-
national agreement.

There appear to be sound reasons for an idea of that
nature. In any case, as a debtor nation after the war,
we shall be obliged to enter into trade agreements with
other countries, including the Dominions and India,
in order to obtain the maximum beneﬁt all round.
There must be a controlled ﬂow of trade in the world.

There are certain things, however, which we in the
Animal Welfare Movement should take into account,
and do what we can to prevent as far as possible.

I think we should do all in our power to prevent
the revival of the trade in furs and skins that are
obtained by trapping. We should try to discourage the
imports of furs, dressed and undressed, into this
country.

During the war, this trade has been stopped so far
as furs for civilian uses are concerned. That pro-
hibition has affected three countries in the main, namel ,
Canada, the United States and Russia. Other countries
may have contributed a share, but, subject to correction,
I think I have given the three chief sources of supply.
It may well be, of course, that these countries may be
not able to send any furs to other countries for some
years after the end of the war. That is a prospect one
has to bear in mind, but if we can do something to
hinder the imports of the products obtained by cruelty,
it may be that the revival of trapping, and even of fur-
farming, will not take place on a large scale or at a
very quick rate. Not only that, but our manufacturers
of fur-fabrics and fur-substitutes will enjoy protection
from competition, and thus be helped to re-establish
their position in a sound and satisfactory way. There is
everything to be said for this suggestion from many
points of view, as will be seen. ‘

If I mention Canadian exports of furs to this country,
it is only to indicate the extent of the problem in so
far as it affects Canada alone. Well over eight million
dollars were paid in 1938 for British imports of Canadian
furs. Canada also exported furs to the value of three
million dollars to New York in the same year. About
60 per cent. of Canada’s furs were obtained by trapping
in 19 38, and 40 per cent. were produced on fur-farms.
The economic depression of the late twenties and early
thirties caused a big slump in fur prices, which recovered
to some extent in 1937 and 1938.

Imports from Canada are, of course, only a part of
the whole problem.

I think that I am right in saying that the Animal
Welfare Societies in Britain are more or less united on
this question of trapping for furs. I think that all
Societies working for animals would like to see this
cruel trade ended, and the imports of the furs of trapped
animals drastically reduced if not stopped altogether.

Can we, as a movement, ﬁnd common ground in
relation to this question, and agree to do what is

[anuaryFebmary [943

possible? It is an opportunity that can be seized. It
is a matter of obtaining public support in the ﬁrst
place, especially the support of women’s societies, in
order to try to get something done in the matter.
Yours sincerely,
D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

ELECTROCUTION OF CATS AND DOGS.

DEAR SIR,-——Miss MacNaghten, whose interesting
letter appeared in the last ANIMALS’ FRIEND, will be
glad to know that it is now possible to distinguish with
certainty the conditions under which electrocution is
humane from those under which it is cruel. The facts
were ascertained by Kouwenhoven and others in
America, and for some years I have been trying, with
complete absence of success, to get them across to
animal-lovers. The facts themselves are a little technical,
but the practical conclusions to which they lead are
simple and deﬁnite.

I should be more than grateful to any reader of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND who can help in getting those
conclusions to be known and acted upon. I will give
them at the end of this letter.

All the available equipment uses alternating current
from the mains, which is applied by means of a collar
on the animal’s neck and a shackle on the hind leg.
The ﬁgures given below apply to this case. Unfortun—
ately no ﬁgures are available for electrodes applied to
the head, otherwise one might prefer that method.
The facts show that 2f ibe current (amperage) is big/3

~ enougb, death is for all practical purposes instantaneous,

34

but if the current is not high enough the animal is
tortured to death. It is the current that matters; the
voltage of the supply tells us nothing. The requisite
current is higher for dogs than for cats; on the other
hand it is harder to reach in cats than in dogs, on
account of the insulating properties of a cat’s fur.

I therefore appeal to readers to use their inﬂuence
in getting the following policy adopted by all con—
cerned 1—-

1. A reliable ammeter must be ﬁtted to every apparatus
so as to indicate the current through the animal.
After being ﬁtted it should be checked in circuit
by an independent engineer.

. The operator must read and record the current
for each animal.

. If (in apparatus of the kind referred to above)
the current falls below goo milliamperes for a
small dog (under 60 lbs.) or 80 milliamperes for a
cat, steps must be, taken at once to check (a) that the
operator is using the correct technique, (b) that
the equipment itself is correctly designed and in
good working order, and (e) that the mains volt—
age is- not ﬂuctuating to excess (the 6 per cent.
restriction being now in abeyance).

. No apparatus should be used unless the above
ﬁgures are being consistently attained—300 ma.
or more for a medium-siZed dog, and 80 ma. or
more for a cat. Figures for large dogs are not
available.

The ﬁgures given are based on the current needed
to stop the circulation within three seconds.

Yours faithfully,
C. W. HUME.
284, Regent’s Park Road,
Finchley, London, N3.
December 14th, 1942.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

fanuary’Febmmy 1943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

H072. Secretary: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Officer: EDINBURGH—IO, Queensferry Street.

GLASGOW—I47, Bath Street.

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

in aid of

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

From The Bulletin, Wednesday, October 28th,
1942:——

Meet the “ Convener.”—Pekoe was “ con-
venor ” of the annual Dog’s Bazaar in Edin—
burgh yesterday in aid of the Scottish Society
for the Prevention of Vivisection, when J€830
was raised. Mrs. More-Nisbett, of Cairnhill,
opened the Bazaar.

From Tbe Scotsman, Wednesday, October 28th,
1942 2——

“ Immorality ” of Vivisection.———That Vivi—
section was grossly immoral was alleged by
Dr. Andrew Gold, when presiding at the
opening ceremony of the Dog’s Bazaar in aid
of The Scottish Society for the Prevention of
Vivisection, in the Freemasons’ Hall, Edin-

 

burgh, yesterday. , They had to see, said Dr.
Gold, that animals were freed from the
terrible dominance of mankind—an unfair
dominance. Mrs. More-Nisbett, of Cairnhill,
who performed the opening ceremony, said
that one heard a great deal about the brave
new world, and sometimes in the darkest
moments one could take consolation in the
fact that although on the one side was most
hideous slaughter, on the other there was a
great uplifting of the heart and mind and
spirit and a desire for things that were merciful
and just, pure and out in the open. “ It is
up to us, as anti—vivisectionists,” she added,
“to do our utmost to put an end to this
monstrous terror of Vivisection.”

The Dog’s Bazaar reached a total of over‘

}£900. ‘

 




 

LOST DOGS

 

Statement by the
Criminal Investigation Department, Edinburgh

IN answer to enquiries by the SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION in May, 1927, regarding the
recovery by the Police of lost dogs, which may have been Stolen and
Sold to Vivisectors’ Laboratories, the following reply was received:
“ The Police have no more right to enter Vivisectional Laboratories
than they have to enter private places when making enquiries for lost
dogs, unless of course they are in possession of a Warrant to search.”

THIS MEANS YOUR DOG IS IRRECOVERABLE
if it once enters a Vivisectors’ Laboratory

AGITATE TO GET THE LAW ALTERED

 

HELP OUR CAMPAIGN

 

JOIN THE

SCOTTISH SOCIETY F OR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Object: THE ABOLITI’ON OF VIVISECTION

Hon. Secretary: Miss N. IVORY, z‘o 222/207” all communication: would be addrexsed

Offites' { EDINBURGH - IO QUEENSFERRY STREET
° GLASGOW — — I47 BATH STREET

 

FUNDS URGENT LY REQUIRED

/

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.10.

 

 




