lA-I—IUNTING WE WILL GO

(Tbree Variatiom on an Old Theme) .
BY HENRY S. SALT

THE GRATEFUL FOX TO HIS
PRESERVERS

‘ A great loss of happiness Would be inﬂicted on the race of foxes by their
extinction, which loss would entirely out—balance any suffering inﬂicted in the
course of the chase.’ Black and White (1912).

‘ The fox owes his existence, therefore, to the sport. Though he is not
absolutely nurtured as a house lamb, he receives all the care that is essential to
his well—being and education. . . . He is almost worshipped, and becomes lord
of the coppice and great freeholder of the covert. . . . The hunted fox suffers
that death to which it seems he was devoted by nature, without any added circum-
stances of torture . . . in order that a large number of men may enjoy a sport
which is by them thought to be salutary, noble, and beneﬁcial.’

ANTHONY TROLLOPE : 0n the Morality of Iﬂmti-ng (1869).

IND friends, who hunt us for unselﬁsh sport,
Without your love what would poor Reynard do?
For this we bless you—though our life be short,
We owe our very birth and being to you.

Yes, you ‘preserve’ us! Wondrous is the boon
Of preservation to our favoured race;

Fox after fox we die the death; yet soon
Another and another take our place.

So who shall doubt. that if we had a choice
(Only, dear friends, it happens we have none),
This glorious fate we’d welcome, and rejoice
To be pursued and broken up for fun?

Happy the hounds, loud haying on our track!

Happypthe huntsman with his murderous call!
But the spent fox, dead—beat before the pack,
His are the sweetest, strangest joys of all!

 




 

THE DEER DEPARTED: A SPORTSMAN’S
ELEGY

(Anticipating the Prohibition of ‘Carted’ Deer-hunting)

‘ Here we have a stag kept in prime running condition by regular exercise.
He is relieved of his antlers ; for which mercy he is, no doubt, devoutly thank-
ful. He bounds over the open country, and, when he has had enough of it, he-
takes refuge in a friendly shed, and quietly awaits the pack and huntsman. . . .
He is placed in his cart, returned to his quarters, and after a good meal sleeps
the sleep of the just. Occasionally there is an accident, he is spiked or scariﬁed
by barbed wire 3 but do not the followers of the chase run a similar risk? Yes,
verily ! ’ MAJOR HARDING Cox in The Daily Graphic, 24/9/1927.

‘ The report . . . of a hunted deer in the streets of Norwich should arouse all
lovers of animals to an indignant protest against this form of so-called sport.

I witnessed one day the hunting of a stag through a southern town; and,

when closely followed by the hounds, the frightened creature jumped over my
garden wall, dashed through the window of the next house, and fell, panting

and bleeding upon, the ﬂoor. The hunters came in and dragged it away to be
“ boxed” and doctored until ﬁt to be hunted again. .2. _'.§Stagsf’in this neigh—-

bourhood have been caught on the spikes of iron railings and lacerated; have
been mangled by dogs in attempting to cross the river; have dashed from

bridges to certain death below.’
THE REV. E. J. T. BAGNALL (Reading) in The Daily News, 13/1 / 1920,

ALAS, poor Deer! what cruel hand
Thy life has thus cut short?
Plague 011 the faddist crew that bann°d
Our pleasant, harmless Sport!

No more uncarted at the Meet,
The proudest of the proud,

Thou°lt frolic through suburban street,
Pursued by gaping crowd.

Nor to thy cart, so snug and warm,
The huntsman will convey

Thy precious, blood-besprinkled form,
Saved for another day.




But I, who loved thee—by thy grave
I linger broken-hearted,

And sing this sad funereal stave
To mourn my Deer departed.

Didst wonder, since my love was such,
I.hunted thee so sore?

I could not love thee, Deer, so much,
Loved I not Hunting .more.

CHILDHOOD AT THE HUNT

‘ Scores of eager children, mounted on ponies, were “in at the death ” of a.
fox killed yesterday by the Chiddingfold Hounds, near Horsham. . . . The brush
was presented to a little girl.’ , The News Chronicle, 5/1/1932.

‘ There was a Meet [Bicester Hunt] especially for the beneﬁt of children . . .
and before moving off Col. H. Lonsdale lectured the, children and gave them-
useful hints about fox-hunting. . . . Hounds hunted their fox from wood to
wood and then pushed him out into the open . . . but before he got far he was.
killed. There were then many candidates for blooding and Johnson was kept
busy for some time christening the young sportsmen and sportswomen.’

The Ban/Jury Guardian, 14/4/1932.

MY gentle child, whose girlish grace
Has set the Field admiring,

W e"ve seen to—day a gallant chase;
But now the Fox is tiring.

With brush that droops, with failing breath
He falters, mazed and muddied:

Come, little one; we’ll watch the death;
And then—you shall be ‘ blooded”!

The ﬁrst two poems are reprinted from Home Rapiens (1926); the third}.
from Cum Gram, by permission of the author.

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham,F.Z.S. 14’.
WHO ARE THE KILL-JOYS? By Henry S. Salt. Id.
CRUELTY IN SPORT. By W. A. Sibly. Id.

DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. 3d. post free.

THE MORALITY OF FIELD SPORTS. By Prof. E. A.
Freeman. 34’. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. AWest- -Country Sketch.
' ByA. L. Salmon. 3d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Huntmg.
' ' By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

A- HUNTING WE WILL GO. Three poems. By Henry
S. Salt. Id. ’

‘Junior Series ’ Leaflets :

(I) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals?

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?

Price 1d. each or 25 copies for Is.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.

Information from the Secretary.

 

 

 

LONDON: STRANGEVVAYS, PRINTERS.

 




