 

cRUEL SPORTS ;

7{‘“iPria'élTil/9353MB ‘

 

 

 




 




DRAG HUNTING

AND ITS POSSIBILITIES
(Seemed Effie”, revised)

BY
BASIL TOZER

Author of “ PRACTICAL HINTS ON RIDING T0 HOUNDS,”
“ THE HORSE IN HISTORY,” etc.

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS
4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I

1935

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

DRAG HUNTTNG

AND ITS POSSlBlLlTlES

EST there may be some to whom the words “ drag
hunting ” convey no meaning, let me explain. I

The “ drag ” is a bundle of rags saturated with oil of
aniseed. This is tied to the end of a cord and dragged along
the ground by a man, usually on horseback, sometimes on
foot, across a line of country which includes hedges and
other jumps, mostly natural fences. Occasionally the man
lifts the drag from the ground and rides on a little way, so
that when hounds later come to these points there will be a
check while the huntsman casts the pack over a widish area
in the hope of their hitting the line (scent) again, which of
course they soon do and‘are once more in full cry. These
checks serve also to give the horses a breather; also they
enable stragglers of the hunt who have dropped behind or
for any reason been thrown out, to join up again. The hunt
starts usually after the man with the drag has quite ﬁnished
his job of laying the trail, and the run ends at a pre—arranged
point, where there are sheeps’ paunches or something of the

sort for the hounds to worry and tear and eat.
* ~X‘ *

Poor Lindsay Gordon, the brilliant young Australian
poet and famous steeplechase rider, whose end was so sudden
and so tragic, spoke the truth when he wrote:

No game was ever worth a rap
For a rational man to play,

Into which no danger, no mishap,
Can possibly ﬁnd its way.

A2

 




 

 

4: DRAG HUNTING

We live in an age when pastimes and the various
branches of sport that have what the Irishman called “ a
dash of venom ” in them seem gradually to be making way
for games which, though they need skill and patience, do
not, emphatically, call for any display of pluck, endurance
or “ grit.” The sport of riding to hounds fortunately is
not extinct, though with the steady increase in game pre-
Serving, with farmers and many landowners and poultry
breeders becoming more and more opposed to trespass, with
the conditions. of agriculture still changing, and with the
number of small holdings steadily growing, it seems im-
possible that fox-hunting, carried on as it is to-day, can
endure many decades longer.

For this reason the question arises : Would the abolition
of fox-hunting necessarily sound the death-knell of one of
the manliest of our British sports—the sport of. riding to

hounds? Personally—and I say this knowing that it will.

call forth exe-cration from the section of the fox-hunting
community that never stops to think—I have for several
years felt convinced that the substitution of drag—hunting,
or “ steeplechase-hunting ” as it is now so often called, will,
on the contrary, give the sport of riding to hounds a fresh
impetus. Fox-hunting, when all is said, has of late years
led to the worst sort of over-crowding in the hunting-ﬁeld
in many countries, while it is an indisputable fact that a
great body of our modern hunting-men labour—quite
unconsciously, as I believe—under the mistaken conviction
that the reason they go out hunting is to ﬁnd, chase and
kill foxes. Let me, then, try to show how the general
adoption of drag-hunting would in a great measure do away
with over-crowding, and let me try to prove the truth of

«3:»




a

AND ITS POSSIBILITIES 5

the assertion sometimes made that the majority of our
modern hunting men do not, if I may express it so, hunt to
hunt

Advantages of the Drag.

Of what doe-s a hunting-ﬁeld consist? There are, ﬁrst,
the men who potter about on horseback from a wild desire
to be mistaken for sportsmen. Then there are many who
go out with hounds in the hope of widening their social
circle. Many of these talk a good deal of “ horse,” but are
not conspicuous when hounds settle down to their line.
Lastly, there are the men who make bad blood between the
hunt and the farming interest by riding ruthlessly over
seeds, breaking down fences, leaving gates open and making
themselves generally objectionable on the country side. All
these people would disappear automatically, so to speak,
were drag-hunting to take the place of fox—hunting, for
naturally drag-hunting would not appeal to them.

A second great advantage of drag-hunting would be
the sweeping away in toto of all the grounds of difference
between hunting men who don’t shoot, and shooting
men who don’t hunt. Of these bones of contention the
hardest is the fox himself, and if there were no longer
the need for preserving him, and if, in addition, there
were no longer any chance of hounds running into unshot
covers early in the season, there is no reason why an entc'nte
cordiale should not quickly establish itself between those
two great classes of sportsmen. Again, drag-hunting would
reduce to a minimum the long list of accidents owing to
wired fences; the drag would be laid over a line of country
known to be free from wire. If, here and there, it were

 




 

6 DRAG HUNTING

inconvenient to leave out wired fences, there would be little
difﬁculty in arranging with the landlord or tenant for the
removal of the wire occasionally during the season, and the
cost, if any, would be very slight.

Here, then, we have wire funds reduced almost to
vanishing point; damage funds much lower than they are
now; and the poultry fund altogether abolished. With
intelligent men to lay the drag, all “ bad going ” would be
carefully avoided, and runs could be had over meadows
where the going is almost as good as in the shires and the
grass countries. The drag would from time to time touch
lanes and cross-roads with a View to enabling the road-
riding division to make for points as they do now. There
would still be stiff countries and easy countries, and the
hunting-ﬁeld would remain, as it is now, the ﬁnest of riding-
schools. There would be an end of blank days, or even of
bad days, and, consequently, no waste of time.

Hunting and Steeplechasing.

Two obvious criticisms suggest themselves in respect
of any proposal further to popularise drag-hunting, the
ﬁrst of which is that such an innovation would convert
hunting into steeplechasing; the second, that it would put
an end to the joys of watching hound-work. But why
not turn hunting into steeplechasing? It would be of a
mild sort only, and any sort of steeplechasing takes some
beating as a sport.

Then, how many modern hunting men in every hundred
have the right to make the latter criticism? Shall we say
ﬁve“.2 Or, maybe, ten? Possibly the second is the approxi-
mate percentage of those Who hunt to hunt and not to ride.

4‘3”




AND ITS POSSIBILITIES 7

For the remaining ninety or so who come out to enjoy the
sport—I make no reference to the proportion of that ninety
who come out, as already mentioned, for reasons other than
sport—a fast gallop over a good line of country, with
plenty of jumping, represents a successful day’s hunting,
and to this vast majority, but for prejudice, the drag would
serve its purpose. Is it not in the “ Badminton ” volume
that we, have the picture of two young fellows larking
home after a blank day, one shouting to the other, “ What
fun we could have if it wasn’t for those confounded
hounds! ” ‘3

Conciliating the Enemy.

One other important gain of the drag—hunt has yet to
be taken into account, and that is the conciliation of the
great body of the public which abhors fox-hunting as a
cruel sport. It is all very well to ignore this outcry as the
interference of faddists, but it is mere ostrich policy to
assert that a majority in the nation is powerless to control
the recreations of a minority. Whether or not the majority
has any designs on fox-hunting and other sports condemned
by humanitarians, there can be no two opinions as to the
way in which a general substitution of the drag would
weaken the hands of humanitariansuand there are plenty
who wish to weaken them. Of the two bodies of opponents
of the innovation here suggested, one would consist of
genuine houndmen, who would honestly deplore the
abolition of those old arts of venery for which this alleged
Merry England has so long been famous. To these it must
regretfully be pointed out that much of England’s merri—
ment went with the good old farming days, and that the

 




 

8 DRAG HUNTING

more artiﬁcial form of the chase is more appropriate to
modern conditions. The others, the pseudo hunting men
who would express wordy scorn of any suggestion that
they should hunt a red-herring or a bag of aniseed, may be
treated more curtly. They may be told that their attitude
is affectation, and that, if the drag were more generally
adopted, they would be the ﬁrst to avail themselves of the
change and to retire gracefully and without further loss
of dignity from a ﬁeld of activity which at present they
adorn only very moderately.

The Fox and the Hen.

And now we come to another important point—the View
of the situation to-day regarding fox-hunting, of the position
of the. agriculturist, of the Wholesale poultry breeder, and of
the landlord, that is taken by the farming community, and
how the innovation of drag-hunting as a substitute for
fox-hunting would be received by farmers as a body. In
course of conversation with farmers in many parts of
England far apart from one another I have often, out of
curiosity, set the question: What would happen if fox-
hunting came to an end and drag-hunting took its place,
and how would the change affect you personally? I have
met farmers who had never heard of drag-hunting and to
whom it was difﬁcult to explain of What drag-hunting
consists, but, considered collectively, they seemed to think
that in one respect, at any rate, drag-hunting would suit
the-m better than fox-hunting, that reason being, of course,
that they would not any longer be bothered with foxes
and that, therefore, their hen roosts would not periodically
be raided.

’ I ‘ .
#i# __ -—__‘v. _ _ n n 7 if”
v P ,

—~_'»

A A—v?‘




AND ITS POSSIBILITIES 9

“ There is no doubt at all,” a man who farms ﬁfteen
or so hundred acres in the north country said to me
recently, “that all about here the substitution of drag-
hunting would meet with general approval. At present
we get ﬁelds that are far too big and that consist largely
of men and women who don’t own an acre of land and
who are strangers in whom we take no interest whatever,
in the same way that they take not the slightest interest
in us—they hunt from the big towns, of which three lie
within easy reach by rail, and many more within easy
reach by car. They don’t subscribe to the hunt a. shilling
more than they can help; they do any amount of damage
in the way of breaking down fences, clipping wire, leaving
gates open when there is no necessity to, and riding across
seeds, and for all that we farmers receive little or no
compensation, and in addition they buy all their fodder
in the towns—some get it direct from London, which is
even worse for us—and they never by any chance buy
a horse of a farmer, or, indeed, of anybody but a,dealer.

“ Not getting their fodder here. or buying any of their
horses of the farmers isn’t of so much consequence, how-
ever; what is of consequence is the large amount of damage
done owing to the size of the ﬁelds, and to the fact that
more than half the men who come out know nothing about
the sport and have no» idea of riding straight. A man
who goes as straight as he can, and who knows the rules of
the game, does comparatively little damage; the shirkers
and the ‘ amateurs,’ as I call them, are the people we
farmers complain about, because besides breaking down
fences instead of jumping them they do damage to crops
without knowing they are doing it.

 




 

10 . DRAG HUNTING

“ Of course, if this drag-hunting came in all that crowd
would disappear, also the line would never be laid over
land that suffers by being ridden over, so that the damage
done and the complaints I hear on all sides would come
almost to an end. I like hunting men who are hunting
men—we farmers all like them—because they are a genuine
lot of good fellows, cheery, glad to see us just as we are
glad to see them, generous, and nearly always considerate,
I won’t say that some of them don’t come out of the towns.
What we don’t like and have see-n quite enough of are
these ‘ camp follower ’ men, and women too for that matter.
We don’t want them, and that’s the long and short of it.
N o, it would be a real disaster if hunting in this part of the
country were to be abolished altogether, because it employs
lots of men in all sorts of ways. But I do say that a
properly organised drag-hunt that hunted say two days
a week, or even three, would suit me, and all the farmers
I know round about here, much better than fox-hunting
as it is now.”

To all intents the same Views were expressed by farmers
I have questioned in other parts of England—in Shropshire,
in Monmouthshire, in Devonshire, Essex, and elsewhere,
but especially in the countries which lie within easy reach
by rail or by car of big towns. Nowhere, apparently, do
the farmers desire that hunting should be abolished, but
in plenty of districts they would welcome the advent of the
drag. The only sound argument, so far as I can see, against
the introduction of drag-hunting as a substitute for fox-
hunting is that the breed of fox-hounds would at once begin
to deteriorate. I have yet to see a pack of drag-hounds
that is worth looking at twice from the standpoint of the

 

, In .2 ._n ,_,_




 

AND ITS POSSIBILITIES . 11

man who breeds and is a judge of hounds as hounds,
though of course such packs may exist. And yet, so far
as breeding for pace goes, I don’t see why just as much
care should not be taken in the breeding of hounds in-
tended for drag-hunting as is taken in the breeding of
fox-hounds properly so called.

Fashionable Hunts.

Again the snobbery that is—we may urge What we
like to the contrary—associated with what are called the
“ fashionable ” hunts, could not exist in a country hunted
by drag-hounds, for the “ pomp and circumstance of the
chase,” as it obtains to-day, would die a natural death.
Snobbery is, when you come to analyse it, the outcome of
a peculiar form of hypocrisy, and there? is nothing hypo-
critical mixed up with drag-hunting, nor, from its very
nature, can there ever be. It is ipso facto a cosmopolitan
form of sport, far more cosmopolitan than fox-hunting
was even in the days when true freemasonry of the chase
existed, and when the pee-r became for the time the social
equal of the farmer and of all others who hunted, and
vice versa. I have hunted in a good many countries from
ﬁrst to last, and I know that in plenty of our English
hunting countries—this remark emphatically does not apply
to Irish hunts—a stranger, if unintroduced, can hunt from
the beginning of the season until the end and hardly be
spoken to by anybody, unless, of course, he happens to be
one of those pushful people who make up their minds by
hook or by crook to be recognised.

Lastly, I think it is not generally known that the
popularity of drag-hunting is increasing rapidly, though,

 




12 DRAG HUNTING

as most of the packs of drag-hounds don’t publicly advertise
their meets, it is difﬁcult to obtain statistics as to the exact
increase. in the number of packs within the last twelve or
fourteen years. And, correspondingly, a remarkable increase
has taken place in the number of hunt point-to-point
steeplechases. Twenty years ago only a few important
hunts organised point-to—point meetings. Now the holding
of such meetings begins towards the end of February and
continues well into April; some hunts, indeed, organise two
meetings before the season ends. All this points to the
increasing popularity of steeplechasing as a sport, and the
keener hunting men become about steeplechasing, or, in
other words, about riding across country as opposed to the
true art of venery, the more incline-d will they become
to abandon fox-hunting—-especially in those countries
where foxes are scarce and good runs therefore infrequent
—-—in favour of drag-hunting and the certainty of a rattling
gallop over a good line of country, where there is plenty of
jumping.

That there are men, and maybe some women, who will

treat with contempt the views I have expressed or whole-
heartedly condemn them, I am well aware. There is, how—
ever, a large “ thinking ” section of the hunting community
ready to admit not only that the general adoption of
drag-hunting must come, but that its advent will, under
existing conditions, be welcomed. To all who have practical
knowledge of both forms of sport, or who have for many
years lived a country life in different parts of England,
this must be specially manifest.

LONDON :STRANGEWAYS, PRINTERS.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




lag-,4?
x ‘ ’

u:
t, ..

aw:

 




