Here is how the instrument looks when the thumb-screw
settings have been applied to a dog -—

 

— Photograph from an advertisement for a stereotaxic
instrument.

or a cat —

— Photograph from an advertisement for a stereotaxic
instrument.

The same kind of instruments are used for monkeys and
other animals.

Imagine that while you were under the anesthetic. elec-
trodes were implanted in your brain. The monkey. whose
picture appears at the top of the next page. has had one
hundred needle guides implanted in his skull.

”I ('3 N K i‘. "'r
it A?" i

— Photograph from the American Journal of Physiology,
-Voi. 205, NO. 5.

When the current is switched on. he cannot bear to eat
even though he was deliberately deprived of food to make
him desperately hungry (the experimenter is offering him an
apple in the picture: the sign behind shows the current is
ON). (American fournal of Physiology, Vol. 205. No. 5)

Or imagine that while under anesthesia. a dental drill was
used to expose the tooth pulp of two of your teeth so that
when you regained consciousness, the exposed pulp could be
given painful electric shocks while your brain was "explored"
with a wire electrode to see what part reacted most strong-
ly. (You. yourself. of course. could not react because you
remain paralyzed) (American Journal of Physiology,
Vol. I90. No. 3).

Or imagine that electrodes had been deeply implanted in
a part of your brain called the thalamus so the experimenter
could. at will. inflict the most intense pain. Imagine yourself
placed in a device similar to the Seventeenth Century stocks
and told to press a lever to avoid the pain shocks. Imagine

that you didn't quite understand the instructions. and the
pain shocks increase in intensity. You have only l5 seconds
to learn what to do as the shocks build up to an unbearable
level of pain. You miss and allow the "crescendo" of shocks
"to go through to its peak." You are in a state of panic
and cannot possibly turn off the current. An expert on the
subject of building up a "crescendo" of pain has vividly de-
scribed this in Man and Dolphin.

All that we have asked you to imagine has happened to
highly intelligent and sensitive animals in American institu-
tions receiving Federal funds—the funds to which you con-
tribute when you pay your taxes. DO YOU THINK IT IS
TIME TO DEMAND REASONABLE CONTROL OF ANI-
MAL EXPERIMENTS?

Your tax money goes to foreign countries. too. to pay for
animal experiments. Here is a picture (February. I963) of a
dog being operated on in full view of the other dogs in an
institution that received $|63.4|6 that yea-r from the United
States Government.

 

In this and similar institutions. many cases of surgery with-
out anesthesia were discovered. A small group of American
and British humanitarians donated anesthetics. and they
continue to do so to spare the animals from torture. but
our government does nothing to ensure even the most
elementary decency to animals when it hands out your
money to pay for experiments on them.

Here is a picture taken in our country. showing stacked
dog cages in a basement. Imagine any dog you have ever
known confined to one of these cages for the rest of his life
(some dogs have spent seven years incarcerated in such
cages) while he slowly loses his sanity. whirling in his cage
or cowering In a corner.

Or he may be subiected to a "surgical exercise" whose
outcome is well known. suffer great physical pain and die.
unattended. after a few days. Perhaps he will be hosed
by callous attendants if he can't get to his feet after the
operation.

Here is a picture from the work manual published by the

“‘W University of Minnesota for
the laboratory animal at-
tendants. The directions
read: "Open the door slight-
ly. holding it so the dog
cannot jump out. Run the
nozzle over the top of the
door as shown in the draw-
ing on the right. Wash the
walls and bottom grate. Then
run the nozzle under the

door to flush out the catch pan.'I

When complaints were made about wetting the dogs in
the three-tier cages from which they are never released for
exercise. an Assistant Professor of Experimental Opthalmol-
ogy rushed forward to defend this time-honored practice
of the University. He even accused those who dared object
to the hosing of sick animals of being anti-vivisectionists and
obstructing medical progress! ". . . in a laboratory set-
ing." he wrote. "the distorted mind of the anti-vivisectionist
converts wetting an animal to an act of cruelty." (Min-
nesota Daily, January 3|. I964).

 




His a++i+ude is a good example of wha+ +he Christian
Century had in mind when i+ ediforialized abou+ oppo-
nen+s of +he Clark bill no+ing +ha+ +hey wan+ "freedom +0
+rea+ animals as +hey please even +h0ugh neglec+ and cruel+y
resul+. They wan+ +he freedom +0 play God in deciding for
+hemselves how and when in wha+ way +hey will use ver+e-
bra+e animals for experimen+a+ion. Tha+ kind of freedom
does no+ belong +0 +hem. and a sociefy of responsible men
has no righ+ +o gran+ such freedom." (Oc+ober 2. I963)

YOU CAN HELP PASS THE NEEDED LEGISLATION
Callousness and cruel+y are not an inevi+able par+ of ani-

mal experimen+a+ion. bu+ NO COUNTRY CAN PREVENT
LABORATORY CRUELTY WITHOUT A LAW SPECIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED TO PREVENT IT. The Clark bill. S. l07|
now pending in +he Uni+ed S+a+es Sena+e and +he Cleveland
bill. HR 5647 in +he Uni+ed S+a+es House of Represen+a+ives
are designed for +ha+ purpose. The Sena+e bill was in+ro-
duced by Sena+or Joseph S. Clark. (D.. Pa.). wi+h Senafor
E. L. Bar+le++. (D.. Alaska). Senaior Harry Flood Byrd.
(0.. Va.). Senafor Edmund Muskie. (D.. Maine). and Sena+0r
S+ephen M. Young, (D.. Ohio) as co-sponsors.

If is based on +he well-+es+ed principles of +he Bri+ish Ac+
which has been in effec+ for +he past 89 years with +he
approval of leading scien+is+s working under i+s provisions.
For example. Lord Brain pas+ Presiden+ of +he Royal College
of Physicians and edi+or of +he neurological journal. Brain,
s+a+es: "The exis+ence of +he res+ric+ions and inspec+ions
imposed by law in my experience work exfremely well and
preven+ +he inflicfion of unnecessary pain on experimen+al
animals wi+hou+ in any way res+ric+ing +he ac+ivi+ies of
genuine scien+ific research." Professor P. B. Medawar. I960
Nobel Prize winner and Direc+or of +he Na+i0nal Ins+i+u+e for
Medical Research. s+a+es +ha+ +he law ensures "experimen+s
which may give rise +0 pain or discomforf are no+ ligh+ly or
has+ily under+aken. The,fac+ +ha+ +here are forms +0 fill in
and an inspec+0ra+e +0 sa+isfy brings i+ home +0 +he begin-
ner in research +ha+ doing experimen+s on living animals is
a serious business." Professor F. A. E. Crew summed if u
by wri+ing. "I do n0+ believe +ha+ i-usf anybody should be
allowed +0 do ius+ any+hing wi+h a living crea+ure."

BASIC PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION
The Clark bill and +he Cleveland bill. like the Bri+ish Ac+

on whose principles +hey are based. con+ain +he following
essen+ial poinfs:

I) Unannounced inspection by qualiﬁed. full-+ime in-
spec+ors wi+h access +0 animal quarfers. Iabora+0ries and
records of animal use.

2) Individual licensing by governmen+al au+h0ri+y of
all scien+is+s desiring +0 use live. ver+ebra+e animals. wi+h +he
righ+ +0 remove said licenses from persons responsible for
inhumane +rea+men+.

3) Pain-curbing provision +ha+ animals suffering se-
vere. enduring pain mus+ be painlessly killed ins+ead of being
allowed +0 linger in agony. or being used over again. Fall-
ure +0 comply wi+h +he above au+oma+ically gives +he in-
spec+or +he righ+ +o desfroy +he animal painlessly himself.

4) Humane care and housing, including normal ex-
ercise. c0mfor+able res+ing places and adequafe food and
wafer for all animals.

5) Student work as dis+inc+ from research conducfed
by qualified scien+is+s. mus+ be painless.

ANY BILL WHICH DOES NOT HAVE THESE PROVIS-
IONS CANNOT PREVENT ABUSES IN LABORATORIES
AND THEREFORE SHOULD NOT BE ENACTED. A good

law should fur+her require:

6) Records +ha+ include a brief s+a+emen+ of wha+ is +0
be done +0 +he animals and why. iden+i+ica+ion of animals
and even+ual disposi+ion. and a brief annual repor+.

Opponen+s +ry +0 claim +ha+ mis+rea+men+ of experimenfal
animals is rare. Humane and hones+ physicians and scien+is+s
who have worked in various ins+i+u+i0ns +ake an opposife
view. For example. Dr. Benne++ M. Derby. wri+ing in suppor+

.of +he bill sponsored by Sena+ors Clark. Bar+le++. Byrd.

Muskie and Young draws a++en+i0n +0 "+he perennial lack of
considera+ion for animal righ+s which may be so chronic as
+0 be habi+ual . . . " in some of +he ins+i+u+i0ns he has
observed. Among "+ypical viola+ions" he no+es "puni+ive
handling of animals whose behavior s+ems from fear. chronic
immobiliza+i0n for no+ weeks bu+ m0n+hs. as for ins+ance
+he 'monkey ring'; con+inua+ion of surgical procedures when
anesfhesia had waned if no+ passed. +his si+ua+ion com-
pounded by +he use of relaxan+s; +he presence of un+rea+ed
if no+ unno+iced complica+ions or associa+ed illness. such as
draining sinuses around chronic surgical implan+s. diarrhea.
diffuse skin lesions. and advanced ulcera+ing purulen+ con-
iunc+ivi+is wi+h adhesive lid closure. These'indica+e +he ig-
norance of handlers. +he absence of awareness or denial on
+he par+ 0f +he inves+iga+or and. presumably mos+ imporian+
of all. +he underlying lack of in+eres+ of +hose. concerned."

Dr. Samuel M. Peacock. Jr. «wri+es. "H is my considered
opinion +ha+ pro+ec+ive Iegisla+ion for Iabora+ory animals is
long overdue. Me+h0ds of procuremenf wi+h all +he a++end-
an+ problems and horrors. as well as curren+ pracfices of
housing handling and excessive use. especially as +eaching
ma+erial a+ +his s+age of our scienfific developmenf are a
na+ional disgrace. . . . H has almos+ become a +radi+i0n +0
have inadequa+e animal housing and poorly +rained. low
salaried personnel. . . . AII’I‘OUQI‘ I am 5°"Y and even em-
barrassed for +he need of i+. l gladly welcome +he oppor-
+uni+y +o suppor+ +his legislafive proposal and sincerely hope
i+ will pass +his session of Congress."

The fil+hy barn of Zoologicals Worldwide was inspected
and approved by +he Na+ional lns+i+u+es of Heal+h as a
source of experimen+a| dogs. NIH received i+s las+ order of
dogs from +his place only +en days prior +0 i+s closing on
cruel+y charges. including such despera+e +hirs+ +ha+ +he dogs
"fough+ like wild +hings when given wa+er." (Washingfon
S+ar. April 9. I963). Bu+ +he Na+ional lns+i+u+es of Heal+h
which will receive over one billion dollars of +ax payers'
money +his year) failed +0 no+ice any+hing wrong wi+h +he
animals i+ received. THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH HAS HAD A FREE HAND IN FACILITATING
NEGLIGENCE AND CALLOUSNESS THROUGHOUT THE
NATION'S LABORATORIES. The NIH and i+s gran+ees
mus+ be inspec+ed and supervised by a higher au+h0ri+y. The
Clark bill and Cleveland bill would provide for inspec+ors
working direc+ly from +he office, of +he Secre+ary of Heal+h.
Educa+ion and Welfare +0 supervise all animal experimen+s
in all institutions +ha+ receive any Federal funds. Care—
fully selec+ed and +rained inspec+ors would work as a unified
body in enforcing +he humane requiremen+s of +he Acf.
These men would have no other duties and no division of
l0yal+y. They would be answerable +0 +he Secre+ary. and +he
Secre+ary would be answerable +0 +he Uni+ed Sfafes Con-
gress for +he humane and efficen+ adminis+ra+ion of +he Acf.

DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER SAYS, ”IT WOULD HAVE
IMPORTANT MEANING FOR THE WORLD.”

Dr. Alber+ Schwei+zer wro+e of +his bill:

As you feel i+ righ+ for me +0 give my suppor+ +0 +he law
for compassion +oward Iabora+ory animals. I do so gladly.
The e+hic of Reverence for Life obliges us +0 be wa+chful
always +o +rea+ animals wi+h compassion. and all +he more
so when i+ concerns +hose crea+ures +ha+ serve medical re-
search. If you pass such a law in +he Uni+ed S+a+es. i+ will
have imp0r+an+ meaning for +he world. The law will 'lhen
gain recogni+ion in o+her na+ions. +00.

WILL YOU HELP TO TAKE THIS FORWARD STEP?

Every ci+izen can +ake par+ in +his advancemenf of civili-
za+ion simply by wri+ing +0 his Sena+ors urging +heir suppor+
of +he Clark bill. S. I07l and +0 his Represen+a+ives urging
+heir suppor+ of +he Cleveland bill. H.R. 5647.

Sena+ors may be addressed a+ +he Sena+e Ofﬁce Building
Washing+0n. D.C. Represen+a+ives may be addressed a+ +he
House Office Building Washing+0n. D.C.

Copies of +his Ieafle+ may be ob+ained free from:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York, N. Y. 10022

Unnecessary Cruelty 'I'o Animals
In Government Financed Medical Research

”Irreverence breeds irreverence, brutality breeds brutality:
and who can deny that the use of scientiﬁc method and
technique without moral direction is virtually the out-
standing problem of the age?”

The Rev. Marion L. Matics

— Photograph from an advertisement for a stereotaxic
instrument.

lmagine waking up from an anesthetic with your
head immobilized in this instrument, a s+eel bar in
ei+her ear. ano+her in each eye. s+ill ano+her holding your
m0u+h open. The bars may hur+ (some+imes +hey cause per-
manen+ deafness) bu+ you canno+ cry ou+ or move a muscle
because you are paralyzed wi+h curare or a similar "muscle
relaxant " Then +he docfor +urns on +he curren+ +ha+ hi+s a
nerve in your +oo+h. . . . AN IMPOSSIBLE NIGHTMARE?
Unfor+una+ely not By crying "an+i-vivisec+ion" whenever
cruel experimen+s are quesfioned. +he American Medical
Associa+ion and +he Na+ional Socie+y for Medical Research
have for years succeeded in cowing +he public and silencing
+he voices of non-an+i-vivisec+ionis+ humani+arians who seek
reasonable pro+ec+ion for +he millions of animals in our Ia-
bora+ories.

IF YOU ARE FOR HUMANE ANIMAL EXPERIMENTA-
TION AND AGAINST INFLICTING UNNECESSARY PAIN
ON ANIMALS. please +urn +he page.

 




sfrapped by fhe legs fo a wooden board and
dipped info boiling wafer up fo fhe rib cage
for 5 seconds. They were removed from fhe
board immediafely affer burning. Affer a
15 minufe inferval fhe rafs were lighfly anes-
fhefized wifh efher and bled in fhe same
manner as described for fhe confrol animals."

Anofher kind of burning. wifh microwaves.
is described in fhe American Journal of Physi-
ology. Augusf. I96I: "Adulf mongrels of
eifher sex 1-5 years of age. were exposed
2.800 Mcycle/sec. pulsed microwaves. . . . To
sfudy fhermal regulafion. dogs were main-
fained in an environmenf of |20 F. 50% hu-
midify or l03.5 - 105 F. 20% humidify for
varying periods of lime. Some dogs were
exposed fo 2.800 Mcycle/sec. microwaves
while in fhe l03.5 - 105 F environment . . .
The dog panfs as soon as irradiafion sfarfs.
As exposure confinues. fhe ra’re of panfing
increases and may sfabilize only fo increase
again as fhe recfal femperafure rises. Saliva-
fion occurs in many dogs. fhe amounf increas-
ing wifh fhe durafion of exposure. Mosf ani-
mals display increased acfivify varying from
resflessness fo exfreme agifafion. In all buf
ferminal cases fhe dogs are alerf fhroughouf
fhe exposure. Marked vasodilafion of fhe
skin and mucous membranes is observed. Ter-
minally (4-6 hr af 100 mw/cm2 or 2-3 hr af 165
mw/cmz) weakness develops and. in exfreme
cases. fhe dog becomes prosfrafe. Recovery.
when if occurs. is gradual. Excepf in exfreme
cases where wafer is ignored. fhirsf is increased.

"Exposure of rabbifs af 165 mw/cm2 pro-
duces an exfremely violenf reacfion. Wifhin
5 min.. desperafe affempfs are made fo es-
cape from fhe cage. Peripheral engorgemenf
of all vessels yields an acrocyanofic picfure.
The ears develop a 'fried' or 'cooked' ap-
pearance. Forfy minufes of exposure resulfs
in deafh. When rabbifs are exposed af IOO
mw/cm2 for 1 hour. fhey become pros-
frafe. . . ." On fhe surviving dogs burns are
described as follows: "Five fo six days follow-
ing exposure. fhe affecfed skin sloughs. leav-
ing a deep. clean. noninfecfed area idenfical
in appearance wifh a fhird degree burn. The
cenfral porfion appears fo devifalize wifh

developmenf of a process nof unlike dry
gangrene."

STARVA'I'ION

ln anofher experimenf weanling kif’rens were
slowly killed by feeding fhem an inadequafe
dief. The aufhors reporf (American Journal
of Physiology. January. l96l) "Approximafely
25 kiffens were sfarfed on fhe deficienf dief.
Of fhese only II were available for final
sfudy. The ofher l4 died affer rapid onsef
of seizures before fhe sfudies could be per-
formed. from infercurrenf infecfions. or in
one case. from frauma resulfing from falling
in fhe cage." The aufhors describe fhe effecfs
of fheir dief on fhe kiffens as "quife sfriking.
Wifhin 4-6 weeks fhe deficien’r animals ex-
hibifed lack of weighf gain. loss of subcufane-
ous fissue. coarseness and fhinning of fhe body
hair. and progressive afaxia. Ulfimafely. fhe
deficienf animals became progressively weak-
er. developed generalized seizures. and. if Ieff
on fhe dief. died." '

Dogs can sfand fhe deprivafion of food for
much longer periods. Even following severe
surgery. some of fhem survived fasfs up fo
six weeks. The American Journal of Physiol-
ogy. chober. 1957 fells how dogs were sub-
iecfed fo fwo separafe operafions in which
fhe surgical morfalify was described as so
high fhaf "fhe animals were nof sfudied or
sfandardized before surgery." If is reporfed
fhaf "one dog died during fhe firsf fasf and
anofher during fhe firsf realimenfafion wifh
casein." For when fhe dogs were finally al-
lowed food. if was nof a balanced dief. One
was calculafed fo "show many feafures of a
rafher severe alarm reacfion." The dogs. now
having been subiecfed fo fwo maior oper-
afions. sfarvafion up fo six weeks. and feeding
wifh an improper dief. "dermafifis. cufaneous
ulcerafions and alopecia" in fhe sympafhec-
fomized dogs "were much more frequenf and
offen infense." The aufhors show fheir fa-
miliarify wifh sfarving dogs. sfafing: "Normal.
haalfhy dogs folerafe prolonged fasfing sur-
prisingly well. During fhe firsf 2 or 3 weeks
fhey frequenfly appear sfimulafed and are
unusually playful and lively. lafer fheir reac-
fions are slowed. buf fhey are usually in good
condifion for as long as 5-6 weeks."

IMMOBILIZATION
lmmobilizafion as a punishmenf passed ouf

3

of fhe ken of fhe layman wifh fhe abolifion
of puffing men in fhe sfocks. However. many
experimenfers use immobilizafion in fhe la-
borafory. and devices for fhe immobilizafion
of animals have become commonplace. One
example appeared in fhe January. l96l issue
of fhe American Journal of Physiology. An
experimenf using fhe combinafion of sfimula-
ﬁon wifh physical res’rrainf on unanesfhefized
cafs. if sfafes in parf: "The firsf animals were
res’rrained by means of a wide leafher collar.
This mefhod was inadequafe since some head
movemenf was possible and also because
sfruggling soon commenced and prevenfed
adequafe recording. Plasfer casfs were indi-
vidually fiHed for all succeeding cafs. The
casfs were cuf along fhe mid'line fo provide
fwo close-fif’ring shells and. prior fo each fesf-
ing. fhe animals were replaced in fhe casfs.
lnfrequenfly a brief period of anesfhesia. in-
duced by frichloroefhylene inhalafion. was re-
quired for recasfing unfamed cafs. . . Rigidly
resfrained monkeys assume a sleeplike sfafe.
and arousal is difficulf fo mainfain. Cafs in
fhis experimenf responded in a similar fashion
. . . fhe applicafion of shocks fhroughouf a
series of frials wifh sysfemafic adiusfmenf fo
produce a flaf EEG pa’rfern accompanied by
frequenf vocalizafions should have insured
general arousal . . . severe measures are faken
fo mai-nfain arousal."

In addifion fo fhe above procedures. fhese
cafs also had had sefs of elecfrodes implanfed
in fheir heads and were being rofafed in fhe
dark.

Havings bofh hind legs immobilized wifh
sfeel pins for IOI days fill fhey afrophied
(American Journal of Physiology. May. 1961)
was a procedure undergone by a differenf
group of young experimenfal cafs.

CURARE AND OTHER PARALYSANTS

Accidenfal immobilizafion of animals abouf
fo undergo surgery occurs if curare is used in
place of or wifh an inadequafe amounf of an-
esfhefic. Curare and ifs derivafions render an
animal paralyzed so fhaf if is unable fo move
or make a sound. buf fhe animal remains fully
conscious and able fo feel pain. The word
"accidenfal" applies fo fhe following sfafe-
menf from "Research High’lighfs. Nafional In-

4

sfifufes of Healfh. I960. lfems of lnferesf on
Program Developmenfs and Research Sfudies
Conduc’red and Supported by ’rhe Insfifufes
and Divisions of NIH as Presenfed fo fhe
Congress of fhe Unifed Sfates. U.S. Deparf-
menf of Healfh. Educa’rion and Welfare. Pub-
lic Healfh Service." On page 271 of fhis
documenf. if is reporfed: "Dafa were ob-
fained from 40 adulf cafs anesfhefized wifh
Nembufal or curare preparafions." Curare is
in no sense an anesfhefic. and ifs confusion
wifh an anesfhefic is inexcusable.

MACHINES FOR MASS-PRODUCING
STRESS AND SHOCK

More and more animals are being used in
research. and fhe breeding for sale of re-
search animals has become a subsfanfial in-
dusfry. Hand in hand wifh sales promofion
of fhe animals goes promo’rion of aufomafic
devices for producing sfafes of "shock" or
"sfress" on large numbers of animals af once.
These machines are designed fo make if easy
for fhe scienfisf fo use hundreds or fhousands
of animals in each painful experimenf. and he
can offen fabulafe fhe resulfs on an elecfronic
compufer.

An illusfrafion of fhe growfh of callousness
in fhe use of such machines. may be found by
comparing wifh lafer developmen’rs fhe pro-
fesfs wriHen in I949 in fhe Brifish Medical
Journal. "The Lancef". againsf fhe cruelfy of
fhe Noble-Collip drum and of fhe applicafion
of infermiffenf elec’rrical shocks fo produce
fear and sfress. Ten years lafer. fhe newsleffer
of a commercial breeder of laborafory ani-
mals announced: "A new elec’rromechanical
apparafus for sfressing small animals has been
developed. If consisfs of a grid-floored plasfic
cage sysfem. divided info cubicles. which
makes if suifable for large numbers of small
animals insfead of fhe usual one or fwo. . . .
Some of fhem are apf fo bife fhe rods which
fhey can easily recognize as fhe source of
fheir discomfort. This. in furn. may cause con-
vulsions and spinal fracfures. Eifher acufe or
chronic sfress may be produced by adiusfing
fhe infensify and durafion of fhe shock. . . ."
(Carworfh Ouarferly Leffer. No. 56. Re-

5

 




printed from the Journal of Applied Physiol-
ogy. 14(5): 869. 1959).

Also described is a way to produce gastric
ulcers in a few hours -— "reactions which be-
come very marked in 24 hours". The report
states "Although the rats bite their paws in
trying to free themselves. this drawback may
be overcome by either cutting the animals'
incisors or by adding a special collar to the

board." (ibid.)

The Noble-Collip drum seems to have be-
come standard equipment in some labora-
tories. and a variation is described in the
American Journal of Physiology. (Nov.. I959):
"Unanesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats
were subiected to a modiﬁed Noble-Collip
shock stress. The rats. with front and hind legs
taped together. were continuously tumbled in
individual closed cylindrical drums. Each drum.
l6 inches in diameter, had two triangular
baffles fastened opposite each other on the
inner drum wall. Upon rotation. the rat was
carried upward approximately 90° of arc be-
fore falling and was thus tumbled twice with
each rotation."

AN OPINION ON THE VALUE OF
SOME CURRENT RESEARCH

Even the American Medical Association is
sharply critizing the wastefulness of the Na-
tional Institutes of Health which sponsors gov-
ernment ﬁnanced research. An article in the
April I3. I962 issue of the Wall Street Jour-
nal noting a sharp increase in Federal spend-
ing on medical research in recent years.
claimed it is 'probabIe' that 'huge sums of
money are spent on doubtful. artiﬁcially
blown-up. occasionally ridiculous proiects . . .
far too few people have realized that the
stepped up efﬁciency with which these sums
are raised does not necessarily meanthat
they are equally efficiently spent."' The Jour-
nal warned against "scientism" which it de-
fined as follows: "Scientism may be deﬁned
as 'grant getting by wisdom of application'—
a combination of pseudoscientiﬁc, pecuniary
pedantry and integrated cooperative research
based all too often on irrelevant or misinter-
preted data, and compounded by mass com-
puter techniques."

6

EXAMPLES OF GROSS NEGLECT OF
ANIMALS IN LABORATORIES
Post-Operative Dog Room,
Eastern Medical School, 1961

Many dogs were too sick to rise. some had
had two operations. One heart surgical case
was emaciated. had a tremor and lacked one
eye from which red flesh extruded.
ﬁrst explained dog's condition as brain sur-
gery. but later decided the dog had lost his
eye and developed chorea before coming to

. Apparently. this did not deter its
use for heart surgery. The dog drank water
almost continuously. No attendants in any of
the dog rooms. Asked if dogs as sick as those
we had seen can get up for hosing of cages

said they could. He said none of
the dogs we saw had been given any seda-
tion. (This institution received over $7.000.000
last year from the U.S. Public Health Service.)

Middlewestern Medical School, 1960

Mice used by research worker who in that
year received over $50,000 in U.S. Public
Health Service grants were reportedly dying
of starvation because instead of mouse pel-
lets. they were given rat pellets so hard that
the mice were unable to eat them.

Eastern Hospital Laboratory, 1960

Dr. —————. head of animal laboratory.
a recipient of over $60,000 annually from
Public Health Service grant. repeatedly mis-
represented facts and broke promises about
animals and their care. He flatly refused to
supply water to guinea pigs. took an infant
guinea pig up and threw it back in the cage
remarking "how healthy it is." The little ani-
mal lay struggling on its side unable for some
time to regain its feet.

Government Laboratory, 1961

Employee weighing rats swung them in and
out of cages by their tailsI slamming cages
shut. Within a few minutes' observation one
animal's tail was caught. another animal's foot
caught and iniured and blood flowed. How-
ever. the employee's methods received ap-
proval from the scientist in charge. Shortly
after. the employee was observed smoking in

7

 

the hallway. the frenzied speed of his working
period apparently forgotten.

Western Medical School, 1953

One hundred or more dogs in windowless
dark room which had iust been cleaned. Dr.
admitted that virus infections often
spread in this room. Dogs too sick to get up
had been hosed down with the cages. An
old. half blind spaniel was soaking wet. lying
trembling on the bottom of the cage. It had
had maior surgery. Stronger dogs were bark-
ing. begging for attention. The noise was in-
tense. the air overladen with moisture. We
were also shown the elegantly appointed
meeting room next door to the huge operat-
ing room for surgical experiments on dogs.
The contrast between the waste space in the
operating room and the overcrowding in the
dog room was shocking. (U.S. Public Health
Service grants last year over $4,000,000.)

Acknowledgement is made to the Animal Welfare
Institute for permission to reprint the above.

WHAT CAN GOOD CITIZENS DO?

Urge enactment of H.R. I937 sponsored by
Representative Martha Grifﬁths and S. 3088
sponsored by Senator Joseph S. Clark and
Senator Maurine Neuberger. These identical
bills pending in the U.S. "Senate and House of
Representatives would prevent abuse of the
privilege of using animals for experimental
purposes while in no way hampering humane
and responsible animal experiments. For fur-
ther information about this legislation and for
additional free copies of this leaflet. write to
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation.
745 Fifth Avenue. New York 22. N. Y.

PLEASE WRITE TO YOUR CONGRESSMAN
AND SENATORS IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 1937
AND S. 3088.
They may be addressed at:
The House Office Building. Washington. D.C.
or

The Senate Ofﬁce Building. Washington. D.C.

They Have No

Protection and
No Recourse

WHY H.R. 1937 AND S. 3088
TO REQUIRE HUMANE TREATMENT
OF EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS
SHOULD BE ENACTED

An astronomical increase in the numbers of
animals used in laboratories has taken place
in the past few years. Millions of these ani-
mals are used in research paid for by your
tax dollars. The Budget of the United States
Government for I963 shows ever one billion
dollars -— $I.024.000.000 — requested from
Congress for facilities and conduct of re-
search most of which uses animals. No federal
law protects these animals. and even when
huge expenditures of federal funds are made
there is no guarantee of decent treatment (see
the description on pages 6-7 of animals in a
University that received a total of $7,000,000
of grants last year).

Many experiments cause the animals severe
pain and stress. Following are some quota-
tions from the literature.

BURNING

A paper in the American Journal of Physi-
ology. March. I960. reports an experiment on
dogs in which one third of their body surface
was burned. The last measurements were
made by the authors. ﬁve to six hours after
the burn. and they state: "After this time the
blood pressure usually shows a gradual decline
until death ﬁnally ensues." Apparently the
animals were not put out of their misery but
simply allowed to die of the burns. The dogs
were anesthetized while actually being burnt,
but an example of burning with no anesthetic
at all may be found in the American Journal
of Physiology. October. I957. in which the
authors state: "In order to obtain plasma
from burned rats. unanesthetized animals were

1

 




‘ Des Moines Tribune

The Paper With the Pictures
THE WEATHER

ﬂit...

Local—Generally fair and warmer.
Low Monday night 55, high Tuesday
78. (World’s Weather, Page 6.)

Price 10 Cents Des Moines, Iowa,

Monday, August 19, 1963—22 Pages—Two Sections

ASKS FOR HUMANE

An

 

Idea Has
Foes in
Research

Dr. Schweitzer
Endorses It

By Jack Wilson
(01‘ The Tribune’s Washington Bureau)

WASHINGTON, D. C. —
Among .the things Congress
is not likely to do this year
is vote on a bill to require
humane treatment of experi-
mental animals.

The bill’s sponsors, Sena-
tors Joseph S. Clark (Dem,
Penn.) and Maurine Neuberg-
er (Dem, Ore.) aren’t openly
hopeless about their pros-
pects, but they aren’t making
even the routine predictions
for action.

This despite the fact that
their mail on the subject indi-
3ates a good deal of interest,
most of it in favor of their
bill but a significant part ve-
hemently opposed.

Agencies

The government agencies
#iﬁr’dﬁ'édﬁlﬂiﬁcfuﬁin‘g"
tional Institutes of Health,
which would be directly af-
fected—have not yet filed the
formal statement of agency
views required in such cases.

Recent articles in two na-
tional magazines stirred up
additional interest in the sub-
ject, and Mrs. Neuberger an-
nounced that Dr. Albert
Schweitzer had written to her
endorsing the pr0posa1.

“The ethic of reverence
for life obliges us to be
watchful, always to treat
animals with compassion,
and all the more so when
it concerns those creatures
that serve medical re-
search,” Dr. Schweitzer
wrote.

The Clark-Neuberger bill
would require researchers
who receive federal funds to
get a certificate from the De-

partment of Health, EdIIca—
tion, and Welfare before they
could use animals for labora-

tory experiments.

The department would
have to be assured that
the researchers were sup-
plying proper care for the
animals, and were not
causing unnecessary pain.

This is not

tionists oppose it.”
“That is correct,”

facilities for them.”
Paper Work

On the other hand, many
it, too,
because they believe it would
add to their load of paper
work. They contend they are
,already treating experimental

researchers oppose

animals humanely.

There is no federal law on-

lma

efiNa?” ‘ ‘ ” ‘ ”11%;:a :

" Charles Darwin

‘ approach to a

. of the Saturday Review and

“anti-vivisec-
tionist” (favoring abolition of
surgery as part of experi-
ments on animals), Clark said
during a Senate discussion of
it recently. “The anti-vivisec-

Mrs.
Neuberger said. “They think
it would encourage research
on animals by providing good

‘NEWES

I-Cruelty Bill Stalled

T FACILITIES OFTEN WIND-OWLESS’

1 Charge Lab Kennels Often Unclean

Animals

Continued from Page One

private laboratory, with no
federal financing, where con-
ditions may be the worst.

good deal of
few months

visitor to a
farm in insville, Va.,
found nheated barn
filled with scores of dogs,
living and dead, with the
bodies of undreds more
heaped up or half buried
outside the barn.

There was a
indignation a
ago when

The farm was a supplier

 

for laboratories, including the
National Institutes of Health:
that use experimental ani-I
mals. l

The Clark-Neuberger bill
would not, in its present
wording, prevent this sort of
operation, since the farm was

laboratory.
Principles

The bill, Mrs. Neuberger
said, “is based on principles
which been used in
Great Britain for more than
80 years. e British Cruel-
ty to Animals Act grew out
of a petition to Parliament
sponsored leading scien-
tists of the day, including
and Thomas
Huxley.
“The British legislation pro-
vided for licensing of indivi-
duals who use animals for ex-
perimental purposes, inspec-
tion of record-keeping by the
government, and minimum
standards of care and com-
fortable housing of animals.
“These are elements which
require inclusion in our own
solution of the
problem.”
ry Articles

quoted ex-
tensively from articles by
Cleveland ry, author and
commentator, in recent issues

Senator

the Saturday Evening Post.
The Saturday Review arti-
cle concluded with a scien-
tist’s statement of “examples
of laboratory cruelty he him-
self had encountered repeat-
edly.

“Operations on unanes-
thetized animals because
anesthesia was inconven-
ent to the investigator; un-
dergraduate students dis-
secting unanesthetized but
drug-immobilized animals
for ‘practice’ in their spare
time; animals in cages too
small to turn around in;
animals dead from thirst
and s ation when their
caretaker over the week-
end had not come to work

 

 

 

and had not notified a sub-
stitute; graduate students
who professed their plea-
sure in performing painful
experiments.”

nit-financed“ ..

Proponents of bills requiring

animals in experiments say
owned by the federal Food

that has spent its entire life since the age of three
months in this tiny cage in the windowless basement of

a U. S. government building.

i
1
|

“Scientists claim, ‘maybe:
we can get a clue by setting
up psychoses in monkeys,’
and they point to a variety of,
contrived emotional strainst
such as depriving infant mon-i
keys of their mothers or de-i
nying cats their sense of i
smell, sight and hearing and
studying their reactions.

“Neuro - psychiatrists arei

searching for answers to emo-

. tional ills through subjectingf

E if they do not push certainl

I

i
l

1

mi

humane treatment of
is a 5-year-old dog,
Drug Administration,

this
and

 

 

i
i
l

l
l
I

l
i

Proponents say this cat must lie down all the time
because the wire floor of its cage in a university re-

search laboratory makes it

impossible for the cat to

stand more than momentarily.

The objection is not to the}
use of animals but only to
“the misuse of God’s crea-
tures,” she added, quoting the
Rt. Rev. LeRoy E. McWil-
liams, president of the Na—
tional Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare.

“A major aim of five bills
before Congress,” she said, “is
to ensure by law proper hous-
ing, care and handling of lab-
oratory animals.

“The upsurge of federal
funds for animal-using re-

destroyed before recovering
consciousness . . . .

Solomon’s Role

“To rule on how much pain
can be afflicted on animals
puts Congress in a true King
Solomon’s position.

“Those who can not sub-
scribe to the philos0phy of
‘the ends justifying the means’
say this:

‘ “ ‘Here is a line; to cross it
into an area of intense agony
18 a sm against God and man.

monkeys, with cathodes im-i
planted in their brains, to con-i
stant electric shock for days!
buttons as they sit in plastic,j_
stockade-like chairs within!\

small closets with solid doors;
Overcrowded ;

“Laboratory kennels arei
often overcrowded, unclean,
poorly ventilated . . . .

“Many institutions that
have built new animal quar-1
ters faired ‘t‘o proVide‘ dog’and“
cat exercise facilities.

“The newest facilities are
often windowless, air condi-
tioned mausoleums of gleam-
ing tile and row on row of
top-quality cages . . . .

Fewer Animals

“Congress can offer —— by
law —— three different steps'
scientists must follow to re-i
duce the number of animals,
used. This, therefore, would‘
reduce aggregate suffering.

I. “Cut down on the repeti-i
tion of experiments by betteri
record-keeping o n animals;
and better communication on:
animal experiments between,
scientists. Some scientists,’
for example, claim it is easier]
to repeat an experiment than!

been done before. . . .

2. “Congress should put
more emphasis on the de-
velopment of substitutes for
vertebrate animals.

“The Food and Drug Ad-
ministration’s recent progress
in using chick embryos to
test effects of pesticides,
food additives and various
chemicals is encouraging. also

 

to find out whether it has,

 

the use of tissue culture as,
a substitute for the whole;
animal is bringing about ad-i
vances in nutrition, study of‘
viruses and serum develop—
ment . . .

3. “Congress could encour-
age better planning and sta-
tistical design of animal-using
experiments so as to cut
down on wasteful use of ani-
mals.

“An independent firm of
. bio-statisticians — Westat Re-
search Analysts — recently
analyzed all animal-using ex-
periments published in the
United States in 1961. It re-
ported that in 74.6 per cent
of the cases better statistical
planning could have reduced

i
i

 

search has found many a
‘new-rich’ recipient franti-
cally getting his animals
from any source, sticking
them away in makeshift
housing.

“One of the bills would bar
' major surgery on experimen-
tal animals without anes-
thesia.

“Another would require
that animals used by stu-
dent surgeons be humanely

We must not allow science to the number of animals.”
walk across this line.’ 0 ° '

. “On the other hand, scien- Members of the Des Moines
tists can exhibit pictures of; Kennel Club and Hawkeye
scalded children who died be-I State Cat Club, Inc., have
gaused no burn therapy hadl voted to Send written re-
5252 t1’leveloped suff1c1ently to ,queStS to Iowa’s senators and

61;!“- tal ‘! representatives asking them
“C en Wards j to support the bills regarding
ongressmen can be taken“ animals - used in laboratory
to wards of mental hospitals experiments.
and shown people of all ages M
who are withdrawn from life.

this subject, and nothing to
prevent use of federal funds
in needlessly cruel labora-
tory experiments. On the
other hand, a complaint
against the bill is that it
would not reach the obscure

Alliance, Inc.:

Animals— “The obvious question-

Continued on Page Nine ‘Are the animals making a
' worthwhile contribution to
research?’ can be an-
swered bv ‘ves.’ ”

Ann Cottrell Free, who has
been described as a foremost
American reporter on animal
welfare, wrote in a recent se-
ries of articles distributed by
North merican Newspaper

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THESE PHOTOGRAPHS AND CAPTIONS ARE PART OF AN
ADVERTISEMENT BEING CIRCULATED BY THE MANUFAC-
TURER OF THESE "MONKEY CHAIRS”. NOTE THAT THEY
ARE RECOMMENDED FOR PERPETUAL USE (MAINTENANCE)
WHETHER OR NOT THE ANIMAL IS BEING EXPERIMENTED
ON. SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE* REPORTS ON USE OF CHAIRS
SUCH AS THESE FOR AN UNINTERRUPTED PERIOD OF
FIVE MONTHS. THIS ADVERTISEMENT RECOMMENDS SUCH
IMMOBILIZATION FOR LIFE.

*"Proceedings of the Animal Care Panel” Vol. 7, No. 2

For further information on legislation to prevent needless suffering of la-
boratory animals, S. 533 (Clark-Neuberger bill) and HR. 5430 (Ashley
bill) write: -

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue.
New York, N. Y. 10022

B. Monkey in Restraining Unit easily transported.

A new monkey restraining unit is now available which incorporates in its design
those teatures so necessary tor the maintenance. manageability and research use of
monkeys. With a minimum of restraint. all the necessary teeding and cleaning
requirements are easily managed. The animal. in its restraining unit. is immediately
available tor research needs and can be rapidly converted from maintenance to
experimental use without the usual stresses on both the laboratory personnel and
the monkey.

The Basic Unit. as pictured in photo A. weighs only five pounds (without base)
yet will accommodate monkeys trom 3 to IE pounds in weight. It is ruggedly con—
structed ot non-corrosive stainless steel and duraluminum. All attachments to the
central pole can be adjusted to any desired position by precision tooled Allen screw
clamps. All parts are treely interchangeable.

C. Waist Piece Apparatus—prevents monkey from rotating and entangling attached
head cables (see also photo B).

Two additional attachments are available. The Waist Piece apparatus (see photos
8 and C) prevents the animal from rotating and entangling any attached head 0"
body cables. The Head Isolation Unit (see photo D) prevents the monkey trom teed.-
ing or reaching his head.

 

This unit has been and is being used successtully in many aspects ot behavioral
research including experimental psychology. neurophysiology and neuropharma-
cology. The obtaining of specimens of blood. urine. teces. etc.. tor micro-biological D. Head Isolation Unit—prevents monkey from reaching head area. Plexiglas tray
and assay techniques is greatly facilitated). slides forward, allowing self feeding when desirable.

 




HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS

A TEACHING AID

The Animal Welfare Institute has prepared a 44-page illustrated manual for high school teachers, which
is available upon request from the Institute.

Entitled "HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS”, it was prepared with the assistance of research scientists
and educators and contains over 100 experiments and demonstrations for teaching and helping students
with their Science Fair projects. With sections on Animal Behavior, Bacteriology, Genetics, Physiology,
Ecology and Conservation, it suggests a few of the myriad humane methods which may be used to teach
high school biology. It is designed to aid the teacher in developing in his students original thinking,
painstaking observation, understanding of scientiﬁc procedures and respect for the rights and feelings of
all forms of life which possess sensibility.

Single c0pies are available without charge to teachers, librarians and others who work in the educa-
tional ﬁeld; others may purchase it at cost, 50 ¢.

Persons who would like to receive a copy of this manual may ﬁll out the blank below, and mail it
to the Animal Welfare Institute.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P- 0. BOX 365'0

‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Please send me one free copy of ”HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS". (I am a teacher.)

NAME

ADDRESS

 

 

SCHOOL

Please send me ............ copies of "HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS" at 50¢ each. I enclose

money order (or check).
NAME

ADDRESS

 

 

 




THE LANCETJ

POINTS OF VIEW

[Nov. 23, 1957 1049

 

Points of View

 

THE STRATEGY AND TACTICS OF
EXPERIMENTATION *
C. W. HUME
M.C., B.Sc. Lond.

SECRETARY-GENERAL, UNIVERSITIES FEDERATION
FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

STRATEGY

Lloyd Morgan put a fox-terrier into a yard enclosed by
a picket fence, and the dog had to ﬁnd an answer to the
question: “ How do I get out of here “I ” His method
was to push his nose between the pickets in one space
after another at random, and eventually he happened to
lift the latch. “This line of attack is called ‘ trial and
error,’ because it consists in trying many leads, most of
which turn out to be false leads or errors? (Woodworth
and Marquis 1949.) It may also be called “ empirical,” in
contrast with the following kind of animal behaviour,
which entails what is called “ insight.” One of Kohler’s
apes, having learnt to hook a banana into his cage with a
long stick. had next to find an answer to the question :
“ How do I get hold of the banana with sticks that are too
short to reach it i? ” In playing with two shorter sticks
which could be ﬁtted together he happened to join them.
He at once ran to the front of his cage and tried the
experiment of reaching for the banana with the compound
stick, an experiment which gave a positive result (Kohler
1925)

Sometimes a research-worker whose mind runs to
empirical or trial-and-e-rror methods will get there in the
end, but the born scientist uses insight; by a kind of
intuition he hits upon a clue, uses the clue to ask himself
the right questions, and then plans experiments to answer
the questions, yes or no. But your trial-and-error-empiri-
cist, like Lloyd Morgan’s terrier pushing his nose industri-
ously into one space after another, does not begin to see
his way to the goal until he has got there.

EMPIRICISM VERSUS INSIGHT IN PHARMACOLOGY

The point may be illustrated by reference to a review
(N ature 1953) of a report written by two pharmacologists
who had screened no fewer than 3500 organic compounds
for action against the tubercle bacillus. The reviewer
commented as follows. The aim, he said, was to discover
or invent “ a chemical remedy which will eradicate, com-
pletely, virulent tubercle bacilli from human tissues
without causing injury to the host cells. The natural
approach for the chemist would be to design or select
molecules likely to become involved in the bacillary
metabolism.” But the authors “ believe that the only
method that offers promise of early success is random
screening, and they do not hesitate to claim that there
should be no basis for selection of compounds other than
availability. The sentence——‘ The random selection of
compounds to be tested should be adhered to as strictly
as possible ’———has a kind of lunatic ﬂavour about it.”

The reviewer continued :

“Finding the chemotherapeutic agent for tuberculosis is
a difficult problem, but it will scarcely help the search to throw
reason to the winds. There are known nowadays a number of
widely different types of molecule of synthetic and natural
origin which exert a considerable suppressive effect on the
tuberculous process in man and in animals. This knowledge
provides a rational starting-point for structural tailoring which
may lead to the production of substances of greater activity
and lower toxicity. Alternatively, an intensive study of the
mechanism by which any one of these substances interferes
with the metabolism of the bacillus may provide an important
clue which would guide further synthesis. This will be a difﬁcult
but perhaps not unrewarding investigation. If a greater

* Read at the UFAW symposium on Humane Technique in
the Laboratory, May 8, 1957.

proportion of the resources which have been used by com-
mercial ﬁrms in screening potential anti-tubercular substances
were diverted to the study of the chemistry and biochemistry
of M ycobacterium tuberculosis, progress would be eventually
more rapid.”

The results of this vast application of the empirical
method were meagre. Of eleven compounds shown to
exert a repressive effect on tuberculosis, no fewer than
ten had already previously been known to have this
property, and the reviewer remarked: “ Since the dis-
covery of activity in these compounds by various workers
was attained by following a lead, however slender, the
heroic empiricism of the method of random selection does
not inspire conﬁdence.”

We must make a distinction between this unjustiﬁably
empirical method of searching for a substance having a
prescribed property, on one hand, and on the other
the testing of a totally new compound to ﬁnd out what
unknown properties it may have. Here a certain amount
of trial and error is perhaps inevitable, though it can be
kept within reasonable limits by means of hard thinking.

EMPIRICISM VERSUS INSIGHT IN GENETICS

Illustrations of the superiority of insighted research
over empirical research might also be drawn from the
history of genetics. At the beginning of this century the
study of heredity was mainly in the hands of the Weldon
school, who were industriously measuring biometrical
correlations and collecting many data which seemed to
get them nowhere in particular. In contrast to these
empiricists, Charles Darwin had earlier put forward
the explanatory hypothesis of pangenesis, which hap-
pened to be untrue but nevertheless stimulated thought.
It was followed by W'eismann’s germ-plasm theory, which
was a better approximation to the truth and served as a
guide to experimentation. But genetics as we know it was
born in 1900, when the rediscovery of Mendel’s principles
made possible an explanatory hypothesis or clue on the
basis of which the decisive experimental work of the
Bateson school could be planned. Prof. V. H. Blackman
(1956) writes of an incident in the controversy that
ensued :

“ At a meeting of the Evolution Committee of the Royal
Society, Weldon had read a paper on the sizes of the carapaces
of a certain population of crabs. Bateson, who considered the
results of no biological importance, when asked by the Chair-
man of the Committee to comment upon Weldon’s contribution
did so in a single devastating sentence: ‘ though all science
might be measurement, all measurement was not necessarily

3”

science .

Professor Blackman adds

“ I may say I have occasionally found it useful to bring
this “dictum before research students, who are sometimes
inclined to believe that so long as they are measuring some-
thing they must be advancing science.”

THINKING AND EXPERIMENTING

I have spoken as if there were a hard-and-fast line
between empirical research, proceeding by trial and
error, and insighted research which follows a clue. In
fact, however, the difference is quantitative rather than
qualitative ; the ratio of the amount of thinking to the
amount of experimenting that goes into an investigation
varies from one worker to another. This ratio was small
in the chemical screening project I have referred to, and
in some of the biometricians’ work on heredity. It was
still smaller in a certain research which was undertaken
with the object of ﬁnding out whether a rat can choose a
balanced diet by instinct. Puriﬁed samples of the various
constituents of a balanced diet, vitamin this and vitamin
that, puriﬁed proteins, and puriﬁed carbohydrates, were
offered to the poor animal in separate saucers, and it was
invited to make its choice without any help from those
blends of smells and tastes or other signs in relation to
which the instinct, if it exists, must have been evolved
in Nature. Needless to say, the unfortunate rat failed in

 




 

1050 THE LANCET]

POINTS OF VIEW

(NOV. 23, 1957

 

his examination, just as we should fail if our papers were
set in some foreign language which we did not under-
stand, but the penalty for failure in his case was harsh.

At the other extreme, the ratio of thinking to experi-
menting was surely maximal when, Archimedes, medi-
tating in his bath, hit upon the hydrostatic principle;
this was the occasion when he ran home through the streets
with nothing on, shouting “ Heureka ” (which was not
his wife’s name, as a schoolgirl once supposed). The
somewhat similar course followed by a modern crystallo-
grapher in inferring from a few X -ray diffraction patterns
the structure of a complicated organic crystal, which may
have as many as 100 different parameters, has been
described thus by Sir Lawrence Bragg (1948) :

“ The analyst has before him the separate bits of a jigsaw
puzzle and he has to ﬁt them together . . . In making guesses
at possible arrangements he draws on a wealth of experience . . .
I can well remember the intense concentration. One lived
with the structure. I am tempted to say one ate, slept and
shaved with it. Finally, after six months or longer, and if
one were fortunate, everything suddenly clicked into place . . .
The successful analysis of one structure often leads to a quite
new understanding of a whole range of forms . . . It is all
the more important that really key structures should be
chosen for examination, as likely ventures in which it is
justiﬁable to sink one’s capital.”

WASTEFUL USE OF ANIMALS

What has all this got to do with kindness to laboratory
animals “I Just this : empirical methods are wasteful of
experimental material. So long as the worst that happens
is that large quantities of expensive chemicals are
poured down the drain, nobody need worry except the
man who pays for the chemicals; and as a matter of
fact most of the 3500 compounds which were screened in
the research I mentioned above were tested in vitroﬁL
But empirical methods are equally wasteful when
animals are used, and in experiments on animals ethical
requirements demand, even more strongly than does
scientiﬁc virtuosity, that an experimenter should not be
content with pedestrian empiricism but should plan his
experiments in the light of a great deal of preliminary
hard thinking. First he will assemble any relevant data
which may already be available ; secondly he will formu-
late tentatively, by intuition and hard thinking, a provi—
sional hypothesis which may explain these data ; thirdly
he will deduce from this hypothesis some implications
that can be tested by experiment ; fourthly he will design
experiments to test these implications, and consult a
statistician if he is not sure of his design being maximally
efﬁcient ; and ﬁnally he will evaluate his results. Unless
his intuition has been exceptionally lucky, he will then
have to see what modiﬁcations of his initial explanatory
hypothesis are called for.

The difference between the planning of a fully efficient
experiment at one extreme, and pedestrian empiricism at
the other, is like the difference between the behaviour of
Kohler’s ape and that of Lloyd Morgan’s terrier. It is
also like the difference between precision bombing of a
military target and the system in which a substantial
area surrounding the target is saturated with bombs.2
The precision bomber hits the mark with minimum civilian
damage and waste of ammunition, and a well-planned
experiment uses the minimum number of laboratory
animals that will yield the required information with the
appropriate degree of precision.

 

1. To forestall comment I quote the following :

f‘ Cycloserine . . . although fairly active in vitro, was found to be
inactiye in _mouse and guinea-pig tuberculosis and other infec-
tions in animals. It would normally have been rejected, but
owing to Its Virtual lack of toxicity in animals it was tried
clinically and found to be highly effective in man. This raises
the question as to whether the in viva results in animals are
any more reliable than the somewhat discredited in vitro
technique for the assessment of the value of a new antibiotic.”
(Nature 1957.)

2. Saturation bombing intended to destroy the railway bridge

at Avignon killed between 1000 and 2000 civilians but
left the bridge intact.

 

There is some evidence that the empirical approach is
characteristic of pre-adolescence : children aged 8—12
years were found to adopt it in solving a simple mechani-
cal problem, while children aged 12—15 years adOpted
an insighted approach (Piaget 1953).

TACTICS

“ The theory of statistics enables an experiment to be
planned so that the maximum of information may be
obtained from a limited number of observations, and
conversely it serves to minimise the number of observa-
tions required for a given conclusion ; it has thus
a humane advantage in experiments which impose any
degree of hardship on experimental animals. Formerly
the biologist’s only resource for increasing precision was
to use more animals, but R. A. Fisher and his school have
created a new and powerful technique which has revolu-
tionised the inductive method in this respect. Statistical
theory enables the cogency of an inductive inference to
be measured. It enables the whole of the generalizable
information implicit in a given set of observations to be
extracted from them, together with a Speciﬁcation of the
degree of reliance to be rested upon it.” (Hume 1947a.)

It is not only among biologists that a simple faith in
very large samples used to be found. I well remember
how, in the early days of relativity, a physicist repeated
the Michelson-Morley experiment, a laborious process,
no fewer than 12,500 times, and believed that he had
disproved Einstein’s theory. All that he had really done,
it seems, was to measure the systematic error of his
apparatus (Science 1926; but cf. Rev. mod. Phys. 1933).

In the case of biology, the use of hundreds of animals in
a blindfold quest for precision is mere blundering in the
dark, and the precision of an experiment could even be
impaired by increasing the size of the sample. if this
should entail having to take in a more heterogenous
stock.

THE NULL HYPOTHESIS

Fisher’s work is based on a concept which he calls
“ likelihood,” by which is meant the probability, as
calculated from a given hypothesis, that a given experi-
mental result should be obtained.

Thus, you formulate a hypothesis and propose to test
it by the result of an experiment. For this purpose you
would wish to calculate deductively from your hypothesis
the likelihood that your experiment would yield those
observations which it has in fact yielded, so that hence
you might draw a conclusion as to the probable rightness
0r wrongness of your hypothesis. But here a difﬁculty
arises, and Fisher’s solution of it is the foundation of his
tests of signiﬁcance. The difﬁculty in question is that
usually your hypothesis will not imply any particular
numerical value for the likelihood of finding a given
experimental result. For instance. suppose the hypothesis
to be that a given dose of an antibiotic affords protection
against a given species of bacteria, and suppose that the
experimental result shows a certain proportion of suc-
cesses to failures. The hypothesis tells nothing about the
probability of there being such a proportion of successes
to failures, since it does not entail any frequency-distri-
bution. Fisher’s master stroke is to substitute for this
primary hypothesis its contrary, which he calls the null
hypothesis ”—that is to say, the hypothesis that the
observations are to be explained as the effect not of the
antibiotic but of random unidentiﬁable. factors. This null
hypothesis does provide a basis for calculating the likeli-
hood that the observations obtained, together with any
more unlikely sets of observations. should have occurred
by chance; and if it is found that the Experimental
results are unlikely to have been due to chance, as the
null hypothesis supposes them to have been. then that
hypothesis is rejected and the primary hypothesis 1s
taken to be correspondingly likely. In other words. the
result of the experiment is taken to be significant.




 

THE LANCET]

 

LEVELS OF SIGNIFICANCE

At what level of unlikelihood should the null hypothesis
be rejected and the result of the experiment be accord-
ingly treated as signiﬁcant “2 The choice of such a level
of signiﬁcance is somewhat arbitrary, but in practice it
has been found satisfactory to work to a level of either
5% or 1%, and it is for these levels that statistical tables
are usually included in the textbooks. In other words, the
result of an experiment is taken to be signiﬁcant if the
odds are 19 to 1 or 99 to 1, as the case may be, against
that result, or any more extreme result, being due to
chance. No scientiﬁc conclusion is ever certain; every
experimenter runs a calculable risk of attributing to an
assigned cause what might in fact have been due to
chance~-—i..e., to the random effect of undetermined fac-
tors. How great is this risk ”I A man who habitually works
to a level of: signiﬁcance of 5% will make this mistake, on
the average, once in every twenty experiments, One who
works to 1% will do so only once in every hundred
experiments.

MATHEMATICS COULD HAVE SAVED MICE
Let us apply these considerations, by way of example,
to one of a series of tests actuz-illy carried out on an anti-
biotic. Thc object of this particular test was to ascertain
whether a certain. (lose would protect mice against
Clostriclium septicum, and the result is shown in table I.
Although common sense will tell us by inspection that

TABLE r--~'1‘Es'r OF AN ANTIBIOTIC AGAINST Clostridium septicum
WITH FIFTY MICE

 

 

 

 

 

I
Died ; Survived i Total
Controls . . l 15 ‘ O i 25
Treated , 1 T 24 “ 25
,_._..- . maywmm~7 . —#._l 1, 4
Total . . l 26 j 24 l 50

this result was highly signiﬁcant, let us calculate a
nuniierical test of signiﬁcance to see whether a smaller
number of animals would have sufﬁced. Using Fisher’s
exact method 3 of calculation (Kendall 1943, Fisher 1944,
Hume 1947b), we ﬁnd that the result shown in table I
is signiﬁcant at a level of about 1 in 5,000,000,000,000.
In other words, if the experimenter were to repeat his
experiment, which took 10 days, continuously once
during each subsequent 10 days, he might expect to make
a mistake, by attributing to the antibiotic what could also
have been due to chance, once in every 135,000,000,000
years approximately.

Now let us suppose that ten mice had been used
instead of ﬁfty. The odds are 4 : 1 that the result would
have been as shown at (A) in table II, though it might
have been as shown at (B). In the ﬁrst case it would have
been signiﬁcant at a level of about 04% (P:0'004), and
in the second case at about 21/204, (P20‘025). If, then,
an experimenter continued to repeat the test every 10
days, how often would he be likely, on the average, to

 

{The formula is as follows, the numerals in the numerator
being taken from the marginal totals and those in the
denominator from the grand total and the observed

 

frequencies:
- -13
P: ~26!><24!><25!><25! :26IX25!:2X10
50!><24!><1!><0!><25! 50!

.Where 0! = 1!: 1, and the values of the remaining factorials
are given in Fisher and Yates’ table XXX. If the smallest
frequency had not been zero, it would have been necessary
to take the following further steps. Reduce the smallest
frequency by unity, and so adjust the remaining frequen-
cies that the marginal totals are unchanged.‘ Recalculate
the likelihood for this new 2 X 2 table. Repeat this opera-
tion, reducing the smallest frequency each time by umty
and keeping the marginal totals unchanged, until the
smallest frequency becomes zero. The ﬁducial probability
P for the original 2 X 2 table is then equal. to the sum of
all the likelihoods so obtained, one for each 2 X 2 table.

POINTS OF VIEW

[Nov. 23, 1957 1051

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE II—THE SAME TEST WITH TEN MICE, IF THE ONE
FAILURE WAS (A) LATE OR (B) EARLY
————~~»—~—,~w—._ (A) (B )

— l Died i Survived Total Died Survived Total
Controls .. 5 0 5 5 0 ' 5
Treated .. 0 5 5 1 4 5
Totals 5 5 10 6 4 10

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

attribute to the antibiotic an effect which might also be
due to chance “2 Allowing for the 4 : 1 probability men-
tioned above, we ﬁnd that with ten mice per sample
he would risk making this mistake once every 3% years.
With twelve mice he would make it once every 101/2 years.

Thus about four-ﬁfths of the mice used in this test
were unnecessary. The test was one of a series giving
similarly uniform responses, with results of roughly the
same order of signiﬁcance. Moreover death from gas-
gangrene is not pleasant. But it is easy to guess how the
use of this excessive number of animals must have come
about. The conventional way of testing such tables is
to use x2, and the published tables of x2 would entirely
fail to reveal the wastage that was occurring. Unfortun-
ately Fisher’s exact test is but little used, though the com-
putation it entails is not laborious in cases of this sort if
the table of factorials be used. When we bear in mind
the enormous number of mice used every year, we can
guess at the humanitarian advantage that might accrue
from an extended use of the tools which statisticians
have put into the hands of biologists.

CHOICE OF SAMPLE—SIZE

How can an experimenter decide, before carrying out
an experiment, how many animals he should use if he is
to avoid wasting them on meaningless precision, and yet
be pretty sure of obtaining a signiﬁcant result if the effect
he is looking for really exists”? Usually an experiment
does not stand alone but forms part of a series; for
instance, the experiment cited above formed part of a
series of similar tests on the same antibiotic. In such a
case experience can enable a roughly suitable decision to
be made. A. H. J. Baines has given an exact solution for
the particular case of a variance ratio (Hume 1947c), but
the whole problem has not, so far as I am aware, been
fully explored by statisticians.

Economy in sampling might be achieved at any desired
level of signiﬁcance by the method of serial sampling or
sequential analysis, but hitherto this has not been exten-
sively tried out in biology (Finney 1955).

THE ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE

Precision can be greatly increased, and the requisite
number of animals per sample correspondingly reduced,
by an appropriate use of the analysis of variance. For
instance,

“ Up to ﬁvefold or sixfold increases in precision have been
reported as a result of segregating differences between indivi-
dual animals in assays of coal-tar antipyretics in cats and
parathyroid extracts in dogs. Twofold to threefold increases
in precision as the result of the elimination of differences
between litters in the assay of Vitamin D in rats were indicated
by Bliss.” (Emmens 1948a.)

The simplest design of this kind is the randomised block
(Fisher 1942a, Finney 1955).

FACTORIAL DESIGN

The factorial design of experiments, developed by Sir
Ronald Fisher (1942a) and further elaborated by F. Yates
and others primarily for use in agronomy, has been applied
also in the laboratory It has the humanitarian advantage
that, if properly used, it greatly reduces the number of
animals required for producing a given amount of informa-
tion, and it has the scientiﬁc advantages of indicating the
interactions between different treatments and of providing
a broad basis for inductive inference. It differs from
earlier experimental methods in that, instead of a single

 




1052 THE LANCET]

POINTS OF VIEW

[NOV. 23, 1957

 

factor being varied while all other conditions are kept
constant, two or more factors are varied simultaneously,
subject to certain precautions against the confounding
of the effects of any factor with those of other factors.
The factors may be treatments, such as different drugs
given at various dose levels, or they may be such
things as litters, strains, cages, or other environmental
conditions.

To avoid confounding the effects of different factors,
each level of every factor must be combined with each
level of every other factor. If, however, all possible com-
binations of factors were made———if each level of every
factor were to be combined with every- possible combina-
tion of the various levels of the other factorswthen,
instead of an economy in sampling being effected, the
number of observations entailed would increase rapidly as
the number of factors increased, and would quickly
become enormous. Fisher has overcome this difficulty
by using Latin and Graico-Latin squares. By this device
one or more of the interactions between factors are con-
founded with the error and are sacriﬁced, but the main
effects need never be confounded. Thus at least as much
information is got as with the one- factor method, and

usually more information, and meanwhile the requisite
number of observations is greatly reduced.

Economy can be effected by doing a factorially designed
experiment with a single Latin square in the ﬁrst instance.
The result may be conclusive, but if it is not—~—if, for
instance, it yields a level of signiﬁcance of 7 or 1093—41;
can be repeated with a different Latin square of the same
set, and if necessary with further such squares. until by
combining the results a decision tan be reached. In other
words, it is possible to adopt a sort of sequential sampling
by means of successive Latin squares, and stop when the
combined results become decisive.

A COMMON FALLACY

It seems desirable to call attention here to a common
fallacy which arises from the obvious fact that results
obtained with a single homogeneous sample may, for all
we know, be peculiar to the strain from which the sample
was taken. The fallacy consists in supposing that in order
to obtain a broad inductive basis a heterogeneous stock
should be used. It would be as if you were to estimate
the value of a pocketful of silver by counting the coins as
coins, without sorting the sixpences, shillings, and half-
crowns. The proper procedure 1s, of course, to use several
different homogeneous samples, by using a plurality of
pure lines (or preferably Fl crossbreeds), and to allow
for the variance between samples; for otherwise the
experimenter deprives himself of the possibility of
making a relatively precise estimate of the error (Fisher
1942b).

MISSING OBSERVATIONS

N ow-what happens to a factorial experiment if one or
more of the observations are lost 6! Suppose, for instance,
that one of the animals is found to be suffering severe
pain, so that it becomes an obligation of honour, as well
as of humanity, that it should be painlessly killed in
accordance with the terms 011 which a Home Office licence
has been accepted. Is the whole experiment lost? No,
for the whole of the information provided by the remain-
ing observations can be recovered by means of the
principle of least squares (Fisher 1942c, Emmens 1948b,
Wright 1956) and the only information lost is then the
information which would have been contributed by the
lost observation itself.

TWO QUESTIONS

In relation to the methods of estimating quantities by
means of regressions—4n bioassay for instance—I should
like to invite consideration of two questions.

(1) A great many assays depend on the determination
of an E. D. 50 or an L. 1). 50———that 1s, on a quantal response

which entails the counting of al-l or- nothing events
(deaths and survivals). That quantal methods are
statistically inferior to those which use a continuous
variate is recognised by statisticians (Emmens 1948c).
It is technically preferable, therefore, to use wherever
possible a continuous variate such as body temperature,
a reaction-time, the weight of body or organs, the pulse-
rate, or an analysis of blood or urine, rather than a dis-
continuous variate such as a count of deaths and survivals ;
and meanwhile, from a humane point of view, it is desir-
able to avoid using death as the end- -point if some pleasan-
ter technique can be found One cannot help wondering
how far the extensive use of the 50%-survival test is a
hangover due to habit and custom, and whether suitable
continuous variates have been sought as diligently as
could be desired. Even for testing toxicity with an L.D. 50,
death might not be the only possible end-point that could
be chosen if the phenomena of the moribund state were
to be adequately analysed.

(2) At what level of precision should an assay be
made ’5 A drug will usually be assayed with a View to its
use in clinical practice, and in clinical practice the
response to a given dose varies greatly from patient to
patient. While a few glasses of port may put the parson
under the table, his friend the squire may be a three-bottle
man. In other words, the clinical response to a drug may
be expected to vary very widely between patients. Is
there any point in assaying batches of pharmaceutical
products with a precision high enough to be swamped
by the variance of the clinical response which will be
found in practice "when the product is put to the uses for
which it has been manufactured ’?

Let the prescribed dose of a given drug be P ; let the
optimum dose for a given patient be D; and let the dose
actually given be G. The error in the dose given is (D G),
the error in the prescription Hie, the deviation of. the
prescribed dose from the dose which would be optimal
for that particular patient is (1)» P), and the error in
the assay is (Pr—G). Now

var(D—G) : var(Dv-P) + var( P—G) ;

thus if the response varies greatly from patient to patient,
so that var(I)—P) is large, any minute precision in the
assay, making var(P G) small, will be swamped by the

variance of the patient’s response, and no advantage to
the patient will accrue from it. For example, if the
standard error of the prescription is 10 mg. and that of
the assay is 1 mg., doubling the error of the assay will
increase the error of the dose given by only 11/20/0.

The question arises, therefore, whether some of the
standards laid down by regulation under the Therapeutic
Substances Act are not unrealistic; whether, in fact,
a proportion of the animals used in that connection
are not wasted.

REFERENCES

Blackman, V. II. (19:16) J. exp. Biol. 7, 9.
Bragg, L. (1948) Adz-am Suﬁ. Land. 4 168.
Emn1ens,(. \V. (1948.1) I’iinciples of BiologicalAssay; §19. 4. London.
—- (19481))ibid. §9 4.
- (1948c) )iln'd. §19 1.
F inney 1). .I. (19: 1: '1) Experimental Design and its Statistical Basis ;
§ 4 8. London.
Fisher 11. A. (1942.1) The Design of Experiments; ch. 6. Edinburgh.
~—~ (1942b) ibid. § 39.
ﬁ~ (194210171121. § 581.
g (1944) Statistical Methods for p. 96
Edinburgh.
Hume, ( \\ (1947a) in. I 1 1w Handbook on the Care and Manage-
ment of Laboratory1 Animals; 1). 286.
>——- (19471011111 11. 3 1"1.
r-~- (1947c)'1bi(l. p. 343.
Kendall, M. H. (1943) The Advanced Theory of Statistics;
11.. 304. London.
Kiihlei, (192: '1) The Mentality of .Apes
JVaturc, Loml. (19:13) 172, 322, 3‘23
—~ (1957) 179
Piaget, J. (19:33) Logic and Psychology ; p. 19. Manchester.
li’cr’icw of Modern. Physiology (1933) 5, 203.
Science (1926) 63, 105, 436.
Tippett, L. H. (.‘. (1941) The Methods of Statistics. London.
VVoodworth, 11.52, Marquis, I). G. (1949) Psychology; p. 493. New

York.
\Vright, G. M. (1956) Nature, Lond. 178, 1481.

Research Workers ;

vol. I,

s; p. 132. New York.

 




Pethood

Pethood is a way of life dogs and cats adapt to
readily. Certainly it’s a good life for most, with
plenty of nourishing food and fresh water, a warm,
dry place to sleep, medical care when needed and,
of course, your affection.

Your dog or cat responds to these favors by making
you and your family the center of its devotion. A
well-trained canine or feline companion does its
best to please you, and willingly accepts certain
rules of “socialization.” Your dog learns to accept
housebrea king and not to chew up your socks. Your
cat learns not to climb on the draperies or claw the
furniture. But learning to control their mating
instincts is something pets cannot do.

Aside from the possibilities of an unwanted preg-
na ncy and litter, there are several aspects of a dog’s
or cat’s natural reproductive processes and mating
instincts which interfere with the joys of pethood
for both pet and owner. For example, you may have
already endured the nervous pacing and plaintive
meowing of a female cat “in heat.” Perhaps you’ve

Parenthood

The transition from pethood to parenthood brings
about a new way of life for most dogs and cats. In
spite of what many people think, motherhood does
not “round out” a pet’s personality. As a mother,
your pet must divide her affection between you and
her litter. This may make her irritable and hard to
get along with. And parenthood for your pet really
means parenthood for you, too. You must share the
burden of caring for the newcomers, particularly

if they become ill or have other problems their
mother can’t cope with.

More importantly, you must find a good home for
each new kitten or pup. No one really knows how
many dogs and cats are born in the US. each year,
but the numbers are staggering. Estimates range
from 2,000 to 10,000 an hour— roughly 5 to 25
times the human birth rate. In other words, a total
of from 17 to 90 million dogs and cats are born each
year. But because there are only about 48 million
families in the entire country, increasing numbers
of these animals are finding themselves homeless.
Even if you find someone to adopt each of your

Surgical Neutering

What is it? ,
To accomplish surgical neutering, a veterinarian
removes certain reproductive organs. If your cat or
dog is a female, the veterinarian will remove her
ovaries, fallopian tubes and uterus. The proper
name for this operation is an ovariohysterectomy,
although it is commonly called “spaying.”

The testicles are removed from a male animal. This
operation is properly called an orchiectomy, al-
though it is usually referred to as castration, or
simply “neutering.”

What are the advantages?

For you, the operation results in added convenience.
It eliminates blood stains on carpets and floors, and
usually stops tomcats from spraying strong-smelling
urine on furniture and drapes. You’ll no longer have
annoying or menacing suitors to contend with.
There’s no need to confine your pet during “heat”
periods, and no unwanted litters to take care of or
find homes for. Your pet will be more likely to stay
home and devote attention to you and your family.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
had to remove blood stains from your carpet or
cope with unwelcome males during your female
pet’s “heat” periods. Or is your tomcat one of the
many that has developed the annoying habit of
spraying foul-smelling urine on furniture and
draperies to “stake out his territory”?

Your male pet’s desire for romance may make him
break loose and get into trouble. Even if these prob-
lems are under control, your pet may be frustrated
if you block its mating instincts.

Fortunately, most of these problems and frustra-
tions, along with the possibility of unwanted litters,
can be eliminated by surgically removing certain
reproductive organs. The result—a happier, health-
ier pethood for your dog or cat, and an easier life
for you. But your pet can’t decide to have an
operation. You must choose.

pet’s offspring, every pup or kitten you place elim-
inates a potential home for some other animal.

Most animal shelters are overflowing with unwanted
cats and dogs. Usually these agencies do well to
find a home for 1 or 2 out of 10. The millions that
cannot be placed in homes must be humanely
killed. The fate of those that don’t find their way to
shelters is even more unpleasant. Left to fend for
themselves, many abandoned animals die of starva-
tion and disease. Others are killed by automobiles
or poison, or injured by wild animals.

Your pet’s search for parenthood could lead to
similar circumstances. On the loose, it may eat
garbage or drink contaminated water. Courting
males— particularly tomcats—often fight and injure
each other. Females that become pregnant may
have to endure a difficult delivery or birth complica-
tion without assistance. And even if she never
becomes a parent, your unspayed female is more
prone to develop uterine infections and mammary
cancer. These are some of the factors you should
consider carefully before choosing parenthood

for your pet.

For dogs and cats, surgical neutering eliminates a
female’s chances of developing uterine infections
and reduces the possibility that she might develop
mammary cancer. Males usually become less
aggressive and spend more time at home, thus de
creasing their chances of being injured in fights or
automobile accidents.

Your community also will benefit. Unwanted animals
are becoming a very real concern in many places.
Stray animals can easily become a public nuisance,
soiling parks and streets, ruining shrubbery, fright-
ening children and elderly people, creating noise
and other disturbances, causing automobile acci-
dents, and sometimes even killing livestock or

other pets.

As a potential source of rabies and other less serious
diseases, they can be a public health hazard. The
capture, impoundment and eventual destruction of
unwanted animals costs taxpayers and private
humanitarian agencies millions of dollars each year.

Will it change my pet’s intelligence or disposition?

Only for the better. The operation has no effect
on intelligence. And most neutered pets tend to be

 




more gentle and affectionate. They become less
interested in other animals and spend more time
with the family.

Will it make my pet fat?

Removing the ovaries or testicles does affect
metabolism. This seems to make many neutered
pets put on weight more easily if permitted to over-
eat. The diet of every cat and dog should be care-
fully regulated to prevent excess weight, and this is
particularly true after a neutering operation.

Is the operation painful?

Spaying and neutering Operations are performed
painlessly while your pet is under general anes-
thesia. After the surgery there may be some dis-
comfort, but this is part of the normal healing
process and can be controlled with medication.

When should my pet have the operation?

Generally speaking, as early as possible. Most
veterinarians recommend that a female be spayed
before her first estrus or “heat" period (around 6
months of age). A male dog or a tomcat can be
neutered at 6 months to a year old. Your veterinarian
can recommend the best time for your pet.

Even if your pet never has a litter, she could develop
“female disorders” that would require surgery
similar to or even more serious than spaying.

What are the alternatives?

The oldest (and in some respects the easiest) way
to prevent mating is to keep your pet confined
during its fertile periods. Once they reach sexual
maturity, male animals can mate any time they are
not confined.

Females can become pregnant only during their
estrus or “heat” periods. These cycles usually occur
twice a year in dogs, and at least two or three times
a year in cats. Many cats “come into heat" as often
as once every 2 or 3 weeks during certain months.

Since pets are capable of mating so much of the
time, confinement is not particularly convenient

for the owner. It also does nothing to eliminate such
problems as spotting and spraying, or susceptibility
to uterine infection and mammary cancer.

Veterinary medical scientists are working to develop
a “pill” or some other convenient method of birth
control for pets. Hopefully a safe, effective chemical,

Choose
for your
pet. . .

 

 

 

 

 

nue, Chicago 60605 . (312) 922-7930

 

 

 

w lW

‘ t ‘Z,. ..
X‘s-3“???" at x 1

ii.”

4 ' i
\{If‘zf Iifl/Lﬁlyf/

«WW

 

ls the operation expensive?

Professional fees for spaying and neutering reflect
the skill and education of the surgeon, the facilities
available and the difficulty of the procedures in-
volved. The actual fee varies from one area to
another, depending largely on the economics of
maintaining a veterinary hospital in a particular
community. The size, age, sex and health of your
pet also affect the cost of the operation.

If the fee seems high, remember that surgical
neutering is permanent. It’s a life-time investment
in your pet that can solve a number of problems for
you, your pet and a society already burdened with
too many dogs and cats. In fact, it could save you
money in the long run. The cost of boarding your
pet during just one or two “heat” periods, for exam-
ple, probably would pay for an ovariohysterectomy.

A litter—wanted or unwanted —-also means added
expenses. A nursing mother needs extra food and
care, and once weaned, the offspring must be fed
as well. New pups and kittens also need inocula-
tions and they may have to be treated for parasites.

or perhaps an intrauterine device will be available
soon. But at present the only other sure way to keep
your pet from mating is to have it surgically neutered.

Will it stop the “pet population explosion”?

Spaying and neutering pets should help reduce the
problem of surplus cats and dogs, but surgery alone
is not enough. Unowned animals are a major part
of the problem. In addition to creating a public
nuisance and possible health hazard, stray dogs
and cats give birth to unwanted pups and kittens

at an alarming rate.

Many communities have tremendously reduced or
nearly eliminated their unwanted animal popula-
tions simply by enforcing existing animal control
regulations. Others have come to grips with the
problem by passing more stringent laws and en-
forcing them rigidly.

As a concerned citizen, you should do everything
you can to see that leash laws and other animal
control regulations in your community are up to
date and adequately enforced. And, as a respon-
sible pet owner, you should make sure your pet
does not contribute to the problem.

Bafihmmd
‘ or
f?“ renfnoad

 




A QUESTION OF VALUE

By DOROTHY THOMPSON

Afew months ago the British Advisory Committee
of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare complained to the American ambassador regarding
an article describing experiments on live animals being
Carried out in the biology courses of American public
schools. Because of the very close relations that exist
between this country and Great Britain, and the Amer-
icanizing inﬂuence on British cultural life, this com-
mittee felt moved to scotch something that might spread
outside our borders.

The article that occasioned the protest revealed that
the National Science Teachers Association in Washing-
ton is encouraging certain practices. Its author, a biol.
ogy teacher in a Buffalo, New York, high school, wrote
of blowing pepper, dusts and smoke into the lungs of
mice to provoke ”violent shutting off of the glottis”;
toxicity tests to find out what dose of nicotine will kill
animals; substitution of external artiﬁcial hearts; and
routine and periodic transfers of cancer cells to healthy
animals. These tests are carried out by teen-agers, and
the simplest of them are practiced even in the lower
grades in some schools.

The teacher-author of the article also reported stu-

dent reactions. NSurgical procedures are especially

thrilling to pupils. After the ﬁrst few weeks there is an

amazing absence of squeamishness and fear. In fact, it

frequently surprises me to see the avidity with which

pupils plunge into the dissection of rats, mice, rabbits

and dog sharks.”

The pupils, we are told, are never allowed to give
names to animals. "I prefer to have the pupils develop
an impersonal and objective attitude. It is too easy to
become emotionally attached and thus strongly disturbed
at seeing a °friend’ handled directly.”

I have italicized certain words in this teacher’s ac-
count, in which I think be quite unwittingly reveals a
good deal. It clearly demonstrates the unintelleetual
approach of adolescents to experimentation on live ani-
mals and records a reversal of normal emotions. Pupils
start by being squeamish, but in a few weeks they find
the work, not soberly interesting or important but
thrilling; they plunge into dissection of living creatures
with avidity once their normal ("too easy”) emotional
attachments to living creatures are suppressed. They
are then no longer strongly disturbed, but excited and
titillated.

Now, I maintain—and I think most psychiatrists

would—that there is

 




something slightly deranged about these ado-
lescent thrills and avidities. It is unnatural for
the young to mistreat animals. An infant’s
ﬁrst toys are usually representations of cuddly
animals. The growing child is given pets in
order to nurture in him loving and protective
instincts. The physical balance between ag-
gressive and protective instincts is established
by the child’s being the recipient and giver of
affection. Many children (and perhaps most
of them) feel toward an animal smaller than
themselves and dependent on their care a
greater tenderness than they feel toward hu-
man beings. We have all seen illustrations of
this. Last summer I saw a ﬁve-year—old in the
midst of enjoyable play suddenly clap his
hands to his head and cry, “I forgot to feed.
my rabbit!” He insisted on rushing home, de-
lighted to ﬁnd his “Peter Bunny” scampering
healthily about his pen; but feeding him oats,
the child murmured loving apologies to the
little creature, patting him tenderly as he fed
him.

A few years later, while still in elementary
school, this same child may be conducting a
“cookbook experi-
ment” on mice, guinea
pigs or rabbits, depriv-
ing half of them of pro-
teins or carbohydrates
and feeding the others
a balanced diet, to prove
what any child can be
taught without such
scientiﬁcally worthless
cruelties; that a diet of
nothing but sugar will
kill animals and pro
sumably humans. Or he
may be, as a Pennsyl-
vania high. school re-
ports, conducting re-
search into the effects of
high-voltage radiation
on mice, deliberately in-
ducing damage to the
tissues and organs of the
animals, without adding
a jot or tittle to knowl-
edge already possessed.

Afterward he will cut
up his victims for exam-
ination.

Or he may have the
experience that caused
one. sensitive high-
school girl to become
sick and rush from the»
class, when a half-anes-
thetized kitten being
“surgically” dissected started to scream—as
did the pupil.

We read of a sixteen-year-old girl whose
hand trembles while injecting cancerous tissue
hypodermically into a mouse, but who is
eventually rendered sufﬁciently cold-blooded.

In one case the youngsters put up cardboard
tombstones over their consciously starved vic-
tims—in this case “The wrong ones died. I
guess we needed something else,” a pupil re-
marked indifferently.

This is not scientiﬁc experimentation. It is
merely demonstration of facts already estab-
lished.

One eighteen-year-old high-school student
was greatly praised for making Siamese twins
out of two rats. She is ambitious to become a
surgeon. But medical colleges, with a great
deal of psychological insight as well as intel-
lectual experience, do not admit immature
.students. One must have completed two years
of college before beginning even premedical
training.

The medical student is indoctrinated with
Albert Schweitzer’s “reverence for life.” He is
concentrated, not on experimenting for experi-
mentation’s sake but on ﬁnding ways to save
and prolong life and health. If he is not, he
never will be a good doctor. I am not an anti-
vivisectionist, like George Bernard Shaw, who
quite falsely claimed that nothing had been
added to knowledge of the treatment of
disease in both humans and animals by
vivisection. The National Academy of Sciences
lays down, however, strict principles of lab-
oratory-animal care which are unlikely to be

completely observed in schools—and, alas, not
always in adult laboratories. Some children
and youth, for instance, are encouraged to
take home animals in order to pursue their
demonstrations (without supervision) in their
own basements and back yards. Well, I see by
the papers that ﬁve teen-age boys recently
killed four rabbits by igniting ﬁrecrackers in
their ears. For this they were hauled into court.
But they also conducted an “experiment”
which at least induced in their victims in—
stantaneous death and proved beyond per—
adventure of a doubt that explosions in the
head are fatal!

lll-l'ie case histories of delinquents of brutal or
homicidal tendencies often reveal that cruelties
and brutalities were ﬁrst performed on cats,
dogs or other animals.

Who are behind these cruel animal experi-
ments conducted by children and teen—agers in
schools? Not, it would seem, outstanding
scientists, and least of all outstanding psychia-
trists. Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, assistant dean
of Ohio State University and president of the
American Academy for the Advancement of

Science, recently wrote:

“It seems to me that it
is wise to avoid getting
our youngsters so en-
thused over biological
sciences that they are
anxious to undertake ex-
tensive animal experi-
mentation without the
background, the experi-
ence, the judgment, or
the wisdom that is nec-
essary in handling ani-
mals appropriately for
complicated biological
experimentation .
there is plenty of biology
to be gotten from a study
of unicellular organisms
that can readily be ob-
tained in any high-
school laboratory and
handled and followed
with skill and conven-
ience.”

There is also vastly
more that can be learned
by the study of plants
and animals as the nat-
uralist studies them, on
the spot and in their
native environments—
as the great Louis Agas-
siz studied them, adding
with his notes and his

sketches immeasurably to our sensitivity, our
knowledge and our sense of the beauty and
wonder of life. Biology is the science of or-
ganic life, and before the young student begins
tearing every petal from the ﬂower and cutting
up living animals to see what makes them
tick there should be encouraged in him those
naturalist studies that awaken him to such awe
and wonder. So to learn, the child and youth
need not live in the country. John Kieran, in
his delightful The Natural History of New
York City, has explored the teeming native
life of America’s greatest metropolis. Glen
Rounds, with his sensitively minute observa-
tions of the life of animals and insects, lifts
biology into the realm of humanistic studies——
and the two, science and humanism, must be
closely conjoined if science is not to prove to
be a curse to the human race. It is still true, as
William James said in The Varieties of Reli-
gious Experience : ‘ ‘Strong intellect needs strong
sympathies to keep life steady.”

If there is any doubt about this, it would be
well to reconsider one of the still insuﬂiciently
explored phenomena of our age; namely, the
frightful atrocities inﬂicted upon human be-
ings by the German Nazi regime. These did
not happen in a primitive country; they bear
no psychological resemblance to the horrible
cannibalistic and other rites performed by
savage African tribes; they occurred in the
most scientiﬁcally advanced nation of EUrope,
and they were actually committed in the name
of science, of eugenical science, “the elimina-
tion of the racially unﬁt,” and later as tests
of what the human body could endure under
certain circumstances. The medical experiments

required the active collaboration of scientists
and physicians. There was nothing wrong with
German brains under the Nazis; if there had
been, they could not have conducted the or-
ganization necessary to ﬁght for so long a war
against a great majority of mankind. The de-
rangement was psychical and emotional.

Everything of importance, however, to life
and policy arises out of feeling. The education
of the feelings is no less important than the
education of the intellect. If we are to have
science, we must have art, music, poetry,
literature, manners, deportment, instinctual
“good behavior,” or society is a jungle.

The psychologists feel more strongly than
the other scientists about introducing im-
mature youth to experimentation upon ani-
mals. “Among psychopaths the most readily
observable trait is lack of sympathy and affec-
tion. Sight of pain and suffering does not
move them.” This deﬁciency in warm and
benevolent emotional reactions usually dates,
if it is not neurological and congenital, from
some trauma or traumas developed in child-
hood, and (as our forefathers knew and our
most “modern” child psychologists have re-
learned) the child cannot get or give enough of
loving—by which I do not, of course, mean
indulgence. Anything whatever, therefore,
that develops callousness to the sufferings of
others during childhood and adolescence is
psychologically injurious.

And this has nothing to do with the develop-
ment of the hardy Virtues of courage, fortitude
and heroism, without which, demonstrated in
one form or another, there is no strength in a'
society. Callousness is not a synonym for
bravery; if it were, our “beatniks” and delin-
quents would make the best soldiers, instead
of being immediately classiﬁed as unﬁt for
service. Even in war the protective instincts
are called into play as a necessity of morale
among comrades in arms, and medals are
awarded to those who, beyond the call of
duty, go into enemy ﬁre, not to kill an enemy
but to save a wounded buddy.

In all sciences powers of accurate observa-
tion must be cultivated, but these are oftenest
awakened by sparking the sense of the wonder
and miracle of life. The child’s enduring inter—
est in botany, and zoology, is far more likely
to be called up by the immediate observation
of living things in their natural environment
than by classifying and collecting, and han-
dling anesthetized animals or their skeletons.

In the long run, it would seem, nations and
civilizations rise or decline according to the
values they are able to cultivate, maintain and
transmit, and I know of no civilization that
has long endured whose values were purely
economic, material and “scientiﬁc.”

No humanistic civilization or culture can be
built upon such foundations. It is the human-
ism of Western Europe and America that has
given them their peculiar ﬂavor and strength.
This humanism assumes that the material uni-
verse is maintained and expanded by the
energy that ﬂows from the spiritual universe
that encloses it. This, of course, is the view of
all great religions—of Christians, Buddhists,
Muslims and Jews alike—and if its truth is a
matter of faith it is nevertheless pragmatically
demonstrated over and over again.

This spiritual universe is responsive to feel-
ings rather than intellect. The unfeeling man,
no matter how brilliant, is a thoroughly sick
soul. And I submit that in the education of
children and adolescent youth, nothing should
enter the curriculum that tends to produce un-
feeling callousness.

lADIES' HOME JOURNAL FEBRUARY, 1960

©_i9bo mapuarrs PUBLISHING COMPANY

 




