DATES

.figrimipal Gﬁhmts wimmeh with the
“glib-tibiaettimt idluhemmt.

 

NOTE.—The following Table having been compiled primarily for the use of Members
of the Victoria Street Society, the history of that Society has been specially recorded.
It is hoped, however, that no event of importance otherwise connected with the
movement has been omitted.

 

[1863.——The ﬁrst organised agitation against Vivisection took place at Florence in the
months of November and December, 1863. Professor Schiﬁ’s cruelties having been
discussed at Miss Blagdcn’s villa on Bellosguardo, a memorial was drawn up urging
the Professor to use greater moderation. This memorial was headed by Mrs. Somerville,
and obtained 700 signatures, amongst which were the names of nearly the whole old
noblesse of Florence, and most of the English residents. It was treated by Professor
Schiﬂ‘ in the Nazione newspaper with the utmost contempt as coming from “un tas
de Marquis.” On the 29th December Professor Schiff challenged the local correspon-
dent of the Daily News to come forward and prove the facts of cruelty mentioned in that
paper. To this Miss Cobbe (at that time correspondent of the Daily News sent to the
Nazlone her name and address, together with a signed deposition by an eye~witness (Dr.
Appleton, of Harvard) of the facts denied by Professor Schiﬁ‘. The Nazione refused to
publish this reply to the challenge which had appeared in its columns, even as a paid
advertisement, and the remonstrances of Dr._ Appleton with the editor, and personal
appeal ~to Professor Schiﬂ‘, as a matter of honour, to insist on the publication, were
equally in vain. The agitation in Florence was subsequently taken up by the devoted
Countess Baldelli, Hon. Sec. of the Florentine Societd Prottettm'ce degli Animall (founded
1873) and maintained incessantly till the retreat of Schiﬁ' to Geneva in 1877.]

The Anti-vivisection movement in England took its rise from the prosecution of the
'Norwich experimenters by the R.S.P.C.A. in 1874. The Handbook of the Physiological
Laboratory which was published the previous year, having directed attention to the
extension of the practice in England.

1874. ‘ Aug. Meeting of Medical Association at Norwich, Experiments of M.

- Magnan and others.

Prosecution of Norwich experimenters by Royal Society for Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Memorial to Committee of R.S.P.C.A. urging immediate efforts for
legal restriction of Vivisection, drawn up and circulated by Miss
Cobbe and Miss Lloyd.

Pamphlets, Need of a Bill and Reasons for Interference, written and
issued by Miss Cobbe.

Above Memorial bearing 600 signatures (exclusively of inﬂuential
persons) presented to Lord Harrowby and Committee of R.S.P.C.A.
in J ermyn Street, by a deputation introduced by John Locke, M.P.
Committee of R.S.P.C.A. promised to appoint sub-committee to
take action as soon as possible.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

1875.

1876.

 

‘ Jan. 25.

Feb. 2.
Feb.

May 4.

May 12.

May 25.

June 22.

Nov.

Dec. 1.

Jan. 8.

Feb. 18.

Mar. 1.

Mar. 2.

Mar.
Mar. 3.

 

8.)
Ad

First Sub-Committee of R.S.P.C.A. Miss Cobbe (in attendance for

the occasion only) asked by Chairman, “ Could she not undertake
to get a Bill into Parliament for the restriction of Vivisection? ”
[First action Of this Sub-Committee was to send the Secretary, Mr.
Colam, to the leading physiologists in London to make inquiries
concerning their own proceedings. Beyond this step nothing
known till the sitting Of Royal Commission, when Mr. Colam
presented valuable collection of evidence]

Dr. Hoggan’s Letter published in Morning Post.

Mr. Jesse’s Society for the Abolition of Vivisection founded about
this time.

Bill for “Regulating the Practice of Vivisection (prepared at Miss
Cobbe’s request by Sir Frederick Elliott, revised by Lord Cole-
ridge and others) introduced, under sanction of Government, into
House of Lords by Lord Henniker.

Bill “To Prevent Abuse in Experiments on Animals,” introduced
into House of Commons by Dr. Lyon Playfair.

Lady Burdett-Coutts’ Letter in Echo, condemning Lord Henniker’s
Bill as only demanding restriction Of Vivisection, and not total
prohibition.

Royal Commission on Vivisection issued. Bills withdrawn.

Dr. George Hoggan and Miss Cobbe resolved to found a Society
“to obtain the utmost possible protection for Animals liable
to Vivisection.” The Earl of Shaftesbury and Archbishop of
York ﬁrst members of the Society. Dr. Hoggan and Miss Cobbe
Honorary Secretaries.

Article in Animal World, page 180, containing following passages:
“The Royal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is not
so entirely unanimous as to desire the passing of any special
legislative enactment on this subject” (Vivisection). . . . “It
has been considered desirable, however, to prepare a Bill which is
the exponent of the views of the Society.” The Bill so described
was laid before the Royal Commission (p. 336) but neither it, nor
any other Bill dealing with Vivisection, has ever been introduced
into Parliament by the R.S.P.C.A.

First meeting Of the Committee of the SOCIETY FOR PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS LIABLE TOVIVISECTION (afterwards VICTORIA STREET
SOCIETY) at 13, Granville Place, Rt. Hon. James Stansfeld in the
Chair; present, Sir F. Elliot, Miss Lloyd, Mrs. Hoggan, Mr. Shaen,
Mrs. Wedgwood, Dr. Hoggan, and Miss Cobbe.

Report of Royal Commission dated.

Third meeting of Committee of Society for Protection Of Animals
from Vivisection, Lord Shaftesbury in the Chair.

Fourth meeting of Committee of Society for Protection of Animals
from Vivisection, the Archbishop of York in the Chair. The
“ Statement” of the Society discussed and adopted. The Ofﬁces,
1, Victoria Street, taken for the Society.

First meeting of Committee of IRISH ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
Honorary Secretary, Miss A. M. Swifte.

Deputation from Society for Protection of Animals liable to Vivisec-
tion (henceforth VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY) to Home Ofﬁce to
urge on Mr. Cross introduction by Government of a Bill in
accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission.
Introduced by Lord Shaftesbury; included Cardinal Manning,
Earl of Minto, Sir F. Elliott, Rt. Hon. W. Cooper-Temple, Colonel
Evelyn Wood, Mr. Mundella, Mr. Froude, Mr. Leslie Stephen, &c.

SCOTTISH SOCIETY founded about this time.

Meeting of Committee of Victoria Street Society. Suggestions
prepared for the Home Oﬁice (subsequently exactly embodied in
Lord Carnarvon’s Bill in its ﬁrst form).

 

 

 




 

 

 

3

1876. :May 22. KSecond Reading of Lord Carnarvon’s Bill in the House Of

i
l

1877.

1878.

 

 

 

May 23.

June 1.

June 10.

June 21.

July 10.
July 21.
Aug. 10.

Aug. 15.
Oct. 18.

Nov. 22.

Feb. 7.

April 27.

May 2.

June 21.
Feb. 23.

Mar. 19.
April 10.
May 16.
June 20.

July 10.

July 23.

 

 

Lords. Supported by speeches of Lord Shaftesbury and Lord
Coleridge.

Articles in Times anl Daily News warmly approving of Lord

Carnarvon’s Bill. Conference of R.S.P.C.A. and Branch Societies
‘ein J ermyn Street. Lord Carnarvon’s Bill approved, with some
exceptions.

First General Meeting of Victoria Street Society at Westminster
Palace Hotel in support Of Lord Carnarvon’s Bill. Lord Shaftes-
bury in the Chair. Speakers, Cardinal Manning, Marquis of
Bute, Lord Glasgow, &c.

THE LONDON ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY inaugurated at a
numerously attended meeting at 46, Prince’s Gate. The Rev. G.
Weldon in the Chair. (Ofﬁces, 180, Brompton Road.)

THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the Total Suppression Of
Vivisection inaugurated at a large meeting in Willis’s Rooms,
Thomas Allen, Esq, in the Chair.

Great Medical Deputation to Home Oﬂice against Lord Carnarvon’s
Bill.

Deputation of International Association to Home Ofﬁce in favour
Of Bill.

Lord Carnarvon’s Bill—(essentially altered in accordance with
wishes of Medical Memorialists)——introduced by Mr. (Lord) Cross
into House Of Commons and read a second time.

Bill received Royal Signature, and became Act 30 and 40 Vict., c. 77.

Committee of Victoria Street Society placed on Minutes letter of
Miss Cobbe intimating that she could only retain ofﬁce Of Hono-
rary Secretary should the Committee see ﬁt to adopt the prin-
ciple of total abolition, or at least of more uncompromising
hostility to Vivisection. Circular issued calling on all members
to vote for alternatives of policy.

Resolution of Committee of Victoria Street Society to carry on
Society “for purpose of watching operation of existing Act, with
a View to the enforcement of its restrictions and its extension to
the total prohibition of painful experiments on Animals.”

Committee of Victoria Street Society resolved to support Mr.
Holt’s Bill, and issued 300 illustrated placards and 1,700 hand-
bills over London for such purpose.

Second General Meeting of Victoria Street Society at Westminster
Palace Hotel, in support of Mr. Holt’s Bill. President in the
Chair. Speakers, Bishop of Winchester, Lord Mount-Temple,
Prince Lucien Bonaparte, Prof. Sheldon Amos, Cardinal
Manning, &c.

Order for Second Reading of Mr. Holt’s Bill. Ayes, 83; Noes,
222. Majority against Bill, 139.

First Annual Meeting of International Association.

Meeting of Victoria Street Society at house of Lord Shaftesbury,
24, Grosvenor Square.

A. J. Mundella, Esq, M.P., at request of Victoria Street Society,
asked for return of Licenses under Vivisection Act.

First Reading of Baron Weber’s Paper, The Torture Chamber of
Science, before the Dresden Society P.C.A.

Annual Meeting of London Anti-Vivisection Society at Willis’s
Rooms. Sir Thomas Dyer, Bart., in the Chair.

Annual Meeting of International Association at Willis’s Rooms.

Return of Licenses (asked for in March) issued.

Day ﬁxed for Second Reading of Mr. Holt’s Bill. Postponed to 23rd,
and dropped.

Paris Congress of Sociétés Protectrices opened. Dr. Hoggan, Dele-
gate of Victoria Street Society.

 




 

1878.

1879.

1880.

 

Aug. 7.

Oct. 16.
Nov. 12.

June 17.

June 24.

July 11.

July 15.

151.11g. 17.

18, 19.

Aug. 20.

Nov. 24.

Mar. 16.

May 16.

June 3.

June 17.

July 1.

July 20.

Nov. 3.

l

 

 

4

Meeting of Committee of VictOIia Stleet Society. Resolution
moved by Miss Cobbe, 1n compliance with the advice of the P1esi-
dent, seconded by Gen. Mackenzie, and carried: “ That the Com-
mittee will henceforth appeal to public opinion in favour of
the Total Abolition of Vivisection.” (Dr. and Mrs. Hoggan
abstained from voting, and subsequently left the Society with
assurances of friendly sympathy.) Title of Society changed to
SOCIETY FOR PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

Southampton Meeting of Victoria Street Society.

Opening Of Brighton Bazaar for International Association and
London Anti-Vivisection Society; £1,250 cleared.

Annual Meeting of London Anti-Vivisection Society at Memorial
Hall, City. Sir J. Naesmith, Bart., in the Chair.

Third Annual Meeting of International Association at Willis’s
Rooms. Sir J. Eardley Wilmot, Bart., in the Chair.

Conference between Victoria Street Committee and International
Association in view of fusion. Project postponed.

Order for Second Reading of Lord Truro’s Bill in the House of Lords.
—~Lord Shaftesbury’s second Speech on Vivisection. Contents, 16 ;
Non-contents, 97. Majority against Bill, 81. Lord Aberdare (as
reported in Standard, July 16) said at this debate, “That he
was President of the Royal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and that Society had never advocated the total abolition
of Vivisection. He believed that the unpublished cases of cruelty
to animals were twenty or thirty times more numerous than those
which were committed under the Act. He would vote against the
Bill.”

Congress of Societies for Protection of Animals at Gotha. William
Gilbert, Esq., and Charles Cobbe, Esq., D.L., Delegates of the
Victoria Street Society.

Foundation of great German LEAGUE AGAINST SCIENTIFIC ANIMAL
TORTURE. President, Baron Ernst v. Weber.

Addresses sent by Victoria Street Society to Minister of Grace and
Justice in Italy, and to the Syndics of Genoa, Florence, Turin,
Padua, Pisa, Siena, Rome, and Naples, praying them to discoun-
tenance Vivisection and refuse stray dogs to Vivisectors.——The
addresses were signed by Lord Shaftesbury, the Lord Chief Justice,
the Bishop of Winchester, Prince Lucien Bonaparte, Lord Mount-
Temple, and Robert Browning, Esq. [Favourable replies subse-
quently received]

Day ﬁxed for Second Reading of Mr. Holt’s Bill. Stopped by
notice of Dissolution. [Mr. Holt subsequently declined to seek
re-election and Sir Eardley Wilmot accepted charge of Bill.]

Annual Meeting of London Anti-Vivisection Society at Willis’s
Rooms. Admiral Sir W. King-Hall in the Chair.

Meeting of Victoria Street Society at 8, Cromwell Houses, the resi-
dence of Frank Morrison. The President in the Chair.

Meeting of International Association at Willis’s Rooms. Sir A. Malet
in the Chair.

Brussels Congress of Societies for Prevention Of Cruelty Opened. Dr.
Hoggan attended as a Vice-President of Paris Congress, aided by
grant from Victoria Street Society.

Memorial to Mr. Gladstone prepared by Hon. Sec. of Victoria Street
Society. Signed by 100 Peers, M.P.’s, Judges, General Ofﬁcers,
Heads of Colleges, and eminent authors, and by the representa-
tives of the International, London, Scottish, and Irish Societies.
Presented to the Premier by Lord Shaftesbury and favourably
received.

New Bill adopted by Committee of Victoria Stree Society, and
charge of it taken by Sir Eardley Wilmot, Bart., MP.

["7 ‘ ,

.m

~.__._._ '— ‘I ‘ ”W

 




 

1880.

1881.

1882.

1883.

 

 

Dec. 10.
Dec. 16.

Feb. 1.
Feb. 3.

Feb. 10.
Mar. 23.

May 2.
May 2.

May 11.
May 28.
May 80.

J uue 17.
June 25.

July 13.
July 27.
Aug. 1.

Aug. 5.
October

Nov. 17.
Nov.

Feb. 10.
Mar. 24.

April 21.

May.
May 31.

June.

June 21.

June 28.

July.
August.
Dec. 11.
Dec.
Jan. 1.

Jan. 10.
Jan. 15.

Feb. 28.
Mar. 7.

Mar. 27.

April 4.
April 6.

April 23.

 

 

 

 

5

Deputation of Scottish Society to the Lord Advocate of Scotland.

RICHMOND AND TWICKENHAM AUXILIARY or VICTORIA STREET
SOCIETY founded.

Annual Meeting of Scottish Society.

Notice of new Bill given in House of Commons by J. F. B. Firth,
Esq., M.P.

TORQUAY AUXILIARY OF VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY founded.

Day ﬁxed for second reading of Sir E. Wilmot's Bill postponed to
May 11.

Issue of ﬁrst number of THE ZOOPHILIST.

Annual Meeting of the London Anti-Vivisection Society at Willis’s
Rooms. Sir A. Malet, Bt., K.C.B., in the Chair.

Second reading Of Bill postponed to July 13.

Memorial presented by Lord Salisbury to the King of Sweden.

EAST LONDON BRANCH OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY founded.

Meeting of the International Association.

Annual Meeting of the Victoria Street Society at Sussex Place,
by invitation of the Lord Chief Justice. The President in the
Chair.

Second reading of Bill postponed to July 27.

Bill withdrawn. Day taken by Government.

WESTON-SUPER-MARE BRANCH OF VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY
founded.

Meeting of the Scottish Society in Edinburgh.

Charge of Bill for Total Prohibition of Vivisection accepted by R.
T. Reid, Esq., M.P., on resignation of Sir E. Wilmot.

Summons heard against Professor Ferrier in Bow Street Police
Court. Prosecuted by the Victoria Street Society.

FOLKESTONE BRANCH OF VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY founded.

Meeting of the Torquay Branch of the Victoria Street Society.

The prosecution of M. Paul Bert, by Madame Gélyot.

Annual Meeting of the London Anti-Vivisection Society at Willis’s
Rooms.

PARIS BRANCH OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY founded.

First Annual Meeting Of the Richmond Branch of the Victoria Street
Society. Lord Mount-Temple in the Chair.

Introduction of Mr. Anderson's Bill for the Prohibition of Pigeon
Shooting Matches.

Annual Meeting of the Victoria Street Society at 24, Grosvenor
Square. The President in the Chair.

Second Reading of Mr. Reid’s Bill postponed.

Meeting of the London A.-V. Soc. at Talbot, Powis Square.

Anti-Vivisection Society founded at Lausanne.

SCANDINAVIAN LEAGUE AGAINST SCIENTIFIC CRUELTY founded at
Stockholm, under the auspices of H.R.H.Princess Eugene of Sweden.

BRISTOL AND CLIFTON BRANCH OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY
founded.

Issue of ﬁrst number of the New Series of THE ZOOPHILIST. Edited
by Miss Cobbe.

Meeting of the Scottish Society.

The Paris Branch of the Victoria Street Society assumes the inde-
pendent title of Société Francaise Contra la Vivisection.

The AMERICAN ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY founded at Philadelphia.

Second reading of Mr. Anderson’s Bill.

The Swiss Anti-Vivisection Society founded at Berne.

Debate on Second reading of Mr. Reid’s Bill.

Fusion of the Victoria Street Society with the International
Association. _

Annual Meeting of the London Anti-Vivisection Society at Exeter
Hall. ’

 




 

 

4M

 

 

1883. :
I

1884.

 

1885.

 

April.
May 1.

May 26.
June 15

' July 9.

Aug. 7.
Aug. 10.
Nov. 1.

Nov. 8.
Dec.

Jan. 15.
Feb. 5.

Feb. 10.

Mar. 12.
Mar. 22.

April 1.
April 20.
May 9.

May 16.
June 11.
June 25.

June 26.

Dec. 3.
Dec. 9.

Dec. 16.
Dec. 23.
Jan. 22.
Jan. 27.
Mar. 10.

May 15.
May 25.
June 12.

June 28.

Oct. 1.
1 Oct. 10.

1886.

 

Nov.

Feb. 1.

Feb. 7.

April.
June 22.

Oct. 22.

 

 

 

6

THE NORTH LONDON BRANCH OF THE UNITED SOCIETIES founded.

Annual Meeting of the United Societies at 1, Grosvenor Place, by
invitation of Lord and Lady Mount-Temple. The President in
the Chair.

Annual Meeting of the Scottish Anti-Vivisection Society.

First General Meeting of the Société Francatse Contre la. Vivisectton.

MANCHESTER BRANCH OF THE UNITED SOCIETIES founded.

Third Reading of Mr. Anderson’s Bill in House of Commons.

First Conference of the Paris Ltgue Centre la Vtvtsectton.

First monthly number of Le Zoophtle issued from Victoria. Street,
and from MM. Declot, Paris.

Experiments on Hospital Patients, by Drs. Ringer and Murrell,
published in Lancet. 8 '

First Annual Meeting of Scandinavian League.
Nordwall. .

Annual Meeting of Scottish Anti-Vivisection Society. I

Oxford Convocation passed decree for grant of £10,000 to erect
Physiological Laboratory. Votes: 188 Placet; 147 Non-Placet.

292,000 copies of Baron Weber’s Flﬁgblatt, with illustrations from
Light in Dark Places, published in Germany. ‘

Mr. Reid’s Bill read a ﬁrst time. .

Inaugural Meeting North London Branch, at Schooerom, St.
Peter’s, Belsize. Earl of Shaftesbury in the Chair.

Sixth and Last No. of Le Zoophtle.

Debate in Swedish Parliament on Vivisection.

Society’s Bill to Prohibit Pigeon Shooting Matches rejected by
House Of Lords by 78, against 48.

Annual Meeting London Anti—Vivisection Society at St. J ames’s Hall.

EAST KENT BRANCH founded.

Miss Cobbe resigned Hon. Secretaryship of Society. Mr. Benjamin
Bryan remaining Secretary and Editor Of ZOOPHILIST.

Annual Meeting Of Victoria Street Society in Princes’ Hall, Earl Of
Shaftesbury in the Chair, followed by Cardinal Manning.

Anti-Vivisection Conference in London.

Meeting of Oxford Branch. Bishop of Oxford in the Chair. Speech
by Professor Ruskin.

Commencement Of Controversy in Times on Brain Surgery.

Death of Rev. W. H. Channing.

Annual Meeting Scottish Society.

Annual Meeting American Anti-Vivisection Society.

Endowment of Physiological Laboratory at Oxford. Mr. Ruskin
resigns Slade Professorship in consequence.

Annual Meeting London Anti-Vivisection Society.

Anti-Vivisection Conference in Edinburgh.

Annual Meeting Victoria Street and International Society. Lord
Shaftesbury in the Chair—for the last time.

Meeting International Anti-Vivisection Conference, Paris.

Death Of Lord Shaftesbury.

Meeting of Scandinavian League.

Mr. Ernest Hart defeated as candidate for Mile End Division Of
Tower Hamlets, in consequence of Society’s exertion.

Memorial despatched to Countess Of Duﬁ'erin praying that Vivisec-
tion should be prohibited by original deeds of Female Medical
Colleges.

Statue of Claude Bernard unveiled in Paris.

Mr. Busk retired from Inspectorship under the Vivisection Act.
Mr. Erichsen appointed.

Annual Meeting Victoria Street Society, held at the Ofﬁce for
Members only and formal business. Miss Cobbe in the Chair.

Death of C. 'I‘. Scholl.

President, Dr.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1887.

1888.

1889.

Jan. 17.

Mar. 23.

Mar. 29.

Mar. 31.

May 11.

 

! Sept.

l Oct. 31.
; Nov. 17.
Nov. 30.
Feb. 22.
May 16.

May 31.

Oct. 4.
Oct. 5.
Oct. 16.
Oct. 24.

Oct. 28.
Nov. .
Nov. 26.
Dec. 17.

Jan. 15.
Jan. 29.
Feb. 21.
Feb. 28.
Feb.

Mar. 4.
Mar. 13.
Mar. 21.

Mar.
April 8.

 

April 22.

June 13.

June 21.

June 27.
Sept. 26.

 

7

Round Robin, published in British Medical Journal, praying Presi-
dent Council of College of Surgeons to erect Physiological and
Pathological Laboratory out of Sir Erasmus Wilson’s Bequest.

Counter Memorial of Society presented to President College of
Surgeons (Mr. Savory), by Earl Stanhope, W. George Russell,
F. E. Pirkis, Esq., Dr. Berdoe, and B. Bryan, \Esq. Signed by
24,800 persons (eventually 31,000 signatures received). Favour-
able reply, and experiments ultimately forbidden at College of
Surgeons. '

Annual Meeting Victoria Street Society at Westminster Palace
Hotel. Cardinal Manning in the Chair. Speakers, Lord Mount-
Temple, Canon Wilberforce, Hon. B. Coleridge, M.P., Mr. W. S.
Lilly, Mr. H. Hutton, Miss Cobbe.

Deputation‘from Scottish Society to President College of Surgeons.
720 signatures to Memorial.

Drawing Room Meeting at Miss Bryant’s. Lord Robartes in the
Chair.

Publication of St. Bernard’s.

Rev. J. Wright opens First Lecture Tour.

American Anti-Vivisection Society adopts principle of Total Pro-
hibition of Vivisection.

International Anti-Vivisection Conference in London.

Death of Dr. Anna Kingsford.

Annual Meeting London Anti-Vivisection Society at St. James’s
Hall. Hon. Carteret Hill in the Chair.

Death of Dr. Grysanowski.

Bishop of Albany preaching Annual Sermon of S.P.G. in St. Paul’s,
lauds Vivisection. Memorial subsequently addressed on the
subject to Archbishop of Canterbury.

Annual Meeting Victoria Street Society. Lord Robartes in the
Chair. Speakers, Lord de Ros, Hon. Bernard Coleridge, Dr. Cann,
Miss Cobbe.

Annual Meeting Socie’té Francaise.

MACCLESFIELD BRANCH opened at large meeting. Miss Booth,
Hon. Sec.

Public Anti-Vivisection Br akfast, Church Congress, Manchester.

Rev. J. P. Wright’s Lecture Tour opens.

Death of Lord Mount-Temple.

Sixth Annual Meeting of “The Scandinavian League against
Scientiﬁc Cruelty ” at Stockholm.

Lecture in Paris by Madame Huot.

Opening of the Pasteur Institute.

Death of the Duchess of Sutherland.

Sir Henry Roscoe asked (in vain) Her Majesty’s Government or
pecuniary assistance to the Pasteur Institute.

First Meeting of the Bath and County Anti-Vivisectinn Society.

_ Annual Meeting Scottish Society.

Prizes for Essays awarded at Bristol.

BRANCH SOCIETY formed at Teignmouth.

Annual Meeting of the American Society and change of object to
Suppression of Vivisection.

Annual Meeting the new Dresden Society for the Protection of
Animals from Vivisection.

General Meeting of the St. Petersburg Society for the Protection of
Animals from Vivisection.

SOUTHPORT BRANCH SOCIETY formed.

Publication of Dying Scientiﬁcally.

Lecture at Steinway Hall, London, on “ Hydrophobia and Vivisec-
tion,” by Mr. Bryan.

Death of Lieut.-Col. Osborn,

 




 

 

1889.

1890.

 

April 3.
April .

May 1-20.

May 10.
May 15.

May 24.
May 31.
June 10.

June 15.
June 20.

July 1.
Aug.
Sept. 16.
Sept. 23.
Sept.
Oct. 2.
Oct. 18.
Oct. 22.
Dec. 2.
Dec. 10.
Dec. 12.
Jan. 1.

Jan. 1..

Jan. 2.
Jan. 20.

Jan. 31.
Feb. 15.

Mar. 10.

Mar. 11.

Mar. 25.

April 16.

8

Death of Plincess Eugenie of Sweden.

 

Failuie of Pasteur’ s suggested cu1e for the Rabbit Pest in Austialia
declared.

Debate in the House of Commons on the vote for the salary of
the Inspector under the Vivisection Act, 1876. Speeches by the
Hon. Bernard Coleridge, Mr. Matthews, John E. Ellis, Esq., R. T.
Reid, Esq., Q.C., Sir J. Lubbock, Right Hon. James Stansfeld,
Stuart-Wortley, Esq., Dr. Farquharson, Sir H. Roscoe, and the
Chancellor of the Exchequer.

Miss Cobbe appeals to the Society of Friends.

Election of Council of Pharmaceutical Society—President placed
last on the poll.

Members of Society of Friends meet and discuss Vivisection in
London.

Annual Meeting the London Anti- Vivisection Society at St. Peter’s
Hall, Chelsea. Hon. P. Car‘teiet Hill in the Chaii.

Death of Mrs. H. M. Gordon.

The Prince of Wales visits the Pasteur Institute.

Annual Meeting Victoria Street Society at the Westminster Palace
Hotel. Lord de Ros in the Chair. Speakers, Sir William
Plowden, K.C.S.I., M.P., Miss Cobbe, Dr. Berdoe, Major Rasch,
M.P., Rev. John Baird, Rev. Prebendary Grier, Douglas Patterson,
Esq., Hon. Bernard Coleridge, M.P., Dr. Clarke, Rev. F. G. Jones.

Meeting at the Mansion House to raise subscription for Pasteur.

An Anti-Vivisection Hospital projected.

Death of Bishop Mackarness.

Death of Mr. Wilkie Collins.

Death of Mr. Firth, M.P.

CHURCH ANTI-VIVISECTION LEAGUE founded at Cardiff.

Rev. J. P. Wright’s Lecture Tour opens.

Death of the Earl of Leven and Melville.

Prospectus issued of the Shaftesbury Hospital, to be conducted on
Anti—Vivisectional principles.

FIRST PUBLIC MEETING or SOUTHPORT BRANCH.

Dcath of Robert Browning, aged 77.

ZOOPHILIST reprints Robert Browning’s new poem “Arcades Ambo ”
——a satire on the vivisectionist.

ZOOPHILIST reprints letters from Robert Browning to Miss F. P.
Cobbe and Dr. Berdoe, and a letter from John Greenleaf Whittier,
the Quaker poet of America, to Miss Cobbe, in favour of the
Anti-Vivisectionist cause.

Mr. W. Gilbert, late of Salisbury, formerly a member of the Victoria
Street Committee, died, aged 85.

Ven. Dr. Nathan Marcus Adler, Chief Rabbi, a Vice-president of the
Victoria Street Society, died at Brighton.

At the ﬁrst meeting of the Browning Society after the poet’s death,
Browning’s service to the world was discussed, and Dr. Berdoe
spoke on the poet’s Anti-Vivisection views.

The British Medical Journal records some painful experiments by
Dr. T. J. Bokenham with silicoﬂuoride of sodium as an antiseptic.
The victims (guinea-pigs) were not anaesthetised.

Lecture by Dr. Berdoe at Cambridge, followed by important
discussion.

Kammerher Werner v. Voigts-Rhetz, author of a work on the subject
of Vivisection, and for 14 years Hon. Correspondent of our
Society, died at Clarens, of heart disease, aged nearly 90.

Salvini, the great Italian actor, in a letter to Mr. P. G. Peabody
(Boston, USA.) dated from Boston, declared against Vivisection.
Sir Wm. Plowden questioned the Home Secretary (Mr. Matthews)
upon the allegations of cruelty made by a medical student against

 

 




 

 

1890.

1891.

 

May 23.

June 19.

July.

July.

July 28.

July 29.

July 30.

Aug. 3.

August.

Aug. 12.

Oct. 20.

Jan. 28.

Feb. 2.

Feb. 5.

 

9

Professor Rutherford, in a letter to the Scottish Leader of
January 27th, in experimenting upon a living dog at the Edinburgh
Medical Schools. The Inspector’s report, quoted by the Home.
Secretary in his reply, whitewashed the Professor.

At Conference of members of the Society of Friends at their
London headquarters it was agreed to form an Anti-Vivisection
Association within the Society of Friends, a representative Com-
mittee being appointed, and a petition to Parliament in favour of
abolition adopted.

Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the Victoria Street Society, at the
Westminster Palace Hotel, London, Canon Wilberforce presiding.
Speakers—The Chairman, the Secretary (Mr. Bryan), Dr. J. H.
Clarke, Rev. J. P. Wright, Dr. Berdoe, Mr. S. Smith, M.P.,
Rev. John Baird, Rev. T. P. Ring, Mrs. Pearsall Smith and
Mr. Herbert Phillips.

ZOOPHILIST announces the formation of an Anti-Vivisection Society
in the Netherlands. ‘

The Bristol Branch addressed the Wesleyan Conference assembled
in that city on the “ demoralising practice” of vivisection, and
consideration was promised.

New York Tribune publishes another spirited article against
“ revolting vivisection practices,” in summing up a correspondence
in its columns.

Deputation from the Scottish Society to Lord Lothian (Secretary
for Scotland) and Mr. Henry Matthews (Home Secretary), at their
respective ofﬁces in London.

Death from cancer, at Eastbourne, at the age of 61, of Mr. C. H. S.
Braybrooke.

In the Journal de Médecine de Paris Dr. Perron writes an entertaining
article on the danger to the healing art of the intrusion into the
domain of medicine of the scientists and savants of the laboratory
with their microbes.

Mr. Alfred E. Longdon, of the Manchester Branch, drowned at
Sandsend, near Whitley, aged 24.

In the House of Commons, in Committee of Supply, on the vote for
the Home Ofﬁce, Sir Wm. Plowden raised the question of inspec-
tion under the Act for the regulation of Vivisection. The Home
Secretary (Mr. Henry Matthews) brieﬂy replied.

An announcement appeared in the LondOn papers of the failure of
the appeal made by the authorities of the University of London
for funds to “maintain and develop the objects of the Brown
Institution.”

The London Globe announces that Dr. Mueller, of Victoria, had
informed Lord Lansdowne, in India, that he had discovered a
remedy for snake bites in strychnine, as the result of observations
on human patients and not by experiments on the lower animals.

The Lancet announced proposal of Russian Imperial Authorities to
establish a Bacteriological Institute at St. Petersburg.

An article on “Pity, Genuine and Spurious,” appeared in the Forum
(New York), from the pen of Miss Cobbe.

Letter in Times from Hon. Stephen Coleridge announced that the
Lord Chief Justice refused to append his name to a public appeal
for £50,000 for endowing “modern science and experimental
research” at King’s College, London, because no assurance was
forthcoming that vivisection was not to be practised.

The ﬁrst American patient to receive the Koch inoculation died at
Newhaven, Conn., after intense suffering.

In the Lesser Trades Hall, Glasgow, Dr. Campbell Black delivered
an important lecture on “The Germ Theory of Disease,” with
special reference to Koch and Lister.

 




 

Mar. 13.

March.

 

10

A letter from Miss Frances Power Cobbe appeared in the Jewish
Chronicle, asking “The honoured Jews of England” to appeal to
Jewish physiologists in Germany to leave “this hateful ﬁeld of
‘ research ’ ”—(Vivisection).

Mr. Stanford Harris, M.R.C.S., forms anew branch at Hawkshead, in
the English Lake district.

Dr. von Gossler, Prussian Minister of Public Worship, champion of
Vivisection and Koch’s chief trumpeter, fell from ofﬁce.

The Dean of the Faculty (Prof. Dr. E. Ziickerkandl) at Vienna
informed her Excellency Lady Paget, in reply to enquiries as to the
nature of the legal restrictions of vivisection in force in Austria.

Formation of a HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE.

The Bristol and Clifton Anti—Vivisection Society and the Bristol and
Somerset Friends’ Anti-Vivisection Committee addressed a
memorial to the Governing Body of the Medical School of Bristol,
asking that in the enlargement of the buildings no laboratory for
vivisection experiments should be provided.

 

 




