ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007 (202) 3374332

 

 

 

 

 




(“143'

$); L‘a ‘;._,f'.-‘:"".‘ if

3 (till: ’V ‘JEJ ":17
‘41:)

./‘.;

FRIDAY: MAY Iii, 1977

Bad Bill iorMan and Beast

Let the Porpoises Live

The House of Representatives is being asked to rush
a bill that would permit increased killing of

r.-

. ecessary to get the tuna boats back into profit-
tion following a self-imposed docking in pro-

f-‘- n‘

a half months. its owners have been arguing that they
lose money even when they do sail because of the time
and effort in holding down the number of porpoises, or
dolphins, that are trapped and suffocated in their great
tuna nets. That is arguable; but the kill quota that would
be legislated by Representative John Murphy of Staten
island is higher even than the industry demanded. Testi-
fying in Congress last year,'the fleet owners asked for
license to kill 85,000 of these highly intelligent and at-
tractive creatures in all of 1977. The Murphy bill would

i es by the nation’s tuna fishing fleet. The haste-

let 78,000 he'ltilled in the remaining seven months.

Under the Marine Man-u .al Protection Act, the useless
and unnecessary killing of porpoiseswvchich accompany
schools of tuna and thus, ironically, help the fishermen
locate their quarry—«is to be gradually reduced to ”in-
significant levels approaching a zero mortality." Repre-
sentative Murphy would not only reverse the downward
trend; he would also have Congress rather than the sci-
entists of the National Fisheries Service set the neces-
sary limits; - 4

Alerted to the danger of this misguided legislation, the
Administration is now said to be preparing its own bill.
Until it is drawn, Mr. Murphy and his colleagues should
hold their fire. They should at least compare his pro-
posal to that of a government that seems committed to
carrying out the original and admirable long-term inten-
tions of Congress-itself.

4 A‘

Instjiitgton at

l

SUNDAY, MAY 15; 1977

Save the Porpoises

ii EP. JOHN MURPHY would amend the Marine
{it iammal Protection Act to let tuna fishermen
catch 78,030 porpoises this year and next That's tens
of thousands too many. Under the act, the tuna
fleet’s catches of porpoises—air~breathing creatures
that often swim above tuna—are supposed to fall
toward zero. The government and the conservation
lobby thought 59,000 was a fair figure, on the way
down, this year. But the industry chose to beach its
fleet in order to put pressure on Congress-t0 let it
catCh more. The fleet has not caught many tuna this
year, but it did catch Mr. Murphy, chairman of the
House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee.
Hearings on his 78,000porpoise bill will resume Mon-
day.

The tuna industry seems to feel about saving por-
poises the way the old AMA felt about “socialized
'medicine." It has been regrettably slow, for instance,
to install the finemesh nets that help keep porpoises
from being entangled at the surface, and to intro—

1

d uce the ‘hackdou-“n,” a shiphandling maneuver that
sluices porpoises out of the nets. The fleet claims that
porpoise regulations are an economic burden. But
economists note that the industry's troubles have
other roots. in its most harassed moments, the fleet
threatens to transfer its boats to foreign ports. But
that's a nonstarter. The requisite government ap-
proval would not be granted for a transfer whose
purpose was to evade American law. 'And the law
bans the import of tuna caught by methods pro~
scribed for American fishermen.

The fishermen deserve more understanding than,
they have received. They suddenly find their tradi-
tional ways challenged by a government that appears
remote and bureaucratic and by a conservation
movement that seems elitist and insensitive to every-
day concerns. This puts Upon the, administration,
whose own new legislative prOposals are expected on
Monday, a special burden of empathy—even while it
acts to obey the law and save the porpoises.

 




WHALE DEFENDERS COALITION

Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, Animal Welfare Institute, Project Jonah, Friends of the Cetaceans

Phone: (202) 332—0285

For current information on Whale Survival Day plans and daily reports lrom
Canberra. Australia during International Whaling CommiSSion meeting June (Elf)
immmh24cwtxmxmzawaw4mmmadmd CONTACT: Carolyn Peachey

June 8, 1977

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WHALE SURVIVAL DAY

 

Washington, D.C. -~ "SAVE THE WHALES!" will be the rallying cry
around the world for the next two weeks as tens of thousands of conser~
vationists demonstrate against the slaughter of the great whales.

A three day series of worldwide "Whale Survival Day" rallies was
announced in Washington, D.C. today by the Whale Defenders Coalition.

The anti-whaling rallies will be launched June 17 in Lafayette
Park in front of The White House at 11:30 am. Demonstrations will
follow on June 18 and 19 in London, Paris, Stockholm, Vancouver,
Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Auckland, Canberra and other
cities. ‘

The annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission (IWC)
will convene in Canberra, the capital of Australia, on June 20. The
five day IWC meeting will be a confrontation between the non—whaling
member nations, led by the U.S., France and Mexico, and the major
whaling nations, Japan and the Soviet Union.

In Washington, Whale Survival Day will focus on President Carter's
May 23rd Environmental Message in which he called for the moratorium,
strengthening of the IWC's powers to curb whaling, and a report on
failures of whaling nations to honor conservation measures. The

President asked the Secretary of Commerce to "Report to me within 60

days any actions by other countries that have diminished the effective-

ness of the International Whaling Commission's conservation program."

This language comes from the Fisherman's Protective Act, 1967 Pelly

 




Amendment, which provides for a US embargo of fisheries products
from such a nation.

Tom Garrett, International Consultant for Friends of the Earth,
who was recently nominated U.S. Deputy Commissioner to the IWC meeting
says, "PeOple are no longer willing to stand by and see whales pursued
and destroyed by the armada of weapons at the disposal of the whalers
—- helicopters, fixed wing aircraft, sonar tracking ships, and the
giant mother ship where a great whale, weighing up to 80 tons, is
reduced to saleable products in thirty minutes."

The member organizations of the Whale Defenders Coalition are
seeking a ten year moratorium on commercial whaling -- called for
already by the United Nations; a prohibition of the sale of surplus
vessels and equipment to non-IWC nations; and a ban on the purchase
of whale products from non—IWC nations.

"The conservation community has used two successful tactics
to pressure the whalers," Garrett explained. "The first is the highly
effective citizens' boycott against Japanese and Soviet products.

This has convinced many of the powerful interests in Japan and the
Soviet Union that whaling is not worth the trouble."

"The second tactic is confrontation by worldwide demonstations
and harassment on the high seas."

The annual Greenpeace attack on the whaling fleets of the Soviet
Union and Japan will be launched June 19 from Honolulu. The ex—sub—
marine chaser "Island Transport" will search the North Pacific for
the whalers. As in past years, the intrepid Greenpeace crew will
launch small rubber boats to harass the catcher boats.

Says Greenpeace President, Patrick Moore: "We will confront

the Japanese and Soviet whalers by putting our bodies between the

 




harpoons and the fleeing whales."
The "Island Transport" is capable of 26 knots, faster than any

of the whalers' catcher boats, and has a thirty—day range at sea.

A second Greenpeace ship may sail from Vancouver in July. That ship

the "James Bay," last year chased the Soviet fleet away from the

California coast and then dogged the fleet across the North Pacific.

 




EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 0 722 JACKSON PLACE. NW 0 WASHINGTON. DC. 20006

THE PRESIDENT ' S ENVIRONMENTAL MESSAGE

D. Saving the Whales

 

Since 1972, the United States has sought a moratorium on the
commercial killing of whales. Due largely to U.S. efforts,

member countries of the International Whaling Commission (IWC)

have agreed to forbid all commercial killing of certain species

and have reduced quotas on the total number of whales that may.

be killed by about 40 percent since 1972;” However,_total-quotas-for

this year's whaling season are still over 27,000 whales.

Several major issues addressed at the 28th meeting remain
unresolved. A U.S. proposal to prohibit the sale or transfer
of whaling equipment to countries not members of IWC failed to
pass. Responsibility for the management of small whales as
well as large cetaceans has not yet been accepted by the IWC,
although the Commission did request statistics on small whale
kills from.member nations. Some IWC member countries continue
to buy whale products, such as meat and oil, from nonmember
whaling nations.

In spite of the progress made in the past five years in the IWC,
a major change in the International Whaling Convention itself
is needed before conservation measures will be adequate to
assure protection.

In order to provide additional protection for whales, the
President has directed the Secretary of Commerce, with the
foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State, to:
° prohibit commercial whaling within our ZOO-mile
fishery conservation zone in accordance with the
Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972

pursue negotiations within the International‘
Whaling Commission for a stronger international
conservation regime for whales and other cetaceans,
affording protection for them throughout their
range

maintain firm U.S. support for a 10 year worldwide
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales

report tolﬁmnwithin 60 days any actions that
diminish the effectiveness of the International
Whaling Commission's conservation program

 




§

WHALE SURVIVAL DAY - BACKGROUND

SOME FACTS ABOUT THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION

The International Whaling Commission (IWC) was formed 31 years
ago. Its charter observed: "The history of whaling has seen over-
fishing of one area after another and of one species of whale after
another to such a degree that it is essential to protect all species
of whales from further overfishing."

Far from controlling the slaughter, however, the IWC presided
over the greatest amount of killing in the history of whaling. Vast
fleets from the maritime nations roamed the seas harpooning tens of
thousands of whales. For example, the blue whale had been overexploit-
ed earlier in the century, and the IWC quotas allowed killing to
commercial extinction, one short step from biological extinction,of
this greatest of all creatures. More than 60,000 blue whales were
killed between 1946 and 1963, when the IWC finally forbade further
killing. Today scientists estimate the blue whales have been re-
duced to just 1% of their original population. This remnant scat-
tered across the vast oceans may never regenerate.

The humpback, right and bowhead whales have followed the blue
whales to Virtual extinction. Now the fin and sei whales are in
danger. And the sperm and minke whales are being decimated.

Whales live in international waters and therefore are the
common interest of all mankind. The IWC is not representative of
the international community. Only 15 nations are members: Japan,
the Soviet Union, Great Britain, the United States, Canada, Australia,
Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Panama, France, Norway, Denmark, Iceland
and South Africa. Many still practice commercial whaling. The

whaling nations have frequently rejected the warnings of the IWC's

own scientific committee. When overwhelming evidence forced the

 




IWC to vote reduced quotas in 1973, Japan and the Soviet Union re-
gistered objections under a gaping loophole in the IWC convention --
and killed thousands more whales.

Fearing public exposure, the IWC majority has repeatedly refused

to allow press coverage of its deadly deliberations.

The United States banned whaling in 1971 and has prohibited

the importation of all whale products under 1) the Endangered Species

Act (sperm, blue, humpback, right, bowhead, fin, Sei, and gray whales

are listed as Endangered) and 2) the Marine Mammal Protection Act.
The_economics of whaling are the economics.of extinction.

Japan and the Soviet Union have defied unanimous appeals by the

United Nations in 1972, 1973, and 1974 for a ten-year moratorium on

commercial whaling. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization

issued this pessimistic report: "It is not realistic to presume

(the Whalers) will ensure either the maintenance or even the

continued existence of a whale stock. It pays to exploit a

resource excessively heavily, even to extinction, and not on a

sustainable basis."

 




*WHALE SURVIVAL DAY - BACKGROUND

SOMELFACT53ABOUT3WHALES'

 

But their extermination would mean more”
than just an irretrievable loss to Civi-
lization. It could even signal our own
destruction. The more than half—million
baleen whales that formerly roamed the
world's oceans were an inestimable fac-
tor regulating the krill-phytOplankton'
economy of the sea. We now know that
the major portion of the oxygen in the
Earth's atmosphere is produced in this
complicated ecosystem, and the removal
of such a key element as the whale with*
out careful consideration of the conse-
quences could jeopardize the supply of
oxygen which supports the life of both
man and whale.

From "Vanishing Giants"
By David 0. Hill

ODONTOCETI - Toothed Whales

 

The Sperm Whale - of Moby Dick fame. Present population level thought
to be 25% of original. Only known polygamous species among great
whales. Now seriously overhunted, the sperm whale represents 45% of
the total Japanese and Russian catch per year. Meat has disagreeable
taste and is generally used for mink, chicken and pig food.

 

MYSTICETI ~ Baleen Whales

 

Blue Whale - Largest animal ever to inhabit the earth. Calf may mea—
sure 24 feet at birth. Suckling calves grow at astounding rate, doubl-
ing their weight in their first week and putting on 200 lbs per day
until they are weaned seven months later. Severely threatened with
‘extinction, their global distribution literally makes it difficult for
blue whales to find each other in order to mate.

 

Humpback Whale - Rare and endangered, even though it has been protected
by the IWC since 1966. Highly acrobatic, humpbacks are known for

their spectacular leaps out of the water. Both males and females re-
spond to distressed mates and try to help them. They are most famous
for their haunting underwater songs - which sold 100,000 c0pies on
Capitol Records: "The Songs of the Humpback Whale."

Right Whale - Very rare. Total world population thought to be fewer
than 1,000 individuals. Hunted since medieval times as the "right"
whale to kill because they swim slowly and float when dead.

 

Bowhead Whale - Very rare. Although fully protected by international
convention since 1935, (excluding subsistence hunting by Arctic nativeS)
Bowheads have shown no significant recovery. Reputed to have longest
underwater endurance of all baleen whales.

 

 




Fin Whale — Has been reduced to one fifth its former numbers by commer—
cial whaling. Seriously depleted worldwide. More than a half-century
of full protection will be required for the species to recover. Often
found in family groups or mixed groups of two to five members. Second
largest species of whale. Farley Mowatt's "A Whale for the Killing"
was a fin whale.

 

 

Sei Whale - Suffering a major decline. Sei has become the most heavily
hunted of all the large baleen whales. More than 20,000 were reCently
taken in a single season by Antarctic fleets.

 

Brydes' Whale - Catches by Japanese and Soviet pelagic fleets have
increased substantially with the gradual disappearance of the larger
whales. Not many facts are known as most data is lumped in with sei
whale, because species is virtually indistinguishable in field.

 

Minke Whale - the smallest of the baleen whales. Major commercial
killing started after its big relations became so scarce, the industry
had to turn to greater numbers of smaller whales to fill its barrels.
Social, often in schools of up to 20 individuals known to produce short,
low frequency sound pulses descending from 120 to 60 cycles per second
at irregular intervals. Its habit of swimming up to ships makes it
very vulnerable.

 

Gray Whale — Korean gray whale is now believed extinct. Female whales
will not abandon a wounded calf, even when they themselves are under
attack. California gray whale has been protected from commercial
hunting since 1947 and is the only species to stage a recovery to
healthy, stable population of some 11,000. Recently discovered
figures show, however, that this species was never reduced below

50% of its original population. Species reduced lower than that

have never, so far, recovered.

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

2026337-2332

May 1975

Dear Friends of Whales,

The San Die 0 Tribune of April let reports a "proposal to harvest
gray WHEIEE‘OEE tHe'MeX1can coast has been made by the Los Angeles office
of Y.M. Pacific Co., a Japanese firm, representing Taiyo Co., of Japan,
that country's leading whaling firm". (A reprint of the entire article is
enclosed.) .

Not satisfied with the vast expanse of the Antarctic and the Pacific
Ocean, the whalers now want to come into shore like the infamous Captain
Scammon who nearly succeeded in driving the gray whales to extinction in
the nineteenth Century. They want to kill the whales in the nursery where.
their calves are born in the sanctuary off Baja, California. The fearless
mother whales described by Scammon attacked the whalers who harpooned their
offs ring, and they attacked with such ferocity that they were dubbed "devil

.mﬁfish' by angry harpooners who thought the great creatures should passively
Suﬁmit~to the massacre.

Whale protectors will do well to fight with the same determination as
the mother whales showed toward their persecutors in the past. The campaign
to save the whales has reached a critical point. WE MUST PERSIST. WE MUST
CONTINUE TO INCREASE THE EFFECT OF THE BOYCOTT OF UARKNESE AND SOVIET GOODS.

Thanks to your efforts and those of a constantly growing army of whale
protectors, there are, at last, some real signs that the whales can be
saved, but countering these are powerful forces being unleashed by the greed
of the dying whaling industry. ‘

THE CAMPAIGN SO FAR

220 demonstrations using AWI whale campaign materials have been held
in 130 different locations throughout the United States and Canada. Many
friends of whales have organized two or more demonstrations. MORE ARE NEEDED.

The Animal Welfare Institute has run 64 half-page ads in 55 newspapers
including The National Observer, The New York Times, The.L2§ An eles Times,
The Miami HeraId, The waIl Street-journal, Tﬁe Dallas—Tfmes HeraId, The
PbrtlandOFegbﬁIanT—Newsday, THe Hartford CEEFaﬁET_THe SeattIe Times, The
San DiegoIUnion, The ort and—TMaine) Sunda Herald, e Prov1dence (Rﬁode
Islandfjournal Bulletin, The Honolulu ver iEET—Eﬁd Star Bulletin, The
Detroit—FFEE—PrEEET—Eﬁd TEE—3a an Times in TokyoC_TTHT§_Ta§E:ﬁEﬁETonEH—
. .d,jii:ﬁi§'h§§d§d‘"AE_Appeal—EE the Japanese PeOple" and it elicited a quick
,W7 respOnse from the Japanese Whaling Association which ran a rival half-page
' 'ad attempting to persuade the reader that "whale pOpulations are now on the

increase'!

 

 

 

 

 

MORE AWI ADVERTISEMENTS ARE NEEDED IN ORDER TO INFORM MORE PEOPLE OF
THE FACTS.

OVER

 




Bills have been introduced in Congress to provide a U.S. government
embargo against whale killers. There are several bills: H.J.Res. 448,
introduced by Congressman Alphonzo Bell (R.,Ca.) would embargo products of
any foreign enterprise which kills whales for commercial profit; H.R. 80,
introduced by Congressman John Dingell (D.,Mich.); H.R. 607, introduced by
Congressman Norman Lent (D.,N.Y.) and H.J.Res. 32, introduced by Congressman
Bell, would amend the Fishermen's Protective Act to authorize the President
of the United States to embargo any product from a nation that diminishes
the effectiveness of an international agreement for the conservation of
marine resources. Hearings were held May 13th and 14th before the House
Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee's Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife
Conservation and the Environment, chaired by Congressman Robert Leggett (D.,Ca.)
Action is expected soon.

In the Senate, Senators Warren Magnuson (D.,Wash.), Ernest Hollings (D.,SC
and Claiborne Pell (D.,R.I.) introduced S.J.Res. 81 which embargoes fish
products from commercial whaling enterprises and requires ships and equipment
to be dismantled or converted. .

HOW YOU CAN HELP THE WHALES

Your boycott actions have brought about a reduction in size of the fleet
of Japanese whaling vessels. The three big fishing companies who send
factory ships to the Antarctic each year: Kyokuyo, Taiyo, and Nippon Suisan,
will join together next year seeking joint government subsidy and dropping
one of the factory ships which can transform a magnificent whale into a
pile of commercially saleable oil, meat and bone in half an hour. The
entire fleet is capitalized at $33,000,000. Already one of the factory
ships has been retired from whaling. It was proposed that it be used for
cleaning empty oil tankers leaving port. The others should be converted to
similar useful anti-pollution work, too. THE COMMERCIAL KILLING 0F WHALES
MUST CEASE. THE GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN SHOULD NOT SUBSIDIZE IT.

Please write to the Japanese Ambassador: ask your friends to write, too.
Tell him you Hope'JEpEﬁ_wilI put an end to commercial whaling by its nationals
rather than underwriting the expensive voyage to the Antarctic next year.
Tell him you are boycotting Japanese goods until the cruel whale killing
stOps. Make your letters respectful to him personally but unyielding in
substance. - .

 

Please write to the Soviet Ambassador, too, urging cessation of
whaling By the U.STS{ET_'TEE_Killing of dolphins is already prohibited in
the Soviet Union. Even polar bears are strictly protected. But Russia is
second only to Japan in mass slaughter of the great whales, who possess the
largest brains in the world. This cruel destruction of creatures whose
intelligence we are only beginning to learn about is profoundly unworthy of
a major world power. To protect dolphins, called "cousins to man" by the
Russians, is a mark of civilization totally inconsistent with the continued
decimation of whales. The Ambassadors may be addressed as follows:

 

His Excellency His Excellency

Takeshi Yasukawa Anatoliy F. Dobrynin

The Ambassador of Japan The Ambassador of the U.S.S.R.
2520 Massachusetts Avenue 1125 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008 Washington, D.C. 20036

 




3

The editor of your local newspaper should receive a letter from.XEE, too,
asking—EeEHEFE—ta—j01n in Eﬁe boycott of Japanese and Ru331an goods. at '
them know that they can obtain free fliers, bumper stickers, and buttons from
the Animal Welfare Institute to distribute to friends and others interested
in helping to save the whales. A c0py of the new AWI flier is enclosed, and
we'll be happy to send you as many as you can pass out.

If ou can organize a demonstration, let E§_know. ‘We'll gladly send
you aII tHe information and materials you need, free 2f charge.

EVERY PUBLIC ACTION FOCUSING ON THE NEED FOR A TEN YEAR MORATORIUM ON
COMMERCIAL WHALING AND THE BOYCOTT WILL HELP END THE SENSELESS KILLING.

Here are a few statistics which you may find useful in letter-writing.

Japan has 77 joint fishing ventures in 38 countries. So-called "dummy"
whaling companies have been set up in Peru and Korea, neither of which
nations adhere even to the weak restrictions of the International Whaling
Commission.

Whaling factory ships are no longer being built by any country because
there are too few whales left to make the necessary investment pay. Existing
factory ships are obsolescent and probably down to their last few years of
life, but at present killing rates, major whale populations could be virtually
wiped out before the factory ships give out. There is every commercial
incentive to do just that. Japan exported over two hundred million dollars
worth of fish to the United States in 1973. The-Whole Japanese wﬁaling
industry is now capitalized at little more than one fourth of this amount.

Japanese whaling is conducted by subsidiaries of the giant conglomerates
which include manufacturers of cameras, automobiles and electronic equipment.
Enormous financial entities such as Mitsubishi and Mitsui constantly adjust
to changes in the course of making billions of dollars in international
trade. A few years more or less of whaling would affect them to about the
degree that a mosquito might affect an elephant. But to the whales, it means
the difference between life and death both of individuals and species. To
human beings it means the difference between preserving the great whales as
a basic part of the ocean ecosystem - an ecosystem on which the continued
availability of oxygen depends. These are matters that do not bear comr
parison with commercial profit, and when the commercial profit in question is
necessarily short term and minor as is now the case with whaling the fact of
even having to argue over its continuance would be ridiculous if it were not
tragic.

At the International Whaling Commission meeting in London June 23-28
the fate of the fin whale will be decided. This magnificent species,
second only in size to the blue whale, is the most desperately endangered of
the species currently being harpooned by the industry. "A Whale for the
Killing," by Farley Mowat tells of the devotion of the fin whales for one
another.

If the IWC votes a moratorium on the killing of fin whales it will be
more than it has ever done before. But there is no hope that it will adopt
a moratorium on the killing of sei, Bryde's, minke or sperm whales.’ Onl
citizen pressure through the boycott or government embargo through Congressional
action can save the whales.

PLEASE KEEP WORKING FOR THEIR PROTECTION.

 




4
You are cordially invited to become a member of the Animal Welfare
Institute. The quarterly Information Reports sent to members W111 bring
you current developments in the fight to save the whales.
Please join with us and order materials for the campaign.
'Sincerely,

(25.22.-

Christine Stevens
President

I wish to become a member of the Animal Welfare Institute (non—voting).
life SlOO 1_7 Associate $10 L_7 Sustaining $5 1_] Contributing $2 .1.7

Name

 

 

Address

 

Zip Code

 

New members will receive a free copy of Vanishin§ Giants, The Histor , '
Biolo and Fate of The Great Whales, by Davi . 1.., beautifUIIy illustrated
5y EicEa?d_EIlis, and contaTning a survey of known facts about the life and
habits of Earth's great whales.

 

Please send me one free copy of:

/ 7 How to Organize a Demonstration

 

 

[:7 Articles published from 1971 to 1975 in the AMI Information Report
on national and international efforts to prevent extinction o
whales. 9 pages

/ 7 TWC Establishes Rules for Whale Showdown, by Tom Garrett

Bumper stickers Buttons Posters (Extras of each of these @ 20¢)

Leaflets and Petitions (As many as you can use free)

"SAVE THE WHALES” T-shirts: Adults' ($3.50 each) Sm. Med
Children's (52.75 eacﬁj' Sm.

. Lg. XLg.
raa.__I§.

Four-color whale print (310 minimum donation)

Enclosed please find S to help SAVE THE WHALES, S for my order,

and S for membership.

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS ABE TAX DEDUCTIBLE. PLEASE GIVE GENEROUSLY TO KEEP THE
CAMPAIGN ROLLING. - '

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




' ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
“Mama-TON. D. c. 20007

B 077 BOYCOTT
4‘ 5‘55 SOVIET
swoop s oooos

TO THE GOVERNMENTS OF JAPAN AND THE SOVIET UNION:

We, the undersigned, deplore and detest the thoughtless commercial slaughter .
of the world's whale population, and we demand that this barbaric practice ceases Immediately.

WE HEREBY PLEDGE THAT UNTILYOU CEASE THE KILLING OF
THE GREATWHALES. WE SHALL NOT KNOWINGLY PURCHASE ANY PRODUCT
FROM. TRAVEL TO. OR HAVE ANY TRAFFIC WITH YOUR COUNTRIES.

F Name . I Address. 'City State Zip

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please show Whales a little Humanity»

 




I

__ ‘ suCH As CAR, MOTORCCLES, ELETVISIONS, TEREOS, CAMERAS

DON’T FLY JAPAN AIR LINES
,* DON’T BUY RUSSIAN FURS AND VODKA .

 

 

 

 

JAPAN ISTHE WORLD’S BIGGEST WHALE KILLER. The whaling companies are owned and controlled by the great
manufacturing and trading combines that produce and market the vast array of Japanese goods sold in America. For
example, Nissan Motor Co., the manufacturer of Datsun cars and trucks, has major interest in whaling. Nissan's insur-
ance affiliate, Nissan Fire and Marine lnsurance, is the largest stockholder in the world’s biggest whaling company,
Nippon Suisan. Nissan and the rest of the Japanese‘business community have done nothing to halt the whale slaughter.

The Soviet Union is the world's second biggest whale-killer. The Russians use whale meat to feed minks and sables,
and sperm whale oil is used to lubricate the Soviet intercontinental missiles. “

YOU CAN HELP SAVE THE WHALES BY REFUSlNG TO PURCHASE ANY JAPANESE AND RUSSlAN PROD-
UCTS UNTlL JAPAN AND THE SOVIET UNlON AGREE TO STOP WHALING.

More than 2,000,000 whales have been killed in the past 50 years, so many that all eight species of great whales are
in danger of extinction. The Blue Whale, the greatest creature ever to live on Earth, survives in such few numbers that
it may be past the point of saving.

. Japan and the Soviet Union have defied unanimous appeals by the United Nations, in 1972, i973 and 1974, for a
ten—year moratorium on whaling. The UN. Food and Agriculture Organization last year issued this pessimistic appraisal:
“It is not realistic to presume (the whalers) will ensure either the maintenance or even the continued existence of a whale
stock. it pays to exploit a resource (the whales) excessively heavily, even to extinction, and not on a sustainable basis.”

Japan and the Soviet Union have consistently opposed moves by the international Whaling Commission to save
the whales fromcommercial extinction. Lower quotas were set by the lWC on fin, sperm and minke whales. But Japan
and the Soviet Union announced they would ignore the lower quotas. Thousands of whales died because of this defiance.

‘Bec‘a’Use‘Japan and the Soviet Union have Subverted an international conservation program, President Ford is now
empowered to invoke the ‘Pelly Amendment to the Fishermen’s Protective Act. The Pelly Amendment allows the US.
Government to prohibit the importation of fishery products from offending nations. Congressmen Alphonzo Bell of
California and John Dingell of Michigan have introduced bills in the House of Representatives to expand the Pelly Amend-
ment 'san'Ctions to all Japanese and Soviet products. . . g

The slaughter continues relentlessly. Between them, Japan and the Soviet Union kill over 80% of the whales. Every
.14 minutes another of these gentle, intelligent animals is harpooned to agonizing death. .

In response to this outrageous defiance, every major American environmental,conservation and humane group
has joined to call for a boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods. Until the whale slaughter is stopped, the boycott cam—
spaign will be pursued and. publicized in all Japanese and Soviet markets.

 

THE BOYCOTT CAMPAIGN IS SUPPORTED BY THESE CONSERVATION GROUPS:

National Audubon Society Sierra Club

Friends of the Earth National Wildlife Federation
Environmental Defense Fund . The Fund for Animals.
Humane Society of the United States The Wilderness Society
National Parks and Conservation Assoc. Rare Animal Relief Effort
Center for Science in the Public Interest Environmental Action
Explorers Club Environment Committee Defenders of Wildlife
Society for Animal Protective Legislation Environmental Policy Center
New Y'Ork Zoological Society ' Animal Welfare Institute

 

 

 




SAYONARA WHALES

The fate of the great whales was foreseen more than a century ago by Herman Melville. The author of the whaling
classic “Moby Dick” wrote: “The moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase. and so remorse-
less a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man,
smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff.”

Jacques Cousteau, the famed French oceanographer, writes: “Our century, as it turned out, was much more de-
structive to the whales than the period of the great romantic hunts as described. in the work of Herman Melville.
A hundred years ago, a whaler’s three-year expedition netted him 37 whales. Today, a whaler‘s modern weapons and
fast boats give him one whale a day, and sometimes three or four. ‘

“The only creatures on earth that have bigger—and maybe better—brains than humans are the Cetacea, the
whales and dolphins. Perhaps they could one day tell us something important, but it is unlikely that we will hear it.

 

Because we are coldly, efficiently and economically killing them off.”

 

 

The Save the Whales Campaign is generating strong public support and the boycott effort is putting eiormous
pressure on the whaling interests and the governments of Japan and the Soviet Union. A senior White House official
praises “the individuals and conservation organizations that have made whale conservation a major effort. Theyhave
educated and focussed public opinion which has resulted in public pressure on the Congress and the Executive Branch
of the Federal Government in this country, and in similar pressure on government and business elsewhere." Citizen
pressure on Nissan Motor Co. has led its US. president, Y. Katayama, to warn the Japanese government of "the tre-
mendous amount of adverse publicity which Japan has received in connection with the harvesting of whales."

Modern whalingis a savage, ruthless exercise, nothing like the romantic days of 19th-century whaling. Here is an
eyewitness description of modern whaling by Dr. Harry Lillie, who sailed as a ship's surgeon: ‘ '

“The present-day hunting harpoon is a horrible 150-pound weapon carrying an explosive head which bursts gen-
erally in the whale’s intestines, and the sight of one of these creatures pouring blood and gasping along on the sur-
face, towing a 400-ton catching vessel by a heavy harpoon rope, is pitiful. So often an hour or more of torture is
inflicted before the agony ends in death. I have experienced a case of five hours and nine harpoons needed to kill
one mother Blue Whale. , - .

“If we could imagine a horse having two or three explosive spears driven into it, and then made to drag a heavy
butcher’s truck, while blood poured over the roadway until the, animal collapsed an hour or more later, we should
have some idea of what a whale goes through.”

These great, defenseless creatures are hunted down and slaughtered by sophisticated military weapons. The huge
Japanese and Soviet whaling fleets decimate whole herds of whales each day. The whales are sought out by airplanes
and helicopters, then are tracked relentlessly by sonar and radar. The terror-stricken whales are chased down by high-
speed catcher. boats. They are blown up in agonizing death by grenade-tipped harpoons. Huge factory ships rapidly
process the whales into commercial “products.” ' '

The more than 30,000 whales killed last year by the Japanese and Russians ended up as mink food, transmission
oil, fertilizer, soap, cosmetics,'even delicacies on the Japanese table. There is no need for any of these whale products
in the world economy. There are ready, economical substitutes.

THE WHALES NEED YOURHELP

Please support the boycott. If a product says MADE IN JAPAN or MADE IN U.S.S.R., don't buy it. Purchase goods
made elsewhere. Tell merchants WHY you are boycotting Japanese and Russian products and urge them to stock goods
made in other countries.

Tell your friends about the plight of the whales and how they can help. The more people who act NOW, the sooner
we can halt the slaughter that is driving the great whales to extinction. The fate of the great whales must be decided
by mankind, not by a greedy few. Extinction is the ultimate crime against Nature.

Please write to the presidents of big Japanese companies telling them why you are boycotting their goods. Urge
tt‘tﬁm to use their influence on their country’s whaling industry to stop whale killing. Following are some names and
a resses:

Automobiles Cameras Motorcycles 6 Bicycles Watches TV 6 Stereos
TOYOTA CANON HONDA SEIKO SONY
Union Bank Tower 3113 Wilshire Blvd. 100 W. Alondra Blvd. ~ 640 Fifth Ave. 47-56 32nd PI.

Suite 1200 Los AngelES, Cal. 90010 Gardena, Cal. “90247 New York, NY. Lon Island City, NY.
ng515 Hawéhfr385%gd. Il:lllKON K k Egg/(IDPS‘IA th 10019 I] I I
orrance, a . ippon oga u ran e or e - ‘ - '
DATSUN 623 Stewart Ave. Buena Parlg, Cal. 80602 IsﬁNfbm mm Egyﬁﬂson Ave.
18501 S. Figueroa St. Garden City, NY 11530 KAWASAKI 551 F'fth A New York, NY. 10022
Carson Cal. 90744 MINOLTA 1052 MCGaW Ave. N y' k Kiev 10017 PANASONIC
MAZDA MOTORS 200 Park Ave- 5- 5““ “‘5' ca" 92705 W or " ' ' 200 Park Ave
‘ 60 NE. Ave. [33:13? ”'Y' 10003 sagging D Food » New York, NY. 10017
reewa r.
Piscataway, NJ. 08854 Honeywell, Inc. Sante Fe Springs, Cal. 90670 SSXEﬂESOODS SANYO .
SUBARU ' 550] S Broadwa FUJI BICYCLES $33 Schwerin Street 1200 W. ATIZESIa Blvd.
1 7040 Central Highway Littleton, Colo. 8 1.20 Toshoku America, Inc. San Francisco Cal 94134 Compton. Cal. 90220
Kldustlt‘lgpfk MAMIYA :551 Fifth Ave. ’ ' MITSUBISHI
pirpor k": e” J 08110 3919 Oakton Blvd. New York, NY 10017 GEISHA BRAND 277 Park Ave.
ennsau en, ‘ ' Skokie, III. 60076 Cosmetics Nozaki Associates, Inc. New York, N-Y- 10017
Tires Air Lines SHISEIDO ' ' (Distributor) PIONEER
BRIDGESTOHE JAPAN AIR LINES 540 Madison Ave. 1 World Trade Center 75 Oxford Drive

16921 s. Western Ave. 655 Fifth Ave. New York. NY New York, NY. 10048 Moonachie, NJ. 07074
Gardena. Cal. 90247 New York, NY. 10022 10022 .

' You can help save the whales and publicize the boycott campaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTIBLE
CONTRIBUTION to the Save The Whales Campaign. If you believe in this effort, please give generously.

For a donation of $10 or mor.e, you will receive a beautiful four-color Iithographed print (14" x 18"), suitable for
framing, of the Sei Whales ( ictured on the reverse side, without the lettering), from the original painted by renowned
marine life artist Richard El is.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 ChriStine Stevens, President

I WANT TO HELP SAVE THE WHALES. PLEASE SEND ME:

Copies of this leaflet Petitions "SAVE THE WHALES” T—shirts
. ' Bumper stickers (One free, extras 20¢) . Adult’s T-shirts ($3.50 each)
Buttons (One free, extras 20¢) ( ) Sm ( ) MGd ( ) L9 ( ) XLQ

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

Posters (One free, extras 20¢) Children’s T-shirts ($2.75 each) - :
4-color whale print ($10 Minimum donation) ( ) Sm ( ) Med ( ) Lg '
I

I

I

i

I

Make check payable to: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE (D.C. residents add 5% sales tax) , +
Name (please print) ’ A '
Address

 

 

! Enclosed please find $‘_____._to help SAVE THE WHALES and $_________for my order.
I

City State 7 i p

 

 

 




“'lhe Mexi-
wants to preserve

his

California, and that it isdoubtml

\

government would permit

said Porfirio A. Roniay, of the

ig
government
the whales as a

SAN DIFGO , CALIFORNIA

TRIBUNE
E ~ 124,422
APR 21 19151

 

fish commission office.

that the

. it,"

r

I

New threat tOQray Whales _
11‘7" ~ - i ' ByDavid Winder ‘ r i ‘
- Staff correspondent of

The Christian Science Monitor

~ . p p . "Redondo Beach, Calif.

The annual migratim of spouting Pacific gray whales from the
plankton-rich waters of Alaska to their mating grounds off the Baja
California coast may soon be another footnote for the history bucks.

Unless, that is, Japanese and Russian whaling ﬂeets are persuaded

‘ to‘l‘Ialt their hunts in the northern Pacific this summer.
The Japanese are now tooling up to go after them,” says Berni de
Bus of the American Cetacean Society. - ‘
Mrs. de Bus was referring to die proposal to the Internati
. . onal
WhalingCommission by Japanese whaling ﬂeets that “harvesting” of
the gray whales be resumed. '

Since both Japan and the Soviet Union have ignored whale-taking
quotas set- by the International Whaling Commission and United
Nations call for a 10-year moratorium on whaling, conservationists
expect the worst. ' . '

They fear that all the work done by a 1938 international moratorium

on gray whale killing, rescuing the animal from near extinbtion, may
be unions. The yaywhale. down to 1,000 at one time, new numbers
Muslim.“ 1‘“. ' *Please turn to Page 5

Hubbs, an authority on whales,
has sent a letter to the Mexican

Amin Zamr Menez, chief of the' mace.”
Mexican Fisheries Commission in '

“Mr. Yuri contacted Mr. Zarur
and was told that it is against Mexi-

posal.HeisattendingtheLawoftbe

Sea Conference in Geneva.

government recommending against can
the Japanese proposal.

firms, said Hubbs. Their population

has been mmawd at 15,000.
, “because San Diego, also objects to the pro-

Dutcb and US. whaling can law to harvest whales off Baja

g operations.”
The gray whales were last hunted
off Baja California in the 19305 by

 

0.0“ from hge 1 ‘

'ro forestall this, us. Reps-cute
tive Alphonzo Bell (R) of CalifOrnia
has introduced a bill in Congress that
would empower the President to em-
bargo all products from whaling na-

“The Japanese are proposing to
bring up the matter in June before
Yuri said Mexican fishery cooper»

atives in Baja California want

cerned that the gray whale 'may
become as much an endangered spe-
cies as the blue whale.

The blue 'whale, the largest crea—
ture ever known to live on earth, now
survives in such few numbers that

the International Whaling Commis-
sion, to reestablish whaling fer the

gray whales in Baja California,”

, said Hubbs. '
the whales cause some interference

whales harvested again

Norwegian,

of

, of the Y.M. Pacific

tions. (A similar but unsuccessful
move was made last year.)

Representative Bell also will in-
troduce a second bill calling for an
immediate embargo of all fishery
products exported to the US. by the
offending Japanese and Soviet whal-
ing companies.

scientists think it may now be past the
point of saving. The humpback, bow-
head, and right whales all have been
driven to virtual extinction while the
numbers of remaining fin, sei, sperm,
and minke whales are rapidly drop-

ping.

' Import banned

The US. has banned all com-
mercial whaling and the importation
of any whale products, and placed all
eight of the great whales on the
endangered species.

The Soviets use Whale meat to feed

., said he is “aware that whaling

‘is a very sensitive issue,” and that

Yuri has contacted a number

‘Have to get tough’.

"We have to get tough. OtherWise
we’ll get nothing through and our
whales will be extinct,” said the Santa
Monica-bay area congressman.

“People got upset about the shoot-

for information, including Dr. Carl with fishin
Hubbs, professor of biology emeritus

persons involved in Pacific fisheries
a; Scripps Institution of Oceanogra-
y.

“it will not be easy to get permission
from the MeXican government.”

would establish offshore stations to
harvest whales on a regular basis.

whaling ships and processing vessels _
. Motosuki Yuri

,of

8
Alas-

Taivo Co.

ing of coyotes, of -wild horses, of
.mountain lions. If we bring out the
seriousness of the situation I see no
reason [why] Congress can’t do some-
thing about it.” ' '
Conservation grOups like the Na-
tional Audobon Society, the National
Wildlife Federation, and the Sierra
Club, which have urged a boycott of
Japanese and Soviet goods, are con-

minks and sables on Siberian fur
farms, and sperm whale oil serves as
a lubricant for its intercontinental
missiles.

The Japanese have argued that
whale meat is vital to Japan, but
Representative Bell’s office insists
that whale meat constitutes just 1
percent of the total protein in the
Japanese diet.

\

tionastheyswimofftheSanDiego Co
The . proposal to harvea gray
.whalesofftheMexicancoastbas
Under the proposal.‘ Japanese

coast.

a
i
i

S
8.
.b
a
8
g
%’a
’é
a

after annual migrations. from

ha. The whales are a tourist attrac-
been made by the Ins Angela: office
of Y.M. Pacific 00., a Japanese
Japan, that country’s leading whal-
ing firm. ‘

firm, representing the

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

.. Thursday, February 27, 1975

’i

TRIM! w m
Japanese whaling interws are
checking into the posibility of com-

By JOHN FABINA

However, the Mexican Fish Com-
mission in San Diego said permis-
sionwould probably nothegranted
bytheMexicangovemment.

Graywhaleshavebeenunderpro-
tection since 1046, and Mexico has
glvensanctuarystamstoBajaCali- ,

tn
5.
~
.2
\ 3
3i
u
on
v,
~¥
o
e
m.
.5
H-
=
a
D.
u
‘

merciallyharvestinggraym

off the Baja California coast.

 




i SIoaAnnetes aim

HARRISONGRAY 0115.1332-1917
11.11111? CHANDLER, 1917-1944
NORMAN CHANDLER. 1944-1960 '

 

.. l---~

o'r1s CHANNELPnbﬁsher ..
Roan? 1:..me -
Executive Vice President and General hanger.

. WILLIAM F THOMAS
Executive Vice President and Editor

 

 

CHARLES C. CHASE, Vice President-Production

ROBERT L. FLANNES, Vice President and Assistant to the Publisher
ROBERT C. LOBDELL, Vice~.Président and General Counsel

VANCE IL. STICKELL, Vice President—Sales

 

JAMES BASSE’IT, Associate Editor

1 ANTHONY DAY, Editor of the Editorial Pages

.. " ROBERT J. DONOVAN, Associate Editor
FRANK P. HAVEN, Managing Editor
JEAN- SHARLEY TAYLOR, Associate Editor '

 

MONDAY Mm MARCH 3 1975

.- O
M
x" 'i

The Senseless Massacre at Sea

-In defiance of international agreements, Japan
and Russia- continue to decimate the woritl's va-
nishing whale population—and the Japanese have
now set their harpoon gunsights on the great Cal-
iforniag Gray.

At the June session of the International Whaling
Commission in London, Japan will ask for permis-
sion to "harvest” the grays, which are now migrat-

ing along the Pacific Coast from the Bering Sea to ‘

their winter spawning grounds in Baja CalifOrnia.
The grays—up to 50 feet in length and 40 tons
i1“! weight, and numbering no more than 15, 000-—
,probably would be extinct now if they had not
come under special treaty protection 38 years ago.

Japan proposes to suspend that protection and re-‘

sume, with the Russians, the slaughter of the grays
in North Pacific waters

This country s representatives on the commission
w ill oppose the request and probably will ask, as
they have for the past three years, for a 10-year
moratorium on the killing of all whales. (American
whaling and the importation of all whale products
w9e71e made illegal under an act of Congress in
1 1) .

The international commission has' never been
effective in curbing the excesses of the Japanese
and Russian whaling fleets, which now take 85% of

the world's annual catch of 38,000 and ignore at '

will both the rules of the commission and the
pleading of international wildlife organizations.

It is clear that greater p1 essure must be brought,
against the offending 1 ations. and Rep Alphonzo'

Bell 68- C 3111.) p1 oposes to do just that. He will in-
trod. uce legislation next month calling for an im-
mediate embargo on all fishery imports to this

country from the three Japanese Whaling/fishing

- combines and the official Soviet Fisheries Agency.

Those imports now amount to more than $200 mil-
lion a year, largely from Japan.

Bell‘s action serves notice on Japan and the So-
viet Union that American sentiment against their
whaling violations extends beyond the protests of
conservationists ‘

But other means also exist to force the plunder-

.ers to recognize the commission' s rules and the
‘ havoc their harpoons are wreaking among the lar-

gest and one of the meet intelligent of all living
creatures. Japanese and Soviet whaling fleets have

2, been killing the animals at the rate of one every 14

minutes during the season. All eight species of . ‘
great whales, except for the California gray, now
face extinction—including the blue, the largest _

Creature ever to inhabit the earth

This massacre is the mar senseless because all

of the products that com from the whale have

economical subStitutes.

But the threat of embargoes by Congress—and
the continuing boycott of all Japanese and Russian.

, imports by militant conservationists—may not suc-

c'eed in halting the slaughter. Diplomatic action—.—
and on a level higher than the International

. Whaling Commission—must also be taken.

Seeretary of State Kissinger, who already has
made clear to the Japanese this country's Opposi;
tion to its whaling practices, should pursue the
issue further and more aggressively, both 1n Tokyo
and in Moscow.

. It is important to sav e the whale. Humankind
already has laid waste too mam of its natural in-
heritances to destroy yet another.

 




m
E—q
D
E:
[-4
U)
a
m
a:
<
LL:
.4
in
B
.4
<
E
Z
<

[\
O
O
O
(\l
Q
D
c“
O
{—3
CD
.5
J:
cn
Cd
3
d
I!)
\O
m .
X
0
on
O
9.2

I wish to become a member of the Animal Welfare Institute

Sustaining $5 E] Contributing $2 Cl

(Non-voting)

Associate $10 Cl

Life $100 [:1
( N on-voting)

(N on-voting)

( N on-voting)

(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)

. ZIP CODE .. ..

INSTITUTION (If any)

Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $

Payment Must Accompany Order

SAVE THE WHALES CAMPAIGN

Save the Whales flier explaining how you can help ........ Free

Articles published from 1971 to 1975 in the AWI
Information Report on national and international
efforts to prevent extinction of whales. 9

pages ......................................................... Single copy free

IWC Establishes Rules for Whale Showdown

By Toni Garrett, reprinted from Not Man Apart,
September, 1974, 1 page ............................................... Free

Help for Whales

TIME, The Weekly Newsmagazine July 16, 1973.
Reprint ....................................................................... Free

Campaign materials:

Poster ................................................................... One free
Button .................................................................. One free
Bumper sticker ...................................................... One free
T-shirts, small, medium, or large ................................ $3.50
Children’s, small, medium, or large ............................ $2.75

Full color reproduction of original painting by Richard Ellis
of the swiftest of commercially exploited whales, the Sei, moth-
er and young, suitable for framing: a gift to persons contribut-
ing ten dollars or more to the Save the Whales campaign,

Please use form below for whale campaign orders.

Name ......................................................................................

Address ......................................................................... i .........
Zip Code

Contribution .............................................

DR. SCHWEITZER’S MESSAGE TO THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

I am proufoundly moved that you would like to give my
name to the medal you have created. I give you this right
with all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassion-
ate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it is the-great and
moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to wit-
ness this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged
to intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so

little interest in them.

Lambare’neI
May 2, 1951

Albert Schweitzer Centenary, 1975

EDUCATION AIL
MATERIALS

AVAHILABILIE IFROM THIE
ANIIMAIL \X/IEILFAIRIE lNSTlTUTIE

 




MATERIALS AVAILABLE FROM THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, PO. BOX 3650, WASHINGTON D.C., 20007
“97/

 

 

GENERAL

Animal Expressions

A photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Ex-
pression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.
Forward by F. J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106
illustrations. Animal Welfare Institute. Free on re-
quest to veterinarians and persons employed by
research institutions in the management of animal
colonies and care of animals. To others ...................... $1.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
By Emily Leavitt and other authors. Summary and
history of laws affecting the welfare of animals in
the United States. Animal Welfare Institute (Third
edition in preparation). One copy free upon request to
libraries and humane societies. To others .................... $1.00
The Neighbours
Anthology of animal poems. Illustrated by Fou-
gasse, 117 pages. Published by UF AW ........................ $1.25
The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
By Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London. Illus-
trated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW ........................ $1.25
Facts About Furs

By F. Jean Vinter, M.D. Revised edition, Animal

Welfare Institute, 1973. 106 pages of information

on the way furs are obtained throughout the

world. 28 illustrations. Indexed for easy reference.

One copy free to humane societies and libraries;

to others .................................................................... $1.00
Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

By Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U. S. Dep-
artment of the Interior. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, April, 1974 ........................................ Free

Annual Reports of the Animal Welfare Institute ............... Free
Information Report
Animal Welfare Institute quarterly ............................. $2.00
SHELTER CONSTRUCTION

Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter

Reprint of article from Gaines Dog Research Prog-
ress, describing animal shelter of Humane Society
of Washtenaw COunty (Michigan), Illustrated .............. Free

HUMANE SLAUGHTER
Uniform State Humane Slaughter Bill
By Council of State Governments ................................. Free

Manufacturers leaflets concerning available equipment
for rendering livestock unconscious painlessly .............. Free

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Laboratory Dogs '
16 mm. sound film showing humane care and hous-
ing of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory.
Produced by Crawley Films. For one week’s ren-
tal. ............................................................................ $4.25

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals

Illustrated manual, designed for those planning to
build, remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal
Welfare Institute. One copy free on request to
scientific institutions, veterinarians, or architects.
To others ................................................................... $2.00

Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals

By William Hoffer. Reprint from College Man-
agement, 3 pages, May, 1973 ........................................ Free

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
By W. M. S. Russell & R. L. Burch, 238 pages ............ $5.00

The Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio-Medical
Research

Proceedings of the UFAW Symposium, including
discussion of tissue cultures and other substitutes
for test animals for certain purposes. October
1971 ........................................................................... $1.00

Report of the Departmental Committee on

Experiments on Animals
(Chairman: Sir Sydney Littlewood) Presented to
Parliament by the Secretary of State for the Home
Department by Command of her Majesty, April,
1965. 255 pages ......................................................... $3.50

THE FOLLOWING TWO ITEMS ARE AVAILABLE ONLY

TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS.

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Fourth edition. Written simply, designed for ani-
mal room personnel, 78 pages, illustrated. Animal
Welfare Institute. Free upon request ONLY to per—
sons employed in scientific institutions.

Handling Laboratory Animals

16 mm. sound film showing proper handling of 12
common species of laboratory animals. Produced
-by MacQueen Films with cooperation of National
Institute for Medical Research, London, England.
One week’s rental ............................................. $4.25

HUMANE EDUCATION

Humane Biology Projects
Animal Welfare Institute. 14 contributors, 41
pages, illustrated. Designed for use in secondary
schools. One copy free upon request to teachers,

librarians, humane societies; to others ........................ 50c

First Aid and Care of Small Animals

By Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use in Primary
and secondary schools. 46 pages, illustrated. Ani-
mal Welfare Institute. One copy free upon request
to teachers, librarians, scout leaders, humane so-

cieties; to others ............................................................ 50c

Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High
School Biology Students and Reasons Why Animal
Experiments by High School Students Should Be
Painless. Animal Welfare Institute ............................... Free

Canada’s Experience With Student Use of Living

Animals
By H. C. Rowsell, D.V.M., D.V.P.H. Ph.D. Reprint
of article from The American Biology Teacher,
January, 1974 .............................................................. Free

The Science Fair and the Experimental Animal

By H. C. Rowsell, D.V.M., D.V.P.H. Ph.D. Reprint of
article from the Seccan News, 1 page. January, 1972 ..... Free

Better Nutrition Studies

By F. Barbara Orlans, Reprint from The Ameri-
can Biology Teacher, 3 pages, November 1970 .............. Free

Live Organisms in High School Biology

By F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article
from The American Biology Teacher, 4 pages.
September, 1972 .......................................................... Free

Attitudes Towards Animals
By Christine Stevens, Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February,
1970 ............................................................................ Free

Sanctified Torture

By John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Sci-
entist, 1 page, January, 1969 ........................................ Free

Administrative Control Over Science Fair Projects
By William Dunkum, 1969. 4 page leaflet ..................... Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

By F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article
from The American Biology Teacher, October,1974 ...... Free

Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools

By Dr. W. W. Armistead, Dean, College of Veter-
inary Medicine, Michigan State University, 1 page ....... Free

Good Kind Lion

For primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW. One Copy ........... Free
Additional copies ..................................................... .3c ea.

Kittens and Cats

For primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suit-
able for coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley.
One copy free upon request to teachers, librarians,
humane societies; to others ...... , ...................................... 10c

You and Your Dog

For primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suit-
able for coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley.
One copy free upon request to teachers, librarians,
humane societies; to others ............................................ 10c

Befriending Animals

By Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Child-
hood Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ............... Free

NOTE: Teachers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaflets can be pro-
vided free to student teachers. Orders for manuals
should be accompanied by payment.

(Order blank on reverse side)

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WAIHING'I‘ON. D. C. 20001

September 1975

CONSERVATIONISTS STILL VIEW WHALES AS INDUSTRY PAWNS

Conservation groups observing the 27th meeting of the
International Whaling Commission in London, June 23-27, 1975, .
voiced discouragement at the Commission's actions and once again
called for the ten year moratorium recommended by the United

Nations.

At the 1974 meeting the moratorium was cast aside in favor
of a management scheme which, in theory, would give protection
to the most depleted species and stocks. This year, however,
when the implementation of the scheme came to a vote, the whaling
interests again were able to apply enough pressure on the
Commission to obtain major compromises.

On key quotas, the Scientific Committee's recommendations
were ignored where they did not fit in with industry requirements.

Touted as a meeting in which scientists would make objective
decisions on whale populations and the commissioners of the
fifteen member nations would follow their advice, the 1975 meeting
fell pathetically far short of its advance publicity. By the time
the seemingly endless compromises had been haggled out, 32,578
great whales were scheduled for death by the explosive harpoons
of IWC nations. The Commission took no action in behalf of the
small whales currently being slaughtered despite a thorough
report on dangers to their populations submitted by the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature.

Sir Peter Scott of the world Wildlife Fund called for a
moratorium on commercial whaling and assailed the current minke
whale overkill. "What are you going to do about it?" he asked
the Commission bluntly. The answer was a reduction in the minke
quota in the southern oceans from 7,000 to 6,810 (to include the
approximately 900 not included in last year's schedule) and even
such a small saving of whales was fiercely Opposed by both the
major whaling nations, Japan and Russia. The industry's attitude
was the same on sperm whales. Hard as these two countries tried
to fill their quota of 8,000 males and 5,000 female sperm whales
in the southern hemisphere last season, all they could find and
kill were 6,677 males and 3,497 females. Yet the Japanese and
Soviet Commissioners again aggressively demanded the 8,000-5,000
quota. It is evident that the intent is to kill as many as

OVER

 




  

 
 
 

possible and leave the numerical quotas floating well above the
whalers' most optimistic hopes. Indeed, in its 27-year history,
the IWC has virtually made it a policy to set quotas above what
the industry could catch despite increased effort and new tech-
nology.

 
 
    
   
   
  

Not only on total species quotas but on other conservation
measures the big two showed their colors. When the Scientific
Committee recommended that the antarctic seas be divided into
nine areas according to sperm whale populations in the regions,
the Soviet Commissioner, Mr. Nikoronov, told the commission that
such a division would be tantamount to reducing the kill of
sperm whales by 50%. He threatened his fellow commissioners in
the classical IWC manner ordering them to "seek a compromise...
otherwise we shall reserve our decision to ourselves and do

what we find appropriate."

 
   
     
   
   
    
    
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Did the Commissioners stand staunchly by the scientific
recommendations? Not at all. Instead, they asked the Scientific
Committee to backtrack and divide the antarctic into six areas
the number the Russian whalers were prepared to accept.

When the Japanese Commissioner, Mr. Fujita, sought to raise
a key percentage (recommended by the Scientific Committee in the
computation of all quotas) from 10% to 20% because he said the
smaller percentage would lower the quota on sei whales by 38%,
a remarkable new scheme surfaced, known as "the Graham line"
(after the British Commissioner of that name). By a strange
coincidence, computations following the Graham line exactly pro-
duced the number of sei whales Mr. Fujita had been demanding!

In a remarkable show of contortionist ability, the Commission
voted for "the Allen line" (a straight line named after the
Chairman of the Scientific Committee) for all the whales except
sei whales in the antarctic w ere the "broken" Graham line
(which elbows its wa at a 90 angle into the danger zone for
the whales' survival) won their approval. This means that in
one of the areas of the antarctic where no sei whales at all were
to have been killed, had the scientific advice on their safety
been followed, 540 are now scheduled for slaughter. In another
area 110 additional seis will be available for harpooning. At
an estimated $7,000 per sei whale* that amounts to $4,550,000.

The new Mexican Commissioner, Dr. Andres Rozental, a lawyer
who played an active role in the 1973 conference when the
Convention on International Trade in Threatened and Endangered
Species of Fauna and Flora was drafted, focused badly needed

analysis on a quota-raising move involving three species instead
of one as Its author had claimed.

 

*a figure confirmed by the head of one of the three major
Japanese whaling companies who regularly attends all IWC meetings

MORE

    
   




In the recurring "Graham line" discussions even the United
States finally agreed to its acceptance for a single year when .
Mr. Graham explained it affected only the two sei whale stocks in
the antarctic. But Mexico voted against this motion and explained
the vote by pointing out that minke and sperm whales would also be
affected - about six hundred whales. The Norwegian Chairman, ,
Mr. Rindal, grumbled, "We were assured only two sei stocks were
affected," and Graham had to backtrack: "Sorry if I misled the
Commission in that respect," he said.

Mr. Graham also put in his oar when it came to funding for
shooting the rifle-barrel style "discovery marks" into whales —
marks that can only be "discovered" if the whale is later har-
pooned. Graham said he was concerned about the contributions to
the fund for marking "as the UK organizes the whale marking
thing." No concern was expressed by him or any of the other
Commissioners for the part of the Scientific Committee's Report
which states: "...due to the possibility of mortality associated
with marking, it may be dangerous to mark protected stocks which
are at a very low level." And the Committee itself wants "pro—
tected" species to continue to be marked "for return in catches
taken under special permit." Last year 17 blue whales, l3 hump-
backs (how will their songs be affected by the painful marker in
their flesh?) and one bowhead were so marked. ‘

With respect to the killing of lactating whales and whales
below the minimum length, South Africa has the dubious distinction
of leading the world, according to the IWC's report on infractions.
Although its catch is relatively small, compared with Japan and
Russia, South Africa acknowledges a large percentage of error:
20.59% for baleen whales, 6.74% for sperm whales, and 6.96% for
minke whales. South Africa proposed that international observors
be posted on all catcher boats - not merely on the huge factory
ships or at the shore station where the actual killing cannot be
supervised - but the proposal was rejected as "impractical."

Mr. K.J. Botes, the South African inspector at the Australian
land station, reported that "22 lactating sperm whales were landed
during the 1974 season. It could not be ascertained whether or
not these whales were actually accompanied by calves when killed."
Mr. Botes recommended "that an inspector be appointed to each
whale catcher even if this is possible for only one season es-
pecially to ascertain the numbers of lactating whales thus ro-
vidin a comparison with a season without an inspector on board."
(Emphasis supplied.) _ ___—___'_— __

 

No one knows how many orphan whales are left to starve after
the harpooning of their mothers. What happens to the gunners who
shoot the mother whales? In most cases, withholding of the bonus
they get each time they kill a whale is the only punishment Japa-
nese harpooners receive although their Soviet counterparts may be
fined in addition to losing the bonus. Infractions reported in
pelagic whaling, however, are fewer than at shore stations. None

OVER

 




  

 
 

11 have been re orted for the North Atlantic because, strange
ihoﬁgh it seems, thgs is the first year that the IWC ha: fogmaléy
acknowledged that whales killed in this part of the glo $925326
be counted in the quotas! The North Atlantic quota for n . '-
totals more than three thousand. As for whales killed for SClen
tific purposes" these still do not appear on the schedule an
their numbers remain one—3f the IWC's many well-hidden itemshn
appearing only after a year's wait in the annual report of t e
Commission.

   
 
 
  
 

- A proposal to kill between one hundred and five hundred 'f'
Bryde's whales was rumored outside the precincts of the Sc1enti ic
Committee, the IWC's Sanctum Sanctorum where no mere Journalist
has ever been permitted to set foot and from which the observers
for conservation organizations are likeWise excluded. There is

no way even for scientists on the committee to assess the sc1en-
tific competence involved in such off-the-record killings because
the national commissioners have full jurisdiction in granting
scientific permits.

The large majority of the Scientific Committee has or had
connections with the whaling industry. Few of its members have
any compunctions about whale killing for profit.

The reader may indeed wonder at the strange machinations of.
this curious international body which the U.N. observer, Dr. Kai
Curry-Lindahl of Sweden, characterized as "inoperative" because
of the, as he put it, "veto right by a minority, which, in effect,
makes this convention inoperative."

However, any attempt to improve the convention meets with
opposition. Even the modest suggestions approved by an IWC
committee may not be circulated generally. U.S. Commissioner
Dr. Robert White suggested that, after circulating the draft to
member nations and assembling their comments, the proposal should
be sent to other nations. But Mr. Fujita and Mr. Rindal echoed
one another in pronouncing this "premature."

The IWC still belongs to the old guard. Yet this year's quota
cuts (approximately 8,500 whales) were larger than any ever adopted.
in the past. The boycott and demonstrations have had an effect._
Their continuance is essential if further needed protection for"
the whales is to be won. Indeed they are needed even to hold the
modest gains won this year. When the antarctic fin whale quota
was cut to 220, Mr. Fujita stressed that this must be the decision
for this year only, and Mr. Rindal reassured him that indeed that
was always so. The Chairman's reassurance that the reduced fin
whale quota is "only for the coming season which has always been

the case," makes clear the transitory nature of any protection the
IWC may give.

Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2332

 

 
   




SHOULD
YOUR PET

Copyright 1973 by Consumers Union of United
States, Inc., MOunt Vernon, N.Y. 10€60.
Reprinted by permission from CONSUMER REPOR

March 1973.

TRAVEL BY AIR?

it

It’s easy for your pet to earn his wings,” a United Air
Lines pamphlet reads. “All he has to do is fly United. We’ll
give him his free ‘I ﬂew United7 plastic wings. Just think of
the status! Your pet can claim he belongs to the elite group of
animals who have ﬂown at speeds over 600 miles an hour."
But if pets could tell of their travel experiences in the baggage
holds of aircraft, they might well demand “I survived
United” wings. i

One woman, for example, flew last summer with her two-
year-old boxer from New York to San Francisco on United.
The dog was dead on arrival in San Francisco. A veteri-
narian performed an autopsy and attributed the boxer’s
death to suffocation. United paid the woman $300.

In another incident a champion borzoi, enroute from
Chicago to a dog Show in Los Angeles, died on the flight.
again from suffocation. His white coat was spewed with
blood from his hemorrhaged lungs.

After an Irish wolfhound died on an Eastern Air Lines
flight from Dallas to Miami, the dog’s owner, in a ﬁt of
rage, retaliated by spreading paint on an Eastern 727 and
~~chopping holes in the aircraft. The man’s attorney told CU:
“He had dreamed of breeding puppies from that dog. When
the dog died and nobody seemed to care he just blew his top.”

Unfortunately, there is no industry-wide data on the
number of animals that die, or are injured, or are disabled
during plane trips, so it’s impossible to determine the exact
risks of shipping a pet by air.

Not the same environment

More unfortunate is the fact that the airlines have misled
pet owners into thinking that the environment in the luggage
compartment is similar to that of the plane’s passenger
section. A Northwest Airlines pamphlet entitled, “Good
Advice for Shipping Pets on Northwest Airlines,” assures
that “cargo compartments are heated and pressurized so
your pet will have a comfortable journey.” But another
Northwest Airlines publication—a manual for baggage per-
sonnel—motes that “there is a pattern of mortality [for some
dogs] during summer months.” Short-nosed dogs, such as
terriers, bulldogs, pekingese, boxers, and mastitis, the
manual says, seem to have difﬁculty breathing when it’s hot

and humid. That information isn’t in the pamphlet for
passengers.

How hot is hot? Well an airline trade association memo-
randum notes that on-ground temperatures in a cargo com-
partment can reach as high as ISOOF. The United Air Lines
pamphlet, entitled “United’s Guide to Pet Travel,” says pets
travel in “heated, pressurized comfort just like you” in our
“air conditioned aircraft.” Since no airline has air condi-
tioned baggage compartments, the United pamphlet is a
cruel deception.

The temperature spectrum

The high on-ground temperatures possible in aircraft
baggage compartments are only one end of the temperature
spectrum. An airline stewardess who ﬂies between the United
States and Europe placed a minimum-maximum indicating
thermometer in her suitcase. The suitcase, with the ther—
mometer, went into the plane’s luggage compartment where
pets would ride..The temperature extremes she recorded
were O°F and 104017.

An American Airlines official, testifying before the Civil
Aeronautics Board on air freight rates, candidly described
the conditions animals face in the hold of American’s DC-lO.
That’s the new wide-bodied aircraft Chet Huntley calls “an
inspiration for planes yet to be built” in a TV commercial.
One section of the hold is a “frying pan,” the official
said, with in-flight temperatures of up to 115°F. “Interest
ingly enough,” he said, “right adjacent to that same area
. . . we are freezing things.” So, he acknowledged, American
was experiencing both problems with respect to animals in
the same compartment within a few feet of each other. Curi-
ous to see if American levels with consumers about baggage
compartment temperatures, we queried three American reser-
vation agents. All three assured us that temperatures in bag-
gage compartments where pets are transported are the same
as in passenger cabins.

The airlines are quick to point out in their literature that
baggage compartments are pressurized. What they don’t tell
you, however, is that those compartments are also virtually
airtight. That’s so if a ﬁre should break out there it would
hopefully die from lack of oxygen. Thus, animals traveling

mo

LA},

 




in luggage compartments must. for the most part, endure
for the entire flight on the oxygen in the compartment at the
beginning of the flight. The freight aboard displaces air
and reduces the oxygen available for breathing. So a pet
unlucky enough to wind up in a jammed luggage compart-
ment may have a deadly problem.

Another American Airlines official, testifying at that
same CAB freight rate hearing, revealed that American ﬁrst
experienced serious animal mortality on aircraft when it
began flying long-range trips in the 101105 and the 19505.
American and some other carriers, he said, asked Douglas
Aircraft engineers to look into the problem. The chief recom-
mendation in a series of Douglas reports was to limit the
number of animals hauled.

Most major airlines have since set some limits, however
varying, but in the absence of any statistics there’s no way to
judge whether pet mortality rates have gone up, down or re-
mained the same. Douglas also suggested installation of a
series of fans in baggage compartments “to prevent stagna-
tion or excessive build up of carbon dioxide in the vicinity of
the animals.” No airline, however, has installed such fans. An
American oflicial testified under oath 'that the cost of the
recommended fans and related equipment would be. about
$19,000 per plane. A United iofficial suggested at the same
hearing. however. that the cost would be considerably less.

Take your pet aboard—”but

One wayfor an airline passenger to have his pet avoid
the hazards of the hold is to bring the animal into the pas-
senger compartment. Seven airlines—Eastern, TWA, United,
American, Frontier, Northwest and Hawaiian—permit this,
but all seven require the pet to be confined to a container
small enough to fit under the seat. Since the maximum height
- for such containers is approximately 8 inches, only very small
pets can qualify. Five of the seven airlines limit carry-on pets,
moreover, to one per first class section and one per coach
section of each flight. (American and Frontier permit one
pet per passenger.) So, it’s important when making a reser-
vation to make a reservation for your pet if you intend to
transport him under the seat. A reservation is wise, too, for
pets to be carried in the baggage compartment, since most
major airlines limit the number of animals that can be trans-
ported there. An Eastern ticket agent told CU that passengers
often arrive at the airport only to learn that there is no room
for their pet anywhere on board the aircraft.

Pets lucky enough to enjoy the luxury of riding in the pas-
senger compartment are charged the same as pets that must
endure the dangers of riding with. the baggage.

The one-way charge for pets is $10 if the passenger fare
is less than $50, otherwise it’s $12. That applies to pets travel-
ing with the passenger on the same ﬂight. Rates for animals
shipped as air freight are something else.

The premium rates charged for animals have drawn
complaints to the Civil Aeronautics Board from commercial
animal shippers. Several airlines have responded by citing
the claims they’re forced to pay animal owners as justifica-

tion for the charges. American, for example, says that
claims for dogs and cats run 461 per cent higher than for
regular freight. That argument seems to boil down to ques-
tionable logic—the more animals the airlines kill, the more
they should be paid.

But many smaller carriers, plus Braniff, Northwest and Air
Canada. won’t accept liability for the loss, injury or death
of 3 passengers pet in the luggage compartment. Other air-
lines restrict their liability to the value of the animal, with
a limit of $500. Additional protection can be purchased, but
regardless of the declared valuation the amount of pay-
ment in event of loss is limited to the animal’s market value.
An Eastern company memorandum notes that customers
“will not collect on sentiment alone. only on proven worth
or true \alue.”

A dilemma for owners

In the absence of any data about the incidence and precise
cause of death of animals aboard airplanes, pet owners face
a dilemma. It appears risky to ship an animal by air, but
just how risky is it? And under what conditions is the risk
greatest? No one knows, and so consumers have no reliable
way of determining when a pet should travel by air and when
it should not. .

CU suggests, therefore, that the CAR, after consultation
with veterinarians and other expert parties, establish mini-
mum baggage compartment standards for the shipment of
animals. The standards should include minimum and maxi-
mum temperatures permitted, pressurization levels, noise
levels and oxygen requirements. Those minimum standards
should then be posted at airports and in airline ticket offices
so pet owners can make informed judgments of the risks
involved and decide whether they are willing to have their
pet take them.

The airlines should be required to report all animal
deaths and injuries to the CAB and that information should
be made available to the public.

As an interim measure, CU suggests that anyone whose
pet dies or is injured on an airplane so inform the CAB"s
Office of Consumer Affairs (Washington, D.C. 20428) so
that office and other interested parties can get a clearer
picture of the actual risks involved. Please send a copy of
your letter to Department PET, CONSUMER REPORTS, PO.
Box 1111, Mount Vernon, N.Y. 10550.

Meanwhile, perhaps the best that anyone can do on an
individual basis is to request in writing a statement from
the airline detailing the actual conditions a pet will ,face in,
the cargo compartment of the speciﬁc flight under consid-
eration. Then review that information with a veterinarian
and let him help you decide whether to risk shipping your
pet by air and, if so, whether the animal should be given
a tranquilizer.

If you do decide to ship your pet by air, be certain that
the container is_ sturdy, large enough to accommodate your
pet and well ventilated at three sides, so as to reduce the
chancesof crushing or suffocation iii the hold.

Distributed by the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




 




A Need for Mercy

Literally hundreds of millions of animals are experimented
upon each year in the United States. Like the rabbit in the
cover photograph and the monkeys at right, vast numbers are
subjected to pain and fear without limit.

Research spokesmen have sought to protect experimenta-
tion on animals from public scrutiny with repeated assur-
ances that the discomfort caused laboratory animals is “no
more than a pin prick.”

The fact is that the suffering inflicted in laboratory animals
is commonly prolonged and intense, that they are ever—
increasingly being subjected to experiments deliberately de-
signed to induce pain and fear of long duration, that they
are completely without protection from those who argue that
the end justifies the means, regardless of the amount of
suffering the means may inflict.

The abuse of animals in present-day science is the worst,
by far, of all the many nationwide cruelties to animals, ex-
ceeding all others in the intensity of misery systematically
inflicted in staggering numbers of animal victims.

'As a moral issue, the abuse of animals in research de-
mands attention and action. Man’s dominion over God’s
animals is being misused when His creatures are mercilessly
and routinely subjected to suffering as they are, in increas-
ing numbers, in American laboratories. The theory that expe-
rimentation on animals is a legitimate use of animals is only
that, a theory. In practice, it has become an abuse.

The late Cardinal Manning, defining man’s rights and power
over animals, said: “Our obligation and moral duty is to Him

 

The rabbit in the cover photograph was subjected to
the application of lewisite (poison gas) to its skin.
The researcher who described the experiment, per—
formed on thousands of rabbits, reports that “damage
from relatively large doses may penetrate deeply into
the muscles and even into the viscera beneath. Heal-
ing takes 5 to 7 weeks.” The caption accompanying
the photograph states that the animal is shown after

three days and that no treatment has been given.

 

 

Who made them and if we wish to know the limit and broad
outline of our obligation, I say at once it is His nature and
His perfections and, among those perfections, one is pro-
foundly that of eternal mercy. . . . And in giving a dominion
over His creatures to man, He gave it subject to the condi-
tion that they should be used in conformity to His own
perfections, which is His own law, and, therefore, our law.
It would seem to me that the practice of vivisection, as it
is now known and now exists, is at variance with those moral
perfections.”

The eternal law of mercy and man’s obligation to exercise
his dominion over animals in conformity with the Creator’s
perfections are far more ignored now than in Cardinal Man-
ning’s time.

A Double Standard

Just as research, in its abuse of animals, has sought to
place itself above and beyond the restraints of the moral
law, so too has it sought a dispensation from the penal laws
of the land. In practical application, no law prohibits or
limits the amount of suffering a researcher may inflict in
an animal.

A layman may be prosecuted for burning a dog. A re-
searcher not only is free to burn an animal with a soldering
iron, boiling water, a flamethrower or any means he may
devise; he may also, and frequently does, keep the animal
alive for days or weeks, depriving it of pain-relieving care
and a quick death to end its agony. The law demands pun-
ishment of the layman for his atrocity. The researcher, how-
ever, is likely to be rewarded with generous grants of the
taxpayers’ money—your money—to continue burning animals.

Under this double standard for mankind’s treatment of
animals, cruelty without a purpose is condemned and cruelty
with a purpose—for example, to prove the obvious and pre-
viously established fact that an untreated burned animal suf-
fers more than one given sedation and therapy—is honored.

Monkey in restraining
device being subjected 1;
to electrical shocks

(note cables attached to

skull) while it attempts *

to reduce the intensity
of the shocks by press-
ing a lever. Some of
the experimental ses-
sions were conducted
without interruption for
24 hours. As the inten-
sity of the shocks in-
creases, “bilateral facial
grimacing, closure of
both eyes, high-pitched
vocalization, turning of
the head away from the
side of the stimulus,
and generalized motor
activity occur.”

The face of a rhesus monkey
after a single exposure to 40
negative g acceleration for
30 seconds. The researcher
reports: “The animals were
severely depressed, the eyes
partially closed by edema
and hemorrhage into the lids
and conjunctivae, the skin of
the face blotched and swol-
len, and the tongue so ex-
panded by edema and hem-
orrhage that the mouth could
not be closed. Usually there
was bleeding from the nose
and eyes.”

"There is something so very dreadful, so Satanic in tormenting those who have

never harmed us, and cannot defend themselves, who are utterly in our power.”
CARDINAL NEWMAN

 




 

NO MORE

Animals are subjected to a variety of processes limited
only by the researcher’s imagination in modern experimenta-
tion. They are burned, starved, drowned, beaten, frozen,
irradiated, crushed, blinded, poisoned. They are made to
swim and run until they die of exhaustion. Electrical shocks
are administered day and night, until animals are crazed
by pain and fear. They are tormented and enraged, after be-
ing deprived of the power to manifest rage or even to cry out.

The most telling evidence of the need of animals for pro-
tection is in the researchers’ own reports of their procedures,
of which the following are but a few examples:

Cats were subjected to noxious stimuli consisting of heated
wires in the floor of the apparatus in which they were housed
and pin pricks administered by 25 pins thrust upward through
each of several tiles. “The pricking of the paws would cause
these cats to leap into the air and frequently hit the top of
the test apparatus. If they landed on the pins, they would
jerk their paws aside vigorously at every contact, sometimes
even trying to balance on the forepaws with the hindpaws up
in the air.”

“Every day 10 at a time were made to swim to exhaustion.
Exhaustion was produced in 15 minutes during the first
month, after which the rats could not swim more than 10
minutes. The experiment was continued 90 days when only
29 rats were alive; death of the others was due to drowning."

After acceleration, “the animals were severely depressed,
the eyes partially closed by edema and hemorrhage into the
lids and conjunctivae, the skin of the face blotched and
swollen, and the tongue so expanded by edema and hem-

 

Medical journal photograph shows condition of dog four
months after cutting 0f the carotid and vertebral arteries.

THAN A. PIN PRICK?

 

 

  

 

Electrodes implanted in cat which experimenter reports was
“trained” to sit quietly in a box. Purpose of the experiment
was to examine “electrical responses of the auditory cortex of
awake, loosely restrained cats” by means of the implanted
electrodes and recording systems.

orrhage that the mouth could not be closed. Usually, too,
there was bleeding from the nose and eyes.”

“The dog was placed on its back on a trough-shaped animal
board . . . then, with the animal under full surgical anes-
thesia, the thigh muscles were contused with a light raw-hide
mallet . . . 700 to 1,000 blows to each leg. . . . In this labora-
tory we have seen 3 dogs which survived shock suddenly
expire the following day when they were again placed upon
the animal board.”

“Under deep anesthesia the aqueous and vitreous humors
of the eyes were rendered opaque. . . . The cochlea* was
destroyed bilaterally with a dental burr. . . . The olfactory
bulbs were then removed by suction. . . . These blind, deaf,
anosmic preparations will henceforth be referred to as BDA
cats. . . . Three different noxious stimuli were used from time
to time: (a) an electric shock of one-half second’s duration
delivered via a metal grid covering the floor, (b) a single

* A division of the labyrinth of the ear.

. Nor can it be denied that the experiments of many medical men exceed

the limits of licitness and degenerate into a mere torturing of animals.”
.7 H. NOLDIN, S.J., Theologia Moralis

sharp blow to the face with a plastic fly swatter, and (c) a
brief pinching of the tip of the tail. . . . Summary: Ten blind,
deaf, anosmic cats were studied as long as six years. . . .”

“These dogs were subjected to the experimental appendi-
ceal peritonitis procedure, employing ligation of the appendix.
lntragastric instillation of castor oil increased the severity of
the anticipated peritonitis. No post-operative therapy of any
kind was employed.”

“Cloth strips soaked in salt solution were tied around each
forelimb and attached to leads from an induction coil.”

“We do not know of any practical method of irradiating
these dogs and burning them at the same time in the labora-
tory, which is the goal we would like to achieve. Therefore
in a set of experiments which we will start in the near future,
we will irradiate the dogs first and then burn them following
the irradiation, in other words, reverse our present procedure.”

“Various forms of peripheral stimuli other than electrical
stimulation of intact exposed nerves were used. . In some
instances electrical stimuli were applied directly to the skin
by a pair of fine needle electrodes 2 to 10 mm apart inserted
into the skin. Several types of ‘natural’ stimuli were also
used. . . . These included: . . . mechanical stimulation of the
skin with a blunt object such as a finger, pencil eraser or
the handle of a brush; heat of varying degrees delivered by
the tip of a small soldering iron whose temperature could be
controlled; and presumably noxious stimuli produced by heat
or by pinching tissues between fingers or forceps. . . . In a

Medical journal
article describing
various restraining
devices reports:
“Over the 8 year
period, we have
kept about 15 mon-
keys in this type of
restraint for indi-
vidual periods rang-
ing from 6 weeks
to 15 months con-
tinuously day and
night.”

   

hammer. . . . These cats received . .

 

——I

few instances cooling of the skin was accomplished by allow-
ing cold water to run over its surface.”

“Study of the effects of a blow to the head by a pneumatic
. Dial before the experi-
ment, a dosage which reduced the motor activity and facili-
tated handling of the cats, but did not render them un-
conscious.”

“Recently we sealed a suspension of streptococcus faecalis
into deep cavities and found that the bacteria could pene-
trate the dentine and enter the pulp. . . . The experimental
animals were four healthy dogs and three Macaca rhesus
monkeys, each about one year old. Cavities were prepared
on the labial or buccal surfaces of 22 teeth in each animal.

. The animals were killed by perfusion with fixatives at
various intervals after the operative procedures, according
to the following schedule: 2 hours, 14 hours, 1 week and 1
month for the dogs; 2 hours, 1 day and 1 week for the
monkeys."

“The experiments were made with fasting cats, anesthe-
tized with dialurethane. . . . The skin was removed except
from the head, feet and tail; all denuded parts were covered
with vaseline and cotton.”

“The periods of fasting (of dogs) varied from 11 to 65 days.”

“Intensive emotional tension was created in these guinea
pigs by tieing them down to a board during the first testing,
and in the rabbits by placing them in the treadmill for ten
minutes, a procedure which upset them beyond measure.”

“ . inflicting a severe burn over the dorsal two-thirds of
the trunk by immersing in a constant temperature water bath
at 90° C.* for one minute.”

“A scalding burn, covering approximately 70 per cent of the
body surface, was inflicted upon the anesthetized dogs by
lowering them into a container filled with water at a tempera-
ture of 85°C.** Thirty-seven of the 43 dogs were burned for
exactly 1 minute and 6 of the dogs were burned for exactly
4 minutes. . . . The 37 dogs burned for 1 minute were divided
into 4 groups . . . fluids were given exclusively in a 6 hour
period following the burn after which no further therapy was
given.”

“The back burn procedure has several advantages over the
complete immersion type of burn . . . it was found that rats
burned to the axillas were usually unable to void urine or
defecate normally after 72 hours following the burn as a
result of scab formation on the external genitals and anus.”

*90° C.=194° F. (water boils at 212° F.)
**85° C.=185° F.

“Nothing can justify, no claim of science, such horrors as these.”

CARDINAL MANNING

ACTION IS NEEDED

    

Ieve, ,.
of research animals

“The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.”

EDMUND BURKE

still are btsssfully unaWa

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   

  
 

         
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 

  
    
    
     
    
    
      
      
     
       
     
       
       
      
       
     
        
     
       
     
       
    
    
    
    
      
   




. of The National Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare are: To study, follow and disseminate the
teachings of the Roman Catholic Church in regard
to the relationship between man and animals and
man’s moral obligations in this relationship 0 To
publish, provide, offer, and make available periodi-
cals, magazines, bulletins, folders, booklets and
leaflets dealing with the individual aspects of animal
welfare and the Church’s teachings 0 To conduct
mass education of the Church’s teachings of the
relationship between man and animals through ra-

 

 

 

dio, television and the press o To cooperate wher-
ever possible with other animal welfare organiza-
tions in both the national and local fields.

Caging of dog in well~known university is typical of conditions
under which laboratory animals are housed, often for life, in

institutions throughout the conntry. Note wire mesh ﬂooring. NIHIL 088m

Leo 0. Farley. S.T.D.
Censor Librorum

IMPRIMATUR:

+ Thomas A. Boland, S.T.D.
Archbishop of Newark
Newark, New Jersey
March 25, 1963

 

The National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare
1346 Connecticut Avenue
Washington 6, D. C.

I enclose $.-.._-,_._.._ Send me copies of this folder
at 2¢ each and use the balance for the support of The
NCSAW’s work for the welfare of God’s animals.

Name ______________________

 

 

Housing of dog in another medical school shows even wider V Address
gauge wire ﬂooring. Denied exercise, fresh air and sunlight, t

millions of animals exist, suﬁ‘er and die under these conditions City ____________________
in research institutions. Some researchers state that the animals

like this type of conﬁnement.

Zone ____________ State ________________

 

 




' 65119 New ﬁnk dimes

THURSDAY? APRIL 21, 1977.

The Cruel Price of Tuna

The delightful porpoise—regarded by some scientists
and most visitors to marinelands as the mammal closest
to man in intelligence—is still being killed off by the
tens of thousands in a mayhem wholly incidental to the
catching of tuna. In each of the past three years more
than 100,000 of these engaging animals have been suf-
focated in the great nets that the United States tuna
fleet uses to ensnare yellow-fin tuna. Ironically, it is the
porpoise, accompanying the tuna, that helps the fisher-
man locate his catch.

The Federal Govemment has shown elaborate concern
for the tuna industry in carrying out a, Congressional
mandate to reduce the porpoise kill “to insignificant
levels approaching a zero mortality.” A two-year grace
period, followed by three years of Federal indulgence,
has cost the lives of 800,000 porpoises since passage of
the law in 1972. It is against this background that the
country must judge the Govemment’s attempt to reduce
this year’s slaughter from 100,000 to 59,000 and the
industry’s threat to sell out to foreign interests rather
than take the economic loss of compliance.

Testimony before the House Subcommittee on Fisheries
and Wildlife Conservation suggests that the financial
troubles of the tuna industry have less to do with the
kill-quota on porpoises than with such miscalculations
as overcapitalization of the fleet. It indicates, further,
that the high kill rate is due, in good part, to the inept-
ness of a comparatively few skippers and the Rack of
essential equipment; indeed, where this is not the case,
the killings are minimal. The prosperity of the fishing
interests and the security of the porpoises might both
be enhanced by Government aid to equip the fleet with
the requisite equipment and training. Better that than an
easing of the restrictions on killing porpoises.

Some legal experts regard the threat of the fleet,
owners to Operate under foreign flags as an idle one;
Government approval is required for such transfers, and
such approval is forbidden where the purpose is to cir-
cumvent the law. In any case, since the marketing of an
illicit catch would be banned in this country, such a
move by the tuna industry would be not only a moral
evasion and an environmental disaster but an economic
folly.

0hr mammalian littlest

SATURDAY. MARCH 5.

1977

Porpoises and the Law

EPRESENTATIVES OF THE tuna fleet have
been splashing about in Washington trying to
persuade Congress, the Commerce Department, envi-
ronmentalists and others that “utter economic disas-
ter” is-coming if the industry is not allowed to go fish—
ing in its own style. The source of this supposed doom

harmful and possibly irreversible effects of man’s
activities”——-the industry has unwisely gambled that
reSistance is better than adjustment. It has shown lit-
tle taste for using or developing new methods and
technology that would reduce the porpoise slaughter.
Recently, the Commerce Department, backed by

is the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act. Among
other measures, it requires that tuna fishermen re-
duce the killing of porpoises, those air-breathing
mammals of the sea that are used by the fleet to find
the deep-swimming tuna. As traveling companions,
the porpoises are often caught in the tuna nets. Over
the years, several million of these intelligent and fun-
loving creatures are said to have died (by drowning
or shock) as the tuna were trapped.

Rather than accept the decision of Congress, as
well as several courts, the tuna fishermen have de-
c1'ued to try to change the law. Failing that, they are
threatening to transfer their vessels to foreign flags
to get away from the law altogether.

Confronted by forces that agree with the 1976 rul~
ing of Judge Charles R. Richey——that “porpoises and
other marine mammals must be protected from the

Juanita Kreps, proposed a new quota of 59,050 por-
poises'as the limit for this year. The letter of the law
actually calls for a kill-rate approaching zero. Envi~
ronmentalists, who have won several court. cases in-
volving porpoises and the 1972 law, would like the 59,~
050 figure to be lower, but in a healthy spirit of cont
promise, they are accepting it. Not. so the tuna men.

How much support the industry can muster re-
mains to be seen. Hearings have been held in the
House and are planned in a few days for the Senate.
In our view, the tuna men have been receiving fair
treatment. It is less the 1972 law that is bedeviling the
industry than its own refusal to accept reasonabie re-
straints. As for Mrs. Kreps, her involvement in this
dispute is welcomed. In the past, the Commerce De—
partment‘s indecisiveness in enforcing the law has
been part of the problem.

 




Rules Governing Treatment of
Animals by High SchOol
Biology Students

1. Animals being observed by students must always be
maintained in the maximum possible condition of
health, comfort and well-being.

2. N0 vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary
school teaching may be subjected to any experiment
or procedure which interferes with its normal health
or causes it pain or distress.

REA-SONS WHY ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS BY
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS SHOULD BE PAINLESS

* “i"??iil) MORALLY, it is indefensible to hurt or kill animals unlessl‘foriginal contributions which will advance
‘ human health and welfare can be expected. Elementary and secondary school studies do not meet this test.

2) PSYCHOLOGICALLY, it can be emotionally upsetting for youngsters to participate in harming or
killing animals, or even worse, it may be emotionally desensitizing or hardening to immature minds.

3) SOCIALLY, in these days of widespread violence fostering personal aquaintance with inflicting
pain on lesser creatures should be avoided.

4) EDUCA TIONALLY. Teaching about abnormal states before the student has a sound grasp of normal
physiology is against common sense and does not advance scientific education.

5) SCIENTIFICALLY, Promoting teenage animal surgery or induction of painful pathological con-
ditions (which are very often poorly done in the unsanitary conditions of a student’s home and have
no scientific value) fosters an improper regard for animal life and an unbalanced View of biology which
will rebound adversely when the next generation of scientists comes of age.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. BOX 3-650

‘VASHING'I‘ON. D. C. 20007

 




@1112 N e11! ﬂork dime

THURSDAY, APRIL 21,1977

The Cruel Price of Tuna

The delightful porpoise—regarded by some scientists
and most visitors to marinelands as the mammal closest
to man in intelligence—is still being killed off by the
tens of thousands in a, mayhem wholly incidental to the
catching of tuna. In each of the past three years more
than 100,000 of these engaging animals have been suf-
focated in the great nets that the United States tuna
fleet uses to ensnare yellow-fin tuna. Ironically, it is the
porpoise, accompanying the tuna, that helps the fisher-
man looate his catch.

The Federal Government has shown elaborate concern
for the tuna industry in carrying out a Congressional
mandate to reduce the porpoise kill “to insignificant
levels approaching a zero mortality.” A two-year grace
period, followed by three years of Federal indulgence,
has cost the lives of 800, 000 porpoises since passage of
the law in 1972. It is against this background that the
country must judge the Government’s attempt to reduce
this year’s slaughter from 100,000 to 59,000 and the
industry’s threat to sell out to foreign interests rather
than take the economic loss of compliance.

Testimony, before the House Subcommittee on Fisheries
and Wildlife Conservation suggests that the financial
troubles of the tuna industry have less. to do with the
kill-quota on porpoises than with such miscalculations
as overcapitalization of the fleet. It indicates, further,
that the high kill rate is due, in good part, to the inept-
ness of a comparatively few skippers and the Back of
essential equipment, indeed, where this is not the case,
the killings are minimal. The prosperity of the fishing
interests and the security of the porpoises might both
be enhanced by Government aid to equip the fleet with
the requisite equipment and training. Better that than an
easing of the restrictions on killing porpoises.

Some legal experts regard the threat of the fleet
owners to operate under foreign flags as an idle one;
Government approval is required for such transfers, and‘
such approval is fo1bidden where the purpose is to cir-
cumvent the law. In any case, since the marketing of an
illicit catch would be banned in this country, such a
move by the tuna industry would be not only a moral
evasion and an environmental disaster but an economic
folly.

@119 11111111111111 1191151

1977

SATURDAY, MARCH 5,

Porpoises and the Law

EPRESENTATIVES OF THE tuna fleet have

been splashing about in Washington trying to
persuade Congress, the Commerce Department, envi-
ronmentalists and others that “utter economic disas-
ter” is-coming if the industry is not allowed to go fish-
ing in its own style. The source of this supposed doom
is the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act. Among
other measures, it requires that tuna fishermen re-
duce the killing of porpoises, those air-breathing
mammals of the sea that are used by the fleet to find
the deep-swimming tuna. As traveling companions,
the porpoises are often caught in the tuna nets. Over
the years, several million of these intelligent and f un-
loving creatures are said to have died (by drowning
or shock) as the tuna were trapped.

Rather than accept the decision of Congress, as
well as several courts, the tuna fishermen have de-
c1‘c1ed to try to change the law. Failing that, they are
threatening to transfer their vessels to foreign flags
to get away from the law altogether.

Confronted by forces that agree with the 1976 rul-
ing of Judge Charles R. Richey—that “porpoises and
other marine mammals must be protected from the

harmful and possibly irreversible effects of man’s
activities”——the industry has unwisely gambled that
resistance is better than adjustment. It has shown lit-
tle taste for using or deveIOping new methods and
technology that would reduce the porpoise slaughter.
Recently, the Commerce Department, backed by
Juanita Kreps, proposed a new quota of 59,050 por-
poises‘as the limit for this year. The letter of the law
actually calls for a kill-rate approaching ’zero. Envi-
ronmentalists, who have won several court cases' in-
volving porpoises and the 1972 law, would like the 59,-
050 figure to be lower, but in a healthy spirit of com-
promise, they are accepting it. Not so the tuna men.

How much support the industry can muster re-
mains to be seen. Hearings have been held in the
House and are planned in a few days for the Senate.
In our view, the tuna men have been receiving'fair
treatment. It is less the 1972 law that is bedeviling the
industry than its own refusal to accept reasonable re-
straints. As for Mrs. Kreps, her involvement in this
dispute is welcomed. In the past, the Commerce De-
partment’s indecisiveness in enforcing the law has
been part of the problem.

 




Bases Saws
sf Smasisa

1%“:

MIIIJLIVC‘A sIEIUU
3:2» I ULW

INTI: IISf‘TIQN
NE EIIIEIII IN S1311? ISIS

mn— WM!

HOS. 5. VIII..LII1I.II“II1WIIIIIIS

HF V181: 1141.1.
IN THE HOUSE 1:11.“: .a?a1.a1:w a2 WIS?
Monday. 31.211212 IS, I S11

My. IVESTEII ’I’ZF’S‘I.‘ M2". Ssvskaa
some time ago), I Issuastad 1111:— £11.11er
ment of 13211 Inter: a: 11:1 prspsss I111- ma
:1 121111011 an a}: 1st 11....aarch mwm Isa as}. »
usala I11 Masks. baIaIa $.11 111‘: 111.212... as
301111111}. 112111111 a; slit IIIII pisas. I‘ha I ..
10s.... a 2g Iattas 211213; 112- "(111131525171 ass 311a 12:11:11.2:
of that. ssaaast, 11.1111 I haliasa that: 153.1115.
ass was: I2. the saw-1211111111: 21°11 asii»
Iaag'aaa, pastiasﬂsa 1:1 aims 111111 13112112.: 1111
ms mead Isa Iasss‘issﬁaa sash as SSS.
ISIS; and H. .. 3331.

Implicit. in: ms misartawm’ 111111112. 1?.
seams ta me, is Ilsa £11121: Inst; 1111121111 13112111
as far by 1221a SIaIa as“? 1131mm 1211112 ass
scrimmage-:1 IhamssIvaa Is 11 1511112111121 sf
vita}. auastians Issamma ths affaaa 1:111
ma assasst as: sis 111211 a maﬁa sadssIIaa
in Use 11112113211112 sf 1121311 as.

Thamssam aIfaiIsara:

Paamsm: ass 11 Samaaaasaasas S'Iaas' as
Wasr»»(2amam2 Rammaa's 113' Saayssswssa»
2:11.11 Swans.
1111a magmas} was as spared 1a mama‘s

to a. rsquast 11am 33' S. Sassgraasmsnﬁ . WIS.»

mam Whita?“ amyst 23111 1.1.2.1 sstimaira 21: 2.111111.

maapawar. 1311.11 funs’Img: assassasqs I121 121:31»

1111131: 111 campsshsusisa stasis 1151‘ 1.31191 ".a'1as~

. ks. wax! 1111111111111." {Iaﬁaaa in sssaaiasaa 1:121:12»

rssgaxsdsnaa and. attaaIsm-sms as a stasis 11f

waB-n-csribou sslstiaas 211 Harmsaasasn 11.1111»

ks. This area covers ISSUW squares amissm»

about was aias a! Mantana.

This 3.2 asks. F1511 11.2113 Gama maparximam
{3119613) has basis conducting sasssssas as?
caribou smﬁ waives In the: 12121111111 21.1121 as»
coming- to thesis 211111.111111 has. aaaamuIaIaa
5111321311111; infasmaﬂan ta 111313111591 a mass.»
agamsat program ts rasIasa aha ssaaassy 1°22»
amass hard. 11111229311211, 123:1 Is jEZSI‘ISFNI-SISI sssmras
that a much mars 11111111111 Swastigstian at
waifmsribau intassatiaaa 1‘s (1.112.211.2823. any»
thing else» would duplicata psasaaI— SFSS
sirens as fall short at them. Such a. 111111.111ch
study in an. estaasiva. estramst sama'ta sad
alimsticaﬂy harsh sagian arm X‘s-2:12am asst.
sums of mans}? 1111a causiasrams manpawss.
It semis: 11s asaampliahaﬂ 111; 1211.11» years 321’
ﬁsid wash. with tars 11111112111111.1132 yes-ass. 1:12 Sat-a
analysis am: tapers pragmatism.

0:33.? EIZTIV‘SS’
Swims

2. To assura‘aew Sass-Imam
caribou and 31133111111221} may
sheep, moms) 1.11 the $111ch sass.

2. To determine grass mavamam; panama
of caribou betas and suaaazsis.

3. TO determine the 1111111111 and 21111231111111
or signiﬁcant numbers of amass.

. 4». To (Setsz‘mins age and ass. mtms 111 the

caribou hard.

She mamas? 133'?

species {331111

5. To (Istarzzzma the 21121113 111 533a 1113‘ 2311a
mamas ham.

6. Ta Satan-{aims sari“ was. salt am: H.115 miss
11.2113 .2111“. a: 12111.? .121011‘1121‘sy.

”I. Ta 119111122121 11a 11112112111 pmd‘uativity 111161
woman Lyr rates of 1.2%. a 131121822111 hard a:'11'i'saza~
MISS 1.1.11 2.13.2. lnﬂrtiagity.

W121: 2211s

.. “Fa 11111111111111 132a $111311th «11111112111111.1111.
11.2111; auwm. an; W011 valves In 121a .111st ass a.
:3. Ta rawrmiaa .1351: auras} wavs'uctm-ay

1112122: 1211212 151111.12 22.1113 £1116: "I ah? pagulatiam
3. 37a 1101112111416 III‘II": 311E383: 113.1313. QQMCIIEEOA
a! sis; 111: 1s: mxmham .1I 12211: was.

~11. ".I‘a (11111212111111: 1.11s 112.” 113‘; 111151 a: mamas

sari 21-12191 12-1111- 2.1:. wash

:5. "fa 211311111111112 212111 aga . sax, 3.2113 13012111»

119121 Inf grassy 21111111 as was? vas.
8271:“. ‘T ITES'SI

I. “ITO ﬂatsmaaa Isa 3:111:11'11111115 a: vagssatian

ass}. .‘ab‘es ta waII 2121:1112 111 mm 31.1: av arses.

2.7.311 wﬂa 21212211 aha 3111111112 Mama-.1. as 21!

11111112113111 at: was: 0.1
3. 1a "iatarmm. 172112
33:53 NIL 83;: 1'33 vghx‘vfi‘vm

1». Ta 11111111111111 11111 111111 2111 cassanrpnoa
a? washama 113° 321.21% 1111 2.2.11 (11111.1 “011'
gas-113:.

2.1 Ismanal 2:511:11in a

II 11 22112. 11 I3 6" I 22.15::

1 Ta a‘at asmiaa tic-I121 3122221111 legal was 11:19,; 121.1
11:11 1:1? 1.1in 111113. apaaiss as native and 1122-12»
11.11» 11" .S‘Esssazs I11 2.2111 521112111 area.

2 31's 111111111111 11a ma Impastsacs m? 1121111
prev 11:11:11 Isa ta ti'zs 1131311111113? 11.1111. surviasz 61f
mama‘s 11113. 111111» 1111+. 1a Mas-1.111..

21 Lisa agga I 11.312111211111111 massage}! Inmma
211211 Iaaa sacs has.” as Siaskas
1.2113111121121152 {1.12 112112.? may sag-12:21:21.1.

mssaaas

S4311: intensive study

saint-a milaa each 11111 be
gapmatxaa estimates.

5:. Tan waives sash year Wm ha matured
521:1 ass-1mg Isms. aslssaasars. 311102111 5111111111111.
sadiswsaggsgd 11211:! ”ﬁdizwﬁf‘ithﬂa 111 1211331 M»
1:11:11 Iran's. as mam spasm arms as pasamis
mmm sash rsgiaa

3. 1.11 Mamahar 12115.22 Waamhar. Marci: and
31.13.11: 'I 11121121113. mum's as? 111111.1— aawad as .2113
11:111. 211: 11111221111 Ia. ass-2:1 ragIaI '1 ass? 1 Sass

1'. Sam «:11 as: :1. mamas ass}: 111.11 11a 8111"»

arsss of 28.13%!)
1321112211911 far waif

_ vs- yad I111- 11113:: 11131111 11011 311115. sawimi sash

sass.

S SsIaatm 11312125 11111111211111.2111 Ir- sakasﬂ. 133.in
2312221131161 My 1121 as 1.2.21 s'agiaa Sass perima up 11:11
sass was}: sash 121 1112211111122: Ian 111111 win 121112
m aa'ts1a1ma pass 1m? miss

a Sariaaa 12111: as (2111111311113 312 111.1111 as
.1131). yaar as Is agar sac! ass fay sans. 123111»
Iagrs 31111 as». I 11111.1.1111 11111131311111

‘I‘ sat a aumaara {SS ISIS} 122112221111 tram
asaia .smsham .112: ha asstas‘s' 31am 1:. Issﬁacmtar
sash. sass saa agaa and 812.1113 sans mad

S. wmwss 21 11211114122. 11?: aaaS ass. “Sea sub»
Sara“. 1127113 ha mamwaggaa 111.111 malmamahﬂ
11111111111 sassy 11*: 2512111111- 2.2121111111631111; am: dis»
11121112111... 1111 12.121.223.21.

:9. ‘Ss'azsmsa'2 3.1213 amiasmss will 721a used
to amass sptis .2-11 mass 0-3? vagstsman by."

caribau

11:: Serial sac: gamma: 1:111:11 21110.21 21! rs»
(12211111 seamen}. nerds mm 11111111 aatarmma “(1.!
predation sstas and causes 01 (2212211211111 mm»

vﬁr
1,033.34} will

E. 22112

as. which 8111121.: ‘

IIIN II} “I. IIIIIIII SY, .SPIIII. I8 I???

Salim."

1'}. 2111111st serial: “51131130533 and 54121 and age
Naw‘mmwa at“ mass 0"." 1211121 ahsep heads in
tha 1:11.113 sass. W111 as 1.111111111111211 and some
11112111: are of 112a. Impastsnsa 01‘. 1.111256 pray spa-
€i"’°5 1:111 saris-a s 122.11% ha abﬁ amass

12.121111111111 samplmg 1:13 vaga‘ﬁatiam in rau-
1211112111 as 1113:1111 pin-ts Imam throughout the
511123} was 1111?.“ as rewaauataﬁ. and tats! sari»
2.11211 Iaad 21111121111521. and: 1112211231 imminent esti»
mates 0212111111121.

IS. Passasisl Inseraiswa. 1115139011011 of rec»
was, 9.1111 0132112? s-sssiamgs‘asi ma'thoda will be
mad ts datasmiua 112a importanaa of caribou
10 maths and mam-native Alaskans.

asaaaassm.

P20111122 .asdsz-w wiléﬁfe research biom-
gastméwx .WS years signals Sparsons year

P1121) 111-2117112129 research b1010g1s23-08~12~4
ye are; aqusIa S parsans swear.

ﬁrm-:1 11311212: aaaiogIsmw-S man yr cache-65-
ESE-WI: years maﬁa 3 garaana was

Six mamas; technicians (5 man yr)-—~GS~
aws 1 as}... signals 9 pasauna grass

13.213 sash“ saaistwﬁaw‘ year
passan year

011a searsta:~y»ciark~ﬁz‘3~?~ 5 years: equals
{1 psraana 3128322.

”3701.111; :31 pans-.0119. year.

sa'aassr
Pmrsaaneyl .............. .. ............ 1670, 000
Flying IIma-..------..- ........ N- 1.355.600
211111261: 1112.21 ps1“ Iii.a:211.--....-.........-1-.. SS7, 0011
311126.11 sampling ....... ----.:..-..--.-- 45.000
11.11am sampmamt- - H. - 30. {>00
Kiiscc Ilaasaus -.. 9‘10. 003

mm mum-w

Gmad 1212a}... ....... . ......... :3. 4:27. 00!)

1111112111. msmmamaw
SI 3.13.900 Essa)! for ﬁrsﬁ. 3 years.
SISII3120'31'121122 for last 2 years.
Nasa~Sacsuaa a: the: large 11212011111. of
amaay Is he spam: an ﬁasdawing aircraft. and.
haliaapfsar Sims. it. pwhahly would be more
eavsaaa'zissl ta buy the: Sambwmg craft and
Iaasa 21212 31111112111312.1113 and add :3 pilots to the
511.1111: f11‘2i1«1'1ma far 3 yeasts each.

“M2

squats 1

m..-«..--u«,—..p

--~.—~*§-~-—-“.¢~I~‘n.\~daa’

assasms'ma 3:1th

I WES .1; 5 3.212121% :1. yam.

1 WEB 212:3 ma: 3 1:1. sass.

:3 as 311':er a. year. .

2 F3. Sam. :1: 3 yrs: :3 a. yams.

i. Sac. >4 S 3.2::sz a. year.

Tami: S2 111111101115 sass.
13111121311211.4111 1..-..-” 1.. .. .. a”.-- -- - . ..

Hams; “1119-..-..“W...-_..M..--....--
”11.11310 aaaigamsm-.. .- .. M. .. . .. w- - - ..
Sims. ssamliagww-.."-.-..--......-
Travel? 2112.131 3.21s? Siam ........... --..
PSIaasSsasmss

$475, 000
'300. 000
20. 000
95. m
230. 090
500. 000

1.920.000

*‘t‘ﬂ‘wﬂ‘mprkru-‘rm .. 0“..."

Gramﬁ tami--.-.----_

seaaaazza» :1: s :1. 2 ammo.
saws ”yr :1 3.: 129.1200.

 

 




THE VOICE OF SCIENCE ON CAPITOL HILL

F. A. S. PUBLIC INTEREST REPORT

Formerly the FAS Newsletter

Vol. 30, No. 8

 

SPECIAL ISSUE:
ANIMAL RIGHTS

 

 

 

October, 1977

 

Consciousness-raising has a momentum of its own.
The rights of political and other minorities, of women
and of children, have steadily expanded with time.
Resistance to religious discrimination encouraged re-
sistance to racial discrimination and its success laid
a groundwork for an attack on sex discrimination.

Within the human species, the direction is clear. In
this century, the repression of man by man for reasons
of race, religion or sex have a defensive and furtive
quality that foreshadows its future decline.

By comparison, the treatment of other animals by
man — the most intellectual animal — is still a closet
subject. Persons of humane sentiments generally pre-
fer not to know the conditions under which the meat
they eat once lived, or how the animal used, for ex-
ample, for cosmetic testing or a fur scarf, may have
suffered. Many feel that too much knowledge may
inoculate them with a psychic resistance to con-
tinuing an established lifestyle. If, for example, a
revulsion to eating meat overcame them, how would
they live?

With regard to eating habits, there is some justiﬁca-
tion for the fear of knowledge. Animals mass-
produced for the marketplace often live an artiﬁcial
life of considerable psychic stress quite apart from the
pain of mutilations (castration, debeaking) necessary
to keep the animals quiescent in conditions of con-
centration camp crowding and tedium.

Obviously, most animal experiments are necessary,
and most researchers are presumably conscious of the
desirability of avoiding unnecessary pain. But it is
worth observing that when medical science is practiced
on humans, the patients themselves, the Hippocratic

 

CAN SCIENTISTS HELP THE ANIMAL KINGDOM?

oath, intraspecies empathy and a closely enforced
framework, all serve to remind the medical practi-
tioners to keep suffering at a minimum.

N o comparable restraints operate to remind the
animal experimenter to limit animal suffering and
stress to the minimum necessary to the human goal.
It is noteworthy that British experimenters have long
accepted and supported restraints and regulations in
excess of those we have. But more important than the
sometime medical excesses, or the experimenter’s pos-
sible insensitivity to behavioral needs, may be the po-
tential for unnecessary pain in commercial testing of
questionable products.

There is also the problem of cruelty in hunting wild-
life, and its simple lack of necessity. And there is,
of course, the animal counterpart of what, in human
terms, we would call genocide — the extinction of a
species or subspecies. Here, quite apart from suffer-
ing, there is a still higher imperative. It would seem
to apply with special force to the case of whales — so
large, so similar to us in structure, with such promising
indications of intelligence, and whose hunting is so
unnecessary to the way of life of those that kill so
many. ”T ” . ‘

In the 20th century, man has generally accepted his
evolutionary descent from lower animals. But he has
not yet accepted an obvious corollary to Darwinian
evolution — a spectrum of emotional awareness and
of intellectual ability among the animals.

This blindness must evenutally fail. It has long
been universally conceded at least that animals can

—Continued on page 2
— Reviewed and Approved by the FAS Council

 

 

SCIENTISTS OUGHT TO BE PLAYING A
CONSTRUCTIVE RATHER THAN A
REARGUARD ROLE

A review of the literature on modern farming, treatment
of wildlife and animal experimentation shows legitimate
moral questions remain to be answered—and too few
scientists involved in trying to answer them. The only
scientists directly involved are the spokesmen for the
animal experimenters who overreact not only to any con-
structive proposals for change but even to minor turns of
phrase in little read government documents.

Animal experimentation is in no danger. “Better them
than us” is a widely understood axiom of medical advance.
So why should the only scientists who testify on the ques-
tion of a Government Commission on the Humane Treat—
ment of Animals oppose it? Must the scientiﬁc community
support the clearly questionable procedures of factory

farming on billions of animals simply because a commis-
sion might suggest better housing for the laboratory dogs
our community necessarily exploits?

We need an organization of scientists in America com-
parable to the British Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare (UFAW.) It would try to apply what is known
about animal behavior to the humane treatment of ani—
mals for experiments and food. Adopting a balanced and
undefensive attitude, it would add luster to the moral
image of the scientiﬁc community. The alternative is to
have the community seen as insensitively protecting its sec-
tor of animal use to the point where it even denies legiti-
mate questions in other areas of animal exploitation. There
is little enough to fear in our ability to maintain support
for legitimate animal experimentation. And our commu-
nity has enough to worry about already in cultivating a
valuable public reputation for common sense. [1

 

 




 

Page 2

 

Continued from page 1

suffer. Human empathy is such, happily, that this
should be enough to proscribe needless animal suffer-
ing. From such a beginning, one can begin to con-
sider thereafter in what balance the concept of “need-
less” should be struck. Empathy with other species
need not lessen any valid claims of our own.

All of these issues raise questions of special interest
to scientists of a humane instinct. To what extent is
the eating of how much meat necessary or even un-
healthy? How much suffering, and how much be-
havioral stress, is involved in modern factory farming
and how can it be alleviated? Can scientiﬁc methods
be devised that would make unnecessary a fraction of
the tens of thousands of painful tests on animals each
year? And can the pain of many of the remaining ex-
periments be signiﬁcantly or importantly diminished?
Above all, what can science bring to bear on the ques-
tions of our intellectual and emotional descent from
the animal kingdom?

It is now 150 years since the formation in England
of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to An-
imals. Rapid recent progress in communication with
primates has enhanced the possibility of a signiﬁcant
leap forward in the empathy with which the human
species treats other species. But, as with so many
other issues in this industrial age, this improvement
cannot be made without the active involvement of
scientists who care. [:1

October, 1977

mals to be sold in research laboratories. And it permits
the Secretary Of Agriculture to issue standards for

“housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation,
shelter from extremes of weather and temperature,
separation by species, and adequate veterinary care”.

The Secretary can do nothing, however, to prescribe any

standards whatsoever for the animal’s treatment during
actual research or experimentation. Nor does it license,
the experimenter. _

The lobby for the animal experimenters in shaping this

legislation was the National Society for Medical Research

(NSMR) which asserts its primary purpose, on brochures,
to be to:
“assure continued progress in the US. biomedical re-
search effort by protecting the scientiﬁc investigator’s
right to use laboratory animals, whenever he feels it

———Continued on page 3

 

 

 

 

EXISTING LEGAL RIGHTS FOR ANIMALS

The Puritans already had, in 1641, laws prohibiting
“any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any bruite Creature
which are usuallie kept for man’s use”. Today all states
have anti-cruelty laws. (Forty-one of them cover all ani-
mals but seven are restricted to “owned” animals.) By
and large, these statutes cover protection from cruel treat-
ment, and the provision of wholesome food and water and
of shelter from the weather.

The ﬁrst important Federal law for protection of ani-
mals was the 28 Hour Law of 1906. It addressed the ex-
traordinarily inhumane and unsanitary way in which cattle
were shipped to market by limiting unbroken journeys
by rail. Crammed into railroad cars like sardines, cattle
died and the survivors lost hundreds of pounds of weight
before arrival. Unfortunately, the Act did not envisage
major transportation Of animals by truck and attempts to
amend it have failed.

A half century later came the second important law, the
Humane Slaughter Act of 1958 which induced the big
packers to adopt better slaughter techniques by placing
restrictions on slaughtered meat that could be sold to the
government. (Many, but not all, states have humane
slaughter acts to cover the smaller packers as well.) The
Act required that the animal be:

“rendered insensible to pain by mechanical, electrical,

chemical or other means that is rapid and effective,

before being shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast or cut”.

The third important law was the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act of 1966 and its successor the Animal Welfare
Act of 1970. The Act was induced by owners of pets who
feared that their dogs or cats might be kidnapped and then
experimented upon. It therefore licensed dealers in ani-

Chairman: GEORGE W. RATHJENS
Vice Chairman: JEROME D. FRANK

necessary.” (italics in original.)
Secretary: JOHN T. EDSALL
Treasurer: FRANK VON HIPPEL

Director: JEREMY J. STONE

The Federation of American Scientists is a unique, non-
proﬁt, civic organization, licensed to lobby in the public
interest, and composed of 7,000 natural and social scientists
and engineers who are concerned with problems Of science
and society. Democratically organized with an elected
National Council Of 26 members, FAS was ﬁrst organized
in 1946 as the Federation of Atomic Scientists and has
functioned as a conscience of the scientiﬁc community for

more than a quarter century.

SPONSORS (partial list) .
*Christian B. Anﬁnsen (Biochem.) *Willis E. Lamb, Jr. (PhySics)
*Kenneth J. Arrow (Economics) *Wassily W. Leontief (Economics)
’Julius Axelrod (Biochemistry) *Fritz Lipmann (Biochemistry)
*David Baltimore (Microbiology) *8. E. Luria (Biology)

Leona Baumgartner (Pub. Health) Roy Menninger (Psychiatry)

Paul Beeson (Medicine) Robert Merton (Sociology)
*Hans A. Bethe (Physics) Matthew S. Meselson (Biology)
*Konrad Bloch (Chemistry) Neal E. Miller (Psychology) '
*Norman E. Borlaug (Wheat) Hans J. Morgenthau (Pol. Seience)

Anne Pitts Carter (Economics) Philip Morrison (Physrcs) _
*Owen Chamberlain (Physics) Marston Morse (Mathematics)

Abram Chayes (Law) *Robert S. Mulliken (Chemistry)
*Leon N. Cooper (Physics) Franklin A._ Neva (Medicme)

Mildred Cohn (Biochemistry) *Marshall Nirenberg (Biochem.)
*Carl F. Cori (Biochemistry) *Severo Ochoa (Biochemistry)

Paul B. Cornely (Medicine) Charles E. Osgood (Psychology)
*André Cournand (Medicine) *Linus Pauling (Chemistry)

*Max Delbruck (Biology) George Polya (Mathematics)
*Renato Dulbecco (Microbiology) Oscar Rice (Physncal Chemlstry)

John T. Edsall (Biology) *Burton Richter (Physms)

Paul R. Ehrlich (Biology) David Riesman, Jr. (SOCiology)
*John F. Enders (Biochemistry) *J. Robert Schrieﬁer (Physws)

Adrian Fisher (Law) *Julian Schwinger (PhySics) .
*Paul J. Flory (Chemistry) Herbert Scoville, Jr. (Def. Policy)

Jerome D. Frank (Psychology) Alice Kimball Smith (History)

John Kenneth Galbraith (Econ.) Cyril S. Smith (Metallurgy)

Richard L. Garwin (Physics) Robert M. Solo-w (Economics)

Edward L. Ginzton (Engineering) *Wllllam H. Stein. (Chemistry)
*Donald A. Glaser (Physics-Biol.) *Albert Szent-Gyorgyi (.BIOCPemJ
*H. K. Hartline (Physiology) *Howard M_. Temin (Microbiology)

Walter W. Heller (Economics) James Tobm (5300110111105),
*Alfred D. Hershey (Biology) *Charles H. Townes (Physms)

Hudson Hoagland (Biology) *Harold C. Urey (Chemistry)
*Robert W. Holley (Biochemistry) *George Wald (Biology) . .

Marc Kac (Mathematics) Myron E. Wegman (Medicine)

Henry S. Kaplan (Medicine) Victor F. Weisskopf (Physms)

Carl Kaysen (Economics) Jerome B. Wiesner (Engineering)
*H. Gobind Khorana Robert R. Wilson (Physms)

(Biochemistry) C. S. Wu (Phy51cs) _ .

George B. Kistiakowsky (Chem. ) Alfred Yankauer (Medicme)
*Arthur Kornberg (Biochemistry) Herbert F. York (PhySICS)
*Polykarp Kusch (Physics)

NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS (elected) 1

Ruth S. Adams (Sicence Policy) Victor RabinOWitch (World Deve .)

Bruce Ames (Biochemistry) Leonard Rodberg (Pol. Selence)

Lipman Bers (Mathematics) Arthur H. Rosenfeld (PhySICS)

Nina Byers (Physics) Carl Sagan (AStFOUPmY)

Geoffrey Chew (Physics) Joseph L- Sax (_EnV1ron.' Law)

Thomas Eisner (BiologY) William Shurcliff (PhY§1‘}S)

Rose E. Frisch (Human Biology) George A. Silver (Medicme)

 

Morton H. Halperin (Pol. Science)
William A. Higinbotham (Physics)
John P. Holdren (Energy Policy)
Myra Karstadt (Law-Biochemistry)
Daniel Koshland, Jr. (Biochem.)

Jeremy J. Stone (Mathematics)
Frank von Hippel (PhySics)
Myron E. Wegman (Medicme)
Alvin Weinberg (PhySics) '
Robert H. Williams (Energy Policy)

*Nobel Laureates

‘__‘

 

The FAS Public Interest Report is published monthly ex-

cept July and August at 307

Mass. Ave., NE, Washington,

DC. 20002. Annual subscription $20/year. Second claSS
postage paid at Washington, DC.

 




October, 1977

Page 3

 

Continued from page 2

Its past President Maurice B. Visscher wrote in 1971 that
“Eternal vigilance is the price of progress in biological
science so long as an antivivisection movement exists”;
this is clearly the posture of the society. In July its Ex—
ecutive Director criticized the Department of Agriculture
for reporting that the Department’s efforts, under the Ani-
mal Welfare Act, were efforts to “monitor the use of
laboratory animals and reduce painful experimentation”.
(italics added.) NSMR said the italicized phrase was
“inﬂammatory to animal lovers”.

In an interview with FAS, the NSMR Director Dr.
Thurmond Grafton was not willing to assert that any
speciﬁc parts of the tougher British Cruelty to Animals
Act of 1876 would be unacceptable here. But he argued
that the act, and the presence of a powerful Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, had created a
“restrictive climate” that had, indeed, even led to brain
drain among British animal experimenters. Asked why
the Littlewood Commission Report, which reviewed the
Act’s 90 years of operation, showed an absence of objec-
tions to the act among his counterpart, the British Re-
search Defense Society, he suggested they felt obliged to
play along.

In explaining his differences with the Animal Welfare
Institute, he discussed its proposal that all animals be
housed in audio and visual contact with other members of
the same species. His response, he reported, was to note
facetiously that, in his work, dogs had been caged both in
View of one another and in View of a golf course and, in
ten years, he had never received from the dogs any evi-
dence that they preferred one or the other.

Asked somewhat later whether his own pet dog was
capable of emotions and, in particular, boredom, he con-
ceded that it was, but went on to raise and demolish the
straw man that “dogs . . have the same emotional
range” as humans. One got the impression that NSMR
is so locked in combat with “antivivisectionists” that it
ignores the possibility that treatment of laboratory animals
might be improved without impairing laboratory research.

The extreme unwillingness of the community of experi-
menters to challenge the authority of individual experi-
menters is evident in the Guide for Care of Laboratory
Animals prepared by a Committee of the National Re-
search Council composed of ten doctors of veterinary
medicine.*

For example, in discussing the “widely debated” ques-
tion of exercise, it observes: V

“Conﬁnement in a cage has been equated by some
with lack of exercise and physical or psychological
discomfort, while regular release from conﬁnement
has been equated with exercise and physical or psy-

chological well—being. However, conﬁnement in a

cage per se does not necessarily inﬂuence the amount

of exercise an animal engages in, and it does not

necessarily affect an animal’s well-being”.
Having made this hedged observation, so at odds with
common sense, it goes on to leave the matter of exericise
to “professional judgement” and to preface its very few
suggestions with the phrase “If exercise is needed”. Its
only encouragement to the construction of out-of—cage
space for dogs appears as the “practical” reason that
*Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals prepared

under the auspices of the Institute of Laboratory Animal Re—
sources, National Research Council.

 

“In addition to providing more opportunity for exer-
cise pens or runs also provide a convenient place to
hold dogs while their cages are being cleaned”.
In short, exercise for the dog is put forward diﬂidently as
a convenience for the experimenter.

Even these kinds of uncontroversial observations are
limited in the introduction to the guide by assertions of
the Guide’s “permissive language and intent” and by
observations that the Guide was not intended to “limit
the investigator’s freedom”.

The code of individual conduct which the NSMR en-
dorses does say that all laboratory animals “must be kindly
treated”. But obviously kind treatment would normally
include exercise out of a cage and since the Guide en-
dorsed by this code evades even this conclusion, one ﬁnds
the code hard to take seriously.

By contrast, the” Animal Welfare Institute took this
problem of exercise quite seriously and produced an in-
spirational ﬁlm “Laboratory Dogs” which would have
done NSMR proud. Rather than show the horrors possible
in animal experimentation, the ﬁlm is “upbeat” and shows
how content romping dogs can be in a model institution
(Department of Surgery, University of Ottawa) that really
cares for them and about them while experimenting upon
them.

The guiding spirit of the Animal Welfare Institute is
Christine Stevens, daughter of a humane physiologist. It is
unfortunate that NSMR officials cannot distinguish re-
formers from oppositionists; they treat her as if she were
simply a more dangerous (“camel under the tent”) ver—
sion of “antivivisectionists”. '

The British View Has Long Been More Advanced

“Animal experiment is a complex and highly special—

ized subject. It is also a moral and social problem of

the ﬁrst magnitude and one that does not exclusively

concern the expert.” Littlewood Report, April 1965.

In the regulation of animal experimentation, the British
seem clearly to be a century in advance of the United
States. The Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 contains a
number of features of responsible control still the subject
here of political strife. And there is a startling degree of
political consensus upon these features across the British
spectrum of view from medical researchers to representa-
tion of humane societies.

For example, under the 1876 Act, researchers are li-
censed and severe or protracted agony is strictly limited,
at least in principle.*

For the spokesman for American researchers, these
would be considered extended incursions into their right
to control whatever transpires in the laboratory. British
scientists, living under these controls, evidently have no
such problems. In 1965, an exhaustive, urbane and
thoughtful survey of the operations of the 1876 Act was
undertaken by the Littlewood Commission. Among its
conclusions were that the Act had been “generally ef—
fective”:

“. . . no licensees appeared to regard it as a piece of

useless bureaucracy, many left us. in no doubt of their

high respect for it.”
——-—Continued on page 4

*Animals are destroyed painlessly if: a) suffering pain which is
“either severe or is likely to endure” and if the “main result” of
the experiment has been achieved; b) suffering “severe pain
which is likely to endure” even if the experiment is underway and
c) if an Inspector so directs after it appears to him that an
animal is “suffering considerable pain”.

 

 




 

Page 4

Continued from page 3

There had, incidently, never been a prosecution under the
Act.

It was also revealing that the British Research Defense
Society, counterpart of our National Society for Medical
Research (NSMR) had given general support for the
1876 Act. Speaking for a very broad coalition of scien-
tiﬁc societies it endorsed notions that would cause wide-
spread alarm here among spokesmen for experimenters,
e.g. that there should be a limit to the pain inﬂicted and
even that the concept of pain should include mental suf-
fering.

While supporting the principle of freedom of research,
this coalition of experimenters was willing to espouse also
such principles as the avoidance of needless pain, avoiding
animal use where insentient material would sufﬁce, and
limiting the number of animals to those that are essential.
(Though easy to endorse in logic, U.S. animal experiment-
ers would often be loath, for political reasons, to be asso-
ciated with them.)

The British animal welfare landscape includes two fea-
tures reﬂecting a more advanced consciousness. A half
century ago, in 1926, British scientists formed a Universi-
ties Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW) whose prin-
cipal aim was:

“to promote humane behavior towards wild and do-

mestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce

the sum total of pain inﬂicted on animals by man.”
UFAW was founded by Major C. W. Hume who has been,
among other things, a founding member of the Society for
Freedom of Science —— an organization devoted to defend—
ing British science from regimentation.

It is obviously very desirable to have a scientiﬁc so-
ciety, embued with a sense of scientiﬁc necessities that is
at the same time insulated from the special interests and
anxieties afﬂicting the involved animal experimenter.

A second unusual feature of the British landscape is a
four—year—old foundation funding scientiﬁc research prom-
ising to lessen the degree of reliance on animal research.
The fund is called “Air Chief Marshall the Lord Dowding
Fund for Humane Research”. It has worked, for exam-
ple: to open up the possibility of designing new drugs
theoretically so as to greatly reduce the number of hit and
miss trials traditionally undertaken; and it has advanced
the study of intermediate metabolites outside the body.

This fund has had the effect of reopening the debate on
a middle ground that channels the activities of antivivi—
sectionists into politically feasible areas. Earlier this year
a poorly funded American counterpart was formed called
the American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research
(AFAAR) and other counterparts are being formed in

October, 1977

 

SCIENTISTS DESCRIBE
POINTLESS EXPERIMENT

In a letter to the Journal of the American Medi-
cal association (JAMA) on August 1, two researchers
denounced FDA for “inane pronouncements on can-
cer dangers” and said that: “In response to this non-
sense, we inserted sterilized dimes into the peritoneal
cavity of 35 rats on March 28, 1976”. Noting that
“as expected” the rats had developed sarcomas, they
recommended sardonically that FDA convene an
“emergency meeting for the purpose of removing all
coins from circulation”.

Reached by telephone, Dr. William N. Palmer of
Denver General Hospital conceded that he had had
“no doubts about the outcome of the experiment”.
But asked for the purpose of the experiment, he de-
clined to comment. His associate Dr. George E.
Moore denied the suggestion that the experiment had
had political rather than scientiﬁc purposes.

But a scientist at the National Cancer Institute said
the experiment was a “misuse of cancer funds and of
laboratory animals to make a humorous point” and
called the affair disgraceful.

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS USED IN EXPERIMENTATION

1973 1974 1975
Dogs 195,157 199,204 154,489
Cats 66,195 74,259 51,439
Primates 42,298 51,253 36,202
Rabbits 447,570 425,585 448,530
Hamsters 454,986 430,766 456,031
Guinea Pigs 408,070 430,439 436,446
Wild Animals 3 8,169 81,021 42,523
TOTAL 1,653,345 1,692,527 1,625,660

 

*Does not include mice and rats since the US. Department of

 

 

Agriculture does not keep track of them.

 

Europe, Australia and South Africa. A legislative initia-
tive in the same direction was introduced this year by
Congressman Edward Koch in HR. 2448; it would author-
ize HEW to make grants with a View to developing “meth-
ods that use no or fewer live animals or produce less pain
and suffering in such animals than the methods currently
in use”. [:1

FACTORY FARMING

Although of special interest to scientists, medical experi—
mentation on animals is only the most dramatic of three
sectors where improvement is possible. A second area,
more important in numbers, lies in the so-called factory
farming in which animals are brought up in environments
of such enormous crowding and tedium as to produce men-
tal suffering and stress. Take, for example, the treatment
of 3 billion barnyard chickens each year. The success of
the poultry industry in reducing the price of chicken has
been extraordinary. From the “chicken in every pot” lux-
ury to which Herbert Hoover referred, we have now the
Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet on every block. But hOW
was it done? An article “Brave New Chickens” by Stephen
Singular described the Orwellian world in which the chick-
en lives.

One day after hatching, the chickens are given to local
growers. A single building may receive 75,000 chickens
who never thereafter see the light of day. (Indeed, the
artiﬁcial light is kept dim to keep the birds calmer.) Thelr
food is closed with the cosmetic xanthophyll to make them
yellow. On the tenth day they are “debeaked” to av01d
the cannibalism that would otherwise result in the crowded
quarters which their growth will soon induce. Sometimes,
they cannot stretch their wings. After seven or eight
weeks, they are passed through an electriﬁed solution that
is supposed to stun them, hung upside down and steered
into a blade that slits the throats of ﬁve birds a second.

The chickens are no longer fed diethylstilbestrol (DES)

—Continued on page 5




October, 1977

Continued from page 4

which it is believed causes cancer of the vagina and upsets
human hormone balance. But they are fed antibiotics
which, when their residues are absorbed by the human
stomach, encourage human resistance to penicillin and
other antibiotics. And the stress produced by crowding
causes a cancer in chickens (Marek’s disease) and other
diseases as well.

Those whose opposition to eating meat stems from
compassion even have problems with eggs; they talk of
restricting themselves to “free range” chickens because
most egg-laying hens do not today have free range. Far
from it. Since hens lay more eggs when eggs are taken
from them, the modern procedure simply removes the eggs
at once by tilting the cage. Here the light is kept on 21,
hours a day since this was found to encourage egg laying.
One problem arises when hens run out of calcium to pro-
duce the shells; the resultant shortage of calcium in their
bones also makes it impossible for them to stand.

What is one to think about the life led by such animals?
Obviously the chicken would be happier and healthier in
a barnyard. The sounds made by the chicken (shrieks and
moans replace the contented clucking of the barnyard
chicken) —— and the cannibalism that would result if de-
beaking did not occur— all testify to the stress involved
as does the heightened risk of disease. (The British Uni-
versities Federation for Animal Welfare recently hired a
zoologist to study the behavior of hens under various con-
ditions and to design a cage that would have some natural
features including the possibility of escape from pecking
aggressors by passage into another nesting box.)

About 140 million cows, sheep and pigs are raised each
year, often in very constrained surroundings. (If one ig-
nores rats and mice, this is 100 such animals for every
animal involved in experimentation and 1,000 for every
animal involved in painful experimentation.) To take
one example, calves may live out their lives in boxes which
are, after the ﬁrst few weeks of life, too small to permit
them to turn around or even groom themselves. They
seek to ruminate but are permitted no roughage. Forced
to be anemic so that veal will have the right texture and
color, they are denied sufﬁcient iron and try to lick the
nails in their stalls.

In regulation of factory farming, the British are again
more advanced than we are. An act of 1968 makes it an
offense to cause “unnecessary pain or unnecessary distress”
to 11vestock. It has prohibited the docking of tails in
cattle, controlled it in pigs, and proscribed surgical Castra—
tion of poultry.

The Brambell Committee whose recommendations led
to the act suggested ﬁve basic freedoms:

“An animal should at least have sufficient freedom

0f movement to be able without difﬁculty to turn

around, groom itself, get up, lie down and stretch its

limbs.”
It condemned debeaking of poultry, diets that precluded
full health and vigor, and close tethering other than for
short periods. Other nations have also gone further than
haVé We. In a number of Western European states, force
feeding is forbidden. And in Germany, owners of animals
must provide accommodation “which takes account of its
natural behavior”. According to the Animal Welfare In-
stitute’s Information Report, this is the ﬁrst example of
law Which recognizes behavioral distress. E]

Page 5

WILDLIFE AND SPECIES EXTINCTION

Still a third area of potential animal abuse lies in cruelty
to wildlife and the threat of extinction of species. The best
survey of this problem lies in Lewis Regenstein’s The
Politics of Extinction (Macmillan, 1975). In the last four
centuries, species of birds and mammals have been dis-
appearing at a rate of about one every three years, and the
rate is increasing. Apparently the ﬁrst Siberian emigrants
to America, twelve thousand years ago, quickly extermi—
nated many species of large mammals. European immi-
grants to America stepped up the rate of extinction a few
hundred years ago. Today, the destruction of habitat vies
with hunters and trappers as principal causes for extinc-
tion. At existing accelerating rates, virtually all remaining
wild mammals would be gone in about thirty years.

Some reasonably recent losses include: Eastern elk,
Carolina parakeet, the heath hen, the passenger pigeon,
the Eastern timber wolf, the Merriam elk, the Badlands
bighorn and the virtual disappearance of the buffalo.

This books documents the extraordinary blindness of
pleasure hunters to the cruelty they inﬂict; the complete
absence of any challenge or danger in their “sport”; and
the extent to which hunters control and have subverted
major conservation organizations. Even the National
Audubon Society is afraid to oppose hunting. The Izaak
Walton League of America calls hunting a “valuable man-
agment tool”. The Wildlife Society recognizes sport hunt—
ing as “one legitimate and desirable use of wildlife re—
sources”. And the wave of abuse that ﬂood over any and
all who challenge the sports hunter’s desire to kill is aston-
ishing, and revealing.

The US. passed an Endangered Species Conservation
Act in 1969 but only after furriers inserted language in
the bill permitting their trade to continue until a species
was “commercially extinct”. Species can be put on the
endangered list only after they are threatened with “world-
wide” extinction. The bill had no Federal penalty for kill-
ing or capturing an animal in an endangered species. And
indeed, states sometimes give licenses to kill them anyway.
Even Federal exceptions are permitted “for economic
hardship”. And the Interior Department seems to have
a terrible record in enforcing the Act.

In 1973, an improved “Endangered Species Act of
1973” was passed but there remains question as to the
vigor with which the Interior Department will enforce it.
(Endangered ocean species fall under a different Depart-
ment, that of Commerce, and the act is administered for
it by The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.)

In 1973, also, more than 80 nations agreed to an: “In—
ternational Convention on Endangered Species”. It speci-
ﬁes categories of, and regulates traffic in, those animals in
immediate danger of extinction, animals whose extinction
is threatened, and animals endangered within national
boundaries.

Wolves are a particularly maligned species. A marvel—
ously entertaining survey of their life appears in Never
Cry Wolf by biologist Farley Mowat who observed them
in their native haunts in Canada. The wolves have a rich
and affectionate family life—which would be consid-
ered quite predictable by any dog-owner. Nevertheless,
they are eliminated from the Eastern United States, mostly

—Continued on page 6

 




Page 6

Continued from page 5

eliminated in the West and under considerable pressure in
Alaska. One new threat in Alaska has been the depletion
of the caribou herd which has led the Alaskan game au-
thorities to permit shooting of wolves that would otherwise
deplete some of the caribou.

Grizzly bears are threatened with extinction in the
lower 48 states by ferocious hunting although, as anyone
knows who has seen them perform in circus or in zoos,
they are highly intelligent and affectionate animals. Prairie
dogs, cougars, wild horses and kangaroos are threatened
as well.

Many smaller species are threatened with the steel-jaw
leg-hold trap. It clamps onto an animal’s paw much like
the slamming of a car door on a hand; the animal is
trapped and has, in desperation, been known to chew off
the limb. Otherwise it may die days or weeks later of
starvation. A bill has been introduced in the Senate
to end the use of these traps domestically and even to
ban related imports from countries that have not done
so. In the House, Congressman Glenn M. Anderson in—
troduced a bill (HR. 5292) to regulate trapping of
mammals and birds on Federal lands; it would approve
traps only if they were the “most humane capture method
available” for a given species. B

WHALES: A CASE IN POINT

The US. has stopped commercial whaling and has
adopted legislation that puts pressure upon other nations
to accept the provisions of the International Whaling Com-
mission.* The US. has placed all eight major species of
great whales on the endangered list (of the Endangered
Species Act of 1969). It has also prohibited the import
of whale products hunted in violation of International
Whaling Commission rules. (A Pell amendment to the
Marine Mammal Protection Act permits embargoes of
products from foreign nations whose nationals conducted
ﬁshing operations that diminished the effectiveness of an
international conservation organization.)

U.S. nationals were engaging in non-commercial whal—
ing—the Alaskan natives (both Eskimos and Aleuts)
had been permitted an aboriginal exception to whaling
commission prohibitions for three decades. As noted in
the September Report, the Eskimos on the North Slope
of Alaska had taken 49 Bowhead whales last year and
had destroyed, but not captured, an undetermined further
number estimated at between 50 and 250. The rule of
thumb is that 10 to 15% of a whale population could be
taken each year without precipitating extinction; the spec-
ulative estimates on numbers of bowhead lie between 500
and 3,000. Thus comparing either low or high estimates
of take, versus available animals, suggests a danger of
extinction. The Eskimos should be urged to return to
using more traditional methods and to abandon the
shoulder gun.

At its 29th annual meeting, the International Whaling
Commission reduced whale quotas for the 1977-78 whal-
ing season from 28,050 to 17,839. It also withdrew the
exception requiring a full ban on the hunting of bowhead
whales. The Eskimos were very upset; one called the de-
cision “racist”. (Beside the Eskimos and Aleuts, the

 

*The commission includes: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Denmark, France, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nor-
way, Panama, United Kingdom, U.S., S. U., and South Africa.

 

October, 1977

only other group taking whales under this exception were
the Enu of Japan.) The ban takes place on October 5,
after the fall whaling season on the North Slope of Alas-
ka. The next meeting of the International Commission
occurs after the spring hunt.

The US. is accepting the ban for now but, inside at least
one government agency there is consideration being given
to asking for a limited quota exception at the 1978 summer
meeting. This would mean the Eskimos missed one spring
hunt. However, the President’s environmental message of
May 23, 1977, earlier had expressed strong support for
the International Whaling Commission making any equiv—
ocation difﬁcult.

Whaling has been a human activity for over a thousand
years. In the last century, ﬁve species were intensively
hunted, four of them almost to the point of extinction.
These species were chosen because oarsmen could over-
take them and because they ﬂoated when dead. Four of
the ﬁve species were: baleen whales (so called because of
their enormous baleen substitutes for teeth), the bowhead,
the two right whales and the grey whales, all now the sub-
ject of the International Whaling Commission prohibitions.
The ﬁfth “toothed” whale was the sperm whale.

There is a great deal to be said for empathizing with
whales. The following is an excerpt from Regenstein’s
The Politics of Extinction:

“Whales are the largest animals that have ever lived
— and among the most intelligent. They are warm-
blooded, air—breathing mammals that nurse their
young and usually bear a single calf every two years
or so. It is thought that whales were once land mam-
mals, perhaps related to humans. Whale embryos
bear a striking resemblance to human features, and
whale ﬂippers contain the vestiges of hand bones.
Some species are thought to be monogamous, keeping
the same mate throughout life.

Roger Payne wrote in the October 1972 issue of
National Geographic Magazine that whale “courtship
involved much stroking and hugging of a female by
the males competing for her (but) with only one
male present, the female normally was quiet and
tender in her acceptance. The pair would hold each
other with their ﬂippers, belly to belly, while mating.”

Dr. Payne also noted the playful behavior of young
whales, which used strands of seaweed as toys, and
slid off and around their mothers’ tails. But even
mother whales have a limit to their patience. “Once,”
wrote Dr. Payne, “we saw a big female deftly roll
onto her back just as her mischievous calf was about
to ram her. She grabbed the youngster by clamping
the small of his tail to her side with a ﬂipper. He
wriggled and struggled and spluttered. When he had
calmed down, she slowly let him go.”

It is well known that whales are very protective of
one another, and will seldom desert a fellow member
of the herd that has been harpooned or wounded.
There are numerous recorded incidents in which a
whale has been harpooned or captured and taken to
shore, and its mate or family has followed it or waited
offshore for its return for days, even weeks at a time.
Whalers have taken advantage of the whales’ highly
protective nature by harpooning baby whales, towing
them into the whaling station on shore, and then
butchering the mother or even the entire family which
faithfully follows along. Male sperm whales (or
“bulls”), when threatened, form a protective ring

—Continued on page 7

 




 

October, 1977

 

Current Estimates of Whale Stocks look something
like this:

Fin 107,000 Blue 12,000
Siei 101,300 Gray 11,000
Sperm 641,000 Humpback 7,250
Minke 300,000 Right 5,000

Bowhead — minimum of several hundred in East-
ern Arctic

 

 

 

Continued from page 6

around the females and calves. As a result, such a

disproportionate number of male sperm whales have

been killed in recent years that the male-female ratio
has been severely upset. This could cause serious
problems in the ability to mate and reproduce.

Whales also seem well disposed toward man, and
students diving around whales and photographing
them have described the remarkable efforts whales
make not to harm their observers, although one ﬂick
of the huge tail could easily kill or cripple a human.
One who empathized with whales in quite a unique

fashion was Peter Freuchen, the famous Norwegian Arctic
explorer. In 1912, while descending into a crevasse by
rope, he became accidentally impaled upon his own har-
poon. In his Book of the Eskimos, he writes:

“ ‘So,’ I thought, ‘this is the way those animals felt
while I held the other end of the line, so proud of my
strength and markmanship.’ ”

Despite having had many other painful adventures —— in-
cluding having to amputate his own frozen foot —Freu-
chen said that he had never spent a “more agonizing in-
terval” than that which was involved in this harpooning.
He ﬁnally was able to pull the harpoon out himself.

In terms of ratio of brain weight to body weight, eight
of the smaller species of whales are next to man. (The
larger species have a lower ratio because of their enor-
mous quantities of blubber which ﬂuctuates in mass ac—
cord to season. But it is entirely possible in any case that
sea-going mammals can control a larger body mass with
a ﬁxed brain size because of the buoyancy of the water
and the large mass of insulating fat.

As far as structure is concerned it has been argued that
the whales’ brains are, in their cortex construction, in every
way comparable to that of the higher primates, and that,
according to Peter Morgane:

“the enormous surface of the whale cortex and its

luxurlant and highly convoluted appearance still ap—

pear to be sound arguments for considering the Ceta-
ceans as potentially intelligent and highly developed
fellow beings.”

Today, the US. supports a ten—year moratorium on all
commercial whaling but has failed to secure a needed
three-fourths majority in the International Whaling Com-
miss1on. Recently, IWC adopted new and more precise
rules for limiting whale take in accordance with popula—
‘t‘IOn projects. And it beefed up its formerly part-time
secretariat” to include a full—time employee, Dr. Ray
Gambell, who is a population biologist. However, Dr.
Gambell is not concerned about whale extinction. His
Nature article of August 9, “The Unendangered Whale”
Concluded that:

“At all events, the future for the whales looks bright.

There is no danger of any of them disappearing

:irlrlough overexploitation under the present con-
0 s. . .”

Page 7

ANIMAL LIBERATION

The trumpet call in favor of greater respect for animals
was sounded most coherently in Peter Singer’s Animal
Liberation: A New Ethics for Our Treatment of Ani-
mals. It coined the phrase “Specieism” as a description
of the relevant analogue of sexism, racism, etc. And it
is clearly the best documented treatment of the general
issue.

But as to what rights animals either do or should have,
there is dispute. The basic problem is that our legal sys-
tem has not traditionally accorded animals any rights.
Under common law, animals had no rights even to avoid
needless pain. Anti-cruelty laws were originally formu-
lated in such a way as to argue that cruelty offended
human morality and constituted thereby a kind of public
nuisance. Domestic animals, according to a legal analysis
of Stephen I. Burr, were personal prOperty subject to the
owner’s whim while wild animals were common property
to be exploited freely by whomever he wished unless the
state regulated otherwise.

The state anti-cruelty statutes remain the basic animal
protection law but they neither deﬁne “animal” nor
“cruelty”. Thus ﬁghts to the death by cocks armed with
spurs were adjudged permissible in the New Mexico Su-
preme Court, on the grounds that cockﬁghting was not
meant to be covered. It was also permitted by the Kansas
Supreme Court on the grounds that gamecocks were
“birds” not included in the phrase “any animal”.

In Environmental A ﬁairs, Burr proposed a model stat-
ute distinguishing between three classes of animals and
deﬁning cruelty more precisely, e.g., Class A animals
would be chimpanzees, gorillas or dolphins; Class B ani-
mals were to be mammals not in class A; class C animals
were vertebrates other than Class B or Class A.

Exploiting Existing Statutes

A second approach championed by Brooklyn Law
School Professor Henry Mark Holzer for the Society for
Animal Rights (SAR) has been to exploit all versions of
existing law. Professor Holzer believes there is no doubt
but that one could launch a “very respectable case against
inhumane practices using the right to standing of humane
societies and others using existing legislation.”

Appalled by the legislative and lobbying process, he
would seek to convince a handful of judges rather than
overlobbied representatives. As an analogy, he looks to
the NAACP’s successful court ﬁghts to secure equal rights
through litigation at a time when Southern opposition in
Congress made legislative advance impossible. As exam—
ples of his philosophy, he has joined with the Society for
Animal Rights:

a) to sue New York City to require the closing of
poorly equipped zoos in Central Park and Pros—
pect Park Zoos and to have the animals trans-
ferred to the more spacious Bronx Zoo. In its
struggle to get standing, SAR is now in the highest
New York State Court.

b) to sue to void the provisions of the Federal Hu-
mane Slaughter Act which permit orthodox Jewish
slaughtering practices. Because Jewish religious
law requires that animals be unharmed before
being killed, they preclude stunning the animal
before it is shackled and hoisted, and has its
arteries slit. (The Supreme Court held, however
that the special permission given this practice did

—Continued on page 8

 




 

Page 8

October, 1977

 

Continued from page 7
not violate the separation of church and state.)

c) to ﬁle an amicus brief on behalf of a four year
old German Shepherd who was subject to a New
Jersey ordinance requiring that animals which
“attack or bite or attempt to attack or bite” were
to be destroyed. Holzer argued that the law was
requiring a “cruel and unusual punishment”.

Interestingly, the approach of invoking existing legisla-
tion was the proposal of past NSMR President Maurice
B. Visscher when, in a Humanist editorial, he urged ap—
plying the state anti-cruelty laws for the “miniscule frac-
tion” of cases in which scientists had shown “carelessness”.

Legal Rights for Animals

The indirect champion of granting legal rights directly
to animals is USC professor Christopher D. Stone, whose
milestone work in this regard focused not on animals but
on trees. This work “Should Trees Have Standing?: To—
ward Legal Rights for Natural Objects” was inspired, in
part, by difﬁculties the Sierra Club was having getting
standing to defend, in court, the aesthetic and ecological
balance of an area about to be licensed for development.
In it, Professor Stone described the rising consciousness
of man in which an ever Widening scope of entities came
to be seen to have “rights”: slaves, women, children, fe-
tuses and so on. Nor were the objects of judicial interest
limited to humans or even to animate objects. Corpora—
tions have rights and recent laws protected the “environ-
ment” and referred to the “ecology”. When Justice William
O. Douglas quoted extensively from this work in a dissent,
momentum was added to what seems now to be a minor
but growing movement.

Surprisingly, there have been more cases attempted in
defense of inanimate objects (lakes, rivers, monuments,
and forest) than in defense of animals. A recent event
which might have raised some relevant issues occurred
in Hawaii when two 26-year-old assistants at a scientiﬁc
center for communicating with dolphins freed them, alleg-
ing that they were too intelligent to be held captive.
Charged with theft, they admitted the act but disputed
whether they had a right to engage in it. (This case is a
perfect example, of course, of the way in which an animal
rights movement, and its related consciousness, could in—
terfere with fully legitimate and universally laudable de-
sires of the scientiﬁc community.)

FAS PUBLIC INTEREST REPORT (202) 546-3300
307 Mass. Ave., NE, Washington, DC. 20002

Return Postage Guaranteed
October, 1977, Vol. 30, No. 8

 

E] I wish to renew membership for the calendar year 1977.
E] I wish to join FAS and receive the newsletter as a fuleember.

Enclosed is my check for 1977 calendar year dues. (D I am not a
natural or social scientist, lawyer, doctor or engineer, but wish to
become a non-voting associate member.)

E] $20 [I $50 [:1 $100 El $500 El $10
Member Supporting Patron Life Under $10,000

[J Subscription only: I do not wish to become a member but would
like a subscription to:

[I FAS Public Interest Report -— $20 for calendar year

[I Enclosed is my tax deductible contribution of
FAS Fund.

NAME AND TITLE

 

Please Print
ADDRESS

 

CITY AND STATE

 

PRIMARY PROFESSIONAL DISCIPLINE:

 

 

Primate medical experimentation has been dealt a
serious latent blow by the success of animal psychologists
in communicating with chimpanzees and gorillas. First
psychologists Allan and Beatrice Gardner established two-
way communication with a chimpanzee by using Ameri-
can Sign Language for the Deaf. In 1972, another animal
psychologist trained a gorilla Koko to the point where it
had a vocabulary of 300 words. A Seton Hall professor
in animal rights Theodore Sager Meth believes this gift of
language might have undermined the 200’s property rights
on the gorilla and established that Koko warrants some
kind of individual rights.

Obviously, it is no longer possible to ignore the fact that
animals have mental processes. And it seems likely that the
pride of place in non—medical issues of animal treatment
will eventually be taken by animal psychologists and ethol—
ogists (who study animal behavior with emphasis on evolu-
tionary adaptation) and away from veterinarians.

In a new book, The Question of Animal Awareness,
Donald R. Grifﬁn reviews the literature on this subject
and exposes the extreme reluctance of many philosophers
and behavioralists to admit what all pet owners know —
that their pets have emotions and feelings. He advocates
participatory two-way experiments in which manipulated
animal surrogates (e.g. fake bees doing fake bee dances)
would establish beyond question the extent to which ani-
mals communicate (as bees are now known to be com—
munciating the distance toward food, and the type of food,
by their gyrations). In sociobiology, Edward O. Wilson
has begun to force the community to recognize that Dar-
winian descent means more than the physical resemblance
that animals may bear to one another but also implies
many behaviorial resemblances.

The vested psychic unwillingness of man to admit his
resemblance to lower animals must eventually fall before
the onslaught both of scientiﬁc advance and of rising social
conscience. In the light of this new consciousness, all of
the many ways, justiﬁed and unjustiﬁed, in which man
exploits his fellow animals will be reexamined. As this
time approaches, scientists ought not be aligned solely on
behalf of justiﬁed exploitation. And where exploitation
is required, as in justiﬁed experimentation, we ought to be
able to show that a defense of these practices can coexist
with the ongoing application of live compassion. [:1

 

Second Class Postage
Paid at
Washington, D. C.

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

November 3 , 1977

Dear Friends of Whales,

Thank you for your tremendous response to our last action let-
ter, which helped put such pressure on the International Whaling
Commission member governments that the Commissioners meeting in June
in Canberra, Australia decided larger quota reductions than at any
other meeting in its history.

 

After analyzing evidence of collapse in the sperm whale popu~
lations of the North Pacific, the Scientific Committee of the IWC
recommended that quotas be slashed by 90%, from 7,200 to 763. These

quotas were voted by the Commission by a 3/u majority - a great vic-
tory for whales.

But now these low quotas are in danger UNLESS WE CAN KEEP THE
PRESSURE UP. Russia and Japan, the world's two major whaling na-
tions, demanded and obtained a special meeting of the Scientific
Committee of the IWC November 21-26 in Cronulla, Australia to re~
calculate the North Pacific Sperm whale quotas. A Special meeting
of the IWC will follow December 6—7 in Tokyo.

In the meantime, the government of Japan, responding to these
quota reductions, acted to reduce the Japanese whaling fleet to a
single factory ship and its attendant catcher boats. This has
brought strong protests from the Japan Joint Whaling Company head-
ed by Iwao Fujita, former Commissioner to the IWC from Japan, and
from the union of whalers. The government is having considerable
difficulty in containing the industry.

It is important that all friends of whales write directly to
Prime Minister Fukuda in Japan urging him to continue to reduce
Japan's whaling, and 2) to end all importation of whale products
from nations that do not even belong to the International Whaling
Commission or adhere to its regulations. Japan is still purchas-
ing baleen whale meat from the "pirate" whaler, the Sierra, that
flew the Somali flag, has a Norwegian captain, South ETrican crew,
and Japanese meat merchants aboard. Its registry recently was

 




 

-2...

switched from Lichtenstein to Cyprus. Its ownership continues to
be a closely guarded secret.

In addition, a former Japanese fishing boat, now flying the
Panamanian flag, was recently remodelled in Tahiti as a catcher—
factory vessel for use by whalers in Chile. Chile has authorized
the killing of 1,500 sei and sperm whales in the next three years
but refuses to join the IWC! It is expected that Chile will ex~
port whale products to Japan.

Other non-IWC countries that export whale meat to Japan in—
clude Korea, Peru and Spain. These countries should be urged to
stop whalin or, at the very least, to join the IWC and obey its
regulations.'"Unless they do so, they are eIIBeFEEely rEEEEtIﬁg
the treaty, and any nation that buys whale products from them is
encouraging them in this scofflaw type of activity.

 

According to U.S. law, these nations are subject to embargo
of any or all of their fish products under the Pelly Amendment to
the Fishermen's Protective Act whose sanctions apply to countries
that "diminish the effectiveness of an international agreement for
the protection of marine resources." Secretary of Commerce, the
Honorable Juanita Kreps has the authority to prepare and submit the
necessary documents to the Treasury Department and President Carter
to invoke the embargos. Mrs. Kreps is a friend of whales, and you
may wish to write her at the Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C.
20230. Please thank her, too, for the firm stand her Department took
on the bowhead whale issue.

As you may have read, an intense campaign was mounted by North
Slope Borough Eskimos and their Washington lawyers to force the
United States to file an objection to the unanimous vote of the Com-
missioners at the Canberra meeting which set a zero quota for the
coming year on bowhead whales. Under IWC rules, a country that

fil:s an objection rejects its responsibility to abide by an IWC
quo a.

On October 20th, the State Department announced that no objec—
tion would be filed by the United States. This was a vitally im-
portant victory, for had our country, the acknowledged world leader
in seeking to save the whales from extinction,itself filed an ob-
jection, it is a virtual certainty that Russia and Japan, under in-
dustry pressure, would have filed objections, too, and all whales
would, again, have been killed at the pleasure of the wEETers. The
massive quota reductions achieved at Canberra would have gone for

naught, and hopes for ultimate success in preventing extinction of
the whales would have been dashed.

Having won this second battle of the year for the whales, we
are now heading for a third in Tokyo in December. Again, a letter-

writing campaign is needed before the meetin and a d .
during the meeting. g me ia campaign

AGAIN, THE WHALES NEED YOUR HELP




What you can do:

1) Write to the governments of as many whaling countries as
possible. To make it easier for you, we have enclosed a list of
heads of state and of the government department that authorizes
whale killing. Also enclosed is a brief letter which you can use
or modify or completely rewrite as you think best. Original let-
ters will have the most impact.

If you have access to a photocopy machine, you can prepare nu-
merous letters in a very short time by writing in "Dear Mr. Presi-
dent" or "Dear Mr. Prime Minister" or "Dear Mr. Doe" as the case
may be, signing your name at the bottom, makin sure to follow it
with our full address. Foreign air mail postage for'ElI countries
is 31: per half ounce up to and including 2 ounces.

We were asked by Friends of Cetaceans to send you the state-
ment and questions about sperm whales for submission to officials
of government in whaling countries, and you are free to make copies
of it to enclose in your letters.

If you cannot write to all of these many addresses, do what
you can in the following order of priority: Japan, Australia, Russia,
Peru, Korea, Spain, Chile, Norway, Iceland, Brazil. The suggested
form letter is appropriate for all countries except Japan (see first
page of this letter).

2) Please send contributions to use for advertisements and
campaign materials for the Tokyo meeting. The Canberra meeting
helped make the Australian public aware that Australia is the last
Commonwealth country with a whale—killing company, Cheynes. The
indignation of the Australians has resulted in a flood of some
20,000 letters to the government which,as a result, may decline to
re-issue Cheynes' license to kill whales next year.

The Tokyo meeting provides a similar opportunity to reach the
Japanese people, many of whom have been misinformed by the industry.

Advertisements in Japanese newspapers cost thousands of dol-
lars each, so please send as much as you can afford.

The survival of the whales depends on you.

Sincerely, ‘
[ﬁeﬁ‘cﬁﬁa

Christine Stevens
President

(over)

 




"\'\I\’\I\I\I\'\ I\\I\ \
cirvcvrarsrvcwcvcs cvéwcs $7

.

a;

Iv I\\ovag‘\ V‘ﬁ,‘
cvcv (7%??7f7‘? “5.7

Yes! I want to help save the whales! Enclosed is my tax deductible
contribUtion Of $oooooooooooo t0 the Animal Welfare InStitUtae

NameOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00.00.000.00...OOOOOOOOOOGOOOOOOOOOOGOOOﬂQOQOﬂQﬁﬁQﬂQQQ

Streetooooooooooooooooooooooooaooocityococo-cocoon.oooecoeooZipoesa®@®®@

Z_7 My contribution to help save the whales is $15.00 or more. Please

send me a print of the Richard Ellis Humpback Whales shown above.
(Additional Copies @ $15.00 each)

Send to: Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650,
washington, D.C. 20007
ayable to Animal Welfa e

VVV\;VV\0\ vvvv uv v
ﬁf‘u‘“u“3\ 7")???7 A‘VF'H'VV '4???“ {7‘

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute's latest annual report filed
with the New York State Board of Social Welfare is available upon
written request to the Institute at the address on the masthead, or

to the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Office Tower, Empire
State Plaza, Albany, N;Y. 12223.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
Weizmann. D. C. 2000?

Thank you for your order for "Save the Whales“ t-shirt(s) in‘

size(s)

 

We are glad to know of your willingness to help publicize the
campaign to save the whales by wearing one of our shirts.

Unfortunately, we have had to increase the price for t-shirts
as follows:

Adults: $6.00
Children: $5.00

Therefore, if you could send us the balance due, we would greatly
appreciate it, and we will be happy to send your shirt(s). Or,
if you would prefer, we will refund the payment you have already
sent.

PLEASE RETURN THIS FORM.T0 US, checking the appropriate box below:

[—7 I am enclosing the balance due of .

[-7. I would like my original payment of refunded.

The "Save the Whales" campaign needs funds very badly to enable us
to continue our efforts. so any additional contribution you may be
able to make will be put to good use and greatly appreciated:

YOur support is most valuable to us. and we apologize for any
inconvenience this price increase may cause you.

 




Thank you for your order. YOur “Save the Whales" t-shirt(s) is
being sent under separate cover and should reach you shortly.

we regret that it has become necessary to increase the prices for
our t-shirts: Adults: $6.00 Children: $5.00

Since you were kind enough to include a contribution with your
payment, we have taken the liberty of applying part of your
contribution to the additional cost of the t-shirt(s) to avoid
having to ask you for more money. This explains the difference
you will notiCe in the amount of your contribution on the attached
receipt.

we hope you will find this arrangement satisfactory. If you have
any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. YOur interest
and support are valued and appreciated:

 




I wish to add my voice to the multitude of others who hOpe
that your government will put an end to commercial whaling.

Enclosed is a statement and questions by a group which is
striving to learn more about the mental capacities of cetaceans.
I would appreciate your consideration of these questions and hope
you will favor me with a response.

Respectfully yours,

 




ADDRESSES OF THE CHIEFS OF STATE,
HEADS OF STATE, AND HEADS OF THE FISHERIES DEPARTMENT

Japan

Head of State:

Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda
1~6~1 Nagata—Cho

ChiyodanKu

Tokyo 100, Japan

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Ministry for Agriculture & Forestry
Zenko Suzuki

1—2-1 Kasumigaseki

Chiyoda—Ku

Tokyo 100, Japan

Australia

 

Chief of State:
Sir Zelman Cowen
Parliament House
Canberra

ACT 2600
Australia

Head of State:

The Honorable John Malcolm Fraser
Parliament House

Cinberra

ACT 2600

Australia

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Dr. K. Hadway Allen

202 Nicholson Parade

Cronulla

NSW 2230

Australia

U.S.S.R.

Head of State:

General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev
The Kremlin

Moscow, U.S.S.R.

Head of the Fisheries Department:
I. Nikonorov

Director, GLAVRYBVOD

Ministry of Fisheries
Hozhdestvenskii Blvd.

Moscow, U.S.S.R.

Peru

Head of State:

General Francisco Morales-Bemudec
Palacio de Gobierno

Lima, Peru

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Rear Admirable of the Peruvian Navy
Contralmirante A.B.

Francisco Maritegui Angulo
Ministerio de Pesqueria

Javier Prado Este 2u65 San Luis
Lima, Peru

Korea

Chief of State:

President Park Chung Hee
First Sekong—Ro Jongro-Ku
Seoul, Korea

Head of State:

Prime Minister Choi Kyu Hah
First Sekong-Ro Jongro-Ku
Seoul, Korea

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Administrator

Office of the Fisheries

Government of the Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea

Spain

Chief of State:

His Majesty King Juan Carlos
Palacio de la Zarzuela
Madrid, Spain

Head of State:

His Excellency Adolpho Suarez Gonzales
Presidente del Gobierno Espanol
Palacio de la Mbncloa

Madrid, Spain

The Fisheries Department is currently
under the Ministry of Transportation
and Communications, Madrid, Spain

 




Chile

Head of State:

President General Augusto Pinochet
Edificio Diego Portales

Santiago, Chile

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Ministerio de Agricultura

Av. Libertavor B.

O'Higgins 1302

Division Pesca

OF. 102, P. 10

Santiago, Chile

Norway

Chief of State:

His Majesty King Olav V
The Royal Castle of Norway
Oslo, Norway

Head of State:

Prime Minister Odvar Nordli
Stortinget

Oslo, Norway

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Mr. Eivind Bolle

The Ministry of Fisheries

Oslo DEP

Oslo 1, Norway

Iceland

Chief of State:

His Excellency the President of Iceland
Dr. Kristjan Eldjarn

Stjornarradshi

Reykjevik, Iceland

Head of State:

Prime Minister Geir Halgrimsson
Office of the Prime Minister
Stjornarradshi

Reykjevik, Iceland

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Mr. Matthias Bjarnason

Ministry of Fisheries

Lindargata 9

Reykjavik, Iceland

Brazil

Head of State:

President Ernesto Geisel
Palacio da Alvorado
Brazilia DF

Brazil

Head of the Fisheries Department:
SKS Commercial 109

22-26

Brazilia DF

Brazil

C rus

Head of State:

President Spyros Kyprinou
Presidential Palace
Nicosia, Cyprus

Head of the Fisheries Department:
Attention: Minister

Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources

Loukis Akripas Avenue

Nicosia, Cyprus

 




A STATEMENT AND QUESTIONS ON SPERM WHALES
FROM FRIENDS OF CETACEANS ADDRESSED TO RESPONSIBLE LEADERS AND
OFFICIALS IN COUNTRIES WHICH STILL ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL WHALING

Sperm whales (cachalots) have the largest and most complex
brains in the world. Their brains are six times larger than hun
man brains and present similar characteristics of high develop-
ment such as a huge, convoluted neocortex. Scientists throughout
the world recognize their potentialities. For example, Dr. Alfred
Berzin, Director of the Cetacean Research Laboratory, TINRO Insti-
tute, U.S.S.R. has called them "THINKING ANIMALS CAPABLE OF DIS-
PLAYING HIGH INTELLECTUAL ABILITIES."

Dr. Peter Morgana, Senior Scientist, Worcester Foundation for
Experimental Biology, U.S.A., has called them "POTENTIALLY INTELLI-
GENT AND HIGHLY DEVELOPED FELLOW BEINGS."

Families of Sperm whales, known as nursery schools, are long—
lasting social groups of young and adults, mostly female, who co-
operate to raise and teach their young until puberty, (about eight
years) and who are devoted to each other in time of danger.

Do you not agree that it is cruel to pursue these family groups
to exhaustion and to kill the largest members with explosive har-
poons?

Do you not agree with Professor Peter Singer of the University
of Melbourne, Australia that the survivors may grieve for the deaths
of their relatives?

Considering their high mental development and their tight family
bonds, is it not unethical for human beings to inflict extreme pain,
fear, and, finally, death upon them and to do so for mere commercial
profit?

The Sperm.whale has the lowest known reproductive rate of any
mammal. Several other Species of whales have already been nearly
destroyed by commercial whaling: the blue, the humpback, the right
and the bowhead whales.

Is it not imprudent to continue to allow the killing by an inn
dustry which is now dying itself, brought to thissmate by its own
greed?

Should not that industry have been stopped in the 1960's when
it reduced the blue whales, the largest creature ever to live on
earth, to a few thousand individuals whose biological survival is
now doubtful?

Should not the industry be stopped before the same fate befalls
the cachalots, the creatures who have the largest and most complex

 




brains on earth?

The products of the sperm whale can be readily substituted.
For example, the U.S. Defense Department rid itself of stockpiled
sperm oil three years ago preferring a synthetic product. Sperm
whale meat is not used for human consumption (it has a high mer~
cury and myoglobine content) but is processed into mink, chicken
and pig food.

As man seeks to learn more about the depths of the oceans,
should not the governments of all civilized nations renounce the
needless destruction of these creatures endowed with gigantic
brains and turn, instead, to observing them and their small cou-
sins the dolphins?

 




 

 

T-SHIRTS & FLEECEWEAR

Created exclusively for Friends of the Sea Otter, we know you
will be pleased with this delightful new eight-color design.

ADULT - White or Royal Blue heavy weight 100% cotton short-
sleeve T—shirts and 50/50 blend crew-neck sweatshirts. S(34-
36), M (38-40), L(42-44), XL (46).

Adult T-Shlrt, WA100 $14.00

Adult Sweatshirt, WA200 $22.00

YOUTH - White or Royal Blue short-sleeve 50/50 blend T-

Shirts and crew-neck sweatshirts. XS(2-4), 8(6-8), M(10-12),
L(14—16).

Southern Sea Otter
Youth T-Shll't, WY300 $10.00 enh’d’am’is "9’9“ ’
C A5 M? L

Youth Sweatshirt, WY400 $18.00

HOLIDAY T-SHIRTS 8: SWEATSHIRTS

"Have an Otterly Delightful Holiday" is the message on these
festive white shirts designed for Friends of the Sea Otter by Life
Member Jeanne Irwin. Short-sleeve T-shirts are 100% heavy
weight cotton. Sweatshirts are 50/50 blend. Adult sizes S (34-
36), M (38-40), L (42-44), XL (46).

Holiday T-Shirt, J|100 $12.00

Holiday Sweatshirt, JI200 $20.00

 




 

li't‘lillm

§
E

I, I‘ /
will

I

 

A Raft of Sea Otters: An Affectionate Portrait. The most memorable collection of sea otter
photographs to appear anywhere - all here in this beautifully written book. (Revised July, 1988.) 40 pages.
Raft of Sea Otters, BP101 $4.95

What is a California Sea Otter? by Jack A. Graves with enchanting line drawings by Ralph W.
Cooke, lll. Ages 3-8. Paperback, 30 pages. California Sea Otter, GC101 $3.50

Sea Mammal Coloring Book. This well illustrated coloring book includes information on the history,
habitat, diet and behavior of 25 sea mammals, including the sea otter. Coloring book, 88101 $2.95

The Gnome. from Nome , a Serendipity book by Stephen Cosgrove is an endearing account of a gnome
and a sea otter who discover "the secret of being warm from the inside out." Gnome book, 88101 $2.95

A Sense of Wonder by Rachel Carson features poetic glimpses inspired by nature outings with her

nephew. Quality 95-page paperback also contains wonderful photographs. A Sense of Wonder, RC101
$10.95

Otters, Octopuses & Odd Creatures of the Deep by Randy Reinstedt lets us follow two young

Children on their adventure in the Monterey Bay Aquarium. Strong conservation message. Ages 8-12.
Hardcover, 64 pages. Otters, Octopuses, RR101 $9.95

SEA OTTER VIDEO

"The Unsinkable Sea Otter" contains some of the most beautiful and colorful sea otter footage ever filmed.
From the widely-acclaimed television series by Jacques Cousteau, the program runs 60 minutes. Specify
mg or am. Cassette, JCtOt $24.95

STATIONERY & NOTE CARDS

 

BOXED MlNl NOTES by Virginia Miller. In boxes of ten,
these handy 3-1/2"x5" note cards and envelopes are
available in two charming designs. Mother & pup,
JW101 $4.50, or Single otter, JW201 $4.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATIONERY AND NOTES NOTES BY ANDREW
-..; by Jackie Held. Ten 4"x5" ' ' _ I. KOZAK - 8 notes with
Lg cards and envelopes or 15 « envelopes; 4 with trio of
”23;; sheets of paper and envelopes, ’ otters, 4 with mother &

  
  
 
 

 

. \- pf; . . . ' . “”in ‘gk - _'- . ‘ .
,, / printed on high-quality ivory :ﬁ/WL (2...; pup desrgn. Notes,

Q. paper. Stationery, JH101 ' AK101 $3.00
- '\< $6.50 or Notes, JW201 $4.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




NEEDLEPOINT KITS

These charming designs are a joy to stitch. ChoOse from a Mother and Pup 18 mesh canvas, 4" square or on
12 mesh canvas, 8" square. Our single otter is available on 18 mesh canVas, 4" square. To make into an
ornament or to frame, our Santa otters are each on 18 mesh canvas.

     

Santa hat, 18 mesh,
2;. - ..... DDSOO $1200
Mother & Pup 18 mesh, DD100 $10.00 ' Santa suit, 18 mesh,
Mother & Pup 12 mesh, DD200 $15.00 .mr . DD400 $12.00
Single otter, 18 mesh, DD300 $10.00 (not shown)

 

COUNTED CROSS STITCH

Engaging design of a mother and pup comes with complete instructions.
Kit includes graph, fabric, floss & needle. Kit, K0101 $8.95; Graph,
KD201 $2.95

 

 

WINDSOCK

  
 

Our beautiful new windsock is 50" long with an enchanting brown sea
otter appliqued onto an aqua background. Streamers are gold, aqua,
and turquoise. Windsock, F0101 $25.00

SOLID PEWTER GIFT ITEMS

MAGNETS, Painted magnet, R0100 $4.50; Plain magnet, R0200 $4.50

KEY RINGS, Painted key ring, R0300 $5.00; Plain key ring, R0400
$5.00

COLLECTOR'S SPOON, Plain design only. Gift boxed. Spoon, R0500 $6.00
THIMBLE, Plain design only. Gift boxed. Thimble, R0600 $5.00

MONEY CLIP, available plain or painted. Money clip plain, R0700 $6.00;
Money clip painted, R0800 $6.00

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PINNIPED PICNIC POSTER

Even though the sea otter isn't a pinniped, his friends invited him to
their beach party anyway! This 20"x26” beautifully colored poster rs
perfect for any room in the house. Poster, JB101 $30.00

PINNIPED PICNIC NOTECARDS

,Set of six 5"x7" cards and envelopes. Notecards, JB201 $8.00

 

PRINTS

Handsome 1

POSTER

Once again we offer this all-
time favorite poster by local
photographer Richard Bucich.
18"x24". Poster, R81 00
$6.00

artist Willia

 

© R. Dakin & Company

STUFFED TOY
SEA OTTERS

New from Dakin. These huggable stuffed
toys have just arrived. Mother and pup
pair measures 16" long. Pup is 8-1/2”
long. Machine wash, tumble dry. Mother

& pup, DA300 $26.00; Pup, DA500
$10.00

 

print on fine quality paper by

8G1 00 $30.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

Beautiful signed and numbered print
of a watercolor by local 'artist'
Anthony Lo Schiavo. Matted size
16"x20". Watercolor print, blue
mat, L8101 $30.00. Watercolor
print, brown mat, L8201 $30.00.

4"x18" sepia-tone

m Ryan. Print,

CHRISTMAS STOCKING

To hang by the chimney with care
handcrafted by Shelley & Mom
in blue felt with brown sea otter.
Stocking, SM101 $18.00

POT HOLDER

This attractive 8" diameter pot
holder is useful as well as
decorative. Same design as
stocking. Blue cotton fabric with
brown sea otter. Pot Holder,
SM201 $7.00

 




‘é_ ‘4 w ‘ ’

A TRIO OF HAND ETCHED SEA OTTER GIFTS

  
  

MUGS
Set of four tempered glass mugs with same deep etched sea otter
design as on our suncatcher. Mugs, GS101 $40.00

SUNCATCHER

This delightful 4" square hand beveled glass suncatcher just
needs a sunny window to make it shine. Suncatcher, G8201
$14.00

BELL
Of 24% lead crystal, this graceful 7" bell is useful as 'well as
decorative and a special gift for the collector. Bell, G8301 $28.00

STAINED GLASS SUNCATCHER

Our colorful handcrafted glass suncatcher would be a welcome gift.
Suncatcher, M0101 $28.00

 

MOTHER & PUP MUGS

Virginia Miller's popular design graces these elegant white mugs. Set of four.
Mother & pup mugs, JW101 $28.00

 

COUROC TRAYS

The gift that is elegant as well as practical. Choose a Mini server (9-1/2"x12-
1/2") or the Large tray (12-1/2"x18"). Mini server, C0101 $32.00; Large
tray, C0201 $50.00

 

SEA VOTTER TIES

Always a favorite gift item, our ties by Robert Talbott with otters sculling across them are available in three
colors. Gift boxed. Tie, Navy, RT100 $28.00; Tie, Red, RT200 $28.00; Tie, Burgundy, RT300 $28.00

¥
% Designed exclusively for Friends of the Sea Otter, with our own logo, these exquisite

‘W pieces are available either as a pin (with tie-tack backing) or pendant, to Wear on your
own chain. Gift-boxed, 1" diameter. Pin, LD101 $30.00; Pendant, LD201 $30.00.

STERLING SILVER JEWELERY

 

SEA OTTER PINS & NECKLACES

Each of these lovely pieces is hand made and signed by the artist. Gift—boxed for
holiday giving. Necklace, RA502 $22.00; Pin, RA501 $18.00

 

 




 

 

 

STOCKING STUFFERS

LOGO PATCHES, 3” diameter, to sew onto vest, jacket, backpack, etc. Blue background with burgundy
trim. Patch, CP101 $2.95

CLOISONNE ITEMS, 1"

diameter, charming full-color , ,

sea otter design. 1 ,. ..

ma [filo/(1:56?” 00 RUBBER STAMPS, Mother & pup esign, M&P

Bookmark AF300 '$4 50 stamp, PS101 $5.95, or Single otter head, Single
’ ' otter, G201 $5.95

      

 

PROTECT THE LOGO swans 11, ,d. t h,

, — lame er w re
~ .. ~- SEA OTTER stickers, strip of ten. Stickers, CP301
7 FRIENDS OF THE SEA O'ITER. PO. BOX 221220. CARMEL. CA 93922 $ 1 . O 0

BUMPER STICKERS, "Protect the Sea
Otter” on vinyl, with an otter drawing and

across the bottom, our own name and POSTCARDS, set of six assorted. Postcards, P0600
address. Bumper sticker, CP201 $1.25 $1.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,’ ]
GIFT MEMBERSHIP
GIFT BAGS The gift of a membership in Friends of the
Sea Otter is also a lasting gift to the otters.
Heavy paper coated with plastic laminate, these Just send us the name & address of the
beautiful bags have cardboard inserts for recipient, and we will send agift card in your
maximum durability. 10"x13"x4". Gift bag, name. (See order form for types of
TE100 $3.00 memberships.)
TO
ORNAMENTS Name
We are pleased to offer these.“ charming Address
handcrafted sea otter ornaments in two designs - . -
with a jaunty red Santa hat or "Baby's First CW State ZIP
Christmas” with pink, blue or yellow bonnet. Gift
boxed. Santa Ornament, ST101 $10.00
Baby Ornament, Pink, ST200 $10.00 Amount$
Baby Ornament, Blue, ST300 $10.00 W
Baby Ornament, Yellow, - ST400 $10.00 '

 

 

 

 




 

 

The Otter’s Trove Telephone orders accepted
Friends of the Sea Otter Mon-Sat 10—3, Sun 12-3 Pacific time
P. O. Box 221220 (408) 625-3290
Carmel, CA 93922

Ship to (if different)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Name
Street Street
City State Zip ..____._.__ _ City __ State Zip
Telephone ( )
D VISA [:1 MasterCard Expiration Date Membership (tax deductible):
Credit Card # General ................................ $ 15.00
_ _ _ Sponsor ............................... 20.00
Donor ................................. 30.00
Minimum charge card order $20.00 » Patron ................................. 50.00
Life .................................... 100.00
Signature Student/Senior ....... 5.00
(Required for credit card orders) ‘ Foreign Minimum (US. Funds) .......... 20.00
Qty Item # Item Description Size (1st) Color (2nd) Price Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Merchandise total

 

Packing & Shipping

Merchandise ordered: CA residents add 6%

 

 

 

 

Up to $10.00 ....................... $2.00 . . .

$10.01 to $20.00 .................... 3.00 PaCK'w 8‘ Sh'pp'”g

$20.01 to $30.00 .................... 4.00 Subtotal

$30.01 to $40.00 .................... 5.00

$40.01 and over .................... 6.00 Membership

Visit our Sea Otter Center in The Crossroads, Tax deductible contribution if desired

Rio Rd. & Hwy. 1 at the mouth of Carmel

Valle . Hours: Monda -Saturda 10-3,
Sundgy 12—3, y y Total enclosed

 

 

 

 

Credit card charges accepted for mail order only

10/88

(Thank You

 




 

 

IRE CALIFORNIA SEA CHER

Mm the Our um of m. Ilm and mu: centurion. Ml cum w-u thoughl to be uimu In CMl'otnil, but a
My band wutvod on In. 8.9 8m coast Today ollou can be lound of! Soul .ul Oblspo, Moltlolly and
8am; Cw: coming, yot they nut munoot only mom two mlmm A 'lmnaonoo Spocios,‘ in.
Coulomb u. om: la pcoucuod Dy mic ma ioooui tau

8.. ollou 09.00 M ltvu in mu mot. count wltou wha- Ully ”up u in. In: for... otlon lnLIIOIOd
in u out: o! mp 010091 at uﬂﬂl u. c-Nod ’um' bocnuu from a distance moy took Mo .mou tog:
ﬂoating on an nu, One of mo in: mombou of In. anlmnt kingdom Io use a toot. an om: wlll one. I
rock on In that! n an anvil upon which to pink opon in mum-n pily Mum.” can olion be soon
ocultng along on their back: with A smut furry pup About!

Tho uh at this cud bandit: FRIENDS OF THE SEA OTTEH‘ . non profit Lullowllion urgnnlzallon
tour-006 In I9“ Io pcolocl in. on." and M non-thou mutm mum 1'.- dodurllbll memberships
and contribution: Io continua om wort u. dooply nppncmod

FRIENDS OF THE SEA OTTER. PO Box 221220. Cumin, Calliomll 91922
Visit our 50‘ Otto: Cantu in The Crouroadl Rio Road Ind Hwy t‘ In Cam-u at the momn 0| um Cannot

‘ I ’ l’,/'j " 1,3,6 ”’"V .\ '1 ‘Mf‘ Viv i . -
, ' i , j ‘ -.' ' vuoy 0pm Monday - snuwany to - 3. 5mm, 12 - J whom Hoe; 615 um
. ,, Ari-01A by Julio NW
. MAM! by m. Enrol-on Pun Plum! mu Cur/0mm wan

 

 

 

 

This year's new design features a sea otter curiously popping up through a wreath of evergreens and shells,
with an inside greeting that reads ”May the season surround you with joy." The back of each 4"x6" card
carries a message about the history and behavior of sea otters along with a note that ”The sale of this card

benefits Friends of the Sea Otter." Package of 20 cards and envelopes. Christmas cards, EP101
$8.50

POSTCARDS, same design, without greeting. 24 cards. Postcards, EP201 $4.50

GIFT WRAP, “available only in mother and pup design. Three 20”x28" sheets to a
package. Wrap,EP301 $2.50

MARINE MAMMAL CALENDAR

This beautiful 1989 calendar features a magnificent 10"x13" color
photograph each month such as our California sea otter mother and pup,
walruses sunning themselves on rocks, Hawaiian spinner dolphin, sea lions
and pups and eight more outstanding shots by well-known nature
photographers. Suitable for framing. Calendar, M0989 $8.95

 

 

 

FRIENDS OF THE SEA OTTER Non-Profit Or anization
P.O. BOX 221220 9

Bulk Rate Permit

CARMEL, CALIFORNIA 93922 uspiosDtage
Permit No. 14

Monterey, California

 

 

 

CHRISTENE STEVENS
ANIMAL WELFARE ENS?

90 Box 3650 ‘
WASHINGTON , DC 20007
’?

LJ

 




4 W . . '
:! l'r'l‘ ' ‘ ~ I
r» .‘u‘r',
1.61} ' ' ' ‘w’p/
1r ‘ . .

”/r”

p,

rl‘r

BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND Filmed in ruggedly beautiful Snake

River Canyon, Idaho, this much
applauded special on ABC-TV calls

attention to the plight of two of
nature’s most majestic birds of prey.
Joanne Woodward narrates the real-

life adventures of her 12-year-old

daughter Nell as she observes, with

wildlife expert Morley Nelson, the
e aw natural living habits of eagles and

hawks. Among the many stirring

scenes: a cliff-hanging visit to an

eagle aerie . . . the first flight of an

8-week-old eagle . . . a thrilling sky

battle for territorial rights between
A GE Monogram series Special two red-tailed hawks and a baby

\ . . . . . golden eagle . . . setting an eagle free
\ 1' med In assocuatlon Wlth the to fly again after its broken wing has

\~~--National Audubon Society been repaired.

Film written, produced and directed
Monday, May 22! 1972 by Robert Riger for Tomorrow

:00 pm. Eastern Entertainment, Inc. Title song
.00 p m entral composed and sung by John Denver.

. And all brought to you by General
In color on ABC-TV Electric.

Visit TRANSPO 72, the
US. International
transPO. Transportation Exposition.
" See what exciting things Iadre
ahead in all t es of transportation. t’s t e wor ’s
first total tranysgortation exposition . . . Dulles G E N E R A I. @ E [E C T R | 6
International Airport, Washington, DC. . . .
May 27-June 4.

 




IlLE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

_ f é Ottlclal United States Coast Guard photo

' ' Homework! below by R. Norman Matheny. stall photographer
' q. . ‘ ._ ‘ ‘ o l . ' y -: .

The United States, once a leading harvester of whales as its Nantucket and New
Bedford, Mass., sailors scoured the world’s oceans for the mammal, has become
a leader in helping to preserve the very existence of whale species. The effort to
help the whale is manifested in many ways, such as the demonstration (pictured

:5; above and below) in front of the White House during the July visit of Japanese
Prime Minister Tanaka.

REPRINTED BY PERMISSION FROM

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

@1973 THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING SOCIETY
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Throw leviathan

Second Section

Thursdav. August 23, 1973

to the do

Whales are being “harvested’ out of global oceans
at alarming speed — largely for pet food — while inter-
national efforts to slow the pace remain sluggish. Rus-
sian and Japanese whalers rake in the major share. or
these great mammals,.while the United States spear-
heads a drive for a moratorium to save some near-ex-

tinct species.

By Harry B. Ellis
Staff correspondent of
The Christian Science Monitor

. Washington
“Three Japanese flshing companies are

trying to dictate whaling policy to the world.”

Strong .words, spoken by an observer who,
time and again at meetings of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission‘aWC). has .
heard Japanese officials demand that their
ships be allowed to kill thousands of whales —
many of which are threatened species.

Only two nations — Japan and the Soviet
Union — now conduct pelagic (deep-sea)
whaling. Between them they will kill roughly
85 percent of the 37,500 whales which the IWC
says can be taken from the world’s seas in
1974.

Each will take about an equal number,
Soviet whalers concentrating on oil-produc-
ing whales, Japanese gunners hunting down
meat-producingwhales.

The remaining “harvest” will be culled by
whalers of Norway, Iceland, Canada, Peru,
Australia, South Africa, and some other
countries, operating in small killer ships
which intercept migrating whales near
coastal Waters and haul the catch to shore-
based factories.

The United States, home of the once-famed
Nantucket and New Bedford, Mass, whalers,
today does no ,whaling. In 1971 the US.
Government canceled the last American
whaling licensesnd banned the importation
of whale products.

(1.8. seeks ‘1 t-year ban

Indeed, the United States has taken the
lead in pressing -- sh far unsuccessfully - for
a 10'Year moratorium on the killing of all
WhaleS, to allow depleted stocks of the giant
mammals to begin to replenish themselves.

In 1972, when the United States first
proposed a moratorium to the London gpnual
meeting of the l4-nation IWC, only 4 nations
voted in favor, a were opposed, and 4
abstained. I

This year the United States delegation,
headed by Robert M. White, administrator
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), again moVed, a
moratorium. “The vote," declared Lee M.
Talbot, “was 8 in favor, 5 opposed, and 1
ab stention, ”

This shift toward conservation of whales,
says Dr. Talbot, senior, scientist of the
Council of Environmental Quality (CEQ),
“visibly shocked” the Japanese'and Soviet
delegations.

A three-fourths vote is needed to pass the
moratorium measure, so whales will con-
tinue to be killed- But slowly international
sentiment is Shifting away from exploitation
0f the World’s largest mammals, toward
saving them from extinction.

Limited steps of .progress have been
notChed, By international agreement, there is
a. total ban on killing blue, Humpback, gray,
r lght, and bowhead whales. Quotas on the fin
Whale, a threatenedspecies stillhunted, have
been redUCed largely at US. insistence and
in the face of japanese opposition.

Last Year the United States won IWC
agreement to‘ lower the 1973 quota on fins
taken in the North Pactfic to 650 animals, a 38
percent reduction, and'to 1,959 in the Antarc-
tic. down 34 percent. (These are the only two

oceans in which pelagic whaling legally can
be done.) '

This year at the London meeting the United
States urged, but failed to carry, a total ban
on killing fins. This species, said Dr. Talbot,
is not in “imminent danger of sudden
extinction,” nor is any other species of whale
still being hunted.

“But we cannot be sure,” he continued, “at
what point severe depletion becomes irre-
versible.’2 Experience has shown, according
to Dr. Talbot, that “only one species of whale
ever has come back” from deep depletion of
its ranks.

That is a particular “race” of gray whale,
which migrates along the West Coast of
Central and North America. “Humpback,
bowhead, and right whales have not re-
sponded,” declared the CEQ scientist, de-
spite their international protection.

The IWC voted a reduction in the 1974 fin
quota from 1,950 to 1,450 animals in the
Antarctic and from 650 to 550 in the North
Pacific. Beyond this, the 14-nation body
agreed, despite Japanese protest, to phase
out killing of fin whales totally by 1976.

Other ’74 quotas listed

Other 1974 quotas include 4,500 sei and
Bryde’s whales in the Antarctic, a reduction
of 500 from last year, and 3,000 of these two
species in the North Pacific, the same
number as the 1973 quota.

Five thousand minke whales, no reduction

from 1973, may be taken Worldwide. The-

Japanese delegation had pressed for a 12,000
“sustainable yield” — the number which
safely could be taken without depletion —— but
was voted down by the IWC, 13 to 1.

On sperm whales (“Moby Dick,” the white
whale of Herman Melville’s novel, was a
sperm), there was loss and gain. Formerly a
sperm in pelagic waters had; to be at least 38
feet long to be legally killed, and 35 feet in
coastal seas. Now the limit is 30 feet
everywhere.

In the-Southern Hemisphere, 8,000 male
sperm and 5,000 females maybe taken in
1974, the same number as last year, and in the
North Pacific 6,000 males A and 4,000 fe-
males. (Southern Hemishere includes Antarc-
tic sperm, plus those caught in coastal waters
by Australian and SouthAfrican whalers. )

Pointing out that whales live and travel in
separate stocks, the US. delegation proposed
that the Antarctic Ocean be divided into 9
divisions, “based on - 9 separate stocks of
sperm which had been observed. ”

Under the old rules, observed Dr. Talbot,
“one or more particular, stoCks codld be
overfished,” without exceeding the general
quota. When Russia and Japan opposed the
US. suggestion, the IWC compromised by
dividing the Antarctic into 3 areas for quota
purposes.

“The observer scheme is working,” ”re-
marked Dr. Talbot, referring to an IWC
decision last year to station observers on
whaling ships and at shore-based factories to
report infractions ofIWC decisions.

“In both oceans,” said Dr. Talbot, “there
are Japanese observers on Russian ships and
vice versa. U.S. observers. are at Japanese
shore . stations”. and the Australians and
South Africans exchange observers at each
other’s whale factories on shore.

The observers appear to-be objective. But
both Japan and the Soviet Union threatened

at London to exclude‘observers from their
pelagic fleets, if their quota demands were
not met. \

Members have 90 days in ‘whlch to register
“reservations,” after votes are taken. If
Tokyo and Moscow do not object to the June
annual meeting decisions by the end of
September, they are morally - though not

- legally -- bound to obey IWC decisions.

Intransigence of Japanese delegates did
more than “American aggressiveness” to
undermine 5. Japan’s position at the IWC
meeting in June, said Dr. Talbot. “Only
public opinion,” he stressed, “can be a real
sanction on Japan.’ ’

The Japanese, defending their stance,
claim that their whaling fleets provide 20 to
40 percent of all red meat “grown in
J apan.” (Whales, being mammals, have red
meat.)

American analysts dispute this claim,
asserting that per ape “1 percent of the total
protein intake" of e Japanese people comes
from whales.

J apan’s three major whaling firms, which
also operate fishing'fleets, gross $120 million
yearly from their whaling operations, ac-
cording to J apanese-figures, and offer work
‘to 50,000 families.

Now that substitute oils 'have been devel-
oped, the value of whale oil as a fine lubricant
diminishes. The Soviets still use whale oil and
grind up the meat to feed sables. raised for
fur.

But mankind’s major use of these magnifi-
cent mammals — possessed of a complex
language sung in haunting melodies far
beneath the waves - is to turn their meat into
dog and cat food.

To preserve whales, creatures whose ben-
evolence and intelligence mankind is just
beginning to discover, is worthy in itself. But
Dr. Talbot and other scientists cite the role,
so far little known, that whales undoubtedly
play in the “ocean ecosystem.”

Experts agree that the giant blue whale,
the largest living creature the world has
known and the top prize of earlier gener-
ations of whalers, is so depleted in Stock that
its survival remains in doubt.

Many species depleted

The Antarctic fin is down to “one-fifth or
less” of its original numbers. Populations of
sperm and sei have been cut perhaps in half.
as modern killer ships, guided by sonar and
armed with exploSive harpoon guns, track
down the stocks.

Generally speaking, declared Dr. Talbot,
our “marine resources are in worse shape
than‘other living resources, because they are
common to all" - not nationally owned, and
no international law of marine management
yet exists.

“Under the best of our alleged manage-
ment,” he went on}, “species after species
has gone down the drain.” He cited the
overfishing of anchovies, whose virtual dis
appearanCe off the Peruvian coast set off a
chain reaction, affecting millions of human
beings.

“We must,” stressed Dr. Talbot, “develop
away to manage world resources. Whales
offerperhaps the best pilot species, the thin
edge of the 'wedge', 10 dramatize the situation.

"‘pr' we cannot do it with whales." he
declared, “we cannot do it at all.”

 




