THE PULPIT AND VlVISECTION.

 

 

To THE EDITOR OF THE “ECHO.”

SIR,——Having of late gone very thoroughly into the details
of vivisection, I turn with sick loathing from the record of
its foul and hideous cruelties to ask, What means the silence
of the Church on this important question ? From many
pnlpits come passionate appeals for the needs of the heathen
in the far-off lands, but from how many is the doctrine of
mercy towards God’s helpless creatures preached ‘? Some
clergy there are—thank God for them! who have not feared
to denounce with manly courage this, “ our meanest crime ; ”
calling it, what it truly is, “ an abominable sin.” But these,
alas! are the exceptions. For the most part,vour ministers
of the Gospel maintain a remarkable silence in the matter,
and some are not ashamed to say either that they approve of
the hateful practice, or else that they leave it to medical“
men, who are better qualiﬁed to judge as to its necessity.-

Now, here is something clearly wrong, and, just as in the
opinion of every unprejudiced person it is degrading and
demoralising to our medical men to steep themselves in this
horrible cruelty, so is it equally degrading to the clergy to
treat such a matter with indifference. There must be
something curiously distasteful in the idea of religion which
they present to us when they ask us to believe that a God,
“whose mercies are over all His works,” could sanction the
cruel torture of His helpless creation. 'That He allows it, as
in this present age many other forms of wickedness are
allowed, is self-evident ; but that He wills it so, and approves
of it—a thousand times No! To believe such a lie were to
lose all faith and hope in our merciful Creator. Thinking of
the life of our Lord Jesus Christ on earth, we can imagine
Him an astronomer, a botanist, a musician, and, more than
all, a great physician; but can we for one instant picture
Him to ourselves engaged in the work of the vivisector?
Away with such a blasphemous thought ! Surely, surely the
life of the Christ on earth 'speaks to us before all things of
love and mercy and self-sacriﬁce, and if we believe in Him
then it is our plain duty to follow in His footsteps. How can

 




2

we dare to call ourselves Christians when we do not scruple
to consent to the torture of helpless creatures to pander to
our own base selﬁshness ‘2 Is it possible that Christ’s
ministers do not see in this question of animal torture by
vivisection a ten ible uprising of the powers of evil against
the creed they preach? Do they want us to become
so selfish in our religion that even the heathen, for
whose spiritual needs they appeal to us so earnestl3,
shall one day rise up ano put us to shame ‘2 Not content
with arrogating to ourselves all the hei'ieiits of the world
to come, are we to snatch at all th 1e ease and comfort
of this present one at the expense of the miserable suffe ering
of creat iresr more oeicncele is than ourselves ? Can anything
be more contrary to true Christian principle than such
revolting selﬁshness as this ‘? 211ml yet the 111ajority of. our
Spiritual guides speak no word! hame on a Church which
can so sleep when the cause of humanity is at stake!

Much thought and time are spended on church decoration,
intoning of services, a nd the like. Shall none be given to the
rights of God’ s dumb creation? l‘ilust we poor “shallow”

’ A.

women help to light the battle 111 Vflll eh most of our spiritual
advisers are either too ina'lifferent or too GOV wardiy to en ngage ?
Alas I the time may come when this solnsn no iffe rence shall
bear bitter fruit. If we calmly allow the hateful practice of
vivisection to go 011 its way unchecked, the day may dawn
when our scientiﬁc inei shall. crave to pass on from animal to
human 'viCtinis, when they shall ask for our sick paupers, our
idiot children, and our Cl.‘1"’11u£tl to be given up to their
experiments for “the good oi' their fellow creatures.” And
thus, awakened to the, horror of this terrible thing in our
midst, the Church shall hewail her lost opportunities, when
she might" have struck a mighty blow for God and the right.

Yours, &c.,
MARION LEE .

9, Savile Row,- \V., Nov ember 9nd.

(Reprintedfrom 31716 jt'ci’zo, Nov. 6th, 1893.)

 

Printed for FRANCLs POWLR CoiBE,IIen1w1t, Dolgelly, by
PEWTRESS & Co., ’28, Little Queen Street, London, WHO

 




