«5717.

#-

 

APRIL, 1935.

 

HUMANE
LIFE

QUARTERLY

 

 




 

CONTENTS.

H We do Pray for Mercy ” (Portia) . .

The Humane Slaughter Bill
Sanitation (1.)

Pity the Butcher

Dr. A. M. Ross

Notes

19

22

28

3O

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

APRIL, 1935.

 

“We do Pray for Mercy”

—(Portia).

ICERO remarked that no cruelty is useful. He and Seneca
C and Plutarch taught humane principles in the century
before and after the birth of Christ, as also did Pythagoras,
Socrates and Plato three or four centuries before. There were
epochs which produced such advanced teachers ; and, no doubt,
there were numerous followers who practised their precepts. It
looks as if a wave of true sentiment rises at periods and falls
away in between. One of those waves corresponded roughly
with the time of Christ.

After nearly twenty centuries how many there are who have
not yet learnt the lessons those writers wished to teach. There
is greater cruelty now than in those ancient times. The ugly facts
are always with us or near us in some form or other; but the
majority accept them as inevitable and as part of the daily routine
and too troublesome to protest against.

Why should we tolerate the unnecessary cruelties of vivi-
section and the mischievous failures of the inoculations? Public

 

 

 




 

18 HUMANE LIFE

protest should be strong enough to make our legislators look more
closely into the facts and the spurious reasons advanced by the

vivisectors.

Why do we allow the torture before and during the killing of
sheep, lambs and other harmless creatures we tear to pieces and
eat P There is plenty of better food.

Why do we remain apathetic when deer, hares, foxes and
otters are hunted to exhaustion and then worried to death in the
presence of cultured rich and well-dressed men and even women
and children in search of coarse and cruel excitement? They
ought to be the sympathetic protectors of those animals. There
are many harmless health-giving sports available—football, cricket,
racing, polo, cycling, golf, tennis, hockey, yachting, drag hunts
and others, all outdoor: and they do not cost the millions of

pounds a year that hunting alone does.

Why do we abandon our faithful old horses that have served
us well and sell them for a triﬂe to men who take them abroad
and work them to death P

Rabbits, hares and others caught in steel traps and left to a
lingering death ; pit ponies ; performing animals ; seals with their

skins torn from them while still alive all call to us in their

 

misery. The dog under vivisection, animals under the slaughter-
man’s knife or the sportman’s gun, in a last vain~ hope, crawl to
the feet of their murderers and beg for mercy.

Hardness of heart, apathy, neglect of their duties by
legislators and clergy and parents, mediaeval ideas of medical
men, the greed of merchants and trappers, gluttony, dictates of
fashion, pride of social standing—none of these should supersede
our honourable respect for the personal rights of others as entitled
to them as we are to our own.

 

 




 

HUMANE. LIFE 19

The Humane Slaughter Bill.

N June-last a Standing Committee of 50 members of the House
of Commons reported in favour of the Humane Slaughter of
Animals Bill ; but excluded its application to sheep and

lambs and some other animals.

Each year, therefore, in England 11 million sheep and many
pigs and other ”small” animals may still be slaughtered cruelly.
There will be no stunning in their case before the knife is used ;
though local authorities will sometimes adopt the humane killer
voluntarily.

For seven years Lt.-Col. Moore has advocated this reform.
It is now in force as regards oxen and other bovine animals, but
optional in the case of smaller ones.

Those who objected to the use of the humane killer being
made compulsory say that the present method by means of the
knife and without preliminary stunning is as humane as any other
can be. It is used by English, Jewish and Mahommedan butchers.
They say that instantaneous killing stOps the ﬂow of blood and
that the meat is, therefore, not so attractive in appearance and not
so saleable; also that the humane killer is dangerous to the
butchers operating it. Many country abattoirs have no electrical
apparatus and it would be too costly to instal one. To hamper
the farmers and meat producers will cause them such extra
expense that foreign meat will come into the country in larger
quantities than now.

 

 




 

 

20 HUMANE LIFE

These objections were met fully by Col. Moore, Sir Robert
Gower, and their sympathisers. It was shown by them that the
humane killer has been used in Scotland for ﬁve years and the
slaughtermen have found it quite satisfactory (and inexpensive)
even in the case of pigs. In 1933 alone, 500,000 sheep were
slaughtered by the humane killer in Scotland.

In reply to the statement that the instantaneous killing spoils
the meat, it was pointed out that the present method is more
injurious in that respect. The man-handling, the state of agitation
(caused by the smell of blood and the sight of other animals being
slaughtered), and the longer process of killing, have a very
deleterious effect. Cats in large numbers and other small animals
have been humanely killed by means of a suitable! small humane
killer.

Mr. Shakespeare specially stated the opinion of himself and
the promoters of the bill that “under present methods more
cruelty is inﬂicted on sheep than on any other animal.” Lt.-Col.
Sandeman Allen stated that he had received complaints that “ a
large number of the slaughterers of sheep were youths of 17, 18
and 19 years of age, and that it had an extremely bad moral effect
upon these young men to have to struggle with these animals and
then cut their throats.” [Laughter].

Sir Bernard Spilsbury headed a deputation representing 600
doctors asking that the humane killer should be applied to all
animals. V

The debate of three days was an example of the preValence
of crabbed and ﬁxed ideas and methods among many, of our
legislators who ought to be men of the clearest mental ability.
As the Daily Mail remarked on June 22nd :—“ Who would have
believed that any body of men would make themselves so

 

 

O

—..




 

HUMANE LIFE 21

 

ridiculous—~we even dare to say, so contemptible.” The Times,
News Chronicle, Manchester" Guardian, and others, also strongly
protested.

The Bill will not interfere with the present method in isolated
l places where the small farmer or the private individual kills his
own pig for family food. This will allow the perpetuation of
some of the worst kind of killing. Most people who have lived in
the outskirts of a small country village will have at some time
heard the prolonged screaming of a poor pig under the butcher's
knife. The pig is an animal of great vitality and, as remarked
during the debate, “is a most difficult animal to slaughter.”
Children at times are allowed to stand by and witness it all as a
treat; and butchers slaughtering a sheep have been known to
pause to carry on a trivial conversation, oblivious of the struggles
of the animal awaiting the merciful ﬁnal blow.

0300330030630

Queen Victoria 011 Vivisection :—

The Daily Mail for March 8th, in a review of Mr. A. G.
Gardiner’s ” Life of Sir William Harcourt,” has the following:
“ He had difficulty in dealing with Queen Victoria for all her
friendship, particularly when he was Home Secretary. Her
sympathy with animals was strong. In a letter she denounced
‘this horrible, brutalising, mmhrislianlz’ke vim’seclz’on.” That poor
dumb animals should be kept alive as described in this trial is
revolting and horrible. This must be stopped. Monkeys and dogs
——two of the most intelligent among these poor animals who
cannot complain—dogs, ‘man’s best friend,’ possessed of more

l ' than instinct, to be treated in this fearful way is awful.”

 

 




22 HUMANE LIFE

 

Sanitation.
I.

 

' I ‘I—IE many hospitals crowded with patients, the large sale of
pills and drugs, the deaths of young-people, all point to
something very wrong in our modes of living and attempts

to cure.

Health is our natural condition. In disease there is an
insanitary state, and the body is roused to try to expel impurities.
To aid the vital forces of elimination is better than to add
impurities such as drugs which give those forces more work to do.

As was noted in The Times in 1905 : “ When medical science
has said its last word, the best hope for the cure of disease lies
simply in the strengthening, by rational modes of living. the
resisting powers of the human organism.”

The best medicines are those which the body itself manufac-
tures in itself to meet emergencies. It is the body which acts, not
the material which is put into it. Its organs appropriate what is
useful and expel what is bad. It wants pure food, pure water,
fresh air, clean skin, rest and, as far as possible, a quiet mind.

 

These important principles have been largely ignored in
present day practice. The result is more disease, more failures
to cure, more meretricious experiments. It is easy for the

 

unprejudicecl to recognise this. Consider what has been done
and is being done in futile and unwarranted vivisection research.
Some of the most learned and eminent doctors oppose it. That

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 23‘

fact alone justiﬁes a patient’s distrust of tuberculin, insulin, and
other remedies based on experiments on animals. Such remedies
are in vogue for a time and are then abandoned ; as was the case
with the use of mercury, alcohol and blood letting, which were
insisted on by the medical men as most important, and were used
by them on a large scale, but are now abandoned.

To-day we are told that diphtheria, tyhoid fever, consumption,
etc., are being successfully treated by methods arrived at by
vivisection. Statistics do not prove it, and the results, so far, are
such that vivisection ought to be prohibited, apart from the fact
that it is excessively cruel.

That some diseases are disappearing gradually is, no doubt,
true; but this is not a result for which we have to thank the
vivisectors.

Animals cannot be efﬁcient guides in this matter. They are
so different from man in structure, mode of life, and in the
character of their secretions. The experiments on them have to
be made when they are under abnormal conditions of fear or
pain; or when, being under anaesthetics, their bodily functions
are not working normally together.

It should have been recognized, a priori, that such conditions
would naturally cause failure, and that the cruelty that has been
perpetrated on millions of highly sensitive creatures would be
unjustiﬁable.

The variation in animals is well shown in the case of some
that were experimented on to ﬁnd the doses of poison which are
required to kill ; and, consequently, the doses that may be taken
without causing death. Horses will take prussic acid with
impunity ; yet one grain kills an elephant. Rabbits take belladona,
and goats hemlock and tobacco. Some pigeons will take twelve

grains of morphia, but a single grain will kill a man. The pig

 

 




 

 

 

24 HUMANE LIFE

thrives on “pig beans,” which are poisonous to men. Some kinds
of monkeys take strychnine freely; others are killed by a small '
quantity. How can vivisection of those or other animals be a
reliable guide for man as regards poisons or any other dangers ?

Sir Frederick T reves experimented on dogs, but found the
difference so great between the canine and human bowels that he
had to cast away all the results of his experiments.

Some of the leading vivisectors seem to admit that their
results are unsatisfactory; for several have stated that the ﬁnal
experiment must be on man. That is an admission that all the
revolting cruelty that has been practised on a very large scale has
been useless—unless they mean that it was necessary in preparation
for the ﬁnal experiment.

An experiment on one man would probably give different
results from those obtained by the same experiment on some
other man ; just as an experiment on one pigeon or monkey gives
results that do not apply to another pigeon or monkey. There
will be the same effects of pain, fear and other unsatisfactory
conditions vitiating and poisoning the blood and rendering
vivisection of man as nugatory as has been the case with the other
animals. Already there have been experiments on criminals and
young children.

One professor has experimented on a large number of
children of two years old and upwards in charitable institutions,
to discover whether shingles and chicken-pox can both be
produced by the same poison.

At public debates advocates of vivisection have denied that
pain is inflicted beyond mere pin pricks ; though some of the best
known vivisectors have admitted that there is much suffering, and
one claimed the right to inﬂict any amount of protracted agony.

Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, the eminent scientist, wrote : H I

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 25

am quite disgusted at the frequency of the most horrible
experiments to determine the most trivial facts”; and Dr. Sir
B. W. Richardson’s opinion was that it is utterly impossible to
observe natural function under the shadow of pain, either in man
or animal.

To arrive at a reliable conclusion there is one method called
varying the conditions of the premises. If a deﬁnite result always
occurs when a preliminary factor is present and never occurs
when it is absent; then, no matter what other conditions
occasionally accompany, it is correct to say that that factor is the
cause of that result.

 

It is, therefore, evident that the remedy for all diseases is,
and always has been, sanitation, however it may be disguised.
There must be internal as well as external cleanliness if we are to
have good health.

( T 0 be continued).

oE—EDOCEO OEOQO

Sir Chas. Napier abandoned sport on witnessing the death of
a wounded bird he was holding. Mr. Hamilton Fyfe lately
decided never to hunt again when he saw a bare (which had been
hunted in circles for a long time) Hwith its bedraggled fur and
bulging eyes.”

# 31‘ at

As Dr. Wesley Mills says in his “ The Nature and Develop-
ment of Animal Intelligence,” it was formerly believed that
animals cannot reason; but only those persons who do not
themselves reason about the subject with the facts before them
can any longer occupy such a position.

 




 

 

 

26 HUMANE LIFE

Pity the Butcher.

THE demand for ﬂesh food involves suffering not only of the

slaughtered animals but of men, women and children.

Preceding the outbreak of the more serious illnesses due to

it there are, may be for years. irritability, headaches, broken sleep,
high blood pressure and other minor ills.

Consider the lives the butchers lead. Many a slaughterman
would gladly change his occupation; but, owing to the wide
spread unemployment, he is obliged to get his living by butchery
as the only alternative to getting no living at all.

Dr. B. W. Richardson wrote : “ The business of slaughtering
is most depressing to mind and body. I have seen the strongest
built man, in the prime of life, most painfully affected by it.
They all get rapidly weary of their work. I am not far wrong in
saying that no butcher can be found in our large towns who,
after eight or ten years’ daily work at a slaughter-house, is free
from the effects of bronchitis, rheumatism or heart disease.”

In “ Life’s Problems,” Rev. G. Campbell Morgan wrote : ii I
stood in one of the great slaughter-houses in Chicago and, as I
looked at things I do not propose to describe to you, I felt that no
man could work perpetually in this atmosphere without being
brutalized; and I was told afterwards that there are justices in
the neighbourhood who had declined to take the evidence of
some of these men when they knew their employment.”

In a list given by the Registrar General in his decennial

 

 

 

 

 

 




HUMANE LlFE 27

H Vital Statistics,” among several classes of occupied workers, ‘the
butchers are shown as the most' unhealthy class except the
publicans: and those at the top of the list, the healthiest class,

 

are those engaged in raising the food used by vegetarians.

The agriculturalist lives a pleasant, healthy life amid the
enjoyable sights and sounds of Nature in the open air. The
slaughterman, in the most depressing and unhealthy conditions of

 

town life, in slaughter-houses amid distressing scenes and groans
of dying animals. Often throughout the night he is in touch with
the carcasses and wading in ﬁlth and blood.

Apart from the rights of dumb driven cattle, in the words of
Dr. F. R. Lees: “ We object to slaughter and all the horrid
paraphernalia and adjuncts of the system, for the sake of man
himself.”

Rely on the nutritious and health-giving foods of the

 

vegetable kingdom—the fruit, pulse, corn, etc., from ﬁelds,
gardens and orchards ; not on the diseased and putrefyiug
products of slaughter ; and send the butchers and drovers to live
as agriculturalists in healthy conditions on the land instead of in
the slums.

OEDOCE° OEDOCEO

 

A few years ago a writer in a Sunday newspaper wrote:
“ If I were a parson I would never rest until I had made my voice
heard against the inhuman sport of pigeon shooting, as exposed
by the late Lord Randolph Churchill and held up to public
execration in the Daily Express, backed by evidence that makes
one shudder. Women go to witness the torture of the bird that
is the emblem of all that is beautiful and all that is helpless.”

 

.. “a"..w—um... -Mw‘w uwwwwuw..

 




 

 

 

28 HUMANE LIFE

Dr. A. M. Ross.

FEW English of the present day know of Colonel Dr. Alexander
Milton Ross, a Canadian who, at the time of the agitation in
the United States for the emancipation of the slaves, was
closely allied with the American Abolitionists. Among his friends
he counted William Cullen Bryant, Daniel Webster, Henry Clay,
Horace Greeley, Lucretia Mott, William Lloyd Garrison, John
Brown, Charles Sumner, Abraham Lincoln, Ralph Waldo Emerson,
Garibaldi, Whittier and Longfellow. It was only through the
zeal and determination of these and a few others that the great
reform was secured as one result of the long war between the
Northern and Southern States.

Dr. Ross was one of the most devoted. He risked his life
several times in helping fugitive slaves and, later, in his protest
against other abuses. It was his mother, for whom he had a
great reverence, who implanted in him the hatred of all tyranny,
which was the most prominent feature of his activities. He was
sound in principle, brave and steadfast.

The Northern reformers had to deal with the slave owners of
the South and the haughty and dictatorial Southern members of
the House of Representatives. Besides being enslaved, the slaves
were treated by their masters as chattels, branded with hot irons,
scourged, mutilated and sold by auction. When some escaped
and hid in swamps and caves they were tracked with bloodhounds.
The “Legree” of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” was no misrepresentation.
Visitors to Chicago should see the Libby prison which is full.
of mementos of that time.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE ’ 29

Dr. Ross was so well known as successful in enabling slaves
to escape that the slave owners were eager to catch him. One
poor negro held a paper offering a reward of 1,200 dollars for his
capture ; but, though he would have gained favour with his master
in addition to wealth for himself, he spurned the idea.

On one of his visits to the Southern States, Dr. Ross was
arrested at his hotel and taken to a group of excited slave owners.
who charged him with enticing away one of their Diggers. He
was handcuffed and subjected to coarse abuse; and a hostile
crowd collected. On his making a Masonic sign of distress, some
one in the crowd called out that he ought to be allowed to speak
in his defence. Permission was grudgingly given, This, and a
mock trial which followed, caused delay enough for the escaped
slave (who had heard of the trouble) to come running back in
time. The rope was already round Dr. Ross’ neck when the slave
arrived and threw himself at his master’s feet, begging forgiveness
for having taken leave of absence to see his poor brother who was
ill and he wanted to see him “ powerful bad.” This explanation
saved Dr. Ross, who then obtained a promise that the slave
should not be punished.

Garibaldi was god-father to a son of Dr. Ross. In his old
age he fell into poverty ; but, in 1874, Dr. Ross wrote to the New
York T m’bmze, the result being that the Italian government provided
a sufﬁcient annuity for their neglected hero.

Dr. Ross was opposed to all unnatural ways of living and
treatment in illness. He was a food reformer and an opponent of
vivisection, vaccination and the liquor trade.

As emancipators, the Quakers in those days were faithful to
the principles of freedom and dictates of humanity. One wishes
that they were to-day as unanimous in favour of other reforms
which advocate not only freedom of the individual. Religious

 

 




 

 

3O ' HUMANE LIFE

denominations are too'lax in this matter. Dr. Ross recorded that
at one time nearly all the medical profession, the clergy and the
press in Canada were circulating slanders against him.

Is it not time that, in the development of our civilization,
more active steps should be taken and more sympathy shown
by the clergy and legislators for our furred and feathered
fellow creatures? The present tyranny and tortures of the
lower creation are the same as those we try to avoid for
ourselves.

oEZ—Doao 02—30620

Notes.

MONG the many efforts to promote justice to the weak
to—day, several Humanitarian Societies devote themselves
wholly to the interests of animals, eg. the Society for the

Prohibition of Cruel Sports, the Anti-Vivisection Societies, the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the
Animals Welfare Society. The Vegetarian Societies have the
same object largely in View, but occupy themselves also with
investigations regarding kinds of food.

Many individuals work zealously and efficiently. Lately, Mr.
F. Wyatt (Secretary of the London Vegetarian Society) has
written to leading newspapers and protested strongly against
public ox roasting as a debasing spectacle and against the action
of the British Broadcasting Company in proclaiming the need for
feeding children on meat. Both of his protests have been timely
and made people think.

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 31

Mr. H. B. Amos (Editor of Cruel Sports) has been attending
meets of the bounds so as to know and report exactly what occurs
and has carried on useful discussions in the press.

The Vegetarian Society has a vigorous secretary in Mr. I.
Hough, whose efforts re “Substitutes” are described below. It is
refreshing to attend a committee meeting of that society at
Manchester and to note the careful attention given to matters that
arise and the keen interest that all the members show.

There are several local societies also alert, ag. those of
Carlisle, Hove and Entield. Vegetarian guest houses, Summer
schools, health food stores, help considerably; though mostly
indirectly. One of the most efficient aids, showing excellent
results, is the Wycliffe college for boys at Stonehouse; and
another is the Vegetarian Cycling Club.

% % u

In October last a meat eaters’ banquet was given in Brighton
by the Food and Wine Society. As an offset or challenge to this,
Mr. H. G. Massingham on 26th November at the Hove Town
Hall gave a meatless banquet. Seats were arranged for one
hundred, but more than two hundred having applied. an overﬂow
dinner was given next night at Benares House.

Hearty approval was expressed by many of the meat eaters,
among them some of the more prominent citizens of Brighton.
Two doctors supported the vegetarian principle on medical grounds.

u % %

Some readers have expressed disapproval of the picture on
the cover of the January number of this magazine. They say that
it is one of performing animals, It represents, however, our old

 




 

 

 

32 HUMANE LIFE

friend “ Puss in boots” dancing for joy at the arrival of the new
magazine which advocates better treatment of cats, dogs and all
other animals. There is nothing in his happy face to suggest the
idea of the miserable frightened performing animals of the show-
man with his whip and hot'irons.

% % %

As it is found that selfishness and their own comfort dominate
the actions of so many, in order to obtain the results we wish for
it will be well to appeal more to their self-interest.

At present the skins of the animals eaten, the furs of seals,
etc., are used as clothing ; and the profits of the slaughtermen and
hunters are thereby increased.

Artiﬁcial leather is, increasingly, used for boots, shoes,
upholstery, and belting for machinery ; fabric furs are in demand,
and other substitutes for animal products ; but a greater advance is
no doubt possible in this direction.

Mr. J. Hough lately made some careful inquiries and found
that ﬁbre, felt, celluloid and rubber are being more and more
brought into play and that experiments are going on. Still there
are £20,000,000 worth of skins and leather imported yearly into
Britain. This quantity, plus the skins supplied from British
slaughter-houses, indicates the dreadful amount of slaughter
going on.

It is hoped to give fuller details in the July or October issue
of this magazine.

o‘EDOCEo 030C530

When young people begin hunting they are “ blooded,” that
is, the blood of the killed animal is smeared over their faces.

 

 

 




 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended :——~

“ Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“The Herald of the New Worlc ,”
“The Animals’ Friend,”

“The Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy 7d'ib p t
i y 05

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-

Apply to THE EDITOR,
\NYNHURST, 94, PENN HILL AVENUE,

PARKSTON E, DORSET.

 

 

 

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 

 




 

 

 




 




