x A.” .
Enclosure “36...; .. ..to claspetch Voti‘tﬂlof 33!??53

fr *7? {33 iljx—iijjisi‘27ﬁ233dB—zf Eﬁgﬁﬁd‘."”‘ “W ’

' - T o T E A c H E R s,

 

 

There has been a great advance in the teaching of Humane Education since the Ministry of Education
suggested that this subject should be included in the syllabus, and teachers are realising more and more
the inﬂuence such teaching can have in the formation of character. The National Council for Animals’
Welfare exists for the purpose of meeting the needs of teachers and others for special literature, leaﬂets,
posters, etc., and of organising Animals’ Welfare Weeks during which special stress can be laid on the
various aspects of the subject.

We enclose herewith copies of leaﬂets which would be useful for the children at each stage ——
Infants, Juniors, Seniors; We have also other suitable leaﬂets. It is impossible for us. at the present time
to send vast quantities of literature free of cost, but there is a scheme, details of which are given below
(see N0, 2) which meets this difﬁculty.

The celebration of Animals’ Welfare Week need not interfere with the curriculum of the school in
any way, for the subject matter can be easily introduced into the work. We venture to put forward for
your consideration a few ideas gleaned from the experience of teachers in many schools in many districts.

If you should require leaﬂets, posters, or emblems, please let us know numbers wanted and the age

of children.

Suggestions for the Celebration of

ANIMALS' WELFARE WEEK

 

 

Special assembly of the. Whole school, special prayers, songs, recitations, etc., address from the Head.
Wearing of badges (head of dog, cat or horse). These can be supplied by the N.C.A.W. at 1d.
each, which would pay for literature, etc.

Stories of animal and bird life, etc., slogans, and proverbs on kindness introduced in reading,
writing, composition and nature study lessons.

A talk given by an outside speaker which the N.C.A.W. would be glad to arrange.

Where practicable, slides or ﬁlms on Wild life obtainable from several Film Libraries and the

N.C.A.W.

 

Suggestions for GENERAL HUMANE
TEACHING.

 

CRUELTIES IN THE HOME. ALTERNATIVES.

The running wire. Walks every day. Kennels on bricks,
entrance turned away from wind.

A warm bed provided, arrangements made with neigh-
bours or cats’ home.

Friendship with wild birds. Feeding of birds in frost

Birds in cages, including foreign birds. Bird nesting and and snowy weather. Observation of habits at a

catapults. distance.
Made to stroke fur right way and shown correct handling.
Teasing 0f kittens and puppies by younger children. Teaching of proper feeding, otherwise best not to have
them. Possibly better not to have wild creatures in
General non-feeding of cats, dogs, rabbits, birds and captivity at all—or rabbits, tortoises, fancy mice,
absence of clean water for all animals including rabbits. white rats, etc.
If kept at all should only be in large tanks or aquariums

Gold ﬁsh, Newts, etc., in small bowls. under proper conditions,

Dogs on Chains. Cold and draughty kennels.

Cats left out at night and in empty houses and during
holidays.

 




,. H‘-
.‘y

l . ‘ i
I ‘

i , ‘ \ \‘V’SRUELTIES IN ,THE WORLD.
Q: ‘ Q. .

"'9‘." i . - o . ' ‘ . '
Whlle It is not advrsable to tell children too much about the horrors perpetrated on anlmals, birds,
etc., it is possrble to make them aware that much suffering is caused in the world and to indicate the cause
and possrble cure. Some of the most flagrant are:—

(a) Suffering through using animals for food, the transport, marketing, killing. Most of this could
be stopped by use of more thought in handling and of humane killer everywhere for all animals.

(b) Cruelty, mental and physical, in capture, caging, training and transport of animals for zoos,
menageries and circuses. False ideas are given to children when they see animals in these un—
natural conditlons, the only really educational method is the ﬁlm of true animal ,wild life.

(c) Cruelties in sport. Can we check children who want to chase cows, cats, etc., and use cater—
pults, when we sow seeds ofcruelty by allowing them to attend hunt meetings, and encouraging
them to kill moles, ﬂies, rats, etc.

(d) Cruelties for trapping for food and fur. Humane methods could be used or substitutes evolved.

(e) Senseless destruction through ignorance of feeding habits of birds, small mammals, etc., and
resultant damage to crops through pests.

(f) Docking of horses’ and dogs’ tails which, cause untold suffering in hot weather through Hives.

 

All through the year the attention can be called to the wonders of Nature, the keeping of a Nature.
diary would encourage observation, and give the children a realisation of the unity of Life. and of the
marvel of rhythm and balance which underlies all manifestation, the upsetting of which causes man so much
trouble and useless suffering.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIENDS.

A Society for children from 7 to 16, is a Branch of the National Council for Animals’ Welfare.
Members join in Groups or individually.

 

For further details, information, literature, speakers, etc.. please write to the

i
l
SECRETARY, NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANlMALS' WELFARE,
32, Queens Avenue, London, N.l0

 

 

 

PRAYERS FOR ANIMALS.

MERCIF UL FATHER, Who hast given life to all things, and lovest all that Thou hast made, pour

' into the hearts of men the spirit of Thy own loving kindness, that they may show mercy to all helpless

creatures and glorify Thee by that gentleness which is in accordance with Thy holy will. Through Jesus
‘Ch‘rist‘our Lor . '

T/ae Prayer 641 been adopted for are by t/ae mrz'ozzr Dioceses in the U aim of S. Africa.

OR those also, 0 Lord, the humble beasts, who with us bear the burden and heat of the day, and offer

A their guileless lives for the well—being of their countries, we supplicate Thy great tenderness of heart, for
ThOu hast promised to save both man and beast, and great is Thy loving kindness, 0 Master Sav1our 0f
the‘World. Lord have merCy. . ,
4 - » t r ' (From ‘4 Litm‘y wed dwmg War-tzme.)

 

A. V. Huckle & Son, Ltd., Printers, 60 Ramsden Road, Balham, London, S.W.12.

 




