 

v

BY

MRS. MONA CAIRD.

PUBLISHED BY
THE LONDON ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

 

(The Oldest Total Abolition Society in the World),

82, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

SIDNEY G. TRIST, Secretary.

“HEARTILY SYMPATHISING WITH YOUR EFFORTS."

Extract fv'om Ct letteoﬂ fwom H.M. the Queen to the Secretary of this Society,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

THE SANCTUARY OF MERCY

BY MRS. MONA CAIRD.

* ,f IN studying the relation of the human to the animal races, I have
been greatly struck by the different spirit displayed by writers

as regards this question ; a question profound in its importance
both to man and beast, but which, nevertheless, has scarcely yet
risen into the realm of human speculation and morality. One
seldom meets with any deﬁnite and fully thought-out statement on
the matter: the disposition of the writer is displayed in chance

utterances, passing allusions, which indicate the nature of the feeling
rather than formulate an opinion.

As yet, little or no attempt has been made to civilize our
relationship with the teeming life around us, a life inﬁnitely more
multitudinous than our own, ﬁlling the world with more pangs
and joys and fears and sensations, in one day, than its human
# inhabitants can produce in a year. Although, as yet, the whole

, dramatic, pathetic existence of these multitudes is practically
unknown to us, I have found in almost all the poets—and

.1 invariably in the very great ones—a tender sympathy and sense
,‘; of kinship with these creatures of the earth and air. Poets and

I

 

 

seers have shown that their hearts are large enough to include in
their sympathy not only the dog and horse—so full of appeal in
their generous fidelity to man—but the poor, hunted, despised
creatures, whose very existence is an affront to our noble selves,
whose poor little lives may be torn and tortured out of them by any
savagely-ingenious device that our High Superiority may discover
for the inﬂiction of a dreadful death upon the helpless “little
brothers” whom St. Francis loved so tenderly. Our poets have
felt, in ﬂashes, by the very compulsion of the poet’s heart, the
.. great truth of universal kinship, the unity of all life and its profound
mystery 3 the healing that lies in sympathy—4n a large, unsectarian
.. < , sympathy with throbbing nerves and aching hearts, be they of man
15"; or beast ; a love that stops at no poor barriers of genus and species,

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

  

  
    




 

2

but goes out broadly and beneﬁcently, as some kind wind of spring
that thaws the aching earth and releases the waters, and calls forth
ﬂowers and green things and all the joy of the world, In this we
must see the image of our hope.

We are striving, in this wonderful age, to unite mankind in
bonds of brotherhood, to stimulate the sympathies and calm the
strife and suffering of the human lot. In this revolt against
injustice and cruelty, are the unfortunate animals to be eternally
left out in the cold? Are we to proclaim peace and goodwill to all
men, and yet remain the savage tyrants and tormentors of the
beings who stand most in need of mercy, from their utter
helplessnesS? The inconsequence, the treachery, the meanness
of such exclusion must strike every generous heart and sound
intellect merely when it is stated ! Peace and goodwill to all that
live—surely that must be the watchword of the future.

Be my benediction said,

With my hand upon thy head,

Gentle fellow-creature !
When shall we be able, as a race, to repeat in one great chorus
those tender words of Mrs. Browning P

In our present efforts towards a nobler, juster, kinder
relationship of man to man we shall learn many things, discover
many errors and many moral truths little suspected. And of these
I think the greatest and the least suspected, in its full meaning and
amplitude, is that of our kinship and our duty to the creatures
who have to ﬁnd in us their Providence.

By whatever means and methods we may strive towards a
better social state, let it never be forgotten that, in the last resort,
salvation lies in the heart of man, or nowhere : that all things
which tend to harden that human heart, to bind it in a frosty
spell of pitiless self-seeking——no matter how brilliant and tempting
may be the anticipated wages of sin—must, perforce, help to
destroy the impulses and sympathies that make for peace and
social happiness. That which teaches us to torment the weak
for any purpose whatsoever, and to inﬂict not swzft death but slow
torture on any living thing, will assuredly help to annul the
efforts, however earnest and however wise, that may be made to
establish peace and justice among the suffering nations. Strange
that a thing so obvious should need insisting upon! It is sheer
madness to ignore the very source and life-spring of human weal
or woe—the heart and brain of man. Yet of this madness the
present generation is guilty, since it allows learned professors on
the plea of doing good to our bodies, to ruin our souls; since it

 

 




 

 

 

3

still permits a law to remain on the Statute Book which gives a
licence to physiologists to take a living, trembling creature—~dog,
cat, rabbit, frog—~to tie it down on a board or trough, and there
to cut it open and dissect its nerves and organsl: pierce its brain
with red-hot wireg, ﬁll its veins with gelatine, prussian blue, or
any other substance that may seem good to its tormentor3: to
cause inﬂammation Of bones by inserting a red-hot needle as
deeply as possibleél, bake it alive5, pierce its liver with a needle“,
inﬂame its eyes by piercing and then drawing a thread through the
cornea7: inoculate the same sensitive organs with virus till they
rot away in a putrefying sore8 : inoculate horrible diseases into the
blood9: create agonizing inﬂammations of tissue“): inﬂict the
lengthened horrible suffering Of rabies11 : make learned researches
in the “paths of sensation ”19 and the nature of pain13~experiments
that go on often for hours, and often require the victim to be
kept alive in its agony for days and even months.”

And all this is done ostensibly in the interests of mankind !
All this is done to make human existence pleasanter and more
comfortable! Verily, I think that vivisectors are doing their level
best to make human life absolutely intolerable! Can any man be
really willing that agony so shocking shall be undergone on the
off-chance of his gaining something from it? If he cannot endure
that thought for himself; if his very manhood revolts, as it surely
must revolt, at the idea of this wholesale martyrdom for his sake,
how can he bear to doom his fellow-men to the same intolerable
burden ?

Good heavens! Of what unholy amalgam of ﬂint and steel
do the vivisectors suppose human hearts to be made, that they dare

 

 

 

1 Prof. C. S. Roy’s Experiments, as reported in the Proceedings of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society, May 23rd, 1881, &c., &C.

2 Prof. David Ferrier, “The Functions Of the Brain.”

3 Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory, pp. 97, 104, 113.

4 Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory, p. 159.

5 Drs. Lauder—Brunton and Theodore Cash, October number of “THE
PRACTITIONER,” I884. The animals baked were dogs.

5 Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory, p. 160.

7 Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory, pp. 160-1-2.

8 Dr. E. Klein, F.R.S., “Further Report on the Etiology Of Diphtheria ”
(Appendix B). I quote this not from original work (which cannot be obtained
at British Museum), but from various writers who have succeeded in
obtaining it.

9 BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, 1891, &c., &c.

10 BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, 1882, Feb. 11th, p. 645.

11 Dr. Borel, in the PALL MALL GAZETTE, August, 1889, &c., &c.

12 ((1) Prof. David Ferrier, “Functions of the Brain.”

(1)) JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY, vol. xiii. p. 773, December, 1892, &C.

13 Mantegazza, “ Fisiologia del Dolore” (Physiology of Pain).

14 (a) Baron Weber, “ Torture Chamber of Science.”

(6) Royal Commission, QQ 416, 5362, &c., &c.

 




l
33
r!
3
I!
,1
3
3
,‘l
l
i
l
.;

_.J'-v :< 1'” v,,.-.. _. ,

 

 

-3. 1s: .1- on»; 3.3: ".‘Qf‘r‘E'S‘LiL’IL-ﬁ‘h...’ - '1 . -

to tell us they commit such deeds on our behalf, tempting our
baseness with promises of gain? What an insult is that bait!
To what low, pitiful, unmanly qualities in us does the learned
physiologist make his only too successful appeal! Every day,
with our consent, under our laws, all over the Christian and
civilized world, this anguish of dumb creatures is being suffered.
And let it not be forgotten that vivisection is practised at an
ever-increasing rate, as even the ofﬁcial returns show, and that it
grows more ruthless and more terrible every year, as by the very
law of our nature it is bound to do, unless some reaction sets in,
unless some great national outcry is made against the practice of
State-licensed cruelty. For the honour of human nature, let us
abolish it in justice to these helpless ones : do not let us wait until
we do it in sheer terror for ourselves I The practice is gradually
extending to human subjects who are poor and helpless enough
to be safely used in that capacity.* Are we to sit still and
acquiesce till human vivisection becomes an open and
“ respectable ” industry ?

Surely the people of England, who possess so powerful a voting
inﬂuence, will not be so blind as to let it go on unopposed.

Their own interests, if nothing else, ought to rouse them to
resistance. They have but to question candidates for elections, and
to refuse to vote for those who will not oppose the practice, and the
law which charters it would have to be repealed. It is because
these savageries are committed by men who are respected and
admired that they are so terribly dangerous to our national
morality, and to our progress, in all its aspects. The crimes of
acknowledged criminals are ominous enough, but they need
scarcely be considered in comparison with the chartered and
applauded cruelties of men (probably honestly believing themselves
to be not only justiﬁed but active in well-doing) who are looked up
to as distinguished members of an honourable profession, and who
are creating a moral standard—or rather destroying one—with
every breath they draw. Can this be called exaggeration if we
remember that such men as these spend their lives in subjecting
gentle unoffending creatures to the tortures of the damned? If
only men and women could realize but for one moment those tortures,
I am convinced that the practice of vivisection would be swept
away in a great burst of national fury before another year had
passed! But, alas! nothing can reveal that hell on earth to the
multitudes who are absorbed, perforce, in their business and in

 

 

* There'is plenty of evidence on this point. Enquiries would be answered
by the Secretary of the Society which publishes this pamphlet.




5

their own many griefs. But let it be remembered that the animals
in their anguish have no redress, no possibility of appeal, of
combination, no consolation of faith, hope, or religion; none of
the exaltation of voluntary sacriﬁce. There is nothing for them
but the dark unimaginable horror of dumb, hopeless, ghastly
suffering. ‘

Dr. Hoggan tells us that after going through three campaigns
where he saw many a sad sight, he saw none sadder than when
the dogs were brought up from the cellars to be Vivisected, the
poor creatures appearing terrified, as if they knew that some cruel
fate awaited them. They would try to appeal for mercy by
begging, or licking the hands of their pitiless torturers ; but always
in vain.1 Once it is recorded that the students were touched by
the appeals of a poor little fox terrier, and tried to persuade the
professor to spare it; but the learned gentleman said that he would
teach them to give way to no such maudlin sensibility, and he
vivisected the creature cruelly then and there, and also kept him to
serve for further experiment on the following day.2

People often talk judicially and “ moderately ” about
vivisection, as if it were a question merely of human welfare and
of medical science. Let me entreat those who take that view to
try to Vealtzc the fate of a creature, seized and bound, and then
tortured slowly, cleverly, delicately, exquisitely, sometimes with
the muscles of the larynx cut,3 so that the operator shall not be
disturbed by its groans and cries; sometimes under the spell of
the “hellish drug” curare (so called by Tennyson), which holds
every muscle still and stiff—though the victim lies unbound in his
trough—so that movement or utterance is impossible, while at the
same time the whole elaborate network of sensory nerves is left
free-nay, according to some experts, with heightened sensitive-
ness—to perform their terrible work of conveying sensation
through the delicate, branching ﬁbres to all parts of the spellbound
body ; a network that seems to form a horrible garment of anguish
in which the creatures lie still and stark in an unimaginable
martyrdom.4

1 Letter to the Momtng~Post, Feb. 2nd, 1875.

2 Told to a friend of Miss Cobbe by a student who was present at the
experiment—“The Modern Rack,” by Frances Power Cobbe.

3 Prof. Schiff, on “The Physiology of the Digestion.” Quoted by Baron
von Weber, in “The Torture Chamber of Science.”

4= The celebrated vivisector, Claude Bernard, thus describes the effects of
curare: “We shall see this death which seems to us to arrive so calmly and
so free from pain is, on the contrary, accompanied by the most atI/octozcs sofa/tags
that the mind of man can conceive. . . . In this motionless body, behind that
glazing eye, and with all the appearances of death, sensibility and intelligence

persist in their entirety.”—~REVUE DES DEUX lVlo-NDEs, Ch. ii., p. 173, and
Ch. iv., p. 182, of bound numbers of the periodical.

 

 

 




 

6

If after i/eally understanding and conceiving all this, men and
women could continue to sanction vivisection, then I think we
should be driven to the awful conclusion that the average human
being is so black and savage at heart that the sooner he is swept
into nothingness the better: a creature beyond praying for—and
not worth “the effort of prayer! But the fact is—it must be so—
that people do not realize the martyrdom that they decree or
acquiesce in, physiologists having very cleverly and consistently
managed to slur over the awful facts with graceful euphemisms——-to
put it mildly—so that vivisection is actually becoming to many
another name for Science herself!

I ﬁrmly believe that some day it will be recognized by all that
vivisection is, in fact, the arch-enemy of Science, whose teaching
has ever been that Nature is one in essence, and that her laws are
harmonious and not contradictory ; but if her laws are not contra-
dictory, how can it possibly be that what is morally wrong should
be scientiﬁcally right, that what is cruel and unjust should
eventually lead us to peace and health P We have never yet found
this to be the order of Nature in any other case. Why should
there be a solitary exception in this? Are there special natural
laws in favour of the physiologist, that he alone should be held
justiﬁed in pursuing legitimate ends by illegitimate means 9 Suppose
Art were also to set up a claim to follow her vocation by torture :
suppose Religion reasserted her ancient privilege of' enforcing her
teaching by ﬁre and sword P If one profession or calling may do
evil that good may come, why may not all follow this Jesuits’
creed P Science herself accuses the vivisector of blasphemy against
his own god!

If he be right—~if we must act as ﬁends in order to gain
angelic ends—then life is intolerable and preposterous; moral
beauty is a sham, and goodness a foolish dream. There is no
alternative. Yet those who swear allegiance to the new priesthood
profess an unshaken belief in moral law and progress. They
profess this belief, while their actions proclaim their conviction
that by the torture of the weak the strong will be beneﬁted and
blessed; in other words, that there is no such thing as moral law
in the universe.

Would that the upholders of the gospel of salvation by
torture would study the works of their masters, and would place
side by side, for instance, Dr. Klein’s frank and repeated
assertion that he cared nothing for the anguish of the animals 1,

 

 

*1 See his evidence given before the Royal Commission.

 

 

 

 




 

*_+ _

 

7

or Richet’s explanation of the vivisector’s motives 1, with
Wordsworth’s well-known lines—

Never to blend our pleasure or our pride
With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels;
or Pope’s—
VVider and more wide, th’ o’erﬂowings of the mind,
Take ev’ry creature in, of every kind ;
or his reproach to man——

Of half that live the butcher and the tomb,
Who, foe to Nature, hears the general groan,
Murders their species and betrays his own ;
or Cowper’s—

I would not number on my list of friends

(Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility) the man

Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm;

or Shakespeare’s—-
How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?

and the reproof to the queen in Cynzbeliue, who wished to try the
effect of drugs upon the lower animals-—

Your highness shall from this practice but make hard your heart.—~Cy7nbeline,

Act I., so. vi.
Can any sane, any generous mind doubt which is the truer and
the better and the more trustworthy spirit; which will lead us
straighter and further along the path of progress and peace;
that of the vivisector or that-of the poet?

It is this prophetic, uniVersal element, this moral clairvoyance,
that gives that large, tender, stirring quality to the work of the
true poet. We are bound to believe that he gives us good
counsel when he bids us treat the poor beasts with tenderness,
and extend to them the sanctuary of human kindness and kinship.
Let the physiologist say What he will, both reason and conscience
tell us that there is no alternative to this conviction, except that
this accursed universe is but the Devil’s playground, wherein we
are at once his playfellows and his victims; his victims in that
we are doomed to suffer in so cruel a fashion the pangs of
hunger, cold, anxiety, toil, parting, disease, madness: his play-
fellows in that we imitate and join him in his ghastly business,
by inﬂicting in our turn, and for our own ends, pain unspeakable

 

 

1 “ . . this scientiﬁc curiosity, which alone animates him, is explained

by the high idea he has formed of Science. This is why we jmss our days in fetid
laboratories, surrounded by groaning creatures, in the midst of blood and suﬁering,
bent over palpitating entra.its.”—~Prof. Richet, in REVUE DES DEUX MoNnns, Feb.
15th, 1883.

 




 

8

on those helpless ones, obviously our next of kin, whose weakness
tempts the coward in us and inspires the ﬁend, while it leaves
us seemingly unpunished, and free to wield our power for savage
uses worthy of our leader!

It seems strange, indeed, that the human mind can be com-
pletely seduced from a truth which nevertheless it cannot fail to
recognize when it is clearly placed before it. Yet from such a
truth the physiologists and their party have managed to seduce
us. Idefy any one with a logical conscience to defend the
arguments of the advocates of vivisection; I defy him to show
that the presence of fur or feathers, or an extra leg or two, or—-—
on the other hand—the absence of any conceivable attribute in a
sentient being, constitutes a good reason for subjecting its innocent
possessor to treatment such as no civilized nation would inﬂict upon
the worst of criminals. I defy any one with a heart—nay, any one
who admits the existence of a moral law at all, to deny that we shall
lose and not gain in the long run, by this attempt to thrust the
penalty of our own racial sin upon the shoulders of our
dependents. I challenge such a person to honestly deny that the
wrong and the cruelty so committed will, in some way and at
some time, have to be eXpiated by ourselves and our descendants.

In how tremendous and profound and terrible a sense the
following lines from Shelley are true, literally, bitterly, piercingly
true, with the dreadful certainty of a law of Nature, mankind will
some day have to learn as regards this, “our meanest crime.”

Those who inﬂict must suffer, for they see

The work of their own hearts, and that must be
Our chastisement or recompense.

 

 

 

 




   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
 
 
   
    
    
   
  
   
    
 
   
        
     
   

 

T“

1 THE LONDON ANILYIIISIICTION SOCIETY. . "

 

 

z; OBJECT. *.x*4®
The London Anti-Vivisection Society was started in l876, with this object——

The Total Abolition of Vivisection. That policy has never changed.

i It is now endeavouring to get its Total Abolition Bill before Parlia-

I}:

ment, knowing that the Act of l876'———restricting and controlling
scientiﬁc experiments On living animals—has utterly failed. The late
Sir James Stansﬁeld, M.P., P.C., described the Act as a fraud upon
the animals and the humane people of this country. The Society
has maintained a travelling van, and is engaging lecturers with»
magic lanterns to spread a knowledge of the work. ‘

    

SOME USEFUL

Campaigning Publications .

' ‘ VIVISECTION- Is IT JUSTIFIABLE. By Dr. G. BELL TAYLOR.
' , Price 11d., post free.

SCIENCE AND THE LAW OF KINDNESS. By JOHN GRAHAM,
M..A Price, 2d.; post free, 3d.

VIVISECTION: AN INDEPENDENT MEDICAL VIEW. By Dr.
STEPHEN F. SMITH. Price 1d.; post free, 1%(1'4 per dozen, 1/-7

A BIRD’S EYE VIEW OF A GREAT QUESTION. By ;s. G.

TRIST. Price 1d. (70th Thousand). _ p ,._
THE TRUTH ABOUT PASTEUR AND HYDROPHOBIA. By '97?
" * f S. G. TRIST. Price, 1§d., post free.‘ ' ‘ ' -'
HYDROPHOBIA- IN RELATION TO M PASTEURs SYSTEM.

By Dr. A. LUTAUD, Editor of the Journal of Medicine, Paris. . f ’A
461., post free. ‘ 7'

: . WHO ARE THE ULTIMATE VICTIMS—THE DEFENCELESS
. ~ ANIMALs OR THE DEFENCELESS POOR? (One Hun.
‘ dredth Thousandth). By s. G. Tmem. Price 4d. per dozen; 2/—
per 100. In red and black; a most effective leaﬂet. Its.‘
appearance compels even the most indifferent to read it. ‘

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH, WEIGHED AND FOUND WANTING.‘
' With an Appendix of Illustrations. By S. Gr. ,TRIST. Price,
4d, post free. '

 

 

 

 

Etc., Etc., Etc.

      

 

 

32, SACKVILLE STREET, LONDON,1W.X

 

 

 




Che ﬁondon HntWiviscction society,
32, Sackville Streetriccadiuy, London, W.

Founded 1876.

 

“Heartily sympathising‘ ‘with your eﬂ‘orts.”——Ewtract from a
letter from ELM. The Queen to the Secretary of this Society.

Lord Shaftesbury.—“Vivisection is an abominable sin.”

Lord Brampton (late Mr. Justice Hawkins.)——“ I abominate vivisection: should rejoice
» to see it legally suppressed.” ,

 

aﬂatrona :

Lord Ernest Hamilton

Lord Hatherton, C.M.Gr.

Lord Leigh

Lord Robartes

Lord Llangattock . . . ‘

The BishOp of Argyle and Surgeon-General Thornton,
the Isles C.B., M.A., MB.

The ArchbishOp of Ontario J. Maden Holt, Esq.

Bishop Hellmuth Mrs. Holt ‘

Lady Archibald Herbert Philips, Esq. J.P.

Lord Brampton. Joshua Rowntree, Esq.

Lady Brampton James Sant, Esq., RA.

Lady William Lennox Miss L. Vernon Wentworth

Lady Mary Milbanke.

The Duke of Portland

The Dowager Countess of
Kintore

The Dowager Duéhess of
Manchester

The Dowager Marchioness
of Ormonde

The Countess of Lindsey

The Earl of Lindsay

The Countess of Lindsay

The Countess of Dundonald

The Countess of Roden

The Countess of Norbury

The Countess of Munster

Lady Montagu—Pollock

Canon Wilberforce

Rev. Preb. Webb-Peploe

Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D.,
F 3.0

 

 

 

metrical Emoticons :

ProfessorLaWsonTait,F.R.C.S.,M.D.,L.L.D.
John Clarke, Esq., M.B., MB.

Stephen Townesend, Esq., F.R.C.S.

F. Cann, Esq., F.R.C.S.

Surgeon-General Sir Charles Gordon, I€I.C.B.,
M.D. (Hon. Physician to H.M. the Queen).
Surgeon-General J. H. Thornton, C.B.,

Surgeon-General Watson, MD.

A. Wall, Esq., M.B.C.S., L.B.C.P.

A. J. H. Crespi, Esq. (Hertford 0011., Oxon),
M.B.C.P. (Medallist in Surgery). ,

A. A. Beale, Esq., M.B., C.M.

T. G. Vawdrey, Esq., L.R.C.P., M.B.CS.

Stephen F. Smith. Esq., L.S.A.

R. M. Bowstead, Esq., M.D., M.B.CS.

The Rev. Francis Smith, M.A., M.B.,
M.B.CS.

Ed. Haughton, B.A., M.B., M.B.CS.

F S. Arnold, Esq., B.A., Oxon.', M.B.,
M.B.CS.

Hector Munro, Esq., M.B., C.M.

F. E. Verncde, Esq., L.R.C.P., M.B.C.S.

Walter R. Hadwen, Esq., M.D., etc.

 

The Annual Report and Literature free on Application.

 

7——

The” Committee most earnestly appeal for aid to,
enable them to carry on a more
Vigorous Campaign.

 

OFFICES: 32, SAOKVILLE STREET, PIGGADILLY,

LONDON, w.

 

Hon. Sec. :—-MRS. F. 0. JAMES. SECRETARY :—-—S|DNEY G. TRIST.

' 3/99

7 Treasurer z—Dn. WALL.

 




