“lN ENGLAND—NQW”

- HAT went ye out into the wilderness for to see? ” Was it

the beauties of‘gorse and heather? The colour of great

moorland spaces”? The light and shade of ferny dells? The

sparkle of babbling brooks? Or have you come to witness the

stricken deer panting for the water—brook pursued by slavered

hounds and lathered horses, shouting men and screaming women,
all eager to be in at the “ mort ”“3

Are you anxious to be present when the hot blood spouts from
the severed arteries, staining the grass or turning the clear-ﬂowing
brook into a sewer? Do you want to witness a method of slaughter
which shames what you can see in an abattoir? Will you
watch the feet hacked OE and the liquid eyes glazing in the
severed head while hounds are glutting amid the smoking entrails?

If you want none of these sporting delights why not protest
against such desecration of this lovely country and call upon
Parliament to put an end to it?

If you do not believe that such things can happen in Twentieth
Century England read what eye witnesses have recorded :—

“I saw my ﬁrst butchered stag by chance at Watersmeet, near
Lynton. He was standing in the river with hounds around him.
They were tearing at his red shaggy ﬂanks. Someone threw a
rope over his antlers and dragged him step by step to the grass.
. . . The stag was thrown on his side. His antlers were held
while they cut his throat with a long knife. He died slowly, as
a steer dies whose throat is cut according to the Jewish rite. . . . I
shall never forget the dying eyes of the stag as the blood gurgled
in his throat and choked his lungs. The ladies and gentlemen
sat on their horses eating sandwiches while he expired. They
callously watched the last rites of venery.”

“A few days ago I witnessed the same abominable ritual in
the Doone Valley. . . . The smoking entrails were ﬂung to the
hounds. Then the feet were hacked off. A young girl was
eagerly waiting beside the corpse for her dreadful trophy. . . .
The poor beast lay there, its neck reeking with blood, and its
gnawed leg bones, a horrid sight for the whole country-side to
see. . . . I thought I had no more horrors to face, but we overtook
a motor-car and there was the stag’s mutilated head tied on the
luggage carrier, another bloody spectacle for Exmoor wayfarers.”
JAMES DOUGLAS in The Daily Express, October 10th, 1931.

 




“ Stag caught on wire fence, could not be moved, stuck where
it was. Two plunges with the knife seemed to satisfy the
huntsman, but movement (not ‘ reﬂex action ’) continued for three
minutes ﬁfty seconds.”-—An R.S.P.C.A. Ofﬁcial, 1929'.

“ They drove the stag to the cliffs where it was impossible to
reach it, but not being sportsmen enough to admit defeat, they
stoned it out, and one of these gallant gentlemen lashed it, causing
it to fall two hundred feet and be dashed to pieces.”——-E. DICKINs,
The Daily Express, August 9th, 1926.

“ It is more than probable that, at times, when the deer have
sprung from cliffs, they have done so under delusion as to the ‘
depth of the fall, caused by partial blindness, the effect of severe
exertion. In most cases, however, the animal has, no doubt, taken
the fatal leap while under the inﬂuence of uncontrollable fear.”—-—
C. P. COLLYNS in Notes on the Chase of the Wild Red Deer.

Then if the hunting fraternity who uphold and enjoy this
“ sport ” tell you that there is no other way of keeping the
numbers of the wild deer in check, and protecting the farmer’s
corn and turnips from their depredations, ask them how they
managed during the war years when there was no hunting. Ask
them what was Fred Goss’s secret method for which he received
the praise and thanks of Lord Fortescue and the Hunt Committee.
But when they tell you that Devon deer cannot be driven up to“
guns and promptly shot, as humane people have long asserted that
they should be, ask them by what miraculous intervention they
were enabled to do that very thing in this year of grace 1933 as
recorded in The Manchester Guardian, February 3rd.

Finally, use your common sense and the instinct of justice and
fair play which God has given you and come over into the ranks
of the National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports and help
to end the scandal of the

TORTURED DEER. E.W.

 

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
' CRUEL SPORTS,

4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.

Information from the Hon. Secretary.

Other Publications:
CRUELTY IN SPORT. By W. A. Sibly. 1d.
THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. By A. L. Salmon. 2d.
GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. 1d.
THE ECONOMICS OF HUNTING. By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

 

 

Price 1d., or 25 copies for 1/—

 




