 

 

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmwmmmmmmmmmm’

S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
' S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S

 

 

THE FUTILITY OF ARGUING

FROM EXPERIMENTAL

CONDITIONS IN ANIMALS

TO NATURAL CONDITIONS
IN MAN

By
M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

 

 

Published by

THE HEALTH EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
COUNCIL,

15', St. Iames’s Place, St. Iames’s St., London, S.W.1

 

 

mmwzmmmmmwmmmammwmmmwzmmmmm

 

i

 

Price Twopence.

 




 

The Futility of Arguing from
Experimental Conditions in Animals
to Natural Conditions in Man

By M. BEDDOW BAYLY
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

 

It is a great many years since Lawson Tait, who,
in spite of his holding and expressing pronounced
antirvivisection views, was admittedly one of the
greatest surgeons of his time, pointed out that to
argue from experimental conditions in animals
to natural conditions in man was essentially
misleading.

It was, in point of fact, in 1882 that he wrote :—

“ The fact is that the diseases of animals are so
different from those of men, wounds in animals act
so differently from those of humanity, that the
conclusions of vivisections are absolutely worthless.”
”Birmingham Daily Mail, January let, 1882.

Since then many have been the authoritative
Opinions expressed to similar effect. Many of them
have already been quoted in the pages of past
numbers of Progress rToday, and it is important to
realise that the value of such a consistent series of
statements lies largely in the fact that they serve
to show in cumulative, and therefore increasing
measure, the soundness of the reasoning upon which
the earlier opinions of anti/vivisectionists were
founded. In other words they provide the strongest
evidence that conclusions based upon sound moral
principles are bound eventually to be justiﬁed by
practical experience and scientiﬁc evidence.

The following quotations, all of which have been
extracted from the writings of medical and scientiﬁc

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

authorities within the past seven years and most
within the past two or three, should prove of
particular interest and value as affording over’
whelming proof of the validity of my thesis.

The Claim in General

“ The medical profession, or at least a certain
far/seeing section of it, is at last waking up to
realise the absurdity of many of our modern experi’
ments on animals. The fundamental fact which is
apt to be lost sight of is that the lower animals
differ very markedly from the human subject in their
reactions.”—Leading article, Medical Times, March,
1934, p. 37.

“ Viewed from the standpoint of the clinician,
the conclusions of the purely laboratory worker are
frequently founded on incomplete and misleading
data.”—-—Chalmers Watson, M.D., British Medical
Journal, February 8th, 1930, p. 261.

“ I am not an anti’vivisectionist, but I am of the
Opinion that the value of animal experimentation is
in many cases greatly over/rated and that many of
the results obtained are useless and even misleading
when applied to human beings.”———W. Mitchell
Stevens, M.D., F.R.C.P., in a letter to the author,
April 22nd, 1933.

As to Physiology

“ Hominal physiology, indeed, has awakened or
sustained an interest in few physiologists, whether
at home or abroad. It is true that they have been
busy in the practice of animal research, but not
seldom their labour has seemed aloof from human
problems, and the results incapable of application to
the maladies of man.”—-—Lord Moynihan, then Sir

3

 




 

 

Berkeley Moynihan, in a speech at the Banting
Research Institute. Toronto; the Lancet, October
11th, 1930, p. 613.

“ Most students of Medicine feel that physiolo’
gical teaching lacks practical value, in fact that it
is often misleading. Physiologists are notorious for
propounding theories based on experimental work
which falls to pieces when tested at the bedside.
One physiologist will today lay down as dogmati'
cally correct a View which tomorrow another
physiologist will prove beyond a doubt to be utterly
fallacious.”-—-Reviewer in Medical World, March
Blst, 1933, p. 96.

“ Then there is the physiologist. Here we are up
against the most ﬂagrant example of the uselessness
of animal experiment. . . . Such experiments lead
us nowhere. In fact, they hamper the progress of
medical science.”——Leading article, Medical Times,
March, 1934, p. 37.

“ My own conviction is that the study of human
physiology by way of experiments on animals is the
most grotesque and fantastic error ever committed
in the whole range of human intellectual activity.”
-——G. F. Walker, M.D., F.R.C.P., Medical World,
October 6th, 1933, p. 131. ~

“ We certainly deprecate very strongly animal
experiments conducted in illustration of lectures on
physiology. We submit that they are totally
unnecessary. . . . They mean little or nothing to
the student, and are a sheer waste of time.”—
Medical cTimes, January, 1936, p. 3.

Functions of the Brain

“ Sixty years ago it was conﬁdently anticipated
that these experiments on the exposed brains of
living animals would ‘ speedily disclose the nature
of the mind, and the inner working of the brain,
and make mental disorders disappear for ever.’

4

 

*— v-ssa




 

 

‘ ““‘\w——“

But, as is well known, these extravagant hopes have
not been fulﬁlled.

“ It was fantastic to expect a solution of the
working of the human brain—even that of the
ordinary man, to say nothing of great philos0phers,
scientists, poets, and artists—or to get any light
thrown on the origin of mental disorders, from the
stimulation or destruction of bits of the cerebral
tissues of monkeys, dogs, or cats.” —- Bernard
Hollander, M.D., Medical Press, May 20th, 1931,
p. 411.

Reproduction of Diseases

“ Strictly speaking, you cannot by cutting or tying
operations reproduce any human disease other than
one arising out of injury. It is possible to produce
disease closely akin to that seen in man by intr0r
ducing into animals the original agent of the human
disease, bacterial or otherwise, or by withdrawing
some essential from the diet ; but because the animal
and its reactions are different, the disease is
different.”———Sir Thomas Lewis, the Lancet, October
let, 1933, p. 721.

“ The material of the human body is neither the
same, nor subject to the same inﬂuences, as that of
animals nearest to man; similar functions are not
wholly discharged by precisely similar mechanisms.

Other reservations are also necessary in respect
of the validity of animal experiment. The changes
produced in experiments upon normal animals are
relatively gross; the changes produced by disease
in man . . . are minimal, and of so ﬁne a texture
that we cannot properly compare them with these
coarser induced conditions.”—Lord Moynihan, of
Leeds, the Lancet, October 11th, 1930, pp. 7801,

“ The production in animals of similar lesions by
injection of streptococci is very doubtful evidence
and in the great majority of instances such

5

 




 

 

 

arthritis bears Very little resemblance to arthritis
in man.”——A. W. Falconer, the South African
Dental Journal, January, 1933.

“ Years ago Wickham had shown that deﬁnite
conclusions could be drawn from experimental work
only when the animal that was the subject of the
experiment reacted to the disease in the same way
that man did. The monkey did not react to
poliomyelitis as man did.”——Dr. Jean Macnamara,
reported in the Medical journal of Australia,
February 17th, 1934, p. 242.

[Gastric and duodenal ulcers] “ never occur
naturally in animals, and they are hard to
reproduce experimentally. They have been so
produced, but usually by methods of gross damage
that have no relation to any possible causative factor
in man; moreover, these experimental ulcers are
superﬁcial and heal rapidly, and bear little reseml
blance to the indurated chronic ulcers we see in our
patients.”———~W. H. Ogilvie, M.Ch., F.R.C.S., the
Lancet, February 23rd, 1935, p. 419.

“ Animals are immune to such human diseases as
diphtheria, typhoid, scarlet fever, measles, and yellow
fever, but crickets are readily susceptible to anthrax.

Among domestic animals, the Algerian sheep
is the only breed not susceptible to anthrax. Zebu
cattle are apparently unaffected by foot’and/mouth
disease, anthrax and Texas fever.” It is also pointed
out. that many rats are immune to plague, the frog
to anthrax and the alligator to tetanus—Medical
World, April 11th, 1930, p. 172.

“ The difﬁculty in producing experimental rickets.
in the guinea’pig, rabbit and cat calls for a greater
degree of caution in transferring experimental results
from laboratory animals to the problem of clinical
rickets in man.”——-H. A. Harris, D.Sc., M.B., B.S.,
University College Hospital, Amer. fournal of the
Medical Sciences, April, 1931, No. 4, clxxxi, p. 4'53.

6




 

“ We strongly deprecate such experiments as the
production of rickets in rabbits, pyorrhoea in dogs
and syphilis in monkeys. They are as unnecessary
as they may prove to be misleading. Experiments
on rats, rabbits, dogs and other animals tend to
mislead us, because these animals differ markedly
from humans.”—~Medical Times, January, 1936, p. 3.

Reaction to Viruses, Etc.

“ It may be comparatively easy to produce an
active immunity to this or that virus under experi'
mental conditions in the laboratory by relatively
harmless means, but it is another matter to devise
methods applicable to man which are at once
practical, effective and devoid of risk.”—Leading
article, the Lancet, September 30th, 1933, p. 765.

“ Dr. Jean Macnamara emphasised the danger
of applying facts determined in experimental
poliomyelitis in monkeys to the natural disease in
man. . . . The speaker stressed the marked
clinical differences between the preparalytic stage
of poliomyelitis in children and in monkeys.”—
British Medical Journal, August 12th, 1933, p. 311.

“ To draw analogies between the pathogenesis of
poliomyelitis in man and the experimental disease
in monkeys might lead us far astray. . . . We knew
from other diseases, such as yellow fever, that a virus
might behave very differently in different hosts.”—
Dr. Jean Macnamara, the Lancet, August 19th,
1933, pp. 421/2. .

“ Although the microorganisms in man and
animals are the same, there is little or no relationship
between their pathogenic activity. That is to say,
a miCr0rorganism growing in an animal acquires an
activity which, if pathogenic, tends to be so only
for the animal in question.”——-J. E. R. McDonagh,
F.R.C.S., The Nature of Disease Journal, I, 1932,
p. 63. ,

 




 

6‘

. indeed, no reliance is to be placed upon
experiments conducted on animals with micro
organisms which are pathogenic to man.”———The same,
Lancet, June lst, 1935, p. 1302.

As to Surgery

“ Has not the contribution of the laboratory to
the surgery of the stomach, for example, been almost
negligible when it has not been potentially dangerous
because divergent from human experience and
therefore inapplicable.”——Lord Moynihan of Leeds,
then Sir Berkeley Moynihan, in a speech at the
Banting Research Institute at Toronto; Lancet,
October 11th, 1930, p. 784.

“ We maintain that Vivisection of animals is not
by any means the only practical training for
surgery. Practical technique in surgery can only
be acquired by operations on the human body,
anything short will never sufﬁce.” —-Review of
“ The Frustration of Science,” Medical World,
Sept. 27th, 1935, p. 144.

Action of Drugs

“ Orthodox Medicine is guided by experiments on
animals which prove nothing. . . . The experiments
on animals are crude and useless. It is, of course,
foolish to conclude that if a medicine has a certain
effect upon guinea/pigs, it will have a similar effect
upon human beings."——J. Ellis Barker, quoted in a
Review in the Medical World, December 28th,
1934, with the comment: “ With this most of us
who are practical men and not merely experi’
mentalists will cordially agree.”

“ In the case of toxic drugs it is becoming realised
that animal experimentation needs supplementing by
careful therapeutic testing on human beings, since
what applies to the animal does not necessarily apply

8

“a!




“‘3

with exactitude to man.”———Sir William Willcox,
K.C.I.E., C.B., C.M.G., M.D., F.R.C.P., the
Medical World, May 10th, 1935, p. 369.

The testing of drugs on experimental animals is
very apt to give fallacious results in the case of
human beings. By animal experiment it was for
long regarded that digitalis raised the blood pressure.
We now know that it does nothing of the sort. In
fact pharmacology has been greatly hampered by
these experiments, and is still being held back by the
preference given to animal experiment rather than
to clinical observation.”—The Medical Times,
March, 1934, p. 37.

“ Its use (strychnine) in cardiac failure is well
recognised by the practical clinician, but again its
action on the isolated heart was found by experimenr
talists to be almost negligible and consequently it
has been largely given up.”~—-The Medical World,
March 31st, 1933, p. 96.

“ At the January Meeting of the Therapeutic
Section of the Royal Society of Medicine, Drs.
G. N. Burger and L. J. Witts read a paper on the
Therapeutic Action of Injectio Ferri B.P. They
made the following very signiﬁcant remarks on the
danger of applying the results of animal experiments
to the human subject: ‘ From the study of anaemias
produced in animals by iron deﬁciency or by
repeated haemorrhage, it has been concluded that
the parenteral administration of iron is of no thera’
peutic value. . . . This is another example of the
danger of transferring the conclusions of animal
experiments to the Spontaneous diseases of mankind,
for the careful work of Heath, Strauss and Castle
leaves no doubt that anaemia can be cured in human
patients by the injection of iron.”————The Medical
Times, April, 1934, p. 63.

In regard to snake venom: “ Different species
exhibit wide variations in susceptibility to the
venom, the guinea’pig and sheep being most sensitive
and the cat, rat and mouse being less susceptible.”

9

 




 

 

 

“ No indication is afforded by these experiments
of the certainly lethal dose for man. . . .”——The
Medical journal of Australia, March 16th, 1929,
pp. 364/5.

“ The rabbit is naturally immune from phalline
[the poison of a mushroom/like fungus] poisoning
whereas other animals, the cat for instance, die very
rapidly after ingestion of even minute quantities of
the poison.”—General Practice, Vol. XI, No. 2,
April/June, 1935, p. 90.

“ It is not generally recognised that the dynamic
eﬁect of any drug depends as greatly upon the
chemistry or metabolism of the individual as upon
the actual composition of the drug.”——D. K.
Henderson, M.D., University of Edinburgh, the
Medical World, April 28th, 1933, p. 173.

“ Nor should too much reliance be placed upon
the results of certain experiments based on the
injection of ethylic alcohol from the laboratory into
the stomachs of dogs.”——G. Murray Levick,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., the Practitioner, February,
1932, p. 190.

“ It does not follow that a drug is without value
because its action cannot be demonstrated in a
laboratory.”—Quoted from Chapter VII of “ A
Review of the Effects of Alcohol on Man,” Victor
Gollancz, London, 1931, in the Medical World,
July 17th, 1931, p. 500.

“ Very effective as is this preparation (H 126’
benzenesulphonylglycinate) in the case of the rabbit,
we have found it impossible to use it on human
patients owing to its great toxicity in them. . . .
Rabbits are not very susceptible to lead. . . . This
has been a great disappointment to us."—
“ Chemotherapy in Cancer,” by W. Blair Bell, B.S.,
M.D., F.R.C.S., the Practitioner, August, 1931, pp.
226432.

“ Experimental pharmacology is now receiving
State aid, but the results of drug experiments upon

10




animals are, as far as their application to man is
concerned, absolutely useless and even misleading.”
——-W. Mitchell Stevens, M.D., F.R.C.P., the
Medical World, December lst, 1933, p. 335.

The Action of Endocrine
Preparations

“ Regarding endocrine preparations, although
there have been lately some very important discow
eries, great care must be taken in using them. There
has been much dangerous misuse in this respect
because of the hurried application of animal
experiments to man, and because also of the streams
of propaganda ﬂowing from the various pharmar
ceutical ﬁrms.”—A. P. Cawardias, O.B.E., M.D.,
M.R.C.P., the Medical World, April 5th, 1935,
p. 191.

As to the induction of labour by the injection of
ovarian extracts 2——

“ Such experiments have been almost uniformly
successful when applied to animals such as the
rodents, bUt they have been a complete failure in
the human subject.”——-A. Leyland Robinson, M.D.,
F.R.C.S., F.C.O.G., M. M. Datnow, F.R.C.S.,
M.C.O.G., and T. N. A. Jeffcoate, F.R.C.S.,
M.C.O.G., Hon. Surgeons, Liverpool HOSpital for
Women, the British Medical Journal, April 13th,
1935, p. 749.

“ As pointed out by Halban, the placenta
stimulates the growth of the genitals and the breast
glands. While this is true for animals, it does not
hold good for human beings.”——J. P. Greenhill,
American Journal of Obstet. and Gymec., February,
1929, p. 254.

11

 




 

 

Vitamins

“ In a recent address to the Fife Branch of the
British Medical Association, I raised the question of
how far the clinical results obtained by general
medical practitioners from the use of medicinal
preparations of vitamins in common use bore out the
claims based on the results obtained in the laboratory.
The very guarded nature of the answers received
appear to me amply to warrant the caveat I have
previously expressed as to the undue haste which has
been shown in recent years in applying the results of
the laboratory to the everyday problems of practical
Medicine. Regarding rickets in relation to Vitamin
D, I suggested that modern medical research was
leading the clinician astray.”——Dr. Chalmers
Watson, the British Medical Journal, April 23rd,
1932, p. 769.

“ It might perhaps be noted that in recent years
research workers have been distracted and misled by
animal experiments claiming to show that vitamin
deﬁciency was the cause of this, that, or the other
thing, when indeed the actual cause may have been
intercurrent disease resulting from the animals being
kept in quite unnatural captivity [laboratories], and
apart from vitamin deﬁciencies, fed on unsatisfactory
diets, and deprived of exercise, fresh air, sunlight
and perhaps warmth.”———Dr. J. Sim Wallace,
lecturer on Preventive Dentistry at King’s College,
London; report in Medical Press and Circular,
September let, 1932, p. 229.

“ As regards feeding and other experiments upon
animals with these substances [vitamins], the results
obtained, whatever they may be, can be of little
useful application to the prevention and treatment
of disease in man.”—W. Mitchell Stevens, M.D.,
F.R.C.P., Medical World, December lst, 1933, p.
335

12

 

 




 

5‘;
v'

1_¥_~.__ 4 ﬂ

 

 

Results of Diet

“ Animal feeding experiments provide some
evidence that pasteurised milk is less growth’
promoting than raw milk for animals whose
calcium needs are equal to or greater than that of
the calf. They furnish no evidence that pasteurised
milk is less nutritive for animals such as the human
infant . . . Any deductions from experiments on
the one group to the other are unscientiﬁc.”
———W. G. Savage, M.D., B.Sc., D.P.H., the Lancet,
March 4th, 1933, p. 488.

“ Personally we are not obsessed with this
oatmeal bogey, as, after all, rats—~not humans—
were the subjects of observation. Do not let us
forget that humans are not rodents, and even so
that the changes in their teeth are probably not
quite the same as those found in dental caries in
the human subject.”-———-Reviewer in the Medical
World, May 17th, 1935, p. 444.

“ It is, we warn experimenters, a very dangerous
thing to apply the results of feeding young rats
to human infants. In fact, it is absolutely absurd,
and entirely misleading . . . We wish some genius
would charm the rats out of the experimental
laboratories where their presence is doing much to
retard the progress of medical science.”—Leading
article, Medical Times, April, 193’)", p. ’51.

“Hence it is important to realise that, though
rickets in animals can be produced by diets deﬁcient
in calcium or phosphorus, yet all available evidence
reinforces Wright’s claim that an ill’balanced
mineral (Ca. and P.) content of the food ingested
plays no part in the production of human rickets.”
——-Llewellyn Jones Llewellyn, M.B., and A. Bassett
Jones, M.B., the Medical World, April 14th, 1933.

“ It would be unwise to assume, however, that
conclusmns drawn from animal experimentation

13

 




 

 

 

can be rigidly applied to human beings in whom
deprivation of vitamins is conditioned by naturally
arising dietary deﬁciencies.”——Dr. Robert Suther’
land, British Medical journal, May 5th, 1934, p.
795'.

Dental Disease

“ As a result of experiments on dogs and
erroneous inferences by laboratory research workers,
who know almost nothing about dental pathology,
millions of children are now becoming carious
annually. It is not only the uselessness of animal
experiments which is to be deplored, but also the
exasperating destruction of teeth in young children,
the harmful effects of which will be felt throughout
life by the rising generation.”——J. Sim Wallace,
M.D., D.Sc., L.D.S., Prize Essay, published by the

International Humanitarian Bureau, 1934, p. 16.

“ We hold strongly that there are so many differ”
ences between the dog and man that facts found
in regard to the reactions of the one to dental
infection are not necessarily true of the other.”—
Dental Surgeon, August, 1932, p. 482.

Cancer Research

. . Will any unbiased medical man say that
we are one step farther forward in solving the
cancer problem ? Thousands of pounds have been
spent on animal experiments in this department of
research, but with no practical result. . . It is
futile to go on with expensive research conducted
on such lines. It only means a waste of time,
money and energy for all concerned. We must
look in other directions for the solution of this
great problem. The cancer mystery will certainly
never be unravelled in the laboratory.”~—-Leading
article, Medical Times, March, 1934, p. 37.

14

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

“ It has long been recognised, however, by those
who have had most experience in the propagation
of tumours by cell’grafting, that the whole process
is absolutely artiﬁcial and has no counterpart in the
natural genesis of a tumour.”——Dr. W. E. Gye,
The Cause of Cancer, 1931, p. 22.

“ The wasted time and energy over the modern
lines of cancer research are greatly to be deplored.
We are sorry to think that so many able research
workers are being tricked into believing that the
cause and cure of cancer will be discovered by
animal experiment."—Medical Times, January, 1936,
p. 3.

Electric Currents

“ Animals of diflerent species and human beings
are killed by electricity with different degrees of
facility. Susceptibility varies enormously between
organisms of the same and different species. Dogs
are killed readily, frogs are immune, while birds,
rabbits, guinea/pigs, rats and mice are intermediate.

. . It would be unwise to apply these results
directly to man, since of all biological organisms,
man is the most complex.”—M. Hilary E. Long,
M.Sc., M.B., 13.8., F.R.C.S., Medical Press, August
2lst,1935, pp. 1501.

The foregoing quotations, it must be understood,
are by no means exhaustive, but represent a selec’
tion of the most outstanding opinions which have
been expressed within recent years regarding the
untrustworthiness of animal experiments, and
support the contention of those who have already
declared them unjustiﬁable on moral grounds.

15

 




Printed by
ST. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD.,

Portugal St., Kingsway,
London, W.C.2.

 




