Increase in. Cruelty—A Challenge

THE written history of the human race—so far as we know

of it—covers a period of perhaps ﬁve to six thousand years;
the domination of animals by man extends backwards over an
unknown space of time; but it is safe to say that at no time since
they co—existed on this planet, have animals been exploited, either
in manner or degree, so continuously, so remorselessly, or so
completely as to—day. Our civilisation is, in fact, founding itself
upon the exploitation of animals as past civilizations were founded
upon the enslavement of men; and it is an exploitation which
includes every kind of cruelty from simple killing to the protracted
tortures of trapping and physiological research, and which is
carried on on every pretext from that of self—protection to that
of mere amusement.

Animal ﬂesh is demanded for food, animal skins for adorn-
ment, animal targets for Sport; knowledge is sought “for its
own sake,’ ' or in hope of ﬁnding human escape from self—inﬂicted
disease. So animals are slaughtered, trapped, shot, tormented.
Industry must be served, pets are desired for companionship. So
animals are worked to breaking point, discarded and exported
overseas, or bred according to some prevailing fashion and the
unwanted surplus destroyed. We must be interested and amused.
So animals are caught, caged, trained and harried for zoos, circuses
and films. Wham/er our air/23, the result to animals is loss of liberty,
terror, pain, death, inﬂicted yearly upon hundreds of millions of

J

sentient and defenceless creatures.-

The subject of this Conference is “ The Increase of Cruelty
during One Hundred Years.” It may be well to emphasize that
“ Cruelty ” in this sense is a far wider term than that which the
past century and a half of education and legislation has described
as “ Cruelty to Animals.” This expression has really meant, until
quite recently, "‘ Visible Cruelty to Domesticated Animals,” and
even so has been of limited application. We have done little for
the protection of wild animals. ‘

We have learned to detest and have tried to Suppress the more
obvious brutalities committed by the ignorant, but we have

 




 

closed our eyes and shielded our imagination from the more
dreadful burden which is the outcome of our individual or col~
lective demands. To satisfy these, vast commercial enterprises,
have been created, which later and for their own further proﬁt
have exerted themselves to stimulate the demands which called.
them into being. A vicious circle has thus been established which,
aided by increasing populations and improvements in the means.
of transport and destruction, is gradually expanded to the verge.
of extermination. Many species, indeed, have already disappeared,
and others are approaching extinction.

This is especially the case with the big game which are hunted
for sport or for their heads or hides, and with those other animals
which are trapped for their furs. The Animal Welfare Society of
South Africa (1935 Report) says of the Mountain Zebra that
though “ nominally under strict protection, this particularly in-
teresting member of the Cape fauna has been steadily killed off till
now only forty or ﬁfty remain,” and speaks also of “ biltong
hunting in the Kalahari, on the site of a former game reserve,.
which the police of the district are powerless to prevent, as camels
are their only means of transport, and the poachers use motor
lorries and cars.” Newspaper articles have recently described how
the coming Coronation has stimulated the demand for furs to such
an extent that stocks are exhausted, and prices have soared 60,
70 and in some cases 100 per cent. above the normal.

On the other hand, the domesticated animals, which we breed
for food and other purposes, are subjected to a progressive restric-
tion in intelligence, and are deprived of almost every experience
normal to animal life in its natural state. Our conscious share in
their adaptation has been in the direction of making them more
complete and competent slaves to ourselves, while our care of
them has been accompanied by the maiming and distortion of
their mental and physical characteristics. The adaptation has, in
fact, been made to ﬁt our wants and not their needs.

The world picture at large which is thus disclosed exhibits
the almost complete degradation of one kingdom of nature—~the
animal—at the hands and temporary will of another—the human.

Whatever we may plead on our own behalf as justiﬁcation——
that these things are necessary; that animals have no rights since




they cannot assume responsibility; that they were created for our
use; or that they came into being by chance—does not lessen by
one iota the sufferings of the animals themselves, or the extent
and nature of the harms we wreak upon them. Nor, however
much we may plume ourselves upon our individual kindliness, our
love of animals, can we rid ourselves of our implication in the
evil of this exploitation.

An evil undoubtedly it is, for exploitation, whatever its degree
or whoever may be its victim, is always in principle the same. It
is founded upon the egotistical desire for well-being, for security,
for domination; and since readiness to exploit is inevitably coupled
with the fear of exploitation by others, it is indissolubly linked
with the whole train of suspicions, hatreds and frustrations which
seem likely to sweep the civilisation which admits them out of
existence altogether.

May I state my belief that animal life is not a chance occur—
rence, that it has a value in and for itself, and that behind it may
be a purpose not incommensurate with that of the life of man.
We cannot use our “ignorance ” of such a purpose as a kind of
malefactors’ sanctuary, in which we can take refuge from the
results of our misdoing. Whether the world be a product of chance
or of creative will, it exists: and we, with the animals, are con-
ditioned by the same discoverable laws, to interfere with which
may destroy the whole organon of living.

At bottom, there are few of us who are deliberately or callously
cruel. But we are all in some degree selfish, vacillating, indolent;
and it is upon the selﬁshness of each one ofus, who by our actions, -
our desires, or our indifference contribute to it, that this world
problem is founded. Being “ kind to animals ” will not solve it.
We have been growing kinder and kinder for a century past, and
the sufferings of animals have grown even more rapidly than our
kindness.

What is to be done?

We need—may it be suggested ?——a change of heart and
conscience in our relationship with animals. The attitude of
patronage. we so generally describe as kindness to and love of
animals must be abandoned, and a simpler acceptance of them on
and for their own merits attained.

 




Does all this seem oﬂf the point? Let me ask you, when you
leave this hall, to look with open eyes and an enquiring mind
into the shop windows you pass, and see how many of them are
free from objects and materials which have involved the killing«
and sometimes the torment of animals. And next, let me ask
you to think over your own day—the clothes you wear, the food
you eat, the appliances you use, the amusements you seek.

Remember, then, that you will have seen only some of the
results, and nothing of the processesgwhich have led to them. The
addresses already given, and those still to be given to this Con—
ference, will reveal something of these processes, but even they
fill not be able to cover the whole wide range of facts, and time
will prevent some of the aspects of the problem from being dealt
with at all.

We are rational beings. We should be able to use our powers
to discover, not the greatest number and most advantageous ways
of exploiting the helpless, but the least amount of harm which it
is necessary for us to inﬂict upon them. It might really be very
little, if we all gave our minds to it, and set ourselves to change
the currents of thought of ourselves and our time. V

Pray, let us think of these things from their universal as well
as their individual aspect, and try to look at them not only from
the human point of View but from that of the creatures which
are our victims.

J.L.CATHER.

(An oddrers green of bio C onferenee on “ T/ee I nereore of
Crete/{y o’nrz'ng One Hundred Yeorx” ﬁeld or Be/forz‘,
Oez‘ooer, 1936, daring roe Cenz‘enezrg/ C ornrnenzoroz‘z'on

Week of flee U [Her Society for Me Preoenz‘z'on of C roe/r]
' 2‘0 Aninea/x.) 'MB

9

J

FEL- 181943
sou-Ia] Record Dividi-
IIILIIIMIW
can W»

Watford Printers Limited, Fifty-eight Vicarage Road, Watford. 415]

 

 

 




