ANOTHER BAD r Fox:

(An article in “Punch ” of February 25, I925, reprinted by
permission of the proprietors of “Punch.”)'

NEWS has come to hand of another bad fox, a worse fox,
if anything, than the ill-conditioned creature which hung
about on the outskirts of Daventry and eventually escaped.
That fox, by the way, I learn from a kindly correspondent,
was, as I expected, a female, and capable of anything. The
present, or perhaps I should say the past, fox was having fun
with the Cowdray Hounds and got into The Sunday Times
(March 15, 1925) : “ Chased by the Cowdray Hounds for ﬁfteen
miles this fox sought refuge at House, near Petersﬁeld,
by jumping through a window and up the chimney ﬂue.
Efforts to smoke him out failing, workmen removed some
bricks, and the fox was got out, together with four live rabbits.
The fox was given to the hounds.”
ng What maddens me about this story is that, so far as one
can see, the four live rabbits were not given to the hounds.
There is clearly some bungler in the Cowdray country. Still,
they did well enough. Since Great Britain won the Great
War there has probably been nothing ﬁner than the steady,
methodical, scientiﬁc attrition and destruction of this degraded
fox by the Cowdray Hounds near Petersﬁeld. Over ﬁfteen
miles of cruel country the beast evaded them ; and then, in
ﬂat deﬁance of all the laws of civilised hunting, took refuge
in a human habitation. Selﬁsh, impulsive, thinking only of
its own comfort and careless what inconvenience might be
caused to the unfortunate humans in the house, the animal
rushed up a chimney. Were the Cowdray Hounds dismayed ?
They were not. They set their teeth. The hounds them—
selves, by a curious oversight, had not been trained to climb
up chimneys, but, thank goodness, there were Englishmen
present who knew what to do. And these Englishmen lit
a great ﬁre in the hearth, to smoke the bestial creature out.
I like the picture. It is not stated what fuel they employed,
whether coal or coke or wet green wood, or simply news—
papers ; but I like to think of the Master in his red coat and
the First Huntsman and the Second Huntsman and the noble
Lords and the Society ladies as they gathered round the quaint
old hearth and busily fed the ﬂames with matches. And out—
side the faithful hounds impatiently waited for their prey,
receiving now and then an affectionate lash from the Third,
Fourth and Fifth Huntsmen (all born lovers of animals) when
they showed too much impatience.

Alas ! the ﬁre was unavailing. Hardened in sin, not even
the Sunday newspapers could dislodge the fox. But the
resources of civilisation were not exhausted. Workmen,
honest British workmen, men in the mould of the men who

 




fought at Agincourt, who stormed the mole at Zeebrugge
and went unquestioning to the South Pole and' back, men
careless of danger and inured to hardship—British workmen
were called into the ﬁght. Hounds with all their instinct
might be bafﬂed, the aristocracy with all its intelligence might
own defeat, but the simple artisan, as usual, was at hand.

Brick by brick, and stone by stone, the simple artisans dis—
mantled the ﬂue, and the cowardly fugitive was at length
ejected. Had he been a German, had he been a burglar,
had he been a confessed murderer, the vile sentimentality
of the English race might‘have asserted itself ; some loath—
some tosh about mercy to a beaten foe might have been
heard. But no—the Cowdray Hunt at least have some sense
of reality, and the shifty brute was taken out and given to the
hounds. Let us hope that there are some children at——-—
House, near Petersﬁeld, for this will be a nice thing for them
to remember.

- And let us thank our stars that there is still some liberty
in England. We may not dance when we like or drink when
we like ; we may not buy chocolate when we like or cigarettes
when we like; we may not take photographs at Kew on
Sunday afternoons; we may not go to Boulogne without a
passport ; we may not have what plays we like because of
the Censor ; we may not powder our noses without a wigging
from the Bishops; in a provincial town I know they may
not have music in the parks on Sundays, because of the busy-
bodies; and a few days ago a man was ﬁned £3 I68. 6d.
for stupidly sending a dog by train in an unventilated box,
because of the law. But for all that we are a free country
still ; and English gentlemen may chase a bad fox for ﬁfteen
miles with dogs and horses and the aristocracy, and smoke it
out of a chimney with a hot ﬁre and dig it out with the help
of the Lord and a bricklayer or two and ﬂing it gloriously
to a pack of ravening hounds, and neither the Censor nor
the Bishops nor the busy-bodies nor the law will say a word
to hinder them. Let us be thankful.

But the most free among us have some restraints ; and it is
curious that for these same gentlemen there is no worse crime
than the cruel shooting of a fox. I think they are too senti—
mental in this matter; and I warn them that, if ever I live
in a hunting country (which Heaven forbid l), I shall be
absolutely ruthless. I shall buy a gun, and I shall get a
licence, and I shall prowl from copse to copse, from covert to
covert, deliberately shooting foxes. It may spoil sport, it
may make their lives less thrilling than they are at present,
but it will be a quicker way of exterminating the evil
breed.”-—A. P. H.

Price M. each, 07 50f01/ I/— post free.
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.

sumo-25 Y1983

 




