 

The Oﬂicial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.1.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

 

 

VOL. VIII. No.4. APRIL, 1934 2d MONTHLigsﬁ/fﬁrézﬁr annum,
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 26 SQUIRE GOODALL: A REVIEW, BY EBB. 30

WATERLOO COURSING PROTEST MEETING 27 FOX-HUNTING AND CHARACTER 31

T ﬁe Editor accept: 720 respomz'éz'lz'ty for opinions exprtsyed 2'72 sigrzea’ drift/ex.

 

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Twenty—51X

CRUEL SPORTS

April, 1934

 

 

VIEWS AND

NE WS

332 The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Annual Meeting

The Annual General Meeting of the League
was held on Thursday, March 15th, at the
Caxton Hall, Westminster, as announced. Mr.
Edwin More, presided, in place of the President,
Mr. Alistair A. MacGregor, who had resigned
from that ofﬁce. ,

The Annual Report was passed after an
amendment had been added expressing hearty
appreciation of the many and splendid services
rendered by honorary workers all over the
country. The Report of the Hon. Treasurer—
submitted in his absence through ill—health—was
also agreed to, and, on the motion of the Editor,
a warm message of sympathy and thanks was
sent to Canon Donaldson.

There were several heated passages during the
subsequent discussions, particularly in connec-
tion with the resolution that a farmer-member
who was alleged to “ practise ” the destruction
of foxes by strychnine should be expelled from
the League. The resolution was defeated.

The election of a new President was postponed
until the next General Meeting. The Vice—
Presidents were re-elected en bloc, and the name
of G. P. Gooch, Esq, D.Litt. added. The Hon.
Treasurer was also re-elected, together with
seven members of the old Executive Committee.
The question of compensation to the editor for
wrongful dismissal was referred to an inde—
pendent arbitrator for settlement, and the discus-
sion of the differences between the President
and the Secretary was cut short through the
hall being required for another meeting. I

There were about ﬁfty members present, and
the meeting lasted for over four hours.

A Principle

As indicated above, a question of some import-
ance came up at the Annual Meeting, which calls
for further comment. It arose out of a recom-
mendation from the Executive Committee that

‘ in accordance with Rule 3,” a particular mem-

ber should be expelled from the League as
she had “ failed to give her assurance that she
no longer intends to practise the method of
destroying foxes by strychnine poisoning.”

The member in question stated that she had
“never practised” the destruction of foxes in
this way, and, after a lengthy and lively dis-
cussion, the resolution was lost by one vote to
ten.

We think it is most regrettable that this
matter should ever have come before the Annual

Meeting and cannot understand how the rule
referred to should have been approved by the
Annual Meeting last year, for it is no part of the
business of the League to dictate to farmers or
any other persons how they shall destroy
marauding foxes which may kill their chickens,
though, naturally, of course, we recommend and
hope that they will always adopt the most
humane way. Our distinctive job is to agitate
for the suppression of cruel sports, particularly
hunting, and it is outside the scope of the activi~
ties of the League to make the method by which
anyone may or 'may not destroy foxes a test of
membership. We hope, therefore, that steps
will be taken to rescind a rule which can only
cause dissension amongst our members.

Shutting Up Shop

Faced with “shutting up shop altogether,”

Pas Capt. Lucas, the Secretary of the Woodland

Pytchley Hunt described the terrible straits this
Hunt is in, the Hunt has been trying to screw
more money out of the local farmers. Hitherto
the farmers have paid a cap of 2/6 each time
they hunted, now the Hunt proposes to mulct
them in a guinea per season.

When one remembers that the hunters are in-
debted to farmers for allowing them to hunt at
all, it seems as if irregular pressure was being
put upon their best friends. The proposal, how-
ever, has been coldly received, and one farmer
rather drily observed at the meeting that “if
the Hunt could not succeed in any other way,
it looked like becoming a wreck.”

* ~X- * *

A FOXCUB’S DREAM

Young Reynard had a dream one night,
He dreamt he saw a man in ﬂight
And he no longer on the rack,

But one of foxes in a pack.

He saw the anguish of the man

As he and others faster ran;

Then woke to hear the hounds and horn
And wish that he had ne’er been born;
He stole away with rapid stride

O’er the familiar country-side;

His life had scarce begun, yet he

As like as not would never see
Another sunrise, but be torn

In pieces in the light of dawn.

S. CLAUDE TICKELL.

 

 

 

 

 

 




April I 934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Twenty—seven

 

 

 

 

WA TERLOO _ COURSING PROTEST MEETING

Report adapted from the “Southport Visitor” of February 22nd.

Altcar Coursing and the Waterloo Cup were
attacked at a meeting organised by the League
at Southport on Tuesday, February 20th, and
the climaX was the carrying of a resolution,
“ That the meeting is of opinion that the cours-
ing which takes place at Altcar involves great
cruelty to hares, the most timid of all the
creatures of the earth, and respectfully asks the
Earl of Sefton to withdraw his patronage of the
sport.” There were two dissentients.

Held in the Temperance Institute, the meet-
ing was public, the Rector, Canon R. B. Blake-
ney, presiding. Others present were the Rev.
W. C. Hall, of the Unitarian Church; Mr. H.
Burrows, of the Liverpool Unity Centre; Mr.
J. C. Sharp, Secretary of the L.P.C.S.; and
Mr. R. Stephen Williams. ‘ .

Canon Blakeney said if there was one thing
in life in which he had been more interested
than another, it was the prohibition of cruelty
in every form. They needed propaganda to rouse
the public conscience. Many more would be in
sympathy if they were not, for want of know-
ledge, apathetic. Those who condoned cruelty
showed a very low conception of life. Behind
all that kind of “sport” was the spirit of
gambling. Without that they would have no
Waterloo Cup and similar events. Many men
and, he was sorry to say, women, assembled
at Altcar for the coursing of the hare. As they
knew, the hare had generally no possible chance
of escape before it was done to death. Did they
call that sport? It was, he thought, in every
sense of the word the very negation of what they
called sportsmanship. If a hare chanced to
escape, which he understood was not very often,
it generally died of a broken heart. How edu—
cated men and women could assemble, as they
did, year after year, for the purpose of wit-
nessing the inﬂiction of pain on an innocent dumb
animal, was something he could not understand.
Those who were present at Altcar, he was told,
heard the shrieking and the shrill cry of the
hare in the throes of death. They must have
feelings of revolt at the scene which they were
witnessing. He hoped the public conscience in
the town would be stirred to take more interest
in the unfortunate cruelty which went on at
Altcar every year, and that as a result of the
meeting opportunities for witnessing such cruelty
might be curtailed, for it was something which
was entirely alien to and unworthy of the British
character.

“ Demoralising Sa'dism ”

MR. R. STEPHEN WILLIAMS described
what happened when he went to Altcar to cover
the Waterloo Cup for a daily paper. It was an
event which played down to that human nature
which leaned to cruelty and greed. There was
the attraction of getting something for nothing.
making money not by using one’s brains, but
by believing in one’s luck. Very few people
liked using their brains; most people believed
in their luck. Betting did not interest him, and
the demoralising sadism known as coursing dis-
gusted him. It was just a scene of miserable
petty bloodshed. It was as if he had invited
friends to his house to see him tread on a few
beetles. It was not great enough to be wicked.
These people could not be wicked. They had
not the spirit. It was just ugly, inane, stupid
and vulgar. On the popular side the eyes of
the people stared with cruelty and greed. He
looked on beautiful women who had left their
womanhood behind at home. The men had not
left their manhood at home, because they
hadn’t any. The injury done to the hares was
terrible enough, but still more terrible was the
injury done to the spectators. The hares were
comparatively lucky. They got out of. it in a
few moments. The men and women carried
away inﬂuences which would sicken their minds
for the rest of their lives. Cruel sports were
degrading to human nature, bringing out the
savage instincts in man. It was surely too late
to go back to the beast. Civilisation had- gone
too far for that.

The Rev. WM. C. HALL said in his Opinion the
R.S.P.C.A. ought to be taking up such a protest,
but as that Society did not see its. way to do
that they had to have a separate organisation
for the purpose. The most effective weapon of
protest was not indignation, but reason. In
his opinion, no form of sport should be tolerated
which involved the death of any living creature,
but that was not the important ‘matter for their
consideration now. What they had to consider
was the cruelty involved in the harrying and
hunting to death of the hare. The actual death
itself was an insigniﬁcant thing.

Not True Sport.

It was the extreme and inﬁnite pain involved
in the harrying of a creature to death, whether
it be a cunning fox or a timid hare. He did
not regard these things as true sport. True
sport was an encounter of some sort in which
a man was engaged against another man, or

 




 

 

 

Page Twenty—eight

CRUEL SPORTS

April, I934

 

m

men against men, in exhibition of their skill
and prowess. For instance, boxing required a
man should be trained to the utmost capacity
of his muscle and nerve. It involved the most
stern discipline and thorough physical training;
training not only of muscle, but of nerve and
brain. Then in a boxing contest, rules and fair
play had to be observed. that everything should
be done. to prevent anything which was cruel.
They saw in that popular sport the very anti—
thesis of what they saw in the chasing of the
hare. Just as they had moral obligations of one

 

GANON BLAKENEY.

man to another, so they had. moral obligations
between themselves and all the living creatures.
Until they realised that they were not moving
towards the true civilisation which all really
wished to establish. Men who favoured that
kind of “sport” had managed to persuade them-
selves that the fox and the hare had considerable
delight in the business. If that were so it was

' quite a noise.

only paralleled to his mind by a tiger chasing
a man. If the man in that chase found delight
—-(laughter)~—then it might be that the hare or
the fox found delight in the other pursuit. He
hoped that as a result of their propaganda the
people concerned in those “ sports ” would see
how cruel they were and decide to drop the
business.

Only One Good Point

MR. HAROLD BURROWS said he had tried
to think of something good in the Waterloo Cup,
and he could not think of one good point.
Reference had been made to the shrieks and
screams of the hare just as it was being killed.
He ventured to say that last week every one
of those screams registered was not in vain,
because the Society he had the privilege of being
connected with,» for the ﬁrst time to his know-
ledge, advertised in the local Press and called
upon all Christian ministers in Liverpool and
neighbourhood to protest against and denounce
the Waterloo Cup. It was the ﬁrst time that
had happened, but it would not be the last.
That seed, following the laws of growth, had
yet to be grown and reaped. He believed they
had started something which was going to
achieve its objective. They could not fail if they
were true to the vision. He believed that before
long the Waterloo Cup would be a memory.

MR. J. C. SHARP also gave a vivid account
of a visit to the Waterloo Cup meeting. He had
to pay 7s. (id. for the pleasure of standing on a
windy bank and seeing dogs chase hares. He
stayed for an hour and forty-ﬁve minutes, and
out of the thirty hares coursed, twenty were
killed. Eight escaped off the ground and two
went into the crowd on the other side of the
enclosure and were killed. He noticed on two
occasions the dogs were unable to kill the hare
and the men who ran out to retrieve the dogs
had to kill them themselves. On ﬁve of the
occasions the hare screamed. On those occa-
sions the dogs were unable to kill the hares.
They mouthed them, and they lay on the ground
and screamed.
fore the men were able to reach the course from
the other side of the ground and kill them.

on the nineteenth course the hare lay on the
ground and screamed and the crowd on the
other side were jeering and laughing and making
What for? He was not going to
judge them and say they were laughing at the
terriﬁed hare. It may have been the inability
of the dog to kill, or at the men, but there it
was. He wassure it was all most demoralising
and it was hard to imagine that he was living
in 1934, in the foremost country in the world as
regards prevention of cruelty to animals. i

It was fully half a minute be-.




April 1 934

 

He urged that those who did not yet belong to
the League would‘join and give their names to
Miss M. Cummins, the hon. district representa‘
tive of the League, 46, Alma Road, Birkdale,
Southport, who had been mainly instrumental
in having that meeting held.

Questions were invited, and one inquirer asked
why all the talk was about coursing. On the
day of the Waterloo Cup a very large number of
pheasants were killed by shooting in the locality.

Mr. Sharp said they were against shooting
birds and animals as a pastime, but they
arranged their meetings so that a protest was
made against the “sport” most prevalent in the
locality. If they went to Exmoor they especially
mentioned stag hunts; Chester, fox hunting and
so on.

MR. F. J. CRIDDLE (Formby) moved that
the meeting protest against hare coursing and
all forms of cruel sport, and called upon the
Government to introduce legislation to prohibit
all cruel sports; also upon the Members of Far-
liament for Southport and Ormskirk to support
or initiate such legislation. He did not think

' — the resolution they had passed was comprehen-

sive enough.

Sympathetic messages were received from :-
The Mayor of Southport (Councillor Dr. E. W.
Lewis) who wrote, “ I am in entire sympathy
with the objects of your League, and I hope

your meeting will be very successful ”; theRev.

W. G. Bush, Miss G. Davies, Mrs. Allin
Dymond (High School for Girls), the Rev. A. S.
Gregory, Mrs. Cresswell, J .P., the Rev. Francis

_B. James, Mr. C. F. Jesper, the Rev. J. T.

Jones, the Rev. David Lindsay, Mr. G. A.
Millward (Head Master, King George V School),
Mr. E. G. Poole (District Commissioner, Boy
Scouts), Mr. F. B. Price-Heywood (Hon. Secre—
tary Southport Unemployed Social and Occupa-
tional Centres), the Rev. R. H. B. Shapland,
Mrs. Towers, J.P., the Rev. W. ’V. Walmsley,
and the Rev. J. H. Ward.

In response to an invitation for a message
from the Founder of the League, Mr. Amos
wrote:— '

“ It is a great pleasure to. send a message of
greeting and encouragement to the meeting.

“ Ten years ago, when we started our Crusade
against blood sports we were told they were so
deeply entrenched that we would not make any
impression on them for 20 years. To-day, how-
ever, we see them crumbling before our eyes.

Several Hunts are either closing down, amalé

gamating with others, or limiting the number of
days they hunt. Their subscriptions have fallen
very considerably, farmers and poultry-breeds.m

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Twenty-nine

 

are demanding compensation for poultry killed
by foxes, and for damage to fences, young crops
and seedland. They are also now killing off
foxes freely in sheer self-protection. Above all,
public opinion is running strongly in our favour
as it realises it is mean, and the negation of true
sport to chase any animal, but particularly the
timid sensitive hare and hind, with 20 to 30
dogs for hours and to the death for fun as is
done in hunting, and with two great greyhounds
as at Waterloo in coursing.

“If, therefore, we can only keep up the pressure
in the Press and increasingly wake up the
preachers and the teachers we shall soon be in
a position to present a Bill to Parliament with
every hope that both hunting and coursing would
be made illegal to the material and moral well-
being of the nation.”

*- 9? * *

LADY RHONDDA ON
HUNTING

Lady Rhondda writes in her “ Life ” of the
fascination of hunting; of the smell of the earth,
the noise of the hounds, etc. She continues:—

“What, then, did I not like? Was it the
cruelty I found unendurable? NO! it was not
that. Hunting seemed to me then, as it does
to-day, entirely uncivilised and non-adult, really
utterly indefensible, and of a cruelty which did
not bear thinking about; but it shared that ob-
jection with so many other customs, sports, and
social habits, which I was prepared to acquiesce
in and take advantage of (it is not anything like
so cruel an institution as the Zoological Gar-
dens) that I saw no sufﬁcient cause for taking
exception to it on that ground . . . As the wife
of the local M.F.H. I should have been a perfect
nuisance if I had objected to hunting on the
score of its cruelty. When by chance I was up
in time to see it. . . . I turned my back and
moved away, as did several other women. I
imagined that some of the men might have liked
to have don-e the same. What Society condoned
and even half approved of in us, hoWever, would
have been regarded as White-livered effeminacy
in them.”

* * 9(- 9(-

Unemployed Hunt Foxes

Five foxes which have been ravaging farms
near Merthyr Tydﬁl were yesterday killed by
unemployed men Who hunted them with dogs.

——Feb., 1934.

 




 

 

 

Page Thirty

pCRUEL SPORTS

April, 1934

 

 

“SQUIRE GOOD/ILL” AND FOX-HUNTING

Review of the story of a business man who became a millionaire and set up a great
establishment in a hunting country.

Squire Goodall was a business man who
lived with his two daughters in a suburban villa
and was perfectly happy. His contentment was
shared by his younger daughter Millie, but
Selina, the elder girl, shortened her name to
Lina and aspired to higher things. It should
perhaps be explained that “Squire” was simply
a Christian name which had descended from
father to son and caused some annoyance to the
present unpretentious ,. owner of it, who scorn-ed
the idea of any sort of false pretences. It was
perhaps this feeling, joined to the incessant
grumbling of his elder daughter, which induced
Mr. Goodall to make a fresh start in life, reveal
himself as a millionaire, and acquire a great
estate in Yorkshire, called 'Morton Towers. The
effect of this tranSformation is excellently
worked out in the book, and the endeavours of
Lina to pose as a great lady, in which she very
nearly succeeds, must be read to be appreciated.
Our concern, however, is with one chapter in
the boo-k. It is called “ The Fox Hunt,” and
shows how the owner of a big estate is expected
to foster this ancestral pastime, and how
ambitious women must stiﬂe any feelings of
pity they may possess in order to follow the
lead of Society people and gain or keep up a
position in “ the county.”

A perusal of the book would lead one to the
conclusion that Lina had no tenderness of heart
or feeling to suppress, but Millie was cast in a
different mould, and her attempt to follow the
hounds resulted in a sharp quarrel between the
sisters. The chapter opens with a real incident
which must be familiar to most of our readers:
a farmer, who shot a. hound which was pursuing
his lambing ewes, and who subsequently had to
pay the vindictive damages of twenty-ﬁve
pounds. This man meets Mr. Goodall and ex-
pounds his grievance. But the newly-made
Squire, who has an eye for the picturesque, is
a good deal impressed by the brilliance of the
panoramas opening out before him, “ the fresh
green splendour of the early spring,” the hunts-
men’s scarlet, and the animation of rapidly-
moving horses and dogs. By and by his two
daughters sweep past him, Millie calling out
that it was “ ripping.” The Squire, having
caught sight of the nearly beaten fox, does not
follow but seeks his car and returns home. In
the course of the evening he becomes aware of
a quarrel between his daughters, and in ansWer
to pressure, Lina condescends to explain that
Millie has humiliated her “ before all the hunt.”

characteristic. The old “ woolman ”

“ The hounds were splendid,” volunteered
Millie, “ and quite willing to make friends with
me; and oh! it was glorious to see them take
up the scent and tear across the ﬁelds, and to
be carried after them. It was just glorious! . .
Then, a mile or two beyond, where we passed
you, the hounds caught the fox up, and the
men shouted, ‘ Get him, my beauties!’ Oh,
father, I saw them get him! I heard him! It
was horrible! It was wicked! . . ”

In freezing tones Lina remarked: “ And she»
screamed; screamed!” I scream-ed,” Millie
acknowledged, “ and do you know, father, they
laughed; the women laughed. I looked in their
faces, and I didn’t see one look of pity for the
poor creature—not one. But only Lina. was

angry, and they were. sorry for her because her

face was so white—not because of the poor
beast they had murdered, but because I had
brought disgrace on her. They pitied her and
gave her the brush, and she brought it home.”

Lina being his favourite daughter, Squire
Goodall is rather inclined to take her view of
the case, and the argument continues with de-
tails of " bloodmg,” during which a little girl
was applauded by Lina for “ showing her breed-
ing by submitting to it unconcernedly.” The
scene ends by Millie’s expressing her determina-‘
tion never to hunt again, and after the pause
which ensues, Lina, encouraged by her father’s
attitude, puts forward a plea for “ restoring the
old tradition,” re—stocking the magniﬁcent
kennels at Morton Towers, and “putting the
hunt on its feet again.”

The process of reasoning which inspires Squire
Goodall’s somewhat hypocritical answer is
_ is annoyed
with everything that is useless and unproduc-
tive. Consequently he reverts to his daughter
Millie’s condemnation of fox-hunting as cruel in
order to refuse his daughter Lina’s request. For
what ensues from this decision we refer our
readers to the book itself. E.R.B.

*W. Riley (Jenkins, London), 3 / 6 net.

 

* if * 9(-
Compasszon to a Fox

Compassion was shown to a hunt-ed fox by
Newent (Glouc) townspeople on February 22nd.
It escaped Colonel Spence Colby’s hounds and
ﬂed through the streets of the town, chased by
people and dogs.

Then it sought sanctuary in a woman’s bed-
room, was caught, put in a sack—and freed.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

.A'pril l 934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Thirty~one

 

 

FOX-HUNTING AND
CHARACTER

Sir,—Tlie fairness and tolerance you extend to
us poor obfuscated folk, who are unable to see
anything “ fine ” or “manly ” in hunting a
small animal to a horrible death, emboldens me
to ask your leave to- comment on a recent most
extraordinary utterance. A certain Lord
has recently made the astounding declaration
that “ There is nothing in our national life that
means so much for the making of character as
fox-hunting.” Were this utterance that of some
drunken old 18th century cynic, it might be com-
prehensible, and excite only a pitying smile. But
Lord is a product of Eton and. Magdalen,
and I make bold to say that more pernicious and
preposterous nonsense has rarely issued from
human lips. It would tax the ability of the most
ingenious sophist in the world to- prove logically
how the hunting of a small animal to a horrible
death purely for selﬁsh pleasure can have any
effect on our national character, save the ex—
tremely bad one of exciting the blood lust and
keeping alive the primeval savagery still so ram-
pant beneath the thin veneer of our so-called
civilisation. To initiate children with the cult
of cruelty, and to increase the sum of pain in
the world, instead of striving to diminish it, is
wicked and vile, and these crimes the fox-hunt-
ing fraternity commit. So far from aiding in the
development of the national character, fox-hunt-
ing is a skid on the wheel of civilisation, one of
the most camouﬂaged frauds of this or any other
century; a cruel and futile abomination, the
cause of distressing accidents, and the legal pro-
hibition of which is long overdue—F. S. Ross.

———Rea.ding Mercury, Feb. 10.

* 96 96

WOMEN AND SPORT

Sir,——“ Country Lad ” has spotted the picture
of specially bred, highly trained dogs, chasing a
harmless hare, and I believe many other humane
people will entirely agree with him that it is a
most revolting sight.

I would go further and say it is not “ Sport.”
Yet there are still innumerable peOple, who, in
spite of being seemingly intelligent and well
educated, continue to carry on in these intensely
cruel pastimes. '

Women are usually credited with tenderness
and compassion, yet, I regret to say, the “Hunt”
has among its numbers many of my sex.

A friend of mine meeting some stag hunters
was asked which way the stag had gone. Her
reply was: “ I am on the stag’s side.” May I
ask all women who claim to be such to do their
part in being on the side of the hunted fox,
stag, or hare. FRANCES HUE in North Mail.

 

 

“’ THE MISSING LINK ”

Much of my life, as of many whose primary
interests are Literature and Politics, has been
spentin reading and in “ going to meetings.”
In my reading I have found the sublime con-
ception enunciated by Parmenides and Spinosa
that “ All Being is One ”; this view albeit lofty
seemed a trifle “ Stupendous.” Consequently
I was glad to learn later from Sir Edwin Arnold
and Professor Bergson the not less sublime but
more homely tenet that “ All Life is One.”
Following this train of Thought to its logical
conclusion, it occurred to me that all Sentient
Life is still more One. I called to mind a
guessing game I had often played called
“Animal, Vegetable and Mineral,” and recol-
lected how we had always “ counted” things
human as Animal.

At political meetings I have heard much of
the virtues of Patriotism and while I grew to
detest the meretricious “ ﬂag—wagging ” type of
Jingoism, I still held that a sane and loyal love
of one’s own Land and People was desirable in
itself and a step towards reverencing Humanity
at large. While retaining. this initial Love of
Country, I realised with Edith Cavell that
“Patriotism is not enough ” and that the
Brotherhood of Man was the Social Ideal. But
subsequent reﬂection has convinced me that
“ Humanity is not enough ” and that we must
extend the principle of the Brotherhood of Man
to that of the “ Cousinship 5’ of the Animal
World.

So while retaining these pantheistic views and
vitalistic tenets on the one hand and esteeming .
Patriotism and Humanism on the other, I have
come to realise that it is in the conception of
Animal Kinship alone that we can ﬁnd a pivot,
connecting these conceptions of racial, human,
organic and cosmic harmony. And this is an
additional argument against Blood-Sports, beside
their cruelty and absurdity.

B.M.H—J.

Workman S ave The Fox

A remarkable incident took place at a meet
of the Linlithgowshire Hunt. The hounds had
raised a fox and hunted it as far as the Deans
Shale bing at Livingston Station, and when the
huntsmen came up they discovered that it was
receiving protection from some workmen. They
demanded that the fox be handed over for them
to kill, but the workmen refused.

After some time they rode. away without gain-
ing their objective, and the fox was liberated
that evening, after having recovered.

-——Sunday Mail, Jan. —.

 




Page Thirty—two C R U E L S P O R T 5 April, I934

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITlON OF
CRUEL SPORTS

l0l, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l.
Phone : Victoria 8496.

 

 

 

Hon. Treasurer— Secretary—
CANON F. L. DONALDSON. J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice-Presidents—

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq-

SIR HERBERT BARKER. REV. DR. R. F. HORTON. HENRY W. NEVINSON, Esq.

MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit., DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.

ALD. M. CONWAY, J.P. LL.D. (Edinburgh). PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq-, LL-B-
(Ex-Pres, Nat. Un. Tchrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENs. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, Esq.

G. P. GOOCH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

 

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, bare, and otter—hunting, badger—digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned.” )

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation, (See

leaflet “ Blooded .” )

 

AN OFFER. Alcopy Of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to "any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out—of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith* ..............................................

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

*5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S. W1.

 

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed ~by the Testator, and I
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

Published by, the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIRI'rION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House. Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1. and Printed for them by NUNEA’I‘ON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bond Gate. Nuneaton

 




