The Chase of the Wild
Red Stag on Exmoor

BY LORD COLERIDGE

Drawn by David Wilson.

The following article is printed with the kind consent of Lord
Coleridge and of the Proprietors of the Nineteenth Century and A fter,
in which it was ﬁrst published.

ON a bright, cold, sunShiny October day I started from
Lynton on my way across the moors to Porlock Weir. The
sea upon my left was ﬂecked with the foam of curling waves,
and upon my right the brown hills stretched in ridge after
ridge, their sides “ enfolding sunny spots of greenery.” As I
was scanning the middle distance I became aware of a
number of moving dots on the outskirts of a deep wood
which runs down to Badgeworthy Water. The faint winding
of a horn came up upon the breeze, and from the edge of
the woodland burst forth a noble stag. His antlers were
laid ﬂat upon his back, and with incredible speed he made
away across the open moor. I watched him as he ran. He
must have felt a tingling triumph all along the blood, for he
was unpursued. In time he came to cultivation. He leapt
the hedges in his pride, raced across the open ﬁelds and was
soon lost to view.

I then knew What there was in store for him. To get him
thus to break away from covert had needed all the resources
of the hunter’s craft. Doubtless he had been “ harboured "
by the harbourer. The tufters, the old sagacious hounds,
who are not easily diverted from their quarry by the crossing

 




 

scent of other deer, had tracked him in his efforts to force
others from the wood while he remained within the shelter.
And now he had been driven forth, the tufters had been
whipped off, and the hounds, which had been waiting at a
little distance, were being sent for to be put upon his track.

The ﬁeld were content to wait ; there was no need of haste.
To the inexperienced spectator nothing could be fairer. The
hunted stag was given a noble start before the pursuing pack
was put upon the scent.

And yet his chance of escape was but small. When once
a stag is forced into the open it is not likely that he will live
to see another day. He is a big, wild beast ; he cannot run
to earth. And unless he manages to reach a wood like
Horner Wood, which not only covers a large area of ground,
but which swarms with other deer, and even then has won-
drous luck, his fate is sealed.

I saw the pack laid on,

“ Bred out of the Spartan kind,
So ﬂew’d, so sanded ; and their heads are hung
With ears that sweep away the morning dew,
Crook-kneed, and dew—lapped like Thessalian bulls.”

Instantly their full—mouthed baying came singing to me on
the wind as they raced across the russet moor.

“ Chime, ye dappled darlings,” says the Rev. Charles
Kingsley. So did their music sound in the ears of a hunting
man, a clergyman of the mid—Victorian age. Did he ever
pause, think you, to consider how this “ music ” struck upon
the heart of the haunted quarry and turned it to stone ?

The stag meanwhile had one goal he strove to reach—the
sea. In its welcoming billows would he shake off this fell
pursuit. But hunting man prevented him. Along the
summit of the moorland parallel with the coast he had erected
a high paling, inexorable to deer, to prevent the bafﬂing of
the hunt by that escape. Besides the paling, then, he sped
until it ended, and then once more he sought the sea. In
the woodland through which I passed he crossed my path, a
wearied, panting thing, and after an interval the dogs in
Indianﬁle, with long and tireless loup, each giving an oc-
casional tongue as their nostrils caught the exhilarating scent.

With that mysterious rapidity by which news travels the
people at Porlock Weir, on the seashore for which the stag
was making, got wind of his approach, and in numbers they
had congregated, not to render aid to the animal in his dis-




tress, but to drive him back into the jaws of the pursuing
hOunds. They succeeded. But the sea would have been no
harbour of refuge. A stag puts out to sea, but not with the
intention of swimming across a bay and landing in some
safer cove. N 0, he puts to sea, but seldom, if ever, comes he
back. He rushes into the water in his terror to escape, and
swims straight out. He knows not, cares not, whither he is
going. He will swim till he can swim no longer, but he will
not turn to face the fangs of his pursuers. So, unless a boat
puts out and captures him for a prey to the expectant hounds,
he buffets with the waves till they close over him. And to-d'ay
with the white horses curling on the crown of every billow,
he would soon have been “ full fathom five.”

Once more the stag was driven back upon the hounds. He
was hunted up and down through the coppice clothing the
steep hills rising abruptly from the sea. The coppice was too
thick to be traversed by the riders, so down they clattered
upon the shore by a side route to watch the closing scene.
The whole countryside was out. I scanned the riders closely.
They were of either seX and every age. Boys and girls on
ponies. Women, young and elderly. Men, lay and clerical,
white—haired, and those with down upon the chin. They
were all intent on one thing only—the death of the hunted
stag. I listened for one expression of sympathy. I looked
for one sign of compassion. I heard and. saw none. I
thought that a certain hardness of feature was common to
them all. Two elderly spinsters drove up in a small pony-
carriage and joined the crowd. In these tender, ancient
hearts at last, I said, the poor deer will ﬁnd his friends. Not
so ; they had driven up in hot haste to say that the deer had
leaped into the road just before their pony, thinking that
their information might be useful to the hunt. “ He cannot
run much longer,” they said in triumph ; “ he is dead—beat.”

I thought to myself, have centuries of civilisation changed
mankind, or are these the same people to—day who in ancient
times turned up their thumbs in the amphitheatre at Rome ?
Once more the stag made his last and desperate effort to
reach the sea. He ﬂed into a small orchard on the level of
the beach, and then the end was come. There was the
lassooing, the throat-cutting, the disembowelling, and the
rest of it, witnessed by the crowd, but which I did not see.

I climbed the hills on my return. The golden glory of the
waning sun lit up the woods, which glowed with autumn

 




 

 

 

 

colours. But the day was spoilt for me. The happy, hearty
sportsman will tell me that I am sentimental. It may be so.
I do not judge him. Let him think kindly in his turn of me.

I only place on record some sights I saw, and some thoughts
which those sights aroused. The hidden mystery of cruelty
and pain I do not seek to solve.

I have spoken of the pursuit of the mature and powerful
stag. The hinds are likewise hunted. They have no weapons
of defence. Nor have they the courage of the male. They
are sometimes pulled down slowly by the dogs. Moreover,
they are often hunted when they are in kind.

An animal about to become a mother may, I think, with
some excuse arouse the chivalric instinct in man. Likewise,
I seem somewhere to have read of a good shepherd who
gently leads those that are with young. Your sportsman, as
he reads this, mutters to. himself that clearly it is manliness
that I lack, and that it is, after all, only of sheep that the
ancient tale is told.

 

THE CRUEL SPORTS QUESTION
Pamphlets, 2d. each post free.

Sport. By Sir G. G. GREENWOOD. The author reviews in turn the
chief blood-sports: FOX-HUNTING, WILD AND TAME DEER-
HUNTING, OTTER-HUNTING,RABBIT-COURSING, etc., and pronounces
against them.

‘Morality of Field Sports. By the late Prof. E. A. FREEMAN, Regius
Professor of Modern History, Oxford.

Price Id. each or 30 for I /— post free.

Chase of the Wild Stag. By Lord COLERIDGE.

Blood Sports Condemned. By Eminent Authorities.

Morality of Field Sports. By the late Professor FREEMAN.
Killing for Sport. By C. BERNARD SHAW.

Sport and the Otter. By J. COLLINSON.

The Eton Hare Hunt. By H. S. SALT.

The Much Maligned Book. By T. S. HAWKINS.

Leaﬂets for distribution, price id. each ; 50 for IS. post free.
Cruelty in Sport. A letter by DONALD MACLEOD, Member of British
Olympic Council. .
Another Bad Fox. Reprinted by permission from Punch.
The Drag Hunt. By HENRY B. AMOS.
Our Sportive Butchers. By H. W. NEVINSON.
Rabbit Coursing. A personal experience. By H B.A.
Is Hunting Sport? By A. G. GARDINER.

OLEAGUE FOR 'PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.z.

 

YI490 The Botolph Printing Works, Gate Street, K ingsway, W.C.2'.

 




