 

M A L
W E L F A R E
I N S T I T U T E

 

 

 

FORTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1997 to June 30, 1998

 

 




 

 

In 195], Dr. AlbertSch weitzerga ve his permission to the
Animal Welfare lnstitu te t0 strikea medal in hishonor t0
hepresen tedforoutstandmgachze vemen tin the
ad vancemen tofanimal welfare. lngran tinghis
permisszbn, Dr. Sch weitzer wrote, ”I would ne verha ve
belie ved tha tmyphllosophy, Which incozpora tesin our
ethicsa compassiona teattitude to ward all crea tures,
would henoticed and recognized in m ylifetime. ”

 

 

Cover: Laboratozycage—mates enjoyeach other’s compan yand a snack. One 0ft11emanyengag1'ng
photosfromA WI ’sne W publica tion En Vironmen talEnhancem en tfor Caged RhesusMacaqueS.

 

 




Whales

 

 

 

 

 

his year’s meeting of the International Whaling Commission

(IWC) took place in Oman, May 16-21. The United States
resumed its traditional role as the leading country urging protec-
tion of whales.

The most significant action of this year’s meeting was the
decision to spend 100,000 British Pounds ($166,000 US) on stud-
ies of environmental threats to cetaceans. The strong support of US
Whaling Commissioner, Dr. James Baker, Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NCAA) and
Dr. Michael Tillman of the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS),
was instrumental in ob-
taining this important
first-time funding by
the Commission. The
excellent report prepared
by the Environmental
Investigation Agency’s
Alexander von Bismarck
laid the thorough scien-
tific groundwork which
made this important
IWC action possible.

1W C C h a if m a II During their mJgra torycycle, Humpback
Michael Canny, of lre- Whales Willtra velover3,500mjles between
land, has been pressing thejrfeedzhgand breedinggrounds.

National Marine Sanctuaries

 

 

a dangerous comprov
mise which would leave approximately 40% of the ocean avail-
able to commercial Whalers, making only deep—water pelagic
whaling illegal. Japan strongly urged that the vote on ”The Irish
Proposal” be taken by secret ballot, but the Commissioners refused
to agree, and the Canny proposal was dropped for this year but is
expected to be proposed again at the next IWC meeting.
Environmental threats include not only widespread toxic
pollution, which has long been recognized, but noise pollution
including the sonic bombardment conducted in March 1998 by
researchers for the US Navy. Courageous action, carried out by
Ben White, AWI’s International Coordinator, brought an end to
the Low-Frequency Active sonar (LFA) transmissions which
blasted the humpback whales and their newborn babies with up

 




 

to 155 decibels of intense noise. Navy researchers stopped their
sound bombardment of whales whenever human beings got
into the water between their ship and the whales, as Ben and his
cohorts did.

A decision has since been made by the Navy not to attempt
any further tests in Hawaii on the humpback whales. However,
it appears that these tests, which are inspired by the existence of
noiseless submarines, are being conducted by other countries
and by NATO. Dr. A. Frantzis of the University of Athens,
reported the beaching of a number of Cuvier’s beaked whales,
which occurred after NATO LFA tests. His report was published
in Nature, the international scientific journal. In reaction to the
Frantzis report, the NATO Navies held a special emergency
meeting in Italy in June to address the problem and to develop
a policy to limit the use of this technology in areas where whales
and dolphins could be impacted. In addition to tests by defense
agencies, oil drilling creates noise of such intensity that it can
physically deafen whales in the vicinity.

Dr. Linda Weilgart, a world authority on whales, testified
vigorously against LFA sonar transmissions. In addition to her
protest on behalf of the whales, she raised economic questions as
well, pointing out the damage to the whale watching industry
from such emissions. Several lawsuits are still pending against
the Navy’s actions.

Laboratory Animals

 

 

till another publication to help better the lives of animals in

laboratories was published by AWI, En Vironmental Enhance-
mentfor Caged Rhesus Macaques. Dr. Viktor Reinhardt and David
Seelig are responsible for this fascinating publication which first
appeared on the World Wide Web and is now available in print.
This amplifies for monkeys last year' s new publication, Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals (8th edition). It was reviewed in
Animal Welfare, the University Federation for Animal Welfare’s
international journal. The reviewer, Dr. Paul Townsend, recom-
mended that it be studied by ”all animal care committees as a
reference point for their review of their institutional accommoda—
tion and husbandry procedures.” For many years, AWI’s series of
editions of Comfortable Quarters, with its recommendations for more
space and opportunity for exercise, were disparaged and disre—




garded by proponents of the standard small cages. These substan-
dard housing cubicles are produced in multitudes and used as a
matter of course by followers of the scientific establishment. The
new edition has been sent out to every registered research facility
in the United States, along with a leaflet offering a free copy of
En Vironmen ta] Enhancementfor Caged RhesusMacaques. A select list
of primatologists throughout the world received free copies of this
publication.

AWI’ s The Animal Dealers: Evidence 01% base OfAnjmaIS in
the Commercial Trade, 1952-1997was offered, free of charge for a
single copy, to chiefs of police and sheriffs, scientific institu-
tions, public libraries and animal protective societies through-
out the United States. AWI has been working to stop animal
dealer cruelty since 1952. This book is important for heads of. scientific
institutions because of
its informative and
very substantial sec-
tions on Class B or ran-
dom source dealers in
dogs and cats. These
dealers have been
found to trade in ani-
mals obtained by fraud
or outright theft, and
they all too frequently

Richard Lynch, Zeneca Pharmaceut~

 

 

 

“9519“ and mistreat the PreV1'0usysmgIe-Cagedmacaquesnowpair
anlmals from Wthh housed, groomoneanother.
they proﬁt by charging

high prices to scientific institutions. The chapters on dog and cat
dealers were written by attorney Mary Ellen Drayer. Experts on
primates, birds and reptiles wrote the chapters on these other
victims of trade. The demand was so great when the offerings of
single free copies were issued that AWI’s fax machine succumbed
and a new fax had to be installed. Copies of the book have also been
provided to US Department of Agriculture Inspectors who try to
prevent dealer abuses. Due to their efforts, the number of Class B
dealers has been reduced to 41. Cases are pending against four of
these dealers for Violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act. A
bill to end supply of dogs and cats to laboratories by Class B
random-source dealers is pending, with no action scheduled in the
US Congress.

 




Cathy Liss, AWl’s Executive Director, was invited to speak
against the use of random source dog and cat dealers at the November
16, 1997 annual meeting of the American Association for Laboratory
Animal Science (AALAS), the largest gathering of laboratory animal
caretakers, veterinarians and researchers. Ironically, at this same
meeting AWI was refused permission to rent an exhibit booth to hand
out free books and other humane literature.

A few years ago AALAS adopted a policy to restrict the groups
which exhibited at their meetings, requiring all exhibitors to sign a
pledge of allegiance to their views on the use of animals for experimen-
tal purposes. Because AWl sets a higher standard for laboratory
animal care, we were unable to sign the document. The Board of
AALAS refused to grant AWI a waiver which left us with two new
books which we expected to be of great interest to conference attend—
ees, but no exhibit.

Determined not to let the lack of a booth stand in her way, Cathy
took 16 cartons of the books to the California meeting. An exhibitor
sympathetic to her plight loaned Cathy his hand truck which she
loaded with cases of books, handing them out as she went from one
scientific session to another—until an AALAS executive prohibited
this activity too.

Not to be deterred, Cathy wheeled the hand truck outside,
crossed the street, and continued to offer the books to people entering
and leaving the convention center. The people attending the confer—
ence were pleased to receive the books, and word spread so that others
knew to find AWl’s ”exhibit” outside. Stopping only to go inside to
give her presentation, Cathy continued handing out books until every
last one was gone. The controversy unwittingly focused attention on
these important publications and on AWI’s humane aims.

Trapping

 

 

 

By coercing the European Union (EU) into signing an appallingly
weak, loophole ridden agreement, the Clinton Administration
undermined the valiant efforts of AWI and the many US and Euro-
pean animal protective groups who fought side-by-side to attain a ban
on importation of furs from countries that still use the cruel steel jaw
leghold trap. The European Union, threatened by a World Trade
Organization (WTO) challenge capable of bringing heavy fines on the
EU, succumbed after Charlene Barshefsky, US Trade Representative,
personally lobbied the German government to change its position.




Carlos Pimenta, Member of the European Parliament and
tireless leader in the fight against steel traps, condemned the
spurious US / EU agreement as ” the worst, even weaker” than that
with Canada and Russia.

Anita Pollack, another Member of the European Parliament
who has strongly supported the leghold trap ban, said: ”We are
here debating a very peculiar creature. It is called an agreement yet
in reality it is a non-agreement. I would liken it to the Cheshire Cat
because all you can see is its smile. First, it should be said that
Parliament did not seek this agreement, we want the implementa—
tion of the 1991 Regulation. That was very carefully put together
to end the worst cruelty associated with the trade which allows rich
women to wear the furs of tortured animals.”

The EU Regulation has banned the use of leghold traps
throughout its 15 member states, but the major users, the US and
Canada, managed to side-step the import ban which was such a
significant part of the EU Regulation.

AWl’s Executive Director, Cathy Liss, finished her stint on
the National Wildlife Services Advisory Committee (formerly
Animal Damage Control). She is now moving to the Advisory
Board of the Jack Berryman Institute where she will have an
opportunity to influence recommendations for predator control
without the use of the agonizing steel jaw leghold trap.

Factory Farms

 

 

ast year the 15 Heads of Government of the European

Union (EU) agreed to a legally binding protocol that commits
the EU and its member states to ”pay full regard to the welfare
requirements of animals.” When formulating and implementing
community policies on agriculture, transport, research and inter-
nal trade, the EU is now formally committed to recognize that
animals are living creatures capable of feeling pain and fear. They
are fully capable, too, of enjoying themselves when well treated.
Their well-being, therefore, is covered under the EU’s sentient
beings rubric.

This important protocol was not easily achieved. In 1991, the
organization Compassion in World Farming presented a petition
signed by a million people to the European Parliament. The signa-
tures were gathered from all the member states. It called for
animals to be given a new status in the Treaty of Rome as sentient

 

 




 

beings. At that time, the Treaty, which forms the cornerstone of EU
law, classified animals as goods or agricultural products. In 1994,
the Parliament endorsed the petition, and in 1995 it called for the
Treaty to be strengthened to make concern for animal welfare one
of the fundamental principles of the EU. The Government of the
United Kingdom led the EU in securing this important Victory
for sentient beings. The United States ought to be next to adopt
this wise, humane foundation for the welfare of animals in
agriculture, transport, research and interstate commerce.
Monsanto’s ”Posilac," the recombinant bovine growth hor—
mone (rBGH) which the giant transnational corporation has been
a pressing on dairy
é? farmers, has met stiff
5 resistance by Ben &
Jerry’s ice cream
company. They
had to go to court
and win the case
for honest labeling
of their products.
All Ben & Jerry’s ice
cream containers
now state: ”The

  

family farmers who
. . .. a. supply our milk and
MYIans ofgesta b’ngso wsare cruelb/Jmpnlsoned cream pledge not to
in factOJj/facﬂjtieslzke this one. treat their COW S with

 

rBGH. This growth-
hormone makes such terrible demands on the unfortunate cows
who are inoculated with it that painful mastitis affecting their
udders and painful dislodging of calcium from their bones cause
many to collapse and die prematurely.

Throughout the western United States, political battles are
being waged against the giant hog factory farms that are using
huge financial resources to mislead the public in their effort to
proliferate and entrench themselves. Millions of sows are now
confined to stalls so narrow that they can barely get up and lie
down. They can never turn around. They gnaw their imprison-
ing bars in a vain effort to escape.

The waste coming from these incarcerated hogs, standing
on bare concrete slats, frequently overflows from the ”lagoons”




 

(open septic tanks), polluting rivers and streams, seeping even
into the ground water and poisoning the wells used by rural
communities. Colorado farmers and ranchers have joined to-
gether and formed an organization called STENCH which is
pushing for a state-wide ballot initiative to regulate such farms
and restrict the number of hogs they can house to 5,000*.
Transnational corporations are counting on selling both the live
pigs and the pork to China, Korea and other Asian nations.

CITES Standing Committee

he 40th meeting of the Convention on International Trade in

Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) Standing
Committee was held from March 3-6, 1998 in London, coinciding
with the 25th anniversary of this historic wildlife treaty. Thirty-
four CITES Parties were present. Although non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) are not able to attend these sessions as
observers, one evening was reserved for NGO presentations. AWI’s
Adam Roberts, as Chair of the Species Survival Network (SSN)
Bear Working Group, addressed the delegates about the need to act
immediately to end the ongoing illegal trade in bear parts and
products for use in traditional Asian medicine.

AWI and SSN hoped the Parties would take significant
proactive measures to implement the recommendations agreed
to in a resolution unanimously passed at the tenth Conference of
the Parties to CITES last summer in Harare, Zimbabwe. One of
the more important decisions taken at the Harare meeting was
to call for the CITES Secretariat ”to convene an international
workshop on law enforcement and forensic techniques essential
to stopping illegal trade in bear parts and derivatives.” AWI
and SSN have long endorsed such a workshop.

To its credit, the CITES Secretariat took this recommenda-
tion one step further by recognizing that the trade in threatened
and endangered species for medicinal purposes threatens many
species in addition to bears, such as the highly imperiled tiger.
The Secretariat advised ”that joint approaches to these two
species may prove practical, beneficial and cost effective”.

The Standing Committee, therefore, agreed to convene
this important enforcement and forensics workshop and, at our
request, would attempt to do so in Asia by the end of 1998. It is

 

 

 

*The initiative was passed November 3, 1998.

 

 

 




 

AWI’s hope that holding the workshop in Asia would ensure
widespread participation by CITES officials in the Asian region
where demand for parts and products of endangered species is
greatest. It would also provide an advanced opportunity for public
education and awareness through the media attention that such a
workshop would receive.

AWI and SSN have made significant advancements in foster-
ing a cooperative and productive relationship with the CITES ‘1
Secretariat and Parties to the Convention. Hopefully this profes- 1:
sional connection will advance our efforts to protect bears, tigers
and other species in trade for years to come.

AWI Quarterly

TheAnimal Welfarelnstiz‘ute Quazrerb/isdisaibutedtoappmm'materZSiUOUmdiI/Iduals
and orgam'za lionsincluding publeIIbrarjes deans ofmedjcal and vetenhazysch 0015,
animalproteclive orgam'za lions, teachers SCjen blstsand A W] members. F0110 Wingare
summaries ofsome offbearh'desnoz‘men lionedm themajn bod yof tlzisAImualReport

Fall 1997, Volume 46, Number 4

 

 

 

 

amie Rappaport Clark, Direc-
tor of the US Fish and Wildlife
ervice, responded to a question
from AWI by announcing the
splendid news that the Division
of Law Enforcement has now
been moved to the Director’s
level. In other words, it is under
Director Clark’s immediate su-
pervision instead of making its
way through a lengthy bureau-
cratic series of offices, as was nec-
essary in the past. She cited ”the
remarkably successful Operation
Renegade” under which ”we got
our 38th conviction for smuggling parrots.”

”What’s the Real Story on Missouri’s River Otters?”
reports on inflated numbers issued by the Missouri Department
of Conservation (MDOC) which opened a no-limit otter trap-
ping season. David Hamilton, a MDOC scientist, claims that

” The fur industry is the only group that’s going to come up with
more humane traps!”

 




0 The Maasai Environmental Resource Coalition (MERC) op-
poses Zimbabwe’s CAMPFIRE scheme to use wildlife for commer-
cial purposes, including international ivory trade. The Maasai Coali—
tion and African NGOs from Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Uganda and
Zambia all opposed downlisting of elephants at the CITES meeting.

Winter 1998, Volume 47,
Number 1

 

he calamity for wild oran-
gutans in Borneo was de-
tailed in an authoritative article
which brought to light the delib—
erate burning of native
rainforests by palm oil industry
chief Bob Hasan, who was ap-
pointed Minister of Trade and
Industry. Indonesia’s forestry
policy has destroyed a million
or more acres of tropical forest.
The palm oil and pulpwood
plantations are installed imme-
diately after the clearing of the
ancient primary forests by fire. Willy Smits has served as Official
Advisor to the Ministry of Forestry. The International Monetary
Fund (IMF) has failed to exert any control. On the contrary, it
expects to have its loans repaid through such industries as the
plywood and palm oil business. Orangutan populations are esti-
mated to be only 20,000 or 30,000 and are constantly decreasing.
'The achievements of Roger L. Stevens, who served as
Treasurer of the Animal Welfare Institute from its inception
until his death, were summarized. When he stepped into the
battle between the National Society for Medical Research (NSMR)
and the nation’s humane society shelters, sparks flew and re—
sulted in the founding of the Animal Welfare Institute, the first
organization to seek reform of the treatment of experimental
animals. His enormous body of work in the arts, from produc-
tion of hundreds of plays on Broadway to the building and
Chairmanship of The Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in
Washington, DC, were outlined in the tribute.
0 In March, the US Department of Agriculture filed a second

 

 

 




 

10

complaint against The Coulston Foundation for grievous negli—
gence which caused the death of two chimpanzees, Jello and
Echo, as a result of veterinary blunders and a whole series of
other abuses: contamination, infestation, lack of pest and para-
site control, spoiled food, temperature extremes, and inad-
equate ventilation. In 1995, Coulston was charged with failing
to provide water to 14 nonhuman primates, four of whom died
as a result. Three died as a result of uncontrolled temperature
which reached 140 degrees Fahrenheit.

Spring 1998, Volume 47,
Number 2

 

Massive fires devastated
about 600,000 acres in
the Chimalapas region of
Mexico, destroying a haven for
wildlife including about 200
different species of migratory
birds. AWI is working with
botanists in the US and Mexico
on a pilot project to show the
feasibility of reforesting the fire
ravaged tropical rain forest.

°Tennessee Walking
Horses, prized for their
unique gait and good tem—
perament, are being abused
by owners who mutilate the animals’ feet to give them an
exaggerated gait. This torture, called ”soring,” was prohibited
by the federal Horse Protection Act, adopted in 1970, but the
industry has prevented proper enforcement. It is estimated
that more than 90% of the walking horses at major shows have
been sored.

° A well-studied, much-loved pack of wolves in Alaska’s
Denali National Park is in severe danger from reckless hunting
and trapping. If they die out, more than their lives will be lost:
intricate family bonds, an irreplaceable cultural inheritance,
and unmatched historical significance. A disturbing trend to-
ward treating wolf populations as one big pool of interchange-
able wolves, rather than complex and vital interdependent
family groups, could endanger their survival.

 




Speeches made and meetings attended
by AWI representatives

 

 

American Veterinary Medical Association annual meeting, Reno, NV,
AWI exhibit booth, July 21-24, 1997.

National Animal Damage Control Advisory Committee meeting,
Riverdale, MD, July 30-August 1, 1997.

Meeting with Michael Dunn, Assistant Secretary for Marketing and
Regulatory Affairs, USDA, regarding random source Class B dog and cat
dealers, August 5, 1997.

Mammal Trapping Conference; Cathy Liss presentation, ”Trapping:
The Animal Welfare Institute’s Perspective,” Edmonton, Alberta, Canada,
August 17-20, 1997.

Meeting with officials at the US Department of the Interior to discuss
South Korea’s ongoing role in the trade of bear parts and products,
Arlington, VA, August 26, 1997 .

Department of the Interior public meeting to review decisions taken at
the tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, August 28,
1997.

Meeting with the Marine Mammal Commission concerning protection
of dolphins pursued by tuna purse seiners, Silver Spring, MD, September
15, 1997.

Kooperationstraining von Affen zur Belastungsminderung. 4.
Versuchstier-Workshop; Hessisches Ministerium fur Frauen, Arbeit und
Sozialordnung, Wiesbaden, Germany, September 24, 1997.

Hearings by Congressman Christopher Shays on Pﬁesteriapiscicida pol-
lution caused by factory farms; testimony was presented by physicians,
scientists and state government officials under oath, September 25, 1997 .

Meeting regarding Animal Care's Strategic Direction and the Animal
Welfare Act with Dr. Ron DeHaven and Dr. Dick Watkins, September 30,
1997. -
Meeting with Michael Dunn, Assistant Secretary for Marketing and
Regulatory Affairs, USDA, to discuss enforcement of the Animal Welfare
Act, October 3, 1997. V

Launching of AWI’s new book, T lieAnimal Dealers, Evidence ofAbuse of
Animals in the CommerCJal Trade, 1952-1997; Kenneth Shapiro’s Animal
Models OfHuman Psychology; and signing by Roger Fouts of his new book,
Next ofKin, October 9, 1997.

Meeting at the US Trade Representative’s office regarding EU Regula—
tion 3254/ 91 against leghold traps, October 15, 1997.

Animal Welfare Committee meeting at the US Animal Health Associa-
tion annual meeting; presentation given by Cathy Liss on current animal
welfare issues, Louisville, KY, October 21, 1997.

European trip in support of EU Regulation 3254/ 91, Brussels, Belgium;
Bonn, Germany; The Hague, The Netherlands; and Paris, France, N ovem-
ber 3-7, 1997. '

”Refining Housing and Handling Conditions for Macaques Assigned to

11

 

 




 

12

Biomedical Research,” by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, Regional AVB American
Association of Laboratory Animal science meeting, Zeneca Pharmaceuti-
cals, Wilmington, DE, November 12, 1997.

Annual Meeting of the American Association of Laboratory Animal
Science and presentation against random source dog and cat dealers;
distributed T he Animal Dealers and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animalsin front of the Convention Center, Anaheim, CA, November 16—20, 1997.

Meeting with Jamie Rappaport Clark, Director of the US Fish and
Wildlife Service, November 21, 1997.

”Refining Housing and Handling Conditions for Macaques Assigned to
Biomedical Research,” by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, scientific exchange meet-
ing, Sierra Biomedical, Reno, NV, November 25, 1997.

Meeting with Jeremy Stone and Dorothy Preslar, Federation of Ameri-
can Scientists, December 15, 1997.

Meeting with Animal Care staff, APHIS-USDA, regarding the Animal
Welfare Act, Riverdale, MD, January 7, 1998.

Whale meeting, Humane Society of the United States, January 12, 1998.

Meeting with Jamie Rappaport Clark, Director of the US Fish and
Wildlife Service, to discuss CITES issues and wildlife law enforcement,
January 15, 1998.

International Whaling Commission interagency meeting, US Depart—
ment of Commerce, January 23, 1998.

Meeting with Michael Dunn, Assistant Secretary for Marketing and
Regulatory Programs, USDA, February 4, 1998.

Meeting to discuss divestment of the US Air Force chimpanzees to the
Institute for Captive Chimpanzee Care and Well-Being, February 10, 1998.

Meeting with Kevin Adams, Chief of the Division of Law Enforcement,
US Fish and Wildlife Service, Arlington, VA, February 19, 1998.

”Refining Housing and Handling Conditions for Macaques Assigned to
Biomedical Research,” by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, seminar at Huntingdon
Life Sciences, East Millstone, NJ, February 26, 1998.

Meeting of the CITES Standing Committee; meeting with head of US
delegation; meeting with Chair of the Standing Committee (UK); meeting
to discuss the international reptile trade; and Adam Robert’s speech to
Party delegates about global bear conservation, London, England, Febru—
ary 27 to March 6, 1998.

US Fish and Wildlife Service appropriations hearing, March 3, 1998.

World Trade Organization demonstration, Mayﬂower Hotel, March 4, 1998.

Strategy meeting on the International Whaling Commission, March 6, 1998.

National Academy of Sciences meeting, Observer, March 6, 1998.

MAI (Multilateral Agreement on Investment) book party, Public Citi—
zen, March 11, 1998.

Summit for Animals meeting, including Ben White’s presentation on
sonic bombardment of marine mammals and Cathy Liss’s presentation on
free trade versus animal welfare; Genesis Awards Ceremony, Los Angeles,
CA, March 27-29, 1998.

Jane Goodall Institute opening, Silver Spring, MD, March 30, 1998.

Press conference regarding the new publication Slaughterhouse, by Gail
Eisnitz, National Press Club, April 2, 1998.




Meeting to discuss US policy on endangered species protection with
former Department of the Interior Office of Scientific Authority zoologist,
Ronald Nowak, April 3, 1998.

”Ending Laboratory Primate Loneliness,” by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, Inter-
national Primate Protection League (IPPL) members’ meeting, IPPL Head—
quarters, Summerville, SC, April 4, 1998.

Geraldine R. Dodge Humane Ethics in Action Award to Diane Halverson,
AWI’s Farm Animal Consultant, Morristown, NJ, April 17, 1998.

Meeting with Kenneth Overman, Scott Charitable Trust, April 17, 1998.

Demonstration against the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and
the International Monetary Fund (IMF), organized by Public Citizen, US Capitol,
April 23, 1998.

Exhibition. showing history of the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA); reception with speeches by Roger Caras and
Congressmen Gilman, Lantos and Nadler, Cannon House Office Building
Rotunda, April 29, 1998.

Press conference on Project Animal Welfare Act, legal effort for inclusion of rats,
mice and birds under the Animal Welfare Act, April 30, 1998.

Meeting with Dr. James Baker, Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to discuss US action at the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission meeting, Washington, DC, May 1, 1998.

Jane Goodall press conference on Holloman Air Force chimpanzees, May
7, 1998.

Meeting of Non—Governmental Organizations to prepare for CITES Animals
Committee meeting, Humane Society of the US, Gaithersburg, MD, May 7, 1998.

Animal Care public meeting, USDA-APHIS, presentations by Cathy Liss on
”Veterinary Records” and ”Random Source Dealers,” and ”Addressing the
Needs of Nonhuman Primates Kept in Research Labs,” by Dr. Viktor Rein—
hardt, US Department of Agriculture, Riverdale, MD, May 12, 1998.

Meeting of the CITES Animals Committee, Caracas, Venezuela, May 25-
29, 1998.

National Wildlife Services Advisory Committee meeting, Riverdale, MD,
May 27—28, 1998.

Meeting with Dr. Catherine Woteki, Under Secretary of Agriculture, to
discuss recent revelations of slaughterhouse cruelty and to urge the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture to enforce the Humane Slaughter Act, May 29, 1998.

National Research Defense Council and Clean Water Network meetings
on industrial factory hog farms and chicken farming, week of June 2, 1998.

Ninth Biennial Conference of the World Society for the Protection of
Animals, Boston, MA, June 19, 1998.

Regular meetings of the Species Survival Network, its working groups,
and its board.

Regular meetings of the Dolphin Safe / Fair Trade Campaign, a coalition
working to protect dolphins and the integrity of the ”Dolphin Safe” label.

Regular meetings of the National Chimpanzee Research Retirement
Task Force.

Meetings took place in Washington, DC, unless otherwise noted.

13

 




 

14

AWI staff in print

 

 

A list of articles by our jn-house experts that ha ve appeared in
publications throughout the world:

Liss, CA. 1997. The Public is Attracted by the Use of Repellents.
Repellents in Wildlife Management: Proceedings of a Symposium, Na—
tional Wildlife Research Center, 429—433.

. 1998. Trapping. In Encyclopedia of Animal Rights and
Animal Welfare, Bekoff, M., Meaney, C., (Eds) (Greenwood Publishing
Group, Westport, CT), 338-340.

Reinhardt, V. 1997. Training nonhuman primates to cooperate during

blood collection: A review. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 36(4), 1-4.
1997. Training nonhuman primates to cooperate during

handling procedures: A review. Animal Technology, 48, 55-73.

_ _. 1997. Book review: Leyhausen P 1996 Katzenseele: Wesen

und Sozialverhalen. Franckh-Kosmos: Stuttgart, Germany. Ethology, 103,

704.

 

. 1997. Species-adequate housing and handling conditions for
Old World nonhuman primates kept in research institutions. In Comfort-
able Quarters for Laboratory Animals (Animal Welfare Institute, Washing—
ton, DC), Reinhardt, V. (Ed.), 85-93.

1997. Refining the traditional housing and handling of
laboratory rhesus macaques improves scientific methodology. Primate
Report, 49, 93—113. .

1998. Housing and handling of nonhuman primates. In
Encyclopedia of Animal Rights and Animal Welfare, Bekoff, M., Meaney,
C. (Eds) (Greenwood Publishing Group, Westport, CT), 217-222.

. 1998. Methoden zur Belastungsminderung von Rhesusaffen
(Macaca mulatta). In Versuchslaboratorium. Der Tierschutzbeauftragte 7,
24-28.

Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt A., Seelig, D. 1997. Environmental Enrichment
for Nonhuman Primates: An Annotated Bibliography for Animal Care
Personnel (Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC).

Reinhardt, V., Roberts, A. 1997. Effective Feeding Enrichment for Non-
human Primates: A Review. Animal Welfare (Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare, U.K.), Vol. 6.

Reinhardt, V., Seelig, D. 1998. Environmental Enhancement for Caged
Rhesus Macaques: A Photographic Documentation (Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, Washington, DC).

Roberts, AM. 1998. China’s Appetite for Bear Parts: Suppressible or
Insatiable? SATYA, May 1998.

. 1998. Land Mines: Animal Casualties of the Underground
War. Animals Agenda, March/ April.

Roberts, A.M., Sanders, S. 1997. Legality of the Global Bear Parts Trade.
The Environmental Law Journal (Ohio Northern University College of
Law, Environmental Law Society), Vol. 5, No. 1, Spring 1997.

Stevens, CG. 1998. Humane Slaughter Act. In Encyclopedia of Animal
Rights and Animal Welfare, Bekoff, M., Meaney, C., (Eds) (Greenwood
Publishing Group, Westport, CT), 192-194.




Statement of activities and
changes in net assets

 

 

CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES:

contributions - Foundations and trusts
- Legacies and bequests
- Other

Memberships

Sale of publications and reprints

Dividend income

Interest income

Realized and unrealized gain (loss) on securities

other income

NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:

Save the Whales
Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment
Public Education and Projects
Betsy Beaver Campaign — leghold trap ban
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratorv Animals
Swedish Pig Production System
Other

Total unrestricted revenUes and other support
EXPENSES:
Program services:
Public Education and Projects
Save the Whales

Family Farm Campaign

Management and general
FUndraising

Total expenses
Increase in unrestricted net assets
CHRNGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Grants and contributions
Net assets released from restrictions

Increase in temporarily restricted net assets
INCREASE IN NET ASSETS
NET ASSETS - beginning of year

NET ASSETS - end of year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year Ended
June 30

1998 1997
$112,155 $ 94,613
315,989 138,282
213,896 341,152
26,809 31,395
3,349 820
14,226 10,345
21,595 34,075
2,388 (6,024)
3.289 3.151
713.696 647.809
13,654 7,886
36,000 27,089
4,560 53,349
— 22,000

20,500 -

20,000 —
- 440
94.714 110.764
808.410 758.573
478,888 443,453
93,218 60,238
47.803 54.051
619,909 557,742
104,248 98,816
9.765 11.258
733.922 667.816
74.488 90.757
120,154 112,235
(94.714) (110.764)
25.440 11.471
99,928 92,228
717.622 625.394
$ 817,550 $717,622

A completefjnanaalsz‘a femenf, a udjtedbyRosenberg, Neu an‘h &Kuc]2ner,
ceflzﬁedpubljcaeco un tan ts, P. C, 119a vaﬂable upon requestfmmA WIOI the

New Y arkSz‘a te Board OfSOCjal Welfare, Albany, NY 12223.

15

 




Salaries
Payroll taxes and
employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterlies '
Printing and publications
(except for Quarterlies)
Research, writing and editing
Grants
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing
costs (except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and
ofﬁce supplies
Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and
other educational materials
Consultants
Internet services
Publications:
M
Comfortable Qu_arters for laboratory Animals

Miscellaneous
Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

Total expenses

 

Program
Services

173,592 $

16,743
12,154
8,368

37,910

10,388
39,440
33,833
40,582

26,799
17,378
1,600
2,156
810
119,887
6,489
47,968
14,666
381
611,144

8,765

619,909 $

Management
and General

59,784 $

8,989
2,123

1,811

763
3,039
11,765
9,000
168

89

439

3,357 _

101,327

2,921

104,248 $ 9,765 8 733,922

Fund
RaisinL

2,066 $

198
139
400

- 2,609

85
1,326

21

6,844

2,921

Total
235,442
25 ,930

14,416
8,768

' 37,910

14,808
39,440
33,833
41,430

31,164
29,164
10,600
2,324
899
119,887
6,928
47,968
14,666
3,738
719,315

14,607

 

 

year ended June 30, 1998

Statement of functional expenses

 

i_.\
O\

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Directors
Marjorie Cooke
David O. Hill
Fredrick Hutchison
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr
Cathy Liss
Christine Stevens
Cynthia Wilson

Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Fredrick Hutchison, Treasurer

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. — Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece

Ambassador Tabarak Husain -
Bangladesh

Angela King — United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya
Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. — Denmark

Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. - Russia

founded 1951

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.

John Walsh, M.D.

Staff and Consultants
J.D. Beary, Computer Consultant
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers

Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Consultant

Kelly Hansen, Publications Coordinator
Lynne Hutchison, Executive Secretary
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Patrick Nolan, Editorial Consultant
Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant

Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Consultant

Jennifer Rinick, Administrative
Assistant

Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Ben White, International Coordinator

 

 

 

BEQUESTS To AWI

 

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s future
through a provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

I 37' ve, de VIIseand bequeath t0 theAnima] Welfarelnsﬂ'lute; loca tedjn Washingfon,

DC thesum 0f$

and/ or (speczfjcally described property).

Donations to AWI, a not-for-profit corporation exempt under Internal Rev-
enue Code Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries
you may have. In cases where you have specific wishes about the disposition
of your bequest, we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

 

 

 

 




 

08

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO BOX 3650
WASHINGTON, DC 20007

PHONE: (202) 337—2332 FAX: (202) 338-9478
EMAIL: awi@animalwelfare.com
URL: httpz/ /www.animalwelfare.com

 




ANIMAL
WELFARE
INSTITUTE

 

 

 

A}

arming Agweial‘ion ( HP

Humane f

ORTY—EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT
My 1, 1998 to jar/16. 30, 1999

 

 

 




 

In 1951, Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his permission to the Animal
Welfare Institute to strike a medal in his honor to be presented for
outstanding achievement in the advancement of animal welfare.

In granting his permission, Dr. Schweitzer wrote,
“I would never have believed that my philosophy, which
incorporates in our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all

creatures, would he noticed and recognized in my lifetime. ”

 

Cover: Rescued pigs photographed at the Humane Farming Association ’s Farm Animal Refuge,
Suwanna Ranch. in California.

 

 

 




 

FARM ANIMAL S To our horror, AWI learned that

Washington, DC area Fresh F ields/ Whole Foods grocery stores were selling
factory—farmed Smithﬁeld brand pork products. A small demonstration on
the sidewalk in front of the Georgetown Fresh F ields/ Whole Foods grocery
store convinced the directors of the chain’s mid—Atlantic region to meet with
AWI. After further negotiation and visits to
the premises of suppliers, the mid—Atlantic

 

regional ofﬁce decided to carry humanely-
raised Niman Ranch brand pork instead of
the cruelly produced pork.

Niman Ranch sells only free-range
beef, lamb and pork. It ensures that its
farmers follow the AWI requirements
for humane treatment of pigs such
as provision of bedding, freedom of
movement and socialization with other
pigs. Our requirements also ban
subtherapeutic dosing of the pigs with

 

Diane Halvers‘on / A W!

antibiotics, which causes the growth of

Saws have a Sirong instinct to prepare a resistant bacteria, negating the effects
SQﬁ‘, warm nestfbr the baby pigs before

they are born. Bar in Izogjaeiaries they are
denied all bedding and are immobilized in humanS. Heavy m6talS, $11011 as aTSCHiC,
a narrow, Sleelfarrowing craze.

of needed antibiotics by dangerously ill

are also banned by the Niman Ranch

 

 

protocol. But hog factories incorporate
them in the pigs’ food to obtain maximum speed of growth of the piglets
to market weight.

The leadership of the Animal Welfare Institute in this field has
played a vital role in changing the views of the American public. The
cruelty and greed displayed by industrial agriculture subjects animals
to grossly inadequate space for even the simplest natural movements.
Corporate “farming,” which has continued to drive humane family farm-
ers off the land through shamefully unfair trade practices, is at last
being noticed by the public. Every summer the industry “absorbs”
financial losses when temperatures soar in the huge broiler houses
where chickens cannot escape from the gross overcrowding to which
they are subjected. No humanitarian should eat chicken or eggs which
are not clearly labeled “Free Range.”

 




 

 

CRUEL TRAPPING PRACTICES

The ﬁrst successful test in the House of Representatives in response to the
cruelty of steel jaw leghold traps and strangling snares took place this year.
Representative Sam Farr of California garnered a vote of 259 to 166 on his
amendment to the Interior Appropriations Bill banning use of these archaic
instruments for recreational and commercial ﬁir trapping on all national
wildlife refuges.

The debate on the House ﬂoor made

 

plain that the torture inﬂicted on animals
by commercial interests violates the will of
the American people. Mr. Farr cited ﬁgures
of the most recent poll which showed that
84% of Americans are strongly opposed to
cruel trapping in the refuges.

Prior to a vote on the amendment
in the Senate there was intensive lobbying
by the lntemational Association of Fish
and Wildlife Agencies (IAFWA) and their
cohorts. State game departments, who

 

 

 

contribute funds annually to the
“International’s” fat budget, called Swans and other birds (upfrecﬂuﬂnly
Senators to lobby against the amendment. “Wafﬂe? Victim/5 ‘2f35‘1'f’é”./"“’V

By conducting their attack by phone, the leglwld Wm"
state game ofﬁcials avoided a paper trail 1
which would have 1) shown their collusion with the IAF WA and 2) made
them accountable to the constituencies in their own states. Despite the
encouraging vote in the House, Senators succumbed to the pressure, and the
measure was voted down on the ﬂoor of the Senate.

The humane Farr amendment brought forth a normal, sincere response
from the House of Representatives. The lobbies that have stiﬂed civilized
action were caught off guard by Mr. Farr’s honest amendment to the appro—
priations bill, but the pro—steel-trap lobbyists immediately sprang into action
to prevent Senate passage. Thus, even this modest legislative effort to prevent
outrageous cruelty in the wildlife refuges themselves was struck down.

The United States, to our country’s shame, has stood by while 88 other
countries, including all the members of the European Union, have prohibited
use of the steel jaw leghold trap. Of major fur—producing countries, only
Canada and China, along with the US, still tolerate this frightful instrument.

 

The Record. Huckensuc'k, Noun/emu




The Society for Animal Protective Legislation, AWI’s companion organi-
zation, has sought legislation to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap for
more than 20 years. In every Congress, such legislation regularly garners more
than 100 co—sponsors, but has never achieved a hearing by a full committee.

The successful California Referendum, to ban the leghold trap, adopted
by a large majority of California voters, is even now being challenged in
court by the National Audubon Society, which erroneously claims that the
only way to keep foxes from eating the eggs and chicks of an endangered

 

ground—nesting bird is to put out steel jaw leghold traps.

AWI’s authoritative publication, Alternative Traps, provides many
effective alternatives to this cruelest of trapping devices. The latest edition of
Alternative Traps will be available immediately after the New Year. Humane
organizations and libraries are invited to request a free copy.

LAB O RATO RY ANIMAL S Viktor Reinhardt,

DMV, PhD, AWI’s Laboratory Animal Consultant, is a proliﬁc writer and
speaker at seminars in different countries. For example, during the year

 

he traveled to Santafe de Bogota, Colombia, to speak on two subjects

on which he is a widely recognized expert, “Stress on Wild Animals and
Its Management in Captivity and Rehabilitation Centers.” First, he spoke
about “What can be done to avoid distress reactions of captive nonhuman
primates during handling procedures?” and then, in a different seminar,
“Quantitatively tested environmental enrichment options for caged nonhu-
man primates.” It is encouraging to note that the environmental enrichment
required by US. law has now made its way to
Latin America.

Dr. Reinhardt also addressed seminars at the
German Primate Center in Gottingen, Germany:
(1) Perspectives in Primatology, “Environmental
enrichment for laboratory macaques: Research
and Application” and (2) Research Fellow
Seminar, “Applied Ethology in the primate
research laboratory.”

Shortly afterward, in England, which has had
useful laboratory animal regulations since the
19th Century, Dr. Reinhardt was invited to speak Twelve year" Old rhesus

. macaque, Georgie, welcomes
at Porton Down at the Defense Evaluation and ,3 month Old 817”.“

Viktor Reinhardt /AWI

 

 

 




Research Agency on “Reﬁnement of macaque housing and handling.”

But as Dr. Reinhardt internationally spreads his good advice about
improving the lives of laboratory primates, the US. Congress had to investi-
gate the massive animal testing proposal by the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA). Known as the “High Production Volume [HPV] Chemical
Challenge Program,” a huge and severely painful animal testing program
was being encouraged by EPA. The most archaic of the tests that EPA
planned to employ is the LDSO, which means that in seeking the lethal
dose of the widely differing chemicals, mice and rats and other animals are
subjected to long-lasting pain by a test that kills at least half of the animal
subjects. Dr. Neal Barnard, testifying before a House of Representatives
Committee, called the LD50 a World War I-era test so crude that it should
have been outlawed long, long ago.

The Multicenter Evaluation of In Vitro Cytotoxicity (MEIC), headed
by Dr. Bjorn Ekwall, found that the rat and mouse LD50 tests are wrong
more than one-third of the time. In contrast, the MEIC trial conducted, in
29 different countries, found that by using human cell batteries of tests, the
accuracy can be raised to 80%. Dr. Barnard charged that EPA was ignoring
examples brought to their attention.

EPA did not announce in the Federal Register, as it should have done,
the plans they were secretly discussing with the Chemical Manufacturers
Association. Instead, they relied on the Internet! Under pressure from
Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (R, CA), EPA’s Dr. William Sanders
said it would be in the Federal Register within two weeks of the hearing.

AWI QUARTERLY w

Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000 individuals and orga-
nizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary
schools, animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI

members. Following are summaries of some of the articles.

F all/ Winter 1998—1999, Volume 4 7/48, Number 4/]

‘r.\

» State Referendums advanced the cause of animals repeatedly in
November 1998. Voting in California, the ballot initiative banned steel jaw
leghold and other body-gripping traps, and South Dakota banned corporate
farming in the whole state. Hog factories in Colorado now are regulated,
and the hog factory issue inﬂuenced the defeat of Senator Lauch Faircloth
of North Carolina. F aircloth had been Chairman of the Subcommittee on

 

 

 




Clean Water, Wetlands, Private Property, and Nuclear Safety, where his
million-dollar ownership of slaughterhouse stock was a serious deterrent to 31
environmental bills. ‘

> One hundred and seventy—one pigs packed into a three-tiered truck
trailer en route from a North Carolina factory farm to a Pennsylvania
slaughterhouse were abandoned on a residential street in Washington, DC.
Police called the Washington Humane
Society for help, which towed the truck to
a Maryland animal sanctuary where vol-

 

unteers worked far into the night unload-
ing the frightened pigs, four of whom
died of the stress they had undergone.
A representative from the hog factory
tried to take the pigs away, but he was

  

no match for the young woman from
the Animal Legal Defense Fund who
demanded cash or a certiﬁed check for
payment of the transport, care and feed-

Lynn and Donna Rogers

ing, at which he threw up his hands and
left the pigs to their newfound home.

>> The annual meeting of the US. Animal Health Association (USAHA)
adopted an important Resolution encouraging “strong enforcement of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act by USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection
Service to prevent abuses to animals protected under the Act.” USAHA
represents all federal veterinarians, state and federal governments, universi-
ties and industry. The Resolution was adopted at the urging of AWI’s
Executive Director, Cathy Liss.

F» The destruction of the Indonesian rainforest and its unique inhabit—
ants, the orangutans, was described by the Environmental Investigation

 

Agency’s Dave Currey. EIA published The Politics of Extinction docu-
menting this tragedy.

> E.O. Wilson’s Consilience. The Unity of Knowledge was reviewed.
Wilson, the most respected of scientists, speaks of “the extinction spasm we
are now inﬂicting.” He writes that if we don’t choose to moderate it, we

will see the closing of the Cenozoic Era or Age of Mammals, “and a new
one characterized not by new life forms but by biological impoverishment. It
might appropriately be called the ‘Eremozoic Era,’ the Age of Loneliness.”

 




 

 

Spring 1999, Volume 48, Number 2

>> “Dolphins Die for Tuna/Cocaine Connection” reprints a major section
of Craig Van Note’s 1999 speech at Tufts University’s Symposium on
Global Crime, Corruption and Accountability. Van Note’s research into the
Mexican and Colombian drug cartels brings together information from

the US. Drug Enforcement Administration, the FBI, the CIA and Coast
Guard, as well as investigations by the Swiss, Panamanian and Mexican
governments. Van Note charges that powerful crime syndicates, including
the Cali Cartel, the Sicilian Maﬁa, and the Tijuana Cartel, have bought up
most of the tuna ﬂeets and canneries in Latin America in order to smuggle

AWI

Spring 1999
_ “a“ , 1 ,ﬂumbefwz

 

cocaine and heroin by sea and to laun-

 

der billions in narco proﬁts. Illustrations
include the Nataly I, captured in 1995
by the Coast Guard, a tuna purse seiner

     

that doubled as a cocaine smuggling
vessel. Head shots are shown of Ramon

 

Arellano-Felix, leader of the Tijuana
Drug Cartel; the Cali Cartel’s Jose
Castrillon, jailed in Florida on drug
trafﬁcking charges; and Raul Salinas
(brother of the former Mexican
President), imprisoned in Mexico for
murder and business partner to the

Cali and Tijuana Cartels. Francisco
Labastida, the presidential candidate of
Mexico’s ruling party, PRI, has “long-standing ties” to Mexican and
Colombian drug cartels, according to the CIA. He was governor of Sinaloa
State from 1987 to 1993 when the drug cartels set up the tuna/cocaine
connection in Mexico, based in the Sinaloa port of Mazatlan.

>> Both Canada and the European Union banned the use of Bovine
Recombinant Growth Hormone (rBGH) because it is toxic to the cows who
are injected with it in order to make them increase their yield of milk and

it is potentially toxic to humans who drink the rBGH—tainted milk. The AW]
Quarterly showed sickening photographs of the terrible sores and swollen
hocks and immense udders caused by this genetically engineered synthetic
hormone. These poor cows have to be dosed repeatedly with antibiotics
because of the increase in mastitis and other painful infections of their
distended udders. Two leading scientiﬁc journals, Science in the US. and

=r4‘ g: , 3




3.4 4 44 :ﬁ

5?; Q “ -2

The Lancet in the UK, published articles on increased incidence of prostate
and breast cancer in humans linked to IGF-l (Insulin-like Growth Factor).
Only FDA accepted uncritically Monsanto’s promotional literature.

> US. Department of Agriculture Inspectors ﬁnally caught up with female
dog dealer Betty Ray Davis, who sold pets to laboratories, fraudulently
claiming to their owners that the dogs would be companions on a lOO—acre
estate. In fact, she sold them to out-of—state laboratories. It took years for
personnel from USDA, the US. Department of Justice, and various local
authorities to obtain evidence for this case, yet Davis only lost her license,
and her fellow criminals were sentenced to 18 months of probation! There
are still 40 dealers with thousands of suppliers—too many for the hard-
pressed USDA Inspectors to stand a chance of catching up with. The suffer-
ing and death of pets in experimental laboratories must be halted.

Summer 1999, Volume 48, Number 3

5» AWI’s Adam M. Roberts reported on the CITES Animals Committee
Meeting held in Antananarivo, the capitol of the African island nation of
Madagascar, which boasts magniﬁcent, highly endangered indigenous
wildlife. Many rare species inhabit the Madagascar rainforest: lemurs
including the majestic black and white indri,
reptiles such as the Red Panther chameleon,
the radiated tortoise much sought by illegal
animal dealers, and amphibians such as

the Madagascar bright-eyed frog. So much
of Madagascar’s natural splendor has been
destroyed by extractive industries, that
enormous efforts must bermade to preserve
the remaining wild lands for future
generations.

F» A major loss of a whole class of wild
creatures, frogs, toads, salamanders and
other amphibians, is sweeping the globe.

 

Scientists cannot agree on a single cause

for this worldwide blight, but pressure from the drainage of wetlands,
thinning of the ozone layer that has increased ultraviolet radiation from

the sun, the spread of viral and fungal disease, and contamination from
agricultural run-off are among the many elements blamed for the hatching of
deformed young and for the outright extinction of these humble yet essential
inhabitants of ecosystems throughout the world.

 

\1

 

 




 

 

 

Speeches Made and Meetings
Attended by A W] Representatlves

 

3» “Leaders’ Forum on Wildlife Damage to Agriculture,” Jack H. Berryman Institute,
Utah State University, Logan, UT, July 20—22, 1998.

3* Species Survival Network Board Meeting and Planning Summit, Oxford, United
Kingdom, September 10-13, 1998.

> Meeting with representatives of the US. Department of the Interior to discuss issues
relevant to the Meeting of African Elephant Range States, September 22, 1998.

>‘> Meetings with Michael Dunn, Under Secretary, Marketing and Regulatory Pro-
grams, US. Department of Agriculture, September 23, 1998; November 20, 1998;
March 25, 1999.

5“» Annual meeting of the United States Animal Health Association Animal Welfare
Committee, Minneapolis, MN. Presentation on the need for increased enforcement of
the Humane Slaughter Act given by Cathy Liss. USAHA adopted a resolution on this
subject. October 8, 1998.

3?» Student Animal Legal Defense Fund Conference, Lewis and Clark University, Port-
land, OR, October 15, 1998.

3'" Annual meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Cincin-
nati, OH, October 19-22, 1998.

>3 Meeting with Makah Tribal Council, Noah Bay, WA, October 20, 1998.

> Meetings with the South African Embassy in Washington to discuss the fate of 30
baby elephants cruelly captured in Botswana, October 28, 1998; November 17, 1998.

> Pain Management and Humane Endpoints Workshop, National Academy of Sci-
ences, November 2-3, 1998.

> Meeting to discuss the bushmeat trade and implications for primate conservation in
Africa, November 19, 1998.

>5 Chimpanzee Consortium. Gathering of animal protection organization representa-
tives to discuss strategies for the long—term care of chimpanzees currently being used in
research, December 14, 1998.

‘> Luncheon and Oleg Cassini cruelty-free faux fur fashion Show hosted by the
Humane Society of the United States, National Press Club, December 15, 1998.

> Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment, Rochester, IL, January 1999;
Des Moines, IA, April 1999.

5» Meeting to discuss statewide ballot initiatives across the country, Humane Society
of the United States, January 7, 1999.

Fe Meeting on the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI), Friends of the Earth,
January 12, 1999.

>> Whales Alive Conference, Wailea, HI, January 21-24, 1999.

> Meeting with Gerry Jackson, Assistant Director, Ecological Services, US. Fish and
Wildlife Service, to oppose the Service’s mandated use of toothed steel jaw leghold traps
on wolves, January 21, 1999.

3" Press conference on Capitol Hill regarding cockflghting, featuring celebrity wrestler
Bill Goldberg, February 2, 1999.

 

 




 

 

> Presentation regarding the inclusion of rats, mice and birds as species to be pro-
tected by the Animal Welfare Act, National Academy of Sciences, February 2, 1999.

> Meeting with USDA, APHIS, Animal Care staff and humane organizations to
discuss enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, Riverdale, MD, February 4, 1999.

> Press conference on Capitol Hill sponsored by People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals to show documentation of multiple cases of extreme brutality against pigs at a
factory farm in North Carolina, February 10, 1999.

3:» Seminar on Makah Whaling, Evergreen State College, Olympia, WA, February 20, 1999.

> Humane Society of the United States Annual Expo and presentation of Joseph Wood
Krutch Medal to Christine Stevens, Orlando, FL, February 25—26, 1999.

x

P Demonstration in front of Fresh F ields/ Whole Foods protesting sale of Smithﬁeld
factory-farmed pork and urging replacement by humanely raised Niman Ranch pork,
February 26, 1999.

National Animal Factory Strategy Meeting, February 26-27, 1999.

V

> Environmental Law Conference, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, March 4-7, 1999.
> “Rats,” the ﬁlm, March 19, 1999.

> Scientists’ Center for Animal Welfare meeting on inclusion of rats, mice and birds as
species protected by the Animal Welfare Act, San Diego, CA, March 20, 1999.

>> Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research and ARENA Meetings, San Diego,
CA, March 21-23, 1999.

> Meeting with Dr. Judy Vaitukaitis, Director, National Center for Research Resources,
National Institutes of Health, on the problems with random source dealers who supply
dogs and cats for experimentation, Bethesda, MD, March 29, 1999.

> Congressional hearing on appropriations for the US. Fish and Wildlife Service, Law
Enforcement Division, April 13, 1999.

‘P Meeting with Dr. Wendy Baldwin, Ofﬁce of Extramural Research, National Insti—
tutes of Health, on the problems with random source dealers who sell dogs and cats for
experimental purposes, Bethesda, MD, April 16, 1999.

> The Rat Summit, a meeting called by Mayor Anthony Williams for the government
of the District of Columbia, Washington Court Hotel, April 17, 1999.

> Speech addressing the connection between drug lords and tuna ﬁshermen, by Craig
Van Note of the Monitor Consortium, Military Ofﬁcers Building, April 21, 1999.

>> Advisory Board Meeting to discuss possible foundation donation of land in Texas
for an animal sanctuary, Albuquerque, NM, April 21-23, 1999.

> Non—governmental organizations preparatory meeting for CITES Animals Commit-
tee meeting, Humane Society of the United States, April 30, 1999.

> Meetings with the Director of the Department of Fish and Wildlife, State Capital,
Olympia, WA, May 5, 1999 and June 28, 1999.

> Public meeting with representatives from the US. Fish and Wildlife Service to discuss
agenda for the CITES Animals Committee, Department of the Interior, May 6, 1999.

‘> Meeting with representatives of the State Department to discuss CITES issues,
May 11, 1999.

3* High Production Volume (HPV) meeting, Challenge Stakeholders, Christine Stevens
participated in discussion, American Petroleum Institute, May 20, 1999.

> International Whaling Commission meeting, Grenada. Ben White co—edited E CO,
the daily paper, with Dr. Paul Spong, May 24-28, 1999.

 

 




 

 

>> Senator John Chafee’s working luncheon on the tiger as an endangered species,
National Press Club, June 11, 1999.

>> Congressional hearing on the Environmental Protection Agency’s High Production
Volume (HPV) Chemical Testing Program, Congressional Subcommittee on Energy and
Environment, Committee on Science. Dr. William Sanders, Director, Ofﬁce of Pollution
Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency; Dr. Neal Barnard for the
Physicians’ Committee for Responsible Medicine; and Jessica Sandler for the Doris Day
Animal League, June 17,1999.

> Meeting with Dr. Alexey Yablokov, June 28,1999.

> Berryman Institute Advisory Board Meeting, Logan, UT, June 29—30, 1999.
> Regular CITES Strategy Meetings of the Species Survival Network

> Meetings of the Clean Water Action Network.

Feedlot Working Group Steering Committee, bimonthly conference calls.

 

Meetings took place in Washington, DC, unless otherwise noted.

A WI Staﬂln Print

 

Fe Reinhardt, V., 1998. Pairing Macaca mulatta and Macaca arctoides of both sexes.
Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 37(4), 2.

> Reinhardt, V., 1999. Pair-housing overcomes self—biting behavior in macaques. Labo-
ratory Primate Newsletter, 38(1), 4—5, January.

> Reinhardt, V., Bryant D., Kurth, B., Lynch, R., Asvestas, C., Byrum, R., St. Claire,
M., Seelig, D., 1998. Discussion: A Plea for pair-housing of adult macaques. Laboratory
Primate Newsletter, 37(4), 4-5, October.

> Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A.,1999. Are legal cage space requirements sound? Labora-
tory Primate Newsletter, 38(2), 5-6, April.

> Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A., 1998. Environmental Enrichment for Primates: An
Annotated Database (Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC), September.

> Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A., 1998. Environmental Enrichment for Nonhuman Pri—
mates: An Annotated Bibliography for Animal Care Personnel, Second Edition (Animal
Welfare Institute, Washington, DC), December.

> Roberts, A.M., 1998. Baby Elephants, First Step to Freedom. Animals ’Agena’a,
November/December.

>> Roberts, A.M., 1999. Bears Deserve a Healthy Dose of Preventative Medicine.
Animal Guardian (Doris Day Animal League), Spring.

38> Roberts, A.M., Ge Gabriel, Grace, and Robinson, Jill, 1999. Dying to Heal: The Use
of Animals in Traditional Medicine. Animals ’Agena’a, May/June.

 




 

Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Assets

 

CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES:

Contributions - Foundations and trusts
- Legacies and bequests
- other

Memberships

Sale of publications and reprints

Dividend income

Interest income

Realized and unrealized (loss) gain on securities

Other income

NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:
Save the Whales
Farm Animal Projects
Public Education and Projects
ggmfortable Quarters for Laboratorv Animals
Other

Total unrestricted revenues and other support
EXPENSES:
Program services:
Public Education and Projects

Save the Whales
Farm.Animal Projects

management and general
FUndraising

Total expenses
(Decrease) increase in unrestricted net assets
CHANGES IN TTFEXNKARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Grants and contributions
Net assets released from restrictions

Increase in temporarily restricted net assets
(DECREASE) INCREASE IN NET ASSETS

NET ASSETS - beginning of year

NET ASSETS - end of year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year Ended
JUne 30

199 998
$238,579 $ 112,155
48,699 315,989
209,237 213,896
39,117 26,809
1,002 3,349
16,036 14,226
21,595 21,595
754 3.289
566.180 713.696
10,000 13,654
90,000 56,000
- 4,560
' 20,500

21884 -
102.884 94.714
669.064 808.410
493,245 478,888
66,417 93,218
114.892 47.803
674,554 619,909
106,675 104,248
11.753 9.765
792.982 733.922
(123.918) 74.488
133,896 120,154
(102.884) (94.714)
31.012 25.440
(92,906) 99,928
817.550 717.622
§ 724,644 $817,550

A complete ﬁnancial statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirth & Kuclzner,
Certiﬁed Public Accountants, PC, is available upon request from A W] or the

New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223.

11

 

 




 

Salaries

Payroll taxes and

employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising

Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterlies

Printing and publications
(except for Quarterlies)
Research, writing and editing
Grants

Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing
costs (except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and
ofﬁce supplies

Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and
other educational materials
Consultants

Internet services

Schweitzer medal
Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

Total expenses

Program
Services

201,192

18,111
15,482
350

50,321

10,946
49,841
74,500
38,236

12,065
23,140
1,813
1,864
162,561
2,840

135
3,793

Management
and General

67,565

7,144
2,681

1,163

806
3 ,390

11,683
9,500

288

3

Fund
Raising

2,390 $
207

180
1,038

2,197

355

2,931

Total
27 1 , 147

25,462
18,343
1,388

50,321

14,306
49,841
74,500
39,397

18,386

34,823
9,500
1,813

1,864
162,561
2,840
135
4,081

 

 

667,190

7,364

104,220

2,455

9,298

2,455

780,708

12,274

 

$

674,554

106,675

 

$

11,753 $

792,982

 

 

Statement of F unetional Expenses
Year Ended June 30, I 999

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute

 

Directors
Marjorie Cooke
David 0. Hill
Fredrick Hutchison
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr
Cathy Liss
Christine Stevens
Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Fredrick Hutchison, Treasurer

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile
Agnes Van Volkenburgh - Poland
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. — Denmark
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. — Russia

founded I 95 I

 

Scientiﬁc Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

Staff and Consultants
Ava Armendariz, Publications Coordinator
Amy Conklin, Administrative Assistant
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Ofﬁcers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Consultant
Chris Heyde, Research Associate
Lynne Hutchison, Executive Secretary
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Specialist
Jennifer Rinick, Research Assistant

Adam Roberts, Senior Research Associate

Wendy Swann, Research Associate
Ben White, International Coordinator

 

Bequests to A WI

D. C., the sum of$

 

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute ’s future through a
provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington,
and/or (speciﬁcally described property).

Donations to AWI, a not-for—proﬁt corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code
Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries you may have. In
cases where you have speciﬁc wishes about the disposition of your bequest, we
suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

 

 

 




63)

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

www.animalwelfare.com

® Printed on Recycled Paper

 




Animal Welfare Institute

TO WTO

Ntwamigm SEE}; 1%)}9‘5}

Forty—Ninth Annual Report
July 1,1999 tojune 30, 2000

 




 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) is a non—proﬁt charitable
organization founded in 1951 to reduce the sum total of pain and fear
inﬂicted on animals by humans.

Our speciﬁc goals are:

Humane treatment of laboratory animals and the development
and use of non-animal testing methods.

Preservation of species threatened with extinction and
protection for wildlife in international trade.

Reform of cruel treatment of farm animals, intensively
conﬁned in animal factories. AWI has been a leading
opponent of cruel slaughter methods since the 19505.

Regulation of transport conditions for all animals.

Encouragement of humane science teaching and prevention of
painful experiments on animals by high school students.

A ban on steel jaw leghold traps and reform of other cruel
methods for controlling wildlife populations.

 

In 1951, Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his permission to the Animal
Welfare Institute to strike a medal in his honor to be presented for
outstanding achievement in the advancement of animal welfare.

In granting his permission, Dr. Schweitzer wrote,
“I would never have believed that my philosophy, which incorporates
in our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all creatures, would be
noticed and recognized in my lifetime.”

Cover: WT O protest in Seattle, Washington, November, 1 999, Jen Riniek/AWI.
Opposite page, top to bottom: Bottlenose dolphin, David Hofmann; Elephant, James Balog; Green
Sea Turtle, US Fish and Wildlife Service; Sow mothering her piglets, Diane Halverson/AWI;
Brown bear, Cathy Liss/AWI.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Dear Friend:

It’s been a busy year for the Animal Welfare
Institute (AWI). We’ve been out across America
and, indeed, across the globe, ﬁghting for the
humane treatment of animals and conservation of
threatened and endangered species. Our efforts
are described in detail throughout this annual
report. You can also read synopses of the past
year’s Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly articles,
see the speeches AWI’s stajf have made and the
meetings we’ve attended, and see the articles
we have had published in other magazines and
journals. Thanks to the generous contributions
of our donors, we’ve been able to keep up
our hard work on behalf of animals everywhere.
With continued support we will maintain our
indefatigable vigilance throughout the coming
year and beyond. We appreciate your interest in

the Animal Welfare Institute.

President

 




Marine Mammals

US Navy Blasts Whales and Dolphins

arly in 1998, the Animal Welfare Institute organized swimmers to plunge in close to
Ethe research vessel Cory Chouest off Hawaii. Scientists on board were intentionally
targeting mating and calving humpback whales with up to 155 decibels of sound to see
how they might react, but their protocol called for the suspension of broadcasts if human
swimmers were within ﬁve miles of the ship. Even
though we shut down the transmissions about half
the time, whales left the area, prompting whale
watching companies to sue for lack of income.

The Hawaii tests were just one of a series
designed to show that marine mammals are not
bothered by some of the loudest sounds ever made
by humans. This is to give a green light to the
deployment of a US Navy device called Low-Fre-
quency Active Sonar (LFA). LFA, dreamt up back
in the middle of the cold war, is designed to ﬁnd
silent enemy submarines up to forty miles away
by blasting the ocean with extremely loud sounds
and reading the echo. When concern was raised
as to what this might be doing to whales and dol-

 

§ phins, the Navy started intentionally hitting them

. TE with sound, but without any follow-up to see what

p H p ., E became of the creatures. The Navy claims it can
One ofthe beakedwhales that died of deploy the LFA device in eighty percent of the
cerebral hemorrhage after the US Navy world’s oceans at 240 decibels or more and have
exerCises in the Bahamas- This apparently no effect on marine mammals. Just as frightening,

was caused by regular Navy sonar. The
LFA the Navy wants to deploy would be
over a million times more intense.

the permit division of National Marine Fisheries
Service (N MFS) is changing the rules to accommo-
date the Navy. It has raised the allowable sound
that can be broadcast by researchers to 180 decibels and done away with worrying about
research that causes behavioral changes in marine mammals.

AWI continues to lead the opposition to this insane and unnecessary device and the
experiments designed to facilitate its deployment. After the Navy killed nine whales of
four species just with regular sonar as they passed through the Bahamas on March 15,
AWI organized a powerful press conference at the National Press Club. We are currently
organizing a uniﬁed opposition to the LFA among non-governmental organizations.

Tuna Dolphin Update

he battle over killing dolphins in the Eastern Tropical Paciﬁc (ETP) in order to catch
tuna ﬁsh has a long and bloody history. Over seven million dolphins died before the
three biggest US tuna companies responded to public protests against the cruel chasing of
dolphin herds by noisy motor boats that forced them into giant nets, injuring and killing

 




many dolphins in the process. Thousands of children wrote letters begging them to stop.
In 1990, Star-Kist held a big press conference in Washington, DC to announce it would no
longer buy tuna caught in this cruel way. Within hours, Chicken of the Sea and Bumblebee
followed Star-Kist, announcing they would purchase and sell only “Dolphin Safe” tuna.

In 1992, Congress passed the International Dolphin Conservation Act, which
banned the importation of tuna caught by chasing, harassing and netting dolphins.
Mexico lobbied strenuously to overturn the Act’s embargo on dolphin—caught tuna and
succeeded in obtaining enactment of the International Dolphin Conservation Program
Act in 1997. This new law allowed the labeling of dolphin-caught tuna as “Dolphin Safe”
if the tuna boat’s observer did not actually see dolphins die. It was immediately dubbed
the Dolphin Death Act.

Despite clear evidence that the dolphin populations in the ETP were continuing to
decline, Secretary of Commerce William Daley asserted that there was not enough proof
that chase and encirclement of dolphins was causing “a signiﬁcant adverse impact.” On
February 2, 2000, the deﬁnition of the “Dolphin Safe” label was ofﬁcially weakened by
the US. AWI immediately joined Earth Island Institute in suing over that decision. On
April 11, Judge Thelton Henderson of US District Court agreed with our argument and
threw out the government’s
decision, saying that Secre-
tary Daley “acted contrary
to the law and abused his
discretion when he triggered
a change in the ‘Dolphin
Safe’ label standard.” The
federal government appealed
the decision and the case is
still in court.

AWI has taken the lead
in working to stop a very
cruel and unnecessary dol-
late 2001. In order t 0 study Spotted dolphins trapped in a purse seine net.
stress, NMFS plans to hire a
vessel, chase and net dolphins, draw blood and bolt a transmitter through the dolphins’
dorsal ﬁns. Then these dolphins will be pursued in an effort to capture them again and
again. Reluctant NMFS scientists have been ordered to go ahead with the study, even
though they believe it will yield no useful data and that all needed information can be
gleaned from far less invasive methods.

,
.
.
t
.
i
i
i
't
-
'
k

.. ,u. “a." - ..

National Marine Fisheries Service

“m“, . q. “WNW“. “Hi-«mm,

Manatee Lawsuit

n January, the Animal Welfare Institute joined 18 environmental and animal welfare
I groups, led by Save the Manatee Club (SMC), in ﬁling two federal lawsuits, one against
the US Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) and US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
and the other against the Florida Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission (F WC), both
aimed at protecting the endangered Florida manatee and its shrinking habitat. Unless

“a Let :1 t; a its lit: a r t:

 

 




 

 

This gentle manatee, surfacing for air, is at great risk of
being killed or seriously injured by speeding boats.

Free Trade

Pat Rose/Save the Manatee Club

 

federal and state agencies act now,
Florida’s boating population explo—
sion will destroy the manatee.

The lawsuits ask that state
and federal agencies implement
and enforce existing environmen-
tal laws to stop manatee deaths
and eventually bring them back to
healthy population levels.

AWI’s companion organization,
the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation (SAPL), worked to
secure an additional $500,000 for
increased on-water enforcement
efforts by the USFWS.

t the Seattle ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Novem-
ber 1999, the Animal Welfare Institute used a novel means to dramatize the havoc
global free trade is wreaking on the animal protection laws of sovereign nations. AWI’s
international coordinator, Ben White, led 240 demonstrators in homemade sea turtle cos-
tumes in a peaceful protest against WTO’s attempts to destroy animal protective legislation

in the US and Europe.

Sea turtles were chosen because of a notorious ruling by the Geneva—based WTO,
established in 1995 to facilitate globalization, to destroy US legislation designed to pro—

tect them. All six species of sea tur-
tles are listed under the US Endan-
gered Species Act, and in 1991 the
Act was amended to require nations
exporting shrimp to the US to equip
their shrimp boats with turtle excluder
devices (TEDs). TEDs are relatively
inexpensive attachments that have
proven effective in preventing sea tur-
tles from being swept into shrimp nets
and drowned. However, the WTO
ruled that US regulations were a bar-
rier to free trade, ignoring the fact
that mortality in shrimp nets jeopar-
dizes the very survival of sea turtles.
The WTO—as it has in every case
before it that pits wildlife and envi-
ronment against commercial gain——
ruled in favor of industry.

 
 

Kirsten Rosenberg/T he Animals ’Agenda A

gut:

Ben White leads the second march of the sea turtles,
Washington, DC.




Public response to the Seattle turtles, which appeared in newspapers throughout the
world and became an icon of resistance to WTO’s ruthless assault against animal protec-
tion laws, richly justiﬁed the effort lavished on the project. Ben began work on turtle
costumes months in advance of the Seattle meeting. The turtles were painstakingly fash-
ioned by volunteers and AWI staff from cardboard discarded in dumpsters. Mirroring
Green and Hawksbill turtles in the wild, each costume displayed its own unique color pat-
tern; each was an individual protest again mindless destruction. The sea turtles marched
again on April 16, 2000 in Washington, DC, this time against the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund.

While some WTO assaults against wildlife protection have been directed against US
laws, the US has also made use of the WTO against wildlife. One ﬂagrant example con-
cerns trapping. In 1991, the European Union (EU) adopted Council Regulation 3254/91
under which leghold traps were banned in all EU countries by 1995. The Regulation also
required EU countries to cease importing fur from nations that neither banned steel jaw
leghold traps nor adopted “internationally agreed humane trapping standards” by 1997.
But by threatening a WTO challenge if an EU fur import ban were imposed against it,
the US forced the EU to back down and accept a thinly disguised status quo. Without
ﬁnancial incentive to stop using these traps, the US continues to export steel jaw leghold
trapped furs to the EU.

Bears

F rom October 26—28, 1999, the Animal Welfare Institute ’5 Adam M. Roberts attended
the 3rd International Symposium on the Trade in Bear Parts in the Republic of Korea.
The meeting, organized by the Korean Ministry of Environment, TRAFFIC East Asia, and
the IUCN/SSC Bear Specialist Group, brought together experts in the ﬁeld from across
the globe.

On the second afternoon of the meeting, he presented a paper entitled: “A Case
For a Global Prohibition on Trade in Bear Parts and Derivatives.” It was the only pre-
sentation that speciﬁcally called for an end to the
worldwide commercialization of bear parts such
as the gallbladder and bile, and medicinal or cos-
metic products made from them.

His paper noted that the bear parts trade
affects almost all bear species and could eventu-
ally have signiﬁcant global impacts on bear popu-
lations in all parts of the world. It highlighted
the mounting evidence that points to a systematic
pattern of illicit movement of bear parts and prod-
ucts throughout bear range states and to other con-
suming nations. Arguing that bear poaching and
bear parts smuggling (particularly throughout the
United States and Canada) in recent years is on " . .

. The scars on this bear ’3 head illustrates
the 1ncrease and that the pressure to proﬁt from a life ofself—mutz‘lation against the
fulﬁllment of global demand is high, Adam con— imprisoning cage bars.

 
    

 

World Society for the Protection of Animals

1% » .

 




cluded that there is a signiﬁcant need for a more comprehensive strategy to control the com-
mercialization of these wildlife parts: “We should no longer search for ways to facilitate
the bear parts trade, but instead should recognize the usefulness of national legislation uni-
formly prohibiting commercialization of bear viscera and an international moratorium on
global trade in bear parts and derivatives.”

CITES

he Animal Welfare Institute fought exotic animal dealers, representatives of the whal-

ing industry, ivory traders, and the governmental delegates who do their bidding at
the Eleventh Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, held in Nairobi, Kenya from
April 10—20, 2000. Adam M. Roberts served on the Working Group that developed a deci-
sion “Regarding trade in bear specimens.” The unanimously approved document calls
on CITES Parties to share forensic technology to help uncover whether wildlife parts and
products in trade are actu-
ally from bears and, if so,
what species of bear. It
also directs the Parties to
consider introducing mea—
sures within their nations
to facilitate implementation
of CITES with respect to
the bear parts trade.

As always, AWI played
an important role in per—
suading delegates to make
decisions in the best inter-
est of wildlife conservation.
CITES Parties agreed to
down the ivory trade when they convened in April 2000. Shut down the disastrous

US Fish and Wildlife Service

 

 

trade in elephant ivory once
more, resisted the persistent efforts of Japan and Norway and their allies to allow a legal
trade in whale meat from minke and gray whales, maintained existing strong protection
for sea turtles, and for the ﬁrst time addressed the trade in “bushmeat,” the ﬂesh of wild
animals such as chimpanzees, elephants, antelopes and other threatened and endangered
species. The Spring 2000 issue of the AWI Quarterly, which addressed these vital conserva-
tion topics, was approved by the CITES Secretariat and distributed to every governmental
delegation attending the meeting.

AWI spoke out on these issues when interventions were allowed from nongovernmen—
tal observers as well as at the daily press conferences hosted by the Species Survival Net-
work of which AWI is a founding member. For a detailed and expansive report on the deci-
sions taken at the meeting, see the Summer 2000 issue of the AWI Quarterly. AWI will
continue to take an active role at CITES meetings including the meetings of the CITES
Standing Committee and the Animals Committee.

,1 1m, - i ’1", 5.,1, 5 n in ‘- ,9 *- 5 -. '4 ~: ,1‘5
6 ..r 3.1.; III z. 223...; z is: I: IIA‘ I; an.

 




Farm Animals

T he Animal Welfare Institute learned that American—based Smithﬁeld Foods, the world’s
largest owner and slaughterer of pigs and processor and marketer of pork was making
aggressive attempts to replace Poland’s small, sustainable family farms with Smithﬁeld
pig factories. In the Fall of 1999, AWI brought family farm leaders, ecologists and animal
welfare activists to the US to learn ﬁrsthand the destructive impact of industrialized
pig farming, and of Smithﬁeld
Foods in particular. The Ameri-
can visit made a powerful impres-
sion on the Polish delegation,
especially Andrzej Lepper, Pres-
ident of Poland’s farmers union,
Samoobrona (Self-Defense), who
warned that Samoobrona would
“not allow Poland to be invaded
by this cancer, which we already

Man-W“

experienced during the commu—
nist times!” AWI produced a
38-minute Polish language video,
“A Trojan Pig,” which documents

 

Humane Farming Association

 

Sows on factory farms are conﬁned to individual gestation
the suffering 0f SOWS and pigs crates. These metal cages are so narrow they prevent walking,
in American factories and high- turning around and virtually all natural behaviors.
lights Smithﬁeld’s abysmal record

of environmental pollution, National Labor Relations Board charges of harassment of
union organizers, and displacement of family pig farms. Over 7,000 copies of the video
were shipped to Poland, where Samoobrona distributed them to farmers and to local and
national public ofﬁcials. “A Trojan Pig” and other joint AWI—Samoobrona educational
efforts in Poland have proven enormously effective in combatting the spread of industrial-
ized pig farming to the Polish countryside.

AWI continues to expose and ﬁght the cruelty of animal factories by helping to
preserve a culture of humane family farm husbandry through a program available exclu-
sively to independent family farmers. The Niman Ranch company markets products nation-
wide from its network of over 100 family pig farmers who adhere to AWI’s Humane On—
Farm Pig Husbandry Standards. The Niman Ranch company and the humane husbandry
it embraces received extensive publicity during the year, including articles in the San
Francisco Examiner, New York Times and Saveur magazine. As this program expands, an
increasing number of consumers are given an opportunity to support farming systems that
give pigs the freedom to live naturally and thereby reject the products of pig factories. Con-
sumers were informed directly about the importance of the food choices they make when
AWI helped to sponsor the visits of Niman Ranch farmers to the 1999 Farm Aid Concert
outside Washington, DC and to Fresh Fields stores in the Washington, DC, Maryland and
Virginia area. Niman Ranch is available at over 200 ﬁne restaurants nationwide, through
natural foods supermarkets such as Trader Joe’s and Fresh Fields, through Webvan on the
intemet and via Williams & Sonoma mail order catalog.

 




 

 

AWI Quarterly

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000 individu-
als and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary schools,
animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AW] members. With AWI ’s Spring
2000 issue, we ushered in the new millennium by beginning to publish the magazine in full
color, on glossy, recyclable paper, printed with environment-friendly soy ink. Following

are summaries of some of the articles.

Fall/Winter 1999 2000, Volume 48/49 Number 4/1

. The nightmare continued for the largest colony of
captive chimpanzees in the world who are maintained
for experimental purposes at the Coulston Foundation in
Alamogordo, New Mexico. Donna, a 36—year old chimpan-
zee, died a ghastly death because of the failure to provide
basic veterinary care. Donna was carrying a dead fetus
in her womb and Dr. C. James Mahoney, a veterinarian
with extensive experience with chimpanzees, provided an
assessment: “...it is clear to me that Donna must have
suffered excruciating pain, for several, if not many days.”
Dr. Mahoney noted that Donna had a liter of puss in her
peritoneal cavity and a ruptured uterus “with the partially
decomposed fetus’s skull visible through the tear.” Five
other chimpanzees died due to negligence during the year.
Despite these and other atrocities, the National Institutes of Health of the Department
of Health and Human Services continues to provide millions of taxpayer dollars to the
Coulston Foundation.

 

An intense international outcry can make a difference as evidenced by two events covered
in this issue of the Quarterly.

. Marshall Farms, one of the principal breeders of dogs and ferrets for sale to experimen-
tal laboratories, planned to expand by opening a facility in France. Word spread quickly
about the company’s intentions and its history of mistreating animals: shipping dogs in
hazardous wire mesh crates and conducting major surgery on ferrets under non-aseptic
conditions. US Department of Agriculture inspectors reported animals that were crammed
into cages that failed to meet the minimum requirements of the Animal Welfare Act, (e. g.
eight pups squeezed into space only big enough for four). A raging ﬁre caused by a heating
pad marked “Bad” in 1995 burned 151 pregnant beagles and 449 puppies to death in 1998!
Following protests from 17 different countries, Marshall Farms withdrew its proposal for
an animal breeding facility in France.

0 The slaughter of approximately 36 belugas in the Sea of Okhotsk led to an enormous
international uproar. Russia had applied for and been granted a permit under the Conven-
tion on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) to
kill 2,100 beluga whales and sell the ﬂesh to Japan for human consumption. Small ceta—

 

 




 

ceans including beluga whales are listed on CITES Appendix II which allows limited trade
if it can be conducted “without threatening the population.” The Russian permit for export
of beluga meat was issued even though many Russian ofﬁcials and scientists had expressed
concern about the lack of population data on the belugas. This ﬁrst major international sale
of small cetacean meat in modern times was going to set a horrible precedent. There was
a great hue and cry including ﬁerce objections from several US government agencies and
many non-governmental organizations. The Russian government responded by ending the
whaling activities and the permit was cancelled.

Spring 2000 Volume 49 Number 2

. A mother dog nursing ﬁve puppies was mutilated after
being caught in a so— called “padded” steel jaw leghold
trap. Desperate to be reunited with her puppies, the hound
dog, Honey, had succeeded in pulling the trap free from
the ground; she returned to her young, dragging the trap
by her captured right front paw. When she was rescued
by a volunteer with Pets, Inc., Honey was emaciated and
exhausted. The poor dog was rushed to the veterinarian
who had to amputate three of her toes because of the sever—
ity of damage caused by the steel jaw trap. How many
more victims must suffer agonizing pain in leghold traps
before they are prohibited in the United States?

. Foreign corporations are pillaging the pristine environ-
ment of Papua New Guinea for its lumber, minerals and ﬁsh. Peter Gundu decided to ﬁght
to protect the land by founding the Guiye Waiye Environment and Conservation Group
(GWECG). Peter described the purpose of the organization: “We saw there was a need for
education of the local people on the importance of conservation. We saw lots of foreigners
coming into Papua New Guinea, bribing our politicians, landowners, local chiefs and exploit-
ing our natural resources. . .at a very fast rate, leaving nothing behind but pollution.” AWI
encourages support to GWECG to stop the deforestation and to protect the unique wildlife of
the country such as the endangered Eclectus parrots and the breathtaking Bird of Paradise.

. The inhumane, environmentally unsound and unhealthy factory-type of animal produc—
tion that is taking over the pork and poultry industries is now devouring the dairy industry.
Mega dairies with herds of 20,000 cows are driving small family dairies out of business.
The huge dairies rely on injection of recombinant Bovine Growth Hormone (rBGH) to
ensure an obscenely large output of milk—and it is this overproduction that is taking its
toll on the small farmer. Meanwhile, rBGH is exacting its own ﬁerce toll on the cows who
suffer loss of calcium in their bones and tissues, painful sores, severe swelling of their
joints and udders, and early death.

. The Coulston Foundation, notorious for the grossly negligent deaths and inhumane treat-
ment of chimpanzees for whom it is responsible, has been cited for nearly 300 Violations
of the Food and Drug Administration’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations. The Depart—
ment of Health and Human Services has still failed to take any remedial and disciplinary
action against the facility except for sending a letter of warning.

29>

 




 

 

 

Summer 2000, Volume 49 Number 3

  

il 0

¢ A BioMusic Program exploring the powerful role music
plays as a function of communication within and between
all living beings was held in Washington, DC from Febru-
ary 19-21. The program began with a public symposium
at the National Zoo, a second symposium at the annual
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, followed by a concert by National Music Arts
(NMA) at the National Academy of Sciences. NMA per-
formed Mozart’s “musical Joke” because recent research
demonstrated that Mozart’s musical relationship with his
pet starling was so powerful that this famous chamber
music work was actually composed as a requiem to the bird
and features exact musical quotations from the pet starling.
The program concluded with a workshop of experts in the

Katy Payne

ﬁelds of science and music to develop educational materials for children.

. A USDA licensed random source dealer is being investigated for selling as many as
1,000 former racing greyhounds to research laboratories after acquiring the animals by
deceit. Apparently, the owners of the dogs were told the animals would be placed in good
homes, and instead the dealer sold them for proﬁt. By the time the fraud was uncovered
most of the dogs had been used in experiments and had been killed. Approximately 100
were still alive at Guidant Corporation’s cardiac research laboratory. The survivors will
undergo procedures to undo the surgical manipulations that had been done to them so they
can be released to loving families.

. A Congressional hearing was held on the “Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Main-
tenance and Protection Act,” a bill that would appropriate up to $30 million to create a
national chimpanzee sanctuary system. Dr. Jane Goodall testiﬁed in strong support of the
legislation to permit retirement of chimpanzees formerly utilized for experimentation. Dr.
Goodall described the bill’s intent for chimpanzees: “. . .free from cages they can live in a
way that will allow them to socialize, feel the breeze in their faces, climb trees, and groom
with their friends. That is surely the least we can do for them in return for their sacriﬁce.”
The National Institutes of Health, who testiﬁed against the measure, presented misinforma-
tion because of an apparent failure to grasp the basic content of the bill.

. A campaign has been launched against routine, but cruel practices inﬂicted on chickens
by the industry. The targeted abuses are: 1. forced molting (Laying hens are denied food
and water for up to two weeks to artiﬁcially induce a molt. Following the molt the surviv—
ing hens are expected to lay bigger eggs), 2. debeaking (The front portion of hens’ beaks
are cut off in an attempt to prevent the overcrowded and bored birds from injuring each
other by pecking. Scientiﬁc studies have shown that debeaking inﬂicts permanent pain to
the hens), and 3. battery cages (The hens spend their entire lives packed into small wire
cages which do not allow them to exhibit their natural behaviors—or to even spread their
wings.) United Poultry Concerns and the Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights
are encouraging letters of protest be sent to the United Egg Producers.




 

 

Speec/yex Made and M eating; Attended éyAWY Repmmz‘atz’ver

0

Meeting of the Animals Committee to the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Antananarivo, Madagascar,
July 5-10, 1999.

Exhibit on humane treatment of animals in laboratories and against cruel traps used on
wildlife at the annual meeting of the American Veterinary Medical Association, New
Orleans, LA, July 9-13, 1999.

Public Meeting to discuss CITES issues, US Department of the Interior, US Fish and
Wildlife Service, Arlington, VA, July 28, 1999.

AWI-sponsored tour of pig farms for Polish leaders to show the enormous contrast
between humane family farms and appalling hog factories, Washington, DC, Virginia,
North Carolina, Illinois, Iowa and Missouri, September 7-18, 1999. Tom Garrett and/or
Diane Halverson gave speeches to the Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association,
Tillery, NC, September 8th; to the Citizens of New Bern, NC, September 9th; to the
Citizens of Duplin County, NC, September 10th; at a rally in front of Smithﬁeld Foods,
Smithﬁeld, VA, September 11th; at an AWI reception at the US Capitol, Washington,
DC, September 12th; at the National Catholic Rural Life press conference, Des Moines,
IA, September 14th; and at a press conference in Chicago, IL, September 16th. Agnes
Van Volkenburgh translated the speeches into Polish.

Meeting to discuss the issue of animal “crush” ﬁlms, Law Ofﬁces of Arnold & Porter,
September 16, 1999.

Congressional Hearing on legislation to punish depictions of animal cruelty, September
30, 1999.

Press Conference on animal “crush” ﬁlms, Rayburn House Ofﬁce Building, September
30, 1999.

Southern New England American AssOciation of Laboratory Animal Science Meeting.
Speech by Dr. V. Reinhardt: “Environmental enrichment for nonhuman primates,” New
Haven, CT, October 12, 1999.

Seminar, Boehringer—Ingelheim. Speech by Dr. V. Reinhardt: “Environmental enrich—
ment for laboratory macaques,” Ridgeﬁeld, CT, October 12, 1999.

Annual Meeting of the US Animal Health Association. Cathy Liss gave a presentation
on marine mammals in captivity to the Committee on Captive Wildlife and Alternative
Livestock and a presentation on pending federal legislation and current animal welfare
concerns to the Committee on Animal Welfare, San Diego, CA, October 12-13, 1999.

Third International Symposium on Trade in Bear Parts. Speech by Adam M. Roberts,
“A Case for a Global Prohibition on Trade in Bear Parts and Derivatives,” Seoul,
Republic of Korea, October 26-28, 1999.

The Sixth Interdisciplinary Conference on Human Relations with Animals and the Natu-
ral World “Food Animal Husbandry and the New Millennium: Ethical, Environmental,
and Societal Impacts,” Center for the Interaction of Animals and Society, School of
Veterinary Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, November 5 , 1999.

Annual Meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. Cathy . " g; ‘1' :-

 




 

 

 

 

1.12 .

Liss was a panelist for a roundtable discussion on the inclusion of rats, mice and

birds as animals deserving protection under the Animal Welfare Act. AWI publications
were distributed at the entrances to the convention center, Indianapolis, IN, November
8-11, 1999.

Public Meeting on High Production Volume (HPV) chemicals program, November
9, 1999.

Brieﬁng and Reception for delegates from CITES Authorities in North America, Adam
M. Roberts, moderator, Arlington, VA, January 11, 2000.

AWI tour against pig factories in Poland, January 17-22, 2000. Speeches by Tom
Garrett and Agnes Van Volkenburgh to the Congress of Peasant-National Bloc in the
Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw; and in Czluchow; and a speech by Tom
Garrett to a farmers cooperative in Szczecin.

Minnesota Pork Producers Council Conference: Session on alternatives to pig factories,
Minneapolis, MN, January 28, 2000.

Meeting to provide data against random source dog and cat dealers with Dr.
Belinda Seto, Deputy Director for Extramural Research, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD, February 2, 2000.

Meeting with Dr. Richard Obermanns, The Kenneth A. Scott Charitable Trust, to
discuss educational materials, February 3, 2000.

Iowa Pork Producers Council Conference: Session on alternatives to pig factories,
Ames, IA, February 22, 2000.

Meeting with William Clay, Cynthia Smith and Martin Mendoza, of Wildlife Services,
regarding inhumane practices of the Service, February 25, 2000.

Animal Care Public Meeting on Zoos, Circuses, Training and Handling of Potentially
Dangerous Animals, and Dealers, Research, and Transportation, USDA, Riverdale,
Maryland, March 7, 2000.

US Department of Agriculture Public Meeting on Regulation of Exhibitors under the
Animal Welfare Act, Riverdale, MD, March 7, 2000.

Regional Delaware Valley AALAS Meeting, AstraZeneca, Speech by Dr. V. Reinhardt:
“Social enhancement for laboratory macaques,” Wilmington, DE, March 8, 2000.

Clean Water Network Feedlot Steering Committee meeting, Raleigh, NC, March 10-11,
2000.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research and ARENA meetings, Boston, MA,
March 12—14, 2000.

Public Meeting to discuss CITES issues, US Department of the Interior, US Fish and
Wildlife Service, March 13, 2000.

Meetings of peasant party leaders from Central Europe and Cyprus in Prague and
demonstrations throughout Poland to protest foreign takeover of agricultural land,
March 10—21, 2000. A speech by Agnes Van Volkenburgh and numerous speeches and
a radio interview by Tom Garrett.

Rally for Rural America, March 21, 2000.

 




 

Species Survival Network Press Conference in preparation for the Eleventh Meeting
of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, Adam M. Roberts, moderator, National
Press Club, April 3, 2000.

Meeting of the Advisory Board of the Berryman Institute, Cosmos Club, April 10,
2000.

Meeting to discuss lawsuit against the US Fish and Wildlife Service, US Army Corps of
Engineers and Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission, April 10, 2000.

Eleventh Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Nairobi, Kenya, April
10—20, 2000.

Discussion session on the use of animals for experimentation at Hahnemann University,
Philadelphia, PA, April 12, 2000.

Species Survival Network Press Conference on the Global Bear Parts Trade during the
Eleventh Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, Adam M. Roberts, United
Nations Environment Programme Press Center, April 13, 2000.

Canadian Radio Talk Show, Diane Halverson discussed cruelty of pig factories and
humane alternatives, Canada, April 17, 2000.

Meeting with Endangered Species Coalition, April 18, 2000.

USDA Animal Care National Work Conference. Speech by Dr. V. Reinhardt: “Social
housing of laboratory macaques,” Oklahoma City, OK, April 19, 2000.

Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association (BFAA) Protest of USDA’s Discrimina-
tory Practices Against Family Farmers. AWI took part with our giant inﬂatable pig,
May 8, 2000.

Board Meeting of the Powder River Basin Resource Council (a local environmental
organization), Gillette, Wyoming, May 10, 2000.

Press conference decrying US Navy’s use of intense sound underwater which led
to deaths of four species of whales and dolphins during military maneuvers in the
Bahamas, May 10, 2000.

Meeting with Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman to discuss chronic violation
of Animal Welfare Act by random source dog and cat dealers, lack of enforcement
of the Humane Slaughter Act, and need for protection of small family farmers, May
16, 2000.

Congressional Hearing on the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance and
Protection Act (CHIMP), May 18, 2000.

AWI-sponsored symposium on humane animal husbandry, in cooperation with
Samoobrona and the Polish Green Federation, Warsaw, Poland, May 19—21, 2000.
Speeches by Tom Garrett and Diane Halverson and with Polish translation by Agnes
Van Volkenburgh.

\

Scientists’ Center for Animal Welfare conference on pain and distress in laboratory
animals, Baltimore, MD, May 18-19, 2000.

Congressional Hearing on Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000, June 20, 2000.
13

 




. National Research Council meeting on pain and distress in laboratory animals, National
Academy of Sciences, June 22, 2000.

. Regular CITES Strategy Meetings of the Species Survival Network.

. Periodic conference call meetings for the Feedlot Steering Committee.

Meetings took place in Washington, DC, unless otherwise noted.

 

AW] Staff. in Print

 

. Eckert K., Niemeyer C., Anonymous, Rogers R., Seier J ., Ingersoll B., Barklay L.,
Brinkman C., Oliver 8., Buckmaster C., Knowles L., Pyle S., Reinhardt V. 2000. Wooden
objects for enrichment: A discussion. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 39(3), 1—4.

0 Liss, C. 2000. Toward Better Unafﬁliated Members: Goal of Two Unafﬁliated Member
per IACUC Offers Advantages. Science and Animal Care, Winter 11(1), 1—4.

0 Reinhardt, V. 1999. Collecting blood of macaques: An often overlooked variable in
biomedical research. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 38(4), 4-5.

. Reinhardt, V., Garza-Schmidt, M. 2000. Daily feeding enrichment for laboratory
macaques: Inexpensive options. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 39(2), 8-10.

. Reinhardt V., Reinhardt A.. 1999. The monkey cave: The dark lower-row cage.
Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 38(3), 8-9.

 

o Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A. 2000. Social enhancement for adult nonhuman primates in
research laboratories: A review. Lab Animal, 29(1), 34-41.

. Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A. 2000. Meeting the “social space” requirements of pair-
housed primates. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 39(1), 3.

. Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A. 2000. Annotated Bibliography on Environmental Enrichment
for Nonhuman Primates Third Edition (Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC).

4 Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A. 2000. Environmental Enrichment for Caged Rhesus
Macaques (Macaca mulatta): Photographic documentation and literature review
(Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC).

4* Reinhardt, V., Reinhardt, A. 2000. The lower-row monkey cage: An overlooked vari-
able in biomedical research. Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, 2, 141-149.

4» Roberts, A.M. 1999. Unbearable Behavior. AVMagazine, Fall.

. Roberts, A.M. 2000. Fighting for Wildlife in the Global Arena. S. TART Speaking Out
(The Newsletter of the St. Louis Animal Rights Team), Spring.

» Roberts, A.M. 2000. CITES Averts Crises. The Animals ’Agena’a, July/August.

4 Roberts, A.M., White, B'. 1999. The World Trade Organization: Democracy for Sale.
The Animals ’Agena’a, November/ December.

It Roberts, A.M., White, B. 2000. Battle in Seattle. Animal Guardian (Doris Day Animal
League), Spring. '

 

 

 




 

 

Statement qf Activities and Cbange: in Net/1556f:

CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES:
Cbntributions - Fbundations and trusts
- Legacies and bequests

MemberShim

Sale of publications and reprints
Dividend income

Interest income

Realized and unrealized loss on securities
other income

NET ASSETS RELEASED FRQMIRESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:
Save the Whales
Farm.Animal Programs
AWIquarterlY
Publ1c education and projects
Endangered species handbodk

Total unrestricted revenues and other support
EXPENSES:
Program services:

Public Education and Program
Save the Whales

Farm.AnEmal Programs

Management and general
FUndraising

Total expenses
Increase (decrease) in unrestricted net assets
CHANGES IN'ITNECEARILY'RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Grants and contributions
Net assets released from restrictions

(Decrease) increase in temporarily restricted net assets
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS

NET.ASSETS - beginning of year

NET ASSETS - end of year

 

Year Ended
JUne 30,

2000 1999
$282,924 $ 238,579
1,079,326 48,699
248,103 209,237
7,555 39,117
612 1,002
29,165 16,036
6,125 21,595
(12,935) (8,839)
1,422 754
1,642,297 566,180
8,820 10,000
40,000 90,000

25,396 -

65,616 -

20,000 -
13,500 2,884
173,332 102,884
1,815,629 669,064
626,964 493,245
67,707 66,417
264,155 114,892
958,826 674,554
109,312 106,675
12,325 11,753
1,080,463 792,982
735,166 (123,918)
165,028 133,896
(173,332) (102,884)
(8.304) 31.012
726,862 (92,906)
724,644 817,550
g1,451,505 §724,644

A complete ﬁnanczal statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirtb & Kuchner, Certiﬁed
Public Accountants, P. C. is available upon request from AWI or the New York State Board

of Soczal Welfare, Albany, NY 12223.

 




 

Salaries

Payroll taxes and
employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising

Animal Welfare institute
Quarteriies

Printing and publications
(except for Quarteriies)

Research, writing and editing

Grants

Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing
costs (except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and
ofﬁce supplies

Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and

other educational materials
Consultants

internet services
Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

Total expenses

 

Program
Services

313,904 $

26,244
18,651
12,707

74,832

55,229
80,101
63,800
161,237

16,482

25,938

1,786

6,577
78,866
11,421

2,665

 

 

Management
and General

68,641

8,436
2,039

155

339
4,306

11,677
10,500

424

$

Fund
Raising

3,513

295
204
1 ,996

1,784

453
781

504

 

950,440

8,386

106,517

2,795

 

$

958,826 $

109,312 $

9,530

2,795

Total

 

386,058

34,975
20,894
14,703

74,832

57,168
80,101
63,800
162,029

21,569

38,119
10,500
1,786

6,577
78,866
11,421

3,089

 

1,066,487

13,976

 

12,325 $

 

1,080,463

 

v

.4.

ml. EM?

Statewmwf F

Wow

' v

mm YtWEm’ea’ ‘ We 3,0,: 2000

 




 

 

Animal Wehfare Institute

Founded in 1951

OFFICERS DIRECTORS
Christine Stevens, President Marjorie Cooke

Cynthia Wilson, Vice President

Roger Fouts
Fredrick Hutchison, Treasurer David 0. Hill
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Fredrick Hutchison
Cathy Liss
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE Christine Stevens
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V., Mexico Cynthia Wilson
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V., Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain, Bangladesh SCI E N T | F I C CO M M ITT E E
Angela King, United Kingdom Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Simon Muchiru, Kenya Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
GOdOfI‘edO Stutzin, Chile F. Barbara Orlans Ph.D.
Agnes Van Volkenburgh, Poland Roger Payne, PhD.
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D., Russia Samuel Peacock, MD.

John Walsh, M.D.

STAFF AN D CONSU LTANTS
Ava Armendariz, Publications Coordinator
Amy Conklin, Administrative Assistant
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Oﬁicers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Advisor
Chris Heyde, Research Associate
Lynne Hutchison, Executive Secretary
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M V., Ph.D., Laboratory Animal Advisor
Jennifer Rinick, Research Assistant
Adam M. Roberts, Senior Research Associate
Wendy Swann, Research Associate
Ben White, International Coordinator

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s future through a provision
in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington, DC, the sum
of $ and/or (speciﬁcally described property).

Donations to AWI, a not—for—proﬁt corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code
Section 5 01 (c) (3 ), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries you may have.
In cases where you have speciﬁc wishes about the disposition of your bequest,
we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

 




 

 

Animal. Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
\Washington, DC 20007

\vxmmmvionﬁnanrg

 




 




 

AWI is a non—proﬁt charitable organization founded in 1951
to reduce the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted
on animals by humans.

Our speciﬁc goals are:

Humane treatment of laboratory
animals and the development and use
of non~animal testing methods.

Preservation of species threatened
with. extinction. and protection. for
wildlife in international trade.

Reform of cruel treatment of farm
animals intensively conﬁned in factories
and an end to inhumane slaughter.

In 1951., Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave
his permission to the Animal Welfare
Institute to strike a medal in his
honor to be presented for outstanding
achievement in. the advancement
of animal welfare.

In granting his permission,
Dr. Schweitzer wrote,
“I. would never have believed. that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our
ethics a compassionate attitude toward
all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime.”

Regulation of transport conditions
for all animals.

Encouragement of humane science
teaching and prevention of painful
experiments on animals by
high school students.

Ban on steel jaw leghold traps and
reform of other cruel methods for
controlling wildlife populations.

 

Cover: Jamie Wyeth painting qfsteers




AM MAL WELFARE 1N5T1TUT€

Dear Friend:

In the midst ofa yearﬁlled with violence and inexplicable acts ofcruelty
the world over, AWI has maintained a steady global presence promoting
compassion and humane treatment toward all animals.

As you "ll read in the following pages of our annual report, AW]
staﬂ continues to spread the message that animal, factories, particularly
with respect to intensive hog conﬁnement, are an atrocious way to
raise animalsfor human consumption. We work with an increasingly
broad sector to achieve our goal of humane treatment of animals raised
for‘food: working with environmentalists, family farmers, and well~
respected chefs at some of the country .’s best restaurants. Our reach
extends across the United States and as. far away as Poland, where the
insidious factory farming industry is trying to establish itself to conduct
their cruel, crooked business on a massive scale.

For the creatures of the sea, A WI has maintained its steady,
relentless campaign against the greedy forces that promote a return
to commercial whaling and the powerful United States Navy, which
continues its push to use deafening and deadly sonar throughout the
seas. We also have worked strenuously to prevent dolphinsfrom being
captured. for use in a hotel “swim with dolphins ” gimmick. Marine
mammals belongfree in the wild.

I remain conﬁdent that we will have great new successes in the coming
year and hope that you ’1] do your part to ensure that we are ﬁnancially
equipped to undertake our vital, broadening efforts across the globe.

Cathy Liss
President

Sincerely,

 




 

 

‘ ow more than 250 family farm—
. ers raise pigs according to
AWI’s Humane Husbandry Standards.
The standards, which ensure that
pigs are allowed to behave naturally,
include provisions for bedding and
access to pasture while prohibiting
factory practices such as conﬁning
breeding animals to crates and the rou—
tine use of antibiotics. As part of our
campaign to educate consumers about
this national program, which offers a
humane alternative to the products of
factory farms, AWI sponsored farmer
visits to Whole Foods grocery stores
on the East Coast. Endorsement of
AWI’s standards by Slow Food USA,
Earth Pledge Foundation, Waterkeeper
Alliance, Chefs Collaborative and
Global Resource Action Center for the
Environment was announced at a press
conference in New York City.

AWI co-sponsored the Water-
keeper Alliance’s second annual “Sum-
mit for Sustainable Hog Farming”
in April of this year in Clear Lake,
Iowa. The conference brought together
family farmers, scientists, attorneys,
animal welfare advocates, environmen—
talists, religious and labor leaders, and
public health activists to address the
urgent need to thwart animal factories
and revitalize a culture of humane,
environmentally-sound, independent
family farming across the US.

AWI organized a reception, press
conference, and speaking engagement
at St. Olaf College in Northﬁeld, Min-
nesota, featuring Robert F. Kennedy,
Jr. and Rick Dove of the Waterkeeper
Alliance in conjunction with that
group’s “Whistlestop Tour” to inform
the public about the deleterious im-
pacts of pig factories. Kennedy and

 




Dove spoke to an overﬂow crowd.

AWI experts are working in P0-
land to inspire resistance against cruel
corporate hog farms, rally a united
defense of the family farm culture that
has long existed within Poland, and
end the international transport of Pol-
ish horses. In Greece, AWI’s efforts
have helped to create a revolution of
small—scale pig raising in which farm-
ers, who previously used intensive
systems, are converting their own
stables and even renting pastureland
to raise pigs, including ancient- and
rare—breed pigs, under “liberated” and
humane conditions.

Farm animal issues received atten-
tion in the US. Congress this year as
well. A resolution calling for enforce—
ment of the Humane Slaughter Act was

added to the 2002 Farm Bill and passed
by Congress. The resolution, intro-
duced by Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald
(R—IL), was drafted with the assistance
of AVVI’s companion organization, the
Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion (SAPL). It requires the Secretary
of Agriculture to track violations of the
Humane Slaughter Act “and report the
results and relevant trends annually to
Congress.” In addition, SAPL worked
with Representative Connie Morella
(R-MD) and a bipartisan group of col-
leagues on the American Horse Slaugh—
ter Prevention Act (HR. 3781); the leg-
islation would ban both the slaughter
of horses for human consumption and
the domestic and international transport
of live horses or horseﬂesh for human
consumption.

MAR] Ne MAMMALQ

C arly in the year, AWI was
alerted that a new dolphin

“swim—wit ” program had been set up
in La Paz, Mexico at the La Concha
Hotel. This relatively new and highly
lucrative business is spreading like
wildﬁre across the Caribbean. Dol-
phins were captured in Magdalena
Bay and hauled to a tank at the hotel
so tourists could swim with them.

A local television station ﬁlmed one
dolphin bloodied from being repeat-
edly dropped during transport. She
died soon after. AWI investigated and
found an extremely shallow enclosure
that exposed the dolphins to the severe

summer heat. The dolphins were very
lethargic and just hung on the water’s
surface. AWI joined other groups in
mounting an international campaign
to protest “swim—with” programs in
Mexico. After hundreds of phone calls
and faxes, the Mexican government
took the unprecedented step of seizing
control of the dolphins at the facility
and imposing a ban on both capture of
dolphins within Mexican waters and
the establishment of any new facilities.

The 54th meeting of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission was
held in Shimonoseki, Japan in June.
To highlight recent revelations of

 




 

  

Peter Bennett and Ursuia Keuper-Bennett/turtles or

the elevated concentration of toxic

chemicals in whale and dolphin meat
and the danger to consumers in Japan,
AWI’s Ben White wore a ﬁfteen-foot
high sperm whale costume. Both sides
of the whale said DANGER— MER-
CURY, one side in English and the
other in Japanese. A sperm whale was
chosen because the Japanese whaling
ﬂeet killed ﬁve of them the previous
year that could not be eaten because of
the poisonous mercury concentration.
The costume garnered a lot of public-
ity, including coverage by the New
York Times.

AWI continued its campaign
against Low Frequency Active sonar
(LFA), probably the biggest single
threat to not only marine mammals but
all ocean life. The US Navy system
has just been approved by the National
Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to
be deployed over eighty percent of
the world’s oceans, even though just
the testing of this and other active

Sea

turtles try
to escape
sounds of

155dB
and

greater,
a level
ofsound
one LFA
Ship
blasts
over 200
miles in
all direc-
tions.

sonar devices has left whales stranded
and dying across the beaches of the
Bahamas, Greece, and the Canary
Islands. LFA works by emitting some
of the loudest sounds ever created by
mankind (234 dB) and reading the
echo of the sound in order to ﬁnd a
hidden enemy submarine. AWI was
the ﬁrst group to physically challenge
the device by putting swimmers in the
water off Hawaii in 1998 to block the
intentional sound blasting of calving
and mating humpback whales. Over
the last year, we organized a meet-
ing among all of the parties opposing
LFA, spoke at public hearings, met
several times with NMF S ofﬁcials
and the Marine Mammal Commis-
sion, and researched the effects of low
frequency sound on ﬁsh so as to enlist
the powerful ﬁshing industry against
this insane device. Our message has
become sharply honed: LFA is an un—
necessary and dangerous gamble that
must not be used.




LAB O RATO RY ANi MALE

WI’s Laboratory Animal
7A Advisor, Viktor Reinhardt,
and his wife, Annie, have been very
busy preparing and updating materi-
als to improve conditions for animals
used for experimentation. They have
been overseeing AWI’s computer
databases on Reﬁnement and Enrich-
ment for Laboratory Animals, which
have approximately 1,300 visitors
each month. In addition, they have
produced a new edition of the “An-
notated Bibliography for Members
of Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees.”

AWI published a ninth edition of
its comprehensive book, Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals,
edited by Viktor and Annie. The book

is also accessible on-line. Copies were

distributed to all research laboratories
in the United States.

AWI condemned the conduct
of maternal deprivation experiments
because they are extremely inhumane
and ethically unacceptable. Accord-
ing to the scientiﬁc literature, over the
past two years eight maternal depriva—
tion studies were conducted, involv-
ing 23 researchers at seven research
facilities. In each experiment infant
rhesus macaques were taken from
their mothers soon after birth and
raised in isolation for several weeks.
The psychological anguish inﬂicted
on both the baby monkeys and their
mothers during the conduct of these
experiments should not be condoned
by any Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee.

AWI strenuously objected to
the following appalling treatment of
laboratory birds, mice and rats. At the
University of Connecticut chickens
died of suffocation in a room without
proper air circulation and rats were
found dead and dying in an over—
heated room. Meanwhile, at the Uni-
versity of California at San Francisco
live mice were found in a dead animal
freezer three times in a little over a
month. This failure to properly eutha—
nize rodents appears to be common-
place; live rats and mice, who are pre—
sumed to be dead, are being thrOan
in the trash or placed in freezers. AWI

will continue to collect and publiciZe
data on these mistreated animals.

 

 

  

Group housed laboratory rabbits

in an enriched environment with
access to the. outdoors.

2.41an 210:) inwwv 38f?

 

 




 

AWI QyARTe RLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to approximately
23, 000 individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans
of medical and veterinary schools, animal protective organizations,
teachers, scientists and/1W1 members. Following are summaries of
some of the articlesfrom the pastyear.

 

ishing forests of Vietnam is highlight—
ed as Hanoi serves host to the Animals
Committee meeting of the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES). Meanwhile, Thai-
land is exposed as a major consumer
of illegal tiger parts through a report
from the Environmental Investigation
Agency, Thailand’s Tiger Economy.

' Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV)
makes an impassioned speech on the
ﬂoor of the United States Senate. In
it, he talks about the bond between
companion animals and their owners.
Senator Byrd did not stop there, how-
ever, decrying torturous, pornographic
“crush” videos and the insufferable
treatment of livestock in modern day

 

' Ben White attended the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) meet-
ing in London, where issues regard—
ing Iceland’s accession to the IWC,
Japan’s alleged “vote buying,” Makah
whaling, and the Revised Management
Scheme t00k center stage. * The United States Senate passed

a Resolution calling on the United
States Department of Agriculture to
enforce the Humane Slaughter Act.
North Carolina extended its morato-
rium on hog factory expansion, 12,000
pigs died in a ﬁre at a factory in Utah,
and the Waterkeeper Alliance keeps

' The plight of wildlife in the dimin- the pressure on Smithﬁeld foods.

factory farms and slaughterhouses.

' Over 20 chimpanzees, formerly used
in research and as test subjects for
NASA’s space program, arrived at a
Florida haven, the Center for Captive
Chimpanzee Care, designed to provide
a lifetime of peaceful sanctuary.

 




 

 

- AWI revealed shocking abuses in

the American horse slaughter indus-
try. Companion horses are acquired
fraudulently or bought at auction and
wild horses are rounded up, all to be
sold for slaughter to satisfy an over—
seas meat market. A prohibition on the
domestic or international transport of
horses for slaughter is vital. Horses,
of course, are not the only animals
subject to cruel treatment before
slaughter. In this issue, we show the
inhumane treatment forced upon ducks
raised for human food.

- Wildlife across Africa is at great risk
by human activities. Primates, slaugh-
tered for human consumption, not
only are being wiped out in their forest
homes, but also pose a human health
threat as carriers of the ebola virus,
transmitted to unwitting humans. In
the Democratic Republic of Congo,
gorillas and other threatened and en-
dangered wild species are at risk from
civil war and the military insurrection

by neighboring countries such as Zim-
babwe. Lions are not spared the wrath
of greedy humans who slaughter them
in increasing numbers as trophies and

for the alleged medicinal properties of
some of their body parts.

- African elephants have long been

at great risk due to poaching for their
ivory, trade in live elephants for the
captive entertainment industry and,
increasingly, for their meat. But as
human populations increase and en-
croach on wildlife habitats, conﬂicts
occur with increasing frequency and
impact. AWI helped fund an important
dialogue undertaken by the Maasai
Environmental Resource Coalition on
the subject of human-elephant conﬂict
in Kenya. The dialogue helped crys-
tallize important issues, which lead

to this conﬂict, and identify potential
remedies to make life in the Maasai
Mara mutually beneﬁcial for people
and wildlife.

0 AWI mourned the passing of Astrid
Lindgren, an indefatigable advocate for
the welfare of farm animals and author
of the Pippi Longstocking tales. Astrid
received AWI’s prestigious Albert Sch-
weitzer Medal in 1988 for her success-
ﬁll ﬁght against cruel farm practices in
Sweden and enactment of strong farm
animal protective legislation there.

' Polar bears in Mexico’s Suarez
circus suffer in unbearable heat (tem—
peratures in the bears” enclosures
reach well over 100 degrees) while the
circus idles in Puerto Rico.

 




 

 

 

* AWI explores the concept of sus-
tainable development with respect

to the United Nations World Summit
on Sustainable Development held in
Johannesburg, South Africa. Global
efforts to eradicate poverty and hun-
ger must not come at the expense of
animal protection and conservation of
species. We warn against using cruel
intensive animal factories and over-
ﬁshing the oceans to supply cheap
meat to impoverished people; we rec—
ognize the need to avoid indiscrimi-
nately destroying natural forests to get
lumber and paper products.

* Polar bears are under assault by the
Bush Administration and its allies in
Congress who seek to open the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge to oil drill—
ing. A report by the United States Geo—
logical Survey shows the damage that
such petroleum exploration may have
on populations of caribou, muskoxen,
snow geese, and polar bears.

~ Sally Jewell Coxe introduces us to the
fascinating world of the bonobo, whom

she calls a “Messenger of Peace, Victim

of War.” The bonobo, surviving in one
war-tom country, the Democratic Re-
public of Congo, has a complex soci-
etal structure based on peaceful coexis-
tence. But bonobos, like other primates,
are at great risk of habitat destruction
and being hunted for their meat.

* Hawksbill sea turtles are still “criti-
cally endangered,’_’ according to the
International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature, but hawksbill sea turtle
shells and products made from it are
still illegally traded across the globe.
A bust in Costa Rica shows that some
governments and wildlife law enforce—
ment agencies are willing to crack
down on this deleterious commerce.

' AWI is leading the effort to preserve
Poland’s rich heritage of family farm-
ing against the corporate insurrection
by companies such as Smithﬁeld
Foods and the multilateral domination
by the rules of the European Union.

- A one woman show in Zimbabwe
has led to the rescue of scores of ani-
mals, cruelly treated during the civil
unrest and land redistribution scheme
perpetrated in Zimbabwe at the be-
hest of the nation’s President, Robert
Mugabe. Meryl Harrison of the Zim-
babwe National Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals criss—crosses the
country rescuing dogs, cats, donkeys,
cows, pigs, and other animals in need
of humane treatment.

 

’— ' Md}

1‘

3..

.9 _ ’V—‘ ..:




)

~_.s———- 1“

a.

 

- A report by the Maasai Environ—
mental Resource Coalition reveals
widespread corruption in the Loliondo
game reserve in Tanzania. The Ortello
Business Company, headquartered in
the United Arab Emirates, runs hunt—
ing concessions in this Maasai ances-
tral land, which leads to the indiscrim-
inate slaughter of countless animals

in the region including cheetah, lions,
giraffe, zebra, Wildebeest, and others.
The Company has also been impli—
cated in government corruption and
human rights abuses.

' The great elephant debate is heat-
ing up once again as elephants are
poached globally, and their ivory
traded illegally, in advance of the
Twelfth Meeting of the Conference of
the Parties to the Convention on In-
ternational Trade in Endangered Spe-
cies (CITES), to be held in Chile in
November 2002. Botswana, Namibia,
South Africa, Zambia, and Zimba-
bwe are putting elephant populations

 

across Africa and Asia at risk by pro-
posing a large-scale resumption of the
international ivory trade.

‘ Trade in coral and reef ﬁsh could
ultimately destroy some of the most
biologically diverse ecosystems on
earth. Brilliantly colored coral is
taken from the sea for the aquaria
trade; it is also sprayed with cyanide,
which is used to stun colorful ﬁsh for
easy removal. The cyanide, however,
kills the coral. As well, when the ﬁsh
try to hide in the coral crevices, the
coral is hammered apart for the valu-
able ﬁsh within.

- . Dr. Jose Lutzenberger, popularly

considered the founder of the environ-
mental movement in Brazil, passed
away at age 75. Lutzenberger quit his
job with a German chemical company
in protest over the pesticides the com-
pany manufactured for use on human
foods. He spoke out against corporate
globalization, cruel conditions in ani-
mal factories, and rampant deforesta—
tion destroying Brazil speciﬁcally.

' Kangaroos and koalas are increas—
ingly at risk across Australia. Kanga-
roos, long slaughtered for their meat
and skins, are to be killed in increasing
numbers—as many as seven mil—
lion—next year if animal protection
organization lawsuits to stop the quota
increase are unsuccessful. Meanwhile,
koalas, nearly wiped out decades ago
for their fur, are under assault today as
human population expansion devas-
tates their native forest homes.

 

 




 

Speeches Made, and Meetings ﬁﬁended by
AW] Representatives

 

 

 

° Waterkeeper Alliance Whistlestop Tour meeting, Dubuque, IA, July 3

- Adam Roberts spoke on “Forging Coalitions,” “Wildlife Protection Laws,” and “Wildlife ,
Campaigns,” at the Animal Rights 2001 conference, Falls Church, VA, July 3-4

' Meeting with the US Department of Agriculture Animal Care staff regarding current Animal
Welfare Act enforcement issues, Riverdale, MD, July 10

' American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) annual meeting, July 15—18, Boston, MA

- Meeting with Kim Stallwood and Robin Allinson regarding the Animal Welfare Institute’s
archives, July 19

' International Whaling Commission (IWC) Annual Meeting, London, England, July 22—27

- Meeting with Agata Buzek, Poland’s Prime Minister’s daughter, to discuss animal welfare
issues, Warsaw, Poland, August 8

- Meeting with Peter Upton, Arab Horse Society, UK, and J anow Podlaski, Arab Horse Auc—
tion, to discuss Poland’s horse transport concerns, Warsaw, Poland, August 9

- Meeting with former Minister of Justice, Lech Kaczynski, and former President of the Su-
preme Control Chamber—NIK, J aroslaw Kaczynski, on Poland’s animal welfare standards,
Warsaw, Poland, August 10

° Meeting with Barbara Labuda Secretary of State, Head of Presidential Humanitarian Ofﬁce,
on Poland’s animal welfare issues, Warsaw, Poland, August 10

' Meetings with Swedish Farmers Union, Swedish Ministry of Agriculture and Swedish farm-
ers, Stockholm and rural Sweden, August 14-22

' Diane Halverson spoke at the Niman Ranch farmers’ meeting, Des Moines, IA, September 8

- Powder River Basin Resource Council (PRBRC) Board Meeting, Douglas, WY, September 9;
Sheridan, WY, October 28, November 4; Esterbrook, WY, December 15—16; and Casper, WY,
March 16, 2002

- Congress of European Agriculture Meeting, Belfast, United Kingdom, September 24-26

- First meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Protocol concerning Specially Protected Areas
and Wildlife (SPAW) Havana, Cuba, September 24—25

' First meeting of the Scientiﬁc and Technical Committee to SPAW, Havana, Cuba, September
27-29

- Public FDA meeting on standards for ruminants by rendering companies, Christine Stevens
and Wendy Swann testiﬁed, September 28

- Conference on “The Ethical and Legal Aspects of Animal Welfare,” Wroclaw, Poland,
October 4—5

i - International Coalition for Protection of Polish Countryside (ICPPC) Conference, Krakow,
, ”WWWW” Poland, October 11

 

' Presentation by Chris Heyde at the Up the River Endeavors consortium inaugural meeting,
Martha’s Vineyard, MA, October 10-13

- Meeting on puppy mills at Doris Day Animal League, October 12

° Meeting with Department of Commerce, NGO’s and US Delegation Ofﬁcials on marine
mammals, October 11

10

 

 




 

Humane Hog Husbandry conference and press conference, Poznan, Poland, October 16

Tom Garrett spoke at a conference on the threat to Polish traditional agriculture by Common
Agriculture Policy that will be imposed when Poland joins the EU, Krakow, Poland, October 18

Niman Ranch farmers discussed AWI pig standards at Whole Foods/Fresh Fields stores in the
DC metropolitan area and attended an AWI hosted dinner at City Tavern, October 20

Educational Exhibit at the annual meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science. AWI video footage of stereotypies in single-caged primates used for experimen—
tation was shown continuously, Baltimore, MD, October 21—24

Guest lecture at George Washington University Law School Animal Protection Seminar by
Adam M. Roberts on Global Bear Parts Trade and Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), October 29

Press club brieﬁng with Richard Carol, World Wildlife Fund, on supporting the Bonobo
Conservation Initiative, November 1

Meeting of AWI’s Board of Directors, November 2 and June 14, 2002

Annual meeting of the United States Animal Health Association. Cathy Liss spoke on current
issues to the Animal Welfare Committee, Hershey, PA, November 7

Meeting with Chester Gipson, Acting Deputy Administrator, Animal Care, USDA-APHIS,
regarding enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection Act, Riverdale,
MD, November 14

Tom Garrett spoke at a seminar and press conference on Cargill by Rural Solidarity of Inde—
pendent Farmers. Translations by AWI Representative, Marek Kryda, Warsaw, Poland,
November 14

Tom Garrett spoke at a seminar and press conference held by the ICPPC, Krakow, Poland,
November 21-23

Tom Garrett spoke before the Samoobrona Congress in the Polish Sejm (Parliament), War-
saw, Poland, November 25

Clean Water Network meeting, November 27-29

16th meeting of the Species Survival Network (SSN) Board, Heredia, Costa Rica, November
27-28

3rd SSN International Summit, Heredia, Costa Rica, November 29-December 1

Tom Garrett spoke at the Western Organization Of Resource Councils (WORC) Board Meet-
ing, Billings, Montana, December 6-8

Diane Halverson spoke at the Waterkeeper Alliance Whistlestop Tour, St. Olaf College,
Northﬁeld, MN, December 7

International conference on EU law and Environmental Protection, Wroclaw, Poland, Decem-
ber 13-14

IWC NGO Delegation meeting, Department of Commerce, December 11

United Poultry Concerns Third Annual Forum 2001, “Do Animal Welfare Campaigns &
Reforms Hurt or Help Animal Rights & Abolition?” Machipongo, VA, December 8-9

 

Meeting of the Advisory Board of the Berryman Institute, Logan, UT, January 9-10
East—West Agri Forum 2003, Berlin, Germany, January 11
Sejm Conference on survival of family farming in Poland, Warsaw, Poland, January 15

Conference on “The Future of Agriculture,” St. Paul, MN, January 18

11

 

 




 

 

 

 

Ben White spoke on marine mammals in captivity at the USDA, Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (APHIS), animal care training session, San Diego, CA, February 2

Meeting regarding enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act with Chester Gipson, Acting
Deputy Administrator, Animal Care, USDA-APHIS, Riverdale, MD, February 4

Diane Halverson spoke at Niman Ranch farmers’ meeting, Ames, IA, February 18

Attended presentation on “Bushmeat & the Origin of HIV/AIDS,” Dirksen Senate Ofﬁce
Bldg., February 19

Tom Garrett spoke at the AWI sponsored conference on slaughterhouses at the Polish Minis-
try of Agriculture, Warsaw, Poland, February 20

Tom Garrett, Agnes Van Volkenburgh and Marek Kryda spoke at a conference on slaughter-
houses jointly sponsored by Samoobrona and AWI at the auditorium of the National Teach—
er’s Union, Warsaw, Poland, February 22

Conference on the impact of liquidation of small slaughterhouses, Agriculture Ministry,
Warsaw, Poland, February 25

Dinner meeting with committee members from Britain’s House of Lords “Select Committee
on Animals in Scientiﬁc Procedures” to evaluate the use of animals for experimental pur-
poses, February 25

Tri-National Conference on Wildlife Enforcement Activities sponsored by North American
Wildlife Enforcement Group (NAWEG) and North American Commission for Environmental
Cooperation (CEC), February 28

Warsaw Organic Farming Conference 2003, Warsaw, Poland, March 1-2

Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy Meeting on Humane Standards, Minneapolis, MN,
March 4

Tom Garrett and Marek Kryda spoke at the Polish Turkey Raisers Association conference,
Zielona Gora, Poland, March 7

IWC NGO Delegation meeting, Department of Commerce, March 12
Diane Halverson spoke at the Clean Water Network meeting, March 18-21

Diane Halverson and Marlene Halverson spoke at the “Farm Animal Wellness Seminar,”
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, March 23

Alternative Swine Systems Program Task Force meeting to discuss alternative ventilation
systems for University of Minnesota, Morris campus, proposed remodel of conﬁnement pig
barn to accommodate the Swedish deep—bedded group nursing system, Minneapolis, MN,
April 2

Diane Halverson and Marlene Halverson spoke at the Waterkeeper Alliance “Summit for
Sustainable Hog Farming,” Clear Lake, IA, April 5

Presentation by Diane Halverson to the Political Science class at St.Olaf College, Northﬁeld,
MN, April 22

Meeting of the CITES Animals Committee, San Jose, Costa Rica, April 8-15

Environmental Law Institute meeting on “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs)
and Environmental Protection: An Examination of Recent Legal Issues,” April 11

Conference on the role of NGOs in creation of Farm Policy, Warsaw, Poland, April 12-14
Educational booth at Ethics Day, Baltimore City Community College, Baltimore, MD, April 17

Institute for Laboratory Animal Research, National Academy of Sciences, conference on
“International Perspectives: The Future of Nonhuman Primate Research,” April 17-19

Diane Halverson served as panelist at the Chef’s Collaborative “The Meat of the Matter,”
French Culinary Institute, New York, NY, May 6

Press conference to announce endorsement of AWI Humane On-Farm Pig Husbandry Stan—

12




dards by Chef’s Collaborative, Earth Pledge Foundation, Global Resource Action Center for
the Environment, Slow Food USA and Waterkeeper Alliance, Blue Smoke Restaurant/Jazz
Standard, New York, NY, May 9

9' First Annual Homeless Animal Congress, also attended by the Mayor of Olsztyn, the Chair—
man of the Polish Veterinary Chamber, Dr. Winiecki, and other renowned members of vet-
erinary academia in Poland, along with international guests from England, Germany, and the
former Soviet Republics, Veterinary School in Olsztyn, Poland, May 9-11

* Meeting with Renate Kunast, German Agriculture Minister at the Green Parties International
Congress, Berlin, Germany, May 17

, Yale University conference, “The Chicken: Its Biological, Social, Cultural, and Industrial
History From Neolithic Middens to McNuggets,” New Haven, CT, May 17-19

* Speech by Diane Halverson at the Greener Fields Forum, Callaway Gardens, GA, May 22-23
* International Whaling Commission Annual Meeting, Shimonoseki, Japan May 20-24

-» Humane, sustainable agriculture coalition meeting, Philadelphia, PA, May 28 and White
Plains, NY, May 29

* Humane Society of the US meeting on Iowa factory farming, Des Moines, IA, June 4
' USDA’s National Wildlife Services Advisory Committee meeting in Riverdale, MD, June 4-5

‘ USDA’s Animal Well-Being Symposium, National Pork Board Pork Academy, Des Moines,
IA, June 5

* 2nd Annual Avian Welfare Roundtable Conference, Arlington, Virginia, June 6—8
* Speech by Tom Garrett at the WORC Board Meeting, Red Lodge, Montana, June 6-8

‘ Meeting with Bogdan Aleksiejczuk, the President of the Agricultural Chamber of Olsztyn,
discussing the environmental impact of new factory hog farms in Olsztyn, Goldap, Poland,
June 17

‘ State of Wyoming Air Quality Advisory Board, Pinedale, WY, June 26

* Speech at the Animal Rights 2002 conference by Adam M. Roberts on “Humane Alternatives
to Cruel Hog Factories,” June 29
9 Regular CITES Strategy Meetings of the Species Survival Network

* Meetings took place in Washington, DC unless otherwise noted.

Arﬁcles in I'Drirxiw

 

 

 

 

Reinhardt V 2001. The impossible housing and handling conditions of monkeys in research
laboratories. IPPL [International Primate Protection League] News 28(2), 5—7

http://www.awionline.org/Lab_animals/biblio/ippl.html

Reinhardt V 2001. Self—biting in caged macaques: cause, effect and treatment. Journal of Ap-
plied Animal Welfare Science 5, 285-294

http://www.awion1ine.org/ Lab_animals/biblio/ j aaws4.html

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A, Ueno JY, Tomonaga M 2001. Environmental enrichment for caged
rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta): Photographic documentation and literature review. Primate
Research 17, 63—84

Reinhardt V 2002. The attending veterinarian’s contract of employment: Curse or blessing for
animals in research institutions? Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 5, 73-74

http://www.awionline.org/Lab_animals/biblio/ j aaws5 .html

l3

 

 




 

 

 

 

Reinhardt V 2002. Letter to the Editor. Animal Welfare 11, 139-140

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A 2002. Annotated Bibliography on Reﬁnement and Environmental En-
richment for Nonhuman Primates Fifth Edition, January 2002. Animal Welfare Institute, Wash-
ington. http://www.animalwelfare.com/Lab_animals/Biblio/index.html

Reinhardt V 2002. I know why the caged monkey cries. ASPCA Animal Watch 22(1), 6; reprint-
ed in Newsletter of the New Hampshire Animal Rights League May-October 2002, 20—2 1.
http://www.nhanima1rights.org

Reinhardt V 2002. Introduction. In Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Ninth Edi-
tion Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A (eds.), ii—iV. Animal Welfare Institute, Washington.

http://www.awionline.org/pubs/ch2/introhtml

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A 2002. Comfortable quarters for guinea—pigs in research institutions.
Reinhardt V. In Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Ninth Edition Reinhardt V, Rein—
hardt A (eds.), 39-43. Animal Welfare Institute, Washington.
http://www.awionline.org/pubs/cgOZ/Cg-guinhtml

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A 2002. Comfortable quarters for sheep in research institutions. In Com-
fortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Ninth Edition Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A (eds.), 85-90.
Animal Welfare Institute, Washington. http://www.awionlineorg/pubs/cg02/Cg-sheep.htm1
Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A 2002. Comfortable quarters for cattle in research institutions. In Com-
fortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Ninth Edition Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A (eds.), 91-98.
Animal Welfare Institute, Washington. http://www.awionline.org/pubs/cg02/Cg-cow.htm1

Reinhardt V 2002. Comfortable quarters for nonhuman primates in research institutions. In
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Ninth Edition Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A (eds.),
66-79. Animal Welfare Institute, Washington.

http://www.awionline.org/pubs/ cg 02/ Cg—primhtml

Reinhardt V 2002. Artiﬁcial weaning of Old World monkeys: Beneﬁt and costs. Journal of Ap-
plied Animal Welfare Science 5, 149—154.

http://www.awionline.org/Lab_animals/biblio/jaaws6.html

Roberts AM, 2001. Rest in Peace: The Mission to Discharge Chimpanzees Honorably. Doris
Day Animal League, Animal Guardian, Winter 2001. Washington, DC

Roberts AM, 2002. The Trade In Drugs And Wildlife, Dying To Heal, Land Mines, Crush Vid-
eos. A Primer on Animal Rights, Stallwood, ed., Lantern Books, 2002

Kryda M 2001. Factory Farms and Animal Transport. Gazeta Stoleczna, 5, July 10, 2001. War-
saw, Poland

Kryda M 2001. Dangers of Factory Farming for Polish Traditional Family Farming. Zielone
Brygady Monthly, 2-26, July 2001. Krakow, Poland

Kryda M 2001. Animal Transport. Rzeczpospolita, 12, August 31, 2001. Warsaw, Poland

Kryda M 2001. The Death Transport of Horses. Gazeta Wyborcza, 3, September 3, 2001. War-
saw, Poland

Kryda M 2002. Animals in Factory Farming. Mieso, 24-26, May 2002. Sieradz, Poland

Kryda M 2002. Environmental Impact of New Factory Hog Farms in Olsztyn. Zygodnik Elcki,
8-9, June 20, 2002. Goldap, Poland

14




Siaiemeni of AchiHes and Changes

in N at yAsseis

 

CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES:
Contributions - Foundations and trusts
- Legacies and bequests
- Other (Note 1)
Memberships
Sale of publications and reprints
Dividend income
Interest income
Realized and unrealized gain on securities
Other income

NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:
Save the Whales
F ann Animal Programs
AWI Quarterly
Public education and projects
Publications

Total unrestricted revenues and other support

EXPENSES: (Note 1)
Program services
Education and Program
Save the Whales
Farm Animal Programs

Management and general
F undraising

Total expenses

(Decrease) increase in unrestricted net assets

CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Grants and contributions
Net assets released from restrictions

(Decrease) increase in temporarily restricted net assets
(DECREASE) INCREASE IN NET ASSETS
NET ASSETS - beginning of year

NET ASSETS - end of year

15

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year Ended
Jug 30

2002 2001

$ 376,981 $ 337,476
339,965 981,899
251,088 182,187
2,378 2,988
1,170 438
41,699 91,316
21,025 3,063
2,675 13,880

30 1,997
1,037,011 1 615 244
- 51,000

- 31,000
4,235 600

- 18,510

132,717 -
136,952 101,110
1,173,963 1,716,354
856,066 612,402
85,040 76,633
181,270 233,129
1,122,376 922,164
128,740 125,076
14.300 25,711
1,265,416 1,072,951
(91,453) 643,403
17,499 704,074
(136,952) 1101.110)

(119,453) 602.964
(210,906) 1,246,367
2.697.873 1,451,506
112M 414%

 

 




Statement of Functional Expenses Year
ended Home, 30, 2002

 

 

 

 

 

 

Program Management Fund
Services and General Raising Total

Salaries $ 396,942 S 87, 140 3 4,460 3 488,542
Payroll taxes and

employment insurance 32,672 9,009 368 42,049
Employee beneﬁts 30,012 3,1 14 311 33,437
Retirement Plan 11,933 2,007 134 14,079
Advertising 280 - 850 1,130
Animal Welfare Institute

Quarterlies 86,389 - - 86,389
Printing and publications

(except for Quarterlies) 171,043 452 - 171,495
Research, writing and editing 32,007 - - 32,007
Grants 66,500 - - 66,500
Conferences, meetings and travel 110,481 44 394 110,919
Postage, mailing and addressing

costs (except for Quarterlies) 26,497 . 1,603 4,426 32,526
Telephone, duplicating and

oﬂice supplies 25,084 4,879 - 29,963
Professional services 22,512 12,000 500 35,012
Membership and subscriptions 1,245 49 - 1,294
Acquisition of books and _

other educational materials 2,825 - - 2,825
Consultants 58,035 - - 58,035
Internet services 12,011 1,059 59 13,129
Schweitzer medal 1,671 - - 1,671
Rent 26,160 4,650 225 31,035
Miscellaneous 3 54 161 - 5 15
Total expenses before depreciation 1,1 14,658 126,167 11,727 1,252,552
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment 7,718 2,573 2,573 12,864
Total expenses 35 1,122,376 $ 128,740 $ 14,300 $ 1,265,416

 

 

 

A complete ﬁnancial statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirth & Kuchner, Certiﬁed
Public Accountants, P. C., is available upon request from AWI or the New York State
Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223.

16

 

 

 




Animal We

Founded

D l R ECTO RS
Marjorie Cooke
Roger Fouts, PhD.
David 0. Hill
Fredrick Hutchison, Jr.
Cathy Liss
Cynthia Wilson

INTERNATIONAL COM M ITTEE
Aline de Aluja, .D.M.V., Mexico
Ambassador Tabarak Husain, Bangladesh
Angela King, United Kingdom
Godofredo Stutzin, Chile
Agnes Van Volkenburgh, D.V.M., Poland
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D., Russia

[fare Institute

1951

O F F I C E R8
Cathy Liss, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Fredrick Hutchison, Jr., C.P.A, Treasurer
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE
Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Gerard Bertrand, PhD.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.

STAFF AN D CONSU LTANTS
Ava Armendariz, Publications Coordinator
Amy Conklin, Editorial Assistant
Tom Garrett, Consultant for Rural Affairs
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Ofﬁcers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Advisor
Marlene Halverson, Farm Animal Economic Advisor
Chris Heyde, Research Associate
Lynne Hutchison, Executive Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D., Laboratory Animal Advisor
Jennifer Rinick, Research Assistant
Adam M. Roberts, Senior Research Associate
Wendy Swarm, Research Associate
Ben White, Special Projects Consultant

T 0 any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute is future through a
provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington, DC, the
sum of $ and/0r (speciﬁcally described property).

Donations to A W], a not-for-proﬁt corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code
Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries you may have. In cases
where you have speciﬁc wishes about the disposition of your bequest,
we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

Printed with soy ink on rat vc ledpapei. I-o 5%,,

Aw

 

 

 




I?“ :1 1 . I , ‘ in. ' 5
"§”33?WL1§\*\)J§¢1“‘~ :3 5"1’mugé
E V

»~ < y '11" .- , 3 M . a , r”- » r - ‘ 4. A z ‘ . .« » w
PL} E7: {:2}; 53%;; 5.9L); X21!aghmgfom 33%. 5310 0.9. s” a wmww“Katmai-'2 me. a...” 2:;

 




» 1, .
”5‘

my
I ,

animal welfare institute

Fifty~Second Annuai Report
July1,2002t0 June 30, 20031

 




 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) is a non-proﬁt charitable organization
founded in 1951 to reduce the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals
by humans.

Our speciﬁc goals are:

0

Humane treatment of
laboratory animals and
the development and

use of non—animal testing
methods.

Preservation of species
threatened with extinction
and protection for wildlife in
international trade.

Reform of cruel treatment
of farm animals intensively
confined in factories and an
end to inhumane slaughter.

Regulation of transport
conditions for all animals.

Ban on steel jaw leghold
traps and reform of
other cruel methods

for controlling wildlife
populations.

Encouragement of humane
science teaching and
prevention of painful
experiments on animals by
high school students.

 

In 1951, Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his
permission to the Animal Welfare Institute
to strike a medal in his honor to be
presented for outstanding achievement in
the advancement of animal welfare.

In granting his permission, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote, “I would never have believed that
my philosophy, which incorporates in our
ethics a compassionate attitude toward
all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime.”

 

Cover photo by Gerry EIIis/Minden Pictures

. “—xmewvmm




dearfﬁend

 

Nearly twenty-five years ago, while a student in college, I began
interning at the Animal Welfare Institute. I continue to work for AWI because
of my commitment to the organization’s objectives, an appreciation for AWl’s
common sense approach, and recognition of its ability to achieve so much
for the animals on a modest budget. I hope that you share my enthusiasm for
AWl and will help us continue our work.

This Annual Report shows the myriad ways in which AWI is fighting
against powerful commercial interests in America and across the globe who
harm or kill animals out of avarice. We are confronting corporate agriculture,
which treats animals as mere commodities, brutally slaughters horses to
satisfy a foreign market, and treats pigs, chickens and other farm animals
with no accommodation for their basic care and needs. We are battling the
wildlife dealers who want to kill threatened and endangered species to sell
their parts and products internationally. We are combating the international
trade bureaucrats who are determined to eviscerate hard-won animal
protection laws in the name of so-called “free trade.” We are continuing
our long—standing campaign to “Save the Whales” as the whaling nations,
Japan, Norway and lceland, seek to increase the slaughter of these majestic
creatures of the sea.

Sadly, there is much to be done, as animals the world over are in
desperate need. Though we may seem to face insurmountable odds, and
at times heart-wrenching setbacks, with your kind and generous support,
we can continue to make a difference for the animals. We can ease their

suffering, and we will persevere until we prevail.

Sincerely,

    

Cathy Liss
President

  

 




 




 

AWI is at the forefront of global efforts to protect wildlife including threatened
and endangered species such as elephants, bears, tigers, chimpanzees, tur—
tles and myriad other animals. Significant decisions were taken this past year
for animals who are threatened with extinction but are traded internationally.
Some are destined to become pets or be put on public display; others killed for
clothing, jewelry, curios, trophies, medicines and food.

As we have for thirty years, AWI staff played a vital role in the delibera-
tions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES), which had its twelfth meeting in Santiago, Chile,
in November 2002. AWI staff prepared influential documents encouraging
wise conservation decisions and distributed them to the delegates who repre-
sented more than one hundred and sixty nations. We strongly advocated the
increased protection for certain shark species, Black Sea bottlenose dolphins,
turtles and parrots. We also helped beat back efforts to weaken protection for
whales and hawksbill sea turtles. Our high profile on these Iife—or-death issues
facing the wildlife of the world will continue through the next CITES meeting in
Bangkok, Thailand, in October 2004 and beyond.

In the months following the CITES meeting, AWl’s Adam Roberts gave

guest lectures on CITES to graduate students at two schools on the East

 

AWI continues its important campaign to protect all bears from poachers
and profiteers.

 




Coast: Tufts University and the University of Maryland. AWl’s international
presence on wildlife trade matters is ever-increasing.

AWI has also campaigned to keep threatened species free and protect
those threatened and endangered animals already in captivity. We fought
against the importation of eleven young elephants from Swaziland who were
targeted for importation to two enclosures in U.S. zoos where they would be
put on display. As well, we are plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Ringling Bros. &
Barnum Bailey Circus for routine beatings of endangered Asian elephants.
The case against Ringling is proceeding well and we hope for a ruling in our
favor in the coming year.

In line with our mission to educate as many people in the U.S. and abroad
of the threats facing the world’s wildlife, AWI has undertaken an ambitious
project to publish a new edition of our incredibly popular Endangered Spe-
cies Handbook as an exclusive on—line web publication. The new volume will
explore the endemic species in Madagascar, threats to endangered species
including the fur trade, commercial whaling, and trade in bushmeat, and offer
in-depth analysis of what actions need to be taken to prevent the further decline

of the world’s most at risk species. We anticipate launch of the site in 2004.

 

 

In August, AWI traveled to Costa Rica and joined other wildlife advocates and
twelve countries to set up the Inter—American Convention for the Protection
and Conservation of Sea Turtles, the first regional conference to attempt a
comprehensive plan to stop the precipitous collapse of many species of tur-
tles. A position paper authored by AWI and others urging dramatic steps such
as a moratorium on pelagic long-lining in the Pacific, the stringent protection of
nesting beaches, a prohibition on chemical and sound pollution in turtle areas,
and a total ban on the trade in sea turtle parts, was welcomed by the parties.
In February, AWI began addressing Cuba’s captive dolphin trade. Over
the last decade, dozens of resident bottlenose dolphins have been captured
by the National Aquarium of Havana and exported to Mexico and the Carib-
bean to be used in the plethora of new exploitative swim-with-the-dolphin
programs aimed at tourists and dolphin-assisted-therapy facilities. Officials at

both the aquarium and at the capital building in Havana vigorously defended




 
 

wOO'ltJldS-SeJmeu'MMM/gtheLuuBN wir

Dolphins in captivity are incapable of reaching the graceful speed of this
long—beaked common dolphin.

the practice insisting that the dolphins were only sent to educational facilities.
Concurrently, an investigation was begun within the U.S. government into
whether the purchase of Cuban dolphins by the American owners of Dolphin
Fantaseas (Caribbean) and Dolphin Discovery (Cancun, Mexico) violated fed-
eral prohibitions on trading with Cuba.

The International Whaling Commission (IWC) held its annual meeting in
Berlin, Germany in June. Just before it opened, AWI participated in an event
at the Tempodrome that contrasted the piercing emissions of the U.S. Navy’s
Low Frequency Active Sonar with the lovely musical language of whales and
dolphins. The facility is unique—a large body temperature swimming pool/
concert hall where visitors can not only hear broadcast sounds but feel them.
At the IWC meeting, despite opposition from whaling countries and their sup-
porters, a Mexican proposal to set up a new major Conservation Committee
within the Commission to review environmental threats to whale populations
won broad support. AWI strongly backed the concept recognizing the threats
to marine mammals posed by toxic and sound pollution, climate change and
extensive incidental catch in commercial fishing operations.

Here at home, AWI continues to work for the protection of the beloved
Florida manatee, which remains under assault through a campaign of fear
and misinformation by developers and the boating industry. The most serious
threat is an attempt to downlist them from endangered to threatened by the

State of Florida. AWI continues to oppose this dangerous proposal.

 




  

 

This year AWI increased public awareness about the plight of animals in food
factories and advocated humane alternatives. We are contacted daily by
people who want to know what they can do to help farm animals. In response
we send guidance materials, support community activists fighting proposed
and existing concentrated animal feeding operations and visit farmers
interested in joining AWl’s humane husbandry program.

To ensure diligent growth and success of our humane husbandry
program, staff continue to develop humane husbandry standards for veal
calves, dairy cows and ducks. We have already finished standards for pigs
and rabbits and anticipate work on standards for laying hens, chickens
and sheep early in 2004. We conducted farm visits to assist in ensuring
conformance with our standards, and since we are concerned about every
aspect of each animal’s life, we also visited slaughterhouses. These trips give
us the opportunity to constantly evaluate and improve our program.

AWI is working with a growing number of retailers who are committed to
the humane treatment of animals. Increasingly executives recognize that it
behooves them to respond to consumer pressure seeking proper treatment

of animals. In a country where the agricultural industry lobbies Congress to

the animals’ detriment, decent treatment of farm animals will come about

 

 

AWI reported on the inhumane practice of docking cows’ tails and created

humane husbandry standards for dairy cows. Humane standards to improve
the lives of cows raised for beef are in development.

 




when consumers reject products from cruel animal factories. To this end, AWl
published new farm animal related educational materials and made it possible
for humane family farmers to be present in grocery stores to meet and better
educate customers.

AWI staff advocated the humane treatment of farm animals at scientific,
academic, government and industry-sponsored conferences. We describe
how animals are unable to express their natural behaviors in industrial
systems that rely on confinement and mutilations such as tail docking
of pigs and debeaking of laying hens. Of equal importance is our ability
to convey our firsthand knowledge about humane alternatives to these
brutal systems.

In the coming months, in addition to developing standards for all animals,
we will fiercely fight animal cloning on the grounds that it causes tremendous
suffering and oppose the subtheraputic use of antibiotics and the irradiation
of meat. Furthermore, as the American Veterinary Medical Association
reconsiders its stance on use of gestation crates for pregnant pigs, AWI will

express vehement opposition to this unnecessary cruelty.

laboratory animals

How can stress reactions during the cage cleaning procedure be minimized?
How can aggression among males, especially male mice, be minimized or
avoided? Can baboons be housed safely in pairs? What is the cause of self-
mutilation, and how can this ethopathology be cured? What is the scientific
signiﬁcance of stereotypical locomotion? What are the best ways to enrich
the living quarters of frogs kept in laboratories? These were among more than
100 questions posed for discussion during the past year on the Laboratory
Animal Refinement and Enrichment Forum, an internet group, established in
October 2002 by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, AWl’s Laboratory Animal Advisor, for the
exchange of information to improve the handling and housing of animals used
in research. Open to all laboratory personnel, this discussion seeks to promote
animal welfare and improve scientific methodology by avoiding, eliminating or
reducing husbandry-related stress.

To further assist animals used for experimentation, AWl set up a whistle-

blower web site for the reporting of any problems related to the care and treat-

 

 




ment of animals in the laboratory. We have responded to complaints received
and have sought resolutions to the problems cited by the individuals, many of
whom chose to remain anonymous. Some of the situations necessitate long-
term scrutiny and investigation.

Frustrated with the long—standing failure of the US. Department of Agri-
culture (USDA) to adequately protect non-human primates who are used for
experimentation and exhibition, AWl joined the Animal Legal Defense Fund
and three individual plaintiffs in suing the federal government. Primates are
legally entitled to a physical environment that promotes their psychological
well-being under the Animal Welfare Act, but many are still maintained in sub—
standard facilities that ignore their fundamental needs including provision of
companions and a stimulating environment.

In 1999 USDA published a draft Primate Policy, acknowledging that this
document was critical to its compliance efforts. To date USDA has not finalized
this binding document, thus failing to fulfill its responsibility to the animals in
need. The Primate Policy, based on a thorough review of the scientific litera-
ture and extensive feedback from veterinarians, primatologists and USDA in-
spectors, inexplicably seems to have been lost in a bureaucratic morass. Our
lawsuit requires USDA to make a final decision on its Primate Policy. As we go

to press, we await the judge’s verdict.

 

  

g
S

. , _ .

.. . , .

, . :.

. -
-. . , , s , ; 3
, '. l i 9 - 5 >
» 2 3 :- , - - > . .
._ = . 3. "
.; , ., ‘ ’i h
" ). l l .. , ' ‘

;':-1§:ei -. x, '

AWl is devoting much effort to enrich the lives of non-human primates still
confined alone in barren enclosures.

 

 




awi quarterly

The AWI Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000 individuals and
organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary
schools, animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI mem-

bers. Following are summaries of some of the articles from the past year.

Fall 2002 Volume 51 Number 4

~ A special section considers topics before

the 2002 Meeting of the Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on international
Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), in-
cluding: the ongoing threats facing rhinos
and bears, global parrot smuggling, and
the problems associated with consuming
turtles as food as well as the risks of al—
lowing trade in green turtles from a farm in
the Cayman Islands.

AWI attended the massive World Summit
on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in
Johannesburg, South Africa. Expectations
were not met as global decision-makers
failed to make concrete, substantive commitments to improve the lives of
the poor while protecting the environment and its natural inhabitants. The
final agreement, however, does mention the importance of family farming,
biodiversity protection, and ecotourism. During the WSSD, the Great Apes
Survival Project was relaunched to raise global awareness of the plight ofthe
great apes whose populations are dwindling.

 

Long-running problems associated with marine mammal protection are
chronicled: The attempts to return Keiko from the movie Free Willy to the
wild, risks posed to orcas as a result of unsound tourism, injuries and deaths
to right whales from fishing nets and the Navy’s arm-twisting efforts to blow
its deadly Low Frequency Active Sonar throughout the oceans.

Ooh-Mah—Nee Farm in western Pennsylvania had a terrific open house,
showing off its rescued cows, sheep, goats, pigs, rabbits, chickens and
turkeys. Ooh-Mah—Nee provides a stark contrast to the world of intensive
agriculture from which its residents came. No more confining crates and
cages and cement floors for these lucky animals—it’s one hundred acres of
peaceful land.

 

 




 

Winter 2003 Volume 52 Number 1

AWI mourns the passing of its Founder
and President, Christine Stevens, detailing
her more than five decades of tireless work
on behalf of all animals. Christine edu-
cated the public and policy-makers about
the need to treat animals humanely. She
also lobbied Congress and Presidential
Administrations for laws and regulations
to protect animals. A two page photo-mon-
tage illustrates her far-reaching efforts.

NotonlydidAWl have an incredibly success-
ful CITES meeting in Santiago, Chile, but
we, as always, led the effort to honor those
wildlife law enforcement officers across
the globe who work so diligently to protect wildlife from well—armed poachers.
In coordination with the Species Survival Network, AWI presented the Clark
R. Bavin Wildlife Law Enforcement Awards to individuals from Kenya, Costa
Rica, Uganda, the US. and Canada. A new DVD film is also available about ef-
forts to prevent poaching of Africa’s elephants called, “Wanted Dead or Alive?”
The film is produced by the African Environmental Film Foundation.

Sanctuaries are always hard pressed for two things: money and room. AWI
has offered modest assistance to the “Siglo XXI” primate rescue center out-
side Santiago, Chile, where roughly 100 primates, rescued from laboratories,
circuses and the pet trade, reside. Elba Almazan and her family provide lov-
ing care to all of the residents of the Center and, with our help, have pur-
chased a bigger piece of land to construct a new sanctuary facility.

The fight continues in Florida to make the state’s waterways safer for mana-
tees. The US. Fish and Wildlife Service has done its best over the years to
avoid the designation and enforcement of new manatee protection zones
there. But, as a result of a lawsuit that includes AWI among the plaintiffs, a
new deadline has been imposed to establish these protected areas.

After a long crusade, the remaining six polar bears suffering unbearably in
the Suarez Brothers Circus were confiscated by the US. Fish and Wildlife
Service and placed in different U.S. zoos, more suitably equipped to meet
the biological needs of these animals. In the circus, they were reportedly
subjected to temperatures that reached above 100 F and sometimes went
without cool pools of water or air conditioned holding trailers.

Dominion, thought by many to be the most influential book on the ethical
treatment of non-human animals in years, was reviewed.

 

 

7‘}




Spring 2003 Volume 52 Number 2

O

A campaign is in full swing in the Euro-
pean Union to prohibit the importation of
exotic birds, especially parrots. The US.
successfully banned the importation of
birds protected under CITES in 1992, but
the EU. has lagged behind in following
our wise lead. The trade of wild birds is
incredibly inhumane—birds suffer high
levels of mortality during capture, holding
and transport, which threatens the long—
term viability of many fragile species.

Russian orcas are threatened by the in-
ternational live animal trade, where they
may be caught cruelly in their frigid ocean
homes, separated from their closely-bonded social pods and sent to marine
parks and aquaria across the globe. AWI has sponsored an orca study in the
waters of Kamchatka.

Dolphins are under massive global attack. Not only are there still legislative
and legal battles in the US. to keep dolphin—deadly tuna from being sold on
the American market, but dolphins are killed in South America and the Far
East. Hardy Jones reports on the thousands of dolphins slaughtered in a
bloody massacre by Japanese ﬁsherman in Futo. Meanwhile, Stefan Auster-
miihle tells that at least 1,000 dolphins are killed every year off the coast of
Peru for their coveted meat.

AWl mourns the passing of a good friend, Dr. John Kullberg, who served
as the President of AWl’s companion organization, the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, at the time of his death. Dr. Kullberg’s sister, Marjorie
Cooke, remains on the AWl Board of Directors.

The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may be playing “fast and loose”
with its bear population figures in order to artiﬁcially inflate the number of do-
mestic brown bears that may be available for hunters’ bullets and their desire
for bear trophies. The Deliverance of Dancing Bears, a wonderful children’s
book about the cruel practice of forcing bears to “dance” for money, is re—
viewed.

Opponents of intensive animal factories joined forces with Native Americans
of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe in South Dakota to defeat Bell Farms’ efforts to
exploit the tribe’s lands and build a conﬁnement hog operation there. A com-
plex and tortuous legal battle over the facility has been fought since 1998
and it looks as though the defense of the native lands is going to win out over
corporate greed.

 

 




 

10

Summer 2003 Volume 52 Number 3

- The burgeoning trade in exotic and increas-

O

ingly dangerous pets must be stopped.
People are no longer satisfied with dogs
and cats and are seeking pets that are
“bigger and badder” than everyone else’s:
lions, jaguars, tigers, bears, baboons and
boa constrictors. Not only do these animals
pose a threat from their innate “wildness,”
but they likely carry diseases that can be
harmful if not deadly to humans: salmo-
nella, SARS and monkeypox.

AWI is launching a massive campaign
in time for the Ministerial Meeting of the
World Trade Organization (WTO). For
the first time, we will have a representa-
tive inside the meeting speaking to delegates about the need for enhanced
attention to animal welfare issues during of the latest round of decisions. This
is especially true with respect to agriculture issues, such as subsidies that
may be paid to family farmers who raise their animals humanely. AWI is also

 

organizing throngs of demonstrators in dolphin costumes outside the meeting,
reminiscent of the popular sea turtles who marched in Seattle.

AWl has launched two new brochures in its illustrative and informative series:
one on Free Trade and another on Farm Animals.

Willow Creek Farm in Wisconsin has been welcomed into the fold of farmers
who meet AWl’s humane husbandry standards for pigs. Tony Renger is a
fourth generation farmer and he and his wife, Sue, market their pig products
directly to customers in the area.

AWI has merged with its companion organization, the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation (SAPL), to better serve both of their constituencies. Three
important bills highlighted: the Crane Conservation Act, the Marine Turtle
Conservation Act and the bill to end the use of steel jaw leghold traps. As well,
SAPL continues to work on legislation banning the transport and commercial-
ization of horses for human consumption and the practices of random source
dealers selling dogs and cats into biomedical research.

Congressional efforts to undermine the vital protection afforded marine mam-
mals by the Marine Mammal Protection Act are intense. The Department of
Defense Authorization Bill and legislation to reauthorize the Marine Mammal
Protection Act both contain provisions to make it easier to “harass” marine
mammals and attain “incidental take” permits to kill large numbers of whales,
dolphins and other precious mammals of the sea.




Speeches Made anleeeHngs
Attended by AWI Representatives

 

2002]

“Antibiotic-Free Day” Press Conference, cosponsored with Sierra Club, Min-
neapolis, MN, July 2

Speeches by Adam M. Roberts, at the Animal Rights 2002 Conference, on
“Wildlife Protection Laws,” July 2, and “Trade Issues,” July 3

Up the River Endeavors Coalition, Martha’s Vineyard, MA, July 10-14
Powder River Basin Resource Council Board Meeting, Barlow Ranch, Gillette,
WY, July 13

Presentation by Diane Halverson at The Holly Edison Wildlife Rehabilitation
Center, Woodstock, NY, July 13

Speech by Ben White on the effect of globalization on animal protection at the
San Juan Summer Celebration, San Juan Island, WA, July 21

“Legislator Appreciation Day” and open house for alternative swine housing
research and demonstration project, University of Minnesota, West Central
Research and Outreach Center, Morris, MN, August 2

Inter-American Convention for the Protection and Conservation of Sea
Turtles, San Jose, Costa Rica, August 6-8

Presentation by Viktor Reinhardt on “Training macaques to voluntarily co—op-
erate during two common procedures: Blood collection and capture of group—
housed animals,” XlXth Congress of the International Primatological Society,
Beijing, China, August 6

Statement by Diane Halverson on factory farm reliance on antibiotics to com-
pensate for poor housing and husbandry, Sierra Club press conference in
front of Cargill, Inc. headquarters, Wayzata, MN, August 13

Meeting with David Bayvel, Director, Animal Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry and Professor David Mellor, Director of Animal Welfare
Science, Massey University, both of New Zealand, August 16

Meeting with the US. Fish and Wildlife Service’s delegation to the Conference
of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES) to discuss agenda items for the upcoming meeting, August 20

Ben White interviewed by “Rolling Thunder Review” during a presentation by
Lori Wallach of Public Citizen, Renton, WA, August 24

Land Stewardship Project 20th Anniversary Celebration and Member Meeting,
Jordan, MN, August 24

World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
August 26—September 4

Second International Workshop, “Assessment of Animal Welfare at Farm and
Group Level,” University of Bristol, Bristol, UK, September 2-5

 




 

 

12

O

Niman Ranch “Farmer Appreciation Dinner,” Hotel Fort Des Moines, Des
Moines, IA, September 14

Presentation by Diane Halverson on AWI’s humane pig husbandry standards
for the Future Trends in Animal Agriculture Symposium at the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, September 18

“Biotech in the Barnyard: Implications of Genetically Engineered Animals,”
sponsored by Pew Initiative on Food and Biotechnology and Center for Vet-
erinary Medicine, Dallas, TX, September 24-25

“Animal Cloning and the Production of Food Products,” sponsored by Pew
Initiative on Food and Biotechnology and Center for Veterinary Medicine and
the US. Food and Drug Administration, Dallas, TX, September 26

Speech by Diane Halverson on cruelty of pig factory farming and humane
alternatives at the White Dog Cafe forum, Philadelphia, PA, September 30

Comments by Wendy Swann on the “Draft Guidance for Industry: Evaluating
the Safety of Antimicrobial New Animal Drugs with Regards to Their Micro-
biological Effects on Bacteria of Human Health Concern” at FDA’s Center for
Veterinary Medicine public meeting, Rockville, MD, October 2

Baum Forum “A Growing Concern,” New York, NY, October 5—6

Speech by Ben White on problems with globalization at Tonasket Barter Fair,
Tonasket, WA, October 16

Agribusiness Accountability Initiative Forum, Chicago, IL, October 18—19

Presentation by Marlene Halverson on current animal welfare issues to the
Animal Welfare Committee, U.S. Animal Health Association, St. Louis, MO,
October 21

Public information meeting and feedback session on State progress in devel-
oping policy regarding antibiotics in animal feeds, Minnesota Department of
Public Health, St. Paul, MN, October 21

Press Conference by the Species Survival Network (Adam M. Roberts, mod—
erator) in advance of the Twelfth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to
CITES, October 22

Speech by Ben White on sustainable development at the Spring Street School
forum, San Juan Island, WA, October 24

Meeting of AWI’s Board of Directors, October 24 (conference call), November
18, April 2, 2003 and June 9, 2003 (Alexandria, VA)

Presentation by Diane Halverson discussing how AWl’s pig husbandry stan-
dards allow the animals to fulfill their natural behavior, North Carolina Agricul-
tural, Technical and State University, Greensboro, NC, October 25
Presentation by Diane Halverson on the relations between animal welfare and
environmental protection, Sierra Club Conference, Franklin, KY, October 26
Educational exhibit at the American Association for Laboratory Animal Sci-
ence, San Antonio, TX, October 28-30

Twelfth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, Santiago, Chile,
November 3—1 5




0

Meeting with Alexey Yablokov of AWI’s International Committee regarding
marine mammal and environmental issues, November 5

“Ecolabels and the Greening of the Food Market,” sponsored by Tufts Univer-
sity, Boston, MA, November 7-8

Greener Fields meeting on ecolabelling, Boston, MA, November 9-10

Fauna Australis International Meeting about Wildlife Conservation, Santiago,
Chile, November 9

Speech by Wendy Swann at Public Citizen press event opposing food irradia-
tion, November 14

Presentation by Diane Halverson on the role of chefs in influencing the welfare
of farm animals, Women Chefs and Restaurateurs Conference, Boston, MA,
November 18

Presentation by Diane Halverson on providing primer on the ways animal fac-
tories violate the natural behavior of farm animals to the Animal Grantmakers,
Glaser Progress Foundation, Seattle, WA, November 19

Hosted forum on whale watching and whales, San Juan Island, WA, December 6
Sierra Club, North Star Chapter meeting, Cannon Falls, MN, December 14
Rice County Feedlot Front meeting, Northfield, MN, December 12

 

200§l

 

0

Meeting with Yvan LaFleur, Director of the Environment Branch of the Cana—
dian Wildlife Service, to discuss development of global wildlife law enforce-
ment network, January 14

Rice County Feedlot Front meeting, Northfield, MN, January 15

Guest lecture by Adam M. Roberts on CITES and wildlife trade, Tufts Univer-
sity Center for Animals and Public Policy, Boston, MA, February 4

“Local Food Systems, Local Decisions — In Search of True Security,” Pennsyl-
vania Sustainable Agriculture Association Annual Conference, State College,
PA, February 6-8

Presentation by Diane Halverson and Marlene Halverson on AWI’s farm
animal program developments and prohibition of tail docking, Niman Ranch
Annual Winter Meeting, Ames, IA, February 10

McDonald’s Animal Welfare Advisory Council meeting, Oak Brook, IL,
February 13

Meeting with Matthew Scully, author of Dominion, February 14

Meeting to discuss the vital role of the Animal Welfare Information Center with
Peter Young, Director, National Agricultural Library, Beltsville, MD, February 20
House and Senate Hearings on legislation to ban the gestation crate housing
of sows, Maryland State Legislature, Annapolis, MD, February 24-25
Meeting with Enrique Moret Hernandez, Director of International Cooperation
in the National Capital of Cuba, about dolphin trade and CITES, Havana,
Cuba, February 24

Meeting with assistant director of the National Aquarium of Havana concern-
ing the dolphin trade, Havana, Cuba, February 24-25

 

13

 

 




 

 

 

 

Strategy meeting on the tuna-dolphin issue, February 25

Marine Mammal Protection Coalition meeting, February 27

Sustainable Agriculture and Rural Development meeting, March 4
Congressional hearing on nutria eradication in Maryland and Louisiana, March 6
Meeting regarding enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act with Chester
Gipson, Acting Deputy Administrator, Animal Care, USDA-APHIS, March 17
Meeting with partners involved in the United Nations Environment Program’s
Great Apes Survival Partnership, March 17

Guest lecture on CITES and wildlife trade by Adam M. Roberts for University
of Maryland graduate students, March 18

Speech by Ben White at a press conference and televised interviews against
confining dolphins in captivity, Las Vegas, NV, March 19— 20

“Never Forgetting: Elephants and Ethics,” National Zoo’s Conservation and
Research Center, Front Royal, VA, March 19-20

Memorial Service for AWI founding president, Christine Stevens, April 2
UFAW Symposium: “Science in the Service of Animal Welfare,” Edinburgh,
Scotland, April 2-4

Alternative Swine Systems Program Task Force meeting, University of Minne-
sota, West Central Research and Outreach Center, Morris, MN, April 10

“Tour de Manure,” bus tour of animal factories and sustainable farms, cospon-
sored with Sierra Club, Carleton College, Northfield, MN, April 12

Speech by Ben White on the ties between animal protection, saving the Earth
and democracy at Earth Day celebration, San Juan Island, WA, April 26
Presentation by Viktor Reinhardt on “Understanding Animals,” Butteville EI-
ementary School, Weed, CA, May 14

USDA “Future Trends in Animal Agriculture: The Science and Ethics Behind
Animal Well-Being Assessment,” May 28

Presentation by Wendy Swann on humane treatment of animals at High
Bridge Elementary School career day, Bowie, MD, May 30

Presentation by Diane Halverson at Waterkeeper Alliance Summit for Sus-
tainable Pig Farming, Gettysburg, PA, June 7

Presentations by Cathy Liss to students at Mt. Vernon Community School on
being kind to animals, Alexandria, VA, June 11

Speech by Ben White against Low Frequency Active Sonar at the Liquid
Sound event, Berlin, Germany, June 14

International Whaling Commission, Berlin, Germany, June 16-19

National Wildlife Services Advisory Committee. Cathy Liss serves on the
Committee. Riverdale, MD, June 24-25

Regular CITES Strategy and Board Meetings of the Species Survival
Network

 

Meetings took place in Washington, DC unless othenNise noted.




Articles in Print

Garrett T 2003. Pigs—American Style: An Interview, Gazeta Poznanska, 8-9,
June 20. Poznan, Poland
Garrett T 2003. Against the Factory farm in Szydlowo: An Interview, Gazeta
Poznanska, 4, May 24. Poznan, Poland i

Garrett T 2003. Smithfield Wants to Enter EU Market, Zielony Sztandar, 3,
June 1. Warsaw, Poland I

Kryda M 2002. An Interview on Animal Welfare Act; Polska Agencja
lnformacyjna, 3, September 26. Warsaw, Poland

Kryda M 2002. An Interview on Animal Welfare Act, Rzeczpospolita, 6,
September 28. Warsaw, Poland

Kryda M 2002. An Interview on Factory Farming, Nasz Dziennik, 3, January
15. Warsaw, Poland

Kryda M 2003. An Interview on Factory Farms in Poland, Nasz Dziennik, 3,
June 5. Warsaw, Poland I

Reinhardt V 2002. Artificial weaning of calves: Benefits and costs. Journal of I
Applied Animal Welfare Science, 5, 251—255
mallwwwawionlineorq/Lab animals/biblio/iaaws7.html

Reinhardt V 2002. Addressing the social needs of macaques used for
research. Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 41(3), 7-10
http://www.brown.edu/primatellon41-3.html#vik

Reinhardt V, Buchanan-Smith HM, Prescott MJ 2002. Training macaques ,
to voluntarily co-operate during two common procedures: Blood collection I
and capture of group-housed animals. XlXth Congress of the International I
Primatological Society, Abstracts—Caring for Primates, 182-183

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A 2002. Database: Refinement and Environmental
Enrichment for All Laboratory Animals. Animal Welfare Institute,
Washington, DC bﬂp:/lwww.awionline.orqllab animals/biblio/laball.htm

Reinhardt V 2002. The myth of the aggressive monkey. Journal of Applied
Animal Welfare Science, 5, 321-330
mullwwwawionlineorq/Lab animals/biblioliaaws8.html

Reinhardt V (Ed) 2003. Personnel / Animal Relationships: Affectionate or
Neutral: A Discussion. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 42(1), 14-15

mDII/WVIAN.brown.edu/Research/Primate/lpn42-1.html#relation

Reinhardt V 2003. Legal loophole for subminimal floor area for caged
macaques. Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, 6, 53—56
http://www.awionline.orq/Lab animals/biblio/iaast.htmI

White, B 2003. Letter to the editor concerning Peter Tyack, LFA, and court

victory over his soundblasting of grey whales, Cape Cod Times. 22 January,
2003. Cape Cod, MA

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Statement of ActIVItIes
1
and Changes In Net Assets
Year Ended
June 30
29% 299.2.
CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES:
Contributions - Foundations and trusts $ 712,631 $ 376,981
- Legacies and bequests 664,181 339,965
— Other 404,684 251,088
Memberships 1,369 2,378
Sale of publications and reprints 694 1,170
Dividend income 20,046 41,699
Interest income 29,692 21,025
Realized and unrealized (loss) gain on securities (59,313) 2,675
Other income 348 30
man; M
NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:
Save the Whales 1,000 -
AWI Quarterly 3,183 4,235
Public education and projects 27,499 -
Publications - 13 2,717
3 1.682 136,952
Total unrestricted revenues and other support 1,806,014 1,173,963
EXPENSES:
Program services
Education and Program 765,555 856,066
Save the Whales 73,409 85,040
Farm Animal Programs 170,185 181,270
1,009,149 1,122,376
Management and general 160,426 128,740
Fundraising 22,205 14,300
Total expenses 1,191,780 1,265 ,416
Increase (decrease) in unrestricted net assets 614,234 (91,453)
CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
Grants and contributions 21,000 17,499
Net assets released from restrictions (3] 682) (136,952)
(Decrease) in temporarily restricted net assets (10,682) (_1.__.__19 453)
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS 603,552 (210,906)
NET ASSETS — beginning ofyear 2,486,967 2,697,873
NET ASSETS - end ofyear $3,090,519 $2,486,967
1 6

 




 

 

Statement of Functional Expenses
Year Ended June 30, 2003

 

 

 

Program Management Fund
Services and General Raising Total

Salaries $ 419,851 $ 91,424 $ 4,717 $ 515,992
Payroll taxes and

employment insurance 33,502 7,285 376 41,163
Employee beneﬁts 34,167 6,448 298 40,913
Retirement Plan 8,937 2,202 100 1 1,239
Advertising 1,765 - 7,910 9,675
Animal Welfare Institute

Quarterlies 85,080 19 - 85,099
Printing and publications

(except for Quarterlies) 12,8 95 326 561 13,782
Research, writing and editing _ 12,908 — - 12,908
Grants 70,500 - — 70,500
Conferences, meetings and travel 76,652 74 - 76,726
Postage, mailing and addressing

costs (except for Quarterlies) 24,337 1,332 2,425 28 ,0 94
Telephone, duplicating and

office supplies 26,629 9,172 13 35,814
Professional services 30,740 10,500 - 41,240
Membership and subscriptions 1,541 - - 1,541
Acquisition of books and

other educational materials 2,413 - - 2,413
Consultants 100,504 — — 100,504
Internet services 15,293 586 - 15,879
Rent 23,625 7,050 225 30,900
Utilities 1,342 348 1,690
Moving costs 12,054 12,054
Building expenses 2,840 618 32 3,490
Interest expense 6,019 1 ,31 1 67 7,397 I
Miscellaneous 1,166 4,196 - 5,362
Total expenses before depreciation 992,706 154,945 16,724 1 ,1 64,375
Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment 16,443 5 ,481 5,481 27,405 1

l

Total expenses $ 1,009,149 $ 160,426 $ 22,205 $ 1,191,780

 

A complete ﬁnancial statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirth & Kuchner, Certified
Public Accountants, RC, is available upon request from AWl or the New York State
Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223.

 




 




animal welfare institute!

 

 

founder
Christine Stevens

directors
Marjorie Cooke
Roger Fouts, Ph.D.
John Gleiber
Fredrick Hutchison, Jr.
Cathy Liss
Cynthia Wilson, Chair

0 ff i c e r 3
Cathy Liss, President

Cynthia Wilson, Vice President

Fredrick Hutchison, Jr.,
C.P.A, Treasurer

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
scientific committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.

Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, M.D.

Hope Ryden

John Walsh, M.D.

Foundedin 1951 %

international committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V., Mexico

Ambassador Tabarak Husain, Bangladesh
Angela King, United Kingdom

Godofredo Stutzin, Chi/e

Agnes Van Volkenburgh, D.V.M., Poland
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D., Russia

staff and consultants
Ava Armendariz, Graphic Designer

Tom Garrett, Consultant for Rural Affairs
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Ofﬁcers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Advisor

Marlene Halverson,
Farm Animal Economic Advisor

Christopher J. Heyde, Research Associate
Lynne Hutchison, Executive Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Advisor

Jennifer Rinick, Research Assistant

Adam M. Roberts, Senior Research Associate
Wendy Swann, Research Associate

Ben White, Special Projects Consultant

 

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s future through

a provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

l give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington,

DC, the sum of $ __________

___ and/or (specifically described property).

Donations to AWl, a not-for—profit corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code

Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries you may have.

In cases where you have specific wishes about the disposition of your bequest,

we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

 

Printed with soy ink on recycled paper. [Q-,_ ®

 




Amimal Welfara institute:

(IQ é PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20027 ~ wwwawiomineorg

v

 




