 

>3~=¢ Eww.

 

ICZCme.
5mm

cc>mammr<v

 




 

CONTENTS.

The First Step (V.)
To Eat or Not T 0 Eat
Vivisection

Rabbits

Symposium

Correspondence

17

23

26

28

29

31

 

 




 

 

 

      
 

  
 

    

(5/;~ “$5; .

. _J 4' Q
“Q .‘ ‘1; ®;%\? 9 \W‘ s“
. § t ,_ :— V

0

s

  

; \\
_. .5-

~

 

 

 

HUMANE LlllFlE

APRIL, 1937.

 

The First Step.

V.
VITALITY.

HE word “Vegetarian” is derived through the word
“vegetable,” from the Latin word “vegetus” which means
“vigorous.” It is primarily used to mean one who draws

his food from the vegetable kingdom in distinction from the
animal and mineral kingdoms.

The name of a class rarely indicates all that is usually meant
in speaking of that class, especially when the name is used in a
popular rather than a strictly scientiﬁc sense; and, as it is usual
for ordinary vegetarians to use eggs and milk as well as the edible
products of the vegetable kingdom, a charge of inconsistency has
been raised against them. There is also the misunderstanding

 

 




 

 

 

 

18 HUMANE LIFE

amongst some who do not care to look into the matter that they
live on garden vegetables chieﬂy, the more general meaning of
the word “vegetable” being not so well known to them.

These are mistakes which it has been proposed to correct by
altering or abandoning the term HVegetarian.” There is no real
need for doing so, and no better name can. be found. “Food
Reformer” has been suggested, but some meat eaters may be
H Food Reformers.”

The assertion that the practice of vegetarianism is, in the end,
usually attended with loss of health is disproved by the evidence
produced in the last chapter. Wholesome food is but one factor
making for health. Its good effects may be neutralised by a
man’s having to live amid insanitary surroundings or to work in
ill ventilated ofﬁces or workshops or owing to worry or hereditary
tendencies. Other things being equal, vegetarian diet gives better
health than can be obtained on a ﬂesh diet. The opinions of Dr.
\V. B. Carpenter, Dr. B. W. Richardson, Adam Smith and. others
already quoted are decisive in favour of this view.

Evidence is abundant that the strongest of men and animals
are vegetarians. It is not true that the lion and the tiger are the
strongest creatures; nor are they capable of the endurance and
steady work for which the best of the non-carnivorous species are
so well known. In the jungle, the lion and the tiger will not
attack the bull or bison when the latter is aware of their presence
and ready to face the danger. In Assam there is a sport in which
a bull and a tiger are put into a staked enclosure at opposite ends.
In the contest which ensues, the bull is always victorious.

The most powerful animals are not the carnivora but such as
the elephant, rhinoceros, horse, bull and gorilla. .

The dogs of St. Bernard Monastery are fed on oatmeal and
other vegetarian foods. The monks there told the present writer




HUMANE LIFE 19

that, if fed on flesh, they are not so reliable as guides in the snow
and that they become ‘méchant.’

P. B. Du Chaillu, in his book, HEquatorial Africa” says that
the gorilla’s strength is enormous and that his food consists of
berries, pine apple leaves, wild sugar cane, the pith of trees, nuts
and other vegetable matter.

Scotch, Irish and Cumberland peasantry and Brindley’s piece
workers were, in Chapter I, given as examples. The Japanese
soldiers and wrestlers, the Nile boatmen, Arabs, the long distance
runners of India and the powerful Sikhs of the Punjab are others
of the long list that could be given of very strong men living on
vegetarian diet. On the other hand, if meat eating gives great
strength, the greatest meat eaters should be very strong. Yet
Professor Lawrence writes that the Laplanders, Kamschatdales,
Esquimaux, and those of Terra del Fuego are the smallest,
weakest and least brave of the earth, though they live on ﬂesh and
that often raw.

In 1849, at a meeting at Bradford, Richard Cobden .said:
“Of the 658 members of the House of Commons, Col. Thompson
is able to endure the fatigue and annoyance of those long,
dull, and dreary speeches, better than any other member of the
House.” He added that he believed the member who came
second to him was Mr. Brotherton. Both of these members were
vegetarians.

Speaking of the 60th anniversary of the Vegetarian Society
at Manchester, in November, 1907, the Glasgow Herald said:
“T he Chairman of a Diamond Jubilee celebrated this week was a
sprightly gentleman of 83 who began the proceedings by sending
congratulatory telegrams to fellow simple liters of the ages of 94,
92, and 90.”

On October 13th, 1905, a meeting at the Memorial Hall was

 

 




 

 

 

20 HUMANE LIFE

addressed by seven octogenarian vegetarians. One of these, Mr.
Thomas Wyles, of Buxton said: HIn my ninetieth year I have
this summer done ﬁve weeks of Alpine travel in charge of a party
of friends and have managed well, enjoyed the run and done
some stiff climbing. For instance, from Zermatt to the top of
Gorner Grat, ﬁve hours up and four hours down: also several
other climbs. I am sure that the more my diet is limited to fruit,-
the higher is my vitality and the greater is my power to enjoy
life.”

Experiments were made by Professor Irving Fisher of the
Yale University, U.S.A., on the relation of diet to endurance.
The ﬁrst consisted of holding both arms extended at the level of the
shoulders. The best record of the meat eaters was 22 minutes and
their average only 10 minutes. For the vegetarians the best was 200
minutes and their average 51 minutes. Another experiment was
deep knee bending. The ﬂesh eaters averaged 383 times, but the
vegetarians 731 times. The signiﬁcance of this contest was very
great as the ﬂesh eaters were athletes of the Yale University while
the abstainers from ﬂesh were doctors and nurses of the Battle

Creek Sanitorium.

Vegetarian athletes, in spite of their being a small minority
compared with the large number of ﬂesh eating athletes, have
gained numerous and remarkable successes in contests in bicycling,
, walking, running, boxing, wrestling, weight lifting, swimming and

tennis.

The following is from the Daily News of June 29th, 1898 :—
Berlin, Tuesday Night.

HA very interesting walking match took place here last.

Sunday over a distance of about 70 English miles. There were
22 starters, among them eight vegetarians; and the distance had
to be covered in 18 hours. The interesting result Was that the
ﬁrst six to arrive at the goal were vegetarians, All reached the

4:30

5.4




46‘

so.

HUMANE LIFE 21

goal in splendid condition. The two others missed their way
and walked ﬁve miles more. Not until an hour after the last
vegetarian arrived did the ﬁrst meat eater appear, completely
exhausted. He however was the only one, the others having
dropped off after thirty miles.” In 1902, there was another long
distance walking race, this time 125 miles, from Dresden to
Berlin. The ﬁrst six to arrive at the winning post were
vegetarians: and of the thirteen who completed the walk, only
three were meat eaters.

Mr. G. H. Allen completed a walk from Lands, End to John
o"Groats (908 miles) in 16 days, 21 hours, 33 minutes (exclusive of
Sundays) averaging 63 miles a day for the last ﬁve days; the
distance walked on the last day being 7312- miles.

Much success has been obtained by the cyclists of the
Vegetarian Cyclist and Athletic Club. The most prominent one
occurred in August, 1911, when each of several leading cyclist
clubs sent in two or three of their best men to compete in the
Anerley 12 hours race. The Vegetarian Cycling Club sent three
representatives. In all there were 24 starters. The result was
recorded in the journal ”Cycling” :— ‘

“Seldom, if ever, has one club triumphed so completely in an
open event as did the Vegetarian Cycling Club. Their three
representatives ﬁnished ﬁrst, second and third respectively, two of
them exceeded the current record ﬁgures for Southern roads and
the third was the only other competitor to pass the double
century. The meat eaters were smitten hip and thigh and great
joy reigned in the Vegetarian Camp.”

In the cycling world the vegetarians hold many records and
championships, for instance, the run from London to Brighton
and back, the most coveted of all, and the Bath road 100 mile
race.

 

 

 




 

 

 

22 HUMANE LIFE

In the Olympic Sports in 1908, Mr. E; R. Voight beat all the
World’s champions in running 5 miles (in 25 minutes 11 seconds).
Mr. Eustace Miles was nine times English amateur champion at
tennis and in 1900 he won the championship of America at
tennis and racquets.

Men who have been vegetarians all their lives did well in the
late war.

At the last International Olympic Games in 1902 in Sweden,
of the twelve English representatives, three were selected from the
Vegetarian Cycling and Athletic Club.

.‘EDOCE" °ano

      
 

 
 
 

 

(7" TN Hull/lg

rjiL - 173%?

01
”kW/Oil: ’jou are \mssl’akcm, olcl fellow/‘3 meal‘ is esscnlicil
’31:?) l’)Cclll’l)."

are: {101' exocl‘lx/ WhaT 7cm 00ch call §uckl .

 

‘Wn Jumbo: "01;, no If 15M”. Om farml ncfcr val. cm ,"Cle We

 




HUMANE LIFE 23

 

To Eat or Not To Eat.

N 1902 a prize of two guineas was offered by the Editor of

“ Tit Bits” for the best reply to give when a present of a

turkey was sent at Christmas to a vegetarian. The prize was

awarded to James McKirdy, of Bute; and his excellent traverse

of Shakespeare’s “To be or not to be,” was published in the
Christmas number of “ Tit Bits” of 1902.

 

To eat or not to eat. That is the question.
Whether it’s nobler for a vegetarian
1 To suffer ridicule and undeserved taunts
Or to use knife and fork upon this turkey
And, by carving, end them. To eat, to feel
l No more the pangs of unfulﬁlled desire,
} The aching void that vegetation never ﬁlls,
‘ To spurn such roots and herbs—’tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished. To eat, to sleep——
To sleep ! Perchance to dream ; ay, there’s the rub ;
For from this buxom turkey dreams may come
When it has shufﬂed off our dinner plates
To realms within. And who could bear
To multiply in dreams the ills we have—

 

The nightmare of a visit from one’s ma-in-law—
Who laughs to scorn the simple fruits of earth

Unless the horned ox or bleating sheep
Or fowl of tender years, or all combined,

Do grace the festive board ?‘ For, in good sooth,
Without the’aid of dreams we grunt and sweat

 

 




24 HUMANE LIFE‘

Beneath the loads of life enow. The leech’s bill,
The varlet’s tips, the Yule tide gifts, the rude demands
That brook no leisured ease when forcing pelt
From our unwilling purse must give us pause
And cowards make of all. But, soft, I did forget,
While dwelling on these ills, this strange unwonted shape
That lies, inert, fast hurried to a raucous doom
By man’s relentless appetite.
It is a turkey that I see before me :
No spectral number nor fantastic dream,
No ﬁgment of a heated brain to- test my resolution,
It is a turkey from the poultryman.
I see thee now in form as palpable
As when thou gamboll’d midst thy loving kin
And reared thy haughty crest, now levelled with the dust.
Thou may’st have been thy parents' pride
Since ever thou, blinking from the shell, emerged
Till budding promise reached its full fruition.
Thou may’st have strutted to and fro in measureless content,
Reposeful in the thought that pampered care bestowed on thee
Was but the well deserved issue of thy worth,
But ’twas thy very comeliness stuck in the gizzard
Of thy enemies ; thy round outlines, proudly swelling shape,

 

 

That raised their envious gorge and left an orphan brood
To mourn the absence of their sire. '

The stones themselves may well prate of this ghastly deed ;
Cold breath can naught but frame protest.

Thou wert, thou art no more than carrion

 

Butchered to make a Christmas holiday.
And yet the well remembered odour of that roasted state

Doth raise in me strange yearnings which I fain would crush.
It is a pricking, sharp as spur, that summons me to smell

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 25

The fragrant zephyrs wafted from thy cooked demise,
And could but conscience cover up the consequence

I’d woo thee with the implements of steel.
But principle is stronger than desire

When wedded to a will that bendeth not
Beneath temptation’s tempest.

 

Avaunt ! And quit my sight, thou plump alluring spectacle—
I’ll none of thee.
Hence ! Thou tantalizing morsel—hence, and get thee gone !
What man dare eat, and vegetate, dare I.
It may be like the ripe tomato’s sphere,
With blooming cheeks, as if full conscious of her charms.
The juicy pear, whose sweetness far too soon dissolves,
Nor leavesiaught but a kind remembrance ;
The kindred fruits that loud proclaim their worth
In most insistent lusciousness and please the eye
With views of richest loveliness.
Nor must the lordly lentil be forgot,
The rice, the tapioca and those other foods
That Nature nourishes, depending not
Upon the butcher’s knife.
But stay ; this turkey’s end doth try me sore ;

 

It is a carcase ﬁt for some
Who relish such barbarian food.
I’ll send it on anonymous to Smith ;
He’ll never 'know from whom it comes ;
And—may I be forgiven.

oz-anca'o 0253060

NOTES.

Bound sets of Humane Life for 1936 are now available—Price 2/ -.

 




 

 

26 HUMANE LIFE

Vivisection.

BEATRICE E. KIDD.

AS in previous issues we have considered the practice of

Vivisection together with other forms of cruelty to animals

(for it cannot logically be ignored) let us sum up the
reasons for opposing it.

(I) When Vivisection was ﬁrst practised it was not conﬁned
to animals. Slaves and criminals were also used. As civilisation
grew, slaves and even criminals were accorded Rights, and these
were, still later, granted to animals, laws being passed for their
protection. The fact that mankind has already drawn the line at
vivisecting human beings shows that, if civilisation is to continue
to advance, the animals’ turn is bound to come. This reform is
long overdue.

(2) It is really unnecessary to meet the argument—a false
one—that vivisection has conferred great beneﬁts upon humanity,
because, if we desire that the practice shall now be stopped, we
quite sufﬁciently reveal our honesty and consistency by being
willing to forego any further Hbeneﬁts.” And as the old-time
vivisection of human beings must have taught the doctors
something, they cannot logically accuse us of inconsistency for
utilising their present skill and knowledge (which has been
accumulating throughout the centuries) without at the same time
accusing themselves of beneﬁting by a past system which they
now condemn.

 

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 27

(3) As long as we allow Vivisection, and endow it, it will
increase. Thus, from a beginning of 481 experiments in a year,
we have reached the enormous total of 736,716 in 1935.

(4) Vivisection is misleading. Professor Hobday, our leading
veterinarian, has stated that the diseases of animals cannot well
be compared with those of man. HWhile there are certain
analogies” he says Hthere are also many differences.” The

 

practice of experimenting on animals in order to learn about
human diseases must therefore lead astray. This has often been
confessed in particular instances by the vivisectors themselves. ’

(5) Not only do diseases differ, but also the structure and
functioning of animal bodies. Sir F. Treves admitted that he had
to unlearn on his patients what he had learnt from vivisecting

. dogs, owing to “the differences between the human and the
canine bowel.”

(6) As so much of the money available for the treatment of
disease goes into the vivisectors’ pockets, an equivalent quantity is
diverted from the care of the sick and from improvements in
sanitation.

(7) The fashion of experimenting on animals has led the
medical profession into methods of dealing with disease, the folly
of which will surely be recognised by later generations. Thus, it.
has led directly to the present disastrous practice of making
healthy people ill by “ preventive” inoculations, instead of making
the unhealthy well. The former is certainly very much easier
than the latter, and is allowed because it is stupidly assumed that
the inoculated person might have caught some disease if not
inoculated.

(8) Treatments derived from Vivisection appear always to
lead to an increase in the death rate of the disease so treated.
This is notably the case with insulin and liver treatment, the two

 




 

 

.N.._......_...___. ——

28 HUMANE LIFE

latest fashions. Reliance on these treatments discourages the
search for better treatments which would not suffer from the
same defect. It must never be forgotten that the practice of
medicine is subiect to constant change.

(9) The surgeon can learn all he needs by. observing and
assisting at operations, until he can be trusted to carry them out
himself, beginning with the simpler ones. We have ﬁve large
hospitals which provide ample opportunity for this.

(10) Sanitation has practically banished epidemic diseases
from this country. Some like plague, cholera and typhus have
gone already. Smallpox, typhoid and the various fevers are
following. The road to health lies in good sanitation and a well
regulated life. There is no need to torture animals to secure it.

030C333 030(30

RABBITS.

Thousands of little tragedies greet every winter dawn in the
West Riding and a thousand hearts would ache—if they all knew
how the victims died. There is a far-ﬂung cry for the breathless,
driven stag, and many a plea for the hunted fox, but who spares a
word for the dying rabbit which breathes its last in every dewy
corner of the riding, with a wire round its neck? The toll is
enormous and owing to the increased marketable worth of a rabbit
unspoilt by gunshot, the wire snare is the universal weapon of
the dealer, the farmer, and the poacher.

R. E. HARKER, in the Yorkshire Observer, 27th November, 1930.




HUMANE LIFE . 29

Symposium.

HAVE ALL ANIMALSITHE RIGHT TO LIVE THEIR
FULL NATURAL LIFE?

Miss Daisy Davidson writes :—

They have as much right on the earth as the human animals
—otherwise they would not be here. '

But I do think that the control of breeding is necessary
or we should be over-run; and this also applies to the human
animals. \Vhat is good for the higher animal is good for the

more lowly.
3% 3* 2%

Miss E. Masham writes :—
‘ - o o
‘All anlmals” includes the human animal.

This is a difﬁcult subject, it not impossible to think out, as so
many animals and human beings should have the right to live
out their full natural life, yet they do not seem destined to do so.

Sir P. Sidney stated—“ Reason cannot show itself ‘more
reasonable than to cease reasoning on things above reason.”

Browning, who was a clever thinker, maintained that love
and not reason was intended to be our guide in darkness when we
could not reason.

Tennyson wrote :—
“ Flower in the crannied wall
. If I could
Understand what you are, root and all,
I should know what God and Man is!”

 

 




30 HUMANE LIFE

I conclude that this same idea applies also to animals; for it
would be a great help to understand the animal world. Perhaps
animals are here for that reason, for us to study and to give us

lesson s—not we them.

I fear I am rather handicapped in giving a reply to the
question above as I have not studied the works of Wallace or
Darwin.

Animals, including man, should of course, have the right
to lead the lives the Creator intended, which could never be to
cage a bird with wings, for instance. The only One who can give
life, surely should be the only One to take life.

 

Man has been given a brain which outwits the animal
creation—but man outwits himself, too, in taking toll of the
animal world by upsetting a balance he cannot understand or

maintain himself.

On the question of suffering I have heard it argued that, as
man suffers, why should not the animals have their share? No
doubt they do, without human beings adding thereto; for most
animals have their natural enemies and seem to have to put up
with an abundance of suffering—~more than their share—inﬂicted
undeservedly by human beings. One might as well argue that as
some people have a lot of suffering, why should not everybody?

But the killing of animals does not seem so dreadful as the
torture and suffering and heart-break it so often involves, for what
does the Bible say ?——“Blessed are the dead,” which seems to
imply better things beyond.

3E 3% 3%
Robert A. Harris writes :—

“We are powerless to give life, therefore we should not take it.
All that God has created have the same right to live their full life.”

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 31

Correspondence.

THE symposium re the reasoning powers of animals was
closed in the January issue. The following opinion,

received from Miss E. Masham too late for the January
number is herewith added. She writes :—

6 . .
‘Even the smallest insect seems to reason well, for 1t runs as
fast as it can from a human being.

My cat can open a window and let himself out. I have never
taught him that; he must have watched me open it. I have a
large dog and he and the cat are good friends, having been brought
up together. Perhaps this has made the cat use his brains.

The window I refer to has an iron bar which the cat has to
lift off two kinds of iron plugs. It is beginning to trouble me
rather as, when he pushes it open, it leaves my dog liable to a
draught though I pin the curtain and put up a board and there is a
large table in front. All to no purpose : for the cat still means to, and
does, get the window open, and out he goes.

People seem to refer to instinct as being inferior to reason.
But instinct in the ﬁrst place must have been reason. One often
remarks how one does things by instinct (0r habit).

it 4: SR

The reply of Mr. Barlow_ to my letter does not altogether
satisfy my questioning. He states that cows are not always killed
with a humane killer. I thought this was compulsory now. Any
way they can be so killed. One can be cruel over anything if one
has a mind to be. Shearing sheep of their wool can be cruel, if
done roughly or at the wrong time of year.

 

 




 

32 HUMANE LIFE

What annoys me is the thought that, if so much milk were,
not wanted, calves could very well be left with their mothers until
they are old enough to leave them. The bigger a calf is, the
more a butcher would pay per lb.

Mr. Barlow states that, the longer the distance to the
slaughter house, the more weight the cows lose. Would it not
pay farmers then to have their cows killed and sold on their farms ;
only not within hearing, sight or smell of live animals.

He also says that carnivorous animals are needed to keep
other animals in check. I have often heard this statement and
one has to accept it as true. So it would appear that the Creator
has left some of His creatures to do the killing; while man who
claims superior intelligence should not kill as he upsets the balance
of Nature unwittingly.

_ The Creator’s other creatures know better how to keep the
balance. Is this the truth of the matter of killing or not killing?
It is a horrible work anyway for any human being; so perhaps that
is why it is left to other animals.

# 3?- =1?

Mr. W. Douglas writes :—

Referring to what is said in your January issue, near top of
page 16, about carnivora and vegetarianism, let me mention that
immediately after the Field journal started itsFund for the
discovery of a preventive or cure for distemper in dogs, a letter
appeared in its columns from a Fellow of the Horticultural
Society declaring that his family had over a period of years twelve
dogs of different breeds, and not one of them had taken distemper,
but had died from quite other causes. The reasonhe believed
was that, his family having been vegetarians, the dogs also had
been fed on vegetarian diet exclusively. In 1931, the Nottingham
Guardian inserted a letter from me on the subject. A year or so
ago, some fox-hound puppies having died from distemper, I told
the joint-mistress of the Hunt of the above. Dog-lovers should
consider the subject.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended :—

“ Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“The Herald of the New World,”
“ The Animals’ Friend,”

“ The,Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy . b p t
y 05

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-

 

Aﬁﬁly to THE EDITOR,
“ WYNHURST,” 94, PENN HILL AVENUE,
PARKSTONE, DORSET.

 

 

O
Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 




