 

m a . a; > W Qja .15 4‘41; , 66 ..
7”“ w W 1:12;, “cc; rm W vi? dwuﬁau. U a z:

'D I) - ww_
‘l // M) Lac/Ki lﬁLW: W M ”Lgxk't’, Wk-VLJL‘VJ (”a 1}“ / ( {11L
. 1/9"”:

"N37 Q" ‘U L“ / x I
L./ tiyo JLvULJma.LIZLugf: !;ﬂ'
Dr. Jane Santivanea
Diractﬁr
CIENGUS VETERINARIAS
2323 Saaron Road .. 203
M92119 Park, Calibrnia 9&205

 
 

x‘\‘q
E"

. WM ,3 . , ' -1... .
August 28, 1970 {Mick “FM“ 6» U a} &.L..#~~~w t-

Dear m". Santivanes,

Thank you for semiﬁng a. copy of CIENCIAS VETERINAMAS, and
for empressing interest in the publications of the Animal Welfare
Instihlta.

I balim I may have mentioned to you, when yen stopped
at cm: exhibit heath during the W Convention, that. ena of the
mar-mm, BASIC CARE OF EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS was in the process 01”
being ﬁrmalated intc ﬁnanish. This has been, accamplishad and
we now seeking funds for publishing the book. We will be sure
to 19 you know when mice; are available.

You are mlma to translate any of the AWI materials of
intomst as long as 1:th are Eubli shed in full and credit is
Qvgn to the Animal Welfare InsQMte. These are the on y
canditfona for such an undertaking.

 

I will keep year rate card, hmver, the AMI has never ,/~-. l )
V commercially advertised. any publi catims. WW7: {UM-- 0‘?" w”
,‘ ‘ materials are mada availabla either free cf eharge err at cast 5/)
to tannhm, wheels libraries and vaterinarians and those
employed in nasal-eh institutbens.

Your interest in the aublieations of the Animal Wel fare
Institute is appreeiated.

Sincerely,

(Ev-am.) Barbara Gauld
Publicatieas Samtary

 




June 15, 1973

E11“ 0 gal?” MEMﬁd
Chrysler Press, IBCa

lib 335% 13th Street
Key'ihrk, New Ybrk 10003

Dear ﬁﬁm ﬁﬁﬁedwied,

walesed is the photo which we wenld like to use fer
the eever of the new printing at Bagge Care 6f Exnergggnta;
Animals. I have indieited the part ef the picture ta be
used by covering the rest with paper. The picture should
be centered. It should be redueed sufficiently'so that
it will bleed an both edgee, forming a bend across the
center 0f the eaver. The lettering sheuld remain the same.

on the inside cover page, the wards "F1fth.Edition,
197$“ shauld be substituted for “Revia ed Editien, 1968."
Ehe present picture credit should be eliminlted, and that
which is attached ta the enclaSed.photo substituted.

Please send me proef of the never and insiﬁe never far
eeprcvel.

There will net be extensive revisions this time, but
anly a few pages will be ehenged. The changes will be gent
yen shartly.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Eresident

 




March 3, 1971

BOOKMART
P.O. Box 101
Hollis, New York llu23

Gentlemen;

The Animal Welfare Institute manual, Basic Care

2; Experimental Animals, is not available for general
sale. '

It is, however, available free on request to bona
fide scientific institutions. If such an institution
has requested you to obtain a copy for than, just ask
them to request a free cepy from us.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




     
   
   
   
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
 

BOOKMART
P. 0. Box 101
Hollis, Na Y. 11423

29 January 1971 , Purchase Order No. J-1231
(Use this number on all packages)

Mail to: above address via Bookpost

3, Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3&92, Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

P U R C H A S E O R D E R

a .38“

1 copy A.W.I. ::EEsic Care Of Experimental Animals

08 u due date __________ NYP - due date __ _._
OBI ~ Cancelled ________ NOP ._._
Q? m Cancelled Other

~-----I—“— —-—ﬂ—-“—*"--*~“

 

Ship cloth edition unless paper is requested, or only paper is available.
if not available, please back order and advise.
Nu Y. Recife No.: NY7041409

    
 

Offices located at:
187»06 Hillside Ave., Jamaica, N. Yn 11432 Tel.: (212) 723~1683

      
   
 

6—4~7O 2M




TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dedication
Foreword to the Fifth Edition
Introduction

CHAPTER

I. How Animals are Classified

II. The Needs of Laboratory Animals
Housing

IV. Cleaning and Sterilization of Equipment

V. Reproduction and Methods of Breeding

VI. Disease Prevention

VII. Parasites and Skin Trouble

The Average Normal Temperature and Pulse Rate of Some
Common Laboratory Animals

VIII. The Use of Pre-and Post-Operative Analgesics
In Experimental Animal Medicine

IX. Humane Ways of Killing Animals
X. The Mammals and Their Care in the Laboratory

The Rat

The Mouse
The Guinea Pig
The Rabbit
The Hamster
The Dog

The Cat

The Monkey

XI. Other Vertebrates and Their Care in the Laboratory

Poultry
Amphibians
Turtles

Fish

A List of Some Useful Books and Materials About
Laboratory Animals

Appendix A—Transportation of Animals
Appendix B—Notes on Feeding

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

(9) Ventilation. Air conditioning should provide at least 15 changes of
completely fresh air per hour. Where there is no conditioning, adequate ventila-
tion must be provided without causing unnecessary drafts. Cats and rabbits
kept in badly ventilated rooms are more prone to respiratory infections than
those maintained in well ventilated quarters.

(10) Handling. It is unnecessary to use leather gloves to handle the
common laboratory species. Animals bite only in self defense, when they are
afraid, or if held unnecessarily tightly. Never thrust your hand into a cage
and grab an animal; remove the cage from the rack, give the animal a chance
to know what is happening, then firmly but gently pick him up and he will
respond to good handling. The importance of the process of gentling an ani-
mal from weaning onwards cannot be over-emphasized. Sometimes dropping
a light cloth over an animal’s head will prevent undue fright when he is being

handled in strange surroundings.

(11) Mental Healtly. Frightened, unhappy animals often are indifferent
feeders and their reproduction falls below the economical level. They are
more difficult to understand, harder to catch and harder to handle than happy,
‘ contented animals. Serious mental disturbances or excitement can cause reac-
tions which confuse the results of experiments. Good nursing is a most im-
portant factor in preventing losses of animals under experiment. In a few
experiments it is necessary to withhold food from an animal; in such cases,
drinking water should always be available to the animal, and he should not
be kept in a room where other animals are being fed.

III. HOUSING

Animal quarters are usually air conditioned, but this does not mean that
windows are unimportant. The large animals, particularly, enjoy sunlight, and
both windows and outside exercise areas for them are highly desirable.

Scientific testing shows that small animals, too, do better with natural
light. In one test mice placed under pink fluorescent tubes lived an average
of 7.5 months; those placed under daylight white (slightly bluish white) tubes
lived up to 8.2 months. Those allowed to live with natural Sunlight lived up
to 16.1 months.

The building must be rodent-proof and vermin-proof, with, wherever pos-
sible, double doors fitted to provide an airlock. The interior wall should be
approximately ten feet high and have a smooth surface such as tiles, high gloss
paint or granolithic finish. All corners should be rounded to prevent the col-
lection of dirt and vermin which will ultimately lead to disease. It is advisable
to have doors wholly or partly covered with light sheet metal and fitted with
automatic closing devices. There should be adequate heating, lighting and
ventilation, with thermostatic and time switches.

 




 

 

 

FOREWORD TO THE FIFTH EDITION

. Since the first edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animal: was pub-
lished fifteen years ago, a great increase has occurred in numbers of veterinary
consultants in research institutions and of staff members holding the veterin-
ary degree. Treatment of diseased animals and of those that have undergone
surgery or other stress in research institutions is best done by graduate veter-
inarians. The requirement for adequate veterinary care under the Federal
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act has, in many instances, brought about es-
sential improvements in the treatment of research animals in institutiOns regis-
tered under the Act. In many smaller laboratories not required to meet Federal
standards of humane handling and adequate veterinary care, however, no
veterinarian is available to treat the animals or to provide commonSense infor-
mation to those caring far them. In such cases, this manual may be the only.
source of facts and guidance.

The use of Basic Care of Experimental Animal t by caretakers under the
direct supervision of a veterinary director is best illustrated by comments re-
ceived from Samuel Hodesson, D.V.M., M.P.H., DirectOr, Division of Animal
Resources, College of Medicine, University of Arizona: "I think the manual
is appropriately named and beautifully written. Too frequently we become so
concerned with the scientific aspects of laboratory animals that we overlook
the necessity for spelling out the many details of basic care as. the Animal
Welfare Institute has done. I would like to see a well-thumbed copy of this
manual in the hands of every animal caretaker. We distribute them to students
in the .baSic training course for laboratory animal techniCians and inform them
that it is required reading for anyone involved in animal caretaking." '

PURPOSE AND SCOPE

This edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, like its predeces~
sors published in 195 3, 1958, 1965, and 1968, was prepared especially for new-
comers. to the important work of giving proper care and attention to animals
. used for experimental purposes. It does not pretend to provide answers to
all of the problems which they will meet. (The publications listed on Page
68 will be useful to those who require more detailed information.) Its purpose
is to present briefly, in non-technical language and inexpensive form, the
basic needs of the common laboratory animals and to provide practical sug-
gestionson how to meet them. Revision of the 1958 edition was made by
Mr. George Porter of the Laboratory Animals Centre of Great Britain. Dr.
Harry Esch'enroeder made an important contribution on methods of post-
operative pain relief to the11965 edition. He was at that time the veterinarian
overseeing eXperirnental animals at St. Louis University Medical School.

For. the fourth edition suggéSt‘ionsv' and" criticisms were ’ widely sought
from experts who brOUgh't different types ofexPerrencelarid knowledge to
the field. We wish particularly to thank the AmmalHealth Dimsron of the
United States Department of Agriculture for reviewing both the" fourthiand
fifth editions to determine and eliminate any conflict with the U.S.D.A. stand:
ards under the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544. The Department
and the Division deserve great "credit for the important progress in humane
animal care and housing which has taken place since the law went into effect
in 1967.

Tables on analgesic, anesthetic and tranquilizing drugs and on euthanasia
were included for the first time in the fourth edition. Dr. Harry Rowsell‘, of
the Department of Pathology, _UniVersity of Ottawa, prepared these for the
Canadian Conncil on Animal Care when he was its Executive Director. He
also made many useful suggestions for improving the body of the text. Two
supervisors of laboratory animal care and management with. extensive practical
experience, Mr. Ernest Bel-anger and Mr. E. R. Gregory, read the text for the
fourth edition and gave valuable advice. '7 ' .

Dr. Samuel Hodesson, Director, Division of Animal Resources, College
of Medicine, University of Arizona, made important contributions to the fifth
editiOn, using his expert knowledge of veterinary medicine in the care and
treatment of research animals to bring a number of sections up to date..—~

Dr. Jules Cass, Chief of Research in Laboratory Animal Medicine, Science
and Technology, Research Service, Department of Medicine and Surgery,
Veterans Administration, Washington, DC. has contributed basic ideas from
‘his broad experience for this and previous editions.

Published by the Animal Welfare, Institute, an organization representing
the combined interests of experimental biology and animal protection, this
manual is based on the premise that both science and humanéitarialnism are
Served by keeping laboratory animals contented and healthy.

 

 

 

 




5 Baric Care of Experimental Animals

hurt, that no animal can remain healthy unless his basic needs are met, and
that, as one goes up the scale, the animals become more and more complex
so that they, like human beings, can feel happy or sad, secure or frightened,
companionable or lonely, interested or bored, friendly or angry. Everyone
who has kept a pet has seen and heard his dog or cat show such feelings, but
many people do not know that scientists who have studied rats believe them
to be even more intelligent than dogs or cats. Monkeys and apes are the
smartest of all. The pig, too, has many of the characteristics of man. Pigs are
omnivorous, their skin is similar, they develop blood vessel changes as a
result of ageing in the same manner as man, and diet, as in man, influences
the process.

II. THE NEEDS OF LABORATORY ANIMALS

Most animals share certain basic needs and desires. Each' species also
differs from the other, as does every individual animal. The hletter a person
knows his animals, the more accurate observations he can make on them ancl
the hetter his judgment of their special needs will he. Thus the man who
looks after the experimental animal, cleans and feeds it, may often know the
animal better than the research worker, who should recognize the importance
of having competent individuals handle his animals.

Laboratory animals confined to cages need more care than free-
living animals becaUse- they are prevented from taking care of them-
selves. Man has forced them to be dependent. They cannot seek a warmer
or a cooler place when they feel too cold or too hot. It is impossible for
them to seek shade or sunshineI fresh air. water. food. a comfortable
resting place, exercise or companionship except that which is given to
them. This places a great obligation on the people responsible for their
care.

"A ‘ O\L .o

The most practical ways of training oneself for the important job of keep-
ing these animals healthy and contented are (1) to get as. much information
as possible about their habits and needs; (2) to try to put oneself in their place
and provide, so far as possible, what they would seek if they were able.

Breathing, drinking, eating, moving and resting are essential to all animal
life. Abnormal restriction of any of these activities is harmful; so are disease,
dirt, and extremes of temperature. Among the higher animals, mental health
can play an important role in the general well-being of the animal.

Here are a few examples to illustrate the dangers of overlooking these
general principles:

(1) Breathing. Lach of fresh air is detrimental to all animals. Mice
and rats have a tendency to crowd on top of one another in one corner of a

The Needs of Laboratory Animals 7

cage. If there are too many in one cage or container, those on the bottom may
suffocate. The same is true'of guinea pigs. They often stampede if too many
are placed in a cage together. Incoming shipments of animals need to be un-
loaded immediately. Cages should be designed to facilitate ventilation. If
too many animals are placed in the same cage, or if the temperature in the
Cage-rises too much,_it is hard forthe-animals to breathe normally.

(2) Drinking. No animal should ever be deprived of drinking water.
It is wrong to. assume that moistened diets can provide enough water. Animals
' kept short of water eat less food; therefore, they lose strength and weight and
become ill. '

(3) Eating. Sudden changes of diet are“ hard on all animals, so changes
must be made gradually. Poor quality food can result in deficiency diseases.
Monkeys and guinea pigs become ill if they are not given Vitamin C (found
in fresh fruit and green vegetables). Each kind ofanimal has its own special
feeding requirements. A diet that is g00d for one may be bad for another.

' (4) Moving. Never confineany animal to a cage which does not afford
free movement. Monkeys confined to small cages appear to be more prone
to cage-paralysis than those which are comfortably housed. The health and
stamina of these and other animals have been shown to be increased by the
Opportunity for exercise.

(5) Resting. Adequate bedding appropriate to the species and tempera-
ture should be given to all animals. The smallest cage should be large enough
to allow the animals to stretch out at full length and rest. Rabbits confined
to small metal cage-s without bedding often get sore hocks because they must
crouch in constant contact with a hard irregular surface instead of stretching
out in a natural resting position. An animal becomes more vulnerable to
disease if its housing is not comfortable.

(6) Temperature. A sudden temperature dr0p may lower the animals’
resistance to infection; likewise it can ruin an experiment. Overnight failure
of automatic heat control has killed whole colonies of rats and mice by over-
heating. Rabbits should never be kept in a high temperature or high humidity.
Small changes in temperature produce extensive changes in response to drugs.

(7) Dirt. Given the proper facilities, most animals will keep themselves
very clean, Sick animals are most often found in dirty laboratories because
dirty quarters, cockroaches and other vermin and parasites contribute to the

spread of disease.

(8) Disease. Observe the animals under your care and remove at once
any animal that appears sick. Report immediately to the veterinarian responsi-
ble for the health of the animals. If he is not available, remove the animal
to a comfortable, quiet place away from the other animals till he can examine
and treat or destroy it. Reliable experimental results. cannot be had from ani-
mals which are infected or become infected or otherwise diseased before or
during an experiment.

 




Cleaning and Sterilization of Egaipment 9

RACKING. There are many types of racks for cages for small animals,
but those used should be convertible, adjustable and easily dismantled for
cleaning and, if necessary, sterilizing. Many laboratories use small tiers of
racks on casters, which can be wheeled from one room to another. These are
most convenient when experimental animals have to be moved from the animal
room to the laboratory. The animals remain in their own cages until taken
out for treatment, thus avoiding any emotional upset which they might suffer
through being placed in strange cages in strange surroundings. Racks not
fitted with cast-ors should be suspended from the ceiling or fixed to the wall
by brackets. Racks which rest on the floor collect dirt and may harbor vermin,
because of difficulty in cleaning under and behind them. Racks should be so
designed that injury to personnel and animals will not occur.

CAGES. See under individual species.

BEDDING. Bedding should be free from 1) dust which contributes
to respiratory diseases and to the transmittal of disease from cage to cage,
2) splinters that could puncture the young, 5) moisture, and 4) vermin or
disease contamination. Specially produced bedding is available commercially
which has only 3% moisture content and meets the other requirements, too.
A new compressed nesting material also available commercially caters to
the instinct of rodents to shred and build nests. The protective, insulating nest
has been found to improve the health and well-being of the animals.

IV. CLEANING AND STERILIZATION OF EQUIPMENT

Cages and equipment in animal rooms must be frequently and thoroughly
cleaned with plenty of hot water and detergent or soap or by a mechanical cage
washer. Used bedding, feces and discarded food should be promptly disposed
of, to avoid attracting vermin which may spread disease among the animals.
A regular routine must be planned and followed for daily cleaning.

For large animal quarters consisting of pens and runs, it is a good plan
to place detergent in a plastic container at the end of the hose. Thus the
amount of detergent sent out with the hot water flow can be regulated. After
washing down surfaces with the detergent mixture, follow with plain hot
water in ample quantity.

If an animal continues to occupy the same cage, thorough washing is
usually all that is necessary. The animal must not be allowed to get wet
during any cage washing process. Therefore it is a good idea to regularly
place the animal in a clean, sanitized cage. However, although hot water and
detergent or soap are quite good disinfecting agents, they cannot be expected
to kill all disease organisms. Therefore, whenever a cage, a feeding or watering
device, or some other piece of equipment is passed from one animal to an-
other, it must be sterilized. A mechanical cage-washing machine can be used
for this purpose, or the cages, water bottles and other equipment can be steril-
ized in an autoclave after they have been carefully washed. After sterilization,

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Dusts, emulsions, lotions or ointments containing sulphur or 0.5 per cent
gamma BHC may be applied locally, or if necessary all over.

Cages and quarters should be thoroughly disinfected, and affected ani-
mals isolated from regular animal quarters.

Ringworm may cause circular hairless spots and greyish scales, or nu-
merous scaly patches. Tincture of iodine, dessenex powder or other fungicides
should be applied. Ringworm is transmissible to peOple, and serious infections
can result. Eradication requires expert advice and direction.

If the use of insecticides is called for, it should be undertaken under
the direction of a person thoroughly acquainted with both the insecticide
and the animals in the laboratory. Care mart be exercised in using all insecti-
cides. Reaa’ the label carefully.

VIII. THE USE OF PRE- AND Po-ST-OPERATIVE ANALGESICS
IN EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL MEDICINE

It is common practice in clinical veterinary medicine to use analgesic drugs
before and after surgical anesthesia. The purpose of these drugs is to reduce
the sensibility of the animal and hasten induction of anesthesia, as well as to
cause a smooth recovery. It seems that these drugs should be used more than
they are in experimental medicine and surgery. Some of these drugs alter the
physiologic response of the animal to stimulus. Therefore, the pharmacologic
action as. well as the investigator’s experimental design must be understood.
Carefully chosen analgesic drugs before and after surgery relieve pain, fear
and shock, thereby aiding in the humane handling of animals as well as reduc-
ing surgical risk. It is indeed true that good scientific technique and humane
treatment are so closely allied that they are inseparable.

Some of the drugs useful as pre-and post-operative analgesics or sedatives
are the tranquilizers, (e.g., Acepromazine and Tranvet), the opiates (Mor-
phine, Innovar-vet and Demerol)*, the barbiturates, and Atropine. The tran-
quilizers and opiates reduce conscious sensory perception and therefore allevr-
ate fear and reduce the amount of intravenous or inhalant anesthesra needed
to accomplish proper surgical depth. These drugs also reduce the severity and
length of the excitement stage during the recovery periods. Many surgical
endeavors can be nullified if the excitement stage during anesthetic recovery

is not mitigated.

O O I I ‘
*Morphine is not recommended for cats. It can cause extreme exc1tement in this spemes. .

 




Use of Pie-and Port-Operative Analgesics 17

Atropine and the tranquilizers reduce secretion (i.e., saliva and bronchial
mucous). Furthermore atropine dilates the bronchials, and these effects benefit
respiration

Care must be exercised when the analgesics are used before anesthesia
for they potentiate some anesthetic agents. Certain emergency antidotes should
be available in case of respiratory depression or cardiac failure. It would be
well to investigate and determine precisely which drugs are recommended to
overcome the effect of each individual analgesic or anesthetic.

Tranquilizers are most practical to use, and they can be readily given
by mouth. The untoward effects (mentioned in the foregoing paragraph)
are much less likely to occur if the drug is given by mouth. Dosage should
be determined by reading insert brochure and/or label on bottle, or seeking
the advice of knowledgeable laboratory personnel. Post-operative pain should
be relieved with appropriate drugs.

Sernylan (Phencyclidine Hydrochloride) is an effective meansof render;
ing monkeys and apes calm and tractable. It should.rvsed as a generaT
anesthetic; however, it enhances the action of the barbiturates providing an
excellent pre-anesthetic.

 

Summarizing:

1) It is necessary that scientific investigators understand and use anal-
gesics for the relief of pain; this is important for scientific as well as humane
reasons.

(2) It is important to know that deep depression and death can occur
if the analgesics are overdosed, and to understand emergency procedures
necessary to correct the effects of overdosage. Sometimes this. may only re-
quire increased or better ventilation or gentle artificial respiration.

(5) The oral route is an efficient and practical method to employ for
safe administration of tranquilizers, and of barbiturates given animals to make
them calmer and more comfortable.

(4) Unlike narcotics, the use of tranquilizers requires no narcotics license
or Federally regulated accounting procedures.

(5) Always find out the exact dosage; avoid overdosing.

The following charts give dosages for common species of laboratory
animals.

30 Basic Care of Experimental Animal:

quiet air of efficiency which is the keynote of a good rat colony. There 'shOuld
be no clanging of bins, or banging of cages and equipment. Orderly routine
must be adhered to, i.e., feeding, watering, checking, weighing and cleaning
out cages being carried out at a given time each day.

Housing. The cage should be large enough for the animals to take ex-
ercise within it. For long-term experiments, and for breeding, a cage having
about six or seven hundred square inches of floor space is recommended for
not more than eight to ten rats. Cages may be made of plastic or metal.
They may be fitted with a wire mesh grid or mat-which allows fecal matter to
dr0p through onto a tray, which can be removed and cleaned without disturb-
ing animals. However, the rats should be provided with bedding or nesting
material, so they are not forced to sleep on wire mesh. A feeding hopper to
hold pelleted or cubed diet is a regular fitting of most cages and must be de-
signed to allow the smallest animal easy access to the food. The cages should
have fittings designed to hold water bottles. The cannula or drinking tube of
the bottle should always be close to the side of the cage. Breeding animals,
or animals on long experiments, should be transferred to clean cages once
weekly. The more often pregnant rats are gently handled, the larger the litters.
The dirty cages should be scrubbed, and cleaned with hot water and soap,
sterilized, if possible, or soaked in a bactericidal detergent. If disinfectants
are used, the utmost care must be taken to ensure that all traces are washed
off. Never put an animal in a wet cage.

Bedding. The fact that rats can survive without a comfortable resting
place is not a good reason for depriving them of it. Only when a specific ex-
periment requires it can such deprivation be justified.

The floor of the cage or tray should have a liberal covering of clean, dry,
wood shavings. The shavings must be free from contamination by wild rats,
mice, cats or dogs. Bedding and nesting material should consist of a liberal
supply of compressed cotton fibre, available commercially, shredded paper, wood
shavings or cottonwool. Many laboratories sterilize their bedding materials,
and, where possible, this should be done. Soiled bedding should usually be
burned; however, some institutions that have farm facilities may find this
waste an excellent compost for pastures.

Feeding. A good grade of dry pelleted food should be available to the
rats at all times in the hopper provided in the cage. The hoppers should be
kept full, but must be emptied and washed periodically, and fresh food placed
in the clean hopper. Never transfer food from one cage to another. The cubed
diet may advantageously be supplemented with milk, green and. yellow vege-
tables, meat, liver, heart, fish or various whole grains. Except under very
special circumstances, food must not be thrown on the floor of cage. These
supplements, fed two to four times weekly, help to develop first-rate, disease-

 




Mummu/s and Their Cure in the Luhorutory —— The Rat 31

resistant animals and they help prevent cannibalism. Water should be avail-
able at all times, water bottles replaced with clean ones. Never refill existing
bottle without cleaning it.

Temperature und Humidity. Rats are particularly subject to respiratory
troubles (lung, throat, nose and ear) and their lives are shortened by exposure
to extremes of temperature and humidity. A good ventilating system is very
important in a rat colony. A constant temperature of between 65-70 degrees
Fahrenheit and a humidity ranging from 45-55% are recommended.

Breeding. Rats should not be mated until they are at least 90-100 days
old, the females being placed in their mating cages a few days before the
males are introduced. Allow one male to every three females. Preference
should be given to large mating cages holding two males and six females.
The males should have been living together before being placed in the mating
cage, because strange males will fight and may injure each other. Another
method frequently adopted is the placing together of one male and one female
for the duration of their breeding life.

The rat has a five-day oestrus cycle and a gestation period of approxi-
mately 21 days. Pregnant females must be placed in individual cages, with
adequate bedding, at least one week before they give birth, and remain there
until the litter is weaned. Young rats may be handled from birth, and the
mother will not object if treated properly. Large litters may be reduced to
eight or ten, but none of the young rats need be destroyed. They may be
given to other mothers, to foster, who have small litters of their own. YOung
rats may be weaned when they are 23-26 days old, but, if possible, the litter
should remain together for a few more days after. the mother has been re-
moved. The young rats should be checked, weighed, marked for individual
identification and recorded on the stock filing system. The mother should be
rested for a period of up to two weeks before she is returned to the mating
cage. A female should be allowed to produce only four or five litters before
being replaced by young stock. Animals which have reached the end of their
breeding life shOuld be painlessly destrOyed. A post mortem and, if necessary,
a microbiological examination should be carried out.

Handling. A frightened rat will bite and be difficult to handle. It is
advisable to give the animal time to realize that it is going to be handled.
This may be done either by removing the cage from the rack, or Opening
the cage door for a few minutes and giving the animal time to come for-
ward. He can then be picked up with ease in the following manner: place the
hand, palm downwards over the animal’s back, with thumb and forefinger
around the neck and remaining fingers around the body to take the weight;
then firmly but gently lift the animal. A vicious rat may be picked up by the
tail, close to the animal’s body, then placed on the handler’s free forearm.
The next step is to release the tail, allow the animal a few minutes to settle,
and then pick him up in the prescribed manner. A lactating female should

Mammals and Their Cure in the Laboratory ——- The Mouse 35

Where large numbers of mice are being hOused together, adequate caging
must be provided. Suffocation cannot be tolerated.

Mice should not be overcrowded. Four mice or a breeding pair may be-
kept in a cage with a floor space of 6.” x 12” and 6” deep sides.

For breeding mice, plastic cages are preferred because they are better
insulators against temperature fluctuations and quieter during handling.

Bedding. Softwood sawdust, peat moss, shredded paper, wood shavings,
sugar cane pith, beet pulp, or specially prepared commercial products may
be used for bedding. Given ample bedding material, together with shredded
paper, or compressed cotton fibre, available commercially, the mice will make
a natural covered nest, but some animals still prefer a next box. A convenient
nest box which is easy to clean is a small metal pan or cup with a hole in
one side, placed upside down in one corner of the cage. In experiments where
bedding may not be used, a ”hiding nest” without bedding will be appreciated*
though studies have shown that mice have an overwhelming preference for
solid bottom cages with bedding.

Where possible, all bedding materials should be sterilized. Soiled bed-
ding should be immediately burned on cleaning-out days.

Feeding. A good grade of pelleted food from a reliable manufacturer
is the most convenient basic food for mice. However, it has rarely been found
to produce the best mice over long periods of time unless extra food is added.
Some supplements suggested by different authorities are: oats, wheat, milk,
bran, lettuce, meat, bone meal, sunflower seeds, canary seed, hemp seed,
millet, wheat germ, dry powdered liver, dried yeast and calf meal pellets. M05t
cases of cannibalism in mice can be prevented by a good, varied diet. All food
should be fresh and clean. Many different strains of mice have been devel-
Oped; some are very delicate, and special information may be needed for their
feeding and care. Fresh water in water bottles should be available to mice at
all times. (See Appendix B on Feeding, Page 75.)

Temperature and Humidity. Mice kept in metal cages need a higher
room temperature than those kept in wooden or plastic boxes. It has been
found that suckling mice do best at 76-78°F, adult and weaned mice at
6.8-720F. It is most important to avoid sudden changes in temperature. Hu-
midity should be between 50-60%.

Breeding. For breeding purposes, mice, like all other species, should be
chosen from healthy stock of known parentage. Their productivity should
be high —— that is, the number weaned per female, not the number born.
Breeding stock should never be chosen from small litters, nor from females
that do not rear all their litters. Select breeding stock at weaning, check

*Laboratory Animal Care, Page 409, Vol. 14, No. 5, October, 1964.

 




46 Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Water: Fresh water should be available to rabbits at all times. Failure
to provide enough fresh water may result in: slowing down of growth and
deveIOpment in young rabbits; failure of mother rabbits to produce enough
milk; vicious habits such as urine-drinking and eating the yOung. Temperature
has a bearing on water consumption; therefore, during hot weather be sure
to keep water containers full and clean.

Temperatare and Humidity: Rabbits which are given dry, well-lined
wooden nest boxes may be kept out of doors in properly sheltered, well-con-
structed hutches. A rabbit is far more distressed by heat than by cold. Rab-
bits weakened by experimental procedure and kept in metal cages should be
maintained at a room temperature of 60-65 degrees F. Humidity should be
as low as possible. A cool dry atmosphere is ideal for the rabbit. Both
drafts and strong sunlight should be avoided.

Breeding: In common with other species, rabbits for breeding should
be chosen from healthy stock of known parentage. The animals must be
selected at weaning, marked for individual recognition, placed in pens marked
"breeding stock” and kept under observation until old enough for mating. At
four months of age, rabbits should be caged individually, because older
rabbits (irrespective of, sex) fight, and often injure one another.

Mating age depends very largely on the strain; generally the larger
strains are slower to mature. Small strains may be mated when six months
old, but not the larger strains until they are nine months old. Always take
the female to the male, otherwise the female may attack and injure the male.
The gestation period is 30-32 days, and the female must be given a clean cage
wrth liberal bedding at least four days before the litter is due. This gives the
female time to settle down in her new surroundings, collect material and make
her nest without undue disturbance. No rule can be laid down as to when
young rabbits may be inspected; it depends on the person and the animal.
Generally they are not disturbed until they leave the nest. And dead yOung
will be thrown out of the nest by the mother and can then be removed. The
young may be weaned at six to eight weeks, at which time the sexes may be
separated and marked as prescribed on Page 48.

The best establishments keep comprehensive records, weighing the yOung
when weaned and recording sex ratio and other data. No pen or cage is ever
too large for a female rabbit and her robust litter. A raised resting place
should be provided for the mother, to enable her to escape the continued
attention of the litter. Rabbits are easy animals to breed, but they must be
well fed, pr0perly housed and gently handled.

Handling: The rabbit must be handled gently but firmly; otherwise he
will struggle and possibly injure himself. Never lift a rabbit by the ears. To
lift a rabbit, hold the loose skin over the shoulders in order to steady the
body. Put your hand under his back legs to support the weight. Otherwise
he may give a powerful kick and break his back. Rabbits should never be
picked up by the ears or by the loose skin alone. When a rabbit is removed
from his cage for trertment or experiment. he should not be blar‘ed min a

48 Basic Care of Experimental 'Animals

slippery surface upon which it is impossible to get a foothold, as this may
frighten him badly. A mat or cloth should be placed on the table underneath
the rabbit. Gentle handling will help to give him confidence. A rabbit may
be wrapped in a cloth to prevent possible scratching. A light cloth may be
dropped over his head, covering the eyes, to reduce reactions of fear. Be sure
that an animal whi:h has been bled has fresh water available.

Marking: Rabbits may be marked by tattooing their ears with numerals
by forceps with numerals 3/8" x 1/4”. Proper application of ethyl chloride
spray makes this operation nearly painless. The simplest and most painless
method is to fit the rabbits with plastic collars, available commercially, into
which an identifying code number may be permanently placed.

Diseases: (1) Coccidiosis. Probably the most common and most serious
of rabbit diseases, of which there are two types: hepatic (affecting the liver)
and intestinal. Symptoms are: diarrhea, progressive emaciation, pot-belly and
weakness in the hind legs. Sulfamethazine in the drinking water or in the
mash is a useful treatment. Matoid enteritis, which generally affects young
rabbits, may be confused with coccidiosis. The cause and cure of this disease
are unknown.

(2) Snaiffles is a common respiratory infection. Signs are: nasal discharge,
tendency to rub the nose with the paws, sneezing, shaking the head, and rough
encrusted nostrils. If the infection reaches the inner ear, the rabbit may turn
its head to one side. Rabbits showing signs of this disease should be removed
from the regular quarters at once: cages and equipment should be sterilized
and soiled bedding and food residues burned. If the disease is not too far
advanced, and the animal is essential to the experimental design, the infection
may be controlled by the use of antibiotics or sulfonamides, otherwise the
rabbit should be painlessly killed. Cosa-terramycin, containing oxytetracycline,
may be added to the drinking water at a level of 400 mg/ gallon of water.
Ten mg. of oxytetracycline per kilogram of body weight may be injected intra-
muscularly instead of medicating the water. This. therapy controls but does
not "cure” the infection, therefore should be continued as long as the animal
is retained. Protective measures consist of provision of adequate ventilation (at
least ten air changes per hour) and maintaining adequate humidity. Incoming
rabbits should be held in isolation for a reasonable period (two weeks) before
adding them to established colonies.

(35) Pneumonia. Often follows other rabbit diseases. Symptoms: loss
of appetite, labored breathing, rough coat, high temperature and great thirst.
Injections of antibiotics may be beneficial. The same procedure as recom-
mended for snuffles should be carried out.

(4) Ear Canker or Ear Mange. A common parasitic infection, highly
contagious, caused by a mite. Symptoms: ear scratching, head shaking, ears
swollen at base and brown scabs in ears. Treat by softening the scabs with a
vegetable oil and applying an effective mange dressing. (See Page 15 which
also deals with body mange and ringworm).

(5) Vent disease or Rabbit Syphilis. A venereal disease not transmis-

 




Mammals and Their Care in the Laboratory -— The Hamster 49

sible . to man. Check for this infection when mating animals. Symptoms
swelling. of the genitals and small scaly sores. Treatment: penicillin injections
application of mercurial ointments. Never use animals affected with vent
disease for breeding purposes.

Painless Killing: A chamber (described in Chapter IX) into which
chloroform, carbon dioxide or nitrogen is introduced is an acceptable method
of. killing a rabbit. Observe the animal to make sure that he becomes uncon-
scrous soon after being placed in the chamber. Rabbits can be killed by a sharp
blow on the back of the neck, but this requires practice and skill and should be
learned from a person who knows how to do it as humanely as possible. If
blood is to be collected, the animal should be killed first by a sharp blow and
the blood collected immediately afterwards or it should be anesthetized prior
to heart puncture. Embolism or the injection of a barbiturate into the ear vein
of a rabbit is also a humane death, but this operation should be undertaken
only by a qualiﬁed person using a sharp hypodermic needle. Do not dispose
of the body until it is cold and stiff.

DATA
Normal body temperature 387°C. or 101.6°F.
Respiration rate 55 per minute
Gestation period 30-32 days
Weaning age 6 - 8 weeks
Mating age 6 - 9 months
Room temperature 60 - 65°
Humidity 40 - 45%

THE HAMSTER
(Mesocricetus auratus)

' This friendly little rodent is easy to handle, very prolific, and highly re-
srstant to infection; if properly housed and maintained, he presents no diffi-
culty in management.

Homing: The hamster is an active little animal and should not be con-
ﬁned to a cage which prevents him from taking normal exercise. During the
day he spends most of his time sleeping, but during the night, he is active and
alert, climbing and scampering around the cage. Specially designed cages are
unnecessary. Cages suitable for rats are equally suitable for hamsters (see
Page 30. Hamsters enjoy playing on exercise wheels. All cages should be
ﬁtted with feeding h0ppers and drinking bottles. Hamsters should never be
kept on mesh floors. They demonstrate their strong dislike of such uncom-
fortable housing by almost invariably eating any litter born on it.*

Bea’a’ing: The tray or the ﬂoor of the cage shOuld have a liberal cover-
ing of clean, dry, soft wood sawdust or peat moss. Nesting material should be
given in the form of oat straw, hay or shredded paper. \Vood shavings or
cotton-wool is not recommended, as the hamster may pack his pOuch with
these materials and cause himself some degree of discomfort.

*The Breeding and [Maintenance of the Golden Hamster, S. M. Poiley, National Institutes
of Health.

58 Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Feeding: Fish, meat, and milk are the mainstays of the cat’s diet. (The diet
must contain at least 50-37% protein and 30-35% fat.) Scraps from a hospital
kitchen (after being well cooked) may form part of the diet. Such scraps should
be mixed with a good commercial biscuit meal. Liver, horsemeat or meat offal
and most fish are enjoyed by cats. A gooﬁ: grade of commercially preLared
cat food may be used as part W (Cats enjoy eating fresh grass an‘gl)

us should be made available several times weekWommended feeding
schedule: milk and commercially prepared biscuits or kitchen scraps and bis—
cuit meal in the morning; main meal at night which should consist of at least
one third meat or fish. Drinking water should be available at all times. Like
dogs, cats need something to chew on for healthy teeth and gums.

Tem eratare ana’ Humidity: For raising kittens, the room temperature
should be 70-720 F. at all times. For adult cats 65° F. is adequate if they
are provided with warm nest boxes. Good ventilation is very important in
keeping the colony healthy. Where air conditioning is installed, at least 15
changes of air per hour is recommended. Cats prefer a dry, warm atmosphere;
therefore, humidity should be 40—45%.

Breeding: Contrary to popular belief, cats can be bred and reared suc-
cessfully in the laboratory. Breeding animals should be housed in pens which
afford the maximum freedom. These pens may house several females and a
male; but each animal should be given its own feeding crock. This not only
ensures each animal getting its fair share of food but prevents quarreling.
Where cats have to be confined to cages, they must be given adequate exercise
daily. If the animals are fed in their own cages, they are always willing to
return without having to be caught and forcibly put back.

 

Breeding animals should always be chosen from healthy prolific stock.
A female will mate at approximately 10 months of age, and although the
cat has no definite breeding season, they generally breed from January to
August. The duration of oestrus or heat is 7-10 days with intervals of 14-21
days in unmated animals. Lactating females come into oestrus again towards
the end of lactation. Males should be at least 15 months of age. The gesta-
tion period is 63-65 days. The kittens begin feeding themselves when they
are about four weeks old and they may be weaned at five to six weeks. Some
cats will reject their kittens when, they are about five weeks old; under such
circumstances they should be weaned immediately. On the other hand, it is
very hard on the mother to remove the kittens if she has a plentiful supply
of milk; under such circumstances the weakling of the litter should be left a

little longer with her.

 

Pregnant females must be given comfortable boxes with adequate bed-
ding; some animals will share one nesting box and rear their families together.
Kittens should weigh from 500-1000 guns. at weaning. They should not be
exposed to strong light because it might result in an idiopathic eye disorder.

 




68 Basic Care of Experimental Animals

A List of Some Useful Books and Materials about Laboratory Animals

Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter I, Subchapter A—Laboratory
Animal Welfare, Regulations and Standards, published by the United
States Department of Agriculture.

Health Requirements and Regulations Governing the Interstate and Inter-
national Movement of Livestock and Poultry, prepared by the Animal
Health Division, Agricultural Research Service, United States Depart-—
ment‘ of Agriculture, Hyattsville, Maryland, 20782 (ARS 91-17-4,
December, 1967).

Comparative Anesthesia in Laboratory AnimalS, Edited by Elliott V. Miller,
Max Ben, jules S. Cass, Veterans Administration, Department of Medi-
cine and Surgery, Research and Education in Medicine. Published in
Federation Proceedings, July-August, 1969.

The UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals,
Edited by the staff of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.
(Williams and Wilkins C0., Baltimore, 1967).

Wright’s Veterinary Anesthesia, edited by L. W. Hall (Williams and Wilkins
C0., Baltimore, 1966).

An Introduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals, by Phyllis G. Croft,
(Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, 1964, available from
the Animal Welfare Institute.)

Small Animal Anesthesia, by William V. Lumb, (Lea and Febiger, Phila-
delphia, 1963).

Laboratory Animal Care Panel Reference Information File, prepared by Ket-
tering Laboratory, Department of Preventive Medicine and Industrial
Health, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Laboratory Animal Care (bimonthly journal of the American Association for
Laboratory Animal Science, 2620 Fletcher St., Chicago, Ill. 60618).

Journal of The Institute of Animal Technicians, 16 Beaumont Street, Oxford,
England.

Publications of the Laboratory Animals Centre, Medical Research Labora
tories, Woodmansterne Road, Carshalton, Surrey, England. Collected
Papers, Vol. I, General; Vol. II, Design of Animal Houses; Vol. III,
The Breeding of Laboratory Animals; Vol. IV, Infections in Labora- ,
tory Animals; Vol. V, The Nutrition of Laboratory Animals; Vol. VI,
Humane Technique in the Laboratory; Vol. VII, The Organization
and Administration of an Animal Division; Vol. VIII, Quality in La-
boratory Animals; Vol. IX, Provision of Animals for Cancer Research;
Vol. X, Hazards in the Animal House; Vol. XI, The Environment of
Laboratory Animals.

 




 




tine:

Isn‘t this great .... a ”vital need” ... an&
we did iti

Old WALAU hee beeh.telking about it for yeere and
even etetea publicly (in print somewhere because

I remember reading it) that the AWLAU manual was
being translated into pdﬂiSﬂ because of the great
need. We Bob Wetjkine {U of A) tole We the other
Way, WALWS Wenuod to do it out hobo: y fo1loWee
through on it. aren't We the very reeteetfii iii

How We you Went to hondle this? You have 500
copies in Adjnineton. Since 1 eeW't aheWeW

“one” lette 3 Without first consulting you,
Will you be so kind as; to Write to him or oe11
him a1d meg e eheenremehte for him to 1e» the 300
ooyiee he Wehte. I can send him the We eihine
200 from Uetroit When I get back if thie is What
you and he decide. Just 1et me know What you
have JWrenWed on this.

 




 




AUBURN UNIVERSITY

ALABAMA

SCHOOL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE

Pathology and Parasitology

T

H

E

March 21, 1972

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

Post Office Box 3492

Grand Central Station

New York, New York 10017

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
I am happy to give my permission for the re-
printing of my letter of November 2, 1971, in the

Animal Welfare Institute Information Report.

 

Sincerely,

‘Robert D. Powers, D.V.M.
Associate Professor

Telephone 826-4530
Area Code 205

LAND-GRANT UNIVERSITY OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA

 




IVERSITY

': ‘3; ' ALAIAMA
0. 40

SCHOOL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE

P th I ' ’
a oogy and Parasitology Telephone 8264530

November 2, 1971 Amocwezw

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3492
Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

Dear Sir:

I would like to acknowledge receipt of 240 copies each
of "Basic Care of Experimental Animals" and "Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals."

I would like to express my appreciation to the Animal
Welfare Institute for supplying me with this excellent teaching
material. These publications are extremely helpful to me in
teaching a course in Laboratory Animal Medicine here in the
School of Veterinary Medicine. Each student is allowed to keep
a copy of each publication for his future reference. Some stu-
dents will be entering the military service following gradua-
tion, and I feel that these publications will be most helpful
to them. Other students will be going into graduate research
following graduation, and I am sure that these publications
will supply much of the basic data that will be needed in
this area. Those students who will be going into private
practice following graduation will find these publications
most useful in two areas: (l) They will be helpful in de—
signing the animal facilities that will be needed in their
practices, and (2) They will be helpful in supplying much of
the basic data on those laboratory animals that are kept by
people as pets. Thank you very much for your help.

Sincerely,

W.» (“T7
, r J”. 4W
Robert D. Powers, D.V.M.
Associate Professor

LAND-GRANT‘UNIVERSITY OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA

 




      
         
         
   
  
    

mm...

 

150666-03? the ones; you have to save

give hundred (500) copies of
AC (spanisn) were sent to
Washington.

Arm-es bummed. to New york.C§a¢l .
ﬂee letter which I'm sending to
Ans. Etevens with a request for
300 conies for Dr. Acna in
>ﬁiﬂmLOﬂo HernAns he coulu have

postAge. Let me know.

250 SPANISH BC’s delivered by CS to Pan Amer:
Wing c/o Dr. Ac‘HA , 1/12/72

2
. ‘1
7 C / - \ ‘ bﬂ ,5/ fkbbﬁ‘h’d ‘}
“Pk. 16x, :2- ‘ . , ; " a -‘
‘ , 5? g > . - t «J -
‘ “”444 f _ ’ ﬁJL‘
2;, ﬁx - x -‘ 53%
AW? ' M

@726" QBMS/ﬁ >7 wt
bCL®£«§x;h AﬁC‘




 

(
{

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. BOX 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION

NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

Dear Dorothy,

Would you let me know exactly how many
copies of the Spanish BC were shipped to
us in Washington. I am trying to finish
our inventory and we received four cartons
of Spanish BC's. I hate to open them all
and count them because they will stay much
cleaner if they remain unopened.

Thanks very much.

 

 




 




July 6, 1972

Dr. J.D. Kohli

Assistant Director

Industrial Toxicology Research Centre
Post Box No. 80

Lucknow, India

Dear Dr. Kohli,

Your original letter did not reach us and that is
why you did not receive the copies of Basic Care
2£_Experimental Animals. Two copies have now been
sent, under separate cover, and I trust they will
reach you safely.

How marvelous it would be if this manual could be
translated into Hindi, as you suggest. We have had
many letters from.laboratory personnel describing
how valuable they find this manual.

Please do not hesitate to call on us if we can be
of further help.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. Charles w. Cooke)
Secretary to Mrs. Stevens

 




22787 ‘iifa. . ' a
23223 POST BOX No. so
Telegram “INTOXI” J," LUCKNOW.

Telephone }

ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD BE
ADDRESSED TO THE DIRECTOR

No.1TBc/An/7, ' 16th.Kune

Dr. J.D. Kohli
Assistant Director.

Miss Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3492

Grand Central Station
New York NY 10017

UOSOAO

Dear Madam Stevens :

On July 26, 1971, I wrote you a letter, a cepy of which

is enclosed herewith. We are very much interested in
examining the possibility of translating into Hindi,
the A.W.I. manual, Basic Care of Exp erimentel Animals.

A number of workers handling animals etc. in the
various Biological laboratories in India, may not be ;%
conversant with English. It will be, therefore, very :61
useful if a manual in Hindi could be provided for these
workers. It was in this context that I had requested
you to send two cepies of the manual so that we could
look into the possibility of translating this manual
in Hindi, the official language of India.

Of-course if ‘we decide to go ahead with this, we would
obtain your permission for doing so. Please send two

cepies of the manual at your early convenience to
examine this possibility.

Yours sincerely,

( J.é§ﬁ%¥ﬂé:§wﬂﬂ(,,

 




COpy of the letter no. lees/AD/71, dated Ju 25, 1971,
from 'Dr. J.D. Kohli, Soientist'E', Ind'ustri Toﬁcology
Research Centre, Chattarm Menzil Palace, Luck W,India,
addressed to Miss Christine Stevens, Presiden Animal
Welfare Institute, P.O.Box 3492, Grand Central ‘tation,
New York NY 10017, U.S.A. \

\\\
\

 

\

\

Dear Miss Stevens :

I have ready with inter est that the AWI manual,

Basic Care of Emerimental Animals, has been translated
and. published in the Greek, Japanese and German ,
languages and efforts are being made to publish the
Spanish translation 51180.

We would. like to consider translating this useful monOgraph
in Hindi, the officm language of India.

May I request you to kindly send us 2 COpies of the
english edition of this book for my perusal and
use in our library.

Yours sincere 1y,

Sd/Q J.D. Kohli,

 




