Natinnal @mgmphir Sitting

\NAﬁSHINCBTC)N,[D.CL 2(3CK§6

TELEVISION DIVISION

November, 1980

Those unable to attend the Environmental Perspective
Patricia F. Northrop, Director of Promotion for Television

National Geographic Specials underwritten by Gulf Oil Corporation

Your absence at the October 22 Environmental Perspective was noted and I'd
like now to share with you a packet we prepared for guests that evening.
It contains information about clips from past and upcoming National
Geographic Specials that address our environment as well as a Gulf Oil
Corporation statement entitled "In Search of Balance."

I hope you'll read the material and wish to incorporate appropriate
information in your individual publications.

In our coming season on PBS, three of our four new specials speak strongly
of environment and conservation. Two are issue oriented (NATIONAL PARKS:
PLAYGROUND OR PARADISE March 11 and GORILLA April 8) and the third —— first
to be telecast —— dramatically portrays an area where animals still reign.
It is a 59 minute film in which there are no humans. It is a struggle of
life and death —— for survival. ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY WATER will air
January 7 at 8:00 p.m. ET.

If you wish further information, please contact me.
We at the National Geographic Society are grateful for the continued

support of Gulf Oil Corporation in its underwriting of the sixth
consecutive season of National Geographic Specials.

b

 




2933mm News Release

SOCIETY

METROPOLITAN
PITTSBURGH
PUBLIC BROADCASTING, WQED

National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C. 20036 - Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public Broadcasting, 4802 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213

PRESS CONTACTS

 

Kay Cushing (Pittsburgh) Patricia Northrop (D.C.)
Ketchum MacLeod and Grove National Geographic Society
412-456—3850 202-857-7671

Melinda McMullen (San Francisco) Pam Golden (Pittsburgh)

Botsford Ketchum WQED
415—781—9480 412-622-1366

BRILLIANT NATURE CLOSE-UPS IN STORE

FOR NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC VIEWERS

Viewers should come prepared for an extraordinary experience of raw
animal vitality in ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY WATER, the brilliant wildlife
film which premieres the 1981 season of National Geographic Specials on
Public Television on January 7 at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. ETOSHA launches the
Society's sixth year on Public Television. The specials are co-produced

with WQED/Pittsburgh under a continuing grant from Gulf Oil Corporation.

A zebra attacked and killed by lions; a lion cub intently examining a
bullfrog it has caught; hungry turtles devouring a dove; and young bull—
frogs devouring each other are only a few of the unforgettable sequences
played out by cinematographers David and Carol Hughes in Etosha National
Park, a preserve rich in wildlife surrounding a huge dry lake bed, or

pan, in the southwest African country of Namibia. In what is an

 




BRILLIANT NATURE CLOSE-UPS

-2-

unprecedented style for National Geographic Specials, these and other
stunning episodes are presented as they happened, with only minimal
narration and music, natural sounds, and no people on camera. Rarely on
television has nature's interplay of life and death seemed closer and

more vivid.

Enduring months of torrid heat followed by a period of drenching rains
which mark the seasons in the Etosha Pan, David and Carol Hughes spent
close to two years of backbreaking and painstaking observation to shoot
this film, an incredibly intense no-holds—barred experience of nature.
Cheetahs, wildebeests, lions, zebras, bullfrogs, turtles, pelicans,
ground squirrels, kudu, and springbuck are among the panoply of wildlife
they filmed. Their cameras recorded extraordinary animal behavior, in

some cases unknown even to zoologists or ethologists.

One not on the books was the Hugheses' observation of turtles hungrily
attacking a turtle dove at a water hole. A highly unusual sequence
shows young bullfrogs devouring each other to satisfy their voracious
appetites. Other scenes are equally harsh: Fleeing with the herd, a
zebra mother successfully defends her foal from a swift cheetah, but
another cheetah attack brings down a baby springbuck. A bushsnake

swallows a bullfrog whole. Jackals and hyenas feed on dying pelicans

stranded when lake waters recede at the onset of the harsh dry season.

A lioness wounds 3 warthog and drags it to her young cubs to kill. They

too must learn to survive.

 




BRILLIANT NATURE CLOSE—UPS

-3-

The Hugheses turned an eye not only to death for survival, but also to
mating and birth as well. Frank sequences reveal the birth of a wilde-
beest, and the mating behavior of lions, springbuck, giant bullfrogs,
and wildebeests. And these ever persistent filmmakers observed much
animal behavior which demonstrates how marvelously creatures learn to
adapt to their environments: A ground squirrel lifting its tail to make
an ingenious umbrella shield against the boiling sun; a bat-eared fox
with an ear literally to the ground listening for insects for the next
meal; and young springbuck romping in a delightful pogo—stick movement

!

called "pronking,' a means of communicating to other springbuck the

presence of a predator.

ETOSHA is David Hughes's second National Geographic Special. His first,

THE LIVING SANDS OF NAMIB,about wildlife in a sprawling southwest African

desert, is one of Public Television's Top—20 Programs of all time. It

is also a winner of the DuPont Columbia Award in Broadcast Journalism.

###

 




assume _ News Release

SOCIETY

METROPOLITAN
PITTSBURGH
PUBLIC BROADCASTING, WQED

National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C. 20036 . Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public Broadcasting, 4802 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
PRESS CONTACTS

 

Kay Cushing (Pittsburgh) Patricia Northrop (D.C.)
Ketchum MacLeod and Grove National Geographic Society
412-456-3850 202—857—7671

Melinda McMullen (San Francisco) Pam Golden (Pittsburgh)

Botsford Ketchum WQED
415-781-9480 412-622-1366

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPECIAL ASKS
IF OUR NATIONAL PARKS CAN SURVIVE
THE AMERICAN TOURIST INVASION
Americans love their national parks -- but are they loving them to death?
On Wednesday, March 11 at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, a new National Geographic

Special on Public Television, NATIONAL PARKS: PLAYGROUND OR PARADISE, asks

this question that hangs over some of our most beautiful wildernesses.

NATIONAL PARKS is the third in the 1981 National Geographic series pro—
duced by the National Geographic Society and WORD/Pittsburgh with a con-

tinuing grant from Gulf Oil Corporation.

People were skeptical about the first national park created more than 100

years ago. Who would go to the remote lands around the Yellowstone

River? Today, more than 250 million visitors enjoy Yellowstone, Yosemite,

 




CAN OUR PARKS SURVIVE

-2-
the Grand Canyon, and other U.S. national parks each year. In the summer
season these popular parks suffer from overwhelming crowds, traffic jams,

pollution, and environmental damage.

The situation has placed the Park Service in a dilemma: how to fulfill
its mandate to protect and promote the use of parks as vacation wonder-
lands, and yet restore them as much as possible to their natural condi—
tion. New plans reduce, relocate, or eliminate completely, parking lots,
gas stations, supermarkets, restaurants, ShOpS, and hotels; and camp—

grounds would be cut out or cut back in many parks.

Opposing Views
Conservationists and environmentalists support these proposals. But
there are opponents, and each side has a voice in this National
Geographic Special. Roderick Nash, professor of History and Environmen—
tal Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and author

of Wilderness and the American Mind, says Americans who want the special

 

experience of the wilderness ought to hike and backpack, not ride, into
the Grand Canyon, for instance. But cable cars to the floor of the
canyon or up to Yosemite's heights are exactly what Los Angeles attorney

Eric Julber would like to see. Julber, who is a biker and licensed

river guide, thinks U.S. taxpayers are entitled to the easiest possible

access to the parks they pay for. "The more the better," he says about
visitors. "Let the strong climb if they choose, but let the children,

the aged, the hurried, or just plain lazy ride."

 




CAN OUR PARKS SURVIVE
-3-
Versatile Rangers in Versatile Parks
In the parks, rangers greet tourists with enthusiasm. Two Park Service
employees profiled in this special are Julie Bolding, a seasonal ranger
in Yellowstone, and Deryl Stone, a ranger in a new type of park —- an
urban park called Gateway National Recreation Area, on the outskirts of

New York City.

Julie Bolding patrols on horseback. She credits the presence of her
carefully trained animal for visitors' willingness to comply with park
regulations. Julie is less enthusiastic about the gun she must carry.
She has taken law enforcement courses at her own expense, and is learn—
ing to use police techniques as a measure against the problems of crime

now on an increase nationwide in the parks.

Deryl Stone began his Park Service career as a seasonal ranger at

Yosemite, but today he enjoys introducing New Yorkers to a new kind of

park experience -— the urban park. Located on the outskirts of the city,
Gateway National Recreation Area, comprised of 26,000 acres of land and
water, offers ocean beaches, dunes, wooded uplands, bays, a holly forest,
a wildlife refuge, three forts, and two historic airfields. In this
National Geographic Special, we join sunbathers at the beach, and enjoy
the novel experience of inner city kids learning to pitch a tent and
netting marine life —— all amid the roar of jets from nearby Kennedy

International Airport.

 




CAN OUR PARKS SURVIVE

-4-

Popularity Crisis
In the hour telecast, viewers will share some of the extraordinary ex—
periences to be had in the U.S. park system. Each year some 14,000
daring souls make the exciting trip on motorized rafts down the Colorado
River through the awesome Grand Canyon. Park Service plans, however,
call for all motors to be banned by 1985 to eliminate noise pollution.
But thrill—seekers will still be able to float the river in oar-powered
rafts or dories. In another sequence we see hang-glider pilots in a

spectacular swoop from Yosemite's Glacier Point.

Just how successfully the Park Service will manage the crisis of popular—
ity is uncertain. Recently appointed Director Russell Dickenson, another
voice in the hour special, must mediate under tremendous pressure to make
the parks all things to all people. He and his advisors have access to
the volumes of government studies conducted over the past decade, but
they also must bear the impassioned arguments of conservationists and

developers alike.

America's "Last Chance"
Of all the majestic pictures in this documentary, the one that perhaps
transcends all others is that of the fresh running waters and pristine
landscape of Alaska's Mbunt McKinley National Park. Many call Alaska
America's "last chance." The forces in favor of development in our 49th

state face enormous opposition from environmentalists and conservation-

ists. At the edge of the vast wilderness now called Gates of the Arctic,

 




CAN OUR PARKS SURVIVE

-5-

Park Service liaison officer Ray Bane expresses Strong feelings about

Alaska's future: "I can't make wilderness. I can destroy it, but I

cannot create it. I may never be able to see the Liberty Bell," he says,

"but I'm mighty happy someone is taking care of it."

Veteran producer of National Geographic Specials Irwin Rosten,
(THE INCREDIBLE MACHINE, THE VOLGA, GOLDX, MYSTERIES OF THE

MIND), produced NATIONAL PARKS: PLAYGROUND OR PARADISE.

The sixth consecutive season of new National Geographic
Specials funded by Gulf Oil Corporation concludes on
April 8 with the telecast of GORILLA, a close look at the

future of members of an endangered species.

 




gastritis News Release

SOCIETY

METROPOLITAN
PITTSBURGH
PUBLIC BROADCASTING, WQED

National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C. 20036 0 Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public Broadcasting, 4802 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213

PRESS CONTACTS

 

Kay Cushing (Pittsburgh) ‘ Patricia Northrop (D.C.)
Ketchum MacLeod and Grove ' National Geographic Society
412-456—3850 202-857—7671

Melinda McMullen (San Francisco) Pam Golden (Pittsburgh)

Botsford Ketchum ' WQED
415—781-9480 412-622-1366

CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED?
NEW NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPECIAL
VISITS THE ANIMAL'S PROTECTORS

The largest of the great apes -- the gorilla —- is quietly disappearing
from the wild...and the world. Unless man's attitudes change drastically,
the gorilla will slowly but surely be eradicated from his natural

African habitat.

However, a slim ray of hope lies in the hands of conservationists -— zoo
directors, dedicated individuals, and scientists -- all working to assure

that these magnificent creatures will not fall victim to the ultimate

fate -— extinction.

GORILLA, a National Geographic Special scheduled to air April 8 at 8:00

p.m. Eastern on Public Television tells touching stories of these mis-

understood and maligned creatures.

 




CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED

-2-
GORILLA is the final of the four new National Geographic Specials of the
1981 season, the sixth year of their broadcast on Public Television.
These documentaries are produced by the National Geographic Society and

WQED/Pittsburgh with a continuing grant from Gulf Oil Corporation.

The special reports how poachers and enCroaching human populations have

brought the animal to the brink of extinction in Africa. The most
horrifying stories emanate from Rwanda where poachers hunt the mountain
gorilla for its head and hands. National Geographic viewers may

remember Digit, the gorilla that scientist Dian Fossey painstakingly be-
friended in the wild. The first touch between Digit and Dian was a
moving moment in the 1976 National Geographic Special SEARCH FOR THE
GREAT APES. On December 31, 1977, Digit fell victim.to five mortal spear
wounds received as he singlehandedly defended his family group from

poachers and their dogs.

Conservationists at Work in the Wild

Digit's death prompted an outpouring of sympathy and money that gave
birth to the Mbuntain Gorilla Project, a continuing effort by interna-
tional conservation organizations to save the gorilla. For this docu-
mentary, producer Barbara Jampel took a National Geographic camera crew
to Rwanda to film the project manager, Jean-Pierre von der Becke,

leading an antipoaching patrol deep into the rain forest.

-more-

 




CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED

-3-
Husband and wife team Bill weber and Amy Vedder have spent long, hard
months in Rwanda actively supporting the Mountain Gorilla Project. weber
publicizes the gorilla's plight with film screenings and lectures in local
schools and villages, while Vedder brings tourists face to face with
gorillas up in the mountains, an experience not easily forgotten. Many
Rwandans have never seen a live gorilla, and these educational efforts are
important factors in convincing the starving, land—hungry people that

there is room to co-exist with gorillas.

The Best of Friends

One man driven with an almost evangelical zeal to save the gorilla and
other endangered species is British gambling club owner John Aspinall,
who also owns and operates a small zoo on his estate, Howletts. Years
ago Aspinall turned his back on the conventional function of zoos. His

philosophy is to propagate species of animals in captivity with the goal

of ultimately returning them to the habitats he feels were stolen from

them. Twenty gorillas live in the 50-acre parkland that houses his wild-
life collection. Aspinall is filmed playfully wrestling a 350-pound male
gorilla and quietly stroking a mother and her baby during one of his fre-

quent visits to their enclosure.

Some scientists have taken gorillas into their own homes. Renowned zoo
director Professor Ernst Lang successfully raised Europe's first gorilla

baby ever born in captivity. Rejected by her mother, baby Goma shared

 




CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED
-4-
Professor and Mrs. Lang's home with their two sons. Eventually Goma
was returned to the Basel Zoo and reintroduced to a life among her kind,
~but the Langs still enjoy reminiscing about this "adopted child," who for

a time was a part of their family.

Adult female gorillas that have been successfully mated in captivity fre-
quently reject or mistreat their new offspring, and the young must be
hand raised by humans. In the Los Angeles, California zoo, we see two
gorilla youngsters, clinging desperately to their keepers, being intro-
duced to an older, established group of gorillas. The introduction is
slow and painstaking, requiring much reassurance and reinforcement from

the keepers.

California psychologist Francine "Penny" Patterson maintains an astonish-
ing relationship with gorillas in a little-explored frontier of research.
Since 1972, Koko, a 9-year-old female lowland gorilla, has been the focus
of Patterson's life and studies, becoming a dear friend as well as a re-

search subject. Patterson is teaching Koko to "speak” in American Sign

Language -- the method used by the deaf in North America. Recently a

young male gorilla, Michael, was added to the experiment, and Patterson
has already realized one of her greatest hOpes: She has observed Koko

and Michael spontaneously signing to each other.

 




CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED

-5-

Zoos: A Key to the Future

Zoo administrators agree that gorillas in captivity need a stimulating
setting if they are to live happily. Gorillas confined in bare, sterile
quarters often become lethargic and despondent because they are bored.

At the Basel Zoo in Switzerland we see how the introduction of a simple
diversion triggers a burst of activity. A large reel of butcher paper is
placed in the gorilla cage. Unwound, it becomes a veritable avalanche to

which the gorillas react with delight, ripping and tearing the paper,

cavorting as they would among the foliage in their natural world.

Zoo keepers are also well aware of the gorilla's fragile fate, and around
the world many have initiated new programs to breed the gorilla in
captivity. Most of the successful programs provide the animal with a

setting bearing some semblance of its natural environment.

Jonesie, a 20-year-old female lowland gorilla, is one of a number of
animals participating in a breeding loan program. Transferred from the
Buffalo, New York zoo to the Columbus, Ohio zoo, we see her at the moment
of her introduction to a world without bars. Accustomed to a traditional
bare concrete enclosure in her former zoo home, she now reluctantly
ventures out onto the grassy knolls of the gorilla compound and exhibits
discomfort with its freedom and unfamiliarity. It is also her first in-

troduction to a group of gorillas; in the past she knew only a single

 




CAN THE GORILLA BE SAVED

-5-
cage mate. The initial introduction is threatening. But hers is a
success story, and National Geographic cameras were on hand to record

‘her first—born.

There are many man and gorilla stories in this National Geographic

Special, but it would not be complete without a scene from King Kong —-

if only to demonstrate that man could not have been more wrong about this

most magnificent of the great apes.

For the sixth consecutive season Gulf Oil Corporation
has underwritten National Geographic Specials. Telecast
in early 1981 were ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY WATER (January),
LIVING TREASURES OF JAPAN (February), NATIONAL PARKS:
PLAYGROUND OR PARADISE (March), and GORILLA (April).
Reruns of selected National Geographic Specials will

air on PBS throughout the summer season.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

“The corporation and so‘cietylv,

ave no basic causefordisagreez-i’

ment about envirOnmental ree-
sponsibili‘ty. Business and the

public inhabit : the same i-enViI'Oné

breathe the same air, drink t e
same water, and enjoy the Same.
scenery as everyone else. And ’
when the physical environment
deteriorates, ‘busmeSS declines",
“We should think-less about, ;
conﬂict, and more about ﬁnding
reasonable ways to alanoe
human activities-inoluding '
business-with the requirements
of the natural environment, so
that the integrity of both can be
maintained."

Jerry McAfee ’
Chairman and Chief Executim Officer
Gulf Oil Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

he sentimental View of nature as

peaceful, benign, and unspoiled

except by man, won’t do anymore.
We know too much. One thing we know
is that every living thing has an impact
on others, and because all things are con-
nected, that impact reverberates, however
faintly, through the whole environment.
Our system operates through the con-
nections between things; it survives
through its ability to maintain balance in
those connections.

Each of us has an impact on the en-
vironment simply through living. Nobody
needs to apologize for that impact; all we
need to do is remember the connections,
and work to preserve the balance.

Most of what we call pollution is
imbalance—a matter of too much of
something.

Fish and plants in a lake need food and
oxygen. But if too many phosphate fer-
tilizers and detergents are poured into the
water, the level of nutrients rises too high
in portions of the lake. The result is over-
population, depletion of the oxygen in
that area, and degradation of aquatic life.

For millions of years, petroleum has
entered the seas through natural seeps.
Marine organisms are able to consume
this oil, neutralize it, use it. But a massive
spill can locally overload the ocean’s
protective mechanisms, overstrain the
connections, and—for a time—undo the
balance.

Since the first volcano, sulfur from the
earth’s interior has entered the atmos-
phere. Sulfates in the air, caught by rain,
become nourishment for the earth’s
plants. But too many sulfates can result in
acid rain, posing a threat to animal and
plant life.

11 each case, the issue is not one of

good things versus bad things. The

really important question is, how much
is too much? When does the balance
begin to fail?

Every industrial operation has an
impact on the natural environment—that
can’t be changed. The imperative is to
manage these impacts to keep them with-
in the environment’s capacity to absorb
them.

It has been said that one person’s en-
vironmentalism is another’s unemploy-
ment. But that happens only if the balance
fails on either side—if the environmental-
ist insists on zero impact, or if the indus-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

trialist says “damn the consequences” and
provokes an extreme reaction.

Balancing mankind’s need for energy
and the desire for a healthy environment
seemingly represents a most delicate chal-
lenge. We at Gulf believe, however, that
these objectives are both compatible and
attainable. Reconciling the demand for
energy and for preserving nature’s bounty
can best be achieved by combining a
perspective of the total system, objective
reasoning, and scientific investigation.

For the energy industry, the question is
not whether progress should be made
toward a quality environment, but only at
what rate we can honestly afford to make
incremental improvements.

he petroleum production and

refining industry is bearing a sub-

stantial share of the costs of con-
trolling air and water pollution throughout
the country. Since 1975, Gulf alone has
spent more than $200 million each year on
environmental activities. By 1979, annual
expenditures were $300 million and ex-
pected to increase more than 2.0 percent
each year during the first half of the 19803.

Meanwhile, there is much competition
for the Company’s available capital.
Domestic energy development, which has
been given national priority, involves the
investment of staggering sums of money,
billions of dollars each year, investments
made even larger as capital and operating
costs of environmental protection and
regulation continue to rise.

We must recognize that protecting the
environment takes money that will be
available only if industry can continue to
remain productive. The millions of dollars
spent on environmental protection at a
refinery, for instance, do not produce one
additional gallon of gasoline. In fact,
because of the fewer dollars available for
modernization and expansion, produc-
tivity may decline.

The quest for perfection in anything—
including environmental matters—can be
futile as well as prohibitively expensive.
A widely recognized principle is that the
cost of further improvement rises as we
approach perfection. It may cost more to
remove the last 10 percent of particulates
from a gas stack than it did to eliminate
the first 90 percent. At some point, costs
and benefits get out of balance. The ques-
tion is whether there are better uses for
that money than pursuing the elusive 100
percent.

 

[am-a an!

.A... 'Wltunv-ramoyuu .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. %\®\“ms\ualn EICIJjb‘

“I‘d “R?”

t .- s€.=:‘;:‘m""‘4h r \ $.91};
+Wsr .9
a £331

          
   
   
 

“7‘““5‘ {’9‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

e at Gulf do not pretend perfec—

tion; but we do continue to

make progress toward improv-
ing the environment. The following pages
contain a few examples of one company’s
efforts to deal creatively with its own
environmental impacts.

We say “impacts” because, as an inte-
grated oil company, we are involved in
every aspect of the petroleum industry:
exploration, production, transportation,
production of chemicals. As an energy
company, we are also miners of coal and
uranium and are heavily engaged in
research on synthetic and alternate fuels.
Consequently, our operations encompass
the full range of terrains and environ-
ments, from desert to inner city.

This booklet, therefore, is far from
being a complete catalog of Gulf Oil Cor-
poration’s varied environmental activities.
A few of the subjects are covered in
detail, others are just touched upon, still
others are not even mentioned. Our pur-
pose is simply to indicate some of the
ways in which we at Gulf work to main-
tain—in those parts of the world we affect
most directly—a healthy balance.

ithin Gulf it is people who make

the decisions, design and oper-

ate the systems, who take the
responsibility for maintaining balance
between the natural and business en-
vironments. In all, a network of nearly
500 Gulf people devote full time to en-
vironmental protection, and an additional
750 work on environmental concerns one
or more days a week. Moreover, environ-
mental affairs has been made a respon-
sibility of everyone who makes decisions
that affect operations.

A corporate-wide Environmental
Affairs Coordinating Committee, chaired
by the Executive Vice President of Gulf’s
Science and Technology division, guides
the work of these people. The Committee
includes the corporate Environmental
Coordinator and representatives from
each of the operating divisions; the law,
public affairs, and medical departments.

Among its many responsibilities, the
Committee advises on both technical and
regulatory requirements, works with
regulatory agencies, and coordinates en-
vironmental activities throughout Gulf
to ensure that consideration of the en-
vironment is built into every project from
design stage through operation to shut-
down and reclamation.

 

 

 

 

 




- .9 ~15- ' l

v 1..—

  

r\"

"N
-aﬂl, ' “
.vl. m'ﬂ!
"(3- '1.
‘ rt

   

’3,
,7 ' .

 

Land Use

 

 

bout 760 million acres, or approxi-

mately one-third of the land mass of

the United States, are public lands—
estimated to contain half of all known
U.S. energy resources. Since 1968, this
acreage has been increasingly withdrawn
from energy and mineral development,
and the process is continuing.

Some people say that oil, gas, and min-
eral development on public lands should
not be permitted, no matter what the safe-
guards—that an untouched area should
remain that way forever. However, our
society depends on energy, and oil and
gas will continue to be our primary energy
resources for many years to come.

The economic stakes of energy devel-
opment are enormous. The U.S. now
imports nearly half of its oil, costing
more than $55 billion in 1979. We also
import more than 50 percent of all the

 

 

other minerals we use. This places us in

a position of untenable dependence upon
other nations. Moreover, the lopsided
balance of payments stimulates inﬂation
and unemployment.

At the same time, the public lands in
contention include some of the world’s
most magniﬁcent wildlife habitats, scenic
areas, and pristine wilderness. We cannot
fail to protect these national treasures.

Effective public policy would permit
multiple land use, with safeguards to
insure that oil and mineral companies
accept their responsibility as stewards of
the land. While searching for and devel-

Oping one resource, users would be
required to protect the others that are 't
present. The technology ex1sts to perm
the marks of energy development to be
minimized before a company moves OIL
And the energy industry has demonstrate
its ability to produce energy resources or
without destroying entire eco-systemS
the aesthetic value of the land. the

In those relatively few areas where
natural environment is truly unique dent-
irreplaceable. it would be wrong to P
mit either industrial or recreatlolnads
development. But on most publlc alsle ,
controlled and regulated multiple 11 any
would maximize the beneﬁts for as iting
sectors of the public as possible—'W
nothing and destroying nothlng- ilable

Instead of a collision of irrecomll18
adversaries. we need to seek 011tt na-
balance that best protects all of Undergy
tional interests. Wilderness and ean an
are not mutually exclusive’WB C

 

must have both. /

 

 

    
    
 

  




 

 

Seismic Exploration

 

nvironmental concern begins early

in the process in the oil business:

with seismic studies to ﬁnd the most
promising places to drill for oil and gas.
Improvements in technology have made
seismic exploration more productive with
less impact on the natural environment.

Seismic exploration involves sending
shock waves into the ground and re-
cording their echoes for clues to the
geology below—the kinds of rocks, their
depths and configurations. At one time,
standard practice was to drill a hole per-
haps 200 feet deep, put in a charge of
dynamite, and explode it. Detectors at the
surface picked up the reﬂected “signals”
like echoes, as the waves bounced back
from underground formations.

This system is still used in those areas
where shallow beds such as gravel give
off noises that suppress true signals; how-
ever, in many areas subtler methods can
yield more information with virtually no
disturbance to the land or water.

 

One source widely used today is a large
vibrator mounted on a truck, sending
bursts of Vibrations through the ground.
Another source, also carried by trucks, is
a bell-shaped container within which a
mixture of gas and air can be exploded,
with the explosion itself completely
contained.

Highly sensitive detectors that pick up
the reﬂected waves are strung out on the
surface in long lines. They receive the
echoes of the same pulse from many
different points. This wealth of informa-
tion is processed by computer to produce
a three-dimensional portrait of the sub-
surface rock formations.

Seismology is a case where the ad-
vances of technology have indirectly
meant environmental progress as well.

 
   
 
 

 
   

  

  
  
  
  

5 ﬁiié‘i'ﬁ' i :2 41-: l
- ; 9393*339’93’3 . ‘
1' ' 7,339 .3? V - a}: ‘

Drilling and Production

 

n drilling and producing oil and gas

wells, both on land and offshore,

Gulf Exploration and Production
personnel maintain a concern for the
environment that is manifest long before
the drilling begins and extends beyond
the time a particular well is closed down.

Hours of research by geologists and
geophysicists go into the planning of
every well. They calculate the subsurface

 

 

 

 

 

Oil production in North Dakota.

 

 

 

 

Gulf research vessel Hollis Hedberg en-
gages in offshore seismic exploration. The
source of shock waves is a harmless burst
of compressed air. The Hollis Hedberg is a
$6 million self-contained marine laboratory.
Among its other capabilities, it uses the

 

world’s most advanced hydrocarbon ana-
lyzer to detect underwater oil seeps. The
vessel not only gathers geophysical infor-
mation, but produces data for baseline
studies used in establishing environmental
standards or controls.

 

conditions likely to be encountered and
warn of possible high-pressure gas pock-
ets, dangerous gases, or other problems
that might be a hazard to safety and to the
environment.

One of many safeguards employed is
the practice of casing and cementing. As
the drill goes down through strata of
rock—limestone, sandstone, shale, old
lava—at intervals the drilling stops, and
steel casing is inserted in the hole and
cemented in place. The casing has several
purposes: it keeps the walls of the well
from caving in; it prevents loss of the
drilling ﬂuids within the walls; and it
protects freshwater aquifers from con-
tamination by gas, oil, brine, or drilling
ﬂuids. Cementing also prevents the oil or
gas from forcing its way to the surface
outside the casing where it cannot be
controlled, causing a blowout.

At the surface, the driller must separate
and contain the liquids that come from
the well.

What comes up from below?

0 Drilling ﬂuids, called “mud” because
the main constituents are water and clay,

 

 

 




with some chemical additives. The mud is
pumped down inside the drill pipe to
lubricate and cool the drill bit; and it
comes back to the surface, bringing rock
cuttings with it. The mud, in a column
that may be several miles deep, also
maintains hydrostatic pressure to control
the upward pressure that may develop
from below while drilling is still in
progress.

Drilling muds are often re-used. On-
shore they are stored either in steel tanks
or in lined earthen pits until they are
needed. Eventually they are buried in
accordance with federal and state regu-
lations. Although there is no environ-
mental danger from burying muds, in
those instances where special chemicals
are added to the mixture, care is taken to
neutralize the mud before disposal.

Offshore, muds are regulated by strict
environmental controls. If no oil is pres-
ent, the mud is released to the ocean—
slowly, under careful controls to keep the
concentration of sediment at an accept-
able level. If the mud contains oil or
another contaminant, it is transferred to
an acceptable disposal site onshore.

 

' Oil and/or Gas, if the well is success-
ful. Both must be contained, separated,
and stored.

0 Water, often brine or salty water,
the remnant of an ancient sea. Varying
amounts of water may be produced with
the oil. In modern production, the water
is drawn from the oil and gas, treated if
necessary, and pumped back into the
formation. In the case of offshore wells,
it is discharged within strict permit
limitations.

Both onshore and offshore, Gulf takes
care to separate runoff water and/or any
spillage from production operations.
Onshore a fire wall or dike is built around
the production facility where oil and gas
are separated, and where oil is stored.
Offshore, a system of curbs and gutters
catches any runoff or spillage, even rain-
water, and drains it into a collecting
device. Any oil is skimmed off before the
remaining water is discharged.

A typical offshore production platform
contains more than 200 separate safety
devices, both automatic and manual.
Sensors detect any unusual condition,

    
  
   

 

  
  
  

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

Workers install blowout preventer.

 

 

 

 

 

Offshore drilling platform in the Baltimore Canyon.

such as abnormal increases or decreases
in pressure or fluid levels, and any one of
these safety devices can shut down a
piece of equipment, or all wells and the
entire platform almost instantly. On drill-
ing wells, blowout preventers, a set of
heavy valves installed at the top of the
well, can automatically shut off the well
if a surge of pressure is encountered
during drilling.

DeSpite the safeguards of modern
safety equipment, it’s impossible to elimi-
nate the element of human error. Train-
ing is therefore one of the most critical
safety precautions. Gulf has always
emphasized training, and its excellent
offshore safety record is one result.

In 1976, when the US. Geological .
Survey published a requirement for tram-
ing in anti-pollution and safety deViCeS
for offshore workers, Gulf established a.
permanent school in New Orleans to traln
and certify offshore drilling personnel.

Offshore crews normally work a 7-day
week, 12 hours a day, then they’re off 7
days. The training program replaces one
7-day offshore work period. Through ”
lectures, written material, and “hands on
experience, workers learn in detail how
all the safety and anti-pollution deVICeS
work together as a system on a platform.
By the time they are through, they an?
able to disassemble, reassemble, afiJUSt’
calibrate, and test every item of antl-
pollution and safety equipment. At the
end of the program, each participant 15
tested. Without a passing grade, that P91"
son doesn’t go back to the platform-

 

 

____/

 

 




 

 

n.-

Gas and Gas Liquids Processing

 

 

 

he natural gas associated with every

producing oil well may contain

valuable gas liquids which can be
separated for use as bottled fuel, chemical
feedstocks, and octane boosters for
gasoline. Gas processing plants separate
pipeline-quality gas from the liquids, re-
move impurities, and feed the products
into pipelines which transport them to
the market.

Through its Warren Petroleum Com-
pany division, Gulf operates 32 such
plants in the U.S. The newest, at Gulf’s
Little Knife Field in North Dakota, is the
first gas processing plant constructed
since the 1977 air quality standards went
into effect.

Bringing the Little Knife plant onstream
involved an extensive government per-
mitting procedure made even more
difficult because the plant is only 20 miles
from a national park, and because the
gas produced at Little Knife has a high
sulfur [hydrogen sulﬁde) content, which
produces an odor similar to rotten eggs.
To secure the strictest air quality permit
ever issued to Warren, and to remove
effectively, hydrogen sulfide and other
impurities from the gas stream, several
special measures were taken.

Electric compressors, rather than in-
ternal combustion engines, were installed
in the plant to eliminate NOx emissions.

The plant was the ﬁrst in the country to
use the Cold-Bed Adsorption Technique
for sulfur extraction. The system converts

 

more than 98 percent of the hydrogen
sulfide into marketable molten sulfur.
More than $150,000 worth of special
equipment was installed to constantly
monitor emissions. In addition to equip-
ment on the sulfur unit, three ambient
air monitoring stations were erected at
locations throughout the plant area to

 

 

Gas processing plant at Little Knife, North Dakota.

 

draw continuous air samples and record
such parameters as temperature, wind
direction and velocity, and 802 and H23
emissions for hourly analysis. This
analysis is now done manually, but
Warren plans to computerize the

 

operation so that the extensive data
needed for analysis and for reporting to
government agencies can be produced
automatically. Computerization will add
another $250,000 in 1979 dollars to the
cost of air monitoring.

 

 

 

 

Nigerian dancers celebrate the dedication
of freshwater facilities for their village of
Ugborodo. Gulf and the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation share ownership of
Gulf’s crude oil production operations at the
mouth of the Niger River. To improve the

 

quality of life for its Nigerian workers and
the adjacent villages, Gulf donated the fresh-
water system; dredged a canal through the
villages to improve communication by boat;
and initiated a housing project for 175 em-
ployees and their families.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

, MARINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oil in the Oceans

 

 

ow much oil enters the oceans every
year, and where does it come from?
The most frequently blamed

source, tanker accidents, is one of the
smallest contributors, overall. A serious
tanker accident can overload the ocean’s
ability to assimilate that amount of oil in
one place. But tanker accidents account
for less than 4 percent of the oil in the
oceans. The other 96 percent enters
unspectacularly, a little at a time, and
most of it is dispersed with little or no
traceable environmental damage.

The total amount of petroleum and
petroleum products entering the oceans
in a year amounts to about 6 million
metric tons.

Meanwhile, living organisms in the
ocean produce hydrocarbons, many of
them the same as or similar to the hydro-
carbons in oil. The total amount of this
production also is about 6 million metric
tons per year—the same as the amount of
petroleum entering the seas.

What happens to oil in the oceans?
Several things. The more volatile frac-
tions begin to evaporate immediately.
Some of the remainder is oxidized or
dissolved in the water; some is assimi-
lated by bacteria, or biodegraded; and the
heaviest fractions sink to the bottom,
where they too are degraded by bacterial
or chemical action.

There is no evidence that oil in the
oceans becomes concentrated in one
place or passes through the food chain.
Since oil is natural in ocean water, most
marine organisms are able to purge
themselves of it with relative ease. In a
large spill, birds suffer, because they ﬂy

into the oil and ingest it while trying to
clean their feathers. Bottom-dwelling
organisms receive a larger dose than those
that swim. But most sea creatures survive.
Studies have shown that even damaged
biological communities eventually re-
establish themselves.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Natural Seepage Marine

9.80/0 Transportation
0 erations

Atmospheric Fallout p 31.6%

9.80/0

Offshore

Petroleum

Production

1.30/0

Coastal Facilities Tanker Accidents

 

 

 

(Sewage Plants, 3.30/0
Industries, etc.) #River and
13.10/0 Urban Runoff

31.1%

Sources of petroleum going into the oceans. ‘42

 

 

A study several years ago by the National
Academy of Sciences showed that the amount
of 011 that comes from marine transportation
operations of all types, nearly a third of the
total, is nearly matched by the amount of oil
contained in runoff from rivers and urban
areas. Another 20 percent comes from the

combination of atmospheric fallout and
natural seepage. , -
Coastal facilities, such as sewage Unis“
dustrial plants, are the source of 01701”
Percent. Next comes tanker acc1dents, i
than four percent, and finally offshore 0
Production, less than two percent.

 

 

 




 

 

 

18
)II
[15

’/o

 

 

 

 

Spills and Clean-Ups

 

 

espite the most elaborate precau-

tions and the best training, accidents

can happen. In most cases when oil
is spilled, equipment and methods are
available to clean it up.

Clean-up typically has three main
phases: containment, recovery, and dis-
posal. Oil on water spreads rapidly, and so
throughout the operation speed is of the
essence.

The first phase—containment—is
usually accomplished by surrounding the
spilled oil with “booms,” or on ﬂowing
water, using booms to direct the oil slick

 

into a conﬁned area. A boom consists
of a long ﬂotation member to stop the
slick from spreading on the surface; a
weighted skirt below the ﬂotation
member, to keep oil from passing under
the boom; and sometimes an extension,
or “sail”, above the boom to keep oil
from splashing over the top.

Containment is not a solution; it is a
temporary delaying tactic. Even in calm
water with little wind, oil can begin
escaping from the booms within a few
hours. In choppy waters with strong
winds, the oil may start to escape in
minutes.

Therefore, the next phase—recovery—
must begin as soon as possible. Recovery
is usually performed by “skimmers,”
which collect the oil from the surface of
the water. Skimmers range from small
hand-held suction devices to self-
propelled vessels with built-in mechanical
recovery equipment.

The third phase of clean-up is disposal
of the recovered oil. Disposal usually
means pumping the oil into empty tanks,
ashore, barges, or rail cars—whatever
containers are available. The oil, which
inevitably contains water and debris, is
stored until it can be separated. The
debris is disposed of in an approved
landﬁll. The oil is sometimes reused, but
more often must be properly incinerated.

Cleaning up an oil spill is a tedious
business that may involve working
around the clock at top speed. In many
major ports, the oil companies have
formed cooperatives, with close ties to
other agencies such as the Navy, the
Coast Guard, the Department of Energy,
and private pollution control firms. Gulf
is a member of more than 15 such groups
in the US. Cooperative members share
training and equipment, develop contin-
gency plans for cleaning up spills, and in
some ports hold periodic exercises to keep
people and equipment in readiness.

VLCCs

 

 

ne of the spectacular artifacts of

the petroleum age is the Very Large

Crude Carrier (VLCC).The meaning
of “Very Large” is hard to grasp. VLCCs
average a quarter of a million tons dead-
weight. Loaded with a couple of million
barrels of oil, they can cruise for 20,000
miles at speeds of around 15 knots. They
aren’t fast, but they’re persistent—when
one gets going at cruising speed, it can’t
be stopped in less than a mile or so.

 

Dip concept

 

 

 

A special skimming system was needed
at Gulf’s very large and busy terminal at
Bantry Bay, Ireland. The port handles VLCCs
and as a guest of the Irish, Gulf recognizes
its responsibility for environmental protec-
tion. The weather and water are frequently
rough, and ordinary Skimmers are not effec-
tive in typical conditions.

Gulf chose what it believes is the best
available skimming system for local condi-
tions, then designed a seaworthy vessel
around the system.

In rough seas, the bow is closed, making
the conﬁguration approximately that of a
typical small sea-going vessel. For skimming,
the bow doors swing open, and two sweeps
to collect the oil are lowered into the water.
The ship moves forward at one or two knots,
sweeping the oil into the vessel’s recovery
system. The Bay Skimmer can collect oil at a
rate of about 550 gallons per minute. When
the tank is full, the oil is pumped into storage
tanks on other vessels or onshore.

 

 

  
   

     
  

collected oil

moving plane

 

water line

  

 

 

 

bottom plate
collection zone

 

L—-— ﬂow control plate

   

‘|A

7"

 

I
side plates ——l Oil '-
ﬁlm
concentration zone —.l

 

 

The Dynamic Inclined Plane (DIP) unit in
the Bay Skimmer involves a moving belt
which forces the oil underwater, and lets it

 

rise inside the vessel in a collection tank.The
oil is then pumped into holding tanks aboard
the Bay Skimmer and later pumped out.

 

 

 




 

10

 

MARINE

 

 

 

 

 

It’s easy to associate a massive oil spill
with VLCCs, and to question the need for
risking so much oil in one hull and such
potential environmental damage from one
accident. After all, if a ship is too big to
get into any United States port—so big
it has to be unloaded offshore and its
cargo transported up the bay by smaller
vessels—is that unmanageably big? Why
don’t shipbuilders design vessels on a
more modest scale, and run less risk of
an environmental catastrophe?

The main reasons for building and
operating VLCCs are economic. It simply
costs less to move a million barrels in
one vessel than in two, or four. But other
reasons involve safety and environmental
protection.

Basically, two kinds of safety are in-
volved: navigational safety—maintaining
the integrity of the vessel and the safety
of the crew, and cargo-handling safety—
loading and unloading in such a way that
no cargo is lost and nothing is damaged.

Overall, the VLCC is a safer vessel than
the alternatives.

Most navigational accidents involving
vessels of any kind happen close to shore,
because that’s where the traffic is. VLCCs
are less likely to enter small, more con-
gested ports. They also reduce the traffic
on the high seas. Iust as in moving people
by mass transit, moving more oil in fewer
large carriers can lead to fewer accidents
and greater safety.

Since VLCCs cannot enter certain
ports—none, for example, in the US. are
large enough—“lightering” is used. This
involves the transfer of oil directly from
one larger vessel to several smaller ones.
Precise techniques developed over the
past 20 years have resulted in excellent
safety and environmental records for
lightering.

To further reduce the chance of a
collision, the newer large vessels carry
Collision Avoidance Systems [GAS].
Using a shipboard computer, the CAS

 

 

assists the watch officer in making d9-
cisions that keep the vessel at a safe
distance from other vessels. The CA3
automatically surveys the radar screen to
track the locations of all other ships
within a given distance. It plots the Speed
and direction of each vessel, and transmits
this information instantly to a monitor.
Any situation that could develop into a
collision is obvious at once. When the
watch officer decides to make a course
change to avoid danger, the CAS recalcu-
lates all contacts’ courses and speeds, and
gives warning of any new danger that
may result from the change.

It is a relatively simple matter to avoid
one other vessel in the vicinity; but when
several vessels are maneuvering in tight
quarters, and a change in course ora
reduction in speed may take several min-
utes, the ability of the CAS to sense a
dangerous situation and give warning
provides an invaluable margin of safety
for both crew and cargo.

 

 

 

 

 

G11] ’3 American S ' 't '
f plI‘l , at more than 262,000 deadweight tons, is one of the largest vessels ever co t t d ' th U 8
ns me e m e . .

/

 

‘_———_—/

 




ts

 

 

 

Technological Improvements

 

 

 

ne area where technology has pro-

vided environmental advantages is

in the evolution of methods to clean
cargo tanks.

When crude oil is pumped from the
tanker, it leaves a residue that has to be
washed away to avoid a sticky buildup.
Eventually, this residue may have to be
removed manually from the tank bottom.
In the past, the tank was washed with salt
water; then the water, mixed with crude
oil residue, was simply pumped over-
board. The practice was acceptable, if not
attractive. The quantities of oil involved
were too small to be wasteful or to consti-
tute a pollution threat. But consumers
have continued to demand more oil, much
of which can only be moved by tanker.
(In 1978, some 49 percent of the world’s
cargo tonnage was oil.) As more and
bigger vessels washed their tanks, and
pumped their ballast overboard, the
amount of oil entering the sea from cargo
tanks became a source of pollution, as
well as a waste of valuable oil.

 

A number of years ago, oil companies
developed a system known as Load—on-
Top. As each tank is emptied and washed,
the mixture of oil and salt water is
pumped into a settling tank, where the
oil separates from the water and rises to
the top. Newer ships have separators to
speed the process. The clear water,
sometimes after treatment, can be dis-
charged and the oil retained. Finally, a
new cargo of oil is loaded on tap of the re-
tained oil in the vessel’s cargo tanks.

Load-on-Top, used by about three
fourths of the world tanker fleet, is an
important advance, and has significantly
reduced pollution. But it isn’t perfect.
Even better technology is still evolving.

The most recent evolutionary step in
tank washing, called Crude Oil Washing,
followed from the success of a safety pre-
caution that is used in newer vessels,
called Gas Inerting. As a tank is pumped

 

 

An offshore drilling rig acts as an artificial
reef, stimulating an abundance of fish and
shellfish. In the Gulf of Mexico, when you
want good fishing you head for a drilling rig.

This diver inspects a rig in the Santa
Barbara Channel, Where a well blew out in

1968. Some 16,000 tons of oil were released
before the well was brought under control.
It was an environmental tragedy. But even-
tually the area healed itself. Today, the
beaches are clean, and the rigs themselves
are teeming with marine life.

 

 

out, it gradually ﬁlls with a mixture of hy-
drocarbon vapors and oil. Within certain
ranges during the process, the mixture is
potentially explosive or combustible.

In vessels equipped with an inerting
system, nitrogen or ﬂue gas from the
ship’s propulsion system is introduced
into the tank as the oil is pumped out.
Most of the oxygen is excluded, and
lacking oxygen the vapor mixture re-
mains inert. Inertin-g has developed to
the point that on a modern vessel, the
complete cycle from cargo to cargo can
be performed with tanks continuously
inert.

 

Today it is possible to wash the tanks
of vessels equipped with inerting systems
with crude oil instead of seawater. The
crude has a solvent action which dis-
solves away practically all of the residue.
Since no water is used, there is no
problem of separating water from oil, and
no salt contamination. The recovery is
virtually complete, and nothing is pumped
overboard. For a 265,000-ton vessel, the
amount of oil retained in one such wash-
ing can be approximately 2,000 barrels.
This represents an 85 percent reduction in
the amount of oil retained on board as
compared with the Load-on-Top process.

 

 

 

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

The final step in wastewater treatment at
Port Arthur Refinery is a 550-acre pond. The
water is held three to five weeks in the pond,

which is home to a thriving population of

green algae, fish, turtles, a few alligators, and
hundreds of water birds.

 

Changing Requirements

 

 

 

 

he cost of building a signiﬁcantly

sized new oil reﬁnery today has be-

come all but prohibitive—due in part
to the uncertainty of the world crude oil
supply; in part to the inﬂation that affects
all capital spending; in part to the rising
costs of environmental protection; and in
part to the delays that are inherent in the
process of getting all the necessary per-
mits. Along the East Coast of the United
States alone, a dozen reﬁnery projects
have been abandoned during the 19703
largely because of environmental restric-
tions. No large scale reﬁnery has been
built anywhere in the US. since 1972.

As the nation’s reﬁneries age, an in-

creasing share of environmental efforts

 

are aimed at bringing them into com-
pliance with changing environmental
regulations. Reﬁners are constantly adding
new equipment and operations to make
reﬁning processes cleaner, and whenever
possible more efficient at the same time.

Gulf’s refinery at Port Arthur, Texas—
its oldest and one of the world’s largest—
is a case in point. The Reﬁnery has a
fascinating mix of old and new facilities
for processing crude oil into the wide
range of petroleum products that con-
sumers depend upon today. More than $30
million had been spent at Port Arthur for
pollution control by 1979, with additional
funds budgeted to further improve the
plant’s impact on its surroundings.

Since 1970, the Reﬁnery’s wastewater
treatment system has been completely re-
designed and expanded. Although waste-

water was already being treated to meet
Texas Water Quality Board requirements
under permits issued in the late 19603,
state requirements grew tighter. Moreover,
the EPA began in 1972 to set goals for
various industries to be realized by 1977,
and in more stringent form by 1983 (since
postponed to 1984). Although Port Arthur
had been making yearly overall improve-
ments in its water treatment system, these
new standards necessitated development
of even newer and more sophisticated
facilities.

 

The Reﬁnery’s wastewater treatment
system duplicates in much less space
what would happen naturally in a river.
If the plant’s raw process wastewater was
discharged to a river, it might take many
miles of travel before the pollutants
would disappear—degraded by natural
processes. Port Arthur cleans the water
on part of its 4,000 acre reﬁnery site,
duplicating nature’s process in what is
called an “activated sludge system.”

The ﬁrst step in the treatment of
process area wastewater is gravity sepa-
ration of oil, water, and solids. This “pri-
mary treatment” occurs in a series of
holding basins and tanks which permit
the oil to ﬂow to the top and solids in the
form of sludge sink to the bottom.

Most of the separation occurs in three
long, narrow concrete basins. Each basin
contains wooden beams that move acrOSS
the surface of the water, driven by an
endless chain. The beams skim the ﬂoat-
ing oil from the top of the water, then
submerge to scrape the sludge off the
bottom. .

Next stop is a dissolved ﬂotation umt'
Here process water is treated with chetnl'
cals, pressurized, and saturated with an.
Then the pressure is released suddenly.
causing tiny air bubbles to rise to the top-
like the ﬁzz in a bottle of soda water. The
bubbles attach to suspended particles of
solids and oil that didn’t come out in the
gravity separator and carry them to the
surface, where paddles skim off the

 

 

 

___/

 




 

oily froth. At this point, the water looks
clear and clean, but it still contains a con-
siderable amount of dissolved pollutants.

The water now passes through two
aeration basins totaling six million gal-
lons, where it is cooled, then treated with
biological microorganisms. To us, hydro-
carbons are pollutants, but to these little
“bugs” they are a sumptuous dinner.
Nutrients are added and aerators agitate
the water to ensure that the oxygen level,
along with the temperature, are at opti-
mum levels to keep the bacteria “eating”
the hydrocarbons at peak consumption.

Next the water moves through three
clarifier tanks where the “bugs” are re-
covered. They are removed from the
treated wastewater and returned to the
first aeration basin for another “meal.”
Together the aeration basins and clarifiers
serve as the “secondary treatment” step.

Finally the water arrives at a stabiliza-
tion pond—a 550-acre marshy pond that is
the last stage of the wastewater treatment
process—the “polishing” step.

This is equivalent to the last few miles
of the river journey that the water would
have taken in a natural stream. Here algae
feed on any remaining pollutants. The fish
come to eat the algae, and the alligators
and birds come to eat the fish. When the
water is released from this pond into a
public waterway, it meets or exceeds both
state and federal standards.

Another major environmental consid-
eration at Port Arthur is preserving the
quality of the air.

 

 

 

Process wastewater at Port Arthur is
spray-cooled to promote biological activity.
Specially cultured microorganisms feast on
pollutants in the water, which is aerated to
control the water temperature and to intro-
duce extra oxygen that is required by the
“bugs” for optimum biodegradation.

Electrostatic precipitators, left, ﬂanking
the catalyst regenerator on the right. Between
the regenerator and the precipitators, carbon
monoxide—an air pollutant—is removed from
the flue gases. Mixed with natural gas, the
carbon monoxide is burned to make steam,
conserving other fuels.

 

 

Treating hydrogen sulfide, a by-product
of refining, is a major part of air pollution
control. This gaseous compound is col-
lected throughout the Refinery and routed
to a sulfur recovery unit. The unit re-
covers elemental sulfur, which is sold.
However, the volume of sulfur dioxide
that remains cannot be released to the air,
so it must be processed through a $10 mil-
lion tail gas unit, which reconverts it to
hydrogen sulfide. Then the compound
goes through the whole process again.

 

The chemistry gets rather complicated,
but in the~end, more than 99 percent of
the sulfur is recovered. The sulfur diox-
ide eventually released is less than two
percent of what was produced in the ﬁrst
pass-through and well within regulated
standards.

Electrostatic precipitators, which are
designed to remove extremely fine solid
particles of catalyst from ﬂue gases, are
another air pollution abatement tool.
When the gases pass through the precipi-

 

 

 

stationary cone roof

 

 

 

 

 

The two storage tanks in the foreground at Port Arthur demon-
strate the principle of floating roof tanks. The tank on the right is
full, and the roof is ﬂoating near the top of the tank wall. The tank
on the left is half empty, with the roof ﬂoating on the surface of the
liquid. Use of floating roofs eliminates the vapor space normally
found in a tank. This, in turn, reduces the vapors that are lost by

the necessary breathing of the tank.

 

Some tanks have both a stationary roof and an internal floating
roof. This cutaway drawing shows how the tank is constructed.
As the tank is emptied and refilled, the roof rides up and down on
the surface. Seals prevent the escape of vapors around the edge of
the floating roof. The increased use of floating roofs has proved
effective in reducing emissions of hydrocarbons and other gases to
the atmosphere in areas where crude oil products are stored.

 

 

13




 

14

 

 

REFINING

 

tators—huge metal chambers about three
stories high—the particles stick to elec—
trically charged elements inside. Periodi-
cally the charge is removed from the
elements and the dust is allowed to fall
into a hopper. The hopper is then emptied
into covered containers, and the dust,
which is non-toxic, is trucked to a landfill.
A third protective mechanism used by
refineries like Port Arthur is ﬂoating
tank roofs, which minimize hydrocarbon
emissions from crude oil and refined
product storage tanks. In a normal tank,
as the product is pumped out, a vapor
space forms. The ﬂoating roof ﬂoats on
top of the liquid product, leaving little or
no space for vapors to form. The roof
rides up or down with the changing level
of the liquid stored. Other advantages
derived from the use of ﬂoating roofs are
conservation of the liquid that is stored in
the tank, more efficient safety protection,
and improved resistance to corrosion
which can be caused by condensation.

 

 

 

Gulf operates a refinery in Philadelphia.
In 1955, the Corporation gave 145 acres of
marshland adjacent to the refinery to the City

 

of Philadelphia. The city created Tinicum
Marsh Wildlife Preserve. now a haven for
thousands of water fowl and migratory birds.

 

Conﬂicting Needs

 

lot of factors—seemingly unre-
lated—have contributed to the coun-
try’s energy problems. In the case
of gasoline, the industry’s efforts to keep
up with increasing consumer demand
have been sharply affected by government
requirements to reduce air pollution pro-
duced by automobile emissions.
In 1976, the EPA mandated the phased
removal of tetraethyl lead as a gasoline

 

additive. Lead was alleged to be an en-
vironmental and health hazard, and also
would foul the catalytic converters that
remove particulates from auto emissions.
Lead has been added to gasoline at the
refinery over the years to raise the octane
level and improve gasoline performance.
Discontinuing its use means the reﬁner
must either substitute other additives or
undertake additional refining to obtain the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

same results. Regrettably both alterna-
tives require more crude oil to make the
same amount of gasoline.

Meanwhile the demand for unleaded
gasoline has grown at a tremendous rate——
nearly 200 percent: since 1975—as more
and more new cars take to the road.
Demand is expected to continue rising
because of new car sales and government
requirements for increased miles per
gallon performance standards that require
high octane fuels.

Further complicating matters is the fact
that the EPA has banned MMT, a sub-
stitute additive for lead; the world supply
of crude oil has tightened as a result of
cutbacks by foreign producers; and no
matter how much crude oil is available,
refiners have limited capacity to pI‘OdllCe
unleaded gasoline.

Gulf has a number of projects under-
way that will increase its refining ca-
pacity, including its supply of unleaded
gasoline, at a cost of some $400 million.
Other refiners too are working to keep up
with the growing demand for unleaded
gasoline, as well as the other energy
products needed by consumers.

Meanwhile. the need to balance tWO
national imperatives—adequate energy
supplies and improving the environ— .
ment—Will remain with us for a long tune
to come.

 

 

_/

 

    
 

  

 

 




 

 

Good Neighbors

 

 

 

11 any community, a reﬁnery is a

neighbor that commands attention.

By its very existence, it has an en-
vironmental impact: it takes up space; it
increases traffic; it occupies the skyline.
A reﬁnery can also have an important
social impact as a responsive member of
the community.

In 1943, Gulf Canada Limited, Gulf’s
68-percent-owned Canadian subsidiary,
built a reﬁnery at Clarkson, Ontario, in an
open agricultural area on the shore of
Lake Ontario. Over the next three dec-
ades, attractive residential communities
developed, eventually coming right up to
the plant’s boundaries on two sides. Since
1960 the Company has spent more than
$15 million on pollution abatement at the
facility.

 

In the mid-19703, Clarkson needed to
modernize and expand its lubricating oil
plant to meet the growing demand for
lube oil products. Planning for the project
included careful attention to the feelings
and needs of the people in the surround-
ing community.

A public opinion survey commissioned
by Gulf revealed that the appearance of
the reﬁnery was important to a large
number of people in adjacent residential
areas, along with air and water quality,
noise, and odor.

Gulf Canada therefore retained a ﬁrm
of landscape architects to design better
visual quality at the plant’s boundaries.
Preliminary plans were discussed and
developed in cooperation with commu-
nity organizations and with municipal
and provincial agencies. The ﬁnal plans
were submitted to the community at a
series of public meetings.

The long-range project has included
earth mounding and tree planting along
the reﬁnery’s boundaries to create a
visual screen. A considerable portion of
this landscaping is on reﬁnery land, the
remainder on park land which had been
donated by Gulf to the city in earlier
years. Other additions include a me-
andering path for walking and bicycling

through a park; improvements to a local
museum and a historical site; and an
improved recreational playing ﬁeld.
Moreover, a wetland area adjacent to the
park but within the reﬁnery site has been
developed to become a natural habitat for
birds and animals. By 1979 more than $1

 

million had been spent on the project.
Environmental improvements in the
reﬁnery itself, to supplement the plant‘s
existing program for air and water treat—
ment, were also made at a cost of over
$9 million. The result is improved en-
vironmental quality in the area.

 

 

 

 

A refinery may not be a thing of beauty to
most people. But at the Clarkson site, Gulf
Canada has demonstrated a commitment to

 

both social and environmental harmony with
energy production in its efforts to meet the
growing demand for petroleum products.

 

 

 

Picnic site on the shore of Lake Ontario near Gulf Canada’s Clarkson Refinery.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

16

 

nel has been developed to meet the unique
problems of transportation in the safest
and most efficient way possible.
Throughout the U.S., Gulf uses a whole
series of pipelines, barges, railroad tank
cars and highway trucks to transport
crude oil, petroleum products, and natural
gas to their interim and final destinations.
The largest single movers are pipelines.
The industry petroleum pipeline network
covers more than 227,000 miles of the U.S.,
and there are another 331,000 miles of
pipeline connecting the natural gas pro-
ducing regions with utilities throughout
the country. More than 38,000 miles of
petroleum pipeline has been added to the
network since 1967, at a cost of $11 billion.
Pipelines are the cleanest, safest, and
quietest mode of transportation, as well
as the most economical. It is much less
expensive to transport a gallon of crude
oil by pipeline from Texas to New York
than to send a postcard the same distance.
Crude oil is carried from the well to field
storage tanks by pipelines called flow

 

 

 

 

Beneath this farm field lie two natural gas pipelines.

The service station and the fuel oil home
delivery track are the last step of the dis—
tribution channel from oilfield to consumer.

 

Nationwide Network

 

 

t one time, bringing oil products to

the consumer was a relatively sim-

ple process. Kerosene—the major
petroleum product at the turn of the cen-
tury—was delivered by the barrel to local
hardware and general stores or by horse-
drawn wagons directly to homes and
farms across the country. Today, several
thousand products are produced directly
or indirectly from petroleum, and the task
of moving them to where they are needed
on schedule is an important and intricate
part of Gulf’s business.

Virtually every barrel of crude oil that

is pumped from the ground or delivered to
a coastal port enters a complex nationwide

 

network known in the oil business as
Transportation and Distribution (T&D). No
other industry moves such an enormous
volume of products over such long
distances.

From the oil ﬁeld or loading platform to
the consumer’s storage tank—whether that
be an industrial complex utility or the
gasoline tank of a car—the Transportation
and Distribution network transports more
than 18 million barrels each day of prod-
ucts, stores them, transfers them between
transportation modes, keeps them clean
and safe, and prevents them from con-
taminating the environment.

Considering the size of the network and
the volume of products it moves, T&D has
remarkably little impact on the environ-
ment. Each step of the distribution chan-

lines. Then gathering lines connect these
tanks to trunk lines that transport the
crude oil to refineries or terminals.

Aside from their low visual impact,
pipelines seldom have a direct effect on
the environment. A leak can occur; how-
ever, pipelines are constantly monitored
to prevent leakage. The lines are protected
by corrosion-resistant coatings, ultrasonic
detectors, warning alarm systems and by
manual and automatic safety systems that
can immediately close down operations if
a problem arises.

Small tankers and barges are also vital
modes of transportation in the oil industry
—to move products on lakes, rivers, and
throughout the 25,000 miles of US. inland
waterways. More petroleum is carried by
water than is any other commodity, and

,.

 

%—‘§

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

barges are particularly important in the
transport of heavier products such as
residual fuel oil and asphalt.

As with other forms of transportation,
the best protection against product leak-
age is the strength of the container. The
US. Coast Guard, which is responsible for
inspecting vessels and for regulating
vessel traffic on the country’s rivers and
waterways, maintains strict standards for
structural strength.

Gulf’s U.S. refineries process more than
800,000 barrels each day of crude oil into
various refined products. Moving these
products from the refinery to resellers and
consumers usually requires the use of
intermediate storage in distribution termi—
nals and bulk plants. Terminals store and
redistribute products to bulk plants,
wholesale distributors, service stations,
fuel oil dealers, and large commercial
accounts. Bulk plants are the Wholesale
distribution point for commercial ac-
counts, homeowners, farms and service
stations.

 

Storage facilities at these intermediate
points vary according to the size of the
location, how products are received, and
how long the product will be stored before
it moves on, usually by truck or railroad
car.

The principal environmental concern
along the transportation channel is emis-
sions. The constant transfer of products
from different types and sizes of con-
tainers creates hydrocarbon vapors,
which can escape to the atmosphere and
by a complex chemical interaction with
sunlight, form smog. Although total elim—
lnation of vapor emissions is not possible.
a number of control measures are taken.

The ﬂoating roof tanks described in the
Refining section of this booklet are used
to eliminate vapors and control emissions
In large tanks at terminals.

' Another device for safety and preven-
tlon of pollution is the submerged fill
method used in a majority of Gulf service
Stations. A tube inside the storage tank
allows gasoline to enter the tank under the

surface of the product already present in
the tank. This submerged fill system can
reduce vapors by about 50 percent as
opposed to ﬁlling from the top.

Vapor recovery systems are an addi-
tional way of protecting the environment
during the distribution process. They are
used in many areas of the country where
smog is a problem.

At a terminal, for example, railroad
cars, truck transports and tank trucks are
usually loaded through a valve at the
bottom of the vehicle, rather than from
the top. This reduces the formation of
vapors. As the tank ﬁlls up, those vapors

 

 

that do form rise to the top. There they

are collected and returned to the system as
gasoline through such methods as refrig-
eration or absorption processes.

Another form of recovery recycles those
vapors that are formed in service station
storage tanks. Using a vapor balance sys—
tem, the delivery person can collect vapors
in the truck while pumping the product
into the service station tank. When the
truck returns to the terminal to refill, the
vapors are put through the terminal vapor
recovery system. The system adds to the
cost of transporting gasoline, but about
85 percent of the vapors are recovered.

 

 

 

Barges are a vital leg of the transportation
network to move petroleum and natural gas

 

products to terminals. This one is unloading
its cargo at the Warrengas Terminal.

 

 

 

 

Bottom-loading gasoline into this 7,500 h
gallon tank truck at the terminal reduces t e
formation of hydrocarbon vapors. The re-

 

covery process collects vapors as the truck
is loaded and returns them to the system as
gasoline.

 

 

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

Storing and Moving LPG

 

arren Petroleum is a Gulf divi-

sion that operates as a fully

integrated gas liquids business.
It produces, transports, processes, stores,
and markets liquefied petroleum gas
[LPG] products for Gulf.

 

The hub of Warren’s operations is a
complex at Mont Belvieu, Texas, just east
of Houston. There, underground storage
areas leached from salt dome formations,
hold up to 44 million barrels of liquid
hydrocarbons brought by pipeline from a
network of gas processing plants through-
out Texas and New Mexico. It is the
largest underground storage facility for
natural gas liquids in the world.

An adjacent fractionating plant can
process 200,000 barrels of gas liquids a
day, producing ethane-propane mixtures,
propane, normal butane, isobutane, and
natural gasoline fuels and feedstocks for
chemical products. In nearby Galena Park,
on the Houston Ship Channel, the Warren-
gas Terminal is the nation’s largest ship
offloading operation for natural gas
liquids. A pipeline network transports
products from Mont Belvieu to points
along the Gulf Coast and throughout the
South, Midwest, and Northeast. In addi-
tion, Warren uses refrigerated trailer
trucks, railway cars, and barges for
transportation.

At Mont Belvieu, all the potential prob-
lems of handling gas liquids are com-
pressed into a single industrial area where
increasingly complex and stringent en-
vironmental regulations must be observed.

Salt dome storage wells hold product far
underground in caverns which have been
leached out of massive salt formations
left behind from the evaporation of a
saline sea many millions of years ago.
Because the salt walls of the caverns are
impervious, and because the product is so
far underground (storage may begin at
1500-foot and end at 3000-foot depths],
maintenance and leakage problems that

 

'0

 

Gulf’s Warrengas Terminal on the Houston
Ship Channel is the nation’s largest offload-

ing operation for natural gas liquids. This
dock can handle vessels up to 750 feet long.

 

might exist in aboveground storage are
virtually non-existent.

Nearer the surface, the product may pass
through water sands as the cavern is ﬁlled
and emptied. To protect area groundwater,
Warren has initiated an elaborate surface

 

casing program for the wells. Cemented
surface casing pipe is installed; then the
tubing which extends in graduated layers
to the bottom of the well is “doublestrung”
so that if one layer should corrode, the
second will prevent leakage. This double

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pipes carry product from unloading ships at the rate of 15,000 barrels an hour.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Hortonspheroid storage tanks at Gulf’s
Warrengas Terminal in Texas hold butane

and isobutane products prior to transport to
a customer.

 

tubing is a permanent installation; the
tubing within the well which carries brine
for leaching a new well or to force out
product is pulled and tested for leaks
each time the well is worked over.

Warren’s regular maintenance schedule
requires that every five years each well is
emptied and the wellhead reﬁtted, re-
placed, or overhauled completely.

A sophisticated control and communica-
tion system at Mont Belvieu links the
storage complex with the Warrengas
Terminal, and makes the transfer and
unloading of product safer and more
efficient. When an LPG tanker arrives at
Warrengas, its butane and propane can be
unloaded simultaneously; the butane goes
first into refrigerated storage tanks at the
terminal, while the propane is put through
a Pipeline to Mont Belvieu. A computer at
the terminal continuously monitors prod—
uct pressure, temperature, and ﬂow, and
transfers that information to a sister com-
puter at the other end of the pipeline. The
COmputer automatically opens and closes
valves, starts and stops pumps, and keeps
the PI‘Oduct moving at an even rate.

.In case a problem does occur, such as a
PIPBline rupture, the computer would
reco8I1ize it instantly and alarm the opera-
P01“, Who can isolate that part of the pipe-
me, Or if necessary shut down the entire
33’3th until the problem is resolved.

 

LPG is lighter than most other petro-

 

leum products—therefore less likely to
spill—and cleaner, because undesirable
elements have been extracted in the gas
processing plant before the LPG is put into
the transportation system. It is virtually
invisible and odorless when it vaporizes.
Because it vaporizes so quickly, LPG is
not a pollutant of water; and it is not

toxic to breathe unless it is highly concen-
trated. Nevertheless, because it is highly
ﬂammable and may migrate unnoticed

 

 

my

2*“ at it

 

until it is ignited, stringent safeguards
are taken in its storage and handling.
LPG transportation standards require
that it be carried in high pressure, struc-
turally sound vessels, so it is most vulner-
able to noncontainment at transfer points
——during handling at the terminal, fraction-
ating plant, or storage facility; when it
moves by truck or railcar to the terminal
or customer; and when the tanker or barge
offloads at the onshore terminal.

 

 

Trucks and railroad cars are used to
pick up LPG from the gas processing plant
or the terminal for transport to the cus-
tomer. Warren has designed the first
trailer to be approved by the Department
of Transportation [DOT] for carrying
ethane, and these comprise about a third
of its ﬂeet.

Trucks and tank cars that carry LPG are
equipped with mechanical safeguards
designed to eliminate the potential for
human error as much as possible. An
excess-ﬂow valve will automatically shut
off the ﬂow when the tank is filled. Should
a hookup line not be disconnected by a
driver before he leaves the terminal, an
automatic device will close off the ﬂow
of gas.

DOT regulations require that a pound of
mercaptan, a compound with a distinct
odor, be added to each 1,000 gallons of all
LPG products so that leaks are easily
detectable. As a matter of policy, Warren
adds one and a half pounds. Mercaptan is
added to protect the ultimate consumer,
usually a residential customer.

It takes a pretty heavy impact to rupture
the product tank of either a truck or a tank
car; they are generally structurally sound
and periodic inspections insure careful
maintenance. In case of an accident, the
product is offloaded before removing the
equipment. Occasionally, it is necessary to
“light off” uncontrolled leakage to pre-
vent migration of vapors to the surround-
ing area.

Warren also maintains a barge fleet
which travels the Mississippi River, the
Intercoastal Waterway, and the coastal
waters between Houston and Florida.
Barges vary in capacity from about 8,000
barrels for the smallest inland vessel to
18,000 barrels for seagoing varieties.

Despite the best precautions, accidents
may still occur. Therefore, the prevention
and safe resolution of accidents is a major
concern of the NLPGA [National Liqueﬁed
Petroleum Gas Association] and its mem-
ber companies. Working through NLPGA,
Warren actively participates in a program
similar to the response teams that exist in
other parts of the petroleum and related
industries, to prevent or minimize the
occurrence of accidents involving LPG
products.

Moreover, in addition to its own spill
cleanup capabilities, Gulf is a member of
the Clean Channel Association, formed
several years ago by companies operating
in the Houston Ship Channel to coordi-
nate spill prevention and cleanup.

 

 

191

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

20

 

 

A Chemical Plant

 

 

Chemical Products

 

 

lthough Gulf is primarily an energy

producer, the Company also has

worldwide activities in chemicals,
plastics, industrial and specialty chemi—
cals, particularly those derived from
petroleum. You won’t recognize many of
Gulf’s chemical products in a store. Most
of them are sold to other manufacturers,
and are the building blocks used in
making other chemicals, plastics, and end
products. By the time they reach con-
sumers, Gulf chemicals have been turned
into such items as paints, adhesives, syn-
thetic ﬁbers, detergents, plastic bottles,
and even aspirin.

 

These products are part of our way of
life—our human environment. Many of
them contribute to environmental pro-
tection by becoming substitutes for valu-
able natural resources such as wood.
Others become products which make our
lives safer and more comfortable—latex
paint, for example, as an alternative to
lead-based paints.

As with any manufacturing process,
the benefits that chemicals provide to
modern society must be balanced against
the environmental problems that can
result from their production. Care to
minimize these potential problems is as
basic to Gulf’s business as the chemicals
themselves.

 

all, cylindrical towers and huge

silvery metal spheres, half obscured

by a stand of pine trees, mark the
site of Gulf’s Cedar Bayou Plant at
Baytown, Texas. The property is wooded
and attractive, even though it is located
in a heavily industrialized sector of the
Gulf Coast that is responsible for a large
portion of the chemical production in the
United States.

A source of fresh water is indispen-
sable in the operation of a chemicals
plant. In the early 1960s, when the Cedar
Bayou Plant was being designed, the area
was experiencing problems with ground
subsidence. Gulf did not aggravate the
problem by using well water, but pur-
chased water from the San Iacinto River
Authority, even though the cost was
higher. (More recently the Subsidence
Board of the Houston-Galveston Area
Council has prohibited further use of
underground water by industry.) Today,
Cedar Bayou receives 10 million gallons of
river water per day and treats it to make
the water suitable for drinking and steam

       
      

9.\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\‘ 7AM“) I l '

__Q:;gq
\\L‘\ i
\ \\\§\MI ‘e l-‘r‘
\u‘\ :\\\\\

. KW

 

generation as well as a variety of other
uses in chemical processes.

While large amounts of water are nec-
essarily consumed in processing, the
equipment is designed to reuse water
wherever possible and segregate water for
most effective treatment and pollutant
removal. Great care is taken to insure that
all water released from the plant meets
or exceeds environmental standards.

The water used for steam generation is
reused by gathering the condensed steam
or “condensate” into a separate system
where it is recycled back to the boilers.
Water used to cool quickly or “quench”
high temperature gases and liquids is
recycled within the individual process
units. In addition to conservation, the
reuse of contaminated water reduces sig-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3"
p

 




 

nificantly the quantity of pollutants that
must be treated in the waste water
treating facilities.

Water used in the cooling systems
usually goes to recirculating cooling tow-

 

ers so it can be reused. This recycling
reduces both the total amount of fresh
water required for processing, and the
amount of waste water discharged.
Eventually some waste water or “blow-

 

I I ,
""" "U'm

g .111 gm [Bi/i,

I. .1

 

‘- ""W'ssw

 

...«é‘véz'aﬁ‘zégéé- '2

 

 

A chrome destruct unit treats water from the cooling system at Cedar Bayou.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Th‘ - - . . .
13 cI‘mfler removes suspended solids from 1ncom1ng river water.

 

down” water must be discharged from
the cooling water system. This water con-
tains compounds of zinc and chromium
which are added to cooling water to re-
tard corrosion. Since zinc and chrome are
toxic, the “blow-down” waters must be
treated to remove these substances prior
to discharging from the plant. This water
is segregated and routed to a “chrome
destruct” unit where the zinc and chro-
mium are removed from the water as an

 

insoluble sludge. The sludge then goes to a
state-approved disposal site.

Another aspect of water segregation
involves the rainwater that falls on the
plant. A program is underway to build
curbs and dikes around processing areas,
so that rainwater that falls on equipment
where it might become contaminated, can
be channeled off for treatment. The
“clean” or uncontaminated rainwater can
be allowed to run off safely.

The proof of the pudding is Lake Black-
wood into which a significant volume of
uncontaminated water flows. This small,
natural-looking lake in a wooded part
of the plant property has been stocked
with bass and catfish, and is used as a
recreation area for employees and their
families. They say the ﬁshing is fine.

The plant waste water containing dis-
solved hydrocarbons is biologically
treated to remove the pollutants. In this
process, the waste water is aerated to
provide oxygen for microorganisms to
consume the hydrocarbons. The solids
generated 1n the biological process are
then allowed to settle prior to discharging
the water into Cedar Bayou. The excess
solids from the settler are concentrated
and shipped to a state-approved landfill.

There is no question that water treat-
ment is needed. The cost of such treat-
ment, however, is high and, of course, is
reﬂected in the price of the products.
Once again it is a matter of balance, of
degree. The economic costs must be bal-
anced against the environmental benefits.

 

 

21

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

22

Safe Disposal

 

he major chemical operations of

Gulf, including those at Cedar

Bayou, result in a small volume of
wastes that require special handling.
Disposal of these wastes has been han-
dled either through their use as fuel,
onsite disposal, or where necessary,
through state-approved companies.

Most of Gulf’s chemical products are

industrial chemicals and plastics which
meet high purity specifications. They are
handled by people who are trained to ob-

 

 

 

 

 

Each year technicians perform several
thousand laboratory analyses of effluent
water from Gulf operations.

Protection of the ambient air quality is
essential at a petrochemical plant such as
Cedar Bayou (above). Occasionally gases
must be released from process equipment in
the interest of safety. Since these gases are
pollutants, they are ﬂared, or burned, at the
tops of tall stacks. Any smoke from the ﬂare

 

is a sign of incomplete combustion. A tele-
vision camera is trained on every ﬂare stack,
and in a process unit control room television
monitors provide a continuous view of each
one. When a trace of smoke shows up, a
technician injects steam into the ﬂare to
ensure complete combustion.

 

 

 

serve precautions where they are needed.
Care is taken in the compounding, pack-
aging, and labelling of products to insure
safe handling and disposal. Where neces-
sary, warning labels on packages and con-
tainers indicate the type of any hazard,
safe limits to exposure, and treatment
required in case of excessive exposure.
Additional instructions are added in some
cases on the handling of the spent prod-
uct as well as proper disposal of any
containers.

In addition to being monitored by
government agencies, Gulf’s chemical
operations are monitored by the Com-
pany’s own environmental survey team,
which reviews the environmental situa-
tion at each plant, determines any areas
that need special attention, and suggests
possible solutions for any existing or
potential environmental problems. A simi-
lar survey is done in the safety area. The
result of these ongoing programs is an
increasingly healthful and safe facility for
workers and the community.

 

v '"
{l

2::

 

 

Employees use Lake Blackwood for fishing and picnicking.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

‘

 

Time and Money

 

5 Manager of Regulatory Affairs

for Gulf Oil Chemicals Company,

]ohn Strausser deals with environ-
mental regulations as a way of life. ]ohn
staunchly favors environmental protec-
tion, but he is also concerned with the
business implications of the regulatory
process as now practiced.

In the past, he explains, plans for a new
plant—or expansion of an old one—could
be finalized one year, and construction
could start the next. Now, the planning
stage has to include a period of investiga-
tion to locate sites where a plant will be
“permitted” under present regulations.
Then for the various possible locations,
planners must estimate and compare
costs of qualifying for all the necessary
permits to build and operate the plant
including an environmental impact
assessment.

For example, if the site is in an area that
currently does not meet National Ambient
Air Quality Standards [NAAQS), and if
the plant would emit more than a few

 

pounds of pollutants per hour, then the
owner must “offset” that emission by re—
ducing emissions more than that amount
at some other facility in the same area.

In other words, he must either close down
some other operation or improve one, so
that the total emissions end up less than
before.

In an area that does meet air quality
standards, emissions from a new plant
cannot be permitted above the limits of
the NAAQS. In effect, a limited amount of
net/V emissions can be added by whoever
bmlds a plant first. After that, no more
emlssions will be allowed unless a corre-
Sponding reduction is made.

h Even after a site is chosen, regulations
£11m 1n some cases tripled the length of

e 1"eqmred for building a plant. The
Excess of making environmental studies
of tigqumng permits requires a minimum
earth Years before the first shovelful of
goe can be turned; that is, if everythlng

S smoothly. And, since many permits

require a public hearing, there is ample
opportunity for delay.

In total, the lead time for a new plant or
expansion can be as much as ﬁve years
or more. Those years are expensive, since
money is invested with no return and
inﬂation can cause costs to skyrocket.
Meanwhile, the market to be served may
be changing rapidly so that the sound,
commercial planning of a few years ago
may be worth little today. Potential cus-
tomers may have switched to some other

product, or some other producer, perhaps
one located overseas.

We need to protect the environment,
]ohn Strausser concludes, but when laws
get out of balance, when the industry is
overloaded with regulations, the result is
to stiﬂe the competition. The time
delays and costs involved in expanding a
business today are making it more diffi-
cult and more expensive to meet the
demand for products that we will need
for tomorrow.

 

 

 

 

well as several other compounds in the air.
Intake tubes spaced around the plant draw in
air samples, which are automatically ana-
lyzed by a gas chromatograph. The system
feeds information to a central analyzer,
which prints out periodic reports. The system
can detect the presence of a leak; and if it
senses an unacceptable level of concentra-
tion, it sounds an alarm and indicates where
the problem is so it can be corrected.

Gulf’s chemical plant at St. ]ames, Louisi-
ana, uses benzene, a toxic material, to
produce styrene, a basic product in the
manufacture of plastics. As the benzene is
processed to styrene and later polystyrene,
the product becomes harmless—polystyrene
is approved for packaging food.

In order to minimize potential exposure,
the St. James Plant has installed a system of
monitors to detect the presence of benzene as

 

 

 

 

 

* new patent???
oxides of: r

 

   
     

 

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
 

ammonium ultra acamparatlvely g

air a aharajct'
cans’istsfaf v
INCA.» andf
mospher'eac;

        

en

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Tomorrow’s Energy

hree quarters of the nation’s energy
is supplied by oil and gas. But these
sources are becoming more and
more scarce, and Gulf is developing
alternate forms of energy including coal,
uranium, oil shale and synthetic fuels to
take the place of oil and gas in the years
to come.

Each form of energy has its character-
istic environmental problems. Some are
unique to that form—for example, the
disposal of tailings from uranium proc-
essing; others are common, such as the
need for land reclamation when a mining
operation has concluded. Despite the
diversity of environmental considera-
tions, the search for balance remains the
same.

 

Reclamation follows closely behind mining at McKinley Mine in New Mexico.

Reclamation at McKinley Mine

he McKinley Coal Mine is located
in the high, arid uplands of the
San Iuan Basin, just west of the
Continental Divide, approximately 25
miles northwest of Gallup, New Mexico.
Gulf’s coal operations are conducted
by The Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining
Co., a wholly owned subsidiary since
1963. P&M’s nationwide operations pro-
duce approximately nine million tons of
coal annually through both surface and
underground mining activities, nearly half
of which comes from the McKinley Mine.
The mining area at McKinley is made
up of Navajo Tribal lands, government
and private lands, which have historically
been used primarily for sheep grazing by
the Navajos. P&M and the Navajo com-

munity have combined their efforts to
recover the much-needed coal reserves,
but not at the expense of the envir-
onment.

In modern surface mining operations,
consideration is given to the environ-
ment even before mining activity begins.
Once the resource has been proven,
baseline environmental data-gathering
studies determine and document

. the general and site—specific conditions

of the area. Then a detailed mining
plan is developed, designed to permit
both maximum recovery of the coal
and restoration of lands disturbed

in the mining process.

Reclamation involves regrading or
shaping the land surface to the approxi-
mate original contour. When necessary,
this includes developing water—
conserving terraces to enhance the

 

Approximately 500 acres a year are reclaimed.

 




 

 

 

Uranium Mining at Mt. Taylor

 

 

Sheep graze on reclaimed land at McKinley Mine.

 

growth of vegetation and to minimize the
effects of wind and water erosion. Then
comes the planting of vegetation best
suited to the climate, soils and proposed
post-mining land use, together with a
maintenance and land management pro-
gram to ensure the future use of the lands.
All of this is underway at McKinley.

Before mining operations begin on a
particular area, all usable topsoil is
removed to predetermined storage areas.
The mining pattern generally develops
along parallel excavations, formed by
draglines. There are four draglines at
McKinley, each weighing about 3,500
tons, with a bucket capable of picking up
55 cubic yards of overburden material at
one time. Each dragline moves some 80
tons of material every minute.

Once uncovered, the coal is lifted and
loaded on trucks and transported to a
preparation plant on the site, where it is
”1.18th to a specific size, and then
Shlpped by rail to customers.
miifrflamation follows closely behind the
mine(igloperations. Bulldozers regrade the
Contou and to the approximate original
to . I‘ and the prev1ously removed

11801113 returned. The topsoil is pre-
pared with fertilizers, seeded and

 

In
Ulched. The reclamation area is then

 

closely monitored to insure that proper
vegetation occurs.

As in any arid land, available moisture
is the dominant factor in the successful
establishment of vegetation. The total
average precipitation for the general area
is only about 12 inches annually with the
wettest months being ]uly, August, and
September. Therefore, water control and
conservation measures are incorporated
into McKinley’s mining and reclamation
activities.

Native vegetation is characterized by
two principal plant communities—pinyon-
juniper and sagebrush. Since grazing is
the primary use of the land before mining,
the mined acreage is reclaimed toward
this end.

As a result of P&M’s efforts, reclaimed
land at the McKinley Mine is at least
equal to, and in some instances is better
than the undisturbed land for use by
grazing. In cooperation with New Mexico
State University, P&M has developed
seed mixtures that have improved the
productive capability of the forage
available for grazing by about 30 percent.

Wildlife habitats are also considered
in reclamation, and various native species
of shrubs are being planted for animals’
food and shelter.

 

wenty-five million years ago, a

volcano erupted in what is now

western New Mexico, spreading
lava and ashes over thousands of square
miles.

About thirty years ago, a Navajo sheep
herder named Paddy Martinez picked up
a yellow rock that proved to contain
uranium and set off a mining boom.

Today, the neighboring towns of
Grants and Milan, New Mexico, combined
population 21,000, call themselves the
Uranium Capital of the World. The local
mining industry employs 49 percent of the
work force.

  
 

      
     
   

  
  

    

J «v.

,, . .. 'o'n r"
gap

8.53;. Wide ' '~
% +4... . -.

   

’/

. . . p.
\ .‘K ; J
:1 - » .? v a
r .. »\
I, . " ‘6 .,’II’ «n 1‘ %. I»
." "EL” , 1.‘ ’ 1‘ ’
3 'jl,‘ ' -' 41‘. \_‘.~‘.‘“‘ " t
4-. :' “I J, ;- “
.._ - z- s
, ., . r. _ I
, ‘ r
. , V
L‘

  

 
   

What remains of the volcano, Mt.
Taylor, lies about 25 miles northeast of
Grants. At its base, Gulf is now carrying
out its most challenging mining project:
the deepest uranium mine in the United
States. The ore deposit, estimated to con-
tain more than 100 million pounds of
uranium concentrate, lies more than
3,000 feet below the surface.

The main facilities are the mine itself,
a uranium mill to concentrate ore into a
product called yellowcake, and a tailings
facility to contain the wastes from the
mill.

Some 25 people are involved directly
or indirectly in environmental activities
associated with Mt. Taylor.

Although Gulf was not legally required
to carry out an environmental baseline
study of the mine area, such a study was
started in 1974 before construction began.
This data, along with information Gulf
continues to gather as the project pro-
ceeds, will be used to measure any impact
the mine has on the environment.

Bringing a project like Mt. Taylor
onstream involves extensive permitting
by state and federal agencies. For ex-
ample, operation of the mill requires a
Radiological Materials License from the
State of New Mexico, a federal air quality

 

 

    

25

 

 

 




26

 

 

ALTERNATE FUELS

permit issued by the EPA and a state air
quality construction permit. Other
permits deal with surface water and
groundwater discharge. In all, about 10
permits will be required for the project
at an estimated cost of $2.5 million.
Much of the engineering and environ-
mental effort at Mt. Taylor is concerned
with water. During the sinking of the
shafts, six major aquifers [underground

 

water-bearing formations) were en-
countered, beginning at about 500 feet
and continuing intermittently to the
bottom of the shafts. The water ﬂows in
the shafts are controlled by grout and
pumping.

Large volumes of water also enter the
mine through areas where the ore is
excavated. Pump stations are used to
pump over 5,000 gallons of water per

 

 

 

Water from the Mt. Taylor mine is regu-
lated by permit standards set by bOth the
Environmental Protection Agency and the
state government. The water is pumped from
the mine and treated at the surface. A por-

 

tion of it is then recycled underground for
pump cooling. The rest goes by pipeline to

a discharge point (above) from which it ﬂows
onto nearby grazing lands. The water is suit-
able for irrigation and livestock.

 

 

 

minute from a sump area at the bottom

of the mine to the surface. The water that
is discharged from the mine provides a net
addition to the surface water supply in
this arid land.

Water discharged during mining is
treated extensively in compliance with a
permit granted by the EPA. Treatment
facilities on site include settling ponds
for removal of solids and an ion-exchange
unit for the removal of uranium. The
water is eventually discharged, and some
of it is being used by a neighboring ranch
to water livestock.

A groundwater discharge plan for the
mill project has been submitted to New
Mexico state environmental authorities.
The plan describes in detail the handling
of effluents from the mill and protection
measures for area groundwater.

 

Through a detailed technical analysis
of possible seepage from the tailings area
into underlying formations, it has been
determined that no existing groundwater
source, or any source that might be used
in the foreseeable future, will be ad-
versely affected. The discharge plan
includes a monitoring system to verify
this analysis as well as contingency plans.

Although there is no legal requirement
for Gulf to reclaim the Mt. Taylor mine
site, which is on private land, Gulf
nevertheless intends to reclaim the area.

When the mine and mill are decom-
missioned, the lands disturbed by the
project will be restored to a productive
condition that matches, or is better than
the way Gulf found it. Since the area has
been historically used for grazing, it is
probable that livestock and wildlife will
continue to be the principal users of the
area when Gulf has gone.

The Company has also considered and
responded to the socio-economic impact
the mine and mill will have on nearby
communities. For example, to help ease
the housing shortage in nearby Grants.
Gulf is developing a housing area to make
ﬁnished building sites available for both
employees and local residents.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Gulf Canada Limited participates in
another kind of surface mining as a mem-
ber of Syncrude Canada Ltd. In northern
Alberta, Syncrude operates a $2.4 billion
project to mine the Alberta tar sands,
extract bitumen and produce synthetic
crude oil. All disturbed areas are being

revegetated after mining. Above, new
vegetation is already established on the
slopes ﬂanking a spillway of a diverted
creek. Syncrude operates its own nurs-
eries to grow tree and shrub seedlings and
plans to revegetate about 9,000 acres

over the next 25 years.

 

Oil Shale At Rio Blanco

 

11 early Western settler built a
cabin with a stone chimney. At
burst' the housewarming, the chimney
d into ﬂames and the cabin burned
0Wu. The stone was oil shale.
o'lThe world’s largest known deposit of
C1 1Shale hes 1n the tri-state area of
alliiado, Utah, and Wyoming. Estimates
3 ale at the 011 recoverable from this
tha ,usmg present technology, is greater
$181.1 the 011 reserves in Saudi Arabia.
eXpe 1:: S].ob won’t be quick, easy, or in-
Stand lve. To lllustrate: Gulf, with
ard Oll Company (Indiana), secured

 

 

a lease on a 5,000-acre tract of rich shale
land in northwest Colorado in 1974. The
two companies formed a general partner-
ship, Rio Blanco Oil Shale Company, to
develop the tract.

Before the land could be disturbed,
Rio Blanco was required to make baseline
studies of environmental conditions at
the site covering two years. This program
required the services of four consultant
ﬁrms and the US. Geological Survey, and
cost almost $5 million. In all, approxi-
mately 40 studies were made, ranging
from the upper air to aquifers deep
underground. Studies are continuing, and
environmental changes will be monitored

as the site is developed.

 

One ﬁnding of the baseline studies was
that the area in a state of nature, before
the ﬁrst shovelful of dirt was turned over,
may already have been in violation of
existing EPA ambient air quality stand-
ards, based on EPA interpretations. The
standards for particulates, hydrocarbons,
and ozone may have been exceeded on
occasion as a result of windblown dust,
sagebrush, and other natural causes.

EPA has since agreed to interpret its
air quality regulations in a more realistic
way and permitted work to begin—under
strict safeguards. The ozone standard has
been revised and is no longer being ex-
ceeded. But on windy days the particulate
standard is still exceeded.

At the mine site, another problem has
taken much time and money to solve.
When the lease was obtained in 1974, the
US. Department of the Interior suggested
that it would be adaptable to open-pit
mining. For an open-pit operation, Rio
Blanco would need off-tract sites to
stockpile the overburden and shale, and
to dispose of spent shale. Interior felt it
could not grant permits for this use of
land, and so a bill was introduced into
Congress to create the needed authority.
The bill immediately went into committee
and stayed there. To move beyond this

 

impasse, the decision was made to test a
modiﬁed in-situ process of extracting the
oil from the shale underground. Part of
the shale would still have to be processed
on the surface of the lease, but on-tract
disposal would not preclude mining as it
would in the case of open-pit methods.

In 1977, almost four years after the
lease had been obtained, Rio Blanco
began construction of the mine. The
succeeding four years are being spent on
a development project to test the modiﬁed
in-situ process, its costs, and environ-
mental impact.

Delays caused by environmental
problems have a price. Costs continued at
Rio Blanco, even when the project was
temporarily stalled. Rio Blanco estimated
that by 1979 the cost of environmental
activities totaled almost $7 million.

 

 

\

  

27

 

 




 

 

28

 

 

ALTERNATE FUELS

Solvent Reﬁned Coal

 

 

olvent Reﬁned Coal or “SRC” is a

coal reﬁning process that results in

environmentally acceptable fuels
from bituminous coal—coal that was
originally high in sulfur and ash and
therefore could not be widely used
because of environmental restrictions.

In the SRC process, coal is mixed with

a solvent and treated with hydrogen at
elevated temperatures and pressures. A
clean—burning solid fuel [SRC-I) or
clean—burning liquid fuels [SRC—II) can
be produced—with almost all of the
original ash and sulfur removed. The
major liquid fuel is essentially equivalent
to high-quality fuel oil derived from
conventional petroleum. SRC-II fuel oil
can be used to fire utility company boilers
to generate electricity, and therefore can
reduce the utilities’ thirst for imported
crude oil. The SRC-II process also results
in other energy products including
pipeline-quality gas, LPG, and naphtha
for gasoline.

 

Through The Pittsburg & Midway Coal
Mining Co., Gulf has been involved in
SRC research and development with the
U. 8. government since 1962. P&M has
operated an SRC pilot plant at Ft. Lewis,
Washington, since 1974 for the govern-
ment and has proposed that a large-scale
SRC-II demonstration plant be built near
Morgantown, West Virginia. The demon-
stration plant would convert about 6,000
tons of coal daily into SRC-II fuel oil
and additional energy products equiva-
lent to those.of a 20,000-barrel-per-day
petroleum refinery.

Gulf has been conducting baseline
studies of the environment at the Morgan-
town site. The information will be sub-
mitted to the Department of Energy, as
part of the environmental impact assess-
ment process that thoroughly outlines the
impact of the facility on the area.

The demonstration plant will require
about 4,000 gallons of water a minute
from the nearby Monongahela River,

 

'ONl HEQOU‘SNHVSLS ASSlUﬂOO 'lNlHd AB‘INVW Ava

 

A good baseline study collects data over at
least a year and continues in the form of
monitoring to see what is happening to all
the elements as the project goes forward. At
Morgantown, West Virginia baseline studies
include air quality and hydrology, such as
the onsite stream above. Researchers work
with the Army Corps of Engineers on studies
of the Monongahela River. The land, its

archaeology and geology are examined. And
of course, the wildlife and plant life. Baseline
research also involves a socio—economic
study of such things as the availability of
labor, both for plant construction and for a
permanent workforce; availability of hous-
ing; adequacy of roads; and other elements
affected by the presence of a large new plant
in a community.

 

 

about half of one percent of the river’s
typical ﬂow (or about 21/2 percent of the
minimum ﬂow required for navigation).
Much of the water will be consumed in
the process and some will be evaporated
from standard cooling towers. Any efflu-
ent water will be treated under strict
EPA standards before being discharged.

Preliminary calculations show that the
plant will be well within the ambient air
standards and, in fact, will emit less than
two percent of the sulfur dioxide of a
typical coal-burning utility. Plans include
a series of containers, filters, scrubbers
and ﬂares to control any pollutants.

Solid waste will amount to about 800
tons a day, mostly in the form of a glassy
slag similar to the inorganic ash left over
from a coal-burning boiler. It will be dis-
posed of in an approved landfill on the
plant site.

Early information about the SRC prod-
ucts indicates that like most petroleum
fuels, handling has to be done with a
certain amount of care to avoid prolonged
and repeated exposure of the skin, exces-

 

sive inhalation, and exposure to sparks
and ﬂames.

The SRC pilot plant at Fort Lewis has a
rigorous work health protection program.
Everyone working in the process area goes
through a training program. Process area
workers change all of their clothes before
and after working and take showers at
the end of each shift. As part of the moni-
toring system, process area employees
undergo regular medical evaluations to
check for any abnormalities.

Meanwhile, a $3.5 million testing pro—
gram has been developed to test SRC
products for carcinogenicity, terato-
genicity, and other health hazards.

Environmentally, SRC-II will be a much
cleaner fuel than coal, and cleaner than
much of the petroleum that is now
burned. In August 1978 Consolidated
Edison Company conducted a full scale
test hum of SRC-II at a power station in
New York City. The combustion products
were within environmental standards.
including some that were then only
proposed.

 

 

 

 

 




    

‘ONl UEOOH'SNHVBLS ASBiHﬂOO 'lNlHd AB‘INVW AVL—l

 

 

 

 

Environmental Technology

 

 

he Gulf Research Center at Harmar-

ville, Pennsylvania, is the primary

research and development (R & D]
facility at Gulf, and at the same time the
nerve center for envirOnmental protection
activities.

The link between the environment and
R & D is logical and necessary, since most
environmental problems require technical
solutions.

The dynamics of the energy situation
have given new emphasis to research. As
the supply of traditional fuels such as oil
and gas declines, research is focusing
more on finding additional reserves and
on making the most efficient use of re-
maining oil and gas supplies. Meanwhile,
development of the wide range of poten-
tial alternative fuels requires a tremen-
dous amount of research time and money.

Among the scientists at Gulf, there is
general agreement that the goals of re-
search have changed in a fundamental
way. William Zarrella, Corporate Environ-
mental Coordinator, says, “Years ago, we
tried to ﬁnd a new or improved product
that could be made at lower cost. People

 

Just weren’t aware of many potential en-
v1ronmental problems in creating a new
pﬁoduct, and therefore didn’t look for
taffeencl'; Toiay, concern for environmental
from fhlsb ullt Into every research project
mistak e :glnmng. We can still make
undersis’ dut We have a much better
as thou a}? 1:ng of many things. If it looks
using itg t e effects of making a product,
prOblen,land disposmg of it might create
on them sgesearch immediately focuses
I1010gy is. loreover, environmental tech-
Stantly S El so advancmg so that we’re con-
proacheso v1ng problems with new ap-

Gulf In.aliew'equipment, new processes.”
enVironm 1nta1ns an 1n-house staff of
air, Waterental speCIalists in the areas of
ists and e, and solld waste. Chiefly chem-
from th nSlneers, these people draw

e expertise available throughout

\

 

 

 

 

Once every 18 days a satellite passes over
the earth and silently records data that is
transferred into map-like images like the one
above, which shows northeastern Utah. These
LANDSAT satellites were launched by NASA
in 1972. With the remote sensing data pro-
vided by LANDSAT, Gulf geologists have
been able to explore vast regions of the earth

 

for clues to locating new petroleum and
mineral deposits. LANDSAT imagery can
also be used for environmental research.
Data on air and water quality, soil and
vegetation, wildlife habitats and other
aspects can be studied to determine the
effects of man as well as nature on the earth
and its ecology.

 

 

 

 

29

 

 




 

30

 

   

REERHSAC

 

Inside this large chamber at the Gulf Re—
search Center, atmospheric temperatures and
humidity can be varied from Death Valley
heat to antarctic cold to test the performance
of gasoline and motor oils under various
climatic conditions. The chamber, and others

 

like it, are also used for environmental re-
search projects. In this test conducted by
Gulf for the Environmental Protection
Agency, exhaust gases from automobiles are
collected and analyzed to determine the
effects of climate an exhaust emissions.

 

 

 

 

A diver from the Institute of Marine Re-
sources conducting research on the effects of
oil on marine life. This is one of many co-
operative environmental research projects
sponsored by Gulf and other oil companies,
through participation in the American Petro-
leum Institute. For nonproprietary projects,
the pooling of ideas and funds permits
research that might not be undertaken by any
one company. Such projects are usually

 

carried out under the guidance of an Ameri-
can Petroleum Institute committee by inde-
pendent agencies, which are encouraged to
publish their findings freely for the scientific
community and the public. Typical coopera-
tive research projects include data-gathering
on the environmental effects of energy
company operations; evaluations of different
environmental control technologies; and
studies of the effects of pollutants.

 

the company to provide technology and
assistance wherever it is needed—to iden-
tify environmental considerations, to
evaluate problems and ﬁnd solutions.

The specialists work with project teams
who are planning new Operations, or the
expansion of old ones. They also maintain
contact with government agencies, indus-
try groups and environmental experts
around the country to keep apprised of
technological and regulatory develop-
ments as well as to share their own
knowledge.

 

Francis Iames, Manager of the Tech-
nology and Materials Department at the
Research Center, says, “Years ago, we
used to look at the end of the pipe; now
We look at the beginning. When we work
on cleaning up final wastes from a plant,
that’s working at the end of the pipe. Now
we go back and ﬁnd out where each waste
product originates, and analyze ways to
engineer the process to eliminate it, mini—
mize it at the source, or even switch to an
entirely different process scheme. There
have always been quality requirements
for products—now if there is a waste
created from the process, we have quality
requirements for that too.”

For example, one developing problem
for refineries is emissions of sulfur di-
oxide (302) in the ﬂue gases of ﬂuid cata-
lytic crackers. The problem arises because
“sour” crude oils contain a lot of sulfur.

During the first step in reﬁning—frac-
tionating—the light fractions of the crude.
such as gasoline and kerosene, are re-
moved. Some of the heavier fractions
remaining, called residual oils, are less
useful. But in the “ﬂuid catalytic cracker,”
they can be broken down and converted
to the needed lighter products.

During the catalytic cracking process.
some of the sulfur in the residual oil com-
bines with the catalyst. The sulfur is
burned off when the catalyst is regen-
erated, forming unwanted 802. In the
past, when low-sulfur “sweet” oils were
more prevalent, 802 emissions were not
considered a serious problem. Today,
with less sweet crude available, 802 emis-
sions have increased.

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

802 is most commonly removed from
the ﬂue gases by “scrubbing,” but scrub-
bers are expensive to maintain and Oper-
ate and they generate wet sludge, which
requires water treatment and solid waste
disposal.

Gulf has developed a process known as
hydrodesulfurization [IIDS], which re-
moves the sulfur from “sour” residual oil
in a form that can then be recovered as
elemental sulfur. HDS can reduce the
sulfur content to as low as one tenth of a
percent and the resulting product can be
further refined or used directly as a high-
quality fuel.

HDS is an example of building en-
vironmental protection into the process
scheme. This "beginning—of—the-pipe”
technology opens up opportunities for
other improvements throughout the
process.

Two Minuses = One Plus

 

 

 

ne of the goals of research is to im-

prove the net result of the trade—offs

that must be made in any operation.
The popular phrase is “Combine two
problems to make a solution.”

Fire ﬂooding is an enhanced recovery
technique for extracting more oil from an
underground reservoir. Primary pro-
duction techniques seldom get more
than a third of the oil in the formation.
Enhanced recovery improves the yield.

In fire ﬂooding, injection wells are drilled
between or around producing wells. Com-
pressed air is injected into the Welland
the oil around the injection well is ignited.
As the fire advances through the reser-
voir, a portion of the oil is burned and
serves as fuel for the process. The re-

 

 

 

turbine

 

[I

Compressor

combustion, .
front ‘

<=n=(>

(in Could also apPIY'mf’iﬁi-s‘ i

-.:_..

 

01"]:1‘1)? SgStem separates the flue gas from the
Colllbfsts It. to a Speclally designed catalytic
BOtht 901", 011d burns it to produce energy.
of the welill‘essure of the gas as it comes out
'On 0 (Mid the heat energy from com-
fates :9 used to turn a turbine, which
compressor to produce more

busti
Ope

 

 

compressed air for injection underground.
Thus, the system is nearly 1ndependentof
outside energy. Under some conditions, an
extra compressor may be needed to supple—
ment the compressed air. But in general, the
system makes the ﬂue gas do most of the
work, saves fuel, and destroys pollutants.

 

 

 

mainder of the oil is displaced toward the
producing wells by the heat and pressure,
and by the movement of the water, oil,
and ﬂue gas.

Two of the problems associated with
fire ﬂooding are the cost of compressed
air and the need to dispose of the ﬂue
gases from the underground ﬁre, which
come to the surface with the oil. Gen—
erally, these gases cannot be released to
the atmosphere, because they contain
unacceptable amounts of unburned hydro—
carbons and sulfur compounds. Some of
these pollutants have offensive odors.

Past practice has been to incinerate the
gases. But that’s another “end-of—the-
pipe” solution. Since ﬂue gases are not
rich enough in heat value to burn by
themselves, fuel must be added to sustain
their combustion. This consumes valuable
fuel, costs money, and produces wastes.

The solution was to make the ﬂue gases
burn by themselves, and thus produce
energy instead of consuming it. Labora-
tory studies showed that if conditions
were controlled carefully and the gases
were preheated, they could be made to
burn with the help of a platinum catalyst—
a process basically similar to what takes
place in the catalytic converter of a
modern car.

 

Researchers designed a catalytic com-
bustor in which ﬂue gases would not only
burn by themselves, but would produce
enough heat energy to be useful. But the
platinum catalyst contributed to a new
problem: unacceptably high levels of
carbon monoxide in the exhaust gases
from the combustor.

Gulf researchers spent a year develop-
ing and evaluating an improved catalyst,
and as a result carbon monoxide in the
exhaust is now down to an acceptable
level. Gulf is patenting the catalyst, and
is investigating its use for other purposes.

 

 

 

31

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

here is little doubt that, as a result

of public interest and changing

policies, the energy industry and in-
dustry in general are now doing more to
protect the natural environment than ever
before. But concern for the environment
is not a new-born phenomenon; Gulf and
other companies have been acting to im-
prove their environmental impacts for
years. Many of the protective measures
now mandated by law were already being
carried out voluntarily.

There is also little doubt that far more
money is being spent on environmental
protection today than in the past. Accord-
ing to one survey, U. S. business expected
to invest $10 billion for pollution control
in 1979, and 13 percent of that amount
was planned by the petroleum industry.

The Environmental Protection Agency
projects that the oil industry will invest
$2.1 billion in new equipment and will
see operating costs soar to more than $23
billion during 1977-1986—and these esti-
mates consider only the costs of comply-
ing with federal regulations associated
with the Clean Air and Water Acts. They
don’t include costs that will be volun-
tarily incurred, or required by other fed-
eral, state. or local laws.

In understanding what these costs
mean, it must be recognized that the
billions of dollars that the industry must

 

spend come, ultimately, from the con-
sumer. Higher prices for goods and serv-
ices pay the bill for environmental
protection.

Also notable is that dollars devoted to
environmental activities can aggravate
tWO of our most pressing economic prob-
lems: inflation that continues to rise, and
productivity that does not rise fast
enough. The inﬂation results from the
“legislated spending” that must be done
by industry to comply with the law; from
the fact that these expenditures do not
turn out any more basic products, and
instead, absorb funds that might other-
wise be used to modernize and expand
Operations.

This environmental/economic trade-off
is a matter for serious concern both to
the nation and to individuals. There is a
need to make sure that the public is
getting its money’s worth—that the bene-
ﬁts of environmental spending are in
balance with the costs.

Without question, much of the money
invested for environmental protection is
Well spent. However, Gulf also contends,
without question, that much of it is also
being wasted.

The Company does not oppose environ-
mental regulations or the setting of stan-
dards per se. We do oppose regulations,
however, that are made without regard

 

to cost or benefit; that are counterproduc-
ﬁve or blatantly wasteful; that are dUp-
licative or contradictory. We oppose play-
ing the “numbers game”—progressively
tightening standards in an approach to
zero pollution, at drastically rising costs,
when there is no evidence that such
extreme standards will provide appreci-
able beneﬁts.

The manpower and money wasted in
observing such regulations could be better
used in at least three ways: first, in the
purchase of new equipment to increase
productivity; second, in holding prices
down; third, and perhaps most impor-
tant from the environmental point of
View, in developing technology that will
provide cleaner processes, often together
with economic beneﬁts-what we call
"beginning-of—the-pipe technology.”

The important questions for the future
are: Will environmental costs continue
to rise to exorbitant levels? Will the
consumer and the citizen get the protec-
tion they are paying for? Will advances
in environmental protection be real, or
merely statistical illusions?

We at Gulf believe that the greatest,
and most urgently needed improvements
already have been mandated. During the
years ahead, we hope that:

O Regulators will gain a better under-
standing of the industries they regu-
late, and avoid unnecessary or
wasteful measures;

0 Standards will be set with an eye to
need and to beneﬁts versus cost;

0 Both regulation and enforcement
will become flexible to allow for
varying conditions in different areas;

0 Technology will be given time to
contribute its best, rather than being
forced to provide fast, expensive.
“end-of-the-pipe” solutions; and

0 Environmental protection measures
can be designed to mesh, rather than
clash, with other requirements of
our way of life.

In the meantime, we will continue to
temper our impact on the natural en-
vironment, so that we stay within the
limits of the environment’s capacity to
absorb.

We will continue to work toward as-
suring that resources devoted to environ-
mental protection are well used.

And we will continue the long, hard.
creative task of harmonizing our energy
concerns with our environmental con-
cerns, so that the natural and economic
environments can prosper together.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




STATEMENT ‘

OF PRINCIPLE—~—
ENVIRONMENTAL
AFFAIRS

ulf Oil Corporation 18 dedicated to '1‘
the principle of responsible en- ' ’7
, vironmental and resource manage-{i
: ment. Gulf shares society’s concern for ,
~ the relationship between thepubli'c’ sf . it
' wellébeing and the state of the environ?“
ment. To this end, Gulf will endeavor to} 'V _
ensure that changes in the environment
resulting from its activities will neither * 3
' jeopardize public health nor diminish r
, society 3 opportunities for an enjoyable f“: ‘ f.
» life. In accordance with this philOSOphy,.;/‘ "
“ :GUIf W111 :..
' O Abide by all government rules and ‘
» regulations controlling pollution. ,.
O. Exceed environmental requlrements
.where available technology and
costebenefit considerations permit.
Promote cooperation with govern~
meat, industry, and other responsiai 4 ‘ '7
ble groups in establishing regula- ‘ 7 .
tions and controls that will minimize
harmful alterations of the environ;
ment and still produce overall
Optimum beneﬁts to society.
Perform an environmental impact ‘
assessment on all new projects, to ; 7 If
the extent indicated by the project" A '
size and environmental sensitivity,
as an integral part of management
decision-making.
Conduct, encourage, and support
research and development of tech-
nology in cooperation with govern-q ”
merit, industry, and other learned V
group's towards better understand.

‘ . ing of environmental factorsand:
improved methods of environ-
mental management.

Gulf supports the principle that “en-
Viro‘nmental affairs” is a line responsi-
bility. ThoSe persons throughout the '
organization Who are responsible for
making action decisions must assess the
envimnmental factors, and assume re-
sponsibility and accountability for the
environmental consequences.

 




 

 

 

GULF OIL CORPORATION
GULF BUILDING
PITTSBURGH, PA 15230

Printed in USA

 

 




This article by Gilbert M, Grosvenor, President, National GeOgraphic Society,

will be included in the Winter 1980 issue of The Orange Disc magazine of

 

Gulf Oil Corporation. It will also be reprinted for distribution to

Public Television stations for inclusion in their local guides.

 




Only by roandng the world can we succeed in finding the extraordinary for our
award~winning and top-rated television specials. This season we think that our
discoveries are particularly exceptional. Each National Geoqraphic documentary
in its own way represents a departure from the type of filntwe have produced

in the past.

Our documentaries may vary more this season in their appeal to our Viewing

audience, but we feel strongly that the important situations they depict merit

national attention. Leading off the 1981 season with an African wildlife film
may not seenlunusual for an organization devoted to the increase and diffusion

of geographic knowledge, but this program.is unique. Unlike most romanticized
films of animals in the wild, it presents the harsh reality of birth, death, and
survival in a.stunningly beautiful landscape. It is a film.experience completely

devoid of people.

In contrast, the next special is all about people - - artists held in the highest
esteem in Japan, the only nation to formally designate superior creative persons,
as "Living'National Treasures." It is our first art fihm - - an exquisite
visual feast that shows us how one nation honors and preserves its "intangible"

treasures.

In our own.teckyard, our national parks have been called the "crown jewels of
America." The National Geoqraphic Society has been a friend and active supporter
of the parks since the earliest days of the National Park System. Twelve years
ago our television special, AMERICAfS WUNDERLANDS: THE NATIONAL PARKS, captured
their panoramic splendor . We revisit them now in ‘a quite different context. This
time we focus on the state of our parks, on their problems, and on the continuing

.dilemma: Are we loving them.to death?

 




Our final special of the new season shatters myths about one of the most misunder-
stood of nature's creatures - - the gorilla - - portraying hinlnot.as a.fearsome
beast, but as a shy creature threatened with extinction. In one of the most

extensive filnlsurveys of the largest of the great apes, the documentary tracks

the life of the gorilla on three continents, both in captivity and in the wild.

These four films represent a.maturing of our television programming as we mark

our 15th season of National Geographic Specials - - the sixth with the Public
Broadcasting Service. we are proud that more than 95 percent of the PBS stations
now carry our documentaries, and that they rank among the most watched PBS programs
in the nation. we are once again pleased to be "partners in discovery" with.our
co-producers, Pittsburgh's PBS station WQED, its west Coast production center,

and with Gulf Oil Corporation. Gulf's funding and.the cooperation of a complex
group make it possible for viewers to become aware of our presence on PBS.

Already all of us are hard at work on next season's specials. One of those

now in production will document the mysterious and rapidly disappearing tropical

rain forest.

ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY‘WATER, premiering on January 7 at 8:00 prm. Eastern, por-
trays a year's cycle of birth, death, and survival among the wildlife of a
parched, salt-encrusted dry lake bed, or pen, in southwestern Africa. Etosha,
a remote region in Namibia, endures months of torrid.heat; watery'nurages float

above the cracked clay.

 




Then the rains come, gradually transforming part of the pan into a shallow lake
some 50 miles across. .Almost miraculously, fields of flowers appear around the
edges of the pan, and animals graze and browse on the fertile plains. But the
months pass quickly, and just as suddenly as they came, the rains stop. The
plains begin to dry out. The water holes shrink. The pan becomes a mire of mud

which gradually hardens once again into a concrete-hard, cracked-clay surface.

Co-producers David and Carol Hughes came to-know this region because it lies
’near the desert where they-filmed the award-winning 1978 National Geographic
Special, THE LIVING SANDS OF NAMIB. And they allow nothing to intrude between
the viewer and the entrancing Etosha experience. "What I like to do is create

the experience of being in such places, but keep it as close to the animals'

viewpoint as possible," explains David Hughes, a zoologist by education and a

filmmaker by profession.

There are no peOple in the film. There is little narration or musical accompani-
ment. Instead, we hear the sounds of the animals and witness the drama that
David and Carol captured on filnlduring nearly two years of patient and un-
flinching daily observation with their cameras. Rarely on television has
nature's interplay of life and death seemed closer and more vivid. we see
gentle moments and vicious ones, playful scenes and violent ones. The camera
relentlessly pursues animals in their endless, often desperate, quest for food.
There is a rare glimpse of hOW'the young learn to survive as a lioness teaches
her three cubs to kill a young warthog. In a lighter moment, a young lion
clumsily catches an aggressive bullfrog and then seems perplexed about what

to do with it. In a most uncommon piece of footage, we watch hungry young bull-
frogs devour other bullfrogs to satisfy their voracious appetites. Some may

reach.meturity without eating anything but their own kind.

 




The vastness that is the Etosha experience is summed up in scenes of a pert
ground squirrel flipping its tail up over its head as a sun shield, Hugrating
herds of elephant and zebra, and closeup, slowsmotion looks at predator lions

and Cheetahs in pursuit of prey.

‘Viewing LIVING TREASURES OF JAPAN on February ll is like quietly paging through

an elegant Japanese art book.

Many nations designate their finest structures, monuments, and physical features

as national landmarks, but Japan alone rec0gnizes by law its most gifted artists.

Revered as "Living National Treasures," these individuals are officially

designated by the Japanese Government as "Holders of Important Intangible Cultural

Properties."

Japan's unparalleled program.was begun years ago to protect the country's
centuries-old traditions of arts and handcrafts, often in danger of disappear-
ing. Japanese arts flourished during the more than two centuries (l639-1854)
when the shoguns in power kept the country closed to the outside world, locking
Japan in seclusion and peace. Only after the expedition of Commodore Matthew
C. Perry in 1853-54 did Japan once again open her doors to international trade,

and eventually to the modern world.

Today there are some 70 Living Treasures, most of them elderly, all venerated
and addressed as sensei - - teacher. Receiving government stipends, they

are charged with the obligation of publicly exhibiting their works and of teach-
ing their artistry to apprentices, thus ensuring that it will live from one

generation to the next.

 




-The National Geographic Special introduces us to nine of the Living Treasures.
Producer Miriam.Birch takes us into their homes and.workshops, capturing on
film.the serenity, graciousness, and refined pursuit of excellence that is

the hallmark of the Japanese.

Six of the nine are handcrafts artists: a potter who revived the ancient
ceramic process of cloud-like Shino and stark Black Seto wares; a.dollmaker
whose creations are fashioned from layered bits of colored paper; a bellmaker
whose bronze bells ring fromJJapan's most revered temples; a swordmaker whose
ritual of repeated heating, hammering, and folding molten metal creates sword
blades like those once called "the soul of the samurai"; a weaver-dyer who
performs every step of creating cloth from.the hemp and indigo she grows to
weaving and dyeing1jrefinished fabric; and a papermaker inspired by nature to

craft exquisite handmade:cloudrpatterned papers.

The other three are perfornung artists: a Kabuki theater actor, one of the

greatest onnagata, or players of female roles; a musician who plays the koto,
a traditional l3-stringed, harp-like Japanese instrument; and a.puppeteer who
has spent a lifetime mastering the art of manipulating the nearly life-size
puppets of the Bunraku Theater, the most highly developed puppet theater in

the world.

 




.A great outdoors debate - - the subject of the National Geographic documentary
to be telecast on March ll - - is being waged over "the best" of our land, the
national parks. Can we preserve the parks as well as use them.endlessly?
NAETONAL PARKS: PLAYGROUND OR.PARADISE visits some of our landscape treasures

at a crucial point in their history.

The National Park Service, with the encouragement of conservationists, wants
to restore some parks as much as possible to their original wilderness state.
They propose digging up parking lots and removing or relocating cars,
recreational vehicles, hotels, snack bars, and souvenir shops. Visitors

would walk or be bussed.

Others contend that such actions would evict Americans from.their own park

lands. Parks, they argue, are places for people to enjoy a variety of activities
in an outdoor setting. They favor greater accessibility to the parks. One
such.advocate suggests construction of a cable car from.the rim.to the bottom

of the Grand Canyon.

Award-winning producer Irwin Rosten takes us to three of the big scenic parks - -
Yellowstone, Yosemite, and the Grand Canyon - - to gaze once again at their
timeless grandeur and to explore some of their present abuses: traffic and
people congestion, pollution, commercialization, and crime. At Yellowstone,
thousands watch Old Faithful erupt and then depart, leaving behind debris and
trash. A.rise in crime has necessitated an increase in the number of rangers

trained as law enforcement officers, carrying guns and handcuffs.

 




The situation at the Grand Canyon - - with motels, gas stations, and souvenir

shops atop its South Rim, and the din of motorized boats running the river
below - - perhaps best exemplifies the controversy over use of the parks.. The
National Park Service wants to rid the rim.of commercialization and ban all
motorized craft from the river by 1985. As motors are phased out, all river
trips will be made in inflatabie oar-powered rafts, or dories. Opponents
declare that this would severely limit the hunters of those who can enjoy the

river trip experience.

In Alaska, where the Federal Government has set aside millions of acres of
unspoiled wilderness, producer Rosten reminds us of what the scenic parks in
the lower 48 states were like 50 to 100 years ago. Our last frontier, Alaska's
vast reaches of unspoiled beauty are fought over by those who want to develOp
their wealth of natural resources and those who would preserve and protect them

for future generations.

In our cities, a new park frontier is emerging - - the urban parks. Since places
like Yellowstone are too far away for those confined to the inner cities, the

Park Service is meeting the call that parks be brought to the people. Rosten
introduces us to an example: Gateway National Recreation Area, within sight

of New YOrk's skyline and beneath the flight path of Kennedy International
Airport. Urban parks bring something of the historical, natural, and recreational

to millions who might otherwise be unaware of or unable to enjoy a park experience.

 




  

The new 1981 season concludes on April 8 with GORILLA. In this globe-trotting

    
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
 

filnn the largest of the great apes is revealed as a shy, gentle, and intelligent

creature, contrasting markedly with the image of ferocious killer created and

perpetuated by Hollywood.

Fer more than half a century, horror movies have given the gorilla a bad name - -
an "image" problem.from.which he may never recover. Indeed, the gorilla is

the largest and most powerful of the great apes. But he is not by nature a
ferocious, man-eating monster; he is himself threatened with extinction by

man. Worldwide, only a few hundred mountain gorillas and an estimated 10,000

to 20,000 lowland gorillas remain.

   
     
      

Producer Barbara Jampel attempts to portray the gorilla's true nature. She
describes him as a "gentle, shy, magnificent creature," who lives in a complex
social group. Her filnldocuments at close range what we know about gorilla

behavior, how we are treating him, what we are learning, and what is being done

       
      
     
   
   
       
      
    

to save hinh In their African homeland, many gorillas have been killed by
poachers. Their flesh is prized for food, their heads and hands for trophies.
Others have been driven from their forest lands by encroaching farms, people,

Some of the mountain gorillas featured in the 1976 National

   

and development.
Geographic Special SEARCH FOR THE GREAT APES have been killed by poachers.

They had been subﬂects of an ongoing research prograntcm.gorillas in the wild.

  

Some experts believe that the gorillas' best chance for survival may lie in

captivity. There have been improvements in the conditions under which the

 

And a growing hunter of breeding loan programs among zoos

  

animals are kept.
are helping boost the birth rate. There is also a trend away from the solitary

caged gorilla, based on the idea that an active, alert animal living in a ncrnel




family group will be more content and breed better . At such diverse places as
a rambling rural estate in England and a municipal zoo near downtown Seattle,

the theory is being borne out as the number of newborn gorillas increases.

Not everyone agrees on what is best for gorillas or even how intelligent they

may be . For instance , primatologists and language experts are now debating

the gorillas' ability to master a form of language. Many questions about

gorillas remain unanswered. This dramatic film examines some of them.

 




Contact for Gulf Oil

Kay Cushing (Pittsburgh)
Ketchum.MacLeod and Grove

M12~u56—3850

Contact for National Geographic Specials

Patricia Northrop (D.C.)

National Geographic Society
202—857—7671

GULF UNDERWRITTEN NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPECIALS

An Environmental Perspective

Environment, ecology and conservation, together or alone they connote the delicate
balance that exists between man and the world around him. It’s a balance worth
pursuing and one that presents a serious challenge to all from the private citizen

to large businesses and industry.

Gulf Oil Corporation is meeting that challenge. Since 1975 Gulf has spent more
than $200 million each year on environmental awareness activities. That was also
the year Gulf first served as underwriter of the National Geographic Specials, a
prestigious series of environmental and family—oriented documentaries which
consistently have been among the highest rated films telecast over the Public

Broadcasting Service (PBS).

Through 1980, Gulf has underwritten 20 National Geographic Specials, 12 of which

are among the 25 most watched PBS shows of all time.

 




-2-

Gulf, together with National Geographic and PBS, has formed a partnership of
concern in meeting the challenges of our environment. Consistently the Specials
inform and advance public interest in some of the world's foremost environmental

issues.

The fate of the largest land.mammal, the elephant, was documented in LAST STAND
IN EDEN, which aired in 1979; while THE ANIMALS NOBODY LOVED, telecast in 1976,
featured the mustang, rattlesnake, and coyote, three animals cast as neither good

nor evil, but living creatures trying to survive.

THE GREAT WHALES, a 1978 Special dealing with the tenuous existence of the Earth's
largest living creature, won an Emmy from the National.Academy of Television.Arts
and Sciences in the category of Outstanding Information Specials. That same
season, THE LIVING SANDS OF NAMIB, which documented myriad forms of plant and
animal life that exist in a sun-baked expanse of sand and rock called the Namib

Desert, also won the prestigious DuPont-Columbia.Award.

In the 1976 telecast SEARCH FOR THE GREAT APES, two rare and.vulnerable species

of apes, the mountain gorilla and the orangutan, are studied; while one of the

1980 Specials, DIVE TO THE EDGE OF CREATION, dealt with the delicate ecology

of the ocean, and new plant and animal discoveries made a mile and a half below

its surface.

New Specials slated for the 1981 season also reinforce Gulf's deep commitment
to the environment and a concern for the precarious balance between man and

the world around him.

 




Premiering the 1981 season on January 7, ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY WATER is a stark
but stunning realistic nature film depicting the daily life and death battle

for survival by wildlife in southwestern.Africa's Etosha National Park.

The plight of national parks in the United States is the topic of the season's
March ll Special, NATIONAL PARKS: PLAYGROUND OR PARADISE. This documentary
examines the dilemma of the National Park Service: how to fulfill its mandate

to protect and promote the use of parks as vacation wonderlands, and yet restore

them as much as possible to their natural condition.

April 8, GORILLA, in a worldswide survey, examines the largest and.most powerful
of the great apes whose numbers are dwindling. In Africa ~- in their natural
habitat —- gorillas are on the brink of extinction. But zoo keepers are aware
of their fragile fate, and around the world many have initiated new programs to
breed them in captivity. Some say his only chance for survival may lie in life

in captivity.

As in the first five years of its association with the National Geographic

Specials, Gulf, in its continuing commitment, again this season will heavily

promote the Specials in order to keep the public informed of the significant

environmental issues addressed in these documentaries.

Tom.Latimer, director of advertising, Gulf Oil Corporation, best summarized

Gulf‘s approach when he was interviewed by the £9s.Angele§ Times in December,

 

1979. "I personally believe that one of the major problems of Public TV has
been the inability to let the public know what programming is on so they can

watch it."

 




-h-

Gulf attempts to remedy that "problem” through extensive advertising and publicity
efforts prior to each Special. Last season, for example, efforts supporting

DIVE TO THE EDGE OF CREATION reached more than 266 million people. Much of that
success can be attributed to Dr. Robert Ballard, a co-leader of the deep diving
expedition featured in the Special, who appeared on various national television
talk shows. In his appearances on both the ”Tonight Show" and "Today Show," Dr.
Ballard emphasized the upcoming documentary and Gulf's role as its underwriter.
DIVE TO THE EDGE OF CREATION became one of the most watched Specials on PBS dur~

ing the 1979-80 season.

Publicity efforts also attracted large audiences for THE GREAT WHALES in 1978.

A whale—watching expedition off the coast of California was arranged for over
200 representatives of the media. Two whale doctors also made separate appear~
ances on the "Tonight Show,” "Today Show,” and "Dick Cavett Show,” and THE GREAT

WHALES attracted one of the largest audiences on PBS during the 1977-78 season.

The 1980—81 season's carefully chosen subjects offer still more opportunities

to communicate the Gulf/National Geographic message to the American public.

It‘s a message of caring, caring for the environment, ecology and conservation,

in an attempt to keep that delicate balance in balance.

 




Contact for Gulf Oil
Kay Cushing (Pittsburgh)
Ketchum.MacLeod and Grove

h12—h56—3850
Contact for National Geographic Specials
Patricia Northrop (D.C.)

National Geographic Society
202-857~7671

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES HIGHLIGHT
GULF UNDERWRITTEN
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPECIALS

Over the past five years, nearly half of the National Geographic Specials focused
on significant environmental issues. Gulf Oil Corporation -— a company concerned
with such issues -- became the underwriter of these documentaries in an effort to
encourage public awareness and involvement in this area. Following is a list and

brief summary of some of the environmentally oriented National Geographic Specials

aired over the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS):

LAST STAND IN EDEN - Elephants Struggle to Survive

 

In many parts of.Africa today, elephant and man are on a collision course. As
fields and homes and highways invade the elephant's domain, he becomes man's

rival, inspiring hatred and fear. LAST STAND is the story of one group of ele-
phants and their struggle to survive. Hunted, pursued, and harassed, they take

their last stand in an African Eden.

 




-2-

THE LIVING SANDS OF NAMIB - Strange Creatures in a Strange Environment

'This documentary portrays the wildlife of the Namib Desert in southwestern
Africa. The area has been called a ”land God made in anger" ~- an area that
appears to be devoid of life. Seemingly barren, it is unique on our planet,
for the sand dunes in this desert are home to the largest, most varied com-

munity of dune life anywhere on Earth.

THE GREAT WHALES - Trying to Survive in the Sea

 

They are the largest creatures on Earth ~~ creatures of mystery, masters of a
dark and shadowed world. More than #0 million years ago early ancestors of
modern whales adapted to the deep. They have flourished there, but retain a
fateful dependence on the sunlit world above. Of all endangered.animals today,
whales seem to rouse a deeply felt, human sympathy and urge to protection.
Paradoxically, few of us have ever seen them in their natural habitat, and no
scientist can claim to fully understand them. In THE GREAT WHALES we invite
the public to share mysteries and seek solutions, and to consider the tragic

possibility that we could destroy the whale without ever having known him.

THE ANIMALS NOBODY LOVED - Animals under.Attack

A band of wild horses, untamed and unbroken, echoes the spirit of the vast and

rugged.American West. But there is a fear that if the horses thrive unchecked,

they may overrun and destroy open rangeland. The rattlesnake evokes fear of
another kind ~- direct and instinctive. The coyote has been feared and per-
secuted and, for more than a hundred years, hunted relentlessly. The goal: his
total extermination. The documentary takes an objective look at a controversial

subject, providing a forum for protagonists on both sides of the issue.

 




-3-

SEARCH FOR THE GREAT ARES - A Rare Closeup Look

This film documents studies of two dedicated women scientists and their in~
vestigations of the mountain gorilla and the orangutan. Cameras follow zoologist
Dian Fossey's patient, painstaking, and relentless efforts to closely observe

the mountain gorilla in its natural African habitat. Of the first time a moun—
tain gorilla touched her Dian wrote: "For that fleeting instant, a bridge
spanning a chasm.of immeasurable time linked our two species. I thought myself

the most fortunate person in the world." Six thousand miles away in the interior

of Indonesian Borneo, anthropologist Biruté Galdikas-Brindamour penetrates the

secrets of the orangutan's natural existence and challenges widely held beliefs

about these elusive creatures.

DIVE TO THE EDGE OF CREATION — Unseen Undersea Marvels

For decades oceanographers have studied the deep-sea floor where no sunlight
penetrates, where the temperature is just above freezing, where pressure is
enormous, and life is thinly scattered. Because there is no sunlight and green
plants can't grow to form the basis of a food chain, scientists have had good
reason to believe that the deep sea is like a desert. But recently, to their
amazement, warm-water springs and myriads of creatures no one had.ever seen
before have been discovered. Biologists and geologists alike were confounded.
DIVE is the record of an expedition which explores an area a mile and a half
beneath the Pacific Ocean‘s surface. The findings of the team of scientists
revolutionize our concept of the deep sea. Thanks to the creation of a re—
motely-operated, miniaturized camera to photograph in the ocean's dark depths,
the documentary marked the first time mass audiences viewed on-the-spot cov-

erage of several newly discovered forms of life.

 




".15....

NEW NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPECIALS
THE 1981 SEASON ON PBS

ETOSHA: Place of Dry Water -'Where.Animals Struggle to Survive
January 7 at 8:00 p.m. Eastern

In southwestern.Africa in a region called Etosha lies a great expanse of clay,

one of the most barren landscapes on Earth. But in nature's great paradox,

underground reservoirs feed permanent water holes along the edge of this dry

lake bed and on the plains beyond, sustaining one of the most spectacular
displays of wildlife remaining on the continent. The wildlife sequences re-
corded on film are phenomenally candid and incredibly close up. Rarely on
television has nature's interplay of life and death seemed more vivid. Many
zoologists and ethologists have never observed what PUblic Television viewers

will be able to see.

NATIONAL PARK ; Playground or Paradise ~ Are We Loving Them to Death?

March ll at 8:00 p.m. Eastern

A new documentary explores a popular and controversial topic. How are we
using our national parks? How can we ~- to what extent can we -— use them
and still ensure their future? The National Park Service today faces a giant
task: protecting for the public their use of the parks, and protecting the
parks from overuse or careless use by the public. National Parks today are
suffering from overwhelming crowds, traffic jams, pollution, and general
environmental damage. Restrictions suggested, and in some cases, implemented
by the Park Service may be a necessity; but there are vocal opponents, and

each expresses his views on some highly debatable issues.

 




Wildlife thrives in southwestern Africa’s
Etosha Pan during the rainy season, and there
kudus, like many of the animals, are frequent
visitors to the watering hole.

During the dry season, months of torrid
heat will transform the pan into a barren
wasteland, and the animals will be forced into
a relentless search for food and water.

ETOSHA: PLACE OF DRY WATER, a
National Geographic Special, records extra-
ordinary animal behavior and an endless
struggle to survive. On PBS, Channel

at

C0
C5.
Z

Photo by Carol Hughes

 




 

THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON, D.C.

August 15, 1989

Ms. Christine Stevens
1686 34th St. NW
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens,

On behalf of The American University, I want to thank you for
your participation as a guest on The Diane Rehm”Show on 88.5 FM.

We are proud to present programmingwof such high quality to

audiences throughout the greater Washington area and beyond. I
hope the experience was as worthwhile for you as it was beneficial

for us, and if you have any comments about it, please be sure to
let me know.

Sincerely,
Wméc $7 (67/424

Anita F. Gottlieb

 

Anita F. Gottlieb
Assistant Vice President, Director of University Relations
Sutton Center, Suite 260

 

4400 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016-8124 (202) 885-1100

 




“The pace, substance and technical quality is
excellent...a critically important vehicle for bring-
ing the message to the general viewing public.”
Dr. George Cave, Trans-Species Unlimited

“...thoroughly professional...a pioneering program
that ﬁlls an important gap in the animal protection
movement.” - Dr. Shirley MeGreal, Inter-
national Primate Protection League

“...innovative ideas and a thorough command of
the material.” - Luke Dommer, Committee to
Abolish Sport Hunting

JOIN OUR TELEVISION TEAM!

HELP US PUT THE ANIMAL RIGHTS
MESSAGE ON TELEVISION IN YOUR
COMMUNITY. IT’S EASIER THAN YOU
THINK! FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT
ARIS.

 

Animal Rights Information Service, Inc. (ARIS)
PO. Box 20672 - Columbus Circle Station
New York, New York 10023

Name

Address

 

 

 

Phone

YES, I WANT TO KEEP o SPEAKING 0F ANIMALS... .
0N TELEVISION.
ENCLOSED IS MY TAX DEDUCTIBLE DONATION

 

15 25 50 OTHER

PLEASE SEND ME INFORMATION AS TO HOW I CAN
PUT o SPEAKING OF ANIMALS... 0 ON TV IN MY COMMUNITY

£3001 ’IJOA mew "I'm/I may
uoymg 3191.19 anmnlog
62903 1'08 'O’J

 

uopnmﬁm zymd-uou y
(31W) ‘9"! ‘aowas "onewom mm! rewruv

Allan Bullington, ARIS Director, and Pogo

it"! I": .

SPEAKING OF ANIMALS...

 

WHAT IS “SPEAKING OF ANIMALS...”?

Speaking of Animals... (formerly “Animal
Rights Forum”), produced and distributed by
Animal Rights Information Service, Inc. (ARIS), is
a weekly cable television program which educates
the public about animal rights issues. These docu-
mentary and interview programs stimulate viewers
to examine their relationships with non-human
animals.

Through the use of an ARIS-formed national
distribution network, Speaking of Animals... is
currently broadcast weekly in dozens of cities
throughout the United States and Canada. This
means that Speaking of Animals... is broadcast
into millions of homes at least twice each week.

 

Photo: Sylvia Sterling




WHY CABLE TELEVISION?

Commercial television is dependent upon ad-
vertising income generated from industries which
exploit animals. Consequently, little in-depth
animal rights information is on television. Also,
because of advertising income and corporate
funding, PBS and commercial cable stations (Arts
& Entertainment Network, Lifetime, USA Network,
etc.) won’t broadcast animal rights information.

An article concerning PBS programming in The
New York Times, October 25, 1987, stated “It’s now
possible to fill a schedule with benign, attractive
programming that doesn’t offend and that attracts
large numbers of viewers at lower risk.”

So, in order to broadcast animal rights in-
formation on commercial (or PBS) television sta-
tions, one would be forced to present “benign”
watered-down information that doesn’t “offend.”
ARIS refuses to dilute the animal rights message!
Speaking of Animals... is hardhitting and un-
compromising, which is why ARIS broadcasts on
public access television.

WHAT IS PUBLIC ACCESS TELEVISION?

Recent surveys indicate that there are over 100
million homes which subscribe to cable services
nationwide. According to local franchise laws,
cable companies are required to operate “public
access” channels which are open to independent
programmers. These channels are immune to censor-
ship of subject matter by the cable company.

According to the February 1987 issue of Com-
munication and the Law, “With nearly one-half of
all daily newspapers controlled by newspaper
chains and business conglomerates, broadcast
television dominated by the three major networks,
and 75% of all cable systems owned by large cable
companies, public access to cable television
appears to be the only available means for
ordinary citizens to effectively express their
own views and to receive the views of other
citizens.”

DARING DOCUMENTARIES

ARIS is unique in the animal protection com-
munity in that we produce numerous animal
issue documentaries and actively distribute
them for broadcast. Only ARIS produces pro-
vocative programs such as “Fur Crimes”, “Ivory:
Digging the Elephants’ Graveyard”, “From Mice to
Men? (The Use of Animals in Experimental Psy-
chology)”, “Animals Used as ‘Entertainment’” and
“Teach Your Children Well” -- programs which
provide viewers with comprehensive information.
ARIS also produces fast-paced, thought-provoking
interview programs such as “A Conversation with

Bob Barker”, “Probing the Mind of the Vivisector”
and more.

We often hear how important mass education is
to the cause of animal protection. Yet, many
animal protection groups “preach to the con-
verted” by only sending out frequent mailings, to
the same people, asking for money. Little is done
to reach the vast majority of people who are
uneducated about animal rights.

Television is the most efﬁcient and cost-effective
method of mass education available.

\.\

Allan Bullington and guest, Bob Barker

Photo: Sylvia Sterling

Speaking of Animals... is broadcast weekly in
many large cities such as New York, Los Angeles
and the Washington, DC. areas, etc., but just as
important, it’s also seen in smaller communities
across the country. In some broadcast areas,
Speaking of Animals... is the only contact the
public has with animal rights issues.

PUBLIC RESPONSE

People are watching Speaking of Animals...!
Each week ARIS receives letters from viewers
telling us how Speaking of Animals... has edu-
cated them and motivated them to action. In
response, they receive printed materials from ARIS
which further guide them in the direction of
cruelty free living.

“ARIS has shown just how valuable video pro-
duction can be for the cause of animals. I applaud
ARIS’s continuing success.” - William Cave,
President, The American Anti-Vivisection
Society

“It is a wonderful service and I fully endorse efforts
for its sponsorship...” - Ingrid Newkirk, People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals

“...an amazing job on a shoe-string budget. A
pioneer venture...l recommend it with great con-
ﬁdence.” - Dr. Tom Regan, Culture and Animals
Foundation

“a dramatic impact...thoroughly and carefully re-
searched...ﬁrst rate from both an intellectual and
production point of view.” - Gary Francione,
Professor of Environmental Law, Rutgers
University

 




The Voice of Nature Network

A TELEVISION RESOURCE FOR THE DEFENSE OF ANIMALS AND NATURE
P.O. BOX 68, WESTPORT, CT 06881, USA 0 TELEPHONE: (203) 852-9242I226-8826

 

Spring 1988

Dear Friend:

How many times, when watching a television program, have you wished
that we had the ability to reach millions of people a day with the
message of animal liberation? How often have you dreamed of the day
when, instead of turning on the TV set to find the usual fare, you

could easily locate an animal rights show commanding a significant

audience?

Now, I'm happy to report, a new organization, THE VOICE OF NATURE
NETWORK (VNN), has been expressly created to rapidly expand the
animal rights movement's support base, and to put the most urgent
issues of animal and ecological abuse before mass TV audiences.

The accompanying brochure explains in some detail how we intend to
do that, and what types of materials we're thinking of producing
during the "take-off" period. But before you read it, I'd like to
point out to you some of the reasons why I think this effort is
especially worthy of your attention.

As you'll probably agree, most of the challenges facing the animal
rights movement today are essentially questions of public education
and mobilization. Our movement has clearly outgrown the stage of

 

 

"ridicule" attached to most novel ideas, and is now increasingly
respected in many circles. Like it or not, we represent a revolution
in consciousness-—but this is a revolution which so far has taken
place almost exclusively in the affluent First World, where mass
electronic media determine the outcome of most struggles.

The stakes, as you know, are extremely high. Winning in the
developed countries is likely to facilitate changes in the
less—developed ones; but if we fail here, the prospects are dim for
the entire planet. Victories which take 500 years to achieve will be
meaningless. By the middle of the next century, if present patterns
are not halted or reversed, most species living today and most of
the Earth's life-giving environments will be gone.

This situation presents us with a conscious aising job of
truly unprecedented dimensions——but, as is
progressive enterprises—-ours is a movem nt w'
idealists ready to pick battles, and not enough visionaries w'
to patiently build the instruments with w 'ch to wage these
struggles. Make no mistake about it: Only by ,
instruments will we be able to disseminate the vast amounts of
information to do our job.

 




With this in mind, VNN is being set up as a flexible, PBS—type of
organization to produce and distribute animal— and habitat-defense
programs on a wide variety of subjects. Dramas, documentaries, and
talk-shows are on the drawing boards, and we expect to unveil a
national PSA on roadkills and a commercial on alternatives to animal
research before the end of 1988. To make a difference, VNN programs
will have to be unfailingly firm and informative about the actual
causes of animal and ecological abuse, while avoiding stridency.
Shying away from controversy or the possibility of alienating
powerful sponsors, the existing animal shows pack in much technical
virtuosity and scientific information, but little political
enlightenment.

VNN could benefit the animal rights movement at many levels. A
regular TV presence will finally permit us to reach publics with
messages which are well—timed, frequent, and properly slanted.
Frequency alone is crucial. Commercial market research has shown
that new messages—~especially those which challenge
deeply-entrenched beliefs—-require at least seven exposures in a
period not longer than a week before they'll leave any mental
residue at all. That's why occasional, "flash—in-the—pan" items in
the nightly news shows aren't likely to change many minds. Only a
sustained stream of programming can begin to turn the tide. In
addition, we expect that this improved TV visibility will spawn
increased coverage in other media, insure better legislative access,
and generate a much larger financial and volunteer base on which to
anchor our activities.

But perhaps VNN's most important contribution will come in the
area of "media access costs." At present we exchange substantial
amounts of activists' time and effort for miniscule amounts of media
time. Months of organizing for a demonstration which may or may not
be adequately covered by the media is an inefficient way of turning
public opinion around. By this we don't mean to suggest that
traditional tactics such as boycotts, demonstrations, letter-writing
campaigns, lobbying, and similar efforts are worthless. Much has
been gained through their skillful use in the past, and they will
surely play a vital role in future mobilizations. But they simply
won't pull the carriage by themselves. Our message requires a truly
powerful engine, and that engine is television.

Animal rights is the ethical gate through which humanity must pass
before concluding a just peace with nature. It's a bitter irony that
the vision we hold dear—~of fellowship extending beyond the selfish
concerns of our species-~should still remain a "media beggar" in our
media-rich society. VNN is a small but critical step to remedy this
situation. Can I count on your help?

 

Sincerely,

zé/Hu. CM

Patrice Greanville
Executive Director

 




 

PO. Box 68, Westport, CT 0688l/ USA.
Tel. (203) 454-715l

OFFICERS

Patrice Greanville, President. (Senior Editor and Colum-
nist, The ANIMALS’ AGENDA. Cofounder, Animal Rights Net-
work, Inc.)

Tom Regan, Vice-President. (Director, The Culture and
Animals Foundation; Professor of Philosophy, North
Carolina State University)

Dr. Ray Farinato, Vice-President. (Research Scientist and
Environmentalist. VNN’s liaison with the scientific
community.)

Doug Moss, Treasurer. (Publisher and cofounder, The
ANIMALS’ AGENDA, Animal Rights Network, Inc.)

Nancy Graham, Secretary General. (Art Advisor, The
ANIMALS' AGENDA. Video/Film Executive Producer.)

ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERS (Partial list):
Cleveland Amory, The Fund for Animals

Donald Barnes, National Anti-Vivisection Society
Syndee Brinkman, The National Alliance for Animal
Legislation

Edward Duvin, Animalines

Wim de Kok, Lekker Dier (Holland)

Mary de La Valette, Animal Rights Show

Michael W. Fox, Humane Society of the United States
Lori Gruen, Ark ll

Alex Hershaft, Farm Animal Reform Movement

John Kullberg, American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals

Cole McFarland, Compassion for Animals Foundation
Farley Mowat, Author, Never Cry Wolf

Bernard Sandler, For Love of Life Foundation

Troy 5005, Coalition to End Animal Suffering and
Exoloitation

[Organizational affiliations listed for identification pur-
poses only.]

YES! I would like to help VNN become a powerful
voice for the voiceless. Here's my contribution to
help defray the cost of programming and
advertising.

D325 D350 E13100 D3250 US

Cl l have talents/services to offer. Please contact me:
Name
Address
City State Zip

 

 

Telephone ( l

(All donations are fully tax-deductible. Gifts of $35.00 or more will
automatically receive a subscription to THE ANIMALS’ AGENDA,
the international animal rights magazine. Please make checks
payable to VNN, Inc.)

__.._____..I

 

 

 

 

VNN © 10/87

 




 

   

 

 

Putting television in the service of animal inIiberafion

WHAT IS VNN?

THE VOICE OF NATURE NETWORK,
Inc. (VNN)—created in March of
1987— is the first serious attempt
by the animal rights and deep
ecology movements to reach a
mass television audience on a
regular basis. VNN was expressly
set up to produce, co-produce,
foster, and distribute all sorts of
television programming, includ-
ing documentaries, TV news-
magazines (for example, a televi-
sion version of The ANIMALS’
AGENDA), interview shows,
dramas, public service an-
nouncements (PSAs), and com-
mercials. All these programs will
be specifically designed to ad-
vance the cause of animal and
environmental freedom from
human abuse, and to make clear
the underlying causes of such
objectionable treatment.

IS VNN A WORKABLE IDEA?

A variety of' factors make VNN
possible today. The most
decisive, of course, is the ap-
pearance of powerful “parallel”
cable television networks such as
HBO, Arts 6’ Entertainment, Cable
News Network, Lifetime, The
Discovery Channel, The Disney
Channel and The Learning Chan-
nel. These have rapidly changed
the face of news and entertain-
ment in America. But cable
television has done more. By in-
creasing the number of TV chan-
nels available to viewers, and by

 

  

 

 

making the quality of UHF recep-
tion competitive with regular
channels, it has also permitted
the rise of entire networks
devoted entirely to special in-
terests such as science, wildlife,
medical news, the weather, fun—
damentalist religion, music
Videos, black culture, regional
programming, nonstop news and
other topics. This has allowed a
far larger measure of controversy
to be aired, and created a bolder
environment sympathetic to the
showing of unusual topics such
as animal rights.

The very economics of televi-
sion reinforce this opening. By its
very nature, television devours
an immense amount of terribly
expensive material every day.
VNN, by offering the “smaller”
cable, UHF and VHF channels at-
tractive productions of profes-
sional quality at reasonable cost
may succeed in placing such pro—
grams before a mass audience. In
this regard, VNN’s need to cover
costs but not to make profits at
every turn gives it a negotiating
ﬂexibility not enjoyed by com-
mercial producers.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'4\\"\\\\X\ \\\

 

\\\\ ll

 

 

 

‘\

 

 

 

DO WE NEED VNN?

People concerned about the fate
of animals and nature have long
asked themselves why television
has not been used more ag-
gressively to teach the public
about human abuses of the
natural world. The question is a
valid one. Although the animal
protection community has scored
some valuable Victories over the
last decade, and a new con-
sciousness is clearly taking root,
the pace of progress in most
critical areas is still painfully
slow. Traditional methods—from
demonstrations and letter-writing
campaigns to boycotts and
legislation—have not stemmed
the tide of animal abuse, and the
animal rights movement, reach-
ing at best from two to three
million people a month in the
US. through direct mail and
spotty media coverage, has yet to
make a significant inroad among
mainstream publics.

This frustrating state of affairs

 

 

 

 

would be reason enough to ex-
plore new and more effective
methods of disseminating the
pro-animal message, but there’s
another reason: in many impor-
tant respects human abuse and
threats to the natural world are
on the upswing.

The signs are everywhere. Until
recently sealing was regarded as
a ”resolved” issue, but the Cana-
dian Government is currently
allowing a “limited harvest” of
adult seals, and growing demand
for seal pelts in the Far East
might again trigger large-scale
killings.

Similarly, several countries,
especially Japan, refuse to heed
the International Whaling Com-
mission’s recommendations to
stop all whaling indefinitely, and
the killing of thousands of
whales—under the so—called
”research” loophole— goes on
unabated. Meanwhile, ”sport

unting” continues as usual;
kangaroos and wallabies are
brutally killed by the millions in
Australia; dog-racing and dog-
fighting are on the rise; ”factory’
meat production is rapidly en-
gulfing more and more species
both domestic and wild; and the
pace of animal research—spurred
by the spread of AIDS—may
accelerate dramatically in the
near future.

These issues are grave enough,
but animals are also seriously
threatened by a stealthy killer:
habitat destruction. The world’s
rainforests, currently being
chopped down and razed at an
alarming rate, symbolize the
predicament, but many other
types of ecosystems are also in
jeopardy. Unless something is
done, by the turn of the century

I

 

 

 




human overpopulation and the
spread of ”consumerism" to the
Third World will subject the
planet to a truly staggering level
of animal and environmental ex-
ploitation.

EXPECTED BENEFITS

Besides the obvious advantage of
educating millions of people every
year about the problems of
animal and ecological abuse, a
substantial leap in visibility and
public support for the humane
viewpoint can generate benefits
for the animal defense movement
on many levels:

0 Increased media attention.
Better television coverage of
animal issues can cause a ripple
effect throughout the media
community, making newspaper
and magazine editors more
responsive to the coverage of
animal issues.

0 Improved legislative access.
The growth in the numbers of
people interested in animal ques—
tions would be felt in Congress
and state assemblies, making it
easier to introduce and adopt
humane legislation.

0 Funding benefits for the en-
tire humane movement. The ac-
ceptance of the animal rights idea
by a large segment of the popula-
tion will make it easier for both
small and large organizations to
recruit volunteers, expand their
\

 

 

 

 

 

sustaining memberships, and ob-
tain better results from direct
mail appeals and other funding
requests.

REACHING MASS AUDIENCES
How does VNN intend to handle
the costs of television production,
known to be high, and later
place its programs before
mainstream audiences? The
answer to the first question is
simple: VNN intends to start
small, and rely on the pro-animal
commitment of television pro-
ducers, actors, actresses, writers,
film editors and celebrities to
donate their services or charge
nominal fees for their participa-
tion in specific programs. This is
not unrealistic. Since VNN’s incep-
tion, an encouraging number of
people associated with film and
video production have stepped
forth to help the new organiza-
tion. And this has occurred
without prior solicitation.

As for the successful “packag-
ing” of the animal rights
message, this presents a trickier
problem. Existing animal and
wildlife shows consistently secure
high ratings among all income
and age groups, but more con-
troversial, sharper-focused animal
liberation angles, including at
times the open condemnation of
animal exploitation, may be
harder to sell.

For good or for ill, American
audiences, have been bred on
escapism. The avoidance of
”pain”, ”negativism”, and
“depressing news” is a deeply-
held cultural trait. While this at-
titude may constitute a definite
plus in some fields, especially
business, it bodes ill for people
attempting to present ”uncomfor-

 

 

 




 

 

table” realities. Hard—hitting ex-
poses such as ”The Animals’
Film” may prove too strong for
the average viewer with no
previous interest or knowledge
about animal problems. Accord-
ingly, VNN’s programming for-
mula will rely for effect on the
cumulative impact of non-strident
but firm information on animal
issues, tuned to a level somewhat
less emotionally demanding than
that required by films that show
animal cruelty in all its shocking
details. Eventually, we hope that
this kind of programming will
pave the way for bolder exposes
with substantial audience
support.

The animal defense viewpoint
can also be injected into
mainstream-oriented program-
ming by ”mixing” animal stories
with stories on other topics. For
example, a 28-minute film such
as ”We are all Noah”, produced
by Tom Regan, and dealing with
the impact of animal rights on
religious leaders, might be ”sold”
to prospective audiences as one
segment in a three-segment
“magazine show” dealing with
recent trends in religion or socie-
ty at large.

Three rules sum up our
approach:

1. Educate, entertain and in-
spire. Avoid preachiness.

2. Produce quality program-
ming (including commercials and
PSAs) suitable for broadcasting
by commercial and public
stations.

3. Show people that practicing
the ethic of equal consideration
toward animals and nature need
not preclude enjoying life to the
fullest.

 

 

SOME POSSIBLE VIIII PROGRAMS

0 Children’s ”Prestige” Series.

0 At War With Nature.
Focus on past and current
episodes of human brutality
toward the rest of creation.

0 ”Crossfire”-Type Debate on
Animal, Environmental and
Social Issues.

0 Animal Hospital Show.

DISTRIBUTION

We expect VNN programs to be
shown on the PBS network,
leading cable channels, and VHF
and UHF independent stations
around the country. PBS’ WNET,
(airing from New York City and
largest of all PBS stations), is
soon to switch to round-the-clock
programming, a move certain to
generate a sharp increase in its
demand for new programs. VNN,
if correctly positioned, could
supply a portion of these. The
PBS audience, for the most part
well educated and upscale,
comprises a disproportionate
share of Americans interested in
social causes, “activism”, animals
and ecology.

In addition to the above, there
are two other methods of video
distribution. One is through
public access channels available
on cable to people interested in
airing locally-produced material.
The rule often allows for the
presentation of programs made
elsewhere but endorsed by local
residents. We expect animal
groups and individuals to make
full use of this clause. The sec-
ond consists of direct sales and
rentals of videotapes to institu-
tions and private individuals.

 

 

 




0 Video Magazine—A TV ver-
sion of The ANIMALS’ AGENDA,

0 Spotlight on Humane and
Environmentalist Leaders and
Organizations.

0 Helping Animals in Distress.
0 Public Service Announcements

0 Commercials.

IF YOU WANT TO HELP

The VNN idea has already fired
the imagination of many people
throughout the animal defense
community. After years of
frustration with the pace of prog-
ress in animal questions, hun-
dreds of leading activists and
grass-roots groups now await
anxiously the developments
which may finally put television
at the service of animal rights
and ecological sanity.

But to achieve this goal VNN
will need support in several
crucial areas, and that’s where
you can play a decisive role.

First, consider sending VNN a
personal donation to help defray
the costs of our programs, or in-
quire about becoming a sustainer.
Equally important, if you are
already an animal defense activist
associated with a particular
group, check with your organiza-
tion’s leadership for possible in-
stitutional pledges to VNN.
Grants from animal protection
groups will be Vital to the suc-
cess of this venture, and by rais-
ing the idea within your organi-
zation you may act as a policy
initiator and catalyst for future
collaborative efforts. VNN was
created to serve as a television

 

 

 

 

 

resource for the entire animal
defense and ecology movement, and
consequently its progress and
victories will be to the benefit of
all individuals and organizations.

Second, check whether your
community has a cable franchise
allowing for public access pro-
gramming. If so, consider becom-
ing a local VNN public access
distributor. In most cases, it will
be relatively simple for you to
put VNN programs on the air, as
cable companies provide an “ac-
cess coordinator” who can help
with technical details, and VNN
will also offer technical and legal
support to insure that this option
is utilized to the fullest, In addi-
tion, you may also check with
local schools and libraries for the
possible purchase or rental of
VNN materials. Although it can-
not compete in sheer effec-
tiveness with regular television
broadcasts, this informal type of
”retail” distribution around the
country through public access
and other methods could even-
tually add up to a significant
source of viewership and income.
And locally-sponsored shows can
also serve as a rallying point for
small-group activities in a given
area, and facilitate the raising of
funds for local projects.

 

Introducing mainstream publics
to the concept of animal libera-
tion is perhaps the single most
important priority facing the
animal defense community today.
We cordially invite groups and
individuals interested in this
project to discuss with us the
possibilities of a partnership to
fulfill our common goals.

 

 

 

 




The fifth season of this popuIar series
premieres Thursday, January 8th, 1987, at

8:00 p.m. ET (PIease check IocaI Iistings)

CONTACT: Karen ChamberIain, 303/925—5536
Marty Stouffer Productions

FACT SHEET

 

WILD AMERICA ...is produced by Marty Stouffer Productions, an independent

 

wiIdIife fiIm production company based in Aspen, CoIorado.

..continues to be the first and onIy series devoted echusiver
to America's great heritage of wiId creatures and wiId pTaces.

..continues to forge its own unique tradition of exceIIence in
wiIdIife fiIm—making.

..continues to be among the highest—rated series on PBS.

CREDITS:

Producer/Director: MARTY STOUFFER

Associate Producer/Writer: PAULA SMITH

Associate Producer/Writer: KAREN CHAMBERLAIN

Associate Producer/Picture and Sound Editor: MICHELLE BRANDT-MORTON

Picture and Sound Editors: GREG HENSLEY, JOHN KING, MARK MUHEIM

Production Assistants: CYNTHIA GAMBLE, SUSAN JOHNSON

Artwork: DAVE JOERIS

Cinematographers: ROBERT BILLINGS, GEORGE DODGE, KATHLEEN DODGE, DAVID HUIE,
JOHN KING, CLYDE LOCKWOOD, DAVE MASLOWSKI, STEVE MASLOWSKI, EARL SENN,
MARK STOUFFER, MARSHALL STOUFFER, MARTY STOUFFER, DALE THOMPSON,
BURDETTE WHITE

Time—Lapse Cinematography: GREG HENSLEY

Series Theme Composer: NEIL ARGO

Program Music Scores: PATTY CARLSON, KATHRYN ESHER, PETER KATER

Conforming: CARL HUNSAKER

Re—recording: DAVE EMRICH, PAUL EMRICH

Narration Recording: RAINSHADOW STUDIOS

FiTm Laboratory Services: WESTERN CINE

Video Services: WICKERWORKS

THANKS TO:

AIaska Department of Fish and Game; Crescent Lake NationaI WiIdIife Refuge;
Iroquois NationaI Refuge; NationaI Audio VisuaI Center; Penn State Deer Research
Center; Pennsylvania State Game Commission; U.S. Fish and WiIdIife Service;

U.S. NationaI Park Service;

MARTY STOUF FER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




FoIIow a traiI of adventure from the wiIdest
wiIderness to your own neighborhood — watch:

”RIVER OF THE BEARS," airing Thursday,
February 5, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET, and
”GROWING UP WILD,” airing Thursday, March 12,
1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET. Both on PBS.

(PIease check your IocaI PBS Iistings.)

FROM THE WILDS OF ALASKA TO A CHILD'S BACKYARD

 

Variety is more than the spice of Iife —- it's the essence of the naturaI worId.
WiIdIife programs have become increasineg popuIar in recent years, and none more vividIy

reercts the drama and diversity of nature than the WILD AMERICA series on PBS, the first

 

and onIy to focus echusiver on America's naturaI heritage.

WILD AMERICA'S host, Marty Stouffer, says that the series offers ”something for

 

everyone, of any age, in every part of the country.” This year, RIVER OF THE BEARS and
GROWING UP WILD typify the scope of the series. RIVER OF THE BEARS was fiImed in the
remote wiIds of AIaska, where each summer America's Iargest carnivores gather anng the
McNeiI River to feast on saImon. It's the onIy pIace in the worId where huge AIaskan
Brown Bears gather in such numbers, and the normaIIy soIitary bruins are anything but
sociabIe. On the contrary, each bear fiercer defends its fishing territory. ”This is
nature at her wiIdest extreme," says Stouffer, ”a reaIm untouched by man.“

GROWING UP WILD, on the other hand, begins at home, with a IittIe girI bIowing out
candIes on a birthday cake. She beIongs to a typicaI American famin that Ioves the
naturaI worId -- one in which 'coming of age' means being oId enough to accompany her
parents on camping trips. She is aIso fortunate in that her 'backyard' is the Rocky
Mountains, and her father happens to be naturaIist/cinematographer Marty Stouffer.

We foIIow Marty, his wife Diane, and young Hannah as she Iearns the ways of the wiId
and discovers its secrets —- observing mountain Iions and baby badgers, pIaying with fox

kits at the mouth of their den, and finaIIy, encountering a BIack Bear on her own.

This is a program designed to inspire. ”Every famin, no matter where they Iive,”

says Stouffer, "can give their chiIdren the Tasting gift of famiIiarity with our naturaI

worId.“ (See accompanying photo page and program Iistings above.) # # #

MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




”CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA”
1' FEATURE ARTICLE

The fifth season of this popuIar
wiIdIife series premieres Thursday,
January 8, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET on PBS.
(PIease check your IocaI Iistings.)

CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA

 

”Where can I go to see wiIdIife?” is a question frequentIy asked in fan Ietters to

Marty Stouffer, host of the popuIar PBS TeIevision series WILD AMERICA. Now in its fifth

 

season, the series has estainshed its own unique tradition by presenting the first and
onIy programs ever to focus echusiver on North American wiIdIife.

”In the first year or two,” Stouffer says, ”our programs were broad and genera].
We didn't know how Tong we wouId be on PBS, so we put as much as we couId about wiIdIife
into each program. And we seIdom narrowed in on any one state or IocaIe.”

As the series proved its popuIarity, however, more and more peopIe wrote in with

requests and suggestions for fiIming wiIdIife in the particuIar region, and with

questions about how and where they couId actuaIIy see wiId animaIs. This confirmed
Stouffer's beIief that native creatures hoId at Ieast as much appeaI as do exotic ones
from other Iands. And it gave him the idea of further ceIebrating America's naturaI
heritage by featuring specific states or regions across the country.

”It satisfies a sense of pride and beIonging when peopIe can recognize wiIdIife
from their IocaI area,” Stouffer cIaims. ”And even peopIe who don't Iive in that area
identify more stroneg with wiId animaIs when they see them in a distinct setting."

Some types of wiIdIife are found onIy in certain Iimited pIaces. But even among
those that are widespread, behavior patterns are simiIar. It is these patterns that
Stouffer -— and his audience -— find most fascinating: the unusuaI behavior of famiIiar
species, and the common behavior of rare or unusuaI species. And often an animaI fiImed
in one IocaIity can authenticaIIy represent the situation of that same animaI in other
parts of its range.

PENNSYLVANIA WHITETAIL, this season's premiere program, exempIifies this approach

MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD. "over--

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




N

CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA, Page 2

 

by taking a fresh Took at America's favorite symboT of the wde and number one big game
animaT. The NhitetaiT Deer, now found in aTmost every state but once nearTy eradicated
from severaT, has not onTy adapted to man, but, ironicaTTy, has stirred up controversy
in the wake of its success -- especiaTTy in popuTated states Tike PennsyTvania.

In some areas these eTegant deer have become so numerous that they damage crops or
timberTand, and sometimes overbrowse their habitat. "Farmers and Tumbermen woqu Tike
to see fewer deer, hunters and wdeTife watchers woqu Tike to see more,9 Stouffer says.
”But nobody agrees on how to keep them from becoming their own worst enemy.”

The program is set in PennsyTvania partTy because the Keystone State is
representative of deer management probTems in other states, and aTso because ”PennsyTvania
is typicaT of what's best about American Tife.” Though the NhitetaiT's Tife in the wde
is the main subject, many scenes depict ruraT and urban aspects of the state and its
citizens, portrayed in the warm Tight of down—home, famiTy—styTe Americans who are
concerned about wdeTife and determined to soTve the probTems of preserving it. (See
accompanying NhitetaiT feature articTe and photo.)

If PennsyTvania is a typicaT setting for the NhitetaiT, New York State provides a
grand setting for another endearing creature. OTTERS OF THE ADIRONDACKS shows a fun-
Toving pair of River Otters raising their equaTTy pTayfuT young in our country's Targest
parkTand south of ATaska. The Adirondack Park, owned by the peopTe of New York State, is
a six—and—one-han miTTion acre pTayground of forested mountains, pTacid Takes, and
tumbTing streams -- ideaT terrain for otters.

AstonishingTy, this huge State Park is Tocated onTy a few hours from downtown
Manhattan, and within a day's drive of fifty—five miTTion peopTe. ”An exceTTent pTace
to see wdeTife -— though otters aren't common," Stouffer says. ATthough his primary aim
is to deTight audiences with the habits and antics of this fresh—water cTown, Stouffer
says that the otter's Tife has a serious side, partly due to the effect of acid rain
on its spTendid but fragiTe habitat. (See accompanying Otter Portrait articTe.)

Yet another area of the eastern United States is featured in one of WILD AMERICA'S

 

han-hour episodes this season. An originaT 'ugTy duckTing' story, WOODIES AND HOODIES
-—over-—

 




CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA, Page 3

 

was fiImed at ten-thousand acre Iroquois NationaI NiIdTife Refuge in western New York
State. Stouffer says that one reason for so much focus on the wiIdIife of eastern
states is that in past years he was accused of doing the same thing with western ones.

“Besides,” he adds, ”WILD AMERICA has deveIoped a great foIIowing among east—coast

 

audiences, and I want our programs to reerct their interests.”

WOODIES AND HOODIES is designed to pIease not onIy eastern audiences, but bird-
Iovers everywhere, since the two ducks nicknamed in the titIe are widespread American
natives. This amusing, reaT-Iife taIe shows what happens when a Hooded Merganser hen
Iays one of her eggs in the nest of a Wood Duck —— a not-uncommon occurrence among
waterfowI which compete for nesting sites. In the resuTting mix-up, a TittIe ducinng
iTIustrates some poignant aspects of Iearned behavior cTashing with inherited instinct,
and provides intriguing insights into the different Iifesters of two of America's
most beautifuI species of ducks.

Though three of this season's programs are set in the eastern United States,
middIe America is by no means ignored. Stouffer expresses pride in presenting a program
devoted to the dramaticaIIy different Iife zones of WILD TEXAS. ”Texas,” he says,
”contains more types of wiIdIife habitat than any other state —— mountains, forests,
pIains, desert, swamp, and seacoast, to name a few.“

From Big Bend NationaI Park and the GuadaIupe Mountains in west Texas, the program
traveIs to PaTo Duro Canyon and the Staked PTains, across the Edwards PIateau and the

mysterious Cross Timbers area, to the Piney Woods and Big Thicket areas of east Texas.

Southward, it tours the brooding cypress swamps of the Gqu Coast and the arid brush

country of the Rio Grande PIain, ending at windswept Padre IsIand and the sea.
Action—fiIIed sequences show that the many creatures which feed, fight, mate, and
raise their young in these contrasting zones are as wiId and varied as the habitats in
which they have earned the right to survive. l“For viewers accustomed to seeing the
Lone Star State onIy as a Tand of rodeos, oiI gushers, and the Ewing famin,” Stouffer

remarks, "this program shoqu offer some surprises.”
--over--

 




CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA, Page 4

 

The open sweep of the nation's heartIand, both as it once was and as a fraction of

it couId yet remain, is featured in A PRAIRIE PARK? From Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan
west to the front range of the Rockies, the distinct regions of taITgrass, mixed, and
shortgrass prairies are examined as vanishing exampTes of America's originaT Iandscape.

Citing the need to preserve both a TaTIgrass Prairie and a Great PIains NationaI
Park, Stouffer shows where each might be Iocated -- the first in the FIint HiITs of
eastern Kansas or northern OkIahoma, and the second somewhere in the area where Montana,
Wyoming, and CoIorado Tine up with Nebraska and the Dakotas.

The great Pacific Northwest is visited in another program that bird-Iovers wiII
enjoy. THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHAWK, set in the Cascade Range of Oregon and Washington,
shows how two superbTy-adapted birds evoIved together -- the Goshawk as predator, the
Ruffed Grouse as prey -- against the magnificent backdrops of Crater Lake, Mount Rainier,
and North Cascades NationaI Parks. (See accompanying portrait article and photo.)

Last but hardIy Ieast, WILD AMERICA goes north to our wiIdest wdeerness -- Alaska —-

 

to Took at one of nature's most awesome happenings, in RIVER OF THE BEARS. Each summer,
America's Targest carnivores gather by the dozens to feast on a massive spawning run of
saTmon. Protected by the McNeiI River State Game Sanctuary, enormous AIaskan Brown
Bears stake out and defend fishing spots anng the river. Mothers give cubs their first
fishing Iessons, haIf-grown juveniIes practice comicaI triaI-and-error methods, beggar-
bears bow and scrape, and battIe—scarred on boars fight fiercer for territories.
(See accompanying feature articIe and photo.)

From New York to ATaska, from neighborhood backyards to the wiIdest wiIderness,
this PBS series ceIebrates aIT the beauty, drama, and diversity of our wiId creatures
and wiId pTaces. To the question “Where can I go to see wiIdife?" Marty Stouffer might

weII respond: “See it on WILD AMERICA.‘I

 

(See accompanying Program List for air dates and times of programs mentioned above.

PIease aIso check your IocaI Iistings.) # # #

 




Continuing in its fifth year as one of the highest-rated series on PBS,
WILD AMERICA premieres on Thursday, January 8th, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET
(check local listings). This season, the popular wildlife series opens
with a fresh look at how one of our all-time favorite wild animals thrives
in a densely populated state -- the PENNSYLVANIA WHITETAIL (bottom left).

Among WILD AMERICA'S ten new half-hour programs is an inspiring family
adventure, GROWING UP WILD, featuring host/narrator Marty Stouffer and
his young daughter Hannah (top right). In celebrating our wild heritage,
Marty travels to every corner of the country, including Alaska's RIVER OF
THE BEARS (bottom right) and the great Pacific Northwest, where he filmed
the dramatic story of THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHAWK (top left).

 




"IS WILDLIFE STILL WILD?“
FEATURE ARTICLE

Take a fresh look at America's all-time
favorite wild animal -- watch:

IE "PENNSYLVANIA WHITETAIL,” airing
‘jlhursday, January 8, 1987, at 8:00 p.m.
”,W’ET on PBS. (Please check local listings)

 

 

IS WILDLIFE STILL WILD?

 

With its proud antlers and alert gaze, the Whitetailed Deer is our most familiar
and well-loved symbol of the wild. It is also our number one big game animal, found in
almost every state. Ironically, lovers of Bambi and lovers of the hunt would agree that
there can hardly be too many Whitetails. Others -- farmers and timber growers -— might
well disagree. The Whitetail's ability to adapt to and thrive in man's world make its
success a source of controversy, especially in highly-populated eastern states.

Both sides of this dilemma are explored in PENNSYLVANIA WHITETAIL, the premiere

program in this year's WILD AMERICA series on PBS Television. Marty Stouffer, host and

 

narrator of the series, calls Pennsylvania “typical of what's best in American life,“ as
well as representative of the situation with the Whitetail. And the Whitetail, in turn,
typifies what has happened to many popular and protected species of wildlife, as well as
to others that are adaptable and prolific, if not protected.

”At the beginning of the century, hardly a Whitetail was left in Pennsylvania," says
Stouffer. "Now there are more than a million.” The cutting of woodlands and clearing of
land for farming have increased deer numbers by providing more marginal acreage for
browse. The lack of natural predators is another factor. "Since deer spend most of
their lives in an area of less than a square mile," explains Stouffer, "overpopulation
can make them their own worst enemy.”

PENNSYLVANIA WHITETAIL focuses as much on life in the wild as on management concerns,

however, as the program follows these elegant creatures through the seasons. In spring,

fawns learn essential lessons from their mothers, and we see a doe's concerned frustration

as one of her spotted twins is discovered by two lumbermen. Later, the fawns are filmed

as they frolic through a contented summer into fall -- the most dramatic season for the

Whitetail . MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD. --over--

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




IS WILDLIFE STILL WILD? Page 2

 

Action-fiTTed sequences depict each phase of these spectacuTar autumn events.
Magnificent bucks rub the veTvet from their antTers, poTish their gTeaming tines by
sparring with sapTings, then chaTTenge each other to cTashing battTes that often bring
both bucks to their knees. There can be onTy one winner, however, and the proud victor
is foTTowed through an intriguing series of scent-marking rituaTs as he courts and finaTTy
mates with a doe.

At the same time that the buck is perpetuating the vitaTity of his kind, his own Tife
is at risk. An integraT part of the drama of autumn in Pennsylvania is the hunting season,
which is seen as a necessary too] in managing this creature for its own weTfare, as weTT
as for man's purposes. This 'harvest,‘ as its caTTed, means that the WhitetaiT popuTation
in the Keystone State must repTenish itseTf by more than 130,000 deer each year, in order
to maintain its present numbers. This does not incTude the more than 25,000 deer kiTTed
annuaTTy on PennsyTvania's highways.

Institutions such as the Penn State Deer Research Center have put PennsyTvania at
the forefront of deer research, and among the many vitaT topics being investigated are
methods of preventing road sTaughter. But does such necessary research, aTong with
management practices Tike hunting, mean that the NhitetaiT is no Tonger reaTTy wild?

“It's the species that's managed,” Stouffer responds, "not the individuaT animaT."
Each WhitetaiT, he says, is just as free today as its ancestors were when onves and
cougars, instead of man, were their enemies and benefactors. Now as much as ever, each
deer must Tive by its quick instincts and aTert wits, its Tegendary steaTth and speed.

The WhitetaiT's Tife is not easy. PTagued by cTouds of biting fTies in summer,
hemmed in by highways and hounded through the hunting season, hard-put to find adequate
forage in winter, deer face variations of the same difficuTties that toughened them over
the centuries into the wiTy, resiTient creatures we admire so much today.

Stouffer admits to a simiTar admiration for the Keystone State and its citizens.

While supervising the extensive fier research that preceded the fiTming of PENNSYLVANIA

WHITETAIL, he was attracted by the bTend of ruraT/agricuTturaT and urban/industriaT

--over--

 




IS WILDLIFE STILL WILD? Page 3

 

landscape that has drawn so many people to the state, and by how much wildness still

,exists in areas like the Allegheny National Forest, where much of the filming was done.
Stouffer was impressed by Cook State Park, one of the last remaining examples of

the endless virgin forest that greeted the first white settlers. Scenes of the Park's

brooding woodland appear in the film to illustrate the fact that there are probably more

Whitetails today than there were when two-hundred-foot trees shut out most of the sunlight

from the forest floor, preventing the growth of edible shrubbery.

Muddy Run, a recreational area maintained by Philadelphia Electric along the lovely

Susquehanna River, provides a stark example of the effects of deer overbrowsing an area
in which they were fenced. The fence was raised, but the deer refused to leave, and when
this remedy failed a limited but controversial hunting season reduced the Whitetails to
numbers that could be somewhat better supported by an enclosed habitat.

In the effort to remain impartial on a sensitive subject, Stouffer balances the
evidence of overbrowsing at Muddy Run with scenes of families picnicking and children
splashing in the river. This adds to the program's overall effect of showing Pennsylvania
and its people as typical of down—home America. High school softball, hardware stores in
hunting season, and tractors plowing rich farmland along the Susquehanna, combine with
sequences like orphaned fawns being bottle-fed at a deer rehabilitation center near State
College, to say that here are people who cherish the outdoors and its wildlife and are
determined to preserve their heritage.

It's a heritage that includes the Liberty Bell, displayed at Independence National
Historic Park in Philadelphia, where the program's introduction was filmed. Stouffer says
that he could have set a less positive tone with the film -- ”after all, Three Mile Island
is as famous as the Liberty Bell" -— but believes that "better results are achieved with
honey than with vinegar.” Preferring to inspire rather than condemn, Stouffer relates the
Liberty Bell as a symbol of freedom to the Whitetail as a symbol of the wild. Though
conditions have changed and pressures are greater, he concludes that in the case of the
Whitetail, wildlife is alive and well and as wild as ever. # # #

(See accompanying CELEBRATING WILD AMERICA feature article, photo page, and program listing)

 




MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

November 1986

Greetings:

We are pleased to announce the fifth season of the Public Television series
WILD AMERICA. The series will premiere nationally on Thursday, January 8, 1987,
at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time. For the day and time in your area, please refer to
your local PBS listings or call your local PBS station. WILD AMERICA is made
possible by the Public Television stations and is aired by the Public Broadcasting
Service (PBS).

 

 

We feel that the ten new half—hour programs in this season's WILD AMERICA
reflect our continuing commitment to excellence in wildlife filmmaking, and we
hope that you will take the opportunity to watch them when they air.

 

If you would like to preview one or more of the programs before the air
date, please let me know. I'll be glad to send you a 3/4” videocassette of any
of the programs you'd like to see.

Also, we would be glad to provide color transparencies or additional black-
and—white photos upon request.

If you are interested in a phone interview with Marty Stouffer, popular host
of WILD AMERICA, please call Susan Johnson for an appointment, and we will try to
schedule one for a convenient date.

 

Sincerely, ~

g“ (7 ,4
KarenChameET:::‘£; ‘7‘\\\\‘T\Tf>

Publicity Coordinator

KC/scj
Enclosure

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, U.S.A. 303 925-5536

100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




The dramatic story of two birds evoTving
together as predator and prey:

“THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHANK” airing Thursday,
February 26, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET on PBS.
(PTease check your TocaT Tistings.)

PORTRAIT: THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHAWK AS PREY AND PREDATOR

 

In the shadow of the Cascades in Washington and Oregon, there Tive two birds.

They are the Goshawk, a powerfuT predator that Tives high in trees and on the wing, and
the Ruffed Grouse, a ground—dweTTer that fTies in short, quick bursts or burrows into
snow to escape capture. EquaTTy weTT adapted to Tive in the Northern woods, one is a
hunter, the other the hunted. Both have short, rounded wings that make them strong,
fast, and agiTe in fTight, and both are keen-sighted and resourcefuT.

Not onTy are these two birds intimateTy interconnected, they are both dependent on
the Aspen. This sTender, siTver-barked tree is the most wide-spread of a11 North American
trees. In spring the Ruffed Grouse feed aTmost echusiveTy on its Tong protein-rich
fTowers, or catkins, which heTp fatten them for the upcoming mating season. The Goshawk
depends on the Aspen for nesting sights and hunting perches.

The program, THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHANK, is their story through the seasons, from
spring when a Goshawk pair brings fresh-kiTTed prey to its singTe downy offspring in a
high nest, whiTe the mother Grouse broods her group of chicks on the fern-covered forest
fToor. The growing Goshawk is foTTowed as it fTedges into its juveniTe feathers and
eventuaTTy Teaves its parents to hunt on its own.

Young Goshawks have a great deaT to Tearn, and as many as han of them die during
their first year. The ones that do survive that criticaT time wiTT take their pTace as
predators in a baTanced ecosystem, removing Tess fit grouse from the breeding popuTation.
When spring comes again onTy the best of both birds wiTT perpetuate their Tine, and in

the Tong term it is this -— and not the individuaT —— that is of most importance as they

evoTve together. (See accompanying photo and program Tisting above.) # # #

MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, U.S.A. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




It's her man speTTbound for centuries,
and it wiTI capture your imagination, too
—- it's the fascinating, coTorfuT...

”KING OF SNAKES," airing Thursday,

January 22, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET on PBS.
(PIease check your TocaI PBS Iistings.)

ANIMAL PORTRAIT: THE KINGSNAKE

 

They give us the wiTTies, they give us the chiTTs -- but our age-01d fear of snakes
is often just the reverse side of our fascination with them. In the case of poisonous
species, there is good reason to be wary, but the severaI types of North American

kingsnakes are as harmTess as they are handsome. Their coTor patterns range from bright,

bon stripes and bands to gIossy ebony, and their behavior patterns are equaTTy striking.

Few creatures dine on rattTesnakes, but the kingsnake wiTT readiTy constrict and
devour one of these poisonous serpents -— even one Ionger and Targer than itseIf. This
and other amazing events in the kingsnake's Iife are captured on fiTm in KING OF SNAKES,

a unique and intriguing episode in this season's WILD AMERICA series on PBS TeIevision.

 

Marty Stouffer, host of the series, says that “though the kingsnake aggressiveiy
attacks rattTesnakes, it's dociIe enough to easin be tamed as a pet.” The program's
opening sequence dramaticaITy demonstrates these aggressive tendencies, as two maIe
kingsnakes cross paths whiIe pursuing a femaTe. The resuTt is a writhing, twisting
wrestIing match, with the rivaIs intertwined Tike Iiving corkscrews.

By contrast, a remarkabTy gentTe and sensuous mating rituaT ensues, in which the
maIe courts the femaIe, then fertiIizes her by Tocking the spines of his reproductive
organ within her genitaT opening. A Tater sequence shows the product of such a union:
baby kingsnakes aIT emerging from their Teathery eggs simuTtaneousTy, and immediateiy
scattering to avoid attracting predators to the nest site.

Snakes are the onTy reptiTes that grow by shedding their skins aTT in one piece -—
a rarer-observed event shown here cTose-up and in detaiT. The oId skin is Teft behind,
inside out, a coTorIess remnant of a coTorfuT creature, one that weIT deserves its titIe

of the KING OF SNAKES. (See above program Tisting for airdate and time.) # # #
MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




Join in the adventures of a fun-Ioving,
fur—bearing family of four - don't miss:

”OTTERS OF THE ADIRONDACKS," airing

Thursday, March 5, 1987, at 8:00 p.m. ET
on PBS. (PIease check your IocaI Iistings.)

THE RIVER OTTER: AN ANIMAL PORTRAIT

 

If pIayfuIness is a measure of inteIIigence, River Otters must be among the smartest
of a1] wiId animaIs. As gracefuI in the water as they are on Iand, these strong, energetic
members of the weaseI famin seem to deIight in making a game of everything. They'II
chase after a pebee, a sheII, or each other for hours, and their favorite activity is
body-sIedding down a inppery sIope and Ianding with a beIIy-rop in the water. Often
found in the same territory with beavers, they've been known to swim up and mischievoust
tweak the fIat tails of their more businesinke neighbors.

Marty Stouffer, host of the popuIar PBS series WILD AMERICA, cIaims that "if it

 

isn't fun, an otter just won't do it.” But, he adds, ”the otter has a serious side, too.”
It's a skiIIed and cIever hunter, feeding on fish, crayfish, frogs, insects, and whatever
eIse opportunity brings to its aIert attention -— frequentIy pIaying with its prey
before making a meaI of it.

Otters are aIso devoted parents, unusuaI among mammaIs in that when the young are
weaned and 01d enough to Ieave their riverbank den, the maIe often joins the femaIe to
heIp in raising his offspring. Young otters do not take wiIIineg to water at first,

but coaxed by their parents, these fresh-water cIowns quickIy Iearn the pIeasures of

swimming and diving. With their streamIined bodies, webbed feet, and rudder—Iike taiIs,

the adept aquanauts can reach speeds of seven miIes per hour underwater, and depths of
thirty-five feet or more.

Found over most of North America, otters are adaptabIe roamers that may traveI
fifteen miIes a day, foIIowing rivers and streams in search of food -— and fun. Marty
Stouffer shares his fascination with these appeaIing creatures in OTTERS OF THE

ADIRONDACKS. (See above program Iisting.) # # #
MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA. 303 925-5536
100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




W1 L)
ERICA

The White-tailed Deer is our most familiar and well—loved
symbol of the wild - and it is our number one big game animal.
Surprisingly, in states like Pennsylvania, its very popularity
also makes it one of the most controversial of wild animals.
Just as the Keystone State exemplifies what is best about
American life, so the abundance of Whitetail here proves that,
with human help, certain wildlife_gan thrive in man's world.
In following this lovely Deer through the seasons of the year
and the seasons of its life, we learn how it has come to
epitomize the history of game management in America.

 

WOODIES AND HOODIES January 15, 1987 8:00 pm ET

 

Two of the world's most beautiful ducks are North American
natives. One, the exquisitely-marked Wood Duck, or ”Woody,”
dabbles on plant life near the surface of lakes and ponds.
The other, the elegant Hooded Merganser, or ”Hoody,” makes
its living by diving for fish. This difference in lifestyles
leads to some amusing and revealing events when territories
overlap and female Woodies and Hoodies lay their eggs in

each other's nests. We follow a mother Woody at Iroquois
National Wildlife Refuge in New York as she tries to cope
with raising a mixed brood of both divers and dabblers.

KING OF SNAKES January 22, 1987 8:00 pm ET

In a confrontation with a Rattlesnake, this snake will win.
It seizes the Rattler's head, then wraps itself firmly around
the Rattler and constricts it. Later, unharmed because it is
immune to the Rattlesnake's venom, it swallows its victim
whole. What is this amazing serpent? It is the Kingsnake.
Undisputably a reigning monarch among reptiles, the Kingsnake
is also a world-class beauty, with its medley of patterns and
colors ranging from bold stripes and bands to glossy ebony.
This program covers the combat, mating, egg hatching, and
feeding behavior of several species of Kingsnakes.

[annyuggug January 29, l987 8:00 pm ET

Is there a peaceable kingdom? Not really. Wild animals
have ”sibling rivalries“ just like humans. Ironically,
related species compete more frequently and more intensely
than do non—related species. These family conflicts can

be common - even fatal — when it comes to the crucial
concerns of food, territory, or affection... and it's not
always the larger or more powerful “cousin” that wins!

The reasons for, and the resolutions of, these animal
arguments are examined here, in this unusual program that
offers intriguing insights into animal behavior in the wild.

RIVER OF THE BEARS February 5, 1987 8:00 pm ET

 

Every summer when Pacific Salmon make their massive spawning
run, a great gathering of the largest carnivores in North
America also takes place. Up to a hundred huge Brown Bears
line up along the McNeil River in Alaska to feast on this
unsurpassed bounty of seafood. Each Bear stakes out and
defends its fishing territory. Among the cast of characters
followed during this four-week frenzy of feeding are two sows
with their playful cubs, an old battle—scarred boar that may
not return again, and several impetuous juveniles with their
comical trial—and-error fishing styles.

As listed below, the fifth season
of WILD AMERICA will be broadcast
nationally by PBS on

PLEASE NOTE:

THURSDAY EVENINGS AT 8:00 PM EASTERN TIME

These airdates and times will vary. For
the scheduling of WILD AMERICA in your area,
please check your local listings.

WILDmTEKAS February 12, 1987 8:00 pm ET‘

From Big Thicket in the east to Big Bend in the west, the
state of Texas is big. It is also wild and incredibly varied.
Within this one state, there exist at least six dramatically
different life zones — desert mountains, flat grasslands,

hill country, brush country, piney woods, and swamplands.

The myriad of wild creatures that have adapted to live within
these contrasting habitats is equally fascinating. For
viewers accustomed to seeing the Lone Star State as a land of
rodeos, oil gushers, and the Ewing family, this look at its
little-known wild areas promises many delightful surprises.

-A PRAIRIE PARK? February 19, 1987 8:00 pm ET

 

Two hundred years ago, unbroken prairie stretched across more
than lODO miles of America's heartland. Today, little remains
of that vast expanse where not only Deer and Antelope, but Elk,
Bison, Bears and Wolves, once roamed. Can we afford to protect
a portion of what is left of our national heritage, or must all
of our birthright disappear under the plows of progress? This
program takes an in-depth look at prairie ecosystems, and
examines the long—cherished dream that national land preserves
dedicated to the Great Plains and Tallgrass Prairie might
someday become a living reality.

THE GROUSE AND THE GOSHAWK February 26, 1987 8:00 pm ET

 

Some predators and their prey have evolved in unison. They
are so closely matched that every day is an “animal Olympics.“
Intimately linked in such an essential symbiosis are two birds
- the Goshawk and the Ruffed Grouse. Many predators pursue
the Grouse, but none is so well-adapted to catch it as is the
Goshawk. While the Goshawk has evolved into the essence of
capture, the Grouse has perfected escape, with its short
powerful wings. This is the story of the unerringly precise
natural balance between the hungry and the hunted, filmed in
the Cascades of Oregon and Washington.

OTTERS OF THE ADIRONDACKS March 5, 1987 8:00 pm ET

 

Graceful, powerful, and - above all - playful... is the
endearing River Otter. This program is a portrait of these
energetic creatures, set against the backdrop of our

nation's largest park in the Adirondacks Mountains of

upstate New York. From tumbling streams to placid lake
shores, this freshwater clown seems to find fun wherever it
travels. It's an adept aquanaut with a fondness for sliding.
But the Otter has a serious side, too. It is a skilled
hunter and a faithful parent. Every aspect of its existence
in this Eastern mountain wilderness is explored here.

GRQWINGMDPmWIED March l2, 1987 8:00 pm ET

Family camping trips take on an added degree of interest,
now that Marty and Diane Stouffer's daughter Hannah is old
enough to keep up with her parents. There's fun to be had
and lessons to be learned as Marty shares with Hannah the
secrets of the wild creatures and wild places he loves.
The parallels between growing up wild and growing up human
are examined as Hannah begins to explore and test her
environment, and we see how a child's enormous capacity to
learn from the natural world is one of humankind's most
precious inborn gifts.

MARTY STOUFFER PRODUCTIONS LTD.

300 SOUTH SPRING STREET

ASPEN, COLORADO 81611, USA.

303 925-5536

100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




‘i,

"""""§TENY H. HOYER

APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
5TH DISTRICT. MARYLAND

TREASURY, POSTAL SERVICE,
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
DEMOCRATIC STEERING

mm... Conﬁrm of thz ﬁﬂnitzd 5mm um.

HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
CO-CIIAIRMAN

, EOUCATION
COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND ﬂange 0f Rmfﬁﬁmtﬂtmﬁﬁ .'
’ﬂDashingtun, BBC 20515

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
COOPERATION IN EUROPE

March 7, 1986

Ms. Ethel L. Minter
3803 Blackwater Road
Clinton, Maryland 20735

Dear Ms. Minter,

Thank ou for our letter concerning a variety of legisla-
tion addresZing animal welfare and protection. During thedsecond
session of the 99th Congress, I will certainly bear in min ygur
thoughts on bills such as H.R. 1809, a bill I have cosponsore ,
which would prohibit the use of steel-jaw leghold traps.

Throughout my career as the elected representative 3f tgzn
Fifth Congressional District of Maryland,'I haye endorse a f
on such traps. Indeed, many of my colleagues in the Hons: o
Representatives and I wrote to Congressman Henry Waxmin 0d the
California, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Healt. an
Environment of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, in a
successful effort to obtain hearings on this legislation.

Again, thanking you for writing and with kindest regards,
I am

Sincerely yours,

STENY H. H ‘

 




GHQUP
“Egg?

WJZ-TV l3

TELEVISION HILL, BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21211 (301) 466—0013 WESTINGHOUSE BROADCASTING AND CABLE. INC-

JOHN J. SPINOLA
Vice President and General Manager 6 March 1986

Ms. E. L. Minter
3803 Black Water Road
Clinton, Maryland 20735

Dear Ms. Minter:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning WJZ—TV's

EYEWITNESS NEWS "puppy segment." While it is not uncommon

to receive mail critical of what we do, notes such as yours
are rare -—-and, therefore, all the more pleasant. We enjoy
doing this segment and are pleased with the results -—-both
on and off—air. We have been informed by Defenders of Animal
Rights that they have had a 100% adoption rate for the puppies
introduced on the air, and a substanial increase in overall
adoptions. Several people here at WJZ have even participated.

Thank you again for taking the time to write. We do
appreciate it.

Group W Television - Group W Radio - Group W Cable
Filmation Associates - Group W Productions - Group W Satellite Communications - Group W Television Sales
Home Theater Network . Muzak - Group W Radio Sales - TVSC

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

125. Western Avenue
Boston
Messaehusetts 02134
817 .192 2777

Telex 710 331} 12-10

Produced for PBS 1Jy:
KCTS Seattle
WGBH Boston
WNET New York
WPBT tiami
WTVS Detroit

 

MAN'S BEST FRIENDS
PBS airdate: Monday, June 18, 8pm, 60 minutes

Almost 100 million animals are used—-some say sacrificed—~every year in United

States laboratories, hospitals and medical schools.

In the past 10 years, an animal rights movement has emerged in this

country which challenges the right of man to “oppress" other species. Some
advocates of animal rights say "speciesism" is the same as racism, and are
calling for a halt to most laboratory experiments using any form of animal

life.

Many scientists, on the other hand, claim that laboratory animals are
well cared for on the whole, and that experiments are necessary for human

progress and survival.

Both sides of these ethical questions are explored in "Man‘s Best
Friends," a documentary airing on FRONTLINE Monday, June 18 at 8pm on PBS

(check local listings).

This program will close the spring portion of FRONTLINE'S second

season. FRONTLINE will return in October 1984.

In "Man's Best Friends," FRONTLINE examines animal rights groups that
are often well-financed and well organized. They have marched: picketed,
protested and sometimes interrupted laboratory experiments to "liberate" dogs
and cats. One activist infiltrated a laboratory and had the scientist
arrested for cruelty to animals. Eight states have passed measures forbidding

scientists to take animals from local pounds.

In "Man's Best Friends," scientists contest the statements of animal
rights activists. One doctor, who has experimented on monkeys, shows patients

with head injuries he says have benefitted from animal experiments.

~more—

 




Man's Best Friends
Page 2

The needs of scientists for animals has spawned a massive business. A
mouse can cost $10, a baby chimpanzee $10,000. This industry includes

large companies, such as Charles River Breeding Labs, Inc., as well as small

backyard operations.

While the USDA has responsibility for enforcing the Animal Welfare Act
of 1976, serious questions are raised about the government's ability to

regulate the sprawling and profitable laboratory animal business.

"What are the needs of animals in relationship to the needs of
science?," ask Steven Fischler and Joel Sucher, co—producers of "Man's Best

Friends."

"We wanted to do a film about animal rights because it poses these
ethical questions. They are questions with no easy answers. Yet, they are

rapidly emerging as issues of public controversy," the co—producers add.

FRONTLINE is produced by a consortium of public television stations:
KCTS Seattle; WGBH Boston; WNET New York; WPBT Miami, and WTVS Detroit. The
series is funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and public

television stations.

The executive producer for FRONTLINE is David Fanning.

#####

April 1984

Press contacts:

Judy Newman 617/492—2777

Marcy De Veaux 617/492-2777

Wilma Hill 212/759-8851

Gene Nichols Associates 212/245-0460

 




PBS Stations/ Alphabetical List by State

If you would like to see PET ACTION LINE car-
ried on your PBS station, please call or write the
General Manager or Program Director serving

ALASKA

Executive Director
KAKM—TV

2651 Providence Dr.
Anchorage, AK 99504
(907) 276-7070

Program Manager
KYUK—TV

P.O. Box 468
Bethel, AK 99559
(907) 543—2644

Program Director
KTOO-TV

224 Fourth Street
juneau, AK 99801
(907) 586—1670

ALABAMA

Programming Director
Alabama ETV Commission
2101 Magnolia Ave.
Birmingham, AL 35205
(205) 328—8756

ARKANSAS

Program Administration
Arkansas ETV Commission
350 S. Donaghey St.
Conway, AR 72032

(501) 329-3887

ARIZONA

Program Manager
KAET—TV

Arizona State University
Tempe, AZ 85281

(602) 965-3506

Program Manager
KUAT—TV
University of Arizona
Tucson, AZ 85721
(602) 626—1434

CALIFORNIA

Director of Programming
KEET—TV

P.O. Box 13

Eureka, CA 95501

(707) 445—0813

Program Manager
KMTF—TV

733 L St.

Fresno, CA 93721
(209) 488—3288

your area.

Director of Programming
KOCE—TV

P.O. Box 2476

Huntington Beach, CA 92647
(714) 895—5623

Program Manager
KCET—TV

4401 Sunset Blvd.

Los Angeles, CA 90012
(213) 667—9226

Program Director
KIXE—TV

P.O. Box 9
Redding, CA 96001
(916) 241-7900

Program Director
KVIE—TV

P.O. Box 6
Sacramento, CA 95801
(916) 929—5843

Director of Programming
KVCR—TV

701 S. Mt. Vernon

San Bernardino, CA 92430
(714) 888-6511

Program Director
KPBS—TV

San Diego State University
San Diego, CA 92182
(714) 265—5714

Programming

KQED, Inc.

500 8th St.

San Francisco, CA 94103
(415) 864—2000

Program Manager
KTEH—TV

100 Skyport Dr.
San Jose, CA 95110
(408) 299-2754

Station Manager
KCSM-TV

1700 W. Hillsdale
San Mateo, CA 94402
(415) 574-6586

COLORADO

Director of Programming
KRMA—TV

1261 Glenarm Pl.
Denver, CO 80204

(303) 892—6666

Program Manager
KTSC—TV

2200 Bonforte Blvd.
Pueblo, CO 81004
(303) 543-8800

CONNECTICUT
Program Director
WEDW—TV/Channel 49
N. Benson Road
Fairﬁeld, CT 06430
(203) 255—5411

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Program Director

WHMM, Channel 32

2600 4th St., NW
Washington, DC 20059
(202) 636—7830

Program Manager
WETA—TV

P.O. Box 2626
Washington, DC 20013
(703) 998—2600

FLORIDA

WUFT—TV Program Director
University of Florida

234 Stadium Bldg.
Gainesville, FL 32011

(904) 392—4717

Director of Programming
WJCT—TV

2037 Main St.
Jacksonville, FL 32207
(904) 354-2806

Vice Pres. for Programming
WPBT—TV

P.O. Box 2

Miami, FL 33161

(305) 949-8321

Dir. Info. Services
WIRN—TV

1410 NE 2nd Ave.
Miami, FL 33132
(305) 350—3253

Program Director
WMFE—TV

11510 E. Colonial Dr.
Orlando, FL 32807
(305) 273-2300

Station Manager
WSRE-TV

1000 College Blvd.
Pensacola, FL 32504
(904) 476—5418

Program Manager
WFSU—TV

202 Dodd Hall,
Florida State University
Tallahassee, FL 32306
(904) 644—1736

Director of Programming
WEDU-TV

1300 North Blvd.
Tampa, FL 33607

(813) 253-2736

Program Director
WUSF—TV

4202 Fowler Ave.
Tampa, FL 33620
(813) 974-4000

GEORGIA

Program Director
WGTV—TV Athens/ Atlanta
Univ. of Georgia

Athens, GA 30602

(404) 542—3554

Director of Programming
Georgia ETV Network
1540 Stewart Ave.
Atlanta, GA 30310
(404) 656—5979

HAWAII

Program Manager
KHET—TV

2350 Dole St.
Honolulu, HI 96822
(808) 955—7878

IOWA

Director of Programming
Iowa Ed. Broadcast Network
P.O. Box 1758

Des Moines, IA 50306
(515) 281—4500

IDAHO

Program Manager
KAID—TV

1910 College Blvd.
Boise, ID 83725
(208) 385—3344

Program Manager
KUID—TV

Radio TV Center,
University of Idaho
Moscow, ID 83843
(208) 885—6723

Program Director

KBGL—TV

Box 8111, Idaho
State University

Pocatello, ID 83201

(208) 236-2857

 




ILLINOIS

Program Manager
WSIU—TV

Illinois Univ. Comm. Bldg.
Carbondalc, IL 62901
(618) 453-4343

Program Manager

Central Educational Network
5400 N. St. Louis Ave.
Chicago, IL 60625

(312) 583-5000

Director of Broadcasting
W'ITW—TV

5400 N. St. Louis Ave.
Chicago, IL 60625
(312) 583—5000

Program Manager
1501 W. Bradley Ave.
Peoria, IL 60625
(309) 676—4747

Asst. Mgr. for TV
WILL—TV

1110 W. Main St.
Urbana, IL 61801
(217)333—1070 '

INDIANA

Supervisor of Programming
WTIU—TV

Radio—TV Bldg. , Ind. Univ.
Bloomington, IN 47401
(812)337—8000

Program Manager
WNIN-TV

9201 Petersburg Rd.
Evansville, IN 47711
(812)867—6471

Director of Programming
WFYI—TV

1440 N. Meridian St.
Indianapolis, IN 46202
(317)261—0500

Program Director
WIPB—TV

, 246 Minnetrista Blvd.
Muncie, IN 47303
(317)285—4771

Program Director
WNIT—TV

P.O. Box 34

South Bend, IN 46624
(219) 234—3434

Program Director

W V U I-TV

P.O. Box 389
Vincennes University
Vincennes, IN 47591
(812)882—2237

KANSAS

Operations 8: Programs
KTWU—TV

301 N. Wanamaker
Topeka, KS 66604
(913)272-8181

Exec. Director
Kansas PTV Board
503 Kansas Ave.
Topeka, KS 66603
(913)272—8181

Program Director
KPTS-TV

P.O. Box 288
Wichita, KS 67202
(316) 838-3090

KENTUCKY

Program Director
Kentucky Auth. for ETV
600 Cooper Dr.
Lexington, KY 40502
(606) 233-0666

Programming Ofﬁce
WKPC—TV

P.O. Box 1515
Louisville, KY 40201
(502) 456—3561

LOUISIANA

Director of Broadcasting
Louisiana TV Network
626 N. 4th St.

Baton Rouge, LA 70804
(504)342—5822

Program Director
WYES—TV

P.O. Box 24026

New Orleans, LA 70184
(504) 468—5511

MASSACHUSETTS
Program Manager
WGBH—TV

125 Western Ave.
Boston, MA 02134
(617) 492—2777

Dir., Prog. Operation
WGBY—TV

44 Hampden St.
Springﬁeld, MA 01103
(413)781—2801

MARYLAND

Director of Programming
MD Ctr. for Pub. B’casting
Owings Mills, MD 21117
(301) 356—5600

MAINE

Director of Programming
WCBB—TV

1450 Lisbon St.
Lewiston, ME 04240
(207)783—9101

Director of Programming
Main Pub. B’casting Network
Alumni Hall, Univ. of Maine
Orono, ME 04473

(207) 866—4493

MICHIGAN
Program Director
WGVC—TV

301 Manitou Hall
Allendale, MI 49401
(616) 895—6691

Director of Programming
W I V S—TV

7441 2nd Blvd.

Detroit, MI 48202
(313)873-7200

Programming

600 Kalamazoo St.

E. Lansing, MI 48824
(517) 355—2300

Station Manager
WNMU—TV

No. Michigan Univ.
Marquette, MI 49855
(906)227—1300

Program Director
WCMU—TV

Central Michigan Univ.
Mt. Pleasant, MI 48859
(517)774-3105

KUCM—TV Program Manager
Delta College

Delta Rd.

University Center, MI 48710
(517)686—9000

MINNESOTA
Program Manager
KWCM—TV

128 W. Sorenson
Appleton, MN 56208
(612) 289—1640

Coordinator of ITV
KAVT—TV

1900 8th Ave., NW
Austin, MN 55912
(507) 433—6000

KAWE—TV Program Director
No. Minnesota PTV, Inc.
c/o Bemidji State Univ.
Bemidji, MN 56601
(218)751—3407

Asst. Gen. Mgr.
WDSE—TV

1202 E. Univ. Circle
Duluth, MN 55802
(218)727—8734

Program Coordinator
KTCA/KTCI—TV
1640 Como Ave.

St. Paul, MN 55108
(612) 646—4611

MISSOURI

Program Manager
KCPT—TV

125 E. 3lst St.

Kansas City, MO 64108
(816) 756—3580

Program Director
KOZK—TV

P .O. Box 21
Springﬁeld, MO 65801
(417)865—2100

Program Director
KETC—TV

6996 Millbrook Blvd.
St. Louis, MO 63130
(314) 725—2460

KMOS—TV Program Manager
Cent. Missouri State Univ.
P.O. Box 21

Warrensburg, MO 64093
(816) 429—4155

MISSISSIPPI

Director of Programming
Miss. Authority for ETV
P.O. Drawer 1101
jackson, MS 39205

(601) 982—6565

NORTH CAROLINA
Program Director
UNC TV Network

202 Univ. Sq. West
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
(919) 933—8191

Program Manager
WTVI—TV

42 Coliseum
Charlotte, NC 28205
(704)372—2442

NORTH DAKOTA
Programming
KFME—TV

4500 S. University
Fargo, ND 58102
(701)232—8921

 




NEBRASKA
Network Program Manager
Nebraska ETV Commission
PO. Box 83111
Lincoln, NE 68501
(402) 472—3611

NEW HAMPSHIRE
Program Manager
New Hampshire PTV
P.O. Box Z
Durham, NH 03824
(603)862—1047

NEW JERSEY

Director of Programming
NJ. Pub. B’casting Auth.
1573 Parkside Ave.
Trenton, NJ 08638
(609)292-5252

NEW MEXICO

General Manager, KNME—TV
1130 University Blvd.
Albuquerque, NM 87131
(505)277—2121

Promotion Director
KRWG—TV

New Mexico State Univ.
Las Cruces, NM 88003
(505)646—2212

Program Director
KENW—TV

Eastern New Mexico
Portales, NM 88130
(505)562—1011

NEVADA
Programming
KLVX—TV

4210 Channel 10 Dr.
Las Vegas, NV 89109
(702)737—1010

NEW YORK

Director of Programming
WNED—TV

P.O. Box 1263

Buffalo, NY 14240
(716)881—5000

Program Manager
WSKG—TV

PO. Box 97
Endwell, NY 13760
(607) 754—4777

Program Manager
WCNY—TV

536 Old Liverpool Rd.
Liverpool, NY 13088
(315) 457-0440

Vice President, Programming
WNET—TV

365 W. 58th St‘.

New York, NY 10019

(212) 560—2000

Promotion Director
WNYC—TV

2533 Municipal Bldg.
New York, NY 10007
(212)566—3101

WLIW—TV Program Director
1425 Old Country Rd.
Plainview, NY 11803
(516)222—2140

Program Manager
WCFE—TV

c/o St. University College
Plattsburgh, NY 12901
(518) 563—9774

Manager, TV
WXXI—TV

P.O. Box 21
Rochester, NY 14601
(716) 325—7500

Program Manager
WMHT—TV

P.O. Box 17
Schenectady, NY 12301
(518) 356—1700

General Manager
WNPE—TV

P.O. Box 114
Watertown, NY 13601
(315)782-3142

OHIO

WOUB Program Director
Radio—TV Comm. Bldg.
Ohio University

Athens, OH 45701
(614)594—5682

Program Manager
WBGU—TV

Bowling Green St. Univ.
Bowling Green, OH 43403
(419) 372—0121

Program Director
WECT—TV

1223 Central Pkwy.
Cincinnati, OH 45214
(513) 381—4033

President 8: Gen. Mgr.
WVIZ—TV

4300 Brookpark Rd.
Cleveland, OH 44134
(216)398—2800

Program Coordinator
Ohio ETV Commission
3470 North Star Rd.
Columbus, OH 43221
(614)421—1714

Station Manager
WOSU—TV

2400 Olentangy River
Columbus, OH 43210
(614) 422—9678

Director of Programming
WPDT Dayton

3440 Ofﬁce Park Dr.
Dayton, OH 45439
(513)298—9500

Development Director
WNEO-TV

275 Martinel Dr.
Kent, OH 44720
(216) 678—1656

Director of Programming
WGTE—TV

415 N. St. Clair St.
Toledo, OH 43604

(419) 255—3330

OKLAHOMA

Program Director
Oklahoma ETV Authority
7403 N. Kelly Ave.
Oklahoma City, OK 73114
(402) 255—3330

OREGON

Director, Program/Prod.
KOAC—TV

303 Covell Hall
Corvallis, OR 97331
(503)754—4311

Exec. Vice Pres. 8r Gen. Mgr.

KSYS—TV

34 South Fir
Medford, OR 97501
(503) 772—3122

Dir. of Frog. 8: Prod.
KOAP—TV

2828 SW Front Ave.
Portland, OR 97201

(503) 229—4892

PENNSYLVANIA
Program Director
WLVT-TV

S. Mountain Dr.
Bethlehem, PA 18015
(215)867—4677

Program Director
WQLN-TV

8425 Peach St.
Erie, PA 16509
(814) 868-4654

Program Director
WITF—TV

P.O. Box Z
Hershey, PA 17033
(717)533—8000

WHYY Vice Pres., Programming
Independence Mall W.

150 N. 6th St.

Philadelphia, PA 19106
(215)351-1200

Director of Programming
WQED—TV

4802 5th Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412)622—1300

Asst. Gen. Mgr/Broadcasting
WVIA—TV

Public Broadcasting Ctr.
Pittston, PA 18640

(717) 826-6144

Asst. Dir. of B’casting
Service — WPSX—TV
Wagner Annex

University Park, PA 16802
(814) 865—9531

RHODE ISLAND
Director of Programming
WSBE—TV

24 Mason St.
Providence, RI 02903
(401)831—2900

SOUTH CAROLINA
Program Manager
WWj—TV

P.O. Box 1165
Beaufort, SC 29902
(803) 524—0808

Director of Programming
SCETV Commission/WRLK
Drawer L

2712 Millwood Ave.
Columbia, SC 29250

(803) 758-7208

Program Manager
WNSC—TV

P.O. Box 11766
Rockhill, SC 29730
(803) 324-3184

Program Manager
WRJA—TV

15 N. Harvin St.
Sumter, SC 29150
(803) 773-5546

SOUTH DAKOTA
Program Manager
KUSK—TV

310 E. Clark St.
Vermillion, SD 57069
(605) 677—5277

 




TENNESSEE
Development Director
WSJK—TV

209 Comm. Bldg.
Knoxville, TN 37916
(615)974—5281

Program Director
WKNO—TV

Box 80000
Memphis, TN 38152
(901)458—2521

Program Director
WDCN—TV

PO. Box 12555
Nashville, TN 37212
(615) 259-9325

TEXAS

TV Program Director
KLRU—TV

PO. Box 7158
'Austin, TX 78712
(512)471—4811

Station Manager
KAMU—TV

New ETV Bldg. , TX A&M
College Station, TX 77843
(713)845—1526

Station Manager
KEDT—TV

PO. Box 416

Corpus Christi, TX 78403
(512) 855—2213

Vice Pres. of Programming
KERA—TV

3000 Harry Hines Blvd.
Dallas, TX 75201

(214) 744—1300

Development Director
KCOS—TV

P.O. Box 146

El Paso, TX 79942
(915)532—6013

Program Manager
KUHT—TV

4513 Cullen Blvd.
Houston, TX 77004
(713) 748—6814

Program Manager
KNCT—TV

US. Highway 190 W.
Killeen, TX 76514
(813) 526—1176

Program Manager
KTXT—TV

Box 43 59

Lubbock, TX 79409
(806) 742—2209

UTAH

KBYU—TV Program Manager
C—306 KFAC

Brigham Young Univ.
Provo, UT 84602
(801)378—5298

Program Manager
KUED—TV

101 Music Hall
University of Utah

Salt Lake City, UT 84112
(801)581—6336

VIRGINIA

Production Director
WVPT—TV

Port Republic Rd.
Harrisonburg, VA 22801
(703) 434—5391

Director of Development
WHRO—TV

5200 Hampton Blvd.
Norfolk, VA 23508
(804) 489—9476

Director of Corp. Admn.
WCVE—TV

23 Sesame St.
Richmond, VA 23235
(804)320—1301

Production Manager
WBRA—TV

P.O. Box 13246
Roanoke, VA 24032
(703)344—0991

VERMONT

Program Director

Vermont Educational TV/WETK
Ethan Allen Avenue

Winooski, VT 05404
(802)656—3311

WASHINGTON

Program Director
KWSU—TV

Washington St. University
Pullman, WA 99163
(509) 335—2681

Director of Programming
KCTS—TV

4045 Brooklyn Ave., NE
Seattle, WA 98105
(206)543—2000

Program Manager
KSPS—TV

3911 S. Regal St.
Spokane, WA 99203
(509) 455-3790

Supervisor of TV Programming
KTPS—TV

P.O. Box 1357

Tacoma, WA 98401

(206) 572—6262

General Manager
KYVE—TV

1105 S. 15th Ave.
Yakima, WA 98902
(509) 575—3474

WISCONSIN
WPNE—TV
Instructional Svcs. Bldg.
Wisconsin ETV

110 S. University Circle
Green Bay, WI 54302
(414) 465—2538

Program Manager
WHA—TV

821 University Ave.
Madison, WI 53706
(608)263—2121

Program Director/WETN
Educationl Comm. Board
732 N. Midvale Blvd.
Madison, WI 53705
(608) 266—1793

Director of Programming
WMVS—TV

1015 N. 6th St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414)271—1036

WEST VIRGINIA
Operation / Programming
WSWP—TV

PO. Box AH

Beckley, WV 25801
(304) 255—1501

Program Manager
WMUL—TV

3rd Avenue
Huntington, WV 25701
(304) 696—6630

Comm. Relations Manager
WMVU—TV

P.O. Box TV 24
Morgantown, WV 26505
(304) 293—6511

 




 
     
 

. GREENE & DEWAR

NEW “71LDERNES s

IPRK)EHJCHHI)DHSIDHC.

 

   

October 28, 1983

  
    
 
 
  
   
    
   
  
   
   

Christine Stevens
President

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.0. Box.3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Let me extend my personaI invitation to see for yourseTf what's
coiing up in the second season of our Emmy Award-winning television
series, ”Lorne Greene's New Wilderness“. Join us as we visit the
creatures of tie earth, sea and sky, and record the Tife and death
dramas that make up the reaTity of their daiiy Tives. As Kenneth
Ciarke of UPI has written about ”New Ndeerness“, "Serom have
craft and personaT passion been so cToser harnessed.” I suppose
that is because everyone working on this production feeis that what
we do makes a difference. ATI of us know, as do you, that we are
a1? very much responsibie for the conservation oi the earth and its
creatures. As a tribute to these efforts, the series has been
warded three Emmys, a Bronze in the T983 Cindy Award competition,
nd a speciaI award for exceTience from the WorId NiIdIife Film
5 a1. As weTI, it has been endorsed by the National Education
. s ation (NEA), Parent and Teachers Association (PTA), The
Hum Societies of the United States and of Canada, Ducks
Uniimited, the Sierra CTub and others. Our program is the first
new nature series to appear on commerciai teTevision in five
years, and we beiieve not onTy that it is the best, but the most

positive view of man and nature that‘s ever been produced.

 

    

'1'] CD {.11

   

.‘
l‘c
J

J;

tiv
OCT
ane

      
   
   
       

Lorne Greene's New Ndeerness” wiTT continue to go beyond what
any nature series has done before. We wiTI show the reai worId,
where man‘s intervention no longer automaticaIIy means nature‘s
destruction. Ne wiiT show man at his worst, to be sure, but we wiTT
aiso show him at his best - conservino, preserving, and restoring
the naturai baiance.

    
   
       
     
  
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

2800 Olympic Blvd" Suite 201 ' Santa Monica, California 90404 0 (213) 453-0451
409 King St. W., 3rd Floor 0 Toronto, Ontario, Canada M6G 2G1 0 (416) 593-1781 / 651-2530

  




The oid wiiderness is gone. This is the new wiiderness, where
man and nature come together. We are now at a criticai point. We
have to decide whether to live with the animais or just get rid of
them. If we destroy them, we destroy ourseives.

YOU CAN GET INVOLVED:

We want your support to make certain that quality programming
such as this series remains on the air. We urge you and your
members to contact your iocai stations, and if they air the program,
1et them know what you think about the series. If they do not
air the program, encourage them to do so. We are also interested
in acquiring broadcast-quaiity nature footage, as weii as fiim or
tape of individuais, groups, organizations and companies taking
actions to protect and preserve our environment.

If we can provide information or articies for your pubiications
or if you have any questions about how to become a part of this
award-winning series, piease contact either Susan Cooper in our
Los Angeies office at (213) 453-0451 or Lisa Oifman in Toronto at
(416) 593-1781.

Sincereiy,

,2 T. , j 2 F3 ,.
A y . y / .' ,1. .} ,2
, 4,34,...1; f ( wt“: '_ _ f L“ 4.. (w Z;
c ; .
J“ \m ,

Lorne Greene

 




MEDIA PRODUCERS FOR;
Will Rogers Institute

United Way of America
{150

UNECEF

United jewish Appeal
Save the Children Federation
Rotary International
Recording for the Blind
Population Action. Council
Planned. Parenthood

New York; State

National Retinitis
Pigmentosa Foundation

National Foundation
tor Cancer Research

National E. aster Seal Society
Muscular Dystrophy Association
Junior Achievement
international Year or the Child

international Human
Assistance Program

Hadassah
Friends of Animals

Foundation for Children
with Learning Disabilities

Cousteau Society
Community Service Society

Committee- to Combat
Huntington’s Disease

Child Welfare
League of America

Catholic Relief Services
ancer Research institute

‘ oy Scouts of America

Arthritis Foundation

Animal Protection Institute

American Speech—Language»
Hearing Association

American Medical Association
American Legion
American Hospital Association

American Friends
Service Committee

American Dental Association
American. College of Surgeons
American Bible Society
American Bar Association
Airicare

Action. ior Children’s Television

wt. fr: ‘34.; . ' $ “13‘; ‘
A“ r.“ z; i ‘2 " ‘l, .

" fr. . i . Ii“. v.7

’ A', f: ' & (7: 7,3":

Dear Public Service Advertiser:

We have been doing TV and radio PSAs exclusively for more than 10 years
now, and drought it might be indeed appropriate and timely for you to consider
us as media consultants.

The many nonprofit organizations who have used our production services find
us very affordable, as the enclosed price list will attest.

You are not employing one individual when your PR department turns to
Doug Wyles Productions Inc. for creative, production, and distribution assls~
fence, for you will quickly discover that you will have access to the names
listed on the reverse side of this page.

Although we have delivered more than 600 celebrities in TV and radio PSAs,
please understand that we use other techniques should your media planning
suggest a different approach. Realize that we feel celebrity messages are
most effective, but we offer whatever your particular situation requires.

Sample tapes of our TV and radio spots are available upon request.

Further discussion is most certainly necessary before you can make a
decision, so feel free to write for additional information or call me at (212) 877-
4800 if that seems more convenient.

With greatest regards,

‘9 Loved) (M

Douglas C. Wyles
Producer/Director

2s am stressed

 




 

 

,aﬂo‘“>%ma~s . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For a sample reel of our TV and radro spots, contact:
Doug Wyles Productions Inc, 49 West 76th Street, New York, NY 10023 (212) 877-4800

 

 

 




 

RATE LIST (RADIO)

A. PRODUCTION
Available in 60, 30, 20, and 10-second lengths. Note
that the 30—second length is considered the workhorse,
and is used about three times as often as the other
lengths. ~
Includes development of the campaign concept, script
writing, celebrity contact, on—location taping in Los
Angeles and New York, direction, production coordination,
all editing and studio costs, mixing and mastering, music
and sound effects clearance when necessary, travel and
communication.
Rates:
1. 8 celebrities, 12 scripts ............... $ 7,100
2. 12 celebrities, 20 scripts ............... $10,800

3. 20 celebrities, 30 scripts ............... $16,200

. DISTRIBUTION
Available from 1000 stations to 6000 stations.
Includes record pressing or reelmto-reel tape
duplication, package design, script folder, reply card,
envelope, mailing list, addressing, stripping, all
distribution costs except postage.
Rates:

1. For records: $3.50 per package

2. For tapes: $5.50 per package

 




RATE LIST (Tv)

 

A. PRODUCTION
Available in 60, 30, 20, and lO-second lengths.

Includes concept development, script writing, storyboards,
celebrity contact and coordination, producing, directing,

studio and/or remote crew and equipment, master tape or film
stock, post-production editing, mixing and mastering, music and
sound effects clearance when necessary, special effects where
applicable, lab costs, travel and communication.

Rates:

(Note ~ Rates are for video tape production. Rates for 16mm
and 3.5mm film production are available on request. The prices
within the ranges listed here depend upon the complexity of
the production, and would be determined and agreed upon before
the order is placed.) '

l. 30-second spot: $7,900 to $10,600
2. 20—second spot: $5,300 to $ 9,800
3. lO—second spot: $2,700 to $ 14,900

(Rates for 60-second Spot available on reciuest.)

. DISTRIBUTION

Includes duplication'on video cassettes or 16mm film,
reproductions of storyboard, covering letters, reply cards,
labels, envelopes, addressing and shipping, mailing list, all
distribution costs except postage.

VIDEO TAPE:

1. One spot (up to 30—seconds) ............... $16.50 per package

2. Multiple spots ................................... $18.50 per package

I6 MM FILM:
l. $9.50 per 30-second spot
2. $8.50 per 20-second spot

3. $7.50 per lO—second spot

 




OVERKOLT CLIMIC CREE
Days wed in haart-ulungi machine; maintained. an mud. and fad garng

F033;") MED {RUG KCLIIVEINISTRATIGN
ﬂoga mm mm in thaw cramped cages far as 1mg as swan years

at a time. My public pratsst. and act of Congress movieled decmﬂ:

quarmm within thﬁ past {mar far cisgs used in Fwd and Drug testinga

M03831, 33%} R8 FMgk‘Ii’S
Thm is tha type new used by the Food add. Drug .é..dmin§.straticm.

 




NEW roan ”
Journal American
D. 506,746 SUN. lD‘Y'SE;

(’13; 21M» ‘ '4‘ .“
(V at}, 4/4 c. 4-
“"3

DEC 2 U 1954

By MEL RUDERMAN

OLACE for CBS: the network—whomped in prime-time competition—-
still is whelming the opposition during the day. CBS soap operas hold
six of the Top Ten spots. But both NBC and ABC are foaming up a new batch

of soapers,, and the suds scrap isn’t over yet.

Jack Benny’s Jan. 22 stanza is
titled “Jack Adopts a Son.” The
“little boy” involved will be Milton
Berle . . . Ex-Miss America Mary
Ann Mobley has turned down four
figures a week for a Desilu series

Arthur Godfrey will portray
himself in an upcoming Lucy Show
. ‘. . 14-year-old Jay North, who was
the Menacing Dennis, is doing a
movie for MGM . . . This for the
birds: Producer John Secondari was
bitten by a falcon during the filming
of 1, Leonardo Da Vinci.

O

The Animal Humane Society re-
ports 3,154 an pe ‘V
and movie productions in the last
two months. A zoo’s who . . . Bing
Crosby’s bringing on his wife, lovely
Kathryn, in a segment soon . . . Bob
I—iope planning to steal time from his
, Chrysler ShOW to do “Roberta” at
LA’s Valley Music Theatre. He’s a
part owner . . . Singer Sandu Scott,
on a hop from Puerto Rico, flaunts
her self-dcsigned kilts tonight on Ed
Sullivan’s variety.

0

NBC insists its Hullababaloo will
duck r ’n’ r, but one of the creative
fixtures on the series is Brian Ep-
stein, the British impresario of rock
. . . Danny Kaye will conduct the
St. Louis Symphony April 5 as well
as the N. Y. Philharmonic March 29,

 

ANJANETTE COMER
In Guest Role Monday
017 “Ben Casey,” 10 p.m., Ch. 7

both for musicians’ pension funds
. . . Another sign of ABC’s growth:
the bloodhound “Corpuscle,” : who
started out as a pup on Discovery,
’64, today weighs more than 100
pounds.

0

They’ve all appeared opposite her,
but now David Niven, Charles Boyer
and Gig Young will be taking orders
from Ida Lupino when she directs a
Rogues episode soon. Titled “Bow to
the Master” . . Gary Merrill, of
The Reporters. may be remembered
as a radio actor on Young Dr. Ma-
lone . . Woody Allen, making a
film in Europe, was interviewed on
British TV by the grandson of Sig-
mund Freud. Figures.

 




WOR .AM-HFM! T-V . 1

1440 BROADWAY 0 NEW YORK. NEW,YORK 10018 ° AREA CODE 212 L0 4-8000

'GENEHAL‘

H13; Please read the melon“ andwaap, an): did. Thianutty

lady'has daeiéad that'I mm a Viviaectioniut, and I think yau
kncw'hetter..ify. Ubulé you do me the graat‘favor of‘writing

:mg a ahértwnotaanﬁ.m§ntign,ﬁhat yen feel tha.$ubﬁeet was ?
héndléd faiﬁly'byﬁma? mhét is, if yum balieve this to be 30....
There is a big flap at‘wDR.over this letter, 33$ 1 want to squash
this thing right away, if I can.

I hopa.yuu feel yau wars traatud fair and squaré, and if ﬁhere.waa any'
bias, I was completely unconsciaus of‘it’ I‘d appreciate 3.1etter

as outlinsd, and want to thank yuu in advance fb? same.

Einaeralyg

 




y) Y, . \//) ’ / , ,1
../(’ //’/( /»('/’ r / /('7(/ ﬂy
INTERIORS "
1310 WEST FIFTY mlx‘IFTII q’l‘kl’ili’l‘
View You“ 1%), N, Y.

November 17 1964

Randi

WOR

1440 Broadway
How York, N,Y.

Your program of Saturday November l4th, has lost you and W08
many listeners, and I have so informed er. Robert Smith today.
How dare youn-a Nobody from Nowhereama migrating sorcerer with
nothing but a mere superficial smattering of knowledge describe
Anti~Viviseetionists as "Little old women in tennis shoes"
"The Lunatic Fringe" and “Extremists”? How dare you disparage
suoh distinguished and world renowned intellectuals as George
Bernard Shaw, Richard Wagner, John Galsworthy, George Arliss,
Henry Bergh~~contemporaries like Fannie Hurst, Clare Booth
Luce, to name but a few,-«and WOR's own Ed and Pegeen Fitz~
gerald??? Such brash impudenoe I have never heard from.any
ﬁoderator.

Why I ever listened to your show, I shall never understand, ex~
eept that the dial was usualy set at WOR, my previously favorite
station, and I just left it there until I became so bored with
your uninteresting programs, your “sick" sense of humor, the
constant reference to your secretary Mickeyo-evidently to create
an "impression", your mother‘s pelvis, your inane remarks and
Opinions, your lack of accurate and factual knowledge, I could
no longer take it and just had to get up and turn to Long John
Nobel, whom I should have put on in the first place~» but W93
had become a "habit".

Well, you finaly broke the habit. I want no more of WOR as long
as you are on their air wavesumand this goes not only for me,
but for my many "lunatic fringe" friends who heard you last
Saturday .

Yours truly, /!

-erenioe Bredley
, ?

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fif’rh Avenue
New York. N. Y. IOGZZ

wﬂ”? " I ,,
ngM/Km .25 ./ 5—? 4 w

0% “(z 1,»; ”7/14, pvt/é} 2,...

001’,”
w :‘W‘VMK .x'n

r’ e/ if... {I {xi/ZN

/
[j 55? fizzy?” 5-:
j

 

 

 

. .5"
J 4,,"

 




Hun Marya Hanna:
1 West 72nd Street
Haw York, NJ.

near mu Mama,

One of our correspond-ate aunt us a charm
picture of you with two lion cube and urged an to write ta
ynu ta aak your help in nbtaining legislation to prevent
11me in oxporimntal laboratorias. It is not a question of
interfering with genuine monarch, but aim): at pmvanting
tho headless suffering which is occurring all too frequently
in hmatorion in our country .. an I know from W
laboratory Vinita.

There in afraotiva legislation in England to
prount niatraatmnt at axparimntal animals, and it in
approved by Leading scientists wrung under the British Act
paaaad no than than 88 yaara ago. However, we have an up-
hill ctr-nag}: against opposition from the Andean Radial
Amoiatim who call such legislation m insult to then.

I'll enclosing ma or tun pine“ of Max»
nation about the legal-um, and it you. mule! like to haw
hora background material, I hope you'll lat as mail. Your
gifts, as a miter would do much to help thn "at newer: of
m1. stacked away in that: ﬂamed «an without pratactinn
from negliganea, “nouns” and enmity.

Sincerely,

(Hrs. Roger L. Mavens)

 




September 1, l96h

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
7&5 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

It is perfectly true that I have profound affection for nearly
all animals, and view with<iismay any needless cruelties in-
flicted on them. I also know the valuable work done by your
organization in this respect.

However, I seem to be fighting on so many fronts that I have

no time or energy left over for any more, however worthwhile.
Should I find myself'writing about anything in the animal world
though, I shall certainly come to the S.A.P.L. for material

and information.
Sinc rely yours,
% ///
Marya M;;%:s

 




CBS NEWS

A Division of Columbia Broadcasting System, Int".
‘ Q
4

524' WEST 57TH S'J‘EREET . NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019 - PLAZA 1-2345

August 27, 196%

V Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Attention Mr. Alexandra Peschka
Gentlemen:

Thank you for the request you have
made for the enclosed transcript which
deals with the understanding of animals.

We hope that this information
will be of help to you in your efforts
toward better treatment and humane care

of animals,

Yours truly,3

William Geib

Title Producer

CBS News
WG/ciw

Enclosure

 




, m m
SW, W233? 3.5, 196‘:-
8330-8z35 2% 2.22m

W3

3:30

W: mm m W...W, 222mm 3.5, 1962...?322222223 .2

mm
This is WISE mm mm WoooW Wards WW:

we Jam new item the psychiatric New 18 that the hmaeimlez
pm: -- dog, cm, parakeet, or mam «- cream 3.8 the Mic

Mimi: cf the mom met mater.
We’ll comma: this disclosure...in Jam“. 9. We.
:60 m

Dr. 22mg smuﬂ paganism-2218: of Wiping...th 822.222.22.222
that in his wk with psychatics, he tries to 122.223.2259. we 2222:2529- :2
yet. is: the tlmyy. Dogs {ma cats, he says, farms}; tip—offs; 12;
their balmviw. m example, the 22th of e. Muse-2:18:22 c:
mmummmmmm Wsﬁm 6.023332%8'5 the deer.

2212.. 833935: 213822de m cm in. which 3 mm Emma to leave 2:23:22:
Wm. 5cm her 222.232.2232: and mama also m relutzmﬁt 32:: 52:22:12
beynml the: family mma, am: emm‘ um dag and as: m.
the 3mm, tau.

Dr. BW°3 fimb‘ag Wins 22213:: $3313? meme- have W 9:32:22

far same time: WM; tam, have wycmlagical mlm.

Fm 29.3mm, a gamma: vgzermarim was 2mm: by 2:21:22: case 2:.:
22.. 2:293:23 (12.2.23; haxmgmg 22222 a. 2«22~:22:2.~222:m2m mgéim» 21:22: “22:22:32wa :2

heme? cam {102m 222122.11 5222' 5.22%: 33:22:22}. inﬂﬁgtﬁw révgglexly am: mix 2:22"

 




’

SEWER 1.313%

SAW, WET 3.5: 1%

mm 3
31’? cm:-

gamma. (“mm teams comic med :2. Gama. shsyhaad mm
was are Wis it ms 12m. an sedatives.”

Jack Emma's WMM poodle shamed Midis swam when
has mates: mattered fem: a. mspimtm macaw.

man the: placid (:09 is vulnerable. An. mm Wish Wwé

aminmchsixpie-mldewsme'mtwtoahm and, and

,dsclmadto'besmmbletoher. The mmmewvmm

team, said the W-

A: m tummy of Wash, 9:31th disc-ma ms the

meotasthesymd'thecasmnmisfmm,

mamm. mimxtmdofdpimmmmmezm
WW1:- W,thepwsuiaehawmm.

mama, utmafpaychistﬂatshadtobmhapmw
WW,mmsmwmmnmm. ma:
Wis, m'm lost their agmssims mama ta
Maura.

Ammmmmmmdmmmwmsme
Mental Boa-ﬁend in m, maxim. FEWsts and staff

’mhwsbecamﬁnaduithanmshemm, mm, mmm
" ' we teak a am at; the visitor, who ~~ sensing that he was resented ..

mmwmmegGMMOmm.

mmsmmmemtmw, detMW, at
medulla-WW is will-2mm. Addie-313mm, Japan,
Maestmmutymmembygimmawam
mm.m35mescfbaery

 




 
 
 

   
  

3... w « 3mm. PMW
mm,mmas,196h

 

 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

m cm ((me wish dam mm ma yield by W tmzm
sets in 1118 cm.”

mm ((Ammmmaggmmawmwsmgm
mates. mzmemmmwmwmmmm

W: MMvu-usmcmafammmam1mmem
tzwwmmmmwmmmm. m Woman
ﬁmo

m2: 230 Kym

mm: Wimmamwmmmmmwm

mammemmeswmsmwm,ammggxg
msmmsmwmmﬂeﬁamiMwm
331%me 32mm swagmummm star emu-keg.
mmam,mwmmmmmmmsams,
-mmmecmmmmm. mmmammm
mistreaa‘ Mia...w amwmtmmwm
toy-m an mama-climbing $113M and Vina.

Ma has bean mm on the cm M10 Wnaomm mas
Wins m- mm m.

 




, 1 1‘37": '1,
_ L .1 A. {3.

M '~,,.A“

|'-.

«v: r‘ vv

("a

2!.

 




 

 

o. 282 005 am 363 384

A P R 21 195k
FCC Stands Unarmed

<7 r.
L.’ n 7*,
g.
3.. 7:,
n.“ .- , '
3;; I V |
, 3, ‘ a: ,

By Victor Wilson

0] The Herald Tribune Staff
WASHINGTON.

station manager.-

Federal agency, on
the National Antiviv

loss of its license.

to animals.

station, WCIU~TV, an ultra—

high-frequency Outlet,- . told
the Herald Tribune the four
to six bullfights. televised
from start to finish (the
bull’s) from 6 to 8 o’clock
for the FCC
Spokesman,

But he can't watch them, a back to the state."

Saturday nights. were the
station’s most popular feature.

. um 1 ght Arena

Mr. Weigl added “T00 queasy
in the stomach ” he explained.

FCC said it has “no power

- . or censorship over program-

The Federal Communica-
tions Commission confessed
yesterday it- oeuld do nothing
to halt filmed television sh0W~ power to see that TV licensees
ings of Mexican bull fights by
a Chicago station. though the
program is too gory for the

ming, and may not interfere
with the right of free speech.”
It does have, it continued,

“ptrogram in the public inter-
As to whether bullflght

films are in the public inter-
FCC’s admission came in a
letter to a Chicago law firm
which had petitioned the g5?
began of
action-
Society, to order the station
to stop the programs or face
. creature.
While conceding that the
bullfights were photographed
in a foreign country, and rep- “whether (the law) is de-
resent a »- national custom of signed
Mexico, the society declared.
their showing on TV was
against American public in-
terest and a display of cruelty ~:
bullﬁghis
John Weigl, manager of the

est, FCC said, that’s a matter
of state law. It cited a por-
tion of an Illinois statute
which prohibits “any place
kept or used for the purpose
of ﬁghting or baiting any
bull, bear, dog, cook or other

“It cannot be detrmined, "
the FCC letter stated primly,

solely to prevent
cruelty to animals Within the
state of lllinois, or whether
it is also the public policy
of Illinois that pictures of
held outside its

jurisdiction shall not be

viewed as entertainment.”

The anti-vivisectlon *~So~
ciety reported it had tried
to get the state to intervene.
but the Attorney General rec
fused saying it was a matter
“Now." said a
“the FCC bucks

 

 

 

 




 

M

V‘

A \\
TV GUIDE :f’ﬁREGISTER \

New Haven, Connecticut f

I

Mus:l A LimTo Help
Huntley-Brinkley Prove A Poim‘?

With seeming regularity, broadcasters indulge in a breast—beating defense of
their right to editbrialize on the air. _ ‘ .

Radio listeners and TV viewers occasionally hear broadcast editorials on the
evils of reckless driving, racial discrimination, and other popular causes. ,

. In most cases, the broadcaster but not the listener has his say. Rare, indeed,
are the stations that schedule a counterpart to the newspapers’ “Letters to the
Editor” column.

It is extremely doubtful, for instance, that NBC listeners will ever hear such
letters as the following which was dispatched to the network recently by a young
lady with a responsible position who has earned her MA. degree at Columbia:

“Gentlemen:

“I was greatly distressed to see on the Huntley-Brinkley Report tonight an
unnecessarily cruel experiment conducted by the NBC laboratories. A mouse
was put in a jar with air sold for SCUBA divers in New Jersey and allowed to
die therein because of the excess carbon monoxide and dioxide.

“When it became apparent that the poor creature would die, the point was
proved. Why did the experimenters not let the animal out? What possible pur-
pose did his death serve?

“Let me make it clear that I am not opposed to the use of animals in
worthwhile scientific investigation—nor am I opposed to sacrificing their lives
——if it is done in as merciful a way as possible—for an important purpose that
requires it.

“The NBC air experiment, alas, did not meet these criteria. The carbon
monoxlide and dioxide content of air can be measured without the use of
anuna s.

“The only possible reason I can see for this experiment was the usual TV
device of crass, overdramatic visualization. For this purpose, I, for one, would
hage ‘preferred to see Mr. Huntley expire in a jar, rather than an inoffensive
ro en .”

 

 

 

 




..,' , M. . s “I ., . _;
Pexmee.&.MALONEY
A 'T T 05-? N EY 5 AT LAW“
HAROLD {-3 F—‘EZNNELF? 77 W‘iﬁ"? WASHINGTGN ‘5“?HETET"
[3'13 1.! '15 tub-.15.; 7-3. M ALCENEE’

C H .1”. (3.5.. (3‘ C? E» O 67 0 5%

'1‘??? t-7 7.3. F E "2135911“.«5J '7‘-

April 13, 1964

Hon. E. William Henry, Chairman
Federal Communications Commission
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Sir:

On February 26, 1964, Mr. Harold E. Penner wrote you
a detailed letter concerning the televising of bullfights by
the Chicago UHF Television Station WCIU~TV, Channel 26, and the
position taken by our clients regarding the telecasts.

This correspondence supplemented letters previously
directed to you by The National Anti~Vivisection Society on
January 7, 1964 and our earlier letter of December 27, 1963.

We have been directed by our clients, The National
Anti~Vivisection Society, to immediately institute proceedings

in the Federal District Court, pursuant to The Act of Congress,
76th Stat. 744; U. S. Code, Title 28, Section 1361, and it is
our intention that such an action will be filed in the immediate
future unless a prompt reply is received to our letter of Feb«
ruary 26, 1964 indicating positive action to be taken by the
Federal Communications Commission.

Very truly yours,

PENNER & MALONEY

4"" -

a?»

By /\; yi/tﬂf/ ,5

Douglas P. Maloney
DPM:BES

CC: The National Anti~Vivisecticn
Society

 




 

(1110130 sun TIMES. rm, April 21 1954

FCC Seyst

I Can't

Bar 1.111119}.

The Federal Communica-
tions Commission said 1n Wash-
ington Monday that it can do
nothing to stop Chicago’s new
Channel 26 from televising
films of Mexican bullfights.

.But the National Anti-Vivi-
section Society said it will go
to court to see whether the

FCC really is so helpless in
controlling programs.

The societys lawyers had?

petitioned the federal agency
to order the station to stop
the programs or face loss of
its license.

THE FCC informed the law-

yers that it has no power Of-

censorship over programming
and may not interfere with the
right of free speech.

Clarence E. Richard, man—

aging director of the anti-Vivi»-

section organization at 100 E.
Ohio, said he instructed the
society‘s lawyers to file suit to

1

determine the FCC’s powers.
“They are preparing the suit

I now, ” Richard said. I

 

“ti""ﬁibb.
ably will be filed in US. Dis-
trict Court here next week.”

IT IS UP to the State of Illi-
nois to determine whether it is
a matter of public policy to
prevent the viewing of pictures
of bullfights' as entertainment,
the FCC told the lawyers, Ir-
win, Deneke & Penner 77 W.
Washington.

The law firm reported it had
tried.to get the state to inter-
vene in the case but the attor-
ney general refused, saying it
was a matter for the FCC.

“Now,” said a spokesman,

“the FCC bum back to the
state.”

JOHN WEIGEL, president
of Channel 26, the city’s first
ultra - high - frequency station,
said the bullfights televised
from 6 to 3 p m. Saturdays
were the station‘ s most popular
feature. Bat scan: watch
them, he added.

“Too queasy in the stom-

ach,” he explained.

 

 

National Anti-Vivisection Society

100 East Ohio Street
Chicago 11., Illinois

 

 

 




CLARENCE E. RICHARD
100 East Ohio Street
Chicago H, Illinois

January 8, 1964

Dr. Robert A; Russell, President:

Re: LEGAL ACTION AGAINST BULLFIGH’I‘ TELEQA§T

The enclosed CHICAGO TRIBUNE story is self~explanatory.
'We have stirred up a tremendous controversy, and will keep it going.

Copies of the letter to Chairman Henry of the F. C. C. were sent to
V.President Johnson, all members of-Congress (With—personal covering
letters to Senators and Representatives in the Illinois delegation)
Mayor Daley, of Chicago, newspapers and wire services, both in
Chicago and'Washington, members of the censorship board of the City
of Chicago, members of the Illinois Legislature, ministers, civic
leaders, educators and others. 'We also plan to get in touch with the
presidents of P T.A. s and various women’ s clubs.

Mr. Weigel says he plans to go ahead with the bullfight telecasts.
This morning I conferred with our attorneys, whO‘will act instantly
When the date of the first telecast is announced. They are cOnsidering
one or all of three possible methods of attack:

l—eA restraining order petition based on our contention that if bull-
fighting itself is illegal in Illinois, a telecast of the event would
likewise be unlawful.

2-~An appeal to the State‘ s.Attorney of dek County and the Attorney
General of Illinois to seek an injunction or, if that is denied, to
prosecute the station and its management.”

1......

. “"~<P'-"

”,1..- 5.: 1-.-“; . .-.>, ..

3—~If either of the law enforcement officials, or both of them, _.
refuse to act, a petition for a mandamus from a court to force them,‘
to carry out their duties. a

Yen may be sure that what CAN be done WILL be done. We are determ1ned
to stop this proposed telecast if it is humanly puss1ble. ~ ..

Preparat1ons for the fight ahead may delay my departure from Chicago,-
planned for January 10, for a few days, but I Well he in constant ,
touch w1th the office in any event, and return for any court appear—

-ances that may be necessary.,
/C>r C. K’

 




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE. NATIONAL ANTI -VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

SPECIAL BULLETIN Way 8, .1964

 

 

 

:Ii ,-.‘ , ‘ .v
:.u"‘-,:{la , - ,.,. ".‘w". ’
" 'v '- ‘. ( v ;..‘ . .
, H, ,-
k ‘ . '7'
,’ . ,v 15/ ' u .1}.
I f . r , . -,7 , . ‘ y .1 ,’ ._.},<. . V . _. ‘ »,_ I"
..~;,~H~ , w. ' v 2-: r. 3,__ , g , .. ,3 _- V, 7,, V . _ﬂ_
’ '- '. ‘ gr .‘ ”at, ' n" ‘ r, g ’ ‘. ' -' -
‘ v -: '.~.-' .‘J » - i. -. l ,, M. .,
,, V . ‘., r‘ .. , ..
’ ‘ J 7‘ . :Q . .3. 4’ “11:1 ‘ . ; ‘
4.1, e , . 1e ”,1. ,- .: .. ‘7’, V, ,.
’7 I L "a .2 ‘5' " ' 7,‘ 1: 2 '- . I. ,-
' ,EL, , ., _ l -, ,. ,5. _
I‘ ’7 _< , ,. . l ,, ., ,
I" ‘5’ .--, _,., r'.‘ , ,- 1.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1964

TV ullfight Plans
Blow Up a. Storm

BY LARRY WOLTERS
. HE National Anti-vivisection society, thru Clarence E.
T Richard, its managing director, instructed its attorneys yes-
terday to explore the possibility ,of legal action to prevent
the “proposed telecasts of live bullfights” by WCIU—TV.

Richard called on E. William Henry, chairman of the Ead-
eral Communications commission, to use W
the power of the commission to prevent
an attempt “to open the door for a prac—
tice now prohibited by law.” Bull fighting '
is prohibited in all 50 states. ' -

Richard characterized bull fighting
as “horrible , . . offensive , . . revolt-
ing torture of bulls.” He called for a
“nation-wide boycott of humanitarians”
against the products of any possible
Sponsors of such TV spectacles.

John Weigel, president of WCIU, Chi~
cago’s first uitraohigh frequency station
[channel 26] which expects to go on the _
air late this month, pointed out that the ’ ' ' ' ‘
bullfights are not live, but taped in Mex- ‘ John Weigel
ico City. He said that he selected bull fighting for programming
Saturday nights “because it is controversial.” He added that
many protests have been received by stations in San Diego and
Los Angeles that telecast bull fights; that he is receiving objec-
tions from various quarters, but also indorsements. He says he
plans to go ahead with bull fight telecasts.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

PSYCHOLOGIST PUT
ON N .B.G. PAYROLL

Columbia Teacher to Advise
on Children’s Programs

By RICHARD 14“. SHEPARD

,The National Broadcasting
Companylhas put a psychologist
on its payroll.

Dr. Charles Winick has not
been called in to adjust any of
the network’s intramural con-
flicts but to serve as a consult-
ant on children's programing.
This is an area to which the net-
works have been paying increas-
ing attention since Newton N.
Minow, chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission,
castigated the prepronderance
of “time-killing” programs for
youngsters on TV. '

Ernest Lee Jahnoke J1. vice
president in charge of stand-
ards and practices for NBC,
said yesteiday that Dr. Winick
had been working with the net-
‘work for some time and that by
signing him to a contract “for
a reasonable fee” N.B.C. would
have greater call 011 hisservices.

“His position is advisory,” Mr.
Jahnocke said. “He will sit in
with our children’s p10gran1ing ]
committee and will be consulted}
not only on development but!
right thiough to actual 131688111}!
ation.” i

Dr. Winick, a member of the'
faculty of Columbia University,
will also study and evaluate
mail sent by children to N BC
and examine commercials to be
used on children’s shows. The
social psychologist has been ac-
tive in the field of juvenile
behavior as, consultant to gov-
ernmental and voluntary agen-
cies. In 1959, he wrote a study
of “Taste and the Censor in
Television” for the Fund for the
Republic.

, Networks have rarely em-
ployed professional consultants
in this area although it is com-
mon for specific program series
to do so. Mr. Jahncke said that
a new series about a psychia-
trist for next season, “The
Eleventh Hour,” would have a
consulting psychiatrist. The
American Broadcasting Com-
pany’s “Ben Casey” and N.B.C.'s
'fDr. Kildare” have physicians
011 call to insu1e eclrect diag-
nosis for story lines

 

l

Hamilton-Burr Duel

Sam Wanamaker, Alexandei
ScOurby and Lori Maich will
star in the st01y of the feud
between Aaron Burr and
Alexander Hamilton on “Ac-
cent” Saturday, March 24, at
1:30 P. M.

Mr. Wanamaker, who will fly
here from England for the
Columbia Broadcasting System
show, will play the role of Burr.
Mr. Scourby will portray Hamil—
ton and Miss March will appear .

as Hamilton’s wife.

' The play, “Interview at
Weehawken,” culminates in the
Shooting of Hamilton by Burr
in. a duel on the heights in New
' Jersey in 1804. The telecast is
being written by Joseph Hurley,
produced by Don Kellerman and
directed by John J. Desmond.

Mrs. Kennedy’ s Tour E

A special --one -hour telecast
covering Mrs. John F. Ken-
nedy’s tour of India and Pakis-
tan will be shown on N. B. C
Sunday, April 1 from 6:30 t
7:30 P. M.

. Sander Vanocur, the N. B.
correspondent who will ac
company the President‘s Wife 0
her trip, will be narrator an
reporter for the show. N. B. C
has postponed “The World 0
Jacqueline Kennedy,” anothe
special show, from Sunday.
March 25. to a later date yet
to, be announced in order to in-
clude material from her jour-
ney.

 




 

1113. 111113.13: 33113311

1;1 101111 51:1111 11:1”11111
W $131111 11111v1rd

8131111 331111, 32111116113111

32311:: 3331:. 3.3113111:

3331111 .3. 11311 11111111 :1: 1112.3! 3.1 my 113.111 11‘ 31111331113 33-1.,
1 13:11:31.1 1.23? 113111111 13. 3:11 153111 111.111 «3 1:3 111 .111 133 1:31:13. 1111

{111.11‘13‘3111 113:3 1311 1111113 “11.1 161. fammrwd. 1!. 3:33: 1311:1111 11111133“
111 *1m, 1133 3:01:31 1:111 3:111 ”11:13:11: 311.13. 331113: 5311.

331 1:1 V1153 11:13: 1:1111'11‘13 331:2 ' ' 1231111111 1:312:33. 11.311.111.11 3:131
113 11. 13:11:: 1:: 3311113111: 1931: 11 3.331 3‘13: 1133:1131 .3321: 31113312213 11111131.
I1 1.1 W1 3:23:13. 111 1111111 1111 1311111: 1313.31 1.: 1111;111:331 13:11
111:. 1%, 13:1 if 11, 11 13:11 1 111:3. 111111: :31 3:13.: 13:12:1331 3:111
1111: :1111'1 113211133323 31:: 33:31 3331111111113: 11‘ 133131211 3313.11111 331m 1111
13:13am 11111 111131231. 11 13:. 101113311 3.3213; 3.3111 1131311131 12:11 111
1:: 311111 11 1113130311333 1:31.11 1113111 111113. 11111113311 131-13.111.11 1111
13:11 1‘11 1111111111 13331311111?

11;! 11112333111312: 113.2 1137 231311 1:: 13:11 11111111 1111 ‘11 13.1.1
1351311111111. 3331 11m: 1:311:113111 in 111131211, :3; 11113111 1 3:
11311311111116! 111113.111 .

 

1W113 313111,

33111111 1332:1131:
3312132133111 1731131111?

 




:9. 9 E’EEEEEE‘EE; WEE-9999.9

9:9 EEEEQEEE 1EEEEEEE‘EEEEE AEEEEEiEEEEEE
88m? “Emits: E99991 9:999:99?
E39999 99.9199 EEEEEE, EEEEE. EEEEEEE

”@835 3‘9 Wﬁﬁhﬂﬁég

E E999 EEE GEEE E by 9.999399991619999 EEEEEm 999999-999. EE 9999a E99293: 99.399999 99:99.9
EEEELEEEEEEEEE EEEE QEEEE 9999999999 6999 CEEEEmEE LEE EEEEEEEEEEE E9 9:999 the ”I Eamh
E999 EEEEEEEEW 99999993939999. ‘EEEE EEEEEM‘E EEm'E Esmtatim E99199: mm E999 999999999999
$999 E33999 WEE EEEEEE; En EEaitie

EEEEEE 999999 E99“ 99.9.9999 959-9999999239: 9:99- EEEE; 99999 EEEEEEE 999-9 EEEEEE EE; EE EmE DEEEE the:
99.99%;199996 999999999 EEEEEEEEE EEEEE 9919999 EEEEEEEEEEE EEEEEygeaEEQEEEE-g 99m 169 EEEEE 9:
9.9999991 EEEEEEEEE E9399 EEEE EEEEEEE hEExEE EEEEE‘. 9:929 EEEEgEEEEEE captaEmE E9999 EhE
EEEEE‘EEE'ngEZtW-EE 999’ E EEE EEEE EEEEEEEE 999919.99 EEEEEE EEEEEE EEEEE EEEEEEEEEE ' TEE i9
WEEEEEE tEEEE EEZEE WEEEWEEE EEEEEEEE E99EE991’EE EE mammal with 99 MW
9999299999 EEEEEEE EEEEEE EWEEEEEEEE 9.39999 Mia E9999 EEEEEEEEEEBE ”paws.

. E99999: EEEEEE. 999999 999999 EEEEE 9999 this maaﬁm E99 EE‘EEEE 995.11 hr: EEEEEEEEE
EWEEEEEEEE

EEE 9.9999999 996999999999999999 E EmclEE E99 E EEEEEEEE, salEaEEmEné 99999999199999

Eirxmmly YEME :9

EEEEEEE mam
' 99999999919999.9999 ﬁﬁmataw

 




Hommber 23, 1.962

:TSS. R. W. Banal?

f? Breeze Emil brim
Eaéeetfield, New Jersey

Dear Hrs. Bauer:

'I'he statement yen quote free: the televieien eregram is e
shocking one. I have never heard ef the ekinningf of live alligators.
Certainly, the}; are eéaet dead when hunted in the eeampe, enr‘i their
hiﬂee are then ueeﬁ to mania c’eure leather- artiolee.

I woeld euggeeb that you eribe in t0 she teleeieien.ete*
tiee and ask fez-r seeific information. if the men said ebae the e}.m
ligater h‘f‘ﬂ ’00 be alive men hie skin. em eeripped 1"er him in Greer
be make it "newbie" what did he mean by that, usea‘ble fer met?

If there ie any baeie i“ r his remark we would be glad to
be Named.

ifour kind interest is appreciated.

Sincerely,

. f ‘ j , . ,. 1
Mrs.£buer Dhonedgsald program was mendey Hov.19 on Ch.ll ”Ifseercn

‘ '1 - . m T ‘ i 7/ . 4
for Adventure“--some episode entltlee “Jungle Joodoo’,$he tulnks.
Her husbandxaas listening & was shockedgthe alllgator's ng5._
were being held,and they said they'were about to start sglnnlng

2.
‘C

it alive,when the camera stopeed taking pictures.

 




    
  
  
   
  

I Was. ﬂag/mom! W. Qaue’z
5 ﬁteeze ﬁnal! Quive
Wesifielcl, mew ﬂe’zsey

WgoI/féi

WW é‘écl. 22:, -
W Lu 1,65% $2,“:f‘agvé“
0?; cf /7‘2 W

mMﬁ’ﬁ-J.




NAB CODE AUTHORITY

.3 TV cone NEWS

NATIONAL .
ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS

SEAL
OF GOOD ”63
PRACTICE

TELEVISION Coos

FEBRUARY

CODE AUTHORITY VIWWN BULLFIGHTS

0 THE NOT SO lONELY BULL. These scenes are

 

 

Convention Specials

An informal debate between
Chairman William D. Pabst of the
TV Code Review Board and FCC
Commissioner Robert E. Lee will be
featured at NAB’s 4lst Annual
Convention in Chicago.

The topic: The controversial pro-
posal by Mr. Lee and others that
the FCC adopt the Code Time
Standards as its very own.

Mr. Pabst, executive vice presi-
dent and general manager of
KTVU, Oakland, Calif., will pre-
sent NAB’s view that it would
destroy broadcast freedom.

The discussion is scheduled for
Wednesday morning, April 5, im-
mediately following the annual
Television Board elections.

.

Another Convention feature:

The TV Code Review Board will
hold a special meeting during the
Convention to re-examine the Time
Standards. (See separate story on

page S).

 

 

1-, .‘nﬁuuc

from The Story of a Matador,

a sequence in a syndicated film series prepared for TV viewing.

HUMANE ASSOCIATION
TAKES CONTRARY VIEW

The following statement dissenting
from the Code Authority’s bullfight-
ing stand was prepared by

CHARLES W. FRIEDRICHS
President, American Humane Association

Why is it ”not the function of the Code
Authority to determine peremptorily (sic)
that bullﬁghting is a barbaric and shock—
ing pastime which should be barred from
public view?

Every state in the U. S. views bullﬁght-
ing as a “shocking and barbaric pastime,”
for all have made bullﬁghting unlawful.

Nor, in our view, is the mere fact that
bullﬁghting is an accepted practice in
some countries sufﬁcient grounds for TV
showing of "bullﬁghting, its mechanics,
and techniques in its natural setting.”

Headshrinking, cannibalism, and cer-
tain unusual tribal rights are also accepted
practices in some countries and are reﬂec-
tions of unique cultures, but they are not
acceptable for showing on television.

The Japanese practice of both sexes

SEE FRIEDRICHS (page 2)

'An Acrep ted Practice
In Certain Countries '

The following statement by the
Code Authority was prompted by a
number of bulltighting programs on
television:

We feel it highly desirable from time
to time to review the soundness of our
Code position with respect to certain types
of program material, the treatment of
which has in the past been approved with
reservations.

Material relating to bullﬁghting is in
this category.

Under date of March 15, 1960, the TV
Code Review Board issued a memorandum
to all Code subscribers stating in substance
that:

1. For some time botb dramatic pro-
grams and documentaries, using care-
fully edited sbort ﬁlm clips of actual
bullﬁgbts, selected for background,
setting, or atmosphere, bar/e been con-
sidered acceptable.

2. Longer clips presenting the more
brutal actions and aspects of bull-

ﬁgbting bar/e been found unacceptable.

We believe, in general, that this posi-
tion is a sound one and that most of our
subscribers would be in accord with it.

Bullﬁghts, like cock ﬁghting, bear bait-
ing, and similar diversions, may not be
legally exhibited within the United States;
it is quite probable that for the most part
the American public regards these per-
formances as cruel and distasteful.

We would ordinarily ﬁnd that the
broadcast of a complete bullﬁght or series
of them, live or on ﬁlm, originating in
Mexico or some other jurisdiction in
which bullﬁghting is legal, would not be
in conformity with the TV Code. It has
been considered that the presentation of
such events would run counter to Para-
graph 11 of Section IV, page 7, General

SEE BULLFIGHTS (page 2)

 

 




 

    

Published monthly for

THE CODE AUTHORITY

NATIONAL ASSﬂBIAIlﬂN 0F BROADBASIERS
by NAB’s Public Relations Service i

CODE AUTHORITY: ‘

1771 N Street, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.
DEcatur 2-9300

Robert D. Swezey, Director

Edward H. Bronson, TV Manager
Harry Ward, Assistant TV Manager

NEW YORK CODE AUTHORITY OFFICE:
1271 Sixth Avenue, New York 20, N.Y.
Clrcle 5-0230

Stockton Helﬁrich, Manager
Warren Braren, Assistant Manager

 

HOLLYWOOD CODE AUTHORITY OFFICE:

I717 N. Highland Avenue, Hollywood
28, Calif.
HOIIywood 2-6909

Frank Morris, Manager
James J. Gillis, Assistant Manager

W- ‘

EDITOR:

Milton E. Magruder
Assistant Manager
NAB Public Relations Service

FRIEDRICHS (from page I)

 

BULLFIGHTS (from page I)

 

‘CUSTOMS ALIEN TO O

Program Standards, which reads as fol-
lows:

"The use of animals both in the pro-
duction of television programs and as
part of television program content
shall at all times he in conformity with
accepted standards of humane treat-
ment.”

On the other hand, since bullﬁghting
has been and still is an accepted practice
in certain countries to such an extent
that, traditionally, the matador is given a
hero’s status which certainly equals and
probably exceeds any comparable recogni-
tion in this country we are persuaded
that our TV public should not be denied
the opportunity of witnessing bullflghting,
its mechanics and techniques in its natural
setting.

In our opinion, the TV viewer should
be in a position to make his own appraisal
of bullflghting as a spectacle and as a
recognized part of the traditional pattern
of certain other countries. It is scarcely
the function of the Code Authority to
determine peremptorily that bullfighting

‘Girlie Shows . . . Hangings . . . Electrocution

bathing in the nude in concert is not ac-
ceptable for TV investigation of its "me-
chanics and techniques in its natural set-
ting,” any more than is a similar telecast
of a Paris pissoir!

The fact is that some things which are
acceptable practices in other countries with
at least the cultural development of Spain
are not acceptable for TV Viewing in the
United States. The further fact is that
quite a few accepted practices in the
United States are not acceptable for TV
showing either. Nude girlie shows, the
actual slaughtering and butchering of
animals, the actual hanging, electrocution
or gassing of persons condemned to die.
There is quite a lengthy list.

The plain fact is that bullflghting is
a holdover from the brutal pleasures of an
earlier era. It was long ago outlawed in
the overwhelming majority of the world’s
civilized countries, including most of the
countries of Latin America.

Naturally, the Ameircan Humane As-
sociation has always been against bull-
ﬁghting. Humanitarians the world over,

including Spain itself, View the spectacle
as atrocious cruelty arousing rufﬁan blood
lust.

We can see no justification for bringing
the detailed cruelty of actual bullﬁghts
into American homes, thus effectively cir-
cumventing the laws of every state in the
United States, some of which even pro-
hibit mock bullfights.

We are concerned with the effect of
such shows on children. After a recent
televised bullﬁght, a humane organization
in Pennsylvania was called to rescue a
stray aged collie dog from a group of boys
in the six to 10 age bracket. They had the
dog cornered in an alley. They all had
sticks—crudely whittled to a point—and
they were jabbing the aged collie dog—
playing it was a bull.

In our opinion televised bullﬁghts can-
not be justified:

As ENTERTAINMENT: The mores
of our society do not permit the inﬂiction
of injury, suffering and death of living
beings for the mere purpose of entertain~
ment. Bullﬁghting cannot be ﬁlmed in

2

 

is barbaric and shocking pastime which
should be barred to public View.

With our world growing smaller every
day, it is essential for the American public
to have an increased awareness of the
character, values, customs and motivations
of other peoples. The Code Authority
feels that a reasonable examination of
customs alien to our own neither suggests
acceptance of them in this country nor
condones them.

Accordingly, a presentation of single
episodes, either dramatic or documentary,
of bullﬂghting which gives a reasonably
true picture of the techniques of this
activity, the climate in which it takes
place, and the part it plays in the social
life of a people should not necessarily
be regarded as violative of Code provi-
Sions.

The same principles of sound editing
and selectivity should be applied to this
type of presentation as to any other.

... Gassing . . .'

the United States because it is UNLAW-
FUL in every state. (This is also true of
most of the world, including a majority
of Latin American countries.)

As a SPORTS EVENT: It isn’t a sport.
Even the Spaniards call it a spectacle. The
general public has long objected to the
foreordained, slow and brutal death of
the bull. It is no contest.

As NEWS: A bullﬁght is only news
when the bullﬁghter is killed. Since the
bull usually dies, this is not news.

As a DOCUMENTARY: As already
pointed out, bullﬁghting is only one of
many ”accepted practices” which are not
suitable for TV showing.

We believe that the showing of bull-
ﬁght action in detail is a violation of the
spirit and intent of the Television Code
of the National Association of Broadcast-
ers Section IV, Paragraph 11:

”The use of animals both in the pro-
duction or television programs and as part
of television program content shall at all
times be in conformity with accepted
standards of humane treatment.”

 

 

 




 

(O

NAB CODE AUTHORITY

This Insert Sheet Can Be Saved

February, I963

. Television Code Roster

Here is a complete list of NAB’s Television Code subscribers—404 stations, three

STATIONS
ALABAMA
Birmingham ........................... WAPI, WBRC
Florence ...................................................... WOWL
Huntsville ................................................... WAFG
Mobile ....................................... WALA, WKRG
Montgomery ............................................. WSFA
ALASKA
Anchorage ................................................ KTVA
ARIZONA
Phoenix ...... KPHO, KOOL, KTAR, KTVK
Tucson ........................ KGUN, KOLD, KVOA
Yuma ............................................................... KIVA
ARKANSAS
El Dorado ...................................................... KTVE
Little Rock .................. KARK, KATV, KTHV
CALIFORNIA
Chico ............................................................... KHSL
Fresno .............................. KFRE, KJEO, KMJ
Los Angeles ............ KABC, KCOP, KNBC
Los Angeles ............... KNXT, KTLA, KTTV
Oakland ...................................................... KTVU
Sacramento .............................. KCRA, KXTV
Salinas ......................................................... KSBW
San Bernardino .................................... KCHU
San Diego ................................. KFMB, KOGO
San Francisco ............ KGO, KPIX, KRON
San Jose ...................................................... KNTV
San Luis Obispo .................................... KSBY
Santa Barbara ....................................... KEYT
COLORADO
Colorado Springs ............... KKTV, KRDO
Denver .............................. KBTV, KLZ, KOA
Grand Junction .................................... KREX
Montrose ...................................................... KREY
Pueblo ......................................................... KOAA
CONNECTICUT
Hartford ...................................................... WTIC
New Britain .......................................... WHNB
New Haven .......................................... WNHC

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington ............ WMAL, WRC, WTOP

FLORIDA
Daytona Beach .................................... WESH
Ft. Myers ................................................... WINK
Jacksonville ........................ WFGA, WJXT
Miami ..................... WCKT, WLBW, WTVJ
Orlando ................................. WDBO, W'FTV
Palm Beach ............................................. W‘PTV
Panama City .......................................... WJHG
St. Petersburg ....................................... WSUN

Tallahassee ............................................. WCTV
Tampa .......................................... WFLA, WTVT
GEORGIA
Albany ......................................................... WALB
Atlanta ........................ WAGA, WAII, WSB
Columbus .............................. WRBL, WTVM
Macon ......................................................... WMAZ
Savannah ................................................ WTOC
HAW'AII
Hilo ............................................. KHBC
Honolulu .................. KGMB, KHVH, KTRG
Wailuku ...................................................... KMAU
IDAHO
Boise ............................................. KBOI, KTVB
Idaho Falls ................................................... KID
Lewiston ...................................................... KLEW
Twin Falls ................................................... KLIX>
ILLINOIS
Champaign ................................................ WCIA
Chicago WBBM, WBKB, WGN, WNBQ
Peoria ....................................... WEEK, WMBD
Quincy ...................................................... WG‘EM.
Rockford ...................................................... WREX
Rock Island ............................................. WHBF
INDIANA
Elkhart ......................................................... WSJV
Evansville ................ WEHT, WFIE, WTVW
Ft. Wayne ............ WANE, WKJG, WPTA
Indianapolis ......... WFBM, WISH, WLW
South Bend .............................. WNDU, WSBT
Terre Haute ............................................. WTHI
IOWA
Ames ............................................................... WOI
Cedar Rapids ........................ KCRG, WMT
Davenport ................................................... WOC
Des Moines .............................. KRNT, WHO
Mason City ............................................ KGLO
Ottumwa ................................................... KTVO
Sioux City ................................... KTIV, KVTV
Waterloo ................................................... KWWL
KANSAS
Garden City ............................................. KGL.D
Goodland ................................................... KLOE
Great Bend ................................................ KCKT
Hays ............................................................... KAYS
Pittsburg ................................................... KOAM
Topeka ......................................................... WIBW
Wichita ..................... KAKE, KARD, KTVH
KENTUCKY
Bolling Green ......................................... WLTV
Lexington ................................................... W'KYT
Louisville .............................. WAVE, WHAS

3

OF GOOD

PRACTICE

TELEVISION CODE

 

networks, and 15 ﬁlm aﬂiliates:

Paducah ...................................................... WPSD
LOUISIANA
Alexandria ................................................ KALB
Baton Rouge ........................ WAFB, WBRZ
Lafayette .................................... KATC, KLFY
Lake Charles. .......................................... K'PLC
Monroe ......................................................... KNOE
New Orleans ...... WDSU, WVUE, WWL
Shreveport .................. KSLA, KTAL, KTBS
MAINE
Bangor ....................................... WABI, WLBZ
Poland Spring .................................... WMTW
Portland ................................. WCSH, WGAN
Presque Isle .......................................... WAGM
MARYLAND
Baltimore ............... WBAL, WJZ, WMAR
Salisbury ................................................... WBOC
MASSACHUSETTS
Adams ......................................................... WCDC
Boston .......................................... WBZ, WHDH
MICHIGAN
Bay City ................................................... WNEM
Cadillac ................................................... WWTV
Cheboygan ............................................. WTOM
Detroit ........................ WJBK, WWJ, WXYZ
Flint .................................................................. WJRT
Grand Rapids .................................... WOOD
Kalamazoo ............................................. WKZO
Lansing ......................................................... WJIM
Saginaw ................................................... WKNX
Traverse City ....................................... WPBN
MINNESOTA
Alexandria ................................................ KCMT
Austin ......................................................... KMMT
Duluth .......................................... KDAL, WDSM
Mankato ...................................................... KEYC
Minneapolis ...... KSTP, WCCO, WTCN
Rochester ................................................... KROC
MISSISSIPPI
Jackson ....................................... WJTV, WLBT
Meridian ................................................... WTOK
MISSOURI
Cape Girardeau .................................... KFVS
Columbia ................................................... KOMU
Hannibal ................................................... KHQA
Kansas City ........................ KCMO, WDAF
St. Louis ........................ KMOX, KSD, KTVI
Springfield ................................. KTTS, KYTV
MONTANA
Great Falls ................................................ KFBB
Missoula ................................................. KMSO

 

 




 

 

 

TELEVISION CODE ROSTER (Continued) —

STATIONS (Continued)

NEBRASKA
Hastings ...................................................... KHAS
Hay Springs .......................................... KDUH
Hayes Center .......................................... KHPL
Kearney ...................................................... KHOL
Lincoln ......................................................... KOLN
McCook ................. KOMC
Omaha ....................... KETV, KMTV, WOW
Scottsbluﬁ ...................................................... KSTF
NEVADA
Reno .................................................................. KCRL
NEW MEXICO
Albuquerque ........................... KGGM, KOB
Clovis ............................................................... KICA
Roswell ......................................................... KSWS
NEW YORK

Albany .................................... WAST, WTEN
Binghamton ........................... WINR, WNBF
Buffalo ..................... WBEN, WGR, WKBW
DeWitt ......................................................... WNYS
Elmira ............................................................ WSYE
New York ............ WABC, WCBS, WNBC,

WPIX
Rochester ............ WHEC, WOKR, WROC
Schenectady ............................................. WRGB
Syracuse ................................. WHEN, W‘SYR
Utica ............................................................... WKTV
Watertown ................................................ WCNY

NORTH CAROLINA
Asheville ................................................... WLOS
Charlotte ................................. WBTV, WSOC
Durham ...................................................... WTVD
Greensboro ............................................. WFMY
Greenville ................................................ WNCT
Raleigh ......................................................... WRAL
Winston-Salem ....................................... WSJS
NORTH DAKOTA
Bismarck .................................... KFYR, KXMB
Dickinson ...................................................... KDIX
Fargo ....................................... KXGO, WDAY
Grand Forks .......................................... KNOX
Minot .......................................... KMOT, KXMC
Valley City ................................................... KXJB
Williston ...................................................... KUMV
OHIO
Akron ......................................................... W‘AKR
Cincinnati ............ WCPO, WKRC, WLWT'
Cleveland .................. KYW, WEWS, WJW
Columbus. ............ WBNS, WLWC, WTVN
Dayton .................................... WHIO, WLWD
Lima ............................................................... WIMA
Toledo ....................................... WSPD, WTOL
Youngstown ...... WFMJ, WKBN, WKST
Zanesville ................................................... WHIZ
OKLAHOMA

Lawton ......................................................... KSWO
Oklahoma City .................. KWTV, WKY
Tulsa .............................. KOTV KTUL, KVOO

OREGON

Eugene .......................................... KEZI, KVAL
Medford ...................................................... KMED
Portland ...... KATU, KGW, KOIN, KPTV
Roseburg ...................................................... KPIC

PENNSYLVANIA
Altoona ...................................................... WFBG
Harrisburg ................................................ WTPA
Johnstown ................................................ W‘JAC
Lancaster ................................................... WGAL
Lebanon ...................................................... WLYH
Philadelphia ......... WCAU, WFIL, WRCV
Pittsburgh .................. KDKA, WIIC, WTAE
Scranton .............................. WDAU, WNEP

RHODE ISLAND
Providence ........................... WJAR, WPRO

SOUTH CAROLINA
Charleston ........................... WCSC, WUSN
Columbia ......................................................... WIS
Florence ................................................... WBTW
Greenville ................................................ WFBC
Spartanburg .......................................... WSP‘A

SOUTH DAKOTA
Aberdeen ................................................... KXAB
Florence ...................................................... KDLO
Mitchell ...................................................... KORN
Rapid City ................................................ KOTA
Reliance ..................................................... KPLO
Sioux Falls ............................. KELO, KSOO

TENNESSEE
Chattanooga ........................ WDEF, WTVC
Knoxville ................................. WATE, WBIR
Memphis .............................. WMCT, WREC
Nashville .................. WLAC, WSIX, WSM
TEXAS
Abilene ....................................... KRBC, KPAR
Amarillo ........................ KFDA, KGNC, KVII
Austin ............................................................ KTBC
Beaumont ................................................... KFDM
Big Spring ............................................... KWAB
Corpus Christi .............................. KRIS, KZTV
Dallas .......................................... KRLD, WFAA
El Paso .......................................... KROD, KTSM
Ft. Worth ................................. KTVT, WBAP
Harlingen .................................................. KGBT
Houston ........................ KHOU, KPRC, KTRK
Lubbock ....................................... KCBD, KLBK
Lufkin ............................................................... KTRE
Midland ........ , ............................................. KMID
Monahans ................................................ KVKM
Odessa ......................................................... KOSA
Port Arthur ................................................ KPAC
San Angelo .............................. KACB, KCTV
San Antonio ..... KENS, KONO, WOAI
Temple ........................................................ KCEN
Tyler .................................................................. KLTV
Weslaco ._ . ................................................ KRGV
Wichita Falls .............................. KFDX, KSYD
UTAH

Salt Lake City ............ KCPX, KSL, KUTV

4

VERMONT
Burlington ................................................ WCAX 6) ‘

VIRGINIA
Bristol ............................................................ WCYB
Harrisonburg .......................................... WSVA
Lynchburg ................................................ WLVA
Norfolk .................. WAVY, WTAR, WVEC
Richmond .............................. WRVA, WXEX
Roanoke .................................... WDBJ, WSLS

WASHINGTON

Bellingham ................................................ KVOS
Pasco ............................................................... KEPR
Richland ...................................................... KNDU
Seattle ........................ KING, KIRO, KOMO
Spokane ........................ KHQ, KREM, KXLY
Tacoma ...................................................... ..KTNT
Yakima .................................... KIMA, KNDO

WEST VIRGINIA

Bluefield ...................................................... WHIS
Huntington ................................................ WSAZ
Oakhill ...................................................... WOAY
Parkersburg ............................................. WTAP
Wheeling ............................................... WTRF
WISCONSIN
Eau Claire ............................................ WEAU
Green Bay .............................. WBAY, WFRV
La Crosse ................................................... WKBT
Madison .................................... WISC, WMTV
Milwaukee ............... WISN, WITI, WTMJ
Wausau ...................................................... WSAU
WYOMING
Casper ......................................................... KTWO
Cheyenne ................................................... KIFBC
NETWORKS

American Broadcasting Company
Columbia Broadcasting System
National Broadcasting Company

AFFILIATES

 

HOLLYWOOD
Bellmar Enterprises
Brennan-Westgate Productions
Calvada Productions
Desilu Productions, Inc.
Four Star Television
Jack Douglas Organizations
Mayberry Enterprises
Revue Studios
T & L Productions
United Artists Television, Inc.
Wrather Corporation

NEW YORK
Bing Crosby Productions
CBS Films, Inc.
Screen Gems
WASHINGTON
Kiplinger Washington Editors, Inc.

 

C)

C)

 




 

ON THE FTC FRONT . . .

BAYER ASPIRIN

The Federal Trade Commission has
broadened its complaint against Bayer
Aspirin to include a second advertising
agency~Thompson-Koch of New York
City.

Its amended complaint said that
Thompson-Koch placed some of the chal-
lenged ”false and misleading” advertising
cited in its charges against Sterling Drug,
Inc., and Dancer-Fitzgerald-Sample, Inc.

GERITOL

The makers of Geritol have denied FTC
charges of false advertising, contending
that the tonic has enabled countless per-
sons to lead more active and happy lives.

The J. B. Williams Co., New York,
N.Y., and its agency, Parkson Advertis-
ing, said the FTC charges "unreasonably
and unfairly discriminates” against them.

They speciﬁcally denied FTC’s com-
plaint that Geritol liquid and tablets are of
”no beneﬁt in treating tiredness, loss of
strength, run-down feeling, nervousness
or irritability” except in a small minority
of cases of iron deficiency anemia or a
lack of vitamins contained in the product.

They also denied FTC’s complaint that
the advertising was misleading in that it
did not disclose the reasons for such
deﬁciencies or that use of Geritol could
mask signs of a serious illness.

Williams and Parkson said more than
60 million bottles of Geritol have been
sold in the past 13 years, and added:

”Geritol has made a substantial con-
tribution to the cause of good nutrition
. . . has enabled countless persons to lead
more active and happy lives, and continues
to serve a public need for a readily avail-
able, safe and effective tonic for the treat-
ment and relief of the symptoms of
vitamin and iron deﬁciencies and iron
deﬁciency anemia . . .

”In all of the years in which Geritol
has been available to the public, the
company has received no complaint or
report from a consumer, a doctor, or any
other person which lends support to the
proposed warning statements which the
Commission would require . . .

HADACOI.

The FTC has ordered Hadacol, Inc.,
Chicago, to halt what it calls "false thera-
peutic claims” for New Super Hadacol
liquid and capsules.

The Commission upheld ﬁndings by
examiner Eldon P. Schrup that contrary
to advertising claims neither product
would prevent colds, aches and pains or
provide new vigor and energy.

Examiner Schrup also said the adver-
tising failed to disclose that neither prod-
uct would beneﬁt the large majority of
persons suffering from iron or vitamin
deﬁciencies and their use might disguise
symptoms of a serious disorder.

Hadacol had no immediate comment on
the FTC’s action.

HOLLYWOOD BREAD

The FTC has ordered National Bakers
Services, Inc., Chicago, to discontinue
claims that its Hollywood Bread contains
fewer calories.

Gist of the decision:

Thinner slices, yes, but not fewer cal-
ories per loaf.

The Commission decision forbid the
Chicago ﬁrm from claiming that its Holly-
wood Bread would reduce weight or pre-
vent a gain in weight unless it disclosed
clearly that the calorie intake resulted
directly from its thinner slices.

FTC said the only signiﬁcant difference
between Hollywood Bread and other
loaves sold commercially is that it is sliced
into 25 18-gram slices compared to the 20
23-gram slices of a normal loaf.

REGIMEN

An FTC examiner, expecting "effective
action” by New York State and the Food
8: Drug Administration, has dismissed
without prejudice a complaint charging
the makers of Regimen Tablets with false
advertising.

The action was taken by examiner
Morris S. Bush over the vigorous objec-
tions of Drug Research Corp., New York
City, and Kastor, Farrell, Chesley & Clif-
ford, its advertising agency. They con-
tended that the charges should be tried by
FTC and no one else.

Examiner Bush said criminal charges
had been ﬁled against the respondents in
New York and that the FDA had seized
and condemned a shipment of Regimen
Tablets on grounds they were misbranded.

These proceedings, he said, "will effec-
tually dispose of the issues present . . .
and effectually bar the alleged false and
misleading representations charged by the
complaint if they are found to be false
by the indicated tribunals.”

5

 

Time Standard Review

The Television Code Review
Board will re-examine the TV Code
Time Standards at a special meeting
during NAB’s 4lst Annual Conven-
tion in Chicago.

The session has been scheduled
for Tuesday afternoon, April 2.

The Board is trying to determine
if any changes in the existing Time
Standards can be made without de-
tracting from the overall successful
effort in shaping effective commer-
cial practices.

If such changes are found to be
feasible, the Board then will con-
sider the manner in which the Time
Standards should be amended.

The Board is not interested in
mere expressions of dissatisfaction
but does welcome afﬁrmative pro-
posals that would make the stand-
ards more ﬂexible.

If you have such a suggestion
and would like to appear before the
Board to present it write to Edward
H. Bronson, TV manager for the
Code Authority at the Washington
ofﬁce.

 

 

 

‘Handful of Hue/(stars '

FTC Chairman Paul R. Dixon has urged
advertisers to join the government in a
stepped-up drive against ”a handful of
hucksters . . . (who) ﬂeece the public and
run reputable competitors out of busi-
ness.”

In an address Feb. 6 before a joint
meeting in Washington of the Advertising
Federation of America and the Advertis-
ing Association of the West, Mr. Dixon
said advertisers and the government have
the same objective:

To make advertising effective—and
truthful—so that every dollar spent will
buy a dollar’s worth of public interest
-—and trust.

To achieve it, he said, they must ”unite
our efforts in thwarting the real culprits
——the short-sighted and voracious few
whose sly merchandising would feast off
the public trust which your own self-
restraint and respect for truth have built.”

Otherwise, he said, ”the sharpie . . .
the hit-and-run advertiser can defraud the
public—and all it will cost him are the
fees of a smart lawyer and. an argument
with St. Peter.”

 




 

 

Public Service Briefing

NAB’s ”Ed and Charlie Show” was one
of the highlights at the Feb. 7-8 Public
Service Institute held in Washington by
NAB’s Public Relations Service in co-
operation with The American University.

The two Code Authority staffers——
Edward H. Bronson, TV manager, and
Charles M. Stone, radio manager—briefed
representatives of non-proﬁt organizations
on the importance of adhering to the
Radio and Television Codes in preparing
their on-air material. ‘

Both urged the registrants to write or
phone the nearest Code Ofﬁce—or to
call in person—if they need any assistance
on promotional material for either pro-
grams or spot announcements.

Mr. Bronson said the Code’s TV staff
would gladly ”review copy or storyboard,
routine sheets, program formats, and
audio or video tapes.”

”If the program is extensive and ex-
pensive,” he added, "I would suggest that
you check with us before shooting.”

Discussing the tightened Code ban on
"Men-in-White” commercials, he pointed
out that there is a speciﬁc exemption for
public service programs and their use of
doctors, dentists and nurses would not
violate the Code.

Mr. Stone told the registrants that
broadcasters and public service groups
are seeking the same goal—”more effec-
tive service to the public.”

”You have the words and music and the
pictures,” he said. "The broadcaster has
the voice and the camera.

”Together, we reach the ears and eyes
of America.”

QUIETUS 0N QUAFFING

A number of Code subscribers recently
have called attention to the fact that some
beer commercials now in circulation ap-
pear to violate the Television Code. .

Subscribers and advertising agencies are
reminded that the on-camera consumption
of beer is strictly verboten.

Also barred are such visual techniques
as lip-smacking, swallowing, and wiping
foam from the mouth—all giving a dis-
tinct impression that beer has just been
drunk.

All beer commercials should be screened
carefully. If you have any doubts about
a speciﬁc commercial, call the Code Of-
ﬁce nearest you for an interpretation.

 

 

THEY GOT THE MESSAGE. Charles M. Stone (right) and Edward H. Bronson
(left) of NAB’s Code Authority give a quick rundown on Code provisions to
Virginia Bartlett, WHDH-TV, Boston, and to Edward A. Franck, The National
(March-of-Dimes) Foundation, New York. They got together at the Public
Service Institute held in Washington by NAB’s Public Relations Service.

 

 

 

 

Here’s another sampling of brickbats
tossed at television programs and com-
mercials by viewers who zero in on the
Code Authority’s Washington Ofﬁce:

“ . . . Why must repulsive deodorant
commercials be shown at mealtime?”

”Commercials come over with a bang
and a blast, and so loud it shocks you . .

“ . . . I don’t like my children to hear
any form of profanity in my home . . . ”

”The most disturbing of all are the
background noises . ”

" . . . Why all the singing commer-
cials?”

”You obviously have no intention of
even looking at all these wonderful rules
you thought up . .

The objection to mealtime commercials
for deodorants was ﬁled by a viewer in
Portland, Ore. He felt they should be
banned from 5:45 to 7 pm. He con-
ceded, however, that ”some of the Cleo-
patras in bathtubs and negligees are not
hard to look at.”

Another viewer in Seattle, Wash, was
annoyed by the "bang and blast” of com-
mercials—plus ”the constant repetition
(at least ﬁve) of the article to be sold.”

”It would be more pleasing all around
to everyone concerned,” he wrote, ”if the
companies would tone them down.”

A mother in Lancaster, Ohio, objected
strongly to the use of ”damn” in a drama-
tic TV show.

”My children are at an age where they
pick up new words,” she said, ”and I
don’t want them repeating curse words . . .

6

”I would rather watch re-runs that I
have seen 10 times than sit and waste my
time on a ﬁlthy language TV program.”

A woman in Seattle wrote that her main
gripe is “background noisemakers.”

”How can a sensitive person concen-
trate on a play, or whatever is being
shown, with all that blaring, rasping
noise?” she asked.

”When a play depicts a scene in the
wide open spaces, or in the mountains, or
anywhere else, it is ridiculous to imagine
that there should be a band of noisemak-
ers in the background.”

Another woman, in Lake Geneva, Wis,
called singing commercials ”an insult to
the public’s inteligents.”

”Why iratate the viewer P” she asked.
” . . . Most of us are not that dumb that
we need things dramitised.”

A viewer in Saginaw, Me., who was
sent a copy of the Code after an earlier
complaint, returned the page on children’s
programming with copious margin notes.

”What children are being offered here
is terrible,” her second letter said.

”If you think this is a purely personal
reaction you are any I arrived at the
conclusion by talking to other parents,
teachers and ministers . . . (and) by sit-
ting down and listening to the programs

"Maybe after you read your rules you
might get it through your thick head why
I wrote to you. You obviously have no
intention of even looking at all these
wonderful rules you thought up.”

 




COLGATE — PALMOLIVE COMPANY

A DELAWARE CORPORATION

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE BUILDING ' BOO PARK AVENUE ° NEW YORK 22

March 28, 1963

Miss'Velma Rogan
9757 Medford
St. Louis 36, Missouri

Dear Miss Rogan:

In response to your recent letter, we wish to advise you that
Colgate«Palmolive Company did not sponsor and had no partici—
pation in the Sports International bullfight program televised
by NBC on Saturday, February 2, l963.

I ‘éé " ""
If; I} 'I ~' .«. ' ' ’
. ﬂ .. ‘I y {I H ”1 ~ . -

mstrong
Manager of Public Relations

 




EXECUTIVE OFFICES - GENERAL MILLS, INC. 0 9200 Wayzata Boulevard - Minneapolis 26,Minnesota

NATE L. CRABTREE

April 1, 1963 Vice President

Ms. Velma Rogan
9757 Medford
St. Louis 36, Mo.

Dear Ms. Rogan:

We have your letter protesting the subject of
the sports telecast on February 2 in which we
were one of several participating advertisers.

Our participation in this program series involves
only commercial presentations. Responsibility for
the prOgramming itself rests in the hands of the
network and we do not have control over it. In
this series we are not given the opportunity to
review programs in advance. Allowed this Oppor-
tunity we would have dissociated ourselves before
the telecast. We agree with you; we don't think

it was in the best interests of the general public.

In the future you can be assured that before par-
ticipation we will insist on reviewing in detail
the content of all of the Sports International
shows with which our commercials are used, and
will not be a sponsor of any shows which we feel
violate good taste.

We appreciate your giving us your views and under
the circumstances you may wish to direct them also
to the Program Director of the National Broadcast-
ing Company, New York City.

gw Sincerely,

1.”. ,, ,3
a (C ./ {'éxmsdé/(«Lc'x

 




T H E C O D E A U T H 0 R I T Y Y Naf/Ona/ Assoc/af/on of BI'OadcasZ‘e/‘s

Y‘Y.
if”: PRACTICE :1»
“:‘g > 9/,

Robert 0- Swezey 1771 N Street. Y2: w.
D'recmr Washington 6, D. C.

DEcatu r 2—9300

Dear Viewer:

we have read with interest your comments regarding bullfighting
on television and are appreciative of your thoughtfulness in
taking the time to write.

we have received several letters on this subject recently and
wish to acknowledge each one, so are taking this means of
responding.

Included with this memorandum.you will find a copy of our
TELEVISION CODE NEWS fer the month of February, and on Page 1
is a statement setting forth the Code Authority Office position
regarding the matter which seems to be of such interest to you.

In an effort to be fair a statement on.the subject by the
President of the.American Humane Association, Mr. Charles W.
Friedrichs, is also included on the first page.

Thank you very much.

*‘

’r' \

J
Robert D. Swezey /
Director, The Code Authority

February 2:, 1963

 




BRISTOL-MYERS PRODUCTS DIVISION

VBRISTOL- MYERS COMPANY

ESTABLISHED l887

 

 

630 FIFTH AVENUE- NEW YORK 20, NY.

March 26, 1963

Miss Selma Rogan
9757 Medford
St. Louis 36, Missouri

Dear Miss Rogan:

Thank you for your letter concerning the NBC telecast of the Sports
International program of Saturday, February 2nd. we appreciate the
efforts you have taken in letting us have your comments.

Sports International's program concept is to show how particular sports
have contributed to or arisen from the culture and customs of various
countries around the world. Bud Palmer, the program host, is there to
report objectively and not to praise or condemn any situation he might
be witnessing. If you watched the program, I'm sure you will agree that
this was successfully accomplished.

We were aware that some of the sports and customs might be foreign and
perhaps unappealing to many people unless standards of taste and decency
were adhered to.

With these two restrictions clearly outlined to NBC -- objectivity in
reporting and presentation consistent with industry standards of good
taste -- we, as one of several national advertisers, decided to parti-
cipate in the series. We did so, not only because we thought the weekly
programs would be interesting to the public, but also we hoped they
might contribute to a better understanding of the varied peOples that
make up our world.

On Saturday, February 2nd, the program dealt with Spain. To cover this
country and omit bullfighting would not be objective reporting. Bull-

fighting has been an integral part of Spanish life for over a thousand

years.

This particular episode of Sports International was screened in advance
of the broadcast date by the Program Department of NBC, the Chairman

of the National Association of Broadcasters, the Chairman of the Board
of NBC, and by our advertising agency, and was approved by them for
broadcasting.

(continued)

 




-2-

I want you to know that we welcome your comments on this particular
program and I hope the above, in some measure, explains the decision
of the National Broadcasting Company to air it. Again, our thanks for
communicating with us.

Sincerely yours,

/

:X (kg, ”ﬂit/(:71- ”J”

r

John H. Tyne
JHT:seh Director of Advertising

 




FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

ADDRESS ALL. COM MUNICATIONS

April 2 , 1963 TO THE: SECRETARY
m REPLY REFER TO:

8310-32
CO3-O786

Mrs. Clara Schichtl
1860 Victor Street
Bronx, New York

Dear Mrs. Schichtl:
Thank you for your comments on the televising of bullfights.

Although the Commission has received other similar comments,
it should he pointed out that there is no Federal law prohibiting
the showing of bullﬁights, whether as a local spectacle or over
television. Local exhibitions are subject to local law, but in the
area of broadcasting the courts have held that Federal law applies.
Further, it should be pointed out that under the Communications Act
of 1934, the Commission is Specifically prohibited from exercising
the power of censorship, and therefore may not tell broadcasters what
they may or may not present.

However, all individual station licensees are obligated to
make a reasonable effort to seek out and serve the needs and interests
of their communities. Since you object to the presentation of bull-
fights on television, you may wish to write directly to the stations
presenting the exhibitions. In this way the stations will learn more
about the needs and interests of their communities.

The Commission appreciates your comments and hopes that you
will understand its position.

Very truly yours,

gm. ff ¢/%L

Ben F. Waple
Acting Secretary

 




dren.

: who
1 Spain,” says of it:

 

 

By ARTHUR E. FETRIDGE

5 at 8:00
W

i
1

1"

tion of Cruelty to Animals

Undoubtedly the protests were
prompted by a preview of the
show in a nation
al magazine
which 5 a i d “It
shows a bull dy-
ing and Ameri«
can network tele-
vision has never
bet or e been

shown this.”
J. Robert Mo»
Lane public re-
". lations director
of the MSPCA Vesterday said that
most of those who called were
hoi ified that the killing of a bull
and the t1ampl1ng of a novi lero—-

 

1a semi-professional. m would be

shown on a Saturdar afternoon

when children would be watching

teleV ision.

Tragedy, Not Sport

According to McLane his so-
ciethw agrees that “brutal gory
massacre is hardly a fitting or
educational spectacle for chil—

Even the promoters of the
show fear the results of the
public’s reaction. Bud Palmer,

narrates “Bullfight in

 

It isn’t a sport. It’s a tragedy,
in a way, a beautiful tragedy

played out in the afternoon.”

Carl Watson, NBC director of

1 broadcast standa1ds. points out

1
I

 

i

that a number of
cuts were made
in the program
to keep it from
being too brutal.
The trampling oi
the novillero was
cut to a few sec-
onds so that the
viewer wouldn’
see him faint aft-
er he rose from

PALMER

the ground.

He added that in one bullfighf
the animal was photographed
from the left side “where the
blood is less.” Also cut was ..
horse being butted by a bull.

”Dakotas” Booming

Channel 4 had better get 0
the ball and move “The Dakotas”
to regular network showing tim
instead of on the present six days
delayed basis. This show, which
premiered as a replacement f0

 

BEST FOR TONIGHT. Arthur Godfrey, Ch.

I .
. .- I. .

Never has the Messachusetts Society for Preven-

been pressured as hard as

it was yeSterday when more than 1000 calls were re-
ceiVed demanding it exert its influence to preVent the
showing of ”Bullfight in Spain” on Channel 4 tomor-
row at 3:30 pm. The society expects it will receive
many more today and tomorrow

 

“Cheyenne 0an four weeks ago
already is heading for the Top :10.

Despite the fact that the show
has all the makings of a hit ABC
can't seem to make up its mind ‘
whether to continue it next sea-
son. The brass is wondering
whether it. can maintain the fast
pace it set from the start, which
seems a rather silly reason to us.

Gobel in Fast Show

1
I George Gobel returned to tele;

Vision last night on Channel 7 toi
present one of the fastest moving;
Variety shows we have enjoyed in
a long spell While he Vias try: —

real :tar of tne show he nad the
help. of some superior acts.

The Half Brothers were out-
standing as juggleis. Peter Nero
VAas gieatest at -'
the piano. and a
poodle act left
little to be de-
sired. The com
edy team of Paul,
Mazursky and
Joyce Van Pat-
ten had a really
funny skit and

the Harmonicats
are always fine.

However it was Lonesome
Ge eorge VV he kept the show going
at a fast. pace with some spaik-
ling new tal k and skits that made
W5 eager to see him again soon.

 

"mGoBEL

 

 




BRISTOL-MYERS PRODUCTS DIVISION

B R I STOL— MYERS COMPANY
ESTABLISHED l887 630 FIFTH AVENUE' NEW YORK 20’N,Y,

 

 

March 26, 1963

Mrs. Clara Schechel
160 Victor Street
Bronx, New York

Dear Mrs. Schechel:

Thank you for your letter concerning the NBC telecast of the Sports
International program of Saturday, February 2nd. we appreciate the
efforts you have taken in letting us have your comments.

Sports International's program concept is to show how particular sports
have contributed to or arisen from the culture and customs of various
countries around the world. Bud Palmer, the program host, is there to
report objectively and not to praise or condemn any situation he might
be witnessing. If you watched the program, I'm sure you will agree that
this was successfully accomplished.

We were aware that some of the sports and customs might be foreign and
perhaps unappealing to many people unless standards of taste and decency
were adhered to.

With these two restrictions clearly outlined to NBC -- objectivity in
reporting and presentation consistent with industry standards of good
taste -- we, as one of several national advertisers, decided to parti-
cipate in the series. we did so, not only because we thought the weekly
programs would be interesting to the public, but also we hoped they
might contribute to a better understanding of the varied peoples that
make up our world.

On Saturday, February 2nd, the program dealt with Spain. To cover this
country and omit bullfighting would not be objective reporting. Bull-
fighting has been an integral part of Spanish life for over a thousand
years.

This particular episode of Sports International was screened in advance
of the broadcast date by the Program Department of NBC, the Chairman
of the National Association of Broadcasters, the Chairman of the Board
of NBC, and by our advertising agency, and was approved by them for
broadcasting.

(continued)

 




 

-2-

I want you to know that we welcome your comments on this particular
program and I hope the above, in some measure, explains the decision
of the National Broadcasting Company to air it. Again, our thanks for
communicating with us.

Sincerely yours,

Mvdw/ / w
-mw-vw ‘ "‘23 C ‘ t \\ w M

....

JHT:seh Director of Advertising

 

 




\ Mbmmv 7, was

ﬁr. {33:3 5%. mum

Dix-ester, ‘Broadms't giarwawds
manna! onadcaating Cc... Inc.
Rm 3111 Ming, Rwio City

New Yark 29, ﬂew York

Dear my. mum.

. Your Iattgr «a? E¢ahmary first was remiveé. It mate m mmmn of
the point raised in my Wigwam, namely, that mm": hag mam the
television code which sums that *aacepted standards af 11mm treatment”
am required. M '3: painted amt, wilfighting is mmecm’cabla enmity
awarding "ta than laws of mm cmntry. '

I am aamnimm that WW should so boldly wntrwwe the ewe ta
which we had beau led m believe every rew'table staticn adherw that
you shame as frankly state that you are waiting far the “tatal mil“ ta
fine! out whether a: mat you plan 119 my on hawking w: W!

Your inﬂammible attituda» suggests that 1223mm! sf a code a mandatory
law is needed to map cruelty off your: mega-“am. and M will mow mowers! as
$09!: mm this mtta.

Very “truly ms.

{35th ﬁghting» Stez'évenm
President

 




(I A 1% 3'.

NJXTI()NJXL E§R(WAI)CZXSW?INT} C()NIP}XN‘L INC.
A SERVICE OF RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
RCA Buildingﬁadio City, NeWYork 20,N.Y.

CIRCLE 7-8300

M. WA T 5 O N

DIRECTOR, BHUAIMIAST STANDARDS February 1 1963

Miss Christine Stevens
President

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3 New York

Dear Miss Stevens:

This will acknowledge your wire of January 31 in which you
record your protest concerning our plans in connection with
the February 2 broadcast of the BUD PALMER SPORTS SPECIAL.

As one of a series of programs designed to illustrate and
explain the principal sports and pastimes of nationslall

around the world, the bullfight is covered as an event with

a popular following in certain Latin countries and particularly,
in Spain.

While this spectacle has its roots in the earliest recorded
history of mankind and is treated in classic and modern litera—
ture, often in a sensationalized and dramatic context, we be-
lieve that our report will help people to gain a personal and
factual knowledge free of any romantic distortion. The footage
filmed at regularly scheduled events in the arenas of Spain re—
flect an activity which would have taken place whether or not
the camera was present. Our editorial function has attempted
to avoid excesses by limiting the presentation of actual fight
scenes to those which were necessary for an accurate and truth—
ful report.

In addition to providing entertainment, television has an
obligation to occasionally hold the mirror up to life and
reflect the world in which we live. Such undertakings sometimes
result in the revealing of aspects and attitudes which annoy and
repel us.

we regret to learn of your displeasure over our announcement
concerning this broadcast, but assure you that your sentiments
will be carefully evaluated in the context of the total mail
reaching us following the Saturday presentation, and relayed
to all those concerned with the broadcast.

“Sincerely,

(J . '“"
C, 0/1,} )W\ OKJQ K d’i”\
Carl M. Watson

 




3

LRG‘b-ert Eaﬁmire 1:11? 72‘1”?“‘213 1:211 111-: r? ‘11: 3 1111.11 "111 11111111111111? 53.111111? 017111111 1.13. 1111111111113. 1.: 1.1.11“ 1111 I1 {:1
T0111 11 ' 1:1 1 1111:1116 1.111111 mama-.111 :1“ 1311? her .5“ “11a urg-ad her 1211 11:11:11: at 311m»: 1:11.: 51131111111123.1151 *1
1311111111 111.111 “311011631111? 111.111.1111 11111: reactin113.{‘1‘11is 51111 15137631" 8111:1121 $1111 1111.11.13 111:1) 11-1: 11111:?) 31
3.11211 as 13:): r1 111111111111 11111.11 talked 11111:").11111‘ with maypreﬁumamy 1:11:11 was mt by 1111111111 .1111:

is 1151111011111? oi" 11113111111113: 31.111121111138. ﬂame thing: about ﬂifferemtm 21.1.1 11’1‘ber'131‘11ta111.11zr1.
1591311111: in it 120 glaﬂmrifze 0r 1113111101119“bullfigh‘igjuﬁt 3111;111:1111; 111.111 it 72.1.1 21.11 551132111. ”‘13::
force" , “in context",a1.eetc. 51:11.1.) it was .1111 viola 1.1.1111 of the ‘13 cadewm c1*1,i111:i<111nta1_‘1.
1111 3:11:11) was a 11731“: (1069 fim1.-~t1‘:ej1r'ariginated it. 110113 115.111 1171.]. 111111 11101112 1'11111211 why

they 8310111611"? 1'1.) 11311111111 731:. I11- ‘ba 131: 311111.10 whether we'd 91111111111 51111111111; a dag;
killed 0111:1111 111111111131 11351 11 111696311 driver; I 1195.11111111 1:11.11". that if such a mictum 111111 a
it. certainly 1101.11.13 11111111 11 cmmmtm‘y 51112111113: “tbs-'11.. 1.111313 was 1:1 111113116: ”1.111 11;}: am? 111111111111’1;
happen. '“711111‘9913 hiss 1111111111111. miicture was; 133011113; 1.1:: 3113* 111111;; "neither: mndemn or: c: 1.11"
which is hardly the same thing. Be 3150 5111111 some 11011561113411 like: 1111 might 1131.1 (11111111111111
the shaming of midnight 111183 at Iihris 11111.15 1.5.1111 fmm 131""‘atri1tk'ss became a symbcil 11f
cruelty (cmmjfixion) 111 as 3111mm! Told him symbol of a cr‘smlty max-1y 21):)1") wars salt: 111111
ha 1113! same as repetition 0f the actual smelty ‘11) 111.111.1111.: 1:: wary bulli‘ight.

‘>"‘;11’.!.iam: Phaned re bullfight again. “haned 111*3.':“Filict at 1‘3”."(211 to see 111111.11; “B’sejg’m 131311.
$11.16 1“"ii..:i.c>‘l: 1:916. hear thqv’ﬂ bent. 11 wire. but than 1321:1111: “Kit 011 to tell her (111:1).1111115)
32.1951. the 5211113 1117111 that 111111.591: had 130113 her and rqeani‘t'a part 1:153 Spanishculmre ,e'hc.
“11:11. they have 1111 control over filn’asgetc. Williams talked; ""1101; into sending amthar 11:11-11
1.19 (111122113 0f 11at..Assn.of Broadcasters.

Earlier 11111111 111161 130162“ 7713 that they hat“: b91111 prom sad a preview but had 0131.51 1%; 111111111
miice 1" anrarently didn't have pmview. 'Eiowan told NBC they' 1;? have a. 11:11. of adverse
11111113211113}; as a rasult 9f shew and thy didn 'tthefy cancel it. (It is evident that 111311311,
by asking for nrevims_,etc must give immssion that it‘s 11m. 80 bad; c:’:.-n'1. tlnﬁerﬁ‘tand
why they 6011'): flatly condemn the showinga’ of bulli‘ights-«preview 111° 111:1 preview. Any
3111111151111: 013‘ bullfightwshort,1911g,good,bad-~shoﬁ1d be banned.)

(iéionday A1?) MB saw the shcwgcommentator said they 111111311111 coademn 0r 6031;111:1111“ . 12:111. 1.11
11111119 film. was. ﬁxumg sympathetic. Two barges were knocked dawn; the 1:11.111 was 31";111111
drying. 1101111. The ymmg 1111115 were also 5111111111 and cmmmtator said it was 1111111211‘1g "how
vicbus these young animals can be". General 111.115 61. Lorillard spammed? 111113; Rhinegald
beer but she didn't. see ad. 1.11” (2111111119 or Bristol '11yers.The;-§1 may have been scared off.“ 151

 




Shocked to learn NBC plans to violate television code
with bullfight prcgram Saturday. Cede demands quote
accepteﬁ standards of humane‘traatment unquote.
Bullfighting is presecutable cruelty in USA. Strongly

urge you stick to principles and to TV feeds. Cancel program.

Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

January 30, 1963

 




THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE
l3h6 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
Washington 6, D. C.

January 31, 1963
To All Humane Organizations:

The National Broadcasting Company has announced that it will show films
of two bullfights on the Sports International television show Saturday, Feb~

ruary g,

 

The network is aware that bullfighting is highly offensive to many Ameri-
cans. Further, The National Association of Broadcasters' Television Code,
to which NBC subscribes, states (Section IV, Paragraph ll): ”The use of
animals both in the production of television programs and as part of tele-
vision pIOgram content, shall at all times, be in conformity with accepted

standards of humane treatment." NBC nevertheless intends to show the bull-
fights.

We urge you to protest the scheduled bullfight telecast by sending tele-
grams immediately to the following:

Bristol-Myers Co., 630 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Colgate Palmolive Feet, 300 Park.Avenue, New York, N. Y.

General Mills, 9200 Wayzapa Blvd., Minneapolis 26, Minnesota

P. Lorillard & Co., 200 East #2 Street, New York

Georgia-Pacific Corp., Equitable Bldg., Portland, Oregon

The Honorable Newton N. Minow, Federal Communications Commission,
12th St. and Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D. C.

The National Association of Broadcasters, 1771 N Street, N.W.,
washington, D. C.

National Broadcasting Company, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

Protests to the sponsors (the first five names listed above) and the
FCC are especially important.

Sincerely yours,

Helen E. anes
Executive Director

 




Shocked to learn NBC plans to violate television code

with bullfight program.Saturday. Code demands quote
accepted standards of humane treatment unquote.
Bullfighting is prosecutable cruelty in USA. Strongly

urge you stick to principles and to TV deode. Cancel program.

Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

January 30, 1963

 




 

 

 
 

. .1...-
$

1

v v
4
N.

 

‘
v
A
v
f
¢~
n.
“2
A
‘ u
n: 1
\I
l
r

. W.‘
a J $4 2..
Q

‘1’:
41’

,‘V
f

I
(
C.

 
 

:{f‘i‘
1‘
l.
V

 
 

‘
4 u?
:1
mi 4
.L‘J;.
{
3.

 

 

1
1
.L.

Q

. l. .m? .151 ﬂ... . x1
3» 51 .2 .5b A. .

{u
)1
‘1.
f
5..., £va
?
.1.

.v
i

,
LN}
“'.

., a; .

.3
I
u

i
3
?
>

In.
u
x.
h ‘
'5 ‘n “v 5.
-q
; it}
i) Q >
A “4 (
113‘“ ‘
.91
H.
by
a
:(ﬁ.
. 1

~
..
a.
(‘1
N
v
A.
«J
»
a

.q.
‘
-.
EH
.»
F&*
u ‘
m .9“
I
A»
“\L
0
.
. ”a“

an."
Y
"a
I
.. ‘1 .‘
1‘4 -
1..
\
i. {In

$7"
1; In»

, ("t {'-
‘im in
,H
~21
1i
‘0.-
r‘
.
‘ ’x.‘
*0
f"
1' ’3.“
H. 42!
.-.‘ , .,
1'43 -

f.
a
m

3.
g.
T

x
r

.L
A
k

in
“f
a
.
i.
o
t

1 2"",
- .1. 6,.

r;
,...
-
.' ‘ F
N
1‘ kw"

‘L; r
,.
1

u'
.a‘»
5.
d-.-'

‘ E1”
",- m~ (-1;
h

e
~.

I’
“s
‘5“
f)
T.
J.
‘, .. '1:
u 3‘ ‘1; Q ID

WAfﬁHiNGTON 6, D. C.

THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNlTED STATES
3M5 ~ 19% STREET, NW.

{3.
t":
V

~ v
f
,.
t

l

 

x)
S

A
.6}
a
"v.
.4
3

i. ':
U 5
”‘4'
J;

1“

J“

F
"1 U. '
£44";

p
JG.
(3

 

:1
.y
1,:
g-
$6 .
J
.9;
Q.

 

to
{N
'-
.4
.1.»
ﬂ
I .
1")

i:
“r.
A

3."
I

\

 

,
ti

“‘ {a
a: Ld-b
5‘;

i

(5

'3

4..
...I- a u
.u.

A I“

‘3
. *m .n 9

E
. El
”t ‘
{a
,1,
_ ‘23}.

i".
4..
n-
I
L:
4
A.
‘1
.54 n
3
)p

e
E1
.ponv

1'
k
42"

1'
‘4.
X.
(317:.
t
l
4.
3c.
M
'2
L
i
x
'3
‘t

1

3:“

M
native

,4:-
r

An

‘ ~.
A.
;

R

 

”A

‘1

5::

t...-
if
x");

 

v.) 1""
$1.1
1‘85}.
2 4‘. .
' me?
1
J
5.?
'Q‘J‘Ltl‘g"
that.
7
i

3
'3’
a“.

g.

"

J O}. .
3
4

(I?
‘!
Eadaral
3 .A ‘
2?}
C
"I
M
(2)
M
_. Cr
{5
(‘2
.t
,w
‘1
1
:1 a:
v"
t: 'V

'1
3

Li
.a U 3
“2
2
Es
‘ 5:5
V O u if

N
» 7

,i’

0 TN“. ml}. MIL. wt: T);

'i
r.

 

S
‘17
r' ‘-
I“
.3;
‘1
3;. 0 1 2‘
t &
r',»
i \
a
V
”Cs

fl-
5..
of
.51 t h.
a1
3'.
L
h
it)
)
(a
.‘3

c
f

311V
I,
.:
J..

'0

,.
3.

1“
k...
r
9
I
Erector

.
”ll

t...
3
NJ
1»
urn 8
mm
to».
a.
.

1e h
C

my

'1'}

7*

011mm 1:} 1 ~
3

nmunlw
he}
iced

S B 3. w...

“dual members




 

 
 

Mr. Mouton R.‘Minow, Chairmen
Federal Communications Commission
New Post Office Building
Washington, D. C.

 
   
  
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
 

Dear Mr. Minow:

The Humane Society of the United States wishes to call to the
attention of the Federal Communecetlous Commission the fact that the
National Broadcasting Company and many of its affiliated television
stetione have again wilfully and flagrantly violated the basic intent,
if not the technical legal requirements, of the laws that your
Commission has the duty of enforcing and the conditions of licenses
that your Commission has granted.

We refer specifically to broadcast on Saturday, February 2, of
a 90aminute program devoted entirely to a showing of Spanish bullfights.
Almost the entire ninety minutes was filled with detailed and cloeeeuy
pictures of bloody cruelty to animals while the narration repeatedly
described the cruelties as ”beautiful," and enthusiastically extolled
the “courage" of those who participated in the brutalities. There were
repeated and prolonged closenup shots of the placing of benderillos
in bulls, of bulls Streaming with blood, and of the actual final kill-
ing of bulls. Other scenes showed horses being gored and both bulls
and oowe being viciously tormented in purported "tests" of the animals‘
courage. '

The Humane Society of the United States contends that the presente~
tion of such cruelty on television violates the requirement of law that
broadcasting stetione shall operate in the public interest. The
oetioo'o most eminent and authoritative psychologists and psychiatrists
are virtually unanimous in the opinion that such programs are adverse

DIRECTORS

Robert J. Chenowefh, President, Kansas City, Mo.; D. Collis Wager, Vice President, Utica, N. Y.; Edward M. Bos’rick, Treasurer, Falls Church, Va.;
Grace Conahan, Secretary, Webster Groves, Mo.; Cleveland Amory, New York, N. Y.; Dr. Myra Babcock, Detroit Mich.; C. Edward Boggs, Janesville,
Wisc.; Oliver Evans, Clayton, Mo.; Edith J. Goode, Washington, D. C.; Frederic D. Kerr, San Rafael, Calif.; Prof. James T. Mehorfer, Pitfsﬁeld, Mass.;
Mrs. George F. Milliken, New York, N. Y.; Jacques Sichel, Union, N. J.; Mrs. Edward S. Voss, Monkton, Md.; G. Martin Winemiller, Findlay, Ohio

 
 
    




Mr. Newton N. Mines -2—- Feb. 6, 1963

to the public interest-~that they are psychologically harmful to children
as well as adults. Indubitsbly such prcgrams, presenting cruelty to
animals as public entertainment, violate standards of morality that are
implicit in our own natinnal and state laws against cruelty.

The National Broadcasting Company and its affiliates will argue,
of course, that in presenting the program.that we are protesting they
were somehow advancing “education" or "culture". That contention is
disingenuous and hypocritical. It is quite obvious that the producers
of the program were motivated only by the idea that a "spectacular“ on
bullfights would attract a large audience for the commercial sponsors of
the show.

The Humane Society of the United States has repeatedly called the
attention of the FCC to the fact that both national networks and individual
broadcasting stations frequently present cruelty to animals as public
entertainment. We continue to believe that it is within the power of the
FCC to prevent this misuse of the radio spectrum, just as indubitably the
FCC can prevent presentation by licensed stations of lewdness, obscenity,
etc.

We ask that the FCC review again its policy in respect to this matter
and that it take apprOpriate action.

Sincerelypyours,

;

,J .
I . i .
"‘5 '; ifs-I '_
. . .

:1 ' ".' "i f .i' ‘l I K
. ' - 3 ﬂ 7 . v" " . .
1 x..‘ , _- ’ 2-5 " "

a L,-‘ ‘»~‘

Fred Myers,p“f
Executive Director

EM/m

CC: National Broaﬁcasting Company

 




 

‘VOLiB No.11 FEBRUARY, 1363
Feb. 4, 1963

DESPITE A NATION-WIDE WAVE OF PROTEST, "BULLFIGHT IN SPAIN," a 90-MINUTE
SPORTS INTERNATIONAL COLOR TELECAST, WAS SHOWN LAST SATURDAY BY THE NATIONAL
BROADCASTING COMPANY.

The American Humane Association, many of its affiliated organizations and
individual members telegraphed the network to urge cancellation of the gory bull-
fight demonstration.

Even the program's director Questioned the presentation:
"We were surprised at what the network let us show," he said.
An NBC spokesman told the press: "We must be extra careful because of cer-

tain attitudes held by large segments of the pOpulation of the United States...
we're going to be clobbered..."

Newsweek, Feb. 4, said of the show, "It does not know when to stop."

This was the third showing of the brutal tragedy of the bullring on network
television by NBC and the first 90-minute show dedicated exclusively to the subject.
It sets an undesirable precedent.

THE SHOW WAS OBJECTIONABLE IN MANY WAYS:

The bulls were lanced by picadores on horseback. The blindfolded horses were
brutally knocked down and trampled . Banderillas were jabbed into the shoulders and
necks, their weight and the movements of the bull causing the barbed tips to tear
at the raw, bleeding flesh and muscle. Finally, the relentless camera followed the
final moments as the death sword was plunged into the weakened animal. And, all of
this at a prime children's viewing time!

THERE CAN BE No JUSTIFICATION WHATSOEVER FOR
TELECASTING "BULLFIGHT IN SPAIN":

As ENTERTAINMENTE It could not have been filmed in the United States
because bullfighting is UNLAWFUL in every state. (This is also true of most of
the world, including the majority of Latin American countries. Even food animals
led to slaughter in the U.S. are assured a humane death by Federal law and by many
state laws. Similar laws exist in many other nations throughout the world.)

 

As a SPORTS EVENT: NBC's Bud Palmer, who emcees "SPORTS" International, told
a Newsweek reporter: "It (bullfighting) isn't a sport. Even the Spaniards call it_
a spectaCTE. It's a tragedy..." The general public has long objected to the fore-
ordained, slow and brutal death of the bull. It is no contest.

 

As a DOCUMENTARY: NBC indicated that bullfighting is a reflection of Spanish

 

 




culture and, therefore, must be shown. However, head shrinking and cannibalism and

unusual Tribal rites are also "reflections" of unique cultures but are not acceptable
for showing on television.

As NEWS: A bullfight is only news when the bullfighter is killed. Since the
bull usually dies, this is not news.

YOU HAVE READ THE FACTS! Now, you may wish to express your personal opinion

by contacting the NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO., Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

You may also wish to send copies, or similar letters, to: The National
Association of Broadcasters, 1771 N Street, N.W., Washington 6, D.C., and to the
program's sponsors: P. Lorillard & 00., 200 E. 42nd St., New York; Bristol-
Myers 00., 630 - 5th Ave., New York; Colgate Palmolive Peet, 300 Park Ave.,

New York; General Mills, 9200 Wayzata Blvd., Minneapolis, Minn.;Georgia Pacific
Corp., Equitable Bldg., Portland, Oregon.

 

 

JanuarY 23' ”63'

 

Bend Tribune. Wednesday.

(“ting Film 0f Bullflght k and their members who telegraphed NBC
Tlchltsh Job for NBtwOT cance .lation of "Bullfight in Spain,"

NHHAIDWRY.

OUR THANKS...to the many humane organizations

- o Press.

' Co(mmmmw1m-Sponse to published announcements and

NEW | S - ticklish. deli-
ceptance p offs ' .
cate ope n f
ern herford T. Phillip-s

 

alerting wires.

The

two 0 G ‘ P e cu:‘t:1.v«.:: Dire c ‘1“
made ap _. " ,

 

Inte v
ule .

 

US 8170“,?” What he
. ' eySee the bu]
rightin . Wante 1
Sewers toznesuy,
as dl‘tﬁclllt

mi!“1
stations fro
bunﬁghts'

.1 ‘ S n0
P11111111: out
nd

 




(/IZMM‘ZZ‘W7 ﬁlﬂﬂMﬂjﬂwy ﬂaw/wa/é

.7 \X/EST 66TH STREET - NEW YORK 23, N.Y.

SUSQUEHANNA 7-5000

August 6, 1962

Mrs William Denby
Landing Road
Huntington L I N Y

Dear Mrs Denby,

This will acknowledge your recent communication
concerning rodeo programs.

Whenever rodeos are scheduled to be presented over
the ABC Television Network we ascertain that the
production of such programs has been conducted under
the supervision of the American Humane Association
whose headquarters are in Denver, Colorado.

We understand your interest in this matter and thank
you for taking the time to write to us.

Cordially,

j§555//9€Aﬁ¥33

RIM MacKinnon

A DIVISION OF AIVIISRIFAN BROADCASTING W" PARAMOUNT THEATRES. INC.

 




1NIGHT WATCH .,._ . By Percy Shain‘ ,.
‘Bullfight in Spain’
Good But Not Gory

Sports International, Ch. 4 ***

However distasteful the subject matter to Ameri-
can sensibilities, one must say of
NBC’s presentation of “Bullﬁght in
Spain” Saturday afternoon that this
90-minute examination of the Span-
iards’ national craze was neither lurid
nor offensive.
Rather, as ably narrated by Bud
Palmer and illustrated with close-up
shots of the many phases of the in-
dustry leading to the ﬁnal spectacle,
.it was a ﬁne example of competence
" and thoroughness in attempting to
lay out for American understanding the nuances and
intricacies of a most complicated business.

 

v
1

 

 

 

were, of course, those depict—
ing the savage drama of the

LOBE’S BATH“?-

The controver'sial portions L:
A in)"
«‘4‘

ring. These were generally ac- a
. ceptable, concentrating more 1

on the spectacle than the goad- 1
ing. and goring of the bull. 1

 

But one quick final thrust
of the sword was flashed on
the screen near the end — a
moment, later—the dying ani-
mal was shown sagging to its
knees (the gushing blood well
concealed by the camera
angle).

 

Earlier a novillero —-— or
novice—was seen briefly being
trampled (but the, part in
which he had risen, saluted
.- the crowd, and fainted dead
away Was cut. out).

We can'condemn such barba-
rous goings-on and yet recog-
r, nize that, in order to give some
’ point to the detailed explana-
tion of the ritual, the training,
' the raising of the bulls, and
5 other aspects of the sport, it
, is necessary to show that all
r this preparation does not lead
1

 

 

 

 

to some such pleasant pastime
as mumbletyépeg. ,
Regarding public reaction to
the program, Station WBZ re-
. ported it received 20 calls after
1 'the show, of which six were
1 favorable and 14 critical. Be-
t fore the telecast went on there

 

were some 35 who phoned in” ~
protests. -
e. n r *

 

 

 




{Slows Bullfight

t‘ t A television documentary
portraying the drama of Span-
. ish bullfighting went on the air
,NlSaturday afteri‘ioon despite the
Jprotests of local animal lovers.
ti “Sports International” on
iWBZ—TV had been criticized
,{t‘for several days in advance by
{slofficials of the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of
“4 Cruelty to Animals.
Dr. Eric. H. Hansen, presi-
lwident of the M.S.C.P,A., had ob-
" =ljected particularly to the time
g;-.,:;:'of the program, 3130 to 5 pm.
“A. brutal gory massacre is
liﬁjjhardly a fitting or educational
{SI} spectacle for children who very
L’figii'likely will be watching tele-
féfglvision in this time period,” he
155354 i said.
Host Bud Palmer said in
35}???opening the program that its
?f;_-§;33;intent was “not to pass moral
ggfjgf‘fijudgment . . . not to condemn
1or condone. We are presenting
objectively a fact of Spanish
j lit e . "
Those who called WBZ were
referred to an NBC statement
by Carl Watson, director of
broadcast standards, who said
,[several sections of the film had
2”been cut to avoid criticisms.
jg “We feel that the context in
“giwhich the program is shown
itilgram,” he said. “We have a re- .
§?§§f?3§%sponsibility. We cannot always
5ffjbe afraid.”

 

5555?;completely justifies the pro- .




COLGATE ~PALMOLIVE COMPANY

A DELAWARE CORPORATION

COLGAT’E-PALMOLIVE BUILDING ° BOO PARK AVENUE - NEW YORK 22

March 21, 1963

Miss Eva Schiffer
27 Kendrick Place
Amherst, Massachusetts

Dear Miss Schiffer;

In response to your recent letter, we wish to advise you that

Colgate—Palmolive Company did not sponsor and had no partici-

pation in the Sports International bullfight program televised
by NBC on Saturday, February 2, 1963.

Sincerely, /'

I .
,’ =9
. ‘J. . a
.3 3 a .l s .I
g, ' ‘-._ v -_-- n... ,,
>. . 33‘

r, c x53 \ 3::
f3“ *3; v». 3

z, \ ﬁxgﬁizmnﬂw Ajwﬂ 3:
Dale Armstrong

Manager of Public Relations

 




($611)» ‘ ‘ * , ' A ,
LiooAvs TV PREVIEWS» AND HIGHLIGHTS

:33—(2) Rawhide 11 hour).“ln«1n’lent oi the Silver piisonei (Pat Crowley) he is taking to the 1000—14) Target: The Corruptors (1 hour). “Prison
Web.” A mute little girl is "adopted” by an penitentiarV Robert: Taylor stars Rerun Empire.” Preston Foster plays a crooked union
escaping convict. Reba Waters and Don Hag- 9:30—(4) The “Form! of Billy Graham (1 hour). This leader who continues to operate from prison.
gerty are featrired with stars Clint: Eastwood biography traces the evangelist’s private and 10:30—(2) Eyewitness (1/2 hour). The medical con-
and Eric Fleming. Rerun. . public life. Among the personalities seen with tfo‘lelgy in Canada ‘

7:30-(4) International. Showtime (1 hour)... “Circus him are President Kennedy and Jack Paar. __ 3 u
From Italy.” Don. Ameche is host. Rerun. Alexander Scourhy narrates. Rerun. . 10 30 ifélhﬁailgntley ( /2 hour) American Troops
7:55—(9) Baseball: Mets vs. Dodgers. ..... 10:00—(2) Twilight Zone (3/2 hour). “The Howling / , ,
8:30—(2) Route 66 1.1 hour ). “You Never Had It So Man." H. M. Wynant stars as a man taken into 10 30‘4“) Frontiers (if. Knowledge ( 2 hour) Man 3
Good.” A large corporation is looking for non- a European monastery when he gets lost on a Deadly Burden the Problem,“ overweight.
conformists with brains. George Maharis and. " ~ hiking trip. He is troubled by the eerie shrieks 11300"(11) Steve Allen (1V2 hours). ,
Martin Milner star. Rerun. that reverberate through the corridors. John 11:13-44) Tonight; (1% hours). Jo Ann Campbell,
8:3®-(4) The Detectives (1 hour) “ soon.” A. de- Carridine is a monk. With Robin Hughes. Monique van Vooren, Homer and Jethro,
tective (Telly Savalas) tails for the woman Rerun. Charlie Manna. Color. \

WWW.“ jj‘jj, .. ..
' ‘ TODAY’S . Machine ' With a Soul
TV MOVIES Baltimore, July 13 (Am—Two young men coaxed 100 free

games out of a pinball Ina/chine. Then they skillfully beat it for
I 100— (111.) “Vampire Bat” 50 more. .
~ - - 3’11 33) <90 min). Melvyn Doug- The machine couldn’t take. it——-it exploded.
' ' ‘ w “a” Pay Wl'ay' ~ ' John J Cramblett 22- and Paul 11 Alred 19 were on

a ' .. .;.‘ . ,, , ,1. .- . , , . 1th
By 9138 WlLLlAMS 130—“? “The Devil‘s Mask” flying glass and treated at a hospital. The lights on the m:-

(1 46) (85 min). Anita. Lonise.
The scheduling of two tall rodeo series-«ABC’s “Stoneyi 30*(11) Plan Nine from

Burke” and NBCs V1 ldE Ctuntiy”~has aroused the Humaneio ter Space 11956) (60 min).

' Society of the U. S.. VVhirh is organizing a protest campaign 13 la Lugosi Vampire 1
Belton Mou1as, diiector of the Societys Livestock Dept, con- 1
tends it’s impossible to stage a standard iodeo‘ Without cruelty ' . . .3 _ ,
to animals.” He insists that “sperial rodeo productions for TV 1‘ ﬁgjpggpﬁnﬂhngomthy MC
would probably be Vicise than many of the regular Iodeos.’ g ” 4. y d
The HS’JS charges that supervision” of the use of animals in 5 00—04} The Yellow Squa ‘

Hollywood motion pictures and TV had become ineffective’ﬂrf’n (.1956) .‘(90_ min). Hass
e n 1 . " 3 1 a. u"... oum—wr-«~—- n 1- Sven Lindh r

 

 

-'.I.SOd )1qu MEN

.\\3

 

 

39$

mam:

7. -\

‘

 

Ainr

 

 

 

'El

 

. mi

chine that fought back showed “(100” free games after the
blast. .

3:33—(9) ‘fClaudia‘ and David”

 

 

 

 

 

 




Ass-5.1 5, 5553

15955. NMsn 5555555555, 81555555555
5555551 Cam-:5: 55555555553 waist:
Washington, 5). C. ' ’

Best Best ,

I was an 5555555555 Prsss Its” 55555 555555: ass-ssrsnss a isms 555s
ssttsnsz Associatiss sf Wsssstsss, 555s ysuv statsssnt that it has
established "masosssis 555555th 5555: vssrssliss“ but ”yss havs
demmtrstsd nsﬁthsr ths W531 555s 512s capacity to snfsrcs 5155555“ , csrtsmly
applies means-5y ts the 51353" 35552555555555 sf 5 Sﬁssish mllvfigbty Eslmzssy
ssconé.

Tbs Tablet/55555555 Cass ssplscstly statss ”.uths 55555 M msssststtsn
sf 5559515251553? sr physical sassy by sight c5255 by saws ass 55:55 sssssiss5 15's...
*2..th use sf 5555555555., 15515555 555 tabs pmdustiss sf tslsvtsisn pssmss sad
as 5 part 555‘ tslsvﬁ 355555 5555559555 ssstsnt, 555st} st 531 5555555 2555 555 5555555-
forsity with. sscsstss 555555551555 555‘ 5555555555 trestmsst.” 55.55 55555: thss ssy
they ciidis't Jess-511.5; was 55 sftss 55.1.

Have yam sssn the 555555 59555555 55 51:25.35 ms 53 53335555551521}! sutssgssss,

ssd suggests thst the 80655 has 5555 mes-555555; ssstsssvsr swam-55 51555 5555

x I bslisvs it ssftsitslv was effectivs 5n sssvssting 55555
5519555559 05‘ 55.552 5‘5 ghts by statisss that sussst'ibsd ts 55555 5355555.

When I mots ts 15m pststing mat is them that thsy wsss 'Mssﬁss 555s
Tslsvisiss Cassy 552s rs‘sly 5' rsssivss sat-55:5 thsy wsrs Msiﬁng 5551‘ 55s tats:
mil” about 555s 55555554545555 5'55 sthsr 55555555. 552s sthicsl stssdssds tssv has
sgrssd ts wsrs shslly sxssndsbls 55 they 515555553555: tortsss and dssth sight
pmvs pass Is: with 55m 61552.er 5:55 sthsss vissisg 5555 55555 Sstxmdsy 555st“
M01355.

5: there a say in which tbs Tslsvtsisn Cass can be ssforssd?

555s. Rsssr Stsvsss

 




_ Hobs
.’ -
. ..our). “An
"e award-win-
- is versatility in
. 'pressions of Queen
“readings from Robert
--are.
, , 'our). Britain’s aircraft car—
, toi'aCtion during World War II.
, ioncert X111 (‘15. hour). Eden and Tamir,
zeli duo- pianists
' ) Jack Benny (1/2 hour). Jack has a disagree-
ent with. his sponsors over money.

 

1.. 9113*"
Heater 1’1 hour). Lee Marvin
. ontalban in “Epilogue.”
,gntouchables (1 hour). “One Last
RiVal hoodlums double cross each
. , while trVing to outsmart Ness.
3 Poetry't x4 houi). Norman Rosten.
00—(2) Garry Moore 11 hour). Guests are Jack E.
Leonaid, Jane Powell, singer- -dancer Roy Cas-
tle and sem1recu1ar Dorothy Loudon “That
W'onderful Year” is 1929.

10:00—(11) Bold Journey (1.4.: hour). “River Run.”
Adventurers navigate the rapids-ﬁlled Upper
Salmon. Rerun.

10:30—(4) Chet Huntley (1’2
Boston strangler.

10:30—(7) Special 11,4: hour). Rise Stevens presents
the four Winners of the Metropolitan Auditions.

10:30——(11) Steve Allen {ll/£2 hours). Guests are Pete
Fountain, Johnny Mercer, others.

11:30—(4) Tonight (11,4; hours~—color). Johnny Car-
son’s guests are Patricia Morison, George Ham-
ilton, Carol Sloane, Adam Keefe and Masami
Kuni.

'iSOd )IHOA MEN

hour). Report on the

'AVGSiﬁl

 

v- - «1:7
1‘ 5,; . 1,.
1 1; . ﬁ
1‘ .7 ta?-
.

man Minow of the Federal
C mnnunications Commissmn
1 told the National Assn. of Broad-

i
i Chicago Apiii 2 1AP)-—Chair
1

£96!

B Ignores

ﬁOn 111on legislation quuiljnreraSt SOIHCVVhGI‘i—Z‘ in the IlaIIOIl
every broadcaster’s
in the NAB and enforcement of‘tout vs hen a 1adio commercial
NAB standards of commeicials.1 0901118 WOUId give a computei a

member shipi e\ my 1 7 seconds an d ‘to ﬁguie

'Z TIUdV

\

t

O

“I cannot understand why ysou nervous breakdown ”

' casters toda 7‘ it had established
1 3 do not see the wisdom of. taking Lrges Self Regulation

-~~’reasonable standards for your-

sch es,” but “you have demon-
st ated neithei the will nor the
capatity to enforce them.’
inziinoxV in a speech prepared
for the NAB’s annual conven-

TODAY'S

' V MOVIES

14) “Back Bay R0-
55 mins). Ray—
.nne Wood-
tries to

 

 

9’

 

1
such a course instead of 1equir 1
ing further action f1 om the gOV-
e1 nment ” he said.

NAB Fights Proposal

The FCC last week announced '
that it had voted to consider
incorporating NAB commercial
standards in FCC regulations.
Leroy Collins, NAB president,
told the convention yesterday
that the organization will op-
pose this plan because it would
be a “signiﬁcant move toward
public utility type regulation.”

Minow told the convention
that a TV commercial is broad-

 

“Self-regulation is clearly the
best regulation,” Minow said.
“Yet, though you haVe estab-
lished reasonable standards for
yourselv,es you have demon-
strated neither the will nor the
capacity to enforce them. You
cannot subscribe in principle
and ign01e it in practice.”

The FCC chairman said that
the NAB codes for radio and
TV a1e responsible codes of. eth-
ics Howevei, he added that only
38 pei cent of the nation 5 radio
stations and 70 per cent of the
TV stations subscribe to the
codes.

 




FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

WASHINGTC’N 25. D. C.
Maron2wﬁlﬁﬁ5
ADDRESS ALL. commumcxnons
To THE SECRETARY

IN REPLY REFER TO:

8310-32
COB-OhSB

Mr. Gene Johnson
ZOuh Hawthorne Rd.
Homewood, Ill.

Dear Mr. Johnson:
Thank you for your comments on the televising of bullfights.

Although the Commission has received other similar comments,
it should he pointed out that there is.no Federal law prohibiting
the showing of bullfights, whether as a local spectacle or over
television. Local exhibitions are subject to local law, but in the
area of broadcasting the courts have held that Federal law applies.
Further, it should be pointed out that under the Communications Act
of 1934, the Commission is specifically prohibited from exercising
the power of censorship, and therefore may not tell broadcasters what
they may or may not present.

However, all individual station licensees are obligated to
make a reasonable effort to seek out and serve the needs and interests
of their communities. Since you object to the presentation of bull—
fights on television, you may wish to write directly to the stations
presenting the exhibitions. In this way the stations will learn more
about the needs and interests of their communities.

The Commission appreciates your comments and hopes that you
will understand its position.

Very truly yours,

5W: ff 7/74L

Ben F. Waple
Acting Secretary

 




‘ sociation of Securities Dealers.

. .2 « J1.

3‘ Y“ I

, [-1
u. , F g
I \ t ,‘

x”. Li- W

i‘i- L
. #:{tﬁ R
(I: ”\J h I}: “5% ‘;;- \
~ . ' r ‘1 7;. ‘

with SEEKS LAWl
TOBAGKN.A.B.GODE

Broadcasters Hear Preposal
for Binding Self-Regulation

By RICHARD F. SHEPARD .
Special to The New York Times
CHICAGO, April 2—Newton
N. Minow advocated a law to-
day that would require the
broadcasting industry to be its
own policeman,
‘q‘Thf-ough you have established
‘ reasonable standards for your-
selves, you have demonstrated
neither the capacity nor the will
to enforce them,” the Federal
Communications Commission
chairman told 3,000 members of
the National Association of
Broadcasters. He spoke at the
asshciation’s annual convention.
“You can no longer have it
both ways,” he said. “You can-
not subscribe in principle and
ignore it in practice. Self-
regulation cannot become self-
deception.” He described “self-
regulation” as “clearly the best
regulation, just as self-disci—
pline is the best discipline.”
His,,'remarks were directed to
an issue that has been a major
concern to broadcasters here. A
week ago, the F.C.C. announced
that it was inviting comment
on (proposals to limit the time
devotgd to commercials on the
air,
Mr.}l\/[inow. who shortly after '
he :beicame commission chair-
man itwo years ago labeled
.Aiitei'ican. television “a vast
wasteiand,” said today that “the
American public is drowning,
and dialling for help. A televi-
sion commercial is broadcast
somewhere in the United States
every f:;1.7 seconds. To figure out
how often a radio commercial
occurs, would give a. computer
a l’lél’V§mS breakdown."
gPraises Code’s Standards
The? FCC. chairman com-

n‘iendeid the advertising stand-
ards get by “responsible broad—
casters” in the code of the
NAB}: He noted, however, that
0111 133175011'adio stations, 38 per
con); (if the total. subscribe to
the oddeln; television, 405 sta-
‘tiods, “for 70 per cent, subscribe.

“and even those who sub-
scri’gbel‘to the code do not al-
waysadhere to its provisions,”
he aSSerted.

Under his plan, all. broadcast-
ers; \i'ri‘ould have to join the
N.A.B.’; and observe its stand-
ards i-He cited officials of the
ass elation to point to the dif-
ficulties the industry has had
in regiilating itself Without le-
gal iauithority. The broadcasters
liavk , generally favored volun—
tary self-regulation.

In af talk here yesterday, Le-
Roy boning, N.A.B. president,
warned that broadcasting
standards would have to be im-
proved to prevent intrusion by
the, Federal Government.

Mri’ Minow likened his pro-
pos‘ali to the system coverin‘

 

     

   

  
 

  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

-srgckprokers. Most brokers. 11, , ,

wjbelong to the National As— t

The organization can discipline

 

hrou

comn

and even oust offending mem- static
hers, ;;but those charged with opera
violations still have recourse to pal .

the Securities Exchange Com-
mission and the courts.

said,
New

“I {,cannot understand why UBF
you do not see the wisdom of bels.’

taking such a course instead of

U11

requiring further action from make
the government,” Mr. Minow to h:
said. “Those of you who live comr

 

honorably by fair ruies should

SEC“!

nsist now that your competi- geste

ors adhere to them too.”
, F.C-.C. Study Prompted Plan

The FCC. chairman’s plan
was suggested in a network
study report presented to the
zomnﬁssion last iDecember by
Ashbrook P. Bryant, chief of
the F.C.C.’s Office of Network
Study and counsel to the com-
nission’s programing inquiry.
An observer noted that, even if
,he N.A.B. were given autho—
. rity to set standards and levy
fines. the FCC. would still be
the sole body to inflict broad-
casting’s capital punishment——
the lifting of a license.

Mr.‘Minow said, “There have
been improvements in broad-
casting. Many of you. are doing
a better job of;:5erving the pub-‘
lic than‘lwas the case several
years ago.” j 7 -

But, he continued, “I hope
the Congressional examination
of the rating systems may en—
courage you to put more trust
in the people, and more faith
in your own judgments of the
public's capacity to respond to
the best that is in you.” Rating
services for broadcasting have
been under study by a House
subcommittee and the Federal
Trade Commission.

The chairman resolutely re—
fused to comment on reports
that he would soon resign from
his post. There was no jubilant
whistling or stamping of feet
as he suggested to broadcast-
ers that they “continue to do
business at the same old stand
in our office at 12th and Penn-
sylvania Avenue,” the FCC.
headquarters in Washington.

He spoke at length about the
opportunities offered by the de-

pern

firsti
later
Ml
ineni
ing
close
("I
and
vvhei
are
vveel
dons
guns
adde
H1
prob
conr
arat
nuni
ager
-rece
'li
peat
tion
cast
“I
teni
0U]
cide
ing
ou
deci
pro<
yout
slee

De

C
Har
radi
W01
of .
day
ent:
ciat
ven
'I
StO‘
de

Q

 

 

 

velopment of ultra-high fre-

 

 




  
       

  

BeVerly Wilsliire Hotel

9500 Wilshire Boulemrb, Beverly Hills, California

  

L I ”L.» L“
, -, cm-

      
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
               
  

’\

l / . . .7"
{'0 .x-y/é: /4/
c. L244 00
L

- " a . QCM/ L/ a? (hwy-4......

541.1!)

a . L L Q 69‘ t 0 Q .
- ”L/pf Z/K’t/é/LL (IQ/W £6- V;/% [créévé/If , A]: //7 C /
LLL (:2 V5”...

f ,./ f t I", g ﬁll/‘1). .
51" ,v ; _ , i'CC/k 11% .4 _)
7 / K 4 .::L’ ( C c- /:,{ Cﬁ/ Q C" Q 6 ,..-:;/
(ii {’Vk. m L/V% a» ~ .. (1/,- 4;

1.

/ - , ,1 .7" 6;}; w > ‘ [1/
\/ av" _,,__.._,..»~_. /
(of l/‘Cr’ V'W; LanL’ZI/w é; :LL 4’ V/t O V

f
/x~_&' 4 6/1..

X“:

  

\‘x _
"x“..- ‘

C

/ 2/

5 /4/L./C@,L, . L6 1/“.

 

CW fr)

/; ,fi

/ 1/ J (i

1* C C. L

5 Z 4 C/f’Lﬂ/ LL 4 L... 51LL,--"/'i7rb,;f-(,VL,L_> ﬂirt/we '/ J‘ C k’ L“ {/Z/é 6/ o 7
7/ (/ Jv’ '1'" if)" . l , .7

49-”
oLZ/Ci/ , r .

1?) ,3 f / \ __/ ' H4] J / “I" {’2 Z” ({ / (€541.6g 7. at. “3
(Cl/(”ﬂ Eta/V097 if (a: I?" Z L“ 7 7‘" C C; /
f // 4, £7 /t /5 (/ .. I ( ' Lil CL; C \{ (”0/ \
4/3. __ '1" ‘ ‘4 I ~ 4 $43,, ﬂ/V’ f: C (,
,r ’ 7,“: 4,... 4. ; . ,- "1,- . é .
4L. {4% - 6 L. l/«I (,- ( L] j /

Q;

A?

ﬁlm/La éC’I’xtﬂ ( CL

 

THE CHAMPAGNE ROOM SANS SOUCI LE GRAND TRIANON
SUPERLATIVE SETTING

     

LA BELLA FONTANA OAK BAR
RESTAURANT DISTINCTIVE COCKTAILS INTIMATE FOR PARTIES THE ULTIMATE

   

          




WEI,

I;
m;

3. val? M;

9 ,
“" “1 '3 'v.‘
£2? wﬁg‘v ,5»

3" Fiﬁ»
4 a ‘0?!" 0

I'x" “ ['
{’- f?”
,1... f. L

‘35. C? {1

. m f. m ' -- ' a
.. s: ’ mg: %..’szﬁz§y .3

~ 471mg”:
v 11% " u:

E”

:m,
«3"?

.5, e“.
z)" a~,--3 ﬂ. 1'. g :‘gn CT: k --'. y'- {wf .1
._ 3%. a. w -3. M .1 ..

.‘QE {:2 5‘32; M:

“(a ’1. ct}! “L
3 that L’

1.5. " ?
«5‘ .Jﬁtgqvpgm .x‘m ﬂy?»
:«l‘Kﬁ-l 39:3;

J-kr‘l
In. «1;,» «viii! n

*=' ’c zr‘
., 25 J

'-
a
o

a .w ,2 3
M WW 1:? yak-.2?

‘F‘
1.

:..' w ; .
a, v m, m; 3!: . . ‘ ~
w. wtw; nieczmmrg

 




EVAJFI()NXXL 133(iAI)ClXSFFIPJG C(JRIPEXNWL INC.
A SERVICE OF RADIO CORPOR.AT10NOF AMERICA
RCA Buildingﬁadio City, NewYork 20, N31".

CIRCLE 7—8300
CAR 1. M. WATSON

DIRECTOR, BROADCAST S'I‘;\NIJ.XRI}S June 4 1962

Miss Estella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3 New York

Dear Miss Draper:

This is to thank you for your letter of May 28th bringing

to our attention the press item announcing the claim of

Mr. I. P. Lazar regarding certain bullfighting films and

his intention of showing same on an upcoming TONIGHT program.

we had already caught this on our own and taken the necessary
steps to make sure that no material is presented without a
previeus clearance with this department.

I assure you that we intend to live within the restrictions

of the NAB Code to which we subscribe, as well as up to our

own high standards which require that programs shallsnot de—
pict cruelty to animals or their misuse subject to normal re-
quirements of dramatizations dealing with situations of reality.

As far as we can learn, the item in the press is baseless.
In any event, we are in your debt for taking the time and
trouble to bring it to our attention.

Sincerely,

‘3 a, v
( (U 1 WV] in 3‘3 '
Carl M. watson

 




I 7?X ﬁgﬁﬁﬁﬁ €%&%MMEERE"V"
. €24 45445454” Nﬁpn. . ’
55>. 5?:- ﬁfﬁx - ‘ I; I 5”“

Mr. William Mapel Admin. Vlce Pres. ASPCA, 441 E. 92 St NGW'York, N.Y. .
" "Mr. Rutherford T. Phillips Executive Dlrector AHA P. O. Box 1266, Denver 1, C010. _
Mrs. Marie G. Thompson, 2545 N. 65th Street, Mi .waukee 13, ‘Nis. I '5
Miss Helen Jones, National Catholic Society for Animal walfare, 733 15th8t.N. IN
Washington 5,.D. C.
Mrs. Rabert Dyce, 23411 Margareta,, Detroit 19, Mich. ,
(MES. Lurton Gottlieby Ex. Dir. Humane Soc. of Pensacola ,m 2485 W.Garden St. "
Mrs. Ann Gough Hunter ,Prs. Soc. PCA,- 31327 overs Lane, Dallas, TeXas ‘

 




 

C§Eil§§f fXIﬁ‘JEZfiiTIESIIQN:§ ﬁx€EIEEQ(37YQ I}{(3.

4 1-1:} (3‘ Nu: K ,V~\.\' :ac \ Hit. N 113': W 'Y’cnek: '3 2. N. Y

April 17, 1962

Miss Virginia Macﬁuley
hh west Twelfth Street
New York 11, New York

Dear Virginia:

Your' 3 is the 'kind heart' and I do appreciate

your Wbringing Mrs. Bemelmans' project to my
attention.

I have had the letter dittoed and now have fifty
copies out to interested and influential people
who I am.sure will pass it on and multiply its
effect. Here are a few additional copies.

Thank you for the very kind words about the Lilt
program - those are always heartening. By now
we have the technical check-backs that say it was
a great hgginesg success.

See you soon...happy Eastertime to you.

Sincerely,

“Kw

/ I?
4¥fﬁi Lika a \M in“.

Mfwm am mm “W

mama“ w

Flo%Ence Golein

"'e-v‘

lf/Esz‘ Cami Officer

17:30 NORTH VINE STREET» HOLLYWOOD 28$. CALIFORNIA . 2 5:35 MONTGOMERY SAN jl‘hANCISc‘SO 4ACAIWGRNIA

 




  

NATIONAL BROADCASTING(MIMPANXINQ

 

A SERVICE OF RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
RCA Buiiding, Radio City, New York 20, N.Y.
CIRCLE 7'8300

ERNEST LEE 3A H N (IKE, JR.
VICE PRESIDENT

STANDARDS 1% PRACTICES

December 15, 1961

May I acknowledge your recent letter to me
regarding our broadcast of "The Many Faces

of Spain". I attach a copy of my letter to
Mr. Rutherford T. Phillips, Executive Director
of The American Humane Association, on this
subject which I believe responds to the points
you raise.

VEry sincerely,/

 

Jr.
''''' Attachnentﬂﬂgf,
/\‘-LC 13‘}, kJﬁsx (IR ixrrW1W‘Aj
'2 mm. Wig 02AM - (Ma

 

KJJJIA. \§4AJA1&El\?3 .»#Adﬁjc ijﬂAAJAuNvaL g/Kbe/B
334% MM“

 

 

LAAA J AA- A A, AA {TAM A”? - (in

f
C

‘ , A “Md/QAMKJ’V‘ ‘3" L“ \g A, Ava—31A) -3 ,r
(/5 Q ELL/”k ML .. A\\ (iv-"U We him-A482

 
 
 

N'M .~

    
   




NJXTEWDDJA]; BI{0151)CIXSfFIPJG (ZODAPJXNWY,INC.
A SERVICE OF RADIO CORIW3RATION OF AMERICA
RCA Building,Radi0 City, NewYork 20,N.Y.

CIRCLE 7-8300

ERNEST LEE JXHNCKE, JR.

VH3)“. PRESIDENT

S’I'ANDARDS 8 l’RACTiCES mcember 13, 1961

Mr. Rutherford T. Phillips
.Executive Director

The American Humane Association
896 Pennsylvania Street

Denver 3, Colorado

Dear Mr. Phillips:

Illness prevented my answering your letter of November 15th
which.Mr. Carl watson, Director of Broadcast Standards,
acknowledged in my absence.

I must reject your condemnation of NBC for broadcasting the
Hugtley documentary "The Many Faces of Spain" on November 14,
19 l. '

This program, in cOmmon with all material broadcast over NBC
pracilities, was reviewed in advance by this department to
insure its compliance with NBC's standards of taste and
propriety and the provisions of the NAB Code, to which we
subscribe. 'At all stages of the preparation, we were in
contact with the producers of the program, which was a report
on the people and institutions of Spain. It was agreed,
during the very first discussion, that since the purpose was
to depict the Spanish.personality, very little could be
accomplished without some reflection of the role of the
bullfight and its attraction to Spaniards.

The bullfight whose scenes were used in the completed program
was not arranged by NBC. The film segments were placed in
the program because, as I am sure you are aware, the bullfight
is a part of the life of the people of Spain and indeed of a
large portion of the population of our own hemiSphere.

YOu will recall that the edited filmed excerpts were flashed
in and out of the performance of the flamenco dance. The
srmilarity of the movements of the dance with those of.the
bullfight did much to put each in a context, while explaining
certain subtle characteristics of the Spanish personality.

 




Mr. Rutherfcrd T. Phillips
December 13, 1961
Page 2

This broadcast, furthermore, was no attempt to condone the
subjugation of animals to cruel treatment, nor was bull~
fighting the subject matter of the broadcast. While there
was little script commentary during this portion of the
broadcast, it was not the producer's aim to glorify bull»
fighting, bullfighters, or the crowd observing it. In

fact, the purpose was the direct opposite, which was evident
in the portrayal and carefully reinforced by Chet Huntley's
commentary, which was as follows: "The Spanish say there is
beauty in the afternoon. It is either an incredible subtlety
or a rationalization, for it is also the killing of a bull."

In our opinion, this program not only was in keeping With the
standards of the NAB Code, but also was a distinguished
addition to the many outstanding television programsthe
National Broadcasting Company presents regularly to provide
our viewers with insights into the world in which they live.

In addition to the unsolicited reviews of this program and
spontaneous mail from viewers, all of which was laudatory,
I have received quite a few letters as a result of the
circulation that you gave to your membership of your letter
to me. I am sending copies of this letter to these latter
correspondents, but I should appreciate your giving it the
full circulation that your letter to me enjoyed.

Very sincerely,

 




F33. T3rrencaSGFF13h333y
$33 Franci333 Chr331313
S33 F33331333, :31if3rnia

  4 ,J'Dear F-r. 03133333; .4

A 3333  3f;y3ur 331333 FN3 Sh3vihg 03333 33 'th3 BullF 333 3333
:‘to  33 by’a 3333333333333, 333 43 3133 33 th3nk you F33 333333333133'
3333 further 333k pr3gr3ma.'

' A3 ;you 333 know) Constant 3f£3333 333 33133 3333 by Bﬁl1fight -
933333333 to introduce thi3 brutal 333333013 13 the United Stat33,
and thsugh I, like yvu, have 33333 3333 3 331131333, 1.33 tald .
~ that tha 3333 33331313 thing about 3333 is the blood~thir33y 33-; ‘
_3itement of the 33333333. Countr133 in which bullfighting i3 _"
practiced are unif3rmly 3311333 333 33331 in their treatm3nt Of 311
‘ 3313313. For th333 3333333 311 333 333k against crualty ta 3313313
are deeply 333333333 33313333 333'3ttemnt3 333 made 33 intrbduca
the practice here. 33 are correspandlnply apnreCiative of 333333,
" 333333 reactions 3 uch 33 thoae exp33333d hw'ypu 13 tha $33 Franci333
-Chr331313. ' ,

With best wishes and thank3,

131333331y5N'

83333333333333.3333 w.

4 1&8. 33 doubt 333 know of the 331133133 333vi35333 3f the T3133131331
~' 30063, to Which, unfartunately'WFBWuﬂv has not agreed to 33h333,
though 311133333 33333333 and 3v3r three h333333 1333333333t
statian3 do  39: . A _

”FTh3 use of horrbr €33 1t3 awn 3 333 3111 be 3113133333;
' the 333 3f 313331 or 33331 3ff3333 Which 33313 Shock
3 or alarm tha viewer, and the detailed pres3ntaticn 3f
'4-,brutality or~phy31331 aany. by sight 33 by sound are not
-.per31331313. .

B FTh3 333 cf 3313318, both.in the 3336333133 of television ”
,pragran3 and as 3 p333 of televisien prcgram.conﬁent, .
Q 3h311 at 311 timas, be in conformity ulth accepted standards
43F 333333 treatment.F _
BliFld 30 )J m; .

-333. 8.3. 33313  S3 c.B Spark '3SF‘ - . 3-3;.~ ._
. 2225’ 53433; :t Reno, NEVada ‘1 'BI‘G 0f .use‘F'ada31.313g 305,31...»

 




it) 7/1/ﬁfxrxwx/xfrr

‘ , if” , , .. . .‘ r
.' fr" , 1.. r
' it, [lllllllll’l’lrummllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂﬂﬂllllllﬂllIlllllllllllllllIll PA ((23:

ERRENCE Q’FLAHERTYl

V!IllIIIIIIIIlllllilIlllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIHIIIlllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'1

 

; No Shavmg Cream on the Bull
' New York

HIS WEEK, STATION WNEW-TV sacrificed three brave

bulls in an hour-long TV tape called “Bullfight.” Actu-
.ally it was two brave bulls and one pacifist—but the end
was the same. The bulls lost and the man in the gold braid

won.

American Sports fans (particularly those who were
betting on the bull) mu st ‘
I have been disappointed to
know the odds were 1000 to . ‘ cf) ,

1 in favor of the matador. . ~

It was the first time that '

' an authentic, uncensored pro»
, gram of bullfighting has been
. seen in New York. There has
‘ been plenty of bull on tele-
vision, but heretofore no one
has attempted to fight it in
quite this same way. The pro-
gram was shown at the prime
viewing time of 10 p. m. and
the local reactions ranged
from enthusiastic to outraged.

The coming attractions read:

“Bullfights direct from the Plaza de Toros, Mexico
City. See the ”age-old ritual of man’s struggle with the
brave bulls. Experience ‘the moment of truth’ with the
world’s greatest matadors—Alfonso Ramirez, Juan Silveti
and Carlos Arruza in the foremost tourist spectacle of Meat-
ico. This special program is presented to help further our
_ understanding of neighbor nations.”

1k tr a '

THERE IS SOME QUESTION concerning the extent our ‘
understanding was furthered, but it was a most in- '_

teresting hour with bullfight critic Carlos Monitalban giv— ‘
ing us a play-by-play and a bull-by—bull narration with a

little diplomacy thrown in. .

"‘Bullfighting is not a sport or a game. It is a tradition.
Man stands between life and death to prove his superiority. ‘1
To understand Mexico, you must understand its great pas- “
. sion for fighting the bull.

I have never seen a real bullfight so I suppose my
reaction was identical to that of all Americans who see one
for the first time Every time the bull showed same sign
of giving the matador trouble the fight stopped whilea
man'on horseback jabbed some more barbs into the poor
beast. 1
The first bull decided to pull a “Ferdinand” and
wouldn’t fight—thereby endearing himself to the patrons
' of the bar where I viewed the slaughter. But the poor
,' devil was sliced up anyway and finally sat down and died
1 in the dirty sand of the bullring—-—rather than being exiled
to smelling flowers like gentle Ferdinand in the Disney film. '

it it it
ERTAINLY the color and the excitement of the crowds .1
~- must be a Very great part of the thrill of seeing a. fight .
S * “1n person” and, while none of this was experienced in the '
film, nevertheless the program probably won some converts
among its viewers. But I was not among them

Bullfight telecasts such as this provide Mexicans with
immediate live coverage of these events anywhere in Mex-

. ice. The commercials are there too—inserted between bulls
and sometimes superimposed over the actual fight.»

The Mennen Shave Cream commercials on the WNEW ;
show were restrained. In other words, the American bull i
did not attempt to compete with the Mexican bull. ,
)1 ‘ That was prObably our greatest gesture toward. the '
T“understanding of our neighbor nations, for the evening ’-

anyway. At least Mennen didn’t try to shave a live bull
during the commercial. To my knowledge, that’s the only
1 thing th ’r asn’t been shaVed on television this seasOn. “

An

(:1 . ,,
,fyw

'“_-‘_—_————‘v

 

 




The following correspondence contains
information about problems of concern to
all humanitarians. You may wish to make
your voice heard by expressing a personal
opinion.

Letters should be addressed to the
individuals indicated.

THE AMERlCAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
P.O. Box l266

Denver l, Colorado

 




THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOClATlON
896 Pennsylvania Street
Denver 3, Colorado

COPY OF A LETTER SENT NOVEMBER l5, l96l TO

Mr. Ernest E. Jahnke Mr. Mark K. Cresap, President

Vice President in Charge of Westinghouse Electric Corporation
Standands 8 Practices Gateway Center

National Broadcasting Company 40l Liberty Avenue

RCA Building, Radio City P.O. Box 2278

New York 20, New York Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania

The American Humane Association most strongly protests the cruel and
gory bullfight sequence which was prominently featured on ”The Many
Fages of Spain,” NBC-TV under Westinghouse sponsorship, November l4,
l9 l.

Our concern transcends even the obvious cruelty per se to include the
possible effect of this program material upon impressionable audiences,
especially children.

Not only were these scenes in extremely poor taste and contrary to hu-
mane ideals, but also clearly in violation of the National Association
of Broadcasters Code, under ”Acceptability of Program Material,“ which
states:

”The use of animals, both in the production of television
programs and as part of television program content, shall
at all times, be in conformity with accepted standards of
humane treatment.”

and of the NAB interpretation of the Television Code of March l5,l960:

 

 

”Both dramatic programs and documentaries using...cl
showing the more brutal actions and aspects of bull
ing...have been found unacceptable.”

ips
fight-
These self-imposed standards of the broadcast industry were adopted be-

cause the general public has long Opposed cruelty to animals, including
the foreordained, slow and brutal death of the bullfight.

That NBC saw fit to televise these scenes prompts us to inquire what
has happened to ”continuity acceptance” at the network? Has NBC re-
evaluated its standards for acceptance so that program content of
this nature is now considered to be ”acceptable“ to NBC?

Very truly yours,

Rutherford T. Phillips
Executive Director

 




I“? 'u‘.) ,4.
S 4
~’ . x

 




' 999992999 91;, :29»

222599 222999 22292299. '
2?? 23999 22999.9
29999 3, I999

2:929 9292 999999,

in 9999;999:299 922.22 9999 99922992. 92." ' 999992299 1229229 "‘ 2-92

99922299 9'99 2299992 2:21 9 919911 1992192: 99999922 229 9229c 9999 923'“

293-19199 99231999 9 2299291913 91292399922 far 922119999 99:22:21

gay 99 9f 29t9r99t. 2392299 9999r9t9 99999 99 999 99999992.: 9
22 29999 ”23999 992:2 2299919“ by 229999219in 9222 922 9992:9929 9 192;-
92‘ 122999992 922219 92:22 21992291 99999191 99999 2.229 991:9 9:2“ 2:209:93
2229 9229221222 9399129919299 your 9999999219“ this 230922, 9'2: 9919‘ 99229
999229999 92992: 9021 2:999 9.2221999 9999992222; 9999 1325999929. ~

12’ 999: 9:- 99129-9 923212299229 9.2; 9:97 92.99 _ 2.9 2:229 £29999 9:299
2.223323999992921 991999212919 99229:: 23219999 99 2212991 99121999, 2399
99999 99932: ,99 22999 9 99999 22991 922‘ 2:29 999:2 91. 2.9 92:29
«231199 92262 9229919 2:29 91922 2.9 ’99 92’ 9991922999.

8592999919 99999,

22999119 M9999 .
22999229199 52999912999

 




M .J» 7. Eu 1.,
52. 1| ,

_. .N
[KI ..

ngwj
a a +

.. : .4.

9r. Par (u rr
:1
.r

»‘

G nun.
_.

“U 4 4. J

_ x... J
4 :r J. C 4.

H, W WU )3 Q ”Q

C

x.
m )T: e . w ‘ u _ .
MU Q {1%me . .

... {3! «5.. an 4.5. a}, “J.
\ ‘ . k... ‘ A
(3,. ,i. e 1

r

:\

A:

i 3,. 4.
.3 . ix». . a.
v a. i

1. n; x .13» .. 6.} ~ 5..
l... . ,

inx n\. Cr .

u

@wﬁwﬂwmﬁ

. «1 rpﬁmzr

H mm¢4amz
~ r- 94%

.\ww . J a...) .
.IL .Ar fl.

 




 




“2'2. 3322;222:222 “A“. 35227-2

222222252222 2222222222222; 62222222252
'2? 22222221; 555522 Str22’t 2

. .22... 53222322 33, 222.2. “2322232 ~

25222 32322. 32322222 ,-

22222 223. 22 3222222 123222 22222 2322 22222 5.2232223 5222 3221222122
. 2 32.213.512.222 12 2221* 2252222222 2222222 22222522221222. 5222222222222,
—- 22-22 2 222 2.3.2.2 22222222222. by 2222222 eimmcteriaatmn 25‘ 12m
222 222222212¢222222 22 ”22222222522222” 52.222 3,325.2 2222:: that. you are
22222122222222; 2.2122252222232221 151221222 25'. 22.222 3.223.222 5:122, 2221
22222 2232222 22222222222223 '

222222222 @252 5.2 22 2212522222 2 222222222 , 222 222123 15.1%
5222 5.22 22rt2121 that 232222 5.2 22253222222 2222212222 5.22 9222' 2222232222-
22222‘522‘ 25' 5:32 ,"itim 223’ 23222 32222222122222 35222222522223.1212
, 3322223222.}? 2222 5:322 2122212252 2222. 23? 3322221232 bullﬁghts. 3.32 2222125
2222 2222225232 32222222 clarifyi22g 2322 5.2 22.222 2222.

3232222222213,

 




c/%?zwz2wz ﬁvadjwﬂiy @4650”?
7 \NEST 66TH STREET NEW YORK 23,N.Y.

SUSOUEHANNA 7‘5000

THOMAS W. MOORE
VICE PRESIDENT
PROGRAMMING & TALENT
ABC TELEVIS!ON NETWORK

April 5, 1961

Mks. Christine Stevens
President

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Mk3. Stevens:

The information Which you saw in "TV Guide"
about the possibility of our televising a

bullfight from Seville, Spain, was most pre-
mature. we do not intend to televise a
bullfight in our Saturday sports spectaculars.

‘We greatly appreciate the comments in your
letter.

Sincerely yours,

I.

. . as?” ' " a???”
r if; Cf‘if’f/J' J“ W".

irate? 5;

Thomas W. Mbore

DIV!SION OF AMERICAN BROADCASTING ‘— PARAMOUNT THEATRES, NC.

 




3:" "ma 3:3. "3'““3‘330'1
,..:3.r:n'3 (3333729 sz‘ﬁma' Ewart}
3* . ,4»
.33 £359.: .53.... cm 3:33: 3.133213??sz 3.533%

{“3 ,. . ii.
I 3.333357%; “5.

If ty- *r' I» «mix (I,
1"? 1'3" .1' ' 3" ! . "3
- t‘, 5,»ch 33. 3‘...3...:. .31; ‘3 31%;)? :3 :13;

1” -1z 3: . . 1.. ‘1‘ r; 3 3 1‘?
if??? 3 ”In?” 1.53. 3:33:31. 1' . LN“; “3.33.3 14. ‘J 3.. ”(5%

I .- n ' ...'« 5-. 3“ ,u 0-. - r, r. '3 43‘ a n In 03.- (11
. "2.’ 31323133355??? .33 3 WW} '3 fiat“. 33.3-: $8336.33" (1' C33“: '19..." 3... 23;.

as “*4“ I- r v“ I" ".1 L "‘3’! ‘
3.32" 3'3 333331; 3...... .3: 2 :' r333. mgrmamﬁa

.- 4EIK~(I(M wk 15

a” W 3735: kmmw 2".2'3 "3“”?3’33‘33 .3.

. I."
, {3"W 03. e
.0 '. z. ' ‘ . _ . vhf." 1 h
3'3. WWW}. .q x , 333'" T3313: ”3.033 €933.32.

’ht ..
'3'“ mg” 2 r}
3:7! I. .-.n.zil..e..‘

 




TELEVISION CODE REVIEW BOARD

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS . 1771 NStreet N.W. Washington 6, D.C.aDEcatur 22-9-3053?

1

March 28, l96l

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
Thank you for your letter protesting the rumor of a
bullfight to be telecast over the American Broadcasting

Company television network.

The network, as a subscriber in good standing to the
Television Code, informs us that the report is incorrect.

Enclosed is a copy of the NAB Television Code itself;
you will find the provisions on humane treatment of
animals of all kinds on page three.

Thank you for your interest.

Sincerel ,

.- ‘
/“ ‘5‘ I
J
.x’ ,
.-‘ , ’- 1 "' 1 1;
‘n‘ ' ‘ .4'" . ‘ ., '
, I! a v J“ ,-'" ‘
“f”: 4% Wag,“ {of i f ‘ \, '\
"x, v ,1» 1‘" " 5"». ’ I ' be ~

.w‘

ﬁdward H. Bronson

"r41” A

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East l7th Street

New York 3, New York

Enclosure

BOARD MEMBERS Ii, K. HARTICNINJVVI‘LH. (Wan-mun;
MKS. A. SCOTT BULLITT, [{OBI‘LH'J‘ W'. 1"}‘LH(.}US(_)N. JAMES M.GAINI£S, JOSEPH HEROLD, GAINES KELLEY. GEORGE V/HETNEY
DIRECTOR OF TELEVISION CODE AFFAIRS ICIHVARI) H. RHONSON ASSISTANT DIRECTOR HARRY WARE}

 




‘* 4‘ ii? «« 43$

M43”? “ ﬁg

 




C/éésyssZaxs cgggzszséaQQQZgz Zigvaémazgx
7 WEST (76TH STREET NEW YORK 23, N.Y.

SIISQUEHANNA 7'5000

THOMAS W. MOORE
VICE PRESIDENT
PROGRAMMING 5. TALENT
ABC TELEVISION NETWORK

April 26, 1961

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3 , New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

This is in reply to your letter of April
let.

Our future plans do not include the tele-
vising of any bullfights.

Sincerely yours,

éﬁ73252Ll(1ii‘?¢;zf§fﬂygff

\

Thomas W. Moore N UK m

/\ DIVISION OI: AMERICAN BROADCASTING — PARAMOUNT THEATRES, INC.

 




   

   

   
   

a -, ‘- ,ﬂv »' "\k" If:

. 1 2%
ﬁg:

   

    

BLIND COPIES TO: Hansan, Friedericks, M. Thompson, M. Crafts
The Babcocks, Phillips, Helen J ones




‘March 2b, l961

ﬁr. ngnard ﬁaldanaan, Prasidant
ABC

‘7 25333 2323322 Strea‘t

2.92 Yark , 2E . '55.

D2333? Eﬁr. Gﬁlﬁezman ,

*weiwerﬁ ahackad ta reaé in the Earﬁh llml? issue
3f T? Guida the 561133133: ”If 3 333333? 333 ha
1.253133 up, 3232’} will beggin its Saturday sparta
spaatacular 33311 29. First event covered wauld be
a ﬁullfighi £33m Savilla, Spain.“

‘%3 3311 yanr attentiam to the follawing aamtieng
3f th3>Tataviaicn Soﬁe to'wﬁich, we undarataﬁd, 3E6
aﬁhwreﬁ, and 33 requeat that we 33 given dafinite
asamrance that no such prngram will be ﬁelaviaedg

“3) The use of hmrror far its awn 33kg will
be eliminatad; the use 0f visual 9r aural
affects wﬁich 33315 3haak.er al3rm tha
Wigner, and the detailed presentation of
brutality or physical agany by sight er
by saund 393 not yermiasible...

The use of animals, bath in tha praduction
3f talovision prcg33m$ 333 as 3 part at
talevisian program enmtant, shall at all
'tﬂmea, ha in conformity with acceptad'
standardg cf humane traatment.”

Sincﬁrely,

Mrs.) Chriatine 312222322223,
President

 




7 ' TV Teletype'

Bob Stahl reports:

 

The networks have been alerted by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration of a probable attempt to launch a man into
space from Cape Canaveral in early spring. ‘The astronaut is to
follow approximately the same route flown by the chimpanzee Ham .
before his capsule is recovered 250 miles downrange in the At-
lantic. NBC will head the live camera-pool coverage of the event
for the three networks, plans to track the MR-3 rocket's entire
flight via cameras in planes in: ihips en route. ‘ l g
/

If a sponsor can be lined up, ABC will begin its Sat-
urday sports spectacular April 29. First event covered
would be a bullfight from Seville, Spain . .-. NBC's

i ,-
Major League Baseball resumes April 15, with LINDSEY ll ‘
NELSO and JOE GARAGIOLA sharing the play-by-play.
, a *
DINAH SHORE, who is parting with her long-time sponsor at season's
end, will do eight or nine specials for NBC next season.’ Miss

SHORE, meantime, wants to do a full-hour drama as her March 26
show. She would star in NOEL*02W£RD'S "Brief Encounter."

 

CBS has scheduled BOB CUMMINGS' new half-hour series
for its Thursday nights at 8:30 (ET) period next season
. . . The new ROBERT YOUNG show, so far untitled, is
set for that network Monday nights at 8:30, the same
time period occupied for two years by YOUNG's Father-
Knows Best.

' ""‘ s s a

Movie producers DORE SCHARY and OTTO PREMINGER are set for The
Nation's Future April 29, debatinge"Should the movie industry
be forced to classify its films?" . . . Person to Person is now
expected to regain its original CBS Friday night time period as
a 13-week summer replacement for Eyewitness to History.
s s * — . -

JACKIE GLEASON winds up his Friday night series March

24, with GEORGE BURNS set as his guest for the finale

. . . ABC's Closeup! March 28 will cover "Adventures '

on the New Frontier.‘ The documentary will deal’with

President KENNEDY'S inauguration, his plans for de--

pressed areas and G. MENNEN*W£LLIAMS’ tour of Africa.
The Price Is Right moves to Monday nights at 8:30 on NBC next
fall,-replacing Tales of Wells Fargo, which will probably go ,
into syndication . . . l"Camille“ is set as the Family Classics
special April 27. The show hasn't been cast as yet.

‘Trade-mark, Teletype Cm. _ . - ' Continued on Inside Back Cover

 

TV GUIDE is published weekly by Triangle Publications, Inc., 400 N. Broad Street,Philadelphia LPa. Second Class Postage Paid at Philadelphia .
Pa, and at Additional Mailing Oiiices.Suhscription Rates: in the 0.8. and Canada, 1 year $5.00, 2 years 89.00. 3 years $12.00, single copy l5c.
Pan ~Amerrcan and Foreign postage extra. Copyright © 1961 by Triangle Publications, inc. All rights reserved. No material in TV GU! DE, includ-
ing program information, may be reprinted without permission of the copyright owner.

National Offices: TV GUIDE, Radnor, Pa. (®>Memben Audit Bureau of Circuiolions

. x." .
Subscriptions and changes of address should be sent to TV GUlDE, Box 400, Radnor, Pa. Please include address
label when writing regarding subscriptions. Allow four weeks for start of subscription or for delivery at new address.

 




ESTABLISHED 1888

BArclay 7-537!

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
165 Church Street — New York

HOLLYWOOD DIM LY ViiRl ETY

HOLLYwOOD, CALIF.
O, 8,294

Humane Society
Seeking To Ban
Rodeos From TV

Washington, Feb. 20. — The
Humane Society of the United
States has launched legal action
ultimately designed to ban rodeos
from television.

Society petitioned US. District
Court here for an injunction re-
straining NBC’s Washington out-
let, WRC-TV, from beaming rodeo
shows into states where they are
barred under anti-cruelty laws. It
also sought a temporary injunction,
which the court did not act on,
against the Chevy-Roy Rogers
Rodeo Show telecast Sunday (19).

The petition alleges that rodeos,
“by their very nature cause cruel
and inhumane treatment to ani-
mals.” It said that they would be
so considered under the laws of
the District of Columbia, Virginia,
Maryland and Pennsylvania — all
within the range of WRC-TV.

Petition, signed by Society ex-
ecutive director Fred Myers, con—
cluded that NBC unless restrained,
would present rodeo shows in Vio—
lation of state laws, “the rights
and interests of the persons resid—
ing in the areas reached and in
violation of the statutes of the
United States.”

Myers said the legal action was
instituted after complaints were
lodged with FCC, and the Code
authorities for television and films,
and “all three groups declared
themselves helpless.”

He predicted that the petition
would be “the opening skirmish in
a long legal battle to enforce
existing anti - cruelty s t a t u t e s
against rodeos.”

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EélsiL l7’rh S’rreef
New York 3. N. Y.

OR 54069

3 fights were shown.

Mennen main sponsor,with several ads.

Brief "spot" (one only) fromJRolaids,
Nucue and FTitos ~

Consul Gen.of Mexico spoke between fights,

explaining tradition,customs,etc

 




a i '1 exp ana 1on was that this was considered unsuitable for!
“family viewing. ”

' 1'11 . 195 #5 ' .
{3‘ Ch. 5’s “Bullﬁght” special drew some 90 protesting calls last -- '
1\ night from viewers who obviously sympathized with the mutilated
‘1‘ bulls. Some 54 other callers, according to the Station, approved
‘31 the show. Carlos Montalban (brother of Ricardo), who narrated
the ﬁlm, adopted a variation on “the mement of truth.” He
g K1?" referred to it several times as “the' hour of truth”

11km ,

31“,, 1%? Bennett H, Korn, general manager of the Station, said the

- 4‘ video-tape was provided free to the station by' Mexican TV inter:
g ests. The Montalban narration was substituted, said Korn, for a
«$9,119 . Spanish commentary. “The Humane Society wanted to see it,”
”WW said Korn, “and we gave them a preview screening They did not

”£13.11,

approve it, but they thought it was done in good taste.” Why
was the ﬁlm aired? “In the interest of better understanding
between Mexico and the U. 8.,” said Korn. “, . . This is Mexico,
take it or leave its": should Lshpw 139.13%};29933’ playing 1'3: guitarZ’f,

 

 




160 Euston Road, Garden City, NlYlwlm : L;
Mar. 10,'6O

V.

For their television sponsoring of the
showing of "BULIFIGHT" on March 14th

I have told station WNEW I trust a united
effort will be maqe to have their station

taken off the air.
G.T.Atkins

 




  

ON THE AIR

 

’Spanked’

By BERNIE
Star T

newspapers.
from CBS.

Gillis episode last night,
most a Fathe1,’ which the net-
wm k decided was a shade too
naughty. (Since episodes cost
an estimated $35 000 pe1,
thats no Wiist slap.)

I called W'IOP eaily yeste1-

placing the scheduled epis ode,
“Almost a Father,” and the re-
ply, deadpan, was:

“It will be a. Dobie repe
. ‘Love Is a Science’ replaces ‘
. most a Fathei ’
'3 That’s a cute sw1tche1oo and
I wouldn’t put it past Mr.
Shulman.
‘ Anyway, we should be able
to ﬁll you in on the racy de-
tails of the censored episode
later this week when Dwayne

Hickman, who plays Dobie,
visits Washington, a visit
, 'hich, it goes without saying,

s happily coincidental.

. Dwayne, by the way, played
"he nephew in the Bob Cum-
wings show for several seasons

ad was cast as Dobie in the

   
 

 

  
 

HANNEL CHUCKLES
———By Bil Keane

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

day to find out what was 1e—i

 

Teen Ag er Dobie

by CBS

HARRISON
V Critic

That these are sensitive times is a point to which a growing
group of artists and performer
like to hear, after Sean O'Casey, is Max Shulman, latest recruit
in the group and that eminently readable fellow whose TV
chronicles of a daffy teen-ager
funny as those commercial columns he writes for campus

s can speak. The next one I’d

(Dobie Gillis) are almost as

Max got a surprise birthday present Monday (his 41st)

It 'was the announcement of the cancellation of his Dobie
“A1" E

 

IShulman series when he agreed
,to lighten his daik locks.

E Considering that CBS pre-
Eviously banned a Person to

    
    
 
 

EPeison interview with Mae
EWes/‘you’d have to ay that
' is a mighty iough ason

bleached blondes.

*>k>lz>i=

5, the phones are still ringing
with protests over Monday
night’s hour TV special, Bull
Fight, a taped account of a
number of matches involving
such noted matadors as A1-

fonso Ramirex, Juan Silveti
and Carlos Arruza.

The protests here, of course,
were not unexpected. Various
animal welfare groups—De-
fenders of Wild Life, etc.—
called to protest the showing
and the reports which I got
(second—hand) were entirely
pro-bull.

I took the night off myself
and went to a movie (“Ben-
Hur”)—-—where I spent 30 ex-
citing minutes worrying about
the health of as handsome a
group of horses as I’ve ever
seen in a rigged chariot race.

The department assistant,
Bonie Aikman, who did see
Bull Fight, reports that the

point of View. “It made me
in general because I learned

something about it,” she said.

another similar show.”

I’ve a hunch that’s about the
way most people who saw it
felt about it. Movies about bull
ﬁghters have ﬂopped at the
box-ofﬁce in this country, too,
and I doubt very much that
we’ll be seeing a sequel to this
TV show soon or ever. 01' that
Bull Fight will replace the eye-
gouging, knee - to - the-midriﬁ'
charm of the rasslin’ matches.

 

 

  

 

Meanwhile, back at W'I‘TG—— “

hour was colorless and the
treatment (of the matches) ‘
educational from a clinical

more interested in bullﬁghting ;

“but I doubt if I’d look at»

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
      
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
    
   
   
 

 

 

 

     
 
   
 
      




TELEVISION CODE REVIEW BOARD

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS 1771 N Street N.W. Washington 6, D.C.-DEcatur 2-9300

5 Stevens:

0‘ 4:

I regreJ “his letter will reacn you after tLe grograms

a c
you t&ke e

{seption will have appeared.

ion Coée, so
quesﬁions

Miss Christ ne Steven
Fresident

Aﬂimal Welfare lastitute
”2 East 17th Street
Eew‘York 3, N. Y.

BOARD MEMBERS DONALD H. McGANNON, Chairman; MRS. A. SCOTT BULLITT, E. K. HARTENBOWER, JOSEPH HEROLD, GAINES KELLEY

DIRECTOR OF TELEVISION CODE AFFAIRS EDWARD H. BRONSON ASSISTANT DIRECTOR HARRY WARD

 




WTTG 0 WASHINGTON / HOTEL RALEIGH / 12th STREET & PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE / WASHINGTON 4, DC. / STERLING 3-5300

March 14, 1960

Miss Christine Stevens, Pres.
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Miss Stevens:

We have read your letter with deep interest and,
like you, are sincerely concerned with the reaction to the
television presentation of "BULLFIGHT".

We are broadcasting this program as a special public
affairs event in the interest of achieving a better under-
standing between the United States of America and our neighbor
nations.

We believe it important to note that Raul Reys
Spindola, Mexican Consul in New York, has endorsed this
project as a most worthy effort, and one that is inextricably
bound with the true heritage of Spanish-Speaking people
everywhere, and particularly his country.

You may be pleased to learn that at no time during
the telecast is bullfighting considered or referred to as a
"sport", but rather as a spectacle of national significance.

Carlos Montalban, the narrator of the program and a
bullfight critic, brings deep perspective to one's understand-
ing of this event in relation to the Mexican people.

It is with these thoughts in mind that we have decided

to present "BULLFIGHT" and would appreciate your comments after
you have seen the program.

Sincerely,

WTTG "' TV

METROPOLITAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION/WTTG TV 0 WASHINGTON /WNEW TV, WNEW AM, FM 0 NEW YORK /WHK AM, FM 0 CLEVELAND

 




    
  

WNEW TV - NEW YORK / 205 EAST SIXTY-SEVENTH STREET / NEW YORK 21, N.Y. / LEHIGH 5-1000

WWWr V1WWWW$

 
  
    
  
    
   
    
     
 

V‘WW thW WWWW yWur lWWWWr w1Wh WWWp inWWrWWW (hWVW
rWWW1VWW yWWW WWlehnnW WW1].) and l1kW yWu, WWW
WinWWrle tonWWrnWl with WhW WWWWW1WW W0 WhW WWle1W1WW

 

1 WW WWW WroWiWWWWing WhiW Wnger WW a Wthin publiW
affairs WanW 1n WhW 1nWWrWWW Wf achieving W WWWWWr
undWrWWWnWinW WWWWWWW WhW Wn1WWW SWWWWW W1 AmWr1WW WWW
WWW neighbor nations. '

‘WW le1WVW 1W impWrWWnW WW WWWW WWWW Raul BWyW 8p1nWW1W,
MWWiWWn WWWWWl 1n NWW'YWrW, hWW WnWWrWWd WhiW erJWWW as
W WWWW WWrWhy WffWWW, and WWW WhaW 1W 1anWr1Wany bWund
w1Wh WhW WrWW hWW1WWgW of SpanithsyWaking pWWplW WVWry~
whWrW9 WWW WWWW=1WW1Wle W1W WWWnWryo

YWu may WW plWWWWW WW lWWWnVWWWW WW nW WimW Waring
WhW WWlWWWWW 1W bullfighting WWWWiWWrWd Wr erWrrWW WW
WW W ”sport“ hut Wa+her WW W WpWWWWWlW Wf nat1onal
signifi WnWWo

   

Caran ManWlan, WWW WWWWWWWW Wf WhW WngrWn WWW W
bullfight WWiWiW bringW WWWp peerW0W1VW WW WnWtW
understanding Wf WhiW WWWWW 1n WWlWWWQW WW WhW MWxican
pWWplW.

 
   
   
 
 

 
 
 

IW 1W w1+h WhWWW WhoughWW 1n.m1nW that we hWVW
dWcide WW WrWWWWW ”IWWWFIGHTW WWW WWWlW appreciate
yWur chmWWWW WfWWr yWW hWWW WWWn WWW ergWWmo

   
    

W1WWWWle9
WNEWWTV

 
    
   
 

METROPOLITAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION / WNEW TV, WNEW AM, FM 0 NEW YORK / WTTG TV 0 WASHINGTON /WHK AM, FM 0 CLEVELAND




SPECIAL MEMO March 10,

 

The American Humane Association
896 Pennsylvania Street
Denver 3, Colorado

TELEVISED BULLFIGHTS
(New York City and Washington D. C.)

The American Humane Association has received informa-
tion that a "bullfight film”, Inade in Mexico, will be televised Monday,
March 14 at 9:00 p.m. by stations WNEW, New York and WTTG,
Washington.

From reliable sources we understand that this film, show-
ing all the brutality of bullfighting, illustrates why this ”Sport" is not
acceptable to the American people.

If you wish to eXpress your reaction to the telecast, address
letters to:

Station WNEW-TV Station WTTG-TV
New York City, New York Washington, D.C.

You may also wish to send a c0py to:

Television Code Review Board
National Association of Broadcasters
1771 N Street N.W.

Washington, D.C.

The general public has long opposed any type of bullfight
exhibition not only in the United States but throughout the World, including
most of South America. The television industry has declared bullfighting
is not in the public interest or for the public welfare.

The National Association of Broadcasters, Television Code Review
Board has for several years held that bullfighting is not "in conformity with
accepted standards of humane treatment" of animals and is in violation of
the Television Code.

The March issue of the AHA Newsletter and the May National
Humane Review will focus attention on repeated attempts to infiltrate bull-
fighting into the United States.

 

 

 




111.3): I, u “$3,”

‘7!
n.
11

 




.u ..
~ 2.; , i

at.

Q .

72"?"

re“ .
7

V IN?

a e.
j t"! ”t g
V w» }'“l-Mh‘

I’m

. an;
"1”“ h‘ 7\

w
? ~~
J.

3-1}

,v.
1.31

M

 




k)

I)

In)

H)

0)

p)

q)

r)

.. S)

 

ceptable only when presented with
discretion and in moderation, and in a
manner which would not excite inter-
est in, or foster, betting nor be in-
structional in nature. Telecasts of ac-
tual sport programs at which on-the-
scene betting is permitted by law
should be presented in a manner in
keeping with Federal, state and local
laws, and should concentrate on the
subject as a public sporting event.
In reference to physical or mental
afflictions and deformities, special
precautions must be taken to avoid
ridiculing sufferers from similar ail-
ments and offending them or mem-
bers of their families.

Exhibitions of fortune-telling, occult-
ism, astrology, phrenology, palm-
reading and numerology are accept-
able only when required by a plot or
the theme of a program, and then the
presentation should be developed in a
manner designed not to foster super-
stition or excite interest or belief in
these subjects.

Televised drama shall not simulate
news or special events in such a way
as to mislead or alarm. (see News,
page 4)

Legal, medical and other professional
advice, diagnosis and treatment will
be permitted only in conformity with
law and recognized ethical and pro-
fessional standards.

The presentation of cruelty, greed and
selﬁshness as worthy motivations is
to be avoided.

Excessive or unfair exploitation of
others or of their physical or mental
afflictions shall not be presented as
praiseworthy.

Criminality shall be presented as un—
desirable and unsympathetic. The
condoning of crime and the treatment
of the commission of crime in a frivo-
lous, cynical or callous manner is un-
acceptable.

The presentation of techniques of
crime in such detail as to invite im-
itation shall be avoided.

The use of horror for its own sake
will be eliminated; the use of visual
or aural effects which would shock
or alarm the viewer, and the detailed
presentation of brutality or phys1cal

____..,___.._.._.. mmmm
nav- ~«m.m.......,
” W. A... “mm...

A. ”1“,, ' «LN
4.17;."
, .,..

< agony by sight or by sound are not]--.

. permissible.

t) Law enforcement shall be upheld and,
except where essential to the program
plot, officers of the law portrayed with
respect and dignity.

u) The presentation of murder or re-
venge as a motive for murder shall
not be presented as justiﬁable.

v) Suicide as an acceptable solution for
human problems is prohibited.

w) The exposition of sex crimes will be
avoided.

x) The appearances or dramatization of
persons featured in actual crime news
will be permitted only in such light as
to aid law enforcement or to report
the news event.

/ Y) The use of annnals “both“iirth'e pro-

duction of television programs and as
i a part of television program content,

ﬂ...» N“

5
‘1»

‘1, shall at all times, be in conformity

treatment. M

”Ma-r0
mu-..“—
\\ _,... um a”- “MUM

..,. ;_,-.v--...-»-
,“W, ”m... 9.

Responsibility Toward Children
1. The education of children involves giving

them a sense of the world at large. How-
ever, such subjects as violence and sex shall
be presented without undue emphasis and
only as required by plot development or char-
acter delineation. Crime should not be pre-
sented as attractive or as a solution to human
problems, and the inevitable retribution
should be made clear.

. It is not enough that only those programs

which are intended for viewing by children
shall be suitable to the young and immature.
(Attention is called to the general items
listed under Acceptability of Program Ma-
terials, page 2.) Television is responsible
for insuring that programs of all sorts which
occur during the times of day when children
may normally be expected to have the oppor-
tunity of Viewing television shall exercise
care in the following regards:

a) In affording opportunities for cultural
growth as well as for wholesome en-
tertainment.

b) In developing programs to foster and
promote the commonly accepted moral,
social and ethical ideals characteristic
of American life.

c) In reﬂecting respect for parents, for
honorable behavior, and for the con-
stituted authorities of the American
community.

with accepted standards of humane”

 

 

 

 

 

 




11111:": 1:13 3 1960

11.111111 1: 1101111 .. 5
“1111721111 C111 1111111 B01111 5
23::3 ”1:21.111: “1:11:11“? Of 1’wamrggharg:
1'??? 3°: {1133121113 LIE-a 1’13.

. ‘11:?” *1 (:13 3151:: 7

11:32:: :23 1111112113

12:12: 171:? 113.12" 111 11“": :5: 1‘ 5
1‘1"“ :11-11’11111 1:121:12. ‘ .
:11" ‘2: 11 1:111:11 "11:1 mt: 13;:
. 1.7:": 3:23.35" 31.22:: 1:1 1m: 1121:? 12:11:11”? ‘12:“ 2.
'11:? {75:71) "12:11:11 "1112:1112: ‘17:: :11” 11:31:: ”11112113 2:“

1:: 11:21.1 11127211121111 3 I 11:72:32,211? 21:13:: 12:: "71:. “be 1121:“
:2: 1:111:12: ' 1:1 122211111 :7:.:.«: 2 :22. 11:21::1052'1‘, :1“: a: (w 1 1:72:11)
12:: 2:21:11: :1?“ C111} {‘1 1113211122 1111111: .231“: :0221‘3‘13
:Aumh 12.: 3 1 111111 (If 1211,1311 3:12:11: 111x211 =11m,2::1;51:: 1:12:22
7 2221:1111 (31131331 11: 11 mrms. 1‘3; 1:2: 11.12:? ‘2. f‘“‘1ii’“
. 1"” .111 1211 1323111411! 111 '11: 12.1111 ":11‘2‘11112 1:13 ‘11:“ ”.1“?! C111;
11:1“, 11” 11:11-11:11111121 1W " .1“ “ “‘11 “ 7. .1 2 ' '7’
. _ . 11:22:1r1131 mars,

11111121221 5 3271111121 3
' 11:11:1111‘1 .

 




TELEVISION CODE REVIEW BOARD

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS 1771 N Street N.W. Washington 6, D.C.-DEcatur 2-9300

De or Miss Stevens:

Ehclosed is a copy of the Television Code which is a guidepost for Code

stetlons now numbering 380 plus} as well as the three television net-
wor he

I am not familiar with the ;orogram you describe on bull fighting.

Your last question leaves me somewhat confuseé since a staﬁion subscrib~

ing so toe Code pledges con1011 see on all of its schedule; 00th programming
sod sow e1tising and the same is true of the networ*s. There is no specific
numoer o1 telecasts allotﬁed in either event.

I hepe ' a will prove to be Lelpful. If not pie ase let me hear from.you
further.

Since1el

9’

East
New York. 3 , M.

T"?! , .1
Enclosure

BOARD MEMBERS DONALD H. McGANNON, Chairman; MRS. A. SCOTT BULLITT, E. K. HARTENBOWER, JOSEPH HEROLD, GAINES KELLEY

DIRECTOR OF TELEVISION CODE AFFAIRS EDWARD H. BRONSON ASSISTANT DIRECTOR HARRY WARD

 




\T I()1§ALL B:R()1§I)(1AST NC (1()A{}3A_N Y. IN<L
A SERVTCE (3F RADIO C(HKPORATION'()F AMERICA
R GA- Building. Radio City. NewYOrk 20, N .Y'.

CIRCLE 7-8300

December S, 1960

Mrs. Miriam Master
85-16 lBlst Street
Kew Gardens 15, New York

Dear Mrs. Mester:

Year letter of November 27 referring to the treatment
of animals on television has come to my desk for reply.

NBC's policy with respect to the aopearance of animals
on television, whether in rodeos or in any other context, is to
observe the rules and practice of the American Humane Association,
which we understand to he a generally representative national
organization in this field.

Not only does this seem to us to be an acceptable
standard, but as a matter of administrative necessity, this
poliqy is the only practical means of averting the confusion
that would result from attempting to observe the deviations
of a multiplicity of local groups, however well-intentioned.

For us to conform to the requirements of every local
.group, not only in this field but in others in which special-
' interest organizations are active, would indeed be an abdication
7’ ~-- -- -f~~33 m I‘WW ~and«exerig~‘ seas 0111: own-n .1 weary ~72;W~ ,2;
. _ \ ~ Jw'
Sincerely yours,

Department of Information

 




HI

CHEVROLET - CENTRAL OFFICE

DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION

GENERAL MOTORS BUILDING

—.m DETROFIIL MnnquN
CHEVRO£EQW

: -—— 9
“Whammmmnmmﬂ January 10, 1961

Mrs. Stephen A. Mester
85 - l6 lBlst Street
Kew Gardens 15, New York

Dear Mrs. Master:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning the rodeo which
was televised on the November 13 Chevy Show. We sincerely

appreciate the time you have taken to relate your feelings

about this show.

In the course of preparing a continuing series of television

programs, one of the primary objectives is the selection of a
wide variety of entertainment which will provide the greatest
overall appeal to a large national audience with millions of

viewers. The annual Roy ROgers Rodeo Show has always been a

most popular addition to our balanced programming.

In scheduling the rodeo show each year, we are most attentive
to humanitarian interest. In the November 13 show, all events
'were held under the supervision of the San Francisco Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. We wish to assure
you of our continued interest in humanitarian endeavors.

Again, thank you for the time you have taken to write us. We
appreciate this opportunity to clarify our position and hope
that you will find future Chevy Shows to your liking.

Yours very truly,

Jack Izard, manager
Advertising.Department

 




Sirs, I wrote to them, and this is the regular routine answer.
. ~* ‘ I G Giving

CHEVROLET — CENTRAL OFFICE

DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION

GENERAL MOTORS BUILDING

DETROIT 2. MICHIGAN

__.. II
CHEVROégQ/

II'_I

I _'___;|.
ﬁﬁﬁiﬁnmnnﬁﬁﬁg January 10, 1961

Mr. Gerald Giving
h26 South Fifth Street
Minneapolis 15, Minnesota

Dear Mr. Giving:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning the rodeo which
was televised on the November 13 Chevy Show. we sincerely
appreciate the time you have taken to relate your feelings
about this show.

In the course of preparing a continuing series of television

programs, one of the primary objectives is the selection of a
wide variety of entertainment which will.provide the greatest
overall appeal to a large national audience with millions of

viewers. The annual Roy.Rogers Rodeo Show has always been a

most popular addition to our balanced programming.

In scheduling the rodeo show each year, we are most attentive
to humanitarian interest. In the November 13 Show, all events
were held under the supervision of the San Francisco Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to.Animals. we wish to assure
you of our continued interest in humanitarian endeavors.

Again, thank:you.for the time you.have taken to write us. 'We
appreciate this opportunity to clarify our position and hope
that you will find future Chevy Shows to your liking.

Yours very truly,

at?

Jack Izard, ~~
Advertising Department

JANZIZ‘EWQ

 




 

,.
, a.

 

Jammy 27.1961

ﬁr. W. H. Ringm
Ptob BOX 162 -
- Em Gamma, Califmrmim

Dem? mgr. minmm,

Thank yam for may 13mm? 9f Jammy 17th. In accmrdance with your rmqmmmt
I'm mnelmsing a mommy far ymur fills. * 4

" The Magma I inqmirmm if Km mmbm crimes to the Com is that official actian
by the: Rational .mésmmmimtion of Emadmamtmm might be poamiblm if it did. Awarding
to the mmcmn Humane Mommy: mimmmlmttmr (3161... 5, 1530. 1.2 of march, 1960), the
‘ . W Cmdm Rmvimw momrm 01“ the ME has tmrmmd bullfighrting as "unacceptablm". If you
69’ mt hmvm m a corny mi mam nmmmlmﬁmr,z_l think you would hm intmrmmtmd in obtaining
me because thmmm 1m mmnmidmmblmmmterial in iﬁ cancmming the rmnmmmd attempts ta
intrmmumm bullﬁghtimg into» thim 9012mm. tinfortunmtelywand no daubt intmnticmallyb-
all mhm mtmtimns which 1mm tofdmmm mhmm {aha film mpg-mrmntly hmvm net been sub-s
ﬁarib‘ﬁra t3 thi? Gﬁdﬁ‘g j .l ; -

Gray Amvmrtﬁﬁing Company}; 14.3.9 E‘mz‘k mvmnum, (with an mfficm at Beverly Hills, too,
I undermtmnd) handles the public rmlm‘uiomss- for 12212:“: Menu-mm Cmmpmny. Emmy mm mired our
protmmt m thm mien-nan Cmmpmmy lamt March, at 1. hm time 01' the Rem “Emmi: mhmmin g, a rep- V
rmmmﬁtmiim mi.“ army mmvmr‘miming Campmly tmlmgahmmd mm the next ramming in behalf 0f
Mammy: ta mam: why mm abjmmtgéd am? me try 139 eonvincm mm that thm film was “cultural”,
' "edummtimnmlﬁ mm. I thmrmfcrmismlmmhonmci mm, rmthmr than the: Manner: Company, when
we mmmmived ymmm mama .mbmuﬁ a -39".5:§it (1(9th shaming-c j ' '

Am I talc} ymu in my lefatmr of January 12th, they will not tell'whmther they plan
future shamingm. V The mama?» of thm Manner: Sammy's advmﬂiming mmnmgmr is Mr. Charles
manger 8% ﬁwriﬁthn, :ﬁmm ermmy; you may mish tr; mitm‘him mimctly, as mall as
Grmy Advertiming Carmﬁmnym . , . -

I mtill'bmlimym tmt. jprmmmurm an the mammary is the: hast may ts disccummgm thou
mm are trying "be promm’fbmj thmsm shewingm. .

mm mm mimhmm ,7 I m .

'z ﬁincmrmly ycﬁra ,
/ m ' . '
' _ \. " Estella Drmpmr

Exmmxtivm Smcretmry

 

 

 




r .1
‘39
9:3-
a

”‘5.
F I

~ 7....

3‘33. 5
t": 7,3
1. o ‘J a

392 3. a... .',..15.3‘2223.2

or“.

M

(-1; ”W: 4. my
9 3? £333? 3 33?... 3.9.5.1123633,

3, 9.)“;
34' 521'
."22

1.2222 3

-I. k ”.0?
3 2.. . «32.1.,2'333

~ v.4», "i- g
$331733)... 3. 1.3153

33
,. .2 '- a .
3" 3 13315? i}

? 2

3.2, 22 2.2222222 22222222.;

”it 3-1

223 1.31323?
22 22222222222“. ‘22 ‘ *
22212232“ 22 2.2..22.

.322 2 T212 -2i22 “222
353 £32.31:
.9 _ 22 222 2222.
22222r222; if 3222 222
3212W 2202 L222, 2122

1-133”. afﬁ‘ 38:91 53711.: g.“ 3.1:
5.33."
:3,

s
‘9'
'3 t

.3. 3.
21.5.3

{1

{.2 ‘ JAN... 21;:

33233:?“

’j2ncy

222222 22 2222

22222 22 2r2222t 222
£22“ 2212 2222 2232 21222 22
2 32:22rihv“ 22222222 22

M9- .2. it}
222 iilm. 220., 222.

i
5.19: ’
0

1.31232”? 3.3

3 L22 stations 2222122 2
22 232212 2222
22:32. .33; 2-2 the

If thﬁy

i
12
22 @2222
up th2 2222y.
22222 2222 22222222122

_C{}C.¢:' .1
72m

bit \w

222222222,

av

with kind 2222222, 1 22

22222“ 222 22222 22 22 22
«392.2 7'33

9.}:3 35?: '5."

ffilm 222 22% 22220212222

222222 2222
222 be 222222222 2222 222? 2r2 232222222

Januarytlﬁ, 1951“

122'322'2222222222
”1-33"? 5.5.3 9‘53... {31'}.
22r1y

3. 2 232.3; 3;. 2:“ , 42312.
£21222222yw 22 22222222
22 222222222 22 222

222, 322:.

13,13.” 5.3... $1123.11 221.9122, Wig

IV ""
.112
’5

9 .
2222

a
u"

{3 113,3 1:13"! M:

#1
n.
p
43-...

,2»

22

a
{It *9 t a
x ' i 3.
..- {(9%

my:

4.3.24

wry»,
”3' “:2-

22 2222 2222>22 232 322222222 is 223
22222 222

’ .2.

22315'FTL3 2122 2222
it 22 2 2222221222 22

3.! £73333 4

L.

any-3‘

whgg‘ ‘,.t

232 22232222 22222

my 7r“ 41'» m" n, .
1 J ‘1. Mg..v.f.g.f:3

-"'s\"~

5.36.).

3'35."

.4-

WEB .2135;

t2’th2
222222+2W 222 222 22 222222
,22122, 23222.211. is 2222222
2

2212
an 3"";

“J'

=~3.3.2y 2133313 3‘59?"
212222213’Yﬁﬂr35

i22t21124$22222
222222122 Secretary

 




 

P. 0. Box 102, La Canada, California

November 25, 1960

Mr. James Schulkie,

‘Station Manager, KTLA

Sunset Blvd. and Gower Streets
Hollywood, California

Dear Sir:

I would ask you in the name of the people throughout this whole area and
in other parts of the Southland, with whom I have contact, that you be kind enough
not to encourage bull fighting inside the United States of America. This is a
humane country and so far has resisted the efforts of promoters to introduce such
a cruel and brutal sport here.

we are aware that T V. Station KTLA intends showing a picture of a Bull
Fight over Channel 5 this Monday night at 9: 30, taken in Mexico, which could
influence some of our public officials to try and sell the American people on the
idea that bull fighting is not a cruel sport and wish to prove it by taking out
of the film certain cruel aspects of this hideous so~called sport.

Those who had an Opportunity to see bull fighting in Mexico and other
Spanish~speaking countries know what a revolting, degrading and brutal spectacle
it is.

Most peOple don't realize that horses used in the bull ring are subject to
surgical operation, having their vocal cords cut so that they can't cry out in
agony when charged and gored by the bull. These unfortunate animals, ripped and
torn by the bulls' horns, after being taken from the bull ring are sewed up and
taken back again into the ring. Such is bull fighting just across the border.

Respectfully submitted in the name of decency,

/ ) {5/2) 1.
_.2’é>7§/.1P221 .47., £-

w. H. RINGE/

I; as '- <‘

:2. . 2 - 1.77
"71/1?sz p, 11/77 /{ A )9 / 4.94.4 127/7 [7/ [oi-1:41”

WHR4ms jgi 1 - A/r // w .
/ {/27/ 7 U}. [ Vi \ (/gfll I, 2L¢¢>f /'§ i 24 (I: 7 A1521,"

cc: George Putnam

Walt Disney 2 7 D/ . 2 / . ’ .
Goodwin J. Knight 77 W6 7’ "7‘02! x79 5/43er [L'Z/ ’ﬁ-’”7& ”raj/m

Mrs. Rita Delmar, Pres. “x
Humane Affiliates / [Lf’ 2.1; (f a? ji .9

C O P Y

 




, W}H.'Ringe
h17'uoodrield Rd.
Pasadena 3, Calif.

January 17, 1961

‘Animal welfare Institute *. -' ,
New York, N. Y. , .Eetella Draper

This is just a rough longhand written acknowledgement of your letter
Jan 12. More on this subject will follow later. AWe'are preparing-data ,
,that will be broadcast by-mail everywhere in the country and it will even be sent '
to rresident Kennedy if‘Congress doesn’t act to prevent these T.V. pihtures~
being-shown in America. They want to get the Am. people interested so that
»these interests can later work for legislation making hullfights.legal in America.
There are millions of dollars behind the scheme..ﬁe are preparing to write the
'Federal Communications Com; the Un.AmericanActiVities Committee, the Churches
and P.T.A's, everywhere. We can see What these TV Bull fight pictures will do to
, children and what demoralizing effect it will have on them. '

_ KTLA iS'not a suhscriber to the_TeleviSion Codes but wecannot see that will
make any difference.‘V " ' a w , ‘ ' .

. it was'confirmed today, James Schulkie, Mgr. of KTLA has left the T.V. Station,
whether forced out.or otherwiSe I don‘t know hut.they told me this a.m. he has
gone to New York. He is the man mentioned in my letter Nov 25/60. I'm enclosing.
another copy. Also enclosed is-anotheerooy of C.T. Skelley's letter. >.<

There Will be letters going to all Turf Club owners. we are also collecting
facts from Ernest‘ﬂemmingway's Book "Death in the Afternoon". You should try to 7
get cooies of Life Magazine in Three (3) parts from Jan 1960 to Oct 1960 which
comment on this Book. ~ ‘ ‘ =

The night of the Bullfight picture I phoned Gov. Mennen‘Williams to see if he could

bring pressure to stop the picture but he told me he Was no longer a Director on the
Mennen.Board. .,: . . . _ i . .

Will you please tell me who the Gray Advertising Agency is, how they fitinto‘
this, etc. They are not known out here on the Coast. We are also writing all the Turf
Clubs and all sponsors of KTLA.and this picture. The American people should not perndt
their government to extend foreign aid to those coun rise using our money to build
. Thanks for writing me.

Sincerely’h

VW;H. Ringo

 




3
W H Ringe ﬂ
4417 Wood/geld Rd.

qaasadena 8, Calif.)

 

@‘J WW [,9 ﬂh‘ﬂ‘é/
%7%/2 ww ' 2:525“?me

 

 

 

ZAMMwMéZQAf “(r/W M» .
w%/57¢ Zane/115.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”WW W 142?wa P/ ﬂ; 1’?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

” lﬂm m“ ﬂaﬂa/Iﬂ nMQWM/aﬁ-

 

 

 

 




M M OMAN/{M 229% WWW _ , _
ﬂ/v/Im We” 25* / e [e y g -_ , ,74 -

9 17714 ¢¢4 4% $7 771/._ W ,m/ M , _+ g 1‘ » 7:17
92%» 47M /+c 275 Mm W m; m1 e; ’
7 ,. 77 e g e 57

M475 ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

:77 am),

E:E: i? Ef‘; "

ﬁg‘gﬁié XE: 3: .

‘ ”EM; E:E EEEE 2%
*W EEEEEE ~ 5 3E WEE

EEEEEEEEE: E ‘EEE‘EEEEE E‘E’EE E‘.;E.jj- ;. WEE
E:E: fEZEEE”EEEf‘EEE E:E E E:E EEEE

E. ﬂag-a em Egg
EE‘E 3.1%

E EEEEE E:
’3’gf’EEM" 3%"??- EE Evin; 33E“ ’ wqgkﬁ Lb a
51 Wt Em”; gm? 3’ 33"" EEE E:E: EEE EE 1. E:E: E:EEEEE E:E?
E’EEEEE E: E E:E .EE EEEEEEE ”E:E" E:EEQEW “h E W EEEEEEE
was” EgEEZEE EEEZEZE “ EEEE‘E‘EEE
“‘3‘ EEEEEE “‘Eﬁi E. E EE’EEEE EEE E22: EEEEEEE EEEEEEE E E: EEEE EEEEE M E
:" ﬁvéﬁ E:Eﬁﬁtﬁiwiﬁh :3 g! Egg mwiﬁf #Ei ”Win ﬁg} 3%; ii; 3::ng ‘35 EMEEEE; 33*; 3am
EEEEEE EEEEEE: E E E:EEE E3E; E’EEE'E EE3 E:E” EEEEE EEEEE E:E;EEE‘EE‘EEEE EEEEEEEE:
E. 1., LE!» 31,? {$2sz iﬁ Erma, , x i#?&%; 1%
2 ”ESE EEEEEEE 5

E E2 :EEEE EEEEE E:E EEEE EEEEE E’EE EEEE
EEEE E:E EE EE12..EE.‘EEE E:EEEEEEEEE "E E:E

._ E:E *3 E:E EEEE EEEEEEEE EEEEE E EEEEE EEEE EEE ‘ :2
. . a?" E E:EE. iEEEE E E}: ‘E'EE E:EEEE “EEE‘EEE EEE E:E EEEEE E‘EW EEEE’E ESE? EEEEE
EL :E‘E‘” :z 2‘ ”E:E? EEE E22: ."?’T5E“'§EE E:E? £3? EMEEEE; EEEE: imgffjmgvéﬂ Wﬂ‘ﬁﬁﬁ; Egg *3
E: E E E:E.EEEE’ E EEE EEEEE EEEEE E E: E- E’EEEE‘: E:E: 1 E E’L EEEEE E:E

‘ W EE E:EEE EEEEEEE: EEEEE E:EEEEEE E:E

3* 1':

Eng: E:E}EEEE
. ,_ 3.1.3 § ' j, 2.53, ’ :7!
EE EEEE E: EEEE EEEE‘ *" “EEE E E:E “E33 WEE“ EYE-J E2: 1.2:

rfv
‘ ~ 2 2, '9: E21:
’ﬁﬁjni’a’ﬁ’ ﬂ
3' -, E:E E:E ”2%ng '3‘ A“; ‘21-)? 2‘
"tﬁ‘walg’f’i‘s‘ 2;! i r“; "ﬁrm?

 

3 £13: *$§EE%%

 




Reprint from letters to the Editor - Readers' Forum

Printed in the Pasadena Independent
wednesday, December 7, 1960.

BULLFIGHT ON TV

"On Nov. 29 the vast television audience was treated to a rather
startling first show on bull fighting in which the bull was killed
after undergoing treatment by the picador.

"I noticed that the rather affable commentator from south of the
border never once mentioned the mortalitv rate of horses in the ring,
nor the all-important fact of the picador’s 'picking'. Not once did
he mention that the primary aim of the picador is to sever the all-
important functionary muscles of the bull’s shoulder ligaments!

"He merely used the word ’pick' . . . Anyone who has read Barnaby
Conrad (nonfiction accounts) knows this one factor renders the bull
much more helpless in the face of his inevitable death in the 'moment
of truth’. A senseless slaughter of bull and horses in the name of
tradition."

C. L. SKELLEY, Pasadena

 




 




'.« '1 4 .
1 ‘. .s,
[in]. Va?

 




:2
u

2" .,
v_p ”(t-q v. r ‘r~r~ - .‘ ,.
My". 1‘
. «m .,.. 5-0»
V _._y'». . ~
.Iuyv :aw- I
.aJ-uuv u I
y an”. ,..
-‘ ,m- v; rﬂgw 7
“and: u v
a .m ‘ v M ’
_ V n ,-
‘ «we ’ ‘ z
,. "A
“H. ..‘
. ,‘.w
y. r

 




 




“7/26 MENNEN Campy/7P

@ MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY
V

March 22 , 1960

Ms. Madeleine Bemelmans

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue ,

New York, New York

Dear Ms. Bemelmans:

"We have read your telegram with deep interest and, like you,
are sincerely concerned with the reaction to the television presentation
of ”Bullfight. ”

As a matter of record, we want you to know that the bullfight was not
staged for television and was not ”paid for” by advertisers' dollars.

It was a regularly scheduled event in Mexico filmed and much later
carried by ’WNE'W for special public interest to achieve a better under-
standing between the U. S. A. and our neighbor nations.

The Mennen Company is a regular advertiser on WNEW with several of
our products. Since we have many spots on the station our schedule
happened to fall into the "Bullfight. ”

We believe it important to note that Raul Reys Spindola, Mexican Consul
in New York, endorsed this project as a most worthy effort and one

that is inextricably bound with the true heritage of Spanish—speaking
peOple everywhere and particularly his country.

You may be pleased to hear that at no time during the telecast was bull—
fighting considered or referred to as a ”Sport"; rather, it was presented
as an event of national significance. Additionally, we hOpe you will agree
that Carlos Montalban, the narrator of the prOgram and bullfight critic,
brought deep prOSpective to the understanding of this event in relation to
the Mexican peOple.

To our knowledge, there is no series of bullfights planned. Certainly we
are not part of any. However, we are deeply sorry if this “one shot”
prOgram was disturbing in any reSpect.

Cordially,
THE MENNEN COMPANY
In 6 i M“ ,

Charles Denting er M

Advertising Manage r

CD:HBM

 




333333 11, 1961

J 333. 3133 335353 31333
335 53333 ”355333 53r333
3333333, 3315533353

D333 333. 35333,

T353 53 t3 30333313333 ynur 333393333333533 the ballfighting
333333. 33 333 3533.3333'3333 33333 3331y'1333 3331339 33 pram
333333 3133333313 33 The 3t335 339 33 3 33333353133 333333 333 33
9333 “33333 Campzny; 33 rwvnivgu ;.:g ; 3 3t335333133. 33
'3133 33 333333 3 t3: ,,,,, 555331
you 33339 333 33333333333ha
33 33333 333 333 333t533 5X33 9 333 33 333333 53 335 3 3333-
3353, 9;:9, g 5 3133 3333 3353 3333331333”
3235 it 53 33 333 T313353533 C333,
1:233 "253'.
3333 3333 33 353 3333 1335339 9 335133 333V'3333rti3139 933ncy
3353 333 3333335; 333 33k if 3333 5331 533333 3h335333. T333 33.53
that 3333 313335 3333 333333, 3333 33333 3333333 h333 ”35333333“
93333535 53, 3333 353"" 3513 333 93333355333 3333539 333 film, 333.;
33C. '
23 59mhzz 3"335333 3333535 333 9 33 333 33333r513 33 333 C333,
I 33 333355 533 33333 53 35:55 13: 33 “5335533 333 33 355333 3333
333333353; 33 3335 33133 C333 31 9 33;c 33 3333? 311, 13 3333333 up 333

33333. If 333; 333 he 333353333 5:5553 35233 333 355333533 3 333332 33ny
3333'335AVL 333ham_339 they 35333 3333.

13 3533 33 933339 I 33

353333313 y3333,

“313.313.. 3 P55 25915555 ,
"33333536 £533333333

 




' "‘\ ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
‘x ‘ 223 EBaest 1'7th EStreaet

lieawr'Ycar1< 3, hIevv Y'oirk

December 1, 1960

'”r Harry Lee Flack
14‘ W. Venwocd
hr**m1 Calif.

Your membership for the past year in the Animal Welfare Institute
has been greatly appreciated We hope the work has met with your approval and
that you will renew your membership for another year, since it has expired as
of :oVemuer #50 0 WE should welcome any comments or suggestions you care
to make.

W, mm; For your convenience, a stamped, self-addressed envelope is
~ ffi;_,g}enclosed,

Application for Renewal of Membership (Non-voting)

. Xﬁ: Please renew my membership in the Animal Welfare Institute (check enclosed),

( ) Associate Member w ten dollars

4 2‘ " 3 ”.1 , {4 N
C ) Contributing Member - two dollars ~£L9JK C:LL\ ¥(C> K 'ﬁyA:;~— ,, x
W V/W-‘d M ‘l
anxl/VTJJUM}%“JY7 aptijav )<'07x${l ’- CgLfKJ g~kJL€,d/LL_
fWW\,&&QdE§ ~
NAME- Alta Harris_Black

335 North.Kenwood St.
ADDRESS: '

 

Burbank, California
CITY: STATE:

PEMAmmh I am concerned that no word has come from you regarding the
telecasting of tue bull fight pictures from.Mexico. Last Monday
they came to southern California. channel 5, K,Y.L.A., in spite
of vigorous protests, phone calls, telegrams, letters, attempted
injunc ’ t Th. tation.mana er to ether with the local
advertising agency, Greys Adv. Agency, Beverly Hill,s w1th.headquarters
in New YOrk, A30 Park Ayenue, representu a the MennenProducts 00.,
Morristown, New Jersey, shrugged off our protests, with.reassurance,
that they showed them in New Yerk, an icago, in.t%e fgcg igggers
position, and after the showingﬁﬁhere re no pgogga géuble talk
of congratulations .. It seems at stylized ar

OVEEK

 




sold the viewing public( I did ntt View, nor would I rush to the scene
of a rape or murder merely for the sake of understanding pri tive
instincts, glorified , overglossed ), on the idea that we mus =der~
stand theaarts, the sports, the cultures of other nations... ' is is the
most dangerous gpproach, as I see it. When.we learn to " endure, ”

we end up by embracing the thing we abhorred.....

Remember how " peace " used to be a pre ' us word, and now, it is
almost a suspect word? Remember how those awful bombings over England
long, long ago were beyond the pale of humani , and now the bomb dropped
on Hiroshima was was humade because it was s pvosed to have .aved
the lives of Americans, so the Japanese women and childten diﬁiot matter?
Now many advocate biological war fare, the death ray as huma e ..80
if bull fights come into the living rooms of our youth as an eXposure to
neighborly culture ( 1), it will not be long beforeéﬁh1will.come into ‘
sports arenas ... and we wonder at juvenile delinquincy , beahn£:ks, ” ﬁerﬁi
" the perfect crime... " etC.

to protest this latest bullfight showing so that the promoters an not again

Can you use your wide eXperience, your far reaching influenceJEHd know~how
hink letters

brag that the objections of the crack pots all blew over? ..

to the Grey Adv. Agency, to Paramount Pictures, owners of K.T.L.a.,‘to
The Mennen Products 00., Morristown, etc. etc. from your ogganization

.

1‘
“I i I a C .~——o——"' 3L, ( ‘L a {v ‘ l] H, ' .r-‘f-“r—w h,
xould have a real influen e. eu~A\ wﬁﬁ}c/ aka a; Qil' b }#B ,4 g
\m lawn W“ ’U’Kak’LZX 2’

Alta Harris Black WMWMW:::L\
P.S. Did you read those miserable articles an Life Magazine of the bull
fights in Spain, by? the once great literary artist, nrnest Heingway ?

Most of the bulls are prepared ( unknown to the screaming public), by horn;
sawing, weaking techniques, so that the real danger to the manizls phony ?

Only a few of the top bull fighters really take the risks 1

£i.§1.13.‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ORGANIZED I877, INCORPORATED I903—A FEDERATION OF SOCIETIES AND INDIVIDUALS FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY, ESPECIALLY TO CHILDREN AND ANIMALS

896 PENNSYLVANIA ST., DENVER 3, COLO.
March 22, 1960

Miss Amelia L. Hill
51 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York

Dear Miss Hill:
Thank you very much for your letter received March 18th.

We took every possible step to prevent televising of the bullfights by
Stations WNEW and WTTG. It was apparent that the stations were going
to telecast the film regardless of protests. Advance notice and screen-
ing of the film did not permit sufficient time to advise our members and
friends in time for them to protest in advance of the showing. Further-
more, we have found it would probably be inadvisable to do so. A similar
case in Chicago resulted in the station publicizing the protests and playing
up advance publicity of a controversial television show which only served
to do just what the promoters desired —- bring more viewers who would
not ordinarily have watched this, station.

It is important however, that you express your opposition to the show now
that it has been completed. It is also important that you send a copy of
your protest to The National Association of Broadcasters. The respon-
sible group of television stations are opposed to this sort of thing and they
can use this poll of public opinion as a valuable aid in preventing inroads
by the promoters of bullfight propaganda.

Public reaction would indicate that bullfighting "is not accepted by the mass
of American people. It is only an occasional individual or group who tries
to attract attention by doing the unacceptable thing who is bringing this sub-
ject up from time to time.

Thanks for your help in this effort.

Sincerely,

Rutherford T. Phillips
Executive Director

Officers - CharleRVTFEadxch, President; Thomas C. Justice, Vice President; Rutherford T. Phillips, Secretary; Mrs. William T. Bruckner, Assistant Secretary; Mrs. Blair F. Clay-
baugh, Assistant Secretary; Lew E. Williams, Treasurer; Elmer Johnson, Assistant Treasurer. Directors — Eugene H. Adams, Thomas T. Becker, Mrs. William T. Bruckner, Carlton E. But-
trick, Charles W. Friedrichs, Mrs. Lurton F. Gottlieb, Thomas C. Justice, Henry Leffingwell, Wilson D. McKerrow, Stephen J. Morrissey, C. Raymond Naramore, Miss J. M. Perry, Mrs.
J. Franklin Reeves, Lew E. Williams, Kerns Wright. Executive Director - Rutherford T. Phillips.

AMERICAN RED STAR ANIMAL RELIEF (EMERGENCY ANIMAL RELIEF) A DEPARTMENT OF THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

 




Thank you for your letter of March 22.

' I am indeed surprised at your statement that you would not have
Opposed the showing of the bullfighting TV because of the protests this
would have caused. I am quite sure in the past that I have heard of
your making great efforts to stOp a scheduled bullfight, and believe
one of your assistants workef all Christmas Day to locate this. I am
sure that you would have had more letters of approval than of criticism
had you Opposed this show.

0f course a single individual writing a protest produces far
less effect than such an organization as yours. However, before hearing
from you I had already written the sponsors (Mennen's) and the National
Association of Broadcasters as you suggest. Evidently you do not-know
that WNEW and WTTG, which broadcasted this program, are neither of them
members of the Association. There is evidently a determined effort
being made (I suppose by promoters) to launch this ‘sport' in the United
States, and their efforts certainly cannot be stOpped by ignoring them,
or by an occasional remonstrance from a single person. A few years ago
I spoke so highly of the.work you were doing in animal protection that
a friend, on the strength of it, sent you $1,000. I have since called
your attention to other abuses and have invariably been told that there
was a mistake or exaggeration. I also attended the convention at Grand
Rapids two or three years ago, and in none of these instances did I find
the interest in animal welfare on which I had assumed I could rely. I
am sure that bullfighting can never be stOpped by the gentle means you
suggest, You may feel that this is none of my business, but I feel it
is due to myself to eXpress it. ”

 




We MENNEN (7007me

@ MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY
V1

March 22, 1960

Ms. Amelia L. Hill
51 Fifth Avenue
New York 3, New York

Dear Ms. Hill:

We have read your letter with deep interest and, like you,
are sincerely concerned with the reaction to the television presentation
of "Bullfight. ”

As a matter of record, we want you to know that the bullfight was not
staged for television and was not ”paid for” by advertisers' dollars.

It was a regularly scheduled event in Mexico filmed and much later
carried by 'WN'EW for special public interest to achieve a better under-
standing between the U. S.A. and our neighbor nations.

The Mennen Company is a regular advertiser on 'WNEW with several of
our products. Since we have many spots on the station our schedule

happened to fall into the "Bullfight. "

’We believe it important to note that Raul Reys Spindola, Mexican Consul
in New York, endorsed this project as a In) st worthy effOrt and one

that is inextricably bound with the true heritage of Spanish—Speaking
peOple everywhere and particularly his country.

You may be pleased to hear that at no time during the telecast was bull—
fighting considered 0r referred to as a ”Sport”; rather, it was presented
as an event of national significance. Additionally, we hOpe you will agree
that Carlos Montalban, the narrator of the prOgram and bullfight critic,
brought deep prospective to the under standing of this event in relation to
the Mexican peOple.

To our knowledge, there is no series of bullfights planned. Certainly we
are not part of any. However, we are deeply sorry if this ”one shot”
program was disturbing in any reSpect.

Cordially,

THE ME NNEN COMPANY

Charles Dentinger M
Advertising Manager

CDzHBM

 




3/27

Thank you for your courteous letter of March 22 33 the TV presentation
of bullfighting. The matter is unfortunately past so any discussion
must be academic, but I am unable to refrain from availing myself of
the feminine ’last word.‘ ‘

I cannot see that it is a matter of importance whether the whowing
was described as a 'Sport' or not (though I think I-used quotes in so
referring to it).. Whether you call it sport, test of skill, or any
other term, the fact remains that it represents the torture of an andmal
for the amusement of persons who enjoy such things. It happens to be
the national sport of Mexico so the approval of the Mexican consul here
goes for very little; had he criticized ita~as he probably had notwish
to do--he would certainly have heard of it from Mexico. And While I
have every sympathy in the making of friends with 'our little brothers
to the-South', certainly there are other ways in whichgoodwill might
equally well be demonstrated. A prizefight is not nearly as demdralizing
as a bullfight, yet most os us here would regret, I think, TV showings
of §rizefights as models of the culture of the North,

It-is kind of you to take the trouble to reply to my letter in such
detail. I can only say that I hOpe such a program Will not appear under
your auspices again. Thank you for your courtesy

 




     

11:.ﬁk I! > ~
guw

x, We M E N N E N Campy/7g—

® MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY
"7 March 22, 1960

 
       
   
   

      

Ms. Christine Stevens
Animal "Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

    
   
    

Dear Ms.

 
 
 
 

Stevens:

 
  

We have read yOur letter with deep interest and, li e you,

are sincerely concerned with the reaction to the television presentation
of ”Bullfight. ”

 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
   

As a matter of record, we want you to know that the bullfight was not
staged for television and was not ”paid for” by advertisers' dollars.

It was a regularly scheduled event in Mexico filmed and much later
carried by WNEW for Special public interest to achieve a better under—
standing between the U.S.A. and our neighbor nations.

The Mennen Company is a regular advertiser on WNEW with several of
our products. Since we have many Spots on the station our schedule
happened to fall into the ”Bullfight. “

We believe it important to note that Raul Reys Spindola, Mexican Consul
in New York, endorsed this project as a most worthy effort and one

that is inextricably bound with the true heritage of Spanish-Speaking
peOple everywhere and particularly his country.

YOu may be pleased to hear that at no time during the telecast was bull—

fighting considered or referred to as a "sport”; rather, it was presented

as an event of national significance. Additionally, we hOpe you will agree

that Carlos Montalban, the narrator of the program and bullfight critic,
m brought deep prOSpective to the understanding of this event in relation to
the Mexican peOple.

,3, To our knowledge, there is no series of bullfights planned. Certainly we
are not part of any. However, we are deeply sorry if this ”one shot"
prOgram was disturbing in any reSpect.

4'?
-x,;. wrong-€43” «
, ,. A

. ’3‘“)? »
{3‘1"
‘1

Cordially,

 

THE MENNEN COMPANY
f2?
5,

     
 
 

 

Charles Dentinger”
Advertising Manag er

     

9' “"3:
, a,“ .9; .

V \"‘ V .
. \ ' '. ft. 1:

, \11. I“, In; ‘ W, t ' I l “N." MWW‘"! ., “m.
, " ’h‘v ' J 4 * d. I"

. \ ; -\.-' in up - ,5;

4 ‘-r.4 L.
‘. \ a ,' 3,, °
,, 5 .h.

      
 

  
 
 




13?}. ﬁmh Mama
“53:" ”5:;er 11‘: EEEKE
5mm}. 33% 1E“ E30

E m, CE" EEEE‘E EEEEE ﬁaﬂtin’rrm
.EEEVEEEEEEEEELEE: EEEEEEEE Egg»;
’i‘hﬁ? E‘is E‘EE EEwssEsi #99;me
ig-EQE‘ETE’itE‘EiﬂNﬁ 3 6%? :2 Eggs Egg};-

EEEEEEEE NEE. ’33 ﬁﬁthigﬁl’a

3‘.“ miss-“E1 3mm? E'EEEEEEE lass-ti: E: E5}? E WEE”: EEEEEE .mwrmg ‘EE EE,
’ W”)? Cm rim. ' . ‘

{$52311}... “is"? "EEEEEEEE .EE EEEE} EEXEEE‘EEEEEE‘EEE' E’EEEE , _
dig EEC fif‘m EWEEE‘E’E Em EEEEE“s Em.s.1 22.39% 3.. '
:13: EE'EEE‘E’EI GEE? ELEEMYEEE; Myra”; “Ear“ {EEE {1. s13“
“‘F‘EEEEEEEEEIEQEEE Err: Ens: laEEEa‘l, . Eﬁﬁfi m.“ “(E 1E1?

EEEEEE ‘s {E’ EEEEEEEH EEEEEEE‘EEEEEEEEE “Em EssEE...E*EEEE EEEEEVEE‘EEEEEEEEEss—Eﬁrm
EElEE Ezrmem {En-bringing; Eta my EEEEEEEEEE EEmEE Earsmﬁ WEE;

if?" .3 .1... .. W" ”f 4,? ,‘l... ~' * . ‘3‘.1_ ca {q 13".: M S
"1”“ “ «ﬁfhﬁ‘ﬁﬁ iii-‘31..- EEE‘EE‘ EfEEszLM‘Z“ 531” \PEWIESEEFL. ﬁfﬂﬂX‘EE-QCE EEEEE

amass: “a. j

iwvwﬁﬂﬁﬁa

, “:E’EE EEEEEE» "W3 “has Em? .3; is was? EEEEszsE E‘EEEEE. mm E. -
Hummus-E... .E E“ E2 EE'EEEst EEE E‘EE “" .EEEE- E "E EEZ’EEEETE‘E a?

was ’1'" M” ’v I
4 *‘4

EEEE" “- 3.... m? Ems... {EE‘E W Essa gwwtjg' EEtEEEEszE E's. vii w'sssmsqgwm $1??? 1'

$514}. 7%,? 59:7. ta r a. r..." 1“,»; 1 ' . _ h ,Jyviy... 1.1—5 ms 5);“ w.- w.“ _, '1 ' ,1
’ -‘ ‘ Ex". ‘1' v ‘ . ‘ 1.5-. a. 3:5,): . . . ' I
ﬁgﬁﬁs-éﬁ’éﬁrﬁ EEESE“ {.51 $15, PIE.“ . ,

ums. -EEL’EEEEE’E‘” 33?: E EE‘EE‘";

 




QQQ 127),: 15% .

QQ:Q a,QQQQQQ Qﬂm”
C5? {9.12% 51% QQQ QQQ '

3
QQQ :QQQQ 'QQQQ .

. {QQQQtlQ “QQQ“ _
QQQ QQ QQQQQQQQQQQQ Qizh 1Q GQWQ Q8 QQ QQJ’QQQQQQQQ QQQQQ
QQg,QQQQ1QQ QQQ 3&133 QQ QQ Qh QQ QQQQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQQQQ Qf V'
*BQAQQQQQQQW'QQQQQ iQ QQQ QQQQQQQQ QQQ'Q arch 13¢ ' ~2

QQQ TQlQQ‘iQ 102:: '

mQ QQQQQQQ 0f QQQQ QQQQQQQ 13 in Viﬁthiﬂﬂ 9Q
faQQQ QQQQQQ QQ ” QQQ QQQQQQQQ .‘wyﬁﬁifi QQLEQ

-§QQQ Qf QQQ :QQQQQQX QQQ ,
”QQQ QQQQLQiQQ QQ QQQQ; Q {Q } QQQ if} Qumiﬁf ”ﬁgggpﬁﬁbﬁljﬁy
Q QQQQ QQ,: QQQQQQQ‘QQ QQQQQQQQQ.

QQ.QQQQ
g1 Q5357

QQ’QQQQQQQJQQQQ2QQ1? QQQ Q
”QQQQQQQQQ’QQQQQQ

CQQQQ QQQQ QQQQQQQg
PQQQQQQQQ “

 




‘ AAA}: 10 5. .3.356 .

’T”G~Wv
_ AA IAAAAAA, 3}. C;

AAntlAuAA

AA AA. AAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAA iA Apra AA? AA AAA pAAAAAAA
AAAAA AhAA AAA iAy AA AAAAA A, AA AAAA AA AAAAAAA AAA
rhoAAAA of ﬁvul‘f.fAtA AAAAA AA AAA ' 1AAA1AA AAA
AAAAA 1h. ' °

. EAA‘A MzAAing Af AAAAA AAAAAAA AA AA M Elﬁtmﬁﬁ AA AAA
AAIAAAAAAA AAAA of thA AAAAAAAA AESWQiAﬁAQ“ Af EAAAAAAAAAAAa
)AAAIAAA11y3 AA AA11 AAAA AA"1' AAA MAR AA AAAAiAA {A} AAA (y)
AAAAA ”AAAAAAAbiliAy'Af PPOA? AAA AAAAwAA1”‘ AAAfMAAAAAAAhAA

AAAA AAAAAAA be AAAAA11AA. ' ‘

AinﬁArAly'yAurA,

ChAAAAiAA AAAVAAA,
PAAAAAAAA

 




I"! V L‘ Lam)” "L W?Z»W’é‘7ﬁ~rpx

 

 




333331133 1350

u€t3J
1919.3! inay‘

$37.3 3. ”'5“ng a as; 8 5"; ﬂ
-.. n 3 «KEML 3.35. 9

r I .3313 * ;‘ g .2 '3 3 3+. 33"
3331333333 33 32,33 3335533 33 33? ~373333
33335: 333533333133 ”3'33 "551 1:33”; "‘3 5355 3.533. 3:3 3313' 33.33.33 "5:53.33

33333 33 33 .133g3 3 ‘ 3351 33 333 3 3:33133 333

9‘.

35"1‘39 .»,- 33.533 7 3" «1- '=. was: *W‘ :31" f. 3‘1“,“ ‘3 333. "‘ " “ 3' "‘3 " h 3 At.
-' J. 33:? g: V} 33:59:13": rim" £33- 36:1» 3; f3 7}“ (‘4, 5313“; ’03” . {i “54;. ”g“; g; 3;: 13,1” .~ 13.3 33.33:; , £3.35. £93,333.
9; 13¢.” 15;?‘83 (5‘33

3333:. 3.3.3 3:53 (‘15:; 333 “$73 :3 3.3 22:333. “:5 35333333.. 2333533333333
{1‘33 "31112.33: LL13“? 3330;311:3{3113 5.3%.: «3:33.33; ‘24:}..sz .. 1 I 3'53. ,3». ' 3 ‘ 33) {3331353
{:3} 3333531333: 353 5353333333333. 5333‘ 33 "33:35:33: " * 3333353 33:3

533333". ‘32 33: ::1;: 3:33.- 3:333 ‘33 35.313533333331133

3 $313233?- 3‘ ff?! @333 I

3 A3 ~
J&¢.:¥

 




5 333mm 235 1:60

33333 13333 133333333
3:? 1333:: 11331:" 333:3 ~
3333331113 35 133“1333 *

3333 3‘1333333335

133*33 133 3333 13133333133 133333. 1.333 thﬁ flu 3333-.
13 33313335 33 1 :33 333313133 33 33y33133-33333 333’33133§.3133
3333333‘333 333313333. .33333335/13333331; 33331333 3 333“ 31
11:3 T531331” :03: (34:31.3 “3:1 13:3an 333:: 3 3.1 3:. «3'3 33.313 133:: 33135: "333.3, »
'33313 333331333'3331133 3311313'231335 «an 1 3333 3333 333 3311
312 333: 33 533 333333133 31 3:.31333 333 33333333 313333 3133
3333 333 33 :3 31 3311311333133 33333333. ,1333-333:

. 111:3 3.3:: 3:? 33333:: 133* 13:: 33:: 33:: 3113. ’03: 31133:. 333:1;
1'3h3*333 3? 313331 3? 33331 31:3333 335Uh 3U31d Shack ,
.;33 31333.3h3'3133335 3nd 333 33331133 3r3333333103 91

333331133 31'33331331 33333 by 33533 33 33 33333 333
.333 33331331313.:: . ' ‘ .1 »

””1133 3:33 :33? 33333313, bath 1:: 3333 33331103103 :33? 331331
3333333333 33:1 33 3 33:33 31‘ 3313322 31 3:: 33:23:33.3 62333333 5 32:36:11
33. 33.1 313335 be 1:: 3335:3333 with gamma? 333333332: 31’
333333 333333333..- _. . . .” ' "

I 3:: 3333331353: 333.3 13333:: 13:33 Libby, 0333111 and 1.131335 33
. 3:33.: 3333133 3.3313333: 3:33 333333333 13.. 31333 3:33: 3:33 :1: stack 1331:1335
- 333 31333 3333 33 33k'3333333 333 033333y'h33 any'cmntracts'with 333
33335 133332133: 33333 agmm :31" the: £33333}. govemmant? :i‘ 31:33: c105

33: 3:11 ...:: :3 :3: 3:31.: :0 5:33:33: by July 1 1960 that. :1: the
3333 1:: 31:31:: wradmts 13 3133:3313: 313333333362. If 333.5 313353 mantracw . -
35.3.1. 133 5.1133315 33 I understand it. ‘ ' '

11333 31331335

Sincamly,

 




      
 

ﬂ 15125 Uzauowow

49 Elm {Roe/e), c/Qoacl
Bzomwiﬂz 8, Wear ‘yo’L/e’

qw ms cam“, ..
m galwxécub QMV’ \(

Wu) TGIF/1“ WM
0.,»ka

     
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
  

NOLA

cud) [Tu W‘{Wﬁ} (11:0!)

C/‘CLM‘Ll/t) [5 TED; $k3cmm’ _,
QJ” VmAm‘L ménﬂm m «m.

N‘M‘i mulluu Wham 0"“

Gig/560.11, (CH- [-9) MW [£1in M

‘0’» (\A/ 9:“ hiibtwﬁ «Manxfh‘
1w 5:“th mm M ms
Qua-.9 We“ Ohm“; W uﬁ"
Rm? 0,. \u auk “(In MM
A((~¢LL1 ’YD "h‘uuA W
Q09.» bmigﬁc‘um ’“nz m‘SRu-A‘ﬁ‘m
14 ch Lac/bk “AAA \L-rvtn m“
(it). MM? M Gnu—Avauu -(\7&

0-1st‘ “not “LC 9,}; What” ((A1;

    
      




, Aims“ \"7 E Worm TC; 6W‘70’V‘2
vim LATE? Tm Embudf.
{‘1 &( (IMAM-J" a. chad)

Quuw Q’tuLk: Q10» JR $134.»! k.‘
13“?» +k?°‘“ M W“ ”“3; RM
'(G’m/ “dc- mm in: (9.,
MY wwwui “Avg-(k 1:“de ~
(M.,3£m Gl$¢ th MAS/am
{m “a: ﬂow ‘31 \Deafﬁ ' in TE;

W ‘19: V“? W :D'Qs (bx-u ”(A
~ ' lung \xS «ﬁn CK

(rook +¥w ’

k/l/
Cb

 




AM 3W”’ 3.39;: WiMMM r"

32.53133;ng 33-M33) 3M;g 3,”
233 3g; 33% R M :1 M42 MMMVMM-M TE

QKWW husk.“ “J64 3313’-

“(ﬂu-)1} l5 Qwsm
"3.3,“ \m‘; Wu“ - \km §Voc3m m.
«a, €511.1me 09.2% Lou-Q3 5m“ ”VJ

3M€ d \b 3% (k 8&3:- «3 5...
NJ atlrumﬁ munm -~ ‘As’f'
l3\ Gan‘stﬁ 113’. 3 %Vm&,
6203‘) “NJ 3kg“ M33“ MW
m3 um $3; valve»? 3
“ha/“AMA @mkxdths (L‘s-33...?

«Kw.

3M3 M’W
Aﬁuf ﬁw-MMW 37m M‘2MMMMM IKE‘N-A 3333333»
m. Gum M13 (ubs‘cm' hugJ/mmmqi
333$ ng m WEO‘U‘ 33L3/O‘ QvoyA/aytx

 




lVfX]?I()DiALL :B]i[)AL[)CiA53]‘I}§G (:()hlfyAlV3: INC”
X S E R \ [C E U l" R .3 D l 0 (f. (I) R P U H A T 1 0 N D P A. W I; R I {i \
RCA Bu Nd 'i neg, Radio City, Ncwjl/Vori»; 20, ms«1‘1

111]“: L I" T — 81H! 0

March l7, 1059

Miss Eleanor E. Sailing
630 west End Avenue
New York 2%, N. Y.

Dear Miss Seiling:

Your letter of March ll taking exception to the FayeEmerson
interview of a lady bull fighter on our TODAY program has been
referred to me.

Please he assured we at NBC make a very carefuly distinction
between, on the one hand, recognition of facts which exist as
a part of the real world around us and, on the otherssensitivity
to humane attitudes held by our broadcast audience. We have
exerted every caution over the years to avoid, in reflecting
bull fighting practiced elsewhere in the world, any scenes
involving animal torture or bloOd-letting. You may recall

a WIDE WIDE WORLD broadcast of some years back where the
Mexican comedian Cantinflas was featured in a comedy caricature
of his nation‘s leading sports event. Great precautions were
taken to he sure that feelings on this subject indigenous to
Americans were respected while at the same time mores and
cultural practices elsewhere were included as examples of
attitudes most of us do not share. We cannot agree with you
that in the day—in, day~out mass of our program offerings the
extremely sporadic introduction of references to bull-fighting
in any way ”glorify" or condone bull fighting. We feel we have
done no more than include just one more representation, and a
very small one at that, of the varied world in which we live.

Although your reaction is extremely isolated, we are helped by
audience mail whether it is favorable or not. Your communication
most certainly will be relayed to those of our colleagues most
directly concerned. Thank you for taking the time and trouble to
write to us.

Cordially yours,

Continuity Acceptance Department

 




rmvmmx mm GPPGSES 93me T0 “mm

“ The use af horror for its own sake will ha aliminatad;
the um at visual 9r aural affacta whieh $01216 5mm}:

ear alarm the vimr, and the dataileci pmmntation

at brutality ar‘ grahysical mow by Eight *9? by wand am

mt permissible.”

l' Tha use at“ animals, both in the pmmation at televisim
programs and as a part. 9f telsvision prcgram con mt, shall
at all time be in eanfermity with accaptazd standards of

banana treatmt.”

 




 

John Crosby on TV

 

Grisly, But Good

“Conquest,” that splendid CBS-TV science
program, has fortunately survived its first
year, which in all programs of this kind is the
risky interval, and is safely 3 '
embarked now on its second
year. The first of these pro- ,
grams last Sunday grappled
with new discoveries in the
human brain and was the E
most interesting and sophis— 3,
ticated of any “Conquest”
program I have seen.

I use the word “sophisti- .
cated” gingerly. I mean ,
simply that the techniques
of discussing and explaining
difficult scientific advances
is being handled easily and ~
colloquially without any loss
'of precision. That is a very Crosby
great feat. There seemed to me to be bolder,
sharper direction, too. The preparations for a
brain operation on an epileptic, for example,
shifted from the operating table where the
brain lay exposed in the conscious and talk-
ing patient to Eric Sevareid and a guide watch-
ing from overhead --— back and forth in a
thoroughly professional manner.

* II! ll

In this age of monster pictures, this was
a real scary ~one because it was actual. A doc-
tor with a low-voltage, needle “stimulated”
certain parts of the conscious patient’s brain
to discover what parts of the body they con-
trolled. “Why,” asked Sevareid, “do you have
to remap, rechart, each individual brain?
Aren’t they all alike?” His guide, Dr. Robert
Livingston, explained: “One brain is not ex-
actly like another any more than our faces are
exactly alike.” »

Just then the needle activated an Old mem-
ory of music in the patient’s brain which I
found truly alarming. If the doctors can
monkey with our memories. . Actually,
it got'worse. The demonstrations moved'into
the brains of cats and rats that had electrodes
planted ‘ deeply into them.

First, a cat was awakened by stimulating

the proper part of the brain. “Sleep, wakeful-
ness, alertness, attention—these functions were
the business primarily of the psychologist
previously,” explained Dr. Livingston. “Now
We know that certain brain mechanisms
are linked to these and we can work together
. with the psychologist to explqre them.” ‘

 

After that, things got much more compli-
cated and, to me, progressively more alarming.
A rat was shown running from one end of a
maze to another, getting more and more adept
at finding his way, simply to give himself the
thrill of stimulating his brain. Said the re-
searcher: “We wanted to find just how much
punishment we could make a rat take in order
to stimulate his brain.” A grid was electrified.
Rats, explained the researcher, Jim . Olds,
would starve to death rather than take such
an. electrical shock to get to food—but this
rat, after recoiling just once, crossed the grid
several times to stimulate his brain. What
sort of thrill do you suppose brain stimulation
is in order to drive the rat-to do that? It’s
all a little liketsomething out of Aldous Hux—
ley’s “Brave New World.” '

t t O

The second part of the hour-long show was
an examination of the power of waves and

how to adjust both ships and shoreline to live

with it and to fight back. This didn’t have
quite the ghoulish impact of the bit about
monkeying with our minds but it was, I
thought, an absolutely first-rate job of photo- 2
graphing, cutting and editing a difﬁcult
scientific subject. Waves, incidentally, are '
very photogenic when the sea kicks up and
there were some wonderful shots showing the
tremendous power of an angry sea.

Your perfect educational show should mix
show business with genuine information. It
should be important enough information to
warrant the attention of a network (to .say ;
nothing of your and my attention); it should f
be clear without stooping to first-grade termi- -
nology to make it so. I can’t pretend that
“Conquest” has always done this. Come to
think of it,'I’m not sure it ever has before
this program. “ '

There’s a narrow line between education and
sensation for its own sake and it’s sometimes
hard to know which side you’re on. Not long
ago the Westinghouse Station in San Francisco,
KPIX, televised a live heart operation on “little
Tommy” Hunter and got deluged with 50,000
letters, most of them approving. Electrodes.
in cats’ brains I ﬁnd grisly but educational; .
heart operations on “little Tommy”. I find
just plain grisly without any compensatin
reason for being in my living room. . f

a 1958. New York Herald Tribune Inc. f

. ‘.
x.- ‘
A \
O

 




”2'2. 222”, 222
22mwk

yﬁuﬁi 23%? ad;

. 4J-

1 ' (a 2
”faﬂv'Q' 73“; T as 3‘3, 233 .
. Li. :2.” 4.. “,a. n ﬂ

2.222.222“
twgfﬁﬂti in"?

22-22 :2

i ‘2‘ a
hai-

'1'

3.51} 163.3%...{T'KF323M2 ,ﬂr
‘ LG ”2520" ”£2 T2521?»

22222.12. ‘2" 25222. 2222.
3 4 ‘ 22.213323123 “2235.313.
“mm 2223...? 222 1
31:3,, 3.22,,

A3411“

‘Sp' i-

n - . 1, {13:3 1.4. i? ”I
. _ 4. . .11 r, r!
, 5.1.2 2,2 3.3.:

"5

f...
2732"}

n;
5“»

.‘ 12.
ii
.0

f? ..

ye..-

. 2.22.2..2322223229

"2.2. 2.

é}. »- “3.“: .v‘ as
g‘ {:. ‘51; mi £.£;.»€~.xui
3, .2.
.32.}? {3“ 3mm4; $3.93?

. .2 ~
2,521.21; 2.);1..2..:...2..,,.. .2 ,

1

3a3ﬁ)
2‘33.

.9
22...; 02
{222:atﬁ

222222223 22;
33:22 2.222 ‘2”

2.222232 ”if"
2222”,, 2222”“22322 2:22"
3-0? . :Tﬁﬁi’ r22. MHH‘QE} 5%

yo 12223:; 31222212231222.

4.1.342

T. (3", 23:.“

I_{’

"f P
g:
'32"

1):} W331i:
T22. “ 2222::"2223 3,

‘b
{Jain

Tiff.) .2Li

23:29 5;.
xv)”,

2'22

.
:-
1,,-

23.13
2%?

33

“"2““ v 3* 3.32., L ' =2" L
.3,. 2.221 .1221} 3.3.} iilﬁi
2E2 @222 L 92 233“ 1%»

my! 2723333233,

222’

4
ma

'k
d.

.i

v.4; _: ’
R233 - s. ; H,£
a $51!»? La

-4.

yﬂu, E,mﬁ

w" 3

I
3:232;

9.3-2222222222“‘

. 7,;

.3 '9
_‘2' ‘4‘ \
ﬁzlini

3:2 72.22.12.213

2..- v!
“I

:3“. wit-{3} 1:; 3

.. ~32

d‘“

2.232.} .32.: PM
1:43.343
Rik-Xi.)

nﬁl-Q

513.3. 2.}?

r. is», may...”
$3.34.. we» .3. .

2‘, 212's”.
air->3»! M

3121

~1
)‘.

.4..ng

2..."? 222.223.

22122 22223222422

 




 

 

 

HY GARDNER CALLING

:—
—-

 

 

Thimking Aloud

Wonder how the nearest of kin to the two Brooklyn women
who were raped and murdered by a punk named Thomas Hig-
gins felt when they learned that a compromise plea to man-
slaughter saved him from the chair and got him off with a
combined sentence of twenty years?‘

Makes you sick to the stomach to read
how tricky legal machinations can permit an
animal that throws a man’s shadow to literally
get away with murder and give him a due-bill
to go out in the free world to rape and kill
again ﬁfteen or so years hence.
It makes my blood boil to read a defense
plea that “society owes him (Higgins) a debt.”
That his epilepsy led to the blackouts and
“spells_of volcanic violence” that inspired him
to rape and murder. I know of epileptics who
. lead ﬁne lives, are wonderful citizens, decent
. '5 family men and highly successful business men.
H C d And I think that by blaming these crimes of
y ar ner violence on this sickness the court not only
permitted the defense to becloud the issue but to besmirch other
people suffering from epilepsy. '

It’s too bad people don’t feel just as sorry for the victims
of other people as they do about animals killed in a bull ring, ,
as witness the torrential downpour of angry mail and calls from
squeamish viewers of Channel 5’s recent unreeling of a Mexican-
ﬁlmed TV special called “Bull Fight.” They don’t seem to mind
a Thomas Higgins walking away from a double rape and murder ACTRESS B I
and seeing three other charges against him for sex attacks on , ,

it: .helpless women dismissed—that’s legal cricket. But seeing a klss the” two
helpless bull destroyed—tch, tch, tch—there ought to be a law Skoﬁc met his
I against it! . . . I can’t ﬁgure it out. I hope you can. %

 

 

 




{timrdiﬁicult to re-string his YiO-li-n.
His 1'913 3- “It takes gutséﬁywt
I,

!» That in , on, \Connecticut,
Rogues R' e Road runs directly
into Lo 3 Highway.

WHEN WE HEARD that David McKay
was bringing out a book in a few
months called “Kangaroos in the
Kitchen,” we couldn’t think of a
better way to prove this out than by
dropping in on Lorrain D’Essen, deep
in the heart of New York.

We found her cleaning up a few
dishes in the kitchen of her brown—
stone, along with the help of her hus-
band, Bernard.

Actually, there were no kangaroos
in the kitchen. We could spot one,
however, peeking in from the yard,
and looking rather pensive. Debbie,
a Great Dane, was looking up from a
rather comfortable cushion, almost
dwarfed by Dunne, an Old English
Sheepdog. Steverino, the TV grey—
hound, was romping playfully around

Llinda Llee, a baby llama. Three Sia—

(I. J
\

mese cats, Jester, Cassandra, and Has-
sein, were parading by Lola and Joker,
two of the most tearful but happy
Basset hounds you’ve laid eyes On.
Just outside the kitchen door were
seven baby wolfhound puppies.

Out the kitchen window, and
through the door to another room,
you could spot Llucky and Llinda, .
two full grown llamas; T-lana, a

Yorkshire terrier; Wimpy, the worn-
bat; Emma, a crow; Amy, a lamb;
three temple doves; Vierre, a ma-
caw; Heidi, another greyhound; Pea-
nut, a prairie dog; Banty, a baby
skunk; and Lulubelle, the mutt.

The reason for all this is that the
D’Essens supply animals for every
possible use: theatre, motion pictures, '
teleﬁlsion, photography—any type of
function you might want to track
down. The most impressive thing is
that there is little confusion and prac-
tically no noise. Both of the D’Essens
are remarkably calm and easygoing,
and their demeanor has rubbed off
on the animals in no uncertain terms.
In spite of all the animals, the ﬂoors
are spotless and the air fresh.

“We love animals,” Lorrain said,
permitting the baby llama to kiss her ,
cheek. “Anybody can have almost
any kind of animal in the city if they
know how to handle them—and treat
them with the respect they deserve.”

As creator of Animal Talents
Scouts, Inc, Mrs. D’Essen showers
all her menage with equal affection.
But when we left, she was combing
out the baby llama’s coat for the
third time.

 




December 29’ 1938

1 Mr. Erin Sevnreié . y
' : 'Gelnnme Ernnmnn king; Sweetie
1:355 knéc’iinen nee. :

new kn. Sammie,

kn have taken ed by a vex-y were Waiver of Wire m mm
yen nenneming the" pregnant “Canneet” in _ which yen agape med a
few Manny's em. I did nets, nee the pregrem maraelf, but I have

‘ new new with implanted electmee ,, ken-e in gee nhnpe, anthem
in km 13nd ehnyn ,2 benzene, an we are net earn whethnr yen knew
0r nt. , it in very diifiault ﬁe ‘kenp‘ eneh animnln in gene health
fax-1 any mneidemme nae-zinc? 511‘ ﬁne . kn an net 1mm: whether you
new $11.52sz knee wheee akin had brnken new mm running name
amend the implenmé ninetmﬁe en well an them who were in geod
eeneiitien. . ‘ - i * A 1 ~.

renew, we were; naked mama: :ynn km 91. em grenn range
n-f nffent ef elnc‘tsrienl ntMnintien . of the brain, ranging free
extremely pin-annnﬁ tn exeremely unplennnnt. , '

_ Shem e1“ the ether meme win new the nmgmm were eeyeeially
nemenmed Week the ehe ck 11 wank} be tn children (th maid be
see liknly “be we 11; en a Snnnny nitemeen). The great differ-enee
banana ﬁne @1wa em: «1‘ angerinems by trained neientiete fer
in npenii’in pnrpnne and diepleyinp theﬁ nxperimentn tn the lay
15mm mama. very nerienn .mml emblem . we neeld be 3%me
”he have ya? vines on them nineteen- . , 4

gimme-1%,

 




MONSANTO CHEMICAL COMPANY

NEW YORK SALES OFFICE
445 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK 22. N.Y.

PHONE: PLAZA 9-8200

November 17, 1958

Mr. Robert L. Kendall,
Executive Secretary
American Feline Society
Al Union Square West
New York, New York

Dear Mr. Kendall:

Your telephone call this morning passing along the reactions of
cat lovers to a particular sequence in the November 17 CONQUEST
show over CBS~TV was most distressing.

Anyone who owns or has ever loved a cat can be very emotional
about the matter. I am one of that type myself. It has been
useless during the past 20 years to talk with me about altering
cats or dogs. Maybe it is best under some circumstances. I
just don’t believe in it; consequently the fifth member of our
family is a very manly tom cat even if his lineage may be
somewhat obscure.

Some of the protests you relayed to us during our conversation
are, however, in need of an answer in order to clear up a few
inaccuracies.

The experiments witnessed were carried on in a federal labora~
tory —— the National Institutes of Health at Bethesda, Md. ~~
and not in any of our firm‘s labs.

Monsanto is the sponsor of the program but CBS-Public Affairs

has editorial carte blanche in preparing subjects to be discussed
and scenes to be shown. To insure quality treatment of the

most important scientific developments, CBS both consults with
and then clears each program filmed with not only the American
Association for the Advancement of Science but the National
Academy of Sciences as well.

The shows are not “live." The film footage on the brain story,
for example, was shot several months ago. All of the shows to
date have been filmed in advance. None has been centered in any
way about the work or products of our firm.

 




- 2 -

In a more controversial area, of course, is the question of
cruelty to the cat or whether it hurts to have its brain probed
with electrodes. This was the same question I asked the doctors
who probed the brain of the epileptic youth in the first portion
of the film. I was assured by Dr. Livingston that the brain, for
all of its complexity, is an insensitive organ.

A particular effort was made to get the point across that an
electrical stimulus ~~ not an electrical shock in the sense of
shock therapy or an electrocution -— was applied To quote from
the script, Eric Sevareid says (after the cat is awakened), ”Well
now, I think I'd wake up too if you sent an electric current into
my head.” Dr. Livingston's response was ”No you wouldn't. It
would depend entirely on what part of the brain was activated.
Let me show you." A different portion of the cat's brain was
then stimulated and the animal did not awaken.

This episode was not faked. I happen to know because I was in
Bethesda at the time and witnessed the shooting of the film. The
cat, incidentally, had been used in brain experiment work for
nearly two years at the time of the filming. I had twenty minutes
alone with him the day prior to the filming and found him a
friendly, playful, normal fellow. Since then, the people at the
National Institutes of Health tell me that the electrodes were
removed from his brain and that he has been "retired" from all
laboratory work. Also, that he is in perfect health.

It is difficult to put across the point that the stimulus is not
a painful experience. Perhaps the best answer to that question
will be to toss in another question posed by a dog lover who
asked me this morning how I would like having electrodes placed
in my old brain.

I don't think I'd like it one bit —— even if it is in the interest
of science. Dr. Olds, of the University of Michigan, assures me
that I probably would like it. Particularly, he says, if I were
one of the mental patients being treated by Dr. C. W. Sem~Johnson
in Oslo, Norway. These human schizophrenics were so withdrawn
that it had been impossible for doctors to reach them. Stimulated
electrodes implanted deep in their brain did not cure these
catatonic schizophrenics, Dr. Olds says, but it brought them

out of their shells to the point where the doctors could once

more talk with them.

He stressed that the treatment does not effect a cure as is the
case with shock treatments. The patients, in describing the
sensations felt, could only say it made them happy or as

Dr. Sem~Johnson describes it, it gave them "an undifferentiated
feeling of pleasure."

 




-3...

The fact that hopeless mental cases have already been helped

as a result of experimentation originally done With cats will

do little to convince some members of the American Feline

Society that scientists are not sadistic, witch doctors out

of the dark ages. Like the great Albert Schweitzer, they

cannot bear to see a fly or an ant harmed, These are convictions
they share with this great humanitarian and nothing we say will
alter a deep seated conviction. We hope, however, the above

will clarify the matter somewhat, even though it does not

resolve all issues involved,

Sincerely,

”W Lukas/Q ®.3Qa;%‘

Michael A. Blatz
Public Relations

MAB-mtc

 




if?“ helg nee ed 2 K M
36mg C2
Subject: Urgent help needed :
Date: Fri, 7 Aug 1998 15:26:32 -0500

From: "Cat" <mjwang1@earthlink.net>
To: "Christine Stevens" <CStevens@anima1welfare.com>

Dear friends of animals,
2 things, please help:

1: please give me your address so that I can send an important and rare video to you as soon as possible .

2: Please write letter to CNN to complain the show aired on Aug. 2, 1998 at 9PM (at the golden time viewed by millions
Americans) hosted by Bernard Shaw about animal rights activists. It really degraded millions people for animals rights in
this country by criticizing animal rights activists are terrorists and criticizing some animal rights extremeists burn veal
processing plant, bomb lether shops, death threats letters to Boys Towns doctors who experiented on hundreds of cats by
operating on their brains, most of them died ! It is a deceiving report and biased for fur, lether industries and medical research
groups. It only showed some properties damages by animal rights activists .

However it failed to show each year the damages to millions of animals' suffering, pain and death clearly and
graphically ! by those industries proﬁtted by torturing and killing numerous animals ! (it would be billions if include
animals in the slaughterhouses with boiling hogs alive , skinning cattle alive...8 billions chickens boiled alive. this can be referred
from "Slaughterhouse" an expose to meat industry and USDA by Gail Eisnitz). In the entire report only showed one littler kitten
had brain surgery experimented by doctor in Boy's Towns and Boy's Town doctor showed to CNN later that particular kitten was
recovered. We really think this report is requested by Boy's Town doctor and Fur and Lather industries, because they showed
every evidences to CNN including every death threat letter well kept and recorded phone calls. CNN also interviewed PETA.
However, it is so clearly to see that PETA is not well prepared for CNN's interview at all. It is a deceiving report by showing to
the public that only one kitten and not showing millions of animals tortured, pain and suffering by FUR, LETHER, MEAT,
MEDICAL EXPERIIVIENT industries 1!!

Please write to Chirman and Preident of CNN to complain :

'5,

1: Mr. W. Thomas Johnson, Chairman

CNN Cable News Network

One CNN Center

Atlanta , GA 30303

2: Mr. Richard N. Kaplan, President

CNN Cable News Network,

One CNN Center,

Atlanta, GA 30303

3: Mr. Steven Korn, Executive Vice President,
CNN Cable News Network

One CNN Center,

Atlanta, GA 30303

8/7/98 6:10 PM

 




0

Urgent help needed :

4: Ms. Jane Maxwell, Senior Vice President,

CNN Cable News Network
One CNN Center,

Atlanta, GA 30303
5: Ms. Jay Suber, Senior Vice President,

CNN Cable News Network
One CNN Center,
Atlanta, GA 30303
6: Ms. Gail Evans, Executive Vice President,
CNN Cable News Network
One CNN Center,
Atlanta, GA 30303
7: Mr. Graylian Young, Bureau Chief
CNN Cable News Network
One CNN Center,
Atlanta, GA 30303
**** Please be extra polite in your letters to them while complaining the biased and deceiving report done by Bernard
Shaw and Correspondent Ms. Kathy Slobogin. Politely ask them to make another report about the damage, bloody, torturing,
suffering of billions of animals across the country GRAPHICALLY by fur industry, lether industry, meat industry, dairy industry
to make up for the most important part(a1so the most important cause for animal rights) missing in the last show about animal

rights activists.

PETA(People for the ethical treatment of animals, 757-622-7382 ex: 302 Ingrid Newkirk, President) usually has all the
undercover videos , they can make copies of most of the videos for you as references.

Let's unite together at the dawn of Animal Rights movement. It is the time for animals liberation, in fact , it is the real
REVOLUTION for voiceless, helpless animals since stone ages.

Love

cat

8/7/98 6:10 PM

 




‘ CNN Transcript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World - August 2, 1998 http://cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/9808/02/impc.00.html

y»,

W"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stave

W mm:

 

 

.;:t_i:li~”3a _. ._ _
avatar-5m

em mrtugﬂﬁs
PATHFINDER SITES:

 

MORE SERVICE

DISCUSSION:

SITE GUIDES: '

 

CNN Newsstand Time

Bispatches; Animal Rights; The Under World

‘—

Aired August 2, 1998 - 10:00 pm. ET

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM
AND MAY BE UPDATED.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ANNOUNCER: NEWSTAND. Tonight: CNN & "TIIVIE."

The subpoena. The immunity. What will Clinton say? Pivotal moments in the Lewinsky
case.

Pressing the cause for animal rights. Resorting to violence in the campaign against fur.
And intimidation and threats to chill animal research.

The search for life in outer space begins deep under the Earth.
DAVID LEWIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Life in this cave could be like...
PENNY BOSTON, EXOBIOLOGIST: life somewhere else.

ANNOUNCER: CNN & "TIME" with Jeff Greenﬁeld and Bernard Shaw. CNN and
"TIME": two of the world's leading news organizations.

(END VIDEOTAPE)
BERNARD SHAW, HOST: Good evening. Jeff‘s on vacation.

President Clinton's upcoming grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky matter has
Washington preparing for an extraordinary drama. A sitting president questioned about
some very personal things: whether he had sex with Lewinsky, and whether he
encouraged her to lie about it.

Tonight, our colleagues at "TIIVIE" have the inside story of two weeks of furious,
backstage action. An exclusive, behind-the-scenes look at negotiations and deals that
may ﬁnally resolve the matter of the president and the intern.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MICHAEL WEISSKOPF, "TIME" SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: These are the
pivotal two weeks. It will be the time when we all look back at is as the hinge period in
the Starr investigation of the president; which really began four years ago.

KAREN TUMULTY, "TIME" WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: On Friday, July
17th, the moment that the president's team has been speculating about, that they have
been planning for, that they have been fearing for six months, ﬁnally arrives, and they
don't even know it. A subpoena is delivered to the president's outside council, David

8/10/98 10:39 AM

 




‘ CNN Transcript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World - August 2, 1998 http://cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/9808/02/impc.00.html

WILLIAM J. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No one wants to
get this matter behind us more than I do.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

TUMUTLY: It's almost interesting to see everyone waiting for the president himself to

ANIMAL WE12.35211133thmoauai‘zaaaaaaaa as c

e. (202) 337 2332 gFax: (202) 338 9478
the president IS, in fact, ﬁnally going to have to tell his story pdﬁ'ﬁlﬂlgﬂema“: awi@ammalwelfare'com

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SHAW: President Clinton is scheduled to testify on August 17, two days before his 52nd
birthday.

We'll be back in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SHAW: A week ago in New York, animal rights activists blocked the doors of Macy's,
protesting the stores fur sales. This was a peaceful demonstration. But, the animal rights
movement has a more threatening side, with militants resorting to violence and arson.
This summer, activists burned down an animal research center in Washington state and a
veal processing plant in Florida.

There's a dual campaign to stop the use of animals in medical research and targeted
scientist are intimidated both by lawful protest and by radical activists who sometimes
take their cause over the line.

NEWS STAND senior correspondent Kathy Slobogin has the story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED ANIMAL RIGHTS PROTESTERS: Don't wear fur. Compassion is
the fashion. Don't wear fur. Compassion is the fashion.

KATHY SLOBOGIN, NEWSSTAND SENIOR CORRESPONDENT (voice—over):
Their cause is popular. Their tactics are clever, and they have friends in Hollywood.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT)

ALICIA SILVERSTONE, ACTRESS: Hi. I'm Alicia Silverstone. Biology is the study of
life, not death.

(END VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED ANIMAL RIGHTS PROTESTERS: What do we want...

SLOBOGIN: But the animal rights movement has another face; a darker face. As
protests cross the line into violence, law entbreen'ient is worried, victims are afraid.

III? l II N 1 IF 1-31.3- -i‘l‘v IALF 11: The American people, the peopIe of the world have to know
”In. ”" 1“}; .2": 111.111 gone WlId.

SL‘JII II: ' 1'4? III: II a a movement with a radical fringe networked in cyberspace committed
to vzolence =11. 1; aﬁense of 1 11nimals.

DAV.II'1’I3ECK (ph): They're not friends of animals. They are terrorists.

8/ 10/93 11:1 :3. 1111-»

 




- CNN Transcript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World - August 2, 1998 ’ http://onncom/TRANSCRIPTS/980'8/02/impc.00.html

1.

SLOBOGIN: The FBI says they are "special interest terrorists" with an impressive
record: 80 acts of arson alone in the last 10 years.

(on camera): No place has been hit harder than Utah. In the last few years, there have
been 45 attacks in the Salt Lake City area alone. Everything from fur farms, to meat
companies, to fast food restaurants have been targets. They strike in the dead of night,
using vandalism, arson, even bombs. Police here say it's only a matter time before
someone gets killed. I ‘

BECK: When I stop to look at it, I think the good Lord was looking after me.

SLOBOGIN (voice-over): David Beck is lucky he wasn't killed. Late one night in 1995,
Beck was returning with new inventory for his leather crafts store when he made a
decision that may have saved his life.

BECK: Instead of coming into the store like I normally do to unload, I was tired, so I said
"I'll unload tomorrow." I went home.

SLOBOGIN: Three hours later: a police call. Beck's store had been incinerated. The
cause: ﬁrebombs. The damage: nearly a half- million dollars. An animal rights activist
was later convicted of arson.

BECK: What they are is terrorists; nothing more. They're out to make people afraid.

UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: Hopefully I can catch them in the act. It makes
my job a lot easier.

SLOBOGIN: Police in Salt Lake City are cracking down. They say most of the animal
rights extremists they've caught are part of a gang called Straight Edge: teenagers who
say no to drugs, alcohol, sex, and meat. Police say the militants commit sabotage against
businesses they believe exploit animals.

The worst damage was done at a mink fur breeder's co-op south of Salt Lake in March
1997. Five pipe bombs detonated in the dead of night. An entire ﬂoor of offices wiped
out.

CHRISTOPHER FALCO, GENERAL MANAGER: The power of the pipe bombs had a
big concern. There was shrapnel found several hundred yards away from the building,
from the pipe bombs.

SLOBOGIN: The mink themselves could have been hurt. They were in range of ﬂying
shrapnel. So was a family with two small children who lived on the premises.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The family members woke up, were running outside trying see
what was happening, shrapnel was ﬂying past them.

DAVE WILSON, COALITION TO ABOLISH FUR TRADE: I wouldn't call any of
these violent attacks.

SLOBOGIN: You don't feel that pipe bombs are violent?

WILSON: Not when they don't hurt anyone.

SLOBOGIN: Dave Wilson says he is not involved in the attacks, but publicizes the
cause of those who are. Wilson has no problem justifying arson and bombings at fur

farms. To him, the mink are the true victims.

SLOBOGIN: Would you, personally, have any moral problems with putting a bomb at a
ﬂu farm?

8/10/98 10:38 AM

 




, CNN Transcript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World - August 2, 1998 http://cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/9808/02/impc.()0.html

WILSON: You mean, would I -- love to see every fur farm turn to ashes and all the
animals liberated? Yes, I would. I think a lot of people would. Those fur farmers are
sadistic, mean, evil people, who can kill and torture other animals without feeling any
guilt or remorse. SLOBOGIN: Wilson spreads the anti-fur gospel on the Internet, which
is also the link for the Animal Liberation Front, a shadowy underground network of
activists who brag on their Web site about their latest hits in defense of animals.

WILSON: I think it's a wonderful resource. It'll inspire a lot of people to get involved
with animal rights.

SLOBOGIN: Also on the Web site, would-be terrorists can point and click their way to
blueprints for violence: How to make a Molotov cocktail; how to make a timer for a
ﬁrebomb, all in the name of animal rights. The mainstream animal rights movement
claims no contact with the violent fringe. Its driving force is the nonproﬁt People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA.

Over the years, PETA has aggressively exposed cruelty to animals, and skillfully
publicized the cause of animal rights without the use of violence. Still, PETA backs
away from criticizing the recent attacks.

Do you condemn that violent activity?

INGRID NEWKIRK, PRESIDENT—PETA: I don't as long as no one is hurt. I think it's
very sad that some people are so frustrated that they lash out in that sort of way. On the
other hand, one can understand impatience when peaceful change, the sorts of things we
do at PETA, are very slow.

SLOBOGIN (on camera): PETA itself may not sponsor violence, but it's willing to use
hardball tactics of its own. PETA is against the use of animals in medical research. We
found that its campaigns against researchers can attract the radical fringe, creating a
chilling effect in the scientiﬁc community, even preventing valuable research. Many
researchers are afraid to speak out, for fear they'll be next.

(voice-over): Doctors Ed Walsh (ph) and Joanne McGee (ph) have felt the ﬁll wrath of
PETA.

DR. ED WALSH: So I think this is going to be a 1—0 (ph) curve.

SLOBOGIN: A husband and wife team, they were studying brain activity to try to ﬁnd
the cause of childhood deafness. Their research involved brain surgery on kittens. They
acknowledge that the animals are sacriﬁced for the sake of the research. Half the kittens
die from the trauma of surgery. Those that survive are euthanized when they're ﬁlll
grown so that their auditory nerves can be studied in an autopsy. But Walsh and McGee,
and the government agency that funds them, feel the research is worth the sacriﬁce.

WALSH: We believe the work we're doing will impact the lives of children who suffer
with congenital hearing loss.

SLOBOGIN: Children, like 1 1-year-old Karen (ph), who was born deaf. Others like her
might be helped one day by Walsh and McGee's research. But they now face a longer
wait. What happened when PETA came to town?

WALSH: Havoc. Within 24 to 48 hours, we started receiving telephone calls that were
ugly, vulgar and threatening.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're planting a bomb in your ofﬁce, and it's going to slice
your head open, so watch out.

SLOBOGIN: The anonymous threats could not be linked to PETA, but they came after
PETA released this undercover videotape taken inside Walsh and McGee's lab at Boys

8/10/98 10:38 AM

 




' CNN T'ranscript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World — August 2, 1998 http://cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/9808/02/impc.00.html

0

Town Research Hospital in Omaha. The tape shows kittens in a stupor, falling down and
crying after surgery.

NEWKIRK: Kittens had their skulls opened, and surgery done on their brains, and then
they were never given any painkillers.

SLOBOGIN: PETA demanded Boys Town Hospital stop the research, and ﬁled a
complaint with the federal government charging abuse of the animals. PETA gave the
undercover video to a tabloid TV show that effectively accused Walsh and McGee of
torturing kittens.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, PARAMOUNT TELEVISION)
UNIDENTIFIED ANNOUNCER: "Hard Copy" reveals the secret lab cat experiments.
(END VIDEO CLIP)

SLOBOGIN: The PETA complaint said that sick kittens went without veterinary care in
your lab.

WALSH: Absolutely false.
SLOBOGIN: Kittens in distress were given no pain killers?
WALSH: Absolutely false.

SLOBOGIN: But Walsh's denials didn't stop PETA's campaign. The Walsh's lab and
home were picketed. And again, although they can't be linked to PETA, there were more
death threats in the mail. "Death on you and all your family." And, "We will kill you and
every member of your family. " There was even a threat against their ﬁve-year old son.

I don't know if you've seen any of these things, but do you ﬁnd that acceptable?
NEWKIRK: Would you like to see the death threats I have upstairs? Would you like to
see the postal complaints we make when people send us dead animals in the mail, and
animals' hearts and organs. I think that's used as a distracter. I don't talk about that unless

asked.

SLOBOGIN: To be fair, I think it's more than a distraction when your child is
threatened.

Do you find that kind of activity acceptable?

NEWKIRK: Of course I don't. I mean, this is absurd. You know who does those things?
Who knows? But what relevance -- you -- we can't stop it. You can't stop it.

The issue is what are they doing to kittens in their lab?

SLOBOGIN: If that's the issue, PETA has some explaining to do. Remember that
videotape at the heart of the PETA cruelty complaint? The short version PETA released
to the media left out later scenes showing the kittens fully recovered from surgery.

This is the same kitten a short time later?

NEWKIRK: Yes.

SLOBOGIN: Why didn't you show those tapes?

NEWKIRK: Well, why didn't we show Jeffrey Dahmer having breakfast? I don't think
that was too relevant.

8/10/98 10:38 AM

 




" CNN 'l'ranscript - CNN Newsstand Time: Dis...Rights; The Under World - August 2, 1998 http://cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/9808/02/impc.00.html

Q

J)

SLOBOGIN: Something else PETA seemed to think not too relevant: following its
complaint, three separate investigations by the Department of Agriculture, the National
Institutes of Health and a panel of experts found nothing wrong with Boys Town's
research but minor infractions; mainly poor record-keeping.

They found record-keeping problems, but nothing that had any impact on the animals
and animal care, yet PETA keeps repeating the charges as if they're true.

NEWKIRK: Yes, they are true. I don't know what you're reading, but you need to read
the government reports that I'll show you.

SLOBOGIN: But Newkirk never produced any such reports. In fact, the government
reports don't support PETA's claim of animal abuse. One even praises the high quality of
Boys Town's staff. Yet PETA continues to repeat the charges, and in its magazine said
that government inspections back them up.

NEWKIRK: And I know we're right, absolutely. I'm trying to stop cruelty, and I think the
average person thinks, "Good, try and stop some cruelty," not, " Oh, I bet you're making it
up. " I mean, it's just preposterous.

SLOBOGIN: Does the average person have a right to expect that your message will not
be a distortion?

NEWKIRK: Yes. Our message is never a distortion.

SLOBOGIN: Although the charges of abuse were unfounded, PETA's relentless
campaign against Walsh and McGee caused Boys Town to back down. The research on
cats was stopped cold last October.

Walsh and McGee have been slowed in their quest to understand why children are born
deaf. They've had to change their focus, using mice instead.

MCGEE: If we gave up right now, it would be at the cost to society. And our choice is
not to give up.

SLOBOGIN: Walsh and McGee say they don't relish using animals as subjects, but it's
the only way to answer the questions they're asking. In fact, chemotherapy, antibiotics,
and vaccines for polio and small pox were all made possible through animal research.

WALSH: I can't think of a single development, major development in biomedicine that
hasn't had animal research as its essence.

SLOBOGIN: But Walsh and McGee remain wary of future threats from animal rights
extremists, so wary they didn't even want us to show their son's face in this report.

WALSH: I believe that some child will be orphaned in this movement, in the cause, in
the near future. I mean, our colleagues, generally speaking, are completely unwilling to
talk about the issue publicly for fear that this small, aggressive, virulent group is going to
target them next.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SHAW: In addition to their fears about the violent fringe, doctors Walsh and McGee
may still have to contend with PETA. PETA is against any use of animals in research,
and says it's closely watching Walsh and McGee, who just recently started lab work with
mice.

Now, this week's health report.

8/10/98 10:38 AM

 




WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1998

 

f;,.-- '
\ ‘ ' ».
' ‘ . . |’
‘ l
- l

A QUICK READ ON WHAT PEOPLE 'ARE TALKING ABOUT

n ____,._...—--————

ANIMAL DETRACTION: Drew Carey, The Maury
Povich Show and TBS’ Wild! Life Adventures are among 10 :

TV shows, commercials and publications cited for anti-
animal messages in 1998. The Foe-Paw Report, released
Thesday by the Ark Trust, a nonproﬁt animal-protection or-

ganization, criticized Carey’s TV character for making fun _'

of animal-rights activists. Povich was singled out for featur-
ing elephants from the Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey Cir-
cus and continuing “the exploitation of these magniﬁcent
beasts.” Africa Unbottled, an episode of Wild!, was cited for
supporting trophy hunting of African elephants.

5105 Angeles (times t.

W E D N E S D A Y
DECEMBER30, 1998
WWWCALENDARLIVECOM

ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT REPORTS FROM THE TIMES.
NEWS SERVICES AND THE NATION'S PRESS.- '

TELEVISION

 

Designated ‘Foe-Paws’: The animal protection group Ark
Trust has cited ﬁve TV shows that it believes conveyed “anti-ani-
mal messages” in 1998. Making the group’s annual “Foe-Paw Re-
port” are ABC’s “Drew Carey Show" for an episode that allegedly
“makes fun of animal-rights activists" and “ﬁnds humor in elec-

_ trocuting animals for their fur”; the WB sitcom “Unhappily Ever

After" for an episode in which “cat deaths are played for laughs”;
and the syndicated “Maury Povich,” which featured a circus act
with elephants “at a time when an enlightened public is protesting

against elephants in circuses." Also cited were CNN’s “News-
? Stand: CNN & Time” for a report that “seems to equate those con.-

cemed with the humane treatment of animals with animal terror-
ists,” and TBS’ “Wild! Live Adventures," which the group said
“strongly supports the trophy hunting of African elephants."

 




 

 

A Designer’s Evolution

ONG, LONG AGO,“

recalls Oleg Cassini, "1

did a coat for jackie

Kennedy: I suggested a

leopard coat to her. She
loved the idea because those kinds of
looks had not been seen for a long time.
It was a success in the fashion world, an
instant success. But it had a horrendous
result in the world of leopards. The re—
sult was that about 250.000 leopards
were killed worldwide."

Known as “Secretary of Style“ in the
Kennedy years. the eighty—five-year—old
Mr. Cassini early next year will intro-
duce an upscale collection of “fake fur”
jackets and coats under the tentative la-
bel. Evolutionary Fur. The collection. a
joint venture between the famed design-
er and Monterey, Inc, the leading man—
ufacturer of imitation fur fabrics in the
United States (,‘tvww.montcrevinecom), is
a milestone in the fashion world.

“I’m very aware of what happens in
the fur business,“ Mr. Cassini explains. “1
used to be [that way] myself. in a way.
when I didn‘t realize the tremendous
damage it did. And then I began to read
some articles. I began to look at the pic-
tures, to see the frightening cruelty in
how they kill foxes. how they kill mink.
how they treat them in a special way so
the fur will augment, by keeping them in
the cold. . . .

"Anyone who is familiar with ani-
mals, and has many like I have. knows
that animals suffer. Animals sense when
they‘re about to be killed. They have
the imagination to fear. They cry. After
vivisection, [killing for fur] is the worst
thing. It shows the ugly side of human
nature—who for gain will do anything
and camouflage it with lofty ideas and
words."

The fur industry, Mr. Cassini be-
lieves, “will eventually die“ as more al-
ternatives are developed and the profit
incentive shifts away from animal fur.
“It’s just pure money. The god of today is
money; it probably has always been.
And today we‘re seeing the [industrysl
last defense, the rearguard defense of
people who just want to make money."

“Fake fur,” a term Mr. Cassini re—
jects, has been in the American market

since the mid-19605 when de—

signer Fred Gompertz created a

line of imitation calfskin, chee—

tah, tiger, and leopard under the

Fur and Sports label. For
Xlalden Mills Apparel of
NlZISSZlChUSC‘LlS, Mr. Gompertz
turned out a 1970s line of faux
lamb—. raccoon-, and coyote-

skin outerwear, popular items in their
day, even in the salons of Madison
Avenue and Rodeo Drive.

More recently the alternative fur
market has witnessed exponential
growth through the. success of such
labels as Donna Salyers Fabulous
Furs. As retail fur sales nationwide re—
mained static during the last six years.
Salyers Fabulous Furs has seen sales
rise dramatically. The alternative fur
market has seen steady growth through—
out the 1990s.

Missing until now, however, was a
fashion Name, and indeed, as Mr.
Cassini points out, a better name for the
product itself. “I would not call them
‘fake fursf” he explains. “The very name
“fake fur‘ denotes a cheapness. a sec-
ond-rate quality. But we have used a
very new technique. Its a technical mir—
acle that we have been able to recon-
struct furs and make them appear like
fur when in fact they are manmade, but

An unapologetic animal
lover, Mi: Cassini has
saved a number of retired
Standardbred racehorses .
from slaughter (including
My Perlagative, left, and
the hungry herd, below).
Rescued dogs—and even

a donkey—also share his
home. “Anyone who is
familiar with animals, and
has many like I have,
knows that animals suffer,”
he observes.

we have done just that. This will replace
fur, and replace it with imagination.
style, and elegance. and probably with a
better price on top of all that.“

Scheduled for debut at a February
showing in \\r’ashington. DC, the
new collection is. in Mr. Cassinis view, a
“ frontal attack“ on the fur industry.
“We‘re saying, 'All right, lets stop with
the BS. You Want a substitute? Very well,
then here‘s a substitute, an elegant, styl-
ish substitute.‘

“Somebody,“ he adds, “has to step
forward. The truth must come out. Until
now there was no way to answer the ac—
cusation from the fur industry that there
was no replacement. Fur is the most an-
cient part of the human culture, [from a
time] when humans had to protect
themselves against the cold and they
had to kill to eat. But we are not at that
stage anymore. We can choose a differ—
ent way. Evolution has permitted us to
look at new horizons.“ —Matthew Scull

 

 

 

IISL'S News Fall 1008

23

 




Board of Directors

Gretchen Wyler
President

Elaine Livesey-Eassel
Vice President

George W. Townson
Treasurer

David Bale

Tom Cole

Harry Coplan
David J. Eagle
Nora Eraser
Linda Retz
Richard L. Segal

Honorary Board
of Directors

Beatrice Arthur
Alec Baldwin
Kim Basinger

Linda Blair

Sid Caesar I

James Cromwell
Ellen DeGeneres

Dr. Jane Goodall
Mariette Hartley
Tippi Hedren

Earl Holliman
Casey Kasem
Richard Kiley

Jack Lemmon
Rhonda Fleming Mann
Rue McClanahan
Kevin Nealon
Brooke Shields
'Alicia Silverstone
Loretta Swit
Stephanie Zimbalist

Arthur Jarvis Cohen
Legal Counsel

'SSSI Balboa Blvd.
Encino, CA

9|3|6

(BIB) SUI-2275
Fax: (8l8)50l-2226

genesis@arktrustorg
www.arktrustorg

NEWS

Ihellrk

llUSUK-

Contact: Phillip Nawroth '
Phone: (818) 501-2275
Fax: (818) 501-2226

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE!
Dec. 31, 1998

Drew Carey, Maury Povich, CNN & TIME, and TBS
make T0p 10 “Foe-Paw” anti-animal list

LOS ANGELES -- “Drew Carey,” “The Maury Povich Show,”
“NewsStand: CNN & TIME,” TBS and several internationally distributed
magazines have the dubious honor of being cited for 1998 works that
conveyed anti—animal messages in the Fourth Annual “Foe-Paw Report,”
released by The Ark Trust, Inc., a national non-profit animal-protection

organization.

The Top 10 Foe-Paw list for 1998:

Television

0 “Drew Carey” (ABC): Carey makes fun of animal-rights activists who
object to the sale of fur coats in the store where he works. He belittles the
passionate concerns of protesters and finds humor in electrocuting animals
for their fur. A “Foe-Paw” to Carey for failing to “Drew” the line between
humor and bad taste.

' “Wild! Life Adventures” (TBS): Narrated by actor Val Kilmer,
Unbottled” strongly supports the trophy hunting of African elephants.
underwritten by the U.S. government’s CAMPFIRE program. Disguised as a
pro-animal documentary, it rationalizes sanctioned killing.

0 “NewsStand: CNN & TIME” (CNN): The news report “Animal Rights”
gave a forum to vivisectionists who seemingly equate those concerned with
the humane treatment of animals with animal terrorists. Biased coverage

at its worst.

“Africa

. - “Maury Povich” (Syndicated): At a time when an enlightened public

is protesting against elephants in circuses, Povich featured the Ringling
Bros. Barnum & Bailey Circus elephants, endorsing the exploitation of these
magnificent beasts (ab)used for “entertainment.”

° “Unhappily Ever After” (WB): Banking on the juvenile gross factor
that passes as entertainment these days, cat deaths are played for laughs.
Two teens “take care” of their teacher’s pet -- one cat is treated roughly
and dies, and anOther is casually tossed out a window.

(more)

 




Foe-Paw Report (Continued)

Commercials

' Outpost: Clearly designed to create controversy, this computer company commer-
cial features gerbils being shot out of a cannon toward a small hole in the wall, with
many of them getting splattered when they miss the target. Message to the company’s
executives: Using animals in this manner “misses the target.”

Magazines

' Allure, ELLE, TIME and Vogue: With fur is back headlines such as “Warming Up
To Fur,” these magazines buy into the public—relations hype of wearing fur -- while
ignoring the anal electrocution, leg-hold trapping and neck-wringing of animals whose
deaths create this “fashion.” ,

0 Forbes: Completely oblivious to the horrific pain and suffering involved in the most
inhumane method of bringing food to the table, force-feeding and slaughtering ducks
to make fois gras is glamorized and promoted as a delicacy by gourmands worldwide.
' U.S. News & World Report: An article entitled “Clashing Passions” bashes the
recently widowed Paul McCartney for supporting animal rights AND cancer research.
The writer pompously and ignorantly states the two are mutually exclusive.

Newspapers:

The Oregonian: A “Foe-Paw” to this daily newspaper for its ongoing insensitive por-
trayal of animals and for trivializing animal issues. An example: The Oregonian report-
ed about a man on trial for killing two black bear cubs and slicing off their feet. The
headline? “It didn’t give him paws.”

The Ark Trust is the only animal—protection organization which monitors animal mes-
sages in the news and entertainment industry, each year honoring the best of those
works with the televised Genesis Awards. The 13th annual ceremony is scheduled
for March 27, 1999, at the Beverly Hilton Hotel, Beverly Hills, Calif.

“In our role as media ‘watchdog,’ we must be ever-vigilant and speak out about nega-
tive as well as positive messages,” said Gretchen Wyler, Broadway and television
actress and founder/president of The Ark Trust. “Either from ignorance or insensitiv-
ity, these television shows, commercials, magazines and newspapers communicate
messages that, over time, desensitize the public toward animal suffering and are
deserving of a “Foe-Paw,” our end-of—year “dishonor” roll.

“We are not condemning entire television series or magazines with this report. Rather.
we are questioning the sensitivity and wisdom behind singular TV episOdes and arti-
cles which conveyed messages that devalue animals. The media has the power to cre-
ate a more humane and civilized society. We’re asking those responsible for communi-
cating these anti-animal messages to consider wielding that power more responsibly,”
Wyler said.

-30..

 




N EWS

 

SOVIET ARMED FORCES

Military hit by brain drain

London

THE Soviet armed forces are suffering
from a temporary but acute brain-drain,
Defence Minister General Dmitrii Yazov
told an Izvestiya interviewer last week.
The shortage, he said, is due to the early
demobilization of students who had been
called up for military service. Since for the
most part student-draftees were assigned
to jobs requiring a high level of technical
expertise, their premature departure
leaves serious gaps. More than 700 tanks
and 900 infantry combat vehicles will be
left without crews, and the rocket forces
will have to go on to a watch-and-watch
system instead of the present watch in
three. It will take at least a year for the
army and two years for the navy to make
up the deficit.

The decision to release the students
ahead of time came after several years’
campaigning from rectors and faculty
members of universities and higher educa-
tion institutes who pointed out that
national service interrupted a young
man’s career just when he was at the peak
of intellectual creativity. Army service,
they maintained, spoiled him for a scienti-
fic career, without for the most part
making a good soldier out of him. The
early demobilization of the students was
widely hailed as the first step in the plan to
reduce the Soviet armed forces by 500,000
men. Yazov now says, however, this is not
so. The cuts, he explained, are being made
by reducing the annual size of the draft

HIPPARCOS

Rescue nearly over

Munich
PRELIMINARY results obtained last week
demonstrated that the European Space
Agency (ESA) astrometry satellite Hippar-
cos will yield some data, if not as much as
originally planned. The perigee of Hippar-
cos’s still very elliptical orbit (see Nature
341, 3; 1989) has been increased to 526 km
above the Earth’s surface, and its rotation
has been stopped. BSA was intending to
remove the protective bafﬂes from the
telescope aperture on 26 September.
On-board tests have indicated that the
telescope and its instrumentation appear to
be working. Except during the satellite’s
passage through the Van Allen radiation
belts, 5,000 km above the Earth, the tele-
scope’s response was as expected, suggest-
ing that Hipparcos will be able to return
useful data 90 per cent of the time. Once the
bafﬂes are removed, it will be four weeks
before ESA can gauge accurately the length
of the mission. The current best estimate is
that Hipparcos will survive six months,
compared with the planned duration of two
years. Steven Dickman

 

intake. During the past six months, since
the announcement of the cuts, the armed
forces have been reduced by 148,900 men.

This figure does not include the 175,700
students, of whom some 168,000 have
already returned to their studies. Yazov
did not specify the criteria for reducing
the intake. Possibly it is being done by
raising health requirements. During the
past few years, there have been frequent

 

complaints about the physique of recruits,
of whom almost one in ten fails the
medical examination.

The gaps left by the students must once
again raise the question of whether it
would be more efficient to replace com-
pulsory military service by a smaller,
highly trained, professional army.

In the meantime, while the politicians
and high command argue costs, much of
the Red Army and Navy’s most sophisti-
cated equipment is apparently lying idle.

Vera Rlch

 

 

PRIZES
USA, Japan and UK share research award

\\“§\.\

hlngton
Four scientists share this year’s Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research award, which recognizes
their four individual discoveries of intracellular signalling pathways. Edwin G. Krebs, of the
University of Washington, discovered protein phosphorylation, a fundamental biochemical
reaction responsible for the progress of many enzyme reactions; Michael J. Berridge, of the
University of Cambridge, was responsible for understanding the importance of calcium in cell
growth, and its regulation by inositol triphosphate; Yasutomi Nishizuki, of Kobe University,
elucidated the role of the enzyme protein kinase c, important in the regulation of both normal
and abnormal cell growth; and Alfred G. Gilman, of the University of Texas, discovered G—
proteins, a class of proteins that convey information from cell-surface receptors to internal cell
processes.

The 1989 Clinical Research Award goes to Etienne—Emile Baulieu of the University of Paris, for
his lifelong studies of the biological synthesis and functions of steroid hormones. Baulieu is
publicly known for his discovery of the abortifacient drug RU486, which works by blocking the
receptors for progesterone.

Lewis Thomas, of Cornell University, adds the 1989 Lasker Public Service Award to a number
of book awards, for The Lives of a Cell and The Medusa and the Snail, and numerous honorary
degrees. The Lasker citation recogﬂzes Thomas for his promotion of biomedicine and public
health not Wgh his popular writings but also by his activities as an administrator and
teacher. Above, from left to right: (top) Edwin Krebs; Michael Berridge; Yasutomi Nishizuki;

(bottom) Alfred Gilman; Etienne-Emile Baulieu and Lewis Thomas. Davld Llndley.

 

NATURE - VOL 341 - 28 SEPTEMBER 1989

w

—W

 




N EWS

 

BLOOD PRODUCTS

Avoiding imports in Japan

Tokyo

PLANS are afoot to drastically re-structure
the blood-product industry in Japan to
reduce dependence on imported blood
products which were the main source of
AIDS infection. But the re-structuring
could result in increased prices for blood
coagulants for haemophiliacs, the main
victims of AIDS in Japan.

A report released this month by an
advisory body to the Ministry of Health
and Welfare, the New Blood Business
Promotion Study Council, recommends
that all production of blood coagulants
should be transferred from the private
sector to the Japan Red Cross by 1991 and
that coagulants should be made only from
domestic blood. Until now, all coagulants
have been made by private companies

IVORY IMPORTS

 

using mostly cheap US blood plasma. The
report also recommends that more
domestic blood should be used in the
production of other blood products, such
as albumin and globulin, and a new public
organization should oversee the blood
business in Japan.

Japan has come under international
criticism for its excessive imports of
blood products. In 1975, the World Health
Organization (WHO) recommended that
blood products should be made from
domestic blood supplies. But by the mid-
19805, Japan’s imports of blood plasma
had grown to occupy about a third of the
world market, and domestic blood sup-
plied only a few per cent of demand.
Coincident with this surge in the use of
imported blood, AIDS was introduced to

 

Japanese importers slide under the wire

Tokyo

IT seems to be impossible to stop Japan’s
ivory importers. In June, the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry (MITI)
announced a partial ban on ivory imports
in the face of international criticism and
concern about dwindling populations of
elephants in Africa (Nature 340, 85; 1989).
But no sooner was the partial ban announ-
ced than Japanese importers began stock-
piling imported ivory on a large scale.

The stockpiling came to light after MITI
announced on 13 September a “temporary”
total ban on imports as part of a new
import quota system intended to prevent
exactly what has happened.

The earlier ban, affecting all imports of
worked ivory, also banned indirect imports
of raw ivory from suppliers in places such
as Hong Kong and Singapore. Announced
by MITI on 16 June, it took effect only
three days later, but in the interval J apan-
ese importers had placed orders in Hong
Kong for about 20 tonnes of raw ivory, or
about 20 per cent of Japan’s annual use in
recent years, according to Tom Takimoto
of MITI’s International Trade Adminis-
tration Bureau.

Even after the partial ban took effect,
direct imports from Africa continued,
reaching by this month about 100 tonnes,
or about as much as for the whole of last
year. This stockpiling seems not to have
been affected by the undertaking on 15
June to show “self-restraint by the several
Japanese organizations involved in the
import of ivory” (Japan General Merch-
andise Importers’ Association, Japan
Ivory Fine Arts and Crafts Cooperation
Federation, Tokyo Ivory Fine Arts and
Crafts Association and Osaka Ivory Fine
Arts and Crafts Association).

The stockpiling has not yet shown up

 

in import statistics because the ivory
has been deliberately held in bonded
warehouses so as not to appear in
customs-cleared trade statistics. But inter-
national embarrassment will be unavoid-
able when the trade ﬁgures for August
appear any day now, according to a well-
informed source.

Japan imports almost half of the world’s
ivory. The industry is worth about
¥20,000 million ($140 million) a year and
supports about 30,000 employees. Over
half of the imports go into the manufac-
ture of pencil-sized personal seals that can
cost as much as ¥80,000 ($550) for a set
of three. When the various ivory trade
organizations pledged to show “self-
restraint” in June, they also expressed
their hope to continue their business no
matter how “frugal” it might be.

The United States, European nations
and several other countries have imposed
total bans on ivory imports. And there are
strong international pressures to impose
a total import ban under the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES) to which Japan is a party.
A CITES meeting to vote on the issue will
be held next month in Switzerland.

MITI said in July that while, “in prin-
ciple”, Japan favours a total ban, there are
some countries (notably South Africa,
Zimababwe and Botswana) that wish to
continue trade on a sustainable basis and
“it is not proper to disregard their intention
and deprive them of economic resources
unilaterally”. Takimoto says MITI will
decide on the length of its present tempo-
rary total import ban after next month’s
CITES meeting. But critics say the tempo-
rary ban is just a “cosmetic” measure for
the meeting in Switzerland.

David Swinbanks

 

270

 

Japan in non-heat-treated blood coagu-
lants made from US plasma and more than
90 per cent of AIDS carriers in Japan are
haemophiliacs who were treated with such
products.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare has
tried to reduce consumption of blood
products by discouraging unnecessary
prescription by doctors. Consumption of
blood plasma dropped from a peak of 3-8
million litres in 1985 to 2-7 million litres in
1987 but has since risen to 2-8 million litres
in 1988. On a per capita basis, this is still
more than twice the consumption of the
United Kingdom and France, for example
(see Nature 322, 193; 1988).

The driving force behind blood
consumption in Japan is huge discounting
by pharmaceutical companies. The health
and welfare ministry sets ‘official’ prices
for drugs in April each year. But by using
cheap imported blood plasma and blood
products, companies have been selling
blood products at far below the official
price. Hospitals, which charge patients
and the national health insurance system
the official price, have been able to reap
enormous profits by prescribing more and
more blood products. The council report
calls for production of cheaper domestic
products to compete with imports. But
experts express scepticism about the abil-
ity of the Red Cross to take over the blood
coagulant business and produce cheap
products.

A recent report in the Japanese news-
letter Nikkei Biotechnology points out
that the cost of blood plasma produced by
the Japanese Red Cross (¥45 or out $03
per millilitre) is five times that of imported
plasma and about seven times the price of
plasma in the United States. Part of the
reason for the high cost is that about 80 per
cent of the blood is collected by mobile
blood donation vans which are not cost
effective. Unless the efficiency of blood
collection is improved, the cost of dom-
estically produced blood products is
unlikely to fall.

The Nikkei Biotechnology report also
doubts whether the Red Cross will be able »
to produce all blood coagulants by 1991.
Although Japan has one of the highest
blood donation rates in the world, most of
the blood is used for transfusions, leaving
little for production of blood-plasma
products. The council report calls for
blood donations to be increased from
about 1-9 million litres in 1988 to 2-3
million litres in 1991 to supply the blood-
plasma necessary for domestic blood-
coagulant production.

But this target is insufficient if con-
ventional methods of blood-coagulant
production are used. A new monoclonal-
antibody technique developed by Baxter
pharmaceutical company in the United
States gives a higher yield of blood
coagulant and could perhaps meet Japan’s
domestic needs. The council report calls 1

NATURE - VOL 341 ° 28 SEPTEMBER 1989

 




