>Ammam<20v

mm:
mZ<EDI

 

.mmm_.>435

 

 




 

CONTENTS.

Thorough

' Furs

Substitutes

Sanitation (11.)

Rooks

Senator Vest on ” Man’s Best Friend”

Notes

33
36
37
41
44
46
47

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

JULY, 1935.

 

Thorough.

REFORMERS are liable to be taunted as inconsistent. That
is when their critics try to ﬁnd a ﬂaw in their advocacy in
theory or practice. At times the critics are either right or,

at least, able to make it difﬁcult to reply.

For this the would-be reformer is occasionally to blame ; as
when he advocates some special reform with exceptions or
limitations, or when his practice is half-hearted or set aside
temporarily as inconvenient.

Some protest strongly against the prolonged torture inﬂicted
by the Vivisectors, but eat the animals, ignoring the widespread
and prolonged cruelty which has been their lot at the hands of
the drover and the butcher. And this in face of the fact that
delicious and health giving foods are available in abundance. A
few years ago a Bishop, as some justiﬁcation of the cruelties of
vivisection, remarked that “ Innumerable creatures are daily done
to death in order that we may have the meals that will best suit
our appetites or satisfy our desires ..... It means death by
Violence; death inﬂicted without an anaesthetic; death, in the

 




 

 

 

 

34 HUMANE LIFE

vast proportion of instances, aggravated by fear, by suffering, by

wounds.”

On the other hand there are food reformers with—on humane
grounds—as strong a case as possible who say they have sadly to
admit that vivisection is'a necessity. They certainly are few and

rather contemptible.

One statement made by meat eaters, which appears to them
to have great weight, is that vegetarians who put forward the
humanitarian side of their advocacy are inconsistent as they wear
leather boots and eat dairy produce.

It is true that leather should not be used by vegetarians
or any humane person; but it is also true that its use has been
established on a large scale by custom, that some reforms can
come only gradually, and that experts are doing their best to
obtain substitutes.

As to dairy produce, there is not so great an objection ; as
milk, eggs, butter and cheese are not obtained by slaughter.

Half hearted advocacy with limitations based on selﬁsh and
spurious grounds may be condoned in the case of thinking men
just emerging from the inﬂuence of barbaric times or universal

custom. Socrates, for instance, to-day would not speak, as he.

did, of slaves as “ animals with intelligence.” Washington, if he
lived now, would not be a slave owner. The Hindu of the
interior of India, where the ancient customs of his forefathers are
venerated, will carefully bathe before his meals and at other ﬁxed
times as laid down by great leaders such as Buddha and Asoka
and ordered in the Hindu sacred books; but, immediately after
his bath, he often sits with his companions in most insanitary
places. His practice is orthodox ; but he is not thorough because
of his want of knowledge of the laws of health and the risks he

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE ' 35

runs. In Europe in the Middle Ages the same state of things
existed ; and even to-day the elegant, polished Englishman is as a
rule no better. He may dress for dinner in scrupulously clean
clothes instead of those used during his day’s work; but he
proceeds to contaminate himself with such foods as oysters from
insanitary estuaries of ~rivers, or beef tea composed of the refuse
of the circulation of oxen.

In a way the typical Hindu of the lower castes is more
thorough. As a humanitarian he is admirable, though through
want of thought he is occasionally the reverse. For instance,
when, during the Boer war, several batches of Boer prisoners
were sent from Africa to India to be kept in custody in camps till
peace was made, Hindus, though their own relatives may have
been military men in action against the Boers, were often heard
expressing pity for the Boer prisoners as men Hfar from their
homes and families.”

For those who are not dominated by custom, meretricious
tastes and the excitement of killing defenceless creatures, there is
no excuse. Apathy, inconsistancy, temporising, are unpardonable
in the presence of the cruelties of hunting, coursing, and the many
other kinds of torture. The dumb animals are calling all the time
to us for help.

Wentworth’s plan of “Thorough ” was applied in a wrong
cause ; but it was right as a method and we should do well to use
it. Leaders in the past, and to-day, have been very thorough in
some of their methods and results. A remarkable example is that
of Sir Richard Owen. He became pre-eminent as a naturalist—
so much so that when Frank Buckland, ' also a well-known
naturalist, was giving evidence in a Court of Law about the habits
of the sword ﬁsh, and it was pointed out to him that his evidence
was opposed to that of Sir Richard Owen, he immediately

 




 

 

 

 

 

36 HUMANE LIFE

withdrew what he had said on the ground that no one could differ
from Sir Richard on such matters.

Wesley, John Howard, Wilberforce, John Brown, and many

others were ” Thorough,” and their souls go marching on. We

cherish too the memory of such recent reformers as Howard
Moore, Ernest Bell, Dr. Hadwen, Rev. H. S. Clubb, Dr. A. M.
Ross, Dr. Kellogg, General Booth, Plimsoll, Francis Newman and
Dr. A. R. Wallace—all men whose motto might well have been
” Whatsoever thy hand ﬁndeth to do, do it with thy might.”

°E°a° 03030

Furs.

FURS are beautiful on their original owners, the wild free
animals. When made into garments and trimmings for

decorations, they cease to be truly decorative because they
mean agony and death.

If women who wear furs could see one furry animal caught
in a trap, struggling to tear itself loose, and see it die slowly of
cold, thirst, hunger, fright or injury, or all these agonies together,
they would cease calling fur garments beautiful.

If. they could see a trapped animal which had only a stump
instead of a leg or tail, proving that it had been caught before and
had torn itself loose or had bitten its leg off getting loose, they
would know that furs are obtained by ghastly cruelty.

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 37

Substitutes.

EAT eating and the use of leather have become so common
M in this and other countries that, when one speaks of our
natural foods and footwear, the former are looked on as
normal and the latter as “substitutes.” It should be the reverse.
Meat and leather are the second-rate alternatives for those
provided for us at Creation’s Dawn—as recorded in Genesis—
“ Behold I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon
the face of the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a
tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat.”

The following memo was placed last year before the two
leading Vegetarian Societies :—

“ As it is found that selﬁshness and their own comfort
dominate the actions of so many, in order to obtain the results we
wish for it will be well to do more than is now done in appealing
to their self interest.

One method would be to establish a workshop in which any
one who has ideas regarding good ways of making substitutes for
leather and animal furs or other animal substances, obtained
cruelly, might experiment and perfect any substitutes he can invent.

At present the skins of the animals; used for food, the furs of
seals, etc., are used as clothing ; and the proﬁts of the slaughter-
men and hunters are thereby increased.

The vegetable leather substitutes for boots now sold are too
unsatisfactory to command a large sale. If, by such a special

 




 

 

 

38 HUMANE LIFE

effort, we can so improve them as to make them good, attractive,
and cheap, they would, on a very large scale, take the place of the
animal leather ones now worn; and the occupations of the
slaughtermen and hunters would become less lucrative and,
therefore, less followed.

Where artiﬁcial leather is now used for belting for machinery,
in upholstery, etc., it might be improved and made cheaper.

Those who are putting forward substitutes now are generally
folks who have not been able to experiment enough. A special
workshop, properly equipped, might be really effective in creating
a large reduction in the demands for animal leather, skins, furs,
feathers, etc. We could then, possibly, be more successful by
appealing to the purchasers through their pockets.

Another useful thing would be a “ Home Doctor” book on
lines of treatment excluding the use of beef tea, Bovril, OX0, etc.,
and the use of medicine and inoculations based on vivisection. At
present the medical works used in homes in cases where there is
no great urgency to call in a doctor are “ Home Doctor” books of
the orthodox kind. One of a more helpful and sanitary sort,
written by or approved by medical men of anti-vivisectionist and
truly advanced principles would be of real service in the average
home.”

These proposals were discussed in Committee, and Mr. J.
Hough, the energetic Secretary, made extensive inquiries and
elicited the following statement from the Director of the British
Boot, Shoe and Allied Trades’ Research Association :—

HThat the general impression is that the use of non-animal
materials is increasing considerably. The increase in the number
of shoes whose uppers are of textile fabrics and whose soles are of
rubber or rubber composition is conspicuous to every one. But,
in addition to these more obvious cases, there is an increased use

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 39

of non-animal materials in the inner parts of ordinary boots and
shoes, dug. the toe stiffeners which, at one time, were always
leather, are to-day frequently celluloid or impregnated felt. The
stiffeners in the back parts of the shoes are now frequently ﬁbre
board. Again there is a growing use of materials made by
compounding ﬁbres and rubber into a form which has much the
appearance of leather and many of its useful properties. The
adhesives used in shoe construction are to-day almost wholly
celluloid and rubber.

He predicts that their use is likely to continue to increase
because, quite apart from their intrinsic merits, the possibility of
manufacturing them with uniform properties makes them peculiarly
adaptable to mass production machine processes in shoe making.

This opinion of the Director of Research is encouraging ; and
we may now hope that with further experiments there. will be a
prospect of the full attainment of our ideal as regards foot wear.

But there is the use of leather for many other things, and
£20,000,000 worth of hides and manufactured leather are imported
annually. That means a mass of slaughter on the Continent to
supply our meretricious demand.

It # 1*

NOTE. For those who can help the efforts now being made
and who see the need for thoroughness in the matter, some
information is here added of where goods usually made of animal
material can now be obtained in good quality without it. There
has been considerable improvement lately in such goods.

Mr. H. Owen, of the ﬁrm of Dawson and Owen of 3, Nelson
Street, Hertford, has for thirteen years lived the humane life as
regards food and footwear and has experimented on the production
of non-leather substitutes. He writes :—

“ Panco is a very good material. We have used a good deal

I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4O ' HUMANE LIFE

of it. and now think the material we are principally using is an
improvement on it. With the latter it is said that there is a
certain amount of “breathing,” zle. ventilation, through the
material as in the case of animal leather.” '

It is not only boots and shoes that he supplies but many other
articles made without animal material, e.g.—attaché and suit cases,
braces, brushes, combs, dog collars, footballs, garters, gloves,
handbags, hats, letter and music cases, mattresses, pillows, quilts,
polishing cloths, purses, school satchels, travelling trunks, tennis
rackets, studs, violin strings, wash leathers, watch alberts and
straps, soap and foods. '

Seeing that these are all available in good quality, why should
humane advocates go to the purveyors of such goods made from
skins, bristles, down, ivory. and other products of slaughter and
“ sport” ?

Mr. & Mrs. Goodwin of 6, Swan Street, Manchester, provide
many of the articles in this list ; and Messrs. Bond & Son of Fore

Street, Bridgwater, make satisfactory boots without leather.

oEEDOEMano

Mrs. Morgan, a Manchester lady, went to a Home for Dogs
to select one as a companion for herself and husband. She passed
along the line of cages, ﬁnding no dog suitable to her taste. As
she was passing the last one, the dog in it sat up and with vigorous
pawings and short sharp barks evidently was earnestly entreating
the lady, “ Take me, take me.” The lady did not want that kind
(a wire haired terrier) but was so impressed with the eagerness of
the dog that she selected her. It became known to her afterwards
that the terrier was to have been put next day into the lethal
chamber as one of the surplus unwanted dogs.

For several years “ Meg” was and had a devoted friend.

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 41

Sanitation.
II.

‘ ONSIDER the case of typhoid fever. In the late War, so
C long as sanitary conditions could be maintained there was
_ no typhoid fever among the tr00ps; but, as soon as they

were reduced to drinking polluted water, typhoid fever arose.
Those at Gallipoli suffered heavily; and, though all had been
inoculated, that was of no avail, just at the‘time when it was
supposed to be preventive of the disease] Sanitation succeeded
where inoculations were a complete failure.

Lord Roberts recognized the truth and insisted on more
efﬁcient sanitation.

Consider the case of ” consumption.” Koch’s tuberculin was
thought to be a cure for that disease; but, after it had been
adopted with enthusiasm, it had to be abandoned. While using
it, the patients lived in chalets on hills where they were, night
and day, in the open air ; and it was the fresh air that effected
the cures.

It was Mr. Long’s muzzlin g order that prevented hydrophobia.
When inoculations were used (as in France and Italy) they failed.

Anti toxin treatment of diphtheria was a failure, as cases
increased after its introduction. Sanitary measures, such as
cleansing the mouth and throat and keeping them in a healthy
state by means of compresses and such foods as. orange and
pineapple juices, where found at a medical institution at Chicago

 




 

42 . HUMANE LIFE

to be so much better that the disease is not looked on as trouble-
sOme to deal with.

 

At Malta, when fever was prevalent, some cruel experiments
were made on monkeys to ﬁnd the cause. There was no real
need, for, as soon as the very polluted harbour was cleansed and
the barracks of the troops moved to a more healthy site, the fever
among the civil population and the troops and sailors became less.

. At Uganda, in Africa, sleeping sickness was investigated by
experiments on animals. The Governor of Uganda resorted to
the sanitary measure of removing the cause of the illness by
clearing away the undergrowth on the banks of the lake and
removing the natives from swampy parts. A rapid decrease in
the number of deaths was the result.

Why give credit to the shocking experiments of the
vivisectors when it must be clear that it is due to sanitation?
Some reply that inoculation and sanitation should go together.
But this was not found necessary when cholera, plague and leprosy
were rampant at one time in Europe. They have disappeared
before sanitation in the shape of drainage of swamps, better water
supply and greater cleanliness of the towns and Villages. No
vivisection or inoculations were used.

At one time, in Trichinopoli, in South India, there were, at
intervals of two or three years, severe outbreaks of cholera.
These outbreaks, in each case, began in the butchers’ quarter.

 

It is sometimes said that statistics are misleading and can
generally be interpreted to prove anything. This is argued when
some prejudiced person ﬁnds that they tell against his own case.
Statistics when carefully collected and properly interpreted are a
very reliable guide. Those of the Registrar General and the
Ministries are of that kind.

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 43

In the last annual report of the Ministry of Health the
following ﬁgures are very signiﬁcant :—
Annual Average.
1871-80. 1921-30.
Small Pox ' 5,742 25

As was pointed out in The Abolitz’onist, the ﬁrst period was
that during which vaccination against small pox was rigorously
enforced.

In the case of typhoid there has been no general inoculation,
yet the ﬁgures for the two periods were 7,842 and 428.

Medical opinion is now decidedly against the use of tuberculin:
and no wonder, seeing that the ﬁgures (for the periods quoted)
were 69,758 and 39,379.

As stated in The Abolz'tz'om'st, it is clear that improved sanitation
alone must have caused the decline in the death rates.

What a condemnation of all the excessive cruelty in the
vivisection laboratories !

Clear the slums; abolish the butchers’ shOps, the cattle
markets, the slaughter houses, the vivisectors’ laboratories and
other horrible dens of dirt and cruelty. In doing so, much illness
will be avoided and without inoculations. Sanitation is sufﬁcient

and effective. “ Wash and be clean ” is good advice.
oEJOCE’ooEDOCEo
Sir Andrew Aguecheek : “ I am a great eater of beef, and I believe

that does harm to my wit.”

Sir Toby Belch .' “ No question.”
“TWELFTH NIGHT.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

44 HUMANE LIFE

Rooks.

EFERENCE has already been made in this magazine to the
R shooting of birds and the suffering caused to the wounded
ones that linger and die, and to the young ones left helpless

in the nest.

There is torture of other kinds, such as when birds are used
as decoys. They are taken from their nests and kept in special
trap cages where they batter their wings against the bars and cry
out in despair in their efforts to return to their young ones. Their
cries attract their fellow birds to their help, and these are made to
ﬂy down a funnel from which there is no escape. The decoy
birds are at times at the mercy of foxes and other enemies.

In the case of rocks the misery inﬂicted by ignorant farmers
is much in evidence at this season of the year. The farmer sees a
number of rocks among his crops and assumes that they are doing
much damage. He shoots them and the young ones too, if these
are not left to die in their nests. The fact is that they are helping
considerably to raise the crops by eating large numbers of grubs,
wire worms and other insect pests which do great harm to both
cereal and root crops.

This is wholesale killing of a useful bird in contrast to the
preservation for “ sport ” of pheasants which are most destructive
to the crops.

In our dealings with animals of all kinds there is much
stupidity. Here are two cases of doing exactly the opposite of
what is needed.

In the matter of legislation, too, procedure is irregular and




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 45

incomplete. In 1933 the Editor of The Field pleaded earnestly for
the cage birds exposed for sale, on Sundays especially, in the East
End of London ; and in the Daily Express there was an account of
the HShame of Club Row”—the wild bird market which Lord
Buckmaster described as one of the most disgraceful places in
London. Seeing that the birds were bought usually by people
who intended to make pets of them, what language is strong
enough for the very cruel treatment of the rooks and decoy birds?

In a statement on “ Bird Baiting ”' written by T. S. Hawkins
it is well remarked :—

” Much has been said in the Press about the cruelty of selling
cage birds in Club Row, a London alley. A Bill was passed to
put a stop to it in 1933. Why has nothing been said about the
appalling cruelty to decoy birds in trap cages—a far worse form of
cruelty which is rampant on some of our game preserves to-day.”

HThe New Zealand bird law, like that of several parts of
Australia, is ahead of our law in many ways. The Animal
Protection and Game Act prohibits entirely the use of traps, snares
and live decoys.” . . . . “ Surely we could have the same Bird Bills
for all our birds and not allow other countries to go ahead and
leave us miles behind, since we profess to be humane and civilized.”

OBOE°°EDOQ°

“ Among the noblest in the land,
Though he may count himself the least,
That man I honour and revere,
Who, without favour, without fear,
In the great city dares to stand
The friend of every friendless beast.”
—L0ngfellow.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

46 HUMANE LIFE

Senator Vest on
“Man’s Best Friend.”

The Western Pennsylvania Humane Society has circulated
the following :—

ENATOR VEST had been retained as the attorney for a man
S whose dog had been wantonly shot. The plaintiff demanded
$200. When Vest ﬁnished speaking the jury awarded $500
without leaving their seats. The following is Senator Vest’s
address :
EULOGY ON THE DOG.

“Gentlemen of the jury: The best friend a man has in this
world may turn against him and become his enemy. His son or
daughter that he has reared with loving care may prove ungrateful.
Those who are nearest and dearest to us, those whom we trust
with our happiness and our good name, may become traitors to
their faith. The money that a man has he may lose. It flies
away from him, perhaps when he needs it most. A man’s
reputation may be sacriﬁced in a moment of ill considered action.
The people who are prone to fall on their knees to do us honour
when success is with us may be the ﬁrst to throw the stone of
malice when failure settles its cloud upon our heads. The one
absolutely unselﬁsh friend that man can have in this selﬁsh world,
the one that never deserts him, the one that never proves ungrate-
ful and treacherous, is the dog.

Gentlemen of the jury: a man’s dog stands by him in
prosperity and in poverty, in health and in sickness. He will

 

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 47

sleep on the cold ground, where the wintry winds blow and the
snow drives ﬁercely. if only he may be near his master’s side. He
will kiss the hand that has no food to offer, he will lick the
wounds and sores that come in encounter with the roughness of
the world. He guards the sleep of his pauper master as if he
were a prince.

When all other friends desert he remains. When riches take
wings and reputation falls to pieces he is as constant in his love as
the sun in its journey through the heavens. If fortune drives the
master forth an outcast in the world, friendless and homeless, the
faithful dog asks no higher privilege than that of accompanying
him to guard him against danger, to fight against his enemies, and
when the last scene of all comes, and death takes the master in its
embrace and his body is laid away in the cold ground, no matter
if all other friends pursue their way, there by his grave-side will
the noble dog be found, his head between his paws, his eyes sad
but open in alert watchfulness, faithful and true even to death.”

oEbocaoo'E-Doao

Notes.

Please cancel the Wynhurst address.

New address: “St. Malo,” Cassel Avenue, Bournemouth, West.

M % %

Memo—At the age of about 17, I was one day waiting in a
group of a few others to cross a London street while a long line of
oxen were being driven to a slaughter house. The drovers were
hot and worried and the cattle as miserable as usual in such cases.
Suddenly a very young calf detached himself from the rest and

 

 

 

 




48 HUMANE LIFE /

ran hard to where I was standing. He stood, very quiet, close to
me, looking once or twice up into my eyes as if hoping that here
might be shelter from the cruel beatings of the journey and the
dreadful fate in store. One of the men in charge came up and
roughly drove the poor creature backto rejoin the doomed herd.

A.C.N.
m % %

From the News Chronicle of 8th May, 1935 :—

 

 

 

“ The story of those larks is a fascinating one. But ﬁrst the
visitor : She is Magda Flary, a charming young person of striking

 

beauty, with a rich olive complexion, dark piercing eyes that
haunt, and a modesty which is her chief characteristic.

Magda had jumped into fame at her ﬁrst appearance as a
coloratura soprano at the Royal Opera House, Bucharest, but she
sought to perfect her natural voice by studying the lark.

IMITATING THE BIRD.
Every night for months she would go to the ﬁelds at Sinaia
(the summer home of the King of Rumania) and for several hours

 

 

 

in the morning she would listen intently to the singing of the larks.

She would jot down on paper in musical form the smallest
details, the high notes, the trills, the grace notes, and the staccatos.

 

After months of patient study, she set herself to imitate the
bird. There would be a strange response.

First, the lark would give what was almost an echo of
Magda’s voice. Then he would suddenly burst into full-throated

 

song, and would continue as though to show that he was the real
King of the Woods. ‘

Magda Flary declares herself eternally grateful to those birds;
they taught her more than her famous masters ever could."

And gluttons tell us that larks’ tongues make a tasty dish.

 

 




 

 

 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended 2——

“ Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“The Herald of the New World,”
“ The Animals’ Friend,”

“The Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy 7d'lby Post
l

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-

Apply to THE EDITOR,
“ST. MALo,” CASSEL AVENUE,
BOURNEMOUTH, WEST.

 

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 

 

 

 




