The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

 

Von. Ix. No. 8. AUGUST. 1935. 2d. MONTHng/gggmm

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS BY THE EDITOR 58 REPORTS OF PUBLIC ACTIVITIES

LEEDS WOMEN PROTEST 59 GLEANINGS

Tﬂe Editor accept: no reypamiéz'lz'ty for opinions expremed i7: signed articlex.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties' which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Fifty—eight

CRUEL SPORTS

August, I 935

 

VIEWS AND

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B.’ AMOS.

Stag Hunting: Public Meeting

Stag-hunting restarts for the Season on August
6th, with the usual spectacular meet of the Devon
and Somerset Staghounds at Wheddon’s Cross,
near Minehead. There is no likelihood of any
sensational splash this year as on some former
occasions, but at 8 pm. in. the. evening a Public
Protest Meeting will be held at Taunton.

The Chairman will be Rev. John W. Lee, and
the speakers include Lady Annesley, Edwin S.
Mare, A. Denis Fry, and Commander Cather.

Cub-Hunting

Cub-hunting has already started in some dis-
tricts in the South, and before the end of the
month there will be probably 150 Hunts out all
over the country. .,

This is one of those. forms of hunting which
shows the utter shamelessness of the. fox-hunter
and the. baseness of the spirit that dominates
him; and is all part and parcel of that hunting-
killing-war-mind which impedes our civilization
so seriously. As we sow we reap, and we can-
not expect to reap reﬁnement, humanity, and
goodwill either in the human or the sub-human
kingdoms, if we sow dragon’s teeth.

G rouse Shooting

This is another of those Blood-Sport Anniver-
saries due this month—the 12th—and with it a
ﬂood of idle rich folk will be let loose on our
moors and fells, with keepers, dogs, and guns
to butcher that most beautiful bird of wild
, nature—the grouse.

To see a covey of grouse whirring over a moor
or rocketting at 50 miles an hour doWn a glen is
an experience never to be forgotten and gives one
an exalted idea of true freedom with a corres-
ponding disgust of the people who can pot such
birds for the fun of the things.

Otter Hunting

The Carlisle Otter Hounds had a very dis-
appointing fortnight on the Ribble and Ho-dder
in June. ‘ Large and enthusiastic ﬁelds ’ turned
out to the meets but their previous run of ill-
luck continued. “ Four out of the seven days
on which the hounds hunted proved to be en-
tirely blank,” wrote the Yorkshire Post of June
21, “ even that beautiful stretch between Saw-
ley and Paytho-rne Bridge ‘failing to respond ’
and the fortnight ﬁnished an admitted ‘failure.’

The Thought of it all

What a humiliating thought it is that if our
so-called sportsmen are not torturing some par-
ticular animal or- bird it is another. If it is not
foxes or otters it is stags or hinds or hares or
even baby-rocks. And it does not matter
whether the victims are young like cubs and
rooks, or ten year old broken stags or grey-
bearded foxes; whether they are hunted, coursed,
or shot, or whether they are dug-out or ferretted
out of their holes, or lured or trapped or
harboured, they all come as grist to the satanic
mill of the sportsman who siays without the
slightest compunction at his slaughter.

Cock~Fighting Again

On forty farms in the West Riding of York-
shire, ‘ staggs,” the cock-ﬁghting name for
game birds, have been prepared for ﬁghts.

There is good reason to ‘believ-e that the
“mains” (meetings), which are illegal, will take
place on bleak moorland a few miles from the
valley of Outlane, near Huddersﬁeld.

The preparation made for the “mains” are so
elaborate that even if police were to visit the
farms where the birds are reared they would
have little opportunity of securing evidence.

The birds have undergone what is known as
the “dubbing” process, which means that their
combs and wattles have been clipped to pre-
vent opponents from securing a hold.

In mest cases they are reared in cellars and
exercised only when no strangers are near.

In M emoriam

His many friends in the humanitarian move-
ment will regret to learn of the passing of
Leonard J. Simons, which took place suddenly
near Rayleigh, on June 26th.

Mr. Simo-ns had been a keen member of the
League almost. from the start, and, at the time of
his death, he was a member of the Executive
Committee. He was a whole-hearted believer in
the creed of kinship and wrote much in the press
from this and the vegetarian point of View. As
a friend well said of him: he was “ a true man
and an unselﬁsh worker for the Commonweal.”

Mr. Arthur Watson, of Norwich, is another
of the stalwart early members of the League
whose death all who knew him will mourn. He
was particularly interested in the religious phase
of the work and pleaded this with good effect
with local pastors and teachers. He sowed much
good seed and worked (and prayed) hard for an
early bountiful harvest.

 

 

 




 

4 5%.
I

up

 

“"7"“ 33?.” “

 

August, 1935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Fifty—nine

Leeds Women Protest At An Otter Hunt

Harezoood Bridge Scene

Posters bearing such declarations as “Otter-
hunting is cowardly and unmanly,’ ’ and “Otters
are hunted by peOple who should know better,’
were waved before followers of the Kendal and
District Otter Hounds at Harewood Bridge, as
a protest against the hunt by members of the
Leeds branch of the League.

When the hunt assembled at the bridge it was
to ﬁnd so-me I5 members of the league there to
meet them. Women and girls. with banners
hung round their necks, and pamphlets in their
hands, paraded 1n front of the ﬁeld in which the
hunt gathered.

Followers Bombarded with Pamphlets

and after proceeding a short distance up the river
they retired.
A letter given to the Master of the Hunt, Sir
Mau1ice Bromley- Wilson. and to followers read:
“ The Leeds branch of the League for Pro-
hibition of Cruel Sports has organised this pro-
test against otter- hunting to indicate that there
is a growing public feeling against this and
other so- -called Sp.orts
“ It is amazing to us that men and women
can ﬁnd pleasure in. hunting living creatures
for hours, putting them to considerable dis-
tress and pain, and then watching their ex-

 

Some of the protestmg women.

They tried to distribute pamphlets among the
followers, and though some accepted them others
declined, one folloower remarking that he had
“ read that stuff many a time.”

As the hunt displayed signs of moving off,
members of the league also displayed signs of
following them, although they had been informed
that the land was private, and that trespassing
would not be tolerated.

Eventually a compromise was reached. A
member of the league explained to a member

of the Meet that she had not witnessed an otter!

hunt before, and as her banner was objected to
she rolled it up, and passed into the ﬁeld, when
she was joined by several of her supporters.
As the hounds moved off, followed by the
hunters, the league members followed quietly.

Reproduced by courtesy of Bradford [elegraph

hausted bodies being torn to pieces by hounds.
No reasonable excuse can be found for such
conduct, misnamed sport. We contend that
it is morally wrong and we appeal to you to
abandon such barbaric practices. If it is
necessary to kill those animals they should be
cleanly killed, i.e., shot. There is no doubt,
however, that many animals are preserved for
hunting, a shameful blot on our civilisation.
Also a great deal of money is spent on hunt-
ing that could be more usefully and humanely
employed elsewhere.

“The drag hunt provides all the thrill of
the chase without a living victim, and we
earnestly request you to consider its adoption.
in preference to hunting live creatures.’

The letter was signed “ D. M.‘ Beaumont
hon. secretary, Leeds branch ”

 




 

Page SixtL

August, l 935

 

CRUEL SPORTS

REPORTS OF PUBLIC ACTIVITIES

THE PRESIDENT AT CROYDON

In connection with Animal Welfare Week held
at Croydon in June, Hamilton Fyfe, the
President of the League, was the chief speaker.

The Mayor of Croydon (Ald. J. Trumble) pre-
sided.

Mr. Fyfe deplored that they could not get
their opponents into the open, which was one
of the chief difﬁculties of their movement. They
were up against a very hard task and it was just
as well to recognise the fact. They were up
against custom, for nearly everyone acted upon
the custom of their time. They had got to get
the crue-lties of to—day looked upon in the same
way as the cruelties of the past were looked upon
——as something devilish and inhuman. To do»
that they would have to change the customary
. way of looking at things. Again, they were up
against snobbery. “ Snobbery is very rife in
this country,” said Mr. Fyfe. I have travelled
a great deal and I have. found that there is no
country where people are so snob-bish as in Eng-
land. A lot of cruel sports are due to snobbery
——people apeing the aristocracy by taking to
hunting and shooting.”

No Help from the Churches

Cruel sports also existed to a large extent be-
cause it was thought manly. Vestéd interests
also stood in their way. Where could they look
for help? They could not look for help from any
religious body'in the country. They might get
help fro-m individual ministers of the Gospel, but

as bodies they did little or nothing to help the
' cause of animal welfare. In fact, their tenets
in many ways were against giving animals the
square deal for which so many were ﬁghting.
(“Shame”) Parliament was also difﬁcult to
move in this matter. They had got to put across
something naturally opposed by men and women
because it was a new conception. For thousands
of years the idea had prevailed that man was a
special creation, that he had no. responsibilities
to the other orders of creation and that he was
justiﬁed in treating the animals as something
placed on earth for his convenience, amusement

and sport.
Unity of Life

That idea was difﬁcult to eradicate, though it
should not be so. Even the Ancient Greeks had
discovered that all life was one and they could
not, put a limit to it. He did not believe that
they could ever be decent to one another until
they learned to be decent to the animals.

Mr. Fyfe referred to the coursing of hares,
particularly at coursing meetings in Lancashire,
and said that if the papers published as much

about it as they had about stag hunting, there
would be as great an outcry.

Mr. E. More spoke on “ Animal Welfare as
a Civic Responsibility. ”

The following resolution was endorsed:

“That this meeting of residents in Cro-ydon
and district, believing that the coursing of a de-
fencel-ess creature for purpose of sport is con-
trary to modern standards of civilisation and the
ordinary dictates of humanity, calls upon the
Government to introduce legislatiOn which will
put an end to this barbarous practice.”

 

 

Sermon by Rev. W. Hall at Southport

At Portland Street Unitarian Church, on Sun-
day evening, May 19th, the Rev. W. C. Hall
preached in support of the Animal Welfare Cam—
paign and of the work of the Southport Branch
of the League.

He took for his text the translation of Pro-

verbs xii, .10 by Dr. Moffatt: “A good man

cares even for his beast,” which was a more
accurate translation than that found in the
Authorised and Revised versions. By the word
“even” it indicated the disregard of man for
animals in ancient time, suggesting that the
ordinary man cared last and least for his beast.
Now this disregard has passed away, and the
ordinary man was concerned for their welfare.
This had come about through the humanitarian
movement of the last century, and there was
now a large community prepared to consider
the newer humanitarian movements of our
time; there existed an altogether ﬁner human
sensitiveness to the animal kingdom as a who-1e.
But there was still great need for the intelligent
determination of the pro-per attitude to that
kingdom. It had to- be. approached by the con-
sideration o-f the purpose God manifested in the
creation of animals.

What was God’s purpose in the creation of
man? It was not easy to give a certain answer.
There was a similar difﬁculty in respect of any
other creature. For instance, why did God
create the horse? Was it that it might draw
man’s carts, and that it might carry man upon
its back in his hunting to death of foxes? Or
was there some purpose in the life» of the horse,
and of all other creatures, of which man was
ignorant? \Nhat simply happened was that man,
knowing little about ultimate purpose in the
world, turned other creatures to his O'Wn pur-
poses and uses. The moral implication of this
fact was that whilst man so used other creatures
it was his duty to use them decently.

 




August, I935 C .

"‘To Kill for Sport is a Sin”

To kill for mere sport was a. s'
kill for pleasure was sinful, or
In our normal sport-s the accide
pain was always regrettable.
indulge in sports that not onl
deliberately involved pain. S1
deer, hare, and otter-huntin
rabbit and hare-coursing ough
as bear-baiting and co-ck-ﬁgh.
legislation, or, as he would p
concensus of public Opinion.
particular matter on which pL
be tested was the coursing i
the Waterloo: Cup, and he t
recently-formed local Branch 0-
the Prohibition of Cruel Sport
such support as would speedily lea
donment. He was satisﬁed tha
against this and similar sports was int
presented the good sense and the human1 r

ism of the general public would effect thu
abolition.

 

 

Debate at H aileybury

The 818th meeting of the Senior Literary and
Debating Society of this School was held on
27th March. N. O. Rees, Esq., proposed “That
this House deplores the continuance of blood
sports in England.” He was opposed by G. R.
Smith, Esq., and seconded by C. H. W. Trough-
ton (Batten)

The Hon. Proposer said he was no debater:

but eloquence was not essential: one needed only
to ask one’s conscience and to obey it. He had
no experience of blood sports, but asked how
many had had experience of committing murder.
He pro-posed to include the hunting of deer,
foxes, hares, and otters, and the digging of
badgers, with the coursing of hares and rabbits.

His opponents might say: “ Nature is cruel:
why should not Man be?” Man’s conduct should
be governed by reason and decent behaviour:
and nature is never cruel for fun. “Unemploy-
ment would go up if hunting were abolished.”
People had said the same in favour of child-
labour in mines and factories. Even. if true, we
must endure it if hunting is wrong. That foxes
should be hunted because they are pests could

not honestly be maintained when foxes were
bred, preserved, and imported to be hunted.
£21,000,000 annually are spent on importing
poultry and eggs: nothing has prevented the ex-
pansion of poultry farming more than the preser-

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

hlli
ﬁve fo .
the end 0 .
instantaneous. v .

to be hunted by wolves .
sonally he would rather die at tne en
chase than in his bed. The fox’s cunning .i .
greater than that of the huntsman and hounds
together. Hunters have no blood lust; the klll
is an inevitable and rather unpleasant end.

Shooting, trapping, and poisoning are more
cruel than hunting. If anybody could suggest a
more humane way of keeping foxes down he
would be glad to adopt it. For the alternative
to being kept down was extermination, and the
country would be a poor place if animals such
as foxes and badgers were to go.

The Rev. H. C. Thursby-Pelham said that
there was really no reason against blood sports,
for hunting people were not made inhuman. The
cruel ones are those who have never been taught
to be sportsmen.

The Hon. Treasurer said he disliked the atti-
tude of the fourth speaker. A good day for the
hunter was a bad day for the hunted. To satisfy
his pride he goes out on the coldest day to be
as brutal as he can to the animals.

The Vice-President said that the Propo-sition’s
feelings were more humane than the Opposition’s.
To justify hunting because it develops good
qualities is like justifying war for bringing out
what is ﬁne in a man.

There voted for the motion 10 members and

9 visitors, and against it 11 members and 8-
visitors.

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

  




    

- .o unt the Master.”
——'-S. CLAUDE TICKELL.

: 00d Sports”
It is gratifying to read that the Parliamentary
Labour Party is being urged to introduce as
early as possible a Bill to prohibit all forms of
“ blood sport ”I .

The more regard man has for sub-humans,
the greater will he have for his own kind.
“ As down the pathway of the years,

The just man’s footsteps wend,

He likes to think, to living things'

He’s always been a friend.”

-—HENRY J. BAYLIS, F.Ph.S.

Three Courses

Sin—It must be obvious to any humane man
or woman that there are only three courses open
for dealing with wild animal life.

(1) If they are vermin, such as foxes, stoats,
pole-cats, etc—swift and painless extinction—
not torture.

(2) If'they are to be eaten, such as hares
and rabbits, etc—again swift and painless
death—not torture.

(3) If they are not vermin, nor edible, such
as many of our feathered songers and many
harmless creatures—proper protection.

As hunting and trapping will not fulﬁl any of
these three conditions, they both ought, for
civilised and intelligent beings, to be at once

August, I935

 

 

9 sport, which can never be-
vrture, ought to be conﬁned for-
games of athletic skill.

CORA E. GRAHAM.
S ’,
gttend meets of the hounds
he recent annual meeting of
.nd Burstow Hunt at East
G. Burt, the Mast-er, said:
nt. of the motorists who
not hunt supporters. They
for a picnic at our expense.
ain hunting has been ruined by
are standing about.”
——Daily Telegraph.

mnting!
rtecent letters on the subject of stag hunting
'oy sportsmen show a strange mentality. They

remind me of a local woman who said of her

son, “ Jack is going to be butcher; he is so fond
of animals. ’ ’——Kentish Farmer.

The Spirit of “Sport”

“ Some of the wiles ” adopted by hunting
peOple abroad, are, said a recent correspondent
in The Queen “distinctly unsporting.” “ In
Canada the Indian hunter makes a horn of birch
bark with which he is able to imitate the call
of the moose. He repeats this plaintive call
then awaits the arrival of the newcomer who
is quickly shot. The Japanese, by means of a
whistle, imitate the note of the hen-pheasant
and other birds . . . with the result that the
answering male bird quickly ﬁnds himself in
the game bag. The Chinese, the Arabs and
other peoples have equally unsporting methods.”

The Wonderland of Nature

Under this title Mr. Harper Carey, well-known as
a humanitarian, practising naturalist, has written
four books dealing with animal, bird and plant
life. They are intended as an introduction to
Science, and are especially valuable to the
young. They are copiously illustrated, and
would form excellent handbooks for use in
juvenile humanitarian societies, though adults
would also ﬁnd them helpful, particularly in
walks in the country. There are a series of

. questions at the end of each chapter calculated

to test the knowledge of the reader. They are
published at 1/6 each, by the Grant Educational
Coy, 3, Eagle Street, London, W.C.1., from
Whom copies of the prospectus can be had free
on application.

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

August, l935
The Tough~Gutted Barbarian

“ The endless arguments about the pros and

cons of the various forms of blood-sport become
quite unnecessary if once we agree to apply the

test of VVordsworth’s coupletz—
‘ Never to blend our pleasure or our pride,

With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels. ’» ]
And he must be a particularly tough-gutted

barbarian who will up and declare in cold blood
that this is just what he is out to do~.f’
—E. VVINGFIELD ' STRATFORD
(New Minds for All).

-From the Toe H Journal for April

“ A man is no longer hanged for stealing a
sheep. Fines are imposed for cruelty to animals.
.A great deal of really revolting cruelty has dis-
appeared. But I should be more. impressed by
all this, if for one thing, it were more consistent.
It is cruel for a man to chivvy a cat, and if he
can, to hit it with a stick; but, unfortunately,
it is not cruel for the really important people to
bring a strange fox into the district to destroy
their neighbours’ poultry and then to pursue it
with large quantities of dogs and horses and kill
it when it is exhausted.”

Worrying Foxes .

Foxes are increasing in the West Sleekburn

and Stakeford districts, where farmers have,

suffered losses. As far as seven have been seen
together by a Signalman near the Bomarsund
Colliery junction on the Newbig‘gin and Bedling-
ton Station line of the L.N.E.R.

The animals are said to live in a large drain
pipe near the side of the railway embankment.
A railway shunter working near the place re-
cently killed a fox with his shunting pole.

——N0rth Mail, .Tune 27.

The H ollyiuood Hunt

California has just had its ﬁrst hunt. It took
place ﬁve miles out of Hollywood. A fox and a
pack of hounds had to be imported. The hunt
was part of a ﬁlm, but it aroused. such en-
thusiasm that the cinema people have decided
to make hunting a permanent sport in their
colony. Captain Conar, once M.F.H. of the

Milwaukee pack, now director of' polo at the'

University of Southern California, is likely to be
chosen as the master of the Hollywood pack.

Norwich Carted—Stag Hounds

A ‘good’ year, both from the. point of view of
sport and ﬁnancially, was claimed for this Hunt
at the annual meeting held at Norwich on July
6th. Mr. C. R. Cadge presided, and the Master,
Miss Sybil Harker, reported that they had had
46 days’ hunting and that sport was generally
‘ good and noteworthy for the length of their

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Sixty—three

po-ints.’ On nine days they had over 10 mile
and up to 15 mile-points. At the end of the
season four deer were out but two had since
found their way back to Rackheath and the
keeper got them into their paddock.

Il/Ianners in the Hunting Field

From “ Horse and Hound ” of March 15.

Sir,——“ I have recently taken a farm after
farming for many years abroad and latterly in
the North [of England, and though I have hunted
for over forty years whenever I have had the
chance I have never seen so much unnecessary
damage done as I have in the short time I have
been here. Last week the. local pack ran over
this farm. During the. afternoon I was feeding
sheep, when about half a. dozen riders, includ-
ing two ladies, came up and asked me where
hounds were. I told them that I had last seen
them about a mile away. I opened a gate. for
them, and they rewarded me by galloping across
the middle of a meadow, although there is a
good bridle road down one side. I then spent
about an hour going round shutting gates, and
my neighbour wasted most of the afternoon
looking for his cows in the co-verts adjoining his
land.

“ Another habit some people have is of wait-
ing until someone breaks a top rail in a. fence
and then. proceeding to make a gap wide enough
to drive a wagon through. I like to see hounds
on my land, and hope to hunt myself for a few
more seasons, but this wanton damage does more

, to put farmers against hunting than any amount

7!

of fair wear and tear. _. .
FARMER.

F exes Versus Game
To the Editor of Cruel Sports.

Sir,—-—In this part'of the Lake District we are
indebted to the foxes for preserving the public
rights of access to all our woods and mountain
tops, because foxes are so numerous that it is
quite impossible to preserve game. Thus it
happensthat we have no gamekeepers or sporting
restrictions in the Valley, and Visitors can wander
where they, like. ‘

NICHOLAS SIZE.
Buttermere.

The Waterloo C up

Next year will see the centenary of this meeting.
May I, through your columns, make a protest
against this cruel form of amusement? Has not
the time arrived when some deﬁnite action
should be taken to stop this barbarity on our
doorstep? William Wilberforce met with stern
opposition in his efforts to free the slaves, but
in the end he won the ﬁght.

‘ ‘Fairplay. ”

 




Page Sixty-four C R U E L S P O R T S August, 1935;-
The LeagUe. For The Prohibition Of Cruel ‘ Sports 5

101,5 Chandos ,House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496..

 

President.——HAMILTON FYFE, ' Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. Vice-Presidents— E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
SIR HERBERT BARKER. HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq.
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. G, P. GOOCH, D.Litt. BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALD. M. CONWAY, J.P. GERALD GOULD, Esq. EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.

, (Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchers.). DONALD MAOLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries): WORKING GROUPS (Hon. Dist. Representatlves):
BRISTOL: Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8. BOLTON: Mrs. Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vlcarage, Bolton.
HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings. GARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Oumwhinton Road,
LEEDS: Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton Harraby, Oarlisle.

Drive, East Keswick, Nr. Leeds. GOLGHESTER: Mr. E. Womack, 138, North Station Road,
SOUTH PORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk- Colchester. _

dale, Southport, HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3.
SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse, Rokeby, Pennsylvania, IPSWICH: Miss R. M. King, 45, Oxford Road, Ipsvvich.

Exeter. Mr. W. P. H. Warner, 73, Union Street, NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

Torquay. Nottingham.

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter—hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned.” )

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation (See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application.
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am" opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

 

I enclose herewith* ...............

O.I..0Q...0......DOOOOOOIOOOOO'

State
whether

MI'., Mrs.3 o oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo eve-es. ooooooo o onoooe-oooooooooocooooooo oooooo 0.0.0.0...-o..................

or Miss.

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo acocoo.coco...-coon-00......-0.000000000000900...

'5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthl;. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S.. IOI, Chanda: House, Westminster, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQUEST.
To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— .
I bequeath unto the 80(31er called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum

of .............................. 1free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be pazd to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last—mentioned Society. '

BY virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other. .

 

 

 

BRIGHTON._Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure HUMANE FUR! (fabric)._10—1, George Street, W.1., Wel-
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas beck 7257.

2,2? t 45193;: ﬁgﬁ’g, Cfglrtrglﬁdnﬁgséﬁaggﬁg’ﬁggnsigngﬁg B EA u T I F u L B u TTE R M E R E.—National Trust’s supreme

Lakeland purchase. Victoria Golf Hotel modernised

17’ Norfolk Terrace, and enlarged. Extensive woodland grounds. Bathin’g

WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880.—Sewell, 51, Lan- 0001, Many rare birds and plants_ Photographers
caster Gate. London. paradise.

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of 15d. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per. line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the followmg month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101; Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster. S.W.1: and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 

 




