HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA
Director's Tour of West and North Africa

February/March, 1964

7th February: Left Dar es Salaam for Nairobi. Stayed overnight
and boarded Ethiopian Airlines Boeing, early morning 8th
February.

8th February: Stopped over at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, for several
hours. Made arrangements to spend a few days in Addis
on return journey, to promote further interest in Humane
Education. The Institute's teaching is already well-known
in Addis, and H.E. Commander Alexander Desta, commanding
the Imperial EthiOpian Navy, is a Patron of the Institute.

8th February: Left Addis Ababa for Lagos, Nigeria, via Khartoum,
in an Ethiopian Airlines Boeing. Arrived Lagos about
5.30 p.m. Met on arrival by officials of the Federal
Ministry of Education, who hurried through the Immigration
and CuStoms formalities. Taken to the Ikoyi Hotel where
accommodation had been arranged. Arrival at Lagos was very
pleasant, and the welcome very warm and friendly. A car
was placed at Director's disposal for the whole of the
visit, with chauffeur. Sunday, 9th February: After dis—
cussion about plans for the visit, Director was taken on a
tour of Lagos.

 

10th February: Lagos Taken to the Ministry of Education to
meet the Minister and other officials. Interview with
er. Wilson of UNESCO regarding the Institute receiving
recognition from his organisation. Ministry of Education
backed the request of the Institute for such recognition.
Mr. Wilson further promised to give wide publicity to the
work of the institute in Nigeria, and elsewhere. went to
British Embassy, and signed book. A meeting was arranged
with the Federal Prime Minister, Alhaji Sir Abubaker
Tafewa Balewa, a Patron of the Institute and who takes a
keen, personal interest in the Humane activities in
progress. Taken to the Lagos Education Department to meet
Mrs. O. Ligadu, an Inspector of Schools. Made a programme
for school visits to begin next morning. ‘Visited Markets -
horrible places without any idea of hygiene at all - open
sewers, overflowing right through the markets. Same open
sewers overflow all over the place. It was rather grim
to see small children playing by the foul water. Mentioned
this unfortunate aspect, seen in an otherwise pleasant city.
Understood the difficulty was finance, but plans were
envisaged for a new sewage scheme. THIS IS SOMETHING WHICH
COULD BE ASSISTED BY SOME OVERSEAS FUND, with very good
effect. Understood that old people, and children, were
taken care of by Government. At the same time, Mrs. Ligadu
earnestly needs Funds to start a SCHOOL FOR THE MANY

 




 

- 2 -

NEGLECTED OLDER CHILDREN WHO HAVE NO PARENTS TO LOOK AFTER
THEN. THESE CHILDREN'MAY HAVE A FATHER OR MOTHER BUT
UNABLE TO TAKE PROPER CARE OWING TO CIRCUMSTANCES OF VARIOUS
KINDS. Mrs. Ligadu says, "these children become a burden
on good-hearted relatives and neighbours who have children
of their own to cater for." A School for the unwanted and
neglected children is a real need, and also where they
could be boarded. Visited the RSPCA offices and animal
shelter. This organisation, supported by RSPCA London, is
doing an excellent job in keeping the city of Lagos clear
of stray and unwanted Dogs, etc. The RSPCA also has
branches in other towns in Nigeria. Visited a wretched
inadequate place, called "the Zoo". Fortunately, few
animals are kept there, and the RSPCA gave assurance that
its Inspector kept a keen watch on the Zoo. The Director
strongly recommended that the so—called Zoo should be closed
down, and schools subsequently visited by the Director, were
asked to appeal to the children not to visit the place.

llth February: Lagos. Visited Queen's College - a large
institution for Girls. The Principal, Mrs. Coker, gathered
all the girls in Hall for the Director to give a lecture
on Humane Education. The Director presented Prizes to
several girls, which they had won from the Canadian showing
of their entries in the 1963 All—Africa Schools Poster
Painting Contest. The Director received a great ovation
at the College, and toured the buildings and grounds with
the Principal, meeting other members of the staff. The
Institute's literature much in demand. Three HEIA STARS
were given to the Principal for monthly award to pupils
showing the greatest desire to be helpful in performing
daily kind actions. Photographs were taken. A Kindness
Club book was also presented to the College Library.

Visited.Muslim Training College — Headmaster, Mr. Bhatia.
Gave a long talk to the assembled school, illustrated by
pictures of kind actions to animals and human beings.
Questions were invited. Only one question was asked:—
"Why animals who are dangerous should not be killed?". The
Headmaster then read out extracts from the Koran on kindness.
A very satisfactory morning. It should be mentioned that
the main Colleges and Schools in Lagos are very far apart,
necessitating a lot of time spent in moving from one
college etc., to the other. llth February: Afternoon —
visited two junior schools in the City, had discussions
regarding a regular programme with Mr. Winful, Visual Aids
officer, Ministry of Education. Several Heads of schools
came to visit in the evening for discussion.

12th February: Lagos Visited Igbobi College at 9 a.m. Gave talk
to the assembled students. Very happy and friendly atmos-
phere. All students promised to be kind to EVERYTHING, and
spread the teachings of the Institute. Very keen here on

 




_ 3 _

the annual poster painting contest — many prize~winners

in the 1963 contest. Principal most co—operative. Met the
Art master who said, "they would rather have their entries
returned, NOT SOLD!" Photographs were taken. Many
questions asked and answered. Visited Government Demonstra-
ytion School. Another large and appreciative audience. Talk
illustrated by posters from the 1963 Contest. Questions
asked on many aspects of animal welfare. All promised to

be kind and spread kindness at school and at home. Humane
Action Groups encouraged here. Afternoon: Visited Prime
Minister. Very charming and most interested in all the
Institute's activities. Went to find the home of David
Dale, a very promising young artist, who is very, very
anxious to get a scholarship to study art overseas.' He has
won prizes in the annual painting contest each year — he
also has done a number of sketches for the Institute's
literature. He has been commissioned to make some sketches
on the anti—malnutrition campaign. Very sad to see the poor
circumstances of this lad and his family — living on top of
a horrible open sewer, and a ‘mountain' of rubbish cleared
from the streets, in other words a city dump! and yet he

can turn out beautiful, humane pictures. David was
instructed to send the draft drawings on to the Director at
Fez, Morocco. -

 

13th February: Morning. Further talks with the Minister of
Education, Mr. Aja Nwachukwu, and the Permanent Secretary,
Mr. 8.0. Awekeye, Mr. A.S. Winful and other'Ministers. ,Met
Mr. Ben Enwenwu, the famous Nigerian artist, and Art Adviser
to the Federal Government. Ehtertained at his home, and
shown many fine pictures and sculptures. Mr. Enwenwu would
be interested if requested to come to Tanganyika to help
judge the 1964 painting contest. Afternoon: Visited Blind,
Deaf and Dumb School, and Farmcraft School — both excellent
institutions, and good training given to the students to
enable them to help themselves despite handicap. Visited
Girls Modern School. Talked.with the girls, and interested
them in forming a Kindness Club. Attended a reception given
by Mrs. Manuwa, one of the Nigerian educationists. Later,
attended a meeting of the Lagos women's Council — met there
women from Kenya and Uganda, who were attending a seminar
in Lagos. Heard a lot about the humane activities for
humans, undertaken by the members of the Council. Returned
to hotel very late, and wrote letters of thanks to the
Minister of Education and others who had helped to make the
visit so pleasant and rewarding. Mrs. Ligadu to join
Institute's Ad. Board. Several Press articles appeared
supporting the work of the Institute, and the Director's
visit to Lagos. »

 

14th February:. Left Ikega airport for Accra, Ghana, at 6.30 a.m.
Ministry car provided. Dahomey visited on the way to

 

 




 

_ 4 ”II °

Accra. A long stay at Porto Novo, Dahomey, was not
justified, but the Director arranged a short discussion
with some Education and Social Welfare officials, to find
out What progress was being;made in connection with Humane
activities in the schools. This is a small French—speaking
country, and very backward. The people find it difficult
to learn anything without constant pushing. The Director
hopes to find one 'disciple’ Who will encourage schools
and Welfare groups, to sustain the present interest in
Humane Education. As with many other African countries,
Humane Education literature and propaganda material is
urgently in demand, in large quantities. ‘

14th February: Arrived Accra, Ghana, about 12 noon. Met by

Ministry officials. Taken to the Ambassador Hotel —.a very
fine, modern hotel, but very expensive! Later had talks
with Ministry officials, and planned a programme. Visited
two schools, talked with several hundred boys and girls.
Humane Education welcomed in Ghana, and Director's visit
seemed to be much appreciated. InSpected the small anrnals
kept in private sanctuary at the Hotel, in the park
surrounding. All appeared happy and in good condition.

15th February: Being Saturday, unable to visit schools, but had

 

talks with Mr. Brown (Ghanaian), Principal Secretary,
Ministry of Education, and another Mr. Brown (Ghanaian),
Chief Education officer, also with Mr. Sackeyfio, Inform-
ation Officer, detailed to accompany the Director in
visiting schools, etc. 16th February: Sunday: Free. Here,
the Director had the unpleasant experience of being
attacked and injured by a large ape — man—size - just
captured and being held in a temporary cage at the back of
the Hotel. This necessitated a hurried trip to the hospital
for injection and dressings. However, after a short rest,
the Director was none the worse from the unfortunate
experience. Next day, 17th February, the Director carried
out the scheduled programme of lectures, which included

a meeting attended by over 200 Heads of Schools. The
Director, patched up with bandages and plaster, was able to
convince her audience that the keeping of wild creatures

in captivity was entirely wrong, and caused much unnecessary
suffering to the animals. The Chimpanzee who had attacked
her had only done so through fear and loneliness. She
~begged that the ape should be given its freedom and taken
back to the forest. All agreed that this should be done.
(Here, it can be stated that the animal in question, was
given its freedom and there was, in fact, quite a reper—
cussion in several directions, from the incident.) The
Director was very happy about the welcome she had received
in Ghana, and promised she would pay another and longer
visit when opportunity occurred. A very great compliment
was paid to the Director at the Ministry of Education, i.e.
it was said, "that she had brought an aura of happiness into

 

 

 




the Ministry, which would not be denied!" Fine praise,
indeed, and very, very encouraging in the promotion of Humane
Education. 3 HEIA Stars were given for school awards - to

be awarded monthly. Mr. Sackeyfio, a very splendid human-
itarian, agreed to join the Institute's Advisory Board, and
act as liaison between the Ministry and the Institute. One
thing rather disturbed the Director, i.e. few dogs were

to be seen in Accra, on asking the reason, she was informed
that dogs were eaten for food. The Director was rather
shocked, and mentioned diplomatically that dogs were regarded
as 'Man's Best Friend', and it seemed odd, to eat them! This
aspect had never been thought of by the Ghanakms! The
Director pondered this problem and came to the conclusion
that perhaps it was better to eat dogs than have them roaming,
-starved and diseased, and unwanted, around the town. This

is a problem which is a little disturbing. Accra seems to

be a very clean and well~laid out City, and the people seem
hard—working and anxious to get on with the deveIOpment of
the country. Old people were taken care of, and.needy
children also, were catered for. The President's wife
interests herself in nursery schools. Mr. Sackeyfio in con—
sultation with school Principals, agreed that Humane Action
Groups,as advocated by the Institute, should be formed
wherever possible. Three experienced Headmasters came
forward and offered to be the 'Disciples' of the Institute,
and do everything possible to further the Humane work started.

February: Left Gh a or Abidjan, Ivory Coast. Ministry of

 

Education car took 0 airport, accompanied by several
officials. Held a Press conference at Airport before leaving.
Very satisfactory. Mr. Sackeyfio assured the Director that
all she had talked about would be remembered by everybody

and the Institute's teachings would be promoted in the schools
and Welfare centres.

Arrived Abidjan about 1 p.m. Owing to delay in mails (every—
where on the West Coast of Africa, there seemed to be an
impossible delay in all air mails — even short distances!)
there was nobody to meet the Director, but Hotel accommodation
had been booked. The airport, as with all airports in west
Africa, was miles away from the town, but the Director was
able to get a lift in an airways car. Arrived at the Du Pare
Hotel — also a very nice and modern hotel. The Director tried
to get in touch with the Ministry of Education a but _
unsuccessful — there was nobody there! and as only French is
spoken, it was a little difficult getting anybody to under—
stand! However, the Director called at the British Embassy

to get some assistance in contacting the Ministry officials
who knew of her visit. Nothing could be done that day, but
next morning, the 19th, plans were put into operation.

 




~6—

l9th February: The British Ambassador, H.E. Mr. Shaw, started
early in the morning to get in touch with the Minister of
Education and other officials, and made the necessary.
appointments for the Director — very kindly sending his own
car to take her on the rounds. Interview with the Minister
de l'Education Nationals, M. Dore. Understood that the
Institute's literature was in circulation in the schools,
and much interest is taken in the Concours ~ the annual
Painting Contest. There was one considerable problem in
Abidjan ~ owing to the Ministries being so widely scattered,
it was impossible to check up the files containing the
correspondence with the Institute over the past two years.
This entailed endless waiting until some files could be
located. However, discussions proved of some value, and
arrangements were made for the Director to visit some
schools. As none of the pupils in any of the schools Spoke
a Word of English, it was a little difficult for the
Director to talk at length in French. However, with pic-
tures to illustrate the talks, it could be seen from the
response that the subject was understood and was of interest.
Education seemed rather of poor standard in Ivory Coast,
but it was evident that attempts were being made to improve
things. The visit to Abidjan was necessarily short, the
reason for the visit was actually to find out how much
interest had been established as regards Humane Education,
and to see how much progress could be made. Literature
was left with the Ministry, and at the schools. Understood
that entries would be forwarded for the 1964 Painting Con-
test, and a request was made to send further literature
and posters as often as possible. “Abidjan is an extremely
expensive place — a cup of tea, costing about 6/—! a simple
meal, at least about 4O/L. Needless to say, the Director
did not enjoy many meals! The British Embassy seemed like
an oasis — one of the few British Embassies where a real
spirit of helpfulness was to be found. The Director expres—
sed her gratitude to the Ambassador and his staff.

 

February: Left Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, at ll a.m. en route
to Sierra Leone. Stopped over on the wayIUUJRobertsfield
airport, the airport for Monrovia, Liberia - this airport

is all of 50 miles from the town of Monrovia. There being
no accommodation available in Monrovia, and due to the
difficulty of fitting in planes, the Director did not make

a long stay here. However, two teachers were at the airport
to meet the Director and collect some Humane literature which
will be used to try and promote more interest in this form
of education in the few schools deveIOping in Liberia. This
is quite a backward country, educationally, and most of the
teachers appear to be Peace Corps volunteers from the U.S. —
tranSport facilities for travelling in the country are a
serious handicap. Later, the flight was cOntinued to Sierra
Leon, a very bumpy and unpleasant trip due to bad weather
conditions on the West Coast. Arrived Sierra Leone

 




   
 
   

_ 7 _

   

very late. Met by several Education Ministry officials,
and an officer of the Social Welfare Ministry. A very
warm welcome, and passage through immigration and Customs
made quickly and easihn A very interesting airport for
Freetown (Sierra Leone) situated about 20 miles away, and
requiring a sea journey of about one hour in a large ‘
ferry boat, taking two buses, and two cars on one trip.
The first sight of Freetown was enchanting in the night
light. Freetown is backed by hills dotted all over with
residences, and twinkling lights were most intriguing.
A.Ministry car took the Director and reception party from
the airfield to Freetown - on arrival there, the Director
was taken direct to the Government Best House — a A -
charming place on a hillside - where other officials
waited to welcome the V.I.P! The Director was given a
copy of a provisional programme to cover her week's stay.
There was a very busy period ahead!

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
     
     

let February: A car placed at the disposal of the Director

f arrived at the Rest House at 8 a.m. to take her to the
Ministry of Education to meet the Minister, Mr. Wurie,
and Education Officers. Miss Olayinka Burney—Nicol,
Government Artist, was detailed to accompany the
Director on all official engagements. It was interesting
the Director's visit coinciding with that of the Prime
Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, as it all contributed
towards making the Director's visit very colourful. Every
day in the news on Sierra Leone radio mention was made of
the Humane Education Institute, and the Director's engage-
ments for the day. The first day was spent in meeting
Ministers and other officials for discussions, and calling
on the various public institutions, among these being the
British Council and City Library, both very lovely new
buildings, and gathering information as to the country's
needs. The first thing to cause the Director much dismay
was the sight of hundreds of starving, unwanted and
diseased dogs running Wild everywhere, eating out of
dustbins, and causing much commotion. Evidently nothing
had ever been done in Freetown over this problem and the
dog position was as bad as it could be.. Without doubt,
this was the first thing the Director felt obliged to
bring to the notice of Authority. Later in the day the
Director attended a meeting followed by a Reception of
the newly formed Humane Society of Sierra Leone — this
had been accomplished through copious correspondence during
the previous few months. The Director spoke bluntly about
the impossible dog position in the City and called on
all members of the Society to get busy and start a form
of control to clear up the place. The obvious difficulty
being that there was no place to house the collected dogs.

This all called for the making of plans and a prospective

 

 
   
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   




~8—

visit by the Director to the Mayor and City Council.

All members agreed to do all possible to find a solution
to the problem, Miss Grace Gerber and Mr. FeyiwCole,

two of the leading members of the Humane Society, had been
in the habit of picking up distressed dogs and pups, and
keeping them at their homes _ a very temporary solution
but most praiseworthy on the part of these two members.
As money for this type of public service was completely
lacking, the Director decided to appeal to the RSPCA
London for funds to help erect a shelter for unwanted
dogs. (Later it was learned from London that some
assistance would be forthcoming when more was known about
the new Humane Society — this matter is still in the
correspondence stage). Goats too dismayed the Director ~
'no care at all — the poor creatures were to be seen
lying in streets under the hot sun with legs tied or
short string tying them to posts or any convenient struct—
ure. It was evident that the good peOple of Freetown
had never been conscious as to the needs of goats and
dogs! The whole picture called for much lecturing on the
part of the Director, particularly emphasising the value
of goats milk in the fight against malnutrition. The
consciousness of the peeple was very soon fully awakened
as to the simple care and needs of these humble domestic
animals. Hens too, all over the roads provided another
hazard to motOrists n in fact the car in which-the
Director was travelling skidded into a tree in trying to
avoid hens on the road. Clearly this problem had to form
the basis of all lectures to schools in the following days.
The next thing that dismayed the Director concerned the
information collected as regards Wild Life. Sierra Leone
is rich in wild life, but little has been done to protect
or preserveit. This again, required a great deal of
discussion with the Ministry of Natural Resources, who,
happily, agreed with.all the Director had to say, and was
prepared to immediately start on plans for the establish—
ment of a National Park, and to draw up new laws for the
protection of wild.life. Monkeys, the Director found

out were being exported to overseas laboratories in
thousands ~ with no benefit financially to the Government
at all, a purely private commercial concern. This was
something else that had to be stopped. The Director
pointed out the loss to the country and the unnecessary
suffering caused to the monkeys concerned. During her
visit the Director spent a great deal of time in consult-
‘ ation with the Minister for Natural Resources, and the
Chief Conservator of Forests. The Director promised she
would try to find sources of financial help from overseas,
so that the Government could proceed with the plans
projected to protect and conserve the wild life of the
country. (The World Life Fund in London has been
interested in these plans, and some help is probable).

 




-9...

A Press conference was held for the sole reason of
awakening public consciousness as to protection of wild
life, and on the care of domestic animals. All this
covered the first three days of the visit — 21st - 23rd
February, and with various meetings with the Humane
Society members.

February: The Director left by air for Do upcountry early

 

in the morning, and after visiting a number of Colleges
and Secondary schools, returned to Freetown at night.
Animal conditions did not seem so bad up—country as in
Freetown the Capital. That night at 8.30 the Director
gave a talk on the work of the.Institute at the British
Council. Much interest was expressed over the All-Africa
Schools Poster Painting Contest, and it was hOped that
many entries would be ready for the 1964 contest.

February: The morning was spent visiting schools and

 

giving talks to the students assembled — the schools
included the ‘Annie Walsh.Memorial School; Freetown
Secondary School for Girls, St. Joseph's Convent School,
and the Prince of Wales School. In the afternoon the
Sierra Leone Grammar School was visited, followed by a
visit to the Milton Margai Training College for Teachers.
The lectures given were greatly appreciated, according to
the response observed, and the questions asked.

Reception in the evening.

Februaryi_ Visit to Port Loko by car — a long dusty

 

journey but very rewarding. All schools in this district
keenly interested in actively promoting humane activities.
Returned to Freetown late afternoon and gave a broadcast
interview at the Radio Sierra Leone studios.

February; Last day before leaving. Very busy day — in

 

fact hectic. Morning was spent with Ministers for final
discussions as regards the many plans projected, both as
regards animal care, protection of wild life, and humane
education in all schools and colleges. Visit to a
wonderful Home, the King George VI Memorial Home for old
and disabled men and women. This was a very pleasant
experience - the wards, separate, for men and women were
very well kept and the immates very happy, many of them
doing handwork. The Home has done a lot to rid the
streets of Freetown of poor and undesirable beggars. As
the Director's time was so short it was not possible

to visit the Childrens’ Home, but it was understood that
the children were also being well cared for. The
Director remarked " it was most satisfactory to see what
was being achieved for human beings. Now the time was
ripe, in fact overdue, for the same care to be given
where animals were concerned", and reminding her listeners

 




_ 10 _

that animals were necessary for the health and economy
of the people — therefore they all require care'and
attention. Fully agreed.

Afternoon. A visit was made to Fourah Bay College — a
very famous institution in Africa. The collegeis
perched on a hilltop with glorious views from all
directions, the whole of Freetown, its beautiful coast—
line and sea extending for hundreds of miles North and
South. The Director was received with a warm welcome

by the Principal of the College, Dr. Davison—Nicol, and
met many of the teachers and students. It pleased the
Director very much to learn that some of the teachers
had formed a small society for animal care, in order that
the pets belonging to staff members would be taken care
of during the leaves of owners. Later in the evening

the Director attended a Reception given by the members

of the Freetown Humane Society. Omitted to say that
before going to Fourah Bay College, the Director attended
by invitation a meeting of the City Council to give a
talk on the problem of the dogs, goats, etc., uncared for
in the City. At first the Mayor and Councillors were
inclined to be 'unfriendly' at an 'outsider' criticising
such conditions in the City, but in a short time they
became very friendly and co—Operative, thanking the
Director for her valued assistance and advice° Tea was
served and the Mayor pinned a crest badge of the City

of Freetown onto the Director's dress amid cheers!

February: Press conference and a visit to the British
Information Office (Where the Director met an old
acquaintance from Tanganyika, an ex D.C. now Director of
the British Information Centre, Mr. G. Baker) followed by
a hasty round of 'goodbyes'.‘ The Director left about

11 aam. by car for the-trip to the Airport on route to
Senegal. The Director left Sierra Leone with regret —

the people were all so friendly and kind, and so
delightfully British in outlook, although an Independent
State. The country is a particularly lovely one, hills
coming right down to the sea, beautiful scenic views

and lovely houses. Freetown still has its 'Hill Station'
reached by a perfect scenic road, winding up and up and
with each turn in the road a more enchanting view was to
be seen all the time. A country well—worth being developed
into a veritable ‘Tourists Paradise'. The Director was
seen off at the airport by numerous offiCials and newly—
found friends. Plane left at 1.30 p.m. - a very interest-
ing and pleasant flight to Senegal, passing low over

‘ Conakry — an interesting looking town, capital of Guinea.
0n the way to Senegal, the plane stOpped over at Bathurst,
Gambia, where the Director had arranged to be met by some

 




_ 11 _

educationists interested in trying to introduce Humane
Education to the schools. Gambia, like Liberia, is still
in an undevelOped state, and education backward. A
supply of Humane literature was handed over by the
Director and it is hOped that a little progress will be
made.

Arrived Dakar, Senegal, at 6 p.m. Here a difficulty was
met — no transport to the town about 20 miles away and
unable to get any local currency at airport — result —
no money to pay for a taxi! The problem was ultimately
solved by a kind American coming to the rescue with

some dollars! One difficulty travelling through so many
countries was the currency problem — every country has a
different currency, and one country won't take the
currency of another! so if it was impossible to cash a
travellers cheque at an airport on arrival, the result
meant 'no money'! However, the Director managed fairly
well to 'talk' her way through until funds were obtain—
able.

February: This was an awkward day, Saturday, to try and

 

contact the Ministry of Education, but the Director
hurried around and eventually found a junior Minister
with whom she had a discussion. He promised to see that
the educational literature was circulated in the schools.
Senegal had just started to take an interest in Humane
Education, but the progress did not justify the Director
making a long stay there — a terrifically expensive

place — good hotels, prohibitive! Schools in Senegal

are very backward, but gradually developing. The
Director was assured that efforts would be made to promote
interest in humane education - there, the matter had to
be left for the time being. The week—end made it
extremely difficult to make worthwhile contacts. It was
most difficult to get any money in Dakar - all Banks
closed, and hotels didn't want to cash travellers cheques!
Quite a predicament! Had to manage on some 'borrowed'
dollars. Dollars are accepted everywhere. Tried British
Embassy but no help! Quite relieved to feel that depart-
ure next day was near at hand. Did not like the haWking
of lovely highly coloured birds in the streets — made a
note to protest about this practice.

 




 

~12.— .

lst March: Left Dakar airport for<2mmmdanca, Morocco. Most hazar-
dous flight — plane packed - a football team on board did
everything except play football up and down the aisle: This,
the most ‘third class‘ air trip of the lot: But interesting
flying over the Sahara and noting the great work being done by
planting trees — in the desert. ,Long lines of trees looked
like lines of human beings from the air. A very bumpy journey.
On nearing Casablanca, got caught in a thunderstorm and pour—
ing rain — very unpleasant. Plane could not land at
Casablanca the first time of trying - circled around for what
seemed hours. Finally landed in pelting rain, and at 10.30
p.m. A wet welcome. After a somewhat hectic struggle to get
through formalities, managed to get a taxi to the city and an
hotel for the night. Found a small but pleasant hotel, the
Lausanne. Left next morning for Rabat. ‘

 

2nd March: To the Director's dismay, on reaching Rabat, all
Government offices were closed - a great three—day festival
had started, "La Fete du Trone" — some celebration to do with
the King. As nobody could be contacted, decided to push on
to Fez — accordingly rang Dr. Rousseau at The American
Fondouk, to eXpect arrival towards 6 p.m. Weather cold and
wet — warm boots and clothes had to be unpacked! Was met by
'Dr. Rousseau on arrival in Fez and was taken to his home,.
before going to the hotel. A very pleasant meeting with Dr.
Rousseau and his wife. Arranged to meet early next morning
for discussions. Here it should be said, the Director was
appalled all the way from Rabat to Fez (by bus, a wonderful
insight into conditions of animals and people in Morocco) by
the sight of so many hundreds of sick—looking, lame, and
overburdened donkeys and mules. Definitely something to
demand action.

 

3rd March; Dr. Rousseau called at the hotel about 9 a.m. and took
tLe Director to the American Fondouk. Firstly, a general
survey of conditions as regards animal care ~ secondly a
general inspection of the Fondouk and its great work. The
Fondouk shelters hundred of sick and distressed transport
animals, and gives them full veterinary care and treatment,
.keeping them at the Fondouk until fit to be handed back to
the owners. This is a wonderfully splendid, humane service,
for without the Fondouk, many of these poor animals would
surely die. It is dismaying to know that owners of these
tranSport animals are in general, cruel and neglectful of the
animals that help them so much, in fact, in a country like
.Morocco, owners are entirely dependent on donkeys, mules and
horses, but particularly donkeys, for all their transport
needs. Ignorance, and age-old tradition, could be the cause
of so much cruelty to the animals. There does not appear to
be any Humane Education in Morocco at all, and it seems that
the time is long overdue for a Humane Educational campaign.
The owners will have to learn, in a kind way, of course, that
it would be to their own benefit, to consider the needs of

 

 




 

_ 13 _

their hard—working little animals. From the Fondouk, Dr.
Rousseau, along with one of his assistants, an Arab, took
the Director on a tour of the souks. The Director was
appalled at the suffering so evident. She could not refrain
from ejecting great fat men from their seats on the backs

of struggling and lame donkeys. Strange as it seemed, these
people sensed they were doing something wrong, but naturally,
in their ignorance couldn't be sure of what! many of the
steep alleys in the souks are cobbled, and covered in slime,
with the result, the poor labouring animals could not get a
foothold at all. It was a pitiful sight, and left the
Director literally, fuming. Clearly a propaganda campaign
is essential. The Fondouk can hardly be expected with all
its long hours of life-saving work, to undertake an educa-
tional campaign - this must surely be promoted by a separate
humane unit. Goats, too, seemed to be roughly used, and
uncared for — and hens carried in bundles half~deadl Shock-
ing picture. The entire day was spent in this field of
observance, and protest, against the so—obviously unnecess-
ary cruelty and suffering.

3rd March: Started another day of inspection, particularly the
markets, a real disgrace for sheer neglect and, cruelty to
living creatures. Due to the celebrations going on for "La
Fete Du Trone", the markets and souks were crowded with
thousands of people, and likewise animals. One particular
event, again, aroused the wrath of the Director, this time
concerning horses. This event is known as a "Fantasia",
where poor horses, in most cases thin and miserable—looking,
were made to charge across Open spaces, with a wild rider on
the back, to the accompaniment of terrible cries and shots
from fearful—looking guns. The horses must have been terri-
fied — even if this was supposed to be a traditional spect—
acle. The whole show was horrible, as far as the Director
was concerned. Interspersed with all the inspections, the
Director and her companions, the Rousseaus, were regaled with
numerous cups of sweet, mint tea, at various points through-
out the souks. This is a very important custom, and such
hospitality cannot be refused, these tea—drinking ceremonies
are a serious part of Moroccan celebrations.

 

4th March: Another day going the rounds of inspection. Later,
visited a Home for disabled children, where celebrations (to
amuse the children) were also in progress. After some final
discussions with Dr. Rousseau on how to start a humane
campaign, the Director was ready to leave Fez next morning.

 

 

5th March: Left Fez by bus for Oujda, enuroute for Algeria.
Arrived Oujda in the evening. Same thing again, all along
the way, nothing but overburdened and lame, neglected animals.
Spent some time examining the animal position around Oujda,
but found nothing heartening as regards animal care.

 

 




 

i 14 -

6th Marchz, Left Oujda about 9 a.m. by car to cross the border

 

into Algeria, and first stOp, to visit a Quaker settlement
at Tlemcen. This was all very interesting, and splendid
work is being done by these American Quakers for human
beings. The Director persuaded the staff there to try and
help unfortunate animals as well. This was agreed. After
a few hOurs spent at Tlemcen, the Quakers' car, going North
with patients, took the Director on her way to Oran and
Algiers. (The Quakers kindly sent a car to pick up the
Director at Oujda that morning). Arrived Oran, late at
night. '

7th March: Spent some time contacting a few interested people in

 

Oran in connection with Humane Education, and left litera~
ture to be distributed. This is the first time the Institute
has introduced its humane teaching into Algeria, and the
Director was not certain in the initial contacts of what

the response would be. The people of Algeria, particularly
the children, are still suffering from the sad effects of
war, therefore not readily open to teachings of any kind.
Animals seemed few in Algeria, on asking the reason for this
lack, the answer was "all our animals were shot during the
war, and we have not been able to build up herds again, or
procure animals for transport work". Very sad. Later left
Oran for Algiers and arrived late at night. Being Saturday,
the Director decided to rest a little until Monday morning.

8th Mangh; Day of Rest.

9th March: Started out to find the Ministry of Education, found

it very, very difficult. Went from one Government Depart-
ment to another - couldn't get the correct directions at all.
Walked many kilometres, often accompanied by policemen trying
to show the way! All day this sort of thing went on.
However, some information regarding various conditions in
the country was obtained from the different places of call.

A somewhat profitless day.

lOth march: Armed with another lot of addresses the Director

started out again - all Government Departments seemed to be
many miles apart, and in different directions. The Director
decided to go to the British Embassy to get some help in
locating the Ministry of Education. Found the position

there hopeless! Not a good advertisement for British effici~
ency! Finally took a taxi to a likely district - found there,
the Ministry of Information up flights of stairs, turning and
twisting! Eventually found an official who tried to be help-
ful, but not much! Anyway, Spent some time with the official
artist working there ~ a Negress from America. Unfortunately
she couldn't direct II to the Ministry of Education. This
about ended another profitless day. The Director determined
to make a final eXpedition next day! The Palais de Govern—
ment, the Cabinet Offices, the Foreign Office, the Ministry

 

 




_ 15 _

of Labour, and other odd places had all been visited, looking
for the Minister of Education! This was all an "education"
for the Director! What a difficult place to get ahead.

llth march: Three days left in Algiers to make contact with the
correct Ministry! Lo, and behold! a telephone message out
of the blue, to say that the Minister for Education was avail—
able, and would like to see the Director! He had evidently
heard that the Director was trying to find him! However,
when it came to finding the right place, again, there was
difficulty. The Director in some deSpair, was obliged to take
another expensive taxi ride, seemingly for many miles, and at
last arrived at the Ministry of Education! Everything then
became satisfactory and pleasant. The Minister, Shariff Ben
Kasum, received the Director with pleasure, and gave her a
warm welcome — in French! He couldn't Speak English. In
order to expedite the discussions required, the Director
asked for an interpreter to help things along. This was
readily agreed, and soon Madame Martin—Horwitz (an English-
speaking Frenchwoman) arrived in the office. Everything then
went exceedingly well. Arrangements were quickly put in hand
by telephone, for a programme for the next day, and a car,
along with the interpreter, was put at the disposal of the
Director. Pity so little English is spoken in Algerie! The
Director's French is passable, but not up to lengthy talks
and complicated explanations! Nor to lesturing in schools!
After leaving the Minister's office, the Director had a long
discussion with Madame Martin—Horwitz, and was able to explain
all the information as regards Humane Education, to be passed

on through her (Madame).

 

12th marqg; Start of a very busy and profitable day. Car and inter—
preter arrived at hotel about 8 a.m. - the first engagement was
to meet a number of school Inspectors, gathered together in the
Offices of the Chief Education Officer. This proved a most
useful meeting - the Inspectors were unanimous in their keen
interest in the promotion of Humane Education in the schools -
something new in Algeria, but considered of great importance in
a country slowly recovering from the ravages of war. A pro—
gramme was drawn up for the afternoon and for the next day.
There was real regret that the Director had had to waste so
much time, before she had found the Minister of Education, and
now, there was little time left. Two large Colleges were visi—
ted during the afternoon, and much time was spent in discussions
with the Principals, and many of the students ~ all appeared to
be very, very keen to start on the Humane Education programme.
The formation of Humane Action Groups appealed to the instincts
of the students. The day ended, with a partially exhausted
Director, and a completely exhausted interpreter!

 

13th March: The last day of the Director's stay in Algiers. Car
arrived at 8.30 a.m. with Madame Martin—Horwitz and two
Inspectors of Schools. First call was made to the Technical

 

 




~16—

Lycee for Girls w a huge place, and most efficiently run.
Here, the girls, several hundreds, were given a thorough
training in all forms of commercial and household management.
But, of course, Humane Education was unknown. The Principal
was very interested and right away encouraged her students to
take part in all discussions held in various departments.
Agreed to have weekly talks on the subject. After some
refreshments with the Principal, the Director and party went
on, a long distance away, to the Technical College for Boys.
Here again, a Splendid Institution with many departments ~
all directed by Professor Hacini, who turned out to be a
friend of the Algerian Ambassador recently posted to
Tanganyika. It was almost lunch time, so the Director and
party were invited to have lunch with the Professor and some
of his staff. All very interesting, and a useful medium for
discussing the benefits to be derived from Humane Education!
After lunch, the tour of the College continued, and many
students were interviewed. One student was greatly interested
in the Institute's Poster Painting Contest, and asked if he
could enter a picture? The Director was very pleased, and
told the student, she would take the entry back with her, if
he finished it in time. This was agreed, and he would bring
the picture to her hotel. The Director went on to another
large Teachers Training College for women. This was again,

a beautiful old mansion house turned into a College. After
touring the buildings, and meeting many of the students, the
Principal agreed that Humane Education would seem a valuable
subject for the young teachers in training to add to their
studies. The students were very keen to learn all possible
on the subject of "How to be Kindb and to spread the teaching
of Kindness and Understanding everywhere they went. All very
satisfactory. The Director was sorry having to shorten her
visit to this important institution, but time was running
short and there was another place to visit, some way out of
Algiers. The Director and party, left for Dar Bl Amal (House
of Hope), a very important project of the President Ben Bella.
This being a Home where some hundred young boys, who had been
taken off the streets of Algiers, were given a new chance of
life. These boys were mostly orphans, and had lived on the
streets, being shoe—shine boys or beggars. The Director was
very much impressed with the Splendid project — the Home was
situated in a lovely place, not far from the sea, and con—
sisted of small chalets, large classrooms where the boys
eagerly learned to read and write under the tuition of
volunteer teachers — there was also a fine aesembly hall and
club for recreation, the grounds were ample and laid out for
football and other games - the whole organisation was run
most efficiently under the management of a very kindly Madame,
a real mother to the boys. One other thing impressed the
Director, that was the delightful uniform worn by all boys -
this consisted of pale blue long pants, with the same colour
jumper top. Most attractive. The uniforms were presented to

 




  

14th march: The Director left by air for Cairo, at 7 a.m. En

_ 17 _

 
 

the Home by a firm in Algiers. The Director was informed
that every time the President went away on an official visit
he took one or two of the boys with him, thus helping them
still further to learn the ways of good behaviour. The
Director felt that this excellent project was one that
should be helped in any way possible. It was interesting,
too, to note, that stray animals, dogs, and cats were also
adOpted by the Home, and given a very good life there! The
Director was grateful for the privilege accorded her, of
being taken to Dar El Amal. Finally, having agreed to keep
Algeria supplied with Humane Literature, etc., and to keep
in mind the great needs of the Country, the Director, very
reluctantly, had to leave things at that stage, as she was
due to depart for Cairo next day. A number of Education
Ministry officials came to the Hotel in the late evening

for a final talk, and to bid farewell. All were anxious
that the Director would again visit Algeria, and make a long
stay — Humane Education was felt to be much needed in the
country. Here, the Director would like to say, that if it
could be possible, some overseas organisations would be doing
a big service for Algeria by supplying a few domestic animals,
such as goats and sheep, for breeding purposes, to help build
up the country's livestock needs.

route, stOpping at Tunis, Tripoli and Benghazi. Opportunity
was taken to inquire into conditions as regards animal cars,
etc., in these places, and it would appear that there is

much Humane work to be done all along the North African coast,
not to mention the interior. However, Tunisia and Libya,
seemed to be well administered countries, and making rapid‘
development. ‘

Arrival at Cairo, very late, presented a lot of diffi—
culty, due to the incredible inefficiency of the Airline con—
cerned. The Director was dismayed to find that no hotel
reservation had been made for her, nor further flight bookings
made. As Cairo was teeming with thousands of tourists -
mostly American, en route to Abu Simbel (to see the ancient
monuments‘there, before being swamped by the Dams being built
on the Nile) ALL hotels were FULL, bursting at the seams!
After great difficulty and delay, a kindly official of another
airline, KLM, found hotel accommodation for one night only,
and undertook to try and make onward air reservations.
Although the Director had no set plans for contacting Educa-
tion officials in Cairo, she intended to find out whether the
conditions as regards animal care had improved since her last
visit there.

 

15th March: Being Sunday, the time was Spent in frantically looking

for another Hotel, to carry through until air bookings could
be made, for Addis Ababa, on the way back to Nairobi and Dar
es Salaam. This search went on all morning, and included a

 

 
 
  




 

~18-—

visit to the defaulting Airline — the U.A.A. After some
plain speaking, a fairly satisfactory solution was found,
and the said airline agreed to meet the expense of the
Director's hotel accommodation for the night of arrival in
Cairo, and to find other accommodatiOn. This was eventually
accomplished in the afternoon. Air booking to Addis Ababa
was fixed for the 17th.

16th March: The Director started out early to observe animal con-
ditions, and called on City officials. She found that much
progress had been made, in the city of Cairo itself —
Government had passed new laws as regards transport animals,
and had built a new animal hospital where unfit horses,
mules, donkeys were taken off the streets, and put into the
hospital until fit - the owners being fined, and also liable
for hospital costs. Outside the city, the position was not
so good - animals were seen to be tied up by short lengths
of rcpe, to trees by the roadside, or anywhere handy. Going
out farther to the Pyramids — once a bad Spot for neglected
animals — the Director found that new Government regulations
were in force as regards the camels, horses and donkeys
employed to carry tourists around the Pyramids — every owner
had to keep his animals in fit condition, and to house them
in a special caravanseri every night. The result was
apparent — the animals all looked in excellent condition,
and owners appeared to be treating them well. This was all
a definite improvement than was seen a few years back.
However, the Director decided that some action would be
required to bring the condition, and housing, of animals in
the villages outside Cairo, up to the same standard of well—
being.

 

l7th March: The Director left Cairo by air at 3 a.m. for Addis
Ababa, EthiOpia. Here, it is stated, the Director reluct—
antly had to cancel her prenarranged stay of some days in
Addis Ababa, due to experiencing some little difficulty with
her eyes. However, it was arranged that she would stop over
in Addis some hours for discussions, and take the next plane
on to Nairobi en route for Dar es Salaam. The Institute's
work is well-known in Addis Ababa, and keen interest is taken
in promoting humane actions. The Director was met at Addis
Ababa airport by H.E. Commander Desta, a patron of the _
Institute. She was delighted to hear that the Government
had taken all horses off the streets, and made it a law that
no horse drawn vehicles would be allowed - this presented a
big step forward — these poor animals were usually in very
poor condition, and never well treated. Other improvements
are expected to follow where animals are concerned. It was
also learned that more interest is being taken in the pro-
tection of wild life of the country, and the school children
are being taught to be kind to all living creatures, and to
promote the Institute's teachings actively. The Director

 




  

18th March: Arrived back in Dar es Salaam - End of Tour.

Points for action, from the Tour:

a 19 -

 
 

hOpes to make a special visit to Addie, to tour the country,
at a later date — this being a fairly short journey by air
from Dar es Salaam. Commander Desta is a very keen Patron
of the Institute, and a great humanitarian. The Director
left later for Nairobi, where she stayed overnight, before
leaving for Dar es Salaam on the 18th march. While in
Nairobi, several schools were contacted in connection with
entries for the 1964 All~Africa Poster Painting Contest - a
geod response is anticipated. Humane Education is a popular
subject all over East Africa.

 

Lagos, Nigeria — requires help in establishing a Boarding
school for neglected children of school-going age. A young
humane worker for.the Institute, David Dale, 17 year—old
fatherless student, with decided artistic talent, is terribly
anxious to find the means to study art.4 A scholarship from
an overseas source would be the answer, thus giving the boy

a chance to become an artist. He has won prizes each year in
the Institute's Poster Painting Contest.

Freetown, Sierra Leone — requires financial assistance to
build a Shelter for stray and unwanted dogs, and the provision
of manager for the Shelter, which could, at a later date, add
a few boarding kennels for dogs when owners go on leave. At
present these dogs are just left on the streets to fend for
themselves. Financial assistance is also required to help the
country to develop its natural resources, particularly, wild
life. The attention of the World Wildlife Fund has been drawn
to this great need.

MOrocco, North Afriga_~ A full scale campaign is required in
Humane Education, to try and teach the people animal welfare,
and improve conditions for tranSport animals; at present the
‘whole position is appalling with thousands and thousands of
animals suffering through, what could be termed, 'age-old'
traditions, involving shocking cruelty to transport animals.

 

Algeria, North Africa a This country needs a great deal of
assistance to help the peeple recover from the after—effects
of war and want. The country requires livestock urgently.
Nearly all the animals were shot during the war, and this has
created hardship, from many aSpects. Goats for milk, and
sheep are specially needed. Also tranSport animals, such as
donkeys to help the poor farmer bring his crops, etc. to the
markets in the towns. This is a particularly good time to
push on with the promotion of Humane Education, to prepare
the people, especially the young people, in the proper manner
of keeping, and caring for animals, so that when the time

 
   




comes for the country to possess livestock again, there will
be a better chance for such animals to be wellacared for.
Another worthy cause to assist would be the Home at Dar El
Amal, for orphaned and homeless boys. t would be a kind
gesture to help provide these boys with simple requisites.

It has been suggested that some well-to—do schools overseas
might like to take an interest in Dar El Amal, by getting
their pupils to make up small useful gift parcels for the
boys at the Home, containing toilet articles, or books, games,
sweets, etc. Always remembering that these boys are on their
own, with no parents to care for them. Also, scholarships
would be a wonderful advantage for these boys — many of them
show eager desire to get a chance to study subjects of inter-
est to them. Scholarships too, would be of tremendous help
to many other poor students in Algeria. One student, in
particular, impressed the Director with his obvious talent
for Art, this, the student she met at the Technical College
in Algiers, who is so poor he cannot buy paints for his work,
but resorts to shoewpolish! The student, Ould Ahmed mustapha,
is desperately anxious to study art, instead of the electron—
ics, he is obliged to do at present. His Principal, too,
Professor Hacini, would like to see the boy got a chance in
this direction.

The Director found out in many countries that there are
numerous deserving and talented young students, unable to
advance in particular studies, owing to the serious lack of
means. And it may be said, most of these students are
actively concerned with the promotion of Kindness and Under-
standing, both as regards animals and Human beings. There—
fore they are of the right material to help build up a better
future for all, in Africa.

The Director is also pleased to report that the
'Diplomatic Bag‘ of three countries has been placed at the
diSposal of the Institute, i.e. Nigeria, Ghana and Algeria.
She is in frequent touch with the Ambassadors of these
countries, and has sent many parcels of literature and
posters through this privilege. These Diplomatic Bags are
sent from the Embassies in Dar es Salaam.

N.B. _ The foregoing report is of necessity written in a
concise form — a longer report might prove very
cumbersome, and could well run into double the
number of pages!

The following humane and active followers of the
Institute's teaching, have been added to the Advisory Board,

 




to act as Liaison members for their respective countries:—

Nigeria:
Ghana:

Sierra Leone:
Algeria:
Morocco:

 

DAR ES SALAAM

 

MAY 1964

Mrs. Oto Ligadu

Mr. J. S. Sackeyfio

Miss Olayinka Burney—Nicol

Madame Jacqueline Martin—Horwitz

Hon. Veterinary Adviser: Dr. Andre
Rosseau ‘

ISOBEL SLATER

DIRECTOR

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE".
22 Ea st 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

February 3 , 1964

Mrs. Isobel Slater
Miss Grace Gerber

79 Wellington Street

Freetown, Sierra Leone

Dear 1501301,

I have been worrying shoot you since hearing the news from Tanganyika.
I hope things are all right with you.

Thanks for sending the reproeuctione of the posters. They are delightful
and they show just the Spirit that I know you are trying to develop.

I sent the newspaper clipping from Toronto to an authoresswm is
connected with the New York more of Education asking her hub in getting
a showing for the posters about which I spoke with her at a dinner party
and found her symathetic. tbwever, I have had no reply. ‘I have mittens,
too, to a secretary at the 13.3. recommended to me as: possibly being irr-
terested in poster displays but have just heard they have no Space at
present. Our note in the Information Report resulted in an inquiry
from a humane society in Florida which wants to show the posters. I
sent on this letter to Joyce Lambert.

About the literature which Joyce feels should be minted and to whi oh
she asked us to contribute, I urged her to work with Dr. Hansen on this
because 1) he is far better at fmd raising than I am and his advice on
this type of literature would be more velueble for that reaeon, 2) he
has large some at his disposal whereas we are in debt and have :30
endowment fund. I do hope that thie works out.

We are working hard in preparation for hearings on the laboratory
animals legislation.

Let us how me you are.

Yours ,

P.S. Your letter of January 39th just arrived. I hope you're having
a successful tour and I'll try to rouse were interest here.

 




\
¢;%Z;muune (éiﬁéaaiamd («jaeuézaté f7/’eﬁééieze
//f ‘6 f a?)
Q? gee 2473 9a., e 3am Zefeeﬂee aw

" 50th January 1964.

ﬂeet..- ISOBEL SLATER an. E. 3.7. 9122...; 6/12;

1"ear Christine,

f It seems ages since I wete te yeu, but I guess you are
se busy tee, that yeu will not have neticeel I e. pray that your greed
werk re. the leberetery animals makes pregress, but I knew it must be a
werrying bu siness altegether.

I‘m hecticelly tryimg te get ell clearee up before leav-
ing en the teur. Seme pretty teugh itineraries eppeer te heve beeu arrea-
gee fer me, se it will be here geing. Still such e teur must be made - it
is long everduo. one can do so much By mail, But a time cemes whee the
peeple went e persenel visit,ene help te ergaeise themselves,se maey cf
the ceuhtries heve'mt get a clue as reéeres Humeme eeucetien or activity,
ef ehy kimﬁ. The Painting Cemtest has eeme a great ameumt to ereuse ie—
terest,but the interest sheule be fellewee up clesely.

I leave an 7th Feb., aha should ee beck eefore the end
ef March. I Gee be cemtacted,if mecessery, ebeut the 20th Feb.,c/e Miss
Grace Gerber, 79,Wellimgtee St., Freetewe,Sierre Leeue, or leter,lst Mar.,
c/e Director, Americee Feeeeuk, Fox, Morecco. In aey case, all essential
Meil will be forwerdee te me from here. it is difficult relyiﬂg cempletely
on e mail arriving at e certeie time,enyuhere, eut we have to take a che-
nce en thet. I shell he mevieg abeut se much,eee net very leng in each
glece. But I hoge te heve e very cempreheﬂsive ecceuut of whet hes,er is
elﬁg dens, end W*et has te he demo, by the time I return. Also,I must
ee same prespectiug as to a likely place in N.Aﬁrice,where I might ossie
ly move HEIA,if thiugs are going to remain uereﬁful here. This les week

 




was pretty ﬁevastating,which@ver way,@me tries t9 vigw it. ' 7 -

‘
I am attaching a capy ﬂf @ur laat yaar'g Balance Shﬁﬁt - ymu éaﬂ gee
h@w we staﬂd far funés,ama I'm afraiﬁ thig taur will make quitg a big hole:
Well, I hwpgiws'll find a way t9 get 3@me cancrato fimamcial help - I'm surg
ws will,3@@ner @r later. _

i expact y®u‘ve hﬁaré frgm J®ycc Lambart. She ESGES ta bé aging a fin,
jﬁb f®r us, ané thg pictures still aging égwm well in Canaaa. Dr hamsem,tsa,
is beiNg very naipful.

all far ﬁﬁw, I'm right ®ut flat!

{6 . with hast wiahes far ywur campaigm
.g’LJL 990 l ané a 3u00®33ful,1964.

Yturs,

 




‘ 1/7/[5 _. él/fﬂv/G 1 1
[id/‘3? C ﬂame “337:3 (y [8/MM
a M twat/434.419 00 “
@009 38336” 721M 955‘?) 00 (M2)

'3»
W23 (£45ng 330 on Qfamdﬁ

- MWMﬁo/{yoo on (gum)
ma Mia/Win WW ~

””3343! H Mi

W wiﬁb
WW4, 330- [lg/1) ‘
w 3“ g£1531M3:)-'/5 (“3:42
ﬁmnﬂfo‘éi; #0 3
974m H ﬂaw «9/034/ 00 '

7/0/7H f lax/£55 10"” ASH
W 5 ”(M énm‘

MAyWJ/(«aﬁaoo/I“

W0? KW W 5315 00 k, («W I
W
N6 "

 




 

ﬁapital account

Eﬂ13u0ﬂ am at 13% January, 19a3
Balanca braught forwarﬂ
fram ﬁeceiyts anﬂ Paymanta
Statamanﬁ

Eea::

£8 3%? ﬁecaipta anﬁ gang

T " :7 r‘. 1g “'1 ' a. " "Mi 9 ”I; ' ' ‘L 7‘ T “I v” I 37.3") “ ”7:": “Y "‘6‘ "5 ”‘
.‘/‘»“;‘_l ‘. ’ to 3 “E ' ,5 S ' O. ;‘- ‘ ‘ ( f 1,:
HLJ‘». : 3.": ..: .4 MEL“- w a 2. A, P 4“ “=- ‘m; ,. g ..

ﬁ‘ 313‘: '3'} igﬁwqﬁ

1 F "1“ E I
a» “xv" 1‘ O 1 9‘]

£ha.l£.§§3.§$ Ehs.43:113‘30

 

W

ﬁtatamantg

:2 aj“ ("'ﬁ‘vm (3
.6"; L.)- k’J-m' A. w
W

a", w
w (A. J. .1

a {Inclugivc
Cnﬁﬁl}

i:33 x31 {2/

friza
‘7"! .0 ' “s "Q a. .
Elxad p§p0bl$

r .

Amount tramsfarred
to current :ccoant

(bigneu) Esmailjee

Adina

\ ""r

£34318 t

ACQGUETLET

Isobel Slater

(3 anea) H ‘

Sebauer ,,

F“ ‘
. g,

*2 L13.) U @131

t: w {1’ . ‘ .
w..‘?§ o 3&3’L’szU-

 

Shs.13,111.3q.

$h$.30,000.00

 

Bhs.43,lll.30
W

 




 

.-. : -..
I w r
. l

,3» L at NJ «”4 “in .‘

 

 

5-} V 3’ 5:,.~-';‘t1

. 1
v _ N , .‘ ‘2‘ v. 1 1 .-
wnrﬁw- wmuﬁmmu

\

w
i

,J O

7‘" , J.. 4-. ,_ I, , , , 1‘: K _ 2} .- . n . ‘ .
01131 *1" ‘ ‘- ‘1 r . 1 ‘ - ‘1;;:(.i U. CT: if}: ._ ‘ " s ' ,; 7, ~ g .- A ’ ;’ 35

#49

[:5 :9 {I} o 1. 5
bbl.50
S3 ‘5’: ) 0 DO

7". __> V‘ I” N .,
”H -' L; 3 V' {.4 ' L . ", "1‘“ 1‘".
;.,. .A lumbycu ,. .. g, ,z, 04;:

u

01 ft:

i“

iﬁﬁﬁaa
,1, . .
g, (-1... i; 0 0‘1)

‘0"

 

 

:7 . 4.0
E, {I o 7 O
3,. Ll 0 7O
:?C.OO

 

 

 

1 V"?
,’ 3.15) 0 3O

 

 

 

 

 




W 6’:ng LL“;  ;- .
5% L 424(1va ﬁ,. ,acu m an 3;; ‘ . _ w ‘

WV
&W‘& "rm $1.5;4—1/L“; I '§ ﬂvég k,

W‘Jv JZLJ tchL—Mw’l

ﬁ-‘K N Rigel“ Cmﬂbn >‘—-¢W

£1.30

 

 

 

 




MW :7 IRA: MWQ” 5M7”, ‘xﬂmaivm mg»- Wm? min-9’, f , A . ~ ,
'Wéa iE< " 'j ,, 276M? (F {3’ ,. ‘- ‘ -
°’ ‘ 9v .

%maﬁa g/Mwﬁbw ﬁéZM/é a W'c

/% a? if .50 9?? .9». 24/3,

9&3 &.4 da dam,

$22-52am;¢0325

ﬂed... .. 11.14 5%... “(1%? a? jeaymyw'éw 5M

23rd January 62.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

Many thanks for your two most interesting letters - I
have been delaying writing,hoping to get some things out of the printers,
Yesterday,I went into town to see how they were getting on,and found to my
disgust they had muddled up several items. Everything needs the most strict
supervision - alas! However,I hope to get something ready this week. I have
several French translations ready now,for printing - that will be funl the
printers won‘t have all the"acents? but French must come next,for the Congo,
Ruanda-Urundi and Madagascar in particular.

I have got another emblem done - cepy attached. This one,
I think better - more descriptive of animals,and a defenceless child,cripple.
I shall be glad to know what you think. The bigger picture,too,is much more
humanitarian in design - the artist who did these,tried to carry out my ideas,
but if only I could have done them myself,they,would have completely pleased
me: I'll have to step try to be a“perfectionist1 it does'nt work in Africa -
only a sure source of hea aches.

Re. your letter of 9th January. I am very interested to
hear about the study group coming to Tanganyika. I might perhaps be able to
discuss my plane for the wild—life sanctuary gardens in Dar es Salaam,with thk
and perhaps some assistance in a practical sense might be forthcoming. Eould ’
you possibly ask Fairfield Osborn to try and ensure that the leader of the

*K: group contacts me,on arrival. They could telephone,67525. Fundikira is still
,"\away in Nigeria,and goodness knows when he will be back - however,i£ it could

m
g? p
_ my?“

be arranged I’d like to meet the group along with Fundikira.

I'm glad to think that there might be some changes for
the better as regards the housing of the Zoo animals, and I do hOpe you might
be successful in getting sand laid on for the elephants. This all,worried me
a lot.

Yes,indeed Dr Grzimek is very pepular here,and I had
hoped to see him on his next visit. He comes faitly often. He would make a
useful patron,as you rightly suggest, as far as the wild-life side is con-
cerned. I have a letter ready to go to Dr Schweitzer,and have been heping
to get some French translation of certain printed items ready to go along with
it.

I must say,your Christmas card illustration is charming,
however,I would hate to worry you over illustrations: but your talent must
surely be a bit wasted - rather like my music and allied subjectst if you do
not produce regular pictures. But ‘W 6/0» fa , 5am» .' ,v

I have not got to the stage in Heia,when I can get
groups of women interested. In Tanganyika,yes, I had many women working for
the RSPCA, and it should be easy enough to interest women in other African
countries,once the first contacts are established. I will certainly bear this
in mind. I may be able to get the EurOpean women contacts I have in Rhodesia, '
Uganda,Congo and Ruanda-Urundi,interested in gathering in the African women,
but it will all take time. These countries are so unsettled,politically,that
it will take a very determined effort to establish humane education on a
useful basis. It can he ﬂnn9-but gradually. In so many African countries,as

I

 




2..

yet,  the women have very  111115 say 1n any thing,éue to religious and tribal
customs - still they Will become free,so0ner or later.. » A

Letter,15th Ja nuarye Don t worry about Merbwit - I think he is ah'
little' crazy! I certainly don” t intend to get involved with any of his
so~cal led schemes. I t old him plainly in a letter the other day that I was
much toox busy to find time for anything which was net definite,and of “
practical use,and further, if he had any useful preposition to put for - .
ward he oculd deal with the Ministry concerned direct. That should settle .

» him. Personally,I think he has some schemes in mind, to bring profit to
‘ .himself and his associates. I may be wronging him, but when peOple talk
, and never arrive at any deCision, nor show any signsof giving the help so
 much required - it seems to he,something is wrong. .

1 Now,I must try and explain about the sentence which has worried
you,i. e. Ignorance,Poverty and disease. I should have explained this be—
fore — please forgive me. You are perfectly right to mention the matter -
and you are perfectly right in your comments, but, there is a difference,
and such a d1fference,between these three evils as known in civilised and
developed countries of the world, and their meaning in these primitive,.

, undevelo ed places - far from civilisation. You and I,can be ignorant
bin many hings, but we can, if we feel like it, soon put that right, hoWuver
in these African countries,ignorance is a natural state,poverty and diSease'
.also. Accepted as the natural way of life. (I have attached a special note
on this.) The battle cry today,1n Africa, is the combat in progress a.ga1ns
ignorance,poverty and disease-- therefore an organisation based on human-

. itarian grounds, would be expected to help encourage the people to rise »

cabove these evilsx of living,which they were born into the world with.And
uni; through humane education , a great deal can be dene to help eradicate

‘these evils, for through their accepted sense, cruelty and suffering a bou- ,
nds, both to animals as well as the humans themselves. '

When I tell you, that often on as faris I have been appalled at
the deplorable conditions under which so many AfriCans live, you can per- 1
haps understand why I feel so strongly about it. Poor creatures,sub-human, '
little better than animals, with no idea in the world, that there is any ot—
her way to live. In Tanganyika there is a special and very determined
reffort being made by the new regime, to eradicate these evils,and there is
. no doubt about it,id living conditions don t improve, and quickly,drastic-
action will be taken. Other African countries are not so fortunate,as .
yet, but it must com o, a complete change in primitive conditions.

The printed material referred too, of course, is naturaiig only.

for u ndeveloped countries - certainly not for distribution among e ight-g

.ened people. I hepe this explanation makes you happier — in any case
it won't be necessary to mention these evils in other literature. , =

" I am so grateful to you, for all your  help,and so constructive
fat that. Ones I can get enough funds for current expenditure, I will be able
to see the way more clearly,for large—scale printing,etc., - printing runs
aWay with so much cash. And printed matter will be the whole life-line  of

. this Institute - thatIand mailing.

. - It is indeed a great worry  sbout my eye ~ I must  try and
, save it a bit, until I know what can be done - fortunately, I can do a let,
Walmost blindfold' I mean to try and get some help with typing, but it H
.'means paying out probably,SOO/- to 600/— per month for part-time help. I a
Vcwill go On as long as I can without regular help,and just get any special
lot of stuff done as it comes up. That won 't cost so much. I ha.ve a French
.girl doing translations on a part-time basis only, will get the other lan-‘
guages done the same way. I don't want to set up an Office yet awhile,as

 




; a.

'that will start all thebothers of offioe management all over again’~,and~
,vI don‘t want anotherRSPCA: I manage everything at home,for the'preSent.‘
. and will try to carry on in this way as long as convenient. ' "

"_ . yFrankly,I donFt know what is the best thing to do about my eyes~-'
it is awful not having an eye specialist here — the medical services have ‘
.gone down do lorably. I Will have to go overseas,I'm afraid; but it's not
apossible»ati he moment ~ in any case,I understand that an operation cannot
be perfbrmed until the cataract is ready. It's awfully worrying.not knowing.
In any case,the whole political situation in Tanganyika has"blown up"this
‘last two weeks or so - you may have heard? A number of very reputable .v.
,EurOpeans-were suddenly Served with deportation orders - bust like that —,
pno trial or anything — on-the charge that they had insulted.Africans!_ We .
'haveﬂall been stunned,and naturally,not a little alarmed. Particularly
pe0ple in private professions like my husband,feel cause for disquiet -,
having put everything into the country,what will be the outcome if losses
:will have to be cut,and another future considered. Thesepeople who have- ,
received deportation orders,have considerable financial interests in the cone
ntry,and will lose all - not even been given time to settle their affairs -=
a week's notice to quit. Too harsh,is the verdict. Now,the next stagger~
ing news is, that Prime Minister Nyerere has resigned,as from today! a new -
P.M. has been sworn in, and the whole Cabinet reshuffled. Nyerere has broads
cast that any Eur0pean who insults an African will be Ordered out: well,
it's all very disquieting - it Seems the Africans are just looking for a‘
'chance to say they‘ve been insulted,when actually it is quite untrue. ’

a You will be horrkgied to hear that Shiekh Abedi was one of the
Africans involved in theﬂincident - so stupid - that has meant the deport-
ation of a very respectable,and well—liked hotelier.. There was nothing in
the incident at all egat least not by EurOpean standards - yet it was taken
as insulting an African's dignity: . I think Abedi has shown himself in a

very poor light indeed. I’ve written him off'-ad'iannj~{aru2 lease«i:1

”This is all a complete mystery to us - what has caused the sudden,.
and drastic turn-about face. ”We have all been so friendly and co-operative,
and never hindered in any way,Tanganyika's march toWards Independence a only
encounaged,and helped. This has all brought about another crop of resiga
natio s from the few European civil servants left — so what the future holds
for t' se of us,mere private individuals, goodness only knows? You can .
guess by.this,that it won't be easyifor me to go overseaslobout my eye,when'
financially,'we may have to’pull up expenditure as a precautionary measure:

, ‘Well,I suppose it’s no use worrfzsnduly v I don't think for one'
moment,my husband or I,wou1d find ourselves on the ”white list",as they call«
it -‘we have both done a great deal for the country,and have many friends ~

.in the "high places",if that counts at'alli Still, it's all a bit of a shock:

" Please.don't use the foregoing information in press,or anything '
~like that ~ I might well,get the axe: * ‘ ' ~

'» ry-. vHOwever,nOne ofthis will make any difference to the Institute -
it's something-to be carried on from anywhere, should it overcome tthhat.

. I.am taking the great liberty of sending per separate cover,two
short African stories for children, and if you could possibly find any way
of placing them,I'd be terribly grateful. I have so many stories I ying
around, and feel,at this time,if I could turn a few intocash,it would be
very useful. One of the stories has_illustrations attaChed ~ illustrations
for the other,I hope to have done,and will send on a little later. I have
a feeling that these African tales might interest Ameriban children at a time
when Africa is of interest to overseas countries, but oddly enough,not_top ' -

the U.K.! ~ Thank 'ou.most dee l . . “'~ '
..y in}, M Sine

imam new W M. rowan

{1.5% 311.0, Aguaﬁﬁ.

1M _._._..._.

.35”

in.

1‘" A x‘ y ~' , ' ~ _ i .,:‘-4 o

A -r'.v~:.'"’. , ' ‘ t~.‘_.".u.‘r...‘_.'

‘ - V ‘ .7 l " .. ‘v V. 7- - ., , . _ K ‘ '. O t ,- ~ 3: .

a f 7 ' ~ ‘"' A? " "~41: ., ‘ «. =r 73w“.- - ‘ is .9

1 '? ‘ _ 7,. 5-: I; ’_..,‘., ' 'ﬂ: “‘7 . 1 f“._,._-:f. jig ‘.,:, '::‘ ‘1 1 newer?! 3:3“,

{M ' ,. r ‘ -. ~. '~ —- ,'°-;,:',.‘ 1:12 z , « ’ ‘- .v: - . - - . V : ~> =V
., . 3 . '3 ’E’wzr‘ ‘ - c, 1.2: _. -,“A:.L-’ . - 53.7.1. 7’.’,.“"‘i‘- ':~:..'x 1- "5:"7 1, «4 ,...; V3352 '

q

 




’Ignorence,Poverty &  Disease'~ the evils as
affecting millions of the primit ive and un-

{leeve lo ped peeple of Africa.

Ignorance: l Inability of the peeple to undo rstand what ordinary l1v1ng
- r“, conditions mean - the conditions of civilisation.

ulnability to underStand the care of babies and young children.
Inability to understand that livestock should not be kept in
the same living space as human beings, 1. or not kept in huts.
Inability to understand the simplest implication of law and
order.y In short, inab11ity to live like human beings. These
people have no conception of civilisation in its most simple.
sense.

Poverty: » Inability of the eople. to understand that poverty could be
. removed by some a ﬁﬁication of labour as regards the working
- of their smallshambas - the care of any livestock they may
have, or going out to work at the many jobs offering ~ on the
roads,railways,plantations,etc. Poverty is just accepted'— the
.people know nothing else - they are born lazy - spending their
lives lying around in rags, or nothing at all, under the shade
of trees. Result of this form of ignorance,1s starvation -
no food - no money. Dire poverty of a kind unknown in the civ-

ilised world.

Disease: » ,Again,inability to understand the need for the simplest forms
of hygiene ~ content to live in filthy,diseas-ridden, broken
down mud huts. Inability to feed children properly - result,
. one child in five dies from malnutrition. Inability to under-
~ stand the need for protection against malaria,blackwater,elephan
+ itsJLKeﬁgbh ,titis, V. D., T .B. and scores of other diseases brought about
. " by living in filth, drinking sta nant water, and washing in
same,(when they do wash, if ever‘ﬁI All this is accepted as
the way of life of these people. hey know nothing else.

The above evils must be removed if the people of.the undeveloped
countries of Africa ,hbpe to survive. DevelOpment too, in these countries'
“would be out of the Question until the people - and there are millions —
receive some form of edubation directed towards awakening the senses as
to the need for better living. It is in this sphere that humane education
can be of the most practical  use,and of inestkmueaﬁle value.

X 1’ B. W CWV we» "LAaL; W1... 81.»: W.

 




 

HUMANE EDUCATION .v
INSTITUT'E -'
OF AFRICA

 

 

 

 

\\ i§§ figs? /// ,,, ///’

 




With the musical fare.

. 3‘] _ LIBRARY T0 EXHIBIT combines an al fresco lunch
3 * 'AFRICAN’S POSTERS Thursday, which is opera day.

will offer Purcell’s “Dido and 2

f -‘ Posters by school children of $33,201,§n§n§t;a§i§i§§§ht 2:
many African nations will be Friday will be Schumann’s song

[on exhibition from tomorrow CYCIS, V~“Frauenliebe und Leben.”
through Aug. 283.1: the Hudson \
Park Branch of. the New York
Public Library, 10. Seventh Ave- .
:an South. , . _ ‘
The -collectiOn, culled from I
~more "than 900 entries submit- ‘
ited last. year in an All-Africa
f'Pt‘wster Painting Contest 5 for;
‘ students, will be sent ongtour
, of other cities in this country

and in‘ Canada after the library“

showing.
The contest ‘was sponsored by I
.~ the Humane Education 'Insti-;
tute in Danes-Salaam; Tanga-f
nyka, which encourages conser-
'--v’ation and care and compassion
for all' living things among
{young Africans. The posters reg
'fl’ect the ,iinstitute’s concern. For'
example, one shows .a forester
gracing a trapped bear and an-J
other a woman bandaging. the)
paw of a. wounded lion.

-Wanda Landowska, perform-
iing'works of Each, will be a
feature of’ tomorrow’s outdoor
recorded concert in Bryant
4 'Park. 3-,;T-he -M-onda ”etc-Friday;

' uoontogZ-RM; summertime pro-
grams 'haV‘e' won a devoted
. following which, in many Cases,

 




HUMANE EDUCATION
INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

Box 2473, Dar—es-Salaam,
TANZANIA, EAST AFRICA

PATRONS AND SPONSORS:

Alhaji the Rt. Hon. Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa,
P.C., K.B.E., C.B.E., O.B.E., LL.D., M.P.
(Nigeria)

Dr. Albert Schweitzer (Gabon)

H. E. Cmdr. Alexander Desta, Imperial Ethiopian
Navy (Ethiopia)

George Ivan Smith, Esq. (United Nations)

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming (N.B., Canada)

Dr. Eric H. Hansen (Boston, USA.)

Director and Founder of the Institute:
Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

AIMS OF THE INSTITUTE: To teach and
propagate ideas of conservation, compassion
and care for all living things—respect for all
life—among the rising generation in Africa.
The Institute is a voluntary, non-profit organiza-
tion, aiming through its programs to unite
young people all over Africa in worthwhile
endeavour.

DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM: Mrs. Isobel
Slater has lived for 35 years in Africa. She
formerly founded and organized the Tanganyika
R.S.P.C.A., and for this work she received a
decoration from H.M. Queen Elizabeth II.

 




REASONS FOR FORMING AN ALL—AFRICA
INSTITUTE: Mrs. Slater, after many years’
work in Africa, saw that the bringing of pro-
secutions for cruelty, and the work of patrolling
and animal control, was not the whole answer
to the problem of educating young Africans to
a more responsible and compassionate attitude
towards their fellow human beings, as well as
the lesser creatures. In response to many
requests, she therefore undertook this major
educational effort, planning it on a continent-
wide basis.

The program of the Humane Education Institute
of Africa includes promotional enterprises,
travelling and personal visits to needy areas, the
provision of water-holes, and shelters for
abandoned animals, assistance in securing (and
teaching the care of) domestic animals to help
raise nutrition standards, lectures to schoOls,
the preparation of educational literature (in
several languages), the distribution of literature
and pictorial matter, and the holding of an
annual contest for young people all over Africa.

HUMANE ACTION GROUPS: Mrs. Slater
encourages the formation of “Humane Action
Groups”, as the best means of uniting young
humanitarians all over Africa. In group activity,
the young peoples’ interest and attention can be
held, while they receive humane education and
see its practical application.

ANNUAL CONTEST: The Institute’s annual
Poster Painting Contest, which is open to school-
children and older students everywhere in
Africa, is rapidly assuming large and significant
proportions. Last year some 2,000 entries were
received, from Tanzania, Zanzibar and Pemba,

Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, Ethiopia, Malawi, Ivory
Coast, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Algeria. The
enterprise is favourably viewed by Ministries of"
Education, Culture and Fine Arts of many
African States. The Exhibition, after going on.
display in Dar-es-Salaam, is shipped to North
America, where it is shown in Canada, Boston
and New York. The theme of the Contest——
“Humane Actions” —— kindness to fellow human-
beings, as well as animals —— “Reverence for all
Life”— aptly expresses the philosophy of one
of the Institute’s most honoured patrons, Dr.
Albert Schweitzer.

This popular and widely-known Contest has as
its chief aim the promotion of humane thinking
and action among young Africans towards all
living creatures, and guidance for their naturally
compassionate instincts. But it is intended also
as a means of bringing urgently needed financial
assistance from friends overseas to the Institute.
The pictures are in fact an urgent and com—
pelling message from the young people of Africa
today, as their countries emerge into independ-
ence.

Many of the young contestants have great
artistic ability, and they appeal to the Institute
for help in obtaining the means to study art
abroad. Here again, there is an urgent need for
funds, if these talented young people —— who are
also humanitarians—are to receive adequate
encouragement. The Vivid simplicity and
realism of the humane ideas expressed in these
colourful paintings is the best testimony of all
that the programs of the Humane Education
Institute of Africa are registering with the young
folk, and are progressively bearing fruit.

 




SUPPORT NEEDED: Won't you please help
forward the valuable work of the Institute, by
making a donation to their funds? They need
help and encouragement from overseas, if their
programs are to be widespread and meaningful.
Any support you can give will be sincerely
appreciated.

ADVISORY BOARD:

Chairman: Chief A. S. Fundikira (Tanzania)

Mrs. C. Stevens (U.S.A.)

Mrs. J. Lambert (Canada)

Mrs. L. Flaks (Natal)

Mr. G. Mgombe (Tanzania)

Chief Humbi Ziota (Tanzania)

Mrs. O. Ligadu (Nigeria)

Miss G. Gerber (Sierra Leone)

Mr. J. W. Sackeyfio (Ghana)

Miss Olayinka Burney-Nieol (Sierra Leone)
Madama J. Martin-Horwitz (Algeria)

Hon. Veterinary Advisor: Dr. Andre Rousseau
(Morocco)

Hon. Treasurer: Dr. Irmgard Gebauer (Tanzania)

DONATIONS: Please mail to——-

Humane Education Institute of Africa, Box 2473,
Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, East Africa.

or to: Mrs. Roger Stevens, Animal Welfare
Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N.Y.,
USA; or to: Mrs. R. S. Lambert, 52 Killdeer
Crescent, Toronto 17, Ontario, Canada.

“True goodness requires us to respect
the lives of all creatures.”
—Dr. Albert Schweitzer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

/RSPCA essays

C a s e o E l s -

Continued from Page4 shot for he pleasure of

h
hermits even have the nerve S gig

_ , have their families
and courage 1:0 pat them. T1113 with their young ones unable
certainly g1ves the ev1dence to .ﬂy awaiting eagerly for
that the “same heart beats 1.11 their ’parents to return to'
every..soul. I’lef kindness is bring them something to eat.
What we offer to others, 1t. And when their‘ parents do
“ﬁll ldbe k1ndness that we , not return, how desperate
S gut exlpect hm return they become, audit is not sur-
U W y S 0111d we go to prising if they starve to death.
the Himalayas for an illustra- By shooting the‘ parent bird,
t1on 0f kindness to Wltd the people concerned are in-
animals and its fruitful conse- directly responsible for the
quence? We. have the case Of death of the young ones and
Elsa, the honess that. was consequently they ruin the
kept as a .pet 111 the house Of harmony with which the
a game ranger in Kenya parent birds and the young
This lioness gained the con- ones lived in their'nests. If
ﬁdence of its master and mis- people must shoot they
tress to such an extent that should shoot at an empty can
1t even shared their beds. arranged on a post but to
, shoot at a living target is in-
Not born afraid deed cruel.

Once it disappeared in the _ . .
bush and did not return for Wlnd of kilndness
guiteta REF timet. pile morn; Nevertheless a wind of
1ng,. o e as oms men 0 . ’ . .
all, it returned with its cubs $31113? igwgﬂgs cegggalsanls
to Show them to its human . . t .
friends! If wild ‘ creatures Egg: 1:332; fggeShgngWt 5112131351:
gagédinha‘ﬁmfgn mggglgsfo?£§£, as far as anirr317al welfare is

- surely domestic animals, if concerned. It 15 "now for the
wee Wax... mar
come a mem er 0 e amiy. . 1 , .. .
bIt followsdthat no animal is ¥£5H:E%VVOI theeV1l ulctggfsguegrocai

orn fr 1 f m n. N . ‘ .
animal abya natuie hatis manO, wh1ch IS ”to break the arti—
for it is fear that breeds hate. ﬁc1ally_bu1lt barrier in feehng
There is in wildlife a feeling between human beings and
that m1ght turn 1nto love and Zﬁdmfasitfnd C ange 1t t0 love
faith.

In addition to domestic A It 15 0bV1011S that it Will
animals becoming friends of paelheetrtzialtlee tie: dgpthmet‘ssﬁge to
man, they have made a repu- 0 uman
tation for faithfulness and, in heeitegges’tggtt slertneusd hope; anﬁ
many cases, their loyalty 0 ay 1 W1
surpasses human loyalty. We 3113 “hat we shall live happily

. Would not be surprised to an armoniously with the
hear of a dog dying for its other creations of God.
master but man dying far _
man is a rare occurrence. /}

Tihe hare-hunt

There are scores of examples
of cruelty shown to animals
_ only for human pleasure, both
* in the past and present. One
is the hare-hunt. In this hunt,
the horseman with a pair of
hounds chases hares and at
the given signal the eager
hounds tear the little living
thing to pieces with their
claws. The man then rejoices ‘
at his “feat”. It is not for.
meat that he killed the little
thing, but purely to derive
some pleasure when seeing‘
the animal torn to pieces by
his hounds. 1;

It is indeed surprising that
man,‘with all his logic, can-
not understand the evil of it.

Yet another example of
cruelty is making two bulls,
dogs or any other animals,
ﬁght each other and betting
of them. What a great cruelty
it is to gamble on living
things and then rejoice in
seeing one animal being torn-
down by the other! Unfortu-
nately, to man’s greedy sight,
this is all fair.

 

 

Birds should not in any way
be excluded from the category
of animals. They too are the
dumb creations of God and
should be treated kindly. Even
to- these birds who do no,
harm to human beings, t
cruelty is shown for they are e

 

Starve to death 3
C
t
S

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

“‘ return.”

. human- beings

1
l
i
l

l

1‘.
i

.such

' conditions '

, meat. ~ '

 

Kindness to animals

 

 

c0515

. Tl'll  

 

HEN the world was created animals as well as man we1e put in it to share the
. pleasure equally. Although it is certain that man was told by Providence to con-.
trol all other creatures, this does not mean that man was told to ill-treat them. Animals, .

like men, have feelings.
animals than to us.

Firstly we must learn to be
kind to the animals we keep
at heme. Children are often
cruel to animals. A child
drags a cat or a dog much
against its will.
we adults, to see that children
do not, treat animals like that,
otherwise they will have an
idea that it is all right to
treat the animals as brutally
as they can .

Mischievous boys

Sometimes a boy pelts frogs
in the water with pieces of
Stones, and sometimes he
beats a cow or a goat with a
stick. Even donkeys and
horses are not spared by
mischieVous boys. 'No doubt,
they do so out of fun but
what is play to them is tor-
ture to dumb animals.

Children should,
be taught to show kindness to
them. This is very important,
for children are easily taught
and once the idea of being
kind is put into their heads
they will not forget, it. ,
'Even adults are cruel to
animals. Horses, mules and
donkeys are treated cruelly
by men. Sometimes they are
over-burdened and under-
nourished. Even when they
are not well, they are forced
to work. ‘ As if this were not
enough, the-y are mercilessly
beaten. Do we not starve the
calf to get more milk from
the cow? In this case, men
are inconsiderate.

In great heart

We all know that we can-
not work properly‘ when we
are hungry or tired. Yet we
force the animals to work in
conditions. Again, we
make them work in terrible
for example, in
great heat or in torrid rain.

What we will not want to
do because the conditions do
not allow, we should not force

, the mute creature to do.

There are others who kill
animals to get ﬁe’sh. This is
all right for we have some-
times to. depend on animals’
But What is
hunting for sport.

They feel pain as we feel it.
Hence we must be kind to animals.

It is our duty,

therefore, i

. knowing, , .
All because we had been cruel

bad is *
Although 1

it is a pleasure to s, it is
a cruel play with theu life of
innocent and harmless ani‘
mals like. the deer and the

rabbit. _ .
. Another very dreadful :deed
of grass and

is the burning

bushes, where wild animals
live. ‘8}; doing this we bring
not onlyldisaster to ourselves,
but we take away-the pro—
perty of. the‘ animals-their

 

' By MARIA KIWE—
LU, of Tabora 'Girls’
School, Tabora, who
won. ﬁrst prize for in-
dividual entries in the
'R.S.P.C.A.‘ annual ter; -
riterial eSS1ay icompeti-
tion.

 

 

 

homes and their food. Some
die in the ﬁre, some starve,
some wander about. into their
enemies’ places and, without
meet their death.

to them. Really we should
think twice before we throw
a cigarette in the grass along
the roads as we pass by.

Cannot plead ,

Cruelty to animals is more
wicked than cruelty to human
beings, for the latter can
protest while the former can-
not. They are dumb, helpless
creatures and they cannot
plead for themselves.

If the master ill-treats his
servant, he may leave the job
and may go somewhere else,
but what can a poor creature
do?

Has anybody received a
donkey from his neighbour
which came to ask for a job?
Nobody, because Nature has
not been so kind to them that
they are able to do every-
thing as we do.

;If the servant is unwell he '

may refuse to work, but the
dumb creature has no tongue
to plead its cause. It has to

‘of a man who was imprisoned

A pin—prick is no less painful to

work hard

in pitia’ble con- l
ditions.

In Spite of the fact that wel

understand animals We still
ma} (e them work, instead of;
ﬁnding out what is Wrong and
trying to help them 2

Duty to be kind

If you beat your servant
severely he may go to a court
of law, but your cow cannot
take any step against you.
Hence it is the duty of every
human being to be kind to-
wards animals.

The Tanganyika ‘- Govern-
ment has'passed a law against
cruelty to animals. Anyone
who is found treating an
animal with cruelty is punish-
ed by a court of law. I know

for three months because he
cut off the front legs of a eat.
What a wicked thing to do! .

Then the Government has
set up parks and reserves
where animals can live happi-
1y, adapting themselves to
nature. So it is our duty to
see that all these laws are
kept in order to protect these
animals.

A great virtue

Kindness is a great Virtue
and it costs nothing. Then
Why should we be misers in
being kind towards animals?
God will be more pleased by
our kind acts towards animals
than by our prayers. For the
poet has rightly said:

.“He prayeth best
loveth well

“Both man and bird and
beast”.'

So let .us
animals,
for their lives won our kihd-;
ness and treatment to them.1
Kindness costing nothing and:
taking no time, let us give it?
to the. poor dumb creatures.

When animals misbehave,
just as we do, sometimes let
us forgive them and try to
teach them the good way to
follow. We, being reasonable
creatures, must try to under-

who

 

remember that 1

stand them and do our best
t0 hem” tllmlws- ..«r“~c~.-'Is§-m,s* WW .

 

 

being dumb, depend.

 

 

.. refuge and the
human
course, they pay

l
.‘—_ ¢x¢+w~'1 .952”. .

O-VE animals and ani-
mals will love you in
That is what a
naturalist has said. “Love”
is the only secret . word
which links human beings
with the dumb creations of
God.

This little wOrd of one
syllable is. the key towards
better relation between ani-
mals and human beings and
it is because the signiﬁcance
of this important word is not
understood that animals and
human beings repel and keep
apart.

Let us, therefore, see why
and how this word stands as
a bridge between the so-called
“civilised beings” and dumb
animals. It is generally be-
lieved, with reasons, that
are the best

 

By S'AJAD‘ M. JAN-
MOHAMED, of th e
Government I in d i a n
Secondary School, Dar
es Salaam, w h 0 was
awarded second prize.

 

 

 

creations of God and that they
are given the more developed
brain.

Position abused ‘

Thinking themselves super1or A
to all the other creatures, man

abused his position and in-
stead of becoming kind to
them, he forgot all his duties
and despiSed them.

We should bear in mind
that it is kindness that breeds
love, faith and all the deriva-
tivesof virtue. It ,is therefore
kindness that we should sow
in order to reap the faith and
trust of others.

George Elliot has very
rightly said that animals
could be the most agreeable
friends because neither do
they.~ask any question nor
pass any criticism. It is in
deed a pity that man denied
them the only thing they ex-
pect of human beings.

Mad dogs .
Animals have left
natural environment, seeking
company of
And, of
heavily for
things they are
Dogs can lead

beings.

the simple
provided with

the blind better thaon man and-
“are better at guarding people’s

properties than armed police—

" their '

.4 w
“1...... “Ma—tar 4‘: "

men because they can “smell”
danger even as it approaches.

These words might seem
futile to some ears, but we

"have the case of the “Epide—

mic of mad dogs” in England
before us to prove them. The
fear of dogs (mad as they
called them) was so great
that any dog seen on the road

was shot without ﬁrst proving ~

it to be mad. Dogs beaten
mercilessly was a common
sight during that time when

the, cruelty to these innocent

creatures reached its climax
and this culminated in hatred

and fear for one another.

It took England many years
to heal the wounds of hatred
and it is only recently that

people have realised that dogs‘

could be the best friends of
man.

. Pack animals

Just as human beings feel a

the sensation of pleasure and
pain, cold and heat, having
the desire for eating, drinking,
resting and craving for kind-
ness, animals are also sensi-
tive to all these qualities.
The only snag hindering the

East Africa. It is indeed a
pride and privilege for. East
Africa to have a variety of
wild game dwelling in' the
luxuriant grassland. A strik-
ing example is the Ngorongoro
Crater where, sealed off by
walls nearly half a mile high,
an unbelievable conglomera-
tion of beasts has lived since
prehistoric times.

Unfortunately these lovely
creatures of nature are threat-
ened by the destructive hands
of human beings. The beauti-
ful zebras,‘ wildebeests and
rhinos that graze peacefully
without harming human be-
ings are pursued and killed
for the sake of triﬁes such as
horns, tusks, and tails.

But that is not. all.
poor creatures are tortured to
death slowly and painfully by
poisoned arrows. It is not
rare to see the noble elephant
uprooti‘ng trees and stamping

The ‘

the ground with its h 1
because a cruel
left it with the po 1
arrow still. sticking». haroﬁ
body. It - is obvious” 1
animals will charge at hi. >,
beings because they have ’

cruelly treated.

Free (fro-1r; fear

hard to believe ‘ that , '
hermits dwelling on the slopes -1
of the Himalayas make
friends with normally vicious .
animals such as tigers and
lynx.
expectedly approach

them the hermits dO'

would do in such
circumstance.

Instead they stand still,

freeing their hearts from. fear

and harm for others with a...
look of kindness in their eyes.
and when animals nearthem,
surprisingly the animal. be? ,
comes meek and gentle. These,
Continued on Page 5

 

 

 

 

enjoyment of these qualities

is that they are speechless and ‘

cannot express their feelings.
Animals such as asses

and it is fair 1’

harness them to human bene-
But they should be made 1

ﬁt.
to work under healthy condi-
tions and they should be
given enough to consume, rest
between work, and a good
place to sleep. ,

The most important of all is
that they should not be over-
worked. Even machines would
not work from morning to
evening without providing
them with fuel, oil and other
essentials. Why should the
animals, it they are not well
treated?

When animals can 'no longer
bear the pain, the way they
express their feelings (as they
cannot with speech) is by
making sounds of various
kinds and the possible alter-

native to making a noise is to .

give an active, possibly dange-
rous, response.

E Africa example

However, human beings are
so greedy of material gain
that they overlook the cruelty
done in acquiring those gains:
We have a lively example of
cruelty shown to animals in

 

 

W

oxen‘

 

 

7 pr if/Vv/i

 

 

When these animals un-'
"them. .
with sure intention of killing.
not ‘5 ‘ 1., _
trigger off their guns as We
a critical] 7'.




s» 1 ¢

ga‘:f;ry 6/25/6h

‘3 {3; "African Schoolchildren's Poster Art" release sent to:
all Manhattan community papers
Hegro press & radio
all metropolitan dailies, incl. city, art and educ. eds.
art magazines, art education magazines;
Parents Magazine; Scholastics magazines:
Christian Science Monitor; Woman's Wear Daily:
‘Woman's Day; AF; UPI; Cue; New Yorker- Around the Town;
‘UN Monthly Directory; Voice of America andUSIA¢

African missions (those representing participants)

metropolitan radio stations; Teleguide;
African American Institute

Africa Service Institute ,

American Society for African Culture

lnternational House; International Midtown Center;
International League of N.Y}; Greenwich House;
Mills College, N.Y.U. School of Education;
Teahcers College, Columbia University

Hospitality *nformation Dervice

 




Cmmmaata rwamrﬁa& ﬁg ﬁﬁmﬁ 3f tum wﬁsitﬂrg ta ﬁha agwibitiwm af’Afriaanwhilﬁram‘a
gaﬁtmr «~33 ﬁaﬁggwrﬁﬁ'hy t&w ﬁwmama ﬁdwaatian Enaﬁiiuﬁa mf afriaa, &ald~£¥am

my 33’, 196333 m 3333321333 22:63,, 1-9-6335

aﬁ 3&3 ﬁudxaa $ark'ﬁvamah a? €h@:%$w gawk Fablia

i§%x&§y§ gy=arwmmgamamt o£-%h@ Aaimal ﬁﬁlfﬁra Emﬁﬁitutag

ﬁanta Parymﬁﬁvaﬁ
hﬁ ﬁarmima ﬁﬁﬁ
E&W'Eﬁwk ﬁiﬁy

. f‘ ‘= . ‘ 3 Q -.
2.} am 3333"]

E's!” ‘ ”i ‘
336.33%? 3’: z?

ﬁr$3 ﬁg aaﬁawug
*i‘héﬁ 3333119333

3.3%? m £33.32 533333
ﬂaw fﬁrk 3&3?

33% mz‘zmurd Zéamd
3333;533:3333 35mm“
Eambriaﬁﬁ 3¢ﬁ £a§33

memaﬁmxmwm

. 45' : “My" ,‘ .-:' ~ “1
33-3573 (n 32331 “if 2: i: 5 1-3:?
ﬁaW'Eﬁwk Ciﬁv

Mum 3322341313

,5? 3 vi; . 3 5%,: .4”?
am MEI’ﬁ m. - £7,325”

ﬁrag QaYmaii Lﬁﬁﬁf

;. Y . 3 ‘3'!" ‘15:! 4. ‘3 '- r ‘ I. j" a": .

2 ﬁﬁﬁt $M§$ ﬁt» gmﬁﬁ
a A 2-!" ..' ‘ 'Ja‘ﬂ' -

EiiLi: i€£3E3£5x132333933
ﬁﬁ'ﬁayﬁan 3&3
ﬁaw'fgrk ﬁiﬁy

ﬁla?a'iaiaﬁw”
1% £6. Lukﬁﬁa Flam&
KQW'EQrk ﬁity

,Camnia Rayge
11$ ﬁliwﬁmm ﬁkg
39w Eﬂrk ﬁiﬁy

“$hank'ywm far allawing a3 ﬁa waﬁ ﬁhi$
Wﬁﬁﬂﬁrfﬁl $xhibiﬁian3“

”E’va navar seam ﬁayﬁhing mara raﬂraatimnal
and faaainating thaw thiﬁ display'raamﬁg

afhankfyﬁﬁ far thig aﬁgglmtﬁlg'ﬁﬁlightfﬂl
“ﬁlib‘i‘ﬁi m 3 325

um»

W? rmmwmata, tﬁﬂghiﬁg in Tanganyika any,
15 gaing ﬁﬁ bﬁ d9lighﬁaﬁ ta baa? of this
aﬁﬁhﬁ: W

ﬁﬁxmmilamt? (an Amariaam figurativa 3&intar}

”Van? gmﬁﬁﬁ

” Mar abléséa

“Eataragting insights inta tha warld a3 smﬁn
ﬁ? ﬁhaaﬁ yuang artiats.”

wyh$ gharm and tha atrcngth mi thaaa ra£?9$h$m%
paintinga maﬁa Gag faal aanfﬁdanﬁ that the
yamng arhiata will 3136 b& humama ta thair
failaw hamana. ‘W‘

”Thank yam“

 




From:
THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY , June 23, 1964
Marion L. Simmons

Chief, Public Relations Office For release: Monday, July 6, 1964
OXford 5-6194

"African Schoolchildren's Poster Art," a new summer exhibition at
the HUDSON PARK BRANCH of The New York Public Library, 10 Seventh Avenue

South, opens Monday, July 6.

More than 100 prize-winning posters painted by children and young

people from.Nigeria, Tanganyika, Sierra Leone, Ghana, Zanzibar, the Ivory
Coast, Nyasaland, Madagascar, Kenya, and Uganda are included in the

show which will remain on view in the Little Gallery of the Greenwich
Village library through August 28.

The posters on display were chosen as the best entries from more
than 900 submitted last year in an All-Africa Poster Painting Contest
for students. In addition to being shown: at the Hudson Park library,
they will be exhibited in cities throughout the United States and Canada.

Mainly in black-anduwhite, the postersshow great diversity in '
style and subject matter, ranging from the naive to the extremely
sophisiticated. All of them deal with some aspect of “humane action." A
forester freeing a trapped bear, a woman bandaging the paw of a wounded
lion, a man feeding mushrooms to tortoises, another man sheltering a
goat and her kid are among the many scenes depicted.

The All-Africa school poster competition, now in its third year, is
Sponsored by the Humane Education Institute in Dar—es-Salaam, Tanganyika.
Founded and directed by Mrs. Isobel Slater, the Institute seeks to
encourage the ideals of conservation, compassion, and care for all living
things among the rising generation in Africa. Dr. Albert Schweitzer is

a patron of the organization.
(more)

 




From:

THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY June 23, 1964
Marion L. Simmons

Chief, Public .Relations Office

OXford 5-6194

The Hudson Park Branch display was arranged with the c00peration
of the Animal Welfare Institute in New‘York° In presenting "African
Schoolchildren“s Poster Art" during July and August, Hudson Park continues
a long-standing practice of showing work by non-professional artists
during the summer months° Throughout the rest of the year the library's

Little Gallery presents monthly shows by professional painters.

”African Schoolchildren“s Poster Art" is open to the public free

of charge, and can be seen on Mondays and Wednesdays until 9 p.m.,

and on Tuesdays} Thursdays, and Fridays until 6 p.m.

 




 

 

PROMOTION OF HUMAN E EDUCATION

H.E.|.A.

 

HUMANE EDUCATION ~.
INSTITUTE
OF AFRICA

 

\\ ./// //, ////

 

—and what it means

 

 

 

 




 

“HEIA, and what it means”

HEIA stands for, “HUMANE EDUCATION INSTI-
TUTE OF AFRICA”.

HEIA is a voluntary and non-proﬁt making organis-
ation established to promote humane education.

The Headquarters of HEIA, at present, is situated at
Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, and is under the direction of
Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., who has been promoting humane
education, which includes animal welfare, for over 20 years
in Africa.

The policy of HEIA is to promote humanitarian princ-
iples in the widest sense. HEIA believes in, “Reve'rence for
life—all life, and Compassion for all Defenceless creatures.”

By its policy HEIA teaches humanity to defencless
creatures—by this is meant that all followers of HEIA’S
teaching creates a moral sense of responsibility and under-
standing of the needs of the humbler creation, the animals.
Through this feeling of humanity, Man, not only learns the
value of kindness to defenceless creatures, but also learns
to appreciate the needs of his fellow-men——all through
kindness and undestanding. A human-being, handicapped
by illness or disesae, unﬁt to work, can too, be classed
amongst defenceless ones—so too, can the aged and inﬁrm,
and little children. The man who can spare time to consider
the needs of the animals, will ﬁnd time and sympathy to
care for defenceless human-beings also. Such men can be
the builders of great nations.

HEIA believes in promoting the care and protection of
animals, whether wild or domesticated, because apart from
Man’s moral duty to protect animals, animals contribute
much wealth to a country. Therefore it is wise for a man, if
he owns domestic animals, to give every care and attention
to their needs—grazing, water and shelter. Also, when
animals are sick, they should not be neglected, but given
the essential veterinary treatment they require.

A man’s wealth may lie in his animals, and with due
regard to their needs an owner can raise his whole stand-
ards .of living—able to give his home and family all that is
requlred to ensure a good and prosperous future. The wise

man knows this, and takes good care of the welfare of his
animals.




Let it be remembered that Man is just as dependent
on lthe humbler creatures of Creation, as they are
on 1m.

There are however, many unfortunate people living in
most countries, who through ignorance, ill—treat and
neglect the animals, but that is not really the fault of those
people—they do not know any better. Such unfortunate
people often neglect and ill-treat children. as well, and this
is very serlous.

Humane Education can help to remove such ignorance,
and replace it with useful knowledge which can benefit the
people concerned, and through them their country. Ignor-
ance, poverty and disease—not any part of the “rights of
man”——must be eradicated completely, if a country and its
people would enjoy the natural beneﬁts which should be
their true and undisputed right.

Many African countries are largely pastoral, therefore
the people belonging to such countries, have a great, and
rich background—the land. To get the best out of the land,
the people must understand the value of good cultivation,
and the even greater value, of ﬁne herds of strong and well-
cared for livestock. All this important teaching can be
found through lessons learned from. HEIA-

Many countries in Africa too, have a rich, natural heri-
tage of Wild Life. These animals also, contribute enorm-
ously to the wealth of the country, and should have every
protection given to them by the people. The wild life of
Africa can almost be said to be, “A World Possession”. If
the people of the countries possessing such. a wealth and
beauty, of Wild Life take little‘interest in the protection
and preservation of the animals, these people are failing in
a humane as well as a moral duty.

ALL POACHIN G AND OTHER ILLEGAL HUNTING
SHOULD BE ERADICATED WITH UTMOST DETER-
MINATION, AND LEGITIMATE HUNTING BE COM-
PLETELY CON TROLLED—ESPECIALLY HUNTING
FOR FOOD.

The Wild Life of Africa it allowed by the people of the
country concerned, to suffer destruction to the point of
extinction, would be a serious loss to the world, and there;
fore a tragedy. The Wild Animals can never be replaced.

 




HEIA believes that through the care and protection of
animals—the humble, speechless, but sentient creatures——
Man unconsciously fosters within himself, that humane
feeling of responsibility towards all humanity. He there-
fore becomes fully awakened to the needs of his fellow-men,
and is able to express his moral sense of responsibility
through intelligent application of sympathetic understand-

ing of the need for tolerance, consideration and justice.

THE WORTH OF MAN IS UNDENIABLY PROVED
BY HIS ATTITUDE TOWARDS ALL DEFENCELESS
CREATURES.

 

HEIA extends a warm invitation to all those who would
participate in the promotion of HUMANITARIAN princ-
iples, to become associated with its activities—activities
designed to better conditions of human understanding.

Students and others concerned for the progressive,
prosperous and contented development of a country, are
earnestly desired to give their co-operation in the pro-
motion of humane teaching.

GROUPS OF HEIA CAN BE FORMED IN ALL
COUNTRIES.

HEIA is non-political, non-racial, and believes in the
unity of all peoples whatever be their creed, in the pro-
motion of humanitarian principles—there being no dividing
line in the pattern of the Great Creator’s plan—ALL have
the same chance to enrich the world with the priceless gift
of Compassion, Understanding, and Reverence for Life.

NB. The generic term ‘Man’ has been used in the
foregoing, but ‘Woman’ too, is no less responsible
for the fulﬁlment of the moral duty towards
those in need—perhaps, even more so, in some
respects, and for the promotion of humanitarian-
ism.

Please write to HEIA for further particulars, and
address to :-—-—

The Director,
Humane Education Institute of Africa,
P.O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika.

(For telegraphic communications, the word “HEIA”,
may be used, followed by the Post Box number, and Dar
es Salaam).

T.S.—-2151

 




ROMOTION or: HUMANE “EDUCATION

/

\/

0% 6M% ﬂgé/Z/ .

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Value of Animals te a Country,
and to the People.

 

Animals of the Field.

Have you ever thought seriously of the value
of domestic animals to a country, and to the
people who own them? Livestock: -GOWS,
OXEN, SHEEP, GOATS, MULES, CAMELS,
DONKEYS, and the humble FOWL? All of
these are of great value. As well as bringing in

money to an owner, think of the tremendous

use they are. They provide food —-—- meat and.

milk, the skins are valuable for a variety of
purposes such as for making shoes and articles
of clothing —— then, they work for their owners,
drawing ploughs and carrying loads. The eggs
from fowls provide one of the greatest nutrients
known to mankind, and therefore a most
valuable food for young and old In every
way animals are so valuable, and helpful,

that Man could not live without them.

It is only commonsense to know that,
all these splendid animals are worthy of the

greatest care and attention from their
owners. Unfortunately, this important point
is often not thought about at all —~— there

are many peeple as yet, who l2 ave not learned
the lesson of defenceless
creatures. Later in this pamphlet, it will be
explained why entitled to
understanding —-— it is
Man’s Simple duty to care for his animals,
and all other animals, too, and. give them
the protection, kindness and‘affection they
deserve

kindness to

animals are
consideration and

Animals I in the Home

We have mentioned the animals of the Field,
now, let us think of the animals in the
home ——-the dogs and cats. They too are
worthy of consideration from their oWners.
The dog is Man’s best friend ——most loyal
and faithful. Many dogs
lives for their masters —— but, does the master

have given their

always think of his dog? Why do men so
often abandon their faithful dogs? And why,
so often when danger threatens, go off
quickly, and leave the poor animal behind.
Surely this is a cruel and inhuman, act, and
not worthy of any owner Every good and
that a

dog becomes so attached to his master that

right—thinking person, must know

if that master goes away from home, the
dog is miserable and unhappy, and has been
known in many instances to pine, and die
frogn a broken heart. Therefore no person
should keep a dog, unless he is prepared
to give the animal care and affection, and
always see that there is plenty of food, and
drinking water, as well as a clean, dry

place to sleep.

The cat in the home, also, isafriendly
creature, and
don’t
of affection as that

although cats by nature,

always express the same feelings

shown by dogs,
yet, cats become greatly attached to an
owner and the house he lives. in, Cats, too,
are most useful creatmes and give splendid
service by destroying rats and mice which

would cause a lot of damage in the home.

 

 




 

These animals then, are all the friends
and loyal servants of Man, and help to
contribute in a big way to the domestic
economy of those who own them ~— and
MARK this, these animals giving so much,
NEVER ask for payment! All they would
ask, if they “could speak, would be, a kind
master, a dry, clean place to sleep, shelter
from the rain and sun,and of course, enough
food to keep them

hwith plenty Of clean water to drink.

strong

It might be argued that some human
beings have not enough food, and water,
for themselves —--— how then, can they give
such to animals? Theanswer is simple—if
a man cannot provide food and water for
the humble creatures who serve him so
well, he should not attempt to keep animals
at all. By keeping animals, and starving
them, he is acting in a thoughtless, even
cruel way. At the same time, he is depriving
himself and his family of the many-good
things... which he could acquire through

possessing strong and healthy beasts of

considerable value. If animals are weak and
sickly through want of proper care, their
market value descreases, and too, they can
die —— then, the thoughtless owner has lost
all, and his family Will be very poor
indeed, But look at the other picture—the
kind and considerate owner keeps his animals
in splendid condition, and so valueable that
through this, he can raise his whole
standards of living—he can give" his family
everthing they require to help them on
in the world—«good food, good clothes, and
‘ > good education. Such a worthy owner too, can

and healthy,

have a well built house. and lots of comfort.
' ' becom n ‘ ' , a
in fact, he . es man of property, and

comands respect.

You can see lloin the foregoing how
simple it could be, all through the care of
animals —-— to become a prosperous person,
and in doing so, you are liel[,.)ing your country
as well. Good, well - cared for livestock, and

other domesticated animals too, added to

active cultivation of crops, and intelligent,

conservation of grazing land, are all part of

the sound foundation which goes into the

making of every prosperous, pastoral country.
:‘Wild iﬂg

 

Now, I think we should consider the
great living heritage of Wild Life. with which
many countries in Africa is blessed. These
wonderful wild animals contribute, in their
own special way. to the progress and pI‘OS-
perity of the countries fortui‘iate enough to
possess them The Wild Life of Africa is
something unique, and nowhere else in the whole
world can so much wonder and beauty in
living form concentrated together, he seen —- a
heritage priceless so that it would be nothing
short of the greatest of crimes, to allow so
valuable a possession be destroyed. But alas, the
Wild Life of Africa is being ruthlessly decimated
by barbarous and illegal means. What can the
World think of a country ifits people stand

complacently by, and see a great and invaluable '

natural heritage become slowly, but surely,
destroyed? The answer is obvious —« it being the
moral duty of the people of a country to
protect and preserve for posterity, the great
living heritage of Wild Life with which they
have been so richly endowed. Buildings can
be replaced if destroyed -— but the Wild Life,
never. The Wild animals of Africa are a ‘WOrld
Possession’. just as other great wonders “f

 




the world, found in ancient monuments, and
unique features of engineering—but none
so captivating in natural attraction, as the
wondrous Wild Life of Africa. It is the duty
of every man, woman and child, to take an
honoured part, in helping in every
possible, to ensure that the wild animals are

way

protected to the fullest extent, and left to
live in their own glorious kingdom, FREE from
FEAR, SUFFERING and DESTRUCTION.

 

Why animals must be given

kin i ness, oonsideration a nd

protection.

Animals are Defenceless creatures ——-—- they

cannot speak for themselves.

When animals were created, the purpo~e
was to enrich the world. Then, Man was
created, and given the guardianship of the
animalsw—this, a sacred Trust. Man was
endowed with superiority over the animals, in
the way of speech and understanding, but
he was given the care of the animals—the
lowly speechless ones, and this, a duty to be
fully realised. Unfortunately, there are those
who forget the Trust bestowed upon them,
and instead of being good guardians show
nothing but neglect
defenceless creatures in their care. How, then,
can any person who would deny this great
humane responsibility towards animals, ever

prosper, or find happiness and contentment

in life? A Trust isa vital thingina person’s
life, and to fail in a trust means that
something essential for good living is
absent—«this can lead to discountent and
a great deal of unhappiness. Man’s attitude
towards all defenseless things gives proof
of his greatness, or his meanness. The

and cruelty to the-

compassionate man will. find Satisfaction,

and contentment in everything he does.
He *will consider the needs, and feelings of
his fellow - men, in the same understanding way
in which he considers his animals. The man
who cares not for the defenceless crea‘vures,
will neither care for the suffering or distress
of his fellow - men -— such a man can only be
restless and unhappy, but he will not readily
admit to this. The moral is, by Cosmic Law,

“what a man sows he will reap”.

The animals of the creation who came
into the world before Man himself, may be
Even in

defenceless, but they are noble.

distress -—- the result , of neglect and
ill - treatment, the animals don‘t complain,
nor make trouble —— they will try to do their
work, even though perhaps, sick, hungry and
weak. Can we always say this about human
beings? No—if‘human beings imagine they
are badly treated, not get what they demand,
they can become troublesome and aggresSive.
Therefore surely, it is only right that the
animals who cannot defend themselves, should
be allowed to live and work in peace —— free
FEAR, WANT SUFFERIN'}

from Guild

caused through the inconsideration of Man.

It is Man’s sacred duty to see that

the Trust placed upon him is honoured.

Animals and human beings, especially
in great pastoral countries, have a kinship
with each other —-———t~he good man knows this,
and is proud to consider the needs of the
animals —— by doing so, he proves to the world

that he is a humanitarian ~~ that is a person

 

 

~ g/v—J

w

 




 

who believes in the principles of compassionate

living, and Shows great reverence for life.
Such a man Can attain great heights because
by his compassion for defenceless creatures
who cannot help themselves, he proves that
he will ' ,fail his
either. Kindness and

the needs of the

never fellow - men
consideration of

lowly animals, can

Welfare”

in Animal

“Lessons

Humane

«a w_,_;. < ,, .. ,_ k7 _ .r -,‘

 

can be

bring forth all that is good and noble in a
human - being. By this, a person can attain a
place in life through which he can help to
bring Peace, Contentment and Happiness into
the lives of his fellow men who perhaps
lack the rich quality of compassion -——— a truly
satifying achievement ———— and all brought
about through consideration and understanding

of the needs of the defenceless ones.

 

obtained from:

Education Institute of Africa, P. O. Box 2473,
Dar e Salaam, Tanganyika, E. A.

 




5. ‘ ‘ «: .

ﬂ...)

{:ng 73:: .- ' 3*"- :=‘: , ~ '

PRINTED BY:
THE KANT! PRINTING WORKS
P. O. Box 456, Telephone 21877
DAR ES SALAAM

&
MBEYA

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

TANGANYIKA DIVISION

 

THE R.S.P.C.A.
AT WORK
IN TANGANYIKA

 

ANNUAL REPORT
~ 1960/1961 »

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika Division
1960/1961

PATRONS: His Excellency The Governor,
Sir Richard Turnbull, K.C.M.G.,

and
Lady Turnbull.
VICE—PATRON: Abdulkarim Y.A. Karimjee, Esq., C.B.E.

PRESIDENT: Chief A.S. Fundikira.

Vice—Presidents: Mrs. S. Keeka; Mrs. D. Bryceson;
Mwame Theresa Ntare; Chief Humbi Ziota,
M.B.E.; Chief Charles Masanja.

Committee: Dr. I. Gebauer; Mrs. N. Grimble;
Miss A. De Souza; Mrs. Donald;
Mrs. N. Vicars—Harris (Kilimanjaro Branch);
Sheikh A. Abedi; Messrs. P.J. Bharwani;
R.J. Chande, M.B.E.; E. Mwangosi; Tahir Ali;
Charles Mokiwa; J. Chavua, and M.A. Ayaz
(Tanga Branch).

Hon. Treasurer: Mrs. A.J.G. Brown.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

-----‘—--—.~

Auditors: Messrs. Gill & Johnson, Chartered Accountants,
Dar-es-Salaam.

Tanganyika Headquarters: Bagamoya St., P.O. Box 1844,
Dar-es—Salaam. Telephone 20534.

Kennels, Cattery &
Shelter for Strays:. Msasani, Dar—es-Salaam.

London Headquarters: 105 Jermyn St., London, S.W.l.

 




 

ANNUAL REPORT 1960

‘---_~---‘-----—----

It could be, with the changing pattern of
Tanganyika, changes too, might be expected as regards the
work of the Division, but as far as the Society is con-
cerned, the work has continued progressively, with Special
emphasis on the Educational side. In this respect, it has
been found almost impossible to meet the demands for
assistance from all over Tanganyika, and beyond, for the
promotion of animal welfare and the establishment of pro-
tective measures. So much so, that it seems fairly
obvious, and imperative, that changes must now take place
within the organisation of the Division itself - changes
calculated to meet adequately all demands made upon its
I resources, and for the expansion, so essential to the needs
of the animal-owning people. Literally, this means that
the executive offices of the Division require enlarging,
with the addition of experienced staff to deal with the many
issues arising in the organisation — a voluntary organisation
capable of contributing considerably to the development of a
largely pastoral country. This, apart from the material
benefit derived by the people from the practical application
of methods promoting the humane care of animals, prevention
of cruelty, and protection of Wild Life.

In reviewing the progress made during the year,
the weak links in the Territorial network of humane activity
have become clearly visible - weak links, in an otherwise
almost phenomenally successful organisation, due to lack of
adequate personnel available to meet the progress and
expansion the Division is expected to maintain. One
_ factor most evident in this connection has shown that it has
become virtually impossible to compile and record accurately,
the activities of approximately 1,000 odd, Branches and

 

 

 




 

 

- 2 -

Centres throughout the country — these steadily increase in
number all the time. This is to be regretted, but under

‘ existing circumstances, little can be done about it. The

organisation too, has to meet the needs, and demands of cOn-
tinuously increasing individual membership - now well over
60,000. The daily output of mail alone, so essential in
maintaining contact, has become a "major operation" at
Headquarters in Dar—es-Salaam. So keen and expectant are
the many thousands of members, particularly amongst the
indigenous people who eagerly look to Headquarters to supply
help and information, as well as a never-ending source of
literature, that in this direction alone, more adequate
staff is essential. The present position could well become
chaotic unless measures are now taken to deal with the
problem - delay in this respect, could easily reflect .
adversely on the aim of the Society in Tanganyika to bring
Humane Education within the reach of all people interested
in the welfare and protection of animals - only in this way
can ignorance be removed, and cruelty and unnecessary suffer-
ing be prevented. A high standard of productivity has been
achieved by the Divrnon, and every effort will have to be
made in the coming year to ensure that activity in all
directions is fully maintained.

BRANCHES In view of the many branches and
associated centres now operating throughout the country, it
‘would be invidious to single out any in particular, especialbr
as regards the branches managed by the Africans themselves —
these being in the majority. However, for the purpose of
this Report, the following activities have been established
as branch routine work: DOG DIPS in full operation, these,
in a number of areas serve the useful purpose for the dipping

 




-3-

of other small animals, i.e. goats and sheep. One branch
organised a dipping service by members carrying a large

tin bath around the villages in the area — a very commend-
able effort considering the poverty of the animal owners in
the district, and the lack of means to build a permanent dip
PROMOTION OF HUMANE SLAUGHTER has been carried on by a
number of branches and full marks must go to the Kilimanjaro
Branch for the splendid progress resulting from the concen-
trated effOrts of the members. Demonstrations were staged,
and many people influenced by the result decided in use the
Captive Bolt method. RAIL and SEA TRANSPORT of livestock
is kept under close observance by a number of branches, and
action taken when required. The establishment of
VETERINARY POSTS has been urged by other branches. Tarime
Branch with all its attendant centres, has done splendid
work in this respect. Inspection of TRANSPORT conditions
for POULTRY, GOATS and other small animals, figures largely
in the daily activities of branch members everywhere in the
Territory. INSPECTION of MARKETS, including the walking of
cattle to these markets, and conditions during sale, keep
members in certain areas very busy. RESTRICTING the USE OF
CATAPULTS in areas where the practice is common amongst
adults. Keeping watch on ILLEGAL TRAPPING, CAGING, and
SUBSEQUENT SELLING of Wild Birds, and taking the necessary
action to report offenders. Helping to establish measures
for the PROTECTION OF WILD LIFE. Advising on HUMANE CROP
PROTECTION. PATROLLING WIDE AREAS giving practical advice
and assistance on the care of animals (many members do long
patrols by bicycle). LECTURING IN SCHOOLS, and forming
groups of the Animal Defenders Corps. ESTABLISHING NEW
BRANCHES and CENTRES. Finding homes for UNWANTED ANIMALS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

_ 4 -

or procuring humane destruction for these - one branch had
51 unwanted dogs humanely destroyed during the year.
Advising, and giving practical demonstrations on the build-
ing of SHELTERS for LIVESTOCK PROTECTION from rain and sun.
ALL BRANCHES continually promote HUMANE EDUCATION. It may
be deduced from the foregoing that the united activities of
so many branches go a long way towards eliminating cruelty
to animals. Members of the Animal Defenders Corps have
shown remarkable resource in fund~raising activities, in
areas a little better off financially than most. Tanga
Branch in particular, has been most successful with flag
days, and on several occasions sent contributions to
Headquarters - very commendable. It is, however, perhaps

a little unfortunate that with so many branches in operation
more financial help-is not forthcoming towards the main—
tenance of Headquarters, but it must be remembered that most
branch secretaries, or leaders, are either teachers or
otherwise in full—time employment ~ as well as many of the
members - therefore their Spare time is limited. Under the
circumstances it is felt that the time available for the
Society's activities is better utilised in promoting animal
welfare ~ so invaluable — than trying to raise funds,
especially in areas, and unfortunately there are many, where
there is little or no money at all.

CERTIFICATES OE MERIT The Division is very
fortunate in having some remarkably natural leaders amongst
its members - they might in fact, be called "dedicated to
-the Cause" on behalf of animals. ’This year 20 Certificates
of Merit were awarded to some of these leaders, and a
Certificate was awarded to the Tarime Branch as a whole, in
recognition of the sterling work done by all its members.

 

 




 

 

 

 

- 5 -

The Certificate was presented to the Branch by the District
Commissioner of the area on a public occasion. Space will
not permit of detailed mention of the activities undertaken
by a number of leaders, but the results recorded give evi~
dence of the loyal and invaluable services being rendered
to the Society in Tanganyika. UNITY and CO-OPERATION can
be said to be the "key-words" throughout the country.

MATTERS CONSTANTLY RECEIVING ATTENTION AT
_ HEADQUARTERS
HUMANE SLAUGHTER: Definite progress has been recorded
during the year - the use of the Captive Bolt method having

 

 

been adopted in a number of areas° In a country with a
large muslim population, this matter cannot be hurried, but
signs are more favourable towards a general introduction of
humane methods of slaughter. TRANSPORT OF LIVESTOCK must
still be furtherimproved before the Society is satisfied,
but the regulations now enforced as regards sea transport
have brought about a decided improvement - not nearly so
much unnecessary suffering from overcrowding in the dhow
traffic has resulted. HUNTING DOGS USED IN PACKS: Efforts
continue to try and get this revolting form of hunting
abolished. CAPTURE, CAGING and HAWKING of WILD BIRDS:
After many years of frustration, the position in this
respect has now been clarified as being against the law —
offenders can now be dealt with in the Courts. PROTECTION
OF HIPPOS: This matter has caused a great deal of anxiety
to members - no clear means of protection being evident.
Hippos appear to be designated as vermin in one section of
the Game Ordinance, and classified as dangerous animals in
another section — most contradictory. The Society has

 

 




 

 

- 5 _

requested full protection for hippos from wanton killing,
and close watch is being kept on the position.

TRANSPORT OF POULTRY: Always a common cause of cruelty

and unnecessary suffering - mostly through ignorance.
However, the vigilance of members throughout the country,
allied to humane education, is gradually bringing about a
big improvement. CATTLE MARKETS: Members keep strict
watch on markets, and report incidents involving cruelty,

to those responsible for the good conduct of such markets,
as well as to the Society's Headquarters. There is still,
however, room for a great deal of improvement in this.
connection, especially as regards the long distances
animals have to walk before reaching the market area.
Members keep close observance on the position, and in many
instances have ensured rest and water for animals en route,
but it is all a very difficult problem in so vast a country.
Transport by motor vehicles is still unknown in m0st areas
of Tanganyika, and large herds can only reach the markets by
walking. OVERLOADING OF DONKEYS and OVERWORKING OF OXEN:
Another difficult problem, but members everywhere constantly
keep watch, and report to their branches and to Headquarters
ROUNDING UP OF STRAY and UNWANTED BUSH DOGS: This presents
another serious problem in a country where facilities for
the humane destruction of large numbers of such animals,

are completely lacking. However, members do all possible
in the areas where they live, and take a serious interest
in trying to find a solution to the problem. The ever-
present menace of rabies acts as an incentive in this
direction. CROP PROTECTION: Another matter which causes
concern for the reason that so many small species of wild
animals are often wantonly mutilated and killed. Members

 




 

 

- 7 -

continually advise and assist shamba owners in methods of
humane protection. TRAPPING and SELLING OF MONKEYS and
other small animals: As with wild birds, the position has
now been clarified, and offenders when caught, can be dealt
with. ABANDONED DOMESTIC PETS: A number of cases were
reported during the year, and necessary action taken.
Careful watch is kept, and owners contacted when possible.
Many such abandoned dogs and cats have found good homes
through the Society. EXPORT and TRANSPORT of WILD ANIMALS
and BIRDS: Close attention is constantly given in this
respect. Regulations now in force have considerably
improved transport conditions - only one case of alleged

V infringement of the law being reported during the year, and
action was taken. However, there has been comparatively
little movement of wild animals for export in recent times,
as far as the Society has been able to record. PROTECTION
OF WILD LIFE CAMPAIGN: The large scale propaganda campaign
started by the Society towards the end of 1959, and still
carried on, appears to have brought about some good results
by awakening interest in many directions, and assisting
towards plans being made to concentrate on protective mea—
sures towards combating the evils of poaching, and other
forms of wanton killing and destruction. All members
throughout the country have assiduously co-operated with
Headquarters in the distribution of prOpaganda literature,
and in other ways assisted towards eliminating the cruelty
involved in poaching and other forms of illegal hunting.
Generally, great satisfaction is being felt by the knowledge
that Government is now fully alive to the enormous problem
of saving this great natural heritage of the country, and
definite steps are being taken to protect the Wild Life.

 

 




 

 

- 8 -

The foregoing mention only a few of the matters constantly
receiving the attention of the Division. On the whole,
conditions are improving, and much further advance is
expected during the coming year, provided of course, that
the financial position of the Society makes this possible.

CONGO ANIMALS Much consternation was experienced
when the news began to trickle through regarding conditions
in the Congo, and naturally members of the Division were
concerned about the plight of the animals. Machinery was
put in motion to try and ascertain the accuracy of infor—
mation coming through in connection with abandoned pets,
and other livestock. Refugees arriving in Dar—es-Salaam
had grim and unhappy tales to relate concerning the fate of
their pets. For a long time it was extremely difficult to
establish contact with the Congo at all, but every course
was pursued in this direction. Eventually contact was
made with the United Nations Commander in the Congo, and
also, the British Embassy, when a more accurate conception
of conditions emerged. ‘However, after many plans had been
considered as regards the rescue of domestic animals, it was
reluctantly admitted that such plans were impracticable,
'there being no central organisation in the Congo able to
deal with animal problems — it would therefore have been
impossible under the circumstances to put any definite plan
into Operation. But still endeavours went on to try and
establish some method of humanely despatching abandoned
animals. In this respect, a lot was eventually done, also
many animals found homes with the Congolese. The next
cause for anxiety concerned the animals in the Leopoldville
Zoo, reports being received that the animals were starving,

and in desperate need of assistance. Again, new lines of

 




 

 

 

 

_ 9 _

contact were pursued, and in this, members of the

S. Rhodesia S.P.C.A. were tremendously helpful and
co-operative, and if anything useful could be accomplished,
financial help was promised — such help was also promised
from the London Headquarters of this Division. Arrange-
ments were made with the co-operation of the owners of a
Game Ranch in Tanganyika, to house the Zoo animals, if they
could be air-lifted. As things turned out, the Zoo
officials were able to arrange food supplies from
Brazzaville, and for the time being the position became
less acute. The Authorities in the Congo, however, were
assured that financial assistance from a number of sources
through the Society, would be forthcoming should the
position again become serious. Beyond that, it did not
seem.possible to provide any other assistance in view of
the confused and complicated situation throughout the whole
of the vast Congo - it would have required an army of humane
workers, plus many mobile vehicles, to undertake the
establishment of rescue posts in so many parts of the
country. To date the position is still complicated, but
contact is being maintained with a number of official
sources - one thing, however, which seems clear is that
something will have to be done by neighbouring countries to
form some sort of animal welfare organisation as soon as
some practical purpose can be achieved.

MOBILE UNIT AND OTHER SAFARIS Almost the whOle
of the Territory was covered during the year by the Mobile
Unit, and individual safaris. This might be considered
something of an accomplishment considering the size of the
country, and every area covered produced satisfactory
results. The Unit covered 14,000 miles, in charge of two




_ 10 _

senior trainees, young Africans who took full responsibility
.for all work done on the various safaris, and produced
splendid results. The most satisfying of all, was the
number of reports sent in to Headquarters from Administra-
tive authorities, praising the excellent behaviour of the l
trainees, and their ability to impress people of all races
of the sincerity and purpose of the work on which they were
employed. The Unit safaris enrolled thousands of new
members, opened new Centres, carried out inspections and :
investigations, gave advice on the care of animals to all
who requested it, rendered First Aid on many occasions,
lectured in dozens of schools, and above all, showed the
"R.S.P.C.A. Flag" over every mile of the safaris.

However, it has been clearly proved this last year
that one Mobile Unit is quite inadequate to cover the
Territory, and it is very depressing to have continually to
feel unable to meet all the requests received for visits
from the Unit. It has become a major problem trying to
plan safaris which will provide the best advantage to the
areas concerned, and in the rainy season all this has to be
taken into account owing to the impossible state of many of
the roads. At certain periods only very restricted
safaris can be undertaken. The present Unit, a Volkswagon
Caravan, although standing up well to the tremendous punish—
ment received from bad roads, and weather conditions, is not
an all—weather vehicle — a change to the Land Rover type of
vehicle would be of tremendous advantage - should funds ever
become available? Two Mobile Units could be kept in contin—
uous operation. Many other safaris by individual personnel
were also undertaken during the year, Mr. Mohamed Musa, now
Promoted to Chief Inspector/Organiser, travelled extensively

 




 

- 11.—

over several Provinces, proving in every way his ability

and dedication to the work on behalf of animals. The
Director personally visited areas from which disquieting
reports had been received, one of these areas being the
location of a Film company making a wild life film. The
Director found that reports received were without foundation
as regards the activities of the Film company, in fact, the
whole position was being well taken care of, by personnel of
the Game Department. However, again, in respect of safari
work in the field, the inadequacy of personnel at Head—
quarters has been most gravely felt. For so vast a country,
and to meet the enormous demands for the services of the
Society, commensurate with the ever—increasing growth of the
Tanganyika organisation, a very much more enlarged, and

experienced staff is essential.

PUBLICITY AND PROPAGANDA The Division cannot be
said to lack in matters relating to publicity: Apart from
the continual publicity afforded by the Mobile Unit on the
road, and the impact of personal visits to many areas during
the year, press notices have been plentiful, nine broadcasts
were given, many humane slaughter demonstrations, and in
connection with protection of crops, window displays of
propaganda material proved attractive and resulted in bring—
ing in donations, propaganda stalls at various agricultural
shows and other functions, film shows and hundreds of
lectures in schools and other institutions — all this has
provided invaluable publicity and propaganda. In addition
well over 150,000 items of printed matter was disemminated
throughout the year. The campaign against poaching, cruelty
and destruction of Wild Life accounted for a great deal of
recognition of the work being accomplished by the Division -

 

 




 

 

-12....

in this connection, it is interesting to note that many
overseas organisations expressed much appreciation of the
efforts being made by the Division towards the protection
of Wild Life, and showed practical appreciation by donating
funds to help the campaign along. Numerous short stories
written by the Director, have been in great demand, as
also, the monthly news bulletin of the Division, "Kilio".

TRAINING OF AFRICANS for the Society's work:
This important, and most essential aspect of the work being
.accomplished, continues to progress, but unfortunately
through lack of funds has had to be slowed down as regards
the number of trainees accepted. Hundreds of applications
were received during the year from African ex-students, all
anxious to take up the Society's work as a career. Given
adequate financial backing, and facilities, such educational
training could prove of tremendous value in a country like
Tanganyika, and at the same time, enable the Society to
ensure the availability of trained personnel for its future
work. The donation of £300 to cover training allowances
for two Africans, received from the Bath and District BranCh
in England, was tremendously appreciated. It is understood
that this generous donation will be continued for five years
Apart from such donations, and any other means of obtaining
funds, the training scheme must largely depend on a govern-
ment subvention. It seems right and fitting that young
Africans suitably qualified, should be trained to carry on

animal welfare and humane education activities in Tanganyika.

ANNUAL ESSAY AND PAINTING COMPETITIONS These
brought in a large entry ~ the first place in the Essay
Competition going to St. Joseph's Convent School, Dar—es-

 




 

- 13 -

Salaam, with St. George's and St. Michael's School, Iringa,
as runners-up. Over 100 pictures were received in the

Painting Competition, many of them excellent in expressing
kindness to animals, and the best, will be used for repro-
duction on posters. A display of the paintings was staged

at Tanganyika Headquarters.

ST. FRANCIS DAY SERVICE The annual Blessing of
the Animals service was held, as usual, at St. Alban's
Church, and was well attended. Special services and

prayers were in evidence at other places in the Territory.

PEN PALS CLUB of MASSACHUSETTS S.P.C.A. The
Division received an invitation to enrol members, and within
a short period so many applications had been received to
join the Club, a halt had to be called! partly from lack
of staff at Headquarters, and partly to save the Pen Pals
Club from inundation! Teachers and students from all over
Tanganyika wanted to have Pen Pals in America, and it is
hoped that many, so far, have found pen friends.

PROSECUTIONS The Division, adhering to its
policy of avoiding prosecutions, has few to record this
past year. It is still believed that the surest way to
prevent cruelty is by removing ignorance through humane
education, particularly as regards the indigenous people.
However, several cases required action in connection with
the ill-treatment of wild birds, and transport of poultry.
One case concerned some 300 pigeons, transported over 400
miles in overcrowded condition, then left for several days
in the containers without food or water. Conviction
resulted in all cases recorded. A number of cases were
rePorted from African branches, involving the transport 0f

 

 




 

_ l4 -

small animals, i.e. goats, sheep, etc. Two cases of
cruelty to dogs, resulted in convictions.

MEMORANDA Memoranda on a number of subjects

 

were requested, and presented, during the year. These
included:- The work of the Division, for the United
Nations Visiting Mission; Wild Life and its Protection;
Crop Protection; Protection of Hippos; Humane Slaughter;
Humane Education; Control of stray and uncontrolled dogs;
Protection of Wild Birds and other small animals; Capture
and hawking of birds, monkeys, etc.; Fund—raising, and
Finance.

FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE DIVISION A very
disturbing subject — the continual expansion of all
activities, being far in advance of the funds available
for efficient maintenance. Despite the most stringent
allocation of the financial resources, it has become
impossible to make ends meet, whilst trying to maintain
essential activities and operations efficiently. Pro—
gressive expansion must continue in any live and worth-
while organisation, therefore, without delay, all aspects
Of the Division's invaluable work must be carefully con—
Sidered, and steps taken to ensure that there will be no
break in continuity of progress. A serious review 0f
the financial position is urgent if all obligations are to
be met, and the Division able to meet the growing demands
for its services, both as regards humane education and the
practical work in the field - all so important in a
Country facing great development. It is regrettable
having to record a considerable curtailment of many
activities during the past year, due to lack of Staff and

 




 

_ 15 _

funds. The only real source of income was derived from
the results of two sweepstakes - these brought in some
£1,400. Added to the reduced subvention, £500 from
Government, and a number of donations, mostly from oversea
supporters, the total amount fell far short of the £4,000
to £5,000 required annually. Membership subscriptions
help a lot, but as these are mainly small sums from
African sources, and depenm a great deal on the money
available in various areas at certain times, these sub—
scriptions cannot be regarded as "regular income". Also
against membership subscriptions, must be deducted the

cost of badges, etc., these being of considerable expense.
However, such visible tokens of membership are essential
and cannot be dispensed with. Overseas donations from
sympathisers, helped in a big way to finance the Protection
of Wild Life campaign, and other specific needs, but much
of the Division's work had to be carried on, to a certain
extent, through the assistance of "borrowed funds", i.e.
funds held at Headquarters for future specified projects.
The larger multi—racial branches of the Division have all
tried desperately hard to be self-supporting, and therefore
unable to contribute much, if any, financial aid to Head»
quarters. These branches too, require more permanent
staff, to help them maintain their many essential and
productive activities. Voluntary assistance being, in
most cases, a thing of the past. Motor bicycles, as well
as motor vehicles are desperately needed in large up-
country areas - the only means of really getting around SO
vast a country. But all these require money for purchase,
and maintenance, and far beyond the resources of the

Division at the present time. Briefly, it has become

 

 

 




 

 

 

- l6 _
imperative to find a means of ensuring financial
stability, taking into account the future needs of the
organisation as a whole, particularly as regards
expansion — expansion so essential in a largely pastoral
country. After achieving the established recognition
as the Division enjoys today, throughout Tanganyika, it
would be nothing short of disaster if the invaluable work
accomplished in so many directions, was forced into any
sort of retrogressive position through lack of funds. A
copy of the 1960 audited accounts is enclosed separately
with this Report.

BOARDING KENNELS AND SHELTER FOR STRAYS The
past year has again been a busy one for the Kennels — over
500 dogs and cats were in "residence" during the absence
of owners on leave, many of the pets for periods as long
as 9 months. The Kennels still remain self-supporting,
and make no call on the general funds of the Division.

The same thing, cannot, unfortunately, be said as regards
the Shelter for strays, the Shelter being dependent on

the funds of the Society for its maintenance. Although?
the Shelter has continuously been full of all sorts of
animals and birds, very little has been recovered in the
way Of pound fees in proportion to the maintenance costs.
The maintenance of the Shelter has been the subject of
some controversy between the Society and the Municipality,
it being considered that some i'inancial assistance should
be Provided by the Municipality in view of the fact that
there is no public pound in Dar-es—Salaam. Under these
Circumstances the whole responsibility Of collecting,
housing and feeding of stray and Jest animals, has devolved
on the Society, During the year, the ShelTer has taken

‘

 




 

- 17 -

care of a variety of animals, apart from the constant
influx of dogs and cats - donkeys, goats, even a large
pig, found safety in the Shelter, numerous birds with
broken wings and legs, bush babies, monkeys, rabbits, and
other small wild creatures were amongst others cared for.

SENIOR TRAINEE, MOHAMED MUSA, GOES TO LONDON
In August it was arranged with London Headquarters, that
Mohamed Musa would be accepted there, for six weeks'
further training, and in order to gain some overseas
experience. This was agreed in view of the fact that
Mohamed Musa had proved himself to be a dedicated worker,
and it was clearly time to give him the opportunity of
learning something of the Society's work outside Tanga—
nyika. His travelling expenses were met from a personal
fund established by the Director, and London Headquarters
undertook to meet his expenses there. On his return from
London, Mohamed MUsa was appointed Chief InSpector/Organiser
for Tanganyika, and it is confidently expected that he will
give valuable services to the Division in the days to come.

VISITORS During the year "open house" was kept
for visiting members, and other supporters from up—country,
and also from other countries. Such visits go a long way
in helping to sustain the interest of members who live at
a distance from Headquarters in Dar—es—Salaam.

A STUDENT from Addis Ababa, on vacation in
Tanganyika, was helped, with employment at Headquarters,
for two months. This proved an arrangement giving mutual
satisfaction, and helped to foster good relations with the
Students Organisation in Addis Ababa.

WELCOME Members of the Division were happy to

 

 

 




 

 

 

- 18 -

extend a warm welcome to the newly appointed Game Warden,
Major Bruce Kinloch. '

THANKS Grateful thanks are expressed to all
those generous donors of cOntributions, both financial and
in kind. A special word of thanks to the Tanganyika
Standard who helped on numerous occasions with useful
press publicity, and in the matter of advertising animals,
lost and found. To all Provincial and District
Commissioners who have given invaluable encouragement, and
assistance, in many areas, particularly in connection with
safaris. To the Veterinary Department officials who have
always shown such readiness to help out with difficulties
arising, and to officials of other Government departments
who have given useful assistance-on numerous occasions.
The Police too, deserve a special word of thanks for their
ever—ready co-operation in the Society's work. To all
Branch officials and members throughout Tanganyika, much
appreciation of their unfailing loyalty and co-operation,
must go on record - only through the keen enthusiasm and
encouragement of all these splendid workers has it been
Possible to achieve so high a standaniof humane activity
in so many directions, throughout the whole of the country.
To all who have helped the Division, in so many different

ways, sincere thanks are accorded.

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER AWAED Towards the end of
the year most welcome and unexpected news was received from
the United States, to the effect that Mrs. Isobel Slater:
and Chief A.S. Fundikira, had jointly been given the
Albert Schweitzer Award for 1960, for the work done in
Connection with the protection of animals in Tanganyika-

 




 

_ 19 _

The news was received with much pleasure that so coveted
an honour should come to Tanganyika.

In concluding this Report, condensed though it
be, it may be realised that the work on behalf of animals
in Tanganyika, and the promotion of humane education
amongst the people, has made considerable impact
particularly on the lives of animal owners who have
derived so much benefit from the Society's teaching. So
much so, that the.Division goes from strength to strength,
almost entirely on the wonderful co—operation and product—
ive support given continuously by a large proportion of
the indigenous people. The Division sustains its multi-
racial popularity, and the harmony-and unity of purpose
enjoyed, may well be something to go down in the history
of animal welfare in Tanganyika as a symbol of the deep
and kindly characteristic of a people no matter what be
the race or creed, ready at all times, to render assist-
ance to defenceless creatures. It has been stated on
many occasions, that members of the Society from amongst
the indigenous people, have been known to say, "We will
work for the animal cause, until there is no such thing as

cruelty to animals in Tanganyika". What greater objective

sought by a great people, could there be? If people so
believe the day will come when there will be no cruelty to
animals, it is surely worth all the endeavour of those
with the power to help, to ensure that animals will obtain
their rights, to live free from Fear, Want and Suffering.

_ ~~~~~~~ /°
The Report is published in the 9W QYQQJLW ,
above form for reasons ofeconomy. ‘;/////,///»’//»,,~

 

 

 

   

  

 

 




‘ynw a} 4/ . .,
ﬂunk»! NW‘N nﬁY§(lr

\ ‘
\
\

N. (“\J. .., N .3)
4 m NfNNW @NNN.

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION ’
0F CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS.

TANGANYIKA DIVISION

71! 00955011 .7—
-— 73ellts'we/s

Produced by Isobel Slater
for the R.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika.
Dar es Salaam, 28/8/60.

 




 

INFORMATION about the R.S.PC.A.

What is the R.S.P.
C.A.? When, and how
did it start?

What does the R.S.P.
C.A. do?

Is it important to have

a knowledge of animal-

welfare ?

What difference does it
make, without know-
ledge of animal wel-
fare ?

How is all this related
to the Prevention of
Cruelty?

Can a person be pro-
secuted for neglecting
sick or injured animals ?

The R.S.P.C.A. is a humane voluntary organisation for the
protection and welfare of animals. It is like a missionary
Society for animals, and believes in having a Reverence
for All Life. The Tanganyika“ Division of the Society (its
main Headquarters are in London) was founded in 1942,
by Mrs. Isobel Slater, with a small branch in Tanga.

First of all, it teaches humanity to defenceless creatures—by
this, is meant that through its members there is created a
moral sense of responsibility and understanding towards
the needs of the humbler creation, the animals. Through
this feeling of humanity, man, not only learns kindness to
defenceless animals, but also learns to appreciate the needs
of his fellow men—~all by kindness and understanding.

Secondly, the R.S.P.C.A. works for the prevention of cruelty
to all animals, domesticated and wild—this, includes all
birds and other living creatures. Also, the Society teaches
animal welfare, whereby ingorance is removed, and know-
ledge takes its place.

Yes, very important. Especially in a pastoral country like
Tanganyika, where millions of the indigenous people keep
livestock of some kind, to help their domestic economy.
Through the education given by the R.S.P.C.A. many thous-
ands of the people have learned how to care for their animals
in a humane way, thereby removing cruelty and unnecessary
suffering caused through ignorance.

This difference—through ignorance a man might lose his
cattle, goats, sheep, donkeys, etc., or fowls, because he did
not realise they were ill and in need of veterinary aid. Again,
an animal might have a broken limb, and through ignorance
of the owner, the animal might be beaten and forced to try
and walk, or to work. In this way, the animal could die——
a great loss to the owner. Also, through ignorance an owner
can leave his livestock out in the heavy rains, without any
shelter, with the result that the animals through standing in
deep mud and dung, become ill, and frequently die, or at
least, become too weak to be of any value at all. (These are
just a few of the troubles that can happen through ignorance
of animal welfare).

When animals are ill, or have broken limbs, they suffer!
they can’t speak and tell this to their owners—therefore
when an owner has learned all about animal care, he can
prevent this cruelty and suffering by quickly noting that the
animal is ill, and needs veterinary help. He will quickly get
this help. He will also see that an animal with a broken
limb does not work, nor even walk, but rest until it is cured.
Thereby cruelty is prevented.

Deﬁnitely, yes. It is against the law for the protection of
animals to neglect them, or in any way cause cruelty either
by beating, ill-treating, abandoning, or trying to kill an
animal for the purpose of getting rid of it.

 




 

Does the R.S.P.C.A.
prosecute many people?

What does the R.S.P.
C.A. think about poach-
ing ?

What about the pro-
tection of crops?

Does the R.S.P.C.A.
object to the killing
of Game animals?

Are all animals of value
to a country ?

No. The R.S.P.C.A. prefers to teach the people kindness and
care of animals. However, if a person deliberately refuses
to ll iten to good advice, and persists in being cruel to an animal,
or bird, etc., the R.S.P.C.A. must prosecute.

The Society thinks that poaching is a dreadfully cruel thing,
and that the law should be stringently enforced to step it.
Apart from the hideous cruelty involved, it means that the
country is being robbed of its rich heritage of Wild Life.
At the same time, those people who indulge in cruel poaching
and illegal hunting, are not the kind of people who will help
a country to be great through sound development. These
people are antinsocial. In all countries of the World there are
gangs of people who rob and steal———these are not good,
hardworking citizens. Poachers belong to this class, and
through destroying the Wild Life, can help to seriously
reduce the economic resources of the country unless they are
stopped.

Again, the R.S.P.C.A. is entirely against the cruel and ruthless
destruction of small wild animals alleged to damage crops.
The Society considers the methods employed, barbaric and
primitive. instead, the Society advocates humane methods for
crop protection. OF COURSE, THE CROPS MUST BE
PROTECTED by every humane means possible. Agriculture
is the solid foundation of every rich and prosperous country.
However, to kill off all the animals, in so cruel a manner
is not good sense—plans should be made to protect the mom,
and save the animals too.

The land might easily be divided in such a way, that there is
plenty of room for agriculture, and many Reserves made for
the safekeeping of the Wild Life. The country is so large
that there should be plenty of space for everything, to grow,
to live, and to prosper.

Hunting should be stringently and scientiﬁcally controlled,
and when killing must be done, it should be done quickly
and humanely. The Wild animals help to fertilise the land to a
great extent, so when killing must be done, the balance of

nature should be preserved.

Not at all, provided the killing is done expertly by shooting,
and under experienced supervision. This would be humane
destruction—4hr: R.S.P.C.A. objects only to cruelty in this

connection.

Yes. Domestic animals, like all livestock, provide food, milk,
skins, etc., and are also valuable for work. Dogs make excel-
lent guards, and cats destroy rats and mice. And don’t forget
the value of fowls. Wild animals too, are most valuable
to a country like Tanganyika. They are a great natural heri-
tage, and bring in much money from tourists who come
from all over the world to see the wonderful Game. This
great source of wealth needs much more protection, else, it
will all be destroyed, then, there will be little to attract tour1sts
——a big ﬁnancial loss to the country. In any case,”the Wild
Life of Tanganyika is really a “world possessmn , and as
such, should be preserved for posterity.




How big is the RS.
P.C.A. organization in
Tanganyika?

Why do so many Afri-
cans join the R.S.P.
C.A.?

Can anybody join the
R.S.P.C.A.?

How much does it cost
to join the Society?

Where does the Society
get its funds?

Are the funds sufficient
collected in this way ‘?

Does the Society
employ paid staff?

How have Africans
become trained for this
work ‘2

Very big, and steadily growing all the time. The Society has
branches and centres all over the country, now, over 800,
and mostly run by the African people themselves. Every
month the opening of new branches is recorded. There are
over 45,000 members at this date, 27/8/60, and of that number,
some 42,000 odd, are Africans—this number increases conti-
nually.

In the ﬁrst place because the indigenous people own the
greatest number of livestock, and for this reason, the people
have welcomed a Society that has helped to teach them so
much about the care of animals. Secondly, the African people
are very kind and compassionate by nature, and do not
deliberately do cruel acts—therefore through the teachings
of the R.S.P.C.A. they have learned a lot about kindness to
animals, to human beings as well, and for this reason, the
people'have found happiness in performing kind deeds and
in belonging to so good a Society. The people too, like to
read, and learn, and the Society keeps a large stock of educa-
tional material which the people enjoy.

Yes. All people are welcome to become members, provided
they promise to help animals, and prevent cruelty and un-

. necessary suffering. The Society knows no barriers of race

or creed-v—it is entirely multi-racial, and of course, non-
political. It IS a humane soc1ety.

Very little. Adults of all races pay a membership subscription
of 10/- a year—but if they cannot all pay that, they can pay
what they can, and still be a member, but not less than 2/-
for adults. African students, or all those attending school,
pay a subscription of l/- per year, and if they want to pay more
to help the Society they may do so. In return for the member-
ship subscription a badge and membership certiﬁcate is given.
Membership should be renewed each year. There is also a
Life Membership which has a higher subscription.

The Society is a purely voluntary one, depending on subscrip-
tions, donations, and the support of the publlc for 1ts whole
maintenance—it is in fact, a missionary soc1ety for animals.

No. Not nearly enough to meet the tremendous expansion.
The Society requires much more to meet all commitments
that are established.

Yes, but a very small paid staff, mostly the work is done
voluntarily. The paid staff are African Inspectors, who have
been trained by the Society, and one, or two, clerical workers.

To begin with, Africans have shown much aptitude for the
Society’s humane work, and many Africans have applied to
be given positions with the Society. However, they had to be
trained ﬁrst, so, a Course of Training was started some years
ago at Headquarters in Dar es Salaam, and today, these
trainees have become expert in animal welfare work. During
training they have all received living allowances, and when
fully trained they will be put on regular pay as staff members.
This is a splendid career for Africans for the reason that they

 




 

What work is done by
Branches of the Society?

Can R.S.P.C.A. mem-
bers arrest any person
being cruel to an
animal?

What is meant by Hu-
mane Slaughter ?

can contribute a great deal towards the development of the
country, through helping the peOple to ensure that animals
will be well-cared for, and therefore very valuable. The
African Trainees also travel all over the country with the
Society’s Mobile Unit.

The members of all Branches, and Centres, have a great
deal to do, if they are to be successful in promoting kindness
and consideration to animals, and preventing cruelty and
unnecessary suﬁ‘ering. Some of the work done by every
branch includes the following :—

Inspections; Investigations into alleged cases of cruelty;
Collection of stray and homeless animals; Finding good homes
for abandoned and homeless animals; Particularly ﬁnding
good and kind new owners for homeless dogs and cats;
Visiting markets and advising on the correct way of handling
fowls, or in Cattle markets, watching that the animals are not
beaten, or otherwise cruelly treated; Seeing that all animals
receive plenty of water, i.e. this is especially important, as all
animals require water to keep in good health; Visiting slaughter
places and watching that animals are not cruelly mishandled
before they are slaughtered; Visiting loading stations and
ensuring that livestock is transported humanely; Helping
to dip animals to keep them free from disease; (The R.S.P.C.A.
ADVOCATES THE DIPPING OF ALL ANIMALS);
Watching for sick animals that might require Veterinary help;
(The R.S.P.C.A. Inspectors and Members are not veterinarians,
they do not diagnose nor prescribe treatments—sick animals
must have CXpert Veterinary aid); Giving First Aid to animals
that might be injured in accidents; Visiting schools and giving
lectures in animal welfare; Helping to organise groups of the
Animal Defenders Corps. (This is a Corps of members whose
duty it is, to go to the help of animals in distress.)

No, deﬁnitely not. A member can try to advise the person
being cruel, to stop, and if the wrong-doer refuses to listen,
the Member should report the matter to the Police, the
Native Authority, or even, the District Ofﬁcer. It is always
a good plan to have a witness when reporting any cruel act.

This is a very serious problem in countries where there is a
big Muslim population, because of the ritual demanded
by the Muslim religion. Much cruelty results through mis-
use of the ritual, but this could easily be stopped by the
introduction of what is called “Humane Slaughter”. Simply
explained, it means, that instead of the animals being dragged
to the slaughter ﬂoor, fully conscious—this causes much terror
to the doomed animals—they are ﬁrst stunned so that they
do not know what is happening to them. (This is just like a
human-being about to have an operation, ﬁrst the person
is given an injection to make them sleep, then the pain of the
operation is deadened and the person doesn’t suffer pain and
fear). With animals to be killed for food, if they are ﬁrst
stunned, they die peacefully, and do not feel the ritual cut
when it is made. This is called “Humane Slaughter” and it
does not in any way interfere with the ritual required, as the
animal is still alive when the cut is made, only unconscious not
to feel pain and fear.

 

 




 

a This is a good way to slaughter food animals, because the

1, animal dies quietly—not terriﬁed like when fully conscious,
and the meat from an animal killed in the humane way, is
considered by experts to be of better quality. The Humane
method for ritual slaughter is quick and clean.

The R.S.P.C.A., always trying to prevent unnecessary suffering
to animals, would like to see the Humane way of slaughter
made law.

Why do the R.S.P.C.A. Because the R.S.P.C.A. is a ROYAL Society since the days

Branches not have to of Queen Victoria, and was given the Royal Charter by an

be registered? Act of Parliament by the Queen’s command. Since that time,
i . the chief Patron of the Society has always been a King or
Queen, as today, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth is chief
Patron.

The Headquarters of the Tanganyika Division of the society
is in Dar es Saaam and. every branch of the Division works
under the Tanganyika Headquarters. But the Headquarters
of the whole world-wide R.S.P.C.A., is in London, and the
Tanganyika Division is a branch of London Headquarters.

What is the actual The same as in all other Branches of the Society throughout
Policy of the Society the world, i.e. Prevention of Cruelty and Unnecessary Suffer-
in Tanganyika? ing; Promotion of Kindness, Consideration, Understanding,

and a Reverence for ALL LIFE; and Promotion of Education
in Animal Welfare. (In other words, Humane Education.)

If the R.S.P.C.A. had In many ways. Additional Mobile Units could be put on the
more ﬁnancial support road: Veterinary assistance could be employed to travel
in what way could its with the Unit; (this would be of great help in remote areas),
useful services be ex- and many more young Africans could be taken for training
panded? in animal welfare work. In fact there is no limit to the useful
work which could be accomplished by the Society.

 

The R.S.P.C.A. creates Goodwill, Understanding and Happiness.

 

“There is no kind of Beast on Earth nor fowl which ﬂieth with its wings, but the
same is a people like unto you. . .” Saying of the Prophet.

 




2 2.964 2W2
. “at?
V C him 2'92 5 A M H2222» "2‘2

R’h‘u's: than 1.1722.“
theme “111122122212;
can {2122121272212 ‘25:»?
from July b; 1):; :Xalgzy'xt
fHHCisou Park 13112222211
210 Seventh AVCHUE' South,
Kiwi-5191's were (2222242322 :‘2‘2212:
than {H} SUEHUiMGd ‘1:st year

the: A.11+\f22iy;:_ Pnsie‘r 222.22.22.2225

2 Contest,

 




LONDON PUBLIC LIBRARY AND ART MUSEUM

ELSIE PERRIN WILLIAMS MEMORIAL BUILDING
305 QUEENS AVENUE

LONDON ONTARIO

CHARLES D. KEN T
Director

Mrs. Alice Vielehr,

The Little UQlLCr,,

New YOIR FM lic Library,
Auouon Iar I: Branch,

10 Seventh Avenue South,
New York, N I. U.S.A.

Dear ﬁre. Vielehr:

TLiS is to advisIe you that we sent by
reil'ay ey Ipre- s3 ye asterdIa J the gTOU3 OI AIrican Fosters
sponsored I>y the Iiumane Institute of Irica and sent
to us by hrs. Lumtert of Toronto. The jmo ters were
sent to tLe Little Gallery, adére3s 33 giv 33 by mra.
Lambert but not to you peLeonaIly baou use at the time
of Sending we did not have your name. L315 letter
will, I hepe, niort you to watch for them.

Heping you will enjoy having this display
as much 33 we did, I am,

Yours sincere 3,

.1 4’
/ ’/ (M
17 V.
’r f l'
j, ’ ix/ﬁ"

/{Amwfti§

(“rs .) uldOy Abbott, Heed,
Adult Services Division.

 




Harsh l9uh

wax" Lnau.s

share of Lhe

parth

klnd &
flmanal

and suggQJLed
of the cast.

me know that thﬁ

Boston), but

as a matter

in due course
if courae

es~éalaam, & I

pleased ind9 ed to

O

leaflet,
work.

I
n.’
V

iv1ng

H1}

qu

1’1 E“) {-3

rd

1.. . . .
C I 18 (“111,18

:3; e m;

‘ 1 ME. 5"???

‘17“?

Sf: ‘33.)”:

very

H. {9'

Ifﬁ
. u!
{rt

o:¢£¢
_ m

8
’“f‘” P" a
pm!
Q:

!
\J

ant to Bar»
is "r-ry

zanbual

Lo hgr

 




 

,- _N‘ ’1‘
. . f/ 1, i aﬁm/LWHQA.
1‘41 :3 1 1’“
F . l /\ i a
1+ in 1
\ fa {6,4 1 .,

"'1‘ . ~"\ « ’fK‘ [Tmf .1. (I w I / L! Li{ ”L..Q
1 // I I]! B {k 4 3 .2”L GM .4: ”IL“ _’ ’13 k- .-..
1 XA£1471
' ifx XI'2< L: V
/ 1

I, 1!} 1;, .-- Mg”? M” V "I r (1 (1 fir/(\ (/{VJ/Jﬂch \(f/ [a {Int-Al
C1111 QZ ~a1 6-9% C71»Q/A-(LS 1pﬁ(>1/1*/v{ (PL
1A-%V«1( “‘

. ,1. ~ . "a?
1'. V; O 1 ’ UK; 9/ («/6) L LL ’4)
I 1‘1 ’1 r‘ VK” ‘V/

~+ﬂ Dbl ’ >1. ‘ 11» g’ “
LL,L13}\\JC. (L/& \/\/1‘ 639/1 ' C) LL”‘3’
M6 ”LL/V’ /\ 1/“ 65 91x. [\J “7

I g 1121\{61‘

an:?;
-L I“{) 2
hdS
£01m

1
1..n
r.
k.)
S

(”N

2»
t" ‘
1- I.

. .
w ‘—...J
.__. 1'

f.
I“,

J
1—»

.r'.) o _‘

~11" C) ‘1‘ L5 ()2
"w'

k X (a

I
"‘ 1!

Lu}

1

'-
w

l

,.
1....

' 1
1-" C

aga1

1‘; r1131»:

19.1":1Q 1:";

0'1"} 6')
W;
Q‘AC’l

.L.1.1.
w

QOFQ
luta
1‘”
ﬁne

.. n
I ‘1 T
v .1".

149

Q:

-1-
L. 1

5
priz
left
Shit
SLTQ
that

plea
but
they




2.

isohel is on safari, travelli“ ,
Understand, through some of the 19 countries
from which the ohildrens' Posters some: she
has been receiving a great welcome a hut has

found the conditions for animels in Sierra
Leone just terrihle. do we plan to raise a

small fund here — es Isobel hzs managed to
form e Humane Society there (apnarently there
are no animal protective laws in that country;
e sleO, they are the bieaest eXPOTtGFS in
Afrige of monkeys to U.S. laboratories)

About the Posters, I have them on s.ow
again - this time, at Toronto Public library,
where they have been matted for me (e covered
with plastic sheets) and they look simply
splendid. I got some more publicity, which I
enclose. The Show is on for 2 weeks, e is arous-
ing quite a hit of interest. But I do wish that
more of the people who gasp with pleasure and
interest when they see the pictures, would get
the idea that the Institute needs their help!

So far, I have raised $250 for lsobel, since
last October; but most of that was for cash
prizes to the children, & pitifully -ittle was
left over as a donation to the work of her In—
stitute. Yes, I know that hr. Hansen is very
strongly in favour of her work, and I guess
that he is one of her strong supporters.

DID YOU IEAh AhYTthG FURTHER FRDM~FLQRIDA,
please? I wrote to the Bay County Humane Society

out never heard anything further; so I suppose
they are not seriously interested. I told them

 




3.

th1t thev could h5V5 ﬁne
9 E? c j. "fl KI QTY: .1. O

5150, 511 35m $55 any reply
551.111t11 111oqu1‘ it 551
dispIay '
' . you would
5515505 . the Staff Acu
11115 1.11251 the 1:111:15 W5 .5)
arrange: . th5m to have 5 Show of
5m OI 5 1111515105, if bh51 was de—

sire Pd: 5111d beLJ~ - 55, that w11ic be a LERI

good sEmw. I5 th1.5 any way V05 55

1

4‘ ”‘Q A v ‘?
111121.131 1,11 .

C
,1 if v05 can tyinke of
5 1 the? 515 :."‘;: 5515 I15“ in) 5? 0w th
p0515r5, (15551 T« w know. I feel V5ry
tempt5d be 551p t 50555r5 in the present
‘ﬁhow U5: the way they 555 «155dy matted, &
100'11g 1 very b55t; if I kn5w who wants
5E1 The? have been in 71551555 hut
« ' dlSH?pulﬂIm@ML b5015 U35 thé Bduca»
who 555 han:lﬁng'tnem for me,
returning 115 555 with only
critic1555 55 'u the 15511 7y 5 no
’1W5 urn “ an? sort.l She

v)
w o

r51311. m worwwxz" f0r th5
gregram.

The 5"1 *4 really verv good, 51d
50
- "I

 

~ many tnanks;
w15555,

 




m9 Animg. 9... (AK

A K , A . .
I . AK 3 Jaw REL} GARE?

DVmgxr Q/AS Aw g6? \fxfxa
7A 35A RC» C A5 \Fk/AAF ml? AwAAAv®2\

.1:

A)? F A? AA.(GA>\\ \GFWO A3 3 F (m 9V? PEA F.

Aha, QFAJS AAA} We OVOC/A AFﬂaA ..
3% G mAFFZFALAaAamA .\ Av. ,
:./®ch. m A? <5 A? 7% A3 Sax 2 (FA, 4
\AASK FAG? a x FA?! F.» A. A .560 AA?) Kai
F? .o 3 “CL. A? f A F A Aux. FAKE.
FM AFC. ma. AACS QLA EA: gcxm
FA», SA 7 F7 CA Pea ANS ((F Saviw X

F Va A? Peal Anagma \ 4

 




er mi; .mﬁ/ «x; . >>x¢3 mzmmm \ :9; a.

,, 3 99f

“ﬁfg ha AIS r4 V0
\ . .
S a *x 7., 9%,) “DER. 3‘ Q? F3 E;

21111

 

VC/ n V

m6, m? EU :97

.‘.“‘\I\I‘ III»

‘1‘“ _. .H Nil
( QC

\pxmvmwixm W, 1
EC? nAme av?“ 3K 96% >4 KEOKW of
ﬁrms», EQCNH 0 NF, Q» T ., 79 fmi Ev :6; <.

N m» x PT . mekmxcrﬁxuﬁ vﬁxm , .mxo Avrxé
a , ‘xu a: \E 33
Qcmxjef F45 XV»? . 3; my? mtgﬂrvrxr.

 




52 K:

Toronto 17, Ontario,

25th June 1964 CAKADA

Emar hrs. deans leans,

“any thanns ior your letter of June 22nd.
I’m so relieved so glad to hear that the African
Posters have arrived at the Gallery in plenty of
time for the opening of the Show. Also that the
puhlic relations people are going to go into action
concerning them. I do wish the Show all success”

Fhis is to ask you, urgently please, whet ther
{when you have seen the Posters} you could decide
ilhllly if you would lire to have the balance -

about 56 (good) rosters, which have been on Shaw

in London, Ontario, & will be available on July let.
it m~a:s, oi course, that your Gallery could not
receive them till about July lath - when presumably
they could he added to the Show. You would then
have the total collection - something over 200
Posters.

Please will you let me know, after reflection,
whether you think it is a good idea to take on the
whole collar :tion — or just stay content with what
you have already; and I can then arrange with the
London Gallery for the disposition of their Show.

I look forward very much to hearing from you
in due course how the Show went off, & whether
there was interesting publicity. Best of wishes,

Yrs sincerely,

“772L1LX. [;6LLLQ{;£AVJF-

 




;

'1‘ x“

,x‘i *
. i
A fay-‘3
n - ‘

Killdeer Crescent,
llth June 196A Toronto 17, Ontario,
Canada
Dear hrs Bemelmans:

To—day I went down to the Express Company to
send the african Posters off to Mrs Alice Vielehr.
To my dismay, there were all kinds of restrictions
which they had not mentioned to me on the 'phone.
They objected to the form of packing, e said that
if the parcel contained ’paintings', they must be
protected by wood} If they were only protected by
cardboard, then they could not be insured: but if
the parcel was not insured - then any loss or damage
ofcurring in transit would be for our account!

In short, it was impossible to send the Posters
by Express (in spite of the fact that I used exactly
the same wrappings as those used by Dr. Hansen's
office, since I never untied the parcel that I re—
ceived in good order from Boston!) I therefore
sent it by Parcel Post, a I enclose herewith the
Receipt. I insured the parcel for the full amount
permitted, i.e. @100. I do hepe it will arrive in
good order. It is fully declared, at "no commercial
value“ (to facilitate the examination at Customs),
and they assure me that it will be in New York in
about a week — or at the worst, 10 days. I can send
the insurance receipt if you need it. Please be
good enough to let me know as soon as the Library
receives the package: his way, we are learning as
we go along![ I never handled large consignments of
pictures before; didn't realize the Express folk
were so picksy a difficult.

Please will you inform Mrs Vielehr also that
she will be receiving any day now a smaller con»
signment of 6 African Posters from hrs. Hope Sawyer
Buyukmihci, of Franklinville, New Jersey? These

 




Posters 1 lent to r15} friend Hope for 5555r51
months, when5heobt5155d that 545035tment in
the New Jersey sch0015 — giving Chﬁlk~t51k8'
to the céfli1dren on hum555 educ5tion tL5m55.
But 5he has finish5d with the Poete r5 new:
they are 511 part of the 00115ction.

111555 mate 515 othat the exhibit (of 58
1555555) which is at wresent at the Pub1ic
Libriary in London, untar“ 15 nLt after 511

555155d in VanCquer; 50 if arrangements c5n
be cemp15t55 for balding 5 shew in the L5troit
Pub1ic Libr5ry, then th55e Posters are 5V511—
able.

1‘11 write .5 again, wiLL 5055 mare in—
formaticn about , or two of tLC,t P56t5r5 which
5r5 “5550151”, ' ittle nearer tLe date of open—
15g. M555w511e — L515 5 55p1ng for L5 best' -

>bV\/\J hr; dx zwb-L’vn 1V) ’W
Yaurs 51505r51y,

{9 b *' " " Lwi’
’ l (X MEL l/LA ,

p-

4‘

R9 Lu DA) ﬂoﬁt TL 7 [)7 Ce. L x, 1” [QJ’L‘I'W’l/J

CXQZ LL CﬂDLLCJL«,Vv(‘bk7f

 




52 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto 17, Gntario,

3rd June 1964 CANADA

Mrs Bemelmans:
Many thanks for your letter of May 27th.

About the African Posters, I'm so glad to hear
that everything is arranged. This letter will cor-
rect a few minor misunderstandings in your letter:

First, the Pictures which were matted were the
58 ”Kindness to Human Beings“ section, which are at
present in London (Ontario) - where, by the way, they
are truly delighted with them. The London Show is
to last till the end of June; and as you say that
your deadline is July let or 2nd, I think it best

NOT to send you these additional 58 Posters. I will
be sending them instead to Vancouver, B.C., where

a show has been arranged (for July 13th) during 3
Teachers' Convention at the University. This is ob-
viously a good "outlet" for the Posters - & from
there, they will go back direct to Africa.

The 147 Posters which you will be receiving
are (as you know) those that Dr. Hansen had in Bos—
ton. He had them brilliantly displayed — I believe
he sent a 'photo to Christine? They were what you
would call "matted" - only in a very fine fashion
(to judge from the 'photos) However, I regret to
say that (judging from the size of the parcel) he
has taken the Posters out of these mats, in order
to return them to Toronto: I think you will find
the Posters in their original condition ~ on limp
canvas or paper, about 15" by 12". BUT, please note
that (if your Library is willing) they gag be dis-
played this way: because at our first showing, we
had n9 matting or other aids. We fastened the pXKXn.;~

 




Posters to the wall with small pieces of scotchtape
across each of the 4 corners. it this late stage, I
think you could fasten them into the wall with thumb
tacks, or drawing pins, if the Library has a suitable
type of wall! When you have finished with them, they
will be going back to Africa, & thence back to the
artistjthemselves; so obviously it is not too im~
portant that they be kept in perfect condition. All
the judging for prizes is now over! — in fact, Mrs
Slater is busy with the current year’s Contest - <32
that means another thousand-or-so Posters on her
hands! I think she is just delighted that you should
have arranged the show in New York at all. So please
do the best you can, & make whatever arrangements you
can, for displaying them. Incidentally, we never
would have matted any of the Posters at all - but

for the fact that some Libraries have a ruling about
the condition of pictures that they accept for show-
ing: they will not accept them unless they are
covered with plastic - which means you have to place
them on a cardboard mat first. Get it? I'm sure
when you see the Posters, you'll think up some device
for displaying them - in whatever way your Library
thinks best.

 

 

I'll send the parcel (of IA? Posters) off by
Express next week, a I guess it will be alright if
I charge the cost "forward", won't it? All the
Libraries concerned so far have been willing to pay
their own incidental costs of this sort, out of
their petty cash. Our fund here is depleted, because
we're now working towards Egg—QE%;§22§ next Winterlf
If I send the parcel on June lOt or 1th, it should
reach New York in about a week to 10 days. I don't
expect the Library will want it any sooner than that.

No answer from you to this means YES to every-
thing I haye suggestedie Hope everything is clear;
I know youﬂlove the pictures! Many thanks for
all the co—operation,

Yours sincerely,

’6 a, p. ’i.

 




‘4'.“

52 Killdeer Crescent,

Toronto 17, Ontario, CANADA

May 1964

Mrs Bemelmans,
Many thanks for your letter of May 6th.

Regarding the showing of the African Posters
in Detroit - no, I have heard nothing from Estella
Draper; so I had no idea that there was any plan
for showing them in Detroit. Of course that is a
wonderful idea, if it can be arranged: perhaps I
shall be hearing more about it, in due course?

First & foremost, I must tell you that I have

anot yet received the African Posters back from Dr.

avg;
Va

3
3
{fate was toﬂﬁbid the display in Boston, until you

'nsen in Boston. You'll remember that their first

were ready to receive it in New York - & that was

r be far the best idea, because it would eliminate

A

#

:Customs troubles, between U.S.A. & Canada. However,

’Dr. Hansen wrote me on April let that the Posters

were being_mailed to‘ipronto that day; so I have
been_eipe5ting them to turn up ever since. But as
nothing has yet arrived, I have written to him to-
day to find out whether there was any change in his
plans: maybe the Posters are still being held in
Boston. (I hope so!) In fact, by now perhaps you
have clinched the Library in Detroit for a showing
of the Posters in June & have asked Dr. Hansen to
send them direct to Dorothy Dyce? Could you confirm

athis? (Don't bother to 'phone or cable, however, as

I am only in Toronto on Wednesdays & Thursdays of
each week: the rest of the time we live in the coun-
try - quite inaccessible!‘

(5,4 WW4? 3. )
g " (over

 




If and when you receive the lb? Posters from
Boston, that gives you practically all the "Kind-
ness to Animals" section. However, I have instruc
tions from Isobel Slater in Africa to see to it
that Christine gets gig the Posters for display -
and I, too, think that is important, as your New
York show is potentially far more helpful to the
African cause than any show here could be.

Therefore, I will instruct the London (Ont.)
Public Library to be sure and let you have the
remaining 56 Posters (chiefly depicting “Kindness
to Human Beings”) by July lst: and you will also
receive, by the end of June, 6 good Posters which
are at present in New Jersey: I sent them to
Hope Buyukmihci (a friend of Christine's) when I
heard that she was going to give chalk-talks in
N.J. schools, on the subject of humane education.
I only lent them to her: she will be glad to
forward them on to you by the end of June.

Shall I use the Animal welfare Institute ad-
dress? Or should they go direct to the Gallery?
Please confirm,

About the cardboard matting & cellOphane:
the only drawback is that it makes the Posters
very big & bulky to transport (the mats are #2"
by 32", & rather floppy). I have just packed the
50 Posters for sending to London, & found it very
difficult. I will judge how well (or badly) they
travel, & will let you know later whether in our
judgment it seems practical to forward them on
to you in that form — or whether they had better
be dismantled. By the way, as a guide to costs,
mounting, matting & covering 50 Posters (3 to a
mat) cost $13.00. So it isn’t a very expensive
process; but they look Eggy good that way.

Best regar s,

 

Yours sincerely, , (

To “1" 0‘ (VCR/«MA teem

 




T

,

:30
a x001
I II

o:
‘I

“I
I .3 Stalk;

,.
x:
-

"01¢ ‘SQJodeJ s

#3
H.

H3_

POST gCARD

CORREsldN’Ig’EigI mg '
13.3 \D H' :3" Q; 3‘ CS" ' I, V

“)1"? {D C! SEE”:
mm

9*( ' 1‘” M
:3 L .‘ A». ‘t S F V T “‘ﬁm «no
(D ‘

A a 4,-m‘m h I“
«gregggwi§;be%elman3,

“r-
?i‘) L
i

S

1-4
.

(T)

a.)

O

\D

F“: U}
Fm -

(D r«
5

(f.

F"

{D

m

f.

'aAiqdag

um IS
°em Jog J

GQETHQEJEHOO aseazd

_ A . a

 

r
J

l

Q
:j
0

T “I
II
R.

(N
"O
r

3
analog
'SJaesog

a]:

.1.

l _
{‘"1 a

J
~I
\D

L...—

L

9Q TTIE
@
T

Iqxn

O

H
U}
Q
H-eo H3
d

l..-)
{D
CT

suzqs:aqg

mm

{1"}
0

0g peasaJequ:

 

T
LU

1‘

C)
D...)
- O
' S
' P3
~ <1
CY‘
t4
Ci-
:3.
CD
5?,
CC"
LA
N
9
It

Jaq

“Tq

‘ These Cards are sold in aid of: .—

 

The National Equine (and smaller animals) Defence League,
Blackwell, Carlisle, England Organismg Secretary

Phone : Carlisle 22469 Alfred Brisco
(Copyright N.E.D.L.)




1071
5-60

I?' t? 14 IESX731?ZSERES

International Operations

R, F, Taylor, 340 West Street
Import-Export Agent New York 74, N. Y.
MU 6-7900

§0886

oua REFERENCE No.....".' ..............................

Little Gallery July 27, 1Qéh
*“Newmferﬁ Fu53i0“LiErary
10 Seventh Ave. New York,NY Due: 228h75, 7/e/6u

 

 

 

Dear Sir:
We have received from Len. P5117110 Library, Lanton, OIKEdressed to

ymL 1 Ctn, Drawings, 17# val. 5100

THIS NOTICE OF ARRIVAL TOGETHER WITH ATTACHED CARRIER'S CERTIFICATE
AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS YOU HOLD PERTAINING TO THIS SHIPMENT MUST BE
PRESENTED BY YOU TO U. S. CUSTOMS INSPECTOR STATIONED AT THIS TERMINAL
340 WEST STREET., N. Y. C. WITHIN 5 DAYS AFTER DATE OF THIS NOTICE
OTHERWISE THE SHIPMENT WILL BE SENT TO BONDED WAREHOUSE BY U. S. \CUSTOMS
AT THE RISK AND FOR THE ACCOUNT OF THE OWNER.

SHIPMENT IN BOND - THE FOLLOWING CHARGES PAYABLE TO REA EXPRESS.

Paid

W

Express InlandOOOOOOOOOOOIOQIIOOOOOOIOO$
value Charge...O'COOIOOQOOOOOOOOOOIOOOO

Advance OOIOOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOO

 

3.90
Brokerage Fee at the frontier. . . . . . . . . . .

 

Manifest FeGOOOOQCOOOOIOOCIOOIOOOOOOOCI

 

Tax 0.0.0.00.0.0...OOIOOOIOQOOOOCOOOOOC

C. 0. D...00.00.000.000...O'COOOOOOOOOO

 

C. O. D. ChargeOOOOIIOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOO P145“

TOTAL ”(03891131 ‘5 c
TOTALoooooooooooooo$ . ' CHARGES3$ 3°50

. ., .5“ 7 ”£//”
.1:- , .9 $9431!»-
ENCLOSURES: Carrler Cer._,1f’iea.te, Invomes W55! 47” ,

IF NON—RESIDENT——BRING PASSPORT IF RESIDENT——BRING IDENTIFICATION/5 g
HOURS: 9 AM to 4 PM Mon. to Fri.--Closed Saturday

IT 208 Buffalo Very truly yours,

R. F. Taylor

 




”I!" \ u? ‘3'”
O
1

17‘J

*vmg~

.ih
53~~H
1} ,
A'
~'.
*4"!!-
‘

I».

1.

L:

(If
It
s3 r
«1
J33
F

visa! ‘u
U.

. _ 5
x».

" .‘l'a‘

{'5‘

‘3

’r

hm
8&1

'3.“

Y‘

wanes. n- .

v'.
I
P

, , .
a ‘w' a" v
-
\

591:? "A 7 .
l
5:-
A b
‘2‘}
g

1-".
“:3

3A
I

5:)
J \.)
[PI
4,, "LI
i‘h
.4.
[:3
' an... o.
'2
Lu:
(I?!
2.1 .uJ
‘I'X'V‘
'b-Ai".

.34
K}!
N
"a 3, 1:
T“

1'

a
d
1.0
Sr:

.‘1

.?Q
5
1n

n.
‘

. r 'r'r
1.5 '5!
M

w
—-\
9.: 'a v»
e
1.

.3
3%

w

‘.
ﬂ
.
‘. x
f‘“ “a f“\ 1‘1
'24 .J

'oWW
9.
5"}

gr?”

1
f! .
s5
.1
£~

L‘H'
MK
g

m

 

13

«a

 

‘1‘

"q
_ 4

v

a

\. ,
W15. -

n
Y’ﬁ)
u: (‘4
V
b‘
(’21 ,‘f‘ti’
w
31"} “(ca
u *--v n .L'J

:-
~9-
1.4

QLi
t
t

79%

'EC

-

iﬁrﬁ

ﬁ
consiﬂts of ﬁg
a

vi:

9
.ﬁ&
h:
J?
’3

E
b.

' 9
f
D
‘i‘
.sunln WIL'LL'N $4.3,- wanna

E
‘
‘ I
;U

’3

11):..‘34
.x : ~.

5". 4. o 1»
"U?! :52:
“g.£:ru:.‘n-w ~ whimsy yam ‘ "it?!
“5’9", ’3 .
~. 1‘ H 'h. o '
(54:11" it:
1
1"-
u! 3.“?

we
""310

a
?$iﬁu

. .
.¢g
Va.
A

1?"
a:
d

'SCQE

.,
.1

ww
m% TL
3

01
If

ama B-
a E
r;.

'1
’1
din

p
in

m.
1%
$

”SHEQ
I
.A‘l {I

e
‘SK:

1
“
gai n»
“15$ 1'4! arm-smxrxrc

g
f3 ..
3
ﬂ.
6

GB
01% @f:
?

a'r‘
.8.

‘ﬁﬁﬁ

I.)

3

v

33%

v
V
:J

‘
..
p

£3

01

a“?
F"
U

3
Vs

.wg';
“NT.” v a.
+J"

1.;;.£ :1 x

’3”.
4

our

_ad CA(

L»
%“
W

'Eﬁ

t.

~h
a
fir-x" ‘-" . . 7 '

\W‘Rw
brr
5

%

 

..
«t. m
* Va
:5) & in,
mwmamxwx Erma!»

Q

-ha1.

:3
N
1-." m t ’. "a :-

' 145.3. ‘4: g

.?
w
9
95%39 gigage

 




THE PUBLIC LIBRARY AND ART MUSEUM

ELSIE PERRIN WILLIAMS MEMORIAL BUILDING
LONDON - ONTARIO

CHARLES D . KENT
Chief Librarian
and
Director Art Museum

.5i’.* 4.? r
m , ‘5 .1 “n. ,x M
ii 3&1»le I I 4:. {23' 3°“; 3
i3, J‘f’; $19V< i-
r"...- I‘...". '; .KJ.‘ f4 1
..:“,""'.~.‘“2’. ‘31: AP-‘W . " ‘ f}
. 4 ~,;; ”It advtu. "a ii." a 3.x “in”,
- ;

VI .-‘ u v a
“,5 . 1.3 . ‘, ' .3 I . ‘1
4.3.23;- .3. g 2‘: O 3;- : I.~‘= 1h.

l puﬁﬁ I.» $013.1: I1 I g: aﬁilwv‘ ‘

{151. W .2133. {I}? m»... Vi’i- it 2{I; purwi: e, 3:: 52:1“...

‘ ‘J
x “V

ngw% i; :‘VC / {’23‘L I..-

kl" 6. ”(H {OM -N

1/
{j

”i.-:. - % r-iV . .2.i,.. a. .3
U“¢{.§“i;o j QS1-1;.~.: I: :Ibﬁwtb, ii .- «~

.3
gain it I {WEIR ~

 




”(like New Earle ﬁuhlit ZEihrarg

Asia: 232th amh Wilbert Junnhaﬁnms

New :YOfk June 2,%\1° 161‘

s
. .a .7/5' . a .
;' ,1“ e 5. '59
, 5} ‘4" 1"» -'€" f“ », ’z .
T ' >3 ‘5’"?
“a” ‘ f " x “w" «- v
’ ‘ y s ;' " ’ - k‘ 6“ j %/ 41,5“ .
w .
u .—

5. Roger Stevens .

f 3“Animal‘welfare Institute .*“g« . ﬂ
‘ 22 East 17th Street ‘«ﬁ” “

New York, New York

Dear Mrs. Regers:

The announcement of the forthcoming
Hudson Park library show, "African School-
children's Poster Art,”;meets with our approval
and we are returning the proof of your layout
herewith.

The posters themselves, as they are
shown in the photographic composites sent
to us by Mrs. Vielehr, are charming.
I wonder if a few 8 x 11 glossies of
individual posters are available for publicity
purposes? There is, of course, no guarantee
that the papers will use them, but still its
helpful to have some representative pictorial
material to send them along with a release.

If such photographs are easily available
(and expendable) we would appreciate having
them. Can I call you in a week or so to
discuss this with you3 Mrs. Vielehr's memo
.gives your phone number as ORE-1069.
I can.be reached at OX 5-619h.

Our best wishes for a successful
exhibition.

Sincerely,

.
“ﬁ/W ,
J:-
I
,

(Miss)Flore ce Tarlow
Public Relations Office

 




From:

THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY . June 23, 1964
Marion L. Simmons

Chief, Public Relations Office For release: Monday, July 6, 1964
OXford 5-6194

"African Schoolchildren's Poster Art,"1 a new summer exhibition at

the HUDSON PARK BRANCH of The New York Public Library, 10 Seventh Avenue

South, opens Monday, July 6.

More than 100 prize-winning posters painted by children and young
people from Nigeria, Tanganyika, Sierra Leone, Ghana, Zanzibar, the Ivory
Coast, Nyasaland, Madagascar, Kenya, and Uganda are included in the
show which will remain on view in the Little Gallery of the Greenwich
Village library through August 28.

The posters on display were chosen as the best entries from more
than 900 submitted last year in an All-Africa Poster Painting Contest
for students. In addition to being shown; at the Hudson Park library,
they will be exhibited in cities throughout the United States andCanada.

Mainly in black—and-white, the postersshow great diversity in ‘
style and subject matter, ranging from the naive to the extremely
sophisiticated. All of them deal with some aSpect of "humane action." A
forester freeing a trapped bear, a woman bandaging the paw of a wounded
lion, a man feeding mushrooms to tortoises, another man sheltering a
goat and her kid are among the many scenes depicted.

The All-Africa school poster competition, now in its third year, is
Sponsored by the Humane Education Institute in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika.
Founded and directed by Mrs. Isobel Slater, the Institute seeks to
encourage the ideals of conservation, compassion, and care for all living
things among the rising generation in Africa. Dr; Albert Schweitzer is

a patron of the organization.
(more)

 




  

 

 

From:
THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY June 23, 1964
Marion Lo Simmons

Chiefg Public Relations Office

OXford 5~6l94

The Hudson Park Branch display was arranged with the cooperation
of the Animal Welfare Institute in New Yorko In presenting “African
Schoolchildren"s Poster Art" during July and August, Hudson Park continues
a longwstanding practice of showing work by non—professional artists
during the summer monthso Throughout the rest of the year the library's
Little Gallery presents monthly shows by professional painters°

"African Schoolchildren"s Poster Art" is open to the public free

 

of charge: and can be seen on Mondays and Wednesdays until 9 p.m.,

 

and on Tuesdays: Thursdays) and Fridays until 6 p.m.




Comments recorded by some of the visitors to the exhibition of African children's
poster art, Sponsored by the Humane Education Institute of Africa, held from

Ely 6, 1964 to August 28, 196%, at the Hudson Park Branch of the NeW'Ybrk Public
Library; by arrangement of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dante Parymisvee
65 Carmine St.
NGW'Ybrk City

Joan Rabalino
NeW'York City

Mrs. M. Lasarus
The Willow

182 ML 4th St.
New YCrk City

Richard Mead
Dunster House
Canbridge 38, Mass.

Vernon osbourne
336 Canal St. (6E)
New YGrk City

Annold Schmidt
New York City

Mrs. Gaynell Lomax
Z'West 86th St. #623
New YOrk City

Kit Mbennell
42 Mbrton St.
New Ygrk City

Clara Leiser
16 St. Luke's Place
New York City

Connie Keyse
1 1A Clinton St 0
New York City

"Thank you for allowing us to see this
wonderful exhibition."

"I've never seen anything more recreational
and fascinating than this disPlay room."

"Thank you for this absolutely delightful
exhibition!"

“My roommate, teaching in Tanganyika now;
is going to be delighted to hear of this
exhibit!"

"Excellant! (an American figurative painter)

"very good"

"Adorable"

”Interesting insights into the world as seen
by these young artists."

"The charm and the strength of these refreshing
paintings make one feel confident that the
young artists will also be humane to their
felloW’humans."

"Thank you"

 




:Told her 150 Rps¢eps' on exh. in Candda in June

r< ; .r~'*E;W in July. 50 erhau
111; there in 11;?
ANIMAL WELFAREX thlSTITUTE
22 Eas’r l7’rh S’rreef

New York 3. N. Y.
OR 5-l069

~-a

199“ “cell:

f
kﬂ§ ‘ 9990 M0 for Senﬁinﬁ
3 02 19 J“; 319999. I ’
i 3. be :vae 9 591091*': at
' 99110 913““99 (919:19

99.9Kmﬁ: 1” 09 99.

If“ - (a ",4 {‘2 ("a

L; f (1’.- 31 0.5. O Olaf: I 33. l :33 0

Dr. 399V999o9,

9t @9999 D91v9191tm is

“9999 99991999998 to have tmem
on exhibit there.

~ , J. ..
711“ szl 1.1.? :30” Li) L} 8.3. n g
:09 e"%iblt?
lave them?

1 , A -_1 ,— .3 . '2
no burden you +9 Cher.
9- re the fi:99t @999 t1099

 




‘7'. 3 "z c"! '7‘ .~.‘

' _(:3“‘ [-3.
( “')'9\..I....

.. _,/‘J _3.

H... W

..
, 1' 1‘: (7‘ .-‘ i,“ C
‘1‘ “31"}: 3.52.. k-)

.i " -, m

B‘ " M7 n w.

carerl ab©z4

.1

A» .1, “Lu 5"; >'\ ‘27; N. :1
av ; , aaoub QWL,N
i?ox::;;€h ' =,*w

'? J... I, ‘5 __~ .. ..
5530 L; .21 .:~.-:~. :10 :0;
.L

~> ~'- 4.. 1. _
. I 0 {31,1 L; L, ,1’1 {3:33

4..
Q f3. £3 1.; O

I
'5‘ t"? [3.5% ’63”! 1.3...
Slavvmb¢ga

/<7(

4"

Nu“

 




L

x (gt ”WW /fcyb ~

\

THE GLOBE AND MAIL, FRIDAY;

 

 

This. poster by 14—year-old Sharti M Amin of
Nairobi suggests Noah’s Ark with the various ’
. . . . animals placed outside the building.

'Thislpastoral scene was painted by Mark Masinda,‘ l4, of Kigwe Upper Primary School in: Tanganyikdﬁ ‘ ‘
Ages of the children- represented in the exhibitrange from 10 to 24. Isobel Slater "is'director of thb

\

. institute of which Dr. Albert Schweitzer is patron. 'VMrs. Slater has been 20 years in'Africa. ‘ "

 

 

‘ ,_ and Mail.

A NATURE THROUGH THEEYES OF CHILDREN

' Karen Kock holds a painting by 15—year-old Aruna Ashabhai of Nairobi. It
is one of several posters done by African school children, displayed yesterday
at Fran’s Crown Room at St. Clair Ave. and Yonge St. - The Humane Educa-
tion Institute of Africa is sponsoring the lO-nation show in Canada.

 

 

 




I-IUMANE EDUCATION
INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

Box 2473, Dar-es—Salaam,
TANGANYIKA, EAST AFRICA

PATRONS AND SPONSORS:

Alhaji the Rt. Hon. Sir Abubakar Tafawa
Balewa, P.C., K.B.E., C.B.E., O.B.E.,
LL.D., M.P. (Nigeria)

Dr. Albert Schweitzer (Gabon)

Cmdr. Alexander Desta, Imperial Ethiopian
Navy (Ethiopia)

George Ivan Smith, Esq. (United Nations)

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming (N.B., Canada)

Dr. Eric H. Hansen (Boston, U.S.A.)

Director and Founder of the Institute:
Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

AIMS OF THE INSTITUTE: To teach
and propagate ideas of conservation, com’
passion and care for all living things ~—
respect for all life—~among the rising gen/
eration in Africa. The Institute is a volun’
tary, nonproﬁt organization, aiming through
its programs to unite young people all over
Africa in worthwhile endeavour.

DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM: Mrs.
Isobel Slater has lived for 35 years in Africa.
She formerly founded and organized the
Tanganyika R.S.P.C.A., and for this work
she received a decoration from H.M. Queen

Elizabeth II.

.. aﬁa

I? "i

61-5" .
. ﬂaws. i;
.r P» 'p. ;:‘h

J?

_-o

11‘? I“??? " 3
rs:

’{&.L.-.

be“ ‘ a
,?§‘§ﬁat:i‘ '

. ~ )2 ‘5771'i‘wv '3)?”
ﬁrst“? “has; .. .3 5%? ,

a
;-.'
s ’. }
1:
,. 77“
f .
£4
. ,5
in,
-' a;
,1)“.
“(I
is
.A‘
-‘
"J
’3’,
. ‘35;

f‘
”
‘ i”
try
.47-

r “Pa"

{33?{1 fl: \‘i'r

x.

'3‘ . . s
am ‘

2‘7;
. r‘.‘

v‘ \-
t ).

”tram!“
,J’v: £1“.
. v 41 '11 y .
H .Jt.'>‘:"‘id:¢£

#-

 




REASON FOR FORMING AN ALL,
AFRICA INSTITUTE: Mrs. Slater, after
many years’ work in Africa, saw that the
bringing of prosecutions for cruelty, and
the work of patrolling and animal control,
was not the whole answer to the problem
of educating young Africans to a more
responsible and compassionate attitude t0!
wards their fellow human beings, as well as
the lesser creatures. She therefore under’
took this major educational effort, which is
on a continent/wide basis. The program
includes promotional enterprises, travelling
and personal visits, lectures to schools, the
preparation and distribution of educational
literature (in the various languages), the
distribution of pictorial material and posters,
and the holding of an annual contest for

young people all over Africa.

HUMANE ACTION GROUPS: Mrs.
Slater encourages and supports the formal
tion, anywhere and everywhere, of “Humane
Action Groups”, as the best means of unit”
ing young people from all over Africa in the
general program with its high idealism, and
holding their interest and attention while
they receive humane education and see its
practical application.

ANNUAL CONTEST: In the three years
of the Institutes life, the Poster Painting
Contest, which is open to school children
and older students everywhere in Africa,
has assumed large and signiﬁcant proportions.
Last year over 900 entries were received,
and this contest is favourably viewed by the
Ministry of National Culture and Youth of

the Government of Tanganyika, as well as
by the Education Ministries of many other
African States. The exhibition, after going
on display in Danes/Salaam is shipped to
North America where it is shown in Canada
and the USA. The theme of last year’s
contest — “Humane Actions” —— kindness
to fellow human beings, as well as to ani’
trials—reverence for life— aptly expresses
the philosophy of one of the Institute’s most
honoured Patrons, Dr. Albert Schweitzer.
The frequent excellence of the young
people’s work, and the vivid realism of their
ideas, as shown in these brilliantly colourful
posters, is the best testimony that the pr0r
gram of the Humane Education Institute of
Africa is “going over” among the young
people, and rapidly bearing fruit.

ADVISORY BOARD: The Institute has

the following overseas friends and sup’
porters:

Chairman: Alhaji Chief Abdullah S.
Fundikira, M.P. (Tanganyika)
Mrs. Roger Stevens, New York
(Representative for U.S.A).
Mrs. R. S. Lambert, Toronto (Rep-

resentative for Canada)

Mr. G. Mgombe (Tanganyika)
Miss F. Perry (England)

Chief Humbi Ziota (Tanganyika)
Mrs. C. Garlake (Rhodesia)

Mrs. L. Flaks (Natal)

Miss G. Gerber (Sierra Leone)

Hon. Treasurer: Dr. I. Gebauer (wife of
Austrian Consul to Tanganyika)

 




SUPPORT NEEDED: Won’t you please
help this valuable project by making a
donation to the Institute? Will you become
a member of the Institute, to help, encour-
age and expand their over-all program?

PLEASE SEND YOUR DONATION to:
The Humane Education Institute of Africa,

Box 247 3, Danes/Salaam, Tanganyika, E.A.
Or to:

Mrs. Roger Stevens, Animal Welfare Insti’
tute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N.Y.

Or to:

Mrs. R. S. Lambert, 5 2 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto 17, Ontario, Canada.

“True goodness requires us to
respect the lives of all creatures”.

-— Dr. Albert Schweitzer

 




199.113 qimod 199m 01 .KqunS (1N1

199.113 noisnoH 01 Aemqns anquV muons-$31
199118 [1093111213 01 sng OHUGAV LpuaAas

amnhs uoiﬁutqsem 01 sng onuaav 1p}; .tl

SNOILOHHIG 'IHAVHL

8961‘19 AVW HDHOHHL z AVW L;\ “

193118 0 .05an 133M

” pasolo 'JBS

138119 uo-swop

NOW
x8999: L”,
leans A01 31

 

6 - 6 '99“.L

6 - 0631
'quL "Pom "How

SHHOH HDNVHH

 

SDDlJaLUD 9L“ ;0 anuaAo

NOS'IHN 0111

A21

 

iaaus Lm, isamo

 

 

 

 

qinos anuaAo tpuaAas

NoIsao HAILVHODHG v . @qu

abold AIJaAoM

7...]

m

 

:IO NOLLI‘EIIHX'EI

anuaAo tum

 

HLHOS HHNEIAV HLNHAEIS OI
HDNVHEI )I‘cIVcI NOSGHH HHL

AHVHEII'I DI'IEIfch )IHOA MEN
AHEITIV‘D 211L111 HHL

 

 

uaueaq uaed uospnq

Over a period of years I have had the oppor- C ERAM I C S

tunity to Witness the growth of Lilo Nelson’s
gift in the ﬁeld of ornamental design. For
some, perhaps, this sumptuousness may be HANDPAINTE D C H I NA
out of step with the sober lines in today’s

decorative arts. But the art of decoration lS ORNAMENTAL DESIGN

without limits: each one may represent the

rhythm of his individual life.

Lilo Nelson’s decorations form a rich and

tasteful design. Her creations are poetic . . .

fresh, strong, pleasing in color. 5.4., ‘ ‘
~ - «ream ~
' 1‘ "'

SIMON LISSIM

 




 

 

[Sbl 'IE'E Menuv!

qmos enuer qweAes 01
qaumq )Imd uospnq
em u;

Menus amu 9‘"

10

110A meu u!

8UJ!J,1$JIJ eu; JO}

BugMoqs meal }0 ewos
’SlequJ50;0L{d p dnt a Aq

uomngxe ua

branch hours:

monday. wednesday
and triday I2-9

tuesda‘y and thursday 9-6

closed saturday

to reach the library,

take 6th or 8th avenue subway
to west 4th street station,

or 7th avenue subway

to houston street station

the
new york
public library

presents:

photography sampler

1957

 




52 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto 17, Ontario,

2lst may 1964 CANADA

Dear Mrs. Bemelmans,
Many thanks for your letter of May lSth.

This will confirm to you that the consignment
of 147 Posters (Afriean) arrived here in Toronto a
couple of days ago - luckily, with no complication
at the Customs! It is a great pity that Dr. Hansen,
for some reason, felt he must return them here to
~ Toronto: I just can’t understand it. The mailing
charges are substantial!

The Posters have been packed in such an econ-
omical way (as one large, heavy, flat parcel) that
I won’t undo them: I intend to keep the parcel just
the way it is, and re-address them to the Little
Gallery, New York (as you instructed), whenever you
tell me to send them.

I still have heard nothing about a show in
Detroit; but if one is arranged, then you will
only have to let me know (by mail, because I am
not often enough in town to receive a cable) and
I’ll address the parcel to Detroit. That will
give Dorothy Dyce in Detroit a showing of 147 Posters
on the theme of "Kindness to Animals".

All the rest of the Posters ("Kindness to Human
Beings")(except a few in New Jersey) are now in
London, Ontario, and are destined to be sent on to
the Little Gallery — if possible in time for your
July showing.

Wany thanks for all your great help,
Yours sincerely, é

 




seventh avenue south

le my street

 

clarkson street

west houston

 

 

street

 

 

m ﬁfth avenue

waverly plac

wash
sq

0 west 4th street

 

 

 

 

 

avenue of the americas

Ml SDNIINIVJ
JO NOILIEIIHXEI NV

BNIONHONNV

6TH'OR 8TH AVENUE SUBWAY
TO WEST 4TH STREET (IND.)
7TH AVENUE SUBWAY

TO HOUSTON STREET (IRT)
7TH AVENUE BUS

TO CLARKSON STREET

5TH AVENUE BUS

TO WASHINGTON SQUARE

MONDAY. WEDNESDAY
AND THURSDAY 12:30-9
TUESDAY 9-9

FRIDAY l2:30-6

CLOSED SAT.. SUN. 8x HOLS.

 




HEDY STEIN ER-DEEDS

born in Austria, studied art and painting in Prague and Vienna. Con-
tinued her studies in France and Italy. Exhibited in Vienna and other

European shows. Came to the United States in 1939 and worked in

New York as textile and fashion designer. Now living in Pennsylvania,

devotes all her time to painting and art work.

THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY
LITTLE GALLERY
HUDSON PARK BRANCH
10 SEVENTH AVENUE SOUTH

April 7 through April 30, 1964
Preview-Reception: Monday, April 6, 8-10 pm.

OILS
MIXED MEDIA

WATERCOLORS

 




ﬂ
'2 u 2312

1276""
.3? 3.

3amhar*r
W ‘2‘ 2136;”:
2322333233272

WZﬁ.
mt

321322“ .222 "3:22

$9329 50 vary pres 333d 0%

I

7.22.222 12.222222 mlﬁtmz’l to 3m2t331222523n 332:2

.. ..
. '22:: u *2 7222;; V "awn-"*4 7'2 "'2‘ p: .r-l
' 2.41; A; "s2 - .2». 1:. 4s“. K-u- - ..

3.-.; #73
,,‘,:..»koi.,- 'Jm

1'"? 3f“
3‘99. 42
V.

”32.13;

(

"‘ "‘ﬁf“

4.257 .2, 173
W;

.3” 2122327212?" "7 T212
‘21:- ” :7 :2 is:
'9 .2: .. 1
‘2’ L 3.11. 2 2‘7”
ﬁh? 7th““ﬁ

..-.2-" .. '2 .. . 1-..
317533335753 522.7 :3 133353373733". 2:3. :1. {333333.}?

"'2”; .;
. 738‘,

3; “a, a v? , 4 tin ‘36- to; v 7'
2 ‘ .. ... < I», ’ , A 1 l a
1 ; 4 4n. -. u. ... ~

2": 2
a. “v” N 2.2“ . .
ﬁnat
t, '1 1% ;.
l inhaloﬂr ..

31‘3" n2?” ‘7’?
-, 41.5. N. ._,. .3...
A —'..
3’9
{‘2 I
I
.3 '4'

2r} x».
3mm

:3"
‘9

22224423 :2 2"}

2""2232" 3.32.22
2-,

2’1 :4 2-2 2:"

,1 17:1?!" 6‘53

2.22mﬁ3
ff‘ :9

.0 .4.“ 3 H... .3 b “1‘ _.
4523224234 ..4. 2.221224 2.222.523.224

3211’ «Lu»

J .
.3”? 2T“ 2 “V a“
o .2

2. T221225

drgft

g2. ﬁamﬁem,

«an, 3 mm

'2 are: £12.22 21 3:23.22...

3.213.322.2221",
1‘01" L“.

J- ‘ .. .2 M..- ‘ . J;
21222 axkg+44

. 21-. 3
2:33.65

”SW ..

37222.2 2222,2192" 222 .1.
‘33 3.3. *2223 :12; ”2‘2”? 2
1:213". 3.12:2 {22:22.2 5:3 3.1 )7 21:2 2 .22 V242
gotten ta gaur 212210um
04362233212223 2'2. 3.22 ”13.4 2.2-; 232.32%.
”122 anlg aarapa af

.3
1:35:31

.5. .1
213.!

R r2
1 ..

E .24 “‘1 t:
‘2! 313.:
3.

A. Q. :~-
‘1‘! :TJW'

‘ «a

r" ‘7; a.
'2 3.31:: .2

a-w.
5’" r-‘~4' ‘22 2"" *4
.2? 2. 3 2’2 7. 3...? 3.2

42,.
$8 w -. 3
2

,.
1,..2‘ .
21

5'3 4'}

mlﬁ ma:
I'm

22.22 "230 "23122122 and monay that

if he 2322221123.
2&222252

.VT 24p ”42:. ,.;~f
‘~ig‘ «4' ’Q :(‘* ‘PQ'IX

2 ,
-223. 3::

'4’
“‘8 1 1 3
. “‘11 3‘53
.01.

as}:

........’ 1.
$22.17 3.; .
My. ,2”?! 22‘, ”£132."? £23.? (3
(7%» qr ‘
2.“ 21“ e- 222:1 m. T452312 37353.3

we — .-

gum"). x, U
2.211.329 ‘t 3 2722222 I
a2ﬂ 2é

Eiricaﬁ

3227“" 'i‘t‘iffgr 314:4

52.9.2..de

C 3"
.; ~12
A

3:12? 2’ 22.22222
in

4;...“
273w 3-

1":st

5.334%”

(«G-2‘ 5242 5353

.2fi"32. $333 hﬁ
3322232222
ta haw?

21.252.222.412: Wily

‘3" ‘ 5:14
' 2.; j. i :3

 




In H 3 X’
J

.\r

2.
r3turn t3

'3‘

'41,. 1 , . . ,3.
5:301”ng If] , (L (3,1311

ton,

‘33"3 C

p .. r,
3C? C2

‘1‘ Y x‘ u ."n M4
{1531,31 L13“ .( 1

1" Q 7:) UTII ”C: 0

Dear C%mﬁ.3 :ine:
I am so ul“a
to have h3ard 3

conce ‘Wlnc the
they

3 preposed pamphlet.

03 received my 13

M3 P :ﬁwrw hav3 33w

NW; 7 L: 1’3 “ ' V ‘-
go On 3303 at

1Uﬁ 't33n

. A I . . - It. v1 -\ . “m'l
Elpﬁé. Ior bhOWlng

“dmtér3a

3333) on a TV progrum.

 




3.3:} 3.11

1

i.

~1
‘1

1.3. x.

’1.‘ or,‘ r;

‘J A.

‘t'; i)

,\ +.
3 so.

{
\.,

 




' J

‘3

Killdeer Crescent,

' ,4 . 9“"
foronto if

I

o \' t A
Tﬂ‘\\\\~ ‘1'; ~ _.

‘\\‘. VQI; ~ ‘ ‘

\' t
\ LL
9 ~\‘\;,,

1““

‘i\\r A
\\

\
9“ éuu‘
\‘N‘ x"

we; ‘

_, \
‘ 1' xx. \
xx \“~\-
i. “ \“N

t
_ \
' ’ ‘\\\

my deer Christi

e
1%
\\

£1. \\
e 7:. \
\

hear that yon eieo
a Show of ﬁne ehil~
§oeiere from Afhica. I neWe phe whole
op them here « 178; ‘3 a? “a: meet eriginel, enerming and colour-
eee in e long timei i did not nee

fhe Show here: i had never eeen

idea what they would be like. But I first

\

(after Checking win ‘ i o’ Slater} the

.
\

enoleeed leefiee, whieh deeeribee the Show more or lees; & then I
Similarly drefpeﬁ e had printed the enclosed invitation card (left
¢ 'f- . r .. ' 5w #1,!“ ('3 r ‘ (T :1) F 8
Blank, ee ﬁo time a place, be that in pan he need over i ov r). T1 n
' "I! I 'l r1": 5
I hired the oheeeoet hell that i could get (nent1e1)iit was e; per

. . ., i... 9 \
hour, refreshments extreﬁ} The firet “how was for 3 houie \dibernoong.

I filled in the time & piece on the cards, e sent out lSO‘inV1tations,

each with ieeflet etteehed. My printing bill was Very high {more about

t.ie leterﬁ) The turnwout wee oomperatively poor, but I did quite well
for Isobel « $150~worph of )rizee (in cash}, & donations to the Institut*
bringing it up to over $208 anyway. The idea was to invite people to
nominate the Poster of their choice for a prize - & then give the prize!
”Canadian prizes", they are called ~ to distinguish them from the prizeSi

awarded bv ieobei in Africa, & subsequently by Dr. Hansen in Boston.

There are to be further Shows (the next possibly in conjunction With

 




5’ a M7 l; I
Fiﬁ/e, . :11,

i
l

.3
. gm»)
I
c?
C)
KC)

%
\

i

j \.
{AW

U M» 76% 2%)“);

‘.

{25. Wt

) .

the African Students Foundation, here in Toronto); and the Toronto Boer}
of Education is interested in showing the Posters at their Education
Centre; and in February, the display goes to Winnipeg, where some of

the Posters will be shown on TV, alongside comparable efforts by Dense
dian children.

i have strongly felt the need for e

Now Christine w all alonr

L.
w

 

general:gurpose, simple, informe*: :ive pumphlet describing what the
Humane Education Institute of Africa is all about. 1 prepose a leaflet
very similar to the enclosed spec men (Lawson Tait Canadian Fund, which
i also produced) - only the printing woild he in sepia brown (a nice
colour), I have drafted such s leafle,, w sent it to Isobel, for efyrlval
She has said that she BADLY FVVDo such a simple, allmpurpose pamphlet in
her work, & to foster her liaisions oversees iwhioh are so irportor to
her}. But of course she has no funds. would you take a share in the
cost of this pamphlet with me, and of course receive half the quantity
for distribution? » or stall we ”out in” Hr.‘Henson too, & try to get
him to take a share in the oost and receive e quantity for distribution?
Also, Christine, I’d be devestetingly thankful if you would take
over my leaflets and invitetionucer ds m unless you don’t like them m
rather than printing your own. I purposely had quite e lot printed, in
the hope of recovering some of the cost afterwards, by supplying them to
anyone wishing to hold a Show: Would it interest you, please, to take
a quantity from me? I think it would be cheaper than printing again,.
Do you find them suit able? 500 leaflets, oerds & envelopes cost 31“?
I shall have about 200 left over, Could you us them? And coul-d you

5‘00 (Ana (/ng CmOOZ/VO $.83
take 9 share of the pamphlets with me?ZJDogum1]dmmattzis stson_Tait

‘ ‘ ‘ .(j halt?
pamphlet (1 mean, the appearance of it), We have done quite well ’by
-the way; have collected over $2,600 so far, for a 'Cenadian Prize'a
So the effort rolls along... VERYE EST N?ISHES, to your work, and your“

SQlf (if you are ever separate from itl?), Affectionately, JQY1C¥v

 




ATNEW
NOBEL TYPE FUND

providing awards for

Original Medical Research

offered by
THE LAWSON TAIT MEMORIAL TRUST

(of London England)

6 The LAWSON TAlT MEMORIAL TRUST has been
set up to encourage methods of research other than
those using live animals providing awards for
medical researchers, doctors and medical students,
who produce worthwhile and significant results in
advancing medical science without having experi-
mented upon living animals.

’i OLAWSON TAIT, F...R.CS, born and educated in

i / Edinburgh practised in Birmingham where his work
earned him world— wide fame as a surgeon and gynae-
cologist and as a pioneer of modern abdominal
surgery. He lectured in Canada and USA. and
received for his work a number of American medical
honorary degrees including two M.D.’s, one LL.D. and
Fellowships of the American Gynecological Society
and of the American Association of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists.

C During his lifetime he frequently maintained that ex-
periments carried out on living animals could pro-
duce results entirely different from those found in
clinical practice. This belief was confirmed in his

 




 

own work at Wakefield Hospital and later at the
Birmingham Hospital for Women which he founded
and where one of his greatest surgical triumphs was
achieved by an approach which had been obscured
for forty years by the misleading results of animal
experimentation.

This MEMORIAL FUND has been established (with
an initial sum of five thousand pounds, approx. I5,000
dollars) in London, England. It has received favour-
able notice in a number of medical journals and is
commended to the notice of examiners in surgery,
pharmacology and medicine. The following names
are those of the present trustees:

The Lady Dowding
Arthur C. T. Nisbet, Esq, Geoffrey Rudd, Esq,
Mrs. Nora Turnbull, Mrs. Jean LeFevre

The first PRIZE AWARD (of one thousand pounds)
was made last year to an Edinburgh Surgeon, Douglas
Lang Stevenson, Fellow of the Royal College of Sur—
geons, at present Surgeon to a large and famous Hos—
pital near London, for his work in a previously un—
explored field related to cancer and its causation.
Other awards of GRANTS IN AID have been made to
(I) A group of General Practitioners in Birmingham
to support their work on pre-diabetic conditions found
in clinical practice, and,”

(2) A group in Manchester who are working on prob-
lems of causation and developments, in connection
with mental retardation in children.

When applying for awards from this fund CANADIAN
ENTRANTS must observe the following terms:

 

 

. The project must represent the original work of
the team or individual submitting the application.

. The work must have been carried through without
performing any experiments on any living animal—-
although it is appreciated that veterinarians may

make discoveries in the course of their ordinary
clinical practice, which could become the basis of

a valid entry to this competition.

 

. It must be made apparent that the results sub-
mitted as an entry to this competition will make
it possible to dispense with further experimentation
on living animals in that particular field of
research.

If you wish for a c0py of the prize winning paper
please address your inquiry to:

THE LAWSON TAIT MEMORIAL TRUST
(Canadian Branch)
Box 674, Station ”E”,
Charles Street East,
Toronto 5, Ontario,
Canada.

0 CONTRIBUTIONS to this worthwhile and construc-

tive FUND out of which awards (of up to three
thousand pounds a year) will be made ARE URG—
ENTLY REQUESTED. Please make your donation to:

THE LAWSON TAIT MEMORIAL TRUST

(Canadian Branch)
c/o The National Trust Co., Ltd.,
2I King Street East, Toronto I,
Ontario, Canada.

 

 




The Humane Education Institute of Africa

(DAR’ES’SALAAM, TANGANYIKA, EAST AFRICA)

presents a selection of the 900 entries received this year in its annual

All/Africa Schools Poster Painting Contest.

These entries come from African schoolchildren and older students —— aged between 10 and 24

years ~— in the following countries: ———~

NIGERIA TANGANYIKA SIERRE LEONE GHANA ZANZIBAR

IVORY COAST NYASALAND MADAGASCAR KENYA UGANDA

The theme of the Posters ~— “Humane Actions” — kindness to animals, as well as people ~—

expresses the philosophy of the Institutes honoured Patron, Dr. Albert Schweitzer: ——

“Compassion for all Living Creatures” —— ”Reverence for Life”!

This All/Africa Contest enjoys the support of the Ministry of National Culture 59’ Youth of

Tanganyika, and the Ministries of Education in many African States. Its purpose is to help spread
the idea of Compassion ~———— Reverence for Life —— among the naturally humane/minded young

people of Africa.

PLEASE HELP the cause of Humane Education in Africa by awarding a prize to the Poster of your
choice. If you wish, it can be conveyed to the young artist in your name. Or won’t you please give

a donation, to assist the work of: ——

THE HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

PO. Box 2473, DAR’ES’SALAAM, TANGANYIKA, E. AFRICA
Director of the Institute: -——— Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

Canadian representative: ~— Mrs. Joyce Lambert, 52 Killdeer Crescent, Toronto 17, Ontario

 




The Humane Education Institute of Africa

Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika, East Africa

invites you to a Showing of

AFRICAN SCHOOLCHILDRENS’ POSTER ART

on the “Humane Action” theme

 

 

Countries represented:- Nigeria, Tanganyika, Sierre Leone, Ghana
Zanzibar, Ivory Coast, Nyasaland, Madagascar, Kenya, Uganda

Patron of the Institute - Dr. Albert Schweitzer

Please Come!

 




 

BY MARY

f‘D‘ear Mary S
caught my wif
affair with anot
wife. has ever
‘home‘, a car, .
ness. We hav
dren Whom
much. Ihave l ‘
from the begi
gardless of
pened I still
“I haveeno-
power to lea
and eve’rythi
ed so hard f
me anything
such a situa
rible. Plea
answer in t
have no pl
mail it to.
DIFFICULT
You do not
age, and fa”
or not this ,
She has be
another m.
this affairs
the past 5
good Wife
youxhave
to suspect
part, I sh
wouldbe '
she would

 

 

 

FRICAN ART snows KINDNESS , Te;

Kmdness posters are hung by Dace Birkhams and Mrs. G. Flynn at Toronto Central

4' ‘J'TJLibrary for two-week show. Art is done by Africans, ages 10 to 24. The show is 00- an .
'i“l“}s.:p0nsored by Humane Education Institute of Africa and African Students Foundation. ‘- l

‘w in

ARM.

Dlana Churchill .IlllllllllllIllllllll‘lllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllll £131.:ch

. a
«'3 ".3; ,
u,

r

d
I"
P

.L' ,

,5. . ‘ , "/ , .i ., ether
Wllls est-ate , ' 3T0 KEEP W ELL Elsie:
" ' * W ‘ * . . . §keepjiupg




         
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
       
    
 

,, West 316th. Street
"New YorK, 1.Y.~10327
333 27, 1933 ”

Dear—333,;Lamberts

. 33 triad to t3l3phon3 r. 333333 last week t3 33k him t3
mad th3 past3r3 directly to us but he was cut of'town. 11-333
:bout to call 313 333 n y33t33’31, when your 13+t333335v33; I umﬁ3r~
stand from Christine that she 353 wr1t3»3cm3 tim3 3 33 333333 ing
hi13 t3 keep t}13 pictureﬁ until he haari frsm 33} But 3h3 th5nks
h3 may hav3 overlcoked this part of her lett3r, 33 sha was 3133
wr1tiNg him 333ut samething 313:1 '

        
      
   
   
  
      

3:) wt: 6.7.1119? 33“”? mar"?!
'-.~ t _,

544' «v- ' \- HQ 0."

.93‘3ou,wii!ﬁy33 3133 : b.2133 tha 3:31
as convem133t t3 533. A1' ielehr 333333-3331 83333», 533 Yark
Public L1brary, 1' Q ' 3 N33 3crk; N ‘ ‘

assuming that t1.ey 313 still

 
  

-I 333 Mrs

, r yest‘ , 1 y. 333 1
33333 y3s’; .13 13 ; The'shzm 3:13 :3 ‘1:3 Jw,y Q‘tc 33323. 3?- 1%
will be hung July 1 and 2, 33 331335 th3 "35333333 to 333333"
" 13,333 Ymrk by then, 5 think it‘bcst 1331 yea 33 net

     
    
  

 
     
          
      
   
      
             

I still h3v3 no fina? 3033 f13m Detroi 3%? 3333 to
‘speak to “h35”*133 tmﬁag. HithEﬁ The past 133131 ‘
to mak3 thr3 3 trzps to Ann Arboé 3_moth3r has 33
is 33 h.b3tt3r 33w2 T0333 cw ”311;?133 3333 30 F03

a'speech;

{'1‘

a.

..
ii.

We are h033ful that the Show wilf
'but can make 33 3rOm53 3 at 313 as 30 3

     

~ , .
”3131 many t31113 and 3331 w'3h31

“.-.




:J‘*ML ‘WELFARE ENSWEUTE
§esi 97H“: ghee?

‘t ”‘1: [a ii ‘3 g?"

“a” --:
I! I "‘ , 8“ «an»? Iv

y .. “man. a :1 .2.

Before sending posters up to her,
Miss Boyle would like you to come
see the space they have available,
bring 2 or 3 samples with you,and
talk about it.

Please phone her before going
OX 5-h200

 




"@112 New Earl: ﬁuhlit iﬂihratg

Astra“, Ileana: emit Wilbert Eﬁnmthatinna

FIFTH AVENUE AND 42ND STREET

NEW YORK 18, N. Y. March 24, 1964

Mrs. Robert L. Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22'East 17th Street

New York 3, New'York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

‘Mr. Freedley passed along to me your message about the African
children’s paintings. They sound like a very interesting
exhibition.

Schedules for many of our exhibition areas are arranged for a
year or more in advance, but the Nathan Straus Young Adult
Library in the Donnell Library Center, 20 West 53d Street,
would like to consider this exhibition, if it is available
during the coming summer.

If you could send or take the reproductions of the paintings
to Miss Elizabeth Boyle at the above address, they will be
pleased to see them and perhaps a schedule can be arranged.

Sincerely yours,
~/,
.. \-\V /
*5:;)’//'Zi ’21-}? 49-7 5- 3

dMarion L. Simmons
Chief, Public Relations Office

 




x
l’

@112 (Nan Earl: 1311113: ZEihtatg

Astnr. ZEennx anh @ilben jﬁnunhatiuns

THEATRE COLLECTION
FIFTH AVE. & 42ND ST.
NEW YORK 18, N. Y.

March l3, l964

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens
22 East l7th Street
New York 3, New York

Dear Christine:

The posters look very interesting
indeed, and I have sent the material,
together with your letter, to Miss Marion
Simmons, Chief of Public Relations with
a request that she communicate with you
on the subject.

With warmest regards to you both,

Sincerely,

C1,.)tiél,

W?\ i
7 *,§ §§i?}

r
GeorgeiPZeedley \x
Curator

 




600 wear 116th Street.
New Yark 10027 ”
May 15, 196W

Baa? 333, Iambert,
ThaWk yau fur ygur 1thnr 0? May 13,

We st'l1 have no'anawer from Detroft WWW avg checking
'thiﬁ. (I 313: havr m:1swn~nroruw 831,33 “ram rq whgn 3W3 ahoka

an
pf writxng to you
'By the 1133,? had a chance tc Wigwxa vour 2333:4
3h13 aFfWrWWQW3 if 333 raw 1336 C<:1(:a‘; WW W3anr

1-... 34"

all c311 him the first of the week? aWa if he hag
Wenf thm_p5cturWs bﬁck‘tn Vou,-wW 8h311 arranc
mg ahipment.to WWW York

7r

7nﬁ'1ﬁ WWWT1W9 ngh 1“. “#30? Th“ gw‘FﬁPV ﬁn
~’ +(:' v," ‘— u :I H 5:121:11 41;;
(or you) We hav: Thm 1M7 W at mr s SW;t W»Wert'y tn th1 hraWy

‘ 1. .. 9 , .
'T’pnp 1ft" . .3 ~ \ . :1" :1: 'v” f
1'4 ,. a”. v-a , 13 ~.. 1 @155: x {1 1

J

) ‘ 9-5.3“, an ,a W.
.l;a,-’.’-I~.J)~: -

. As for the 56 posters, nmw in Ontar§.o and tbn six
lin Haw Jer.3y, ws wou1é prefer to hEVﬁ thm 3130 snnt #3:

Mrs. ALICW Vialnhr
The Little Gallery‘
Hudsan Park Wravch
ﬂew Yerk Public Library”
19 Savemth Avenue Swath
Maw Yark, New York1

I sh311 wrt We Wax? WWWk, 33 Sean aﬁ WV 1~3'M wand frnm
\ Darroit anﬁ Dr Hansen, and hava.ta1ked with Mrs. V3313h3» ’

. We snali b3 glad to have yOUP QWE_nE.OW 33 to how‘wa11'
the Wasters *r3VW13W with #13 Cardboard ma11 WW ‘ ‘

Again, many thanks and gooﬁ.w1sh33g

PM“, .,- ...,'§.‘
0 1, {WC-311*" 1%: A “J

 




MP5. R. S.
52 Killdeer
Toronto 17, 3

Canada
Dear Mrs. Lambert,

Christine has returned, n we have discuosed t
you brought up in your letters to me. I understand tuat
also been in touch with Estelle Draper regarding the shoe.
the posters in Detroit.

Dorothy Dyce is arranging to have the posters shown n
We

the library there, it possible, during the month of June.
agree with you that we might as well avoid the red tape of customs,
and so it would he beet if Dr. Hansen would ship the posters directly
to Detroit. As soon as we know whether June is acceptable to the
library there: we could then arrange with Dr. Hansen for shipment

of the pictures.

Christine thinks it best if the mats and cellophane
covering were left on. Even if transportation costs were higher,
it would save the expense of having them rematted. From your
description of the way you have treated them. I do not see that
the libraries would have any objections or other requirements.

We would like to have all hundred and fifty of those
concerned with humane treatment of animals. We would also be
glad to have for the New York exhibition the additional fifty
depicting kindness to human beings. The only problem seems to
be whether the library in London, Ontario, could have them
shipped in time for the July opening.

If this were possible, we could then. as you suggested,
return all two hundred posters to Africa. If not, we would
return the hundred and fifty we had, and you could return the
other fifty separately.

 




 

We are meeting with Mrs. Vielehr of tﬁe Littla Gallery in
a week Gr 36. I hope by that ﬁime we shall know definitely abeut
the ﬂats of the ﬁetroit exhibition and whether you think we can
have ﬁhe additianal fifty pagters.

Many thanks for all your trouble.

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

 




\“ r 7" ‘
g; 5’ with

52 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto l7, Ontario,

CANADA

léth April l96h

/,
-/I.

5‘1, .
w‘xﬂn
- I
‘51 ‘1-

WWII/ﬂ/ 4’ . 7" ‘1' . ‘
j w/ " , i' 5; .. .
’*7 \\'"’ » ;p Dear Mrs. Bemelmans,

Many thanks for your letter. I‘m sorry
about the delay in replying; but we are now
on our 'Summer schedule' whereby we only spend

2 days a week in town! - the mail certainly piles up while we are away.

I'm delighted that you have arranged, after all, to show the
African posters in New York. It sounds like an excellent arrangement,
and I‘m sure the Posters will look their best in such good surround-
ings.

Yes « July will suit very well. But let us first, hastily, plan
what is the best thing for you to have.

First off, there are 150 Posters depicting "Kindness to Animals",
and this set is unframed and unmounted: the set contains many good
specimens, and at present this whole lot is in Boston (where, at the
moment, Dr. Hansen has them on display in the Boston Public Library).
Dr. Hansen had the posters matted in a very effective way, when he
displayed them in Boston; but for the purposes of transportation,

I am sure they will have been dismantled, so that they can be re-
turned to me here in Toronto in a flat condition. The pictures are
not large; they are a standard size; they lie flat and are easy to
mail. Dr. Hansen wanted only the "Kindness to Animals" section of
the Annual Contest.

Secondly, there are approximately 50 Posters (containing some
very good specimens) which lean towards "Kindness to Human Beings"
(i.e. rescues from train wrecks, from dew drownings, from various
accidents; helping the blindk finding abandoned babies, etc. etc.)
(but including also a few deeds of ’kindness to animals”) and this
is the set which I\did Egg send to Boston: it was displayed in Toronto
PublicXLibrary, and the Library authorities (who were very pleased with
the work) undertook themselves to "mat" the pictures - as you can see
in the enclosed press 'photo. This way (3 or 4 pictures to a net),
they are very effective. Every poster is covered with plastic. (You
see, some Libraries have rules about the mounting, matting or framing
of pictures they display: had you not better enquire what the rules
are, at the Little Gallery? It seems that they do not want to take .‘
responsibility for any work whifh they exhibit, unless it is protect-”'
ed in some way: the minimum, I understand, is a plastic cover)

(continued

 




 

2.,

 

The Posters in this form (i.e. matted,
on pale grey or white flo py cardboard, &
covered with thinplastic§, although they
look their best, & create a splendid show,
are actually rather difficult to transport.

It happened that the Public Library in
London (Ontario) heard about the display in
Toronto Public Library, and has applied to
take the show (50 posters) for the month of
June. They are paying the Toronto Public
Library for all the materials used in this
matting process. But it only costs $12 anyway.

So, first of all, would you please let me know, as soon as
possible, the following:-

1. Do you want 50 Posters - or more? 100? 150? (total: 200)

, (which, however, contains some pretty un-

p? 0 g a , interesting ones, for displayapurposes)

a V [1,; "WV”! 2%: f“ f ,g'ﬂf .. ’fg f“ f! a ' ,-. ,_

Wm “5 . V U .» 4 a n.4,...wﬁﬂj f;,,x~1,..-;e,,a I / 45., ngﬁmk . ,

2. Will you find out what, if any, are the regulations at your
Gallery concerning the method of display?

gs

,_fﬁ
IF YOU WOULD‘LIKE TO TAKE THEM READY MATTEDi‘f/you could have

the display immediately after the June showing at London (Ont.)

 

Whatever you reply to the above questions, there remains this
point:- Have you any preference in subjectumatter? Would you
like to have ALL "Kindness to Animals”; or a mixture of both;
or would you like a selection of the BEST (artistically)? By
the way, I supply a complete list: even if you take only the
best work, you can still have it assorted - from age 10 to age
2h, with as many countries as possib,e represented.» ifwmw~w ,1

I?‘- j

" 3 4 , 4 f

. ,J, } ' ’1‘ ‘ a. .. . , , 4.3” ,4
a?» ' , ‘ : 3*” ,k“ f r I 97‘ ‘2 -' . . .~ 23' a ’ a; f- . .s a: ,
if: N33; 4 fﬁvf’. 5‘ c"! {:3 Ir’ «’1; 3f”? 1'? 2, ,,;2":1';£' { ,5 7’ 9'”..«E.""“' {12%. "if? ‘ {.333 I»? x "' ' the“ ’ *' no ,3»: "a,” h” '5‘ ~""" ' ,,
K "M- {ti ‘f fit"? ‘ I , M is; J. 12'; ’1" q. i '5} J J‘ ;4-‘ i. 4‘ "' 1“ 'EW " = At: ’ 1;," 2...

Literature: I enclose a pe01men of the 1nv1tation card I used,
and also the descriptive leaflet; but you will pro»

‘n e
1

3...: “”4

~, bably want to draft up your own. And of course you have a quantity

of the her brown-&-white pamphlet (about the African Institute),
haven't you? You will no doubt want to distribute some.

By the way, you run up against a problem if you just leave

piles of these pamphlets lying around - they disappear, without
any helpful "return"11 So the way we did it at the Toronto Public
Library was to thumb—tack a few copies of the descriptive leaflet
and also the pamphlet to the wall - so that viewers could easily
read them, without necessarily taking them away. Then we had a
supply of both at the desk, if anyone was serious enough to en-
quire. We encouraged people to award prizes to the posters of
their choice - & people were egthu§%astic about this, and awarded
about $250-worth of prizes. ‘ ut on’t know whether Isobel Slater
is still willing to receive prize-money for last year's Contest:
she is thick in the business, now, of the current year‘s effort! C/L
”’ek1.,»‘

Q? .

Looking forward to hearing from you, Best wishes, from i,

 




52 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto 17, Ontario,
CANADA
22nd Zpril 1964

Africa

Dear Mrs Bemelmans,

Further to my recent letter (which was
in reply to yours of April 8th), I had a 'phone call yesterday from the
Massachusetts SPCA, and was told that all the African Posters were in a
state of readiness for mailing - but that in the meantime they had heard
from Christine about your plans for the New York showing. The position
is that I had previously asked Dr. Hansen to return his lot of 147
Posters to Tanganyika; but he replied that he would prefer to return
them to me. This being so, I thought it best not to interfere with
his plans (for returning them to me), because I knew in any case that
you did not want them in a hurry. But... if he is willing, now, to
send them direct to you (or to the Animal Welfare Institute) in New
Yorkg that seems like a splendid arrangement. (You see, that way we
shall avoid all the nuisance of bringing the Posters through the Customs
again, at the Canadian border) So I replied (on the ‘phone) that it

would be a wonderful idea if they would HOLD the consignment of Posters

at their end until they could Contact you (or Christine), to find out

.whggg you would like the Posters sent to. This is just to confirm the
tentative arrangement that it is the BOSTON set of Posters (i.e. about
147 pieces, all depicting "Kindness to Animals") that, under the present
arrangement, will be reaching you. Of course, if you could manage more,
I can send down all the balance - bringing the total up to ZOO Posters;

and then you can return them to Tanganyika, whenever you've finished

 




with them.
I look forward t0 hearing from yam. And
I hope yau safely received my letter, which
went with a set 0f ’photes showing thé style in which
the Boston peeple showed the Posters,
' Best regardg,

fram

WM g CW Le V U33
‘ /

I

~

:Tu JiQL/vavgke/ [k
max L V'

 




 




 

:April 8, 1953 '

,333; R. S. Lambert *
'52 31113333 Crescent
Torcnto 17,03tario
Canada' "”

Bear 333. Lambert:

- Becau3e Christine has t3 33 out of town far a wee}:lor 33
and because of the 3333333033 33333333 3f wbrk c3nstantly 3333 333,
aha has 33k33 me to take care of details 13 connectiQn with the
showing of the African posters.

‘ We have finally found 3 3311331;  int3r33te3 in cxhib1t1np
them~~th3 Little Gallery, attached to tha 333333 Park Branch of the

‘ 333 York Public Library. Th3 space is ample and 3133333t, and 333 _

. person in charg3, Hrs. Alice Vielehr, is Enthusiastic 333 330333 atixe.
.33 had a choice of Tuly or August hut Tuly 33333 preferable b333333

of the possibili ty that the 3333 might be cont1nued 13t3 33333t.

Thére will b3 no charge for the 33303, but we muSt paw
for the 33303333333 ts, which must be 33333333 by 333 V13lehv.
Unfortunately, we are not 3113333 t3 make any appeals far funds
'at the 3how.. But we can distribute l1tarature describina the pur—
- poses of the Humane Educatign In 3t1tut3 of Afr5.ca and 013133 the
addreSses where 13 t3re3t3d 330313 may write. '

3 Christ*ne has shcwn me your letter of 933. 28,1868, in
which you discuss var1ous pr3cedures in oraanwzinp the 3333. If yo u
now have furthér ,uggentiona, we should be grateful for them 33‘
well as for information about the transport of the poSter3 and whem
we should eXpact to rece1ve them.. (Perhaps 1t would be 3033 expe-_
ditious, 1f you would addre3s me at heme: 600 3est 116th Street,
N33 York, N.Y.10027~~at lgast while Christine 13 aw3y). ‘

.. With best wis hesjfor all your 3333 Work? of which“3hrigti§ﬁ;.
. has speken so often, ‘ T ' > - v , -
Sincerely;

‘ fﬁf7‘

 

 




 

Mﬁg.

W

ﬁtiﬁihﬁh from. M$Q)_ ...... . Cémwathf:

6 sum 0 W K. ”(NW/“J4 git...“
th f (’[n La bauxﬁ g g A W)

Q-«QW
...“: .W cm «W. ...-Inn.“- y...” 1....
“-0....

LMEMLN€)H Uw—GL/K

bemg ....... £M:~......... , “Etna: .ngmu Kg...
,33 A - 9

gym-Jay— _ -» ~
L/ s, , ‘.»
\1“

' HA I‘ .
.Tl‘v'nv «4": V. '7' v. 7 .~ '

'9 “Van‘v

 

 

S
m
Q
.n
E;
:3
N
M

 

 

 

:>
E:
‘3
E
E
E,
. fa

 




1‘2

)‘g F: illﬂeﬁar CTQSCGE‘E , TOI,(3:]2;O 131?,
UntSrio,
CANSDA

ﬂu Saar ChriStine:
3‘

Sny +1un1s for 3on3 letter of July 33d, 8 Sleo for
the charming 3 Silots 833 Scribing the Little Gallery Show.

Unfortunately, I W~Lho from Mrs. >88Llﬂﬁﬂu, SS 3ou
know, at the end of June, txllinb me CSLPdQT’C 113 thSt
you did not SSnt to receive Sny morS 1fr1oon poSte S.
Therefore 1 wrote the London Pub1io Library 8 Seaed them
to return thoSe they hSd {the o11SnLS of the collection a
about 58) directly to SiriCS. It is 3>DoSo1v Loo lete
now to get hold of thoSe 58. However, 1 have Sent S long
telegram, expleining the xituatlon, S-esking them if it
is not too late, to Send S11 58 teeters on to ﬁgs ViSlSLr.
I @Ubn) 1 will get confirmation of LhiS next week,
umil, 1 1 wi11 then let you know. If it is too '
the poeLers the been returned to Sfrioe, L11Sre
you can do.

8ven tle to 1331 colleo Lion of just over 200 “ostare
is only S irScLion of Lhe whole Contest, which ”movnt d
to over 900 entries. 1 oelievet1SL Sc me of the SSS.
entries couldn’t he sent over, oeoa 2Se Lhe3 were on the

wrong mitoriol, whi1e otherS, I believe, oeme in too 1Ste.
This mo 3 S13 23113 to Ivory Coast, N3 Ssalend 8:; Sierre Leone.
How: 3ver, you may find some that you want 11 the 58 from
London :ublio Library {if 3ou set them). 1 Red a11S«SJ
told you that they were e Soon seleo Lion.

w

As for t: Se blaxik— u~W11tC reproduooions, unfortunately
I can’t refer Lo my own Set because 1 sent most of them
over to Vancouver, for display St S Teachere' unmor School.
But I have referred to some of the em, and see that ”"31?
originals are in London, Ont. (For example, “1 Lind motion”,
which is S ven3 Charming picture of boy oarn3ing old women
over river) 1he reason is L11St many of lose T9 productian
fall into the category of ”nindness to Human Se1ngo” m 1
those were the ones that Dr. Hansen dio not went in Boston.
He only wanted ”Kindness to1niSSls" PnS WSS the reSSon
that l was able to retain1~1oout 58 roeter 11Sre, & send
them.to London for exhibition.

The Posters that were reproduced in our press here, I
sold. Later, Isobel told me to go ahead & sell erery one
I could but I only succeeded in selling S total of
The3 do not include anv from Ivory COS st or Sierre Leone.
However, they include SEE 110m Nyasaland (which I bought
myself) and 1’; n sending it to 3ou to day, by first class
mail. 1 would like to have it each, if possible, at the
end of 3on3 Show; however, I don’t £33113 mind about it.
The purchase-price could equally well have been 8 prize.
”TruSL” is one that was Sold. S~ regards sales,

 




get any QpplECQﬁiQQs, 1 W13 ., -111 :3 that VQQ 31?
ErQQ it dirQ013 I dQQ't , “r- E1Qr Qre vat policy
QQQSQ is just dQNQnd“ wh1,1,1*1 WEQ WQQJ LQ QQY.
By'the Wﬂy,'M%éfﬂIﬁQl thQQ was _
,Qn3 I 3311: om te ”DU QiQQct, witQQQt ‘cgwipg vi "b;:Qm
1 I dQnEt E:Q0w vhztz r hQ QQthQQd you ”
‘ her he sold (or DE: fIiSB erQiQQd}

Y

\
J
I“)
k",

y'thQrQ 13 HQ Qnu
at that W S 1QQt m3 by 1 Qt1l f;>m ifriQQ .
the CQQQQ at Qnmlr1e1 {QQ 1Qavy prQr). it iQQl1de
had bQQQ T?nt, Q: WQll 33 EL 1? 113? had met. E“
from l 10 EQU ﬂrd bQQQ QQQQ »1‘1 a? tisz QVQQ,
Ver CQQ1WQ 1p/ 11QL LQ Q g» “.51 I sent the
CQVQer the '“indnab tQ 1~xr11 ‘ SQctiQQ to D? 2-03Qm
I don't KHOW *thQ3 ‘0? Q01 'a “1QEHCFQ 13 1Q . rQQl
In any QQQQ VOU would not fi~s ,' very much113
the rele vant hgtr,l5 QQQ an QQ 18k of Qach

:"1 ’9’, 3.. 1,. ,.‘ 1.. . ‘ 1- ".
girﬂdwb TOD wonder wh
L

I mi ght ment1un, Shriga 1E1
VQC En Ldﬂnda last uchhe
.r’ ta th then' QQ Clbblay,
1/: t,1:13 I 131dQ11Q;QQCE (5; ”
aim is ti raiQQ moQQy for “1. . W1
EN”.TE i d Eﬁlmdf‘ 11*,QV“1“71131Cj11“’4 ;‘ .LQ.JT Cu” ﬂ“, 1191
sold QQll) FLCQQ Stmmb @1013. (C1 COU““0
Abringa in Ver Qmall 1Qm3.1

2“.

~23
'n
(33

WQerrEng again t0 L-~»wu1rQ rQ ﬁducflbﬁﬁ,
Q,m 110 rQ Vmer ":1“ "Q ith refer to [TS whjc
werQ Egg 1n our 7;. E; QQlchtlan 3t Q1 W1 313 yQ t
chQrQ may 10*“? « *‘r*.'E which QQrQ QQt~r d in the greviggg
Dontest. But QQQQ, t; , erQr t0 PQSEQQQ wnich yQQ may,
or may not, :QQC QEVQ ;.:3 London, Ont..

’1

(1

Does thi1 QQQWQr 3L yQQr Qsttﬂmnk? If HOE, “190358
write 1131n (no Q1 ’40 * QQ. 33 I am mQQKlV Out of town)

U. V a 7
.£

and specify which Eosé QrQ 13rticularly yQQ CQQl yen are
missing, Q I’ll let yQQ Know whether Qr QQt they WQrQ in
the coilection.

 

@it wi hes to th Show!

WM

 




l [
I l.
l

.%WM¢Z6 .60 “cw/w” Lad/Jud? / W,
, . 1 a? a? f Java
g? %.x 34/} qiﬁitaj q..% mam, inﬂarxyogw 5%

.. ‘ , =£ q
#9 9W1...

ﬁl- EZ‘M .. 5/72;

"F “WM” ”W“ (lei:

'ﬂawé’" mogﬁh SLATER 51.3. E.

- ~ ,  5 K; WNW‘t”
.mmefwcwaw. M. g   ‘

PM" a” "F“ 5’ :5

.

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

, Lin“ BERLIN zoo STICK
TO POLAR BEARS

IR,———W’ith reference to the letter you published by Dr.
‘ Heinz-Georg Klos, of Berlin Zoo, it appears that it is the
lashion these days in minding other people’s business,

nstead of our own.

In trying to impress the
Rhodesian public by his big-
hearted concern about a. coun-
try he knows nothing about and
a wild animal population he
could only know little about, he
only reflects his complete ignor-
ance of the problem by saying
“it is scientiﬁcally proven that
small mammals, rodents, etc.,
are sustaining the disease.”
(Trypanosomiasis.)

As one who has had consider-
able experience of this subject
I can say that this is not true
at all. Dr. Klos could not give
any reference to scientiﬁc work
in this line.

As for saying “you must
overcome the organising difﬁcul—
ties.” Just who is Dr. Klos,
who may well be experi-
enced in breeding polar bears,
to advise on entomological
thousands of .miles

While I am on the game sub-
it is time our misguided

slickers,” who are so
-nthusiastic on game preserva-

 

 

tion yet know nothing of facts,
got themselves more acquainted
with what is going on.

Many people shout and scream
when one Government Depart-
ment wants to shoot about 500
elephant in one area, yet
because it is not publicised, no
one minds if our Wild Life Con-
servation Department destroy on
an average at least 400 elephant
every year in Southern Rhodesia
in defending crops, boreholes
and or other control reasons.

Certain areas in Rhodesia, as
all authorities will admit, are
drastically over—populated with
elephant and if nothing is done
to de-stock them, they will
eventually destroy themselves
by destroying their own en—
vironment and food supplies.

It is lovely to have dear little
rabbits in your garden, but
what happens if they go on
breeding unchecked ?

No~tell Dr. Klos to carry on
breeding his polar bears and
leave Rhodesian problems to
Rhodesians.

“TSETSE.”

Salisbury.

 

 

 

 




I ' - " ,’ . I Wuvwwg 54:99am [37/ w. ,3) #331 ﬁx“? I? “’4’ NW, ' ' 4:7 “W ““197 “II/’47 (4/ "
#7 “15143;“ $1447.44 “2%: 4 '4 4’7”" 24 1 "W 4 I
; I a? jr MW :- , , _

WI 4 ,2.
; Mfﬁdliﬁﬂ

K7? 6” Y W
%aéz @dﬂngwadéra/ 93 44204354415

,Z/ 4/525 gag ﬁw 24/14:
I‘ I. .9665- ed- u/Acé) I")!
@2504; - ESOBEL SLATER m. B. e. 4444 4:44

)7...— ML“?

M ..

MM 440:7 5L... ﬂbw 4*»

“WW 8;): MW‘HQ a m “51"”?2"

€- 7..., CigliﬂM'm a
kit. % 342‘: “1’3“” . Wu
“k “Luise: MW“ '

LVA hké’t—Q )‘Qg‘m W
it: Luna; 4g ‘L5

,

 




 

.gvtrv
E get “my
gmﬁafhx

To open cut here —*

%L\
a, J n ya:

'"HVW AHVNICIHO AEI lNEIS HO
CIEIDHVHOHDS EIEI ”111M l1 SHOCI ll :11 5 HHHSO'IDNEI

xv ‘

mutt?

‘

L

i

\mbrLrtb

'V '3 'VMIANVSNVL

ANV NIVLNOD .LON GTHOHS HELLLEU HIV NV

‘NVV'WS 53 ENG

Q
mam

. LIP. “SPELWQ

 

91” X09 '0 ‘d _-
('v 'I 'a 'H) ‘vamav 50 ammsm

 

Eek

TIL.

3 SSQJ‘PPB pure QUIEII S‘IQPUQS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

m WW
(—— araq p103 puooes ——-—>

'x

3

WI: $7. E _. 5.716% ALV HE wegﬁiui
mm FA” me P». ﬁg iffu \V g pal mVItAKLNam i

x ‘ km” E, .ir. EH;

m 3‘; mm Egan}

.4
3E .L

.ﬂﬂ Aw»). 0.. A... EAVFE

ER» 35 :26 l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

73“] W WWW

L!
.A,
Q?

 

 

’XWS? ‘ '

9
n

 

I. n..--..
‘ a!
ono.o....u-..

 




. . _ /M.
ﬁaﬁe gﬁéﬁéﬂéﬂﬁ ﬁé/MZE c/a /é¢w
a? J 14196
@ﬁéaéz ﬂﬂgéfokigwddég/ ﬁfilﬁﬂﬁéfé

£65 57525 Eda ﬁg; 24,23:
F %¢-eéo ng/tldz’n
92mm - mam SLATER m. 2;. e. :Zv/rwg’ 632%
' é 0’ C? H ,
W .. m ~r we“
(a? ,1 ii I ’n‘ m ‘ ”(1W
. .. ~ : \‘2 15‘3”“;

3

 




I
“7'?!

\

“ET“ I

@iﬁi
”“3““
*2/11

PAR A\’;.0;N£;I‘m V J
AIR Lgﬁmw. ‘

1&3 ‘ i3: . ‘
AEROGRAMM§ f; ’j “
”KI/5' in4 32-5,.

m ‘r
* {7 ,. \«2: 3;
I -' .3 (‘0
AI.I.;»I;II~L
“any”. h V J ’€§‘§’I
‘N'w—ﬂ’n I

?MM‘§~W.r'
$2...

I0
. a “I k»— & Lida

A;

 

«M ma

 

in“ ” “PI {1 1 L. a g 2 .Q ELL": 2‘. ‘
. a
_ A

34,? Cigmwi

(”L-L?

:3 e

 

 

0;? «
KL
W U " b
9
(—— Flrst fold here -———->

Sender’s name and address :Wm

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

IL
{4,

r451” I

I I ; a:

g "I an.
E .

9‘;
\‘I

..............................H.U..MAN.§....E.'99£AI!9H .....................................

P. 0. Box 2473,

DAR ES SALAAM,

TANGRNYIKA. E. A.
AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

ENCLOSURE ; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SLIRCHARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

w

I m
It; L41 9

ICE“
464 <-

 

‘K . 8L;— ELI AL:
,. I 7‘ & @1’V¢’>*\w1~3
I
We- ELM;
"f1
It»,

A \
M
Law

-1;
1
L. N

A.
MEL 3&-
2/

I
®
LII
«3
4/ '
-3 w
o I-

9 IELL 7:? gm ML. m

Imam

361w.) (I hue“

(— 9.19q 1m L1st 0.1.

 

 




, . 77W Wwy ‘9‘}. ~»MM W 4...,
mm MW} 2/; {7/ (3937 W

3'me Wﬂﬁwuay 3779’W
WW”)? 3375“ ”3713 39-3979”?
+5» 5/ tr» Maw WM.

WW

. W swwwwvﬁww
- 2’7 31%;9WFWFY ‘  . ‘ "'%f(/’;?7/47"7NA(
-5 W5 $§a~1y “v sz yg’szm MW/ 551/ ﬁg; 3/ 714,9
.5.wa ’wm 31/ [W277 122533 >99 337/ W39 $539937
_ "9/

WWWWWWM M555, 1mm 555
”5‘3 "'3717/ m ’5 (WWW? WE’F’W WV’???’ M W7

929/9 " ”w “/36” a a w Bums 1323031 “193155

37? mfg;
ﬂag nyaguw/uv ’35927775 pg¢%s 5/76 97%, ﬁg
02>“ 9‘ .9 99/

(”9.7% /’ @7777??? 42M;W%Q 9“W%

 




1

\E% L. $4.2. F. EV L K? \ an MwFLK/ “Ling . , Emu» .

f frﬁl j j WV PA \N. VNrklkﬁTM. Qua, R NE E mwrgwmugibss
LEW? FEJ g Xxx. k xfrnka‘. Five 9% R. 3%
$3?le P. \NLAM g 9 Exxbmél mékbxxuéiahc .5,

\Qévke $5 \kMa \rkwlL;\L {Rh}... kn} 37.. \AAUMLS
Aﬁxki‘i Lad???“
“kmeémi 8%,?

 

 

 




F ’
{iﬁwgewwMa‘A eﬁmﬁwﬁfkuw i

A ‘ "ﬂ“ 4 "¢"“’Wt*km%.fa£:w

Ayn? ‘ ,. 1.: “I .

mnwwg ..' w; 7, / in. 5,5
,3} ~

W é‘gh‘éﬁﬂﬁﬁ; ”if rd°¥&i; .mgﬂﬁms
gr

”3* 54$ 4‘ ”39 .. i

(am.

y, r
A

‘ c ,y.

\ \ » 4.

“an

‘4' o

' . 5
V likabﬁtnqvé «magi. $2.149 ”L4
# ‘

#1,}. 1" ‘ g
46 .‘ 3. an!!! ’71--‘€-“‘"'M‘%«~u&.--i£‘"mr 183-“ ' "v"

’4’» a
‘
1+. w .

.
. 4' h, . . L. i- s
c: 1 ‘.4,. n _ no. ~ ' ~." ‘
M v4 , . «at ' “ >1
, . ,
. ,

‘ .. . . . "a f“ 4a....f .
. . J: a: :23: *3 w ”i rag: m 7 ‘13“ t" L L"

T“ o
_ :31! '

4'21; «t. :mwa‘e f w "(kw-1»- «u A!" xv

I

“WM; . ._
Z. V“ . g: /§:{" ﬂ d‘gzi{b‘g 9‘1. pm
. ““116? ‘ If“;
k“
. 5. ~‘ ”J; I" -
r “2‘. . f «3“» W" ”‘1’wa
‘( ( '8‘}! v??? ' fzcﬁmnr) 1'!-€2v"€r&°‘zv ~31”

4% w. z y W“ ‘ . .. a '-' «a

. ,x

’\
else sent listing,E‘& K t? N
& told her of HEIA«& Slater

might it not begood idea for Slater to write
Peace Corpngashiaymn1&zasktwhere they'have such

volunteers inAfriea?

 




’1'."

., .. . I, , ' «5" tngz‘ereu "era 22) FY; ; 3W}??? ”513;“
627/ ”new; ‘ [#:0735931 ”Va-2,1: I}? P] é‘éfjﬁﬁf/ “Ann, 3 ‘3, w .. ., tyy/ you??? 1:13“ /
ﬂ

1 I 3 . . , =f?J£%?7f." ‘ij
ﬁzwﬁa éi/wa M £55545? 6/1/ c. ﬂaw E
,4}? a? f M
%aéa @aﬂnﬂmaém/ nLj/g/Zoweszxca

.EZZ éﬁiﬁf §I*§ W ' 5?27 égkaggza

, ‘ x 5,4/ ‘ @e-ed- Ljfc/mzm:
92mm - ESGBEL SLATER M. w. a. 'ﬂ’ywywe 5&1”

9th July 1964.
Dear Christine, '
I've just received an answer to the second letter I
sent to S.Rhodesia re. killing of wild life to control tse-tse fly -
(the letter I enclosed to Mrs Garlake and asked her to forward to the
most suitable person)- the reply I've had,has come from the Minister
of Agriculture,(S.R.) Box 8108,8auseway,Salisbury,B.R., so Mrs Garlake
evidently sent the letter there — I have not yet heard from her. The
reply from the Minister is quite friendly,and said the letter was re-
ceiving attention,etc. Maybe you could send your letter to the same
Minister,and see what happens. I gather that the S.R. Govt.,ha§_pgt
yet decided to g9 on with the killing plan ~ they appear to be hesit-
ating. There is such a lot of feeling against S.R. at present, that
it is possible that Govt., will think twice in face of world Opinion.
Any further news I get,I'll pass on to you. If you write to S.R.
please don't mention my name - let them think that outside,overseas,
people are concerned about the prOposed destruction, and not a'put up'
job to interzfere from inside Africa: S.R.is in such a mess politic-
ally - everything is suspect. Mrs Garlake and her husband,are,of cou-
rse,oﬁ the white minority,and she has to tread very carefully and would}
not like to get involved with Govt., personally,when her own position
is so tricky. She rathers to work with the Wild Life Society. What a
continent this is! nobody can express true opinions at all,on any
subject. It's all a very uncomfortable position knowing so much,and
not being able to speak out without fear of being'chmcked uni: Still,
so long as we can help animals,and try and teach the people kindness
and understanding - that is,the pe0ple en masse,the poor and ignorant,
we are contributing something which may yet,turn the scales. I am fir-
mly convinced that there is a great following of peOple in all African
countries,ready and willing to be guided towards a humane way of life.
I take comfort,and encouragement from this feeling,and so plod on,on
these lines. The indigenous peeple of Africa,as a whole,are a kindly
lot, but the regretted inferiority complex incites them to fight the
imagined oppression from the Colonials. It's all very sad. In S.Africa,
there is one'king pin' - the black and coloured labour - if thciﬁ were
removed,everything would collapse,and there would be no reason for
apartheid at all. Unfortunately, the blacks don‘t seem to take the line
which would remove the king-pin, but it's no secret that everythigg
in S.A. i.e. mines,factories,industries of all kinds,farms,even homes,
depend on black and coloured labour - if that were suddenly withdrawn,
S.A. would come to a standstill. The Afrikaans people are so cruel to
animals ~ one reson why I would like to see a change. When we lived in

 




 

nnnnnnnn

To open out here -—)

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

S.A. I spent all my time,trying to teach the Afrikaaner the meaning of
kindness to animals. It is strange why these ignorant peOple should be so
Kﬁﬁﬁﬁkx wicked,and they are such great church-goers - Dutch Reformed Kirk -
prOper lot of hypocrites. And these peOple hate the British just as much

as the black slaves who work for them. Such a beautiful country, but so
cruel. Excuse this deviation:

My assistant has just brought out the mail,and I'm so pleased to get
your note enclosing the very acceptable cheque from the wonderful librarian
Many thanks for sending it. Herewith attached receipt made out to you.

I'll send this letter now with the cepies of the Tour Report you have
asked for. There is a tremendous lot we can do to help the African count~
ries through kindness to understand one another - this all makes towards
a better life for animals,as well as the people. I wish some influential
American school,would 'adopt' these poor lads at Dar El Amal in Algiers -
these boys are on the right track of becoming useful human beings, and a
kindly contact with some outside young peOple,would have good results from
all humanitarian angles. I discovered that the boys love animals, but have
had little chance s9 far,to understand what is required in this field,hav—
ing seen all the animals in Algeria so ruthlessly kiﬂted during the war:

Excuse typing - it'll be better when I get my eyes right againiI'm
still waiting. ' ‘

cheque. ‘
P.S. Painting Contest,l964:entries now,803.

  
 
    
   
 
  
   
    
  
 
   

All for now,and many grateful thanks for the

  
  

(—— First fold here —-—-)

 

 

 

   
   

 

 
   

   

 

 

 

 

 

m >
z ; >53
03> :1: E3
[—‘2 8 OK"1
0 . g- : gm
m 5 "‘v s 5 >»—i
CE 3 m . . : EH
: a J . \
o E " a a so» Wm (we
gum F; m 2 f . 39.9% 51%» {Egg m
5-4 a : a Egg? :5. a
g m r-i‘ H 8. : émﬁ? :’ S) i C“ :33: .:
z E 93 E E “5:? 4;"???3?
hi U V? '0 if" .‘= -" $558: $2 1’} {aﬂ/
30% EE'E: $35155“;
0:153 is“: a a“? x; g- >5 (A
EH0 ow Irn ' “ 9,? * .wq *5“
t? E:"'><F§ s: E} as 26- : .v~ as
4222‘” e» :c b. E: . 55%??? ed
>FOQMN? h a 2: : 5H, 3
5” F EE=>=$jg E: r t‘ “i Eveébe 5 ~ 55
“Danish": :— ; 55‘ 2%
3 m 0.55??- “3 :57 5 5- :155 «i
E w 2mg 1'” f”? 5 ‘gl
a r c: ”'1' a 5 2332 «s 5' ‘1‘
$2 3» \i‘
m 2h:
U :D
: :D : :g:
,5’ '

 




I. y

!' ~ '
z%aaﬁg gmﬂéﬁ vgaéfwé a/EQI/g'ow
K}? a“? f .96
%aéz . @§£&>€;25¢53/2€5/ egg/2mm €78,

gék game“ {: é?27 égksggzz

hi ‘
C7 ‘ 3’ka 9;! fr - éé - «.ﬁ/L’éd an
lsiawnm..§§GBEL SLATER m.B.E. ‘ uﬁgggmgyéée gbeZ'

1st July 1964.
Dear Christine,
. y Many thanks for letter,evidently written in the air,
somewhere%~ enclosing the very attractive little leaflet about the Ex-
hibition of paintings. I do hepe too, that the entries may attract some
worthwhile attention,and I'm sure they will,always provided it is known
that this Contest is part of the Institute‘s Humane Education programme,
and every picture expresses the humane feelings of the young followers
of our teachings. Thanks for the tip about the Peace Corps teachers ~
I met quite a few of them during my tour - all very helpful and inter-
ested, but the duration of their stay in Africa,would not seem to be of
long duration. I will certainly write to Grace E.Pow — she might be able
to follow up my recent visit to Dakar,and do something about the hawking
of the lovely birds in the streets. I'll try her. About the letter
to S.Rhodesia re.the wild life? I'm awaiting a letter from Mrs Garlake
of Salisbury,to sax where she has senﬁa pretty strong letter from me,
When I hear from her,I'll let you know the best ﬁerson to address a let-
ter,too. I gather the Wild Life Society in S.Bhodesia,President, Sir
John Clayton, decided to give the Government every chance to decide on
the whole question of animal destruction, before really going all out in
a fight - the Govt., has n93 decided yet. I don't think a letter to that
Smith,Prime Minister would do any good at all - he is against every -
thing, so I‘m hoping Mrs Garlake will tell me what is best as regards
outside letters of protest - she,is one of the Wild Life 300., commit-
tee. Meantime, you might hear from Judge Train. No, don't send the cut-
tings back - keep for future reference if necessary.

The entries are pelting in for the 1964 Contest — just on
800 now,and many to come yet. I'm getting a bit worried,but hope every-
thing will work out. Due to this unforeseen,and terribly aggravating
delay in getting my eye done, all planned dates ahead have had to be
scrapped. It may be that I will still have to go overseas somewhere to
have the op.since the specialist here,is"packing up" in August - that
means,there will be no expert in eyes left here, and if I can't get the
op.done within the next three weeks,I'm sunk here. I cannot understand
this infection they say,still in my eye, since I went down with that'
queer dose of malaria on my return from the tour. It may be that I'll
have to make some new plan about the judging and exhibition of the
1964 Contest — however, I'll wait this month and see what happens. It
might be a good idea to send all the selected pictures to the USA or
Canada for judging and exhibiting,complete - the prises to be awarded ,
from the Institute,of course. Anyway, I'll wait a little, but you've ’
no idea how trying it all is - can‘t drive a car aga1n,and half speed

with everything else: Still, it must clear up sooner or later. ﬁlggn,‘

 




,1:
(

 

’5' I.“

'SIT TA‘NCQﬁ‘xIMIVEﬁ’RF-E?

gab

/ ,1

1e;

.1-1/A..,\ . r “:5 WM! Hm {ﬂ I:
f?\‘srf'\l L/Nict‘g“ ‘1;\a,~mu‘:cs "31;“ I"

~ . . : \ 5
(E, x 5,. 4 .«(v \w«“J

4f

, x.»
_ f
s. W

‘ n f“. .193? . ‘y a ‘
“A. l E u » . A. A
'1 7 W», '. ..,.. , xi ~ ,x. .
‘4 ; .7‘34I‘t‘ swiﬁ’f agmwwia‘m 1.5“

 

F

 

ftbwé/l/U’Lﬁw

I I
A
O

.M.

j
f3

f1

, ’1’». : 
/~‘\

W1"

 

 

/"

 

C

LA!

05
H:
a).
£2
E:
8'.
u:
m.
3“
n—g'

 

 

LQ ; -

 

W

P. 0. BOX 2475,

DAR ES SALAAM,
TANGANYIKA. E. A.
AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

ENCLOSURE ; IE IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

, N)
jaw S

Mace [W ' 0v -
gmu. “If
L/W/S

 

I,»

WLA W

.3}

//

(—- 9.19q 1m uado 01

 

 




.. ‘ m W m msmmm
. - , 22 em. 1722 street

Aogust 2h, 196»

Mrs. Isobel Slater
P000 BOX 2473
Dar es calcam, Tanganyika

. Boar loch-cl,

Reading the ”Laboratory Primate Newsletter”, Vol. 3, No. 3, July, 1961»
I. came across a connmnicetion from one of the biggest primate dealers in the
country which I think will be of interest to you. The material he quotes mus-t *
certainly be the result of your visit to Sierra Leone, and the reference to '
other newly independent African countries indicates that perhapc you would
wont to follow up on others along the some lines. High tariffs would be a.
distinct help in. {preventing the numboro of miracle exported from sky—-
rocketing and also in. getting better care for them on route, since each .-
animal would be much more expensive and therefore its loss would be 2 more A ‘

A , serious me- to; um, cache..-

‘ The Animal Care Panel, a group. founded by the National Society for hcdical

‘ Research which mcludoo virtually all of the dealers, breeders, cage and food

and equipment mmufoctcroro connected ’with the labora cry animal business,

‘ has set up a comittee on animal import,‘ and the chairman of its legislative cub“ ‘
"committee is a moot unpleasant dealer from Virginia, Mr. H. D. Rider, whom

we fought on H.R. 1839 which I think I wrote you about. I mention this to

show. you , how important. it is for the animals for you to keep on with the work

' you are doing in chewing the African ccmtrics how to hold on to their
mmolsnthoir groctoct wealth. , ~ ‘ [

“MORE Team‘s 0N Nonts AND ADDS -

Sierra Leone, in West Ammo; has been one of the most reliable sour-cos
of monkeys and chimpanzee-s. Recently we come across a copy of a badge—t Speech
by the Minister of Finance of Sierra mono. (The copy reads as follows)

BUDGET.‘ SPEECH ,
A delivered by . I ' .
The Honourable Add. Margai, Minister of Finance
on Wednesday, 25th March, 1961; in tho
' A Sierra Leone House of Representatives.
76.; , There is a flouriching trade in widd armhole which are caught and exported
out of this country. Thcoo range tron: elephants to monkeys and birds. or those
animus, 3,799, 4, 303 mod it, 383 were exported in 1961, 1962 and 1963, rcopoctivcly.
No; duty is paid at present. It may interact Members to know that export duty
12 paid in some West Africa; territories on wild animals. It has therefore been
decided that exocrt duty should be imposed and the necessary amendment made to
tho Third Schedule of the Customs Tariff Act. This measure chould also act
as a protection against the possible extinction of wild life in the comm.
The rates osod are as follows: ,
. ' (a. large animals, including elephants, leopards, etc. . . .10 pounds ca.
03) mmpmeesocooocoovo'co'oocIOtooocooooooocrooooooooooolo pounda 88.0
> (O)monkeyaoooooooooooocoo-co0001.00.90.00.oooooooooooooo 3 poundﬁ ea;
(d) Other Animals m Reptilaﬁoooooooocooooccccoouooooooo 2 pounds ea.
(3) Ammaoococoococooooccooo‘cooocooooocoococoooccoooooooo 1 pound 98..

I From other information from West-"mica; Icon also advise that it is
quite likely that. about'ifoixgzhoi‘ofof thgoo‘powly‘ independent African nations
will shortly {MW-M? Byadopg "some cert. "of mlifiod not of oXpoz-t

3;! ma : an a m u .. A

 




”mane gaéwa £65” Jana/555:2 %%5a

5;“ pr.” 5 535/

A?

@éaéz @ﬂ/Zﬂﬂmwﬁéeﬂ/ $525525: 49

 

ggzzgzaa; .9?¢7.35b 2522
agde-eaogjgésann
fZTzwtm - ESOBEL SLATER M. B. E. “’LZZ’Ziggﬁr/Wgﬁ @p‘ﬁ/

23rd August 1964.

Dear Christine,

I'm making a dash in between times,to write you these
few lines ~ I am really'snowed under' these days,and plans have had to
bjchanged urgently — still,the eye trouble! I must now,go overseas
b fore the end of September to have the operation,as the one good eye
specialist here,has gone,before my eye was free from infection, but he
said,I must have the op.done by the end of September,to avoid,perhaps
other trouble. This has been a most trying period in all ways, but,I
have been able to keep things turning. Under the circumstances,I have
been faced up with some big problems, the biggest perhaps, the carrying
through with the 1964 Painting Contest ~ the biggest and best yet —
wonderful entries,about 1200. I had fixed the public exhibition and
judging for the end of Sept., the only time I could get a suitable
gallery - alas! the eye verdict,sent plans toppling, so I made a big
decision to hurry on the show — no hall available, so I decided to
'paper' my house from end to end with the pictures,and having the judg—

ing done on the spot, and limited public viewing! You've no idea,the
job entailed! However, it's been done, and a wonderful success ~ the ‘
judges were truly amazed at the high standard of humane thinking and
expression of the entrants. Ghana has been placed first,as a country
showing the finest entries, with Uganda,second. Now, I won't be able
to do much more just at present,beyond notification to the prize win» 1
ners of all awards made. As regards the overseas exhibiting of thesg
entries, a new idea has been brought to my notice, and that, that I
personally take the pictures to the States and Canada,(after my eye

is right!) and lecture with each showing,giving the full text of the
message'of the entries,and what Humane Education mgansﬂig~§9_m§ﬂl. ‘
gpuntrieswigggfrica ~ thereby perhaps,being able towraise the funds so
essential for the maintenance and expansion of this tremendous work
in Africa. What do you think about this? I could'nt manage the trip
until early next year, but it would probably achieve the real object -
of obtaining the sympathetic understanding.of the great,deve10ped
countries, in the humane work so much needed,and wanted,in Africa.
There is no other organisation doing this essential activity in Africa
therefore,with the wealth of‘living pictures' to prove what is being
schieved in this field, I feel convinced that it would be almost a
crime,not to push this great advantage on behalf of Africa. I will. J
write to Dr Hansen too, with this idea. I have heard from a frien,
in New York,who went to see the current show of the 1963 entries,and
he is full of praise for the spgendid display put on. I am most grate-~
ful to you,and the generous helpers who have staged the show. As I'll
be in London when you might be returning the pictures by sea ~ I would

 




 

To open out here +

suggest that you do not despatch them until perhaps October. I should be
hack by the end of November - with two eyes, a5ain' I shall ha.ve to leave
a part time offic he assistant to COpe with routine matters, but all irnport»
ant mail will he sent on to me. I don' t suppose, I can 5et away much befor

the latter part of Sept. there is so much to cope tith. 55555551455

Should the idea of my coming over with the pictures in l965, AI would
suggest only one,or two big exhibitions allto5eth r,in Canada and the USA~
not the numerous shows Mrs Lambert has so hravelyaputtirg on in Canada. I
have mentioned this to her. I should say, two shows in Canada, one, in Bos~
ton,and one in N.Y. These pictures are far better,even than the 1963 lot.
I get enormous pleasure in gazing at them on my walls: they're wonderful.

All for the moment, but I'll be happy to have a few lines
when you can spare the time n and my most profound thanks for
arranging the eurrent exhibition. Hepe all else 5oes well,
and accordin5 to plan.

Yours,in haste,
A

t ' 1 ’
#9

(—— First fold here —-—)

 

 

 

1‘
I

" ssaxppe pue amen S‘IQPUQS
‘SU9A91S satietluo SI;

i Q ,
(—— axaq pIOJPUODQS ———)

'O'd

 

Z.

‘EIVZ X08

f”

""N‘OIIVJHGB"'3NVN'HH""""' ..

 

‘NVV‘IVS SB HUG

 

"IIVW AHVNIGHO is was HO
[EIDHVHDHHS as THAA l1 3300 i1 :11 f aansmoNa

ionnanaiuuauNﬂ

“W
w

I

mv ngigxtoﬂmxsgwmnons ‘cIEIllEI’I HIV NV
....f.§.i.niii§m al’enoziwtemiuv

 

 

 




.I‘ ff 1-1-— ""1

um ~34
i l f l

Vt Ego

. .l -. .' P” W,
ﬁt“ a; "1’ 3"!"
~ ,3 v. a" 1' ‘4“

I. 'z 6'. ‘

‘1 zﬂlwvxhbnnr.
V f ; m .3 , . .
4 31.13, 4‘1”

n
u ..,

4. 1""

R’u-iy

4.
”a. nﬁ. w '.

, (, § J ‘1 .

Mn“ 3, H v

1-4.»... 14.

"” 1m

4 :5, 4.3 {:3

‘W ..,M
, 4. 't
M»

“3%

 




 

in?"

ag;%::;%nzwm9 <%%:;;zzz&tha e,)%:;zé22méé ﬁyeti,§%§25222
K26.” é? / M/
%aéz gﬂfpnﬂwraéaa/ aggzﬁm’wgfv

ﬂy ﬁe?) 2ké/7ﬁ

’ ‘ .gaas- 4- //
.J/j/Z'Maioe - ESQBEL S e 4 «am
LATER M.B.E. ~9Zggagyaaa efﬁng”

14th July 1964.

Dear Christine,

A few lines in haste ~ I‘ve meant to write for the past
week or so, to apologise if there was a misunderstanding in my letter
referring to the number of monkeys exported from E.A.,period January/
April 1964. It should have read 1,169, and 27,000 over the whole per-
iod,1962/1964. I'm sorry if I had'nt made it clear - forgive me. I
noted in the cepy of your letter to the E.A.Wild Life Society,the fig-
ure of 'over 27,000' Jan/April, and felt I had not written the numbers

clearly.
I'm going up to Nairobi this week for a few days - some

schools want lectures,etc., and I'll see what the present position is,
regarding monkey export.
The entries are pouring in,for the 1964 Contest - over
1000, and more on the way. Some of the pictures are wonderful - the
humane expression. A lot of some 150 from Ghana,are really fine, and
I note they have stepped eating dogs there — from my visit: all to

the good. Q
I've got a real problem over this year‘s 60ntest,due to

the delay in having my eye done -’I just don't know what to do,until
I have a definite date for the Operation. What-a nuisance it is,all
the unexpected delay - everything Should have been clear last April.
HOpe I can make a definite plan soon — that‘s one of the snags in ’
running a 'One~Man'kind of organisation: there is nobody here to take:
over in emergency. However, things will resolve themselves,l'm sure.

For the moment, Yours,

 

 




.3131" L38 L
L: 10023

33333 3333 333. 3L3 33333“ KW“ 333 3%
ferLLLLLL 333 3.f33 3333, 35233 33 L3
33%.. 3123331, '3 «my 333 v .311. " {:2:. 3373;33:3331
Ln LL33 33.33izﬁi LLLLLLxgszi ;Li ' . ’

3, ‘ﬁ 1 "W
3‘93... 115‘ }\H i I'm ‘1, Cf 3r: Q‘Wﬁ “my *1? v- V\‘ 3 “11:433.
WEAK; Elms. ~23; 431.1,} J. .L; 4.. £52,“... (15; ml ’ {33.3.3215 3

at» (-

LYLLVYLWLijI 33 .LhLi L331LW13 LLLi 3?

r~ 3-1. 1.. - .~-

‘i : .-. . g “I p 1‘ ’n' -.- 3. 1:2 , '1.- -. u (- -.-. l *9!“

Z ; s L .. 3 , , t . ., . ‘ , LL} :_ 7

w} 1"; :L' '3 9:43 0 -' ‘ « u. ’5 3r * '4» .«~‘.\- .J‘u. M1,? $5.4. Ms w 5:1 (1.7.3. duh ,3 ‘,‘ \. .u 1.4 .4... '{C‘Q’j
.. ac ,.- -

L333. ”32311 LN“: '23 C
333 ; :33EQL ..LLLL.L-LLL,-.
. W..- 3333; LL 31 .iLLLLL
3111333313 L3.LLL isz 3*. EL 13 33 3113353133 333%
:33‘ LpLLL 333d L3 L33 “33:1:Ltznn' 333 13 3w33333
'LiL:L:LLLL 333.3LLLLL33333'LL3 ”33L33: £333 L31. 3.1L ﬁﬁhhﬁﬂiQSg
LL13? 33 33 cm 23"3 3 33 3 3333133 31gL LL any ”“3333L3313n.
’3133 333 LLLL a 1333 33; L0 33 in 33 3333 3333,, it
33313 L3 33 LlLLLEL L3 L3 LL13 LL ngin 3313 ”33 313
LL L33 131333 Lien LLLL 3 LL: 3‘: 333 3L 3333333 £03 LLL
LLLLLL principles LLLLL 3h32311 L2 LLLFL3L3'33L33 cf 33333

LulLL33 LLLLL 33113 1L331f JJLLLLWl.

LLLLLLly‘Lra. SlLLLL Lourﬁa LLL .LL.;LL LLLELFLLL
in ordér L9 prommte LLL 1&33 333 LLLLLLLL 3f erLLL adun _
LLLLLL 333 LLL young. JLLL In“ L3 L33 LLLOLL Lf LLL L313,
3L3 was extramely wmll 33331333 in a most all p13L333
leaving LLL LLLdLr with LLL 13333333103 tLaL Africa laeLs
3313 LLL Linaneial suppart far an LLtensive humane 33L33w
ti 32331 '3333333333.

with Last LLLLLL, I am

laurs sinceraly,

Alexandra Peschka
Exaeutive Sacratary

 




z

recommended by
PET DIGEST

11‘
Mdfknzrx 1:)1 ””1

 

 

240 West 75th Street
New York City 10023 .1

5 , I K,
1 k” "
TR 7-4006 1 ,5 ,1: j! ,4 a}:

July 5, 1964

Dear Christine:

Good te hear free you. Be delighted
to publicize anything that z 2 think
pertinent.

The pages ef PET DIGEST are always
open.to yen and yeur splendid humanitarian
work.

Our circulation is really becoming
astronomical and we are desirioue of
publishiag‘humane news.

With kindest regards to you and your

staff -- LQLu.~/ 4A4LW ctﬁfv/{ﬁxl

D&HW/dm . Dean & Hedy White

 




September 30, l96b

Dear Isobel,

The directors of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
(Which as yoA3know, is the group workiogﬁ for‘the legislation to
protect laboratory animals) have tAlked over all that you have boon
doing, and we have decided that though our funds are very limited,
we want to AAnd you the enclosed check for one thousand dollars.

I ﬂo hope thi2s will help.2 I'm roing to get in touch again, too,
with Karez: GolloAA2Ar to see if she can help agAin.

It A2AA .{o As that you can accomplish far, far more in Ai‘rica
then by making so Ayoensive end, I fear, disappointing trip to the
Uﬁited Sta+ es. ‘1 Would personally greatly‘erﬂoy'msking your ac»
q22ai ntence and for selfish reasons would like to see you come, but

your sooozw oLsiomenio i22 Africa have been so great, And the like-
lihood ofo my subs tantisl help arisio from a visit so extremely
small that it would be very wrong for me to soooArsge you to some.

The new photogrsohs of the oorrent poster contest look wonder—
ful. Hany thanks for sexﬁing them. I‘m enclosing somA comments
(with sttacheﬁ AAmAs AAA AdAresses) on the 2Ao2'at"too iiAds AA Branch
of the New York Public Library Ahioh has :just close A. lhs Sohamburg
Collection, no2A Aanis to display some of the postArs. ThAy are also
a port of the Lilr y AAA sayth V Have the largest oollectioo of
“negro literatAre 2A the world. 2e" AA at to Show ihe oosters in
October. I Aooe it is Allright ior us to Aeep toe posterA here
and send them back all together. Do you get the oestArs back to
the young artists, or what is their final disposition? In any case,
they won‘t be reedy to go baAk till onomber when you expect to be
beck in For.

I reAd your aApeAl about the export of -nimils. It is very
moving, but i do mot think it would achieve the pArpose. we are
very stonglw oommitted+ 0 animal AX21erimntation in ﬂiis oouotry,
and rather than heloing the anL 31s, I fear your attempt to psr~
suede Ameriosns that there should be no aasowl Armorimentation would
be dismissed as unsound. .Ae consoastl trucfle AAA Ast+ he Aoouu
sation of being entiuviviseotionists, though we are not. Anti~vivi~
sectionists in this country are unable to acoomoli 11 srytoarg ﬁn?
animals at all, and 2AA most scrupulously avoid so much as the AX»
change of letters with.an anti-viviseotion society, for besides
their failure to help eniAAls, they make our work for laboratory
animAls much harder, fz2rst, by opposing it, and second, by confusing
the oublic and providing oropsgandists in the National Society for
Medical Research with woepOns to use against us.

However, we will press thetnso of the imported animals strongly.
my daughter is expscially interested in tAis and is pursuing it
vigorously. She‘ 3 off visiting the headquarters of a New Jersey
importer at this very moment. I’ll let you know more about what we
find, and we' re anxious to  heve any against export of wild ani~
mAIs you may know of.

Yours,

 




jgﬂwzm éo/m fob” ugdﬁi‘wd‘e / wk”,
/%f" 6? f .229
9??? %x 3475: 3% M 354%,”, 2,73%”; aw.“

325245.24 - ESQBEL SLATER M. B. E. $5: $7” .- «ff/52.57

‘wj‘ ‘v ' ﬂ /' ,.
(mad), 0 7 R 3.1M .44 M,
, ; ég/ﬂa—Ja ,3

;' "

I _ /

 




Era» LN LWWN EEK E 3L NQWISVQNAAL \Nt. .
Wat \L L L L6 Q»? ‘ L\ \7 _ :L
A , VETS LEV

{a

Q»

j \KWLFN QLLENL‘E 5L \ gas. LT \AL \\§L&§£§L

 

NFL EX» KLfL\

%A\
LLLOLL _ \
\§§ ELK \m \QWPW
\Nmkg KL \

 




5..

~... ,...
_ a
‘ J
, ,
”a.
. I
s-.." “-5 :13 ‘
a
‘0 K ‘ .
a. i

_«- ~..,

" K'w 1‘

9

u .1,
{3, 1:;
J

'1'?‘ .
4;

45"» a?» ,,
kw!) VJ \., ,

5.5%

 

, 1' P1‘ «‘1‘ .2“ ’-V ‘IN‘S)(if-‘ 'u

9'9.»

u
a

-rnyx . a . .c

'2‘

«L,

v.“

"Mm - .:$>1‘3{‘.‘1vaw\r'.'m‘ ~ -r

x. i. J. “wand! :‘

. ,1

 




IF
, “a 4.6:. ‘La

4

‘r

. u...”

‘ ,‘a

., J.

.. ,u
if.
J

P

. .2"

"7’7?
F

1E<

§
‘1 J "3 ._
.J "la la,”
'4
K
3
.' -. ..~

n‘N
. r

f-

p; 51».
L .1
V

j

s. '
0.9
E 1..

'~ g-\ H.

JPLE‘

'1 {Q

0
. _~\

z, 3. E
’4 "x. a..l. “J

9.
I

 




   
      
    
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
     
  
  
     
     
   
     
   
      
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
  

'"AL To'THEI NEE SIDL NT OF II iE
AIND ”Elli; \IZIJJAT AIIuIILLfIN IDUIBL ICc

UNITED STATES

’ROJRWRYM WIT H CRUELZZ'

‘2LfVE TRADE IN MCDLY IN GUIo “E

 

    

(12d.

4‘...
3...:

IRR,IhaIa I gums it upi The young inde

pendent countries of Africa,
Utruginug to achieve Some mea sure

of economic stability, are being ROBBED“

 

RUEYEL of their . AIURAL HERITAGE, In: one ,which can help to bring
(11..

VERIAIN 53mg and fortun§,aud-give them superlative status in the world today.
NOW w NNY m arg Ihegs countries being ROBBED?
NILD LIFE: gIoIiouS and beautiful WILD LIFE— the gift from God that

makes Africa unique. A Gift iuou ImpaWIa qu wiIh any other axsxtx material asseI<
o

:h ooqu WI might pUSSUSS. A Rift that Ni’AI HAS NO MORAL RIGHT TO INT ER~

' fa I IUSS RENUVE FRUN ITSA UINTED PL ACE. A Gift to make the mill«
US of A’fIIoa A's pauplugREJUIUE IN Th E ELESSING BESTONED UPON T “‘ ~ the Gift
8

8 1.44.4".
{0 WIN I a NatuIaI Re age“ God placed the Wild Animals in Africa ~

Ii

TNERE,UE MEANT II E TU STAY.

-Now$AIoug oomRS Ihm wily,oily,avariaiousfﬂeroenaryvtrader who quickly

SIRS IhR Ruoi moug gain to be derived from the exploitaIion of Africa‘s superb
'wiIR RuimAIQ'iu aoquIieS IAI remove-1 Re starts up his infernal machinery
by plaoiug GUAILDRRATRR III ghI on the Spot Nith plauSible aud peISuasive

IaoIioR, Iha RimpIu,IIRRdommIoviug pooplo th Africa are Approached

they,in
the iuAISCIAIIou of Iheir,exousahle at thia early sIage of developmsnt,immat~

uIin,3IRIIoI IhR bait of A.IRI paltry dollars - the SI AV'I TRADE RAS 00““RICEU

1‘11
Iii Africa has uIIiIIiu gly,parI 6Q With some big slices of her unique

and IIRIIRV heritage. I
he Simglegkj1udly people of Afriua,arR no match for the underhand
AIRR by Nuhamiug Iraders~from another world. It is sad but
S,IIuR, IhRI Afriu IQUST “AR UP, and mOIR rwallqtiodlly pursue every
ENURQU OpIH Io hRI,Io I UILD A IoRTR‘oo ara at UNSCR UUS "‘WVAD‘“m
IL

I1 for
IhR IEJIJCIIJR UI EVERY I

'ILAIURI SIL wSE‘SES ~ Cones INCOMPARALLE
GIIT Io AFRICA C‘NDUI NE soLD AWAY LIKE A LOAD OF SISAL,0I a TON OE IIII'
3 ANY IGNT TO CAPT IE}L EMOVE or DIOIIoI

.LJLJLI:

ti

NU MAN RA

GOD’S LESSED UII T TO AFRICA

BuI how can :uoh‘IobberIbI prevented? Easily enough. II? VI
mi AIIRI hinIuIWMIchd “ICpI of America,Io SIUW im aﬂf

puI I STUI Io IhR deIoIabIe traffic in Hild‘AnimAIs. T*I“I”

FY“ “1"”. 737/1, ‘1'le 1" I iniwx

I n 4— I I, - « ﬁn I'vr-I ,r- . E"; .. \ .a . Ira w- .
RI IA oRI JRU,UU LARRR,IhaI Ihe whole unsavouiy HMUIHURS IcoMRS

V'KJ

I10 “the oily trade erg,a completely. uneconomic I‘iSk. TIWII ”AUG? :‘*I::‘“ the

MI AIHI.A A. A$w3 mu ~«Aws “.I 1 ‘; L,I*I it», u..‘ «2
uouuLIiRA of AIIIo IRIIo IAIR QFURINT IHUUINSI IA thll HISII y heritage,auo
5"!

° O ‘ 7.x 7‘ .. I “I“ , . ‘."‘-". «r ~ m _,. .. w ’w p. n, a I .1 up. - F1 "'9 . . .. ‘ 2, J»-
glIti Aha AI thIiI and IMHUUU IIQOII UuIy oI dUMAWIﬂ IA"ge enough LO

w; ,ns 4,», ,, . ' 3. ' ?
SLIII fiuig, Io LHU RIIu IIfU IIRRI.

IHHIRI pain RNA sorrow to humanitariaus

  
    

  
 

thougands of

 
 

r 1 ﬂ ‘ A: { IL «3 ,.. a 3
~ or "an - r: =. u r
u: a.) AIL :3; y .r: 9 Li. , J) I: I I i

    

‘
V
- A. «r» -e :. m .7! (1‘ v‘ r 7,“ - ‘, ' 1:5 » ,-, 5‘ 11" ‘
giIIRr uroiwgi mauﬁ m mu th ”ARI 33w that Cf.elty to a GUI“
XII” I “

i
, m . , *‘ .11' :‘1: 1 “”-.'."\ f" “’"V‘ - T. "I ', frr 1": r» : - , - - M4 . . ' r“! r“ I”! “ ~"' A 7 -
, an; I")! r1. W611 . I I 2 -- ;-e in»: "1.. I" 1.- - .1. .. Igvr' :h T T 'H :L ‘1' MN ft,
’ .1 I 3. 273;.) 7;“; LA}- 5. £21:le i \J‘V‘ JILL) .r.~ I: tv 4.44.: a. ILL“ v .LJJ " A}; .r " ' ‘ T p.) JIL‘ («Al-L '. a er
:3 :TI TI“? f3 I C:- o- I I <1“ I“ " I TM

4.31.15ﬂu “/43 V—ILLiJuvl L
2?? III III’"“ I”*”**~ WA» vuL u URIRLIRI IOU, ARI aﬁtirsly human to Ihoso

  
 

  

    
        
        
 
  

 
 
   
     
     
   
   
    
   

:-- ': ﬂ W x ‘7’ I" “1 ' '- /"~ '-“ L". ‘-*. ""r . " V‘ --\ H“ "‘v E‘ I". v"~_ Wraw‘u- N 1 " E "" 1 ‘- , y ,.
ALI. .LJ 11L!" 3 i I. i 5;); Sufi“; -1 r71}. CER‘LEHI‘; L I {In .13 O: SHUUI‘ {1:11.31 Ey EIIIOL IIIIIICCC‘SSaI‘y
('9 p ,. .. 2 . a? 1 - - , - I w * mfg ‘ - A ,r: 1'? (‘5 ﬂ '1. 7 - . 4 A. ' ~
SIIILNIIV Io ”II\ ILRLuIRA uI RLI R,3U“I“tlmn m grOWIdg in magnituie al I

 




3

W . m;
#7:. 1.;
$32.41.
..

‘1‘.

N.) ”#35

..—a

2.51.4.4.

3w .9:
.

., L. .‘
4.-....
T" 1’ "
435.4‘54V'
>33 -.
’ MA.
$' ' .
: z
.0. 45*.
., r~;"r'
z. a?
MAJ

'57
1-K

12*?
.l' .
$2“

K

V
}
.L
'71
"i.
4.41

1
I

RQAL

1.. WK“;

”1 W. “' T 3.":

.1. 153.41.;
'(“*

T

i

“‘ 2x {:1

1 .i. m? 1‘... L .2111 3.;

. 1
ﬁrm]

"\

A‘s!
.1,“ [TTW

5 3
.. . .
( .
3
x.

14

.3
v

\J .J -3. 1.1 kw
5 ‘1 ' .II 4. ' ,
b 4. a. .u

..‘_ q... \

.4,» .~
‘\ 1 “V 3*
w. L" .
12%},
.x x»
Y‘.

(4.9")

7“

Y-TT'UQ L .
L1. x.» L “13.154 4...!

1m ‘5}, ‘
T r ,‘ L
.' J. 4.51.!

»
1

.
”.2 > Y .1 7..
.r Ln‘v 1, j... ‘1:

f’ s Ff, gig!
L.) J. 4.121
~ pi": if
.1. .. .11 9

l

A

Q
9

7'

L .5 11 L.

‘ L’m

, ,.-
1

3? , "
Ma

:3. ...

if

k;
'f‘ ‘1 ..
VILL‘.

“q

7“ T...
L...
f...
..\L
.1.

1"“, T '3 .‘s
Lv U A. 3.

W.

l' 1 ;” -‘
L4,;
("1‘ is)
V J.

“I
J

.9. . A.
.5...
. l

I

.44

. 214mm
4.1 ll
11

YT
,
h
I L
C 4..

E= “ Min 3 7
, ' 5 .
. L

.0. \i v'; 1.? 9

'5“?
t

14
1‘1; I
”b1.
11
A".
uu

<5
. u;
\y'

e‘
.n :r T

‘z";
.L
T '2’"
U L5!
4’}
3
“:11“ i '3": f‘u
4.1V I JJ
.5 .
V 111.: ‘

. ‘
ii. I U A 9
{'3
a
1:.
JJ

"1

1
L4:
”S

m
31*?

PL

“L

'3

d :
AE‘
ta

U S
TIM"

STOP

1""3'

r3 --1
f v.3 3.

L

’71 ‘ 1";

C.. L J. LL

‘b‘. ‘V .

ntﬂ

i

E,YO

R
L

‘E‘
. V

ﬂy
reatureg

an
O
T
.3.

ft
A

_ 3,”
4%

(a
U

.11: n

‘ .

“m
LL11!

.» V

d

zap;
“L
T

uni
PVT
‘Eanggnyika

 




 




A
w -...—a- -.-.._.. ,‘

u...—

.A-‘

.- . -
m...~.-.~n._':.-;?

i355? .
; V

I...» r.

 

 

 

 




          

. .‘.'
'. ‘ \n "'0
- A

   
   

  

‘.\‘\>

~.‘ 1.
.u‘

N?
i “I?  

   




 

 

 

 




 

         

Na

. 23- a;
3" w
I

 




6%?wa %72¢M¢6 gdééﬂd/Mﬁ ﬂé/ﬂ/é / %b4
7“ , (J ‘ W X / J10
6M“ @204; QWQMMJEWQ/

fﬂ ﬁw 34/1)? .%¢ 4% y/awm ﬁ/wnyé/ gM

QM” ISOBEL SLATER, was ‘ .ﬁ/ O/Jm-mﬁi

‘ ,. ‘ [$7 ’ é a
”\7 "’ :j’ﬂ’ ’ M! f 3
Sift—1&1 Cg, W a) 96" W1, j” Wt “jut—t {2 r J gm [MW
"J““W Jvm k": Mp gig; ._ M oz“ ﬁi C’ $-~ ’2 i
- , J r ‘ , " i A 64mm, 7mm“... g} A" ‘“ ,
(907% MM I E‘ 3v“ QRJQ in. . m v~fL [\ . ‘- W% :9
N: A) AJLMM"? “A ””77“ M ‘34 H“! ‘55,!” lW £77“ (TEL: t" I; 4 g/Qie Q
C )Q1 0}, Meal“ ff? {ﬁzﬂkv :714 /LE /f?ma g'“i )3 a

Q Q Q éQx £746.; A244
,1? j J. [a we? um
L ‘ /o__;‘ {/me Cu... {4:2 #1 M

Jim; in: 67 w» '° 0
Q M Q /z 44M 23/ W
2 9/ 1L ‘ 7' a /3A« (111-; 5 ﬂ] 3 gym” .4
M. we- ax / ”’2‘"

JZMMM ””3

 




“‘7 2/sz f «:4 :9 all mr ~ , Jay; W; mm (7:, m J
was" 3 ‘ a '9
“a“. M’ “ég’i/Lﬂtﬁaf 9. “:2qu if” f}: @069" ’4 k-Ikﬁ’ '3 Lipw [jaw Wn’iy 1: My ”WW I

EM m

ﬁwmugm

5/ AW W M ,{i M w:

ﬂwf)p/Z~ ., ‘ . i 3"" f “(if ’-
2‘ . n ‘ 2% I”. 0-1 $7. ‘1‘.“ ”mpg:
‘ Z21 : 3/ way? 1&2: Cic-RLM EM» as ,1: pm z: w.
i {2; 5g ﬁd»ﬂ1 _. ﬂIﬁL-d {Lap Mé‘dtM/‘Y
..... :3 a ' . ,

. ’“Z: I"? “‘1‘” g“ V {t‘ L'hu‘i’“ umﬂmg. 43°” 3,.» ‘ ) {LAP/“Vb”? :

0

 

 




mum WELFARE msmm'e
P... 0. BOX 3492
KNEW; (YORK, NEW. worm 10017

Deeamber l, 1965

Mra. Igabal.31aterg Director

Humana Education Institmta 0f Africa
P. O. Box 24?3

Bar @3 Salaam

Tanganyika? E. A.

ﬁ@&r Isabelg

Please fmrgiva me far b$ing $0 glow to ragly ta ymur good latﬁer$. “we
hava baen tarribiy busy and cannot stsp for a momanﬁ in tha effarﬁ far tha
ball ta preﬁaﬁt 1a%orat0ry animals, Sﬁ this will just be a $riaf netﬁ t0
wiah yam W313: '

About patr0n3,.whyvdén't yam ask Mr. Claflin t0 fill Br. Hansan‘s place?

Ha cama all tha way fram Eastmn to the Schweitzer Award caremcny 1&st
ﬁaturdayy anﬁ I balieve he is a very ab$a and determined humanitariana

Ea i3 daing his very best ta carry am 1% Dr. Hansenﬁs tradition. I

encloga aur 1&3t Enfovmatiam Report, in which we write abeut Dr. Hansang

as yam can 388, and alse raprint an editoriai fram‘ggg BuMb.Animals,

which ME. Giaflin wrote. Ea$ides tha fact that I think yr. Claflin would
ha & gewﬁvpatrmmg E think the tie with the Massachusatts S.P.C.A. is imp0r~
tant for E@E@E¢A. '

Have yum thmughﬁ af asking ﬁajar ﬂame of UFAW to be a patron? Ha is car»
tainly One mf tha mast distinguishad humanitarians alive; and if yum have
raaﬁ his.Animals gghgag Christian.ReligiOn,.ﬁggﬂggg Eeas§ and many sepa~
rata articlaa, yau will knOW'how'worthy he is of such an humor.

I heya you wonﬁt be rough on Russell Train; but again9 if you could get
sama affieial af an.ﬁfria&n gavarnment to'write ﬁiractly'to him aaking
his halp in halting poaching, I believa'it-wnuld be vastly more affective
than any requesﬁ‘that might came frcm.ynu or frem.me.

Thanks fer Sanding ﬁhe ﬁwm lovely Christmas cards.

Yours,

Sela

Enalesura

 




t ' g%wm9 éZ/WVZMV ﬂ-éfwafé A a/%&a
9V (V V w
%/a Jéﬁnﬂwn £5521, 2/30Vaégta

ﬂy %w 245%.)”:
'- ﬁn eé féam
gin ESOBEL SLATER m. s. a. , fwxmwﬂ (57%”

Tanzania, {
10th September 1965.
Dear Christine,

I wonder what you think about the passing of our
beloved Albert Schweitzer? I had been praying he would pull round -
he had been so well,and working normally,until quite recently. Do
you know of any Associetion in the States which would be thinking of
commemorating his name in any way? Personally, I would like to see
“Schweitzer Sanctuaries" erected everywhere possible, to house the

poor and needy - all living creatures - humans and animals.

The last letter I had from him, was in early August,
when he urged me to keep on with the work in Africa,despite all the
difficulties of changing times. As he said, the foundation on which
Unity,peace,and happiness could only be surely built,was on Humane
Education among the young peOple of today. I'm going to miss his 1
encouragement,and guidance. Having lost Dr Hansen too, I'll have
to start looking around for new Patrons: but where to find humanitar-
ians? If some care for humans,they ignore animals, and vice-wersa.
Schweitzer had the whole answer - all living creatures. I think that
is the reason why he was so keen on the work in Africa - we try to

help all.

I'm longing to hear from you,and all the news - do
try and write me a few lines. I'm sunk in work — animals on top, (
but awful famine conditions for humans. I can't fathom what all the 5
great relief foundations,etc., are doing. Can't they see where therei
is desperate need? And of course,where the peOple are sudfering,the ;
animals are suffering too,dying by the thousand. If all the mill- 2
ions dispensed by well-meaning organisations,could be channelled y
through personal contact and supervision,there would be many more
real achievement stories to relate. Far too much money is going out
on expensive administration, and highly paid personnel, who don't even
know the countries of Africa, nor the peeple and their needs. I makes
me a little wild - I have to sit down and count‘nine',very often.

Do hape you are well, and everything going the right

way. Yours,

 




Humane Education Institute of Africa
P.O. Box 2473, P. 0. Box No.

. ' N075 8 7 Dar es Saham,

Received f7 am ___________ ______

 

Ilka sum 0f " ‘ '

y

n (”I—
b ‘

5m ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
g )4“); 4 > 1"” With Thanks ‘
3 ’ ; Emu

[C ---——""’ Sgnahuxer w; M \V

'i

.1 HU' LAN“ ”ﬂaw. - ‘
4‘1NuTEIU2L‘L A? Emmy“

 

 

 

 

 

 




55.24.26 gal/mam «ﬂy/gag; ~ / -. ail/@255 ‘

"1 {gm/4 igéw '% I%érnnx 6733?” j" ' I ’ /% g j W . - ﬂy) ﬁx gift}? .QEM 6.4 gal/.4141”, ‘
f ’1" d ”P V C y . ﬁfaygyégm gM "‘ I
ADVISORY BOARD: 1‘ . PATRONS 8c SPONSORS
' 7 ' 'cI-IIEF’A. s‘. FunDIItIRAICI-IAIRMAN ‘ ' '

.- . _ (TANGANYIKA) _. .ALHAJI SIR ABUBAKAR TAFAWA BALEWAI K‘B‘F' (NIGERIA) I HON. VETERINARY ADVISOR:

MRs. c. STEVENS (u.s.A.) ' DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER (GABON) (#lef/a/QS) I ' ,- ' ' DR. ANDRE ROUSSEAU (MOROCCO)
:22:- JL iihziiRz‘NiiilﬁDA) , , G. IVAN SMITHI'E‘ZSQ; (uNIrED NATIONS) . _ . | , 1

MR_ '6. 'MGOMBE (TANGANYMA), ‘ I-I.E. COMMANDER ALEXANDER DEsTA. I..E.'N."(z-:rmopm) '"ON' TREASURER: '

CHIEF HUMBI ZIOTA (TANGANﬁkA) MRS; HUGH J. FLEMMING (CANADA): I V “ I ‘ I‘ 052' L GEBAUERR .(TANGANY'KH

MRs. O. LIGADU‘ (NIGERIA) DR R C ANSEN . . . g. _ _ g .
Mlss G. GERBER (SIERRA LEONE) ' E I H‘ H (U S A) KL Iat‘isian >

 

MR. .I. w. SACKEYF‘IO (GHANA) . . .. , . _ I
MISS OLAYINKA BURNEY-NICOI. " ' DIRECTOR! MRS. [SOBEL SLATER! M.B.E.

(SIERRA LEONE) . I
MADAME J- MARTIN-HORWITZ (ALGERIA)

 

22nd September 65.

Dear Christine,

I was indeed happy to hear from you - even a bit delayed!
Thank you so much for showing the article about the poaching to Russell
Train ~ it was nice of you to get his attention. I know R.T. does'nt
hold with the campaign ideas for squashing poaching, but as a‘campaigner
in these African countries for some 35 years,I guess I know the best sol-
ution to a long overdue problem for action: Government does agree with
me a full-scale strategic campaign is necessary, but ~ alZways,a but, no
monny: I could tell them where they could 'save‘ money in plenty, but that
would cook my goose! What I did say,was, there are some 10,000 National
Service people (pretty green,but could learn from this)and some thousands
of other Youth clubs, plus army,police,etc, to call on,for an all—out
show-down. Sure,we need aeroplanes, but that should'nt be impossible. It
would give me the greatest pleasure to"lead the tr00ps” myself - loathing
as I do,the appalling cruelty perpetrated on these poor creatures by the
poaching stooges. Immigration too,should pull its weight and track down
the instigators. Anyway,as soon as these elections are over I'm making
a dead set at the Minister. If only Russell Train could see,and know,just
how much good he could do in saving Africa's wild life - and I don't mean
just in E.A.,but in many countries — he would find something to live for}

Thanks so much for the cheque,0hristine. Every little goes

a long way. .There is a new complication here,re. currency going out of
the country: also,this country proposing to change its currency from the
other E.A.countries: I've come up against the snag already, but only in

a small way,i.e. sending money to Nigeria. Now,with the co~operation of ou‘
wonderful London backer,Miss Ernest, I am using my own account in a London
bank,for collecting certain funds - it seems wise to have some overseas
funds to fall bakk upon. 0f course,donations,etc., must stlll come here,
but there may be,later on, some aggravation re. financ1ng anything outside
this country. Talk of headaches: all so unnecessary to the f1nanc1ally;
moderately poor: I think my husband and I have res1gned ourselves to the
thought of leaving this country,sometime, pennilessl

I'm sending you herewith a sample of the 0hristmas card
I've had done from the exquisite picture from Dakar for this year's Cont-
est. If only I could have had it done in the original colours, but the COSI
was astronomical: I don't mean to try and sell a lot; no time for this
sort of business),but I know some of our supporters would like to buy some.
They work out at about 1/3 each. Also a sample of a prOpaganda card to go
out for Christmas. Drawn,to my very amateurish sketchiby David Dale,our
very artistic Nigerian Contest entrant - the boy who wants a scholarship
to study art,so very,very much. I have another Christmas card — a ZanZibar
picture, Boy with his pet goat, but the printers messed the‘Jobfand gaze
to do it all over again: they blame the"new operators' they re orce to

employ. I‘ve sent out one batch of letters re.eXport of wild life

if

 




from Africa,for exploitation overseas - soon I'll try and get the rest out ~-
but oh, I'm really sunk with so many things on the go at once» I’d need at least
a staff of six: instead of one halfewitted sort of copy typist-- cheap labouri
Anyway, so long as the name of the Institute keeps on the map,it'll have to as,‘
until things develop more, .

~~ I‘m off to Kenya and Uganda for a Short ssfari,to round up schools
and Education Departments, Will be back next week.

_Tell me what you think we might do about a small.commesor~
ation of our dear Schweitzer? I think a_small medalffor the best humane all-
round picture in the painting contest would suffice? .%‘_We als' need some new
Patrons to fill the emply places ~ if such a thing is possible}; ﬂing Lﬁustg?

All for now, do write soon again with some more
helpful advice. *

LOV33" 'é.ft- (3
Jyﬁgjlgba. "f __.

mwummmm‘”"‘"*m4

 




'weems so Jeq ‘aApa £113 "p11 xueg pmpums aql :snxueg

'12:);ng mag ‘tzguezuel
‘weewg so .naq
‘ELVZ X08 'O'd
‘eotgv JO ommsul 11011120an guemnH
‘Jomseall 'uoH .10 mommy] oql

./ :01 31.1!3 mo& puss aseold

3 ‘101091!(]

i. $Mm '“sommolo
7 ’ ELLA” [[12 0} uoissedutogn

91ou101d Jammg o1 poutoolom
i [(113918 sq [[lM pun ‘palgnbal Almoﬁm ”us on; suogmuoq

1129K 199d aql
Bugmp QmuImBOJd atmwnq mo puedxs pug Itimugeux padpq
011M smuoddns snomuaB 99013 01 possaldxo st opnumjg

: /, dmsqrdam
; .72’ _, -_ ALHVHDE "—

 

 

375:3 rﬂiaa/mdd/{aé ——

. 7 . . a .
0%!“ «a /%WZ£ r/ aé/z%a ”way/y mm The Humane Education Institute of Africa, among ltS
ﬁgﬂt/ drama, %é awa/ VVZ/guéy,

, man ro'ects, aims to romote and, encoura e the estab-
ng/é ﬂtﬁeﬂz (1/50 74725112 ”a! /%3 y p J p g
ﬁd / ﬂttgénaa ~—
M’WM?“ %”m”éﬁ’ AME/7’ émééwa/ need, and in distress—where the DOOR will be ever
M ﬁg!” ﬂow ctwe/ mawnzé,‘
l OP. N, ' .
.°%/ ”.4 “mam/3e Zéem, an/ E and entry never denied
(gag 5044/ me can {22 6&5:
. 9%etk aé'dﬂeéj, aié/ ”22743 /%t}}

lishment in every suitable location. a Sanctuary. for all in

ﬁnk/mad daddy” a {515?

I gnﬁaﬂm'wz 0..., a: gauze/$4 no ﬂan/few,
ﬁéddaa/ mé. , $65 02' gag/1’:

Sé’gZA ”9/ ﬂén m 93;an
{at
M 41/207 gag/ate in L/fega/H

ﬂow gaze,

 




$6299 fay pp? ”ﬂy/3% ’

, jﬂﬂﬁﬂwy/ 9%
avg ﬂ/uzzaa/
QWJ/vé ﬁXﬁ/‘Q a??? ///1\)/> /- Zéﬁyzéﬂfﬁzaﬂﬂ/ / a /9¢:29
_ ~~/
fﬂﬂ

9mg? 9/ pbwmzZ/g

J

ReproductiOn of an entry by Francois Lecourt, Dakar, in the i965 AH -Africa Schoois Poster
. . . . . y n a
Painting Contest, organised by the Humane Education InSLItUte. M " m

 

Proceeds from the sale of this card will help expand the work of the
Humane Education Institute of Africa: P.O. BOX 2473, Dar es Sa!aam
Tanzania, East Africa.

 




 

 

 

 

   

 

RISING out of the red
- dust of the Handeni
Plain in the Tanga
Region is the massive
granite cone of Lasiro.

Surrounding this pointed
sentinel for .a radius of
some hundred miles is
desolate t h o r n bush
country, described by the
late Field Marshal Smuts
during the East African
campaign as some of the
most deadly on the face of
the globe.

Country which is devoid of
human habitation — except for
a few odd Masai —- but which
is full of game, or it should be
said, was full of game.
. Today the game is
scarce with the possible excep-
tion of ' elephant. ,Even the
ﬂocks of guinea-fowl which not
many years ago fed unconcern-
ed beside the tracks when some-
one passed, now take off at the
slightest sound.

GRUEAL SNARES

Few entered this desolate
area, bounded on the North by
the swiftly-flowing Pangani
River and on the West by the
Kitwei Plain Controlled Area.
Those who did were a few
Masai with their cattle and a
few professional hunters out
With legitimate hunting parties.

Over the years these hunters
have opened up elephant trails
sufficient to carry vehicular
trafﬁc. They were, however,
very little used and known only
to the hunters. Today many of
these tracks, which usually lead
to nowhere or at the most to
a waterhole, could compete
with the Region’s District roads
both‘in their standards and the
amount of traffic they carry.

At ﬁrst sight it is difﬁcult 'to
'see any reason for their ap-
parent heavy use, but a short
walk off the track into the bush
and the explanation is all too

 

 

glaring. Cruel snares, made of 7

string and stolen copper and
steel wire; dead camp ﬁres and
the mutilated carcases of
animals.

HIGH PRICE

Gone are the days, it would
appear, of the lone poacher tak-
ing his life in his hands with
a bow and arrow or an old muz-
zle loader to gain some trophy
for illegal sale at a price com-
pletely out of proportion to the
risks he ran.

Today, well-organised bands
of men, backed by unknown and

. unscrupulous buyers, roam the
\ bush and plains away from the.
\ watchful eye of the law to

 

carry out their trade of poach- '

. ing.
\ The meat and trophies, which
command "a high price, are
taken out by car and lorry load

for their hard driving masters--

The poachers are up to every
dodge and trick to snare their
prey, not the least of which is
the ﬁnding of hidden waterholes
which, as they tend to dry up
after the rainy seasons, provide
easy places to set traps of tor-
ture and death as the game
concentrates on those water-
holes which hold out the

, longest.
. Beneath the shadow of Lasiro
is a large

getting '

rock outcrop, the,

+ Poacher

Ute-caving water at the bottom
' the noose

haunt of leopard, the skins. of’
which bring a high price.
Amongst the ﬂat-topped rocks

By
ROBIN .
PETERS

 

 

 

- is a large waterhole which like
the rest dries up during cer-
tain parts of the year.

Most of the game go farther
iaﬁeld in search of water, but
the leopard being somewhat
reluctant to travel far from his
rocky hide-out hangs around
until the, bitter end.

The battom of the Lasiro
waterhole is covered with a
- thick bed of sand and the poach-
ers have discovered that if they
. dig down but a foot or two, they
will strike water. This is enough
for Mr. ”Spots. How kind of
humans to so thoughtfully con-
sider his plight!

wme Moos;

.. Things are not, of ' course, all
that easy. The artful poachers
rig above the hole a collection
of tin cans. old cow bells and
rags, the sight and n01se of
which are enough to deter any

 

self-respecting leopard from

having a drink. .
However, just next door,

encased in a strong stockade

with an opening on one side,
is the juicy head of a dik-dik,
with blood still oozing from the
severed neck. Again a pleasant

        

5-

of the hole -- but am through
Mr. Spots. _ ‘

surprise, and a tasty free meal
provided by man.

However, to get, at the deli»

,cate morsel, the, leopard must

ﬁrst of all ‘pass his head tinggugh

a noose of wire and thus trig-
gers off a strong spring made
from a sapling, which tightens
the cruel wire loop around the
animal’s neck leaving 'it kicking
and struggling until it. dies or
is beaten to death on the return
of the poachers.

The tempting easy bait often
makes the leopard suspicious as
frequently his more urgent need
is water. Again the poacher has
provided for his wants — at a

price. . .
A y d or two from the bait

 

 

WWW

 

    
  

Destroying thew: handiwork

fuel ‘ , world of the

is another hole containing
water. To make it easier to get
at, a ramp has been cut to en-
able the leopard to reach the
water — but once again via a
cruel steel noose through which
the animal must put his head
before reaching what now be-
comes a deadly ﬂuid.

BROKEN LIMBS

Apart from the ' illegal
destruction of game, the cruel
methods used are, to say the
least, nauseating. Snares are
frequently seen holding the
remains of ﬂesh and bones
where some frightened and
desparate animal has parted
with a limb in a ﬁnal effort to
get away but probably only to
go into the bush and die.

Limping plains’ game with
missing hooves, broken limps'
and festering wounds where the
animals have managed to escape
from a snare or the rusty nails
of muzzle loaders have failed to
kill, are often seen.

It is a sight which makes
one’s blood boil at the cruelty
of the poachers in their efforts
to satisfy the greed of the
masters who encourage them to
risk their lives and reputations
for a mere pittance, and ahate
for the masters which is possi-
bly even greater.

ale. MONEY

Without the unscrupulous
dealers, who make big busi«
ness out of the sale of game
meat and trophies, it is unlikely
that there would be much.
poaching. The ever-increasing
demand, however, is resulting in
more and more people, With
some bush knowledge, falling
for the offers .of bigvmoney and
Joining the racket to run the
untold risks involved. while
their masters sit comfortably at
home and collect their ill-gotten
gains. ' -

.. Speak to any game warden,
any game scout — the story is

 

the same. A continuous battle ,

against ever-increasing odds in
their efforts to stem the alarm-
ing rise in poaching.

. Those who run the big poach-
ing rackets are clever. The areas
the Game Department have "to
patrol are vast and their re-
sources limited. However, they
deserve every encouragement
and help in their work of try-
ing to stop the wanton slaughter
of Tanzania’s great heritage ~5-
game. '

   

 

«enemy-midi
l

_.".: —.—- n...”

 

 

 

 

 

‘u.\v,v.- :’ '
.M I, a:

-—‘.__.~_,. . .‘4

_\., h .
-—-—x¢= In.

 

AA-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Septamber ?, i965 “'

'Mrsg Iswbgl ﬁlatar

Humane Eduaaﬁimm Kmstituta of Africa‘
P. O. Box 2%?3

Dar«e$~8alaam _

Tanzania, Eb Afriaa

Daar Isobely

I am aghamwﬂ to have been 5% SlOW’tO writa yen about the magnificent gift
ynu left bahindﬁv 1 will surely swaths my$elf in it for avaning parﬁies Wham
they begin agaim in the fall. It is an absalutely baauﬁiful pieca mf‘warkg
anﬂ.I fael,alme$t guilty to amcapﬁ it; bmﬁ I shall %8 very preud ta wag? it?

Pramgtly fwllwwing yam? instructiengg E invited ﬁuﬁga Train t0 dinner; and

' he read tha poaﬁhing arﬁicle which yum sent me. As yum may kmww, ha hag just
baan appcintad head of the Semaarvatian Faundation and hag resignad big Fedu
aral judgeg§iy. ﬁg wall ﬂaw be frag ta &0 a great daal more waﬁk fer animals.
I am afraid? hmwevar, that I eaﬁmot persuade him he congentrate an policing'
the poachepgg' All E can say is that he has the informatian and that in his
péﬁition ha saams likely t0 d9 mﬁra than has previaus y bean dane‘ﬁy the Gena

aarvation ?aumqaﬁiwma

Enclosad 1% a ghack far $10? which I gheuld have semi ymu.bef@re; but we hava- f 

tmen even mmra bvﬁy than usual, having had hearings an September 2 an the bill “
ta prevent theft and mistraatment of doga and cat5 far sale t0 labaratmries.» ’
It i? surprising haw similar this busimass is $0 the poaahimga "

ana yam? aamyaign against poaahing is planned, why mat hava samaonﬂ fram’

gevernmant awnd the plans diractly to Russell Train SQ that ha will mat feel _5*”

that eitha? you a? I ara pressing him directly. Ha ﬁhinks that we will anger ‘
government ofﬁicials if we insist on policing; but if the government approaches '
gggﬁ this will eliminate his marry? and I thiﬂk there might b@ a good chance
of his enligting tha assistanca that is usadedw , '

  ﬁAffectionataly,

03:13

Endlosure

 




éVmaﬁg g/ mé'owz ﬂé/w/é a/w/Jygt'ow

peg f y)
Zé/zaéz jealonjzwedéaa/ j/Zargrﬁgm

€22.5?&5’ .BU6713:a/,&93
‘ {@gzs- eat-J
921.0511- 150351. SLATER . . . {Ev 3;: 61%”
1211:1231

7th August 65.

312r Christine, ~
It SFIMS a tit awful not having written to you since
my return, but the backlog a11uihg 11y returh,has just about overwhel~
mes met I dou't quite know 11 at the pelt -tim e help‘ was doing ~ the
real chores were nicely left in a p1ilei Iirst thing I had to set about
before I even unpacked, 1as to get out over 1000 letters all around w
this teioo a necessity to Keep everybody happy,ih lieu of personal vis-
its.3s1eoially as regards the J5aihtihgg Coetest. The entries are already
touriui in for ehe of hovemher closing. I'm so hapoy to have entries
{31 the First time from Rorocoo and Sehegal m proves humane education to
he arreadihg well. A simply adorable picture has come from Sooeoal 1
a chilu 1ith a seal. I noticed lots of ev'oence on seals in your apartw
meet, so I think you would love this picture. I am half~mihéed to get
some Christeas cards maie of the picture: I have'ht yet had time to
sta1t t51111 up all the contacts made on the tour, but 1111 hegiu this
week. I am well pleased with veivthihg,anu e33~01ally the help promised
through the U.h. particularly for wild life 31 otectioo. I have heard
from "‘1wral sources in AURIGA th at the oi<t‘11s created a big impress»
ion at the U.h., for it Deans that geoolw oi all nations had a look at;
the pictures durit, he three weeks they were on shoe, eoeit £101 the
seleot' few rho att<hcrd Oh the so-ciel day. his I tell you that
Cleveland emery {HIS 1e at the last minutes, just as I a leaving for
the airport? he 1”:©~1 terribly 111 to te helo1ul. I‘ll :rite to him
presently. " 11 n,i1 3 t . 5 pi in ”.l. in ttie frees line w a
woman r11 “111 - 1Lo 111 1 wee; ”7.W we to time. 1 hope your lao~
OIIS 101 ,151 1,; 111: is 5“: meéih$ — I can well understaho the"
task you have 1' ‘1»31, b1' i; 1hg< ‘ ,Gt it IMICU‘h to uccessw
ful ash evemeu , you 1‘1 toe p' ” am still aope 1 aaout the various,
espects of cruelty to animals which hit me hard, on the tour. I am thank~
ful that such cruelties are not of common occuriehce in Africa. The one
had spot I :nust close in 0h,i Ethiopia, out 1111.13 real iéﬂOTaﬂC€ and
I'm sure can te “reefs“tio. ‘ u: going to try and get uh theare for a few
3818 later on w it's only a wciaoual visit in e’ 4 ciiauuutaaces that
”ill have effect. I 1HI1M” deafting a lctt r z» s ‘ vs I Can, 10 so
out to all countries 1e. the exp01t of '17‘ ﬁ.' , I amthViné
text week with the Minister for 11., here, and mean to
, him o little 1-. 5:11; the, 381'“ time, IGI‘I‘Z IS IIOJC .iHUCIl export TEI’OIH $1819;
,1ere is ouite a lot from guhva. It' s hi h llmp that 5008 were done/
1 1it1 trey r3 ouite out 01 oate in inc moicii Odépﬂt of the "alue‘“
vilo life. It t.he e auimals are to he newt at all, eh it shouiu be

”711111"; N

1,“ natural Sanctuaries, 1'11 i’i’iﬁi’lthU “(118 to LIHV lam! ginory 551161 0., o

1 out here —)

 

 




4.1111]. 11:15
‘V :iilat tix‘é: 1:319:0'”
bit ”H011.

to have
1v 11v
ghould
E1011 he
majority
1. 1.
111 r.
and Sg;1

HWD
E:

013

r—T‘

0

$3 1—1
L

g
,‘1

<20
(.13
CL")
E1

1-1

a»
k

3- ‘\

G I;

;; ’1‘

‘3

i“) Q)

(7:1 :1‘
’7) L

0 CC?

(I)
J)
1.....1.
O ,
61" C3 .‘
113
CD "5:3
2 1-1- H
11 12

1—4
CD
05:.

1+ 03
:5
'3}

mg.- :3

..._4
1

'1 hope
Ent 111 1,3.
as accoun ‘, this
1111 10m1 10 days in
8111 futur1 111111131 1119
”11H trﬁ, ALLmArB CA SU'ﬂ1Lu PGSTBA I
SUpporta and r1 101111111 101 1118,111
oth1r - anisatlon to run. But 11'1
11111 is so mUCh 0111111 work in 1111
1111 an 1111m in our 111 18111 to 111
111131 5111 my Love to 5111

1111 100. ‘ ; ”1 really 3111

5'
W
J

‘1 1“,;

113 «if

1
;..

,J

0111
1‘"

A1132 {1111153
11 13 111

wwnJ
p./

’“F‘
K.)

“Sm->011;
re

03

if,

.31 ML (32%»? 654%

}1{£;'vjl g¥akaﬁﬂikﬁe.¥

,

(-— First fold here -—-——-)

‘JQPUQS

L1
awwv‘doouav
HELL l H T H IV
NOXAV ‘dVd

HHUSO'IONEI

ELLLEH HIV NV

QUIEU S
‘:!;2”

‘3‘
ﬁx

, (I) g

. 1 W (b '
O 1

O :

5 :

1' > C- ;
.1‘ v—v, .

v o :
D—‘ a

Q. :

. ‘ D” :
. (o .
., ’1 2
0 :

¢

,1 '11,
d .

' ssalppe pm;

SEIOC] ll :11
‘1’}
113mm 110 ai’hlusm

It.

‘wwws 53 am
‘2va mg '0.
N0|1V3na"a’""jﬁW'ﬁﬁ""""'""

'W'S'H)

_"IIVW AHVNICIHO l8 .LNEIS HO

 

(-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cytotocvvsalv-ug iﬁﬁiiIbl

 

 




U " C 0 9/
%ﬁaﬁg ﬂag/ﬂaw 1/4/523’3552 67/ 1/ ﬁ’fﬂ

.%/AQQIEI9QQWEEVEE7 /§?7 3’ // 1917 égkuﬁyx 1%»143%2Em

ADVISORY BOARD:

CHIEF A. S. FUNDIKIRA:CHAIRMAN

1 %Z%/

PATRONS 8c SPONSORS 6 (4 “‘4’“:

 

(TANGANYIKA) ALHAJI SIR ABUBAI§AR TAFAWA BALEWAI K.B.E. (NIGERIA) Ho”. VETERINARY ADVISOR:
was. (3. STEVENS (U.S.A- DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER (GABON) DR. ANDRE ROUSSEAU (moaocco)

MRS. J. LAMBERT (CANADA) G
MRS. L. FLAKS (NATAL)

MR. G. MGOMBE (TANGANYIKA) H-

. IVAN SMITH, ESQ. (UNITED NATIONS)

E. COMMANDER ALEXANDER DESTA. I.E.N. (zmuopm) H°N~ TREASURER:

CHIEF HUMBI zIO'rA (TANGANYIKA) MRS. HUGH J. FLEMMING (CANADA) DR‘ '- GEBAUER- (TANGANY'KA)
MRS. O. LIGADU (NIGERIA) DR. ERIC H. HANSEN (U-S-A-)

MIss G. GERBER (SIERRA LEONE)
MR. J. w. SACKEYFIO (GHANA
MISS OLAYINKA BURNEY—NICOL
SIERRA LEONE)
MADAME J» MARTIN-HORWITZ (ALGERIA)

My dear C1E1Et

it'ss tﬂjE 11E11E1
1H8 ‘to IIM 21 33
One \HOQ r-E Esul
cnrqrw TWM3 re
m1111t sﬂlow :11
VidE EOME IUEE
ment School in
*03ch1n» OECE
I'VE ﬁsaid thiE
UT10W1UV then
Eev1ou1 m 1E0p
poachE EE1HE
ExploiterE 103

DIRECTOR: MRS. ISOBEL SLATER. M.B.E.

 

U31311 [1113 U UEJI; 1. *6 E3
1nE,

The d”COWHwHZlﬂ5 EEWE cut11qc may shock you w
tr:% Edy for AWJQ 11if8 hErE. GovernmEnt haE aEkEd
ImIa1 n EbIEEEt 0c3c112€ 1 1’11 certainly do it.
1 iron the L.N. ContacuIiE, monEy W111 be ferthw
Eson 1’m sEnd1ng the 1 ‘uingiiE,1m 1hE hopE that you
to Judwe TrEin End EEE whEthEr he tco, cculd pEE~
E » he hEE guitE E b13 fund few the W111 Life HanE3E~
TanzaniE m Ecme of eradicate
and for E11: or thEM W111 nO1;oE a.my Mt manE E!
for yEarE 1 :Ewu1cam1un 01 p0a1h1n1 bhOU]w have
WE CEE get on with Egher tn1n15. The poacﬂing 18
ard skins far Eu? coaﬁsli EEntembic pTiCGS fcr_the
1 not thEt thE poachE E 3Et it, but those-appaﬂ1ng
11nxnc1c “31" ben1ma IEUM. 1‘m rE311y sick about

E11 thiE w when 1 NEE Fanning the 5.9. .A. the IN 3ch1n3 had almost

EtoppEd 1 now,

make him liEtE
T)_
J

3. '53 y

1

‘ ' '4- . ‘ ' . 1“ ,r :1 . “ I
ElaE . 1 15.333 EEE aE EVEI.

BE E dear and try and collar JudgE Train“ and,

11 TherE'E no use my writing him again ~ hw wont

In hasﬁ?» LOVE,

I "-a
I‘ I
J I! f ’z
,.. ' r'
r .1 t\ '-
- r- . ‘ .. t '
d 1"

m

if LL: Cain/IN...“ Itw'l {2“‘1 “W"w

fo/{zvlﬂf

[NA/Z (, C— 1.“;

/ +1
1') (F WWI (EM

, . (
C/£u~w~@® ~71J;ﬂcvumﬂk 291

‘ f.“ V. \l
‘*””‘ 121;
I, "\ ﬂ - A”)
, ’mek ’ 1
3

'va~( ;;V&LK .

"w- “1.,
1.," I

. . ,-
Wm" '
Mm,

.,

 




 

 




4 Log,

of
S...
0:
4::
13g
“0
.0.
§-::
u.
m:
.2:
LL:
1‘.

A To . . gm along h‘eré’l

 

nﬂméﬁt .......... ‘3‘; ................... _,
9:67. «8&4 ., -

5va ........ ft

 

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED

OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

(-— Second fold‘herey——>

 

 

 

' SIXP‘E NCE.*P O S TAG 15

bur” OT ‘-

~Mn ”‘1‘.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 E. l7th Sin, NYC 3

AIRLETTER
Moreh 3? , 1965

Mrs. E,   _' ii A»
8°“ 2473: Day—Es 5:33on

I

, Em? Attica
Door isohoi:

l have bod o totk with Oliver Evans about your
visit to Washington. Unfortu-notety no mmomonts

have yot been more. He asked me if! could be telpfu!
but I have been so ovomheimod with work that i haven‘t
occamPﬁs-hed anything I» and thought shot i had better
who to lot you know this.

As you know, ! am stilt concernod that you: visit
may not produce the results you hope for, and l om so
comgteitoty absorbed in work that I can‘t keep up With
that! don"t see how i can put the mcmry effort into
making the arrangements .

This is o gtoomy letter, i know, but I didn‘t wont
you to count on something which doesn‘t exist.

Sinceroty,

Christiano Steam

President

 




”—1 .
. QfééMéﬂﬁz @5252”; %%aa
/% ff f M/
%aéz .Qg'aﬂkﬂwzﬁégﬂ/ aggé‘zaﬁgfv

jiéﬂiﬁii . .QM‘ ﬁg“, 33/3:
492;”- 9.4 j/agm
3%2333, - 5503131, SLATER M s. a. $32,333,; 5253/

{Q4} QZQ awug ”i: ‘3

 




 

PAR AVION I
AIR LETTER "
AEROGRAMME ANGANYIKA

 

 

Se dfoldh -——>
I A k ;

DIRECTOR‘

o E
E Z
O) .
S a
E 2
o 2
& :..
+2 .
U}

.:

LL:

 

........................ "UNA“ EDUCATION

 

INSTI.IHI§...9§...9FRica. (H. HA) ..................
P. 0. BOX 2473.

DAR ES SALAAM.
TANGRNYIKA. E. A.
AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

ENCLOSURE ; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGEE
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

 

 

(— 91911 m3 uado cl

 




n
3:

.Exmhﬁﬂ

o

XEQ;

.F‘ f.\ "1f.“
. l V:

mt

x

h f"?

C}???

4

'(.

*4

,
' w
_,

75’} s"

r.-

3

#11

'3‘” 1-";
U .. A

W. I
at l

..{..
U

ht!

(T'
.

'2

90

WP
‘ I.
.4

C

31’}

p
ITWA

-repa1

“c

E4

:ﬂtiCﬂ.
latiaﬂ

‘K
I
J.

U-

(I)

a}

Q

n

i

.319

J

1

T?"

“f
T
.L

'7
HM»: “:1

«9.-

.5-
t

TV,

[LN

m

,r
x

(j
4

a

z

9}

Q}

1“"
-i

’ , i .
3,13' .

{31.
y t0

”zygx-ﬂvxw
‘wwij
1;"?!

.e

I

Q

R

hm

.,,. 13
pl
{:1

1

"5 7
‘ '13!"
.1

”i
> ‘ ﬂ
' -';.L.

x
n 9;"

i-‘Nj "' "
' (Jim...

(1‘. ‘

'V“ (M.
!
&,

i

m
Avmaj
\J .2 .LCan... --I-r

i7?

1!

C

“. (W “+-
. ‘7 ’-.

.v-

.4;

K)

T?

r

«.2 .4-

f‘\ 1/1.

3111:?

‘ .é.

EEK“

‘.

R "3’1 ";.".¢:
.
ﬂ- ‘1.

2‘.- 4

i

’7

.._ O \“r

‘7,

, .4 A,
., 1 \ can;

..

ta? r“

3 " L”) ”L

..,
\ an iv

.3.

U

‘v r

‘v ~

2‘} k.«; u

>
t

Ll”
an

9
i

‘ I»,
1 . «.
xmrfxsﬁ

-1».
5

IT‘lZ

.- O
13

a- f

O

.ﬁflﬁﬁlﬂ

ET

 

Tvﬁ”
4s

8;

’/

1

.1...

)J 1“,:

1*: w
L \

"i

1'1}
\‘ __/

”"z ‘3‘7‘1

1

L] J- L»

y
d~

3

.w . ~
“L

s.

@054} -

ESOBEL. SLATER: M.an.

f“
:C :
”x?

4,.“

f
5%

s
.4

*ﬁ%ﬁxi

B

wmaiw améwz

 

”45222”; a
aéz gwliﬁﬂwa'éag/ ﬁ/Zontffta

/

J9ﬁ57 J%Zw.2%7
¢7gé¢wn

“’abab

9

 




@z'
anﬁ

Gm
ti

1

E" I31?
101

‘3’}

.3-

‘ ..’_

.1
.. (r1,

5 Ya
”y .‘1 A“;

N
‘ X

" I".
\’

1

(f: x
k.) E)
(.1.

a t
‘3 L: t ‘x

{‘21

/

:im&
re;

‘31".

ﬂagratery mqielty.

 

L2

.54
LA”
WI

5.51;
WU:
I: my,

”(A WG-2.»-
I’we“: §

w:

W M»
“HIS”:
“(y/mg.

at...»

4;:
M
a

{Ewan
d“ 6'. 7
$14k SQ“:
(D

I Q

‘h *3
glﬂ‘fﬂ
W

a)?
h-
a):
£5
E:
8?
u:
(/3.
.hi
“*5

 

 

 

o
.

c
O
n
n
a
o
0
-

 

Sender’s name and address :

HUMANE EDUCATION

lNSTIjUTE ormmcn, (H. E. l. A.)
P. 0'. BOX 2475,

DAR ES SALAAM,
”‘iﬂm’iﬂlclmmﬂmm E. A.

ENCLOSURE
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

 

(— araq mo uado 01

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY
IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGEE

 

. ..... . ..... . ............................................ o ccccc

o ------------- a...
..................................................................................................

 




January 15; 1955

Mrs. Igabal Slatar
Pu 0v Bﬁx 2&73
Dar as Sﬁlﬁﬂﬂg Tangaﬁia

Dag? Isahelg

X will tvy %@ 3&3 if ma canfgmt game aﬁhar graup ta ﬁﬁﬁw‘thﬁ
mam callemﬁiwn a? agatara. The ﬁndsan Brandh mf tha NEW‘YGFK Publie
Library has a rule againﬁt shawﬁng any artiaﬁ a? gravy far fiva yaarg
aftar tha ariginal ghawing.

Eégg i ahauld think it waald ha a vsry‘gaad plan far yﬁa ta
diaeuga wﬁth Er. ﬁansan tha gnawing a? tha raapangibility far Panning
HEIA»

with ragarﬁ ta the grants fram big fauadatiana, animals have
navar mama imta thair kan at all. Thay ara What ﬁg kﬁcwn as ”amt 0f
pragrm... ‘33

Mg had a vary'niaa lettar raeantly ﬁ?$m a Paacﬁ Carpa wurkwr
wha had rgqaagtad ﬁﬁmﬁ~§f ear litﬁratnraﬁ anﬁ I thaaght yam might want
ﬁg ha in taméh with him. E15 mama and addrasa ara as faliaws:

 




EOTEof interest.

 

3
Ghana has broadcast a See Year messege,that everything
possible must he done to make the country a great humanitarian one,in the
coming year: (My Visit did a good job therei) and the country is proud of
the fact that TOP PLACE was achieved by the schools in the 1964 Poster
Painting Contestl I am told by the Ghahian Ambassador here,that the
current President of the UEAssembly in R.Y.,is their Ambassador,uuaison

Sackey, and he would be one of the first to support the showing of our
1964 pictures in E.Y. ~ Ghana being topl 9)

a/
4?

..

 




6;%::%M%e6 é%:gnaaé%va q,;g;%é%@né fy/ﬂ iﬁdégiaz

c.35/" @t 625 $5557" 6733.; % g f {Q/ 93} 5:. ﬁx 24 ’33 gene :24 L%ézam
/
(jitﬂ/ albiiRLW gM
‘ 1’? ‘ a» .
CHIEF A. S. FUNDIKIRA:CHAIRMAN

(TANGANYIKA) ALHAJI SIR ABUBAKAR TAFAWA. BALEWA. K.B.E. (NIGERIA) HON. VETERINARY prson;
was. c. smvens (U.S.A.) DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER (amen) DR. ANDRE ROUSSEAU (monocco)
MRS' J“ LAMBERT (CANADA) G. IVAN SMITH. ESQ. (UNITED NATIONS)

ﬁgf'GE'MZ‘g‘ﬁE"3:133,”ij I-I.E. COMMANDER ALEXANDER DESTA. I.E.N. (ETHIOPIA) ”0*“ TREASURER-

CHIEF HUMB! zIO'rA (TANGANYIKA) MRS. HUGH J. FLEMMING (CANADA) DR' '- GEBAUER- (TANGANYIKA)

MRS. O. LIGADU (NIGERIA) DR ERIC H HANSEN (".5“)

MISS G. GERBER (SIERRA LEONE) ' '

MR. .I. w. SACKEYFIO (GHANA)

MISS OLAYINKA BURNEY-NICOL DIRECTOR! MRS. ISOBEL SLATER. M.B.E.
SIERRA LEONE)

MADAME .I. MARTIN-HORWITZ (ALGERIA) 5 th J anu a Ty 1 9 6 5 .

ADVISORY BOARD: PATRONS 8: SPONSORS

 

 

my dear Christine,
80 delighted with your charming Card - wish I had your
talent as an artist, it would be awfully useful to HEIA.‘
I am recovering well,and hOpe within a few weeks to
get the proper permanent glasses. I am fortunate in having here,in Dar,
an eye specialist colleague of the Haddassah Eye Clinic peOple in Israel
He has been given full instructions re.the after—care of my eye,from the
Hodpital in Jerusalem. I can't tell you how thankful I am,to have those
three frustrating years of eye trohble behind me. I am assured of 100%
good eyes for the future: However,I'll still have to employ some sec—
retarial help for the close work,for a little time yet - but I'm trying
to type this to you,so please overlook a poor job.‘

I'm now starting on the plans for taking the superb
1964 Contest pictures to Canada and the USA ~ I hope to get over in
April sometime. Mrs Lambert has already commenced the ppublicity build
up in Canada. I think it might be better to start the Lecture/Display‘
in Toronto first,then Ottawa,and perhaps Montrea1,if I can find some '
peOple to help arrange a show there. It is not my intention to have a
lot of shows,just where the best results can be obtained. Afterwards,
I would like to do three shows in the USA ~ N.Y.,Boston,and Washington.
These pictures have nowito be made full use of,and do the work they
are intended to do. The African countries nowiexpect this, and the
pictures are our exceptional 'weapon',or rather our 'Gold Mine',to fur—
ther the interests of HEIA in a definite way,and also bring recognition
and assistance to Africa. You know,l just feel dejected and dismay
ed when I see so much money pouring into these countries from BIGT?ound
ations and organisations in the USA,in particular, and to see so many
essential projects completely overlooked for the want of some personal
knowledge of what is so desperately required in Africa. Shelters for
animals are needed everye here ,iﬁ the countries are to maintain a
decent humane attitude to all living creatures. Pro ection for wild
life too, is a must,and here, to stop traffic in these animals. The
Young People of Africa,through Humane Education, desire this help.You
will note,I say,Young People of Africa ~ the adult ones are too pol-
itically crazy: but the young folk can help build a better world for
all. Please read the attached information - saves writing it over
and over againl I believe many people at the UN would be very in—
terested in young Africa's humane outlook,and I want to bring these
pictures to the notice of the UN,and also UNESCO. These pictures are
”not merely 'pretty pictures' done by school students, but pictures
with a real message from AFRICA. We must not loseﬁapgreat an op~
portunity to do good.
Do you think you would be able to get the splendid

.eo le who arranged the last exhibition of 1963 pictures, to rall
Sougd again? I have written fully to Dr Hansen on this subject.

 

 




- -~ - -. , . , 2. > .

I think I have already mentioned that a splendid newsupporter Of our work
in Africa, living in England, has deposited £500 for the propéosed tour
fares, in my London bank - so determined was she,that these 1964 pictures

‘ would do their work well. This is marvellous,as it makes the whole plan
so much easier, and would not be a drain on our limited funds. 'I have als-
found another keen Supporter in London,who has aﬁready collected over
£30 for our funds,and she is 'broadcasting' for more: If our great begw

. innings in Humane Education in Africa dBato continue without interruption,
we must become financially stable.

,. Another little thing that keeps bothering me,is the possibilitythat
i HEIA headquarters will have to be moved from thses uncertain quarters,any~
time. 1his means that a permanent headquarters must be found, outside of
dfrica for choice. Dr Hansen may be able to help here,as his organisation
18 already established in Forecco. I hOpe to be able to discuss this aspec:
7.fully, when I maiage to get to the USA. ” I think it would be appropriate
and certainly helpful,if the American Humane Education Society would_take
over permanent responsibility for HEIA, and let me run this end,in Africa.
-What do you think? ‘There is no doubt that our work so far,appeals to
African leaders,in respect of their eduCational institutions. We are the
only-organisation of its kind working in Africa,and we haVe-boundless op+
portunity to really tryaand create a better world for all living creat w
ures. Singlemhanded,ibeis almost too much of a job, but with a few good
workers from among older students who would like to be trained_for the
work in-their own countries, the whole task could become consolidated.
I tOO, would like to feel that all the responsibility should not be mine
alone,and that there were others in Africa,who could carry on,if,at any
time I might have to be'off the job ' unexpebtedly. that has been star—
ted-must go on. ' ‘

_ I'am beginning to believe that Governments of all African countries,
should recognise the humanitarian necessity of providing Shelters with
suitably qualified Veterinarians, in every town or district. The Congo
is one huge glaring example of.the tragedy of the animals - not to ment—
ion the inhumanity to the people. The world Can never be a better place

until human beimn , learn to understand one another,and the needs of th. -

_animals too. Hu'ane Education in all its aSpects,must get priority w

much could be accomplished. I'm sure the world is ready now,to have a

new angle towards peace,brought to its notice, and in a.definite way.

Let's pursue,strongly,the channels Opened to us,through the desire of
.the Young People to spread_humane thinking and_action in their separate

countries. What one country in Africa dOes, for good, can be fbllowed
by others, if the theme is an attractive one ~ such as our Painting
Contest: '

e' I shall look forward to hearing from you soon,and I pro»
foundly hope that all goes progressively with the Laboratory battle.

A Happy and Prosperous New year.

Sincerely,

I

l

.. "RN-

Le..Q._ ‘

i. :‘g or

Do you know a Mrs Lehmann in N.Y.? ;:;&;

I believe she is interested in Wild Life. 9 a

Somebody suggested I should get in touch with her., I think I‘d rather

contact people personally ~ explanations can be so much more effectige.
r

W

 




.F _ , ”x .on
'MW
’//

WHY THE AFRICAN “HUMﬁHE Adeloe' PICTURES
MUST RECEIVE THE Recocmleloe THEY DESERVE
- ANt peeAND , ,

“A

The-All-Africachhcols Poster ?ainting Contest was instituted
in our humane programme for a definite purpose - (a) to promote
humane thinking and action on the pert of young-Africa for all
living creatures - (b) to help bring financial assistance to ,
Africa to further promote_Kindness and Understanding among the~
.‘young people who will he the citizens and leaders of tomorrow.
These pictures did not ‘ust ha 'Lni Over the past four.yearsv
the Inetitute has gradually wor ed up its humane teaching to the
stage when the young Africans of many countries became eager to
put in picture form practical exprceeion of the kindness and
understanding they have learned through the Institute, to practice
in daily life. ‘ ' . .

These pictures have now become tremendously important ashan _ ,
obvious eeeeage-carrying meéium and they must be given the fullest
opportunity.to put the vital message across, not only in.efrica,
but countries outside - countries from.where financial assistance
cen.come to help the young Africaae realise much of what they want
for_their countries-good in the humane field, i.e., (a) shelters'
are needed for homeless and ehanooned animals — help is prexiﬁud
required to provide domestic livestock, especially goats and hens,
to combat malnutrition ~ selected young people want to be trained
in humane Education to be able to work in their own countries on
career terms - aesistance is needeé to provide protection for the
wild life of many countries — homes are needed for poor and
handicapped people, and the blind etc. These are only e fee of

the projects which the young people of Africa would like to be

able to realise, ‘(b) many of those taking part in the Annual
Painting Contests have ability in art itself, enc many of them .
appeal to the Institute for help to Obtain the means to etudy art,,
end in the humane form too. the Insitute would like to help thoae
neeay young humanitarians hut again, lack of adequate funds make
this impossible. ‘

The 1964 Contest pictures are of such a high standard in humane
thinking and action, and carey so powerful a message that the time
has come for these pictures to be treated as an exceptional and
rare medium to show the world that young Africans of today could
be the force for bringing love, kindness and understanding, into
a weary and confused worlé - thus creating a new era w a humane
era ~ for tomorrow; 7

The pictures must get the recognition they deserve, thereby

helping to perform service to the country of their origin and its

people, and to the young artists themselves, It is highly

important that the tremendous, potential value of the power of the
epictures in spreading the humane message through other

it ‘
lands should not be lost. tbéauLQ-giébLQKﬁ—o

 




\HQ. \VJP KENM
y, EEEEEEE ENWEEE

E DRE“ Es EXEEEEE.

k&&\ §NNSMV

WNEJ Mm.

\EEEC \Wx \EﬂqOWEN E §W E\
§§§\\§ EEWEWEEEW E EVEEEE
w ES \E WEE, WW ‘EEEEK ﬁx E6 ,E
EEKEx EEIEEV EESEWE WWW WEEEEEW
E) E wE? E95? \ EEK EEEEE.\.\\
\E\\EEW§VEEE\E§\§EL
§ WE $EEEE EEEm WE EEK EEK;

E EEE EEEEEEEEEEEEE
EEAEEEEEW$EWVEE .EEEW.\..

 




.1

/

a

$2610:
5

I

>m§ﬂ§

442/
-4 «972$
’/

\uﬁ N¥\%\h\\§mz MNIMVNJJRJ
A3334 P .E Rbkx» p1,... \mex 39mm

-

\

M
Wod-

%? ,4,- AM j

 

/

ﬂw/éqA.,<,x£av '

|l1 13.51.] ..

A¢pjuE mun

M

"7“;

\.

x
4
9"

mm

mxmmcmm‘mcwi mmzcmw I 3363*

 

 

«X4145, _,

5"" @1” y .. L4.- ,.

 

 

 

‘(

guuNW'ja

p,

a.
:31:

MM “MMMMM M.” M .

”$17
-aﬁu<;4~ #55 “‘*%%54 ’¢:;y/

A» x "y we. I. «31w

5 4 .
r A..\;.» ..x «a. 41.4. K
.H‘UR‘CJT Ni wwwrgywwmﬁwww w.

 

 

 

 

 

 




L

TT N" 3 1 c . 4 ‘3 ‘ ‘3“ 0 "
aw Amoa S3: a. i n OOJDtgleS p33
(AK' "30“ Cit}: _ : .. ' *(Wlnll.

.ﬂ. 30000, C.?RC}. 3MbaaF930 3

31t3:3”y, 9L1~MGVUSQ3 39M3~330333131 3“

V .__J

Ave. . ‘. 31303
"7

HA 1—2610

{a3 abova)

YT «C710

~ "\ _ 9
Alex WUﬁlSOnquCKQ

Q
5, L13: ‘ 4.6:} Q 1’1"“,‘310 “:63: E47

E" .4" "A?" N, -' m7”
,3. ‘f 3 9 .3, , {‘3 .fn‘ 3..) P

essa3e Aaanuan 713m

3333333333

33 3“ 33 Enuls 335314 4:»a"‘;e 3353121133, (333
“336333~3%330u033h-3lq
Iii-73-3

:1”;

fl .
17 PL Rmﬂlgl

Burudi Nabwara, H above)

733 Third ﬁva., 2nd Floor
M 4 r
“”3 Yo3k 17 MO lulalQ

S 3b0ve)

 

 




AEIﬁAL‘HELFARE IESTITUTE
22 East l?th St.

Elem-a Yam: 3, Ex.

Eavwmber 2, 195%

Mgﬁ. lsabal_51atar
ﬁfe Sﬁandard Bank Ltﬁ.
Smffalk HQuaa

Park Lana

Landﬁll 3.ng 1

all is gaing well with yaur eta and
11 be gemn back at ymmr tyamendcus task.'

”Weare gending a batch of pagLers ta Br. Gwdam‘
frada Sﬁuiain, Union de Amigos d8 {as Animalﬂs, ﬁasilla
36?59 Santiagm, Chile, far Shcwing in Chile. Amathar
gwauw hmvw gang t0 ﬁheiﬁchomburg Gallgciimm,'and we
aﬁill-%ave a few left here. Igm glad it 13 all'right
t0 keen them circulatinﬁ awﬁila langer. I know thay
will an aged.

3E3, I wwuld vary muah like ta have amma_3f tha
gEIA yew faargs greetingg ta gend ta ﬁctamtial suwpartera.
gmuld l haVE twaﬂtygfiva?

lam glad yam plan £3 3&0? 13 Earth Africa an year
waturn. Kour vigit$ ta ﬁfrican caunbr’aa glaarlyvéa
wandarsy and WE 199k forward ta haarimg mara cf ymur
naxt taur. Earhaps yam can stimulata swag 0f the .
amuntrieg ta pass laws against expert 0f their vanighing
spaciea, and we will certainly fallaw up 9% this @né
whanavar we can.

Beat wishes fram us all.

Yﬁﬁ?3,

 




2'” 2575257255225 {1777/ A . 23"?“ ”2’11
7 .... 7777,7777; “.5777 77 7., 22“ 227 7.7 W:

”W” .7 ”If”; ’7 U V
%555w555 55/ 55Z 5255 555/5555? 52//%55 ' 'C X

//0// g 7' W
/% %5 9557/555/7/fﬂ555y/

fﬂ ﬁx 24/3 @255 55 y/aam, Zégaﬁﬂ5/ gLQ/ 3 Y’
‘-/

79577577 lSOBEL SLATER M...“ W .5777.- 5/555-

' 7““, ,a'fwmi 5 £2 I ‘ V V ‘ , I ?:‘e 63/ d5“ £ Ad W( 4
‘ K . '2 will , /"'”\ p 2 .
:7 £432.71: C 75 L A2: 47:. 4* 7"; ‘ 7/ ‘ C 5’ 7

7.: .7 (- 27. \ 77.777 23 «vb. 4.7.2: 2—2- 2

itk‘frﬁkaWk AM» (Q: 37H «L593, (/C\ ”317747: .5,» a 53%,

M . 0x.

A (Liﬁk 11 , 1 32¢ " '_ Ii: 5 : .._. _ C 5“ 0) 45.77.3377
(7,5 _ J./_ T/ (“58524. ”be 4/ \.& ’w’amm yﬁr/xg (“pg/A (QMJ kw/ 61/17;

.':~«—~—:>,:urx-.. a2: 7 m“ s: :5.“

 

“x r: n

. :7} V m
I ' m 7.? M7 ,\3:,L5 m WLO “'31ij \t; M
\l 3 ‘42» p; a 375‘ , $70 ‘
twp—«eff Q ._._,

:7 M”? 1M" 1): VWJVK' a 7::& (CC re
£7sz L yg-OQJW'x

6% \ ‘V ("ﬂy/“£4! :7wa 56",“ :7, l -1A,2L. _n
‘ .47“ ' KM W/Q \‘C/QQ‘E‘: .3 ‘ {:5 -
“t... ngya—waw oifmzwL/WA'};

/"’
(Ta-3 ‘7; ng 0\ “F'?

'/' .
&£”’ ’1 C;

6:4 L4. 57......7 .,
a Q’QI‘QA Qﬁ .e A.

 




V.) 3L? 31...

N. {11... nL (1.1....111

1 .1.

1.1.1.1..

am» 91. 114.“an @144“... 1.6111ka

\ Awd‘v a

$k4101111m

u; f. 11111», .31.,” «7.111.»: 19.11.... . 1..

. .1. .11... {A‘
.m%2 1 61..

m,
ﬁlm? \VEELL1 .11N1 \
.me WA. Q1m1 ”11.11161. \L11.1111W .111

L». 1. . J1»... 7.1»:11.»
Ngmwfe

1:... J
J31 .1. .11..-. <1 .
1%.!111 <1 ...,1V_W»a\1

Q1V<mu

J. W} ,
r 1

1.1» £ﬁf1£ \

.\. G

. _ g. u 1
yin-11... 311‘ AHM\ 1.1. 5:71. r\( QCVNWWH jtxm... .ILLV
5.111... .1. ..

.. if J , U N. Aha!» mWhll‘W

.1. 1.... 3 rb13vu1...
-kﬂLax .11... “if... N“; ..
a. 1. ELF? M1... 2

{31.1%, 1 1.11.1 1Hm11L/ 5.1-1.5”. “was 7.115 frank

1K4“

V J
. r1mvm}.\¢"wmtlm. ‘11.”.

2......

.511 .. y...

x. . a

{:1 flhulwx
n.

_ .1.» a 1. .1, Ag - .
‘11....ﬁw1 1...? \l1 (1 .11.. I‘m!!.\ .71 \é.\\1 1V

m¢L1L V13.1 \Wm

11% .5111 11 J. N11. 11.11%11?
E11 .

3T1.»

_, 1.13-:
11.16.11.111 1 . J

35;», .1
erw/ 4/713E1.»

ﬁnk» “3%.. £13m. NVILUE: .ﬁvhy

‘ lib} .
til-1.x“ 1.1.”Q

ﬂaw/b1! r]... 911%f3\&ﬂ§9€

~111ﬂ1 1 » &ﬁ.. $ﬁbﬂ~>¢

1.1111
. 1.1J.
. . 3 . 719(k)
,, ..._ 619.11% Elf...» hm ..
. ,“ o1

., V/vibLiv/

. 1W» 1
WA?N&1141.~1 \ﬂiﬂWL1

 




 

,4. .3.“

(«Li-(”4&3

ﬁmibzh ﬂ mXﬂtel ( MEET“ molﬁm.
ﬁis JV

E4?“ :.-- me/Jw+5wrﬁ ‘
' ﬂfza ..... r4314. " ﬂwkﬁw‘w”; "W“ J m"

 

 

 

E: {(f 241M451” “gm”

0. """" mom-”m

cu .w j.“.4 ....q “.

" With Ehanks 1 P: ,

$614M Xlﬂw {2/

 




 

 

'JEQ!ZUEZ >9 e>nz<u128uei J10 Duqndaa patgun

“Lueeleg sa JBQ

'EL’VZ X08 'O'cl

3979/ ‘ﬂ 9 ”i? 7 Z5 ’3 ﬂ07,/ﬂ7/¢ﬂ 914011171
161/ 2 my -/ as) 4%
7/9 2%? /“ 53 ’ﬂ 09 7 _
p / // . 4/ 11“
5/) yam" 9y? 2;

—1@9% ﬂag/1109 ay/ /120%%a%~
01770% 9/ é%9%§%
WW ”QM/17g ﬂ” 1%

Reproduced from an entry. "Creation." by Ould Ahmed Mustapha, Algiers, in the I964
All Africa—Schools Poster Painting Contest, organised by the Institute.

Gratitude is expressed to all supporters who helped maintain and expand our
work during the past year. Donations will be gladly welcomed to further
promote. “Compassion for all Living Creatures', in the coming year. Director.

491mg laqosl ‘

oﬂzypuﬂj (ﬂawzyé fwﬂ 921% ’905%“
/§ éﬂﬂ% 9%; 1%
147/6“ Wm
’15f¢99% faéy/myazﬁ
ﬁﬂqgm a] 911.7919???

pawl/mag Jéqmg //ﬁ 1%“
70917¢p11j éaaﬂafgf

 




 




   
 

    

(.— QJOQ mo uado 0,1,

Sender’s name and address:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY
ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE, SURCHARGED

OR SENT BY ORDINARY. MAIL.

(—— Second fold here -—-—)

 

LUNLON O“:

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Emaambar 3, 1968

PiEA§§‘§§§;3;$Q;

1311 '* 319th Smaat’ RC W0
waﬁhingtan, B. C. 2000?

Aigﬁglg.

ﬁrs. Iaabel Slatar
111 Frgshfiald Road
Brighten EHZZBR
Sussex

EmﬁLéﬁQ

Eaar Isabel:

It was gaod to haar fram yam, and I think yvn wnuld be wall
advised ta wmrk with'wFﬂh undar tha circumstanees. Certainly,
ynu ara by far the hast qualified ta run the painting eontast;
and if they’ll meat exgansas far yau and provide yau with a
pcsitien, that wmuld be most dasirable. Goad luek with it!

I havan’t baen in ﬂew Yark Since yaur letter cams: but I de
expect ta go scan and will call Earothy annnr, Directar of
Earlem Sahool ﬁr the.&rts, as you snggestad.

I deserva n0 credit far the aantribation sant you by Charlette
Fhrks but-am glad to hear yau received it.

Fbr yuur aurrent infarmatian, I'm enclosing a circular lettar
put out by the Soaiaty far.&nimal Prataetiva Legislatien Navemm
tar firﬁt, a$ it will sava writing at length to fill ynu in.
$11 tha hast,

Yours,

CS:1h

Enelasura

 




----—-~ 2
ﬁjofbﬂm; WEI/”“4

>89”;- W: «13:; W3Mf :N" géﬁig it; chi M )szc:
33:: WwaUﬁC’g 3 %£&% (”M/73¢ ﬁkid Wag: W mq»}:_ 3m}; 8%,,

3.2920 L's.” 63M

% W GWW N33333:; W25. »~(\ ~42an \{quem ,2 £3an ”effqﬁ
“W cit“ NW“ 5’)» (22% “5% P17: .3wa 3:12.;
%¢W L441?“ F112 3; i 333in M“

.. 3 ‘ “ﬂ" Q’Jn @224 M
w >33“ a“ S at” M

35 W9 Ltd ()‘EQ— CAM/W

 




 

 

 

 

\\

,.
I

 

 

 

 

 

HWWV‘CIDOHEIV

 
   
 

 

 

H‘dEIH CI'IOd CINODEIS

"IIVW AHVNIGHO A8 .LNEIS HO
GHDHVHOHHS LEIﬂfI'IIAA .LI SHOG ll :11 fEIHHSOFICMQEI

ANV NIVLNCiSi-{lON CImOHS HELLER HIV NV

(gawk

I.“ A._

V. .4». 1 ~
Hummui~ -‘ ‘.

r..-\,...r....p
' ‘ - ‘ “=5:—
N.» A _....~w- p

m
. “wag-u mm.
M ‘ “"— K \
cm ~
3
r
_ . 4,

 

 

 

 

L‘

ggﬁwg WWI/g,

I

rad. P’ Wag-7W1: "H

 

 

 

 

:ssaxppe pue 9mm S‘JGPHQS

‘VWme—_.__;_3




October 21», 1968

we; Mame 19:

1411 ~ 318th Street, N. w.
Washington, D. C. l 2000?

Mrs. Isobel Slater
111 Freshfield Road
Brighton, B N 22 B R
Sussex

ENGLAND

mar Isobel:

Your letters of September 23rd and October 5th are still unanswered
due to the most awful pressure of work. However, we did get off a
copy of Ammels egg The;; Leg a1 em ts to you; and I trust it has
reached you safely by new. The clipping you mention in your last
letter has not reached as yet.

It would help if there Were something printed to give to potential
donors. Your letter describing the Ger-den of Refuge in a tent and
the help of the children guided by the humane education program of
the Minister of Education surely is most appealing. If the ME
weren't in” debt to the printer at the moment, I would immediately
send a contribution, but we simply must pay our debts first.

V 1Why don't you write to Cleveland Amory at the Fund for Animals, ‘
One Wall Street, New York, New York, and“ tell him about the Ligue-n-
just what you told me. I hope a donation will be forthcoming: and
as soon as We can get our heads above mter, I'll try to send some-
thing, too, for you are doing wonders.

Affe otionately,

 




a . \.\ . a,
7

\ ¥ . . . p . _ .

<\ x... ms;
?,§§.a& Q ,xmmw NE; a

 




  
  

RRM,

    
   
  
  

  

 

 

 

 

\U. “N. n. & , Khmuhwtznh

may/“EU l%.\ RP x

an \%r§

 

 

 

. (#qut.
L .wfﬂ; .
.. . w .
m .A

.3. ,
A.
A?” .

, m
E V

22::

HEW-monomer»?

 

i361.“

Ex

1.

EI‘dEIH (170:1 (INODES

AnuENMH. mung—LU mmwm

'"IIVW mVNIGHO P3- was HO

mg” . 

(T5, “705‘”, .

   

R: APPNHP P3P Aha? .. Pa n. a
v». MVP \WRh h \NP . .. .w AMP h NJJrRPMIH a h m A ,. \Rv
Q\\ . 5% NKJQPS .

\ MW AMP alhwhwhmhé
$§\P\E’

“8”

RAM \sz

  
   

§\A\h

   

Lin/”Huv Eix.
8% \I\ “\f-

 

:Ssalppe pm: amen s‘Japuag

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
 
 

 

HHEIH lI'IS NHdO Ol

 
 
 
    
 

 

 




\m\®M/%\WM\ 2 .\ A. %@
Jemx Sﬁﬁazmm \E

 




LU
M
LU
I
D
A
0
LI.
{-
U:
93
LL

 

TO OPEN SL1 HEKE

Sendcr’s name and address:

how 8M2}, r11 (5,15?

‘T

 

 

 

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT. CONTAIN ANY
ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCI—IARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

SECOND FOLD HERE

PAR AVION

\ I

AIR LETTER "...I,-[?'{W7,7 Q, L
AEROGRAMME ”Wr“ /" @AS I7 ~
I 37:3 i "

i 7‘»? FOR BRIGHTEEETJAYS!

WW 7m

———.' ‘ w“ , 7 ’
OLA/LLWO‘OQ LLKWQJUL WM /

POIFSDBL304 5227.
MW W4; 4%. g”

 

 

 

 

 




September 5, 1968

ﬁrs. Isabal Slater
111 Freshfield Road ,
Brighten, BN2-ZBR
Su3$ex

ENGLAND

Dear Isobel:

Thanks far yuur letter. I hepe all goes well with your

wurk with WFPA. I was cnce an the board of the organizatian
and resigned bacanse I fbund it Véry‘difficult to work with
the group. It is so important that the HEIA iéea be con-
tinued by an international graupz I surely hope it will
succeed.

Funds ara so hard to come by, I can't promise to get any
donatians to tha Liqne ﬁarocain but will certaiﬁky'keap it
firmly'in.mind should anyane express a.particular interast:

in animals in that part cf tzawnrld. Is thers any'literature
fram the Ligue that I Shauld hava an file? _

Thanks for agnding the annauncemmmt abaut the 1968 painting
contest. Ybu have acne wanders t0 continue this as yuu travel
around. I do wish that the Peace Cbrps could have taken it up,
as as it seamed.possible they would do at one point. Ybu

seem to b9 the only'one who can manage it!

We have just published Animals and Their Le a1 Rights and will

m

send ybu a capy if ynu woula iiﬁguit. Shoul it g0 to yuur
Brigton address er to tha Standard Bank in Londan?

Kindest_regards,

Affectionately3

 




 

_ L44 lee—cw
, ’ W "(’5'
£5 mc cw , ~ - "
w W ‘6‘“
(yawwu Lu... Wm 16“” J: act—MM;
" “ear/W W ~96, l;%EQa&LMM

(ﬂ (/\( qﬁOQLQm'): (9%; Lu»— W
F- oLa/(z

 




j 40% .757: \c ﬁg 4%7maﬂk
, ‘waowpéim \Q..IW\ \%®.(Z ma (“gm
:sgziwﬁ 23%? 31 g

E
a ,

s
A

 

 




 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA
ALL—AFRICA SCHOOLS PAINTING CONTEST, 1968

As the collective entries from individual Countries did not come
up to the required standard, the 'BEST COUNTRY’ Award is,
regretfully, not being made this year°

OVERALL AHARD for Schools: 1. Namilango College, Kampala, Uganda°
2. Lycee Moderne et Technique de
Tananarive, Tananarive,
Madagascar°
5° Mvara Secondary School, Arua,
Uganda,

GOLD MEDALS: Leonard Kateete (15), Namilango College, Uganda.

Emmanuel Nyarubindo (18), Pugu Secondary School,
Tanzania°

Gay Trincie (16), Loreto Convent, Nairobi, Kenya,

Ramadhani Nassoro (17), Dodoma Secondary School,
Tanzaniao

Rahalivaschemo Noro (17), Lycee Moderne et
Techniquede Tananarive, Madagascar°

Razaiundra Maro Anastasie (17), Lycee Moderne et
Techniquede Tananarive, Madagascar,

Said Mohammed (17), s.MoB. Ain-Chock, Casablanca,
Maroc°

Segun Imo Imoukhuede (17%), Baptist Academy, Yaba,
Lagos, Nigeriao

Eli s. Chali (20), Karimjee High School, Tanga,
Tanzania,

Bahij Abdelmajid (13), College Al~0uafa, Casablanca,
Maroco

 




.5
o

Genny Gracias, Loreto Convent, Nairobi,
Kenya.
2. Oluseguin Ashcroft, Baptist Academy,
Lagos,]Jigeria.
tie with
Peter P. Mfundo, Karimjee High School,
Tanzania.

-, SECTION A. (16-24)

SECTION B. (16-22.) F. \Isuhuga, Namilango College, Uganda.

. Ouknane Boualem, Casablanca, Marco.

N 0—;
o

’5

SECTION 2.. (10-15) Rakotoharison L. Mamy, Lycee Moderne et
Technique de Tananarive.
2. Anita Dosaj, Loreto Convent, Nairobi,
Kenya.
tie with
Mahesh G. Halavia, Naranbhai Road,
P. School, Jinja, Uganda.

éﬂgilgdgé (10-15) 1. Dencil de Souza, St. Joseph's Secondary
School, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania.
2., Fadhili Safieli, Pugu Secondary School:
Tanzania.
tie with
Niranjan B. Patel, Naranbhai Road,
P. School, Jinja, Uganda.

ﬁﬂﬂﬂ§£§L§_ 1. Monsoon Chandia Deboson
and
Seth Gay Bandhuni, Mvara Secondary School, Arua,

Uganda.

2. Rakotoson Emile, Lycee Noderne et Technique d8
Tananarive, Madagascar.

3. Joseph Ufoyrwoth, Mvara Secondary School: Arua,
Uganda.

 




SPECIAL PRIZES. David Cheliga (Wild Life Protection),
Dodoma Secondary School, Tanzania.
Nathaniel Elissa (Dog 3. Blind Master),
Dodoma Secondary School, Tanzania.
Bosco E. Bua (General care of animals),
Mvara Secondary School, Arua, Uganda.
Maachi Said (Protection of donkeys),
College Al—Ouafa, Casablanca, Maroc.
Jasbir Kalsi a Surekhah Shah (Colourful
entries of general KINDNESS to all
living creatures),
Arya Girls' Senior School, Nairobi.

SCHOOL PRIZE: Secondary School, Old Kampala, Kampala,
.Uganda. .

H.E.I.Aa STAR AEAKQS: Individual entries from the following
Schools:-

Namilango College, Uganda; St. Francis Secondary School,
Pugu, Tanzania; Our Lady of Apostles Secondary School,
Lagos, Nigeria; Popatlal Secondary School, Tanga, Tanzania;
Main Street Primary School, Jinja, Uganda; Arya Girls'
Senior School, Nairobi, Kenya; St. Joseph's Secondary
School, Dar—es—Salaam, Tanzania; Dodoma Secondary School,

Tanzania; Mvara Secondary School, a, Uganda; Al-Ouafa
College, Casablanca, Marco; S.M.B.,.Ain-Chok, Casablanca,
Marco.

CERTIFICATES OE MERIT: Schools: Our Lady of Apostles, Nigeria;
Naranbhai Road, P. School, Uganda; Main Street P. School,
Uganda; -Arya Girls' Senior School, Kenya; St. Francis
Secondary School, Tanzania; Popatlal Secondary School,
Tanzania; St. Joseph's Secondary School, Tanzania; Tanga
Jumuiya School, Tanzania; Mnyuzi School, Tanzania; Katete
Secondary School, Zambia; Nechu School, Malawi; College

 




Al—Ouafa, Marco; S.M;B. Ain Chok, Marooo

Individual Entries: Schools:

Rwamishenye Girls’ School, Tanzania; ; Aga Khan P. School,
Tanzania.(Moshi); Kijabe High School, Kenya; Mater Spei
School, Francistown, Botswana; C.M.S. School, No.1 Ubulu-
(kn, Nigeria; Fine Arts Gallery, Ubulu—Uku, Nigeria;
labora Boys' School, Tanzania; St. Patrick's Secondary
School, Eldoret, Kenya; Korogwe Girls' School, Tanzania;
Livingstone Chekweko, Kumi, Uganda; Lycee Moderne et
Technique de Tananarive, Madagascar.

.3

 

N3§§_ Due to currency regulations it has not been possible

to award cash prizes this year. Book prizes have
been substituted.

All correspondence concerning this Contest should be
addressed to:

HOEOIOAO ,
q/o Ligue Marocaine pour la Defense des Animaux,

94.Rue Eadj Amar Riffi,
Casablanca, Morocco, North Africa.

(Sgd) Isobel Slater, M,B.E.
DIRECTOR
H.E.I.A.

June 1968°

~./’ . 1,
-, ' (“,0 “Mn (:04,
’ ~---+-» -'—~— m we“; 3, , Q, ,~ 3,, 3, ,3 seal,
a :Zkacz§5134ﬁfza

 




" M" ”g Tim «:2 ‘ g - WM y {1&-
”Law-9i ,«Zﬁ’iﬁ’v’é’ VA] . W f!”

{.1 v.
.I

I M ﬁvK/ogﬂ/Jwiajﬁé;

. f g V-

! j ”ii/W0], /

 




 

WWMML. ekxhkaWW? Meg... XE\; ﬂﬁeggﬁweﬁ \muﬁﬂkcg

.J
ie.
I

H MMMM MMMMM?
QM? 0A \A\M\VH\\ aka. 541% .% §\®

. kl. NW. :WnMAU MN. 53$...me \AHP. km bkvox mumkkmuinﬁwa ...
hem £§ Rex...» wgei

, vi. kmm M ,. 1* gin... .lMiMQeQm&\MleW\ﬁnne .
_ x a e... MM... MM... M e ,
L . . . . em @5332» Mes» A... M...
- V. M. .3). Q... \Clweﬁ .& , .
_ , RAM «w. blwx \\ ..M m MW NM. 70% n... \Qb\
. .. . . 1M Ml. . .l R§¥§M n.-. r.- rummlb MM ilk. M. ﬁll
“w NW... N $\m\n\n\\me\w®0 \. . an.» M MUM M .M >MM.\MMM\§«%\ “HRA Memmbﬂiiiwu M 1%”
i . .ﬁuClm kl... Mu ..§l\ “QM/i . \lil . . % Mung, MrMQN. Nevis
. - w - M e. . . ‘ ﬁle. ........M I... MW .....e............ \eﬁmv M w M
MM MM... . elk . Wafer . _. M MMMM ML. eke... Me...
RN _ .. e5. EM.\ fee $%-E _ «ewe \ .. ..
.M§RMMMMVMMM MM” MEM e ..Mfkk

New . We \MSYMN. M 1.. \XM Rd MM. @LQM MMNPK MM. Wellk.. iv... MN)...“ m...
NMMHNKVX 3 m \U 3. M Ahé .EeTm. $3.931”... blue».

. . 1&me “Owl—U wwmmﬂm
agrirléeﬁ. . V.

[Ella ll.» 1.1K. .ﬂ...

"MMl

i

i F

d. 3

U. w I

\_
“were"?

.@
“wtwww
i

o’\

 

4“

\ 4
.jé'laemSODNa

“i C
is.

a...)

"I H‘IVWNV

1:33.13
2’! ‘i

3 270
t") H..-

‘5. ' I".
i- it! l/\‘l f._¥.-€.
:SSSIPPU pU'B QUIET} S‘IQPUQS

 

‘ ?

I/ l. 1.-

 

EI‘dEII—I (110:1 (INOOEIS
.LON (ImOHS

MMRﬁmﬁiﬁﬁé

"‘IIVW Aux/mug AHLNEISHO

‘ﬁbw?%@ma.

 

g . ‘1 . F ‘
5' . '

3 C
It;

{ v—f—U‘Z)

_;..JL

 

 

 

 

mg; NVMLM;

 

 

 

 

15198 VHangMHa “Wkeﬁ gsmée l‘il

 

IDVLSOJAHI‘MKQQJ'EI‘HAIN.

 

 

 

 




gay 9, 1968

iﬁra. Isabal Slater, Diraetar
Humangfﬁéueation Institute afﬁéfriaa
C/a Standarﬁ Bank Limited.

Suffdlk Hauae

117, Park Lana

Landan,'%¢ 1

EﬁGLAED

Baa? Iagbal:

Juaﬁ a ling to ask what 1% naw'With 331A ﬁnd haw
things arm gaing‘

I havmn't haard fram yau reaantly bat samethwua
rafar paapla ta yau_and ﬁhaught I aught ta have
ﬁgaatmdam mm o

The enalasad will tall yam how a gaod.daa1 af1my
time.has haen.taken up thesu past fbw=mnntha¢

Be$t Wishes,

- Yburs,

 




DIRECTOR. . ”q ,... ,.
INSTHUW m" AFRé‘Fé‘a Standard Bank Ltd.,
Suffolk House,
ll7,Park Lane,
LONDON,W.1.

28th April 1967.

‘5‘
:\'

k m

Dear Christine,

Just a few lines to keep you an fait with things. But

I am a little sad that ISPA has'nt come up with some useful assistance as
regards the Painting Contest: However, I am going right ahead now,with the
printing of the circulars for the next Contest ~ Closing Date,March 1968,
and just hope that something helpful will mature by that time! I have been
very fortunate in being able to team up with a Marocain organisation —
LIGUE MAROCAINE POUR LA DEFENSE DES ANIMAUX, in Casablanca. They have gen~
erously given me the use of their address,and will receive the entries for
the next Contest. HEIA has quite a programme there,for the education of th.
Arabs who ill—treat so appallingly,donkeys,mules,etc. The Ligue is doing

a splendid job in Morocco, and being a registered Marocaine organisation,
can give us grand co-Operation - they are financially poor like HEIA,but
between us,we can get things on the move. I will try to go over to Moroc
soon,to finalise plans. You will be pleased to hear that HEIA was invited
to send a selection of pictures for exhibit at EXPO.67. Last week,I sent
off a selection of 70 pictures, so I hope we will get some more publicity.
The RSPCA,London, has been awfully helpful to me,in preparing,and despatch
ing the pictures to Montreal. The Expo.people tglgphgned to ask whether
they could use the pictures for another show later - let's hope somebody
will become really interested in our struggle in Africa:

Another matter,successfully resolved - that of HEIA's
funds,such as they are. There is now an account in HEIA's name,at the
above Bank — now,it will be easy for our supporters to send any donations
there,payable to"Humane Education,etc,etc." You've no idea how it
worried me,before I managed to get these funds out of Tanzania! I've had
to leave a little money in Dar es Salaam,to keep open the office there,but
as soon as I can make other arrangements,that office will be cldsed.

I can't say,I feel very happy in England: it's a foreign
land to me,now1 but for the time being,I can t see any other way out.

aéff HOpe all goes well with you. If you go to EXPO.67, do
kpokgfpr our pictures at the African Pavilion!
’5? , Meantime, best regards.‘

.: 2‘ =
“I. ‘. 1"
‘ I ‘ 7"

Yours,

i WW“ a ' 0% 2mm -“*
'9 h“: $1 3 '2" ‘4‘?! ‘14:: (Teen? ‘3 u <‘ E“

 




 




AAAAM ‘ 1 /§‘/€1P€4AA/L& (AA/u” ,x .2, A
60 yf/ﬂw/ ﬂ/a @Z‘E ﬁ‘gaévﬁ dig???"

c’

,/
H

1AA , * J /A}9 IQ ,/;Q A . AAA/AAA! £4 Jig/Ax
A AA A ACAAA AA 57% a;
7Mﬁb€ A? {3AA ﬁrm/2 ﬁeé.» A A, ,0
7A7 A ALA A éem—é’ £341" a 8;“

W A + g A :22 \ ’L r
@257": '* MVP“? ;/ I ACE/[AA/é’s & 12f ,, 4

(ﬁg /é\) WxAﬁe /
AAA-ZAAA ~ %/&0 " Aw.— -- A: AAZZ/

A ”A , U94- a???“
6/; r 264;? Z5 #f/Qﬂ' AMA? ﬂ’jx’e ’Z‘T/ﬂ‘g
7 "

~ ’ ‘ ' .ALQJ'L» W’W‘ﬁg
W/O’? , A ' Wx .1 m , " J'/// . A
V” ‘75 ‘9”: ”‘7 * AL,

4 _ . ; I ‘ ~ £6 25 ’5 p M
, _ ‘ - , A W ”9 ,0 .
é%%; 421/ A 9A dag/AM?»

 




 
    

OOOOOOOOOOO
O. O...OOOOOOOOOOOCOCOOOOOO0.0.0000...COOOOOOOOCCiUOCOCOOOOCOOOOCOOOIOAvOOOOOOO¢OOOOd‘OJa

Il‘l‘guwg . . Pﬁj mgtmwf..lwén a. ..
I... 4.4.33: 4.1% 4. WE... 44.47. mg

434.4% M. INN.‘ 4...... gig m/ H. mm
W323 94.0 4.454. \44 g 4.4% 3... my.“ $999455? 4% €4.0an

-44 V .g AS... 344 4.4.. a... 4...... EV , _
mg? mfﬁaxhgk D..I.g W®®ISPV .

. $4.46. : if... %«<.
. V”..- V. a. V - 45% [Shag %/ m &
rug. . _ AA... 74 .mmxmxﬂw. a... ANA... $444.4 .YAAIrFMVI 4.1%.! iOFﬁ

44f M4 w mu 3 .4 ”a. 4a.... 4.4... 444:... NIWNME FE , 
AV?» 4......an .3. 4)., Mr 45.4.1. 4.. W-.. AQEV H. 943% ;
TFVLVJ 9&4... 9.64m SEQ 44A K. M v D: ﬁt. @1944

Pﬂmwaﬂﬁh 43%? in. .i \ m.4<(a\.oau .4. ,m. Amié. _
..._ m. a. VWRAIAVNFAFQ. 0.9.4.44... .. 7m erAVrbﬁfIA? AV 4: I
,. .V A 45...... AVSIA... EV A. ea. a. WP?
.4. $84.... :A 40.474.44.44. 4% 315.06%4444.

w PEI“. 4A4... “Hm? mwgﬁFn AAA... 4.4.44I\v/VIW $4.1m. Ncrmnt.

w RV.A,AAV..FaAg aw m w .3 41442....agg E 4.44.1”, ._
FA... VFVC.   2M EPA... SPA EFF...
ﬁg? $19.4... a...... hm I. .... 92$, WAN VWAV‘WVWQTGQ 946:4..ka
ﬁrm: ,, .PQ _ .

 
  
        
     

 

     
    
  

 
    

 

               
       

 

    
 
 

 

 

  
 

r"

   

_ .4... Va: 4%: mm; 4;...

  
  
 
   
    

9444.... 4. g Q Val 44... 4.14.
.IFFFD ﬁAVQIAAAV/T P5,: E ME: 4AA»...

_ g... *Nriﬂ NA... .EI
G AWIAAQ VAN 4;. V“ 4 m 4 4
“9% AFAKWMK. izii W44; WWWUN. 0n
. WEE >\_. $5 g GSA... ”Ami

4&4.ng WAKE

    

   

 




“We! W h; Mb W.) Wmﬂz . ’

.. K 2 ' ﬁg 9‘ (g p H «in; MW‘U‘téw ,
ﬁg 4Q NQAQ L; Wmeo ‘qu
3”", /(,{,u/? ﬂux/‘2 73Ww€“L f”; is W

 

{1.5" ~ WWW}

2L]

3“

 

.13

' ’2
a
I

/

 

vb

 

’WW‘EQ“?
_ ,2!
F“

'ouaﬁﬁo gsegslenb awasug omen 3

A , .. f.”
W27 2, KL ;
m 95' " 1"
V6,} I) ‘ LL .

(D
“.2.
0..
(1%
--h
(D
3
O.
C
O.
m
72:
3
Q.
W
(D
.0
C
[9.
.0
C
(D
O
2'.
(D
.9
C
(D
O
m
U3
9.

WWW WWW
MW“

) A”;
‘29
W". V).
WWW"!
5/ , 7’

l 2

 

E valido per i Paesi extraeuropei.
Valable pour les Pays extraeuropéens.

.\ ‘ ‘9 .
HQ“ {3; My ' ' ‘ ’ 2» . ,I V ' .“22 ‘ 3‘
2 - " ~

U V‘v-th >m"i"L i

 




2222222222 :22 9 22223.22

2. 222 23222 " 22112222

23222222322 2222.23
2222223222 322 22222.2.
21223.33 223233322

33323.33
:3: 2‘22 .2 222" 223222 3.22.2622 2222222 23.22.3223 3:323 222.

33222-3 2. .2: 21.2" 2222.32.22: 2222 22222222222 22 222222222 2.2-2- 2 2:22:23 3’; “EMW‘I:
.323. $32322 2222 22222 222.2222 2223.22: yam 2232;. 23221323 222222 3.2:. 22222213312 3.22
2222222222 23:: 222 222.2232; 22222222. I 2:222 2222 2222 322222 23322 22322223. 2223.22
22222: 32 2.2.2. 2222 222223 2222222222; 2.2222212 23222222222223.3322 3222222222 222 3.3.22 221
2:: 22222223222 22.22.22 222’ 22223222. . 32:. 2202132232. 2:22 2222. 2222222222, 232 if 12.22
222233.22 ‘ 23.22 .22 22.32222 22;: 2.2222 223. ,932) 2. 322.2 2.2“ 3:322 2222222232 «2022-»
2222222 2 2 2... 2222222222222 2322 232222 22222222.. Claarly, 3:222 22222222223232.2222
222‘ $22.22 232222222322 22 22222231222 2.32222 2.2222 2222222222123. 22232223.. 322
222223. 2.3 22“ 2:. ye: .2 223.2322 222 :22: 232222 pﬂy 22.22.122.222: 2222222222?

12 2.32222. 22* 2.222222 2223222332 .2223 233.222.22.22. 3.2. 222.33. 222222231127 2221-2 2.
22222 .3: 2222 222222 ‘323.32 2223222 3322.22 ISM 23:33.3. 2:23.232 22. 232222: 2322213212 2322
22222222222. 2:22 2222222322 222222222222 22222222232... I 222.13. 213222. r2plyto

22.222 5522:2222: 22222. I 33.222222 22222 22222 372223..

2232222222222: 2222332222222 2

2222222222232,

3353 2 3.3.2

222232222222

 




¢. { "1 0 it W _ gem/r ma. WWWWE ‘Tﬁeggo (96L. ' Com/ad‘m,
. ‘ , ‘ ‘7 .k-‘ 1:. *7 jg”;“"‘/<T m Q? 1.774%)» (J “Wt '- -. 0- W 0Q ~ V06
{M leg-“‘4“ § #4, ”Uh-CA {gin 4,, .
. r: 0) ”ﬂ ”"6 Q — 7 my QL’ILILQAdW 7““
4' w \ . ‘ v (p 5) E91”. G wﬁ .
M‘rﬁ“s}~7<’” 7"” ”13’ ‘ \A W) WW I W
J w {1 /——-—-""'

' , ”‘1’ ‘ Qgég-eétl‘iéi

W .. b/L’M - UM
I aw QM” 76M

’ * E Smw 4H
_ L}- J . W W“ ...-—-—-.

042,47 15/33;er sf

5% VJ]? :0“ £21,381) 9€pai (Q’L dE’e, «.9

 




my? On.
1......

«Ir... \brﬁLrlub

Rum... S TU “\m WINJ/mk. Q‘sgﬁ _
Tmmmj V «Em: . . a E‘vﬂi mugglfmﬂhd

3w $.94 {gt @Cmﬁ r. GlnéCmvwmwg MJHHVKHSFQ.
jhbifgwﬁxﬁ? ivCCmﬁ @Ccy... . \QwC.
8.: E 4 E. . .

. ...\. a}%‘. E E... Ea...

u - v JA\..\..\~CJ\.I.N\|O $3 Tim...» 0.. .. . .
we 3 .- N 3L... d4 1.» E? xv... .ﬁcﬁiﬁ «4......» .. \«cCaw. bﬂﬁ..no.
. ,. ,. x I .5 _ Li Cull! .
L; 5;.) MWQGR , FFJXVIAV}
_ $1.. L... z... ‘ . .

r ., “f? A .2qu

.3.

.-B...\(9.(D~.t.v54\|jnm ..
. &A.\...Z
fig W155»)... AW.4.\ Y Q

\l

'mﬁg .76? (3.102.!

 

 

 

 

 

 




Maendeleo ya Kanuni za Huruma

 

NE EDUCQr/o
INSTITUTE 4/ .-.-;

Tunataka. . . .

AMANI KATIKA FIKARA
AMANI KATIKA MOYO
AMANI KATIKA ULIMWENGU

Ndio, tunataka —— lakini kwa namna gani?
Jibu ni rahisi. . . .
Tunaweza kufanikiwa katika yote haya, 11a mengine zaidi—ikiwa pia tukijua yanayotupasa

kuwatendea bidanadamu wenzetu,——kwa viumbe vyote Visivyo na nguvu, yaani na wanyama pia.
Tena yanayotupasa kuwatendea wanyama, wakiwa wa nyumbani, wa shambani au wa msituni.

Mungu aliwaumba wanyama kutajirisha ulimwengu na wawe kwa kumfaa Binadamu—Binadamu
naye aliumbwa na kupewa akili zaidi—~kwa kuwahifadhi wale Viumbe ambao amewazidi kwa akili

na nguvu.

Binadamu, akiwa na maarifa zaidi ni haki yake kuimarisha ile akili ya kuweza kuwa na huruma

kwa wanyama. Yeye pia kwa kufanya hivi atagundua mambo yanayoweza kumfanya awe na huruma
kwa kila hali.

Hayo yakitimizwa—ni kama ndiyo ngazi ya kuishi katika hali tunayoipendawAMANI.

Imetolewa na: Chuo cha Mafunzo ya Huruma ya Afrika (HEIA)

P.O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, E.A.

 




Encouragement de I’Education
Humaine

HEIA

 

HUMANE EDUCATION
msrn‘urs
OF AFRICA

 

Ce que HEIA veut dire

 




 

HEIA signiﬁe “Institut pour l’Education Humaine en Afri-

que.

HEIA est une organisation volontaire et sans—proﬁt,
établie pour encourager l’éducation humaine.

A present les Quartiers Généraux de HEIA sont situés
a Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, sous la direction de Madame
Isobel Slater, M.B.E. qui encourage l’e’ducation humaine, y
comprenant 1e bien-étre des animaux, en Afrique depuis plus
de 20 ans.

Le plan de HEIA est d’encourager les principes humanitaires
dans le sens le plus étendu. HEIA croit dans le“Respect pour
la Vie—pour toute Vie, et Pitié pour toutes les Creatures sans
de’fense.”

Par sa politique HEIA enseigne l’humanite’ a toutes les
creatures sans défense—cela vent dire que tous les partisans de
l’enseignement de HEIA créent un sens de responsabilité et
de comprehension morale vers les besoins des étres plus humbles,
les animaux. A’ travers ce sentiment d’humanité l’Homme,
non seulement apprend 1"importance de la bonté vers les
creatures sans defense, mais il apprend aussi a estimer les
besoins de ses compagnons—tout par la bonté, et la compre-
hension. Un étre obstacolé par une indisposition ou une maladie,
incapable de travailler peut étre aussi compris avec les sens
défense—ainsi que les Vieux, les inﬁrmes et les petits enfants.
‘ L’homme qui trouve le temps de penser aux besoins des animaux
trouvera le temps et la simpathie pour avoir soin des étres sans
defense. Ces hommes peuvent étre les creatures de grandes
nauons

HEIA croit dans l’encouragement et l’attention pour la
protection des animaux, qui ’ils soient sauvages or domestiques,
car, a part 1e devoir moral de l’Homme de protéger les animaux,
ils contribuent beaucoup a la richesse d’un pays. Donc, c’est
bien sage pour l’homme, s’il posséde des animaux domestiques,
de leurs donner tous les soins et les attentions dont ils ont
besoin—~—paturage, eau et abrit. Il faut aussi que quand les
animaux sont malades ils ne soient pas négligés, mais leurs
donner tout traitement Véte'rinaire dont ils ont besoin.

La richesse d’un homme peut étre déterminée par ses ani—
maux, et en respectant leurs besoins un propriétaire peut e’lever
son standard de Vie et étre capable de donner a sa maison eta
sa famille tout dont ils ont besoin pour leur assurer un bon et
prospe’re avenir. L’homme sage le sait et il se prend soin du
bien—étre de ses animaux.




Rappelons—nous que L’Homme depend des creatures
lieslplus humbles de la Creation, comme elles dependent
e 111.

11 y a pourtant, beaucoup de peuples malheureux dans la
plus part des pays, qui, par ignorance, maltraittent et negligent
les animauX—mais cela n’est vraiment pas leurs faute—car ils ne
connaissent rien de mieux. Souvent ces peuples malheureux
negligent et maltraittent les petits enfants et cela est une affaire
tres se’rieuse.

L’Education Humaine peut aider a faire disparaitre cette
ignorance et la remplacé par la connaissance avant-ageuse qui
peut serVir les gens interessé et, a travers eux memes leur pays.
L’ignorance, la miseré, la maladie—qui ne font pas partie des
“droits de l’homrne”——doivent étre complétement détraits,
si un pays et son peuple veulent jouir des bénéﬁces naturels qui
deVient étre leur vrais et incontesté droit.

Beaucoup de pays d’Afrique sont pastoraux, par conse-
quence ils ont acquis une grande et riche culture de la terre. Pour
obtenir 1e mieux de la terre, les gens doivent comprendre 1’-
importance de la bonne cultivation et la valuér encore plus
grande d’un troupean dont 1e bétail est fort et bien soignéces
enseignements trés importants peuvent étre acquis a travers
les lecons apprisent de l’HEIA. .

Nombreux pays en Afrique ont aussi un riche et naturel
heritage de Bétes Sauvages. Ces animaux aussi contrlbuent
énormement a la richesse d’un pays et ils devraient aV01r toute
la protection des gens. Les Bétes Sauvages de l’Afrlque peuvent
presque étre de “possession universelle”. Si les gens des .pays
qui ont cette richesse et cette beauté ne .s’intéressent pomt a
la protection et a la conservation de ces anlmaux, ces gens man-
quent au devoir humain ainsi que moral.

QUE TOUT BRACONNAGE ET T OUTE AUTRE

CHASSE ILLEGALE SOIT DERACINEE AVEC

EXTREME DETERMINATION, ET QUE LA

CHASSE LEGITIME SOIT COMPLETEMENT

CONTROLLEE —— SURTOUT LA CHASSE POUR

LA NOURRITURE.

Si les peuples des pays intéressés permettraient la destruction
jusqu ‘a l’extinction des Betes Sauvages, cela sera1t une grande

perte pour le monde, ainsi qu ’une tragédie. Les Bétes Sauvages
ne pourront jamais étre remplacees.

 




 

 

HEIA croit que grace aux soins et a la protection des ani-
mauX—humbles, incapables de parler, mais des creatures
sensibles—l’Homme, a son insu, se nourrit de ce sentiment
humain de responsabilité vers toute l’humanité. Par conse-
quence il se reveille completement aux besoins de son prochain
et i1 devient capable d’exprimer son sens moral de responsabilite’
a travers l’application intelligente de la comprehension simpa—
thique du besoin pour la tolerance, la consideration et la justice.

LA VALEUR DE L’HOMME EST INDENIA—
BLEMENT PROUVEE PAR SON ATTITUDE VERS
TOUTES CREATURES SANS DEFENSE

 

HEIA étend une chaleureuse invitation a tous ceux qui
voudraient participer a l’encouragement des principes humani-
taires, de s’associer avec ces activités—activités projete’es pour
améliorer les conditions de la comprehension humaine.

Les étudiants et toutes autres personnes interessés dans le
development progressif, prospére et satisfaisant d’un pays
sont chaleureusement prie's de donner leurs cooperation dans
l’encouragement de l’enseignement humain.

GROUPES DE HEIA PEUVENT SE FORMER
DANS TOUS LES PAYS.

HEIA n’est ni politique, ni racial et croit dans l’unite de
tous les peuples quelconque soit leurs oroyance dans l’encoura-
gement des principes humanitaires—car il n’y a point de. division
dans le plan du Créateur~—TOUS ont la meme chance d’enrichir
le monde avec l’inestimable don de la Compassion, la Compre-
hension et la Révérence pour la vie.

N.B. Le nom “Homme” a été use’ dans ce récit mais la
“FEMME” aussi n’est pas moins responsable dans l’accomplisse-
ment du devoir moral vers ceux qui eu ont besoin—surtout dans
l’encouragement du droit humanitaire.

Ecrire a HEIA pour autres de’tails a l’adresse suivant:
The Director,

Humane Education Institute of Africa,

P.O. Box 2473,

Dar es Salaam,

Tanganyika.

(Pour une communication télégraphique, 1e mot “HEIA”
peut étre usé, suivit par le numéro de la Boite Postale, et de
Dar es Salaam).

T.S.—2343

 




Encouragement aux Principes Humanitaires.

 

NE EDUC4r
‘ wﬁ‘msnrm‘z ION ,.
Q. 6, AFRICA.
o\ .- .

‘

Voulons-nous. . .
La Paix de l’Esprit. . .
La Paix au Coeur. . .

La Paix pour le Monde. . .
Oui. . . mais comment?

La réponse est simple. . .

Nous pouvons accomplir tout cela et encore plus—~51 nous realisons nos responsibilités envers notre

prochain-envers toutes Creatures Indefendues, et pour cela i1 faut y comprendre les animaux‘ aussi!

Nous avon's une responsibilite Spéciale envers les animauquu’ils soient domestiques, des champs, de

la xbrousse.

_DIEU créa les animaux pour enrichir 1a terre, et pour qu’ﬂs, aident I’Homme—a I’Homme, qui fut alorsl

crée, DIEU donna une CONSIGNE sacré—le soin de tous ces animaux humbles et‘sans defenses.

L’Homme, qui est supérieur, a le privilege de créer et d’encourager l’application intelligente de la
bonté vers les animauX—ainsi faisant, lui aussi aura des benéﬁces en découvrant une grande puissance dans

le vrai sens de sympathie et de comprehension dans son attitude vers toute l’humanite'

Ceci accompli—ce n’est qu’un pas pour Vivre dans le but convoité
~—la PAIX.

Distribué par: Institu pour l’ﬁduqation Hymaine en Afrique, (H..E.I.A.)
I P.O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika "

 




