 

LAST SPEECH

ON

VIVISECTION

OF

LAWSON TAIT, M.D., F.R.G.S., LL.D.,

Ear-Professor 0f Gynaecology, Mason’s College, Birmingham.
Died: fmze Iotlz, 1899.

ﬁ‘

Specially prepared for and delivered at the
Great Demonstration of the London Anti-Viviseotion
Society, at St. James’ Hall, Piccadilly, London, W.,

on April 26th, 1899.

ﬁ‘

gonbnn :

THE LONDON ANTI—VIVISEGTION SOCIETY,
32, SACKVILLE STREET, PIGOADILLY, W.

1899.

~—.——

PRICE ON E PENNY.
COPYRIGHT.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

“Some day I shall have a tombstone put over me and
an inscription upon it. I want only one thing recorded on
it, and that to the effect that ‘he laboured to divert his - 2;
profession from the blundering which has resulted from the , 5:
performance of experiments on the sub—human groups of ?
animal life, in the hope that they would shed light on the
aberrant physiology of the human groups.’ Such experiments
never have succeeded, and never can; and they have, as in
the cases of Koch, Pasteur and Lister, not only hindered
true progress, but have covered our profession With ridicule.”

«—From a letter by LAWSON TAIT, M.D., F.R.C.S., LL.D.,
in the Medical Press and Circular, May, 1899.

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION,

BY

‘ LAWSON TAIT, F.R.C.S., M.D., LL.D.,

EX—Professor of Gynaecology, Mason’s College,
Birmingham.

 

 

 

 

 

Specially revised by the Author, before his death, for the 5 I
London Anti-Vivisection Society. 31

 

TO BE OBTAINED OF THE SECRETARY,

THE LONDON ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,

32, SACKVILLE STREET, PIOCADILLY, LONDON, W.

_..__.—.

PRICE THREEPENCE, POST FREE.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

MR. LAWSON TAIT’S LAST SPEECH

ON

VIVISECTION.

 

 

 

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen,—If anything were
needed to convince me that I was not addressing myself to a mere
fad or to some ephemeral sentiment, I think the faces before me
would be sufficient conviction. We—especially those who belong
to my own profession—who share in your views either to some extent
or completely, are regarded as in the light of faddists—people who
look into corners for small objects to speak about, and perhaps still
more stringently for things which may catch the public car for the
moment. I was reminded coming into this room that it is some
seventeen or eighteen years—I can hardly say which—since I
appeared upon this platform as an advocate of your views. The
difference in the attitude of the public on this question and of this
question to the public has altered very materially during that time.
I do not remember such an audience then as I have before me now
either in size or in character, and the earnestness with which the
matter is being pursued by all classes of society is clear evidence
that this so-called Anti-vivisection movement has come to stay.
(Applause) But I suppose I should be lacking in wisdom if I did
not take it for granted. that even such as you are not dealing with
this merely as an Anti-vivisection question—that there is something
very much deeper than this mere word conveys to the mind when
you join in a movement such as we are taking part in to-night.
There is a delightful division of the creation by Herbert Spencer,
and curiously enough, familiar as I am With his writings, it had
not caught my eye—it was given to me the other night by a School
Board teacher—where he divides the results of the creation, so far
as animal things are concerned, into human groups and sub-human
groups. These are phrases that are exceedingly useful from a
scientiﬁc point of view, and I endorse their adoption for popular
purposes because they remove from us some bones of contention——
bones of contention which this meeting in itself seems tending to
remove as well. There are many phases from which we approach

 




 

 

 

4

such a question as this and many points of view. There is the point
of view of the mere sentimentalist—a man or a woman ; it would
be mostly women I think—ﬂwho shudder and shrink with horror at
the idea of any kind of suffering, particularly when that suffering
affects something belonging to themselves. That is a view which
I feel for strongly, and it is a view which bears very strongly
upon myself as a matter of argument. Then there is the phase of
religious development which is much akin to that of sentiment.
You know some religions of this world, adopted and followed by
millions of our fellow creatures, look upon sub-human life as almost
as sacred as human life. There is a line in the hymn which you
have just sung which bears upon this point——

“One in life with all things lowly.”

The Buddhist would join in that, and the Romanist, and the most
extreme Calvanist dissenters; it could not receive from them one
single word of objection. Then we come to a third—there might
be more if I cared to occupy your time on the subject of these
sub-div1sions, but there is another which concerns me more than
the others, and that is the question of utility. If you wander
along the banks of a sluggish stream like the Avon at Stratford,
and look into some of the eddies and little pools and bays and
creeks at its margin, you will see huddled together about this time
of the year myriads of the young fry—things from half an inch to
an inch in length—gathered there in myriads ; they are countless;
if you remove them from the water and injure them in the slightest
degree they die. We have looked from the time of the ancient
Greek philos0phers at this extraordinary phenomenon with wonder-
ing gaze, and have come to the foolish conclusion that there is a
waste of life and gigantic cruelty here. It looks so only at ﬁrst
sight. If you watch a little, you will see a big perch or roach come
slowly sailing up and he takes a huge mouthful of these fry and that
is his luncheon; he goes off for some time and. comes back, takes
another mouthful and that is his supper; he repeats the proces sat
intervals as he may require during that day and succeeding days,
and he grows upon his own kind. There must be some kind of
cruelty, some small degree of cruelty in the process, but the utility
is clear. The intention is that one large ﬁsh should grow out from
the destruction of a large number of small ﬁsh, and so it goes on
throughout the world—one sub-human group devouring and fatten-
ing upon another below it—until we come to the human group who
seem to have had placed at their mercy all those belonging to the
sub-human groups, and they have taken upon themselves sometimes
to deal precisely in the same way with some of their brethren in the
other human groups. I do not suppose the question enters into the
mind of the large perch how he can, with the least cruelty, obtain
what food he requires, but it has entered into our minds—into the
minds of the human groups within a very few years, but still it has
entered deeply as to how in their use of the sub-human groups for
their requirements, the sufferings of the sub-human groups may be

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5

diminished. We use our cattle for food, and we use our horses for
agricultural and other purposes, but we have determined by the
votes of the people that these uses shall be restrained alike in the
community and in the individual to such an extent as that there
shall be the least possible suffering. And this brings us to the
point at issue. It is given to all groups to die, to suffer, that death
is inevitable may be put aside, cruelty in the method being
diminished as much as possible, but in utilization there may be
prolonged and protracted cruelty, and by Act of Parliament we have
determined that these cruelties shall be shortened and diminished
as much as possible. We come then to our corner of the subject.
It is said that animals may be, and have been, used with advantage
to mankind and to themselves for the purpose of determining the
course of disease, the natural functions of the body, and particularly,
by these two combined, how disease in animals and in man may be
dealt with for the diminution of common suffering, and for the
prolongation of common lowly life. With this preamble, it is per~
fectly easy to see that any argument on this subject and in this
direction must be a critical investigation of the history of the
matters that come before us. When someone got up and said, “ I
am prepared to cure cancer or consumption by some discovery that

has been made by observations upon animals,” for a long

time, mankind was prepared to listen to him, but you have very
well said, sir, that the prolongation of suffering and its exaggeration
has been so enormous and the results futile, that our patience has
at last become exhausted. (Applause) It was at this point that I
myself, some thirty years ago—perhaps less than that, but dates
are not of very much importance—was driven to examine the
question for myself as to Whether my own work had been so
satisfactory as I had believed and did believe it at the time to be.
It turned out to be unsatisfactory, and I withdrew all that I had
said upon the subject, and I have expressed my regret at having
been led myself, and having led others, into serious blunders. After
that I need not say that my mind became an open one as to the
reception of evidence upon any scheme that might be based upon
animals. Just at that time—and as I intend to refer from time to
time to a criticism of my own views on the matter which has lately
appeared in Holland, I may as well take this as an example—the
critics to whom I have to reply to-night have found fault with my
saying that this question is one which can be discussed by a layman
as well as one belonging to the medical profession. The translator
of the pamphletma translation of which. I have in my hand——
evidently knows English very well, but it is clear that those
very ﬁne distinctions which we can draw in English when speaking
to one another have not been entirely mastered by him. We all
know that those ﬁne distinctions are extremely difficult to render
in another language, and when I say that this question “can be
discussed,” I may mean one of two things—not very different, but
still distinctly different in this pamphlet that I have in my hand.
I may mean that it has been done; or I may mean that

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

6

it may be done at any moment. As a matter of fact, I
meant that it had been done; but I would meet my critics by
accepting their rendering of my words to the effect that it could be
done at any moment, and I have no doubt you will see, in the
speeches which follow what I have to say, examples of what .I
contend for. As a matter of history it is very interesting that this
movement was begun almost by one man—certainly by two men
and one woman—it was the writings of that one man, a layman,
I mean Mr. George Jesse, which converted me absolutely to
the views that I now hold. That is my justiﬁcation for saying
that he, as a layman, could and did discuss the question; he
discussed it with some of the keenest intellects belonging to my
profession: such men as Sir Richard Owen, Sir Spencer Wells,
and undoubtedly discussed it and beat them hollow in their own argu-
ments. (Applause) Again, anything more ludicrous than the defeat
of Sir Richard Owen, in the discussion with Mr. Charles Adams,
on the question of “Hunter and the Stag” I do not think
exists in the English language. If any of you possess that
pamphlet—it is difﬁcult to get hold of now—I advise you to
read it from that point of view, how it is possible for a layman,
by sheer power of criticism and historical investigation, to defeat
a man, who from the chair of authority makes an assertion
which history will not sustain. You will see then that I have
narrowed down very considerably the points which I have to
discuss. I come to utility, and I come to the fact that this
question of utility is open to all the world to investigate. We are
not a privileged priesthood who can say to the public, “ We assert
that, and you must believe it.” The days of priestcraft of that kind
have gone for ever. (Loud applause.) I do not know which of the
three I should dread most—a priest of that kind of the legal, the
ecclesiastical, or the medical order. I think, perhaps, my
discomfort would be greatest from the third. Now then, sir, I
reached this platform some seventeen or eighteen years ago, at
this point. As a disciple of Mr. George Jesse, and one who fol-
lowed his method, and who had been made eager and ready to
follow that method by the awful statements which I found coming
to me on every hand in support of this process of experimentation
on animals, I had to submit to a deep humiliation, for it was no small
matter for an ambitious young man of twenty-four or tWenty—ﬁve to
acknowledge that he has been wrong in his published conclusions,
and to admit that his experiments were not only utterly wrong, but
mischievous and misleading. I was humiliated, and I feel
that those who made similar assertions might with some
advantage to their profession look, again and again,
and more carefully, and again to see if their seat was quite
as secure as I thought mine was. The result of that was—it is
well—known to the older members of your Society—a pamphlet
which I issued on the uselessness of experimentation upon animals
for any purpose that you can imagine. I will just state a few as I
go on. Now bear in mind I did not use the word “absolute.” I

 

 




am not an absolute abolitionist. I have said so before, and you
mustﬁipatiently wait for my explanation, because I am quite ready
to make one. I see door after door closed for the utility of this
proceeding. I see revelation made after revelation of the mistakes
that have been made——how the same experiments have been
repeated century after century, the recorders being perfectly honest
men, perhaps, but like everything that is human they have desired
results, and, therefore, have obtained them. The story can be told
of any item in particular, especially in surgery, how generation after
generation one man has said one thing, and another man has come
up and said the reverse, and we have had battledore and shuttle-
cock going on until the thing was a mass of confusion and
ignorance to a degree that was disgraceful. I say this—I am not
afraid to say it, because I have humbled myself before the public and
before my profession, as a sinner who has come to repentance. My
pamphlet was brought about by one which contained a large
number of illustrations and arguments in favour of the conclusion
that experimentation upon animals ought to be allowed to go on as
'it was, uninterrupted. Remember this was before the time of the
great agitation, and I think before your Society was started. At
any rate, it was somewhere there or thereabouts. We were only at
the beginning of the question. I proceeded on Mr. George Jesse’s
plan, I simply went to the records of medicine and surgery, and
found out how futile all the illustrations were. I will take one
example—though I shall not allude to it at any length—the surgery
of the brain. We were told of all the marvellous cures of epilepsy
and all other diseases arising from depressed structure of the skull ,-
we were told of all the results of experiments performed on monkeys
by Professor Ferrier and various others. But we found also that
these operations had been done last century, and there was a list
of 166 of them that were done before Ferrier was born, and with a
vast amount of success, both primarily in saving life ; and secondly,
in curing disease. Therefore we declined to accept the statement
that these results were attributable to Ferrier’s experience. You
may take that as an example of the method of criticism that I
adopted. I have also to tell you that that little pamphlet of mine
was taken up by your Society and other societies ; it has appeared,
I‘think, in every civilised language—I have seen a copy of it in
Japanese, and it is in all the European languages, and I would
not like to say how many hundreds of thousands of copies have
. .‘ been circulated. It seems, in some quarters at least, to have made

a distinct impression; I am glad to say that it has made an

impression in my own profession. I am in altogether a different

position in relation to my profession on this matter to tliatrgjn

 

 

3' ' which I was ﬁve or ten years after that pamphlet appeared.
. - (Applause) I had a very unpleasant time to go through, but I
g, ' came through it, and I have not suffered in the long run. (Applause)

Before coming here, I consulted my friend, Mr. Trist, and he
thought that I might usefully take up a few of your minutes by
glancing over the ﬁrst reply which has been made, after seventeen

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

years, to this pamphlet. I do not mean to say that it has not been
criticised, and that it has not been largely abused, but there has been
no serious attempt made to answer me for seventeen years, and it now
rests with two Dutch physicians to enter the arena. The gentleman
who sent me a COpy of this reply writes me: “ Our anti-vivisection
movement is happily growing in our country, but we are very
poorly supported by the medical faculty. We lack the technical
ability to take away the unfavourable impression that the pamphlet
of the said doctors has made on the public, and we hope you will
be so kind as to help us in this difficulty.” It is my desire to
help them now. He tells me that, in spite of their not getting on
very well, they have 109 physicians who have declared themselves
more or less against vivisection (remember Holland is a small
country) amongst whom "were forty-two total anti-vivisectionists.
(Applause) As I do not think we can reckon that we have
progressed at that rate in England, after our twenty years, and
with our large medical population in Holland they have not done
so badly. The ﬁrst objection which my Dutch critics have to me is
that I am not a physiologist. No; in their sense I am not, and I
am very thankful for it. (Loud cheers.) But I will tell you what
I am. I am placed by my profession and my position in the position
of a judge of physiologists. (Applause) They make their experiments,
they assert their conclusions, and it has to come to the Court of
practitioners to determine whether those conclusions are valid
and of use, and I pronounce them of no use. (Applause) They
believe that physiologists are the best judges of physiologists, and
they would leave all expresssion of opinion, and all judgments
of physiological results, to the physiologists themselves. But
we have an English saying, that “we do not set thieves to

catch thieves.” (Applause, and some interruption.) My friends
at the back would not try criminals by a jury selected from the
convicts. We in this country are already tired of the so-

called medical inspection of vivisection. I will tell my friends
at the end of the hall there that it is a fraud. (Cheers) You
will get no satisfactory inspection of vivisectionists until you have
a lawyer to do it, or a business man, or somebody wholly uncon-
nected with the medical profession. (Cheers) And, as I see and
hear and feel ripples of dissent among various sections (1 am sorry
to have to use the word) of the Anti—Vivisection party, I strongly
beg them to stop their dissensions, whatever they may be, and
unite upon that one point—the abolition of the medical inspector.
(Applause) And if I give you no other good advice to—night, with
all I have said and the rest that I have to say, let that sink into
your souls as a matter for the deepest consideration.

Then, after pages of the ordinary abuse, we come to one argument
upon which I have made playful allusions—J have never used it as any
very active argument, but I am tempted now to push the matter a
little further home. My words were, “ To urge its continuance (the
continuance of vivisection) on the ground that it was useful in
the seventeenth century, is just as reasonable as to ask the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

9

astronomer to go back to the cumbrous methods by which

Huyghens worked his lenses.” “ Surely,” says my critic, “such a
proceeding would not only be slightly foolish but very mad
indeed.” He grants my argument to begin with. “However, so

far as vivisection goes, no testimony of any physiologist is known
to me where it is demonstrated that it was useless then and
totally useless nowadays.” Well, all I can say is, that he has
searched the records of the old works on physiology but very
scantily if he has seen no evidence at all. Let us take the much
disputed case of Harvey and the circulation. The vivisectionists
assert that Harvey discovered the circulation by means of experi-
ments—and cruel experiments they were—upon living animals.
Well, suppose he did; and suppose that the circulation had to be
discovered now; would any man in his senses go back to those
experiments, when, with a pint of coloured water and a syringe, he
could do it just as well upon a dead body ?, The syringe is not a new
discovery ; it was invented in the third century ; and Harvey used the
syringe. If he had taken the dead body of the donkey upon which he
experimented, and pushed the nozzle of that syringe into the aorta,
or into a vein, or any large vessel of the body, and poured in his
coloured water, he would have made out the circulation far more
easily and far more perfectly than was done by him and his
successors. What makes one angry about these so-called illustra-
tions of what is due to vivisection in past times is, they are so
stupid; they are so clumsy, they assist not in clearing the sky of
clouds, but in bringing bigger clouds down. All these experiments
led them into false conclusions about the circulation. The circula-
tion was not established until Malpighi located the ﬁne vessels, and
some one else afterwards saw them in the frog’s foot. It was
altogether matter of speculation before that. If you read the
columns and pages and volumes of the speculators, you will see
that even the few original observations which. were made by
Harvey were misrepresented and misunderstood, and for them he
was persecuted by his fellow physicians of the time. It was not
until generations after him that even his discoveries were made
clear. Now, in the old days, when a witness, especially in certain
kinds of legal proceedings, was refractory and would not yield the
evidence which it was supposed he had in his possession, there
were several kindly ways of impressing upon him the necessity of
giving up the truth. They pinched his thumbs with thumbscrews,
they smashed his legs with “boots,” and stretched his joints with
the rack, and many other things of that kind. But we are told
by our friend here that that has no kind of analogy with vivisection.
I wonder what the dogs would say about that. The analogy comes
in pretty strongly if one looks at the confessions of the late Dr.
Rutherford, who tells us that you must be very careful in physio-
logical investigations not to use any means which will Vitiate the
results. I fancy when the press came upon the chest of the poor
wretch who had to plead, knowing that if he did plead his lands and
possessions would go from his wife and children ; the man who had

 




 

 

 

 

10

the courage to be pressed to death for the sake of his little, ones
was pretty much in the condition of the dog, who could not speak
English and could not tell his tormentors what was going wrong,
and how he felt when nerve after nerve was being divided. This
poor man under the press was only inﬂuenced by one decision——
“ I will not plead.” The dog could not plead, the man would not, .
and he died in agonies. But supposing in that death of agony
you had been standing by him, and feeling his pulse, and taking
his temperature, and watching the moisture of his skin—do
you think that these simple physiological processes would not
have been altered by that weight on his chest, that his pulse
would have slowly failed, his temperature under the torture
would have fallen and sweat would have poured from
every open pore in his body ? Are these not conditions that
would vitiate any observation, except the conclusion that the press
was killing the poor wretch. I will not go into my own views
about the value of experiments from this point of View, but I will
read Dr. Rutherford’s own confessions. They were very cleverly
abstracted in your journal the other day. Apropos of the death of
Dr. Rutherford, he once did us an important service. I shall not
read the long sentence in which the argument is made clear, because
I have practically given you that. The sentence I want to quote
is this. “ Chloroform was used during the preliminary operation in
two cases, but the stimulation of the liver which it induced rendered
the experiments worthless.” What conclusion can be derived from
that but that there is no condition of experimentation possible, with
the inﬂuence of anaesthesia, from which just conclusions can be
formed! The thing is ridiculous. It is a rode/Lotto ad abszwdmz.
Your “patient” must be either conscious or unconscious; if it is
unconscious the experiment is admittedly “worthless”; if it is
conscious its nervous system is so stimulated, and it is so upset
by the torture, that no truth can be arrived at. Before the days of
anaesthetics, these experiments were all conducted under conscious—
ness, and the argument, therefore, is that running through them all
there was avitiating condition which rendered them futile. But
this word “anaesthetics” just reminds me of one of those futile
grounds of experimentation in which there is not very much
cruelty, yet it fully shows how absolutely stupid and, from my
point of view, useless these experiments are. Let me instance the
case of anaesthetics which are used to induce quietness on the part
of the patient and freedom from pain. The study of anaesthetics
began with Sir Humphrey Davy in the year 1804, when he
very nearly—ah! what a pity he did not succeedl—gave us a
perfect anmsthetic in the shape of nitrous oxide ; he was just afraid
to go a little further, and give the patient nitrous oxide without
any oxygen at all; if he had gone on with that, this branch of
medical science would have been advanced just one century, or at
least three years short of it. Here we are at the very end of our
century, and at this moment—I speak now of my own knowledge
in the last few days—it appears that we are going to do away with

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

ether and chloroform, and all those compound chemicals which seem
to have more or less danger in them, and go back absolutely to
nitrous oxide as an anaesthetic. And why ? Because now we get it
pure and we mix with it as we give it, as the case requires, a
little pure oxygen, and the thing seems to be perfectly safe and
manageable. I saw an operation performed under this method the
other day; it occupied twenty minutes, and the patient was
absolutely free from pain, and arose from the operating table
without any sickness or distress or trouble. As we watched the
patient there seemed to be the minimum of danger or hardly any
danger, and here we have been running away with these infernal
experiments on animals for generations on the simple question of
ether and chloroform, and we have had Sir Humphrey Davy’s
triumphant discovery lying barren fora century. (Applause) I am
reminded by the chairman that I cannot go on indefinitely with these
illustrations. (Cries of “ Go on.”) Although you are patiently
listening to me, and the more I go into the question the more I feel
enthusiastic about it, I must draw up some time. I can only give
you the assurance that in the hands of the Secretary of this Society
I shall give my answer in detail to the criticisms which these
gentlemen have kindly made, and I think it is very likely you will
be able to read them in a second or last or some other editions
of the pamphlet which will shortly appear. I have only one thing
more to say and that is this: My dear friends here look upon me
as an extremely old—fashioned person, a physician who must have
been educated last century. Well, I know this, that my brethren
here do not think so. (Applause) They are always rather annoyed
by my endeavours after something new, rather than a persistevncy
in the ancient tracks; and sometimes I have been reproved for
being too much advanced. (A voice : “ Don’t advertise yourself”)
Thank you, it is not necessary now. (Loud applause.) If I had
wanted advertising I could have done it twenty years ago with
more effect. (Applause) I think that as in this matter the public
is in the van of the profession, I may claim to be not so much
an old fogey as one of those troublesome new people who are
anxious to make the world move on. I certainly am particularly
anxious to move my profession out of this old groove in which
they are bound hand and foot by nothing but tradition and the
authority of the elders. (Applause) At the end of the room one
or two gentlemen have been making comments, and, though I
cannot see very clearly at this distance whether they are young
or old, I am afraid they are the youngest of the young. (Laughter
and applause.) And as a parting advice to them, let me advise
them to go home and ponder over these things, and to do as I have
been compelled to do—to learn the lesson that there is none of us
omniscient, not even the youngest. (Laughter and applause.) I
now move this resolution :—

“ That this meeting wholly disapproves of experimentation on
living animals, as being crude in conception, unscientiﬁc
in its nature, and incapable of being sustained by any
accurate or beneﬁcent results applicable to man.”

 




C111 1301111011 Hnti=Vivisection society,
32, Saekville Street, Piccadilly, London, W.

Founded 1876.

 

“Heartily sympathising with your eﬂ'or-ts.”——Extmct from 65
letter from H.M. The Queen to the Secretary of this Society.

Lord Shaftesbury.——“Vivisection is an abominable sin."
Lord Brampton ,(late Mr. Justice Hawkins.)—“ I abominate vivisection : should rejoice

to see it legally suppressed.”

 

The Dowager Countess of
Kintore
The Dowager

Manchester
The Dowager Marchioness
of Ormonde
The Countess of Lindsey
The Earl of Lindsay
The Countess of Lindsay
The Dowager Countess of
Dundonald
The Countess of Roden

Duchess of

 

31] (1111131191 :

The Countess of Norbury

The Countess of Munster

Lord Ernest Hamilton

Lord Hatherto11,C.M.G.

Lord Leigh

Lord Roba1tes

The Bishop of Argyle and
the Isles

The Bishop of Nottingham

The Archbishop of Onta1io

Bishop Hellmuth

Lord Brampton.

 

Lady Brampton

Lady Windsor.

Lady Paget.

Lady Mary Milbanke.
Canon Wilberforce

Rev. Preb. VVebb-Peploe
J. Maden Holt, Esq.
Mrs. Holt

Herbert Philips, Esq. J .P.
Joshua Rowntree, Esq.
James Sant, Esq., RA.

, Miss L. Vernon Wentworth.

 

 

gamma 31! atrmm :

Surgeon~Greneral Sir Charles Gordon,‘ K .C.B.,
M D. (Hon. Physician to H.M. the Queen).

Surgeon-General J. H. Thornton, C.B.,

Suigeon- -General Watson, M. D.

A. Wall, Esq, MWRCSS LWRCP.

A. J. H. Crespi, Esq. (Hertford Coll, Oxon),
M. R C. P. (Medallist in Surgery).

A. A. Beale, Esq., M..,B 0.11

T. Gr. Vawd1ey, Esq., L..RC.P., MRHCS.

StephenF. Smith Esq, L.S. A.

R. M. Bowstead, Esq. M.D., M.R.C. S. .

C. A. P. T111111an, Esq, LHR’CWS L.P C.P.

 

Chas. Bell Tayler, Esq, M. D., F. R. C. S.
John Cla1k‘e, Esq. M. D,
Stephen Townesend, Esq, F. R. C. S.
F. Cann, Esq., F..RC.S.
The Rev. Francis Smith, 1\<I.A., M.D.,
M. R. C. S.
Ed. Haughton, B. A., M. D, M. R. C S.
F. - S. Arnold, Esq., B. A, 0x011,
. M. R. C. S.
Hector Mumo, Esq., M. B. C. M
F E. Vernede, Esq. L..RC..P MR. CS
WalterR. Hadwen, Esq. ., M D. etc.
Arthur Kennedy, Esq., M.R.C.S.

M.B.,

 

The Annual Report and Literature free on Application.

 

The Committee most earnestly appeal for aid to
enable them to carry on a more
Vigorous Campaign.

 

OFFICES: 32, SAGKVILLE STREET, 1110011111111,

L-ONDON, W.

 

Treasurer z—DR. WALL.

Hon. Sec. z—MRs.
6/99/5000.

F. 0. JAMES. SECRETARY z—SIDNEY e. TRIST.

 




