 

 

 

“THE TIMES” ARTICLE

ON THE RESULTS OF

EXPERIMENTS 0N LIVING ANIMALS,

OCTOBER, 1892-

 

 

ANSWERED BY

PROFESSOR LAWSON TAIT.

 

 

MANCHESTER :

“GUARDIAN” PRINTING WORKS, BLACKFRIARS STREET.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘THE TIMES” ARTICLE

ON THE RESULTS OF

 

EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS,

OCTOBER, 1892-

 

 

 

ANSWERED BY

 

' + PROFESSOR LAWSON TAIT.

 

 

 

MANCHESTER :

“GUARDIAN ” PRINTING WORKS, BLACKFRIARS STREET.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS.

V

 

N anonymous article in the Times of October 25th, 1892,
was published under the title of “Experiments on
Living Animals.” It extended to four columns, was written

 

with great care, and may be taken as a complete and
authoritative statement of the beneﬁts to humanity from
those experiments claimed by physiologists up to that
date. Mr. Lawson Tait published in the Times of November
8th, an answer to this article. The object of the present
paper is to place side by side the original article and the
reply, so that the opponents of Vivisection may be funished
with Mr. Tait’s words in answer to advocates of the practice,
who claim for it any or all of the achievements set forth in
the article.

After stating that it is difﬁcult to convey to the under-
standing of the general public, so ignorant of physiology, any
l idea of the results attained by these experiments, the article
proceeds to group them, as follows :—

 

l.—As an orderly series intended to ascertain the functions
of organs or assemblages of organs in the human or
animal body.

2.——As detached proceedings intended to decide some single
question which may arise during the course of an
illness, or in the progress of a Medico—Legal investiga-
tion : such a question, for instance, as the practicability
or applicability of a proposed operation, or the nature
of a poison which deﬁes chemical analysis.

 

8.—Either singly or in series, for the purpose of ascertaining
the initial and ultimate action of some drug upon the
human organism, with the view either of testing its
value as a remedial agent, or of guarding by antidote
or otherwise against its injurious effects.

 

[tr—Inoculation and feeding experiments intended to identify
the speciﬁc microbes of some disease, and to ascertain
whether, and if so, in what degree, its virulence is
capable of being destroyed or mitigated by cultivation
or other circumstances.

 




 

 

4
No. 1 GROUP.

81130517233431; As a conspicuous example of this, the discovery of the
of the blood by circulation of the blood, by Harvey, is given with considerable
Harvey. expansion. The important passage to mark reads as follows:
“Every portion of that work, from its commencement to its
close, was accomplished and established by experiments upon
living animals, and could have been accomplished in no other
way . . . Even in the present day, a medical student who
is required, in the course of his examination, to state the
evidence on which the doctrine of the circulation is founded
would have no choice but to describe what happens when
ligatures are placed in certain vessels in a living animal——he
need never have seen the experiments, which no longer need
repetition, but it would be necessary that he should be

thoroughly acquainted with them.”

3553313303: The article next proceeds from the circulation of the blood
31851161331332? to the discoveries as to the nervous system by Sir Charles
Bell. The writer states that “by researches which were
entirely experimental” (carried on between 1807 and 1826),
Bell proved that the nerves connected with the anterior part
of the spinal cord ministered only to motion; and that those
connected with the posterior portion ministered only to
sensation; and he goes on to say that Bell’s investigations
were delayed for years by his unwillingness to inﬂict the pain
necessary for the operations. The claim here is, of course,
that Bell was led to his discovery by vivisectional experi—
ments. It is obsCurely stated, as if the writer was not

ignorant of what Bell himself said on this point.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

5
GROUP No. 1.

The substance of Mr. Lawson Tait’s reply is as follows :—

an old discussion; English, French, and Italian authors
claiming it for their respective countrymen. But granting
that Harvey is accepted as the successful candidate, the
answer to the claim that his discoveries were due to experi-
ments on living animals can be obtained from his own
writings. He was often led astray by vivisection, and the
only approach to satisfactory experiment to be found in
Harvey’s work on the circulation is the description of an
experiment with a clyster bag (Enema) on a dead body.
He himself proves in numerous instances that vivisectional
experiments are useless and misleading, and that his own
experiments give conclusions wholly at variance with the
facts displayed by the injecting syringefi

Discovery of
the circulation

The merit of the discovery of the circulation of the blood is of the blood by

Harvey. .

Mr. Tait’s reply to this is a quotation from Sir Charles Bell’s Discoveries as

to the nervo

US

great work on the nervous system, published in 1889 (p. 217, system by Sir

Vol. II.), which is as follows: “In concluding these papers I
hope I may be permitted to offer a few words in favour of
anatomy, as better adapted for discovery than experiments.

O O O 0 O O O O O O O O C O O I I I O O I O 9

Experiments have never been the means of discovery, and a
survey of what has been attempted of late years in physiology
will prove that the opening of living animals has done more
to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the just views taken from
the study of anatomy and natural motions. In a foreign
review of my former paper the results have been considered
as a further proof in favour of experiments. They are, on
the contrary, deductions from anatomy, and I have had recourse

 

 

* NOTE BY DR. F. S. ARNOLD. —This experiment is described in a letter of .Harvey’s
which is published at the end of the Sydenham Society’s Edition of his Works. It is
quoted as giving an irrefutable contradiction to the contention of Riolan that the blood
passed from the right side of the heart to the left by percolation through the septum,
not by way of the lungs. Harvey’s great contribution to our knowledge of the circulation
of the blood was his demonstration of the fact that blood passed from the right side of the
heart to the left by way of the lungs. This fact he demonstrated by the foregoing, and
similar experiments, and not by experiments on living animals. Harvey’s “ dissections ”
were as fruitful as his “ Vivisections” were barren, when not absolutely confusing and
misleading.

Charles Bel].

 




 

 

 

Investigations
on the reﬂex
function of the
spinal cord by
Marshall Hall.

Brain experi-
ments, Ferrier.

Then the name of Marshall Hall is brought in as carrying
these investigations further, but no statement is made as to
the nature of his experiments, though the reader is no doubt
intended to infer that they were vivisectional in character. ~

A digression is now made to connect Bell’s discoveries with
those of Hitzig and Perrier as to the functions of the brain.

It is shown that Dr. W. B. Carpenter constructed an
ingenious theory relating to the action of the two hemi—
spheres of the brain, which would have been generally

accepted had it not been exploded by the experiments of
Hitzig and Ferrier. It is claimed for these experiments,

carried out on monkeys, that by them it was discovered that
if a particular convolution of the brain surface be excited
there will be a corresponding movement of the hand, or arm, ,
as the case may be, thus guiding the surgeon to the portion
of the brain in which he may expect to ﬁnd the seat of the
disease. “ The whole of modern brain surgery ” (it is said)
“has been the direct result of experiments on living animals,
and could have been brought even to its present early stage
by no other method.”

 

 

 

 

 




7

to experiments, not to form my own opinions, but to impress
them upon others. It must be my apology that my utmost
efforts of persuasion were lost when I urged my statement on

 

the ground of anatomy alone. For my own part I cannot
believe that Providence should intend that the secrets of
nature are to be discovered by means of cruelty, and I am
sure that those who are guilty of protracted cruelties do not
possess minds capable of appreciating the laws of nature.”

 

Mr. Tait writes about this: For any discovery made anestigatiOHS
on the reﬂex

by Marshall Hall no eXpeliments on animals were in the functionof the
r spinal cord by

least deglee requu ed. The experiment so often made by Marshall Hall

accident, in which the human neck is broken below the

fourth cervical vetebra, gives every particle of the information

far more accurately. The experiments on animals only

obscured the results of clinical observation on man, and

hindered progress.

Mr. Tait writes: Concerning the results of brain surgery Brain experi-
ments, Ferrier
your contributor is entirely wrong. The earliest and by far
the best efforts in this direction were made, and the most
brilliant results were obtained, far better than those of Mr.
Victor Horsley, not ﬁve or siX years ago, but ten or twelve,

by Dr. William MacEwen, of Glasgow, the greatest living

 

surgeon, and he devised his successful operations entirely by
the symptoms of the patients. Localisation of function by
experiments on animals had no place in his conclusions at all.
Mr. Tait gives a quotation in another part of this article from
the preface to Professor Ferrier’s work on the “ Functions of

 

the Brain,” which may here be given: “Experiments on the
lower animals, even on apes, often lead to conclusions seriously
at variance with well established facts of clinical and patho—
logical observation . . . . the decisive settlement of
such points muSt depend mainly on careful clinical and
pathological research. . . . . experiments have led to
different views in different hands.”

 

 




 

 

8

Dr. Hope’s dis— The next example given of the discovery of the functions of
coveries as to

the action of the organs of the body by experiment is that of Dr. Hope,
theheart‘ who “showed by experiments en living animals how the
beatings of the heart were produced, and by what changes in
the valves or cavities they might be modiﬁed.” From
what follows it would appear that these experiments were
demonstrations of the corrctness of Dr. Billing’s views, so
that he in fact was the discoverer, and that some of Dr.
Hope’s theories were Subsequently traversed by Dr. Williams.
The paragraph concludes thus: “ His experiments cleared
up much which had before been doubtful, notwithstanding
bedside experience and post-mortem examinations 3 and they
have enabled physicians ever since to detect the earliest
indications of cardiac changes, and correctly to appreciate the
sounds which are signiﬁcant of improvement or of deterio—
ration.”

The thyroid The last example given in Group No. l. is the discovery of
'Uland: Dis- . . . .

Emery of its the functions of the thyrord gland, WlllCh occas1onally becomes
funcuons’ enlarged into goitre. It is asserted that surgeons were on the
point of beginning the practice of removing this in cases
where it threatened to become diseased, but were stopped by
the result of the experiments of removing this gland from a
number of animals 3 when it was found that the disease
called myxoedema was induced by the operation.

It is acknowledged that this is a negative beneﬁt, but great
expectations are held out as to the result of attempts “to
cure myxcedema by injecting under the skin of the patient a
liquid prepared from the thyroid gland of animals, and these
attempts have been rewarded by a very promising amount of

success.”
No. 2 GROUP.
Hunter’s This has been described as “ includincr detached pro-
treatment of . , D . .
aneurism. ceedmgs intended to decrde some Single pomt 1n the

treatment of. disease.” The ﬁrst instance quoted is that of

 

 




 

 

9

About these experiments Mr. Tait says that he can only Dr, pre’s dis-
use ridicule as a weapon, that they were clumsy and barbarous, «(51(1): 301%,; Softo
and that Dr. Williams exposed their fallacies at the time. theheart'
What there is of accuracy about them could have been and
has been since far better proved by the clinical and patho-

logical observation of incompetent and damaged valves.

N .B.—The writer of the article remarks that Sir Thomas
Watson when explaining the healthy and the mo1bid sounds
of the healt 1n his lectures was accustomed to say that having
had the advantage of witnessing Dr. Hopes expeiiments he
could no longerﬂkentertain any doubt as to the truth of the
matter.

But in his evidence before the Royal Commission in 1875,
Sir Thomas Watson said, in reply to questions 31, 82, 83,
that he had been nearly ﬁfty years in the medical profession,
that he had never been a practiser, nor could he say he had
ever seen one of the experiments, and that he did not
remember ever to have seen an experiment on animals at all.

Mr. Tait says that enlargement of this is a matter which The thyroid
has been intimately engaging his attention for many years. giggly (illits
He has followed the records of the vivisectional experiments, funcmons'
and he has no such hOpe as the writer of the article expresses,
“that positive results will be secured by-and-bye.” The last
discussions have, in his opinion, indicated a mass of confusion
from which he could extract no idea save that the experi—
ments on animals are positively ludicrous in the utter absence

of purpose which they show.

I GROUP No. 2.
As regards Hunter’ s experiments, Mr. Tait says that Hunter 5:511:12; of
modiﬁed Anel s ope1 ation merely because he found that the aneurism

artery nea1 to the seat of the disease would not hold the ligature,

 

 




 

 

 

 

Antiseptic
treatment.

Von Graafe’s
operation for
glaucoma.

10

Hunter in 1785, who is stated to have tried his system of
ligature for the treatment of aneurism upon dogs, and to have
then proceeded to operate successfully upon the human
subject. The antiseptic mode of treatment in surgery is
mentioned as a development of this branch of investigation.

The next instance given is that of the treatment of
glaucoma, said to be incurable till 1850, when Von Graafe
practised the operation for the relief of the tension of the

eyeball upon rabbits, and was then able to propose a similar ~

operation to his patients. The paragraph concludes with
this signiﬁcant passage: “ It may possibly be said that
neither Hunter’s operations on dogs, nor those of Von Graafe
on rabbits, were strictly necessary. Without their guidance,
it would still have been possible to operate on human
subjects, and, as we now know, the results would have been
satisfactory. But would either Hunter or Von Graafe have
been justiﬁed in proposing the operation to a patient, for the
ﬁrst time, without saying that it was an absolutely new
experiment; and if this had been said with proper
distinctness, is it likely that subjects for such an experiment
would have been speedily found ? ”

 

NOTE BY DR. F. S. ARNOLD.—The writer here admits that the operation was not in
any way the result of experiments on living animals, but was simply performed on them
as a kind of test before its performance on human beings. The disease is one which
before the introduction of Von Graafe’s operation ended inevitably in the absolute
blindness of the affected eye. That being so, I do not think there would have been any
difﬁculty in ﬁnding patients willing to undergo the operation, nor does my experience
of hospital patients lead me to believe that the performance of an operation on an animal
would have the slightest effect in inducing one of them to submit himself'as the ﬁrst
human subject of that operation.

 

 




11

and the patients bled to death. As the arteries of animals
never suffer from the disease in question, experiments upon
them, in his opinion, could not have helped Hunter in any
way whatever. Hunter tried his best to induce aneurism on
the lower animals, and failed ; and there is no evidence that
he made any claim for such experiments as the basis of his
operations. So great a surgeon must have devised them only

 

on two grounds—one of clinical and pathological observation, to
the effect that the further you get from the seat of the disease
the healthier the artery is; and the other, that the triangle
. t where the artery is reached is the best site for the operation,

 

for purely anatomical reasons. Mr. Tait concludes this reply
by saying “he could not possibly have arrived at these indis—
pensable and fundamental conclusions from any kind of
experiment on any kind of animal,” and gives a quotation
from the Hunterian oration of Sir James Paget (an unpre—
judiced witness, being an ardent advocate of vivisection) to
the eﬁect that Hunter’s improvement in the treatment of
aneurism was not the result of any laborious, physiological
deduction, but that it was mainly derived from facts very
cautiously observed in the wards and deadhouse.

One of the most eminent ophthalmic surgeons in the Von Graafe’s
world, a special authority on glaucoma, and a pupil of Von Qfﬁiéfﬁim
Graafe when he ﬁrst performed the operation, tells Mr. Tait
that he never heard that Von Graafe performed any experiments
on animals. His success was based on the beautiful inductive

reasoning which arose from the use of the ophthalmoscope.

 

Mr. Tait says further that glaucoma does not occur in any
1 animal, and therefore no experiments on them could have
been useful.

 

 

 

 




 

Tests in case
of poisoning.

Nitrate of
amyl.

Hyderabad
experiments
with chloro-
form.

12

The illustration of Group 2 ends with a reference to tests
in cases of poisoning; and the instance of the belladonna
experiment on the eye of a rabbit is given, with the remark
that not even the most sensitive lady need object to its being
tried on her lap—dog. (This little'sneer is no doubt a relief
to the writer of the article from the restraint which he
throughout imposes upon himself.) ‘

N o. 3 GROUP.

This group is said to consist of experiments, either single
or in series, for the purpose of ascertaining the initial and
ultimate action of some drug upon the human system.

The number of such experiments is said to be very large,

and their details quite beyond the comprehension of non-‘

medical persons. Then mention is made of nitrate of amyl as
a remedy in the case of angina pectoris; and it is said that,
as it has to be employed in minute doses, it was absolutely

.needful to try its effect ﬁrst on animals.

The writer says that the objection that poisons act
differently on mankind and on the lower animals is entirely
fallacious, because allowance can easily be made for the
difference. He ﬁnally cites the Hyderabad experiments with
chloroform by Dr. Lauder Brunton as opening up a prospect
of entirely banishing risk from the employment of that
anmsthetic. ‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

13

Mr. Tait considers that chemists are the official custodians Tests in case of
of the safety of the public from poisons, and that they ought pOISomng'
not to rest with their science under such a stigma as is
involved in the employment of such a rough and uncertain
method to detect poisons as the use of experiments on
animals.

GROUP No. 8.

In answer to this Mr. Tait says that he never uses it, Nitrate of
considering it unsafe to do so. It may be as well, however, amyl'
to quote the following summary with which a short paper on
that drug concludes: “ Amyl nitrite was introduced by Dr.
Richardson in 1865. The experiments of Dr. Gamgee some
years later are claimed as the foundation of its use in
medicine. It relieves, but does not cure, certain cases of
angina pectoris, or spasm of the heart. No one can handle a
bottle of nitrite of amyl for two minutes without having its
effects demonstrated upon his own face. It dilates the blood
vessels. This fact could not fail to be known to each
physician to whose notice Dr. Richardson had introduced it
previous to Dr. Gamgee’s experiments. When Dr. Lauder
Brunton was looking out for adilator of the blood vessels to
relieve angina pectoris, here was one to his hand. In the
words of Dr. McCormick, Deputy Inspector of H.M. Hos-
pitals and Fleet, and of Arctic fame: ‘The fact that amyl
nitrite often relieves angina pectoris could have been very
readily arrived at by letting a patient inhale its vapour.
Animal torture was unnecessary.’

(Signed)
STANFORD HARRIS, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.”

With regard to this Mr. Tait says that the conclusion Hyderabad
. . experiments
arrlved at by the experimenters may be true about dogs, but with choloro_

. . . . form.
concerning human. beings 1t 18 absolute nonsense. He adds

 

 




14

 

No. 4 GROUP.

3331;713:011 Of This includes the' inoculation and feeding experiments
which have been performed in connection with bacteriology,
by which it has been established (according to the writer)
that special microbes are the active cause of certain diseases,
and that these microbes can be cultivated in such a way as to
diminish the effect of the disease, and produce by inoculation
a mild form instead of a severe one.

 

ﬁgglglizfions. The triumph gained in this department is stated to be

. the provision of a security against anthrax, which has
“probably” saved the lives of many thousands of animals.
(Curiously not one word is said of Pasteur’s inoculation for

hydrophobia.)

The whole article winds up with the declaration that
illustrations crowd upon the writer if only space were at his

 

command. He again observes that the details of many of the
experiments are too technical for the uninstructed, and con—
cludes with the words of Dr. Lauder Brunton: “Almost all
our exact knowledge of the action of drugs on the various
organs of the body, as well as of the physiological functions
of these organs themselves, has been obtained by experiments

 

on animals.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

15

that few men have had longer continual and daily experience
in the effects of chloroform on human beings than he has had.

GROUP No. 4..

In Mr. ‘Tait’s opinion no systematic effort to exhaust the
avenues of clinical research has yet been made, and that
artiﬁcial imitation of these diseases is most objectionable.
There is not the faintest indication, from any of these experi—
ments, of a cure for a zymotic 3 indeed, the more accurate the
facts become as they are disclosed, the more apparent it is to
outsiders (Who here certainly see most of the game) that the
remOval of zymotics depends on general hygiene, and not on a
system of individual inoculations.

To these Mr. Tait does not allude, but it is enough to state
here that ten years ago it was proposed to introduce it into
England; but our Government forbade its adoption, not from
the clamours of anti-vivisectionists, but on the advice of a
noted vivisector, Dr. Klein, Who denounced its proposed
introduction as “most dangerous, and capable of producing
incalculable mischief.” (Lancet, September .43, 1882.)

Mr. Lawson Tait’s original pamphlet on the “Uselessness of

Vivisection ” concludes thus: “Deeply as I feel the strength
of the objection to the practice of vivisection upon the various
grounds I indicated at the beginning of my paper, I urge
against it a far stronger argument than these: That it has
proved useless and misleading, and that in the interests of true
science its employment should be stopped, so that the energy
and skill of scientiﬁc investigators should be directed into
better and safer channels.”

Cultivation of
microbes.

Anthrax
inoculations.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 








 

 




