CHAPTER IV
LABORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE

by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole

attached his bill, "Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals," to the Farm Bill by unanimous consent of Senate and
House, did the United States achieve legislation comparable
to that already in effect in 14 western EurOpean countries1
for protection of animals used by scientific institutions.
The Farm Bill was signed by President Reagan two days before
Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions effective
December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment.2

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to
reach the point at which the American Physiological Society,
major experimentalists, withdrew its Opposition to
legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the
bill's provisions in the closing months of the struggle for
its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal
experimentation in the United States are described in detail
from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED
In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in

the District of Columbia was introduced in Congress. Its

provisions were roughly similar to the British Cruelty to

 




 
 

OZ

 
 
 

Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection

    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

for experimental animals for more than a centgry with the
approval of the British scientific community. But American
scientists who were asked for their Opinions Opposed and
easily defeated this initial effort.

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory
in the Union passed an anti-cruelty statute.4 Fourteen of
these laws exempted animal experiments. Even the crusading
Henry Bergh, an outspoken anti—vivisectionist, agreed to the
exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti-cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are
known during this period in states without such exemptions.
Not until the latter half of the twentieth century
(Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were
anti-cruelty laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals.
In the first case, the Massachusetts SPCA successfully
prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for
cruelty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs
outside the institution (the Overholt Clinic).

In Maryland Dr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17
counts of cruelty to experimental monkeys at the Institute
for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the judgment was

reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by

the federal Animal Welfare Act.

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD

  

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from




 

5

1945 to 1960 were inspired by the National Society for
Medical Research or one of its affiliates. Founded in
Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. J. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy, and
Dr. George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to
enactment of state laws requiring both humane society
shelters and public pounds to surrender dogs and cats on
request from scientific institutions for use in any type of
experiments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The first forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota
in 1948. Humane societies were unaware that the bill had
even been introduced before it had gone through both Houses
and been signed by the Governor. This law required release
of impounded animals from humane society shelters that
receive funds from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds.
In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even more severe seizure law was
passed, requiring any stray animal to be made available on
request to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters Operated
wholly by charitable funds were also compelled to supply
animals for experiments, regardless of the degree and
duration of pain and suffering inflicted. An attempt was
made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it
failed, and the individual communities were left in control
of local policies with respect to disposition of stray dogs
and cats.

Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota,

Oklahoma, Connecticut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to

enact such far-reaching legislation.

 




1/

Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane
Association, the national federation of humane societies, saw
the grave danger to the movement, whose organizational
structure in the late 1940's was especially susceptible to
demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually
all the well-established humane societies centered their work
around shelters for lost or unwanted dogs and cats. If
forced to surrender animals for painful experiments, the
entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary
for animals where they would be safe from inflicted
suffering. These were dark days for organized animal

protection.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society
for Medical Research in h0pes of finding a solution to the
demand for research dOgs without undermining the morals of
the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an NSMR
group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would
not be publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive
Secretary of the NSMR, immediately sent out an announcement
calculated to inflame anti—vivisection societies and
anti—vivisectionist members of the American Humane
Association. Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the
crisis manufactured by the NSMR, and henceforth, battles
raged in state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the
laboratories on demand and without controls on pain

infliction.

 




5.,

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real
efforts to face the problem and solve it. The influence of
a coterie of professional humanitarians-—the paid employees
of large societies who had a vested interest in the
continuance of their jobs--was not conducive to firm resolve.
They felt that they must avoid offending either anti-
vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might receive
large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups,
whose powerful influence they feared. Thus it was that the
American Humane Association, normally eager for
contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment
of research animals and a solution to the problem of supply
to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new

neWSpaper man who was a reformer and an effective writer. He
attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate
procurement and use of animals. So telling were his
arguments that he was forbidden by AHA management, which was
heavily weighted against any energetic action, to use the
words "National Society for Medical Research" in any article
published in the National Humane Beyigw. Unwilling to submit
to such an arbitrary stifling of truthful reporting, Mr.
Myers resigned, together with two of the other three major
staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and Larry

Andrews, Director of Field Services. All were appointees of

 




é

Robert Sellar, who had been replaced after his death by Mel

5
Morse.

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident
trio. The American Humane Association promptly sued them
to force them to change the society's name, which, it
claimed, was too similar to natigna; Humane Review. The
result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane
Society of the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform
effort. The first attempt to change the passive attitude of
the AHA came at the election of directors at the 1954 annual
meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland Smith
of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss
J. M. Perry, an attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond
Naramore, a high school teacher who became the director of
the Rochester and Monroe County Humane Society, were promptly
elected by a delighted membership that had never before
exercised its prerOgatives. The controlling group of AHA
directors was dismayed. The following year they fought back,
first naming a meeting point in the Northwest where the
expense of travel would discourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated in the East, from attending. Forced
by injunction to name a more central location for the
meeting, they resorted to bringing in large numbers of
persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The "in" group won and, not long

after, Miss Perry died, and Professor Smith resigned.

 




7

Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane education for
schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring
purpose and life into the AHA establishment at that time,
several new organizations were formed. The Animal Welfare
Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of the
welfare of all animals, with Special emphasis on the research
animals so long neglected by humane organizations. Its
charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell, the distinguished New
York lawyer who served as Attorney General under President
Eisenhower.

The Humane Society of the United States was founded in
1954; and in 1959 one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the
parent body to found the National Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare, later renamed the International Society for Animal
Rights.

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf
Act was passed. The Act amended an existing New York
laboratory animal care statute into a procurement law,
requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientific institutions.
The New York State Humane Association actively fought
_enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest member
organization, the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that
time by research interests, refused to take a position. Its

president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank Foundation.

 




6
The New York State Society for Medical Research, prOponents

of the law, dismissed all the other organizations as
anti-vivisection groups, thus ensuring passage of the law.

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane
Society of Rochester and Monroe County immediately gave up
their pound contracts so that it would not be necessary for
them to release animals from their shelters to laboratories.
Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA,
continued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send
d0gs and cats to scientific institutions. Between 1966 and
1974 when the Hatch-Metcalf Act was repealed, the Syracuse
SPCA delivered 14,000 dogs and cats to Bristol—Myers, a
company with annual sales of more than a billion dollars.

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at
the time that the ASPCA even went so far as to Oppose an
amendment offered just before the Hatch-Metcalf Act was
passed which would have authorized a representative of the
New York State Humane Association to accompany Health
Department inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal
rooms. The ASPCA was a member of the New York State Humane
Association, but it joined the New York State Society for
Medical Research in fighting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, "would emasculate the bill." The amendment was
defeated, ensuring that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf
Act was a whitewashing Operation. A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI

representatives through Cornell Medical School
explaining how excellent the care for the animals

 




Q

was while passing by a dog whose incision had
Opened allowing his internal organs to fall onto
the floor of the cage.

1960: AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at

St. Vincent's Hospital where gross filth and
massive infestation of ticks, roaches, and other
insects were found.

AWI was called by a secretary in New York
University Dental School about epizootics which
were running through the animal colonies due to
the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so long that
there was scarcely a clear Spot to set foot in
the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and
were inspected and certified by the Health Department and
also by ASPCA employees who visited at the invitation of the
laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal welfare Act
was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of
sending inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply
them with dogs and cats until 1971.

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently
ending the supply of d0gs and cats from its shelters to
laboratories. In 1977, the New York Assembly voted 126—14 to
repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut and Ohio also
repealed similar acts.

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure.
The claims issued for its enactment, to the effect that dog
dealing and stealing would cease if animals were available to
laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in

motion the enactment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A

dog was bought by a New York hospital from a Pennsylvania dog

 




dealer, although the hospital was entitled to free dogs from
the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of
the law, preferring to buy from dealers.

Thirteen states pgghgp;g the release of impounded
animals to research facilities: Connecticut, Delaware,

Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New

Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina,

Vermont, and West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the
only state which Specifically prohibits the sale of pound
animals brought in from other states as well: "No person,
institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent shall
transport . . . any animal obtained from any municipal or
public pound, public agency, or dog officer . . . into the
commonwealth for purposes of research, experimentation,
testing, instruction or demonstration" (Ch. 140, Sec. 174D,
1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is
ggggiggg in the District of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota,
Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters méy release animals for
research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed
in Arizona, California, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio,
Tennessee, and Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota's law requiring
release of animals from pounds to research facilities have

been unsuccessful. However, a law was enacted in 1987 which

 




provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minnesota
Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, requires dealers to post signs informing the
public that they sell animals to laboratories, and Opens
dealers' premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be
imposed on any individual selling a d0g or cat to a research
facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent
pet theft. Research animal dealers who sell stolen dOgs or
cats to scientific institutions or who pose as adOpters of
animals responding to ”free to good home" classified ads may
now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail.
Research facilities are required to maintain a file on each
d0g and cat, including certification of the animal's origin,
a photograph, and a physical description of the animal,
available for public inspection.

REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDI CAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort
was devoted to unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation
based on the principles of the British Act of 1876. But

public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was

growing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided

to contract for a study by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert
W. Cox on "The Care and Management of Laboratory Animals Used

in the Programs of the Department of Health, Education and

 




/,?/

Welfare" (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both
the Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal
Protective Legislation presented documentation on visits to
laboratories. AWI'S "Critical Review of Conditions in
Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices" documented
the following:

1. Cages too small for animals to stand or
lie in normal position.

2. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs
after surgery.

3. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund
animals.

4. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.

5. Failure to provide a comfortable resting
place for animal 5 .

6. Repeated use of the same animal for painful
procedures.

7. Failure to provide water.

8. Failure to identify animals.

9. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.
10. Filth.

A 210—page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the
extensive evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory
animals and the obvious need for regulatory legislation
revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hundreds of
c0pies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,

demanded and got a c0py.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States

Congress to regulate animal experimentation was Sponsored by

Senators John Sherman C00per, Mike Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett,

 




/3

Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, wayne Morse,
William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat
McNamara, Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill
was written by Abe Fortas and introduced at the request of
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As soon as
this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection
Society and National Society for Medical Research, normally
at each other's throats, found themselves in agreement:
there must be no regulation of animal experimentation. When
hearings were held two years later in the House of
Representatives, Major Charles Hume, founder of the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare of Great Britain,
emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were, these
two groups actually corresponded with a View to helping each
other defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory
legislation, and in that Committee they had. But they
reckoned without the disappearance of a Dalmatian dog named
Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Committee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the
direction of Fred Myers, insisted that the British Act was
not sufficiently strong and gave its support to the Moulder
bill. The American Humane Association remained silent and,
when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When
Congressman Kenneth Roberts held two days of hearings on the
Griffiths and Moulder bills, the AHA sent no one to testify.7

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups

 




/%

Opposed the bills; the National Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare said it would support the Moulder bill if it were
amended to eliminate all pain infliction. Significant
statements were made by scientists and medical men who
supported the Griffiths bill (identical to the Clark-
Neuberger bill in the Senate) based on the principles of the
British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked
under the Act and could testify from firsthand experience as
to its workability and effectiveness in preventing animal
suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently,
however, and editorialized about what it termed "humaniacs."
An objective and authoritative voice was heard from England
when the Report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments
on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of
State for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney
Littlewood, held hearings over a two-year period to review
the working of the British Act, giving every individual and
group who desired to be heard an Opportunity. The resulting
"Littlewood Report," a remarkable testimony to fairness and
good judgment, surveying every aspect of animal
experimentation, of the treatment of the animals, and of
procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public,
and of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare, whose scientific approach is well known, and

anti—vivisection organizations seeking abolition of all

 




/5'

experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255-page Report is the first of the General Findings:
”Animal experiment is a complex and highly specialised
subject. It is also a moral and social problem of the first
magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the
expert."

The ”Littlewood Report" was referred to repeatedly by
two distinguished medical men who flew to the United States
to testify at hearings held September 30, 1965, before the
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee:

Dr. Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College
of Surgeons of England and Consulting Surgeon to the
Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer Hospital, and Sir

Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir

Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Office
and is enforced by specially appointed inspectors
possessing a medical or veterinary qualification.
Their main purpose is regulatory and educational
rather than disciplinary. In their visits to the
laboratories they satisfy themselves about the
suitability of the conditions under which the
animals are kept and of the general well—being
of the animals themselves; they may assure
themselves that the license holder is fully
aware of what he is permitted and not permitted
to do; and they make useful suggestions for
overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles-—licensing,
inspection, and the pain rule-~said:
The third British Principle is the Pain Rule.
This sets the limit to the amount of suffering which

may be inflicted. We do not commit the atrocities
which are reported from time to time in some other

 




/é

countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty
committed by some investigators of stress and shock.
We have proved that the desired results can be
obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals
indiscriminately would not improve the value of
research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham
and Dr. Abel testified were never published.9 Scheduled as
two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled the morning of
the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rogers,
now a consultant for the National Association for Biomedical
Research (NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently

considered it dangerous to expose the public to facts about

successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for

reform of the big Pennsylvania d0g dealers, called the Animal
Welfare Institute for help to try to get Pepper back to her
owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospital
with a heart attack, saw Pepper's photograph together with
seventeen other dogs and two goats that had been temporarily
unloaded from a Pennsylvania dog dealer's overcrowded truck.
Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages set off in
pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big
New York State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted
family arrived, Nersesian refused them entry.

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well—established

fighter for animal protection and chief sponsor of pending

 




/7

legislation to require humane treatment of experimental
animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative
Assistant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning
Congressman Resnick's office in the District where
Nersesian's dog farm was located. Even Congressional
intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by
Nersesian's high-handed refusal to admit the family to find
their missing pet, decided he would introduce a bill to
prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an
admission from the Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken
his load not to Nersesian, as he first had said, but directly
to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay Brisk
telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of the dog
tags at the other end of the phone, then the news: the dog
had died on the Operating table the day before and already
had been incinerated. The dog dealer insisted the dog was
not Pepper--the evidence was incinerated-—but the call for
female Dalmatians, put out by the hospital to dealers rather
than to breeders, had led to introduction of the Resnick bill
on July ninth. The Resnick bill, written by attorneys of the
United States Department of Agriculture, required that
dealers in dogs and cats and the laboratories that purchased
them be licensed, inspected, and adhere to humane standards
set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A companion bill was
introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson,

Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark,

 




/6’

who came to the Senate floor at the same moment to introduce
identical bills. In'a brief colloquy they agreed to
co—sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined
them.

On September fifth, Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas,
Chairman of the Livestock Subcommittee of the House
Agriculture Committee, held hearings on the Resnick bill. He
was the first American legislator to hold hearings on
laboratory animal legislation with a view to enacting it. He
had won passage of the Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was
destined to win again for laboratory animals. Not easily,
however. The bill was immediately attacked as
anti—vivisectionist by the National Society for Medical
Research, which described it as a "pincers movement" to cut
off the supply of animals for laboratories.
Anti-vivisectionist groups, however, took but little interest
in the matter. The demand for action came from the general
public, outraged by the article in Life magazine showing Stan
Wayman's photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the
dealers' hands.

The Life article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he
looked over a collection of photographs supplied by the
Animal Welfare Institute, many of them taken by photographers
accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce.
Under the supervision of Life's Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the
article was completed and published February 4, 1966. More

mail was received by Life on this article than on any other

 




/9

in the history of the magazine, and Congress received more
mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the Opponents began tO
modify their Opposition. When Congressman Poage introduced
the Committee bill, extending coverage to all vertebrate
animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania introduced an
identical bill in the Senate, the Opponents concentrated on
exempting scientific institutions from the humane standards
and on cutting back the number of Species covered. The Poage
bill came unscathed through the Subcommittee, but the full
House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers' premises only. Laboratory interests thus won a
temporary victory and, no doubt, believed they could continue
to keep the objective veterinary inspectors of the U. S.
Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version of the Poage
bill, a Senate Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a
comparable weakening of the bills introduced by Senators
Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, laboratory
interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but
they had reckoned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as
he read the draft, prepared an amendment restoring coverage
of animals inside scientific institutions. NeWSpapers
throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in
emphatic terms. So hotly debated was the issue that a second
set of hearings was scheduled in the Senate Commerce

Committee on May 25, 1966.

 




p70

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its
parent Department of Health, Education and Welfare had
Opposed all moves toward effective legislation for humane
treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became
clear that such Opposition could no longer stem the demand
for action, NIH asked Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of
the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, to introduce a
bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system
for laboratories. Meanwhile, its representatives urged
exemption of laboratories from the straightforward, humane

Senate Commerce Committee bill.

 




02/ /Zﬂ8,£ II

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be
brought to support this maneuver. The Washington Evening

Star stated editorially:

THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of
a law to require humane treatment of animals used in
laboratory research and to halt thefts of pets by'
dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh
hour, however, a snag has been encountered in the
Senate Commerce Committee. Medical researchers,
hostile to government supervision, (but not
government grants, it should be added), are
attempting a switch play. A bill introduced by
Senator Hill of Alabama would head off federal
inspection of how laboratories treat animals
awaiting experiments. Instead this authority would
be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all
ready and waiting. Set up last year, it is called
the American Association for Accreditation of
Laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the
establishment; and are staff members of medical
schools and research institutions. And, as the
association's brochure suggests, the 'inspections'
would be rather friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as
those routinely carried out now in the banking
industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by 'mutual convenience.‘ It would not
come distressingly often--no more than once every
five years. The inspectors, according to the
brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000
for their trouble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their
animals humanely, they should have nothing to fear
from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of Washington
that such inspections be made by the Department of
Agriculture after standards have been published. His
bill has nothing to do with the anti-vivisectionists;
the government would not interfere with any laboratory
tests or Operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into
thinking the Hill preposal represents any kind of
adequate substitute for impartial inspection of such
institutions.

 




0202

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to
report a bill out of his Committee. The National Society for
Medical Research and National Institutes of Health,

therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories

exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the

United States Department of Agriculture and inspection by its
representatives. Glowing references to the American
Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care
(AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President
of the NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the
final Senate Commerce Committee hearings, representatives of
the NIH and NSMR strongly supported the NIH bill and Opposed
the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to medical
witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who
had been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane
treatment of laboratory animals, came to Washington to
testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr. Nicholas Gimbel,
Chief of Surgery at MetrOpolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and
Dr. Bennett Derby, Head of NeurolOgy at Veterans
Administration Hospital in Manhattan and Assistant Professor
of Neuroloqy at New York University Medical School. Dr.
Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide
for humane care and housing of animals in research
institutions. They emphasized that the Department of
Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such

requirements. Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time

 




(£23

to getting better treatment for experimental dogs in
different institutions, brought the question down to earth by
stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the
Department of Agriculture administer the law. He said the
"welfare of animals should be the responsibility of a body
which is primarily interested in them . . . the Department of
Agriculture," and he added: ”If the scientists and
organizations represented in AAALAC had done their job
prOperly, we would not be holding hearings here today. The
time has come to bring in independent auditors." The NIH
bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership
of Senator Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous
endorsement by the Senate. Eighty-five Senators came to the

floor to vote for it, and each of the fifteen who were absent

they would have voted for it had they been present. The
bill's sanctions were strengthened at the insistence of
the House Conferees. They agreed to accept the Senate
amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals
inside laboratories and increasing the number of species of
animals covered, on condition that the stronger House
enforcement clauses be adepted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of
Agriculture February 24; and the law went into effect for

animal dealers May 25 and for scientific institutions August

24, 1967.

 




 

02%

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal
law to prevent abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and
1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal welfare Act (fiercely
contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment
to scientific institutions) set humane standards for dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and guinea pigs in animal
dealers' premises and in laboratories prior to experimental
use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the
entire stay of animals in laboratories where they must be
maintained according to minimum standards set by the
Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
includes "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and
tranquilizing drugs." All warm-blooded animals designated by
the Secretary are covered, but neither birds, farm animals
used in research, nor those Species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each
year--mice and rats--have yet been designated. Because
inadequate apprOpriations have had to be stretched to cover
inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors,
and carriers under the Act as amended, no Secretary has been
willing to include more animals for inspectors to check;
however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared a
brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain—relieving drugs and

reporting on their use or lack thereof was added in 1970.

 




£5

Reports by registered scientific institutions on use of
animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture
and are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of
Information Act. Many institutions have failed to honor this
section of the Act, necessitating additional legislative and
enforcement action.

Under the 1976 amendments sponsored by Agriculture
Committee Chairman Thomas Foley, research institutions were
moved to the same category as exhibitors and dealers with
respect to the imposition of fines for violations.
Previously, research facilities were subject to a cease and
desist order which they would have to violate before a fine
could be imposed. The 1976 amendments also include a
requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which
private institutions must meet under the eyes of veterinary
inspectors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture's Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative Margaret
Heckler10 prOposed and was successful in obtaining this
essential advance on the floor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid,

broad—based structure whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the

Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker, cover transportation of

animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by common
carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti—dog fighting
and cock-fighting provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments

 




Qé

focused on the responsibility of the institutional
veterinarian to prevent suffering through humane experimental
design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil.

The 1985 amendments, which should have gone into effect
December 23, 1986, remain to be tested in practice because of
the long delay, caused by anti—animal lobbyists, in the

promulgation of final regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of
animals to institutions at ever increasing prices, is
intensely Opposed to regulatory legislation that affects them
and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National
Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation
for Biomedical Research (FBR) to rival the National Society
for Medical Research, which they entirely absorbed and
supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates Opposition
to all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare.
Formation of the organizations was, according to executive
Frankie Trull, conceived in her living room. Henry Foster,
the veterinarian who built a two-room rat breeding business
into the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal
production corporation, Charles River Breeding Laboratories,
and his son, an attorney, wrote the necessary legal papers.
Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up
support among commercial and academic laboratories.

Meanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big Optical

 




£7

company, Bausch and Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about $38
million personally, according to press reports. The pun—
filled, full-page ads offering monkeys, guinea pigs, rabbits,
and other animals for sale have become more sober and
strait-laced, but the intensive campaign to market the
maximum numbers of animals for experimentation continues
under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in
France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big
business, and corporations change hands in transactions based
wholly on financial considerations. One of the largest dog
breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its
premises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts
toxicity tests on contract for other institutions as well as

breeding dogs and other laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES TO LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew
by the million, a countervailing philOSOphy was increasingly
advocated by animal protective organizations. The first
serious contribution to the field was The Bringiples of

S. Russell

R. L. Burch, produced under the aegis of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with some modest
assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the
Three R's——Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement--which are
now generally recognized as fundamental elements necessary to

prevent large—scale unnecessary suffering by laboratory

 




  

 

£00

 
    

animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifically
feasible, others advocated "Alternatives Nowl', claiming that
substitutes for animals already existed for all experiments
and tests. Bills introduced in Congress reflected different
views of the subject, but they made up, if not a critical
mass, solid evidence of public concern and hOpe.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation
of animal experiments were pending in the Subcommittee on
Science, Research and Technology of the House Committee on
Science and Technology. On October 13 and 14, 1981,
Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held
hearings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention
because Maryland police had removed 17 monkeys just days
earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory. There they had
been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from the
National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate
were charged with 17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply
veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had worked at the
Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had
alerted police to conditions there, showed horrifying
pictures of the monkeys and their quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features
from each of the seven pending prOposals was undertaken by
the Subcommittee staff. Advice was sought from the many
organizations which had testified pro- or con- the different
bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren prOposed the

new bill, which was approved by his Subcommittee and its

  




099

parent Committee. The bill was referred to the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Health and
the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman Henry
Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the
principles develOped in the October hearings. Senator John
Melcher of Montana, the Congress' only veterinarian, joined
him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the
importance of the legislation. However, no action was taken

before the 97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS
When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983, he had
it redrafted as an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus
broadening its coverage to include all Registered
Research Facilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.
This wise decision encouraged consideration by
scientific groups who began a slow move from point-blank

Opposition to demands for a variety of modifications in the

language of the bill. At hearings of the full Senate

Agriculture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20,
nearly every witness had scientific qualifications. Humane
groups were represented by Bennett Derby, M.D., Ph.D., who
had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act.

Senator Dole's masterful handling of the hearings paved

the way for action, but it was not to come in the 98th

 




 
 

50

  
      
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 

Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, questioning the need
for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective
Legislation prepared two thick binders of documentation
outlining the urgent need for all the bill's provisions for
minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the authority
of Agriculture's veterinary inspectors.

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well
known for his successful Sponsorship of the 1978 humane
slaughter amendments (see chapter III), introduced a bill
based on the Dole bill, H. R. 5725. On September 19, 1984,

he chaired hearings in his Subcommittee on Departmental

 

Operations, Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a
standing-room—only crowd with long lines waiting outside the
hearing room. Interest in the legislation had been
heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of
experimental baboons at the University of Pennsylvania
Medical School. Sixty hours of self—incriminating videotapes
taken by a research team as a record of their experiments
showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being
violated. Injured baboons were painfully dangled and
ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the
Animal Liberation Front and given to People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals. They made a 25-minute version to show
the public. It was run repeatedly in a nearby church on the

day of the hearings.

        

Henry Mitchell's column in Ihg washington 295; September




21, 1984 notes: "Savagery is very much part of the nature of
all humans I have ever known, and that is one reason
civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it." Citing the evidence and characterizing it as
sickening, he wrote: "Legislation is needed, and those who
do not wish to concern themselves with what amounts to
flamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not
shied from the evidence and who have at last come up with
reasonable and moderate legislation.“ Describing his
feelings in watching five minutes of the tapes in St. Mark's
Church, he concluded: "I left thinking it probably an
esthetic error to vomit in a church."

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories
throughout the entire country was derived from official
reports of USDA veterinary inspectors obtained under the
Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a 6'xlO' chart.
A heartening message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer,
President of Tufts University, was delivered by Dr. Frank
Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but most
testimony from scientific groups was severely critical.

Congressman Brown asked his staff to analyze all the

criticisms. His bill did not emerge from the Subcommittee.

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee,

Congressman Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions

of his bill included in the NIH reauthorization bill which

 




 
   
 
 

302/

was passed by the Congress but vetoed by President Reagan.

  
 

In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modification and

    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

entitled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was
passed again and Congress overrode the President's second
veto. The animal welfare provisions are less stringent than
the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH
grantees; nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together
well and reinforce one another in a practical manner.
Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate,
reintroduced his bill at the same time as Congressman Brown.
This time the bills were identical, the heroic work of
staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a final draft still containing every major
animal protective provision, phrased in the manner least

objectionable to the legion of Opponents and unremitting

 

critics.

Th_ New 1923 Times editorialized on July 31, 1985 in
support of the Dole—Brown pr0posals, and in the following
months, neWSpapers in every part of the country followed
suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the
Majority Leader brought his bill, Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals, to the Senate floor, October 25.

Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee

    
 

on Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The

bill then went into an intense discussion by the staffs of

   

Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and representatives of the

  




5.5

National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), the Feed
Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation. A bill calling for 16 different
changes in Senator Dole's bill had been prepared for Senator
Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what
progress was being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took
part in the arguments, explaining the reason for his
language, "a physical environment adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of primates." He had seen
laboratory chimpanzee cages which, even though unoccupied at
the time, he characterized as "extremely efficient, extremely
expensive, and extremely cruel."

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of
no less than 32 changes, even including a $500 reduction in
the fine, was prOposed. A night meeting in the Dole office
was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that
although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the
legislation, the pharmaceutical industry was not willing to
stop fighting. Indeed, it fought to the end. Disagreement
about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate
unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the
Dole-Brown amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley
of Washington proved himself a powerful friend of animals

during the House-Senate Conference. Congressman Foley, as

 




  

5‘7’

 
  

noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to the

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

Animal welfare Act. -House Agriculture Committee Chairman
Kika de la Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the
legislation in Conference. Lobbying to kill the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals continued to the very last
moment.

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of
legislation, was in Conference for days. The Conferees met
in a small room in the Russell Senate Office Building, and
dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that
stood to gain or lose from some part of the complex bill
lined the hallway outside the room, waiting for news on
decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and out. At

4:00 p.m. on December 12, it appeared that action on the

 

laboratory animal section was imminent. Weakening amendments
were being urged by the National Association for Biomedical
Research, and Senator Dole had not yet returned from out of
town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down
the hall reinvigorated the weary Society for Animal

Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting for the outcome.

      

"You're next," he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass

       
    

of farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we

   

     
 

heard the good news from Congressman Foley. The Improved

Standards for Laboratory Animals Act had come through the

  
 

Conference unscathed!

  
 

The Conference report was approved by the House on

  




:35

December 16 and two days later by the Senate. The Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments establish an
information service in the National Agricultural Library in
c00peration with the National Library of Medicine to provide
data on alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent
unintended duplication of experiments and tests, and provide
information to institutions for instruction of scientists and
other personnel in humane practices as required by the new
law. Each Registered Research Facility must appoint an
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, including a
veterinarian and a person not affiliated with the
institution, to represent the general community interests in
the prOper care and treatment of animals. The committee must
inspect the animal laboratories twice a year and report
deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not
corrected promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must
be notified for enforcement action, and any funding agency
involved informed for a decision on whether the grant should
be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and
to consult with a veterinarian before beginning any
experiment which could cause pain. They must adhere to
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and
post—surgical care, use of pain-relieving drugs or
euthanasia, against use of paralytics without anesthesia, and
unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one major

Operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when

 




  

54;

 
 
 

specified by a research protocol and an explanation given for

   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   

any deviation. Fines for violations were raised from $1,000
to $2,500, and for violating a cease and desist order, from
$500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation, as may
each day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.
Interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown
worldwide, and two countries made significant improvements in
their national laws in 1986: The United Kingdom and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these laws
appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new
British Act is recognition of gradations of stress or pain
and justification thereof. This begins with the stress
caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the

point of procedures prohibited because of extreme

 

painfulness.

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of
State is required to "weigh the likely adverse effects on the
animals concerned against the benefit likely to accrue."

Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector
considers that an animal is undergoing excessive suffering,
he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of

   

Agriculture Ignaz Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for

   
 

special exceptions, the use of animals for tests on weapons,

   
    
 

tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for

experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners.

  




37

Animal protection organizations may nominate up to a third of
the commissions' members. The law covers all experiments

leading to pain or injury of an animal.

APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has
had to be fought on many fronts. When passed in 1966, an
appropriation of $300,000 was barely achieved. Slowly,
annual apprOpriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at the same level despite attempts by the Office of
Management and Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986,
the Administration recommended that no money whatever be
allocated to administer the law and inspect the 1,219
Registered Research Facilities, the 3,414 licensed dealers'
premises, the 1,386 exhibitors' premises, or the 374
intermediate handlers Operating during those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in
1986, following passage of the Dole-Brown amendments,
Congress voted an increase to $5,878,000, specifying that
$750,000 be used for the information service designated by
the new legislation at the National Agricultural Library in
cooperation with the National Library of Medicine. The
Senate ApprOpriations Committee report stated:

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act

the Committee concurs with the House in providing

$5,878,000 over the budget request. This is also

$1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level.

Included in this apprOpriation is $750,000 for

creation of an information service at the National

Agricultural Library which will include information

on available alternatives to the use of live animals
in research. The remainder of the increase is for

 




  

C50”

 
     
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  

the general expansion of the program.

On the House floor, Congressman Bob Traxler of Michigan
said: "We restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act
once again, rejecting the notion that enforcement of the act
should be turned over to other authorities. That pr0posa1 is
simply not sensible in today's interstate economy."

In 1987, the Office of Management and Budget again
recommended zero funding for the Animal Welfare Act; however,
for the first time, the Department of Agriculture protested,
and the budget figure emerged as $4.947 million, a figure
from which the $750,000 appropriation for the information
service at the National Agricultural Library had been
subtracted and which could not cover the requirement for
continued inspection of research facilities until all

deficiencies were corrected. Congress apprOpriated $6.125

 

million for Fiscal Year 1987. In 1988 and 1989, the budget
figure again was $4.947 million, but $6.197 million was
apprOpriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 1990 is
$7.567 million. Animal protective organizations and

scientific groups are requesting $10 million for enforcement

     

of the law. Citizen demand for sufficient funds to enforce

   

the law continues to be necessary.

 




.37

REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service took place. It created a new
division, Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC).
Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been removed from
Veterinary Services and placed with REAC. REAC inspectors
are assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act,
but their numbers are inadequate to make the frequent
inspections necessary to enforce the law. In some cases, it
is expected that Veterinary Services personnel will have to
be called on to help make inspections.

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities,
animal dealers, animal auctions, and other entities covered
by the Animal Welfare Act, including circuses, zoos,
airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed
to the nearest REAC office or to the central office at
Hyattsville. For names and phone numbers, see the Appendix.
Citizen complaints are important in protecting animals
because of REAC's staff limitations. It is the policy of
REAC to investigate all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments by Congress,
Opponents transferred their efforts to the agencies and
succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be
promulgated before the legislation can be enforced. PrOposed
regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were first issued by the

Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The National

 




é/a

Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands
of letters of protest against these well-prepared
regulations. The result was that, rather than being made
final, they were withdrawn, and two years passed before
rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reprOposed and a
prOposal for Part 3 regulations finally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its
constituents followed. However, a lawsuit filed by the
Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget was
viewed favorably by Judge Richey, who heard the case in the
U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up with the
Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations
for Parts 1 and 2 were published in the Eederal Register.-~

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the
issuance of inflated figures on compliance costs. As we go
to press, an extended delay is expected with respect to the
requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an

environment adequate to promote the psychological well-being

of primates.

LABORATORY ANIMAL LAWS: IMPORTANT DATES
ENGLAND

1870: Royal Society started establishment of rules for
humane experimentation.

1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act
consolidated and affirmed it.

 




%/

Founding of Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare.

'Littlewood Report" completed after a two-year study
of the British Act of 1876 by a Parliamentary
Committee; approved the Act and made some suggestions
for strengthening and improving its implementation.

Following years of work by a coalition of the British
Veterinary Association, the Committee for Reform of
Animal Experimentation, and the Fund for the
Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the
Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law,
replacing the 1876 Act.

UNITED STATES

Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on
British Act of 1876.

Founding of National Society for Medical Research.
Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law.

First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota.
Animal seizure law passed in Wisconsin.

Meeting between National Society for Medical Research
and American Humane Association.

Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of
Physi010gy, University of Michigan Medical School,
made an unscheduled presentation on humanity versus
inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual
meeting of the American Physiological Society.

Three reform directors elected by membership of
American Humane Association.

American Humane Association Board ensured no more
outside interference.

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals prosecuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for
cruelty in transporting an experimental dog.

Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced
by Senator Cooper and twelve co-Sponsors in 86th
Congress.

Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and

 




  

722/

 
 
  

Neuberger and Congresswoman Griffiths in 87th
Congress.

     
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   

More restrictive bill introduced by Congressman
Moulder at request of the Humane Society of the United
States.

1962: Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee.

1963: Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British
Act with Senators Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young
co-sponsoring in 88th Congress.

Congressman Cleveland Sponsored identical bill in the
House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the
request of the American Humane Association which was
so sharply criticized for weakness by Dr. Eric Hansen,
President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did not
ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill similar
to Moulder bill at the request of the Humane Society
of the United States.

Congressman Edward Roybal introduced a bill to provide
funds to laboratories at the request of the National
Society for Medical Research.

1965: Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British
Act with Senators Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L.
Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-sponsoring in 89th

Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills
introduced by Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and
Senator McIntyre, and a similar but not identical bill

by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society‘
for Medical Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license
dealers and laboratories. Senator Magnuson and
Senator Clark simultaneously went to the Senate floor

to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator

Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

    
  

 
    

September 2, 1965: Congressman Poage held hearings on
Resnick bill and twenty other similar bills, including
one introduced on the day of the hearings by

Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for

    
   




’73

Medical Research, which omitted all reference to
laboratories, and one introduced before the hearings
by Congressman Henry Helstoski for the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut
laboratories out of the bill but required dog dealers
to treat dOgs as "a responsible and conscientious
owner" would care for his "household pet."

September 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on
Rogers bill, Cleveland bill, and Roybal bill.
Canceled second day of hearings after Dr. Shannon,
Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified.
These hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed
Grains Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee
on Poage, Resnick, Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and thirty
other bills similar to one of these.

March 8, 1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical
to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society
for Medical Research bill.

March 27, 28, 1966: Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

April 14, 1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State
Society for Medical Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened
version of Poage bill.

May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced
by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill
introduced by Congressman John Fogarty.

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill
introduced by Congressman Harley O. Staggers.

Senate Commerce Committee hearings on the Monroney
Amendment to restore coverage of laboratories.

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce Committee
including modified Monroney Amendment.

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining
strongest provisions of both Senate and House passed
bills.

 




  
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 

7‘4

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

September 23, 1969: ‘Congressman William G. Whitehurst
introduced amendments to include all warm—blooded
animals throughout their stay in the laboratory and to
cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition.

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee to
amend the Act of 1966. Subcommittee Chairman Foley's
bill to broaden and strengthen the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act, including the use of pain-relieving
drugs, approved.

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the
Special Studies Subcommittee, House Committee on
Government Operations, to investigate the hazards of
air-shipping animals, chaired by Representative
Floyd V. Hicks.

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2,
1974: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduced by
Representative Foley to regulate the transportation of
animals in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain
animal fighting ventures.

 

September 9, 10, 1975: House hearings before Livestock and
Grains Subcommittee on amendments introduced by
Congressman Foley to regulate the transportation of
animals in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain
animal fighting ventures.

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before Subcommittee on
Environment of the Committee on Commerce on amendments
introduced by Senator Lowell Weicker and Senator
Robert Dole to regulate animal transport.

    
    

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.

       
 

February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.

       
    

April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

   

   

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act
offered by Congressman Richard Ottinger to require
Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency to

consider non-animal-using methods where feasible.

 
     
   




47’5”

Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage
on a bill to establish a commission with subpoena
powers to study animal problems, including animal
experimentation (introduced by Congressman Edward
Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR Opposed bill.

Congress adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee
on Science, Research and Technology, Chaired by
Congressman Doug Walgren, on seven laboratory animal
bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill prOposed by Congressman
Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee
approval, the Walgren bill was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce where Congressman
Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcommittee on
Health and the Environment. No action was taken.

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate
Agriculture hearings on his bill, the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired
hearings on his version of the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Act in his Subcommittee on
Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act to the

Senate floor as an amendment to the Farm Bill. The
final vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John
Melcher was unanimously approved.

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act,
containing a section on animal welfare and a section
on development of alternatives to animals, was passed
over President Reagan's veto.

December 12, 1985: The Senate—House Conference on the Farm
Bill approved the Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act.

December 16 and 18, 1985: The House, then the Senate,
approved the Conference Report on the Farm Bill.

December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

 




 
 

 

‘%*Zb

 
    

March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare
Pr0posed Rules were published in the Federal Register.

December 22, 1988: The Animal Legal Defense Fund filed suit
against the U. S. Department of Agriculture, National
Institutes of Health, and Office of Management and
Budget protesting delay in promulgating final
regulations.

April 12, 1989: Judge Richey dismissed the suit without
prejudice and provided that, in case of further delay,
it be brought before him again.

March 15, 1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal welfare
Proposed Rules were published in the Federal Register.

August 31, 1989: Final regulations on Parts 1 and 2
published in the Federal Register.

OTHER COUNTRIES
1968: French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection
Act, Federal Republic of Germany.

1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including
regulation of animal experiments.

1977: Denmark law on animal experiments enacted.

1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which
includes experiments on animals.

1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal
Welfare Act of 1944.

1980: Frehch Decree updated (see Appendix).

1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of
animals.

1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of
Animals enacted. All experimental procedures require
advance approval by Ministers of Health and
Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time
limit and may be revoked at any time, are only granted
if there is no alternative method for conducting the
experiment.

1986: West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see
Appendix).

  




47

Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into
force, supplemented by the Experiments on Animals
Decree fully implementing the EEC Directive on Animal
Experimentation, including a system for registering
premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and
supply of animals, undertaking inspections, and
compiling statistics.

Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including
important provisions for farm animals (see Appendix).

Spain Decree adepted to comply with the EEC Directive
on protection of experimental animals.

 




#00

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
As Amended
(7 U.S.C. SS 2131-2157)

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the "Animal
Welfare Act“.

(b) The Congress finds that animals and activities which
are regulated under this Act are either in interstate or
foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free flow thereof, and that regulation of animals and
activities as provided in this Act is necessary to prevent
and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively
regulate such commerce, in order--

(1) to insure that animals intended for use in
research facilities or for exhibition purposes or for use as
pets are provided humane care and treatment;

(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals
during transportation in commerce; and

(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft
of their animals by preventing the sale or use of animals
which have been stolen.

The Congress further finds that it is essential to regulate,
as provided in this Act, the transportation, purchase, sale,
housing, care, handling, and treatment of animals by carriers
or by persons or organizations engaged in using them for
research or experimental purposes or for exhibition purposes
or holding them for sale as pets or for any such purpose or
use. The Congress further finds that--

(l) the use of animals is instrumental in certain
research and education for advancing knowledge of cures and
treatment for diseases and injuries which afflict both humans
and animals;

(2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being
and continue to be deve10ped which are faster, less
expensive, and more accurate than traditional animal
experiments for some purposes and further Opportunities exist
for the develOpment of these methods of testing;

(3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary
duplication of experiments on animals can result in more
productive use of Federal funds; and,

(4) measures which help meet the public concern for
laboratory animal care and treatment are important in
assuring that research will continue to prOgress.

(7 U.S.C. 2131) (P.L. 89—544, SS 1, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
350; P.L. 91—579, SS 2, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1560;
renumbered and amended by P.L. 94—279, April 22, 1976, 90
Stat. 417) ‘

Section 2. When used in this Act--

(a) The term "person" includes any individual,
partnership, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
association, trust, estate, or other legal entity;

(b) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of

 




7/?

Agriculture of the United States or his representative who
shall be an employee of the United States Department of
Agriculture; ‘

(c) The term "commerce" means trade, traffic,
transportation, or other commerce--

(1) between a place in a State and any place
outside of such State, or between points within the same
State but through any place outside thereof, or within any
territory, possession, or the District of Columbia;

(2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation,
or other commerce described in paragraph (1);

(d) The term "State" means a State of the United States,
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;

(e) The term "research facility" means any school
(except an elementary or secondary school), institution,
organization, or person that uses or intends to use live
animals in research, tests, or experiments, and that (l)
purchases or transports live animals in commerce, or (2)
receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States
for the purpose of carrying out research, tests, or
experiments: Brgyided, That the Secretary may exempt, by
regulation, any such school, institution, organization, or
person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or cats,
except those schools, institutions, organizations, or
persons, whiCh use substantial numbers (as determined by the
Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is
biomedical research or testing, when in the judgment of the
Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of
the Act;

(f) The term "dealer" means any person who, in commerce,
for compensation or profit, delivers for transportation, or
transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or
negotiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other
animal whether alive or dead for research, teaching,
exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting,
security, or breeding purposes, except that this term does
not include—-

(i) a retail pet store except such store which
sells any animals to a research facility, an exhibitor, or a
dealer; or
(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the
purchase or sale of any wild animal, dog, or cat and who
derives no more than $500 gross income from the sale of other
animals during any calendar year; _

(g) The term "animal" means any live or dead dog, cat,
monkey (nonhuman primate mammal), guinea pig, hamster,
rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secretary
may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for
research, testing, experimentation, or exhibition purposes or
as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for research

 




5—D

purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to
livestock or poultry, used or intended for use as food or
fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for improving
animal nutrition, breeding, management or production
efficiency, or for improving the quality of food or fiber.
With respect to a dog the term means all dogs including those
used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

(h) The term "exhibitor" means any person (public or
private) exhibiting any animals, which were purchased in
commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for
compensation, as determined by the Secretary, and such term
includes carnivals, circuses, and zoos exhibiting such
animals whether Operated for profit or not; but such term
excludes retail pet stores, organizations Sponsoring and all
persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock
shows, rodeos, purebred dog and cat shows, and any other
fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agricultural arts
and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term "intermediate handler" means any person
including a department, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States or Of any State or local government (other than
a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded
from the definition of a dealer, research facility, or
exhibitor, an Operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who
is engaged in any business in which he receives custody of
animals in connection with their transportation in commerce;

(j) The term "carrier" means the Operator of any
airline, railroad, motor carrier, shipping line, or other
enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting
any animals for hire;

(k) The term "Federal agency" means an Executive agency
as such term is defined in section 105 of Title 5, United
States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency from which the research facility receives a
Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation,
or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term "Federal award for the conduct of research,
experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals"
means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan,
contract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds
are provided to support the conduct of such research;

(m) The term "quorum" means a majority of the Committee
members;

(n) The term "Committee" means the Institutional Animal
Committee established under section 13(b); and

(o) The term "Federal research facility" means each
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States
which uses live animals for research or experimentation.

(7 U.S.C. 2132) (P. L. 89-544, SS 2, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
350; P.L. 91-579, SS 3, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1560; P.L.
94-279, SS 3, 4, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417, 418; P.L. 99-
198, Title XVII, SS 1756(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

 




5/

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to
dealers and exhibitors upon application therefor in such form
and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Ergyided,
That no such license shall be issued until the dealer or
exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply
with the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to
section 13 of this Act: Ergyided, however, That any retail
pet store or other person who derives less than a substantial
portion of his income (as determined by the Secretary) from
the breeding and raising of dogs or cats on his own premises
and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research
facility shall not be required to obtain a license as a
dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Secretary is further
authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who
do not qualify as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of
this Act upon such persons complying with the requirements
Specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all
the requirements of this Act and the regulations promulgated
by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2133) (P.L. 89-544, SS 3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 4, Dec. 24, 1979, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer
to sell or transport or offer for transportation, in
commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for

use as a pet any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell,
transport or offer for transportation, in commerce, to or
from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal,
unless and until such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained
a license from the Secretary and such license shall not have

been suspended or revoked.

(7 U.S.C. 2134) (P.L. 89—544, SS 4, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 5, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1561; P.L.

Section 5. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or
otherwise dispose of any dog or cat within a period of 5
business days after the acquisition of such animal or within
such other period as may be Specified by the Secretary:
Brgyidgd, That operators of auction sales subject to section
12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the
provisions of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2135) (P.L. 89-544, SS 5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 6, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate
handler, every carrier, and every exhibitor not licensed
under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary
in accordance with such rules and regulations as he may

prescribe.

 




252,2,

(7 U.S.C. 2136) (P.L. 89-544, 53 6, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 7, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1561; P.L.
94-279, SS 6, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 7. It shall be unlawful for any research
facility to purchase any dog or cat from any person except an
Operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act
or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such
person is exempted from obtaining such license under section
3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2137) (P.L. 89-544, SS 7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 8, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of
the United States which uses animals for research or
experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise
acquire any dOg or cat for such purposes from any person
except an Operator of an auction sale subject to section 12
of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer
or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act
unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license
under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (P.L. 89-544, SS 8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 9, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions
of this Act, the act, omission, or failure of any person
acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or
an exhibitor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor
pursuant to the second sentence of section 3, or an Operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an
intermediate handler or a carrier, within the sc0pe of his
employment or office, shall be deemed the act, omission, or
failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor,
licensee, Operator of an auction sale, intermediate handler,
or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (P.L. 89-544, SS 9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 10, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1562; P.L.
94-279, SS 7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and
retain for such reasonable period of time as the Secretary
may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase,
sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership
of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Research
facilities shall make and retain such records only with
respect to the purchase, sale, transportation,
identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and cats.
At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the
Federal Government which requires records to be maintained by

 




55

intermediate handlers and carriers with respect to the
transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals
on forms prescribed by the agency, shall require there to be
included in such forms, and intermediate handlers and
carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the
Secretary may require for the effective administration of
this Act. Such information shall be retained for such
reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If
regulatory agencies of the Federal Government do not
prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such
reasonable period as the Secretary may prescribe such records
with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such
records shall be made available at all reasonable times for
inspection and c0pying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (P.L. 89-544, SS 10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 11, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1562; P.L.
94-279, SS 8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418).

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation,
transported, purchased, or sold, in commerce, by a dealer or
exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Brgyided,
That only live dogs and cats need to be so marked or
identified by a research facility.

(7 U.S.C. 2141) (P.L. 89-544, SS 11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 12, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1562; P.L.
94-279, SS 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate
humane standards and recordkeeping requirements governing the
purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in commerce, by
dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales
and by the Operators of such auction sales. The Secretary is
also authorized to require the licensing of Operators of
auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce,
under such conditions as he may prescribe, and upon payment
of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under section 23

of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (P.L. 89-544, SS 12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
351; P.L. 91-579, SS 13, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1562; P.L.
94-279, SS 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a)(l) The Secretary shall promulgate
standards to govern the humane handling, care, treatment and
transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities,
and exhibitors.

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall

include minimum requirements--
(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering,

 




5%

sanitation, ventilation, shelter from extremes of weather and
temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and separation by
Species where the Secretary finds necessary for humane
handling, care, or treatment of animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an
attending veterinarian in accordance with the general
standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a physical
environment adequate to promote the psychological well-being
of primates.

(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2),
the standards described in paragraph (1) shall, with respect
to animals in research facilities, include requirements--

(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in
experimental procedures to ensure that animal pain and
distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary care
with the apprOpriate use of anesthetic, analgesic,
tranquilizing drugs, or euthanasia;

(B) that the principal investigator considers
alternatives to any procedure likely to produce pain to or
distress in an experimental animal;

(C) in any practice which could cause pain to
animals-—

(1) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is
consulted in the planning of such procedures;

(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics,
and anesthetics;

(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by
laboratory workers, in accordance with established veterinary
medical and nursing procedures;

(iv) against the use of paralytics without
anesthesia; and

(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers,
anesthesia, analgesia, or euthanasia when scientifically
necessary shall continue for only the necessary period of
time;

(D) that no animal is used in more than one major
Operative experiment from which it is allowed to recover
except in cases of—-

(i) scientific necessity; or

(ii) other special circumstances as determined
by the Secretary; and

(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made
only when Specified by research protocol and that any such
exception shall be detailed and explained in a report
outlined under paragraph (7) and filed with the Institutional
Animal Committee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to
govern the transportation in commerce, and the handling,
care, and treatment in connection therewith, by intermediate
handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals
consigned by a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, Operator
of an auction sale, or other person, or any department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
State or local government, for transportation in commerce.

 




55'

The Secretary shall have authority to promulgate such rules
and regulations as he determines necessary to assure humane
treatment of animals in the course of their transportation in
commerce including requirements such as those with respect to
containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation, temperature, and
handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established
pursuant to this section, the Secretary is authorized and
directed to consult experts, including outside consultants
where indicated.

(6)(A) Nothing in this Act—-

(1) except as provided in paragraph (7) of
this subsection, shall be construed as authorizing the
Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with
regard to the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual
research or experimentation by a research facility as
determined by such facility;

(ii) except as provided in subparagraphs (A)
and (C)(ii) through (v) of paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of
this subsection, shall be construed as authorizing the
Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with
regard to the performance of actual research or
experimentation by a research facility as determined by such
research facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during
inspection, to interrupt the conduct of actual research or
experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act
shall be construed to require a research facility to disclose
publicly or to the Institutional Animal Committee during its
inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial
information which is privileged or confidential.

(7)(A) The Secretary shall require each research
facility to show upon inspection, and to report at least
annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed
and that professionally acceptable standards governing the
care, treatment, and use of animals are being followed by the
research facility during actual research or experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such
research facilities shall provide——

(1) information on procedures likely to
produce pain or distress in any animal and assurances
demonstrating that the principal investigator considered
alternatives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary
that such facility is adhering to the standards described in
this section; and

(iii) an explanation for any deviation from
the standards promulgated under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a
political subdivision of such State) from promulgating
standards in addition to those standards promulgated by the

Secretary under paragraph (1).
(b)(l) The Secretary shall require that each research

 




5%

facility establish at least one Committee. Each Committee
shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of each
such research facility and shall be composed of not fewer
than three members. Such members shall possess sufficient
ability to assess animal care, treatment, and practices in
experimental research as determined by the needs of the
research facility and shall represent society's concerns
regarding the welfare of animal subjects used at such
facility. Of the members of the Committee--
(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of
veterinary medicine;
(B) at least one member--
(i) shall not be affiliated in any way with
such facility other than as a member of the Committee;
(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate
family of a person who is affiliated with such facility; and
(iii) is intended to provide representation
for general community interests in the prOper care and
treatment of animals; and
(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of
more than three members, not more than three members shall be
from the same administrative unit of such facility.

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of
the Committee, including inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually
all animal study areas and animal facilities of such research
facility and review as part of the inspection--

(A) practices involving pain to animals, and

(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this Act to minimize pain and distress
to animals. Exceptions to the requirement of inspection of
such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are
studied in their natural environment and the study area is
prohibitive to easy access.

 




C:57 — [2:74%f3..f7‘”

(4)(A) The Committee shall file an inspection
certification report of each inspection at the research
facility. Such report shall--

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee
members involved in the inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the
standards promulgated, or assurances required, by the
Secretary, including any deficient conditions of animal care
or treatment, any deviation of research practices from
originally approved pr0posals that adversely affect animal
welfare, any notification to the facility regarding such
conditions, and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the
Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent
to the activities of the Committee.

(B) Such report shall remain on file for at least 3
years at the research facility and shall be available for
inspection by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an
Opportunity to correct any deficiencies or deviations
discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Committee shall
notify the administrative representative of the research
facility of any deficiencies or deviations from the
provisions of this Act. If, after notification and an
opportunity for correction, such deficiencies or deviations
remain uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in writing)
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the
funding Federal agency of such deficiencies or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to
Department of Agriculture inspectors for review during
inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors shall
forward any Committee inspection records which include
reports of uncorrected deficiencies or deviations to the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and any funding
Federal agency of the project with respect to which such
uncorrected deficiencies and deviations occurred.

(c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a
Federal Committee shall be established and shall have the
same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection
(b) of this section, except that the Federal Committee shall
report deficiencies or deviations to the head of the Federal
agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal
agency conducting the research shall be responsible for-—

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the
facility; and

(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection
protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the
training of scientists, animal technicians, and other
personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such
facility as required by the Secretary. Such training shall

 




 
 

5'00

 
 
  

 
 

include instruction on--
(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation; '
(2) research or testing methods that minimize or
eliminate the use of animals or limit animal pain or
distress;

 
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

(3) utilization of the information service at the
National Agricultural Library, established under subsection
(e) of this section; and

(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and
treatment should be reported.

(e) The Secretary shall establish an information service
at the National Agricultural Library. Such service shall, in
c00peration with the National Library of Medicine, provide
_information--

(1) pertinent to employee training;

(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of
animal experimentation as determined by the needs of the
research facility; and

(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation,
including methods which could--

(A) reduce or replace animal use; and
(B) minimize pain and distress to animals,
such as anesthetic and analgesic procedures.
1

(f) In any case in which a Federal agency funding a
research project determines that conditions of animal care,
treatment, or practice in a particular project have not been
in compliance with standards promulgated under this Act,
despite notification by the Secretary or such Federal agency
to the research facility and an Opportunity for correction,
such agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the
project. Any research facility losing Federal support as a
result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall
have the right of appeal as provided in sections 701 through
706 of Title 5, United States Code.

2

(f) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of
animals designated by regulation of the Secretary, shall be
delivered by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor,
Operator of an auction sale, or department, agency, or
instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local
government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for
transportation in commerce, or received by any such handler
or carrier for such transportation from any such person,
department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is
accompanied by a certificate issued by a veterinarian
licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying that he
inspected the animal on a Specified date, which shall not be
more than 10 days before such delivery, and, when so
inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious disease
or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or
animals or other animals or endanger public health:
Eggnggg, hgggygg, That the Secretary may by regulation

 

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   




5?

provide exceptions to this certification requirement, under
such conditions as he may prescribe in the regulations, for
animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
research, testing or experimentation requiring animals not
eligible for such certification. Such certificates received
by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be
retained by them, as provided by regulations of the
Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this Act.

(g) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of
animals designated by regulation of the Secretary, shall be
delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or
carrier for transportation in commerce except to registered
research facilities if they are less than such age as the
Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall
designate additional kinds and classes of animals and may
prescribe different ages for particular kinds or classes of
dOgs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this
section, when he determines that such action is necessary or
adequate to assure their humane treatment in connection with
their transportation in commerce.

(b) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the
transportation of any animal in commerce shall participate in
any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such
animal is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the
animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal
not claimed within a period of 48 hours after notice to the
consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where
necessary, both the return transportation charges and an
amount sufficient to reimburse the carrier for all out-of-
pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage
of such animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2143) (P.L. 89-544, SS 13, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 14, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 State. 1562; P.L.
94-279, SS 9, 10, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418; P.L. 99-198,
Title XVII, SS 1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645)

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality
of the United States having laboratory animal facilities
shall comply with the standards and other requirements
promulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under
section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any department, agency,
or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals
shall comply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary
under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (P.L. 89-544, SS 14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 15, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1563; P.L.
94-279, SS 19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; P.L. 99-198,
Title XVII, SS 1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and

 




éo

cooperate with other Federal departments, agencies, or
instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used
for research, experimentation or exhibition, or
administration of statutes regulating the transportation in
commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals
when establishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in
carrying out the purposes of this Act. The Secretary shall
consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior
to issuance of regulations. Before promulgating any standard
governing the air transportation and handling in connection
therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the
Secretary of Transportation who shall have the authority to
disapprove any such standard if he notifies the Secretary,
within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its
provisions are necessary in the interest of flight safety.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, the Secretary of
Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the
extent of their respective lawful authorities, shall take
such action as is apprOpriate to implement any standard
established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject
to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to c00perate with the
officials of the various States or political subdivisions
thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any
State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the

same subject.

(7 U.S.C. 2145) (P.L. 89‘544! SS 15! Aug. 241 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 16, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1563; P.L.
94-279, SS 11, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; P.L. 98-443,

SS 9(i), Oct. 4, 1984, 98 Stat. 1708; P.L. 99-198, Title
XVII, SS 1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such
investigations or inspections as he deems necessary to
determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, intermediate
handler, carrier, research facility, or Operator of an
auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has violated
or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation
or standard issued thereunder, and for such purposes, the
Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access to the
places of business and the facilities, animals, and those
records required to be kept pursuant to section 10 of any
such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or Operator of an auction sale. The
Secretary shall inspect each research facility at least once
each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from
the standards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such
follow—up inspections as may be necessary until all
deficiencies or deviations from such standards are corrected.
The Secretary shall promulgate such rules and regulations as
he deems necessary to permit inspectors to confiscate or
destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering
as a result of a failure to comply with any provision of this

 




é/

Act or any regulation or standard issued thereunder if (1)
such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such animal is held by
an exhibitor, (3) such animal is held by a research facility
and is no longer required by such research facility to carry
out the research, test or experiment for which such animal
has been utilized, (4) such animal is held by an Operator of
an auction sale, or (5) such animal is held by an
intermediate handler or a carrier.

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, Opposes,
impedes, intimidates, or interferes with any person while
engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be fined not more than $5,000, or
imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both. Whoever, in the
commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous weapon
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more
than 10 years, or both. wmoever kills any person while
engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be punished as provided under
sections 1111 and 1114 of Title 18, United States Code.

(c) For the efficient administration and enforcement of
this Act, the provisions (including penalties) of sections 6,
8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled "An Act to create a Federal
Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for
other purposes," (15 U.S.C. 46, and 48—50; 38 Stat. 721-723,
as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of section 6
and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of
Title II of the "Organized Crime Control Act of 1970") (18
U.S.C. 6001 g; seg., 62 Stat. 856), are made applicable to
the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in
administering and enforcing the provisions of this Act and to
any person, firm, or corporation with respect to whom such
authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any
inquiry necessary to his duties under this Act in any part of
the United States, including any territory, or possession
thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico. The powers conferred by said sections 9 and 10
of the Act of September 16, 1914, as amended, on the district
courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes
of this Act by any district court of the United States. The
United States district courts, the District Court of Guam,
the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court
of American Samoa, and the United States courts of the other
territories, are vested with jurisdiction specifically to
enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act,
and shall have jurisdiction in all other kinds of cases
arising under this Act, except as provided in section 19(c)
of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (P.L. 89-544, SS 16, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 17, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1563; P.L.
94-279, SS 12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; P.L. 99-198,
Title XVII, SS 1753, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and

 




é;

regulations requiring dealers, exhibitors, research
facilities, and Operators Of auction sales subject to section
12 of this Act to permit inspection of their animals and
records at reasonable hours upon request by legally
constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost
animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2147) (P.L. 89-544, SS 17, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 18, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564)

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar
provisions incorporated in section 13 by P.L. 91—579, SS 19,
Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 2148)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe
that any person licensed as a dealer, exhibitor, or Operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 Of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any Of
the rules or regulations or standards promulgated by the
Secretary hereunder, he may suspend such person's license
temporarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and
Opportunity for hearing, may suspend for such additional
period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such
violation is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility,
intermediate handler, carrier or Operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any
provision Of this Act, or any rule, regulation, or standard
promulgated by the Secretary thereunder, may be assessed a
civil penalty by the Secretary Of not more than $2,500 for
each such violation, and the Secretary may also make an order
that such person shall cease and desist from continuing such
violation. Each violation and each day during which a
violation continues shall be a separate offense. NO penalty
shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued unless
such person is given notice and Opportunity for a hearing
with respect to the alleged violation, and the order of the
Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease and desist
order shall be final and conclusive unless the affected
person files an appeal from the Secretary's order with the
apprOpriate United States Court Of Appeals. The Secretary
shall give due consideration to the apprOpriateness Of the
penalty with respect to the size of the business of the
person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person's
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such
civil penalty may be compromised by the Secretary. Upon any
failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order under
this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney
General to institute a civil action in a district court of
the United States or other United States court for any
district in which such person is found or resides or
transacts business, to collect the penalty, and such court

 




é3

shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action.
Any person who knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist
order made by the Secretary under this section shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense, and
each day during which such failure continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility,
intermediate handler, carrier, or Operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a final order
of the Secretary issued pursuant to this section may, within
60 days after entry of such an order, seek review of such
order in the appr0priate United States Court of Appeals in
accordance with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through
2350 of Title 28, United States Code, and such court shall
have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in
whole or in part), or to determine the validity of the
Secretary's order.

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or Operator of an auction
sale subject to section 12 of this Act, who knowingly
violates any provision of this Act shall, on conviction
thereof, be subject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year,
or a fine of not more than $2,500, or both. Prosecution of
such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be
brought initially before United States magistrates as
provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States Code, and
sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and,
with the consent of the Attorney General, may be conducted,
at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by attorneys
of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (P.L. 89-544, SS 19, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
352; P.L. 91-579, SS 20, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564; P.L.
94-279, SS 13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; P.L. 99-198,
Title XVII, SS 1755, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 20. Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated
in section 19 by P.L. 94-279, SS 14, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat.
421.

(7 U.S.C. 2150)

Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate
such rules, regulations, and orders as he may deem necessary
in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2151) (P.L. 89-544, 88 21, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
353)

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the
application of any such provision to any person or
circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this
Act and the application of any such provision to persons or
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid
shall not be affected thereby.

 




é‘?‘

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (P.L. 89-544, SS 22, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
353)

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and
cause to be collected reasonable fees for licenses issued.
Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into
consideration the type and nature of the Operations to be
licensed and shall be deposited and covered into the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appr0priated such funds as Congress may from time to time
provide: Brgyided, That there is authorized to be
apprOpriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement
by the Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section
26 of this Act an amount not to exceed $100,000 for the
transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to
exceed $400,000 for each fiscal year thereafter.

(7 U.S.C. 2153) (P.L. 89-544, SS 23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
353; P.L. 94-279, 88 18, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423)

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10
and section 13 shall be prescribed by the Secretary as soon
as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may
be prescribed from time to time as may be necessary or
advisable. Compliance by dealers with the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the
promulgation of such regulations. Compliance by research
facilities with the provisions of this Act and such
regulations shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of
such regulations (August 24, 1966), except that the Secretary
may grant extensions of time to research facilities which do
not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary
pursuant to section 13 of this Act provided that the
Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section,
compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the
Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976, and those regulations
promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days
after promulgation of regulations under section 13 of this
Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and such regulations shall be promulgated no later
than 9 months after April 22, 1976; and compliance by
dealers, exhibitors, Operators of auction sales and research
facilities with other provisions of this Act, as so amended,
and the regulations thereunder, shall commence upon the
expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Ergyided,
DQEQYQLI That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f),
(g), and (h) of section 13 and with section 26 of this Act,
as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90-
day period. In all other respects, said amendments shall

 




éS

become effective upon April 22, 1976.

(7 U.S.C. 2154) (P.Ly 89-544, SS 24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat.
353; P.L. 94-279, SS 15, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the
Secretary shall submit to the President of the Senate and the
Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to-—

(l) the identification of all research facilities,
exhibitors, and other persons and establishments licensed by
the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of this Act;

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and
inspections conducted by the Secretary under section 16 of
this Act, and all reports received by the Secretary under
section 13 of this Act;

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the
administration of this Act or any provision thereof; and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the
aircraft environment as it relates to the carriage of live
animals in air transportation.

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or
findings shall not be released to any other persons, non-
Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until it has
been made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or
the House of Representatives.

(7 U.S.C. 2155) (P.L. 89-544, 53 25, as added by P.L. 91—579,
ss 22, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1565; P.L. 94—279, ss 16,
April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




éé ' x ”mm. "

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly Sponsor or exhibit an animal in any animal fighting
venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or
foreign commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
sell, buy, transport, or deliver to another person or receive
from another person for purposes of transportation, in
interstate or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for
purposes of having the dog or other animal participate in an
animal fighting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use
the mail service of the United States Postal Service or any
interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in
any other manner furthering an animal fighting venture except
as performed outside the limits of the States of the United
States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a),
(b), or (c) of this section, the activities prohibited by
such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to fighting
ventures involving live birds only if the fight is to take
place in a State where it would be in violation of the laws
thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c)
shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not
more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him
shall make such investigations as the Secretary deems
necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section, and the Secretary
may obtain the assistance of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law
enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and
local governmental agencies, in the conduct of such
investigations, under cooperative agreements with such
agencies. A warrant to search for and seize any animal which
there is probable cause to believe was involved in any
violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the
United States or of a State court of record or by a United
States magistrate within the district wherein the animal
sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person
authorized under this section to conduct investigations may
apply for and execute any such warrant, and any animal seized
under such a warrant shall be held by the United States
marshal or other authorized person pending disposition
thereof by the court in accordance with this subsection.
Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be
provided while the animals are so held in custody. Any
animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United
States at any time on complaint filed in any United States
district court or other court of the United States for any
jurisdiction in which the animal is found and upon a judgment
of forfeiture shall be disposed of by sale for lawful
purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct.

 




$7

Costs incurred by the United States for care of animals
seized and forfeited under this section shall be recoverable
from the owner of the animals if he appears in such
forfeiture proceeding or in a separate civil action brought
in the jurisdiction in which the owner is found, resides, or
transacts business.

(g) for purposes of this section——

(1) the term "animal fighting venture" means any
event which involves a fight between at least two animals and
is conducted for purposes of Sport, wagering, or
entertainment except that the term "animal fighting venture"
shall not be deemed to include any activity the primary
purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird,
raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term "interstate or foreign commerce“
means--

(A) any movement between any place in a State
to any place in another State or between places in the same
State through another State; or

(B) the term "interstate instrumentality"
means telegraph, telephone, radio, or television Operating in
interstate or foreign commerce;

(4) the term "State" means any State of the
United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United
States;

(5) the term "animal" means any live bird, or
any live dog or other mammal, except man; and

(6) the conduct by any person of any activity
prohibited by this section shall not render such person
subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer,
exhibitor, or otherwise.

(h)(l) The provisions of this section shall not
supersede or otherwise invalidate any such State, local, or
municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal
fighting ventures except in case of a direct and
irreconcilable conflict between any requirements thereunder
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard
hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2156) (P.L. 89—544, SS 26(a)—(h)(l), as added by
P.L. 94-279, 33 17, April 22, 1976, 90 State. 421)

Section 27. (a) It shall be unlawful for any member of
an Institutional Animal Committee to release any confidential
information of the research facility including any
information that concerns or relates to--

(l) the trade secrets, processes, Operations, style
of work, or apparatus; or

(2) the identity, confidential statistical data,
amount or source of any income, profits, losses, or
expenditures, of the research facility.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any member of such

 




éi

Committee--
(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages; or
(2) to reveal to any other person, any information
which is entitled to protection as confidential information
under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section
is punishable by--

(1) removal from such Committee; and

(2)(A) a fine of not more than $1,000 and
imprisonment of not more than 1 year; or

(B) if such violation is willful, a fine of not
more than $10,000 and imprisonment of not more than 3 years.

(d) Any person, including any research facility, injured
in its business or preperty by reason of a violation of this
section may recover all actual and consequential damages
sustained by such person and the cost of the suit including a
reasonable attorney's fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect
any other rights of a person injured in its business or
prOperty by reason of a violation of this section.

Subsection (d) shall not be construed to limit the exercise
of any such rights arising out of or relating to a violation
of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2157) (P.L. 89-544, SS 27, as added by P.L. 99-198,
Title XVII, SS 1754, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

P.L. 99-198, Title XVII, SS 1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat.
1645, made significant amendments to SS 13 of the Act and
inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f) of SS 13. The new
paragraph (f) in the 1985 amendments has been designated as

(f) and the old paragraph (f) has been designated as
2

paragraph (f) for clarity.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

P.L. 89-544:
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28, 1966
Passed Senate June 22, 1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966

Approved Aug. 24, 1966

91-579

H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970

Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970

 




é?

Approved Dec. 24, 1970

94-279: ‘

H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee

S. Rept. 94—727, Conference Committee

Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975

Passed House Feb. 9, 1976

House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976

99-198:

H. Rept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture

S. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, NUtrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985

Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985

H. Rept. 99—447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report Dec. 18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

 




EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985

PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the
Director of NIH, shall establish guidelines for the

following:
(1) The prOper care of animals to be used in

biomedical and behavioral research.

(2) The prOper treatment of animals while
being used in such research. Guidelines under this
paragraph shall require-—

(A) the appr0priate use of tranquilizers,
analgesics, anesthetics, paralytics, and
euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) apprOpriate pre-surgical and
post—surgical veterinary medical and nursing
care for animals in such research. Such
guidelines shall not be construed to prescribe

methods of research.

(3) The organization and Operation of animal
care committees in accordance with subsection (b).

(b)(l) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection
(a)(3) shall require animal care committees at each
entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research
with funds provided under this Act (including the
National Institutes of Health and the national research
institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines
established under subsection (a).

(2) Each animal care committee shall be
appointed by the chief executive officer of the
entity for which the committee is established,
shall be composed of not fewer than three members,
and shall include at least one individual who has
no association with such entity and at least one
doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research
entity shall—-

(A) review the care and treatment of
animals in all animal study areas and

 




7/

facilities of the research entity at least
semi-annually to evaluate compliance with
applidable guidelines established under
subsection (a) for apprOpriate animal care
and treatment;

(B) keep apprOpriate records of reviews
conducted under subparagraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under
subparagraph (A), file with the Director of
NIH at least annually (1) a certification that
the review has been conducted, and (ii)
reports of any violations of guidelines
established under subsection (a) or assurances
required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have
continued after notice by the committee to the
research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any
minority views filed by members of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each
applicant for a grant, contract, or cooPerative
agreement involving research on animals which is
administered by the National Institutes of Health
or any national research institute to include in its
application or contract proposal, submitted after the
expiration of the twelve—month period beginning on
the date of enactment of this section--

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of
NIH that--

(A) the applicant meets the requirements
of the guidelines established under paragraphs
(1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an
animal care committee which meets the
requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and
other personnel involved with animal care,
treatment, and use by the applicant have
available to them instruction or training in
the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept,
availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit
animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of
animals in the research to be conducted with funds
provided under such grant or contract.

 




7,2

Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2) of section 553 of
title 5, United States Code, regulations under this

subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the
notice and comment requirements of such section.

(d) If the Director of NIH determines that-—

(l) the conditions of animal care, treatment,
or use in an entity which is receiving a grant,
contract, or cooperative agreement involving
research on animals under this title do not meet
applicable guidelines established under subsection

(a);

(2) the entity has been notified by the
Director of NIH of such determination and has been
given a reasonable Opportunity to take corrective
action; and

(3) no action has been taken by the entity to
correct such conditions;
the Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant
or contract under such conditions as the Director
determines apprOpriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under
subsection (a) or (c) may require a research entity to
disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or
financial information which is privileged or
confidential.

4 PLAN FOR RESEARCH INVOLVING ANIMALS

(a) Establishment of Plan--The Director of the
National Institutes of Health shall establish a plan
for——

(1) research to be conducted by or through the
National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes into methods of biomedical
research and experimentation--

(A) which do not require the use of
animals;

(B) which reduce the number of animals

used in such research; or
(C) which produce less pain and distress
in such animals than methods currently in use.

(2) establishing the validity and reliability
of the methods described in subparagraph (A);

 




73

(3) the deve10pment of such methods which have
been found to be valid and reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of
such methods.

The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared
not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information--The Director of
the National Institutes of Health shall take such
actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists
and others involved with research or experimentation
involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a)(2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee--The
Director of the National Institutes of Health shall
establish within the National Institutes of Health an
Interagency Coordinating Committee to assist the
Director of the National Institutes of Health in the
deve10pment of the plan required by subsection (a). The
Director of each national research institute shall serve
on the Committee.

1. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany,
France, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.

2. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal welfare Act,
including its 1970, 1976, and 1985 amendments appears at the
end of this chapter.

3. The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 continues
and in several provisions increases the protection provided
by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

4. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

5. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders
of the Humane Society of the United States as chief executive
of the American Humane Association, became president of the
Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

6. The New York State Society for Medical Research also
sponsored the bills introduced by Senator Javits in the 89th
and 90th Congresses (see chart pages ).

7. The American Humane Association was also absent when
hearings were called by Congressman Poage on the Resnick
bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings, AHA

 




7%

representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories
in the bill, reflecting the unbridled pressure of the
biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at that

period.‘

8. For example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was
Chairman of UFAW's Scientific Advisory Committee. He
repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act
for quotation at Congressional hearings.

9. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel
were published by AWI in Inﬁgrmatign Bepgrt Vol. 15, No. 4,
September-October 1966.

10. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982—1985.

 




n

4” {EH I M (3': L.

 

 




5. ma.

:‘i‘m

 

 




 




 

   
 

 

 

 

 
 

   
   
 

 

 

 

ﬂu».

f...

4 :1.
. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

,..
....l :

 

 

 

 

 




.1 .3.

v1.3.

 

.

.
.
.1

.u.‘ 1'"
I

i

 




. .a
. 5...
.

k...

u«'

 

.

-
£1.
a

.

I

 

E”: .

 

 




"J. u"

 




 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
 

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. .

 
 

 
 
 

      

 

g..

I...

 
 

 
 

 
 
   

   
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

uu n...

 
 

In.
....

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

.
.
.

 




K

n
:3...
.
.
.

 

 




 

 




 

 




.
.... x..-

 




l"-J”'tw E5111 ‘ m 1?: 11th {Lincsnm‘si"1.??ngw

I

 




"u‘ c...
‘.00- .2
....

 




 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

'. X
x :
.....
....
1.... ‘....

I

...
I

 
 
 

 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

 

  

:un...

 

 

 

 

 

 

....
...

 

 




l p.

u.

m.
¥

i

us.

{do-

“{
u. . v

I

 




 




Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be
brought to support this maneuver. The Washington Evening

Star stated editorially:

THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a
law to require humane treatment of animals used in
laboratory research and to halt thefts of pets by
dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate
Commerce committee. Medical researchers, hostile to
government supervision, (but not government grants, it
should be added), are attempting a switch play. A bill
introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off
federal inspection of how laboratories treat animals
awaiting experiments. Instead this authority would be

given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready
and waiting. Set up last year, it is called the
American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment; and
are staff members of medical schools and research

institutions. And, as the association's brochure

suggests, the 'inspections' would be rather friendly

affairs.

 




fall“

There would be no surprise audits, such as those
routinely carried out now in the banking industry, for
example. Instead a visit would be scheduled by ’mutual
convenience.’ It would not come distressingly often ~
no more than once every five years. The inspectors,
according to the brochure, would charge fees ranging
up to $1,000 for their trouble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their
animals humanely, they should have nothing to fear
from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of Washington that
such inspections be made by the Department of
Agriculture after standards have been published. His
bill has nothing to do with the anti-vivisectionists;
the government would not interfere with any laboratory
tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into
thinking the Hill proposal represents any kind of
adequate substitute for impartial inspection of such
institutions.

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to
report a bill out of his Committee. The National Society
Medical Research and National Institutes of Health,
therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the
United States Department of Agriculture and inspection by its

representatives. Glowing references to the American

Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, for

 




223K

whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the NSMR,
to credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate
Commerce Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and
NSMR strongly supported the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney
Amendment. Testimony was limited to medical witnesses at
this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had been
associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment
of laboratory animals, came to Washington to testify for the
Monroney Amendment: Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at
Metropolitan Hospital and Associate Professor of Surgery at
Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett Derby, Head
of Neurology at Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan
and Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University
Medical School. Dr. Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate
committee to provide for humane care and housing of animals
in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer
such requirements. Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable
time to getting better treatment for experimental dogs in
different institutions, brought the question down to earth by
stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the
Department of Agriculture administer the law. He said the
"welfare of animals should be the responsibility of a body
which is primarily interested in them...the Department of
Agriculture," and he added: ”If the scientists and
organizations represented in AAALAC had done their job

properly, we would not be holding hearings here today. The

 




 

223/

time has come to bring in independent auditors." The NIH

bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce committee bill, under the leadership
of Senator Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous
endorsement by the Senate. Eighty—five Senators came to the
floor to vote for it, and each of the fifteen who were absent
and unable to vote stated in The Congressional Record that
they would have voted for it had they been present. The
bill's sanctions were strengthened at the insistence of
the House Conferees. They agreed to accept the Senate
amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals
inside laboratories and increasing the number of species of
animals covered, on condition that the stronger House

enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of
Agriculture February 24; and the law went into effect for
animal dealers May 25 and for scientific institutions August

24, 1967.

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal
law to prevent abuses of test animals, in 1970, 1976 and
1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act (fiercely
contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
"ssociated industries that sell animals, cages and equipment
to scientific institutions) set humane standards for dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and guinea pigs in animal

dealers’ premises and in laboratories prior to experimental

 




,/
..//

-nimal-. In i‘TG, the cevera_e was extended to the
entire stay of animals in laboratories where they must be
maintained according to minimum standards set by the
Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
included "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and
tranquilizing drugs." All warm blooded animals designated by
the Secretary are covered. He has not yet designated birds,
nor those species that constitute the large majority of the
millions of experimental animals used each year: mice and
rats. Because inadequate appropriations have to be stretched
to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories,
licensed animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered
exhibitors, and carriers under the act as amended, the

Secretary has been reluctant to include more animals for

inspectors to check.

The important requirement for pain relieving drugs and
reporting on their use or lack thereof was also added in
1970. Reports by registered scientific institutions on use
of animals are filed with the U.S. Department of Agriculture
and are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of
Information Act. Many institutions have failed to honor this
section of the Act, necessitating additional legislative and

enforcement action.

Under the 1978 amendments sponsored by Agriculture
Committee Chairman Thomas Foley, research institutions were

moved to the same category as exhibitors and dealers with

 




925:

respect to the imposition of fines for violations.
Previously, research facilities were subject to a cease and
desist order which they would have to violate before a fine
could be imposed. The 1978 amendments also include a
requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which
private,institutions must meet under the eyes of veterinary
inspectors of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative Margaret
Heckler* proposed and was successful in obtaining this

essential advance on the Floor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid broad-
based structure whose 1978 amendments sponsored in the Senate
by Senator Lowell Weicker, cover transportation of animals
for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by common carriers
and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dog and cock-fighting

provisions are detailed in Chapter XI.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments
focused on the responsibility of the institutional
veterinarian to present suffering through humane experimental
design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil.

The 1988 amendments remain to be tested in practice.

 

* Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982—1985.

 




2E“

AlterﬁaEiV‘s ts Labaratery Animals
As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew
by the million, a countervailing philosophy was increasingly
advocated by animal protective organizations. The first

serious contribution to the field was The Principles of

 

Humane Experimental T-chnique by W.M.S. Russell and R.L.

 

Burch produced under the aegis of the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare in 1959, with some modest assistance from
AWI. This pioneering book established the Three R’s:
Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement which are now
generally recognized as fundamental elements necessary to
prevent largerscale unnecessary suffering by laboratory
animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifically
feasible, others advocated ”Alternatives Now!" claiming that
substitutes for animals already existed for all experiments
and tests. Bills introduced in Congress reflected different
views of the subject but they made up, if not a critical

mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation
of animal experiments were pending in the Subcommittee on
Science, Research and Technology of the House Committee on
Science and Technology. On October 13 and 14 1981,
Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held
hearings which, drew unexpectedly wide media attention,
because Maryland police had removed 17 monkeys just days

earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory. There they had

 




pl?

been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from the
National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate
were charged with 17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply
veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had worked at the
Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had
alerted police to conditions there, showed horrifying

pictures of the monkeys and their quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features
from each of the seven pending proposals was undertaken by
the subcommittee staff. Advice was sought from the many
organizations which had testified pro- or con- the different
bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the
new bill, which was approved by his Subcommittee and its
parent committee. The bill was referred to the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman Henry

Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the
principles developed in the October hearings. Senator John
Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only veterinarian, joined
him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the
importance of the legislation. However, no action was taken
before the 97th Congress adjourned.

The Dole-Brown Amendments

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1988 he had

 




u/g,

it r draft d a~ 'n .m.ndment to ' ; "'“;’ E;lfara Aa'_

broadening its coverage to include all Registered

Research Facilities (over eleven hundred) inspected by
is?

ﬁgiﬁ g V terinarv

Services.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by scientific
groups who began a slow move from point~blank opposition to
demands for a variety of modifications in the language of the
bill. At hearings of the full Senate Agriculture Committee,
chaired by Senator Dole July 20th, nearly every witness had
scientific qualifications. Humane groups were represented by
Bennett Derby, M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial
hearings which led to unanimous Senate passage of the

original Act.

Senator Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved
the way for action, but it was not to come in the 98th
Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, questioning the need
for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective
Legislation prepared two thick binders of documentation
outlining the urgent needs for all the bill’s provisions for
minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the authority

of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well
known for his successful sponsorship of the 1978 humane
slaughter amendments (see chapter III), introduced a bill

based on the Dole bill, H.R. 5725. On September 19, 1984 he

 




cﬂ'lcl,

chaired hearings in his subcommittee on Departmental
Operations, Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a
standing-room-only crowd with long lines waiting outside the
hearing room. Interest in the legislation had been
heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of
experimental baboons at The University of Pennsylvania
Medical School. Sixty hours of self—incriminating videotapes
taken by a research team as a record of their experiments
showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being
violated. Injured baboons were painfully dangled and

ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the
Animal Liberation Front and given to People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals. They made a 25-minute version to show
the public. It was run repeatedly in a nearby church on the

day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell’s column in The Washington Post September
21, 1984 notes: "Savagery is very much part of the nature of
all humans I have ever known, and that is one reason
civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it." Citing the evidence and characterizing it as
sickening, he wrote: "Legislation is needed, and those who do
not wish to concern themselves with what amounts to
flamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to

obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not

shied from the evidence and who have at last come up with

 




“/9th

reasonable and moderate legislation." Describing his feelings
in watching five minutes of the tapes in St. Mark's Church,
he concluded: "I left thinking it probably an esthetic error

to vomit in a church."

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories
throughout the entire country was derived from official
reports of USDA veterinary inspectors obtained under the
Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a B'xlo' chart.
A heartening message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer,
President of Tufts University, was delivered by Frank Loew,
Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but most
testimony from scientific groups was severely critical.
Congressman Brown asked his staff to analyze all the

criticisms. His bill did not emerge from the subcommittee.

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee,
Congressman Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions
of his bill included in the NIH Reauthorization Bill which
was passed by the Congress but vetoed by President Reagan.

In the 99th Congress, the NIH Reauthorization Bill, after
some modification, was passed again and Congress overrode the
President's second veto. The animal welfare provisions are
less stringent than the Dole~Brown legislation, and they
apply only to NIH grantees; nevertheless, the two were
destined to fit together well and reinforce one another in a

practical manner.

 




Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate,

reintroduced his bill at the same time as Congressman Brown.

This time the bills were identical, the heroic work of
staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a final draft still containing every major
phrasea in the manage lga t
objectionable to the ’ ' of opponents and unremitting

critics.

The New York Times editorialized on July 31, 1985, in

 

 

support of the DoleaBrown proposals, and in the following
months, newspapers in every part of the country followed

suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the
Majority Leader brought his bill, Improved Standards for

Laboratory Animals, to the Senate Floor, October 25th.

) ~- —.

Hemator Drrin Hateh at Utah, Ehairman of the oomiitt

on Labor and Human Resources expressed reservations. The
bill then went into an intense discussion by the staffs of
Senators Dole, Hatch and Melcher and representatives of the
National Association for Biomedical Research, the Feed
Manufacturers Association and the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation. A bill calling for 16 different
changes in Senator Dole's bill had been prepared for Senator
Hatch by a NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what

progress was being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took

 




part in the arguments explaining the reason for his language,
"a physical environment adequate to promote the
psychological well being of primates." He had seen
laboratory chimpanzee cages which, even though unoccupied at
the time, he characterized as "extremely efficient, extremely

expensive, and extremely cruel."

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no
less than 32 changes, even including a $500 reduction in the
fine, was proposed. A night meeting in the Dole office
was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that
although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the
legislation, the pharmaceutical industry was not willing to
stop fighting. Indeed, it fought to the end.

Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher
offered a substitute bill on October 29. This passed the

Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the
Dole~Brown amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley
of Washington proved himself a powerful friend of animals
during the House-Senate conference. Congressman Foley, as
noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to the
Animal Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman

Kika de la Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the

legislation in conference. Lobbying to kill the Improved

Standards for Laboratory animals continued to the very last

moment.

 




The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of
legislation, was in conference for days. The conferees met

in a small room in the Russell Senate Office Building, and

dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that

stood to gain or lose from some part of the complex bill
lined the hallway outside the room, waiting for news on
decisions of the conferees as staffers came in and out. At
four p.m. on December 12, it appeared that action on the
laboratory animal section was imminent. Weakening amendments
were being urged by the National Association for Biomedical

Research, and Senator Dole had not yet returned from out of

town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down
the hall reinvigorated the weary Society for Animal
Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting for the outcome.
"You’re next," he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass
of farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we
heard the good news from Congressman Foley. The Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals Act had come through the
Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House December
16 and two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals amendments establish an information
service in the National Agricultural Library in cooperation

with the national Library of Medicine to provide data on

alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended

 




s3?“

duplication of experiments and tests, and provide information
to institutions for instruction of scientists and other
personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each registered research facility must appoint an
institutional animal committee including a veterinarian and a
person unaffiliated with it to represent the general
community interests in the proper care and treatment of
animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deficiencies to the institution for
correction. If not corrected promptly, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture must be notified for enforcement action, and
any funding agency involved informed for a decision on

whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and
to consult with a veterinarian before beginning any
experiment which could cause pain. They must adhere to
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre~ and
post—surgical care, use of pain relieving drugs or
euthanasia, against use of paralytics without anesthesia, and
unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one major
operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when
specified by a research protocol and an explanation given for
any deviation. Fines for violations were raised from $1,000
to $2,500 and for violating a cease and desist order, from
$500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation as may

each day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

 




c3)

interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown
worldwide, and two countries made significant improvements in
their national laws in 1986: The United Kingdom and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these laws
appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new
British Act is recognition of gradations of stress or pain
and justification thereof. This begins with the stress
caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the
point of procedures prohibited because of extreme
painfulness.

in issuing project licenses the Secretary of State is
required to "weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals
concerned against the benefit likely to accrue." Both
project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory under
the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers
that an animal is undergoing excessive suffering he may

require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of
Agriculture Ignaz Kiechle. It forbidsfwith provision for
special exceptions, the use of animals for tests on weapons,
tobacco, washing powders “ oozmeties. Authorization for
experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners.
Animal protection organizations may nominate up to a third of
the commissions' members. The law covers all experiments

leading to pain or injury of an animal.

 




xii/,5, /L~LV¢/ 5v

my

”1/ /’I/LM¢{/(W J ,.

,/m

«.ihdm‘ﬁ

”244’; {gal/M3 I? c .5; M. ALL/1.2!

<7 1(ng

x”

IV! .I 1
I 3"" I
. ’
4; A V l P a w
. - _ 1‘ /
4
3-».

/r

i

H/
{51A} :5?"

.’ ,
41/ f
M" klbw"

”af'a/Kp, 4:,

f _ '
I, t / ”Law/(Q- ~,
1/345" c1../’Vz/r’// My

If «M»ﬂ/¢{u/It

(

7 J
j A” ”AND/M} AAA“ 22W “314%?!

’7'”)

if

L

5:“

’fZ/
4:)

‘1: ’/./i

1

5711/
"1/

{/f/ 9/

”“5"”? ' I

\

rm,

27;}

jf/pL/:/

/:‘ I ‘
’ / I. I". I”!
fi/L/ a’ﬁ’) .

\7 1/941

if

27;}; grad

g,”

[If

1x» .4

“ml.— “:1" {:1}, ' [ff-‘7»;
[25 V fix", .4 {A114, jlg‘g U L24?

VH1”; 007257.52) -

11 9 x" ‘35i/Zzh4;~szzti.,..xj
/ M 2,4,, , ,9

/‘

if" if; :3! 2/]; 7/[1 '1’ [Mi ;././ y‘ir
/

‘29

 




””483

Progressive Animal Welfare Society( P(AWS)

P O. Box 1037 99
Lynnwood, Washingto 8 46 ‘f

M <0,” ne 20 1989
Dear Pﬁupporter, vﬁ

Look vee accomplished this springlvb

 

computerizﬁl pet lost-and-found; and answered 7,000 phone calls for help.

MW, We have adopted 1,000 dogs and cats into responsible homes; helped 2,800 people through our

it?

\?

After two years of hard work by PAWS, the Washington State “Pet Theft Bill” became law in May,
making it a felony to sell stolen pets for research.

 

ur wildlife clinic director has spent two months in Alaska supervising oiled bird cleaning operations.

 

We filed a lawsuit in federal court to stop the Navy from using and abusing dolphins as nuclear submarine
guards, and recruited 14 other groups from across the country to strengthen the suit.

 

We have reached thousands of people with animal protection messages through a UW debate on animal
research, a conference on religious perspectives of animals, street fair booths and news coverage.

 

Our new HOWL wildlife rehabilitation clinic is under construction and halfway completed.

 

YOUR SUPPORT has helped make all these things happen.

But PAWS is in serious financial trouble.

 

Rather than aggressively fundraise, we have always relied on good work, good luck and good people to keep our programs
going. We have always thought that expending our energy fighting for animal protection was what mattered. We have
always avoided spending your donations on fundraising. We have been naive.

Never before have we come to you so plainly asking for money. But now we have no choice. We are dangerously close to

 

having to drastically cut our shelter, wildlife and animal rights programs.

We need your help.

 

Please take a moment to think about what PAWS has been able to do with your support. You have helped to make PAWS
one of the nation 5 most respected — and effective -—-— animal protection groups.

Think about the dogs who wake up each morning with human families to give them the love and devotion they deserve,
thanks to PAWS’ adoption program. Think about the lost and frightened cats returned home through PAWS’ computerized
lost—and-found service. Think about the songbirds and deer who roam the wilds thanks to the dedicated people at HOWL.
Think about the discarded pets, the animals who suffer in laboratories, the ones destined to become fur coats, the gentle
dolphins slated for brutal abuse.

Think about how much the animals need us. Please help PAWS to remain a powerful force in the fight to protect animals.
We need to keep fighting for their lives.

Please, mail your tax-deductible donation TODAY.

Sincerely,

WW

Virginla Knouse
President, Volunteer

 




 




 




May 18, 1989 ‘

BIIitIﬁlIlEI Eailg Hews

Pets to get better protection

Kathryn Holl
supports legislation

 

Record-keeping rules may help protect animals from theft

By RICH RISKI
Peninsula Daily News

A bill to protect pets from theft
and being fraudulently obtained fow
sale to biomedical research has been
signed into law by Gov. Booth
Gardner.

SB 5827 was prompted in large
part by. the efforts of Peninsula
residents before Sen. Scott Barr, R-
Edwall., chairman of the Senate
Agricultural Committee.

Sequim and Port Angeles
residents complained to Barr that
their pets were in danger of being
stolen because of the business of
animal dealer Chuck Dryke. Dryke,
an internationally known shooting
instructor and owner of Sunnydell
Shooting Grounds, has sold dogs
for medical research since 1976 to
the Hope International Heart
Research Institute in Seattle.

The bill was drafted with the

c00peration of animal rights groups
and animal research groups from
Washington universities.

The law makes pet theft and
fraudulent animal abduction a
felony, which is punishable by up to
five years imprisonment and a
$10,000 fine.

The law would not impair the use
of animals for medical research, but
it requires more careful recordkeep-
ing of an animal’s ownership by the
research facilities.

Each research facility must main-
tain a file on each dog and cat that
includes certification of the animal’s
ownership, a photograph and a
physical description of the animal.

Locally, Port Angeles resident
Kathryn Holl led an active group of
the bill’s supporters.

Her dog was stolen and sold to
Chuck Dryke. He reportedly sold a
dog of the same description for

D

research, according to records of the
United States Department of
Agriculture. lnvestigator’s records
show the dog was euthanized four
months later. In two USDA ir
vestigations, Dryke has been cleared
of ever knowingly accepting stolen
pets.
“It was a long struggle,” Holl
said. “I’m surprised at the enormity
of the fact it’s a model law.”

Director of the American
Humane Association’s Washington
D.C. of ﬁce Adele Douglas has laud-
ed the new law as an improvement
on the 1966 federal Animal Welfare
Act.

“Passing this landmark legisla-
tion, which improves on federal
legislation, is no small feat,” she
told officials of the Progressive
Animal Welfare Society, a Lynn-
wood animal rights group active in
the law’s formation.

 




The Seattle Times / Seattle Post-Intelligencer

.,,.A truce under

by Ranny Green
Times pet editor

these days.

' While the Sino-Soviet
:umntiir‘t dlrew internatrigli): atten-
ion, e- ongtim. e anta o-
nists, PAWS alp ive Animagl
Welfare Socie andthe UW (Uni-
versrty of Was 'ngton), have been
busy making peace. too.

After years of warring, the local
factions came to an agreement in
pnnci le recently that became
state nag:o Bill 5827, wlliich pro-
tectspets mbemg' stoenor
fraudulen obtained for use in
research la ratorias.

e Cold War thaw is being
felt from Beijing to Seattle

The measure, 00-?0nsored by

Sens. Ray Moore, D- eattle, and
Scott Barr, R-Edwall, won unani-
mous approval of both houses of
the Legislature and was signed by
Gov. Booth Gardner May 2.

Moore recalled when the two
camps met in Olympia. “it looked
for awhile like the bill was going
nowhere. Suddenly. Sen. Barr
asked about 15 orzo of those
All”? ‘° “mm"

wo out so '. eve one
could live with." retumlzd an
hour later with what proved to be
the essence of the Senate bill.

“ ere was goodwill on almost
ev ne’s part, ’ said Moore. “Un-
doubtedly, this bill will be amend-
ed in the ﬁrture,andthisestab—
“shes a basis for the players to
meet again”

While this i ' it doesn't
reflect a drama e ph' '
diversion by either camp, it signals
the ﬁrst break in this protracted
Cold War.

. It is aimed at am‘mal dealers

-’~ who sell stolen dogs and cats to
research institutions. Some answer
classiﬁed advertisements that say
“free to good home.” then sell the
animals to universiy or private
facilities.

The measure makes these of-
fenses a Class C f , nishable
by uptoﬁveyearsinj anda
510.000 ﬁne. it also requires re-

search facilities to maintain a ﬁle .

on each dog or cat, which must
include certiﬁcation of its origin, a
photograph and physical descrip-

You and your cornpanions

 

tion of the sub'ect, all of which
must be availa le for public in-
spection for two ears.

According to oyce Tischler,
executive director of the Animal
Le al Defense Fund in San Rafael,

'f., “Several states have had

roblems similar to Washin on.
ghere is a great need throug ut
the country for legislation to firmly
deal with unscru ulous research-
animal dealers. ut to my knowl-

Whiie it’s a watered- ’

down version of what

we be « with, it’s a

victory r pet owners
everywhere.’

Mitchell. Fox, PAWS

 

edge,thisistheﬁrstinstancein
which a group such as PAWS has
succeeded in seeingle 'slation
passed. Hope , A ’ success
will serve as a ro e model for other
states."

The . of this measure is
the culminau‘on of nearly two
years of work by dozens of PAWS
volunteers. ‘

“it’s a landmark accom ish-
ment," said Mitchell Fox, AWS
animal-issues director. “While it’s
a watered-down version of what
we began with. it’s a victory for pet

owners eve ere.”
He callmre the spiritual

leader of the political process, and-

credited Barr for his “superb in
sight, off-season homework and
ability to bring everyone together."

Barr was moved by the emo-
tional testimony of pet owners a
year ago in support of a bill
introduced by Moore. (I'hat bill
was killed in the Senate Agricul-
ture Committee following strong
opposition by animal-research in-
stitutions.)

The gutcwrenching accounts of
theft and dealer deceit by two
victims, Boeing engineer Don
Johnson of Redmond and Kathryn
Roll of Port Angeles, drew atten-
tion to the for legislation.

Johnson rescued Sosha, a Ger-
man shepherd female puppy, from
an abusive environment in Everett.
Although he was unable to keep
the niggdlznd ammglé he had it
ste ' ' pai or a newspaper
classiﬁed advertisement.

He was judicious and posed
many questions to each caller.
Even , Sosha was ' n to
Don and udi Peters of onnoe,
who, Johnson later discovered,
were dealers. ». quickly sold
the dog to the .

In order to check on its condi- .
tion, a month later Johnson wrote
to the couple at a post-office box
they provided. He received no
response, however. “At that point,
I suspected something was
wrong," he said.

His worst fears were conﬁrmed
abwtayearlaterwhen hispar-
ents, who are PAWS members,
showed him an agency newsletter
focusing on the Peters and their
business, the Pet Connection.

“When i caﬂed the UW-to find
out what to Sasha,”
Johnson said, “they couldn‘t have
rem m w..." asses
in me. ' y
they ”ﬁt . Sosha was
somebody's pet when they saw her
recent surgery, they said that
where t dogs come from is not
their concern." .

Holl’s case was different. After

' up Jackson, her standard
le-Afghan hound mix, near
the entry to a Pbrt Angeles furni-
ture store, she and her husband
entered the business. When she

returned 15 minutes later, the dog '

Sunday, May 21, 1989

was gone. She thought it had
broken the leash and run off.

“It never dawned on us he was
stolen,” she said. “We searched
months for him, drrvmg up and
down streets all over town. and we
ran a classiffied ad in tirie local ths
news r or days.” en mon
laterﬁgglel discovered the truth of
Jackson’s disa . The. dog
had been stolen, sold to Seqmm
animal dealer Chuck Dryke, who
immediately sold it to Hope Heart
Institute of Seattle. This scenario
took four days, Holl discovered
from Department of Agriculture
records.

Said Holl: “Dwellin on Jack-
son’s theft and even death
while working on this bill has been
painful. While I would never say
this measure makes Jackson’s
death worthwhile, it’s reassuring

-to know that some legal protection
will now exist for owners and their

pets.’,

 




4/93/3151

 

 

T“ Safety bill
one Step frOm ,
becoming law ,.

By HENRY DAEHNKE
Staff Reporter

bill to protect pets from theft and

resale to state research institutions
has unanimously passed through the
Legislature and now goes before Gov.
Booth Gardner to be signed into law
., The bill, SB 5827, proposes, for a .
ﬁrst-time offense, a ﬁne of no less than
$500. A second conviCtion would merit a
, $1,000 ﬁne for' each fraudulently‘ob-

tained pet.

' The bill was sponsored by state sen-
ators" Seott Bahr,‘ R—Edwall, and Ray
Moore, D-Seattle, and supported by a
,coalitionof the Washington State Univer-
“ sity, the Fred. Hutchinson Cancer Center,
the ProgreSsive Animal Welfare Society
and pet owners "

If the legislation becomes law, all
state research institutions must adopt
written policies governing the acquisi-
tion of laboratory animals within 180
days. TheSe policies must include provi-
sions for maintaining accurate and de-
' tailed ﬁles on each cat or dog acquired
with identiﬁcation snapShot.

The UW will also be required to des-
ignate an ofﬁcial to be responsible for
investigating inquiries regarding pets. It .
Will 'COSIéIhC University an estimated
$20,000 to $50,000 to create the posi-
tion.

, “Although the alliance between the

UW and PAWS started out on uncertain
. ground, when the bill came to its present
form, the University supported it whole-

,. heartedly,” commented Mitchell Fox

vii-a mal issues director at PAWS

He predicted the bill would be “signed
5.5 out hesitation,” by Gardner.

‘6‘ “The basic thrust of the bill 15 to crack
d6wn onwpeople who were stealing pets

 

 

 

 

 

1 See Page Ten

X

 




.45 ‘

PRESS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

FIRST OF ITS KIND BILL PROTECTS PETS AND PET OWNERS

A bill to protect pets from being stolen or fraudulently obtained
for use in research labs has won the unanimous approval of both
houses of the Washington State Legislature and is expected to be
signed into law by Governor Booth Gardner shortly.

Senate Bill 5827 addresses existing problems in Washington State.
Research animal dealers who profit from the sale of dogs and cats
to research facilities have dealt in stolen pets. Others have
posed as wanting a pet as a companion when responding to "free to
good home" classified ads placed by people no longer able to keep
their animals.

The bill makes these offenses a Class C Felony, punishable by up
to five years in jail and a $10,000 fine. It also requires
research facilities to maintain a file on each dog or cat. Files,
to include certification of the animal's origin, a photograph and
physical description of the animal, will be available for public
inspection.

Said Joyce Tischler, esq., Executive Director of the Animal

Legal Defense Fund, "Several states have had problems similar to
Washington. There is a great need throughout the country for
legislation to firmly deal with unscrupulous research animal
dealers. But to my knowledge, this is the first instance in which
a group such as PAWS has succeeded in seeing legislation passed.
I hope PAWS' success with SSB 5827 will serve as a model for
other states. Pet owners have been unwittingly sending their
animals to research laboratories for years."

fThe passage of 333 5827 follows nearly two years of work by the
Progressive Animal Welfare Society (PAWS) and pet owners. In 1988
Senator Ray Moore introduced a similar bill. That bill was killed

, in the Senate Agriculture Committee under strong opposition from

J the University of Washingtbn, Washington State University and

' other animal research institutions. But the emotional testimony
of pet owners whose animals had been stolen or deceptively
obtained by research animal dealers moved Committee Chair Scott
Barr to vow to work on a modified version of the bill in 1989.
Senators Barr and Moore co-sponsored SSB 5827.

Boeing engineer Don Johnson, whoSe dog Sosha was sold to the UW
by Monroe research animal dealers Don and Judi Peters, was one of

over

N onvProfit Humane Organization Since 1967 mm m WEI-I'm SOCIETY
Humane Education 3 Animal Care Center
P0kalO$7
umnwanJMBnmganKMG
(KXDVQEEHS 7WMIBI

 




those testifying in favor of both 888 5827 and last year's bill.
,Said Johnson, "When I called the UW to find out what had happened
'to Sosha, they couldn't have been more callous or disinterested
in helping me. When I asked why they didn't suspect Sosha was
somebody's pet when they saw her recent Spay scar, they said that
jwhere the dogs come from is not their concern.

The lack of any system to keep stolen pets from being used by
research facilities including UW, the state's largest consumer of
dogs and cats for research, was one of the main reasons why such
a bill was needed.

The UW repeatedly lobbied to eliminate crucial provisions from
SSB 5827, including penalties against research facilities which
violate the law. But after Senator Barr required animal research
and animal protection interests to reach agreement, a compromise
bill won the_support of both factions. This is the first time
PAWS and the UW have ever worked together on the issue of lab
animals.

The strength of the bill's final form is attributable to Senators
Barr and Moore's determination that the integrity of the bill be
maintained, continuous input and documentation from pet owners
and PAWS, and the work of Representative Margaret Rayburn whose
House Committee heard the bill.

Observed Kathryn Holl, whose dog Jackson was stolen and
subsequently sold to the Hope Heart Institute by Sequim research
animal dealer Chuck Dryke, "Dwelling on Jackson's theft and death
while working on this bill has been painful. But while I would
never say that this bill makes Jackson's death worthwhile, at
least it's reassuring to know that some legal protection will now
exist for pets and their owners. For those of us who live on the
Peninsula, where Chuck Dryke is still engaged in selling dogs for
research, there will always be fear. But now I know that what he
did to me and my dog can get him thrown in jail, instead of just
a slap on the wrist and a big wink from the USDA."

iWhile publicly declaring its support for SSB 5827, the UW
continues to purchase dogs and cats from one of the nation's most
notorious research dealers: James Hickey of Oregon. A Judge

has ordered a $40,000 fine and a 25 year suspension of Hickey's
research animal dealer's license for violations of the Animal
Welfare Act. Several stolen pets have been recovered from
Hickey's premises. Pending appeals, Hickey continues brisk sales
to research facilities including UW. 2”

In 1966 the federal Animal Welfare Act became law due to the
outcry of people whose dogs were stolen for research, but that
legislation failed to stop unscrupulous research animal dealers
or to protect Kathryn Holl, Don Johnson, the owners of animals
recovered from James Hickey's kennels, and all of their

pets.

 




888 5827 closes many of the loopholes in the Animal Welfare Act
and adds local enforcement. "We applaud the state of Washington
for passing this comprehensive legislation," said Adele Douglas,
Director of the American Humane Association's Washington, D.C.
office. "Passing this landmark legislation, which improves on
federal legislation, is no small feat. "The legislators in
Washington, D.C. could certainly learn from the legislators in

Washington State."
###

The above comments, quotations excepted, are for attribution to
Mitchell Fox, PAWS Animal Issues Director.

Contact: Mitchell Fox, PAWS (206)742-4142 or 743-1884
Kathryn Holl (206)457-1347
Don Johnson (206)333—4787
Senator Ray Moore (206)545-6782
Joyce Tischler (415)459-0885 Animal Legal Defense Fund
Adele Douglas (202)543-7780 American Humane Association

 




@ m Q m u A w ~ ~

uwwwwwwnwnunmnnwwr-----
030A“NwomeOQUO-QWNHOOQQO’UIDQNHO

Sec. 3

authorized to do so. The certification shall also include an
identifying number for the dealer. such as a business license number.

(b) True owner certification: A written statement certifying
that the animal being transferred is owned by the person signing the
certification. and that the person signing the certification either
(i) has no personal knowledge or reason to believe that the animal is
a pet animal. or (ii) consents to having the animal used for research
at a research institution. The certification shall also state the
date that the owner obtained the animal. and the person or other
source from whom it was obtained. The certification shall also
include an identifying number for the person signing the
certification. such as a drivers' license number or business license
number. The certifications signed by or on behalf of a humane
society. animal control agency. or animal shelter need not contain a
statement that the society. agency. or shelter owns the animal. but
shall state that the animal has been in the possession of the
society. agency. or shelter for the minimum period required by law
that entitles it to legally dispose of the animal.

(2) In addition to the foregoing certification. all research
institutions in this state shall open at the time a dog or cat is
transferred to it a file that contains the following information for
each dog or cat transferred to the institution:

(a) All information required by federal law:

(b) The certification required by this section; and

(c) A brief description of the dog or cat (e.g. breed. color,
sex, any identifying characteristics). and a photograph of the dog or
cat.

The brief description may be contained in the written
certification.

These files shall be maintained and open for public inspection
for a period of at least two years from the date of acquisition of
the animal.

(3) All research institutions in this state shall. within one
hundred eighty days of the effective date of this act, adopt and
operate under written policies governing the acquisition of animals

to be used in biomedical or product research at that institution.

553 5327 .4.

 

cam-awn

10
ll
l2
l3
l4
15
16
17
18
19
20

21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

SUBSTITUTE SENATE BILL N0. 5827
AS AMENDED BY THE FREE CONFERENCE COMMITTEE

State of Washington 51st Legislature 1989 Regular Session

by Committee on Agriculture (originally sponsored by Senators Barr
and Moore)

Read first time 2/28/89.

AN ACT Relating to pet theft prevention. pet protection. and
certification to minimize theft or unintentional sale for biomedical
research purposes and nonimpairment of biomedical research; amending
RCW 9.08.070; adding a new section to chapter 9.08 RCW; adding new
sections to chapter 16.52 RCW: adding a new section to chapter l9.86

RCW; prescribing penalties: and declaring an emergency.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON:

NEW SECTION. Sec. 1. A new section is added to chapter 9.08 RCH
to read as follows:

As used in RCW 9.08.070:

(1) "Pet animal" means a tamed or domesticated animal legally
retained by a person and kept as a companion. "Pet animal" does not
include livestock raised for commercial purposes.

(2) "Research institution" means is facility licensed by the
United States department of agriculture to use animals in biomedical
or product research.

(3) 'U.S.D.A. licensed dealer" means a person who is licensed or
required to be licensed by the United States department of
agriculture to commercially buy. receive. sell. negotiate for sale.

or transport animals.

Sec. 2. Section 1. chapter 114. Laws of 1982 and RCW 9.08.070
are each amended to read as follows:

(1) Any person who. with intent to deprive or defraud the owner
thereof. does any of the following shall be guilty of a gross
misdemeanor and shall be punished as prescribed under RCW
9A.20.02l(2) and by a mandatory fine of not less than five hundred
dollars per pet animal except as provided by (d) of this subsection:

(((l))) (a) Takes. leads away. confines. secretes or converts any

-l- 558 5827




~

OCDQQOSUI-bww

Sec. 2

((dos)) pet animal. except in cases in which the value of the ((deg))
pet animal exceeds two hundred fifty dollars;
(((2))) L21 Conceals the identity of any ((deg)) pet animal or

its owner by obscuring. altering. or removing from the ((deg)) 22$

animal any collar. tag. license, tattoo. or other identifying device
or mark((i-er));
(((8))) £21 Nillfully or recklessly kills or injures any ((deg))
pet animal, unless excused by law.
((Sueh-vielatiens—shall-be-punished-by-imprisonment-in-the-eeunty
jail-fer-net-mereothan-ene-year-er-by-a-fine-ef--net--mere--than--ene
thousand-dollars.-er-by-beth-sueh.fine-and—imprisonment.))

(d) Nothing in this subsection or subsection (2) of this section

 

shall prohibit a person from also being convicted of separate

 

offenses under RCW 9A.56.030, 9A.56.040. or 9A.56.050 for theft or

 

under RCW 9A.56.150. 9A.56.160. or 9A.56.l70 for possession of stolen

property .

(2) (a) It is unlawful for any person to receive with intent to

 

sell to a research institution in the state of Uashington. or sell or
otherwise directly transfer to a research institution in the state of
washington, a pet animal that the person knows or has reason to know

has been stolen or fraudulently obtained. This subsection does not

 

apply to U.S.D.A. licensed dealers.

 

(b) The first conviction under (a) of this subsection is a gross

misdemeanor and is punishable as prescribed under RC" 9A.20.02l(2)

 

and by a mandatory fine of not less than five hundred dollars per pet

 

animal. A second or subsequent conviction under (a) of this

 

subsection is a class C felony and is punishable as prescribed under

 

RCW 9A.20.02l (l)(c) and by a mandatory fine of not less than one

 

thousand dollars per pet animal.

(3) (a) It is unlawful for any person. who knows or has reason to

 

know that a pet animal has been stolen or fraudulently obtained, to

 

sell or otherwise transfer the pet animal to another who the person
knows or has reason to know has previously sold a stolen or
fraudulently obtained pet animal to a research institution in the

state of Washington.

 

(b) A conviction under (a) of this subsection is a class C felony

$58 5827 .2.

 

w

Ni-Iu—a-ov-nr-or-vr-nu-Iu—nr—
OCDWQODUI-bWNr-‘o

CDQQOOUI-D-OON

and shall be punishable as prescribed under RCW 9A.20.021 (llgc) and
by a mandatory fine of not less than one thousand dollars per pet
animal.

g4)(a) It is unlawful for a U.S.D.A. licensed dealer to receive
with intent to sell. or sell or transfer directly or through a third
party. to a research institution in the state of Washington. a pet
animal that the dealer knows or has reason to know has been stolen or

fraudulently obtained.

 

(b) A conviction under 3a) of this subsection is a class C felony
and shall be punishable as prescribed under RCW 9A.20.021 (l)(c) and

by a mandatory fine of not less than one thousand dollars per pet

 

animal.

(5) The sale. receipt. or transfer of each individual pet animal

 

in violation of subsections (1). (2). g3). and (4) of this section

constitutes a separate offense.

 

(6) The provisions of subsections g1). (22. (3). and (4) of this

 

section shall not apply to the lawful acts of any employee. agent, or

director of any humane society. animal control agency. or animal

 

shelter operated by or on behalf of any government agency. operating

under law.

NEW SECTION. Sec. 3. A new section is added to chapter 16.52
RCW to read as follows:

(1) All transfers of mammals. other than rats and mice bred for
use in research and livestock. to research institutions in this
state. whether by sale or otherwise. shall conform with federal laws
and. except as to those animals obtained from a source outside the
United States. shall be accompanied by one of the following written
certifications. dated and signed under penalty of perjury:

(a) Breeder certification: A written statement certifying that
the person signing the certification is a United States department of
agriculture-licensed class ~A dealer whose business license in the
state of Washington includes only those animals that the dealer
breeds and raises as a closed or stable colony and those animals that
the dealer acquires for the sole purpose of maintaining or enhancing
the dealer's breeding colony. that the animal being sold is one of
those animals. and that the person signing the certification is

-3- 888 5827

 




.— a “.4...— —-~ ~O—m"

. ... mwrrw—w -.

 

(tw..—v-‘-.'u¢~"

vi-J.

OCOQQQOIACGNH

NNNNNNNNHH—nu—u—n—I—u—u—o
QOSUAQNV‘O‘OQNIGUI-bwhiﬂ

Sec. 4

The written policies shall be binding on all employees. agents. or
contractors of the institution. These policies must contain. at a
minimum. the following provisions:

(a) Animals shall be acquired in accordance with the federal
animal welfare act. public health service policy. and other
applicable statutes and regulations;

(b) No research may be conducted on a pet animal without the
written permission of the pet animal’s owner;

(c) Any animal acquired by the institution that is determined to
be a pet animal shall be returned to its legal owner. unless the
institution has the owner’s written permission to retain the animal:
and

(d) A person at the institution shall be designated to have the
responsibility for investigating any facts supporting the possibility
that an animal in the institution’s possession may be a pet animal.
including any inquiries from citizens regarding their pets. This
person shall devise and insure implementation of procedures to inform
inquiring citizens of their right to prompt review of the relevant

files required to be kept by the institution for animals obtained

under subsection (2) of this section, and shall be responsible for

facilitating the rapid return of any animal determined to be a pet
animal to the legal owner who has not given the institution
permission to have the animal or transferred ownership of it to the
institution.

(4) For the purposes of this section. ~research institution~
means any facility licensed by the United States department of

agriculture to use animals in biomedical or product research.

NEW SECTION. Sec. 4. A new section is added to chapter 19.86
RCW to read as follows:

Any violation of RCW 9.08.070 or section 3 of this act
constitutes an unfair or deceptive practice in violation of this
chapter. The relief available under this chapter for violations of
RCW 9.08.070 or section 3 of this act by a research institution shall
be limited to only monetary penalties in an amount not to exceed two

thousand five hundred dollars.

$58 5827

 

 

 




Sec. 5

NEW SECTION. Sec. 5. A new section is added to chapter 16.52
RCW to read as follows:

No provision of RCW 9.08.070 or section 3 of this act shall in
any way interfere with or impair the operation of any other provision
of this chapter or Title 288 RCW. relating to higher education or
biomedical research. The provisions of RCW 9.08.070 and section 3 of
this act are cumulative and nonexclusive and shall not affect any

other remedy.

NEW SECTION. Sec. 6. This act is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace. health. or safetyu or support of
the state government and its existing public institutions. and shall

take effect immediately.
Passed th nate hp 22, 1989.
P sident of the Senate.
Passed the House April 21, 1989.

e er of t House.

558 5827

. "I; :1 ii:

i x .um. I. , .
k :-.l~..“' ' . 1'.“ ii
‘ y' -. Mm" f’r'lwpiw

| v . 1
4| ,13 1' tr .ﬂh ' 'h‘l :‘ y, ‘4 1». ‘ -. ,L" ‘ <3): .v‘ I ,--I- 5 ~ ~ .. ' _ ‘
'. . ' m ' '- .- ! . . ‘,2 n/‘U "i i 1'64 ' s m -- 'A " A l” “'1'” Y.-.) a, In. I.
v...” f, , \lr Q,” 9. l. “(a . , . . ’ ‘mln‘, ,y' '5. 4 ‘,,., ”"4... L1,... \ a n . .. , ,A ‘ _ -, ,
WW 3‘ “was; «v 1 “mm . a . .p , ~ .. . 1 a . t. i . , .1 .. t. ..
.‘__.-c 4J3... .‘ » ~ ik‘étJ—h.” : I L Mgr“ \é‘z‘m fgwmxwﬁu & l . > ~Q$li “ f. l s_‘_

v

\\ 'rmt ”1‘41.er

". ”Ir

GT

CERHIPICAJTCHV¢DPIHWRCHJJHJIHQAINHMUHTT

SUBSTTTUUTESEBUEDEEHLLDﬂ).

 

(JiAPq1318KL

 

Passed the Senate__m 9 . I9 12
Yeas 47 My: ..._.__._°

Passed the Home Apri 1 4. 19 89
As Amended
Man 27 anso

' 4/10/89 - The Senate refused to concur in the

1 House amendments and asked the House to recede.

4/18/89 - The House insisted on its position and
' asked the Senate for a conference. CERTIFICATE

‘4 4/19/89 - The Senate granted the House for a
é wanna“. I, Gordon A. Celeb. Secretaty o/theScnateo/lhe

4/20/89 - The House adopted the Stake/Washington do hereby can}? that the
report of the Conference Committee attached “MW 5am“ 3m“ Bill

and aranted powers of Free Confers f
4/21/89 ~ The Senate adopted the W3 1 “p by“.

' report of the Conference Committeem WHOM“ ofkmmenlalwesonlhe
A 'f and aranted powers of Free dam . ‘

Conference

\ .1 4/21/89 - The House adooted report

of Free Conference and passed the
bill as amended bv the Free Conference Committee was 97Wg‘umu
4/22/89 - The Senate adopted report of tree Conference and passed
_ 9- _ill an amended b Free Conferene YEAS 45 HAYS 0 -
' ,- 3‘3"- .‘ﬁﬂﬂv‘ fn~9rw;‘W“& $1354 if: ~1~nv1¢
“ "' , .. - U‘h‘ .v‘ u A :

 




