APES AND MEN

by H. J. MASSINGHAM.

Reprinted by permission from “ The Spectator,” fune 2nd, I928

THERE appeared in the Times the other day a moving and digniﬁed letter

from Sir Hesketh Bell, describing a new method of capturing orang-
utans. Nothing can escape the all-knowledge of Homo Sapiens, the demon-
divinity of the animal kingdom. The secret'of the atom cannot elude him;
the lair of the wildest beast is an open book to him. So it proved in the
densest jungle of Sumatra, for his godlike capacity revealed one of the last
refuges of this man-ape where he was wont to congregate in family parties.
Having discovered their retreat, Sapiens proceeded to. ring it round and to
frighten his relations until they were herded together within a small area.
The .trees and scrub were all cut down so that only a few were left in the
centre for the apes to hide in. These in their turn were felled and Caliban
and his kind ~(what was left of them whole, out of smashed skulls and -»
broken limbs) were netted, shut "up in boxes where they could not stand
upright and transported across half the globe to the Riviera.

Forty—ﬁve of the survivors ﬁnally. reached a sho‘p in the Tottenham '
Court Road. The method of taking the orangs was described as more
humane than that usually followed, much as the rack and thumb-screw
might be called a more humane method of making people moral or religious
than boiling them in oil. 7 7 ' '

We have heard a great deal for a good many years of “ Nature red in
tooth and claw,” and of the ape and the tiger surviving in our civilized
souls. We appear, however, to have discovered an effective means of letting
the ape if not the tiger die. Some mOnths ago a further letter appeared in
the Times, this time from the late Sir Albert Gray, narrating how the
gorillas in their last strongholds in the Congo and Mount Kivu districts were
being brought near to extermination; this time in the cause of science,
because it is clear that a stuffed- skin in a museum enables our Wiseacres to
learn more about Nature than does a live animal in its native haunts.
'Furthermore we have become so wise and so very little below the angels
that we. have begun to devise means of avoiding the most inevitable of all
.Nature’s processes—death, which we mete out to creatures who know nothing
of our intellectual aspirations with an unﬂinching devotion to the cause of
. understanding more about Life. This time it is the third anthropoid, the
chimpanzee, who serves by his sacriﬁce the higher interests, of humanity.
The forests of Central Africa are being. combed of the chimpanzee in order
that his glands may rejuvenate old men. ’

Wild animals, Of course, belong to us,‘not to Nature, not to' life. We
are stronger than they are; we. can kill them so very easily; we can im-
prison them for life in iron and concrete cells, we can play tricks with their
anatomy on the operating tables; we can dress them up to resemble drunken
sailors. Were they not made for our convenience and pleasure? ‘ "

[See Over

 




If only for the sake of our intellectual pride, however, might we not
ﬁnd a little better use for at least those human-like animals who have only
just missed the extrordinary virtue of being men? ‘In a few years there is
little doubt that at the present rate of slaughter and exploitation ‘all the
anthropoids will have disappeared for ever from their natural homes. Before
we extirpate or lshUt up the remnants, let us be sure that we sapient beings
are making the most of them.~ The last of the gorillas in a mangy skin
enclosing sawdust and not moving even by clockwork seems a poor return
for what might have been. The old men reviviﬁed by chimpanzee glands-—
it is unfortunate that that disgruntled Dean should have Written so tellingly‘
about the Struldbruggs. Or the chimpanzee in a red waistcoat ,and a soldier’s
cap eating at table, wonderfully entertaining as he is, yet an element of
discomfort creeps in as we consider him. The orang-utans- behind their
bars at the Zoo, the male looking like a disillusioned Eastern sage, so
tenderly solicitous of his mate who. clasp-s her dying baby, while both look.
beyond the sea of gaping faces towards the death which would be less
terrifying, less bewilderingly monstrous to them than their experience of
life—is the fun of it quite satisfying enough for us who have climbed from
apehood up the Jacob’s ladder of evolution? '

There is another consideration—that ape and tiger business. Up to. quite
recently it was the delight of science to picture man as a ravening beast
only to be restrained from boiling over into his instinctive savageries by the
disciplinary force of his laws and institutions. It was all Nature’s fault,
and so there was some excuse for taking it out of her. The bioloagists, the
zoo-logists, the psychologists, the anthropologists, and the .creeds with them,
whatever their differences in other provinces of thought, all joined minds in
visiting with contumely the infantile, the naive, the superannuated adage
that the Kingdom of God is within you. Within you. a caveman—devil sat
darkling, or a furtive “ sinner ” or a bucketful of primeval slime known as
the subconscious, according to the particular dogma professed- The external
fabric of our civilization was woven through conﬂict out of the savage or fallen
Adam, and but for that fabric to Adam or to. the savage we should have to
return. This cheerful doctrine has of recent years been threatened with its
David in the shape of intensive research into the real nature of primitive man.
His modern representatives are still extant in communities scattered about odd
corners of the world. This primitive, not to be confused with the savage,
who is a martyr to an elaborate machinery of social organization, is found to
be an extraordinary creature indeed. He does not make war, he does not
grab or cheat or slay or torment his fellows in the name of their higher
, interests. The beginnings of the Kingdom of God are within him. Now
the nearest allies in the animal world of this disconcerting dawn~man who
upsets the professors’ apple-carts ,are the anthropoid apes. What- secrets
affecting our whole system of thought may they not reveal? As one thinks
of those orangs boxed up in their Tottenham Court Road prisons, another
question stirs uneasily in the mind. Are these ‘lost hirsute cousins of ours

gentler than us civilized men? Which then is Caliban? It wouldn’t be “a ‘

bad idea to spare them, in order to ﬁnd out.

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
pl l-HNGGLNAS"”I‘N'N'“Ff‘ELDS',-MI:Q-NDW

' a '3 *n
"-3. : . .
. EA , .

A .~ .. Kw -
{.2 f5 ’2; $53? kw»

'."L .” y... fwd.
\* { .va- 5 4. ~. ,
r ., 1- 5;
J w

r‘ ‘1» ‘:.
~ u‘ ”a Eis-

, x

,v ,
o, i.

. ..
. ”V 11-; ’3
. 54w» '3 751...} ' .

u ‘ 3‘ '2 . 1;: ,3 2/" - 1Q . :; I ‘1‘ g :19; {EB-i .
. . .,.r . . g 4. ﬂ . .1
gsu’g; 3’15 Lgéfﬁ E ilk": ? g ' - \

 




