 

 

 

_ Experiments on AnimalEJ

,, Are they Justified ? ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE use
115
VIVISEBTION

By
Mr. STEPHEN PABET, F. H. GUS

Hon .eeScrtarycfthe
Res earchDefecen cz'e.zjy

 

 

 

 

 

THE (use a
AGAINST

VIVISEBTIDN

By
Dr. WALTEHB. HADWEH,

MUD, etc" J...P

11056 fthBthUnn
for rthe eAbMZtanv

 

 

 

 

[A commwlsnsvl

 

 

Published in the
Columns of
“ The Standard ”

 

 

BETWEEN THE MEDICAL lEADERS OF THE
VIVISEGTION AND AHTI-VWISEOTION CHHSADES.

 

 

l. Price 51)’ l

 

 

JREPUBLISHED 8Y1

| THE BRITISH UNION FOR |
| THE ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION,

52, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.
Send Orders to Miss B. . , .

E KIDD Secretary

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

_ The British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection.

Headquarters 32, CHARING Cnoss, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.

woes-—
Foundress: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Hon. Secretary:
WALTER R. HADWEN, Esq., M.D., etc., J 1’.

Hon. Treasurer :
The Rev. J. STRATTON, M.A.

Secretary:
MIss B. E. KIDD.

Organising Secretary: Nurse CROSS. Hon._Solicitor : E. KEYS-JONES, Esq.

Central Executive Committee:
Chairman: 'Rev. B. D. MONBO, M.A.

 

The Lady KATHLEEN BUSHE. Mrs. Roscoa.

Miss MARGARET BRADISH. ALF. H. ROSE, Esq.

Madame GUERINI. The Lady ROSMEAD.

J. FRASER HEWES, Esq. Rev. P. W. SPARLING, M.A.

Miss E. DOUGLAS HUME. Rev. J. VERSCHOYLE. M.A.

E. HEYS-JONES, Esq. HAROLD Wms'rON, Esq.

Miss S. S. MONRO. Miss A. F. WHITELEY.’

R. D. PRANKERD, Esq., M.D. Rev. J. S. WOODHOUSE, M.A.
Bankers: ’

LLOYDS BANK, LIMITED, 16, St. James Street, London, S.W.

“THE ABOLITIONIST.”

Monthly Organ of the British Union.

CONTAINING

 

 

High-class Articles on the Moral. Scientific and Historical Aspects
of the Anti-Vivisection Question;

Replies to the Research Defence Society;

- Racy Criticism of New Vivisectional “ Cures”;
Chronicle of the Month’s Work, &c.

snoum BE READ BY ALL HUMANITARIAN.

Specimen Copy sent post free to any address.

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION tggggggge) 2/6 per annum.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Experiments on Animals.
Are They Justiﬁed?

THE CASE Eﬂﬂ , VIVISEGTION.

Mr. STEPHEN PAGET, F.R.C.S.,

Hon. Sec. of the Research Defence Society.

THE CASE AGAINST WVI$EGTION.

BY

Dr. WALTER HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,

Hon. Sec. of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection.

A CONTROVERSY

(Published in the columns of “ The Standard”)

BETWEEN

The Medical Leaders of the Vivisection
and Anti-Vivisection Crusades.

With Additional Correspondence between Dr. Hadwen and Dr. West,
President of the Medical Society, London, the Editor of “The Lancet,”
and Dr. E. F. Bashford, Director of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund.

 

Republished by
The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, SW.

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

Preface.

ON July 20, 1909, there appeared in The Standard a lengthy
article by Mr. Stephen Paget, F.R.C.S., which has since been
published as one of the leaﬂets of the Research Defence Society.
Its general purport will be gathered from the correspondence
which follows. I

It was accompanied by a leading article which practically
recapitulated and corroborated its statements one by one,
and in which the public were urged to “ read and consider
Mr. Paget’s paper.” The writer went on :—

They Wwill ﬁnd that all the most valuable, the most precious, discoveries
of modern medical research have been accomplished by this process [vivi-
section]. In succinct and coldly precise, but none the less eloquent. terms

Mr. Paget summarises some of the results which have been achieved for
selence and humanity by means of experiments on animals.

After repeating and emphasizing Mr. Paget’s contentions
the writer reveals, perhaps to its fullest extent, the prejudice
and misunderstanding with which he views the Anti—vivi-
sectionists in the following sentences :

 

But there are still some who are obsessed by the idea of cruelty. Better,
they say, that consumption should blight its hundreds and thousands of
young lives in Great Britain; better that the plague should gather its toll
by the million in India; better that typhoid should poison our cities, and
malaria devastate vast fertile spaces of the globe———better all this than that
the interesting guinea-pig and intellectual rabbit should be put to the torture.

The writer, however, is of opinion that “ they are not
tortured,” and by way of explaining what are the changes in
the Act for which Mr. Paget is desirous, he concludes his
special pleading as follows 2—-

But the charge of cruelty is hardly worth serious confutation; and it
need only be noticed because it is still used as an argument against any
furthergextension of the Act of 1875, or, rather, of the limitations under which
it is administered. The time has come when these restrictions should be
removed, or at least rendered more elastic. Science has carried on its most
beneﬁcent work in England under difficulties from which it should now be
released, if this country is to hold its place in the ampler sphere of the new
physiology and the latest phases of preventive medicine.

About eight months after the appearance of Mr. Paget’s
article and its editorial “ puff,” the editor of The Standard
approached Dr. Hadwen with the request that he would
write a series of three articles giving “ The Case against Vivia
section,” the Research Defence Society beingalso asked to
supply three giving “ The Case "for”Vivisection.”

1A

 




 

 

4

As the subject was a wide one, Dr. Hadwen, being requested
to open the controversy, felt that he could not do better
than select the instances of the supposed value of vivisection
which had been supplied by Mr. Paget eight months previously,
and thus furnish a belated reply to his misleading and grossly
inaccurate article. - ~

The controversy began on January 31, 1910, with the
following explanatory headnote by the editor :——‘

In View of the great interest in vivisection, we have decided to open our
columns to a discussion of the whole Subject. Articles by two of the chief
authorities for and agsinst experiments on living animals will be published
daily. Below we give the views of one of the most distinguished Opponents
of vivisection, Mr. Walter R. Hadwen, M.D., hon. secretary of the British
Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, and to-morrow we shall print the
rejoinder of Mr. Stephen Paget, hon. secretary to the Research Defence
Soeiety. Other articles by these writers will be published from day to day.

The editor’s note which appeared at the head of Dr. Had-
wen’s third article explained that an agreement had been
made that the two concluding articles should appear simul-
taneously. Readers of The Standard were therefore naturally
astonished when Mr. Pag‘et was permitted to supply a long
“reply ” to the article which, according to the agreement,
should have closed the controversy. ' .

I t is to be regretted that the editor did not adhere to his
original intention, which would-have secured absolute equality
between the contestants; but, by allowing the subject to be
reopened, Mr. Paget was granted two extra articles and Dr.
Hadwen only one. I t is perhaps still more to be regretted
that he allowed Mr. Paget to make a deﬁnite false Charge
against the British Union, and refused to admit a simple
correCtion by the Secretary.

.To this reproduction of the debate we append two letters
which were refused insertion by the editor. That of Dr.
Hadwen was sent before any indication had been given that
the side controversy with Dr. Bashford had been brought to a
Close, while Miss Kidd’s letter simply rebuts Mr. Paget’s
false charge. '

To the hysterical and vituperative “Last Word ” of Mr.
Stephen Paget with which the editor closed the controversy,
Dr. Hadwen has herewith supplied an incisive answer.

 

British union for Abolition oi iivisectiun.‘

LiFE MEMBERSHIP, £5.
MEMBERS, 105.; ASSOCIATES, 2s. 6d.

1 “ (the abolitionist,” ZS. 6d. per mmum post free. ' , . i '

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

[From “ The Standard,” January 31, 1910.]

EXPEREMENTS @N
HNEMHLS.

ARE, THEV JUSTIFIED?

 

The Case against Vivisection

 

By WALTER R. HADWEN. M.D.. J.P.,

H on. Secretary, British Union for the Abolition of V/ivisecz‘ion.

 

THE LATE MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE, foundress of the
Anti-vivisection movement in this country andof the Society
which I represent, once remarked that “ the least of all possible
rights is to be spared the worst of all ,possible wrongs.” On
behalf of this claim for protection against legalised cruelty ..
(which belongs to all sentient beings) I write this article.
In what is called “ Martin’s Act ” the rights of dumb animals
are recognised. Under that Act thousands of cases of cruelty
have been punished. No excuse is allowed the defendant
if pain or suffering have been inﬂicted. He must pay the
penalty of his wrong—doing. But an exception is made when
the question of cruelty passes out of the domain of the coster—
monger into that of the scientist. A special Act of Parliament
protects the latter against an action at law. He can commit
deeds the bare mention of which strikes horror into the minds
of all possessed of humanitarian feeling; but he is allowed
the excuse which is not permitted to the costermonger, namely,
that the beneﬁt of humanity depends upon his work. ‘ And
'upon the basis of empty promises and still emptier results
he has been allowed to go on-with an ever-increasing toll
of animal pain and suffering until the record of licensed and
certiﬁcated cases of experiment has reached, according to the
last official return, the total of Over 88,000 in one year. This
heavy “ butcher’s bill ” does not include the many thousands

 




 

 

6

of cases for which no licence is required when animals are slowly
done to death in commercial establishments for the purpose
of standardising drugs and manufacturing the sera and anti-
toxins which constitute the craze of the fashionable up—to-date
medicine man of the , twentieth century.

A FREE VIVISEOTION TABLE.

It was urged in The Standard of July 20, 1909, by the hon.
secretary of the Research Defence Society that this law should
be extended, that its restrictions should be modiﬁed, and
greater liberty than that already enjoyed should be permitted
to licencees and certiﬁcate holders. His demand amounts
practically to a claim for a free vivisection table. He prefers
this claim upon the plea that the modern bacteriological
theories associated with the names of Pasteur, Lister, and
Koch were not known thirty years ago, when the present
Act was passed. He appears to be oblivious or unaware
of the fact that the theories of Pasteur have never been proved,
that the postulates of Koch, which were framed as a scientiﬁc
basis for the theories to rest upon, have broken down in
every case to which they have been applied, and that their
practical application in the form of Listerism has had to
be virtually given up by the whole surgical world.

What more glaring instance of the failure to prove the
microbic theory of disease could be found than that of the
alleged goats’ milk origin of Malta fever which I have recently
exposed in the pages of The Contemporary Review ? And
yet upon the basis of this Quixotic fallacy, which was hailed
by the Research Defence Society as the greatest modern
triumph of vivisection, the chief agricultural interest of
Malta has been practically ruined, and the civil population
driven almost into rebellion against the military government
of the island. With the downfall of Koch’s postulates comes
the downfall of the germ theory which is built upon them,
and the consequent failure to prove the speciﬁcity of the
microbe in speciﬁc diseases brings into relief the absurdity
and uselessness of the whole range of antitoxins and sera
of modern medicine and of the theories which belong to them.

THE BACTERIOLOGICAL METHOD.

As evidence, however, of the value and authenticity of the
bacteriological method, on account of which Mr. Paget claims
an extension of liberty to vivisectors, he places ﬁrst and
foremost in his article a long quotation from Sir John Simon——
“ that vehement prophet of science ” who spoke, he says,
with “ proiound signiﬁcance” in 1876 of the researches“; of

DrLKlein”concernlng sheep-pox, thus :—

iu—“d

 

 




 

 

7

By these experiments on sheep it has been made quite clear that the
contagium of sheep-pox is something of which the habits can be studied,
as the habits of a fern or a moss can be studied.

Professor Klein provided wood-cuts of this marvellous microbe
- of sheep—pox which were published in the report of the Medical
Ofﬁcer of the Privy Council. ' But, alas ! for “ that vehement
prOphet of science ” and his prophecy, and for Mr. Stephen
Paget and his proofs, ‘no less an authority than Mr. Stewart
Stockman, chief veterinary ofﬁcer of the Board of Agriculture
and Fisheries, informed the Royal Vivisection Commission
as recently as December 5, 1906 (Q. 2733) that “ sheep—pox
has been shown not to be due to these Organisms.” Can
it be possible that the hon. secretary of the Research Defence
Society is unaware of the fact that that report had to be
withdrawn, and that to this day no one has yet identiﬁed
the sheep-pox microbe or been able to put it on view?

Mr. Paget passes straight on to a “ remarkable story ”
of M. Pasteur and his demonstration of the germ of puerperal
fever—the streptococcus, which is supposed to be the origin
of boils, abscesses, and suppurating wounds, 850.; but he has
- given his own case away by admitting that “ it has indeed
been shown that suppuration may in exceptional conditions
occur without micro-organisms.” This fact goes to show
that the dramatic incident of M. Pasteur rushing forward
in the midst of a professor’s lecture to draw a streptococcus
on a blackboard has been robbed of all its point and effect.
Indeed, M. Pasteur’s memorable phrase, Teuez, votct' sa ﬁgure,
would have sounded rather ludicrous had he been faced with
Dr. George Stoker’s experiment made a few years later, when
large chronic ulcers on each instep of a patient were treated,
the one with oxygen gas, the other with corrosive sublimate.
This experiment, conﬁrmed by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson,
and witnessed and narrated by Dr. Granxn'lle Bantock to
the Royal Vivisection Commission (£3,147 23), proved that the
ulcer on which the microbes had been killed by the corrosive
sublimate refused to get well, whilst the one treated with
oxygen, and which was swarming with the deadly germs,
healed up! Dr. Stoker found by subsequent observations
that the only way to cure was to increase the vitality of the
staphylococcus or stpcptococcus, as the case may be. The
microbes were, apparently, a blessing instead of a curse.

THE DOCTRINE OF A’SEPTICISM.

But thirty years before this “ remarkable story ” of M.
Pasteur occurred, Ignaz Semmelweis had, as Mr. Paget has
frankly acknowledged, reduced the mortality of puerperal
fever in the Maternity Department" of the great General

 




 

 

 

 

8

Hospital of Vienna from 1224 per cent. to 1'27 by simple
cleanliness. It is well known that his condemnation of the
insanitary methods which produced the disease led to perse-
cution by his medical colleagues; they never rested until
theyhad driven him from the hospital and from the city,
and, his mind giving way in consequence, he died in a lunatic
asylum., Mr. Paget declares that “his work was lost just
.for want of experiments on animals.” This means, I presume,
that, had he, like M. Pasteur, drawn a ﬁctitious microbe
on a blackboard, and declared it to be the origin of the disease
he had exorcised, he. might. have saved himself from medical
jealousy and despotism and covered himself with renown!
Possibly so. But Semmelweis will live when the theories
of Pasteur have been buried in oblivion, for it is his doctrine
of asepticism, and not that of the antisepticism of Pasteur
and Lister, which to-day form the handmaid of the surgeon
and the sheet—anchor of the obstetrician.

Mr. Paget invites us to believe that physiology owes every-

thing to experiments on animals. He ridicules the fact that
Harvey declared that he was led to his discovery of the
circulation 'of the blood by anatomy, and not by vivisection,
on the ground that Harvey was an old man when he said
this, and did not know what he was talking about!
“ All that is known of the lymphatic system,” Mr. Paget
i writes, “ goes back to Asellius ” ; but it can easily be demon-
. strated that vivisection was quite unnecessary to the discovery
of these vessels, and Asellius, by these very experiments on
animals, made egregious errors that were subsequently
disproved. ,

Mr. Paget declares that “ all that is known about digestion
., goes back to the eighteenth century.” This is particularly
rough upon his friend, Professor Starling, who professes to
have discovered a good deal, and M. Sohiff and Professor
Pawlow, who also claim to have achieved much in regard
to this subject by means of vivisection. Had he said we have
made no physiological advance since the days of Beaumont,
in 1825—33, who laid the foundation of our knowledge by
his experiments upon Alexis St. Martin (who had a perforated
bullet wound leading into the stomach), he would have been
nearer the mark.

In the same random manner Mr. Paget declares that “ all
that is known of the production of glycogen in the liver and
the chemical action of the pancreas goes back to experiments
- by Claude Bernard,” and “all that we know ” about the
double nerves to Sir Charles Bell. He forgets that “ all
that is known ” of the subject of glycogen amounts to nothing
of practical value, and that-the little we do know was gleaned

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

by Claude Bernard from an examination of the livers of
recently dead- human subjects; whereas the secretion of
the pancreas is so modiﬁed when obtained by operation on
the living animal that all reliable chemical results have been
secured solely by examination of the juice obtained from
the dead bodies of well-fed dogs suddenly killed. As to the
nervous system, Bell emphatically denied that his great
discoveries were due to experiments on animals at all; and,
in spite of what Mr. Paget so conﬁdently asserts concerning
our debt to Claude Bernard’s shocking cruelties for his
researches on the vaso-motor nerves, the latter’s claims are
widely disputed, and the results are still matters of controversy.

CLAIMS FOR VIVISECTION.

To say that “all that is known of the functions of the
thyroid gland . . . is due to the removal of this gland
from a few of the lower animals ” is simply astounding. Mr.
Paget knows perfectly well that seven years before a single
monkey’s thyroid had been experimentally removed, the
functions of the gland had been demonstrated accidentally as
the result of surgical operation upon eighteen human patients
in Berne Hospital.

When Mr. Paget says that “ all present knowledge of the
localisation of the functions of the brain” is built up on
animal experiments, he is stating what is contrary to historical
fact. ‘ Not only is his assertion emphatically denied by the
great brain authority, Professor Charcot, but as recently
as October 1 1 last, Dr. Samuel West, in his presidential address
before the Medical Society of London, stated that :—+

The localisation of function in the brain was largely based upon the
observations of clinical observers, among whom Hughlings Jackson, a former
president of this Society, holds the place of honour. Conﬁrmed and extended
in the laboratory, the conclusions he drew from observations in thewards
form the basis of our present knowledge.

The attempt upon the part of Mr. Paget and of vivisectors
generally to minimise the amount of pain endured by their
hapless victims is' robbed of much of its point when ‘ we
remember that animals cannot express their own feelings in
articulate language; and Mr. Paget’s airy way of passing
lightly over-the revolting cruelties perpetrated in the course
of many of the researches he approvingly refers to, and his
comments upon the “comfortable ” condition of the animals
ekeing out their span in the cages of the doomed, is quite
idyllic. I think it was Sidney Smith who onceretorted upon
a complaining bishop, that he would like to hear the dog’s
account of the matter. ,

 




 

 

 

 

10

THE CANCER EXPERIMENTS.

Mr. Paget reverts again and again to the fact that 96% per
cent. of all experiments on animals consist of inoculations.
Fifty per cent. of this total comprise the useless and absurd
cancer experiments, consisting of the transplantation of
growths bearing no relation to human cancer through numerous
generations of mice, the tumour sometimes reaching three
times the body weight of the animal. Mr. Paget says :—

The total pain is certainly no more than the total pain among an equal
number of mice left to take their chance of starvation, traps, poison, and cats.

But for scientists to be receiving large incomes for the
last seven years in order to do the combined Work of these four
uncanny exterminators, with no other result than to delineate
seventy different kinds of mouse tumour is sufﬁcient to
constitute a screaming farce, ﬁt only for one of Gilbert and
Sullivan’s comic operas, were it not for the scandal connected
with the whole business. -

Inoculations are among the cruellest of the vivisector’s
works. Dr. Thane, the chief Home Ofﬁce inspector, told the
Royal Commission : “ In some cases, under Certiﬁcate A, the
injection is followed by great pain and suffering.” In his
report for 1901 he says :—

The experiment does not terminate with the injection. . . . The
effect may be to set up a condition of disease, accompanied by pain, and
the experiment continues until the animal recovers, or dies, or is killed.

In some cases, such as the injection of certain drugs, or of tetanus toxin,
the effect produced is, Without doubt, painful ; in tuberculosis and standardisa-
tion of tubercular antitoxin, there is some difference of opinion among those

Who have had most experience as to whether the effects produced are attended
by pain or not.

The animal would probably be the best judge ! But as a candid
vivisector, who makes no pretence to the sophistries of Mr.
Stephen Paget, we can have no better example than Professor
Pembrey, who thus delivered himself to the Royal Commission :

I think painful experiments are necessary; I mean, painful experiments
as against experiments under anaesthetics. A commonsense view should
be taken of this question, and pain must be admitted. I admit that I have
done painful experiments, andI am not ashamed of it. They are absolutely
necessary.

“PAIN, PART OF NATURE’S SCHEME.”

This delicately-constituted Professor went on to say that
pain was part offthe scheme of Nature, and if they gave pain
enough they relieved the animal by causing it to faint!

One can imagine (confessed Professor Starling, in Q. 4019) that in a
pathological laboratory a certain amount of suﬂering might be an essential

part of the experiment, so that, although the animal was suffering, it would
not be ,right to kill it.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

11

These are English vivisectors; there is no question of
anaesthesia about all this ; indeed, the question of anaesthesia
adds something like a touch of grotesque irony. Mr. Byrne,
chief clerk at the Home Ofﬁce, says (Q. 164) :—

Attempts, mostly unsuccessful, were made to divide the experiments

returned into painful and painless. That has now been given up, and the
last return does not even profess to do so.

Dr. Thane, the chief inspector, said (Q. 1335) :—

The inspector never could distinguish exactly which experiments were
painless and which were painful, and the experimenters and the observers
themselves cannot distinguish in a very large number of cases.

This points to a ghastly risk at least, which the helpless victims
incur at the hands of the scientiﬁc priest. And the sentiments
and feelings of such priests, who have command of the
sacriﬁcial altar, can be gauged by the cross-examination of
Professor Starling as follows :—

4160.———If there were no such things as anaesthetics, would you justify
painful experiments on animals?

4161.—-Yes; . . . but vivisection would be limited to those men

who had the moral courage to carry out those experiments. Such men
would be worthy of admiration rather thanof condemnation.

In the face'of such confessions and admissions by persons
in authority, there can be no thought of regulating this system.
Miss Frances Power Cobbe once said : “ In practical politics
we can draw no line between painless and painful vivisection.”
The ofﬁcials I have quoted have shown that there is no line
to draw. It is a cowardly and cursed practice, a deliberate
dabbling in the blood and agony of sentient and sensitive
fellow-creatures, without even the excuse of a beneﬁcial result ;
and there is no way of dealing with such a shameless evil
except to demand its total abolition by law.

 

DO YOU READ

“The ABOLITIONIST”?

lt supplies answers to all the arguments
raised by the Research Defence Scolety.

2/ 6 per annum.

 

 

SPECIMEN CORY FREE.

AfPZJ’w
BRITISH UNION, 32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, SW.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

12

[From “ The Standard?" February 1, 1910.]

The Case for Vivisection.
1. '

 

By STEPHEN PAGET, F.R.C.S.,

Hon. Secretary to the Research Defence Society.

 

rﬁ

FOR the reader’s convenience, I will number my answers to
the statements in Dr. Hadwen’s‘ article, and will follow exactly
his arrangement of the subject.

1. He refers to the Act, but does not refer to the many
conditions and restrictions, not contained in, the text of the
Act, which are imposed by the Home Ofﬁce on licences and
certiﬁcates; nor does he refer to the careful inquiry and
consultation over the granting of them. We have, on this
point, the evidence before the Royal Commission of Mr.
Byrne, principal clerk in the Home Ofﬁce :—

Q. 208.———Then may I take it that every licence which is applied for has
to pass not only through three sets of eyes, but four sets of authorities, before
it is granted—namely, ﬁrst, one of the authorities mentioned in the Act,
the President of the Royal College of Physicians, or the President of the
Royal College of Surgeons ?———A.——Yes.

,. Q. 209.——Then it has to be sent by the Home Ofﬁce to the Society of
Reliearth (2’.e., the Association for the Advancement of Medicine by Reseach) ?
—— .— BS.

1;: Q. 210.——Then it has to go to the inspector ?——A.—~Yes.

r

g Q. 211.—-—And then, again, it has to run the gauntlet of either two or three
ofﬁcials of the Home Ofﬁce ?——A.———Yes.
Q. 212.——And the same with a certiﬁcate ?—A.—That is so.

2. Dr. Hadwen gives the total number (88,634) of experi-
ments made during 1908 in Great Britain. No fewer than
85,783 of them, or 97 per cent., were inoculations, or of the
nature of inoculations, involving no sort 0r kind of operation.
The vast majority of these inoculations were made on mice
or guinea-pigs. And no fewer than 12,500 of them were
nothing more than the exposing of the ova and young of ﬁsh
to the inﬂuence of efﬂuents in various stages of puriﬁcation
and dilution. These 12,500 experiments were made for the
Royal Commission on Sé‘wage.

3. He says that animals are “ slowly done to death ” over
the making of antitoxins. I saw lately some horses which
had been yielding antitoxin for ﬁve or six years. They were

 

 




 

 

 

13

sleek, well—fed, well—stabled, regularly exercised, and perfectly
comfortable ; they were far better off than the average horse
in the‘streets. ’ '
4. He says that, in my article in The Standard, July 28, I
demanded. greater liberty for licensees, and, practically, the
abolition of all restriction. I did nothing of the sort. I only
pointed out that the text of the Act says not a word about
inoculations, and needs one or tWO changes, after theSe
thirty-ﬁve years, to bring it up to the methods and the Objects
of the work that is done to-day. ‘ V

PASTEUR’s THEORIES.

5. “ The theories of Pasteur have never been proved.”
The theories of. Pasteur are concerned with the molecular
asymmetry of certain crystals, the nature of fermentative
changes in wines, beers, and spirits, the relation of putre-
faction to bacteria, the causes of pébrine and ﬂacherie among
silkworms, the attenuation of virus, the intensifying of virus,
the standardising of virus, and the principles, of immunity;
Which of these theories has not been proved?

6. “ The postulates of Koch have broken down in every.
case to which they have been applied.” The postulates of
Koch are more than a quarter of a century old; and, with
the advance of science, the fourth postulate has become
unnecessary. But take fowl-cholera, swine-fever, anthrax,
glanders, tubercle, pyaemia, puerperal fever, and bubonic
plague. Over which of them have Koch’s postulates broken
down ?- . . - '

7. “ Listerism has had to be virtually given up by the whole
surgical world.” But, all the world over, not only is the anti-
septic system in daily use, but along with it, the aseptic
system. Both of them alike are the direct outcome of Lister’s
work. The whole use of heat, to make instruments and
dressings aseptic, comes of Lister’s and Pasteur’s work, and
before their time was not practised. _.

8. Dr. Hadwen says that he has “ exposed ” Sir David
Bruce’s work on Malta fever. I must refer the reader here to
Fleet-Surgeon Hardie’s article in The Contemporary Review
last October, and to The Standard, August 31 and September 6.
Also to Mr. Haldane’s statement in the House of Commons
a few weeks ago (November 25). He was asked by Mr. Arnold
Lupton to remove the prohibition against the use of goat’s
milk by the garrison, and he answered :——- .

Duringllrecent years improvements have been steadily carried out in re-
lation to'the drainage of the harbours in Malta. In 1906 a considerable

number of the troops were removed from St. Elmo to the new barracks.
The Mediterranean Fever Commission, however, obtained no ev1dence con-

 




 

 

. . Mink r71- 7— “I. 7,,

s~~a _,. »..' . .m-rwwmv—vx—77TWVDVVJV

14—

'necting the condition of the harbours with the prevalence of Mediterranean
yafever among the troops. Since the prohibition of the use of goat’s milk in
barracks and hospitals, Mediterranean fever has practically disappeared
(from amongst the troops. The evidence given in the reports oflthe Royal
Society’s Mediterranean Fever Commission, connecting goat’s milk and

”Mediterranean fever, is so strong, and the improvement in the health of the

troops since the use of goat’s milk has been given up is so marked, that no
responsible Minister who did not wish to be regarded as weak and incom-
petent would venture to remove the prohibition for the use of goat’s milk
by the garrison.

Dr. Hadwen adds, that, as a result of Bruce’s work, “ the civil
population has been driven almost into rebellion against the
military government of the island.” But, as a matter of
fact, it is the civil authorities in Malta who are now warning
the Maltese against goat’s milk.

THE GERM THEORY.

9. He speaks of “ the downfall of the germ theory.” Take
a pure culture of the germs of tetanus, typhoid fever, tubercle,
or plague. A pure culture is just a streak of this or that
kind of germ, in a test-tube, growing on pure sterilised gelatine
or some such nutrient material. Would Dr. Hadwen consent,
or would he not, to have a needleful of one of these pure
cultures put under his skin ".3

10. He speaks of the “ absurdity and uselessness of the
whole range of antitoxins and sera.” But take the case of
epidemic meningitis—~“ spotted fever.” Before the serum
treatment of this terrible disease, the mortality ranged from
684 per cent. (Glasgow) to 805 per cent. (Edinburgh Free
Hospital). With the serum treatment, the mortality ranged
from 181 per cent. (John Hopkins Hospital, Boston) to
427 (Municipal Hospital, Philadelphia). In the Edinburgh
Fever Hospital, the serum treatment brought down the .
mortality from 805 to 423; in Belfast Fever Hospitals,
from 723 to 296. There was no change in the type of the
disease—no Selection of cases. “ My own/experience,” says
Dr. Gardner Robb, of Belfast, “ has been that of 275 cases
under my care in hospital before the use of the serum was
commenced, 7 2'3 per cent. died ; while of the 98 cases treated
with the serum 296 per cent. died. No selection of cases was
made; every case sent into hospital since September, 1907,
has been treated in this way. No change in the severity of
the attacks was observed; in the three months immediately
before the serum arrived with us 45 cases came under treat-
ment, of whom 37, or 82 per cent., died; and, in the ﬁrst
four months after we began its use in hospital 30 cases were
treated, of whom eight died, a mortality of 266 per cent.;
While, of the 34 cases occurring in the city in the same period,

 

 

 




 

 

15

but not sent into hospital, and not treated with the serum,
over 80 per cent. died.”

’ 11. Dr. Hadwen puts a wrong construction on what I said
of Sir John Simon’s “ prophecy ” before the 1875 Royal
Commission. He is right in saying that the microphyte
described thirty-ﬁve years ago as the cause of sheep-pox, has
been found not to be the cause of that disease ; none the less,
what Sir John Simon told the Commissioners was a prophecy,
and one of profound signiﬁcance. It was two years before
Koch’s work on Weigert’s method of staining bacteria with
aniline dyes; it was six years before his work on the use of
transparent solid media for pure culture; yet Simon pro-
phesied with absolute truth, saying: “ We look forward to
opportunities of thus studying the contagium outside the
body which it infects.” I quoted these words ; Dr. Hadwen
has left them out; they are a ﬁne prophecy.

12. Pasteur, in 1878, drew on the blackboard, at the French
Academy of Medicine, the germ of puerperal fever. It is
true that suppuration may, in exceptional cases, occur without
micro-organisms; but suppuration is not puerperal fever.
It is also true that some kinds of germs may have a stimulating
effect on a chronic indolent ulcer of the leg ; but an ulcer of
the leg is not puerperal fever, nor is the vitality of germs the
same thing as their virulency.

13. Pasteur did not only draw germs on blackboards ; he
grew them in test—tubes, and proved their speciﬁc action on
small animals. He was able to show to his opponents, in a
drop of blood, or in a test-tube, or in the tissues of an inocu-
lated guinea pig, the germ of this or that disease, the actual
cause, the thing itself. Semmelweis could not do that. There—
fore his work was lost. The date of his work is 1847-50.
The mortality from puerperal fever in the Paris Maternity
Hospital in April—May, 1856, was 64 deaths out of 347 conﬁne-
ments ; in 1864 it was 310 deaths out of 1,350 conﬁnements ;
in January-February, 1866, it was 2-8 deaths out of 103 con-
ﬁnements. And, of course. what happened in Paris was
happening in other countries.

14. No doctrine of “ asepticism,” apart from the “ anti-
septicism of Pasteur and Lister,” forms to-day either the hand—
maid of the surgeon or the sheet—anchor of the obstetrician.

15. I never said, or thought, that Harvey, in his old age,
did not know what he was talking about ; and Harvey never
said what Dr. Hadwen says that he said. The arrangement
of the valves of the veins “ invited him to imagine ” the course
of the blood ; and experiments on animals helped him to dis—
cover what anatomy had only invited him to imagine. “ At
last,” he says in his book, “ having daily used greater dis-

 




 

16

quisition and diligence, by frequent examination of many

and various living animals—multa, frequenter et warm animalza .

viva introspicz'endo—and many observations put together, I
came to believe that I had succeeded, and had escaped and
got out of thislabyrinth, and therewith had discovered what
I desired—the movement and use of the heart and the arteries.”

THE DISCOVERY OF LACTEALS.

16. ASellius, in the course of an experiment on a living
animal, July 23, 1622, discovered the lacteals. These little
vessels are empty and invisible after death. He pricked one
of them and found that they were not nerves but vessels.
“ At which sight,” he says, “ when I could not restrain my joy,
turning to those who were there, I said ‘ I have found it,’ like
Archimedes.” He did not trace them to the thoracic duct;
but we cannot call that an “ egregious blunder.” It was
Pecquet, thirty years later, who discovered, by another
experiment on a living animal, the thoracic duct. The
anatomists had discovered neither the lacteals nor the duct.

17. Réaumur and Spallanzani, in the eighteenth century,
discovered, by experiments on animals, the nature and action
of the gastric juice. All that is known about digestion goes
back to these experiments. Beaumont, in his book on Alexis
St. Martin: s case, emphasizes this fact “ I make no claim,”
he says, “to originality in my opinions, as it respects the
existence and operation of the gastric juice. My experiments
conﬁrm the doctrines (with same modiﬁcations) taught by
Spallanzani and many of the most enlightened physiological
writers.”

18. Claude Bernard discovered glycogen not by post mortem
observation on man, but by experiments on animals. He
kept two dogs on different diets—one with sugar, the other
without it—~then killed them during digestion, and tested
the blood in the veins from the liver.“ What was my sur-
prise,’ ’he says, “when I found a considerable quantity of
sugar in the hepatic veins of the dog that had been fed on
meat only, and had been kept for eight days without sugar,
just as I found it in the other dog.” “ N ouvelle Fonction du
F0736,” Paris, 1853. '

‘ 19. In his study of the pancreas, Bernard went back to De
Graaf’s use of an artiﬁcial ﬁstula. “ Bernard at one stroke,”
says Sir Michael Foster, “ made clear the threefold action of
pancreatic juice.” His facts have never been denied; they
are the foundation of all later studyof the pancreatic juice,
including the study of the ‘ internal secretion ” of the gland.

20. Bell emphatically says in his “ Idea of a New Anatomy
of the Brain ” (London, 1811) that his great discoveries were

 

 

 

 




 

 

17

due to experiments on animals. “I thought that I had an
opportunity of putting my opinion to the test of experiment,
. an opportunity of prOving. . . . Such were my
reasons for concluding. . . . I now saw the meaning;
. it now became obvious.” That is how he wrote in
1811, when his experiments were fresh in his mind. He wrote
otherwise in 1823 and 1830.

A FAMOUS EXPERIMENT. \

21. Claude Bernard’s discovery of the vaso—motor action
of nerves has never been disputed ; nor was there any “ shock- ‘
ing cruelty” in his famous experiment on the rabbit’s ear.
He divided the non—sensory nerve going to the ear, “ and
immediately,” he says, “ the experiment gave the lie direct
to my theory.” That was the beginning of all knowledge
of the vaso—motor system.

22. Dr. Hadwen leaves out my qualifying words, “ in great
measure,” in what he says that I said about the thyroid gland.
Still, I do not know that I need have put them in. The cases
at Berne did not demonstrate the function of the normal gland ;
and the report of the Commission of the Clinical Society, ﬁve
years later (1888), contained Horsley’s proofs, obtained by
experiment on animals, of the inﬂuences of the normal gland
on the general nutrition of the body. Later still, 1889-90,
came the discovery of the transplantation of thyroid tissue,
and in 1891 the discovery of the use of thyroid extract in cases
of myxoedema and sporadic cretinism.

23. I am sorry that, in the narrow limits of my article, I did
not speak of the clinical observations of Broca, Charcot. and
Hughlings Jackson on cerebral localisation. They were of
the very highest importance ; but they neither did, nor could,
accomplish the work of Fritsch, Hitzig, Ferrier, and their
followers. Charcot, certainly, would have rejoiced to see
the results of that work. His criticism, to which Dr. Hadwen '
refers, is, I think, about thirty—five years old.

24. The fact that it is possible to immunise mice against
mouse cancer, and the non—transmittal of this immunity,
the production of “ hypersensitiveness ” to the disease, the
alternation of positive and negative phases of the growth of the
disease, and the replacement of epithelioma—cells by sarcoma-
cells surely, it is hardly accurate to call these observations
useless, absurd, a screaming farce, a scandal, and a disgraceful
business.

25. I come now to Dr. Hadwen’s account of inoculation as .
“ among the cruellest of the vivisector’s works.” I do not
say that all inoculations or injections are absolutely painless.
But I do say, most emphatically, that I have visited, in the

2

 

 




 

18

last few months, the Lister Institute, the Cancer Research
Laboratories on the Embankment, the Herne Hill Laboratories,
and the Pasteur Institute; that I have seen at these places
I know not how many inoculated animals ; and that I did not
see one that was in pain. I saw ﬁve or siX rats or guinea-
pigs that looked ill, but showed no sign of suffering; and I
saw ﬁve or siX mice that were hampered in their movements
by large tumours under the skin, but showed no sign of suffer-
ing.

26. Against Dr. Hadwen’s phrase, “ a deliberate dabbling in
blood and agony,” we have Professor Starling’s evidence before
the Royal. Commission : “ Though I have been engaged in the
experimental pursuit of physiology for the last seventeen
years, on no occasion have I ever seen pain inﬂicted in any
experiment on a dog or cat, or, I might add, a rabbit, in a
physiological laboratory in this country.”

 

“HEAR BOTH SIDES.”

The British Union for Abolition
of Vivisection

 

PUBLISHES . . __
COMPLETE CONTROVERSIES AND

REPORTS OF DEBATES.
a?‘

They may be had on application to
THE SECRETARY, B.U.A.V.,
32, CHARING CROSS,
ex LONDON, SW.

SEE LIST ON COVER.

 

 

 

 




 

. -MA“*

 

19

[From “ The Standard,” February 2, 1910.]

The Case against Vivisection.
n.

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., 3.1).

I AM quite prepared to follow Mr. Paget’s plan of numbering his
rejoinders, which I will deal with seriatim.

1. Mr. Paget carefully avoids all reference to the legislative
inconsistency which exists between the punishable offence of the
costermonger upon the one hand, and the legalised cruelty of
the vivisector upon the other, to which I drew attention ; he
prefers to enlarge upon the “ careful inquiry ” which he alleges
is ofﬁcially instituted before a vivisector is granted a licence or
certiﬁcate. But my contention as to the latter is that the
authorities under whose eyes the licences and certiﬁcates are
granted are not unbiassed. Who are they ”.3 (1) The heads of
one of the medical colleges. These gentlemen, if not themselves
licensed vivisectors, are usually pro-vivisectionists. Their
signature is a pure formality. (2) The Association for the
Advancement of Medicine by Research. This is the chief court
of reference. It is a society of vivisectors, which was instituted
(as explained at its inception by one of its committee in The
British ﬁledical J our/rial of April. 22, 1882) to “ bring effectual
pressure upon officials ” and “ to secure the Act being harm—
lessly administered.” The British ﬁfedical Journal of October
31, 1908, said that it “ existed for the guidance of the Home
Ofﬁce.” (3) The Inspect(,)r : We have only too good reaSon to
understand Professor Lawson Tait’s last warning that, above
all things, Anti—vivisectionists should “ combine to abolish the
medical inspector.” He has ever proved himself to be the
friend of the vivisector. (4.) The Home Secretary : He has in—
variably adopted the line followed. by Sir William Harcourt,
who, when in that position, informed the House of Commons
that feeling himself “ unﬁt ” for the “ responsibility ” of seeing
that the Act was carried out with discrimination and care, he
had invited the Association of Vivisectors to undertake it for
him! “ Red-tapeism ” is generally, useless, here it is also
dangerous. ;

2. Mr. Paget again evades a plain issue. I have already
stated in my article that the majority of the vivisections of to-

A

 




 

 

 

20

day consist of inoculations, and I have also proved from the
vivisectors’ own evidence that these methods are fraught with
ghastly results, which Mr. Paget apparently ﬁnds it convenient
to ignore.

THE ANIMAL’s POINT or“ VIEW.

3. Mr. Paget has seen some show horses in an uin’iamed
laboratory, and concludes that the repeated injection of morbid
matter into an animal’s body, by which a condition of fever is
set up, with rapid breathing, shivering, probably sweating and
diarrhoea, swellings, etc.——in fact, all the symptoms of blood
poisoning, until it reacts no longer, and the poor creature is
declared to be “ immune 9’ ; followed by a vein in its neck being
periodically opened and a quart or two of blood drawn there—
from, renders it “ far better off than the average horse in the
streets ” I It might be well to know what the horse thinks
about it. The “ horse in the street ” would, at least, be pro~
tected by Martin’s Act.

4. Mr. Paget denies that he wants greater liberty for vivi~
section ; he only wants “ changes ” in the Act that will “ bring
it up to the methods and objects of the work that is done to-
day ” I I have quoted some of the “methods and objects”
from the lips of Professor Pembrey and others. Let me ask Mr.
Paget, Does he agree with the sentiments of Professor Pem-
brey, for instance ‘4 Does he wish such men to have greater
licence, or is he prepared for legislation that will put a stop to
the atrocities they glory in ”.3

5. In saying that “ the theories of Pasteur had never been
proved ” I referred, of course, to those relating to the preventive
treatment of disease, as Mr. Paget knows perfectly well.
Pasteur was a chemist. His work in that direction I am not
discussing.

6. Koch’s postulates have broken down in all the cases ‘

quoted by Mr. Paget. To say that “with the advance of
science the fourth postulate [whichever that is] has become
unnecessary ” is a highly ingenious way of saying it has been
either unproved or disproved ! Germs are found apart from
the disease they are supposed to originate ; they are not found
in undoubted cases of the disease, and the illness set up in
inoculated animals rarely bears any resemblance to the disease
in the human subject. The editor of The Lancet stated in a
leading article in March last :—~—

“It must be acknowledged that all these postulates are
complied with very rarely, indeed, if ever. . . . The
question naturally arises : Are these so-called causal organisms
truly causal, or are they only secondary invaders C3 ”

7. Asepsis-——or simple cleanlinessw—has superseded antisepsis




2]

—-or the use of germicides. The President of the Royal College
of Surgeons, asked by the Royal Commission whether this were
the case, replied signiﬁcantly, “ I hope so.” It is certainly
amusing to witness Mr. Paget’s efforts to confuse the two
systems, so that Lister and vivisection might get the credit of
both. Does he expect us to believe that vivisection. was
necessary to the discovery that hot water cleanses ‘more
thoroughly than cold '9'

THE GOAT’s MILK THEORY.

8. When Mr. Paget refers to Fleet-Surgeon Hardie’s reply
to me re Malta fever, in the October number of The Contem-
porary Review, he might have had the courtesy to state that I
answered every assertion he made in the issue of the following
month. Not a single fact or argument or statistic I have
adduced concerning the goat’s milk fallacy has yet been con~
troverted. Mr. Haldane’s ofﬁcial reply to a question in the
House of Commons contained no argument; he frankly ad-
mitted that the decline of Malta fever synchronised with
sanitary and administrative changes, and, for the rest, he relied
on the conclusions of the Mediterranean Fever Commission,
which I dispute. I am quite aware that the civil authorities are
warning the Maltese against goat’s milk, but the Maltese smile
and go on drinking it, and are none the worse for doing so.

9. N o, I certainly should not consent to the injection of any
so—called “pure culture of germs,” or of any other similar
abomination, into my blood. But I would remind Mr. Paget
that the Grocers’ Company long ago offered £1,000 for the
discovery of a method of cultivating the reputed germ of
vaccinia outside the body, but no one has hitherto claimed the
award ; and yet both vaccinia and variola can be inoculated,
although no speciﬁc germ has been found in connection with
either. Perhaps Mr. Paget can explain this ?

NEW SERUM.

10. Mr. Paget, instead of quoting some of the antitoxins of
“ repute,” helplessly turns to the very newest craze of Flexner’s
serum for epidemic meningitis or spotted fever, and quotes the
experience of Dr. Robb, of Belfast. Why has he dropped
Flexner’s own statistics given in the pamphlet published by
the Research Defence Society ? Flexner startled the profession
with his miracles. Upon turning to his report, however, I ﬁnd
that “ all cases that died in less than tWenty—four hours after
the ﬁrst dose of the serum were excluded from the tabulations.”
That is a queer way of compiling statistics-“to exclude all. the
worst cases ! Mr. Paget would now like us to bow the knee to
one of Flexner’s pupils instead ! I prefer not to jump to con--

 




 

 

 

22

clusions quite so hastily as Mr. Paget. I remember how Mr. ‘
Paget hailed the marvellous yellow fever serum statistics with
unbounded conﬁdence in the ﬁrst edition of “ Experiments on
Animals,” which he had to withdraw in his second ! We will
wait a bit. The whole shore of serum-therapy is strewn with
the wrecks of exploded theories.

11. Sir John Simon’s “ prophecy ” was not a difﬁcult feat,
but it was admittedly based upon a false belief.

12. Mr. Paget’s “ wriggles ” over puerperal fever are very
amusing, and, after vainly endeavouring to escape a straight
issue, he ﬁnally declares that “ the vitality of germs is not the
same thing as their virulency ” ! In that sentence he gives
away the whole germ theory of disease ! In view of the chaotic
condition in which the germ theory now lies, I might quote the
puzzled suggestion of the editor of The Lancet as recently as
March last : “ Germs may, perhaps, be normal inhabitants of
the body, only assuming importance in disease.” This is the
original theory of Béchamp, who complained that Pasteur ﬁrst
pirated and then prostituted it. ’

13. Semmelweis was undoubtedly the founder of aseptic
surgery. Mr. Paget points to the fact that after his unhappy
end deaths from puerperal fever still occurred. That is not
surprising. The medical profession would naturally be very
slow to adopt the methods of the man they had persecuted and
martyred. But the greatest surgical successes have been won
by men like Tait, Savory, and Bantock in this country, and by
Bergmann in Germany, who laughed at antiseptics and scorned
the absurd ritual of Listerism.

14. This I have already answered.

15. Harvey’s chief historical experiment re the circulation
of the blood was upon a man who had been recently hanged.
As a matter of fact the circulation was not established till
years after his death, when Malpighi demonstrated (in 1661)
the capillary circulation for the ﬁrst time by means of the
microscope. As Sir George Macilwain, F.R.C.S., rightly told
the Royal Commission of 1876: “ You could not discover
the circulation in the living body.” Mr. Paget says he “ never
said or thought that Harvey in his old age did not know what
he was talking about.” Allow me to quote his exact words.
Referring to Sir Robert Boyle’s letter, in which the latter
shows that Harvey, on his own confession, gleaned his know-
ledge from anatomy, and not from vivisection (although I
have not denied that he vivisected), Mr. Paget says 2——

This letter has been quoted against all experiments on animals without
the words “ in the only discourse . . . before he died ”‘ (Mr. I’aget’s italics),
which makes a difference ; for Harvey lived to fourscore years—an old man
far advanced in years and occupied with other cares. I

 

 

 

 




 

 

23

Perhaps Mr. Paget will explain what his inference really
signiﬁed. ' ‘

DISCOVERY OF THE LYMPHATICS. ‘
16. I am quite aware that Asellius discovered the lymphatics

by sheer accident in the act of vivisecting a dog, and that he
ﬁrst thought them to be nerves. But why does Mr. Paget,

'whilst lauding the discovery of Asellius in 1622, keep in the

background the fact that Fabrice de Peiresc, who lived 1580—
1637, discovered the vessels in the body of a well-fed male-
factor two hours after his execution? And yet Mr- Paget
says: “ These little vessels are empty and invisible after
death”! Sir Charles Bell actually instructs students in his
“ Lectures ” how to demonstrate them in the human body at
a post mortcm examination! The vivisection of dogs was
unnecessary.

17. Beaumont was the very ﬁrst to obtain human gastric

V juice, and to experiment with it. Spallanzani, to whom Mr.

Paget refers, caused dogs to swallow pieces of sponge, and then
withdrew them soaked in the secretion of the stomach ; but
how could experiments with dogs, which can digest bones,
throw any light upon human digestion? Such experiments
have only led to endless contradictions.

18. Mr. Paget simply conﬁrms what I have said—namely,
that the discovery of glycogen had nothing to do with vivi—
section. '

19. Mr. Paget quotes Sir Michael Foster’s laudation of
Claude Bernard’s work on the pancreas. “ Bernard,” says
Mr. Paget, “ went back to De Graafe’s use of an artiﬁcial
ﬁstula,” and yet the same authority—Sir Michael Foster—
says “ De Graafe’s work was very imperfect and fruitless ” !
As a matter of fact, what little Claude Bernard discovered
about this subject was due to physiological chemistry, and not
to vivisection. And the only deﬁnite’information we have
gleaned as to intestinal digestion was that by Busch, who
studied the subject clinically in a woman who had a perforated
wound in the abdomen through being tossed by a cow. But,
after all, none of it has been of any practical beneﬁt.

20. Sir Charles Bell’s words are conclusive :—

Experiments have never been the means of discovery, but the opening up

of living animals has done more to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the
just views taken from the study of anatomy and living motions.

This statement utterly repudiates Mr. Paget’s unworthy sug-
gestions, against which Bell had to defend himself in his own
lifetime. ' .
21. Mr. Paget says: “ Claude Bernard’s discovery of the
vaso-motor action of nerves has never been disputed.” If

 




 

 

 

 

24

he will turn to page 641 of Professor Flint’s “ Human Phy-
siology ” he will see that the diScovery is attributed to Brown-
Sequard. And on p. 643 he will see some of Bernard’s “ shock-
ing cruelties ” to which I referred. As to Bernard’s rabbit’s
ear experiment being the “ beginning of all knowledge,” if
Mr. Paget will turn to Dr. Munk’s Roll of the Royal College
of Physicians, Vol. II., p. 125, he will see that a famous Oxford
anatomist, Dr. Mark Nicholls, proved the presence and func-

tion of the vaso-motor nerves in the course of his investigations

on aneurism in the human subject as far back as the eighteenth,

century.

VIVISECTION or APES.

22. This is ‘a mere evasion of my contention. Eighteen
persons at Berne had their thyroids removed : certain deﬁnite
symptoms supervened, and we learnt that if you want to
avoid those symptoms you must keep your thyroid intact
or introduce something that corresponds to it (whether thyroid
extract or iodine, which has been discovered to be its active
principle). The subsequent vivisection of apes was unneces-
sary, cruel, and useless. The “ function of the normal gland ”
had been already discovered, and the rest was a matter of
common—sense and chemistry.

23. Mr. Paget is “ sorry he did not speak of the (clinical
observations of Broca, Charcot, and Hughlings Jackson.”
Why did he omit them ? Why does he slur them over now ‘3
He says : “ Chatcot would have rejoiced to see the results
of Fritsch, Hitzig, Ferrier, &c.” He surely ought to know
that the work of the clinicians has alone stood the test of
long scientiﬁc experience in relation to the human brain.
Goltz entirely repudiated the conclusions of Ferrier. Fritsch
and Hitzig denied the conclusions of Fleurens. It is in the
quarrels of vivisectors over cerebral localisation in the lower
animals that one ﬁnds more than anywhere else the truth of
the dictum uttered by Sir Michael Foster in 1895 :——-

The very spirit of a scientiﬁc man was to believe that his brother was a
liar, and that his one duty was to prove it.

24. The observations upon mouse cancer certainly con-
stitute a scandal and a farce, seeing that they are put before
the public as steps towards the discovery of a remedy for
human cancer, to which the mouse tumour bears no real,
resemblanCe.

.25. Mr. Paget answers himself. Whilst partially admitting
the fact, he declines to face the unimpeachable evidence I
have adduced from the confessions of vivisectors themselves
as regards the pain of inoculation processes. I too have
visited the Pasteur Institute, and my conclusions were the

 




 

25

opposite of Mr. Paget’s. He only appears to see animals
that are “ comfortable.” Mice carrying tumours (sometimes
three times their body weight) are merely “ hampered in their
movements ” ! He even distinguishes between “ looking
ill ” and “ showing signs of suffering,” which are usually fairly
synonymous in the case of human patients. If the idyllic
conditions enumerated by Mr. Paget prevail in the labora-
tories, will he explain why, at the Royal Commission, when
the inspector was asked whether a medical man appointed by
an anti—vivisection society would be allowed to visit them,
he replied : “ I see no way of doing it ” ? (Q. 142.)

26. Professor Starling writes in his “ Elements of Human
Physiology,” page 273 : “ Any painful stimulation of a sensory
nerve, especially in the abdomen, excites a reﬂex inhibition ” ;
and again, on page 249 : “ Stimulation of the sensory nerves
of the heart produce . . . . pain, as evinced by the movement
of an animal not fully under the inﬂuence of an anaesthetic.”
And yet Professor Starling has been “ engaged in the experi—
mental pursuit of physiology for the last seventeen years,
and has 0n no occasion ever seen‘pain inﬂicted in any experi-
ment on a dog or cat, or he might add, on a rabbit ” !

Claude Bernard truly wrote of his own class 2——

A physiologist is no ordinary man. He is a learned man possessed and

absorbed by a scientiﬁc idea. He does not hear the animals’ cries of pain.
He is blind to the blood that ﬂows. He sees nothing but his idea. -

 

FIV E PO U N D S
Will make you a
Life Member of the

Bl‘lllSII "Hi0" lﬂl‘ Abolition 0i Vivisectinn.

The Society founded in l898
BY

Miss FRANCES POWER COBBE

(Foundress of the British Anti-Vivisection Movement).

Members, lO/-. ' Associates, 2/6.

 

 

 

 




 

 

26

[From “ The Standard,” February 3, 1910.]

The Case for Vivisection.
11.

 

By STEPHEN PAGET. F.R.C.S.

 

1. (a). IT is true that the authorities concerned with the
administration of the Act are not in favour of anti—vivisection;
they would not represent the opinion and the wishes of the
country if they were. (6) Mr. Lawson Tait, in 1893, spoke
heartily in favour of bacteriological experiments on animals.
(See British M edical Journal, February 11, 1893.) These
experiments are about 97 per cent. of all experiments on
animals in this country.

2. The increase in the total number of experiments in
1908 was mainly due to the 12,500 observations made to test
the action of efﬂuents, in various stages of puriﬁcation and
dilution, on ﬁshes and their eggs. Were these observations
fraught with deadly results? And why are they reckoned
as “ vivisections without anaesthesia ” by the anti-vivisection
societies ?

3. I saw every horse on Burroughs and VVellcome’s premises
at Herne Hill. Their condition was exactly as I described
it. Not one of them had “ blood—poisoning.” They were
all in excellent health. ‘

4. The Act was drafted in the days before bacteriology.
The result is that all inoculations are scheduled, as experiments
made without anaesthetics, under Certiﬁcate A. We want
a special certiﬁcate for inoculations, instead of this old
Certiﬁcate A.

5. I said nothing of Pasteur’s work in chemistry. I gave
a list of his eight principal theories. One had to do with
crystals, one with ferments, and six with the prevention of
disease. None of them has been disproved.

6. Koch’s postulates did not break down in the cases that
I quoted. For a good later example of the fulﬁlment of
Koch’s postulates, take Sir David Bruce’s discovery of the
cause of Malta fever. A certain sort of germ was found
in the spleens of all patients who had died of the fever. These
germs were got to grow, in pure culture, in test-tubes. With
these pure cultures, just the one sort of germs and nothing
else, monkeys were inoculated. They showed signs of the

 




 

27

fever: joint pains, wasting, and so forth. Their organs,

after death, were found to contain the germs in vast numbers.
7. Asepsis is not “ simple cleanliness.” It is elaborate

sterilising with boiling water or hot air. ‘ ‘

THE MALTA FEVER ARGUMENT.

8. The old notion that Malta fever is due to “ emanations
from the harbour,” or to “ ﬁlth,” was disproved by Bruce’s
experiments, and by the facts (1)- that several cases of
accidental infection—one of them fatal—have occurred in
England among men studying the disease, by mere handling
of pure cultures; (2) that the ofﬁcers, and their wives and
children, living in large, airy, and clean rooms, suffered more
than three times as heavily as the rank and ﬁle in their more
crowded barrack—rooms. The reason was that they drank
much more of the infected milk.

The ofﬁcial prohibition of the goat’s milk to our sailors and
soldiers came into force on July 1, 1906 ; but for some months
the men had been unofﬁcially advised against the milk. In
July-September, 1905, there had been 258 cases; in July—-
September, 1906, there were 26. In 1905 there had been
643 cases. In 1907 there were eleven. In the two worst
months for the fever, July and August, 1907, there was not
one case.

The Maltese went on drinking the goat’s milk and having
the fever. Of course, many of them have had it in childhood,
and are more or less immune ; they suffer less heavily than
did our men, who came fresh to the island. Still, the contrast
is plain enough. “ I have a letter,” says Bruce to the Royal
Commission, November 5, 1907, “from Dr. Zammit, who
is a member of the Board of Health, and he informs me that
the number of cases of Malta fever in the native population
is as great this year (1907) as ever.”

9. The “ germ theory ” is that certain germs cause certain
diseases. When a man says that “ the whole germ theory
is nothing but twaddle and nonsense from beginning to end,”
why should he refuse to try on himself a pure culture ? The
germs of variola, vaccinia, scarlet fever, and yellow fever
have not yet been discovered; but the germs of tetanus,
typhoid, tubercle, and plague have. Why should he not
try some of them?

10. There is nothing wrong with Dr. Flexner’s statistics.
The practical. use of remedies is to be judged by their results
in cases where they have a chance of being useful. Remedies
are for cases that are not past all hepe of remedy. To exclude
the moribund cases is the only way to estimate the practical
value of a remedy for cases which are not yet moribund.

 




 

 

'28

Dr. Robb, on the other hand, excluded no cases. His
cases in hospital, with the serum, had a mortality of only-
296 per cent. ; while outside the hospital, at the same time,
in the same city, but without the serum, the mortality was
more than 80 per cent.

11. Sir John Simon’s prophecy, made long before the
days of solid media for the culture of germs, was what I said
it was.

12. As it is with arguments, so it is with germs : virulence
is one thing, and vitality is another.

13. The founder of aseptic surgery was Pasteur. The date
of his Chamonix experiment is September 22, 1860. In 1878,
Pasteur was expounding and enforcing the principles and
practice of aseptic surgery, as a new method, in the hospitals
of Paris. Semmelweis died in 1865; his work was lost, for
this very reason, that he could not demonstrate, as Pasteur
did, the actual cause of puerperal fever, the thing itself,
visible under the microscope. -

14. See 7 and 13.

HARVEY’S EXPERIMENTS.

15. Harvey’s account of his discovery of the course of
the blood was published in 1621. His letters to Riolanus,
dwelling on points still disputed in the great controversy,
were written twenty-eight years later, in 1649. In these
letters, he alludes to several dissections of bodies after hanging ;
but he only uses them to. illustrate, in 1649, what he had
discovered before 1621. The words which I put in italiCs
in Boyle’s letter are the words which a well-known writer
against all experiments on animals left out. They are
important, as evidence that Harvey’s talk with Boyle was
ﬁve—and-thirty years after the publication of his “ De Motu
Cordis et Sanguinis.”

16. I have looked up Gassendi’s “Life of Fabrice de
Peiresc.” Gassendi, who writes most execrable Latin,
published a book giving an account of Asellius’s great
discovery. Peiresc got a copy, was immensely delighted,
ordered copies for all his medical friends, and was anxious
to do Asellius’s experiment over and over again. He no
more discovered the lacteals than I did. . Of course, after
Asellius had found, by opening one in the living animal,
that they were full of chyle after a meal, it was easy for Bell,
two centuries later, to instruct students in that fact.

17. “ I make no claim,” says Beaumont in 1838, in his
account of his experiments on Alexis Saint Martin, “ to
originality in my opinion, as it respects the existence and the
operation of the gastric .juice. My experiments conﬁrm




 

29

the doctrines (with some modiﬁcations) taught by Spallanzani
and many of the most enlightened physiological writers.”

18. That is not what Dr. Hadwen said.

19. De Graafe’s work (1662) was very imperfect and fruitless,
for this reason, that there was not enough physiological
chemistry, in the seventeenth century, to analyse the
pancreatic juice when he had obtained it. Bernard, in the
nineteenth century, obtained the pancreatic juice by De
Graafe’s method of a ﬁstula, and analysed it by the methods
of physiological chemistry. Was Busch before, or after,
Bernard ?

20. I must repeat Bell’s own words about his own
experiments, written in 1811, at the very time of his great
discovery: “ I thought that I had an opportunity of putting
my opinion to the test of experiment; . . . an opportunity of
proving. . . Such were my reasons for concluding. . . . I now
saw the meaning. . . . It now became obvious.” It is
impossible to explain away, these phrases.

21. (a) Brown Séquard, like Bernard, followed the experi—
mental method. (6) I have looked up Munk’s Roll. I ﬁnd
no evidence there that Nicholls proved either the presence
or the function of the vaso-motor nerves; he only gives a
vague description that would do for them. Neither do I
ﬁnd any connection between that description and his study
of aneurysm. '

22. (a) Iodine is not the active principle of the thyroid
gland. (b) Iodine is useless in cases of insufﬁciency of the
gland, such as are cured with thyroid extract. (0) Horsley’s
experiments were a most important link in the whole chain
of the evidence.

23. The “ work of the clinicians ” for the last thirty years
has been done in the light of the experiments made by Fritsch,
Hitzig, Ferrier, and others. The “ quarrels ” over cerebral
localisation belong to past history.

24. Mouse-cancer is real cancer, and the very image of
cancer in us. The condition of the mice was exactly as I.
described it.

25. I do not say that all inoculations are painless ; I only
say that the pain is grossly and deliberately exaggerated
by the ofﬁcial opponents of all experiments on animals.

26. Dr. Hadwen leaves out from the sentence in Professor
Starling’s evidence the very words that he ought to have put in.

A QUOTATION FROM NEWMAN.

I would conclude with an apt though lengthy quotation
from Newman. It is close on half a century since he published
his lectures on "‘ The Present Position of Catholics in England.”

 

 




30

His religion was assailed, by certain of the “ No Pepery ”
men, with just those weapons which are now employed by
the anti-vivisection societies for the assault of science. I
commend the following paragraphs to the reader :—

“ We should have cause to congratulate ourselves, though
we were able to proceed no further than to persuade our
opponents to argue out one point before going on to another.
It Would be much even to get them to give up what they
could not defend, and to promise that they would not return
to it. It would be much to succeed in hindering them from
making a great deal of an objection till it is refuted, and
then suddenly considering it so small. that it is not worth
withdrawing. It would be much to hinder them from eluding
a defeat on one point by digressing upon three or four others,
and then presently running back to the ﬁrst, and then to and
fro, to second, third, and fourth, and treating each in turn
as if quite afresh subject, on which not a word had yet been
said. .

“ No evidence against us is too little; no inﬂiction too
great. Statement without proof, ~ though inadmissible in
every other case, is all fair when we are concerned. An
opponent is at liberty to bring a charge against us, and
challenge us to refute not any proof he brings, for he brings
none, but his simple assumption or assertion. . . .

“ we are dressed up like a scarecrow to gratify, on a large
scale, the passions of curiosity, fright, and hatred. Something
or other men must fear, men must loathe, men must suspect,
even if it be to turn away their minds from their own inward
miseries. . .

“A calumny against us ﬁrst appeared in 1836; it still
thrives and ﬂourishes in 1851. I have made inquiries, and
I am told that I may safely say that in the course of the
ﬁfteen years that it has lasted from 200,000 to 250,000 copies
have been put into circulation in America and England. . . .”

 

“THE PREJUDICED MAN.”

“ The Prejudiced Man takes it for granted that we who
differ from him are universally impostors, tyrants, hypocrites,
cowards, and slaves. If he meets with any story against us,
on any or no authority, which does but fall in with this notion
of us, he eagerly catches at it. Authority goes for nothing;
likelihood, as he considers it, does instead of testimony ; what
he is now told is just what he expected.

“ About our state of mind, our views of things, our ends
and objects, our doctrines, our defence of them, he absolutely
refuses to be enlightened. . .

“ The most overwhelming refutations of the calumnies

 

 

’.7




 

'-'

31

brought against us do us no good at all. We were tempted
perhaps to say to ourselves: ‘ What will they have to say
in answer to this? Now at last the“ falsehood is put down
for ever; it will never show its face again.’ Vain hope!
Such is the virtue of prejudice—it is ever reproductive;
future story-tellers and wonder-mongers, as yet unknown to
fame, are below the horizon, and will unfold their tale of
horror, each in his day, in long succession. . . .

“ Perhaps it is wrong to compare sin with sin, but I declare
to you, the more I think of it the more intimately does this
Prejudice seem to me to corrupt the soul, even beyond those
sins which are commonly called more deadly. And why?
Because it argues so astonishing a want of mere natural
charity or love of our kind. They can be considerate in all
matters of this life, friendly in social intercourse, charitable
to the poor and outcast, merciful towards criminals, nay,
kind towards the inferior creation, towards their cows and
horses and swine. Yet as regards us, who bear the same
form, speak the same tongue, breathe the same air, and walk
the same streets, ruthless, relentless, believing ill of us, and
wishing to believe it. They are tenacious of what they believe ;
they are impatient of being argued with; they are angry at
being contradicted; they are disappointed when a point is
cleared up ; they had rather that we should be guilty than
they mistaken ; they have no wish at all that we should not be
unprincipled rogues and bloodthirsty demons. They are
kinder even to their dogs and their cats than to us. Is it
not true ? Can it be denied? Is it not portentous ? Does
it not argue an incompleteness or hiatus in the very structure
of their moral nature? Has not something, in their case,
dropped out of the list of natural qualities proper to man ? ”

What Newman said of such enemies of his religion is true
of such enemies of the doctor’s science. Revelations, lifted
veils, horrible disclosures, and startling exposures, may have
to do with convents, or with medical schools and laboratories ;
and “ platform facts ” are at Caxton Hall what they used to
be at Exeter Hall. People then made guys, on the ﬁfth of
November, of the Pope ; now they put up a lying little drinking
fountain at Battersea. Then, it was the evidence of escaped
nuns ; now, it is the afﬁdavit of a charwoman at the Rocke—
feller Institute. They stirred up then, falsehood and hatred ;
they stir up now, falsehood and hatred. -

 

Report of the Debate at Shrewsbury between Dr. HadWen
and Mr. Stephen Paget.

, Published by the British Union, 32, Charing Cross, London.
Price 2d., post free.

 

 




 

 

32

[From I“ The Standard,” February 4, 1910.]

The Case against Vivisection

(Conclusion).

 

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.

 

UNDER ordinary circumstances it would not be easy to reply
to a two-column article in the space of one, but my task
is rendered less difﬁcult by reason of the fact that Mr. Paget’s
rejoinders consist for the most part of evasions or prooﬂess
assertions :—

1. He now admits that the authorities who, as he alleged,
made such “ careful inquiry and consultation over the granting
of licences and certiﬁcates ” are “ not in favour of Anti—vivi—
section.” That is enough for my case.

2. Lawson Tait appears to have made a single complimentary
reference to the new science of bacteriology at a meeting
in 1893. A few months before his death in 1899, in my oWn
drawing-room, he roared with laughter at the increasing
absurdities of the modern germ theory of disease. He agreed
with Miss Florence Nightingale, who once wrote : “ The
disease germ—fetish and the witchcraft—fetish are the product
of the same mental condition.”

3. Mr. Paget’s paragraphs (2), (3), and (7) are pure evasions
of the points under discussion, nor does he answer my plain
question in (4).

4. As to (5), (6), and (8), Pasteur’s theory of the speciﬁc
germ origin of disease stands or falls with Koch’s postulates,
concerning which the editor of The Lancet has averred : “ It
must be acknowledged that all these postulates are complied
with very rarely indeed, if ever.” Mr. Paget could not have
given a worse instance than Malta fever. Space forbids my
dealing with it fully ; I refer my readers to The Contemporary
Review of November last, pp. 605—6, in which I conclusively
disproved at length these bald assertions. His further remarks
on the subject are simply random statements, totally unsup—
ported by statistics, and contradicted by Colonel Bruce
himself, who emphatically asserted (Q. 14382) that there were
“ no preventive measures at work during the ﬁrst half of
1906,” and yet Malta fever had been practically wiped out
in that period. Why? I have proved indisputably from

 

 

 

 




 

33

ofﬁcial statistics that Malta fever declined in the Navy
proportionately as the Grand Harbour (the cesspit of centuries)
was cleansed ; and a similar result was obtained in the Army
directly the soldiers were moved (at the end of 1905) from the
unhealthy and insanitary quarters at St. Elmo to new and
healthy barracks on the hillside. Why does he have the
temerity to say that the goat’s milk-drinking population
is suffering as heavily as before, when, according to the last
ofﬁcial annual report of the island (1909), Malta fever (thanks
to important and extensive sanitary improvements) has
declined among the natives 50 per cent? Why does he claim
that the civil population are immune owing to having Malta
fever in infancy, when he knows that there is not a solitary
statistical table in existence to support his assertion? ‘

YELLOW FEVER GERM.

5. Mr. Paget refuses (9) to face the logic of my argument
about vaccinia and variola, and replies with fatuous faith,
“ the germs have not yet been discovered ! ” He now includes
the “ yellow fever ” germ in the list of failures about which
he was formerly as conﬁdent as in his sheep-pox déba‘cle.
In the ﬁrst edition of his book, “ Experiments on Animals,”
he related one of the most' (apparently) conclusive stories
concerning the marvellous effects of a yellow fever serum that
I have ever read. And yet that serum was due to what he
now admits to have been the wrong germ. That one instance
proved either that the germ theory is false (if the serum did
good) or that the statistics in its favour are “ cooked ” if
it did not. In the second edition of his book he withdrew this
magical story altogether. He now actually introduces a
fresh list of germs with the same unbounded conﬁdence.

6. (10) Would Flexner have administered his serum if
the cases had been “ moribund ” ? Incredible! If the
serum is valueless when it is most needed where is its value ?
Whilst Flexner has reduced the mortality of his own spotted
fever cases from 90 per cent. to 15 per cent. by a self—con—
fessed method of statistical jugglery, the latest unsophisticated
returns of the New York Health Board show a death—rate
of over 90 per cent. it

7. Pars. (11)—-—(17) are all evasions pure and simple; I
ask my readers to compare Mr. Paget’s statements and my
replies.

8. Apparently Mr. Paget claims (18) that Bernard discovered
glycogen not by “ an examination of the livers of recently
dead human subjects ” as I stated, but from the livers of dogs
suddenly killed. He can have it that way if he likes. In
neither case is it vivisection.

3

 




34

9. Bernard’s experiments (19) on the pancreas were mis-
leading, because they were conducted on dogs, which do not
take starch naturally as food. The experiments of Busch
upon a human subject without vivisection are, therefore,
the only reliable ones.

10. Sir Charles Bell complains in “ The Nervous System of
the Human Body,” p. 217 :—.—-

In a foreign View of my former papers the results have been considered -
as a further proof in favour of experiments. They are, on the contrary,
deductions from anatomy, and I have had recourse to experiments not
to form my own Opinions, but to impress them upon others. It must be

my apology that my utmost efforts of persuasion were lost while. I urged my
statements on the ground of anatomy alone.

 

 

His reiterated refutation, when reviewing his work, of this
misrepresentation (20) should sufﬁce.

11. Mr. Paget has “looked up Munks R01,” and admits
(21) that “ a vague description ” that would answer to the
vaso—motor nerves is found there. That is as much as I should
expect him to acknowledge, and it satisﬁes me.

THE THYROID TREATMENT.

12. Here we have another assertion (22) without any
proof. Professor Baumann has isolated the active principle
of the thyroid gland, and found it simply iodine in an organic
speciﬁc combination. Iodine was administered successfully
twenty years before Horsley’s monkey experiments. The
thryoid treatment was a natural deduction; but it is by no
means universally successful. ‘

13. This statement (23) as to brain surgery is simply untrue.
I refer my readers to my previous replies. Speaking of
these laboratory experiments, Dr. Samuel West, president of
the Medical Society, London, recently said : “ They are coarse
and clumsy compared with those experiments which Nature
performs in disease.”

14. When Mr. Paget can ﬁnd a human being with a “ cancer ”
three times his body weight, with no deposits in the lymph
glands, no secondary deposits, and the whole thing sponta-
neously disappearing, I will accept his extraordinary assertion
that “ mouse cancer is real cancer.” Until then I beg to
take it cam gromo salis.

15. Mr. Paget says (25) “ the pain is grossly and deliberately
exaggerated by the ofﬁcial opponents” of vivisection. But
I asked him to meet the confessions of his own class. He
avoids doing so.

16. He charges me, in conclusion (26), with omitting certain
words in Professor Starling’s evidence as to his ignorance
of the inﬂiction of pain. I presume he means “ in a physi-

   




 

35

ological laboratory in this country,” from which I judge we
are to infer that whilst other vivisectors and Home Ofﬁce
ofﬁcials have frankly confessed to the inﬂiction of “ great
pain and suffering ” upon helpless animals in English labora—
tories, Professor Starling has seen nothing of the kind, because
he has executed his cruelties abroad !

17. The long religious invective from the pen of Cardinal
Newman with which Mr. Paget concludes is inappropriate.
It is the Anti-vivisectionists, not the vivisectors, who are
met with prejudice—a prejudice which often prevents a too
credulous public, anxmus to snatch at, possibly, physical
beneﬁts, from examining their case. That case rests not
only upon a scientiﬁc, but (what is really the same thing)
upon an'impregnable moral basis. As my lamented friend, the
late celebrated Dr. Charles Bell Taylor, put it :—

“ It is monstrous to suppose that a great, good, all—powerful
God has so arranged the government of the world, as to
make our salvation depend upon the cruel torture of the
helpless fellow—creatures he has entrusted to our care. No
good has ever come of viv1section, and none ever will.”

 

“ The ABOLITIONIST.”

T/ze Leading Organ of ﬂee
Anﬂ— Vz'vz'seez‘z'on Movement.

A TWENTY-PAGE MONTH LY DADER
(ILLUSTRATED).

Contains a record of the work of the

British liiiilil iﬂl‘ Mmlitiln 0i Vivisection.

 

 

N.B.--All who are interested in the progress of the .
humanitarian ideal should follow the great work
accomplished by this Society, which has an un-
rivalled record.

STUDY ITS REPORT!

 

Apply to the Secretary, 32, Charing Cross, London,
for particulars.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

36

[From “I The Standard,” February 4, 1910.]

1 The Case for Vivisection

(Conclusion).

 

I MENTIONED in my last article some affidavits against
the Rockefeller Institute, lately published in The New Y ark
H emld. They show the usual exaggeration and worse than
exaggeration: and they have been met and answered by
Dr. Flexner, director of the Institute :—

. The character of the witnesses employed by the New York Anti-
vivisection Society to make the charges of cruelty may be gathered from the
following facts. The Kennedy woman, the chief witness relied on, was
employed as a scrub-woman. The men Dutton and Smith, the other witnesses,
were eX-employes discharged for sufﬁcient cause. Since the Kennedy woman
stated under oath that the employment in the operating room was very
distasteful to her because of the cruel way in which the animals were treated,
it is of some importance to learn that she secured, surreptitiously brought to
the institute in a bag, and offered for sale for 30 cents, to be used for experi-
mental purposes, the pet eat of her neighbour; and when rebuked by Miss
Lilly, the trained nurse, on the ground that the act constituted a theft, she
attempted to exculpate herself by saying that as the cat strayed into her
rooms she had a right to it.

The true value of the so-called damaging testimony against the Rockefeller
Institute is, however, further exhibited by a statement, in my possession,
made under oath by an eX—employee, to the effect that Mrs. Kennedy, accom—
panied by two other women, visited her, endeavoured to make her say that she
had witnessed cruel treatment of animals at the Institute, and offered her
a hundred dollars for information; and that one of the women showed her
the money in a bag.

I desire to deny totally the statements of cruelty made in the afﬁdavits,
and to state unqualiﬁedly that the allegations are false, ignorant, and wilfully
misleading.

That is what Dr. Flexner says (New York Times, January 17).
And Mr. J. Seligmann, a leading banker, of New York, and
a director of the New York Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, says :———“ I Visited the institution several
days ago, being taken through by Dr. Flexner. I spent two
hours in the place, and found it a model institution, where
everything was being conducted in a splendid way. All
the animals were shown to me, and I saw no evidence of cruelty.
I felt sure they were all being well treated.” (See Evening
Standard, January 5). The Institute has agreed to a full inquiry,
which is now being held, into these afﬁdavits. No man of

 

 




37

Sense, no man of honour, would hurry to trade on them without

waiting for a word of inquiry. But our Anti-vivisection societies

are not careful either to make or to await inquiries ; andilDr.
Hadwen’s Society, and Mr. Trist’s Society, have sent these
afﬁdavits broadcast over the country, headed “ Revelations
from the Rockefeller Hell,” “ Rockefeller’s Inferno,” “ The
Veil Lifted,” and so forth. The societies know what happened
when “ Dark Deeds,” and “ The Nine Circles,” and “ Shambles
of Science ” were submitted to inquiry.

THE PROFESSIONAL VIEW.

The opinions of my adversary, are not those of his pro-
feSSion.

In this kingdom there are 30,000 doctors. Not many of
them would say what he has been saying, nor would any
other man with any decent regard for facts. Ask your own
doctor what he thinks of Pasteur, of Lister, of diphtheria-
antitoxin, of Bruce’s work on Malta fever and Flexner’s work
on epidemic meningitis, of cerebral localisation, of cancer
research. Ask him to tell you how the ordinary tests for typhoid, '
tubercle, anthrax, cholera, and plague are founded on experi-
ments on animals. Ask him whether you ought or ought not
to believe what Darwin said in 1875 and 1881 :—#“ I am fully
convinced that physiology can progress only by the aid of
experiments on living animals. I cannot think of any one
step which has been made in physiology without that aid.
To retard the progress of physiology is to commit a crime
against humanity.” '

BENEFITS OF RESEARCH. ‘

Or take not the opinion of one man ; but the general opinion-
Secums ind/{cat orbis termmm .' the judgment of the whole
round world must be right. It is now just a quarter of a cen-
tury Since the discovery of the preventive treatment of rabies.
There are, in diverse parts of the world, ﬁfty—one Pasteur
Institutes. At all of them it iS the same thing : a mortality
of about 1 per cent., even in those cases where the madness
of the animal that bit the patient iS proved by this fact—that
a particle of its brain or spinal cord taken from its body after
death and introduced into another animal reproduces the
disease. This annual redemption of lives under the shadow
of the worst of all deaths, has been many years now in the
world.

Or take diphtheria antitoxin. It has been for ﬁfteen years
incessantly used. Go round the entire map of the earth—-

,London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Vienna, St. Petersburg, India,

Japan, San Francisco, Canada, Chicago, Boston, New York,
Liverpool, and so home—everywhere it is the same story of

 

 

 




 

 

_......._.__..____—_. .. ,, 4 _. , ﬂ .. ~v~ ...__,,.,

38

the lives of children saved, by this. time, literally, in hundreds
of thousands. Is ‘the whole world such a fool that it does
not know, after all these years of experience, what is good
for it ?

Or take the lives of animals saved or safeguarded, literally
in millions, by methods discovered by experiments on animals.
By . his anthrax—vaccine alone, discovered in 1881, Pasteur
brought down the mortality of the disease from 10 per cent.
in sheep, and 5 per cent. in cattle, to 1. per cent. in sheep and
03 per cent. in cattle. I do not say that every country every
year has got results so good as that; nor do I say that all
sheep and cattle in this country ought to be thus treated,
for on this island the disease is rare. But I do say that every
year the use of the vaccine increases. In 1908 alone, the
Pasteur Institute in Paris sent out doses enough to protect
750,000 sheep and 550,000 cattle. Are the farmers all such fools
that they do not know, after twenty-eight years, what is good
for their ﬂocks and herds ? Or consider how Pasteur, by ex-
periments on silk worms, prevented the spread of disease
among them, when the revenue from the silk trade had fallen
from 130 million francs to 30 million, with men and women out
of work and children starving. By such work, as Huxley said,
Pasteur saved France enough to pay the indemnity of the
Franco—German War.

Nothing, in all the ﬁve Blue—books published by the present
Royal Commission, is more striking than the evidence of Mr.
Stockman, Sir David Bruce, and Professor Hamilton, as to the
good work that has been done, and is being done, for animals.
And with it should be read carefully Mr. Hobday’s evidence
as to modern veterinary practice. The whole thing is wonderful
-—the inﬁnite study in all parts of the world of the diseases
of animals.

Neither is it too much to say that the vast campaign
against malaria, yellow fever, Malta fever, and sleeping sickness,
is the outcome of experiments on animals. Cuba, the Panama
Canal, Malta, Nigeria, Uganda, the Philippines, Greece,
Egypt, the Sudan—these names recall heroic work done by the
help of the experimental method, in the light of Pasteur’s
life, and in the discipline of science, and some lives laid down
for us.

I say us; yet we are. ourselves, the “ vivisectors.” We
pay to have the work done for us as taxpayers. County
councils, municipal corporations, the Board of Agriculture,
the Home Ofﬁce, the War Ofﬁce, the Colonial Ofﬁce, the
Local Government Board, the Metropolitan Asylums Board,
all make use of experiments on animals in our interests, as
our representatives for the protection of our national health.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

39

THE ANTI—VIVISECTION MOVEMENT.

Meanwhile, in thirty years, the sixteen anti-vivisection
societies have received more than a hundred thousand pounds.
Mr. Stephen Coleridge himself described, in 1902, “ the de-
plorable waste of money spent in perfectly unnecessary
ofﬁces and salaries.” One ofﬁce, .he said, would amply sufﬁce
for all the work, and many of the anti-vivisection societies were
quite needless. Their internal dissensions, their false books
and leaﬂets, their “ platform facts,” have wearied thoughtful
people out. They have shocked quiet folk with sham horrors,
have shaken unstable minds, have stirred up class hatred,
and infected the kingdom with brutal assertions and suggestions.
“ They have done nothing,” says Dr. Keen, of Philadelphia,
“ but to stand in the way of progress. Not a single human
life has been saved by their efforts; not a single household
made happy. Not a single disease has had its ravages abated
or abolished. The victims of their sincere but misguided zeal
are men, women, and little children. Even the lower animals
may well cry, ‘ Save us from our friends.’ ” It is not strange
that the Research Defence Society has had a good welcome.
People do want to hear what it has to tell them about experi—
ments on animals in this country, and about the administra—
tion of the Act. I shall be glad as hon. secretary to answer all
inquiries, receive applications for membership or associateship,
supply literature, and make arrangements for addresses and
lantern lectures. The anti-vivisection societies, likewise offer
their wares. Very well ; it is the duty of the public to judge
between us. Every word of evidence before the Royal Com-
mission, all the 21,7 61 questions and answers, have long
been published, and may be got from Messrs. Wyman and
Sons, Fetter—lane, EU.

I have not discussed with my opponent the ‘ moral ques—
tion.” I prefer to wait till mercy and truth are met together.

C

 

THREE AFFIDAVITS

Of ex-Employees at the Rockefeller Institute,
New York (December, 1909).

SEND STAMP FOR POSTAGE ONLY.

 

British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

40

As already intimated in the Preface, although the controversy,
as arranged by the Editor, was concluded with the preceding letter,
Mr. Paget was allowed to contribute a further contribution on the
following day under the. heading of “Dr. H adwen’s Charges,”
and thus the controversy recommenced.

[From “ The Standard,” February 7, 1910.]

Dr. Hadwen’ 5 Charges.

 

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,——Dr. Hadwen’s last article raises a few questions
which need answer :——-

1. Mr. Lawson Tait, at an important medical meeting in
Birmingham, spoke heartily in favour of the British Institute
of Preventive Medicine, the present Lister Institute. He
said that he fully assented to the resolution in its favour,
“ feeling that, while he objected to a certain class of surgical
investigations, bacteriological experiments on animals had
proved of great value.” (British Medical Journal,
February 11, 1893.)

2. In 1906 Malta fever was practically abolished among
our sailors and soldiers by the prohibition of goats’ milk.
During 1907 the number of cases of Malta fever in the native
population was as great as ever. By 1909 the native population
knew more about the fever than they did in 1907.

3. Dr. Hadwen’s reference to “ the latest unsophisticated
returns of the New York Health Board ” seems to have been.
copied from a very wild statement in the New York Herald,
January 28, 1910. The further statement that Dr. Flexner
claims to have brought down the mortality of his cases of
epidemic meningitis to 15 per cent. is from the same source,
and is absolutely false.

4. Dr. Hadwen says that Baumann’s thyroiodin is “ simply
iodine in an organic speciﬁc combination.” You might as
well say that Whisky and water, half and half, is simply water
in a speciﬁc combination. Anyhow, Baumann’s work was
founded on experiments on animals. Iodine is absolutely
useless in cases of thyroid insufﬁciency.

5. Charcot was not a “ brain—surgeon ” ; he was a physician.

6. A scientiﬁc basis cannot be “really the same thing ”
as a moral basis; neither can the moral basis of a case be
impregnable, if the case itself be built on false evidences and
brutal calumnies.

I wish to call the especial attention of your readers to the

 

 




 

 

 

41

afﬁdavits lately made against the Rockefeller Institute.
These afﬁdavits were supplied through the New York Anti—
Vivisection Society to the New Y ork H emld, which for a year
or more has been on the side of that society. For example,
it published on February 14, 1909, quite seriously, a letter
saying that a surgeon in St. Louis had transferred one dog’s
head to another dog’s body: “ The dog lived, strapped to
the operating-board, twenty-six minutes (we learn), and,
expiring, tried to respond to the exclamation, ‘ Rats!’ ”
And, on January 3, 1910, it published a letter restating the
old falsehood» about the Philadelphia foundlings and orphans
who were “infected with tuberculosis in a modiﬁed form ”
in the interests of science. »

Dr. Hadwen and Mr. Trist, who represent the British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection and the London and Provincial
Anti-Vivisection Society, have been sending these afﬁdavits
all over the country, not waiting for the inquiry which is now
being held into them. It would never do to wait or to inquire.
I published in THE STANDARD last Friday the statement
made (January 17) by Dr. Flexner, director of the institute,
showing clearly the character of the chief witness against the
institute, and the corrupt practices of the “ humanitarians,”
tempting a poor woman, showing her 100dols. in a bag. To—day
I have received a letter from Dr. Flexner, dated January 28.
"‘ I hope,” he says, “ that you will make an absolute denial
on all counts of the statements in the afﬁdavits, and point
out with emphasis the testimony of the employee to whom
money was offered to give damaging evidence against the
institute, and who declined to have anything to do with the
persons making the offer. This employee was Dr. Carrel’s
assistant for two-and—a—half years, and told these persons
that she had never witnessed or even heard of any cruelty at-
the institute, and sent them about their business.”

With this letter Dr. Flexner enclosed a statement, published
in the New York Evening M ail, December 29, 1909, made by
Max Sloman. It is a pity that Dr. Hadwen and Mr. Trist
missed, or ignored, this statement. Sloman was in charge of
the animal house of the institute for more than three years
——October 5, 1906, to November 15, 1909. He was there
throughout the whole time of employment of the three persons
Who made the afﬁdavits. His statement was given voluntarily,
and without the knowledge of the authorities at the institute.
Nobody offered him 100dols. in a bag.

“ During the time I was with the institute,” he says, “ I
never once saw or heard of anything being done in a cruel
manner. Never did I hear an animal cry out in pain. I
never heard of an animal being Operated upon without being

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42

under an anaesthetic. In fact, it could not be done otherw1se,
for the animal’s struggles would prevent the surgeon from
working. After Operations all living animals were returned
to me, and, while I will not say they never suffered paln,
I will say that everything was done to ease it.” .

Also, in London, January 5, just one week after the pubh-
cation in America of the afﬁdavits, the Evening Standard
published Mr. Seligmann’s statement : “ I visited the institute
several days ago, being taken through by Dr. Flexner.‘ I
Spent two hours in the place, and found it a model institution,
where everything was being conducted in a Splendld. way.
All the animals were shown to me, and I saw no ev1dence
of cruelty. I felt sure they were all being well-treated.”
Did Mr. Trist, or did he not, see this statement before he
published his “ Rockefeller’s Inferno,” “ The Veil Lifted,”
“ Shocking Abuses,” “ Awful Revelations of Callous Cruelty ” ?
Surely he subscribes to a press—cutting agency. Mr. Seligmann
is a leading banker of New York, director of the New York
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and present
or past President of the International. Humane Society; and
he was a delegate to an Anti—vivisection congress last year
in London. Surely Mr. Trist must believe him. Mr. Trist’s
manifesto is dated ten days after Mr. Seligmann’s statement
was published in London. Dr. Hadwen did see the statement,
for his journal, The Abolitiomst, explains it away as an instance
of “ credulity ” outwitted by “hypocrisy, concealment, and
lying.” Full illustrated accounts, by Burton J. Hendrlck,
admirably written, of the Rockefeller Institute, and of Dr.
Carrel’s work there, were published in M cOlm‘e’s Magazine,
February and April, 1909 (McClure Company, 10, N orfolk-
street, Strand).——I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary Research Defence Society.
70, Harley-street, W., February 5.

 

OPPONENTS 0F VI VISEG TION.

The late Queen Victoria, Tolstoy, Mark Twain,

Bishop Westcott, Dr. Johnson, Cardinal Manning,

Shakespeare, Tennyson, Browning, Dr. Martineau,

Carlyle, Spurgeon, Ruskin, the “ Good” Earl of
Shaftesbury, &c., &c.

See “ MEN and WOMEN of NOTE,”

Published by the British Union, 32, Charing Cross, London. I

 

 

 




 

43

[From “ The Standard,” February 9, 1910.]
Dr. Hadwen’ 5 Reply.

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,——I thought that the controversy with Mr. Stephen
Paget had closed in your columns. He was allowed the
last word, and although in his concluding article he introduced
a good deal of fresh matter, and indulged in language which
was anything but courteous, I expressed no desire to break
through the arrangement which had been entered into. I
am somewhat surprised, therefore, to ﬁnd him re—entering
the lists under the excuse of answering “ questions raised
in my last article,” but, apparently, for the chief purpose
of making a violent attack upon me respecting a matter to
which I have made no allusion whatever throughout the
controversy, and concerning which the majority of your
readers, in all probability, know nothing.

His professed reply to the “ questions ” consists simply
of a reiteration of what he has already said and what I have
already answered. I can hardly believe that these methods
of controversy will commend themselves to your readers.
There are only three or four points I need refer to.

1. Malta Fever.———The repetition by Mr. Paget of the
dogmatic statement, “ Malta fever was practically abolished,
among our sailors and soldiers by the prohibition of goat’s
milk,” without a scrap of evidence in support of it, and without
any attempt to disprove the absolutely unanswerable evidence
I have produced to the contrary, is scarcely “ playing the
game.” Let me point out this : Both Army and Navy from
1901—6 were alike drinking goat’s milk, and yet the attack
rate of disease in the Army was more than double that of
the Navy. The case mortality was 58 per cent. higher, and
the average day sickness per man was considerably more
than twice as great. Whatever excuse may be urged for
this alarmingly greater severity in every detail obtaining
in the Army over the Navy, one thing is absolutely clear
to every intelligent and unbiassed mind, that, even if, for
the sake of argument, goat’s milk be admitted to be a factor
in the disease, it cannot be the only factor. As a control
experiment, however, let us turn to the civil population, which
has laughed and still laughs at the goat’s milk theory of the
origin of the fever, and here we ﬁnd that during the same period
the attack rate was only four per thousand. That is, nearly

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44

ten times less than the Army and more than four. times less
than the Navy. And although the general medical ofﬁcer
of the island has admitted with regret that the natives .Stlll
treat his advice with contempt, their attack rate has Since
then been still further reduced 50 per cent. Instead of so
much rhetoric, let Mr. Paget answer these plain facts. .The
ﬁgures upon which I have based my calculations I obtained
from the War Ofﬁce, Admiralty, and Colonial Office
respectively. . .

2. Mr. Paget does not get rid of statistics by simply saying
they, are “false.” I leave him to provide your readers w1th
what he deems to be authentic ﬁgures from New York In
regard to cerebro-spinal meningitis.

3. Perhaps Mr. Paget will explain by what other way
than that of chemistry Professor Baumann could arrive at h1s
conclusions as to what the active principle of the thyroid
gland consists of. I am afraid from Mr. Paget’s remarks he
knows nothing at all about chemistry, or he would not make
such rash observations.

4. I will not bandy words with your correspondent as to
whether Charcot was a “ brain surgeon ” or a “brain
physician.” We will leave it at physician if he prefer it.
It will answer my case much better. As physician he Would
be likely to know more of the subject on which he is the greatest
recognised authority.

5. I need not reply to Mr. Paget’s remarks upon the
relationship between science and morality. It is quite clear,
as he admits, that his conceptions of science and morality are
not the same thing. Hence I could hardly expect him to
understand my position.

Now, as to the “ Revelations of the Rockefeller Hell,”
consisting of three afﬁdavits made by employees in the
Rockefeller Research Institute, which have been publiShed
by my scolety. I confess they are amongst the most shocking
details I have ever read of the vivisector’s work, and that is
saying a good deal. As many of your readers will not know
what all this is about, and will be unable to understand Why
Mr. Paget and Dr. Flexner are exhibiting so much excitement
over the matter, permit me to say that any of your readers
who will write to the secretary of the “ British Union,”
32, Charing—cross, London, S.W., will be supplied with as
many copies as they desire post free. It remains for Dr.
Flexner to disprove the ugly charges brought against his
establishment ; they are far too circumstantial and technical
to have been supplied by any outsider, and they are certainly
not disproved by his assertion that one of the persons making
the afﬁdavit, brought him a neighbour’s cat while she was in

 

 

 

 




 

 

45

his employ, nor by the probable fact that she was remunerated
for her evidence. The Mr. Seligman who is referred to as
approving of the institute was not a delegate at an English
Anti-Vivisection Congress, as Mr. Paget states ; he was only
a visitor, and declared that he was a ﬁrm believer in vivisection.

I presume, as Mr. Paget has been permitted to deal with
my ﬁnal article, I may be allowed to deal with his. I shall
not touch upon the maze of extravagant language he indulges
in upon all sorts of topics, but just conﬁne myself to answering
three points. I need not notice the heinous charge that I
am in a grave minority, because that does not matter, inasmuch
as the minority is usually in the right, and the medical
profession has never yet been unanimous, so far as I know,
except when it has been unanimously wrong. .

1. Diphtheria Anti-toxin.——The only reliable statistics are
those of the Registrar—General, and they show an increase
in the mortality from diphtheria since the introduction of
anti—toxin compared with the period preceding. No hospital
statistics are reliable, because the fatality is based for the
most part upon a bacteriological instead Of a clinical diagnosis,
and the reputed bacillus of diphtheria does not answer to
any of the recognised tests of its genuineness.

2. Anthrax Vaccine—Professor Muller, of the Royal
Veterinary School of Berlin, is in direct conﬂict with Pasteur.
He says : “ Preventive inoculation of anthrax has no friends
in Germany.” Professor Roszhagesi in Hungary made
experiments which were also in conﬂict with Pasteur, and the
Hungarian Commission recommended the Government _ to
prohibit the use of the vaccine. Our English Board of
Agriculture advised farmers not to use Pasteur’s method.
Koch denounced it. It has been proved that, whilst anthrax
vaccine has apparently protected in the laboratory against
the effects of a second inoculation, it will not protect against
the natural infection. The sale of this loudly—advertised
article by the Pasteur Institute, which seems to be Mr. Paget’s
chief argument, is no evidence of its value.

3. Hydrophobia Inoculations.——This, as my friend, Mr.
J. H. Levy, says, does not appear to cure the people who
have been bitten by a mad dog, but only those who are in a
funk about it. The “ cures ” include such cases as Lord and
Lady Minto, who were never bitten at all 3 For thirty years
in pre-inoculation days the average yearly deaths from
hydrophobia numbered only 30 in a population of 40,000,000,
but the deaths for the thirty years following Pasteur’s intro-
duction of anti—rabid inoculation average 100 per annum,
in spite of the population of France lessening by the cession
of Alsace—Lorraine. One report a few years ago showed_.300,

 

 

 

 

 

 




     

46

 
  

deaths—that is, a tenfold increase. The deaths of patients
who have undergone “ cure ” at the Pasteur Institute up to
the present time number about 2,200. That is a queer
M “ remedy” !——-I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

1.1;. WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,

:5; Hon. Sec., British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection.
i 32, Charing-cross, London, SW.

  
   
 
 

    
  
 

 

[From “ The Standard,” February 11, 1910.]

Mr. Paget’s Last Word.

«5‘ To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,——Let me once more refer to Malta fever, epidemic
meningitis, diphtheria, and hydrophobia.

1. The evidence concerning Malta fever was published
long ago by the Royal Commission, and I will gladly send to
all applicants Sir David Bruce’s account of his work. The
use of goat’s milk by our sailors and soldiers was ofﬁcially

prohibited on July 1, 1906. The ratios per thousand living
are as follows :—

 

 

 

 

  

 
 
  
  
  
     
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
  
   

 

Cases in Cases in Cases in
Year Army. ' Navy. Civil Population.
1905 ....... 77'5 ........ 18'8 ........ 32
1906 ....... 24-2 ........ 11 9 ........ 40
1907 ....... 1'9 ........ 1'3 ........ 3'4

The Maltese suffer less frequently than our men did, because
many of them had the fever in childhood, and are immune.
But, in 1908, Dr. Eyre, in his Milroy lectures (Lancet, June,
1908), said : “ The fact remains that while we are congratu-
lating ourselves on the removal of Malta fever from the Navy
and from the Army, and, with Mr. Haldane, rejoicing in the
saving to the nation of some 40,000 days’ pay per annum,
so far as regards the Army, the civil population of Malta,
British and Maltese, are suffering as heavily as ever from the
ravages of the disease.” And so late as December 26, 1908,
the following statement was made in The Lancet : “ The civil
population continue to disregard Bruce’s discovery, with
the result that the disease among them is but little diminished,
Whereas among the men composing the garrisonmthe malady
has almost disappeared. During the twelve months ended
March 31, 1908, there are notiﬁed in Malta 520 cases of this
fever with 45 deaths. Of these 520 cases, only 11 occurred

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

47

among the British troops, and 7 in the Navy, with no deaths
in either instance.” About December, 1908, a civilian
committee was appointed to instruct the native population,
and in 1909 the native population were thus better protected
from the fever.

2. A recent account of the serum treatment of epidemic
meningitis in various countries was given by Dr. Flexner
at the sixtieth annual meeting of the American Medical Associa—
tion (see the journal of the Association, October 30, 1909). He
gives tables of 712 cases thus treated in America, Great Britain,
and France. Among cases under two years the mortality
was 423 per cent; it had been, among children of this age,
90 or more. Among cases from two to ﬁve years old, it was
267 per cent.; among cases from ﬁve to ten it was 159;
among cases from ten to ﬁfteen it was 277; among cases
from ﬁfteen to twenty it was 327; among cases of twenty
or over it was 394.

The New York H cmld and Dr. Hadwen, from these ﬁgures,
came to the conclusion that “ Flexner has reduced the mortality
of his cases, by a self—confessed method of statistical jugglery,
from 90 to 15 per cent.” '

As with diphtheria, so with epidemic meningitis, the serum
treatment ought to be given early in the disease. Among
180 cases of all ages treated during the ﬁrst to third days of
the disease the mortality was 253 ; among 179 treated during
the fourth to seventh days it was 278; among 129 treated
later than the seventh day it was 421.

The cases at the Children’s Hospital, Boston, though few,
are interesting. For nine years, 1899—1907, the mortality
was from 60 to 80 per cent. From November, 1907, to
November, 1909, with the serum treatment, the mortality
was 19 per cent.

In Belfast the mortality was brought down from 723 to
29.6. Inside the hospital, with the serum, it was 266 during
the very epidemic in which, outside the hospital, without the
serum, it was over 80. ‘

Nor is it only lives that are saved. The serum treatment
shortens the time of the disease, lessens its agony, and checks
its disastrous complications.

3. Over diphtheria, Dr. Hadwen appeals to the Registrar-
General: “ Hast thou appealed unto Caesar ? Unto Caesar
shalt thou go.” The anti-toxin came into use in 1895. During
1891—5 the death—rate from diphtheria per million persons
living was 252. During 1896—4900 it was 272. During
1901—5 it was 204. The “fatality” is not based on a
“ lmcteriological diagnosis,” nor is the treatment. The
action of the germs was proved in the usual way, long ago 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, _-.-..~:~—,Wzs«m r. - .9.

 




  

 

 

 

 

  

 

they were found in cases of the disease, were isolated, were
grown in pure culture in test-tubes, and were found to reproduce
the disease in animals.

4. Over hydrophobia, Dr. Hadwen makes no attempt
to meet this fact: that the mortality, with Pasteur’s treat—
ment, is less than 1 per cent, even in those cases where the
madness of the animal was proved by the reproduction of
the disease, from a particle of its brain or cord, in another
animal. He prefers to support his ﬁgures on a “ fool-born
jest ” made by one of~his friends.

He has told us, last week and this week, that Pasteur’s
theories have been disproved; that Koch’s postulates have
broken down; that diphtheria anti-toxin is useless; that
iodine is the active principle of the thyroid gland, and is
valuable in cases of thyroid insufﬁciency; that antiseptics
have been abandoned for “simple cleanliness ”; that
Bergmann laughed at antiseptics; that the work of cancer
research is a disgraceful business, a scandal, and .a screaming
farce ; that Pasteur’s treatment is useless to prevent hydro—
phobia; that Dr. Flexner and Sir David Bruce are both
wrong; and so forth. Why does not Dr. Hadwen submit
these opinions to the members of his profession? Why
did he not give evidence before the Royal Commission ?
The reason alleged, by his society, was the refusal of the
Royal Commission to throw open their meetings to the man
in the street. But ﬁve other anti—vivisection societies sent
no fewer than thirteen witnesses, to say nothing of witnesses
sent by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, the Social Purity Alliance, and the Personal Rights
Association. Why did not Dr. Hadwen tell the Commission
what he has been telling us ? They would gladly have heard
him, and would have published every word. Why did he
not face that cross-examination ? It is so easy for him to be
telling me that I evade, and slur over, and carefully avoid,
and wriggle, and ignore, and am helpless, amusing, oblivious,
random, airy, and sophistical. I don’t mind; for his talk
is like that of Pasteur and of Lister. But why did he not
go before the Royal Commission? Again, he is fond of
challenges. Why has he never taken up, nor ever will, the
silent, constant, and ﬁnal challenge of his profession against
him? That Malta fever is a “ ﬁlth—disease ”; that canine
digestion throws no light on human digestion ; that Flexner
is guilty of self—confessed sophistical jugglery; that Busch’s
observations on a patient wounded by a cow are “ the only
reliable ones ”—here are four good subjects for a paper to
be read before a medical society, or published in a medical

journal. .

  

 

 




 

49

f“ The medical profession,” he says, “ has never yet been
unanimous, so far as I know, except when it has been
unanimously wrong.” It is a common saying with him. It
is so far true, that his profession will certainly be unanimously
wrong if it ever is unanimous with him. “ We are told we
must pay attention to what the experts tell us. My opinion
is this : If there is one person in the whole of God’s creation
that wants looking after, it is the expert.” That is another
of his common sayings. It stands well: it makes one think
of Paracelsus, Luther, Savonarola, Shelley, and other leaders
of revolt against authority.“ Only, if a rebellion against
science is to be successful, it must have on its side truth.

That is just what the anti—vivisection societies have not
got. They have money, inﬂuence, and much else that is
worthy of respect on their side; but for thirty years they
have not been telling the truth. “Time after time,” said
Mr. Stephen Coleridge himself, “ has this sacred cause been
undermined and betrayed by its professing friends by their
reckless habit of making erroneous statements.” And again :
“ There happen to be small anti—vivisection associations
whose chief occupation is the dissemination of quite inaccurate
pamphlets.” He is right; but I ﬁnd nothing sacred in a
cause founded and built on false witness against your neighbour.
Now, at last, the anti—vivisection societies are beginning to
see that they have been found. out by thoughtful. people.
Therefore, they are appealing to those of us who have not
had what is called a good education. “ There is still,” said
Sir George Kekewich last July, at an anti-vivisection meeting,
“ missionary work to be done. We have to teach the people.

Our chief hope is not in the idle rich, but in the workers.”

(See ﬁlorning Leader, July 8, 1909.) In plain English, the
old instances, quotation, assertions, denunciations, revelations,
and the like, are become stale, wearisome, incredible ; there-
fore, let us take them where they may be able to have some
air of novelty, some chance of a good hearing, in Hyde Park
or Trafalgar—square. Quick! before the Royal Commission
publishes its report, let us stir up class hatred, and call it
“ touching the heart of the democracy.”

That is where the ﬁght will be now. It will be hard work
for the Research Defence Society. Still, I am hopeful, knowing
that “ the heart of the democracy ” has more regard for truth
than I ﬁnd in the publications of the anti-vivisection societies.
———I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary Research Defence Society.

70, Harley-street, London, W.

[This correspondence must now cease.—-—-ED.]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

\

A Reply by Dr. Hadwen.

The editor of “ The Standard ” refused the insertion of a reply
to the foregoing letter to which I felt I was justly entitled. I
therefore take this opportunity of adding a few additional facts

in reply to the evasive rejoinders made by M r. Paget in his
“ Last Word.” .

Malta Fever.

1. Sir David Bruce’s Pamphlet—This pamphlet, published
by the Research Defence Society and offered to The Standard
readers by Mr. Paget, has been fully answered by me in the
August number of The Contemporary Review. It contains
many inaccurate and reckless statements (especially in regard
to the cargo boat story), which are surprising from a man in
his responsible position.

2. The Case for the ATWZy.~‘-It is true that the goat’s milk,
to which is attributed the origin of Malta Fever, was not
prohibited to the troops until July 1, 1906. This fact was
emphatically conﬁrmed by Col. Bruce in cross-examination
before the Royal Commission. But ofﬁcial statistics show
that, whereas there were 643 cases of Malta Fever in 1905,
they suddenly dropped to only 12]. cases during the ﬁrst
six months of. 1906, so that Malta F ever had practically
died out before the goat’s milk was prohibited. Mr. Paget’s
table is therefore misleading and disingenuous. He gives
the total decrease for 1906 without showing that nearly the
whole decline took place between January and July. The
stopping of the consumption of goat’s milk in July could not
possibly have produced a result accomplished in the previous
siX months !

The decrease does, however, synchronise with the removal
of the soldiers from the long ago condemned insanitary St.
Elmo Barracks (from whence most of the cases of fever sprang)
to healthy quarters in the new barracks on the hill—side. We
may put it in tabular form thus :-—-~

 

Cases in Ratio No. of troops
Year. Army. per 1,000. in St. Elmo.
1904 320 .... 35'1 ?
1905 643 77'5 665
1906 161 24'2 83

When I inquired at the War Ofﬁce for statistics as to the
number of troops occupying St. Elmo for the last ten years,

 

 

   

 

  




 

51

Mr. Haldane informed me that they had no “statistics prior‘to
1905. An ofﬁcial at the barracks informed me, however,
that they had two battalions there at that time, roughly
2,000 men. During 1905, when these discreditable military
quarters were crowded with troops, the fever cases doubled,
but when the soldiers were removed the bulk of the outbreak
ceased. In 1906, when the barracks were occupied by only
83 soldiers, the number of cases of Malta Fever in the whole
of the Malta garrison, comprising 6,661 men, was only 161.

3. The Case for the N avy.——The reduction of Malta Fever
in the Navy was not a sudden one as Mr. Paget would lead
his readers to suppose by his skilful selection of ﬁgures, but
there has been a gradual reduction ever since the cleansing of
the Grand Harbour———the cesspit of centuries——was commenced
about twelve years ago. The decline from year to year in
some previous years was much greater than in the recent
years he gives, in spite of the free use of goat’s milk by the
sailors. Why does Mr. Paget avoid quoting my full table?
Here it is :—

Attack rate of “ Malta Fever ” from 1897 to 1907 among the Navy, show-
ing its gradual decline since the commencement of the cleansing of the
GrandiHhmbour.

Year. Cases. Ratio per 1 ,000.
1897 .... 546 .... 45'8
1898 .... 359 .... 28 31
1899 .... 195 .... 14'3
1900 .... 317 .... 22'24
1901 .... 252 .... 17 91
1902 .... 354 .... 19‘16
1903 .... 389 .... 18'41
1904 .... 333 .... 16'99
1905 .... 270 .... 18'8
1906 .... 145 .... 11'95
1907 .... l4 .... 1'32

Between 1897 and 1898 there was a drop of 187 cases, and
the next year again a further fall of 164 cases, without any
stoppage of goat’s milk. No such fall can be shown since goat’s
milk was banned, but the number of cases show, with slight
exacerbations, a steady decline for eleven years.

This is still more apparent when “ Malta Fever ” and
“ Simple Continued Fever ” (which are one and the same thing)
are taken together. “ Mediterranean Fever,” I may remark,
receives a variety of names according to the whims of the
attending medical practitioners. It appears to have been
convenient since goat’s milk has been altogether banned for
the military and naval medical authorities to resort to the title
of “ Simple Continued. Fever ” alone. It is apparently con‘

 

 

 

 

 




  

52

sidered an error in diagnosis to state that a man who does
not drink goat’s milk is suffering from “ Malta Fever.” Dr.
May, a public vaccinator of Birmingham, once confessed that
in order to save vaccination from reproach he had certiﬁed
cases as having died from Erysipelas, and had omitted the
primary cause altogether. It is probably due to similar loyalty
to a creed that certain ofﬁcials in Germany have been led
to call Small-pox by the name of “ Eruptive Dermatitis,”
where the disease broke out in revaccinated soldiers.

If, then, we take “ Malta Fever” and “ Simple Continued
Fever ” together, we get a similar downward curve as when
1 dealing with “Malta Fever” alone, only it comes out more
W dramatically. The most casual observer will realise by a

 
 
 

 

   
 
 
 
  
  

glance at the Graphic Chart I have sketched below, that the
decline began long before the goat’s milk was stopped. ‘

 
 

Gradual Decline in “Mediterranean Fever” in the Navy from 1897 to
1908, consequent on cleansing the Harbour of the deposit of centuries of
sewage. Showing ratio of cases per 1,000 of the sailors per annum :—

   

 

98-!

 

.90

 

80
.70
60

50

 
 

[10.5 42'5

 

40

 

30
20
IO

/,

YEAR l897 I900 /.90/ I902 £903 [904 [905 /906 [907 [908

  

The above table shows how eminently misleading are the
ﬁgures supplied by Mr. Paget. With the exception of two
1 - very slight exacerbations, the fever gradually declined from
1:511 921 per 1,000 in 1897 to 11‘7 in 1907'. The statistics manifest
1.1; no sudden drop from 1906 to 1907, as Mr. Paget disingenuously
wishes his readers to conclude. The question of goats’ milk
or no goats’ milk is completely out of court.

4. The Civil Population—Mr. Paget and the goat theorists
have been very uncomfortable since I pointed out that the
civil population (which has incontinently laughed at the
“ scientiﬁc ” Commissioners who banned goats’ milk) has

    
  
 
  
  

 

 

 
  
 
 

 

     
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
 

 
   
  
    

 

 




 

 

53

throughout suffered inﬁnitely less , from “ Mediterranean
Fever ” than the military and naval garrison. The General
Medical Ofﬁcer of Malta actually sought to confuse the issue
by publishing in his annual report the number of cases among
the Army and civil population respectively without taking
into account the respective populations of each, which was
most reprehensible in a Government medical ofﬁcial.

Mr. Paget now seeks to evade the concluSion which must
be apparent to any unbiassed person, namely, that the drinking
of goats’ milk bears no relation whatever to the disease, by:
saying, “ The Maltese suffer less frequently than our men did,
because many of them had the fever in childhood and are im—
mune.” This is simply parroting Col. Bruce’s excuse; but
he goes on to quote from Dr. Eyre and The Lancet the some -*
what contradictory statement that “the civil population are
suffering as heavily as ever,” and, like the General Medical
Ofﬁcer of Malta, quotes the number of cases without giving the
percentage to the population. This sort of thing is not even
honest ; it is seeking to lead the public to suppose that the goats’
milk drinking population is being ravaged by disease, and that
in the garrison the disease has been practically wiped out,
whereas, the fact is, the garrison has been suffering throughout
from ten to fort-y times more than the civil population ; the attack
rate of the latter for the last twelve years? has not averaged
more than 4 per 1,000, and it is now only 2 per 1,000, though
the populationljdrink goats’ milk as before, and pay no atten—
tion to the absurd warnings of the Malta Health Department.
I have shown in my article in The Contemporary Review for
August, 1909, that inlproportion as “,MaltaféFever ” declined in
the Army after goats’ milk was banned, “ Simple Continued
Fever ” rose. Taking, therefore, all cases, military, naval,
and civil, and combining “ Malta Fever” and “ Simple Con"-
tinued Fever ” under one head as “ Mediterranean Fever,” we
get the following result :—

 

 

 

 

 

Military. ; Naval. 1 Civil.
Year. ‘ i Ratio } ‘ Ratio l ‘ ‘ l Ratio
' Cases. per 1,000.‘i Cases. per 1,000.1! Cases. lper 1,000.

Average. . l l l \
1897 ; . i x i \

to g 1472 s 1800 l 725 l 495 717 a '41
1905 i ‘ ‘

1907 5, 354 l 58' 3 124 11 ° 7 506 l 2' 3

 

 

. It will thus be seen that there has been a general reduction
in “ Mediterranean Fever ” among, military, naval, and civil
populat1ons, which I attribute to the greatly improved sanitary

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  

54

conditions on the island, in the soldiers’ quarters, and in the
Grand Harbour ; but the military attack rate is still twenty-
nine times and the naval ﬁve times greater than the civil. But
the fall in the Army as compared with the Navy is disappointing,
for, instead of decreasing, the proportion has increased, showing
that there is something radically wrong in the military en—
vironments.

But Mr. Paget says the civil population are more or less
immune because they have Malta fever in childhood. If this
be the case, seeing that there are more children born in Malta
every year than the whole strength of the military garrison
stationed on the island, there ought to be thousands annually
suffering from Malta fever in order to confer the immunity he
claims. And pray, where is the evidence of this ? There is not
a statistical table in existence to justify the reckless and im-
pudent assertion of the hon. secretary of the Research Defence
Society. Indeed, the evidence goes all the other way, for half
the cases of Malta fever among the civil population have
occurred in persons of over thirty years of age.

Diphtheria.

Mr. Paget does not appear to be able to deal straightfor-
wardly with any subject he touches. I stated that the death—
rate from diphtheria, according to the Registrar-General’s
Returns, was greater since the introduction of antitoxin than
before. The fact is that for the ten years prior to its intro-
duction the average death—rate per million living was 200,
whereas in the subsequent ten years it rose to 235.

Mr. Paget does not actually deny this, but he proposes to go
to the Registrar-General to show that my statement is false.
And what does he do ? He quotes three ﬁve-year periods, viz.,
1891—5, 1896—1900, and 1901—5. Now, antitoxin was intro-
duced into this country in 1894. So that he gives one quin-
quennium in the midst of which antitoxin came into use, and
adds the two succeeding quinquennia. In short, he provides no
quinquennium prior to the introduction of the treatment at all,
and because there is a slight reduction in the last quinquennium
over the previous one he claims this reduction as an answer
to my evidence I One of two things is apparent—either Mr.
Paget is grossly ignorant of elementary statistics, or else he is
deliberately dishonest. There are the facts, and he can impale
himself on whichever horn of the dilemma he pleases.

Now, since he has chosen ﬁve-year periods, let us examine
the statistics accordingly. I have drawn up a graphic table of
quinquennia for the last thirty—ﬁve years from the latest
Annual Report of the Registrar-General, showing the

   

 
   

  
   

 

 

 




    

 

    

annual death-rates before and since; the introduction of

antitoxin :--—
STATISTICS FROM REGISTRAR-GENERAL’S REPORT, 1908.

The annual death-rate per million persons living from Diphtheria in
successive quinquennia, 1871-1905, in England and Wales :~-—

g:

.5.
‘8
Q)
3
'B
E
‘L
.5-

“MM-km“

YEARS 75 [87 6 -80 [88 l '85 I886 ‘90 /89/-95 I896 '900

 

The truth of my statement, that the death-rate from diph—
theria has been greater since the introduction of antitoxin than
before, can be seen at a glance. Not only was the quinquennium
which followed the introduction of antitoxin the very highest on
record, but the last quinquennium of all, 1901—5, although a
little less than that of 1896—1900, is, nevertheless, considerably
higher than any quinquennium which preceded the introduction
of the treatment. And, more than this, judging by the annual
returns since, it is clear that the next quinquennium of 1906—10,
when published, will show a still abnormal death-rate far in
excess of the pre-antitoxin period. In view of these unanswer-
able facts, what is the use of Mr. Paget writing such nonsense
as :

The action of the germs was proved in the usual way long ago ; they were

found in cases of the disease, were isolated, were grown in pure culture in
test-tubes, and were found to produce the d1sease 1n animals.

The question is—What good is it 2 And what is the use of
ﬁnding germs and cultivating them and choking animals’
blood-vessels with them, when unimpeachable statistical
evidence proves conclusively that it would have been wiser
to have cast them into the sewers than to have injected them

into humanflbodies ?

 

 

 

 

 




 

56

Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis.

Mr. Paget makes no attempt whatever to meet the damning
statement I have quoted from Flexner’s own report, to the
effect that his serum was used upon‘selected cases, and thathe
eliminated all cases which succumbed within twenty-four hours
3of the treatment. He now attempts to mislead the public by
coolly quoting a number of statistics from the same vitiated
source without any. apology or attempted justiﬁcation for so
doing. As in the use of diphtheria antitoxin so here, emphasis
is laid upon the necessity of using the serum on the ﬁrst days.
,And' all the old shufﬂes of ﬁrst, second, third, fourth days, and
so on, with increasing death-rates, are resorted to. Every
physician knows that nothing is more difﬁcult than the correct
diagnosis of cerebro—spinal meningitis in its early stages, and it
is self—evident that if the serum is used in so early a stage of the
disease, the probability is, as is the case with “ bacterioldgical
diphtheria,” thatthey are no more dealing with cerebro-spinal
meningitis in the one case than with genuine diphtheriain the
other. Hence the conclusions are fallacious and the statistics
ﬁctitious. _

The serum itself appears to be a horrible imitation of Pas—
,teur’s remedy for hydrophobia. The spinal marrow of children
who have died from the disease has been ground up and in—
jected into monkeys until they died in convulsions and para—
lysis, and then the usual ﬁlthy rOutine of the scientiﬁc witches’
cauldron is pursued until the serum is “perfected.” Pasteur
backed up his hydrophobic serum with marvellous statistics of
a similarnature to those of Flexner. We know that in the
former case they were a complete fraud. The medical pro-
fession of this country, with all its trust in authority, has never
yet adopted Pasteurism in relation to hydrophobia, and it
strikes me that, in spite of all Mr. Paget’s efforts to advertise
the craze of the Rockefeller Institute, it will be a long time
before Flexner’s serum is recognised by the medical profession
of this country. So far it has not a single scientiﬁc leg to stand
upon. . . ' ‘
Hydrophobia.

Mr. Paget begins this subject by saying :

Dr. Hadwen makes no attempt to meet this fact : that the mortality with
Pasteur’s treatment is less than 1 per cent.

This is the ﬁrst time Mr. Paget has placed this “ fact ” before
me, therefore I fail to see how I can be justly charged with
avoiding it. I will “ meet ” it now with pleasure, and thus set
Mr. Paget an example which he is 10th to follow in any single
instance. I have shown him that hydrophobia has increased

 

   
    

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 

  




 

 

 

57

since the Pasteur Institute began its work, and that there are
over two thousand caseson record of persons who have died
from hydrophobia after having been “ cured ” by Pasteur’s
treatment, but Mr. Paget “ makes no attempt to meet those
facts ” ! '

Mr. Paget implies, I presume, that Pasteur’s mortality of
1 per cent. from rabies is less than at any time previous. At
least, that is what I conclude from his article on ‘ Rabies ’ in
his extraordinary work called “ Experiments on Animals.”
With his strangely careless and absolutely irresponsible method
of dealing with scientiﬁc matters, Mr. Paget says (page 142,
third edition) : V .

“ What was the risk from the bite of a rabid animal in the days before 1885?
It is a matter of guess-work. One writer, and one only, guessed it at 5 per
cent. ; another guessed it at 55 ; a third came to the safe conclusion
that it was somewhere between these limits. Pasteur put it between 15 and
20. But “ suppose ” says Mr. Paget, with delightful innocence,
“ suppose it were only 10 ; that, before Pasteur, out of every 100
men bitten by, rabid animals 90 would escape and only 10 would die of hydro-
phobia ; then take this fact,” that at the Pasteur Institute there is “ a
mortality not of 10 per cent., but of less than 1 .per cent.”

Now let me ask Mr. Paget, seeing that all the ﬁgures of
hydrophobia before 1885 were, according to himself“, only
“ guess-work,” might we not suppose that the mortality,
instead of being 10 percent. at that time, was not more than
1 per cent; ? Surely this will settle the whole difﬁculty. !‘ We’
may just as well “ suppose ” one ﬁgure as the other. What a
delightful way of manufacturing statistics, by “ guessing ” and
“ supposing ” ! Surely the Research Defence Society has need
to be proud of its hon. secretary ! I am bound to helplessly
confess that he has at last supplied me with a “ fact ” I cannot
meet, as “ guessing ” and “ supposing ” are quite out of my
line. Mr. Paget evidently looks upon “ guesswork ” and
“supposing ” as synonymous with “modern science,” and I
have no reason to dispute his conclusion.

I am afraid I cannot follow Mr. Stephen Paget along the
remaining half-column of his hysterical attack upon me and
others, by which he hopes, apparently, to cOver his retreat
from an untenable position, but as in the course of it he is guilty
of a reckless untruth which affects the bona ﬁdes of my Society,
I will append the reply thereto which was promptly sent by
Miss Beatrice Kidd to the Editor of The Standard and refused
insertion.

WALTEILR. HADWEN.

 

 

 




 

58

The Vivisection Commission.

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,-—J recognise that the correspondence between Dr.
Hadwen and Mr. Stephen Paget has been closed in your
columns, but I trust you will allow me to correct an error
on Mr. Paget’s part concerning the Society of which I am the
secretary. He asks why Dr. Hadwen did not give evidence
before the Royal Commission, and then himself supplies an
erroneous answer in the following words : “ The reason alleged
by his Society was the refusal of the Royal Commission
to throw open their meetings to the man in the street.”

This is not the case, as can be proved by a volume of con-
temporary evidence. Mr. Paget has evidently confused the
British Union with some other Society. Our organ, The
Abolitiom’st, of December, 1906, discussed fully the attitude
of the chief Anti-Vivisection Societies towards the Com—
mission, and reproduced a letter from The M among Leader
in which Dr. Hadwen wrote that the British Union had
“ demanded neither admission of the press nor representa—
tion by counsel as a condition of their participation in the
inquiry ” ; still less had we demanded the admission of. the
“ man in the street.”

The sole reason why the British Union ignored the Com-
mission was that while licensed vivisectors had been placed
upon it, the Home Secretary refused to allow us a direct medical
representative with a view to cross-examining the vivisectors
0n the medical points upon which the inquiry mainly turned
and which we regarded as an absolute necessity for a fair and
complete examination of the question and a guarantee for
the equal treatment of witnesses—I am, Sir, Your obedient
servant, BEATRICE E. KIDD.

Secretary, British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,

32, Charing Cross, S.W., February 11, 1910.

British Union for Abolition of Viviseoiion.

Hon. Secretary : Dr. WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P.
Hon. Treasurer : Rev. J. STRATTON, M.A.
Chairman of Committee: Rev. R. D. MONRO, M.A.

Hon. Solicitor : Organiser :
E. HEYS JONES, Esq. NURSE CROSS.
Offices: 32, Charing Cross, London.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

59

Dr. Hadwen and His Critics.

THE following letters constituted a subsidiary correSpondence,
under the above heading, relative to particular points and
persons referred to in the main controversy :—

To the Editor of “THE STANDARD.”

SIR,——The words quoted by Dr. Hadwen from The Lancet
occur in a leading article entitled “ Bacteriology Tested by
Epidemiology,” published on March 20, 1909. They have
before now been dislocated from their context and used as
evidence of the scepticism of The Lancet as to the value of the
germ theory. The article from which the words are quoted
was a speculative inquiry as to how far, while our knowledge
of epidemiology rapidly increases, all new developments
could be explained by Koch’s postulates, and the general
conclusion arrived at was that, with slight modiﬁcations,
Koch’s postulates hold good, speaking generally.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
THE EDITOR OF The Lancet.

Lancet Ofﬁce, 423, Strand.

___—._———__.——___—

To the Editor of “ THE STANDARD.”

SIB,———My attention has been called to Dr. Hadwen’s use
of a paragraph in my presidential address to the Medical
Society of London last October.

The paragraph quoted proves the exact opposite of what
he wishes it to prove. It is quite true that Hughlings Jackson
was the great pioneer upon whose observations at the bedside
and in the post-morte'm room our present knowledge of the
localisation of function in the brain is based. But it could
not be considered established 0r accepted as scientiﬁcally
proved until it had received the conﬁrmation and extension
of experimental work upon animals in the physiological
laboratory.

The whole object of my address was to show the necessary
dependence, the one upon the other, of bedside observation
and physiological experiment.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL WEST, M.D., F.R.C.P.

15, Wimpole Street, W.

 

 

 




 

    

  

r' 60

To the Editor of “THE STANDARD.”

Sir,——-I am rather surprised to read the communications
of the editor of The Lancet and of Dr. West. I have no desire
to misrepresent either of them, nor do I admit that I have done
so. Their expressed opinions were interesting, although not
essential to my case, and, indeed, their present letters leave my
position unshaken.

I would suggest that your readers peruse for themselves
the leading article of the Editor of The Lancet in its com-
pleteness, as it appeared in the issue of March 20, 1909. It was
founded on a paper read by Dr. Harmer before the Patho—
logical Section of the Royal Society of Medicine—a paper
Which embraced much that I have been drawing attention to
for some years past. I will, with your permission, quote one
passage from‘ the editor’s pen, which renders his attitude some-
What enigmatical, especially as he makes no attempt to show
where the “ slight modiﬁcations of Koch’s postulates ” are to
come in :— ,

It is not at all rare to fail to ﬁnd the causal organism in an individual
case of the disease, and the explanation usually given is that the search has
not been as yet sufﬁciently thorough. Again, many organisms which are
considered to be causal, are frequently to be found in healthy persons; The
organisms of enteric fever, of cholera, and of diphtheria may be cited as examples
of this, and to explain these facts we have to invoke the idea of healthy
“ carriers ” of disease. When a causal organism is injected into an animal,
often it happens that it gives rise to a disease bearing no clinical resemblance
to the original malady. When the pneumo-coccus, isolated from a typical
case of pneumonia, is injected into an animal such as a rabbit, it will produce,
not a pneumonia, but a general septicaemia, and this even if the injection is
made into the lung itself. Thus we cannot rely upon .KOCh’s postulates
as a decisive test of a causal organism.

"' I trust that the editor of The Lancet, in the face of his own-
words, will not again charge. me with having “dislocated ”
the concluding statement frOm its context.

Dr. West’s position is equally inexplicable. In my letter
of January 31, I quoted Mr. Paget’s precise words : “ All
present knowledge of the localisation of the functions of the
brain ” ’ is built up upon animal experiments. I stated, in reply,
that this Was “ contrary to historical fact,” and I quoted Dr.
West. The latter now says :— ' ’

It is quite true that Hughlings Jackson was the great pioneer upon whose

observations at the bedside and in the postmortem room, our present knowledge
of the localisation of the functions of the brain is based.- ' ‘

This was all that I contended for. ' I quoted Dr. West in
full, and without further. comment. He now adds 2——

But it could not be considered established or accepted as scientiﬁcally
proved until it had received the-conﬁrmation and extension of experimental
work up0 nimals in the physiological laboratory} ‘ ' ’

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

< *1... “‘2‘."

 

61

I candidly quoted Dr. West in my article as to his statement
of localisation being “ conﬁrmed and extended in the labora-
tory ” 2 but this was not the point I was discussing. Conﬁrm—
ing and extending are not the same thing as discovery of a
fact, and if Dr. West’s words mean anything at all, they

completely justify the position I have assumed, namely,
that animal experiments, even if useful, were not vital. This

'is evident from t‘re further statement of Dr. West in his presi-

dential address -——-

Though laboratory experiments have done so much to conﬁrm this work:
still they are coarse and clumsy compared with those experiments which
Nature performs in disease. 7 .

But I differ from Dr. West as to the value of the so—called

~ conﬁrmatory evidence of the laboratory. The greatest brain

surgeon who ever lived, Professor Charcot, has pointed out
in his “ Lecons sur les Localisations dans les Maladies
Cé-rébrales ” :—-

That the utmost that can be learned from experiment on the brains of
animals is the Etopography of the animal brain, and that it must still remain
for the sciencewof human anatomy and clinical investigation to enlighten
us in regard to the far more complex and highly differentiated nervous organ—
isation of our own species, and in fact it is in the department of clinical and
post mortem study that so far all our best data for brain localisation have
been secured.

How, for instance, could the speech centre have been

“ conﬁrmed ” 1n the laboratory ‘3 The brain experiments
on animals have been, in my opinion, among the most cruel,

. unnecessary and misleading of all vivisectional practices——

I am, Sir, your obedient servant, .
WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
Hon. Sec... British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
3:2, Chaﬁng—cross, S.W

__.——-_..——_._——-___———

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,~—The leading article from which Dr. Hadwen again
quotes a piece dislocated from its context was not founded
upon any work by Dr. Harmer, though the opinion of that
admirable biologist upon the whole subject would be very
interesting. The author of the paper read before the ..
Pathological Section of the Royal Society of Medicine was
Dr. W. H. Hamer. The ﬁrst paragraph of the article states
that the bacterial theory of infectious disease has not been
upset, while it welcomes Dr. Hamer’s criticism of it. The
second paragraph, from which Dr. Hadwen quotes, sets out
certain points for which the theory does not account fully.

~ The third paragraph offers solutions of difﬁculties which have

 

 




 

, u‘ ' mm... am ark-yew"? '~ -. v"

62

been honestly recognised. I have not accused Dr. Hadwen
”of misquoting The Lancet, but I consider that he is using
portions of the article in question in an unfair manner.~——I
am, Sir, your obedient servant, ‘ i, ' .
THE EDITOR or The Lancet. '
London, WC. ——'————-———- ' i ‘ ' '

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,—-—I notice in your paper a statement by Dr. Hadwen
which is a gross misrepresentation of the facts regarding
cancer as observed in the mouse. A mouse “ with cancer
three times his body—weight, with no deposits in the lymph
glands, no secondary deposits, and the whole thing spontaneously
disappearing,” is a phenomenon which exists only in Dr.
Hadwen’s perverted imagination. All his assertions. with
regard to cancer in animals betray an utter ignorance of the
facts of the subject.-——I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

'E. F. BASHFORD, =
Director Imperial Cancer Research Fund.

To the Editor. of THE STANDARD.

SIR,——I do not admit that I have been in the least degree
“ unfair ” to the Editor of The Lancet. I haVe, in an article
elsewhere, rejoiced that light—if ever so dimly—has broken
in upon the editorial chair, and I have prayed in Goethe’s
last words that “ more light ” might yet shine in that direction !
I do not expect that the editor of an orthodox journal like
that of The Lancet,who admits in the Opening of hisleading
article, from which I quoted, that “ the bacterial theory of
infectious diseases has been unchallenged for many years,”
would accept too hastily the crushing exposures of its fallacy
which have been recently brought to light. I admire the
editor for his candour so far. and I have no wish, nor have I
attempted, to go further than his own words justify. Those
words I have accurately quoted—viz. : “ It must be acknow-
ledged that all these postulates are complied with very rarely
indeed, “if ever. . . . Thus we cannot rely on Koch’s
postulates as a decisive test of a causal organism.” As to
the hope of reinstating “ Humpty-Dumpty ” and the offer
of “ solutions of difﬁculties ”——well, I think, the editor will
candidly admit that the “ difﬁculties ” are not yet solved,
nor are they likely to be solved upon the line of Koch’s postu—
lates and the germ theory. .

I am obliged to Dr. Bashford for his gratuitous public
‘ testimonial to my “ gross misrepresentation,” “utter

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

63

ignorance,” and “ perverted imagination.” The charges
may be all quite true, but they are not evidence. It is a
pity that the “ director of the Imperial Cancer Research
Fund,” in view of the fact that his statements had been
seriously questioned by witnesses, did . ~not1:}?submit_._'_;;;-.‘3ihimself
to examination and cross-examination before the Royal
Commission on Vivisection; by doing so he would have put
himself in a better position for indulging in this curious display
of ﬁreworks.

Without going any further, I beg to refer Dr. Bashford to
his own ofﬁcial reports, in which he speaks of “ the presence
of a tumour even of greater weight than the mouse itself,”
many of ‘ which underwent spontaneous cure. From his own
pen, under the misleading title of “ Transplantation of
Malignant New Growths,” he admits the absence of deposits
in lymph glands and the rarity of secondary deposits. And
I may add that no less an authority than the President of the
Royal College of Surgeons narrated to the Royal Commission,
as one of the great discoveries made by Dr. Bashford and
his colleagues in their experiments with mice “ that cancer
can, and does, not so very infrequently, disappear spon-
taneously ”! How strange this had never been found out
before in human beings I

Now I will transfer the responsibility from Mr. Paget’s
to Dr. Bashford’s shoulders, since the latter has come to the
rescue of the former, and when he can ﬁnd me a case of human
cancer answering to these peculiarities I shall be happy to
investigate it. But in tormenting hundreds of thousands of
mice and transplanting a mouse tumour through endless
generations, year after year, in the name of “ science,” without
ever having gleaned, and without the remotest chance of
ever gleaning, a solitary useful fact concerning the human
malady from such an extraordinary occupation, is, in my
Opinion, little else than “ playing the fool ” with an anxious
and philanthropic public—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
Hon. Secretary, British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.

32, Charing Cross, London, SW. ‘

_—————.———_——.

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.
SIR,-4-Dr. Hadwen wrote in Friday’s STANDARD :--~

14. When Mr. Paget can ﬁnd a human being with a “ cancer ” three times
his body weight, with no deposits in‘the lymph glands, no secondary deposits,
and the whole thing spontaneously disappearing, I will accept his extraordinary
assertion that “ mouse cancer is real cancer.” Until then I beg to take it
cum grano salis. '

 

 




 

am. rWWVWw .;rz;-armwmw:~

  

64

Charged with misrepresentation, he is unable to substantiate
his statement; instead, he quotes from the Second Scientiﬁc
Report of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund the words:
“ The presence of a tumour even of greater weight than the
mouse itself,” and adds, “ many of which underwent spon—
taneous cure,” as if those words formed part of the original
context, which they do not.’ Dr. Hadwen, however, departs
from his original statement; it is no longer a tumour three
times the body weight, but only a tumour even of greater
weight than the mouse itself. Such large tumours do not
disappear, in my experience, and so far as I am aware, have
never been described as disappearing in any other laboratory,
or by any other investigator. In addition to my original
charge of misrepresentation, I new charge Dr. Hadwen with
the more deliberate misrepresentation of stating, out of his
own head, that disappearance occurs under these circumstances,
and of naming me as the source of his information—I am, Sir,
your obedient servant, : ~

_ E. F. BASHFORD,
Director, Imperial Cancer Research Fund.

—-—-—-————_———-———

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,——Dr. Bashford, like Mr. Stephen Paget, and every other
vivisector I have had to deal with in controversy, tries to evade
a plain issue when he ﬁnds himself ﬁxed in a corner.

I am quite prepared to provide evidence that the mouse
tumour such as Dr. Bashford and his friends have been playing
with for the last seven years reaches “ sometimes three times
the body weight of the animal.” He says I “ depart from my.
original statement.” I do no such thing ; I absolutely adhere
to it. . .
Mr. Paget declined to face my twice—repeated challenge, and.
upon Dr. Bashford rushing in to help him out of his difﬁculty,
I promptly took the Director of the Imperial Cancer Research
Fund upon his own ground. I now ask him to stay there and
defend it, instead of indulging in further hot—headed charges'of
“ deliberate misrepresentation,” etc.

He has himself admitted “ the presence of a tumour even of
greater weight than the mouse itself.” This is quite enough for
my case for the present. He says “such large tumours, in his
experience, do not disappear,” and states that I “ added the
words, ‘ many of which , underwent spontaneous cure,’ as if
those words formed part Of the original context.” I did no such
thing, as your readers can see for themselves. I only placed his
statement as to the size of the tumour within quotation marks.

 

 




 

 

 

65

I frankly admit, however, that my mode of expression might
erroneously convey the idea that the very large tumours spon—'
taneously disappeared, which would scarcely be possible
within the lifetime of the animal,’although as the smaller ones
disappear, there is no reason why the larger should not in time
share the same fate.

Dr. Bashford also avoids all reference to lymph glands and
secondary deposits. Now my object is to face Dr. Bashford
with his own ofﬁcial reports, andI again ask him to ﬁnd me :—-—'

1. A human cancer “ of greater weight ” than the human.
being who carries it. .

2. A human cancer that “ spontaneously disappears.”

3. A human cancer (except, of course, in the very earliest
stages, when diagnosis is practically impossible) where lymph»
. glands are unaffected and metastases absent. .i .

This he makes no attempt to do.—-I am, Sir, your obedient
servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.
Hon. Sec. British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.

32, Charing Cross, London, SW. ‘

[The ﬁrst three paragraphs of the above letter were. deleted
by the Editor] - , . ' ,.

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

SIR,———Dr. Hadwen has confessed as fully as could be expected
that a mouse “ with a cancer three times his body-weight,
with no deposits in the lymph glands, no secondary deposits,
and the whole thing spontaneOusly disappearing,” is a ﬁgment
of his imagination. Two later misrepresentations have been
brought home to him : ﬁrst, the insinuation that tumours,"
even of greater weight than a mouse, underwent spontaneous
cure in contrast with what occurs in man ; and second, with
naming me as if I were the source of, his information. It
has been established that, relying upon the ignorance of his
readers, Dr. Hadwen has resorted to misrepresentation in
order to attack persons whose views on animal experiments
differ from his own. ' , ' . - , {xvi

In THE STANDARD Dr. Hadwen states: “ Dr. Bashford
avoids all reference to lymph glands and secondary deposits.”
Again misrepresentation, by innuendo if not de facto ! Why
should I refer to them? I entered this discussion in the:
interests of. truthful representation of certain well~knoWn
facts, and have accomplished my object. I have, no doubt
that with sufﬁcient waste of ink and paper I could extract-
from Dr. HadWen a confession that he ‘had also been guilty
of other misrepresentations owing to. his ignorance of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




66

frequency with which secondary growths (metastases) do
occur in the lymph glands, lungs, liver, kidney, intestines, &c.,
. of mice with cancer.

That spontaneous healing of cancer occurs under given
circumstances—hot those imagined by Dr. Hadwen in mice
with cancer—~is a fact which has done more than any other
to remove doubts as to statements of its occurrence in man.
Experiment has demonstrated its occurrence in animals,
and made it possible to alter its frequency. In the elucidation
of the process lies the hope of helping the human patient.

I shall not discuss cancer with Dr. Hadwen in the columns
of THE STANDARD or anywhere else, but, if need be, I shall
enlighten his readers as to his ignorance, and herewith I
conclude my share in this correspondence—I am, Sir, your

obedient servant,
E. F. BASHFORD,

Director Imperial Cancer Research Fund.

[The following letter in reply to the above was refused pub—
lication by the Editor of The Standard] ’

To the Editor of THE STANDARD.

Sir,——Dr. Bashford’s language increases in vehemence as he
goes along, and if ever the old legal dictum of “ N 0 case, abuse
plaintiff’s attorney ” were appropriate, it is specially so in the
present instance.

Your correspondent declares that I have “ confessed as
fully as could be expected ” that my statements regarding
the mouse tumour, which he has been playing with for several
years past, are “ a ﬁgment of my imagination.” He says “ two
later misrepresentations have been brought home to me ” ;
and further states that “ relying upon the ignorance of my
readers, I have resorted to misrepresentation in order to attack
persons whose views differ from my own,” etc., etc.

Let me say at once, I have not “ confessed” to a single
erroneous statement, nor has Dr. Bashford yet demonstrated
that I have made one. I stand by every word that I have pub—
lished in the columns of The Standard. I withdraw nothing.

I repeat, when Dr. Bashford rushed to the rescue of Mr.
Stephen Paget (who had evaded my reiterated challenge), I
promptly took him upon his own ground, and faced‘him with
his own ofﬁcial reports. Instead of straightforwardly justifying
his position, he has indulged in extravagant rhetoric and crude
personalities. He declines to meet the plain issue I have laid

 

 

 




 

ﬁvv-r

 

down for him, and seeks instead to escape it by puerile re-
criminations .

He says he “ entered this discussion in the interests of
truthful representation of certain well—known facts, and has
accomplished his object.” I leave your readers to judge of his

claim for themselves. If reckless assertion and violence of

language constitute “ fact,” he has certainly achieved success,
but-’—the three points of my last letter which I asked him to
meet remain unanswered! He may flatter himself that “; in
the elucidation of the process lies the hope of helping the human
patient,” but if the worrying of hundreds of thousands of mice
and other animals by the repeated propagation of a tumour
which bears no relation to human cancer during a perod of six
or seven years has achieved nothing more than the discovery
that the best treatment consists of early operation, I am afraid
“ the hOpe ” is as illusory as “ the process.”

Dr. Bashford concludes : “ I shall not discuss cancer with
Dr. Hadwen in the columns of The Standard or anywhere else,
but, if need be, I shall enlighten his readers as to his ignorance.”
Your readers are not likely to be misled either by his failure to
substantiate his absurd position or by his impertinence.———I am,
Sir, your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
Hon. Sec. of British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.

32, Charing Cross, London, S.W..

11th February, 1910.

 

(the Qontemporarv Review

(August October and Nozreméer, 1909)
CONTAINS
THE COMPLETE CONTROVERSY ON
MALTA FEVER & GOAT’S MILK.

N.B.——Those who wish to know how Vivisectionist claims are
manufactured should read this important revelation.

 

APPLY FOR THE ABOVE VOLUMES TO

The ’ Secretary,
British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.,
Sending IS. 4d. in stamps or P.O.

 

 

 

a.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

These reproductions are copied from the Third Report of the Investi-
gations of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund, and present views of the
same mouse suffering from “ spontaneous mammary carcinoma,” taken

from the right and left sides. ‘ ‘

 

 

 

W. SPEAIGHT & SONS, PRINTERS. FETTER LANE, LONDON, E.C.

 

 

 




 

‘n

 

 

f The British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection.

 

Fouunnnsst FRANCES POWER COBBE.

. Hon. Sec. : Hon. Treasurer :
WALTER R. HADWEN,M.D., eta, J .P. The Rev. J. STRATTON, M.A.

Secretary : Miss B. E. KIDD.
Oﬁlces: '32, CHARING CRoss, LONDON, S.W.

 

 

From the Autobiography of Miss F. P. 003312.

“To those of my readers who may desire to contribute to
the Anti-Vivisection Cause, and who have shared my views on it
as set forth in my numberless pamphlets and letters, and to
those specially who, like myself, intend to bequeath money to
carry on the war against scientific cruelty, 1 now earnestly say
as my final counsel:

“Support the British Union.”

 

In the, case of benefactors desiring to bequeath legacies in
support of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to clearly
state in their Wills, “ The British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection,” and to make them payable to the Treasurer for
the time being.

 

Form of Bequest.

 

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form 13 respectfully suggestedk—

. I bequeath unto the Society called THE Bnrmsn UNION FOR THE ABoLI'rION
OF VIVISE CTION, the sum of ......................... free of Legacy Duty,
and I dircot that the same shall be paid to the Treasurer for the time being of such last-
mentioned Society, exclusively out of such part of my personal estate as may legally
be bequeathed for charitable purposes, and in priority to all other payments.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be 1n
writing, signed by the Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence Of
the Testator and of each other.

A Donation of Five Pounds and upwards constitutes a Life Member.
An Annual Subscription of Ten Shillings constitutes an Annual Member.
Remittances by Crossed Cheque or Postal Order. Smaller Donations gratefully

' accepted.

An Annual Payment of 2s. 6d. constitutes an Associate of the Union.

 




 

 

 

SELECTED ANTI=VIVISECTION
LITERATURE.

Pamphlets by‘Dr. HADWEN, 1.1).

Per Per
Some Recent Vivisection Practices in doz. 100.

English Laboratories . ll- 7/6
A Medical View of the Vivisection

Question '. 2/- 12/6
Vivisection: its Follies and Cruelties

and the Way to Fight it. .1/- 7/6
The Antitoxin Treatment of Diphtheria 116 10/-
Vivisection at the Brown Institution 4d. 2/3
The Cult of the Vivisector . . . lid. 2/3
The Humour of the Vivisector . . 6d. 2/6
Tuberculosis and Cow’s Milk . . 1/- 7/6
Was Jennera Charlatan? . . 1/- 7/6
Debate between Dr Hadwen and Mr.

Stephen Paget . . . 1/6 10/-
Debate between Dr Hadwen and Dr.

Eastham . 7/6
Correspondence between Dr. Hadwen

and Sir Victor Horsley . 7/6
Views of Men and Women of Note on

the Vivisection Question. . 2 12/6
(Illustrated with Portraits.)

The Case against Vaccination . . l/-? 7/6
The Controversy in “ The Standard ” . 2/6 15/-

 

 

 

By Miss FRANCES POWER COBBE.

The Early History of the Ant1-V1v1sect1on Movement. 3d.
Light in Dark Places. Gratis.

 

By BEATRICE E. KlDD.

Why We Object to a Restriction Bill. 9d. doz., 5/- 100.
Anti-Vivisection Politics. 4d. per doz., 2/3 per 100.

Do You Know? (Illustrated). 4d. pe1 doz. .-, 2/3 per 100.

T he lnspectm’ s Returns for 1908. 3d. per doz. ., 2/- 100.
The Policy of Abolition. l/- per doz., 7/6 per 100.

By Miss A. F. WHITELEY.

Some Medical Views of Vivisection. 3d. each, 2/- doz.

 

 

 

 




