Society for the Protection of Birds—No. 33.

Dress in Reiation to Animal Life.

 

 

 

A Paper read by Mrs. F. E. LEMON, ffoiz. See. of t/ze Society

for Me Protection of Birds, oefore a Sectional Meetiiig of Me

International Congress of l/Vomeiz, at Convocatioa Hall, Claire/i
House, Westminster.

The Ducnmss or PORTLAND (President of the Society for the
Protection of Birds), who was in the chair, said that the protection
of birds Was worthy to claim the best womanly sympathy and
support,"even in the midst of higher things and more urgent questions.

Mrs. F. E. LEMON read the following paper:—

The subject on which 1 have been asked to speak is“Dress in relation
to Animal Life.” I do not think there is any necessity to enter into
details regarding the proper treatment which should be accorded to
those animals which provide us with woollen, silken, or leathern goods.
These materials are mostly obtained from domesticated animals, who
in Great Britain, as well as in many other countries, are now protected
by law.

I regret that I am not competent to deal with the important
question of the protection of which many fur—bearing animals stand
in need, and I hope that other speakers will deal with this subject.
Undoubtedly, terrible abuses exist; many beautiful and useful
animals are becoming extinct because they are hunted and killed
without due regard to the breeding season, and we know that
indescribable cruelties have been practised in the killing and skinning
0f the fur-bearing seals, and in the procuring of certain kinds of
astrachan, which is the skin of the unborn lamb.

Surely it behoves all right-minded women who would array
themselves in these costly materials to make strict enquiry as to the
way in which the material is obtained. Until it has been undeniably
proved that before being skinned the seal has been swiftly and

 




 

2

mercifully killed, and that the hunting is not carried on during the
breeding season, we should do well to avoid the use of that fur. If
all women would thus protest, the hunters would perforce have to
mend their methods. The same course of action would also doubtless
bring about more humane treatment of the other creatures whose
skins are obtained that we may be covered and kept warm.

7 With these brief allusions I now turn to my special subject, that
of Bird Protection ; and here I shall speak with no uncertain sound,
for what I shall say is based on positive knowledge gathered during
many years devoted to the question.

Unfortunately it is through Women and their weak submission to
the dictates of what is known as Fashion that much of the wholesale
and disastrous slaughter of bird life has taken place. The question
is not only a sentimental one, it is also a serious economic one.
Gamekeepers and others, in ignorance, and from desire of some
immediate pecuniary gain, have destroyed owls and kestrels to an
alarming extent, and in consequence rats, mice, and voles unmolested
are playing terrible havoc in the ﬁelds and in the farmyard. But
judging by the owls’ and kestrels’ feathers that women display on
their hats, and the numbers of these birds one has seen on their way
from the London docks to the plumassiers, women cannot be held
guiltless in the matter of the destruction of these most useful and
necessary birds. The late Lord Lilford, when President of the British
Ornithologists’ Union, said that the ﬁttest place for the wilful
destroyer of any owl in this country was an aSylum for idiots.

It is a disgrace to civilization that, in order to pander to the
appetites of epicures, we are allowing that glad songster, the Skylark,
to be destroyed by millions. During the season 30,000 to 40,000
skylarks are daily brought into London for eating.

The rich man’s demand for plovers’ eggs in the spring, and for
their ﬂesh in. the autumn, has meant such an increase of wireworms in
some districts as to put the farmers in despair. The lapwing has been
called of all birds the farmers best friend.

These few examples hint at the practical worth of birds. They
are the appointed agents for certain branches of agriculture. As such
they are of paramount importance in the history of a country—~indeed

 

'g’ '




 

 

3

of the whole world. I have chosen these species as illustrations of
utility because, for the purposes I have named, heavy toll has been
levied on them, as well as on hundreds of others, in almost every
country in Europe.

Time will not permit my even enumerating the laws which have
been enacted in most civilized countries for the protection of birds——
laws which, unfortunately, are nowhere enforced as they should be,
owing to the laxity of public Opinion with regard to them. I trouble
you by alluding to this part of the subject because women so often
say to me “ What is the use of talking to us against wearing feathers,
why don’t you get laws made to protect the birds ‘? ” So I want to
show that the legal aspect of the question is being constantly considered ;
but, unhappily, the law cannot do much, and without public
opinion in its favour it can do absolutely nothing—at least with the
English-speaking race!

International conferences have been held, and such steps as these
are necessary. The wholesale destruction of swallows which has
taken place during the last few years, and the horrors connected with
the importation of live quails from Egypt and Italy call for the
enactment of some stringent regulations to be observed by all
nations.

I must now dwell more particularly on what has been called
“ Murderous Millinery,” and I think you will allow that the term is a
just one when I tell you that upwards of 35 millions of birds are
annually imported into this country for trimmings and decorations
alone. The majority of these are killed during the breeding season,
as it is then that the plumage is ﬁnest and of the highest commercial
value. To kill during the breeding season means the death by
starvation of helpless nestlings, so that here the question of cruelty as
well as that of the speedy extermination of species comes in. Lord
Lilford once said to me, in referring to a Spanish proverb, Surely the
cause of the birds must be safe—“ entre les mains blanches.” Alas !
that it should not be so, and that we have to confess that women are
most difﬁcult to convince of the evil being wrought in their name and
for them. .

There is one kind of feather ornament which is quite innocent.

 




 

 

4

The beautiful feathers of the ostrich may be obtained without any
suffering or distress to the bird, and without any destruction of life.
On properly conducted ostrich farms at the Cape, and in other
parts of the world, every care is taken of the birds; food and
all other comforts being provided for them. Just before the
moult the birds are collected into a large enclosure; one by one
they are driven down a narrow passage, at the end of which they
are deftly seized and held by two men, while a third quickly clips off
the feathers, many of the ripe ones coming out at a touch. The
process is over in a few minutes, and the bird—none the worse—~is
again free to roam at will.

It is a relief to know that we may wear our ostrich feathers
with easy consciences; but how can tender-hearted women wear,
as ornament, anything that is obtainable only at the cost of
unspeakable suffering, and of the wholesale slaughter of our pretty
feathered friends; and how can I possibly convey to you the cost
at which the fashion of feathers and wings has been and is being
complied with?

Hear what Mr. Howard Saunders, an eminently scientiﬁc man,
says of gulls and seabirds:

“ These birds have been slaughtered under circumstances of
horrible barbarity, to provide adornments for ladies’ hats. I
have watched, day after day, a ﬂotilla of boats procuring
plumes for the market; one gang of men shooting, and
changing their guns when too hot; another set picking up the
birds, and often cutting their wings off and ﬂinging their
victims into the sea, to struggle with feet and head until
death slowly came to their relief ; and I have seen the cliffs
absolutely “ spotted” with the ﬂedglings which had died of
starvation, owing to the destruction of their parents. And it
may be accounted unto me for righteousness that, in my indig-
nation, I hove down rocks whenever such an act would
interfere with the shooters.”

Mr. Thomas Southwell, a well-known ornithologist, said last
year, when writing of those lovely and graceful creatures, the
terns, or sea swallows :

“It is these delicate and beautiful birds which are most

in requestdof course in their breeding plumage—to supply
the “smashed birds ” and groups of wings which, notwith-

 

 




 

 

standing twenty years’ exposure of the cruelty of the practice,
still, I regret to see, are more than ever in fashion as trimmings
for ladies’ hats. It is quite time to speak out, and ﬁx the
blame where it is most assuredly due. After all that has been
said and written, it is impossible for women to plead ignorance,
and the only legitimate conclusion to which we can arrive is
that they deliberately sacriﬁce all their ﬁner feelings at the
shrine of fashion, and care not what amount of suffering and
wrong is inﬂicted provided their vanity is gratified.”
Love of dress and fashion is leading to the extinction, complete or

partial, of all the most ornamental birds in every part of the world.

The most notorious of all feather decorations is the “osprey ”
worn on hats and bonnets. The millinery term “ osprey ” must not
be confused with the osprey of ornithologists, which is a sea eagle and
has nothing whatever to do with the “ ospreys ” seen in women’s
headgear, the word in this case being probablya corruption of “ a spray.”
The so-called osprey of millinery is obtained from a heron or egret.
There are about sixty kinds of herons throughout the world, all long—
necked, long-legged, and long-winged birds ; but it is the great white
heron and the little egret which are specially persecuted for fashion’s
sake, because of the set of slender feathers which in the breeding
season grow on the egret’s back, and droop over the sides and tail of the
bird ; these nuptial ornaments are worn by both male and female birds.

I should like to .direct attention to the story as told by Mr. Gilbert
Pearson, at the \Vorld’s Congress on Ornithology, held at Chicago
in 1897: ‘ '

“I visited a large colony of herons on Horse Hummock
(Central Florida), on April 27th, L888. Several hundred pairs

were nesting there at the time . . . . While quite close to the
breeding grounds I climbed a tall gum tree and was able,
unobserved by the birds, to survey the scene at leisure . . . .

Three years later I again visited the heronry at Horse Hummock,
found the old gum, and climbed among its branches, but the
scene had changed. Not a heron was visible. The call
had come from northern cities for greater quantities of heron
plumes for millinery. The plume hunter had discovered the 7.
colony, and a few shattered nests were all that was left to tell ,
of the once populous colony. The few surviving tenants, if there
were any, had ﬂed in terror to the recesses of Wilder swamps. "
Wearily I descended from the tree, to ﬁnd among the leaves and
mould the crumbling bones of the slaughtered birds.

 




 

 

 

Afew miles north of Waldo, in the ﬂat pine region, our party
came one day upon a little swamp where we had been told herons
bred in numbers. Upon approaching the place the screams of
young birds reached our ears. The cause of this soon became
apparent by the buzzing of green ﬂies and the heaps of dead
herons festering in the sun, with the back of each bird raw and
bleeding. The smouldering embers of a camp ﬁre bore witness
of the recent presence of the plume hunter. Under a bunch of
grass a dead heron was discovered, from whose back the plumes
'had been torn. The ground was still moist With its blood, show-
ing that death had not long before taken place. The dirt had
been beaten smooth with its wings, its neck was arched, the
feathers on its head were raised and its bill was buried in the
blood-clotted feathers of its breast, where a gaping wound showed
that the leaden missile had struck. It was an awful picture of
pain. Sorely wounded this heron had crawled away, and after
enduring hours of agony had died the victim of a foolish fashion.
Young herons had been left by scores in the nests to perish from
eXposure and starvation. These little sufferers, too weak to
rise, reached their heads over the nest and faintly called for the
food which the dead mothers could never bring.

“It is bad to see such sights from any cause, but when all
this is done merely to gratify fashionable women’s vanity, it
uecomes still worse. These are but instances of the destruction of
bird life. Unless something is done to stop this awful slaughter
it is only a question of a few years before the herons, not only of
Florida, but of the whole world, will be exterminated.

“Women who know of the cruelty necessary to procure the
feathers they wear on their hats, should stop wearing them, and
exert their inﬂuence to make other women see how cruel and
wicked they are. May God’s blessing rest with all who strive
against this sin. Man is either the greatest protector or the
greatest destroyer of birds.”

The excuse, often now given, that the plumes sold are artiﬁcial, is
in many cases, as was shown by Sir William Flower, a monstrous
ﬁction. Even by wearing plumes that are genuinely artificial a bad
example is set, and an evil fashion kept in vogue.

People also tell you that in some places the shed egret plumes are
to be picked up in handfuls when the birds are moulting. This may
be so, but that is not how the hunters and dealers obtain their wares,
for they are content with nothing less than the plumes in the best
condition, which is at the actual breeding season.

[t is not without signiﬁcance that making known these facts has
recently resulted in an Order being issued from the War Ofﬁce

 




 

'7

commanding the disuse of the egret plumes hitherto worn by the
ofﬁcers of certain British regiments.

But it is not only the beautiful white egret. There are scores and
hundreds of the loveliest known species that are in the same case ; for
a nuptial dress is well nigh universal in this class of creature.

During the last few years the birds of paradise have been pursued
so relentlessly that there is great fear of their total extermination.
The bird of paradise does not reach maturity "until he is four or ﬁve
years old, which means that the supply is comparatively very limited.
It is only the male bird who at the breeding season produces those
long soft feathers known as “ paradise plumes ” ; but the skins and
heads of the females are used for trimmings also, and last year the
number of female birds-mothers torn from their young—far out-
numbered the males which were imported into this country. Quite
apart from the cruelty exercised by the hunters, I am sure none of
us could wish to be parties to the destruction of this beautiful bird,
which is found nowhere outside of the Malayan and New Guinea
region, and has not its peer in any other country, and which is one ”of
the glories of creation.

I wish I had time to enumerate and describe the myriad brilliant
birds which the imperious demands of women are causing to vanish :——-
humming birds, trogons, kingﬁshers, parrots, tanagers, orioles, impeyan
pheasants, Victoria crowned pigeons, grebes, and many others. Even
if we never have an opportunity of seeing these wonderful creatures
that is no reason why we should not take a deep interest in them and
delight to hear and think of them, for are we not citizens of the
world? and should we not, therefore, every one of us, feel the dignity
and pride of possession in all that this marvellous world contains, and
feel it our duty to do what we can to preserve these wonders of nature
which man can and does so easily and ruthlessly destroy, but which
he can never again create? Says Mr. W. H. Hudson, “ What an
impoverished nature and earth future generations will inherit from
us! Grod’s footstool, yes; but with all the shining golden threads
picked out of its embroidery.”

I have mentioned ﬁgures to show the vast quantities of ornamental
plumaged birds slaughtered annually. The destruction is almost

 

 

 




8

incredible; but of course when the old are killed and the young are
7 left to die of starvation, extinction is only a matter of time.

Besides beautiful tropical creatures, birds familiar to us all are
killed in countless numbers. Fancy killing the robin redbreast to
trim a ball dress ! Fancy permitting the lovely swallows to be
destroyed that their wings may trim a woman’s hat !

Would that every woman would take to heart Browning’s incisive
reproach—

 

“ SHE : My modiste keeps on the alert,
Owls, hawks, jays, swallows, most approve.
HE : You—clothed with murder of His best
Of harmless beings!” .

For twenty years these stories have been told and retold, but we >
appear to preach to deaf ears, and it is the good women who are the ' {
greatest hindrances. If an out-and-out worldling declares by her
words and her conduct that she will wear feathers procured only at
the cost of great suffering, and that she cares nothing for the exter-l
mination of lovely species of useful beings, we fear that her heart and

 

conscience must be non-existent; but when good women, who we know
are in earnest in their desire that right should triumph over wrong,
refuse to help our righteous cause, then we feel in despair, and ready
to cry, “ Let the birds perish! Let them perish! The sooner their
sufferings are ended the better, and then, when it is too late, man
(and woman) will discover what a poor, worthless, uninhabitable
place this world is without the birds.”

The statements I have made are not sensational stories, made

 

up by sentimental women or ignorant men. Scientiﬁc men, men who
would not swerve a hair’s breadth from the truth to make the story
sound pathetic, and who are down upon any exaggeration remorse-
lessly, are those who have used the strongest language in condemning
the wickedness, cruelty, and waste of the fashion of bird wearing.

I have quoted poets and men of science. In conclusion, may *
I call attention to a great artist’s appeal. At the New Gallery, in V
Regent Street, there is exhibited a picture* by Mr. Gr. F. Watts, R A.,
painted for the express purpose of pleading the cause of the birds.
It is called“ A Dedication to all who love the beautiful and mourn over

 

* Now to be seen at the Watts Gallery at Compton, Guildford.

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

the senseless and cruel destruction of bird life and beauty.” It
represents an angel with bowed head and despairing ﬁgure, bending
over a marble tomb covered with birds’ wings, while a spirit of
evil (Fashion) grins below. While he was painting it Mr. Watts
called it his “ Shuddering Angel”; and as we look at it we venture to
adapt the following lines, which appeared in Punch :—

Feat-hers deck the hat and bonnet;
Though the plumage seemeth fair,
Angels as they look upon it-
See but slaughter in the air.
Many a fashion gives employment
Unto thousands needing bread;
This to add to your enjoyment,
Means the dying and the dead.

Wear the hat without the feather,
All ye women, kind and true;
Birds enjoy the summer weather
And the sea as much as you.
There’s the riband, silk, or jewel;
Fashion’s whims are oft absurd,
This is execrably cruel,
Leave his feathers to the bird.

The Right Hon. SIR HERBERT MAXWELL, Bart, M.P., then dealt
with “ Our duty to Wild Animals,” and traced the history of legislation
with reference to them. He deplored the caging of birds—the
inhumanity of condemning a bird, the very type of freedom, to lifelong
captivity. He believed this was owing, in a great measure, to
thoughtlessness and because, even behind his prison bars, the poor
bird so often were a cheerful countenance.

SIR EDWARD GREY, Bart, M.P., recommended that a more lively
interest in birds and other wild animals should be fostered by
studying them in the country ; he urged the more frequent use of the
ﬁeld glass, and said that women could do much by rousing public
opinion on the subject of bird protection. No one who watched wild
life intelligently could pronounce the country dull.

 

Copies of this Leaﬂet, 4d. per dozen, 2s. 6d. per hundred, may be obtained
from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, 23, Queen Anne’s Gate,
London, S.W.

 




 




