—wr

 

by...“ 'W‘ A on:

6mm..~vmn q «-

THE A“... .~ _. I-..

3 .1' "r 1‘ 1 53 3 .- , 2.313 _ 3,“:
1.53;}. 3...} i la; 3...»? “r..,"' .1 ,33 .. 3 1

 

Reprinted from the February, 1929; 1388131.; 0 of TEE SPO?“ 1" ‘1’. N

Shall the S3661 Trap Be Outlawed?

‘Tm million tortured dealt/91 mm 561% $196 moi: of human mm'z‘y

T HE American naturalist, Elliott Coues,

has given uS something to think about .

the next time we pause to admire a
mink scarf or a particularly beautiful coat in
a shop window:

“When caught by the leg in a steel trap,
the mink usually gnaws and tears the captive
member, sometimes lacerating it in a manner
painful to witness. . . . The violence and
persistence of the poor,.tortured animal. en-
deavoring to escape are witnessed in the
frequent breaking of its teeth against the iron
— this is the rule rather than the exception.
One who has not taken the mink in a steel
trap can scarcely form an idea of the terrible
expression the animal’s face assumes as the
captor approaches. It has always struck me
as the most nearly diabolical of anything in
animal physiognomy. A sullen stare from the
crouched, motionless form gives way to‘ a
new look of surprise and fear accompanied by
the most violent contortions of the body,
with renewed champing of the iron, till,
breathless, with heaving ﬂanks, and open

 

mouth d’rtbbi'i11g-sattthhewaniirm‘tsetties
again, and watches with a look of concen—
trated hatred, mingled with impotent rage
and frightful despair.”

Millions of wild fur-bearing animals in
North America every year suffer similar
prolonged torture. The American scientist,
H. E. Anthony, estimates that the fur trade
of the world demands thirty million skins a
year and only a minute fraction of this num-
ber represents the pelage of domestic animals.
The Gulf coast of Louisiana alone produces
hundreds of thousands of trapped furs an-
nually. About 375,000 pelts are said to be
collected by trapping every year in the State
of Pennsylvania. As North America now
leads the world in fur production, it is quite
safe to estimate that ten million wild animals
are annually caught in steel traps in North
America. Does anyone care to think of the
accumulated sufferings of these animals? One
wonders how a civilization which permits
such an outrage can talk of sportsmanship,
or even of Christianity!

Of course, if people could see with their
own eyes the sufferings of only a few of the
ten millions —— ten thousand thousand — of
these animals, their agonies every year would
not pass without protest. But protest alone is
ineffective. There is just one practical step
which can be taken to put an end to this
hideous savagery. It is the abolition of the
practice of trapping fur for commercial
proﬁt. Nothing else can succeed. And only
the women of America can bring this about.

I have been corresponding with a very
prominent man who has been doing what he

you see, but gloomy. 5

.‘By HENRY R. CAREY

can to preserve some remnant of our beauti-

ful wild animals as a trust for our children '

and our children’s children. I have told him
plainly that in my opinion the women of
America, once they know of these outrages,

 

- will arise and put a sto') to them, just as they

stopped the slaughter of our birds a genera—
tion ago. But, unfort11333 ately, my friend has
had bitter experlenceS.3 He does not share my
faith that the Americaf33 woman’s sense of pity
will thus overcome her love of ostentation.
“Of course the influ3—i‘ntial women of the
country could do it,” 3.51e writes, “but I fear
they never will. They are too fearful of giving
up something themseltes. A year ago, a very
prominent New York! woman, who by her
own confession works herself sick in certain
lines of conservation work, told me that she
could not sponsor an antifur movement be-
cause she would have to give up furs herself!
All this does not mean: ” he concludes, ‘that
I am going to stop trying to keep some of
our wild life on the earth.” He is game,

 

DISTINCTLY do not Share these views.
I do not believe that American women are
so callous as to feel no ‘sense of outrage at be-
ing the unwitting cause of what is going on.
Several of these animals have food habits
that make them directly beneﬁcial to man’s
material interests; the lives of others are as
yet not well known; all are interesting and
beautiful in life. Yet in a very few years the
woods will be empty; and there will be a
stillness which 1s everlasting. The fur bearers
which it has taken Nature millions of years
to develop are soon to be blotted out, never
to return. AS early aS 1914, the Commission
of Conservation of the Canadian Govern-
ment brought out a report showing that since
1882 the sales of furs in London, at that time
the chief market for Canada, had fallen off
sharply. The pelts of practically all trapped
species, said the report, had decreased in
numbers from 1904 to 1914. Furs considered
of little value in the early nineties were in
1914 being hunted to the verge of extinction.
Fisher, lynx, marten, mink, cross fox, and
even muskrat Showed signs of failing. This
radical decrease in the number of skins pro—
duced was due to no slackening of the trap—
per’s zeal, for even as early as the period from
1894 to 1914 there had been a remarkable
increase in the demand for costly furs, and
authorities agree that, Since the beginning of
trapping history in North America, demand
and prices have steadily risen together.
In the United States the story has been
much the same, with an enormous increase in
the demand for furs Since 1915, especially in

..,._,,_3,

the urban communities. Indeed, something,
probably “prosperity,” brought an un-
precedented fur boom to the entire continent
toward the close of the World War. “ We are
now facing,” wrote Ernest Thompson Seton
in 1924, “the most acute Situation of this
kind in history, one result of the eager market
with consequent high prices being the pro—
spective early extinction of a number of our
leading fur bearers.” Unless the Slaughter
stops, according to another naturalist, Mr.
J. M. Johnson of New York, there will be in
a few years no mammals on this continent
larger than rats. It will be the sad history of
English mammals repeated, with far less
excuse, in America. “The fur trade,” writes
H. E. Anthony of the American Museum of
Natural History, “is now threatening to
bring to a close the Age of Mammals which
began three million years ago.” And Prof.
Henry Fairﬁeld Osborn, curator of that
famous museum, has used practically the
same words.

Indeed, the most striking fact about this

hoiocausttb its~‘rec-‘KieSS1IeSS”*‘itS‘iac‘k ‘of‘c‘on; ‘
S

trol, and its waste. Furs are now worn, not
because they are necessary, but because of
fashion and the vested interests of those who
create and sustain it. American women wear
heavy furs in summer and within heated
limousines in winter, while American and
Canadian woodsmen, everywhere south of
the Arctic circle, though faced with tempera-
tures as low as ﬁfty degrees below zero
Fahrenheit, prefer to use wool and Sheepskin!
What irony and what waste! As the larger
animals grow scarcer, Skins of even small
mammals, formerly considered worthless, are
being ripped off their backs with alarming
rapidity to satisfy the relentless demands of
vanity. Squirrel furs are so delicate that a
woman hardly dares to drive a car in a coat
made of these thin membranes. Yet 300,000
of these Skins were offered at a single sale in
New York in 1926, in order that fashion
might be served!

Nor are furs any longer a mark of distinc-
tion. In winter, in the cities, nearly every
woman in the street wears fur, even the des-
perately poor. Indeed, a chapter might be
written on the frauds of the fur trade, by
which the poor and ignorant have foisted
upon them the most vulgar furs, under pre-
tentious names that vaguely suggest to them
that they are competing with the wealthy
and “aristocratic.” At the present time this
deception has been carried so far that, as has
been well said, “Two hares raised by the
same mother may pose on the same counter
as white fox and black lynx!” If women only
knew how frequently they are hoaxed, how




’3 6‘

often their “ermines,” “foxes, minks,”
and “chinchillas” are rabbit, opossum, and
woodchuck in disguise, they would doubtless
take less interest in fur and more in good
wool and worsted. Once, silver fox furs were
the attribute of the Russian nobility. Now,
in the United States, it is as “common” to
wear fur, including rat fur, cat fur, and dog
fur, as to chew gum. It is time for women
leaders, the aristocracy of the ﬁner feelings,
to lead on to better things. Compassion
should at least compete with vanity.

It will be said in rebuttal that, to make up
for the rapidly diminishing supply of North
American furs, and to proﬁt by the always
increasing prices, fur farms have been started
all over Canada and in many places in the
United States, Russia, England, and other
countries. Here the animals are bred in a half
domestic state, and usually painlessly killed
before their skins are taken. Mink, skunk,
opossum, muskrat, raccoon, beaver, otter,
marten, the blue, white, and silver fox, and
the ﬁsher are now ranch raised in this fash—
ion. Nevertheless, it is only the conﬁrmed
optimist who believes that, as things now
stand, fur farming will save the residue of the
wild forest animals. It is obvious, surely, that
unless something is done quickly, trappers,
lured on by an ever—increasing demand
caused by a rapidly expanding human popu—
lation, will get the last of the supply.

HERE is something that can and must
be done, and there is a splendid historic
example before us. A generation ago, by the

_. herniaeffnrts. anVmot-threemen with.» the ,

cooperation of many high-minded women,
the Audubon societies were founded and our
wild American birds were saved from certain
destruction. Mr. Abbott Thayer of Dublin,
New Hampshire, a genius to whom a grateful
State may some day raise a ﬁtting memorial,
started the ball rolling. Facing every con-
ceivable sort of discouragement, but urged
on by an unquenchable spark of courage,
this artist-author—scientist raised the ﬁrst
money for the Audubon movement, and
made Mr. William Dutcher the ﬁrst presi-
dent of the society. Somehow, the two men
won through. The Pennsylvania and Massa—
chusetts Audubon Societies were founded.
Circulars were sent out to women, containing
a pledge not to purchase or wear the feathers
of wild birds. Boys signed pledges not to take
birds’ eggs. Everywhere the unselﬁsh women
of those days courageously took the lead in

 

the ﬁght against thos who would destroy our
wild birds for commrj‘rcial ends. In Philadel-
phia they held displays of Audubon Society
hats, exhibits which changed the millinery
habits of American romen throughout the
country. Enthusiastieally, they signed the
pledges right and left.lI remember them well,
those noble women, I grew up admiring
them. Compassion wa> to them more glorious
than display. They si‘ved our wild birds for
future generations to, njoy!

W'omen of today, if hey are so minded, can
do an even greater Ireed. They can every-
where take the pledge ”not to buy, sell, wear, or
use any animal furs whatsoever, unless they are

duly identiﬁed as having been ranch or farm,

raised, and there in'itantly and painlessly
killed, or else humaneily destroyed outside the
farm without the use if the steel trap in any
form. The general indhrsement of this pledge
will have the immediate effect of booming
fur farming, thus h,’ stening an economic
change from wasteful {trapping to intelligent
cultivation that is already slowly gaining
headway. It is interes’riting to know that the
skins of calves, Chine-Le dogs, karakul sheep,
domestic cats, chinchi a, and angora rabbits,
ponies, kids, lambs,f

already been made i to fashionable raiment
for the lady who like', her fur untainted by
torment. Meanwhile, :00, it is interesting to
learn that very often e ranch— —grown furs of
the “wild” animals a : superior to and more
becoming than those t at are trapped, being
always prepared wh in absolutely ﬁrst—
class condition. Indee 1, the killing of animals

. [J . I
. . » ' m .. \ +13 .. ,. I. . .l... . — - .71..“
. whase pelts are net» . . w, and the mutilation “

of furs when the animal bites off his foot or
when he is attacked in the trap by another
animal are among the many serious wastes of
the North American trapping industry which
are eliminated at the fur farm.

There are, of course, people who believe
that the best way to prevent the torture of
these animals is not to discourage the use of
trapped fur, but to pass laws abolishing or
changing the nature of the steel trap. But I
submit that we have had much sad experi-
ence of late with unenforceable laws! And
not least among them in my experience are
the trapping laws, such as those in Pennsyl—
vania requiring that a man’s traps shall bear
his name and address, and that he shall
inspect them every thirty-six hours. I have
seen enough of trappers to know that these
statutes are widely d13obeyed And, indeed,
it is perfectly evident that no unpopular

trapping law can be properly enforced in the
wild regions where there are practically no
enforcers. As the old maxim has it, law leads
opinion only at its peril. Nor can any help be
expected, in such a lawmaking program, from
the fur interests themselves. They are, of
course, interested in proﬁts only. “I want to
tell you,” writes a friend in ‘Vashington,
D. C., “that the despoilers are well organized
and powerful. The way some of these organi-
zations make the Government cringe is a
sight for the devil. About the only destruc-
tive agency that is jumped on hard is ﬁre,
which has no press agents.” My own experi-
ence with the fur-trapping industry leads me
to conclude similarly that, in spite of certain
beaux gestes, it is not sincerely interested in
changing its trapping methods. No, the only
way to save our remnant of fur bearers, and
our own self-respect as a civilized people, is to
strike at the economic root of the fur trade by
ceasing to buy trapped furs. The ﬁnal power
is in the hands of North American women.

F anyone doubts that a mere change of

fashion can have a revolutionary effect
on American commerce, let him ponder the
strange events of the early thirties in the
Rocky Mountains, where Kit Carson and his
brave band used to trap beaver. In that dec-
ade the “Carson men” and other trappers
had already begun to perceive that the fur
trade had paid too well, and that conse-
quently their section of- the country was
getting trapped out. Then, with dramatic
suddenness, the invention of the high silk

3.... 000 ”A .L , .. LL .
1UU~“F1UU61L(J 1am JuU L110

industry. In ﬁve years the price of a prime
beaver pelt fell from $6 to $1. Beaver hats
were no longer worn anywhere, and, with
their incomes reduced to one sixth their
former size, the aristocrats of the steel trap
were compelled immediately to seek other
means of making a living. Ten years later the
beaver of this region were again plentiful!
Steel trapping is the relic of bloodier

centuries — the period of slavery, the rack,

and the pillory. How long shall sportsmen and
sportswomen, American and Canadian, per—
mit these hideous atrocities to go on? “One
of the ﬁrst fruits of a truly educated world
will be the proper protection of animals,”
writes H. G. Wells. I believe that North
American women will rise to their oppor-
tunity, and will show that once again,
uniting in a good cause, they can mold
the history of the continent.

 

1., . H. _
Ubw pp;




