 

 

 

 

 

THE

ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

 

 

 

"ANIMALS, CONSIDER YOUR VERDICT!
VOLUME V

PUBLISHED BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
AT
THE UNIVERSITY UNION, 42., TORRINGTON SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Price 2/6

 




 

 

 

7/56

 

“CASH

CAPTIVE BOLT

PISTOL

Instantaneous stunning, certainty of
operation, and economy in use make
the ‘CASH ’ Captive Bolt Pistol the
perfect method of humane slaughter.

Equally efficient for the smallest
lamb or the largest bull.

Safe to user and onlookers.
Price £5. Cleaning Tool 2/6.
Cartridges 4/6 per I00.

Obtainable from Butchers’ Out-
fitters and Hardware Merchants.

Write for full details to Sole Manufacturers

A C C L E S a n d
SHELVOKE LTD.

ASTON . ' BIRMINGHAM

 

99

I”

 

\
‘ 7,93%" -'

 




 

 

 

 

THE
ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

\7C)I,LFNIEZ \7

Hon. Editor
H.E.BARGMANN,PhDUIi&L

PUBLISHED BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
AT
THE UNIVERSITY UNION
42, TORRINGTON SQUARE, W.C.I

M ade arid Printed in Great Britain by
Rogers G. Porter, Ltd., Newriharri Street, Bedford

1938

 




Sanity toward nature is based upon a full
knowledge of available facts. Partial
knowledge, if fully depended upon, is as
dangerous as falsehood, for it leads to false
interpretations. We must know nature, not
a part, but the whole, if we wish to treat the
simplest everyday problem of our relations
to animals intelligently and justly.

VICTOR E. SHELFORD.

 

 

 




 

PREFACE

URIN G the past year conservationists and humanitarians have

been much occupied not only with the preservation of fauna
abroad, but also with the possibility of establishing National Parks
in Great Britain. Much publicity has been given to the subject in the
‘ Press, by many and various publications, and by the organisation of
meetings urging speedy Government action. The University of London
Animal Welfare Society has taken an active part in the movement, in
co-operation with other scientific societies. It is a privilege to print
in this volume of the ANIMAL YEAR BOOK a contribution from
Sir Peter Chalmers Mitchell, the leading authority on the subject in
this country. Sir Peter not only wrote on “ Game Reserves and National
Parks,” but also took the chair at a meeting organised by the Society
to discuss the practicability of a scheme for biological control of fauna
in Great Britain. Some European countries, notably Sweden and Italy,
have already established nature reserves; others are examining the
possibility of doing so. Public opinion in this country would like to
see their example followed in the near future. When once a National
Park has been established, the way is opened for the control of fauna
throughout the country.

The National Park would be an unfailing source of interest to the
animal photographer. This branch of photography is easily the most
fascinating one, but its very obvious difﬁculties prevent many people
from making a practice of it. At the same time its value in the study of
animals cannot be overestimated, and it is with a View to inspiring
more field workers to get pictorial records of their observations that
P. Southern has written an article on ‘-‘Animal Photography for the
Amateur.” There is also a grim aspect of animal photography which
must not be forgotten : photographs of trapped and suffering animals
do more to impress the cruelty of the gin-trap on unimaginative minds
than the most eloquent description in words.

Unfortunately, no meeting of the International Convention for the
Preservation of African Fauna has been called this year. Hopes had
been entertained that the scope of the convention would be extended
to cover the Whole Empire. When the machinery is in existence, it is
indeed tragic that vested interests onthe one hand and apathy on the
other should be successful in preventing any movement from being
made.

An interesting case of what can be achieved by the application of
scientific method supported by Government action is described by
Dr. Fraser in his article on the “ Effect of Control Measures on Sealing,”
and here, incidentally, is an example of farmed fur procured with the

iii

 




 

 

iv PREFACE

minimum hardship for both man and beast. The seals are quickly
killed by clubbing, and the men employed by the industry undergo
few of the risks and privations usually associated with the pursuit of
fur-bearing animals.

On the other hand, where the whaling industry is concerned, a very
different outlook is described by Dilwyn John. There is incontrovertible
evidence of dangerous over—fishing, and legal enactments for the
control of the industry have been made by all the countries engaged
in whaling, but these enactments are so implemented as to afford the
minimum protection to the whale, and the maximum opportunities
for their destruction by the whaling fleets of the world.

Any reform of existing conditions necessitates, almost inevitably, a
long and arduous battle on the part of its protagonists. Difﬁculties
have always been experienced in the Animal Welfare Movement, both
to—day and in the early stages of its history, and it is interesting and
stimulating to read Captain MacCunn’s account of the opposition
encountered by Martin and his collaborators in the first half of last
century, in their fight for the rights of animals.

The country’s milk supply has been much in the news just lately.
Distinguished medical men have led a campaign to demand “Safe Milk
for the Nation.” At first sight there may appear to be little connection
1 Welfare and the Control of Tuberculosis in Cattle,
but Dr. Brook makes it convincingly clear that improved conditions
and humane treatment of farm animals will go a long way towards
providing uninfected milk. The newly inaugurated State Veterinary
Service should be able to combat much of the suffering inflicted on
animals, on the farm, in transport, and in the market. It cannot be too
often emphasised that to exploit animals unfairly and to treat them
badly is directly to man’s moral and material disadvantage.

The Council of the University of London Animal Welfare Society
express their grateful thanks to all who have contributed in any way
to the production of this book. As in the previous volumes, every
endeavour to ensure accuracy has been made, and criticisms by readers
who detect any mis-statement will be welcomed. Thanks are also due
to the following publishers, who have generously sent books for review :
Messrs. The Australian Book Co., Ltd. ; D. Appleton Century Book
Co., New York ; B. T. Batsford, Ltd. ; Bell & Sons, Ltd. ; Cambridge
University Press ; Chapman & Hall, Ltd. ; J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd. ;
Geo. G. Harrap & Co., Ltd. ; Jarrolds & Co., Ltd. ; John Long, Ltd. ;
The Marshall Press, Ltd.; T. Nelson & Sons, Ltd.; Putnam, Ltd. ;
Charles Scribners’ Sons, Ltd. ; A. H. Stockwell, Ltd. ; John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. ; H. F. & G. Witherby, Ltd.

between Anima

HELENE E. BARGMANN.

 

 

 

 




 

 

I.

to

ICONTENTS

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS
by Sir Peter Chalmers Mitchell, C.B.E.,
F.R.S.

. THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE ANIMAL

WELFARE MOVEMENT .
by Captain Fergus MaCCunn.

. ANTARCTIC WHALES

by D. Dilwyn John.

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR
by P. W. Southern.

THE EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON
SEAI ING . .
bV F. C Fraser, D. SC.

. TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CON-

TROL . . . . . .
by Geoffrey B. Brook, D.SC., F.R.C.V.S.

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS
(I) CRUELTY To ANIMALS : ITS RECOGNITION AND
RELIEF
by H. H. Fisher.
(2) THE CONTROL OF RABBIT POPULATIONS BY
MEANS OF A FILTERABLE VIRUS
by A. N. Worden.

(3) SMALL ANIMAL EUTHANASIA

by Professor J. G. Wright.

(4) THE CASE FOR SUSPENDING JUDGMENT IN
REGARD To ELECTROCUTION AND ELECTRIC
STUNNING. .

by C. W. Hume.

V

16

23

3O

40

68

92

 




vi CONTENTS

(5) HUMANE TREATMENT OF FARM ANIMALS .
Report of an enquiry by the ULAWS
branch Of the South—Eastern Agricul—

tural College

(6) THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN-TRAP IN
GREAT BRITAIN . . . . . . 105
by H. E. Bargmann.

8. ANIMALS ABROAD . . . . . 109
edited by F. J. Vinter, M.D., BS.

(1) AFRICA . . . . . . . 109
by F. J Vinter, M.D., BS.

(2) FRANCE . . . . . . . 112
by Marie Schaffert.

(3) GREECE . . . . . . . 116
by William Millar, MA.

(4) HOLLAND . . . . . . . 118
from notes supplied by M. C. Doorman-
Kielstra. and P. Rueb.

(5) NORTHERN IRELAND . . . . . 123
by Josephine Downer.

(6) NORWAY . . . . . . . 125
by Christine Geirsvold.

(7) POLAND . . . . . . . 126
by A. Sternhell, Dr. Med. Vet.

(8) ' TIBET . . . . . . 128

by Marco Pallis.

(9) SOME POINTS OF SPECIAL INTEREST WITH
REGARD TO THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
ABROAD . . . . . . . 132

by H. E. Bargmann.

9. BOOK REVIEWS . . . . . . 136
IO. APPENDIX . . . . . . . 163

 

.. - r , .._..-..............__,_- . -
n “‘18.?!" ‘u' "‘ ‘0‘"".."'ig’ghgvimmnsg-w-‘r war A . “-9- M”
.....-. — . .. A.“ .

 




GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL
PARKS

by SIR PETER CHALMERs MITCHELL, C.B.E., F.R.S.

KNEW the Zoological Gardens in London well before

I became Secretary of the Society in 1903, as for
nearly ten years I had been doing anatomical research
in the Prosectorium, and had been a member of the
Council for about two years. I was getting perturbed——
a perturbation which increased rapidly when I came to
have personal responsibility by the dominance of what
may be called the “ museum ” conception. Now museums
are vital to the pursuit of zoology on the sides of abstract
knowledge, immediate practical applications, and educa—
tion. The collection, identification, systematic arrange-
ment and naming of examples of every kind of living
creature from every region in the world, the care and
study of such huge collections, and the preparation and
maintenance of properly labelled and properly displayed
representative series for educational purposes are prob-
ably the most important functions of museums. But in
the case of “ Zoos ” it is not so important that new arrivals
should be “ new to the collection ” or “ new to science
as that they should arrive in a good condition and find
arrangements in which they can live happily, nor that they
should be housed so as to display themselves conspicuously
opposite their labels as that they should have space to
exercise their living activities and to shelter from the
curious eye when they wish to retreat.

True, as a comparative anatomist I looked with an
indulgent eye on the arrival of rare types at the Zoo,
and if they came rather too soon to the dissecting room
there were compensations. But as I had to be more in
the ofﬁce and the gardens than in the laboratory and had

 

)}

I

 




 

2 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

to realise that, from the financial point of View of a
society unsupported by public funds, the cost of a purchase
had to be weighed not only by the scientific rarity and
difﬁculty of obtaining an animal, but still more by its
drawing power to the general public and the number of
days, weeks, and months it might be expected to live,
I had to look at animals from an angle very different
from the museum Viewpoint. An example of a species
“ new to the collection ” or even “ new to science”
might be worth a few pages and even a coloured plate in
our “ Scientific Proceedings,” and a paragraph in the
annual Report, and yet be a bargain the Society could not
afford. .

Very unsentimental; but it led my colleagues and
myself to a much closer consideration of the factors which
tend to increase the duration of life of animals in captivity,
and the conditions which make the best compromise
between the comfort of the animals and their Visibility
to the public. For my present purpose it is unnecessary
to consider all the very special problems of housing,

feeding, hygiene, in a town zoological garden where a

maximum number of species and individuals have to
be accommodated in a minimum of space, and almost
inevitably under general conditions extremely unnatural.
But even under the conditions of the London Gardens
and similar institutions, and very much more readily in
a country ” Zoo ”like Whipsnade Park, it can be seen that
one of the most important factors for the viability of
animals and for their visibility to the public is the sense
of security.

Animals to be comfortable must feel safe. Probably
that is the best defence of zoological gardens and parks
against those who on general humanitarian grounds object
to the keeping of any wild animals in captivity. If the
conditions are otherwise suitable, it is remarkable how
quickly, almost in proportion to their intelligence,
mammals, birds, and reptiles come to appreciate that the
enclosures which from our point of View confine the

 




 

 

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS 3

animals from the point of View of the animals keep out
intruders. When we first put wild animals even into the
very large enclosures of Whipsnade Park, they kept as
far as possible from the boundary fences, after having
ascertained that there was no way out. Slowly they learned
to come up to the fences, but bolted as soon as even the
quietest of visitors or keepers approached the fence. ,
In the early days I spent many fruitless hours trying to
persuade creatures to come up to take even a food that
was specially attractive to them. Now they will come up
even to the most casual visitor, begging for food or notice.
But what is even more surprising is that they have learnt
to pay no attention to the park ’bus which regularly plies
round with visitors, or to the private cars admitted on
Mondays.

They recognise the advantage of the fence to themselves
very clearly. Birds and mammals may be crowding
round a gate taking food actually from the hands of
keepers or visitors, but if the gate be opened and a keeper
or visitor enter most of the creatures bolt at once.
Towards dusk, for example, porcupines become active
and will come freely up to their side of the fence to take
tit—bits such as fresh thorn branches from the hands of
visitors. But it has taken me long waits of patience
sitting on the grass inside before the porcupines would
come up to me when I have entered their enclosure.

The restaurant at Whipsnade Park is a conspicuous
example of the fashion in which birds and mammals
appreciate the advantages of their own security. The
windows open directly on an enclosure, and both deer
and cranes come close up to be fed and take food directly
from the hands of visitors. In the early days Sarus
cranes used to hammer with their beaks on one of the
windows, actually demanding food. But if anyone,
however carefully, should lean too far out of the window,
or should actually go through it into the enclosure, the
animals bolted at once, and could not be induced to
come to be fed.

 

 

 




 

    

     

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

These observations have a direct bearing on sanctuaries
and national parks. It is generally supposed to be neces—
sary to exclude visitors from bird sanctuaries during the
breeding season, or to admit them only under very
special circumstances and under the guardianship of
keepers. Such a restriction is unfortunate, because it is
precisely at the breeding season, when birds are courting,
building, and feeding their young, that observation of
them is most fascinating and most valuable. _ I think the
restriction is unnecessary, at least after the sanctuary has
been established and the birds have discovered it. Such
sanctuaries, as I shall explain later, need not be large in
extent, and all that is necessary is to provide a few wired
passages and observation seats for visitors. As soon as
birds recognise that they are in security they will nest and
rear their young within a few inches of the barrier and
be quite indifferent to visitors.

In large national parks it may be advisable at first
to fence in the main route for visitors, not for their
protection, but to secure that the animals will come
within easy range of visibility. This will be of the greatest
advantage in countries like Great Britain, where wild
animals have a long experience of human beings and do
their best to hide from them. It will be less necessary in
places where the human population is sparse and wild
animals have not acquired a specific dread of human
beings. In the south Sudan, for example, in the thick
bush on each side of the backwaters of the Nile, we found
that waterbuck and storks hardly got out of our way,
but stood still, in curiosity. Farther south, on the ridge of
populous Uganda, every wild creature bolted as soon as
it heard the noise we made.

But the sense of security does not come only, although
most easily, from the consciousness that barriers are a
protection. Wild animals learn, although slowly, where
they are safe and lose their shyness. In Whipsnade Park,
in addition to animals in special enclosures, Indian
muntjac, Chinese water—deer, two species of wallaby,




 

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS 5

several species of pheasant, pea—fowl, guinea—fowl, wild
turkey, and jungle-fowl enjoy the complete freedom of
the Park. At first they were excessively shy, but now
most of them have settled in special areas that have taken
their fancy and only lazily get out of the way of visitors.
I myself had a patch of about seven acres of rough
land enclosed on the edge of Whipsnade five or six years
ago. At first the rabbits scurried off in panic as soon as
I appeared. Now, when I am digging, clearing scrub, or
sitting reading or writing they pay almost no attention
to me. Among the wild rabbits there are a few white
rabbits, as nearly as I can see pure albinos. It is an odd
circumstance that they seemed the first to conquer their
shyness. But I fancy that character is due to their duller
sense of sight and hearing, as they have not acquired
such tolerance of my presence as their normal com—
panions.
I have been giving a few examples from my own

experience of the adaptability of wild animals to con—

ditions in which they feel secure. Londoners in particular
who have also any experience of the country can see for
themselves the difference in the behaviour of wild birds
in their natural homes and in the London parks. Take,

for example, the wood—pigeon, almost the most difﬁcult

of our native birds to approach, which, in London

parks, pushes sparrows out of its way when visitors are

offering food. So far as human beings are concerned the

reaction which we call wildness in wild creatures is little

more than a fully justified sense of special danger from

the presence of man. And it is a reaction that can be

overcome very easily. If we keep that in view, there is

no initial difficulty in combining spectacular and educa-

tional facilities with the preservation point of View which

is the fundamental reason for making sanctuaries, reserves,

and national parks.

There is no need, in the organ of the University of
London Animal Welfare Society, to insist on the preservae
tion of wild—life. If, as we ought, we are to regard each

 

 




 

 

 

 

6 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOUK

generation as entitled only to the usufruct of the inherit-
ance it has received, and required by every sense of
justice and decency to hand it on, if not improved, at
least unimpaired to the generations yet to come, it is
unnecessary to make a detailed plea for the preservation
of the existing species of animals and plants. The con—
science of civilised nations has been awakened, although
not always effectively, to the duty of preserving works
of art, including old buildings. There is much to be said
for the thesis that, so long as any kind of civilisation lasts,
each generation is capable of producing its own painting
and statuary, cathedrals and mansion houses, .music and
poetry. And I personally am the last to support the
view that tradition is the best guide to creation, and that
a loving study of the past is the best stimulus to the
creation of new beauty. I am all for innovation in
materials, methods and ideals, and I am disposed to think
that tradition hinders rather than helps creation in all
forms of art and of thought. But a species of animal or
plant once extinct is lost for ever.

Nor can anyone who has the slightest acquaintance
with the facts doubt about the fate that is overtaking
wild animals and plants all over the world. There are
many causes of this swift progressive destruction, most
of which are being controlled, although slowly, spas-
modically, and not always efﬁciently. There is com-
mercial exploitation—vfurs, feathers, horns, hides, meat.
The Society for the Protection of the Fauna of the
Empire and similar organisations in other countries are
making steady efforts to stimulate the authorities to
prohibit or to reduce trafﬁc in creatures in danger.
Similarly, by the introduction of prohibited lists of close
times, and strict regulations about “ sport,” they are
doing a great deal. In most civilised countries, moreover,
there are now strict regulations intended to protect
wild flowers and birds. With regard to wild flowers, in
particular, the need was extreme in this country. In my
own little seven—acre patch at Whipsnade, which had been




 

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS 7

unprotected from, public raiding for years, foxgloves,
cowslips, wild daffodils, anemones, the pasque flower,
primroses, and orchids had been totally exterminated,
and only one small patch of bluebells and of white violets,
each enclosed by good fortune in a dense thicket of thorns,
had survived.

But the greatest danger to wild nature in every country
is the increasing occupation of land by human beings.
Just as in Great Britain we had to exterminate wolves as
enemies of human beings and of domestic stock, so in
other countries wild creatures of all kinds rapidly become
regarded as public enemies. They are shot, trapped,
poisoned ; their natural haunts are cleared away, although
that destruction may also be fatal to many harmless or
even useful birds, insects, and plants. Lions, leopards,
hyenas, wild dogs, and a multitude of charming smaller
carnivores cannot be tolerated close to a farm or settle—
ment. A small herd of elephant in a single night will
wreck a plantation on which the settler has spent all his
capital and the labour of years, and which was just
reaching the point of production. Herbivores of all kinds
destroy fences, plunder crops, and many of them actually
are, or are suspected to be, permanent reservoirs of
diseases which may infect man or domestic stock, although
unfortunately, but not unnaturally, agriculturists and
authorities seldom give them the benefit of any doubt,
and regard extermination as the simplest way of prevent-
ing the harm they do or are supposed to do.

In short, effective human occupation is fatal to the
wild-life of any tract of country, and wherever there
appears to be any conflict of interest between the protec-
tion of fauna and flora and the immediate interests of
human beings, even we lovers of nature cannot hope to
get a satisfactory verdict in favour of our clients. I doubt
even if we are justified in demanding it. Human interests
must come first.

Fortunately there is a way out, already approved in
principle and put in practice in many countries, but year

 

 




 

 

8 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

by year, almost month by month, becoming more difﬁcult
to carry out on a sufﬁcient scale to meet the needs of the
case. It is the selection, dedication, and preservation of
tracts of country as reserves for wild nature. These may
range in size from a few acres to thousands of square miles.
Many names are given to them—sanctuaries, reserves,
game reserves, animal parks, national parks. I propose to
consider first their efﬁciency for their primary purpose,
the preservation of wild-life, and, secondly, how far,
without detriment to their primary function, they can
contribute to the pleasure and profit of human beings.
The second consideration has the practical side that the
more they contribute to human purposes the more easy
it is to persuade authorities to create them and the more
easy to finance them.

Whether large or small, whether for a general or for a
specific purpose, the reserved tracts, wherever possible,
should be selected because they are at present least
disturbed by human occupation. It is little use making a
reserve on land that has already been cleared, or that has
been under agriculture for any time. It should be occupied
by a long—standing natural community of vegetation,
insect life, birds and mammals, and reptiles. We are
disposed to think too much of the more conspicuous
mammals, birds and reptiles, and to think too little of
all the invertebrates, many of them still unknown to
science, and most of them very strictly limited to their
accustomed environment, to think too much of the more
conspicuous trees and flowering plants, and too little of
the obscure “ weeds,” fungi, lichens, algae—all of which
play a vital part in the established community. Moreover,
a reserve, once secured, should be secured for all time.
Offers to exchange them for other portions of land, even
of greater area, haVe to be scrutinised with the greatest
care.

Not many parts of the surface of the globe are free
enough from human occupation to provide space for the
preservation under natural conditions of all the animals

 




GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS 9

actually or recently native to the region. There are some
magnificent examples of what can be done. In America
there are the Yellowstone Park, over two million acres
in extent, the Yosemite in California, of three-quarters of a
million acres, the Grand Caﬁon Game Preserve, with
half a million acres—all in the United States. In Canada
a total of 8,884 square miles has been allotted to the
purpose, of which Jasper Park, with 4,400 square miles, is
the largest single area. The Union Government of South
Africa has formed the Kriiger Park in the Transvaal, an
area two hundred miles long by forty wide, as a home for
the still splendid although terribly reduced fauna of
Africa. I understand that an effort is to be made to
introduce a few survivors of the white rhinoceros. The
park is appropriately named after the greatest figure of
South Africa, not only as the sturdy opponent of British
Imperialism in its greediest form, but as the initiator in
very early days of wild animal protection, the reserve
out of which the park grew. No doubt Kruger had in
mind the preservation of “, game ” animals rather than
the protection of nature for its own sake, but in actual
fact the founders of the Society for the Preservation of
the Fauna of the Empire were chiefly reformed big—game
hunters. It is to be remembered, also, that the final
establishment of the Kruger Park was due chiefly to the
tireless energy and enthusiasm of Colonel Stevenson—
Hamilton, who is a naturalist rather than a hunter.
The next most important huge reserve in Africa is the
Parc National Albert, founded by the late King of the
Belgians in the Belgian Congo, originally 400,000 acres
and since increased by nearly as much again. It is
interesting to‘ recall that the Congo Park was formed with
the primary idea of preserving animals as animals and
not merely as game, and also that it is the only absolute
sanctuary for gorillas, although these are more or less
protected by game—laws in British territory. Another
feature of great value is that the King of the Belgians
has placed it under control of an international council,

 




 

 

 

f“ x-_

IO THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

thus recognising formally that the preservation of nature
is an affair not of one country but of the civilised world.

I hope that before long it may become the rule that
the great reserves of the world should be international
territories, no doubt entrusted to the powers within
Whose boundaries they lie, but placed beyond the devasta—
tions of war. If nations continue to be so foolish as to
try to destroy each other, they might at least agree to
spare wild animals which have no political opinions. The
surviving wild examples of the European bison were
exterminated by accident in the great European War, and
as the next great war will not be confined to Europe, there
may be untold losses of wild creatures. No doubt it
will be a war of extermination so far as human beings
are concerned, but there is only one living human species,
and, for the future, it may be indifferent, biologically
speaking, which race or sub-race survives. But there is
more than danger of many animal species disappearing
completely.

A great step towards the internationalising of nature
protection was made by the Conference of African Powers
which met in London recently at the invitation of the
British Government. It agreed on concerted measures
for the protection of fauna and on the establishment of

_ reserves and national parks in Africa. It is to be followed

this year by a similar conference, which, it is hoped, may
extend the provisions of the African Convention with
such adjustments as may be found necessary to southern
Asia and Australasia. It would be a magnificent step,
possibly with beneficent implications beyond the pro-
tection of fauna and flora, if such a Conference could agree
on giving international security to nature reserves.

In these great reserves and even those of moderate
size I think that it is almOst of fundamental importance
that they should be surrounded by what may be called
a ” buffer zone,” varying in width according to the nature
of the ground and of the animals. Such a zone would
serve as a kind of “ no man’s land ” between wild nature

 




 

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS II

and effective human occupation. If leases on the zone
are granted for any human purpose, these should contain
a clause absolutely barring any ground of complaint of
damage of any kind arising from the existence of the
reserve, and prohibiting any kind of occupation damaging
to the reserve. When a reserve in South Africa was
formed many years ago to protect a race known as the
“ Addo Bush” elephants, it was deemed sufﬁciently
large because it was surrounded by almost unoccupied
land. True, there was an insufﬁciency of water, but that
might have been remedied. Settlements crept up close
to the reserve, the elephants took full advantage of the
new opportunities, ravaged farms and ruined water-
works. The case against them could not be resisted, and
the order for their destruction was made. A similar
position may arise at any time on the great continents
as civilisation spreads, and is certain ,to arise quickly
where national parks and large reserves are created in
already occupied countries like Great Britain. Subject
to the general regulations of the locality as to game
licences, I see no reason why there should not be sporting
rights over these buffer zones, and so long as there are
people who wish to shoot, a substantial revenue might
be derived towards the support of the park or reserve.
Moreover, as animals soon discover where they are safe,
the buffer zone would act as a very competent fence.
Although, from the point of View of their natural
inhabitants, reserves should be disturbed as little as
possible, some intelligent human control is necessary.
A warden, who should be a competent naturalist, and
efﬁcient staff are required, not merely to act as guardians
who will prevent poaching and undue interference, but
to preserve a balanced community. However large the
area may be, sometimes one species will increase to the
detriment of others, sometimes a species will require
special assistance. Forests will have to be thinned
periodically, undergrowth cleared, watercourses kept open,
and so forth. In the course of such operations a certain

2

 




12 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

revenue may be derived from the sale of timber, meat,
hides, and from the supply of mammals, birds, and
reptiles to zoological gardens and parks in other parts of
the world. Such animals under the direction of the
naturalist—warden can be selected, caught, made accus-
tomed to human association, and to the kind of food
on which they will have to live later on. And, above all,
their transport will be arranged under suitable conditions.
In zoological gardens generally, the heaviest mortality
falls on animals during the first six months in their new
homes, and a large part of that death—rate could be avoided
by skilled selection, preparation, and packing of creatures
destined for “ Zoos.”

Reserves and sanctuaries of small size, from a few acres
upwards, present easier problems. They have generally
some specific purpose, of which the most familiar are to
protect the breeding places of birds, the haunts of rare
insects, trees, wild flowers, geological exposures, and so
forth. They are increasing in numbers in almost every
civilised country, sometimes under the auspices of special
societies, sometimes, as in the great example of the Dutch
East Indies, under the auspices of Government. In this
country the attention of the local authorities for town
and country planning should be directed to them. There
are instances where, by a slight alteration of building
schemes, excellent sanctuaries for birds and wild flowers
could be made at very little cost. Of all creatures, birds
are the most easy to protect. Quite small areas with
suitable soil, water supply, and provision of open grassy
spaces kept clear from dense undergrowth are all that
are required, especially if the sites are on the well—known
routes of northern migration in spring and southern
migration in autumn.

It is now necessary to consider some of the relations
of Visitors to reserves and sanctuaries. Clearly, although
their fundamental purpose is the preservation of wild—
life, there are objects and inducements in addition to
the abstract purpose. First, there is the pursuit of

 

 

 

 

 




 

GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS I3

scientific knowledge. The great work done by museums
is directed in the first place to the identification, naming,
and classification of animals and plants. But we are only
at the beginning of knowledge when a species has been
diagnosed and described, its place in classification deter—
mined, its structure studied. We have to know all the
living side of it, those characters which can be grouped
under the general word “ behaviour,” and although
much can be learned from creatures in captivity, the true
story can be learned only by patient observation where
the creatures are pursuing their natural avocations in
confident security. Reserves and sanctuaries will become
the great centres for increase of natural knowledge, drawn
from study under the best conditions and recorded not
only in words but by the camera. It is to be remembered
also that the camera, especially the cinematographic record,
is valuable both from the scientific and the educational
side. I cannot think of any more revealing recent methods
of studying living activities than the special forms of
moving pictures in which time has been overcome.
Slow—motion films make it possible to analyse and to
understand movements which escape the unaided eye.
Still more wonderful and more illuminating are the films
in which the individual pictures taken at intervals of
minutes or hours are condensed on the screen into a
continuous stream. And let it be remembered also that
as cinematographic photography has its financial side,
the opportunities given by reserves and sanctuaries might
bring a substantial revenue.

But a very large number of people are not greatly
interested in wild animals and plants as such, and not at
all interested in them from the scientific point of View.
Also there are many who, although not naturalists, are
yet ready to be pleased by the spectacle of wild creatures,
and yet cannot be wholly trusted not to be alarmed by
them or to alarm them. Is there any reconciliation?
The use of the word “ national” park tends to raise the
issue in an acute form, and actually in a recent depart-

 

 




 

 

 

v. ‘.
1, 1
i
'3? ;
13:,
lg}. ‘
l I
Ix; j
l

."i

,2, l

g
, ,
l
.1
,' l
‘ l
2;
5,4
“'4
1‘
:j 1
l ,
31
‘l
l
l
.l
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I4 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

mental committee under the chairmanship of Dr. Addison
(now Lord Addison) the question was raised with respect
to proposals to turn Snowdonia or Cannock Chase or
some great region in the Scottish Highlands into parks
supported by the State.

I think that it must be admitted that if “national”
parks are formed partly or wholly at the expense of the
State, especially in countries like Great Britain, where
there are no really dangerous wild animals, the non-
naturalist public must be given certain facilities. There
must be rest—houses for hikers, the establishments with
better accommodation, parking places for cars, roads of
access, and possibly even one or two main roads, and
certainly recognised paths, traversing or at least pene—
trating the area. I do not think that such concessions,
which may be demanded with justice, can interfere
seriously with the areas as reserves, the more so as I
am convinced that human beings of all kinds, giVen the
opportunity, will come to take a new interest in Wild
nature, and that the animals themselves will become
accustomed to well-behaved human beings.

But there is nothing against, and much to be said in
favour of, providing within large “ national ” parks small
properly placed and mOre securely protected sanctuaries
for birds, insects, and plants, to which the right of admis-
sion shall be granted perhaps according to the season and
certainly according to the person. I fear that collecting
ornithologists (especially oologists) entomologists, and
botanists with an expert knowledge of rarities will require
special attention. .

In the case of the huge national parks in the great
continents, the experience of Colonel Stevenson-Hamilton
has shown that it is quite feasible, and a source of revenue,
to provide motor-roads and rest-houses and to admit the
public. But when visitors become more numerous, it
may be necessary and advisable to make additional
arrangements. Before the War, in a presidential address
to the Zoological Section of the British Association at the




GAME RESERVES AND NATIONAL PARKS IS

Dundee meeting, I suggested, not wholly as a joke, that
the zoological gardens of the future would be great
reserves in which not the animals but the visitors would
be in cages. I visualised the construction in the fastnesses
of the animals of huge cages protected by steel and wire
to which'visitors might go by similarly protected covered
ways or by motor transport, and from which in safety
they might see the animals. Since then I have gained
more confidence in the adaptability of wild animals to the
sense of security as a mutual exchange. But on the other
hand I think that, with regard to the smaller sanctuaries
for breeding birds, the idea is not only practical from the
point of view of expense, but to be desired in every way.
A covered passage of light wire—netting should lead to a
larger similarly covered space deep in the sanctuary and
be provided with seats from which visitors could watch
the proceedings of the birds. On a very small scale we
tried that arrangement in the old “ summer aviary” at
the London Zoological Gardens and found it to be
successful.

 

 




 

 

 

   
 
  

 

  
   

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE MOVEMENT

by Captain FERGUS MACCUNN, Chief Secretary, R.S.P.C.A.

T has been said that we did not begin to be kind to
lanimals until we had learned to be kind to one another,
and that, roughly speaking, is true.

The early days of the movements which abolished the
slave trade, and wiped out extremely severe penalties for
the most trivial offences, were also the early days of the
Animal Welfare movement. _

This subject was not entirely new in the early part of
the nineteenth century. In the middle of the eighteenth
century a few humanitarians had protested against various
forms of cruelty to animals, and Hogarth, in his “ Four
Stages of Cruelty,” had shown that brutality to animals
and brutality to one’s fellow creatures went hand in hand.

“ If,” said Hogarth, ” my pictures have the effect of
checking cruelty to dumb animals I am more proud of
having been their author than I should be of having
painted Raphael’s cartoons.”

But Hogarth’s pictures did not have the effect he
wished ; cruelty to animals remained the general rule in
this country, and nothing was done to alter it until early
in the nineteenth century, when a few people tried to
suppress bull-baiting, one of the popular brutal sports
of the day. (I hope I shall be excused from mentioning,
with proper pride, that bull—baiting was unknown in
Scotland I) '

Those early humanitarians could not have chosen a
more difﬁcult task, comparable to-day with trying to
suppress football.

The first serious effort to secure legal protection for
animals was made in I809 by Lord Erskine, Lord High

16

 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  
   




 

 

HISTORY OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE MOVEMENT I7

Chancellor of England, who introduced in the Lords a
Bill for “ Preventing Wanton and Malicious Cruelty to
Animals.” (It is interesting to note that the present Lord
Erskine of Restormel, grandson of the one who introduced
that Bill, is the Honorary Treasurer of the R.S.P.C.A.
and President of its Northamptonshire Branch.)

It should be remembered that at that time there was
no law for the prevention of cruelty to any animals.
A servant who, by some cruel action, injured his master’s
animal could be proceeded against, not for the cruelty, but
for malicious damage to his master’s property.

” Animals,” said Lord Erskine, ” are considered only
as property; to destroy or abuse them from malice to
the proprietor, or with an intention injurious to his
interests in them is criminal, but the animals themselves
are without protection. The law regards them not sub-
stantively ; they have no rights.”

Lord Erskine’s speech, a splendid plea for the animals’
cause, was afterwards printed in pamphlet form and sold
at ninepence a copy. The Bill passed through the Lords,
but was lost in the Commons. Judging from the attitude
of the general public towards animals at this time one
cannot be surprised that it had only half a success._

The Edinburgh Review, commenting on the Bill,
said : “ No reason can be assigned for the interference of
legislation in the protection of animals unless their protec—
tion be connected either directly or remotely with some
advantage to man.”

One may be sure that in making that statement the
Edinburgh Review was expressing its disapproval of
the Bill, but, viewed in the right way, that statement is
correct. Every movement for the protection of animals
is “ connected with some advantage to man.” This point
was well brought out by King Edward VIII when, as Prince
of Wales, he wrote a foreword to a Century of Work for
Animals: “ For though it may be that the man who
protects an animal from ill—treatment acts solely with the
object of befriending the animal, yet none the less his

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

kindly deed reacts upon his own character and makes him
a better citizen.”

In I809 a society with the title “ The Society for the
Suppression of Wanton Cruelty to Animals ” was started
in Liverpool, but it was short—lived. No doubt the
members soon discovered that their Society was powerless
without the backing of the law.

Lord Erskine introduced another Bill in the following
year, but without success.

Nothing more was done for animals until I821, when
Richard Martin, an Irishman, brought in a Bill to prevent
the ill—treatment of horses and other animals. The
Commons treated the measure as a huge joke, and when
a member suggested that asses should be protected from
cruelty the laughter which followed was so loud that
The Times reporter could not hear Martin’s speech.
In spite of all the ridicule Martin got his Bill through the
Commons, but it was lost in the Lords.

In the following year Martin, against the advice of his
friends and supporters", tried again. His Bill was passed
by the Commons, was supported in the Lords by Lord
Erskine, was read a third time on july I3, and received
the Royal Assent on July 22, I822.

This, the first measure for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, protected horses and cattle. The legal minds
of those days held that bulls were not cattle, and so
Martin’s Act, as it came to be called, did not put an end
to bull-baiting. One does not know to what class of
animals the astute lawyers of those days considered that
bulls really did belong.

Commenting on Martin’s success, one newspaper of
the day said : “ Mr. Martin is not a very learned man . .
but he has a most winning way with him.” This, perhaps,
was only another way of saying that Martin’s success
was a personal one.

But Martin was not a man to be content with a mere
legal victory ; he wanted to see his law in motion, and so,
soon after the passing of his Act, he went out into Smith-

 




HISTORY OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE MOVEMENT I9

field, found two men thrashing two horses unmercifully
and summoned them. Both men were fined £1.

Martin brought many other offenders to justice. He
also tried to increase the scope of his Act. In the following
year he tried unsuccessfully to introduce a Bill to prohibit
bull~baiting and dog—fighting. Again, in 1824, he tried
to bring in a Bill to prevent cruelty to dogs, cats, monkeys,
and other animals, but his one Act was his only big
success.

Martin himself employed an inspector, and in I824 he
assisted in starting the society now known to most people
as the R.S.P.C.A. The actual founder was the Rev. Arthur
Broome, Rector of St. Mary’s, Bromley—St.-Leonard (now
Bromley-by-Bow). The inaugural meeting was held on
June 16 at Old Slaughter’s Coffee House, which was
famous as the resort of painters and sculptors. It was
situated at the upper end of the west side of St. Martin’s
Lane.

Martin was among those present at the inaugural
meeting, at which the chair was taken by Mr. T. Fowell
Buxton, M.P. A committee was formed to superintend
the publication of tracts and sermons ; another committee
was appointed to adopt measures for inspecting markets,
streets, etc.

Martin was in good form at the first annual meeting
of the society in I825, when he spoke lightly of his many
unsuccessful attempts to introduce other measures.

“ Somehow or other,” said Martin, “ my Bills were
thrown out actually before they were brought in. The
moment it was intimated that I intended to introduce the
Bills an outcry was raised against me. I was told that
it was unreasonable to deprive the lower orders of their
sports, while I left the sports of the higher classes un—
touched, and that I ought to have attacked equally the
sports of hunting, fishing, shooting, etc.

“ Now, although it is true enough that there is much
cruelty in those ungentlemanly sports, yet it is no reason
to reject the attempt to put down a few acknowledged

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

20 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

barbarities because we can’t put them all down. For my
own part, I could wish to get rid of every one of them,
good or bad. But if I can’t get 100 per cent. ; why, then,
I must be satisfied to take 50 or 25 per cent.

“ But I must say that it makes me blush, as a Member
of Parliament, to be obliged to confess that the great
indisposition to put an end to cruelty to animals exists
in the House of Parliament itself. I may truly say that
a greater love for, or, at least, adherence to, the principle
of cruelty exists in St. Stephen’s Chapel than in the Bear
Garden itself. In the House of Commons, containing six
or seven hundred Members, I am sure that there are ten
to one against any measure to diminish the sufferings of
the brute creation.”

That is not true to-day. At no time in the history of
the nation has the House of Commons been more favour-
ably disposed towards Bills affecting the welfare of
animals and birds than it is at the present time. This
happy state of affairs is due very largely to the efforts
of the Chairman of the R.S.P.C.A., Sir Robert Gower,
Founder and Chairman of the Animal Welfare Group, the
first group in the world for the protection of animals in
any legislature.

During its first year the society successfully prosecuted
' in 149 cases of cruelty to animals, and branches of the
society were formed at Wakefield and Liverpool. The
first annual meeting was a very cheerful meeting, but in a '
few months the society was in serious financial difﬁculties ;
the general public would not support it. At one time the
debts amounted to over £300, of which £67 was owing
to the founder, the Rev. Arthur Broome, who had given
up his living in order to support the society and work
for it.

The monetary difﬁculties increased. In I826 the founder
was held to be legally responsible for the society’s debts,
and as he was unable to pay them he was imprisoned.
He was subsequently rescued by Richard Martin and
Lewis Gompertz, the latter afterwards becoming the

 




HISTORY OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE MOVEMENT 21

second secretary of the society. The society’s troubles
increased and at one time, in 1827, the committee were
on the point of paying the debts themselves and dissolving
the society.

The Rev. Arthur Broome was succeeded as secretary,
in 1828, by Lewis Gompertz, who, by his benevolence and
hard work, was able to clear off the society’s debts and
secure a balance on the right side. He even assisted the
inspectors in their work of detecting cases of cruelty to
animals. But the general public of those days cared little
or nothing for animals and so ignored the society, which
was soon in difﬁculties again. Once more the committee
nearly decided to wind up the society, but, happily for
the animals of that time and for multitudes of animals
since that time, they continued their uphill fight.

A tract, written by Lewis Gompertz, gives us a pen-
picture of the many forms of cruelty prevalent at that
time.

Sheep were driven “ for above a hundred miles ” to
the markets and were goaded through the crowded
streets, where,“ after vainly attempting to allay their
thirst by the filth of the gutters,” they dropped from
exhaustion. Sometimes their ears were torn off by dogs,
or their eyes were knocked out and their legs‘ broken by
drovers. The sheep were flung into the underground
slaughterhouses, where they were killed “according to the
uncontrolled fury of the operator.”

Oxen intended for slaughter were compelled to travel
for many days with little or no food and were eventually
killed by “ repeated blows of hammers on their heads.”
Calves were bled slowly to death to make the flesh white.
Horses and donkeys were driven to death.

Finding that they could not make much headway with
the public one or two members of the society’s committee
tried to see what they could do in Parliament. They
Wished to increase the scope of Martin’s Act.

Eventually, in 1835, the society prepared a Bill which
aimed at protecting all domestic animals; it was intro—

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

22 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

duced in the Commons by Joseph Pease, a member of the
well—known Quaker family. The committee were quite
prepared for another failure! Joseph Pease himself,
speaking at the annual meeting of the society in I835,
was a little sceptical about being able to do much for
dogs and confessed that he could not undertake the task
of trying to prevent dogs from being used as beasts of
burden. He thought that any such attempts would
expose him to ridicule.

But Pease and his committee "were wrong. The Bill,
which was to protect all domestic animals, went through

' the Lords without discussion and received the Royal

Assent on September 9.

How was it that the society’s committee and the author
of this Bill had wrongly estimated the temper of Parlia—
ment P

Truth is always stranger than fiction. Apparently the
committee had overlooked the fact that earlier in the
year the society had been honoured by receiving the
patronage of Princess Victoria, the future Queen, and her
mother, the Duchess of Kent. But, we ‘may be sure,
Parliament remembered, when the Bill was before them,
that the society was now under Royal patronage; hence
the change in the attitude of our legislators towards the
society and its aims.

The first chapter in the history of the Animal Welfare
movement concluded with the passing of this measure,
which protected all domestic animals.

      
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   




    

 

ANTARCTIC WHALES

by D. DILWYN JOHN, late of “ Discovery” Investigations

Strong is the lion—like a coal
His eyeball,——like a bastion’s mole
His chest against the foes ;
Strong is the gier—eagle on his sail ;
Strong against the tide th’ enormous whale
Emerges as he goes. ,
Chm'stophm/ Smart

IGHT thousand men in 270 ships. are hunting whales
Ein the Antarctic. They are hunting them there
because in no other seas are there enough to make fishing
on a large scale pay.

Yet whales were once plentiful in all the other seas——
the temperate and the tropical seas and the Arctic—-but
they have through the centuries become reduced by over-
fishing to mere fractions of their former numbers. The
Antarctic is the last stronghold of a big whale population.
How big it is no one knows ; but it has yielded to the
whaling ﬂeet in each of the last nine years over 27,000
whales. There is evidence that it cannot go on yielding
so large a number. there are, in other words, signs that
it is being over— —fished. .

The method of fishing is deadly. The whales are
chased by steam—“ catchers,” vessels excellent for their
purpose, fast and quick—turning, about Izoft. in length;
they are killed and caught by harpoons weighing one
hundredweight fired from a gun in the bows. The hunting
unit comprises five to seven catchers feeding a large
parent ship, a floating factory of some 20,000 tons or
more. Such units follow the whales to sea and remain
at sea, completely self—contained for long periods.

If there were no restrictions to this industry no one,
knowing the history of all older whale fisheries, could

23

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

doubt that the last great population of whales left in
the world would be in danger, not indeed of extinction,
but of something approaching it ,' not of extinction
because it would not pay to send ships to those far seas
to kill the last whales.

Much slower methods sufﬁced to decimate the whales
of other seas. One of the most important of other fisheries
was that of the Greenland Right whale in the Arctic.
It went on from 1611, to Ion—for 300 years. The whales
were secured by means of hand harpoons thrown from
an open rowing boat lowered from a sailing ship. Some—
thing is known of the numbers killed in good years. The
Dutch whaling fleet took an average of 116 whales a
year in the Davis Strait in the middle of the eighteenth
century. British ships made bigger catches farther north
early in the next century: in four years (I827—3o) they
took an average of 848 whales annually. These numbers,
so small compared with the 27,000 whales a year in the
Antarctic, were yet too much. The industry declined;
it had become unimportant by the middle of the nineteenth
century; it died for lack of whales by the beginning of
the twentieth. A hundred years ago the Greenland Right
Whale was so numerous as to be called the ” common
whale” or, briefly, the “ whale.” It is now one of the
rarest of whales in the sea.

The Antarctic is a far vaster sea than the Arctic, and
there can be no doubt that its original population of
whales was very much bigger. But it has not proved
big enough to stand up to the mechanised industry based
upon it. Let us see what the history of that industry has
been. Whalers, having cleared the other seas of whales,
were forced at the beginning of this century to turn to
the Antarctic. They found there, in the summer months,
enormous numbers of two large and similar species of
whales—blue whales and fin whales. The blue is the
larger of the two ; it is not only the largest of all whales
but it is the biggest creature the world has ever known.
It may reach a length of Iooft. and a weight of perhaps

 

 




 

ANTARCTIC WHALES 0 5

LI

I 50 tons. This is more than the weight of twenty elephants.
Of prehistoric monsters the diplodocus was nearly as long,
but it cannot have been more than one—third as heavy.
The fin whale is somewhat smaller than the blue.

At the beginning of the century mechanised whaling
was in its infancy. The steam-Chasers were small and
there were no mobile factory ships. Consequently the
industry was based on land stations and was therefore
amenable to control. The only suitable land for whaling
operations in the vast Antarctic sea are the islands of
the Falkland Island Dependencies, which are British
possessions. It was here that. whaling bases were first
established in the Antarctic, and from the beginning
these bases were controlled, for the Colonial Government
was aware of the danger of over-fishing. The numbers
of companies and catchers were limited, the whalers were
forbidden to take whale calves or mothers accompanied
by calves, and they were required to avoid waste in the
use of the carcasses. The companies had to send to the
British Museum (Natural History) full particulars of each
whale killed so that the museum authorities might know
what was being taken from the stock and perhaps see
what effect the slaughter was having upon it. These are
empirical measures. The ideal control would obviously
be that which ensured that only as many Whales were
killed each year as the remaining whales could replace
by young in the same time. But here was a difﬁculty!
The ideal control required that many things should be
known about the whales, and it is almost true to say that
at that time almost nothing was known about the blue
and fin Whales of the Antarctic.

The European countries of the Atlantic seaboard keep
ships and scientists constantly at work studying the fish
which make their seas of commercial importance to them ;
and not only the fish but the organisms they feed upon,
and the varying waters in which they live. It is the only
way to learn about marine animals.

During the years of the war the Government decided to

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

do the same for the Antarctic whales. The necessary
money was raised by taxing the industry. In 1925 all
was ready and the whaling researches began. They take
their name from the first ship to be employed in them,
the Discovery, and are called the “ Discovery ” Investiga—
tions ; and they continue to this day. I have space Only
to describe those of their results which illustrate
what effect the slaughter is having upon the stock of
whales.

Blue and fin whales begin to breed at the age of two
years. Fins cease to grow between the ages of six and
eight, blues between eight and ten. The females normally
bear one young every two’ years. Neither species of whale
lives to the great age that, because of their bulk, was
formerly supposed ; it is difﬁcult to say what age, but it
seems likely that a whale thirty years old would be a
very old whale. They are summer visitors to the Ant-
arctic and feed and grow fat there. They spend the
winter in the warmer waters, where the females bear
their young. They feed little and grow thin at this time.

These facts, so briefly told, are the outcome of years of
patient observations on thousands of individual Whale
carcasses at whaling stations, and of long work at sea.

During these years of research the industry was not
standing still. It had grown steadily since the beginning
of the century. In the season IgIO—II, 6,500 whales were
killed. Fourteen years later, in the season I924—5, the
figure had risen to 10,500. More than half the whales
were caught in the restricted region where Antarctic
whaling had begun, in the south-west Atlantic, the
industry being still partly dependent on land bases. The
remainder were an ominous portent of the future, for
they were taken elsewhere and by a new method.

They were caught by catchers of the ordinary type,
but by catchers based not on a land station or on an
anchored factory ship, but on a factory ship capable
of accompanying them to sea, and of remaining at sea
with them, carrying out at the same time all the functions




ANTARCTIC WHALES 27

of a shore station. Thus the whole mobile unit was able
to follow the concentrations of whales at sea throughout
the season, quite independent of land, and consequently
beyond the region. of control and restriction. That was
the ominous thing.

In a few years this new, so-called “ pelagic ” (which
means floating) method of whaling had spread the
industry from a sector of the Antarctic to three—quarters
of the way around the continent ; factory ships and their
catchers fished along the ice—edge from south of America
east-about, below Africa and Australia, to the Ross Sea,
south of New Zealand. In the season I928—9 over 20,000
whales were killed in the Antarctic. The number reached
a peak in 1930—1, when more than 40,000 whales were
killed. So great was the production of oil that the market
was flooded and the price fell. In the following season a
part of the fleet abstained from fishing. But the average
of the number killed in each of the five subsequent
seasons has been over 29,000 whales.

Though this new whaling began in an uncontrolled
way—which reminded those who saw it of a gold rush—
it is not now altogether unrestricted. An International
Convention made in Geneva in 193I, which became law
some years later, prohibits the killing of calves, of mothers
accompanied by calves, and of immature whales; and
imposes some other general restrictions. The greater part
of the industry is shared between roughly equal numbers
of British and Norwegian companies. They have realised
that they were over-fishing and they have, in consultation
with one another and, more recently, with representatives
of their Governments, agreed to some limitation of the
catch, by different methods in different years. But it
is not nearly enough, because it has not even prevented
the expansion of the industry ; though it has curbed its
activities, it will not save the stock of whales. Other
nations, notably Germany and Japan, are beginning to
whale.

The evidences of over—fishing are ’clear. The first sign

3

 

 




.J _ ~ ,.:‘:¢'e.‘n W.

11-_ L ~ ._ - ‘ .J. 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

28 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

is a progressive decrease in the size of the animals caught,
as the older larger individuals which are exposed. to
danger for the longer time get killed off. In the Ross Sea,
where whaling started only in 1923, there was in the
three seasons 1926—9 a continuous fall in the average
length of the blue whales taken there: in 1926 it was
more than 85ft, in 1929 less than 81ft. Over a year ago
a letter from one of the “ Discovery ” Staff appeared in
N atnre dealing with the same question for the whole
of the Antarctic between the years 1930—5. In that short
period the average length of female blue whales killed
(based on totals varying from 4,500 to 7,250 a year) fell
from 82.36 to 79.88ft., and the fall was more rapid in the
last year than in the others. This is worse than it looks :
the “Discovery” researches show that the 1935 average
length is near that at which female blue whales, at the age
of two, begin to reproduce themselves. As intensive fishing
goes on, more and more blue whales will be killed before
they can contribute but one calf to the whale stock, and
the deterioration in numbers must rapidly become worse
and worse. It is to be expected that as the blues become
less the fins will suffer more. They are indeed already
doing so : in recent seasons the proportion of fins in the
catch has risen.

Nothing but severe restriction of the killing can save
a population in which there are already such unmistakable

signs of over-fishing.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1. HARMER, S. F., 1928. “ The History of Whaling.”
Presidential Address, Proceedings of the Linnean Society
of London .' 140th Session. 3

2. HARMER, S. F., 1931. “ Southern Whaling.” Presidential
Address, Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London :
142nd Session.

3. LAURIE, A. H., 1936. “The Stock of Antarctic Blue
Whales,” Nature, July 4th.

   

  




ANTARCTIC WHALES 29

4. JOHN, D. DILWYN, 1937. “Antarctic Whales,” journal
of the Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of the
Empire, New Series, xxxi.

5. FRASER, F. C. (in NORMAN and FRASER), 1937. Giant
Fishes, Whales and Dolphins. Putnam.

6. HVALRADETS SKRIFTER, Oslo. A series of annual reports
analysing Antarctic Whaling records—in English.

 




 

K H 4' ~m~ *5 M: .‘J‘...;;‘..‘.L&.._L:'.1A‘;:.l:‘:'_:;;jg :13—1‘ar-E’ém‘u. ‘- « (xx; ’ “in? 9.x.“ .1: a. I: " ‘2- it, c a. ti» .1 v. r: ‘1": a ~. — 1 ~, :4: ‘f. 3‘. ‘ ' ~ “U .. < ‘7’: ._

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE
AMATEUR

by P. W. SOUTHERN

(Member of the Advisory Council of the British Film
Institute)

HE ever-increasing popularity of animal photography,

I from the snapshot of the domestic pet to the super—
production film of jungle animals, is ample proof of the
hold which animal pictures exert on all sections of the
community. Facilities for photography are so widespread
nowadays that there are few homes in which a camera
of some sort is not found, and it is for the benefit of that
vast band of amateur camera owners who wish to try
their hand at this fascinating pastime that these notes
are written.

The manual supplied by the camera manufacturer
usually only covers the working of his own product, and
the tyro is left with the choice of picking up his photo—
graphic knowledge by trial and error (a somewhat costly
if effective method), or by the purchase and study of
comparatively expensive and highly technical professional
handbooks. It is, of course, impossible for anyone
unacquainted with the working of a piece of technical
apparatus to produce'satisfactory results, and therefore
a brief description of the basic principles of photography
may not be out of place at this juncture.

I. Most novices fail to realise that the photographic
negative is produced by the chemical action of light, reflected
from the objects photographed, on a strip of light—sensitive
material. This being so, there are four important deter—
mining factors: (i) the illuminant; (ii) the size of the
reflecting subjects; (iii) the quality of the reflecting
subjects ; (iv) the light—sensitive medium, i.e. the grade

of film or plate.

30

 




 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR 31

Visualise for a moment these two scenes: Imagine
yourself first on the cliffs by the seaside preparing to
take a picture of a fleet of little fishing vessels working
off the coast in front of you. Your picture will consist
largely of sea and sky with a number of small darkish

objects in the middle foreground, the trawlers. Now sea ,

and sky are very good reflecting media, particularly on
a fine day. All the light reflected by several square miles
of sea and a vast expanse of sky is being concentrated
on to the small square of photographic film in position
at the back of the camera. There is, in fact, a super-
abundance of reflected light.

Next, by way of contrast, assume that you are attempt—
ing to photograph the family dog on the front porch.
The porch will obstruct a portion of the light from the
sky and the only subjects which are going to send any
reflected light to your film will be the animal itself and
possibly some very nondescript background, the total
area of which will not exceed 6ft. by 4ft.

Now, in both these two cases, the same area of photo-
graphic film mast receive an adequate charge of light. In
plain language, there appeared to be too much light in
the first instance and too little in the second to make a
good photograph.

II. The amount of light reaching the sensitive material
must therefore be controlled to suit the determining
factors mentioned in section I.

This is achieved by : (i) varying the time the shutter
is permitted to remain open ; (ii) varying the size of the
lens aperture; or (iii) by a combination of (i) and (ii).
The amateur is often perplexed by the inability to realise
that though a camera lens is in a movable, f0cussing
mount, this has no bearing whatever on its light value
as a lens, i.e. as a window to admit light to the sensitive
medium and so produce a negative. The light value of
a lens, called the “ aperture,” is determined by its focal
length, i.e. the distance from lens to film at fixed or
“ infinity ” focus, divided by its diameter, and is expressed

 

 

 




‘ " ‘ w ~ ﬁrst.»
' ‘._"_"~'.:_A__._._r...._ ..-.n~..~..r;..---._ v_. _ ..i._.. .r- .. -_-_4

;:_::;us._._. -12;m"u._x_g _ .- A

 

4.. 1 _ :L;::£§Lr:;m_‘m"t:a;.g_mm_.gwg‘ .- m...“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

as a numeral preceded by a small letter ‘f.” For example,
a box camera with a focal length of 5%;in. and a lens of
%in. diameter has a lens aperture (or light value) of f.II.

Every amateur photographer should, if his lens is not
clearly marked, ascertain what the lens aperture of his
camera really is, as this forms the basis for all calculations
for exposure, whether by aid of a meter or by “ rule

I of thumb.”

III. Knowledge of how to control the exposure of
the sensitive film, in conjunction with the type of camera
employed, will give us some idea of the scope of the
instrument.

THE BOX CAMERA

This type of camera costs only a few shillings ; it has
a fixed non—focussing lens and a shutter giving one
snapshot and one time exposure position. The lens
aperture will most probably not be given, but on calcula-
tion will very likely be found to lie between f.II and f.I4.
The snapshot speed may be anything from I /I5 to
1/25 second.

This camera will make excellent pictures on any of
the proprietary roll films, provided one or two simple
rules are observed. Views containing an excess of sea
'or sky should be avoided on bright days ; they will tend
to be over-exposed and somewhat harsh. Therefore try
to make this type of picture when there is plenty of

. fleecy cloud to cut down some of the unwanted light.

At the same time, avoid taking pictures of animals in
roofed-in cages, which although they may look quite
light to the human eye, are actually badly illuminated
from a photographic viewpoint. Modern photographic
plates and films possess a wide latitude to compensate
for the shortcomings of the amateur cameraman, but
they cannot overcome glaring errors, particularly in
under—exposure. Box cameras are best used to photograph
animals in the open, and even then care should be taken
to ensure that the subjects are sufﬁciently close. A zoo

 

 




 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR 33

lion taken at a range of twenty yards will look disap-
pointingly insignificant in your album. Your own fireside
cat taken at about eight feet range will make a better
picture. In brief, do not expect too much of a cheap
piece of apparatus. Within its limits it will function
perfectly, but do not ask impossibilities of it.

THE FOLDING CAMERA

The more expensive type of instrument is usually of
this kind, with a focussing lens and a variable—aperture
iris diaphragm with stops clearly marked, thus, f. 5.6, f.8,
f.II, f.16, etc. The beginner does not always realise that
each successively higher f. humeral decreases the effective
lens opening by exactly one—half, i.e., working at the same
shutter speed it will exactly halve your exposure if
you close the diaphragm by moving the pointer from
one numeral to the next. Conversely, opening the
diaphragm by moving the pointed to the next lower
numeral will double the exposure.

This camera covers a far Wider field than the box type.
The focussing lens will permit close-up work on subjects,
usually the first aim of the animal photographer. With
this kind of camera you are able to photograph success—
fully the small animal in poorly lighted surroundings
because the instrument is more capable of correcting
exposure. The subject, being photographed at close range,
will take up most of the field, consequently there will be
little reflected light from the background, so it is necessary
to double the standard exposure to compensate for this.
Again, the colour of the subject may be dark, i.e. black,
brown, or grey, so double the exposure again, i.e. give
four times the standard exposure, always supposing that
lighting conditions are similar to those under which the
standard expoSure was determined.

When applying this general rule, remember that light
subjects require less drastic treatment, as White or near-
white is one of the most effective reflectors known. The
four photographs illustrating this article (with their

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

accompanying notes) have been chosen for diversity of
subject, but in every case the material used and the time
of exposure were identical. The variation in lens aperture
is given in each case, and the beginner would do well to
study the subjects and their effect on exposure. Lighting
details are also given, and it is interesting to note that
to all intents and purposes “ tropical ” sun may be taken
as the equivalent of ordinary English summer sunshine.

Reference has been made to the standard exposure.
This should be determined for your camera using your
customary film and photographing a “ standard” type
of picture, such as a family group at a range of fifteen
to twenty feet on an average bright summer day. You
will probably find that the standard exposure turns
out to be 1/25 second at f.II or 1/50 second at f.8. As
a rule it is better to use the longer exposure and the srnaller
aperture, unless movement of the subject makes the faster
shutter speed and a consequent larger aperture imperative.
Once the “ standard exposure for standard subject ” has
been established, there are only two sets of conditions to
correct for: (i) conditions of subject, and (ii) conditions
of lighting.

Conditions of subject where animal studies are concerned
can be divided into two classes, those pictures made in
open paddocks (where the rules are the same as those
for photographs of street scenes and landscapes), and
those pictures made of animals in small semi-covered
enclosures, where it is important to remember the follow-
ing points. Stone or concrete enclosures open to the
sky are bright and will photograph like a street scene.
Cages, on the other hand, open on all sides, but with a
covered roof are not nearly so light photographically as
they seem to the eye. A correction of four or even eight
times the estimated standard exposure is indicated. If
possible, avoid photographing through bars, either by
directing the aperture of the lens between the bars or,
if the cage is covered with a wire mesh, it may be

 

 

 




 

To face page 34.

 

PLATE 1.

1 study. No dark objects to exclude light. Bright sunshine. No filter. Lighting from

A medium close anima . . .
right side. Exposure 1/25 second at f.11 on super—sensmve panchromatic film.

 




 

Exboanm “32 aeconq 5r; \‘g'e OU anbeL-aeuamAe bsmchOUJsrqc {1111]-
V 121? Age/A 0; opjec‘ca 1U mpycp p19c1< bLGQOHJUJSWGa' largen 1U 2118p; epsqe' lLochsr] ennepme‘ MO {me}:

bI‘VlE 3'

 




In 1111‘? ha (y? '34 . _, . , ..,_ .,,.§_...~.._._-. um.“.._..._~_....»_..<.-”;4._._m4_.. - _.. _ ._ 4 A-“ o- _ ____.

 

 

PLATE 3.

Typical seascape. Water and sky comprise five—sixths of picture. Medium clouds over tropical sun. No filter.
Exposure 1/25 second at f.16 on super—sensitive panchromatic film.

 




 

PLATE 4.

Heavy background in shade. Cloud over sea, otherwise bright sky (tropical). No filter. Exposure 1/25 second
at f.8 on super—sensitive panchromatic film.

 




 

,_.E=—-—‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR 35

better to locate the camera so that the mesh is out of
focus. Cages in well—lighted interiors with glass sky—
lights may need a correction. of eight to sixteen times
the standard exposure, in spite of their apparent
brightness.

Conditions of lighting are best regarded from an arbitrary
standard of summer sunshine with no clouds, and subse—
quent corrections made according to the needs of the
moment. On a slightly cloudy day the standard exposure
should be doubled for example, and the same rule followed
when photographing within three hours of sunrise or
sunset, when the light is mostly composed of yellow—red
rays. Winter sunshine (October to March) can be taken
to be only one—half as bright as summer sunshine. A
completely overcast thundery sky may need four times
the standard exposure.

Movement and the consequent decrease in exposure to
avoid blurring are the causes of much under-exposure.
It is well to remember that lateral movement, i.e. move—
ment across the front of the camera, shows up the most.
Movement directly towards the camera, or obliquely
across the field of view, is not nearly so pronounced.
These considerations are particularly important in cine—
matography, where the automatic fixed exposure is in
the region of 1/30 second. Subjects moving close to the
camera will blur more readily than the more distant ones.
With the fixed exposure camera, patience and a snapshot
speed of 1/25 second will generally produce a successful
picture, but such a subject as a pair of lively apes swinging
circles on a trapeze may require 1/50 or even I /100 second
exposure with a consequent enlargement of the aperture
to compensate for the shorter snapshot.

Scenes in the background of the large indoor cage must
be approached with extreme caution. To obtain a satis—
factory study in these circumstances a very wide aperture
lens must be used (about f 3. 5) and a very slow snapshot

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

exposure (1/2 to 1/5 second) given. In fact, if the camera
can be rested on some convenient object for a short-time
exposure (tripods are forbidden at the London Zoo), it
is worth waiting until the lion, in the words of Mr. Stanley
Holloway, assumes “ a somnolent posture, with the side
of his face to the bars.”

Quite frequently pictures are obtained which, though
photographically sound, are not sharply in focus. The
only cure in cases of this kind is to practise judging short
distances from six to twenty feet, and to accustom
yourself to the appearance of a horse, for example, in
the viewfinder at ten, fifteen, twenty, and thirty feet, by
actually pacing out the measurement.

Cinematography. The basic principles of exposure
hold good in this branch of photography as well. The
golden rule for amateur “ movie-makers ” is: take
movement, not studies of still—life. Use the close-up shot
to emphasise your point. If the animal is being fed,
try to follow up the full View of the operation by a shot
showing the hand of the keeper offering the tit-bit and
the lips and jaws of the animal masticating its food. Then
flash back to the full View again and so establish the
” motif.”

In all cases, still or “ movie,” unless you are excep—
tionally skilled, avoid taking pictures against the light.
Fig. I shows the best working position as regards
lighting, with the illuminant behind the camera, giving
comparatively “ flat ” lighting and thus ensuring the
maximum illumination of the subject. If the subject is
lighted from the side, Fig. 2 shows the correct position
for the camera, but it must be borne in mind that
increased exposure is necessary in such a case.

C olonr photography presents no great difﬁculties provided
certain essentials are grasped. It must be clearly under-
stood that exposure is very much more critical in colour
than in black and white photography. In ordinary

 




ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR

 

 

ILLUMINANT

CAMERA SUB/JULI—

xx“*"“*\xx

 

 

FIG. 1. Conditions for maximum lighting.

 

 

if” xxw

ILLUMINANT \/

CAMERA

 

 

 

FIG. 2. Conditions for side lighting.

37

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38 . THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

photography the proprietary materials have a latitude
factor of about 16 (i.e. anything from a quarter normal
to four times over normal exposure will produce a
presentable picture), but in all colour material this
latitude is very much less. Results are therefore either
very good or very poor in colour work. The length
of exposure must be much more carefully estimated,
and as a rule must be much longer than for the corre-
sponding black and white View, the adjustment being
from four to sixteen times greater according to the type
of material used. The manufacturers’ instructions should
be rightly followed if good results are to be obtained.
Colour films should be used only to photograph colours,
not subjects which would record equally well in mono-
chrome. Gaily coloured birds should be photographed,
for example, not animals with grey, brown, or black coats.
Bright sunshine With the lightng as “ flat ” and uniformly
distributed as possible (see Fig. I), is essential.

Miniatare cameras have of recent years become so
popular that a few hints on their handling will not be
out of place. These delicate pieces of apparatus need as
much skill in handling as a microscope, and perfect
enlargements cannot be expected from first attempts.
Owing to the extreme smallness of the negative, focussing
is hypercritical, and infinite care and patience is required
before accuracy is achieved. The photograph to be
successful must be enlarged, and consequently any
unsteadiness of the camera will be magnified in the
finished print. The instruments are so small that it is
difﬁcult to hold them steady for “ slow ” snapshots of
1/5 to 1/15 second, and it is advisable to hold the breath
while actually releasing the shutter. The camera can be
rested against the cheek (or against the body if using a
top-finder).

Photographic materials of the well—known proprietary
makes are generally excellent, but each has its idiosyn-

 




 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE AMATEUR 39

crasies and it is best to become thoroughly familiar with
one make only, but it cannot be too strongly emphasised
that the faster the material the less its latitude to cope
with errors in exposure.

A good super—sensitive panchromatic film will allow
for discrepancies in early and late daylight, but it will
not be correspondingly super-fast to midday sunlight. On
the whole, however, there is no better type of film for
amateur or professional work, indoors or outdoors under
conditions of English climate, for it will give a good
monochrome rendering of any subject to be encountered.

Developing and printing is almost exclusively “ farmed
out ” nowadays, and it will pay the novice to keep a very
wary eye on the results sent home to him. Unfortunately
this branch of commercial photography is very much
neglected and slipshod work is done in the majority of
cases. On the whole it is advisable to send films direct to
the makers for developing and printing, for although
the charges may be slightly higher, it is reasonably certain
that they will receive the best attention.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE. EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES
ON SEALING *

by F. C. FRASER, D.Sc.

Assistant Keeper in the Department of Zoology, '
British Museum (Natural History)

EALS belong to the group of mammals called the
Scarnivora, which group includes such creatures as
cats, dogs, bears, weasels, badgers, and otters. Seals
differ, however, quite markedly from all these other
animals in their very great anatomical specialisation for
an existence which, for. the most part, is spent in the sea.
The seal’s body is streamlined, the digits of the fore and
hind limbs are webbed and act as fins for propelling the
body through the water, so that on land even the least
modified species are ungainly and move only with
considerable difﬁculty. 7

Seals can be divided into three sub—orders : the Otarz’idae,
eared seals such as the fur-seals and sea—lions ; the
Trichecz'dae, which contains the walrus ; and the Phocz’dae
or true seals. The Trichecz'dae do not concern us here.
The Otarz'z'dae are recognised by the possession of a
small but quite distinct external ear and by the fact
that the hind limbs are turned forward under the body.
The Phocz'dae have no obvious external ear and specialisa—
tion of the hind limbs has gone so far that they can never
be bent under the hinder end of the body but extend
posteriorly fromit.

The hunting of seals for food, oil, and clothing has
undoubtedly been practised in different parts of the world
from very early times, but it was only in the eighteenth
century that this group of animals became the object of

* Editor’s N0te.———The Newfoundland Hair Seal Fishery is not dealt

with in this article. It is hoped to include an eyewitness account in
Vol. 6 of. the ANIMAL YEAR BOOK.

4o

 




 

 




 

FUR SEAL, PRIBILOFF ISLANDS

 

 

ELEPHANT SEAL, SOUTH GEORGIA

 

To face page 41]

 

 

 

 

     

 




 

 

EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON SEALING 41

organised expeditions which exploited the available stock
of certain species to such an extent that their numbers
almost reached vanishing point. Seals are particularly
vulnerable because of the ease with which they can be
attacked on land, for they are, generally speaking, mild
and inoffensive creatures whose natural clumsiness on
shore makes escape difﬁcult. Fur-seals (Otariidae) are
hunted for the “ sealskin ” which is prepared from‘ the
pelt. The body is covered with very fine, soft under—fur,
with which grows coarse, longer hair, more or less con—
cealing the fur. In the prepared sealskin the hair is-
removed by a specialised technique which ensures that the
fur is not damaged.

The true seals (Phocidae) do not possess the abundant
under-fur of the fur-seals but they are of commercial
value, when they occur in sufﬁciently large numbers,
because of the thick layer of oil-yielding blubber im-
mediately below the skin.

The Alaskan fur-seal (Callorhmus msinus) is found in
the North Pacific, particularly in the Pribilof Islands,
where at certain times of the year it congregates in large
numbers. The male animals reach a length of 7ft. to 8ft.,
with a weight of 7001b. to 8001b, and the females 4ft.,
with a weight of 801b. to 1001b. The muzzle is rather
short, the body rotund, and its colour from dark grey
or brownish to black, depending on the age and sex of
the individual. The male seal can breed at four years of
age, but does not normally until two or three years later.
The female is sexually mature at two years of age, giving
birth to her first young one at the age of three years;
the period of gestation being about a year. The normal
life of male and female is twelve to fourteen years.

The breeding habits of the fur—seal have been closely
studied. Arrival in the Pribilof Islands from the open
sea begins about May or early June, the males being
ahead of the females. In June the main body of bulls
” haul out ” (land) and are followed two or three weeks
later by the cows, but in the meantime the bulls struggle

 




 

 
 

 

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

42 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

vigorously with one another for the most favourable
positions on the beach. The pups are born soon after
the cows haul out and, a few days later, the latter pair
with the bulls again. It is an important point that the
fur-seal is polygamous, each bull having a harem of which
the maximum is more than a hundred, and which quite
commonly consists of sixty to eighty cows. From the
time of their arrival until about the end of July the
breeding bulls never go to sea. That is to say, they go
without food during the whole of this time,‘ but this
appears to have little permanent effect on them.

When the cows have been impregnated, they are
permitted by the bulls to return to sea again to feed, and
while they are aWay the pups assemble together in groups
outside the harem, but the mothers have no difﬁculty in
picking out their own offspring when they return to feed
them.

Although one bull serves so many cows, the sexes are
produced in approximately equal numbers, so it follows
that» a considerable proportion of the male population is
sexually idle. The bachelors, or younger males, are
segregated during the summer season. They congregate
in large bands near, but not in, the breeding places in
areas which are known as “ hauling grounds.” Lacking
the parental duties of the breeding bulls they have more
opportunity for feeding, and so remain fat throughout
the summer ; they make Visits to the sea for food, which
in these seals consists chiefly of cuttlefishes. Ashore,
most of their time is spent in sleeping and playing with
each other.

The old bulls return to the sea during the last week of
July. Just before they go, their watch over the harems
is relaxed, and at that time and after they have gone
the idle bulls and bachelors visit the breeding grounds.
At this time, too, the two-year-old Virgin females come
ashore and are impregnated.

Sealing has been carried on in the Pribilof Islands since
their discovery by the Russians in I786, and between that

 

  




 

EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON SEALING 43

date and 1834, when obvious reduction of the seal stock
made restriction necessary, some 1,821,639 animals were
slaughtered, chiefly “ young ones of the year ” both male
and female. Between 1835 and 1867 sealing was restricted
and female animals spared, but even then at least 608,000
animals were killed. During this period the herd increased
and when the islands were taken over by the United
States of America in 1867 the seal population was
estimated as being between two and five million animals.

Sealing is very profitable commercially. The Americans
leased the sealing on the islands for a period of twenty
years from 1870 to a company which paid an annual
rental of 55,000 dollars and a taX on each skin of 2.62%
dollars. The number of skins taken during those twenty
years was 1,977,377, with revenue to the United States
Government of 6,020,152 dollars. In the succeeding
twenty years, 1890 to 1910, the annual rental was
increased to 60,000 dollars and the taX on each skin to
9.62% dollars; also the number of animals killed was
controlled by the US. Treasury. In all 342,651 skins
were taken, yielding an income to the United States
Government of 3,453,844 dollars.

While seals were being caught on the beaches of the
Pribilof Islands, sealing of another kind was being
practised in adjacent seas. The seals migrating north—
wards to their breeding grounds or on food excursions
to the sea from the islands were being hunted by sealing
vessels, and this “ pelagic” sealing was not only un—
economic but had a very harmful effect on the stock.
Many of the animals slaughtered in the water were not
secured, and more than half of those that were caught
proved to be cows carrying unborn young or suckling
newly born pups. Between 1879 and 1911 over nine
hundred thousand seals were captured by pelagic methods.

Scientific investigation of the condition of the seal
stock on the Pribilof Islands led to international arbitra—
tion extending over a number of years and involving
a considerable amount of complicated negotiation before

4

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

agreement was reached in 1911. By arrangement pelagic
sealing was prohibited and “ the United States and Russia,
as owners or guardians of the seal herds, agreed to pay
to Great Britain and Japan, for their relinquishment of
their interest in pelagic sealing, a percentage, 15 per cent,
to each, of the product of the land sealing to be conducted
by each of the two nations. In like manner Japan agreed
to pay to the United States, Great Britain, and Russia,
respectively, IO per cent of the land catch from the small
but growing herd under her jurisdiction.”*

As an indication of the relative importance of American
and Japanese interests in sealing it may be stated that,
in 1935, whilst the United States handed over 8,594
skins to the Government of the Dominion of Canada as
its share of the total number collected, Japan allotted
201 skins to the United States.

In 1912 the Government of the United States decided
to prohibit the slaughter of fur—seals for a period of five
years, except such as were required for food by the natives
of the Pribilof Islands. As a result there was a noticeable
increase in the number of pups born, a reduction of the
average size of harems, and a considerable increase in
the number of idle bulls. Reporting on the growth of
the Alaskan fur-seal herd between 1912 and 1917,
Professor G. H. Parker commented unfavourably on the
increase in the last category and said: “ This increase,
which can be eventually checked, shows that active
commercial killing should have been restored some
years ago.”

There is no doubt whatever of the effectiveness of the
measures enforced under American control. Under exist—
ing conditions the seal herd is being “ farmed ” in a
manner closely parallel to that in which domestic animals
are controlled, as far as is possible with wild creatures
which only come on land for a few months each year. The

* See Bulletin of the United States Bureau of F z'shem'es, Vol. XXXIV,
1916. The Fur Seals and other Life of the Pribz'lof Islands, Alaska, in
1914, by W'ilfred H. Osgood, Edward A. Preble, and George H. Parker.

 




 

EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON SEALING 45

supervision of the herd is carried out with the most
meticulous care by ofﬁcers skilled in their work. The
annual census is made in detail ; thirteen classes of seal
are recognised, namely, pups, yearling cows, two-year-old
cows, yearling males, two-, three—, four-, five, six—year—old
males, idle bulls, surplus bulls, breeding cows, and
harem bulls; an annual report is issued by the United
States Department of Commerce, and the figures for
recent years show that not only is the stock being
maintained but is rapidly increasing.

In 1914 the fur-seal herd was computed to contain
approximately 294,000 animals. In 1924 it had been
more than doubled, consisting of 697,158 animals. The
last year, 1935, for which figures are available gives
1,550,913 as the calculated number of animals on the
Pribilof Islands, and in that year 57,296 fur—seal skins
were collected the largest number for forty-six years
and 3,826 more than in 1934.

The number to be killed in any one season is carefully
calculated so that an adequate stock still remains for
breeding purposes in succeeding years. It is restricted
as far as possible to the three—year—old bachelors. Out
of the total slaughtered in 1935, 54,935 were of this age.
It will be remembered that these bachelors keep more or
less to themselves on separate hauling places, from which
they are herded to the place of slaughter. Killing is done
by stunning the animal with a blow on the head and then
stabbing it in the heart to bleed it.

In the Antarctic the slaughter of the fur—seal has been
carried out with such intensity that there is little hope
of the stock becoming re-established. Thus in the southern
fur—seal industry we have a sad contrast to the ﬂourishing
state of sealing in the Pribilof Islands.

At one time in the south there was an abundance of
a species of fur-seal, Arctocephalus austmlis. Weddell, in
his Voyage Towards the South Pole, 1824, has stated, with
reference to South Georgia, that between 1775 and 1820
1,200,000 fur-seal skins were collected and that the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

species was then almost extinct. More recent sealing
figures bear this out. As late as I874 only L450 skins
were taken, in I875 600, in 1876 IIO. In 1905 a sealing
vessel visiting the island could find no fur-seals at all,
and even to—day, with the protective measures which are
now enforced, the occurrence of a single specimen of the
fur—seal on South Georgia is regarded as something of a
zoological phenomenon. In the South Shetlands, where
it had at one time been plentiful, the fur—seal was prac-
tically exterminated in two seasons early in the nineteenth
century,* and indeed the sequence of events is the same
for all seal-frequented islands in the south. The very
small existing remnant of this once flourishing seal is
almost exclusively restricted to one tiny islet in the
Falkland Islands, where the species is rigorously protected
from slaughter.

The elephant-seal, 1W troanga leom’na, is sought not for
its skin but for the oil which is extracted from the thick
layer of blubber immediately beneath the skin. Formerly
this seal was to be found on most sub-antarctic islands
and on the southern coasts of South America and South
Africa, but at the present time, as a result of over—
intensive hunting in the past, it is only found in any
quantity on South Georgia, Kerguelen, Heard, and
Macquarie Islands.

This, the largest of all seals, gets its name from the
fleshy, inflatable proboscis of the adult male, which has
some resemblance to the trunk of an elephant. The adult
male is also elephantine in bulk, 15ft. or 16ft. to the end
of the body or 20ft. to 22ft. to the tip of the outstretched
hinder flippers, and with a girth of 15ft. or 16ft. The
females are very much smaller than the males, being
9ft. or Ioft. in length when adult. Besides being the
largest, the elephant—seal is probably the most ungainly
of the seals, resembling nothing so much as an animated

* See p. 16,. Report of the I Met/departmental Committee of Research and
Development 1n the Dependencies of the Falkland Islands. Stationery
Ofﬁce, 1920.

 




 

EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON SEALING 47

sack of quivering blubber as it progresses along the
beach.

Like the Alaskan fur-seal the elephant—seal is a
migratory animal; it remains at sea during the winter
months and returns to the beaches which are its breeding
grounds in the spring. In South Georgia the cows begin
hauling out about the end of August and shortly after
their arrival their pups are born. In the meantime
the bulls have come ashore and, although at first they
keep more or less to themselves, they later join the
cows. The elephant-seal is polygamous, and harems
consist of from two or three to twenty or thirty cow
their size depending very much on the activity of
the bull and its capacity for keeping intruders away.
Pairing takes place about ten days after the birth of
the young, and about this time the virgin cows also haul
out on the beaches. The pups are produced one at a
birth and, as in the Pribilof fur-seal, the sexes occur in
approximately equal numbers. It follows that there
must be a surplus of idle bulls whose slaughter need not
affect the maintenance of the herd in any way.

The adult seals remain ashore without going to sea for
about two months until December, when with the break-up
of the harem they return to the water, and do not come
back to the beaches again until January or February.

During this second visit they shed their coats, remain
six or eight weeks whilst the new one is growing, and
finally return to the sea for the winter months, the cows
and young first, the bulls a short time later.

The commercial exploitation of the elephant—seal
began about the middle of the eighteenth century; the
first oil to be exported from the Falkland Islands was
shipped to France in I766. In her book, The Falkland
Islands, Miss V. F. Boyson states that in I778 a French
sealer found the beaches of Saunder’s Island lined with
fur—seals and elephant—seals; forty-two years later this
captain’s son visited the same spot, found none, and gave
up the voyage. Again, Wéddell, writing in I823 with

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

48 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

reference to South Georgia, stated that both the fur- and
the elephant-seal were nearly extinct. So effective was
the clearing of the beaches by British and American
Whalers that by I885 most of the localities where the seals
had formerly been in such abundance were thought to
be entirely denuded, and by the latter years of the
nineteenth century were neglected by sealing vessels.
In South Georgia sealing was abandoned for a number of
years following I885, and this gave an opportunity for
such seals as remained to augment their number. At

‘ the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the present

century sealing at South Georgia was confined to a very
few poaching vessels which'visited the south-west coast
from time to time.

The necessity for control in the Falkland Islands and
its dependencies had by this time become evident, and
the Government of the colony produced its first ordinance

relating to sealing in .1881. A close season was provided

and in 1889 a subsequent ordinance prohibited the taking
of seals without licence and stipulated that the licensee
should give an accurate account of all seals killed.
Later developments included the issue of permits to
take adult males only and restrictions which provided
that ten per cent of the bulls should be left on each beach.
F or the purpose of sealing control South Georgia is
divided into four sectors, of which only three are permitted
to be worked in any one year. The close season extends
from November I to March I, but, as Mr. L. H. Matthews
points out in his paper on “ The Natural 'History of the
Elephant Seal, 1929,” the period when sealing is permitted
includes all the stormy winter months, so that in effect
operations are limited to September—October and March—
April.

In 1910, the first year for which a licence was issued
to one of the whaling companies in South Georgia, 1,965
seals were taken, in 1927 the number was 5,506, but in
the years between they fluctuated considerably, being
little over a thousand in I92I. During the last five years,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   




EFFECT OF CONTROL MEASURES ON SEALING 49

judging by the oil yield, the number of seals slaughtered
annually has been near the I927 figure.

There is not the same statistical evidence available
relating to the elephant-seal as to the Alaskan fur-seal,
but the inference drawn from general reports is, without
exception, that under the control of the Falkland Islands
Government the stock of South Georgia is now of satis—
factory proportions and in a flourishing condition.
Matthews, writing in the paper just referred to, puts
the number at “ at least one hundred thousand, at a
very moderate estimate,” and also says, “ sealers and
Whalers with whom the writer has discussed the probable
numbers of seal on the island think that the estimate-
given above is exceedingly cautious and that a quarter
of a million would be short of the true number.”

The seals selected for killing are driven to the shore
and despatched by a bullet through the head and by
severing the carotid arteries.

It is evident, then, from this very brief survey of
controlled sealing in the North Pacific and South Atlantic,
that the restrictions imposed have been more than
justified by the results obtained. It demonstrates, too,
how near to extinction commercial demands may drive
certain species when there is no restriction.

The application of knowledge gathered by careful and
systematic observation of the exploited species has
proved that it is possible for the herds to be maintained
with true economy. An annual toll may be taken to
satisfy the needs of man, which, if the regulations are
observed, need not endanger the continuance of the stock.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

I. BOWER, WARD T., 1936. Alaska Fishery and F ar—Seal
Industry in 1935. United States Department of
Commerce. Bureau of Fisheries Administrative Report
No. 23.

2. BOYSON, V. F., I924. The Falkland Islands. London.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

3. LYDEKKER, R., I893. The Royal N atnral History, London.

4. MATTHEWS, L. H., 1929. The Natural History of the
Elephant Seal. Discovery Reports, Vol. I, pp. 233—56.
Cambridge.

5. MATTHEWS, L. H., I931. South Georgia. London.

6. Osooon, W. H., PREBLE, E. A., and PARKER, G, H., 1916.
The Far Seals and other sze of the Prlbtlof Islands,
Alaska, in 19I4. Bull. United States Bureau of
Fisheries. Vol. XXXIV. Washington.

7. Report of the Interdepartmental Committee on Research and
Development in the Dependencies of the Falkland
Islands, 1920.

 




 

TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS
CONTROL

by GEOFFREY B. BROOK, D.Sc., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E.
District Vet. Ofﬁcer, Staffordshire

OR those interested in animal welfare and the inter-

relation of disease in man and domestic animals it
is an opportune time to consider the problem of bovine
tuberculosis. This year is notable for the fact that the
British Government, with a newly formed and centralised
Veterinary Service, proposes to launch a campaign against
cattle diseases and, in particular, tuberculosis.

PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS

Tuberculosis is a bacillary disease which attacks
mammals (including man), together with birds and
reptiles, few animals indeed being immune. It is most
common in human beings and cattle, less so in cats and
poultry, and rare in hOrses and dogs. The types of
tuberculosis vary, each type being characteristic of the
animal in which it occurs; thus human, bovine, and
avian types are known and cause typical tuberculosis
in man, cattle, and birds. Unfortunately a type does
not confine its action to its host alone, but may attack
other animals. The pig, which develops no characteristic
form of tuberculosis, may be attacked by the bovine
or avian types, or, more rarely by the human type;
similarly, the goat is usually the victim of the cattle
type. Bovine tuberculosis can and does cause disease in
man, children being the chief sufferers, transmission
occurring with the milk from an infected cow. It is for
this reason that the disease in cattle has received so much
attention from medical workers.

SI

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF CATTLE

Tuberculosis exists in two forms: “ open ” and
” closed.” It is said to be “ open” when it affects a

part of the body from which the bacilli can escape to
the outside. Tuberculosis of the skin, throat, lungs,
udder, or womb in cattle is described as “ open ” types
of the disease, as distinct from tuberculosis of the heart,
which is a “ closed ” form.

Clinical examination, which is designed to detect
animals suffering from open tuberculosis, notably that
of the udder or lungs, is carried out in all countries and
forms an integral part of at least one method of eradica-
tion. In the so—called English Method the examiner feels
the udder with the hands, and when necessary makes
an examination of the milk under the microscope. He
listens to the lung sounds, observes the general condition
of the cattle, and examines the Sputum (“spit”) if
present on the front of the standings for the tubercle
bacillus. Such an examination reveals about 50 per cent
of the udder cases and 10 per cent of the open lung cases
present in the herd at any one time. -

The clinical examination made in Germany and south
Sweden and known as the Ostertag Method after its
elaborator, differs from the English procedure in two
ways: (I) it takes longer to carry out and is propor-
tionately more expensive, and (2) special technique is
employed to obtain sputum direct from suspected animals
for laboratory examination. This method reveals about

70 per cent of the lung cases in the herd, but only about
half the total udder cases.

BIOLOGICAL OR “GUINEA PIG” TEST .

Milk or other body fluids may appear to be free from
tuberculosis when examined with the microscope. If
such negative samples are injected into guinea pigs, a
proportion of these animals show recognisable tuberculosis
some weeks later, indicating that the original specimen
was tuberculous. This method is extensively used in

 

    

  




    

    

TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 53

Conjunction with the English clinical examination for
tuberculosis of the udder and reveals 50 per cent of
actively infected and dangerous cows, which would be
otherwise completely overlooked during the most careful
clinical examination. This is the form of the disease
which causes infection of young children through the milk
supply, and therefore the necessity for small-animal tests
will be appreciated. Nevertheless, it is to be regretted
that no alternative method has been devised to replace
this “ living ” test. In the first place, the incubation
period in the guinea pig causes a delay of several weeks
before diagnosis is established; and, secondly, the use
of living animals for such purposes is to be deprecated——
although, as far as I can judge from my personal observa-
tion, the guinea pigs appear to suffer very little discomfort
from the infection, the great majority living happily and
being well cared for during the test period.

Tabercalm is a substance widely used in veterinary
work. If the tubercle bacillus is grown outside the animal
body in special liquid food and then killed with heat,
the mixture of dead bacilli, food material and the sub-
stances produced by the bacilli during life is known as
tuberculin. If the bacilli were originally obtained from
an ox the resultant product is called bovine (cattle)
tuberculin ; similarly there are avian and human tuber-
culins.

Tabercalm Tests. If bovine tuberculin is injected arzder
the skin of a cow which is affected with bovine tubercu—
losis in any degree certain results follow. The temperature
of the animal rises and remains high for several hours,
while symptoms of general illness may be exhibited.
Such an animal is said to have reacted to the tuberculin
test and is called a reactor. If the cow is not infected
with the disease, none of these, phenomena is observed
and the animal is called a non-reactor ; when tuberculin
is injected into the skin, the reacting animal exhibits a
characteristic swelling at the site of injection. The skin




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

test is the preferable method ; in America the injection is
made into the skin near the root of the tail and in Europe
into the skin of the neck or shoulder, the size of the
swelling being measured with calipers.

The tuberculin test detects animals infected With either
open or closed forms of tuberculosis. Cattle with closed
tuberculosis may suffer an extension of the disease until
it becomes open in form, and consequently any reactor
must be looked upon as a potential disseminator of
infection. Therefore any scheme of eradication lays down
as a fundamental principle that all reactors must be
isolated from the herd.

While the tuberculin test is exceedingly accurate it
fails occasionally in two respects : (I) it may not reveal
an animal suffering from the very early stages of the
illness ,' and (2) it may pass over an animal in the very
late stages of the disease.

Goats, pigs, and poultry can also be tested by this
method, the bovine, bovine and avian, and avian
tuberculins respectively being used. Two tuberculins
are used on the pig because it can be infected from two

sources, cattle and poultry.

CROSS-INFECTIONS
If a cow which is free from orthodox bovine tuberculosis

comes into contact with infected poultry, she may react,
temporarily at least, to bovine and more strongly to
avian tuberculins. In many countries such a double test
is utilised if cross-infection is suspected. Similarly,
human beings with open tuberculosis associating With
cattle may cause a proportion of the animals to react
when tested with bovine tuberculin. This problem has
assumed importance in Finland and on at least one
Danish island. Again, some cattle suffering from Johnes
disease* may react to avian tuberculin. This non-specificity

* Johnes disease is a slow-developing, infectious diarrhoea of cattle.
It is usually fatal and occurs most frequently in young stock. It is
well known to British veterinarians, has established itself in at least
one area of the U.S.A., but is quite rare in the Baltic countries.

 




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 55

of the tuberculins and the consequent complications
arising in eradication work will be referred to again later.

METHODS OF ERADICATION

There are four methods of eradication employed to-day,
singly or in combination; All are based upon the axiom
that the majority of calves born of reacting cattle are
free from tuberculosis, and if protected from infection
can be reared to maturity without developing the disease.
A few cases of congenital tuberculosis occur, but these
are quickly detected in subsequent testing.

Eradication was first attempted in I892 by the Danish
doctor and veterinarian Bang. All cattle in a herd were
subjected to a clinical examination after the English
fashion and the tuberculin test. Open cases were
slaughtered and the remaining reactors were placed in
strict isolation, usually on a separate out—farm. Calves
born in the reacting section were transferred immediately
to the non—reacting herd, and thus in the course of several
years, when the reactors had been sold or otherwise dis-
posed of, a tuberculosis—free herd was established. On the
model farms and estates near Copenhagen satisfactory
results were obtained by this method, which has become
known as Bang’s Whole System. I

The German veterinarian, von Ostertag, having Visited
Bang, initiated a similar scheme on selected farms through—
out Prussia. Concurrently, Bang extended his plan to
commercial farms in Denmark, but both workers met
with pronounced failures, in spite of the fact that isolation
instructions were carried out with meticulous care by
enthusiastic owners. Bang attributed this to the fact
that the test failed to reveal all infected animals, especially
of the advanced and open types. This would apply
particularly to heavily infected herds. He therefore
elaborated a new plan, Bomg’s Calf Method, in which no
attention was paid to the non—reactors if, at the initial test,
the reactors constituted more than 50 per cent of the herd.
All non—reactors were thus classified as potential reactors

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

and only the calves were utilised to form the nucleus of a
new herd. This method was much more lengthy than
the original one, but Bang was rewarded with success.

von Ostertag attempted a different solution, elaborating
a system which to-day bears his name. Open tuberculosis
in a herd was first to be suppressed by the clinical—
bacteriological examination already described, the farmer
meanwhile passing through a probationary period of
instruction in the principles of calf—isolation and rearing.
These two objects having been achieved, tuberculin
testing was then to be carried out with the introduction
of Bang’s Whole or Calf systems, all reacting animals being
examined clinically for the presence of open tuberculosis.

Although simple in theory, in practice the separation
of non-reactors from reactors involves the farmer in a
great deal of expense, and calls for-unremitting attention
to detail. It entails double fencing, shutting off common
water supplies, division of pasturage and sheds, separate
attendants, and, above all, a lively appreciation by the
farmer of the principles of “bacteriology and disinfection.
These difﬁculties, common both to Bang’s and Ostertag’s
systems, caused the American veterinarians to reject
these methods as early as 1910, and an alternative policy
of slaughter was introduced into the U.S.A. and Canada.
Individual herds, or more generally all cattle in a given
area, are tuberculin-tested. The reactors (and in Canada
the non-reactors in highly infected herds) are purchased
by the State and dispatched to slaughter-houses, the
farm-buildings are disinfected, and the herds replenished
with tested stock, which is retested periodically. The
system is popular with the commercial farmer, because
it attains its object quickly and imposes upon him little
expense and trouble.

COLLATERAL INFLUENCES

In all countries the methods of eradication are directly
influenced by the agricultural systems, which are of
profound significance when a scheme for control of

 




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 57

tuberculosis is to be developed. Throughout Europe and
.North America farms are of three classes—the self—
supporting, the buying-in, and the intermediary type.
Farmers of the first type rear sufﬁcient young stock
both for replenishment of their herd and for sale. The
owner of the “flying” herd (or factory herd as the
Germans call it) rears no young stock Whatever, but
purchases adult cattle in full-milk, selling them for
slaughter at the end of one or more lactations. The third
type of farmer occupies an intermediate position between
these two, in that he both rears and buys replacement
stock. It is apparent that until owners of the second and
third groups are enabled to purchase tuberculosis—free
cattle for replacement purposes they cannot utilise any
of the systems described, not even the slaughter policy.
Wherever the agriculture of a country comprises a
proportion of non—self—supporting herds, any scheme of
eradication becomes proportionately more complicated.
The breeding areas have to be defined and cleared, their
productivity in terms of young stock must be accurately
computed and cattle transport from area to area carefully
organised. If these young cattle are available at reasonable
prices the scheme can beextended to buying-in areas,
and then only with due regard to markets and their
location. '

Some countries are fortunate because there is no such
cleavage of agriculture, all the farms being self-supporting.
In such circumstances the individual farmer can take the
initiative. The position is all the more favourable because
self-contained herds usually contain very few reactors.
This explains in part the progress which has been made
in north Sweden, on the Danish islands, and in the
south-west of Scotland.

THE INCIDENCE OF TUBERCULOSIS

If the disease is common in a herd or area, eradication
is, of course, more expensive, and with the continental
systems takes a much longer time. It is accordingly of

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

58 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

importance to consider the factors which promote the
spread of the disease. They are divisible into those which
affect the resistance of the animal to the disease and
those which determine the frequency with which infection
is encountered by the animal. The first group includes
such factors as breed, methods of rearing, total milk
yield, and the strain of calf production, and though they
play a certain part, it is regarded as being relatively
unimportant as compared with the factors of the second
group.

The most important of these is the interchange of
cattle between herds which are housed in sheds. The
incidence of tuberculosis is invariably high in these
circumstances, as, for instance, in the English Midlands,
on the Danish mainland, and in certain milk sheds in
Germany. The effect of cohabitation in sheds is well
demonstrated by comparing farms in south Sweden
with those in the Harz Mountains. The Swedish cows are
housed in winter after the English fashion in sheds of
good hygienic standard. In the summer they are tethered
separately at grass, and, moreover, graze on temporary
pasture subject to annual ploughing. In the Harz Moun—
tains of Germany cattle with a similar milk yield are
kept under precisely opposite conditions. They pass the
winter in badly constructed sheds holding one or two
cows. In the summer all the cows of a village are gathered
into one herd of sixty or more, mingling freely and
enjoying a common, permanent pasturage between
milkings. Both areas are self-supporting, yet in south
Sweden tuberculosis is frequent, in the Harz Mountains
quite rare. The single factor to which this can be ascribed
is that in Sweden the cattle forgather in herds of con—
siderable size inside the sheds, while in the Harz farms
this does not occur. The comparison also establishes the
relative unimportance of common pastures.

The second factor in determining frequency of infection
is the size of the herd in stall-fed cattle. Throughout all
countries it has been observed that even if the herds are

 




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 59

self-supporting and the farming system similar, the
disease is more commonly found in the large herd than
in the small one. This is shown in Tables I and 2 (see
page 60), compiled from figures obtained through the kind—
ness of Liljeblad of Stockholm and Marcusson of LinkOping.
If tuberculosis establishes itself in a small herd, however,
it spreads more rapidly. This is shown in Table 3 (see
page 60), drawn up by Marcusson, who maintains that
this variation is‘ due to the fact that the construction of
cowsheds is usually inferior on the small farm, and hence
the spread of infection is favoured after its introduction.

It is therefore apparent that shed construction is less
important as a factor in the dissemination of tuberculosis
than is trading in cattle, but on the other hand it is more
important than the size of the herd. _

Age is the third and last factor affecting the frequency
of infection: the older the animal the more likely the
chance of it being infected. This is true of all types of
herds and all systems of farming. The rule is reversed
only when the milk for calf—rearing has been derived from
a cow suffering from udder tuberculosis. In such a case
the majority of young stock are found to be reactors.

THE DOUBLE SIGNIFICANCE OF BOVINE
TUBERCULOSIS

Tuberculosis in cattle is an enemy wielding a two—edged
weapon, on the one hand inflicting suffering and death
on man, and on the other levying a toll on the health
and productivity of our herds. This duality of effect
has done much to determine the nature of the campaign
against the disease in various countries. In those produc-
ing or exporting dairy and meat products, the agricultural
aspect of the problem is of major importance. It becomes
a question of commercial and international interest,
rendered the more urgent by the British Import Regula—
tions. It is therefore not surprising that ambitious schemes
have been sponsored for many years by the Baltic
countries, and by Germany and North America. In

5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

TABLE I

Percentage of farms found FREE.
(Size of farms in number of cattle)

 

1—15 16—30 30 or more
cattle cattle cattle

 

PJorbotten. .. 87.4 65.5 5
Stockhohn .. 59.3 32.9
OstergOtland . . 41.9 I8 .7
MalmOhus . . 30.5 ' 8 .6

 

 

 

 

Occurrence of tuberculosis, determined by the Tuberculin Test, in
relation to the size of the herd (Liljeblad, Sweden).

TABLE 2

SIZE OF HERDS HERDS FREE FROM OPEN TUBERCULOSIS

i.e. number of cattle 1h d
two years old and over Percentage tota .er s
(OstergOtland) Total herds examined

1—10 116 67.4
II—25 I67 43.9
26—50 45 17.6
5I—Ioo 2 2.9

IOI~ o ——

 

 

Relation between the size of the herds and the number of cattle
found to be free from Open Tuberculosis as revealed by the Ostertag
Clinical Examination (Marcusson, Sweden).

TABLE 3

SIZE OF HERDS HERDS IN WHICH OPEN TUBERCULOSIS WAS
i.e. number of cattle DETECTED
two years old and over (OSTERTAG CLINICAL EXAMINATION)
(OstergOtland)

 

Number of farms Per cent Open cases

 

1—10 56
11—25 2I4
26—50 I64
51—100 68

101— 5

 

 

 

The extent of tuberculosis in infected herds of different sizes
(Marcusson, Sweden).

 




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL OI

Great Britain agricultural exports were and are relatively
unimportant. The farmer’s problems were relegated to
the political background and with them any hope of a
national anti-tuberculosis campaign. Public health propa-
gandists were thus isolated as the sole attacking force,
whose only tactics were a sort of guerilla warfare by way
of milk ordinances. These were designed by the Ministry
of Health to eliminate sources of infected milk as and
when they were detected. Years of educational effort
have recently won over public opinion to the view that
the only remedy is to eradicate the disease entirely from
our herds, the very step most acceptable to our agricul—
tural reformers. Thus agriculture has become the hand-
maiden of public health, and high hopes are entertained
of this happy association and of the newly instituted
State Veterinary Service.

One last difﬁculty in any tuberculosis campaign remains
to be considered, that of Finance. McFadyean has
claimed that the problem is no longer a technical but a
financial one. If cattle are to be compulsorily removed
from a herd, if farm routine is to be interrupted, the
farmer’s co-operation can only be ensured if reasonable
compensation is forthcoming. Ostertag has written out
of his vast experience that “ die Entschadigung ist neben
der iiberzeugten Mitarbeit des Besitzers der wichtigste
Hilfe im Kampfe gegen die Tierseuchen.” Sufﬁce it to
say that where adequate and well-devised monetary
inducements have been introduced, there the greatest
progress has been made. They attract more recruits and
exact greater obedience to irksome regulations than a
thousand ofﬁcials.

ERADICATION OF TUBERCULOSIS IN ENGLAND,
WALES, SCOTLAND, AND IRELAND

The dense population of the British Isles, especially in
England, has rendered agricultural systems very complex.
There are specialised areas concentrating on fruit farming,
market gardening, sheep, or sheep and barley farming,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

but on the whole this country is mainly concerned with
cattle farming. The source of stock supply in such farming
is twofold and may come from breeding. or from purchase,
and this duality of supply has determined the incidence
of tuberculosis and complicates all schemes of eradication
of the disease.

In the breeding group three types of farms are found :
those rearing beef cattle for sale; those rearing dairy
cattle for sale; and those rearing surplus young stock
for sale but simultaneously engaged in milk production.

In the purchase group four types of farms are to be
found, on all of which the stock for replacement is bought,
not bred on the farm. The first type is the dairy farm,
for which large numbers of cattle are drawn from various
parts of the country. The majority of calves from these
farms are sold to slaughter, though a few are passed back
to the rearing areas. Improved facilities for milk distribu-
tion are causing an extension of this system. The practice
on the second type of farm is to rear no animals whatever,
but to buy cows in full milk and sell them again to
slaughter after a fixed period. The third type of farm is
occupied in fattening stock brought from the West or
the North or from Ireland. On the fourth and last type of
farm, stock is required for manuring the ground; a herd of
feeding cattle is purchased in the autumn, fattened through—
out the winter in open yards, where the superabundant
straw is trampled underfoot and converted into manure.

These various types of farming cause a great coming
and going of cattle, a constant drift of replacement stock
from Ireland, Scotland, and the Pennines to the dairy
farms of the Midlands, and a seasonal movement of beef
cattle to the feeding and arable areas. In general, this
interchange of stock is carried on through very many
markets, and the systems are not confined to particular
areas. A dairy farm may be flanked on either side by those
of graziers, or both systems may be practised on one
farm; again, economic conditions may cause a change
from one system to the other.

 




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 63

From this brief survey several facts emerge of funda—
mental importance in the eradication of tuberculosis :

I. It is impossible to try to eradicate the disease from
dairy cattle alone. Any scheme must embrace all types
of cattle and farms throughout the country. British
agriculture is so mixed and conditions are so fluctuating
that to draw distinctions would be to invite failure.
Eradication is governed by an “ all or none law” and
half-measures are useless.

2. Eradication schemes, as in all other countries, must
begin in the breeding areas, and, inter alia, those with
the least infection.

3. When the campaign extends to the purchasing
areas, it must be so arranged that the purchase of cattle
in the open market is not interfered with. If this is not
done the co-operation of the farmer can never be won,
and without the farmer’s co-operation no scheme ever
succeeded in any country.

4. In Britain a centralised State Veterinary Service
is more necessary than in any other country. The depend—
ence of one area on another, and the inter—county and
international trade in cattle, all render unified control
imperative.

5. Eradication will take many years to accomplish,
and therefore an interim plan must be evolved to protect
the milk supplies. It is not possible to concentrate on
inspection of the herds serving the liquid market because
they cannot be defined. Milk from a Staffordshire herd,
for instance, may reach London for direct consumption
one week and be diverted through a dairy to manufacture
the next week. Accordingly, supervision in the field must
cover all milk—selling herds throughout the country.
Furthermore, in order to protect the milk supply for
calves, all breeding and rearing herds must be inspected,
and, finally, to collect statistics for the long-range policy
of eradication, all other types of farms should be subject
to supervisory visits. In other words, clinical inspection
must be extended to include all stock farms.

 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

64 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

It is hoped to achieve all these objects through the new
State Veterinary Service, which is modelled on that of
North America. Details of this service have not yet been
published, but it will probably operate along the following
lines :

All herds, dairy or otherwise, will be clinically examined
according to the English method. Each market will also
be supervised. Animals with open tuberculosis of any
type will be slaughtered with payment of partial com-
pensation. Herds which are replenished with purchased
stock will be examined more frequently.

The direct effect of this supervision will be threefold.
In the first place, 50 per cent of the animals infected
with tuberculosis of the udder will be rapidly detected
and slaughtered, and thus this menace to the health
of human beings—and children in particular—will be
removed. In order to detect the remaining 50 per cent
of infected udders, Ostertag in Germany insists upon the
post—clinical biological testing of mixed milk from the
herd. It will be a matter of deep regret if such procedure
is not introduced into this country. At present local

authorities have the power to test milk in this way, but
this system has many disadvantages, and experience
goes to show that, under conditions to-day, field sampling
is the better method. It is pertinent to ask whether it
would not be advisable to adopt the Ostertag Clinical
Examination in its entirety. This matter has been duly
considered and the proposal was rejected because the
German method is no better than ours from the public-
health standpoint, and probably does not make eventual
eradication any easier.

Just as the first effect of clinical examination is to
protect. the young—be they children or calves—from an
infected milk supply, so the second step affords protection
to the very old and the very sick. Many of us can recall
those gallant retainers of our dairy herds, the aged milk
cows, who, worn out in the service of their masters, were
kept alive until the last pint of milk had been extracted

 

 

  




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL 65

from them, and even after that were driven to markets,
beaten and pushed, and conveyed from centre to centre.
They were often thirsty and hungry, and at all times
weary, their strength sapped by the fell disease of civilisa-
tion, which causes that fatal cough and miserable wasting.
These things will be allowed no longer. Owners will be
compelled to surrender such cattle for humane slaughter,
and there can be few of our countrymen who will not
feel happy that such a step has been taken.

The third effect of herd examination is the compilation
of information on breeding and purchasing areas. Their
extent will be defined for the first time in the history of
animal-health work, and in this way the starting points
for the eradication campaign will be located. The incidence
of tuberculosis among cattle, and perhaps among swine
and poultry, in each defined area can be determined and
eradication methods begun, using Bang’s system with
or without a complementary slaughter policy. Some form
of financial inducement will be used to attract breeders
to co-operate in the scheme. It is fatuous to say, as
some have done: “ Join our scheme; free testing is
provided and your stock will sell better.” The marketing
systems of the country negative the assertion. Some
bonus must be arranged. This already exists for the
breeder, who sells both milk and young stock, in the form
of a bonus on milk sold provided the herd is tuberculosis-
free, or is clinically examined four times per year; but
the breeder who produces stock only must have some
reward, otherwise the growth of T.B.-free herds will persist
in one part of the country with no corresponding increase
in another.

The extension of the campaign into the non—self-
supporting areas of the Midlands will be a more complex
undertaking. A suitable system of eradication is a matter
for conjecture. It has been suggested that Bang’s systems
should be utilised, in spite of the fact that so far no country
has proved their efﬁcacy in heavily infected, cattle-
importing areas. In Denmark, under much more favour-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

able conditions, with cattle tethered at pasture and with
farmers interested in their stock as well as in the milk
they produce, the systems in heavily infected areas are
being propped up by a policy of slaughter and rearing
in State isolation farms. Finnish administrators exhibit
the same disquietude when faced with a high incidence
of tuberculosis, and insist on “ twoéfarm ” isolation or
slaughter. The Americans rejected these methods alto-
gether. Now the cattle population in the Midlands is
denser than in most other countries, and agricultural
depression has led to dilapidated fences, neglected liquid
manure systems, and the use of unsafe water supplies.
Hence, difﬁculties must be anticipated, for the English
farmer is admittedly in an incomparably more difﬁcult
position when attempting to carry out Bang’s systems
than his confre‘re, who tethers his cattle in Jutland or
south Sweden.

Apart from the method of eradication, it is patent that
when the campaign begins on the milk farms it must be
correlated with market areas and not with county
boundaries. Moreover, in order to justify setting up
part of a market for the sale of T.B.-free cattle and to
guarantee a supply at reasonable prices, there must be a
sufﬁciency of buyers ; in other words, eradication must
be simultaneously effected on a large number of farms in
a given area. Compulsory slaughter with payment of
full compensation, or Bang’s systems linked to handsome
monetary inducements, or both together are the most
promising suggestions. -

Such are the developments pending in Great Britain.
It is not infrequently claimed that Britain is the home
of the finest cattle in the world. With certain reservations,
particularly veterinary ones, this is true, but it behoves
us to preserve a humble and a contrite heart. Our exported
cattle, at any rate until I890, were responsible for the
spread of tuberculosis through the herds of many other
countries, and although the pedigree breeders have set
their house in order, not until this year has any compre~




TUBERCULOSIS IN CATTLE AND ITS CONTROL ‘ 67

hensive plan been evolved to control and eradicate the
disease at home. Now, 1938 should become notable for
the establishment of a fighting force second only to the
animal-health services in North America. So far as'clinical
control is concerned we are flung into the forefront of the
battle, undertaking what is carried out in no other
European country, the compulsory and repeated examina— .
tion of every herd throughout our land. This will rejoice
the heart of all veterinary workers, and when it is recalled
that one of the immediate and direct results will be the
prevention and abolition of much suffering amongst our
live-stock, every animal lover will be ready to echo the
sentiment voiced by von Ostertag : “ Ist dies kein
Erfolg P ” -

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS

(I) CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
ITS RECOGNITION AND RELIEF *

by H. H. FISHER, Inspector R.S.P.C.A.

Animals is to the best of my knowledge the only
animal protection society in England and Wales able
to give immediate practical help to any animal in distress
or in any way suffering unnecessarily, and it is able to
do this through its corps of inspectors, numbering some
230, stationed throughout England and 'Wales and
covering the whole area. No matter where the animal
needing help may be, once its plight is brought to the
notice of an R.S.P.C.A. Inspector the matter is im-
mediately investigated and everything done that may
be necessary to protect the animal from further suffering.
It so often happens that a person with humane feelings
sees an animal suffering and would be only too glad to
obtain relief for it but does not know how best to proceed ;
the average person dislikes to interfere unnecessarily, and
thus many, whilst anxious to do something, hesitate to
take action for fear they may be wrong and meet With
abuse.

Cruelty to animals is the causing of unnecessary
suffering by an act of commission or omission, and my
Society needs and desires the help and co-operation of
the general public to protect animals from such suffering.
In this article I propose briefly to explain how one can
help the animals by reason as apart from sentiment,

/ l ‘HE Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

* Extracts from an address given to members of ULAWS. at
Brympton d’Evercy, on September 10th, 1937.

68

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 69

and how to recognise various offences of cruelty and
certain symptoms of pain when met with.

When witnessing a deliberate case of cruelty, such as
beating, kicking, terrifying, or any direct act of com-
mission, one can safely take instant action by direct
interference with every hope of stopping the offence there
and then, but with less clear cases it is perhaps better to
lodgea complaint with the R.S.P.C.A. or the police, so that
the matter can be dealt with by an experienced ofﬁcer
trained to the work. A complaint should be made as
quickly as possible after one has knowledge of an animal
suffering unnecessarily. The species of animal should be
stated, where it was seen, the date and time, the owner’s
name if known, and the offence alleged. If possible make
the complaint direct to the nearest Inspector, whose name
and address, if not known, can always be obtained from
any police constable or AA. or R.A.C. scout ; failing this,
make the complaint direct to the R.S.P.C.A. headquarters
at 105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W., when the matter
will receive attention with the least possible delay.
Speaking for the South Somerset branch of the Society,
in which I am stationed for duty, I would say that the
Somerset County Constabulary are our very excellent
friends and give us all possible assistance in our work.
A complaint made to a Somerset constable will receive
immediate attention by him ; if necessary he will at once
get in touch with the R.S.P.C.A. Inspector and together
they will investigate, or he will make his enquiry into the
matter and the complaint, together with his report, will
be passed to the Inspector for completion. It cannot be
too well known that complaints are treated in the strictest
confidence and in no circumstances will the complainant’s
name be divulged ; therefore the person who may
hesitate to take action on behalf of a suffering animal for
fear of publicity can always complain to the R.S.P.C.A.
or the police, secure in the knowledge that his name will

not be divulged.
There are many ways in which one can recognise

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

suffering in an animal and I will give a few of the symp—
toms which tell us an animal is in pain.

HORSES

A horse lame in a front leg will always drop its head
very noticeably as the sound foot comes to the ground ;
when lame in a hind leg it will carry the hip of the lame
leg higher than that of the sound one. With a wound under
the collar or saddle a horse may be seen to be continually
twitching the skin of the surrounding part; if the sore
is on the shoulder the animal may be noticed to be pulling
unevenly, pushing into the collar with the sound shoulder
to ease the pressure from the sore shoulder. A strong,
sound, well-fed horse can be expected to work hard, so
that if one sees a horse with an obviously heavy load it
does not follow it is overloaded. But if a horse pulling a
heavy load stops at short intervals, though continually
urged by voice and /or Whip by the driver, and strains
into the collar, only moving the load with great effort,
one can reasonably assume the animal to be overloaded.
When stopped the horse may be seen to be sweating
profusely, its nostrils dilated, and its breathing laboured,
while the muscles of the legs and shoulders may be
trembling. These symptoms would justify immediate
interference. An overdriven or overridden horse will show
its distress by sweating, laboured breathing and nostrils
dilated, staring eyes, trembling, and standing with its
legs far apart and head stretched out and down.

CATTLE
The most common form of cruelty met with in cattle is
the “ overstocking ” of cows with calf at foot. It is a bad
old custom in some parts‘of the country for farmers, when
intending to take a cow with its calf to market, to keep
them apart for many hours (twelve to eighteen) and not
allow the cow to suckle her calf or be eased by milking ;
the result is that the cow’s udder becomes distended and
overstocked with milk, with consequent discomfort and




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 7 I

suffering. This is an offence of cruelty in law, but
unfortunately most difﬁcult to deal with, as expert
evidence is necessary to secure a conviction and this is
rarely available. The .R.S.P.C.A. Inspectors do What
they can to discourage this practice by caution and advice
with requests for the animal to be eased. When a cow
is overstocked and feeling pain it usually stands with
its hind legs far apart to take pressure off the udder; it
will be seen to be lifting first one hind foot and then
the other, looking around to its udder and giving low‘
moans ; also, in bad cases, its back will be arched and its
eyes staring. Young calves are sometimes walked for
long distances with consequent suffering; the calf’s
front legs are bowed outwards as it walks and its walk
is stiff / instead of light and springy. In these cases
interference is justified.

Twisting the tail of cattle is a common offence and
this can be very painful. Occasionally one sees a cow
with a horn turning inwards and the tip pressing on
the face—if allowed to grow thus the pressure becomes

painful and a horn growing in this manner should be
cut back.

SHEEP

Sheep, especially unshorn ones, unless well shepherded,
can suffer greatly from maggots caused by certain flies
which lay their eggs on a soiled part of the fleece. A sheep
suffering from maggots will be seen to be very restless ;
it will graze by biting grass quickly and then moving a
few yards to bite again at another spot ; it does not graze
quietly or in a normal manner. It may be seen to be
continually twitching its tail and biting at some part of
its body. These symptoms indicate almost certainly that
the sheep has maggots. If suffering from painful foot—rot
the sheep will walk very lame, also it may be seen to
graze in a kneeling position and in very bad cases

lying down, trying by these means to ease the pain
in its feet. '

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

DOGS

The Society deals with large numbers of complaints of
dogs being kept on the chain for long periods. It is an
offence to keep a dog on the chain continually, and the
animal should have reasonable daily exercise. A dog
which is kept chained for long periods is usually found
to be very excitable when anyone approaches it; if
released it will invariably rush around in a large circle
if on an open space, or rush here and there on enclosed
premises in a most irresponsible manner. The claws on the
toes will often be found to be long and in bad cases turning
inwards instead of being straight and reasonably short.
Of course it is not always possible for an owner to let the
dog have full liberty and so, in cases where it is found
necessary for the dog to be chained for some part of the
day, we strongly advocate the use of a “ running wire,”
which is a strong wire of some twenty feet stretched taut
between two points and about eighteen inches from the
ground. The dog’s chain is attached to this by a ring
and swivel, so that the animal can run up and down the
whole length and so get a certain amount of exercise.
Heavy penalties can be inflicted for cruelty to dogs;
apart from inflicting imprisonment or fine, any court
before which a person is convicted of cruelty to a dog may
order him to be disqualified from keeping a dog or holding
a dog licence for any period the court thinks fit.

POULTRY
In the marketing and conveyance of live poultry much
suffering can be caused by improper handling and packing.
The law demands that only rigid receptacles of a height
and size reasonably sufﬁcient shall be used to convey
poultry, so that conveying in a sack or non-rigid receptacle
is an offence, nor may the legs be tied unnecessarily or

. the birds carried head downwards. Receptacles used for

the conveyance of poultry by railway or by a public carrier
must be constructed so as to protect the poultry from
injury by the protrusion of the head, legs, or wings through




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 73

the top, bottom, or sides. It is an offence to expose in a
market any poultry suffering from exhaustion, illness, or
disease; also when exposed for sale poultry should be
protected from bad weather or excessive heat.

CAGE BIRD s

It is an offence to confine the bird in a cage which is
not large enough to permit the bird to stretch its wings
freely. The Society is always on the look-out for persons
attempting to trap wild birds ; these people adopt various
methods, among them being the use of a bird lime, a
sticky substance spread on the twigs of a small bush
which is stuck into the ground ; the birds are attracted
to the bush and on alighting on it are held fast by the
bird lime. Decoy birds are used to attract wild birds to a
trap and are usually secured by “braces,” a harness
made of thin twine fitted on the bird in such a manner
that it can flutter and fly to the length of a holding line
fastened to the braces and pegged to the ground. The
bird-catcher is hidden close by, holding the end of a long
string attached to the braces ; this he jerks frequently to
make the decoy bird flutter and so attract other birds to
the trap. The Protection of Birds Act, 1933, makes it an -
offence to take most wild birds of British species for the
purpose of sale alive, or to sell or offer for sale, any wild
bird so taken. Also, under the Wild Birds’ Protection
Act, I880, there is a close season for all. wild birds from
March to August and anyone taking them during that
period is liable to be prosecuted, or if recently taken birds
are found in his possession. Any person seeing another
trapping wild birds, or with recently taken birds in his
possession, can demand his name and address with a View
to reporting the matter, and it is an offence for a person
to refuse this information. A bird confined for some
time loses the sheen or “ flight bloom ” from its feathers,
which become dull and rufﬂed, also its claws grow long
and curled and the legs appear dry. A very restless and
excited wild bird in a cage, its claws and legs clean and

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NH:
ll N

 

 

 

74 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

normal and its plumage fresh, is almost certain to be a
recently taken bird and one is justified in making enquiries
regarding it.

TRESPASS BY ANIMALS _

There is still a strong belief, among country people
especially, that a person has the right to shoot an animal
trespassing on his land. This is a fallacy and a person
shooting a trespassing animal may render himself liable
to be prosecuted for cruelty and also to pay damages to
the owner. FrOm my own experience I know that many
trespassing animals, such as dogs and cats, have been
shot and the owner has taken no action because it was
thought the person shooting had a right to do so. These
cases should be reported so that the matter can be
investigated.

SICK ANIMALS

I cannot end without some reference to the case of
sick and injured animals and what my Society is willing
and anxious to do for them. There are many owners
who, when their animal is sick and needs veterinary
treatment, cannot afford to incur the expense of calling
in the veterinary surgeon; in these cases the Society is
ready to help. In the larger towns we have clinics where
animals of the poor are treated free of charge by qualified
veterinary surgeons. In the small towns and country
districts, clinics are not possible and so the Society,
in conjunction with the veterinary profession, has arranged
a scheme under which animals of the poor will be treated
free of charge to the owner, the veterinary surgeon giving
his services withOut charge and the Society paying the cost
of medicines supplied. To obtain this service the owner
asks for a recommendation signed by the branch honorary
secretary or the local inspector and takes this, together with
the animal, to the veterinary surgeon whose name is
given on the form. The Society is most anxious that
advice and treatment shall be given only by qualified

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 75

veterinary surgeons so the existence of this scheme cannot
be too widely known.

F IRST AID

One can appreciate the position of a motorist who has
the misfortune to injure an animal on the highway or
of the person who finds an animal injured and left on the
highway, especially when the owner is not present and
not known. The motorist naturally wants to do something
for the animal but circumstances may be such that he
hesitates to incur expense. My Society is always willing
to help by paying reasonable veterinary or other expenses
incurred in procuring aid or painless destruction for
injured animals. Every AA. and R.A.C. scout has the
address of the nearest R.S.P.C.A. Inspector, the police,
and veterinary surgeon, so anyone can obtain help for an
injured animal by appealing to a scout. If, when found,
the owner cannot afford to pay, the Society does so. The
Society’s inspectors carry humane killing instruments for
the destruction of animals and their services are always
available.

In conclusion, I would emphasise the fact that the
R.S.P.C.A. will always do everything possible to help a
suffering animal.

(2) THE CONTROL OF RABBIT POPULATIONS
BY MEANS OF A FILTERABLE VIRUS

by A. N. WORDEN

HE idea of controlling rabbit plagues by means of

a pathogenic organism is by no means a new one ;
indeed, between July 7th and August 4th, I888, at Rodd
Island, Port Jackson, N.S.W., two representatives of
Pasteur carried out a series of experiments with the
organism of chicken-cholera in the hope that this might
fulfil the purpose. These, and other, attempts have
never given that measure of success which encourage

6

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

76 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

large-scale experimentation, but the recent researches of
Sir Charles Martin on M yxomatosz's cum’culz' (Sanarelli)
have given fresh hope that such a measure may one day
become practicable.

Those interested in the technical aspects of the problem
are referred to Martin’s own papers, and to the many
references therein (1, 2), but his postulates for a suitable
pathogenic microbe for the control of vermin may be
quoted here. He states that a search should be made for
a microbe possessing to the highest degree the following
characteristics :

(i) It must produce a disease which is sufﬁciently
infectious to spread throughout the population.

(ii) It must have such a Virulence that few animals
recover to build up gradually a resistant race.

(iii) It must maintain its virulence when passing from
one animal to another by natural means or the
epizootic will “ peter out.” Should any animals
recover and become immune to further infection,
their progeny must not inherit sufﬁcient resistance
to escape infection.

(iv) It must be specifically dangerous to the animal it
is desired to exterminate, and harmless for domestic
and other useful animals.

(v) It must not be too troublesome to propagate, keep
in an active condition, and apply in practice.

_ Infectious myxomatosis of rabbits was described by
Sanarelli in I898, the disease having broken out amongst
his laboratory rabbits in Montevideo, and has later spread
to other towns in South America: in 1930 twelve outbreaks
occurred in Californian rabbiteries. In contradistinction
to the virus of infectious fibromatosis, investigated by
and often named after Shope, it appears to be highly
specific for rabbits of the genus Oryctolagus, to which
European wild rabbits, the Australian rabbits, and all
domesticated species belong. (Australian rabbits and the
South American rabbits in which the outbreaks originally
occurred are descended from European importations.)




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 77

The disease is very malignant and the mortality in a
given colony of rabbits appears to be practically 100 per
cent in both natural and experimental outbreaks
(e.g. Rivers (3), Findlay (4), and Hyde and Gardner (5)
amongst recent experimenters). Martin found only one
recovered animal among 208 subjected to the more
virulent of the two strains with which he worked at
Cambridge. Inoculation of a susceptible rabbit results
in death of the latter in from 7 to I5 days (6), and a healthy
colony of 55 wild rabbits was exterminated in a little
over a month from the time of inoculation of two of their
number with the more virulent strain. Another experi—
ment with this strain resulted in the extermination of a
colony of 44 wild rabbits 35 days after the inoculation of
only one of them. These colony experiments were
conducted in grassed compounds of 500 square yards.

The fact that there appears to be no susceptibility to
the virus on the part of animals other than members of
I the genus Oryctolagus, the remarkable stability of the
virulent strain mentioned above, and the apparent failure
on the part of recovered animals—few though these have
been—to transmit adequate immunity to their offspring
are all in favour of the method, and Martin concluded
that, for the control of a population of rabbits in a
circumscribed area, a good strain of the virus satisfied
the above—mentioned requirements.

The next step—experimentation on a larger scale—is
now being made in various places. News of one of these
—an island experiment—comes from H. O. Schmit-
Jensen, of the State Veterinary Serum Laboratory,
Copenhagen (private communication), who promises
further data to the Society when the efﬁciency of the
method as applied to island conditions has been
determined, as it is hoped will be the case by the end of
this year.

With regard to the humaneness or otherwise of the
method, the description of the disease given by many
workers leaves little doubt that very considerable suffering

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

78 'THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

is caused to the rabbits, and Schmit—Jensen states'that :
“ The procedure is an extremely economical one but, I
ought to say, that I do not find it as humane or aesthetic
as could be desired.” Such a state of affairs, particularly
from the viewpoint of this Society, must be-regarded as
unfortunate. From one in charge of a second island
experiment, * however, comes the following very interesting
observation :

“ You ask my opinion on the humaneness or otherwise
of the virus in use. In my. special circumstances, and
wherever there is land (islands, waste cliff-land, etc.)
where it is hopelessly uneconomic to pay men to catch
rabbits, I consider its use fully justified, as a more-humane
and far quicker (8 to 16 days) death than by slow starva—
tion, which occurs normally every winter on sites where
rabbits breed unchecked and the yearly increase has to
die out somehow when the 'climax population has been
reached.”

The efﬁcacy of the method on a really large scale,
particularly regarding the degree to which one colony
may infect others and the possibility of any immunity
being acquired, remains to be determined, as does the
effect of such a measure upon animal ecology.

Addendum.—~Since the above was written the report
for 1937 of the Skokholm Bird Observatory has come to
hand, containing an account of the attempts which have
been made there to eradicate the wild rabbits with
myxomatosis Virus. Skokholm is an island off the Pem-
brokeshire coast and has an area of 240 acres- All
attempts to exterminate the rabbit population (which is
at its climax some 20—25 per acre) by the use of traps,
wires, trap fences, gas, dogs, ferrets, etc., have been
without success, and in 1936 and 1937, as a last resort,
the virus was introduced. The following quotation from
the report appears significant :

* Certain other information has been given to the Society prior to
publication, and is therefore confidential.




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 79

, With the guidance of Sir Charles Martin himself the
virus was first introduced in September 1936, 83 rabbits
being caught, marked, inoCulated, and released at separate
points covering the whole island. The disease was observed
to spread to many unmarked rabbits, which, with marked
ones, were subsequently found dead. In the following

Spring, however, rabbits seemed just as plentiful as ever,
and there was no sign of myxomatosis among them. Fresh
inoculations with the virus in the spring and summer of
1937 have had the same result. That is, for a while the
disease has spread, killing all that have been infected, but
healthy rabbits have continued to survive even in the
heavily infected areas—it is obvious that they have not
taken the infection—and there has been no observable
diminution in numbers. At the time of going to press the
virus seems to have died out altogether from the island.”

While one must hesitate to draw too definite conclusions
from one series of experiments, it must be taken that the
Skokholm findings give yet another illustration of the
great difference between laboratory or captive experi-
ments and those undertaken in the field. Although it was
not stated above, it was similar failure at Rodd Island
which caused the method initiated by Pasteur to be
abandoned. Similarly, Dr. Jean Danysz was unable to
prove the efﬁciency of his “ microbic disease ” during
field trials on Broughton Island, N.S.W.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

I..MARTIN, Sir CHARLES, 1934—5. Rept. Director Inst. An.
Path, Camb. 4, 16—38.

2. MARTIN, Sir CHARLES. “ Observations on Myxomatosis
Cuniculi (Sanarelli), Made with a View to the Use of
the Virus in the Control of Rabbit Plagues,” with
Appendix. Bulletin N o. 96 of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, Commonwealth of Australia,
1936.

3. RIVERS, T. M., 1930. ]. Exp. Med., 51, 965.

4. FINDLAY, G. M., 1933. Vet. j., 88, 550-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

80 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

5. HYDE, R. R., and GARDNER, R. E., 1933. Amer. f.
Hygiene, 17, 446.

6. TOPLEY and WILSON’s Principles of Bacteriology and
Immunity, 2nd Edition, 19.36. p. 1,539 (6 refs).

(3) SMALL ANIMAL EUTHANASIA*
by Prof. J. G. WRIGHT, Royal Veterinary College

HE subject of euthanasia is a specialised one, for

whereas the chief object of veterinary science is to
conserve animal life, and in all operations to have safety
factors constantly in mind, in this particular branch the
taking of life by the most rapid and humane means is
the foremost consideration.

A humane method of euthanasia renders the animal
unconscious as quickly as possible without causing pain,
fear, or distress. Whether or not the method by which
unconsciousness is produced is the actual lethal agent, is
to all intents and purposes immaterial, for once uncon-
sciousness supervenes it is not a difﬁcult matter to cause
death. It may be as well at this point to define what is
inferred by death, which may be accepted as loss of
consciousness with cessation of the two vital functions,
respiration and circulation. As a matter of fact, in the
majority of methods employed, loss of consciousness and
respiratory failure are induced first, whilst circulatory
failure occurs some minutes later consequent upon
progressive anoxaemia (oxygen deficiency), although in
several methods respiratory and circulatory failure are
simultaneous. I

To render a vigorous animal unconscious without
arousing fear, or causing pain and distress, is a most
difﬁcult and skilled operation. Once fear enters the
animal’s mind it will resist and protect itself to its utmost,
and the whole procedure will become a most distasteful one.

* An address delivered to the Royal Veterinary College branch of

ULAWS on November 18th, 1937, when the chair was taken by
Major G. W. Dunkin, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.H.

 

  




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 81

The susceptibility of the central nervous system, the
cerebrum in particular, to the action of cerebral depress-
ants is directly proportional to the degree of development
of that structure in a particular animal, and thus it is
quite inaccurate to assess the value of an agent by using
its action on man as a standard. As a general rule it is
much easier to induce loss of consciousness in man than
in animals. For instance, in man the administration of
small quantities of narcotic agents gives rise to a state
of basal hypnosis, and sleep supervenes. The application
of such methods to animals may be associated with
marked and even uncontrollable excitement.

There are four chief methods of bringing about eutha—
nasia: (I) the use of poisonous drugs; (2) the use of
pistols; (3) electrical methods; and (4) the so-called
lethal chambers.

I. POISONOUS DRUGS

Until comparatively recently, hydrocyanic acid and
chloroform were the two most important agents in this
connection. Let me refer firstly to hydrocyanic acid, by
which is generally meant a 4 per cent aqueous solution
of hydrogen cyanide (Scheele’s acid). It has long been
known as a most deadly poison, and one frequently hears
the term “ instantaneous” applied to its action. When,
however, one analyses this action critically, it is found to
be by no means instantaneous. At the same time remark-
able factors are the great speed with which it is absorbed
whatever the route of administration, and the rapidity
with which death occurs. Needless to say there will be
slight variations according to whether it is swallowed or
injected into the lungs or a vein. Once symptoms com—
mence the course of poisoning is much the same. Hydro-
cyanic acid is not an irritant and causes no discomfort
in the mouth or stomach, i.e. it does not burn as do the
mineral acids. It is a protoplasmic poison and kills by
causing asphyxia. Under its influence the tissue cells are
unable to take up oxygen from the red—blood corpuscles.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

The agent, however, has not a depressant action on the
cerebrum, so that during the early stages of poisoning the
animal is perfectly conscious and death is typically that
of rapid asphyxiation. The first observable symptom is
that the animal commences to breathe more deeply and
quickly. This culminates in a matter of 20—30 seconds,
during which period the animal is literally fighting for
breath, in a tetanic convulsion. A similar tetanic convul—
sion occurs in all methods of asphyxiation unless the
animal has previously been anaesthetised. As the animal
passes into the state of tetany it generally cries loudly.
There has been considerable discussion as to whether the
cry is an indication of pain or whether it is associated
with spasm of the glottis. Those of us who served on
the special committee of the National Veterinary Medical
Association, of which Major Dunkin was chairman, were
unable to satisfy ourselves on this point. We observed
that at the moment of occurrence the corneal reflex was
present, but that a few seconds later the latter was lost.
To my mind, quite apart from the significance of the cry,
there can be no doubt that the animal suffers from great
respiratory distress. This may be for a short period only,
and yet thirty seconds when timed by a watch is much
longer than generally realised. Death is certainly not
instantaneous. After the onset of tetany the animal does
not regain consciousness. Respiratory movements are
in abeyance, and the heart ceases to beat some minutes
later. There can be no doubt, in the present state of our
knowledge, that the use of hydrocyanic acid is not a
good method of euthanasia for animals which have
not been previously anaesthetised and it should not be
adopted as a routine procedure.

Before leaving the subject, however, it must be stated
that hydrocyanic acid is a most certain lethal substance
when properly administered. There will be no failures—
.a not inconsiderable point; and for certain animals,
because of their temperament and their viciousness, it is




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 83

the only means to be used effectively without subjecting
the operator to the risk of serious injury.

“ Chloroform ” is a word which the public uses very
freely, but about which it understands very little. The
general impression is that destruction by chloroform must
be delightful. Those of us who have had experience of its
use know that it can be quite the reverse. Chloroform is
a highly volatile liquid, the vapour of which is cold and
irritating, and which when inhaled into the lungs provokes
a sensation of suffocation. Those who have themselves
experienced chloroform anaesthesia will, I think, agree
that their first reaction was one of fear, but consequent
upon self-discipline they obeyed the instructions of the
person administering it. The dog also experiences fear,
but he does not breathe regularly and quietly, he
makes every effort to release himself from the restriction
which compels him to inhale this strange, objectionable
vapour, and the more forcibly he is compelled to inhale
it, the more vigorously he objects. Quite apart from
this initial stage of fear the procedure of anaesthetisation
by chloroform is associated with a definite phase of
narcotic excitement, during which consciousness is partly
lost and the subconscious emotions assume control. What
a dog’s subconscious emotions are I make no pretence
to understand, but I do know that he indulges in a great
deal of struggling, often howling or barking, and for those
who have to perform the task it becomes not a little
revolting.

Needless to say, when using the drug for purposes of
euthanasia, there will be a tendency to reduce as far as
possible these undesirable features, and to push the agent,
but by so doing there may be a danger of excluding air,
and the method will become in part chloroformisation
and in part asphyxiation. The destruction of a healthy,
vigorous dog by the inhalation of chloroform, without
having previously deeply narcotised it with some non-
volatile agent, is not a good method of euthanasia. I
qualify my remarks by saying a vigorous, healthy animal,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

84 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

for we must base all our standards on such subjects.
Quite obviously an animal that is moribund as the result ,
of accident or disease is much more easily destroyed.

If chloroform is such an unsatisfactory drug, why is it
that it has long been used as a surgical anaesthetic for
the dog? My answer is, that for that purpose it is
invariably preceded by a narcotic dose of morphine.
This greatly reduces, and in some cases completely elimi—
nates, the undesirable actions of chloroform. For the
purpose of euthanasia, however, the morphine-chloroform
method has the great disadvantage that it occupies so
much time. A period of half an hour or so must elapse
before the morphine has taken effect. The destruction of
an animal is a distressing business for all concerned and
is best performed as quickly as possible. Again, mor-
phinised dogs almost invariably vomit profusely and often
defaecate, another disadvantage. At the same time,
until the recent introduction of better methods, morphine-
chloroform was the most humane method of using drugs.

Magnesium sulphate is a drug with which everyone is
familiar. It is the most commonly employed saline
purgative. It is a remarkable fact that this agent, which
has such desirable effects when taken by the mouth, is a
most potent poison when introduced directly into the
blood—stream. This agent has long been used for destroying
small animals. It was in vogue in America and on the
Continent for some time before it received attention in
this country. It is necessary, however, to introduce the
drug directly into the blood—stream, and this presents a
number of technical difﬁculties. The customary method
was by intracardiac injection, that is a needle thrust
into one of the heart cavities and the rapid injection of
a saturated solution of the salt. Those of us who served
on the special committee of the N .V.M.A. could not
satisfy ourselves that the heart could be readily pene—
trated in subjects of all sizes, nor were we certain that the
operation was painless, and for these reasons we discarded
the method. However, with skill in the technique of

  




    

    

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 85

making intravenous injections in the dog, the method
can be a satisfactory one. The injection is made quickly
and at its completion the dog is allowed to stand. In a
matter of fifteen seconds it falls to the ground and passes
into a state of mild tetany. A stethoscope applied to its
chest reveals that the heart has ceased to beat, and
reflexes are also lost, in fact the animal is dead. The loss
of consciousness, once the onset of symptoms occurs, is
almost instantaneous. Most poisons act by paralysing
the respiratory centre ; when magnesium sulphate is
introduced into the blood-stream in large quantities it
paralyses the heart. A great advantage of the method is
its cheapness, and this is a factor which merits the greatest
consideration. There are a number of new anaesthetic
agents which are excellent for euthanasia, but which,
unfortunately, are very costly, and thus are unavailable
for the animals of poor people.

During recent years a large number of non—volatile
narcotic agents have been introduced into medicine, and
many of them have proved of great value in veterinary
surgery. They possess many advantages over chloroform,
the chief of which are their administration effected by a
variety of routes, and the onset of narcosis, in the great
majority of cases, unassociated with narcotic excitement.
By their use an animal quickly and quietly goes off to sleep.
I have an intense dislike for this grossly misused phrase,
but in this instance it happens to be true. The oral
method, that is administration by the mouth, is, as a
general rule, unsatisfactory, because considerable varia-
tions in the rate of absorption occur, due partly to the
state of the stomach at the time of administration, and
also to the fact that the agent has to traverse the liver,
where much of it is broken down, before it reaches the
nervous system. Results Will be much more regular when
some form of hypodermic injection is adopted, and of the
various types, intraperitoneal injection and intravenous
injection are the best. Nembutal (sodium ethyl-methyl—
butyl barbiturate) in my opinion is the best anaesthetic

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

agent we possess for the dog and cat, but similar results
will be obtained with a number of other closely related
substances. If a positive anaesthetic dose of nembutal
in aqueous solution is injected into the peritoneal cavity,
the onset of narcosis will occur in from four to eight
minutes, and it will have attained its maximum in from
ten to fifteen minutes. The agent is entirely non-irritating,
so that no local discomfort occurs, whilst the onset of
narcosis will not be associated with excitement. If the
same dose is administered intravenously, the onset will
occur in about one minute and the animal will be
profoundly anaesthetised in from two and a half to three
minutes. The route of injection selected will depend upon
a number of factors, not the least of which will be the
size and temperament of the animal and the degree of
technical skill of the operator. Once sufﬁcient skill in
making an intravenous injection with certainty is attained,
this method can be adopted in practically all cases.
Its effective application necessitates that the animal
shall be properly restrained for a matter of a minute or
so, while the intravenous or intraperitoneal injection,
for that matter, is being made. It may be taken that
when a dog is properly and effectively restrained it will
come to no harm. Only when half-restrained, too, and
partly able to release itself does it become excited and
frequently hurts itself. The pain associated with the
prick of the needle is negligible provided one is using the
right apparatus and that it is in perfect working order.

As a general rule, despite the fact that the doses of
these drugs administered would ultimately prove fatal,
once deep general anaesthesia is attained, death is hastened
by the injection of hydrocyanic acid. The undesirable
effects of this latter drug are now entirely eliminated.
Of all methods of euthanasia employing poisons, for the
dog and the cat, the one just described is in my opinion the
most humane. The method has practical disadvantages :
it is costly, and the animal must be restrained, therefore
trained assistance must be available.




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 87

2. THE USE OF PISTOLS

It has long been realised that a most humane way of
destroying an animal is to shoot it through the brain,
in fact it is the only method that we should consider
using for a large animal such as the horse. Quite obviously,
the same method should be practicable for the dog. The
pistol is applied to the animal’s head, the trigger is pulled,
and the animal immediately passes from the conscious
to the unconscious state. If any method is instantaneous,
this is. Whilst it is customary in the horse to employ a
weapon firing a free bullet, for the dog a pistol that fires
a captive bolt is used instead. The use of a free bullet
in the dog, especially when working in a room, etc.,
exposes the operator and others to danger. The bolt
penetrates the cranium and traverses the cerebrum ; the
animal immediately falls unconscious, although a variable
degree of movement, particularly of the hind limbs,
may occur for a minute or so. Consequent upon the great
vascularity of the cerebrum, profuse haemorrhage occurs
from the spot at which the bolt entered. The increase in
intracranial pressure which results from the passage of
the bolt causes rupture of the cribriform parts of the
ethmoid bones, and there is generally severe haemorrhage
from the nostrils in addition. Occasionally there is
bleeding from one or both ears. Haemorrhage continues
for three to four minutes, or even a little longer, until
the heart ceases to beat. Not only is loss of consciousness
immediate, but respiratory failure is also immediate, the
respiratory centre being paralysed by shock. This paralysis
of the respiratory centre may or may not be absolute.
In a small proportiOn of cases the centre Will reassert
itself in a minute or so and respirations recommence and
continue. When one considers the profound fall in blood
pressure which has occurred consequent upon the profuse
haemorrhage in such cases, one is amazed at the tenacity
to life that the animal organism possesses. It must be
clearly understood that although breathing recommences
in these cases there is no return of consciousness. It is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

my practice in such cases to complete the animal’s
destruction by the injection of hydrocyanic acid, as I
personally do not like the operation of so-called pithing.
The respiratory centre lies at the base of the brain, and the
pistol should be aimed so that the bolt not only traverses
the cerebrum but shatters the medulla oblongata in
addition, to ensure complete respiratory failure. The bolt
of the pistol employed is sufﬁciently long to do this.

To a casual observer it would appear to be a very simple
operation to apply a pistol to a dog’s head, pull the
trigger, and immediately destroy the animal. And yet
it is not as easy and foolproof as it would appear. Despite
the great width of the head in many breeds, the cranium
is a comparatively small structure, and unless the pistol
is aimed with precision, having in mind the anatomy of
the head, there is a possibility that the bolt will not enter
the cranium but the muscles to one side of it. If the
animal is constantly moving its head whilst the instrument
is being applied, this danger is greater. It will thus be seen
that not only is the operation of shooting a skilled one,
but in addition animals will be met in which it cannot be
satisfactorily applied without adopting rigid restraint. The
practice of shooting is said to be undesirable because of the
haemorrhage which occurs. On this point I have strong
Views, and I cannot tolerate the frame of mind which dis-
misses a most humane form of euthanasia on this ground.
It is agreed that blood is an undesirable feature, but it
should be remembered that blood can be collected in a
receptacle, and when haemorrhage has ceased the point of
entry of the bolt and the nostrils can be wiped. If this is
done the sight of the dead animal is no more nauseating than
it would have been had some other method been employed.

3. ELECTRICAL EUTHANASIA *
The destruction of dogs by electrical means has attained

* E ditor’s N 0te.-——Conf1icting opinions as to the efﬁcacy of electrocution
as a humane method of destruction are discussed by Captain Hume in
a succeeding short article.




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 89

great prominence both in this country and abroad during
the past ten years or so. Two methods are in vogue. In
the first a current of low voltage is passed directly across
the brain between two electrodes which are placed beneath
the base of the ears. The apparatus comprises a pair of
tongs leading from a transformer which is connected
with the lighting or heating installation of the room.
Provided that the resistance of the hair and the skin
is overcome by thorough wetting with a saturated
solution of common salt, the moment the current is
switched on the animal falls. At the outset its muscles
are relaxed, but almost immediately a state of tetany
supervenes. It has been said that such an animal is
not unconscious, but is in what is described as a nightmare
state—a condition which exists when a man is subjected
to the passage of a current of electricity through his body.
As far as I know, in all the references to man the passage
of the current has been from the surface of the body,
generally a hand, to earth, and not directly across the
cerebrum. It is my belief that when the method is
carried out properly loss of consciousness is immediate.
As the animal is in a state of tetany, respirations are
in abeyance, but if the current is switched off immediate
relaxation occurs, and respiration will recommence.
If allowed to do so, the animal would recover consciousness
in a minute or so. Conversely, if the current is kept on
for a sufﬁciently long period, the animal will die from
anoxaemia. It is the practice, having stunned the animal
by this means and whilst the current is still applied, to
administer hydrocyanic acid. The voltage employed is
only 79, and should the operator become subjected to
the current through his hands, the shock is very slight.
The method, however, has disadvantages. Dry hair
and skin are bad conductors of electricity, and to
ensure that the current shall traverse the cerebrum it is
necessary to overcome this resistance by thoroughly
wetting with a saturated solution of common salt. In
animals with a thick, shaggy coat, effective soaking

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' 90 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

down to the skin may be quite difﬁcult, and it may be
preferable to clip away some of the hair first. Seventy
volts passing unhindered across the animal’s cerebrum
immediately provokes unconsciousness. When a similar
voltage is applied to the unwetted animal the resistance
offered by the hair may be such that nothing happens.
There is a middle course—if the skin is imperfectly
wetted, or if, consequent upon the animal moving, one
electrode is on a wetted part and the other on a dry one,
the animal may sustain a severe shock without losing
consciousness. As this is a risk that cannot always be
effectively overcome, I dislike the method.

In the other electrical method of euthanasia the animal
is placed in a box and restrained by two chains, one of
which forms a collar around its neck whilst the other
encircles a hind-limb above the hock. The chains are
the electrodes and they are wetted before application.
Closure of the lid of the box completes the circuit. The
voltage employed is a very high one and the current
passes through the animal’s body from the neck to the
.leg. The moment the box is closed the animal becomes
tetanised. This is quite immediate. In those cases which
I have witnessed, the current was allowed to pass for
eight to ten seconds. In every one, on removal, the animal
was unconscious, respirations had ceased, and in addition
the heart 'had stopped beating. In my opinion the
fact that the heart had stopped in every case after
exposure of from eight to ten seconds may be taken
as very good evidence that death was instantaneous.
I believe the method to be a most humane one, and
especially suitable for use in Animal Welfare Institutions
where large numbers have to be dealt with. The position
in the case of the cat, however, is different. In the first
place it is much more difﬁcult to design a cabinet suitable
for this animal, and in the second it is more difficult to
kill the animal. Using similarly high voltages it is found
that despite the fact that the cat instantly passes into a
state of tetany, immediate cardiac failure does not occur,




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 91

and to ensure even that the respiratory centre is com-
pletely paralysed, it is necessary to allow the current to
pass for a period of twenty—five seconds. It is probable
that these variations are caused by the great resistance
offered by the cat’s dense coat.

4. LETHAL CHAMBERS

This is a method of euthanasia which has never attained
much popularity amongst members of the veterinary
profession, although it is one which has been extensively
employed in animal welfare centres. For some reason
the public has come to regard the terms “ lethal chamber ”
and “ delightful death ” as synonymous. Chloroform
vapour, chloroform with carbon dioxide, and carbon mon—
oxide, the last in the “form of coal-gas or motor-car exhaust
fumes, are the poisonous agents generally employed
in these chambers. When chloroform is used for the dog
the method is not dissimilar from the mask method.
There is the same slowness, the same salivation, narcotic
excitement, and so on, and the method is a bad one when
compared with others at our disposal. The combination
of carbon dioxide with chloroform is rather interesting.
The object of the former is primarily to make the animal
breathe more deeply with the ' result that it becomes
anaesthetised more quickly, and having become anaes-
thetised dies more quickly because the atmosphere it is
breathing contains so much carbon dioxide. In carbon
monoxide poisoning death is also due to anoxaemia. The
animal is again placed in an airtight box and the gas is
turned on. For several minutes nothing happens, and then
it is noticed that breathing becomes deeper. At this point
the animal may show some apprehension and search for
a way out of the box. It is not, however, in any way
violent. Respirations are becoming, by this time, dis—
tressed, and almost immediately the animal passes into a'
tetanic convulsion. The onset of tetany is often associated
with a loud howl. Regarding this howl I can only say, as
in the case of hydrocyanic acid, that I do not know

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

whether it indicates pain or is merely associated with
the onset of tetany, for almost immediately after it occurs
reflexes are lost. Needless to say, the duration of the
symptoms will depend upon the quantity of the gas
entering the chamber. In those that I have witnessed
the average period elapsing between the onset of symptoms
and tetany was one and a half to two minutes.

Before leaving the subject I must in fairness to the
lethal chamber method refer to the use of chloroform for
the cat. For this animal anaesthesia in a chamber is
much more satisfactory than for the dog. In the majority
of cases there is little or no evidence of fear, whilst
induction is quiet. The method is, of course, slow, but when
all things are considered it is one of the best that can be
satisfactorily placed in the hands of lay persons.

The destruction of animals in a humane manner is a
subject which requires a considerable amount of study
and not a little skill in its application. Success depends
to a considerable degree upon the great art of handling
animals. All operations should be carried out with
gentleness and precision ; all instruments and apparatus
should be in perfect working order, because should the
method selected fail at any one point, it may become
inhumane. Euthanasia is essentially a subject for action
and not for words.

(4) THE CASE FOR SUSPENDING JUDGMENT IN
REGARD TO ELECTROCUTION AND ELECTRIC
STUNNING

by C. W. HUME

N judging whether electric shock has or has not pro~
duced unconsciousness, physiologists and veterinarians
appear to be guided by knowledge and experience gained
in connection with anaesthetic drugs. Unfortunately,
however, it is now known that certain tests applicable to
drug anaesthesia are misleading when applied to electricity.




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 93

ELECTROCUTION

It has been shown by Conrad and Haggard that, under
the conditions which are material to our problem, death
is due to asphyxiation if the amperage (not the voltage)
lies below a critical value, and by fibrillation if the
amperage rises above that value.* In the former case
death is certainly painful in view of the severe contraction
of the muscles. In the second case we have to ask how
long unconsciousness endures after the circulation has
been arrested by fibrillation. In my previous article I
assumed that fibrillation causes immediate loss of con—
sciousness, but this conclusion has since been strongly
challenged by one of the leading American investigators
of electrocution. It would be possible to calculate the
duration of consciousness if we knew (I) to what level
the tension of oxygen in the blood—supply to the brain
has to fall before consciousness ceases ; (2) what reserve
of oxygen is available to the brain ; (3) at what rate this
reserve is used up. Physiological correspondents have
tried to make an estimate based on the scanty available
data, and have concluded that consciousness cannot be
assumed to endure for more than about fifteen seconds
at most after the onset of fibrillation, and that the duration
may be much shorter than this. A sure answer does not
appear to be available in the present state of knowledge.

ELECTRIC STUNNING

It is known from human experience that a moderate
electric shock to the brain may produce inability to move,
speak, or breathe without destroying consciousness-t The
intensity of the shock administered in the slaughter-house
is slightly, but only slightly, greater than that administered
by Hertz in his experiments on human beings. An
impression to the contrary exists, but it has arisen from

* References to recent work are given in Vol. 4 of the ANIMAL YEAR
BOOK, p. 112.

TDetails and references are given in Vol. 3 of the ANIMAL YEAR
BOOK, pp. 157—77.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




94 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

failure to appreciate the way in which the intensity of the
shock depends on wave-form as well as amperage. Regens—
burger’s experiments on pigs showed that a current of
the Leduc wave-form, as used by Hertz on human beings,
is twenty times as effective as a current of the sinusoidal
wave—form used in the slaughter—house. When allowance
is made for this fact it is found that the shocks used in
the slaughter—house are but little stronger than those
which in Hertz’s experiments produced the nightmare
state in human beings. These objections to the prevalent
view have never been answered. It appears to me to be
' indisputable, therefore, that the question whether the
electrolethaller as used in the slaughter-house produces
genuine stunning must still be regarded as an open one.

 

 

 

Editor’s Nata—In the section “ Animals Abroad,” a report from
Holland states that electrocution has not been adopted in that country.
because experts are not satisfied that it is a humane method of euthanaSIa.

 

(5) HUMANE TREATMENT OF FARM ANIMALS

A report of an enquiry by the University of London Animal Welfare
Society’s Branch at the South-Eastern Agricultural College, Wye, Kent.

 

N June 1936 the Wye College Branch was asked by
Ithe Council of the University of London Animal Welfare
Society to send out a questionnaire to veterinary surgeons
.in Great Britain, the Channel Islands, and Eire, enquiring
into the general treatment of domestic animals on
farms, in markets, and during transport. This enquiry
was an extension of the work done in Devonshire by
Mr. Glave Saunders, a report of which has been published
in the R.S.P.C.A. leaflet N o. 323, on “ Preventable Cruelty
on Farms, and in Markets and Fairs.” It was the intention
of ULAWS to obtain information from as many counties
as possible, and to this end over 200 copies of the question—
naire were sent out in 1936, to be followed in September
1937 by a further larger number. The recipients were
asked to state the nature of any suffering which they had
observed, the causes of such conditions, and, if possible,
to suggest remedies for the evils.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 95

While the response to the questionnaire seemed at
first sight disappointingly small, the replies received
showed real interest in the subject, and many constructive
suggestions were made. Information was obtained from
eighteen counties in all, and the results of both question-
naires are set out below.

PIGS

Cruelty is most commonly inflicted by bad transport
under conditions leading to suffocation; by carelessness
in loading and unloading from lorries, resulting in the
breaking of the pigs’ legs; by lack of shelter in open
markets and consequent harmful exposure, particularly
in summer; and, finally, by confinement in dirty,
neglected sties. Pigs may enjoy mud-baths, but they are
susceptible to cold and damp, and therefore dry, warm,
and correctly ventilated sties are essential.

Pigs suffer frequently from purulent abscesses in
castration wounds, owing to the lack of antiseptic pre—
cautions taken by the farmers and laymen who, under
existing conditions, must of necessity carry out the
operation themselves. It is unlikely that veterinary
surgeons will be called upon to do the general castrating
of little pigs, and therefore a Government scheme might
well be put on foot to give the unskilled operator informa—
tion on the use of antiseptic measures.

The spaying of gilts* (female pigs), generally by un-
qualified men and without any anaesthetic, causes some
of the worst suffering. It is difﬁcult to understand why
such an operation should be performed on pigs without
anaesthetics when the Animals’ Anaesthetic Act of 1916
enforces their use in comparable operations on other
animals. Moreover, spaying has been proved unnecessary
and is discouraged by the big bacon—curers. Though
becoming less common, the operation is still extensively
carried out.

* Editor’s N 0te.—The removal of ovaries from young females.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

It is a general practice to insert a ring in the pig’s nose
and the usual methods of doing this are said by some to
be rather objectionable. A new method of ringing pigs is
described in the issue of the Farmer and Stockbreeder for
January 26, 1937. The writer wished to keep his pigs
free from fear and to spare them pain; accordingly he
chloroformed them before fitting the ring. The giving of
the anaesthetic and the action of ringing take from five
to ten minutes, the pig being completely unconscious
for one minute. The operation costs little and may be
safely carried out by the layman.

A rare case of cruelty was described in which a thin
rope tied around the pig’s leg had been left'to get imbedded
in the tissues.

CALVES

Suffering is very frequently caused by mishandling,
especially during loading and unloading from lorries.
Young calves in sacks are sometimes allowed to fall
heavily to the ground, the difﬁculty being that youths,
single—handed, have to carry out tasks needing two
workers. One—armed workers have also been observed
doing this work. A better form of lorry, designed with
an adjustable lower floor up which the calves could walk
into the body of the vehicle, would solve the problem of
handling the young animals. Accommodation in lorries
is also bad: there should be stands for each calf, or at
least pens for three or four calves only, set up inside
the lorry.

Neglect of castration wounds is another source of
considerable pain to the animal. An improvement could
be effected if all calves up to siX months old were treated
with the bloodless castrators. If properly used, these are
absolutely satisfactory. .

It should be made illegal to keep young calves longer
than five or siX hours without a meal. In certain parts
of the country it is still a common practice to send calves
on journeys lasting up to fifteen hours without food.




    

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 97

Calves should not be driven along a high road except
for short distances, and very young ones should be
excluded from the markets entirely.

cows .

Severe criticism has been levelled against the trans—
portation of emaciated cattle to towns. Cows which
should be reported under the Tuberculosis Order of 1925
are forwarded to neighbouring towns by road and arrive
in a completely debilitated state.* Farmers sometimes
fail to recognise the hopelessness of certain cases of
Johnes disease, or of tuberculosis, and allow the animals
to drag out their lives in unnecessary sufferingﬂr

Emphasis has already been placed on bad transport
conditions of pigs and calves; adult cattle are made to
suffer in the same way, both on the road and in the
markets. In transit most of the hardship occurs in the
railway wagons and on long, slow journeys. Further
reference to this will be made under the section on beef
animals.

The practice to be condemned most severely is that of
overstocking cows. In certain districts it is common for
farmers to send a cow in full milk, with a calf by her
side, to the market, having left her unmilked from the
morning of the previous day. Instead of the regular
twelve-hourly milking, she does not receive attention
until noon on the day of sale, thus suffering from neglect
for possibly thirty hours. The animal may be driven
miles to market with “ bursting” udders, the milk
actually trickling away.

The object of the practice, presumably, is to display
the fine supply of milk given by the cow, but the device
is worthless, as everyone does it and everyone knows

* Editor’s Nata—As Geoffrey Brook points out in his article on
p. 64, this will in future be illegal.

T Nor will this be allowed ; veterinary surgeons will be empowered
to order the painless dispatch of the animal.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
  
   
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

98 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

that everyone does it. It is definitely harmful to the
cow, having a disastrous effect on' her future milking
capacity. Furthermore, it is probably the cause, or
partly the cause, of the most common, painful, and
troublesome disease of cows, namely, inflammation of the
udder. This may defy treatment and lead eventually to
the death of the animal. Even the calf suffers, for an
overstocked cow must of necessity mean a starved calf.

The practice of presenting with the sale of every cow
a guarantee of her average milk yield per twenty-four
hours would quickly solve this cruel and unnecessary
custom.

Excessive use of the stick is common, particularly in
markets, and the’loading and unloading from vehicles
may be described as intolerable. If drovers were licensed,
and if reports of their carelessness or cruelty involved the
loss of their licences, they would naturally take greater
care. It is useless to expect the auctioneers to supervise
the drovers : they are fully occupied.

In West Wales, occasional instances have been reported
of cattle found with steel gin—traps on their lips and even
on their tongues. These have been picked up while the
animals were grazing.

BEEF ANIMALS

Most of the reports mention the excessive use of the
stick by drovers and by boys in the markets. This not
only causes unnecessary pain to the animals, but results
in the meat being bruised and less valuable. Sticks are
not allowed in the stockyards of Canada and the United
States, where electric goads are provided. These may be
used gently and yet give the animal a shock sufﬁcient to
make it bound forward. It has been suggested that
ULAWS would be doing a great service if it could
investigate the effectiveness of the electric goad, and,
if satisfied that it is a humane and practical instrument,
introduce it into this country.
Overcrowding in lorries is usual. It would be wiser if

  




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 99

the driver inspected his load at shorter intervals, perhaps
every twenty miles, although these transport conditions
cause comparatively little suffering compared with
railway travel. The lorries are used only for relatively
short distances, and there is not time for discomfort to
becOme acute. The worst cruelties are inflicted during
transit in' cattle trucks on long, slow journeys. It is
harmful for fat cattle, used to months of feeding and
resting, to have to stand on" concrete in the market all
day and then, still with empty stomachs, to have another
twelve hours of standing in crowded railway wagons.
A remedy for this is difﬁcult to find ; in fact, the only
effective step would be to provide abattoirs in the
vicinity of all the larger markets.

BULLS

It was suggested that enquiry into the subject of the
exercising of bulls might yield interesting results. At
present, the situation is not altogether satisfactory, and
questions were asked about the use and practicability
of some form of “ Bull—exerciser,” as used in the U.S.A.
and elsewhere. '

SHEEP .

In spite of the efforts made by local authorities to
control the loads, sheep also suffer from overcrowding
in lorries. Exposure in the open markets is also prevalent,
the suffering being intense on hot days.

Cruel death from maggots is inflicted on thousands of
sheep annually, owing to the fact that some flocks have
to be left unattended on moors and mountain pastures.
Flock—masters in many parts of Great Britain find it
impossible to tend their sheep properly as this would
mean trespassing on land kept as game preserves. The
game-keepers are particularly vigilant and the shepherds
dare not disturb the game.

Foot-rot is another cause of severe suffering and one
which could easily be prevented. If sheep with foot-rot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IOO THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

do not receive attention, not only are they in great
pain from the disease itself, but in hot weather maggots
penetrate the feet, thus causing more discomfort. These
maggots spread to other parts of the body unless dealt
with at once.‘ It is cruel to drive sheep suffering from
foot—rot along the road, and advantage should be taken
of the rubber boots available, as these are protective and
keep any dressings in place. Sheep’s feet are often found
in a gangrenous condition as the result of having broken
rabbit snares twisted around them. If the rabbit trade,
in all ways so harmful to agriculture, could be reduced,
this problem would also be solved.

In castration, the ” cutting and teeth—pulling ” opera-
tion is barbarous, cruel, incredibly antiquated, and is
absolutely condemned in the great sheep-breeding countries
of the world. In all cases the bloodless castrators should
be used.

HORSES

The worst practice is that of keeping worn—out horses
at work. Next to this, the neglect of horses’ feet‘is the
form of cruelty most prevalent. The following conditions
are found: thrush; cracked hooves; suppurating
cavities; contracted heel-lameness in unshod horses’
feet caused by lack of paring; foot—lameness; and,
finally, overgrown feet. Should the horse’s feet become
overgrown before the shoes are worn out, these should
be removed and refitted after the superfluous horn has
been pared away. Regular inspection of horses’ feet and
shoes should be undertaken by a responsible person in
the county. Sores under the collar and saddle seem to
occur less frequently than in former years.

The constant irritation of the leg—mite inflicts much
suffering. The mites become most active at night when
the horse is warmly stabled, thus keeping it awake and
restive. The cOndition is easily curable and still more
easily prevented. All heavy horses should have their
legs dressed once a month. Lice are becoming more




SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS IOI

prevalent, probably owing to the decline in horse-master-
ship and in the art of grooming. This problem again
could be easily dealt with.

The transport of horses on railways and ships is
unsatisfactory, the boxes being frequently too narrow
and insufﬁciently padded. A report from the Channel
Islands mentions that, after rough seas, horses suffered
considerably from abrasions. '

DOGS

The treatment of watchdogs on many farms can be
severely criticised. Almost permanently chained, a
practice more prevalent than generally realised, exposed
to extremes of heat, cold, and damp, they hardly
obtain any exercise other than that allowed by the length
of chain. They are frequently infested with vermin, ear
diseases, and other unnecessary ills. Some farmers also .
neglect their cattle and sheep dogs, feeding them irregu-
larly, letting them sleep anywhere, and allowing their
coats to become disgracefully tangled and dirty.

The remedy for the last evil is obvious : regular meals,
adequate sleeping quarters, and periodical attention to
the coat. In the former case, legislation should be brought
in, granting the police powers of inspection.

Reports from North Wales draw attention to the habit
of training young dogs to keep to heel by tying one foreleg
up to the collar, and allowing them to limp about on
three legs for days on end. Often this causes temporary
atrophy of the muscles of the disused limb. A much better
method is to tie the young dog to an experienced animal.

Another custom peculiar to farmers of Wales and
Shropshire is that of driving the cattle to market with
the help of a dog, and after the sale returning alone by
’bus, presumably to avoid paying the dog’s fare.

POULTRY
Caponising is an extremely cruel practice, and keeping
table—birds in small pens can be severely criticised,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABULATION OF REPLIES TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE

 

On the Farm

I n Transport

 

Buckinghamshire . .

I n the JV! arket

 

Frequent use of the stick.

 

Devonshire

 

 

 

 

Insufﬁcient shelter in fields
and pastures. Pig—sties bad.
Poultry killed in cruel ways.
Dogs permanently chained.

 

Overstocking of cows.

 

Gloucestershire

 

Pigs and calves should be
sheltered from the weather.

 

Hertfordshire

Diseased cattle not treated
in time professionally.

Bad road transport.

 

Excessive use of the stick.
Insufﬁcient shelter.

 

Huntingdonshire . .

 

 

Kent

Bad pig-sties. Lameness
and overgrown feet in
horses.

Overstocking of cows.

 

 

Monmouthshire

Foot-rot in sheep.

Bad road transport.

 

Excessive use of the stick.
Insufﬁcient shelter. Over-
stocking of cows.

 

Norfolk

Dogs kept permanently
chained. ,

Bad rail transport.

Crowded pens. Excessive
use of the stick.

 

Oxfordshire

Cows kept in poor sheds or
else kept in open too long.

Bad road transport.

Excessive use of the stick.
Insufﬁcient shelter.

 

Salop

 

Overgrown feet in horses.

 

 

Excessive use of the stick.

 

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

 




 

Shropshire . .

Excessive use of the stick.

 

Staffordshire

Sheep—dog puppies trained
by tying up a fore-leg to
collar. Dogs kept perman—
ently on a chain. Pigs,
lambs, and calves with
abscesses in castration
wounds.

Bad rail transport. Bad
road transport.

Excessive use of the stick.

 

Suffolk

Pig operations without
anaesthetics.

a,

 

Surrey

Excessive use of the stick.
Insufﬁcient shelter.

 

Sussex

Overcrowding of poultry in
small pens.

 

Yorkshire . .

Sale of emaciated cattle.
Sheep unattended because
of game preserves. Horses
with neglected feet. Dogs
kept permanently chained.
Poultry: battery systems.

Bad road transport.

Insufﬁcient shelter. Bad
handling. Excessive use of
the stick.

 

 

Channel Islands ..

Bad transport by rail and
sea.

 

 

Eire

 

Donkeys badly overworked,
with sore backs and over-
grown hooves.

 

Bad road transport. Un—
loading of animals at the
ports also bad.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO4 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

together with many forms of the battery system. During
the solitary confinement of hens after egg-laying, which
is intended to prevent broodiness, the least that can be
done for the birds is to provide weatherproof coops, dry
bedding, regular food, and clean water.

Poultry of all kinds are still killed in cruel and anti—
quated ways. Heavy criticism can be levelled against
the method of sticking ducks with a knife ; birds have
been seen hanging up and still alive three hours after
their throats have been cut. Ducks should be killed by
having their necks wrung and then be hung up. Turkeys
and geese should be stunned by a blow on the head before
the necks are broken; the bird’s head should be rested on
a block of wood, and the back of the head struck; the
throat can then be cut or the neck chopped through.

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES

Much cruelty results from the dosing of animals with
drugs, patent medicines, and “ household ” remedies.
Farmers and dog—owners are only too ready, before
calling in the expert, to give their animals all kinds of
drugs, which may be harmful, and often the animals
suffer more from drug—poisoning than from the original
complaint. Careless and unskilful drenching of animals
must also be condemned.

Exposure of animals during bad weather in open fields,
offering no Shelter whatsoever either from thick hedges
or trees, is frequently seen. Wild animals always seek
Shelter, and domestic animals, being less hardy, need it
still more. Unbroken colts have been known to die
suddenly from undiagnosed lung disease caused by undue
exposure. Sometimes lightning is blamed for such deaths !

CONCLUSION

The answers to the questionnaire revealed a consensus
of opinion that drovers, casual labourers, and small boys
make excessive use of the stick ; that the conditions in
markets are often undesirable ; that there Should be an

 

  




      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS - 105

increased supervision of transport vehicles, especially of
motor lorries ; that a new design of lorry is needed with
proper footboards lowering to the ground; and, finally,
that farmers need more instruction in the diagnosis of
hopeless cases of disease.

It is not enough to outline the cruelties prevalent in
the treatment of domestic animals to-day; what of the
underlying causes and remedies P Admittedly all livestock
is now much better cared for than it was twenty years
ago, but man is still apt to' think only of himself and
cases of suffering still occur through thoughtlessness and
selfishness of the owners. To—day there is no excuse for
ignorance, and the farmer should see that he and his
assistants make full use of the opportunities for obtaining
information on the latest improved methods for ensuring
the health of the animals, which are the source of his
livelihood. If he would only study the animals’ needs
in health and sickness, much of the suffering referred to
in this article could be prevented. Legislation is an
indispensable weapon in the fight for fair and good treat-
ment of animals, but the final responsibility rests with
the individual owner.

(6) THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN—TRAP
IN GREAT BRITAIN

HE aim of the University of London Animal Society

has always been (I) to establish authoritatively the
facts relating to the various methods of dealing with
trappable animals, and (2) to bring these facts home to
the legislature and to those who influence it.

After the report of the Mersey Committee had been
published, it was felt by the Society that, while the
report made certain practical suggestions, on the whole
it had failed to deal adequately with the questions of
fact which were at issue before it. It is of vital importance
to the success of the Anti—steel Trap Campaign that those
questions regarded by the Mersey Committee as open

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

106- THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

to controversy (I) should be settled by scientific enquiry
once and for all. The task of ascertaining the facts is
complicated by the number of conflicting interests
involved, and the University of London Animal Welfare
Society is not as yet a sufﬁciently large or wealthy enough
body to undertake such an enquiry single—handed. It
was therefore decided to enlist the support of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, to which the
Society has become affiliated as a Corresponding Society.
Accordingly, Captain Hume prepared a paper on “ Some
Facts and Queries relating to the Wild-rabbit Problem,”
(2) which he read last September to the Conference of
Corresponding Societies at the Nottingham Meeting of
the British Association. As a result, the Conference passed
the following resolution requesting “ the Council of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science to
represent to His Majesty’s Minister of Agriculture and to
His Majesty’s Secretary of State for Scotland the necessity
of instituting an enquiry to ascertain the effects, in respect
of efficiency, economic reactions and humaneness, of
available methods of dealing with rabbits and other wild
mammals that affect agriculture.” This resolution was
adopted by the Council of the British Association at their
meeting in October 1937, and subsequently forwarded to
the appropriate Government departments. The practical
consequences have yet to follow, but it is important
to note that the solution of the rabbit problem in
Great Britain has the active support of such a repre-
sentative body of scientific opinion as the British
Association. '

Further evidence that this problem is of major im—
portance to agriculture and forestry was forthcoming at
a meeting, organised by the Society in March 1938, to
discuss the desirability of establishing some form of
biological control of fauna in this country, somewhat
similar to the Biological Survey of the United States of
America. Scientific societies and institutions were invited
to send representatives to take part in the discussion, after

 

 




£5

 

 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 107

the problem had been outlined by the Chairman, Sir Peter
Chalmers Mitchell, by the Marquess of Tavistock, and
by Professor F. A. E. Crew. Speaker after speaker,
including representatives from the Forestry Commission,
the Royal English Forestry Society, Research Stations, as
well as private landowners and farmers, emphasised the
necessity of ridding the land of rabbits by a comprehensive
scheme, enforced by law, although they were not unani—
mous on the method to be adopted to bring about this
clearance. The University of London Animal Welfare
Society continues to advocate cyanide fumigation as being
the most efﬁcient and humane means of controlling rabbit
populations, and although attempts have been made to
discredit both its. effectiveness and its humaneness,
conclusive evidence on this subject, based on human
experience and laboratory ’ observation, has been ob—
tained (3, 4). Local authorities, county councils, and
other responsible bodies have found fumigation highly
satisfactory, and those occasional failures which have
been reported are believed to be due to incorrect pro—
cedure. A short film demonstrating cyanide fumigation
has been made by the Society, and it is hoped that a lOnger
film will be available shortly.

The main obstacle to the introduction of a Bill into the
House of Commons is the difﬁculty of obtaining Parlia—
mentary time, and it has therefore been decided to intro—
duce a Bill into the House of Lords again. The Bill will
thus have the advantage of a‘ thorough debate, so that all
objections to it can be thrashed out in preparation for its
passage through both Houses next session. Steps have
already been taken to prepare for its reception in the
House of Commons. In November 1937 Captain Hume
addressed a meeting of agricultural Members of Parliament,
at which the chair was taken by Sir Joseph Lamb. Strong
sympathy with the Bill was expressed, and co-operation
with the Society was promised. A petition addressed to
individual members is also being organised asking them
to allocate their votes in the ballot to the subject of

8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




I08 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

 

trapping, and a set of draft clauses for the Bill has also been

circulated.
H. E. B.

 

 

 

BIBLIOGRAPHY

I. Report of the Select Committee of the House of Lords on
Agriculture (Damage by Rabbits) and Minutes of
Evidence, 1937.

2. C. W. HUME, 1937. Some Facts and Queries relating to
the Wild-rabbit Problem. ULAWS Monograph 4f.

3. C. W. HUME, 1937. Instructions for Dealing with Rabbits.
ULAWS Monograph 4e.

4. J. E. and K. RAMSBOTTOM, 1937. “ Note on Calcium
Cyanide,” ANIMAL YEAR BOOK, vol. 4.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD

Edited by F. J. VINTER, M.D., BS.

(I) AFRICA (ALGERIA)

by F. J. VINTER, M.D., BS.

IN September 1937 I paid my third annual visit to the
Society for Protection of Animals in North Africa.
Mlle. Ruperto and I met by arrangement in Oran, one of
the biggest sea—ports in Algeria, as we were anxious to
get an idea of the state of its animals. Except for
Mlle. Ruperto’s wonderfully successful anti—bull—fight
campaign in 1934 the S.P.A.N.A. had done no work in
Oran for some years.

On the afternoon of my arrival we Visited the fouwie‘re
together. It is not always easy to visit a fouwie‘re, which
is an enclosure for stray dogs, but it is usually possible
to get in once on the plea of requiring a dog. Mlle. Ruperto
contrived to gain admission at the time when the dogs
were being destroyed, and we found it a very terrible
business. The old Arab in charge had been supplied with
strychnine and a syringe; but, being half blind and
wholly callous, he made the injections very badly, into
any part of the animal’s anatomy, and often in insufﬁcient
dosage. The result was that animals in process of de-
struction lay about all over the fomm'ére in strychnine
convulsions, until Mlle. Ruperto, exchanging diplomacy
for humanity, took hold of the syringe and made the last
injections into the heart with much speedier results. I
know that strychnine as a lethal agent is not approved
of in England, but it is humane compared with

109

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nnnnn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IIO THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

strangling and other methods still in use in parts of
North Africa.

From Oran we paid a visit on market-day to Sidi-bel—
Abbés, a town best known as being one of the head—
quarters of the Foreign Legion. There is evidently great
poverty in this district, for the animals were mostly very
thin. The market is held in a fine open space, but there
is no shade at all, and the only drinking trough is right
away at the far end down some steps and therefore
inaccessible to the animals. When we were there a poor
Arab had brought in a skeleton of a horse from the
country ; as he was unable to feed it he had come to get
what he could for it from the butcher. Nobody lifted a.
finger to help this poor man or his animal, and the most
we could do was to give them some food.

The for/5772276 at Sidi—bel-Abbes was even worse than
the one in Oran. The dogs’ only food was the decaying
carcasses of a few dead animals which lay about the yard,
and the stench was awful.

Another major cruelty at Sidi—bel—Abbés is the capture
and torturing of wild birds. I did not actually see this,
but we were told of it by a sympathiser, the wife of a
Legionary, whom we visited.

From Oran we went on by the night-train to Algiers,
where we had a week—end’s respite ; we then left in the
opposite direction for Biskra and Touggourt, on the edge
of the Sahara Desert. We made the journey to Biskra by
autocar, and here it began to be hot. We were up early
the next morning and paid a surprise visit to Mme. Diane,
who is in charge of the S.P.A.N.A. work. She has her own
fondou/e (stable), but S.P.A.N.A. uses part of it, and she
looks after the animals there. Hers is almost the only

fondoule in the town which has fresh water. She employs
an Arab who is skilled in doing dressings ; he pays a daily
visit to all the fondouks in the town, dressing sore backs
and removing the worst cases to the S.P.A.N.A. fondouk.
I met him and also his wife.

The S.P.A.N.A. fondouk at Touggourt is the joy of




ANIMALS ABROAD: AFRICA III

Mlle. Ruperto’s heart.* How she ever managed to get it
built during the insufferably hot summer months is
incredible to me. As it stands at present, it is a picturesque
little building in Moorish style, composed of three arches,
two of which are open in front and form the stable ; the
third is closed in, and serves as living accommodation for
the two Frenchwomen in charge. When Mlle. Ruperto
arrives at Touggourt up go the flags over the fondoukd—
the Union Jack and French flag side by side. Everybody
recognises the flags as a sign of her arrival, and she
immediately becomes inundated with visitors—~the
architect, the corn merchant, and every man connected
with the fondouk come along to do business and pay their
respects. The fondouk has now been found too small for
the enormous number of animals which need help and
treatment. Thanks to the Administrator, who could not
have been kinder or more helpful, we have been given a
further piece of land and are now extending the buildings.
Besides erecting the fondouk Mlle. Ruperto very wisely
put up a drinking fountain for human beings as well as
animals. This stands beside the fondouk and has been
enormously appreciated by the Arabs. Water is terribly
scarce in this region, even for drinking purposes, and for
most people washing is simply impossible: they have to
be content with rubbing themselves over with sand.

One of our most interesting visitors at the fcmdouk
was the head master of the Arab school. He used to come
in his flowing robes and help with the dressings. During
my visit he brought all his small boys to see the fondouk
and gave them a little address on kindness to animals.
The general feeling towards our work at Touggourt is
extraordinarily friendly.

* Editor’s Note.——In vol. 4 of the ANIMAL YEAR BOOK Miss Hosali
. described how Mlle. Ruperto was going to investigate the possibility
of establishing a S.P.A.N.A. centre at Touggourt, where the condition
of animals is especially pitiful owing to the terrible periods of drought
prevalent there. The speed and efficiency with which she has accom—
plished her object are indeed amazing, and ULAWS heartily congratu—
lates Mlle. Ruperto on her achievement.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

II2 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Mlle. Ruperto had all this time been trying to think of
someone suitable for work in Oran and had come to the
conclusion that the right man for the job, if we could
get him, would be M. Galinet. He lived at one time
at Sidi—bel—Abbes and was entirely responsible for stopping
bull—fights there ; in fact he was so zealous on behalf of
animals that he was twice fined and imprisoned. On our
return to Algiers we interviewed Galinet, who held a good
post in the municipal electrical department, and asked
him if he would consider giving up his work and becoming
a full—time S.P.A.N.A. employee. After I came back to
England he wrote to the Committee offering his services,
and we appointed him to work in the Department of
Oran, which includes Oran and Sidi-bel-Abbes. Accord—
ingly he started work last December, incidentally making
a financial sacrifice and giving up his prospects of a
pension. He has our best wishes in his new work, which
at first will consist principally of the reform of the fow—
7/2'6‘7/63, road inspection, and the prevention of bull-fights.

(2) FRANCE

CONSEIL DE JUSTICE ENVERS LES ANIMAUX:
REPORT FOR 1937

by MARIE SCHAFFERT

IKE everything else in France, animal welfare work

has suffered from the political and financial crises.
Animal protection societies in this country, which at the
best of times never collect more than 3,000 to 5,000
francs, have had a hard struggle to keep up those activi—
ties which were started under more favourable conditions.
Yet the year has not been without its successes.

HUMANE SLAUGHTER
Definite advance can be reported in the introduction of
humane slaughter ; a number of municipal councils have




ANIMALS ABROAI): FRANCE, II3

now adopted the system, in addition to those which had
already enforced it. It is gratifying to think that over
6,000 “ Matador” humane killers are now being used in
various parts of France; they were first put on the
market by the Conseil de Justice envers les Animaux
and enabled us to secure the first by-law in Lyons in 1930.
At the slaughter—house where all meat for the Paris
hospitals is killed, the use of a special slanting gangway
has been adopted. It has a large box at the end, in
which the animal is stunned, and is therefore spared all
contact with the actual slaughter—house. It is hoped to
extend the use of this method and make it universal.

BULL-FIGHTS

These were advertised in Cannes, Flers, and Le Tréport.
In Cannes, unfortunately, we were warned too late and
our intervention did not succeed, but in Flers the mayor
at once refused to allow the fight. In Le Tréport so much
influence had been used on behalf of the promoters of
bull—fights that up to the last moment we were not
certain whether our protest, in which we asked our
English friends to join us, had been successful. We are
glad to say, however, that the Prefect of the Seine
Inférieure not only forbade the fight but promised us
that there should be no bull—fights in his de’partement
(county) as long as he was Prefect. This was a great
victory, for once a bull-fight has made its appearance in
a town it is almost impossible to prevent it the following
year. In this connection it is interesting to record that
the Bishop of Arras, in his pastoral letter of January 1937,
condemned both bull-fights and cock—fights.

TRAFFIC INHORSEs

Now that the British Exportation of Horses Bill has
become an Act, French dealers can no longer obtain
English horses for butchery. This does not mean that
one ounce less of horse-meat will be eaten in France, but
that supplies will be obtained elsewhere. Those of us

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

116 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS

In this connection 187 French newspapers published
a manifesto signed by three leading French writers,
M. Claude Farrere, M. Rene’ Le Gentil, and Madame
Marcelle Adam, drawing the attention of the public to
the need for humane treatment of animals. Sermons
were preached throughout the whole diocese of Arras,
and in numbers of Protestant churches, both French and
English.

LA LIGUE SCOLAIRE DES AMIs DES ANIMAUX

This league is trying to bring up the younger generation
to a better understanding of the citizen’s duty towards
animals. Every year essay competitions are held for
which prizes are given; here, again, shortness of staff
and of funds prevent us from sending lecturers to many
places where they would be welcomed.

In conclusion, we are glad to say that a move has been
made to start a University group in Paris for those
interested in animal welfare. In France the protection
of animals seems to appeal more especially to intellectual
people, who look on these things from a more English
point of view; this is doubtless because they know of
the work that goes on in England and can see its good
results.

(3) GREECE

by WILLIAM MILLAR, M.A.(Oxon), Hon. LLD. (Athens),
F.R.Hist.S., F.B.A.

THE reorganisation of the SPCA. in February 1937
by the acceptance of the Presidency by H.R.H.
Princess Catherine and of the Vice—Presidency by
Mrs. Esme Crowe was completed by the election of
Mr. A. A. Pallas as Hon. Secretary and of Mr. J. Atheno-
genes as Hon. Treasurer. Twelve meetings of the Com—
mittee have been held under the presidency of the

 

  
   

 
   

  

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: GREECE I17

Princess at the palace, at which, by her invitation, the
Ministers of Agriculture, Education, and Health, the
Governor of the Agricultural Bank, and the Vice—director
of the Athens Police were present. This has enabled the
Society to keep in close touch with the authorities, and it
has been possible to draw the attention of the police,
without bureaucratic delays, to any matter concerning
the treatment of animals.

Nevertheless, the membership of the Society remains
far below what it should be in a great city like Athens of
a million inhabitants. The numbers of the Junior Branch
are somewhat better, and it is in the rising generation
that the hopes of animal welfare in Greece are centred.
Much propaganda has been carried out in order to attract
young people to work for the animals’ cause. The head—
quarters of the Boy Scout Movement circularised Scout
leaders asking them to organise a campaign with this
object, and the General Supervisor of Secondary Education
in Athens has formed students’ clubs to promote the cause
in schools. Further attention will be drawn to the subject
at Easter, when prizes for the best—kept horses, mules, and
donkeys will be presented.

At the Society’s instigation, police regulations now
forbid the use of catapults against birds, and the slaughter
of animals in open places. The massacre of lambs at
Easter horrified visitors, and in a recent book, The M eltmg
P015, a Scandinavian tourist, who was in Corfu at that
season, wrote : “ The whole town is turned into an
enormous abattoir.” The police have also studied the
best means of transporting and disembarking cattle in
Greek harbours. The kindred problem of unloading
cattle at the Athens railway station has been put before
the railway directorate, which has set aside a sum of
money for improvements, although a definite solution
has yet to be found. The Society has also invited cattle-
dealers to study the book Pistol versus Poleaxe, and has
given practical demonstrations with the pistol presented
by the Scottish S.P.C.A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

118 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

The Society’s motor-van and cart continue to collect
the stray dogs and take them to the Dogs’ Refuge. A
sub—committee under the chairmanship of Mrs. Crowe
pays frequent Visits to that institution, and has effected
reforms there. Mr. Hurle, who was sent out from England
to open a branch Of the People’s Dispensary for Sick
Animals Of the Poor, has treated over 800 animals
in the first year of his work. The dispensary is in one Of
the poorer districts of Athens, and he also Visits the Attic
Villages Of Menidi and Marathon. The principal patients
are horses, donkeys, mules, and dogs, besides some fowls,
geese, turkeys, cats, and rabbits. He finds the horses
and donkeys generally in good condition, though many
suffer from long—standing lameness, and the owners
appreciate the work done for their beasts. Work of a
similar kind has been started by the Agricultural Associa-
tion with the aid of the Agricultural Bank.

Lastly, it is proposed to make a bird sanctuary on the
peninsula Of Mount AthOs, the “ Sacred Mountain ” of
the monks, on the model of the sanctuary on the Island
of Capri.

(4) HOLLAND

REPORT OF NEDERLANDSCHE VEREENIGING
TOT BESCHERMIN G VAN DIEREN

by M. C. DOORMAN—KIELSTRA and P. RUEB

ROM the legal point Of View, in Holland the animal

is regarded as a “thing,” and the Penal Code states
that to kill an animal is ” punishable, not because the
animal has a right to live, but because its owner suffers
loss.” On the other hand, cruelty to animals is punished
as a moral Offence, because man as a moral being may do
no harm to living fellow creatures. The clauses of the
law relating to the treatment Of animals are framed, not
so much to protect the animals as to benefit the owner

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: HOLLAND IIQ

by enforcing that the animals are kept in good health.
Nevertheless, these clauses are strong weapons in the
hands of the Animal Protection Societies in their fight
for the recognition of the rights of animals. These Societies
are not satisfied with the legal position and are agitating
at present for a special Animal Law to be passed, on the
lines of the Norwegian Law.

At present the law, if enforced, protects animals from
unnecessary suffering inflicted by (I) working animals
beyond their strength ; (2) working animals in a needlessly
painful way, (3) working animals, which are lame,
mangy, or have sores, or which are pregnant or suckling
their young, in a way for which, by reason of their
condition, they are not fit; (4) transporting animals under
cruel conditions, and without providing adequate food
and drink. The law imposes a maximum sentence of ten
days’ imprisonment, or 150 guilders fine for infringement
of any clause. Any man is also forbidden ” wilfully to
cause an animal pain or injure its health without a
reasonable object in View, or through exceeding the
attainment of such an object” ; nor may he “ wilfully
withhold the necessary food from any animal which
wholly or in part belongs to him and which is under his
care, or from an animal for whose sustenance he is
responsible.” Infringement carries with it a sentence of
imprisonment up to six months, or a fine of up to 300
guilders.

In some instances the law lays down certain conditions,
but omits to impose any penalties for infringement of
these conditions. This is the case in the regulations
relating to the Slaughter of Animals and those relating
to the Housing of Draught Animals. The Netherlands
Society for the Protection of Animals has made repeated
efforts to remedy this extraordinary position, but so far
unsuccessfully.

Protection against unnecessary cruelty is afforded to
animals by the special laws regulating Hunting, Fishing,
Livestock, Meat Curing, Mining, Railway Transport, etc.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

  
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
  
 
 
 

 

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  

 

 

     

I20 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

 

HUNTING AND FISHING

Hunting is not so popular in Holland as in England,
though it is a good deal done among the leisured classes.
The capture of wild animals by the following methods
is forbidden by law: lime, snares, gin-traps, blinded
decoys ; while noxious animals must be caught in such
a way that they are either killed outright or not mutilated.

Certain kinds of fishing tackle are forbidden, as is the
use of poison. Wild birds are protected and certain
methods of catching are forbidden.*

SLAUGHTER OF CATTLE

Generally speaking, animals must be stunned and then
bled, except those killed according to the Jewish rites.
If the meat is to be cured, any infringement of the regula-
tions is punishable, but there are as yet no penalties
imposed for disregard of the law governing ordinary
slaughter. The practice of giving a blow on the head
or the neck, or a stab in the neck, is forbidden.

P I T P o N I E s

Ponies must have roomy, comfortable, well-ventilated
stalls, and must not be worked for more than eight hours
a day. '

D R A U G H T D o G S

The number of dogs used for draught purposes is de-
creasing. They are specially protected by a law relating
to their welfare alone, and are subject to strict examination
and control. Thanks to the vigilance _of the Anti—Trek-

honden Bond, they are almost universally well looked
after.

TRANSPORT OF CATTLE

Great improvement has been made recently in rail,
road, and water transport, which is very carefully super-
vised by the State Veterinary Inspectors. On January I,

. * Editor’s Note.~——Methods not specified.

  

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: HOLLAND IZI

1938, a new law came into force, regulating the conditions
of road transport. The clauses of this law were drafted
with the help of the Netherlands Society for the Protection
of Animals. Drinking facilities for animals are provided
at all railway stations.

CONDITIONS IN MARKETS

Shelter and drinking water are nearly always provided
in markets, which are supervised by the State Inspectors.
Transport of poultry and game leaves much to be
desired, and the Society is working hard to improve
conditions.

PERFORMING ANIMALS
The Netherlands Jack London Society is working

to get animal acts abolished in circuses and variety
theatres.

VETERINARY SERVICE

Besides the State Veterinary Service already mentioned,
there is a large body of qualified veterinary surgeons
throughout the country, almost every town and village,
however small, having its resident “ vet.” Training in
veterinary science is provided at the University of Utrecht.

The Netherlands Society for the Protection of Animals
has a number Of animal clinics, where free treatment is
provided by a qualified staff.

STRAY ANIMALS

Stray dogs and cats are taken either to the special
home, if there is one in the neighbourhood, or else to the
police station, .where they are kept for a few days. If a
home cannot be found for them, or if they are diseased,
they are collected in the Society’s van and dispatched to
a lethal chamber.

Electrocution is not usual at present, because it is a
costly method where large numbers are concerned, and
because experts are not yet convinced that it is humane.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
 
 
 
    
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
   
 
 
   
 

 

 

 
 
 
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

122 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

VIVISECTION

There is a Government Board for the Control of Vivisec-
tion, on which the Netherlands Society for the Protection
of Animals is represented with the object of curtailing
experiments on animals as far as possible. Vivisection is
admitted by the Society as being necessary, since experts
are convinced that such experimentation is essential in
the interests of national health.

There are two societies in Holland which take up the
extreme position of complete abolition.

NATIONAL PARKS AND ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS

The Society for the Preservation of National Monuments
and the Society for the Protection of Birds are interested
in various reserves which serve as National Parks. There
are also three Zoological Gardens in Holland, where the
animals are well looked after.

DOCKING OF HORSES
This is still practised on heavy draft horses.

DOCKING OF DOGS

Public opinion is becoming increasingly set against this
practice, and occasional verdicts have been passed in
court condemning it as cruelty to animals. Co—operation
with dog fanciers has not yet been obtained.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSPECTORS

The Society employs over forty inspectors working all
over the country. On the whole, Dutch people treat their
animals well. They are not naturally cruel, and where a
case of cruelty occurs it is generally due to ignorance,
backed up by some commercial reason, and is most
frequently encountered in markets and among peasant
people.

  
  
 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: NORTHERN IRELAND I23

(5) NORTHERN IRELAND

by JOSEPHINE DOWNER,
Hon. Sec., Lisburn Branch, U.S.P.C.A.

THE Ulster Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals is a little over one hundred years old,
having been founded in 1836. About fourteen years before
its foundation, “ the first Bill to be passed in any country
to protect animals from cruelty” was placed on the
Statute Book of the British House of Commons by our
fellow countryman, Richard Martin of Galway.

Prior to the year 1921 all laws for the protection of
animals passed by the British Parliament applied auto-
matically to Ulster. In that year the Government of
Northern Ireland was established, and‘since then our laws
have been made by this Government.

In 1921 the present honorary secretaries of the Society
were appointed, a new committee was formed, and
twenty—three branches were established throughout the
81X counties, with fifteen Inspectors. A Children’s League
of Justice was also formed, and propaganda stands were
organised at the leading Ulster agricultural shows. Very
soonthe bad conditions under which live animals and
poultry were transported between Ulster and the ports
of England and Scotland were brought to light. The
export of worn horses for butchery from the ports of
Northern Ireland was stopped through co—operation with
the Ministry of Agriculture. In Belfast docks, Inspectors
are now present at the shipping of cattle, sheep, and pigs.
All the animals are driven on to the boats over gangways,
hoisting by the horns being unknown. Through this
constant inspection, conditions which were at one time
deplorable have definitely improved. The carrying of
fowls head downwards is illegal.

In order to provide free treatment for sick and injured
animals of the poor, our first veterinary hospital was
organised at Glengormley and a motor ambulance was

9

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

124 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

provided. In time it became necessary to extend this
work, so in 1931 the hospital was moved to Edenmore,
Whiteabbey, co. Antrim, a spacious house with twenty
acres of ground, large yards, and up-to—date stables,
kennels, etc. A most acceptable gift was recently made
to the hospital in the form of eight kennels of the latest
type, well lighted and heated throughout. The hospital
is equipped not only with the necessary wards, dispensary,
and operating rooms, but also with X-ray and Violet—ray
apparatus. Under the supervision of a fully qualified
veterinary surgeon over 1,330 animals were treated last
year.

Shelters and dispensaries have also been organised, the
principal one being in Tyrone Yard, Belfast, where two
women superintendents have successively given their
services. Here thousands of lost and unwanted animals
are received each year. The Society now owns two up—to—
date motor-ambulances.

Several important Acts have been passed through
Parliament since 1921. A long and strenuous fight for
slaughter—house reform ended with the passing into laW
in 1932 of the Slaughter of Animals Act; this was in
force. before the similar English Act, and includes in its
provisions sheep as well as cattle. The Wild Birds’
Protection Act (Northern Ireland), 1931, forbids the
capture of practically all wild birds, and the taking of
their nests and eggs. The Dogs Act and the Performing
Animals Act are also on the Statute Book. The successful
piloting of these various measures through Parliament
was largely due to Senator T. J. Campbell, K.C. Some
years ago a very widespread agitation arose which led
to the introduction of a Bill into Parliament for the
abolition of the coursing of captive hares; it was un—
fortunately rejected, but, owing to the agitation, one or
two coursing clubs were closed. The hunting of carted
stags is another form of “ sport ” Which still exists.

In 1933 a “zoo ” was established by Belfast City
Corporation in conjunction with Messrs. Chapman.

 




_.dr.l‘_ .34~>\ .u.y2.\‘ C.\\

HiEKz/q .09 :2923: q: 24‘

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: NORWAY 125

Against this innovation a very strong protest was made
by the Society; though supported by numbers of
responsible citizens, it was unsuccessful.

The steel—toothed trap is unfortunately still in use in
Northern Ireland for the trapping of rabbits.

(6) NORWAY

Notes supplied by MRS. CHRISTINE GEIRSVOLD, President of
the Norwegian Federation of Animal Protection Societies.

NEW animal protection law came into force in

Norway in October 1935. One of the most important
provisions of this law is the formation of an Animal
Protection Committee in each parish of every town and
village. There are now 780 such committees, each con-
sisting of three members chosen by the parish council.
The members of the committee are responsible for the
protection of the animals in their parish, and are expected
to co-operate with the police and the veterinary surgeons ;
they have special privileges, e.g. they have right of entry
into any stable or other place where an animal is kept.

Humane killing is compulsory in Norway for oxen,
cows, horses, and pigs. The Jewish method of slaughter
is prohibited. Sheep and calves must be stunned before
bleeding, but it may be done with a pole—axe.

Castration of horses, adult sheep and goats, and cattle
and pigs over three months may only be done by a
qualified veterinary surgeon, and an anaesthetic must
be given. At present domestic reindeer may be castrated
by unqualified pers0ns.

No horse over twenty years of age and no unfit animal
may be sold for anything but slaughter, except with the
special permission of the Animal Protection Committee.

The care of farm animals is a big problem, especially
in isolated districts,‘where there is great poverty. The
Federation of Animal Protection Societies annually
arranges to distribute large quantities of hay.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

126 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Fowls are never carried head downwards, and cattle are
never hoisted by the horns.

The following are prohibited in Norway: forcible
feeding of poultry, docking of horses, live—bait fishing,
“ zoos,” and circuses.

Vivisectors must be licensed, but there is no control
whatever of their experiments.

There are no wild rabbits in Norway, and the steel—
toothed trap is prohibited. Red foxes are trapped by a
heavy trap which breaks the animal’s neck. Birds,
especially ptarmigan, are caught with baited snares.

(7) POLAND

ANIMAL WELFARE IN POLAND
by ARTHUR STERNHELL, Dr. Med. Vet. (Lwov)

HE Polish Animal Welfare Society was founded in

I876 by Dr. Jauola, Eugenius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Lwov, to protect animals
against cruelty. He had originally thirteen collaborators,
eight of whom were engaged in educational work in
Lwov. .

The Society started propaganda in its own journal,
which had a special supplement for children. It applied
to the Government for financial assistance, but had to
overcome serious difﬁculties, despite which it survived
with considerable success until the beginning of the
Great War. '

After the Polish Republic was created in 1918, the
Society was able to carry on its activities with renewed
intensity. In the years following, the work of the Society
has been greatly extended, and many branches have been
set up throughout Poland. Several special committees
have been formed, and an intense propaganda started
through the medium of the Press, lectures, and the wireless.
A new journal, entitled Protection of Animals, appears

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: POLAND 127

monthly. One of the committees organises out-patient
clinics for the treatment of sick and injured animals.

The present management consists of twenty-one
members, most of whom are well known to all the pro-
fessions, and are in contact with schools, authorities, the
police, administrative areas, and the railways. They
organise exhibitions, and an important part of their work
is to instruct the policemen by lectures and demonstra-
tions.

Every member of the Society has an identity card,
which enables him to have police support should he
observe any of the following examples of cruelty :

(i) Too heavy burdens for horses, especially when
walking uphill on bad roads.

(ii) Beating of horses ; using sick animals ; trotting
with burdens; using the same animals during
the day and at night—time.'

(iii) Housing animals in dirty, cold stables.

(iv) Transport of animals in a manner causing
suffering.

(V ” Overstocking ” of cows at markets.

)

(vi) Use of ill—fitting harness.

(vii) Insufﬁcient feeding and watering.
)

(viii Transport of poultry in sacks; binding of legs
and wings.

(ix) Fleecing of living ducks and geese.
(x) Tying up dogs on short chains.

(Xi) Throwing newborn kittens and puppies into
sewers.

(xii) Tying dogs behind vehicles.
(xiii) Removal of eggs and young from nests.
(xiv) Cutting of living fishes.

)

(xv Withholding of treatment from animals; dis—
turbance of animals, etc.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

128 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

In consequence of appeals to the Government, severe
penalties are provided for proved cases of cruelty.

The Society is in contact with similar organisations
abroad, especially those of France and Great Britain,
and supports the movement initiated at Geneva* to
bring about an international law for the prevention of
cruelty to animals. I

(8) TIBET

THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS IN THE
TIBETAN BORDERLANDT

by MARCO PALLIs

EMPHASISE the fact that on neither of my long
I journeys through the borderlands of Tibet have I
witnessed any revolting cases of cruelty towards animals.
I attribute this to the underlying principle of the Tibetan
and Hindu religions, which asserts that men are one with
the animals. The teachings of the Wheel of Life show that
all beings, gods, men, animals, and even demons, have
equal opportunities of rising or falling in their evolution :
a man may reincarnate as any animal, even as an insect.
All are in the power of the Wheel until they reach perfec-
tion : the animal’s state is “ sad ” because in many cases
it has to kill to live ; man’s state is more enviable because

* Editor’s Nata—In 193 5 the Central Union of Swedish Societies
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals submitted a memorandum to
the League of Nations setting out an excellent scheme for international
action to ameliorate the condition of animals. Such questions as fauna
protection, oil pollution, transport of livestock, trafﬁc in worn—out
animals, circuses and travelling menag’eries, and the use of animals for
experimental work were to be dealt with, and an information bureau
set up to collate all available information. International co-operation
in these problems was to be promoted by every possible means.

Similar representations from Animal Protection Societies of other
countries might be successful in bringing about some effective practical
measures.

TA report of a lecture delivered at Bedford College, London, in
November, 1937.

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: TIBET 129

he has a more balanced intelligence, enabling him to
control his fate more consciously. The attitude towards
animals is therefore based on this conception of their
similarity to man, and not on the grounds of man’s
superiority and dominion and resulting responsibilities.

No Buddhist is allowed to harm any living creature :
he is expressly forbidden to tmﬁ‘ic in life, that is, to breed
animals for slaughter, to follow among others the trade
of butcher, of arms-manufacturer, or of opium-seller. The
taking of life is a sin, for it proceeds from seeing a distinc-
tion between “ me” and “ other” which does not
correspond to their teaching. However, as ‘.‘ harming”
is interpreted chieﬂy as “killing,” animals suffering as
the results of accidents or old age are rarely “ put out of
their misery.” The Tibetans cannot be accused of active
cruelty, but being so hardy, so accustomed to a rough
life, they are able to bear pain themselves and to witness
suffering in animals and men without being greatly
disturbed.

This general attitude to animals was illustrated by
varied events on two expeditions and by the observations
which I was able to make. All visitors to Tibet proper
have to promise not to hunt or fish. The result of such a
law is that the animals are extremely abundant and tame.
The itinerary of my first expedition in 1933 included
Garhwal, where the richly wooded hills are inhabited by
numerous species of birds of prey, and the wild animals,
never having been chased, were completely free from fear
Of man. I encountered some of the Khamba tribe from the
east of Tibet, who indulge in a fair amount of fighting.
Even these will not destroy animals for food or fun. To
them fighting their fellow-men is sport, since the chances
of success are equal, but hunting is despicable, for the
animals are almost always doomed from the beginning.
They believe that hunters will be reborn as predatory
animals.

In Tibet horses and mules are used as draught animals,
though sheep and goats are also made to carry small

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I30 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

packs. On the journey through the Sutlej valley, the
pony drivers begged me to start as early as possible in
the morning, not for their own benefit, but in order that
the animals might be spared the tramp under the midday
sun. At the end of the day’s march the men would
rapidly unsaddle the horses and go out at once with their
small sickles to cut fresh grass for them. All this was
carried out before the men thought of their personal
comfort. The animals were never overloaded, neither did
the pony—men beat them or shout and curse at them.
Only on two occasions were saddle-sores observed, one
of these being in my own caravan. I immediately asked
that the animal should travel unladen until it was cured,
but found that arrangements to this end had already
been made by the driver.

In 1936 the expedition went first to Sikkim and then
to Ladak. The natives of Ladak are peaceful and kindly,
but in this part of the country the animals suffer con—
siderably in their work for the trade caravans. The ponies
have great difﬁculty in crossing the rocky and snowy
passes, but the men always do their best to help the
animals. Frequent examples were observed of sores
caused by the chafing saddles, and of ponies with large
patches of white hair, the result of previous sores. Apart
from this there is no abuse of the animals, especially
no beating or cursing. More suffering is caused by the
Turkish drivers, who chiefly use this route and who are
less intelligent than the Tibetans. Their abhorrence of
killing is more superstition than a religious principle;
they leave the ponies which break down on the passes to
starve to death, but in the absence of means of saving
them the Tibetans would probably do the same, so strong
is their prejudice against actual killing. The more fortu-
nate of the ponies fall victims to wolves.

The refusal to kill has led to an abundance of pariah
dogs. The people will throw food to them, but will not
have them destroyed, which, to the Western View, would
be much more humane.

 




ANIMALS ABROAD: TIBET I31

One cruelty of which the Ladak people are guilty is
that of keeping their mastiffs constantly on the chain.
On the other hand, the chief pony-driver was horrified
to hear that we had decided to kill a cat which had broken
its paw. The fact that it was suffering counted little as
compared with the sin of taking life. Fortunately it
proved possible to reset the bone and the cat recovered.

Tibetans, to be consistent, would eat no meat; but
on the plateau, where food is scarce, the natives will eat
dried mutton. In Lhasa the slaughter has, admittedly,
to be carried out outside the city boundary and by
Mussulmans. No sophistical arguments are brought forward,
no excuses are made, and the killing for food is recognised
as a sin, those who avoid it being much looked up to.

In the Kalimpong market I noticed that the poultry
are humanely carried in special open—work wicker baskets,
made somewhat in the form of our fish baskets.

It was in this town that an illustration of the teaching
of the Wheel of Life was given to me. Whilst taking a
language lesson from a native, I removed an ant from
my clothing. The teacher remarked on this and expressed
his approval that the insect had not been crushed:
” Who knows whether such an insect may not be the
reincarnation of one’s father or mother? ”

Tibetans plan their burial so that the utmost value may
be derived from their bodies. These are left in the open
for the vultures to cleanse the bones, which in turn are
ground and made into pills for the birds.

At Spituk, a lama questioned me on the Christian
attitude to animals. He had observed that converts to
Christianity seemed to lose their former sense of the
sacredness of life, and to follow their new teachers in
taking life for food and in hunting. Was it that the
missionaries were not fulfilling the Christian teachings,
or had Christ authorised the killing of animals? What
instruction did the Bible give on the subject ? His
questions were asked in perfect courtesy and with sincere
interest in the views of another religion.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I32 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

T he treatment of animals in this part of Asia may be
summed up thus : The Tibetans are fond of their animals
and will do their utmost to care for them. They can,
however, look unmoved on suffering, because the problem
of pain is a minor one in their eyes, and also because they
themselves are toughened by the strenuous life in the
passes of the Himalayas.

The rights of animals are fully conceded as a principle,
but in a country governed by tradition it is hard to make
really convincing any criticism of what has been sanc—
tioned by long custom. The most effective line of argu-
ment points out that the Buddha taught men to avoid
doing “ harm ” to animals, without laying over—emphasis
on “ killing,” which has caused all other sorts of pain to
be disregarded.

(9) SOME POINTS OF SPECIAL INTEREST
WITH REGARD TO THE TREATMENT OF
ANIMALS ABROAD

HROUGH the courtesy of various foreign Animal

Protection Societies, copies of their journals have
come to hand, from which the following details have
been extracted as being of special interest to workers in
the Animal Welfare Movement in this country.

From Amz'cz' d’ogm' gz'omo, numero unico, Luglio, 1937.
Edito ‘dalla Societa fiorentina a la Protezione degli
Animali.

A feature of the annual Dog—show in Florence for 1937
was a range of some dozen cages, each containing a dog,
mostly mongrels. A broad banner extending along the
top of these cages was inscribed in bold letters : “ I am
seeking for a M aster / Tel/Be me——I will be faithful to you.”
Long before the show closed these cages, sometimes
re-tenanted, were all empty.

 




 

 

 

}'.$.‘[ .mm/ mm] 0.1‘

21.) \31)! O'IJI ‘A\OI IS {XXI

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: POINTS OF INTEREST I33

By kind permission of the Marchese Scarampi di
Prunetto, President of the Florentine Society for the
Protection of Animals, ULAWS is allowed to reproduce a
photograph showing these cages.

Another feature was a veterinary surgeon in his white
overall, who walked about chatting with both the dogs
on the benches and their owners. His gratuitous services
were at the disposal of any dog or human being who
required them. He was an ofﬁcer of the Ambulatorio
Veterinario, an institution which, according to its
published figures, dealt gratuitously in the past year
with 476 dogs, 604 cats, 50 vam’a, and 441 horses—the
last for the most part rescued from public vehicles.
Those of us who were familiar with the streets of Florence
even twenty years ago will require no comment upon this
amazing improvement in animal welfare in Italy.

One of the most important functions of the Florentine
Society is the painless extinction of incurably diseased
and unwanted animals. The figures speak for themselves :
I0,607 animals, mainly dogs and cats, in one year met
with a merciful euthanasia instead of dragging out a
miserable and uncared—for existence to a lingering death.

In View of this humane work for animals, it is somewhat
disconcerting to find an advertisement of a magnificent
fur cape in the same journal. Apparently the campaign
against trapped furs has not yet begun in Italy.

From the International foaynal of Animal Protectzon,
N0 5 I937-

Under “ World News,” this journal publishes some
interesting particulars of humane education in the United
States of America. In San Francisco, the S.P.C.A. has
special facilities for a weekly broadcast on problems of
Animal Welfare as well as organising an occasional special
radio programme.‘

The Humane Society of Baltimore County has arranged
a special Humane Education room at the Animal Shelter,
which is of great interest to visitors. “ Children come not

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I34 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

only to regular Saturday morning classes, but groups of
them come at all times to study reference books, to ask
for information from the secretaries, or sometimes just
to admire and pet the animals. At the Saturday morning
classes there is one hour’s indoor study, and one hour is
spent in the riding ring. During the former hour an
animal is selected and its anatomy, habits, proper treat-
ment, housing, and feeding are discussed.”

The American S.P.C.A. has prepared a series of special
leaflets for use in “ schools throughout the country, while
the American Museum of Natural History serial sets of
lantern slides illustrating the subject—matter of these
leaflets are loaned to schools ” as well.

Humane education is also being actively spread in
Queensland by the S.P.C.A. in co—operation with the
Department of Public Instruction. A story dealing with
prevention of cruelty to animals is published in the school
newspaper, which reaches every child of school age.

From the Thirty—second Annual Report of the South
County Dublin S.P.C.A. '

” The humane fur campaign started in Ireland by this
Society is gaining ground slowly but surely. There is an
ever—increasing demand for farmed furs and fur fabrics
by buyers who had not previously realised the appalling
cruelties inevitably associated with trapped furs.

“ Humane rabbit snares * have been provided to replace
the steel traps and were sent to anyone who wished to
try them, but definite results are not yet forthcoming.”

From Our Dumb Animals, No. 5, 1937. Published by the
Massachusetts S.P.C.A. and the American Humane
Education Society.

Reference is made to the misleading publicity for
certain films showing animals, the advertisement para—
graphs not stating explicitly that no cruelty was involved,

* Editor’s Note. Kind of snare not specifiedf

 




 

””‘Tl

ANIMALS ABROAD: POINTS OF INTEREsT I35

but the language being so chosen as to give that impres-
sion. Pressure is being brought to bear on the Californian
Legislature to make the use of the device known as the
“ Running W” illegal. In the film the “ Charge of the
Light Brigade,” the RunningW was used to bring the
horses crashing to the ground.

 

From the Anti-Steel-Tmp League N ews, Vol. 6, 1938.
Published by the National Anti-Steel—T rap League, Inc.

This excellent journal continues to give much needed
publicity to the campaign against the gin trap in America. I
Of particular interest is an article on the “ Advance in ‘ .
Ranch Bred Pelts,” in which it is pointed out that the
” fur trade has gone a long way towards accepting ranch—
bred furs, since the days when it was said no fur could be
domestically raised that would compare in quality and
lustre with wild fur.” To-day almost all silver-fox skins
come from farms, and mink is being similarly bred to
supplement the “ dwindling supply that comes from the
wild.”

There is also a well-timed plea for accuracy in the state—
ment of facts with regard to the fur trade and trapping.
” I'll-advised references are readily discernible to informed
persons and tend only to bring an entire and often
laudable effort into disrepute.” The Anti—Steel—Trap
League has “ tried again and again to scotch the story of
ermine being caught by the tongue on a greased rod.”
But a recent leaflet on cruelly obtained fur quotes this
story yet again, and goes on to instance the mother seal
being killed in sight of her young, which is left to starve.
This latter statement is also quite fallacious : “ No cow
or pup of the fur—seal is ever killed,” the pelts being taken
from the young bachelors, as the article in this volume of
the ANIMAL YEAR BOOK clearly shows.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS

THE MINDS OF ANIMALS

Animals and illen, by David Katz. (Longmans, London,
New York, and Toronto, 1937.) 12/6.

The Intelligence of Animals, by G. C. Grindley. (Methuen’s
Monographs on Philosophy and Psychology, London,

1937.) 2/6-
H 010 Animals Behave, by H. G. Wells, Julian Huxley, and
G. P. Wells. (Cassell, London, Toronto, Melbourne, and

Sydney, 1937-) 4/—
Love and Thought in Animals and Men, by Serge Voronoff.
(Methuen, London, 1937.) 6/——

One effect of the scientific study of animal psychology is
that a firm foundation is being laid for the structure which
ULAWS has set out to build, namely a scientific discipline of
animal welfare. Although experimental psychology has
discredited many pleasing anecdotes about the intelligence of
animals, it has established the existence of a close kinship
between the animal mind and the human mind—so much so
that a good deal of light is being thrown upon the latter by the
study of the former. And if the more extreme behaviourists,
converting an organon into a dogma, look upon animals as
mere mechanisms, they look upon human beings in the same
way.

“A completely objective approach forces us to assume that
many animals are extraordinarily similar to human beings in
their emotional and affective life, and that to a great extent
the one essential remaining difference consists in the absence
of reflectiveness in the conscious processes of animals, and its
presence in man.” So says Dr. Katz ; in saying it he points to
the fallacy underlying the Cartesian conception of animals as
unconscious machines and the contempt for “ mere ” animals
that has spread with it throughout Latin civilization. The
capacity for feeling, which animals share extensively with us,
is by no means proportional to the capacity for abstract
thought, in which they lag very far behind us.

Those who heard the lectures which Dr. Katz delivered to
ULAWS audiences last year will rightly expect to find in his
book a treasure—house of information, largely based on

I36

  
      

  

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I37

researches for which he was directly or indirectly responsible,
and set out with an unfailing regard for the canons of scientific
method. On the latter as applied to psychology he has a good
deal to say.

Only samples of the good things he has to offer can be
mentioned here. An important chapter (IV) is devoted to
perception in animals. The so-called law of Weber and Fechner
applies to them in the same sense as to man but, notoriously,
sensory discrimination is often more acute in animals than in
man ; this is true of hearing and sight as well as smell, and it
appears that fish have an extraordinarily acute sense of taste.
The sense perceptions of animals are sometimes relativewfor
instance a hen is sensitive to the contrast between two greys
rather than to their absolute depth—and sometimes absolute,
for birds appear to possess the sense of absolute musical pitch.
Animals, like men, attribute constancy to the colour, shape
and size of objects seen in inconstant positions and illumina—
tion. The phenomena of attention in animals are analogous
to those in man. A hen’s capacity for counting resembles that
of a very young child, and it can distinguish between five
grains and six grains of corn.

Another fascinating chapter (V) is that which includes
details of the way in which birds and dogs have been observed
to find their way in unfamiliar surroundings. A dog, for
instance, went home from the same point by three different
and independent, but fairly direct, routes on three occasions.
The explanation offered by Dr. Katz is not very convincing.
It is based on the sense of orientation which each of us bears
in his mind: walking without a map one always knows (or
thinks one knows) the direction of one’s starting point. ‘ .

Dr. Katz’s work on the instinctive choice of food is well
known. It appears that a rat, for instance, will instinctively
prefer those foods which will give it a balanced diet, even
when attempts are made to mislead it ; and newly weaned
infants tend to do the same, though various corrupting
influences make their choice more unreliable. Vegetarians
will note with mixed feelings Dr. Katz’s remark that “ introvert
asthenic types seem to be more attracted by a vegetarian diet,
while extravert pyknic types tend to be carnivorous.”
Monkeys ordinarily rank seven kinds of food in the following
order of preference: grape, banana, apple, carrot, lettuce or
cabbage, nuts, bread, subject to the exception that a surfeit
of one kind of food produces a temporary distaste for it. A
child three years old was found to hold the same order of
preference, except that it raised nuts to the second place.

Chapter VII is devoted to the social psychology of animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

138 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Sexual promiscuity appears to be practised by only a few
species; in the majority, whether paired or polygamous,
marital fidelity is the rule, and from the family life based on
it an organized community may be built up. Social rank is _
often observed ; for instance, a community of hens is found
to have a pecking list such that hen A may peck hens B, C,
D. ,but not vice versa. However, hen A may peck heri
B while B pecks G and G pecks A; apparently the relative
status is settled at the first meeting of a pair of hens. In this
way “ the pacification of a flock of hens is settled with a
minimum of serious fights. ” The book is written throughout
with an eye upon the aid it may give in settling human
problems

Mr. G C. Grindley, a former contributor to the ANIMAL
YEAR BOOK, has given us a precise and valuable account of
existing knowledge as to the processes of learning and reason—
ing in animals. Even the humblest creatures may have
their behaviour modified by experience: “ In a water snail
which was repeatedly touched on its foot at the same time
as it was fed with a lettuce, a touch on the foot alone would
eVentually produce chewing movements,” and worms and
snails can learn to find their way through simple mazes.
Insects perform very complicated actions by instinct—that
is to say, without the necessity of learning by experience—but
they can also learn ; bees have to learn complicated landmarks
in order to find their hives, and ants can learn a maze having
six blind alleys so that, under favourable conditions, they
. will make few mistakes after about thirty—five trials. The
normal behaviour of birds combines instinctive action with
acquired habit ; even the movements of flying and alighting
have in part to be learned by experience, and birds do not
exhibit the rigorous perfection of instinctive action that is
shown, for instance, by the ant lion, which builds a trap for
its prey correctly at its first attempt. On the other hand,
birds can adapt themselves to an unsuitable environment as
insects cannot ,' a bird will try any sort of food once, Whereas
a caterpillar will starve rather than make gastronomic
experiments.

The word “ drive” is used to denote the tendency of a
higher animal to pursue a particular end or goal, while
“ instinct denotes a tendency to respond in a uniform way
to a given stimulus.

Three principal modes of learning have been distinguished:
(I) Habituatz'on, or the diminution of response to a stimulus
when the latter is repeated, as when a guinea-pig gets used to
hearing a sudden noise and jumps less and less at successive

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I39

repetitions of the noise ; but ” there are some reactions, such
as the reactions of an animal to a painful stimulus, which do
not seem to show habituation.” The recognition of the
significance of habituation has discredited the contrary theory
that positive habits are formed by the mere repetition of an
action ; habits are not formed unless the action leads to the
satisfaction of a drive, or gives pleasure. (2) Conditioned
responses, such as the salivation produced by a signal which
a dog has learned to associate with food, are acquired, and
are distinguished from inborn or unconditioned responses,
such as salivation caused by the sight of food. (3) Trial and
error learning is illustrated by the author’s experiment in
which a buzzer was sounded in the hearing of a guinea—pig
until the latter, on turning its head to the right, found a piece
of carrot. The time taken to find the reward decreased
asymptotically, though irregularly, towards a limit. Such
learning is distinguished from a conditioned response in that
both signal and response precede the reward during the learning
process, and the response is not the normal inborn reaction
to the reward. The learning of mazes by rats is a more complex
example of trial—and-error learning, which consists in the
selection, out of a series of random movements, of those which
give the desired advantage.

Attempts have been made to measure the strength of
drives and deterrents, and Warden concluded that in the
rat the following drives are in order of decreasing strength :
maternal affection, thirst, hunger, sex, and love of geographical
exploration. The rapidity of learning increases with the in—
tensity of a reward, but appears to decrease with the intensity
of strong punishments or deterrents, such as electric shocks
experienced by mice that take the wrong turning in a maze,
or solitary confinement of chicks that enter the wrong door.
Strong punishments merely produce mental perturbation.

Reasoning is distinguished from trial—and—error learning in
that a reasoning animal is able, without making random
movements, to devise a new method for dealing with a new
situation. Kohler’s chimpanzees were able, without previous
experience, to use a stick or other instrument, to fit sticks
together, or to pile up boxes, in order to reach inaccessible
fruit. The existence of ability to reason has been verified
experimentally in rats and dogs. The author might also
have mentioned the fact that MacDougall found a small
number of genius rats which, having learned to open two or

three interdependent latches, were able to generalize their ~

knowledge and apply it to any number of latches ; this ability
was not, however, shared by the majority of his rats.

IO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I40 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

H 020 Animals Behave approaches our subject from the point
of view of the physiologist and evolutionist, and perhaps its
most valuable sections are those which describe, in popular
but precise language, the structure of the nervous system and
brain and its relation to reflex and conscious behaviour.
More than half of the book is devoted to the behaviour of.
invertebrates, with a long chapter on ants, bees, wasps, and
termites. One of the most interesting of the sections on
vertebrates is that dealing with the rather scanty traces of
cultural tradition among animals. It appears that a race of
canaries, taught to sing by nightingales, not only used the
latter’s song .in place of their own, but handed it on to their
progeny ,' but imitation is held to play a relatively unimportant
part in the learning of wild animals. The authors recognize
two types of play—that which is preparatory for the business
of life and so fits in with Groos’s theory, and that which is
purely sportive and serves no purpose beyond an expression
of high spirits. From the point of view of methodology the
book might have been more helpful to non-scientific readers
if it had distinguished more clearly between facts of observa-
tion, inferences, and theoretical explanations.

Voronoff’s book is chiefly of interest as revealing the mind
of its author. He feels that he owes a deep debt of gratitude
to animals in connection with his work on gland-grafting,
and would like to repay it “ by proving not only that animals
are deserving of our protection, but that they should be
treated as being endOwed with intelligence and feelings.”
Unfortunately, while the author’s conclusion is indisputably
sound, the method by which he seeks to establish it is that of
anecdotes (including one told to Gilbert White by the head
gardener at Hampton Court Palace). This method has fallen
into discredit because it is not possible to verify anecdotes
by repetition or to subject them to exact analysis. Perhaps
the most intriguing chapter is that which suggests that a
soul, in the sense defined by St. Thomas Aquinas, may be
attributed to animals without infringement of the facts of
endocrinology, and concludes: ” In so far as the needs of
science and the progress of medicine are concerned, let us
confine ourselves to strictest necessities and act always with
every circumspection, with all tenderness and compassion
towards these sensitive and intelligent creatures, aswe should
towards our own kind when performing an operation.”

Experimental psychology furnishes a firmer basis than
Voronoff’s anecdotes for postulating a close resemblance
between the feelings of man and those of animals, and anybody
who fails to recognize that resemblance is deficient not only

 




 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 141'

in sympathy but also in knowledge. It has been said that while

the saints have respected animals, the theologians have
despised them. The time has now come, however, when any
picture of the world of mind and spirit which leaves animals
out of account must be regarded as narrow and incomplete.

C. W. H.

THE SPORTSMAN’S POINT OF VIEW

M y Fifty Years of Sport, by Charles Van der Byl. (Arthur
Stockwell, Ltd., 1937.) 3/6.

A fter Big Game in the Upper Yukon, by Nevill A. D. Armstrong.
(John Long, Ltd, 1937.) 18/—

Maior Van der Byl has earned the respect of humanitarians
for his campaign against the gin-trap and the wearing of
furs from trapped animals. In this book he describes his
attitude , t0wards sport of all kinds, condemning badger—
hunting and baiting as “both cruel and barbarous,” the
badger being an animal which “ does very little harm and a
great deal of good.” He denounces otter-hunting as unsports—
manlike because the animal is hunted during its principal
breeding season, and he looks on stag-hunting with appropriate
disfavour. It is therefore difﬁcult to understand why he
stoutly defends fox—hunting, unless it be that it is a form of
sport which he practised himself until ill—health forced him
to give it up. Foxes, like otters, are hunted during the breeding
season, why therefore should this be condoned in the case of
one animaland condemned in the case of another P “ Hunting
people are not cruel” and many at the end of a run “are
rather pleased than otherwise when the fox succeeds in out—
witting them and saves his brush.” Yet the author goes on
to say that “ it is, of course, a fact that a fox, which gets to
ground in a dead—beaten condition, usually stiffens up and
dies ; but he would much rather be allowed to die in peace
than to be pulled out and thrown to the hounds,” for which
reason digging—out is rightly regarded as unsportsmanlike.
On the other hand, “ there is always a chance that the animal
may recover, in which case it is only fair that he should be
given a chance of doing so.” The mental agony endured
by any hunted animal is a debatable point, but the physical
strain involved is only too clearly indicated here, and in these
descriptive words alone the cruelty of fox—hunting is exposed
by one of its protagonists.

“ If foxes were not preserved for sport, they would speedily
be exterminated, because from the farmer’s point of view

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I42 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

they are the most destructive of all vermin.” But if foxes
were not preserved there would not be so many to harry the
farmer’s poultry, nor would the rabbit population be so
largely encouraged as food for the foxes, and thus another
of the farmer’s difﬁculties would be alleviated. The balance
of nature cannot be upset without paying dearly for the
disturbance, and the conflict between agriculture and the
hunting interests in some parts ofthe country is too well
known to need elaboration here.

Nor, if foxes had to be kept down by means other than
hunting, need those means be anything but humane. It is
not necessary to employ either traps or poison, nor the
farmer’s gun as the author suggests, though to many ways of
thinking shooting, even if not by a dead—shot, is infinitely
preferable to pursuit by a pack of hounds and people in full
cry after an animal which is not in the least dangerous to
man or hound.

Major Van der Byl is so clear—sighted on other problems of
animal welfare that to learn that he had changed his attitude
towards fox—hunting as well is devoutly to be hoped for.

Most of the chapters in A ﬂew Big Game in the Upper Yukon
are concerned with the hunting of game animals in the Terri—
tory over which the author was Game Warden, but Chapter I II
gives an account of a trapper’s life in the sub—Arctic, with its
risks and privations. Details of good and bad seasons are
given, and of the periodic fluctuations in the number of fur—
bearers, which depend for their means of existence on the
prevalence of the Arctic hare, which is their main item of food.
“ These animals (the hares) suddenly arrive in thousands, when
for several years they have been almost extinct. They go on
increasing until a plague strikes them and few are left.” This
cycle takes from seven to nine years, and directly influences
the trapping prospects of a given area.

The author’s views on methods of trapping are tucked away
in an appendix, but they are none the less outspoken.
“ Regarding the merits of steel traps as compared with dead
falls, no humane man can say that steel traps are anything
but cruel, horribly cruel ; the wretched marten, mink, ermine,
etc., is held fast by one or two feet and forced to remain to
freeze slowly to death. Marten will frequently gnaw their
own legs off in order to free themselves from the steel trap.
By using dead falls the animal is killed almost instantaneously.

” When a man lives by trapping, he must perforce use
those methods which will rapidly produce the largest number '
of skins. Therefore the cruelty of steel traps is banished as
much as possible from the conscience of the humane man.

 

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 143

There are a few such among the trapping fraternity.” Until
the demand for farmed furs far exceeds the demand for wild
furs, there seems little prospect of the steel trap falling into
disuse. One factor militating for the increase of farmed furs
must not be overlooked : ” Slowly and surely the vast trapping
grounds of the North American continent are becoming devoid
of fur—bearing animals, especially mink, marten, and beaver,”
and the fur trade is turning to the fur—farm to cope with the
supply for the market. It may well be that man’s wonted l
destructive methods, here as elsewhere, will in time make l
the trapping of wild animals an unprofitable business ; then,

and not till then, the steel trap will be used no more, but after i
what a trail of agony and suffering has been left behind !

 

 

 

zoos l

Wild Animal World, by Raymond L. Ditmars and William ,
Bridges. (D. Appleton—Century Co., Inc., 1937.) 12/6. ,‘
The London Zoo, by E. G. Boulenger. (J. M. Dent and Sons, 5‘
Ltd, 1937-) 5/- .

The Zoo Mom Speaking, by David Seth Smith. (Thomas
Nelson and Sons, Ltd., 1937.) 5/— '

The opening chapter of Messrs. Ditmars’ and Bridges’ book

may come as a revelation to many readers, who are unaware

of the large—scale business organisations concerned to-day
with the stocking of zoological gardens. These firms have
receiving depots in many countries, and their representatives N
l

 

tour the zoos of the world to discover what animals are

needed and to suggest possible new inmates. “ Such firms

have risen far above the methods of the old—fashioned animal i

dealers with their dingy alleyways and noisome cages.” For \ ;
l

 

“ times have changed and the animals that reach our ports ' l
are more likely to be absorbed by the markets in orderly 1
fashion. The experience of large numbers of specimens
languishing in the dealers’ hands is far rarer than it used to l
be,” since precautions are taken to find out beforehand what 1
animals are worth capturing. ‘

The trappers to—day do not set out with all the pomp and
circumstance of an elaborate safari. “ Processions of natives
laden with cages, nets, and various trapping devices . . .
would be altogether too laborious and far too costly to be
practical.” The visiting agent of the animal dealer places
orders for certain specimens with the natives, and returns
after a space of time to collect them. A misgiving may well
arise in the mind of the reader at this point, since native

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I44 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

methodsof trapping, although effective, are often very cruel,
and if, presumably, the agent does not control these methods,
much suffering must be inflicted, before he returns to convey
the animals to the modern wholesale centre, or special breeding
ranch, of which there are several in various parts of the world.

The shipment of animal cargoes from these centres is subject
to quarantine regulations, and this often complicates the
transport of specimens, especially as “ Europe is the resting-
place or point of transhipment ” for most of the valuable
animals. Recently, certain kinds of animals have been
transported by air, a far more rapid method and one which
causes them much less discomfort than the confined space
on board ship, lack of exercise, changes of climate, and possible
sickness consequent upon the journey by sea.

All three books testify to the improved conditions under
which animals are now kept in captivity. Dr. Ditmars says '
“ Returning from a trip round the zoological parks that have
recently sprung into being . . . I was particularly impressed
by two things. One was the fine scientific atmosphere of
many of those places, with staffs which-gave them the air of
research establishments, and the other was the elaborate
structures for housing the animal collections.” Mr. Boulenger
and Mr. Seth Smith both contrast the London Zoo of to-day
with the Zoo in the middle of the last century, and the latter
emphasises the great benefit which Whipsnade Park has been
to many of the animals. The study of diet, exercise, housing
conditions, and health occupies a staff of experts in the great
zoos of the world, and where the park has replaced the
narrower quarters of the garden, valuable information as to
the habits of some species can be obtained. Nevertheless, there
are many animals, which it is impossible at present to keep
under conditions approaching natural ones, at any rate in
this country, and one is inclined to question whether a zoo-
logical park, containing only creatures free to live uncaged
and normal lives, would not be of far greater general interest
and educational value than a hybrid affair with 75 per cent
of the inmates behind bars. Nor is the plea, that “ if it were
possible to offer the zoo animals either their freedom with
its risks or their present conditions they would wish to
remain where they are,” to be regarded seriously. "Animals
cannot be credited with the possession of such discriminating
powers of thought. Return to the cage, or reluctance to leave
it, probably indicates not preference but a dulling, during
captivity, of those animal senses which originally equipped
the creature for a free, unfettered life. The same loss of
sensory perception has been observed in men, not necessarily

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I45

of high intelligence, at the end of a long term of imprisonment.
The establishment of game reserves and national parks would
appear to be the solution.

Anecdotes of zoo animals, of their capture and characteris‘
tics, and of their wild relations form the greater part of the-
three books, and they are illustrated by excellent photographs.
Mr. Seth Smith extends the scope of the broadcast talks on
which his book is based to discuss the natural history of
many interesting creatures in the wild state, and shows how
some are of economic importance, others in danger of exter-s
mination, and so on. One could wish that it were really
possible in certain parts of England “ to keep the number of
rabbits within reasonable limits,” as he says, but his account,
among others, of “ mistaken introductions” of animals" into
othervcountries and the consequent disastrous upset of the-
balance of nature will do much to arouse young people’s
interest in these matters.

H. E. B. ,

THE NATIONAL PARK

The Organisation of Nature Protection in the Various Countries,
by G. A. Brouwer. (Special publication of the American.
Committee for International Wild Life Protection, 1938,.
No. 9.) '

Britain and the Beast, edited by Clough William—Ellis.
(J. M. Dent and Sons, Ltd., I937.) Io/6.

As the YEAR BOOK goes to the printers, this report on the
Organisation of Nature Protection has come to hand. It
maintains the high standard of the other publications of the
American Committee and is a valuable work of reference, of"
special interest to those occupied with the preservation. of
wild—life.

The book opens with a clever introduction on “ Motivation
and significance of the efforts towards nature protection,” in
which the author deals with “ Nature monuments ”—
geological, botanical, and zoological. In connection with
zoological nature monuments, the author says: “ It is of
primary importance for the advancement of nature protection
that the education of a people be improved with respect to-
it, and that appreciation of nature be quickened in all strata.
of society. Church and Press can contribute to the achievement
of such an end.”

The greater part of the book is devoted to special mention
of individual countries ; the attitude adopted towards fauna,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I46 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

preservation is noted, parks, reserves, etc., are quoted, and, in
each case a full bibliography follows. As for its previous
publications, in this case the American Committee deserve
the thanks of all naturalists and other interested persons.

A. H. B. K.

The case for the establishment of national parks‘ in Great
Britain has been so ably set out in another section of this
number of the YEAR BOOK, that further discussion of the
subject would be inappropriate here. But it is interesting to
note that in this collection of essays, Britain and the Beast,
edited by Clough VVilliam—Ellis, in which ordered planning
of the future for town and countryside is passionately advo—
cated, the cultural as well as the scientific value of the national
park is stressed. Further, it is shown that from the economic
standpoint the success of such a venture could be assured,
yielding a considerable income to the Government Department

concerned with its administration.
H. E. B.

BIOLOGICAL CONTROL OF FAUNA

Ecological Animal Geography .' an authorised, rewritten edition
based on “ Tiergeographie auf oekologischer Grundlage,”
by Richard Hesse. Prepared by W. C. Allee and Karl P.
Schmidt. (Chapman and Hall, Ltd, 1937.) 30/—

4nimal Communities in Temperate America, by Victor E.
Shelford. (University of Chicago Press. Publishers in
Great Britain : Cambridge University Press. Revised
edition, 1937.) 13/6.

To anyone working on faunistic problems these two books
may be regarded as standard guides, embracing as they do
between them all the major questions arising out of the study
of animal communities. Both have been revised and brought
up to date, and the impressive bibliographies will be of great
service to the student, though there are some remarkable
omissions in the American edition of Professor Hesse’s book,
notably in the chapter on the “ Chemistry of the Sea,” where
only passing mention is made of the part played by phosphates
in the economy of the oceans.

The advantage gained by looking at ecological problems
from a world—wide standpoint is that the student gets a far
better perspective and can develop a detachment with which
he can approach the narrower field of specialised investigation.
Hesse’s book has just this wide outlook, ranging as it does

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I47

over every kind of locality, from alpine to benthic and sub—
terranean, with full discussions of man’s tendency to change
these different environments according to his needs and
desires. “ These destructive and creative activities give rise
to man-modified or man-dominated areas with their specialised
and distinctive associations,” and necessitate some form of
biological control.

The first step in establishing such control is to acquire
“ knowledge of the conditions of animals in a state of nature.”
We are too apt to forget “ our conception of the struggle for
existence and the survival of the fittest . . . when we are
considering our own relations to animals . . . which are not
simple, but very complex, and our conduct is often very incon-
sistent. . . . There is much sentimental nonsense about
nature, about animals and cruelty to animals, as well as much
actual cruelty and wanton destruction of useful animals,”
which is “ forbidden by the best sensibilities of every civilised
man and woman.” Only intensive work on animal associations
of every kind can give us that “ sanity towards nature ” which
is the reward of scientific study and the basis of true
humanitarianism .

The opening sections of Shelford’s book might well be
quoted in full, so germane are they to the question under
consideration, and so closely in accord with the viewpoint of
animal welfare. The second edition of Animal Communities
in Temfemte America has been revised by the author, and
forms a practical handbook for the ecological study of any
particular area. Its value as a work of reference cannot be
overestimated, and it would serve as an excellent basis for
regional surveys of this country, which are essential to the
establishment of the Biological Control of Fauna.

H. E. B.

THE RATIONAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS

Laugh, Clown, Lang}; ! by Helen Trevelyan. (C. W. Daniel Co,
Ltd, 1936.) 3/6.

This book is one of perfect sincerity and yet it somehow
falls short of its purpose, which is admittedly to place the
whole question of the treatment of animals on a common—sense
basis and to make an appeal, not only through the emotions
but through logic and reason, for the recognition of their
rights. The author emphasises the importance of “ achieving
a balance between apathy and unfortunate sensationalism ”
and of “meeting opposition fairly and squarely . . . and

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

148 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

answering it,” and yet she herself falls the victim of the very
errors against which she warns the reader.

Much of the propaganda against cruelty to animals fails
in two respects. The first of these is the manner in which
“ evidence ” tends to benot so much perennial as everlasting.
If it had been pertinent, I am quite sure that what Mr. Glad-
stone said in I888 would still be quoted as a telling remark.
Various exhibits come readily to the mind in this connection,
and they now have the familiarity, shall I say, of the moth-
eaten, stuffed rabbit, a relic of Childhood’s days, which
survives in the attic.

The second weakness results from making categorical
statements without substantiating references. Since I speak
as a zoologist this may seem to be mere pedantry, but it
cannot be sufﬁciently emphasised that such statements simply
fail. to carry conviction. There are many such examples in
this book, which would be much more successful in achieving
its object if a complete bibliography were given. For instance,
on p. 66, the method of catching the ermine with an iron
plate which freezes the animal’s tongue is cited: the Anti-
Steel—trap League of America is continually refuting this
fallacious statement. Then there is the hyraX (not nyraX),
which is said to be skinned alive : the hyrax has the reputation
of being a short-tempered beast which bites; it is always
easier to skin a dead animal than a live one.

While we are near p. 66 I would enquire What seals are
driven over the ice P Fur—seal? By far the greatest number
of these come from the Pribiloff Islands, Where they are farmed,
in the most prosaic manner and where all the skins are obtained
by driving the seal up from the beaches, very carefully so as
not to overheat them, to a place apart, where they are clubbed ;
and what better method could be used? Besides, the skins
come from the herd of holluschickie (or bachelors), immature
males which cannot very well leave any pups behind. As for
the hair—seal, the pups themselves are the victims of the
hunters wherever they can be found, and although any killing
of adults in this fishing might leave pups to starve, on the
Newfoundland grounds the number of adults killed is so small
that it is negligible. You cannot drive seal on the ice.

Again, on p. 67 it is stated that “ astrachan and caracul
are obtained by cruelty so revolting as to be quite impossible.
to print.” This doubtless refers to the killing of ewes when
they are about full—time with lambs in order to market the
skins of the latter, but this entails no more intrinsic cruelty
than the killing of any other sheep : it is most likely that the
knife is used, as it still is in some parts of this country. The-

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I49

question of the propriety of using unborn lamb skins is one
of taste, or it might even be of morals with some, but it is
not one of cruelty.

Nor are the seals which sleep on sandbanks and the descrip—
tion of whose capture is quoted from Hagenbeck’s book,
Beasts and M am, the species of seal without which no zoo is
complete. There is confusion here between the common seal
and the sea—lion, which is the kind most generally found in
captivity in zoological gardens. It would be interesting to
know the original date of publication of Hagenbeck’s book.
He speaks of hiring or borrowing a couple of battalions of
native soldiers to round up zebra in Africa; where would
this be possible to-day ? It sounds like the “ good old days,”
but the author gives no date or place of publication.

It is, of course, impossible for man to understand the
animal’s mind and therefOre long quotations from such a.
book as I, the Tiger—which is a description of what the
writer, Manuel Komroff, thinks he would feel if he himself
were a tiger—cannot seriously be regarded as evidence,
however eloquent the writing may be. It is a fact that at
times no cruelty exists except in the imagination of the
individual. I would cite the case of the famous pit ponies,
whose blindness is almost certainly a legend. I was told by a
pitman, who was attending his pony at one of the Royal
Shows, that when a pony goes blind it is destroyed, and on
the same occasion I was much struck by the splendid condition
- and high spirits of the pit ponies, some of them being of most
remarkable age and still in work. They were almost all
stallions, and one of their principal desires was to start
fighting, as proper horses should do.

The real cruelties are only too easy to find. For example, the
Select Committee of IQZI and 1922, on which Miss Trevelyan’s
father served, was sufﬁciently convinced of the maltreat—
ment of performing animals, and there is undoubted
cruelty in the sports which entail catching and killing animals
with dogs, but not always in the pursuit of them. Unless I
am greatly misled, carted deer are used over and over again,
and at the end of a hunt may begin looking round for the
van which is to take them home. That is an affair unlike the
hunt to the death, although it may be remarked that the
bloodiest part of the business, quoted on p. 58, accompanies
the dispatch of any large animal, even if it is going to supply
our Sunday roast.

It is in the remorseless pursuit of a terror—stricken animal
that cruelty lies, although one must carefully guard against
the projection of one’s own probable emotions in similar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISO ‘ THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

circumstances. It seems likely that there is comparatively
little fear as we know it, but the increasing lack of strength
and enhanced difficulty in breathing support the view that
the physical distress resulting from exhaustion is very great.
Nor can it be believed that worrying to death by dogs is
anything but very painful. One of the Dukes of Milan
rendered himself very unpopular by hunting men with dogs,
because as a sadist he realised the possibilities for suffering
in the sport.

I can speak of otter—hunting from personal experience, and,
although it is years since I attended a meet, I have the clearest
recollection of the elaborate method employed to keep the
wretched animal in one pool, until it crawled ashore exhausted,
when the hounds, many of them nearly as tired as the otter,
had to be roused for the worry. It is beyond my comprehension
to understand where the sport lies: it can only be in the
enjoyment of the work of the dogs.

I may say in passing that judging from a short film which
I saw recently, I concluded that there is far less to be said
against falconry than hunting. The flights were short and the
deaths swift, even when so large a prey as a rabbit or a duck
was struck. The falcon really does seem to fall like a thunder—
bolt when it stoops, and the hawk only a little less so.

For two reasons I cannot help feeling that the brutality
of the treatment of the silver foxes at a show (p. 67) existed
only in the mind of the recorder. Firstly, the show would
be held when the animals were in prime condition, and in
1933 (the year quoted) silver foxes were even more valuable
than they are to—day. An animal which has been knocked
about quickly falls off in condition and straightway its coat
declines in quality, and who will deliberately damage his
stock—in-trade ? Secondly, if these were breeding animals
they were worth, in 1932 at least, £120 a pair, and no one
who is trying to make things pay is likely to treat breeding
stock in such a way as to injure them.

Since we must assume that people will go on wearing furs,
foxes or other fur-bearing animals must be farmed or the
market will be supplied by trapped furs. As a matter of
practical politics you cannot have it both ways. Moreover,
trapping often leads to the almost total extinction of the
species against which it is directed. Few things give me more
satisfaction than to hear that another species has been added
to the list of fur-bearers which can be successfully farmed,
since I am then assured that not only is another animal saved
from the prospect of extinction, but also that another blow
has landed on the steel trap business.

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I5 I

The beastliness of the steel trap is beyond argument.
Even its most notorious form, the pole trap, was, I know, in
use in England in 1928 or thereabouts, and I have no doubt
it still is. The only way to stop the use of the pole trap is to
abolish the steel trap and to make its use illegal. What is
badly needed is a dark and bitter book which will give, without
reticence, scores of examples, none of them more than five
years old, of trapping in all its forms, with time, place, and
authority for every one of them.

One of the most remarkable things about the prevention
of cruelty to animals organisations is the absence of any
publicity worth mentioning. I live in a progressive town of
about fifteen thousand inhabitants, and although I have
been offered choice of a score of political shibboleths and a
pentecostal assortment of religions by leaflets through the
door, the only reminder I have had of the existence of wild
animals has been too clear evidence of a superfluity of voles
in my garden, which must be dealt with if I am to have any
sweet—peas. Where is the literature of the animal protection
societies ?

As Miss Trevelyan says (p. 26), the greatest weakness of
the whole businesslis the multiplicity of societies dissipating
their energies in reduplication of administration, and all
these little groups may be likened to single horses, while
it should be remembered that only by the uniting of the
strength of many horses are the irresistible machines made.

It would be unfair not to acknowledge the very real and
intense sympathy which Miss Trevelyan feels for the poor
beasts, and it is quite certain that many of her readers will
be profoundly affected by her book; but one might wish
that such sincerity and emotion were tempered with a trace
of the judicial mind. The book may be priced too highly for
many potential readers, and the choice of the title in conjunc-
tion with the contents means almost nothing.

J. E. HAMILTON.

HUMANE EDUCATION
The Animal’s World, by Doris L. Mackinnon. (G. Bell and
Sons, Ltd., 1936.) 7/6.

Life in the Animal W orlcl, by F. H. Shoosmith. (George G.
Harrap and Co., Ltd., 1937.) 5/—

In a country so densely populated as England, rapidly
becoming urbanised, Man has forgotten that to the animal
world he is still “ merely incidental—an inhabitant of their

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

152 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

world, it is true, but at least as much an interloper as he is a
brother.” It is well that he should be reminded of this fact,
which is too easily overlooked in the midst of the artificial
amenities of civilisation, with the result that the animal’s world
is invaded, overrun, andonly too often ruthlessly exploited.

Educationalists are agreed on the importance of arousing
the child’s interest in the world of living things, and the two
books under review have been written with that object ; but
how differently authors approach the problem is here made
manifest. Professor Mackinnon in her book, The Animal’s
World, from which the above quotation is taken, describes
with delightful sympathy and understanding the needs of
animals, their perceptions as far as we can know them, their
response and their behaviour. “ Man is one with the animal
kingdom,” and so she uses him “ freely in illustration of
certain principles,” creating in the reader’s mind a vivid
appreciation of the universality of animal nature. What
better method could be found of awakening in the child a
sense of kinship with, and hence of trusteeship in, his attitude
towards the animal world ?

As Dr. Shoosmith sees it, Life in the Animal World is a
problem of antagonisms, with Man, the supreme product of
Evolution, as the Victor in spite of the malign forces arrayed
against him. “ Broadly speaking, we have to distinguish
between animals that have made for man’s welfare and
progress and those that have been inimical to him—between
those that have been exploited by man for his own pleasure
and profit, and those which have exploited man by taking
toll of his body or his material possessions. Of these hostile
forms, for example, insects have played an increasingly
serious role, until to—day man has to wage against them
ceaseless war.” There is a suggestion here of a special malign
creation, which is not dissipated by Dr. Shoosmith’s explana—
tion that this is largely the result of man’s action in upsetting
the balance of nature, for he goes on to state that “against
all the incalculable loss, bodily suffering, and death caused
by insects * there is pitifully little to be said in their favour. . . .
Probably their greatest service to mankind is the cross pollina—
tion of flowers, by which seekers after nectar and pollen rescue
many plants from sterility, add to the number of edible seeds
and fruits, and enhance the beauty of the floral world.” To .
many people this last exposition of insect activity would more

* Incidentally, on p. 252, both in the text and in Fig. 92, Glossma
morslmms is spelt Glossmz’a morsimns. It is now generally accepted that
Glossma palpalz's is the more widely distributed tsetse fly, Glossma
morsz’tcms being confined to south Central Africa.

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I 53

than justify their existence, if justification were the point at issue.

Dr. Shoosmith points out that “ to the animal world in
general, man is so vastly indebted that, food supply quite
apart, it is quite doubtful if, but for its exploitation, he would
ever have risen above savagery, or, at best, barbarism.”
At this point the author might well stress the fact that Man’s
exploitation of animals in some directions is carried far beyond
legitimate limits ; but nowhere does he indicate that man has
incurred a great responsibility in adopting the trusteeship of
his natural heritage. This is a serious omission in a book,
which has pretensions to be of educational value, since liberal,
progressive, scientific thought, both in this country and all
over the world, is urgently striving to arouse public opinion
to full consciousness of this problem.

The gulf between Man and the rest of the animal world is
widened rather than bridged by this book. Such an attitude
is old—fashioned at the present time, when the study of animal
reactions is throwing so much light upon those of Man. It is
stated that “the too common and fatally easy practice of
projecting ourselves and our mentality into the lives of
non—human creatures inevitably leads to false values being
attributed, and false meanings given, to animal conduct.”
This is true up to a point, admittedly, but it is a mistake not
only made where animals are concerned. Much confusion has
arisen from the ” practice of projecting ourselves and our
mentality ” into the lives of our fellow men. Besides this,
the method is not the scientific one, which consists essentially
of careful observation and examination of all details, after
the scrupulous elimination of all preconceived ideas which are
not founded upon fact.

There are some strange statements in this book. T o instance
two of them: “ Most of the Foraminifera are colonial in
habit. . . . These colonies arise in this manner. When
reproduction takes place by fission, the new cells, although
quite distinct, do not separate but remain attached to one
another, so that in the course of time their united shells often
reach a considerable size, that of the nummulite being as
large as a florin ” (p. 26). One may be allowed to point out
that Foraminifera are not ” colonial,” they never reproduce
by fission, the new cells (P chambers) are never “ distinct,”
and that however large it may be a Foraminifer is always
unicellular. .

On p. 96 we read that “ so huge a creature as the existing
sulphur bottom Whale *——-—weighing some 300 tons—could

. * Presumably, reference is here being made to the blue whale, to
give the animal its generally accepted name.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I54 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

not exist on land,” a fact which is indicated by the suffocation
of any large stranded whale by its own weight. Suffocation
takes place because the whale has neither limbs nor thoracic
skeleton on which to support itself, and to take the weight of
its body off the chest, these structures not being necessary
to its aquatic mode of life. The size of land animals, on the
other hand, is limited by the mechanics of limb movements
and the thickness of bone.

To appeal to children, illustrations of the animal world
should be drawn as much as possible from the world with
which the children are familiar. We are all egoists and enjoy
parading the knowledge which we have gained through our
own powers of observation. It is here that Dr. Shoosmith’s
book fails by its lack of appeal to common experience, whilst
Professor Mackinnon’s is so signally successful. Children’s
knowledge of living things is becoming increasingly restricted
consequent upon the enforced spread of the habit of living
in towns, and it is therefore of less and less value to describe
animals with which they can have had no contact. The few
common creatures of our towns and suburbs should be first
made real and vital to them.

H. E. B.

SHORTER NOTICES

The Red Centre. Man and Beast in the Heart of Australia,
by H. H. Finlayson. (Australian Book Company, I937.)

7/6.

The difﬁculties facing scientists to-day in preserving wild
life of all continents is exemplified and brought forcibly. to
our notice in the last one hundredand fifty years’ history of
Australia. Considering the small white population of this
vast land, that population must be without parallel in the
number of scientific societies and serious zoological and
botanical students, many of whom have made the preservation
of wild life their special study. Notwithstanding this fact,
aboriginal Australian man is being rapidly extinguished,
species of the ancient marsupial animals and avifauna have
been exterminated, and almost without exception the wild
life is being so reduced in numbers that the outlook in many
cases augurs annihilation in the near future.

Mr. H. H. Finlayson is not merely the Museum Naturalist,
although in this study his knowledge of the Australian fauna
is unsurpassed ; he is also a keen field naturalist, and has more
than a little geological knowledge. Throughout this short,
interesting work on a part of Australia but little known, the

 




 

    

    

BOOK REVIEWS I 55

author devotes equal attention to aboriginal man and indi-
genous beast, and reading between the lines one realises his
profound sympathy with both. His exposition of fact is
combined with a literary ability which makes the book a
joy and an education to read.

The book is the outcome of thirteen months’ travel into that
portion of south-western Central Australia which embraces
the aboriginal reserves. The title refers to the colour of much
of the soil and rocks, which the author describes as a fiery
Cinnabar. Of the three chapters of special interest to our
society, two deal with wild life in general, and we learn that,
contrary to the generally accepted view, the rodents greatly
outnumber the marsupials. Birds, mammals, and reptiles
of the Centre are cursorily but charmingly discussed. One
chapter of special scientific interest is devoted to an account
of the rediscovery and capture of specimens of the Plains
Rat Kangaroo, Calogbrymnus campestris, called by the natives
Oolacuhta. The author describes it thus: “ A little animal
about the bulk of a rabbit, but built like a kangaroo, with
long, spindly hind—legs, tiny forelegs folded tight on the chest,
and a tail half as long again as the body, but not much thicker
than a lead pencil.” Its speed is tremendous, and he tells
us that when finally caught “ it had taken the starch out of
three mounts and run us twelve miles.” Beautiful photographs
of this animal at speed and at rest add interest to the written
description. The work is profusely illustrated with fifty—two

fine photographs taken by the author.
A. H. B. K.

Hunting W tld Life with Camera and Flashlight, by George
Shiras 3rd. (National Geographic Society, Washington,
1937.) 2 vols. 31/6.

I.: or this work of outstanding merit the world is indebted
to the National Geographic Society of Washington. It is the
record of field work by a first-class naturalist, the result of
sixty—five visits to wild parts of North America, most of the
best photography being done in Michigan, south of Lake
Superior. George Shiras 3rd was born at Pittsburg in 1859,
he completed his law course at Yale in I883, practised law
firstly with his father and later as senior partner of Shiras
and Dorkey. He was at one time a member of the Congress of
the United States. In his earlier days he was a keen hunter
and fisherman, thus following in the footsteps of his father
and grandfather, but as he grew older he became more and
more enthralled by wild life and the beauties of wild regions,
and he threw his heart into artistic wild life photography.

II

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I56 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

His first photograph of wild deer was taken in July I889,
and his first flashlight picture was made in I892; he was
thus the first naturalist to perform this feat, many years
previous either to Cherry Keaton or Schillings. In July
1893- he succeeded in taking by flashlight, with apparatus
of his own invention, a beautiful photograph of a white—tailed
deer. This picture is figured in the book on p. 43, and would
be a triumph of photography if taken by day. From this
time onwards, forty years ago, the author was producing
artistic and beautiful photographs of North American animals
which can hardly be improved on by modern electric apparatus.
Automatic photography by day and night became his hobby,
and as years passed the rifle was discarded, except when food
was required. A collection of ten of his flashlight photographs
shown in the Paris Exhibition of 1900 received universal
praise, and was awarded a gold medal and a diploma.

The influence of this one naturalist together with the literary
encouragement of the National Geographic Society has done
wonders to press forward the preservation of wild creatures,
not only in America, but throughout the world. The text is
interesting throughout, and the volumes are well got up.

A. H. B. K.

Wilderness Wanderers, by Wendell and Lucie Chapman.
(Charles Scribners Sons, Ltd, London and New York,
1937.) 12/6.

Of the many beautifully produced nature study books by
American authors this one cannot be surpassed in the perfec—
tion of its photographs, nor in its description of wild animal
life of the North American Continent. Of the seventy—four
photographs which. illustrate the text not one falls below
even medium quality, and many are outstanding specimens of
the nature photographer’s art. To the artist such photographs
as that of the snowshoe rabbit and certain scenic pictures
make special appeal, whilst the naturalist will be enthralled
by those of the otters grubbing, the flashlight of a pine marten
with an egg in his mouth, and the big horn at speed. Mr. and
Mrs. Chapman had extraordinary power in obtaining the
confidence of wild animals, and pictures of them in the
immediate vicinity of the Rocky Mountain goat, beavers,
otters, martens, and squirrels are evidence that man is not
always “ the beast,” although the lower animals are more
often “ the beauty.” One can thoroughly recommend this
book as belonging to the type which should predominate in
the animal lover’s library. Not only is sympathy with animals

 

 

’\-\

 

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS I 57

an outstanding feature, but the strong advocacy for wild life

preservation, which permeates the book from start to finish,

should be instrumental in influencing the powers that be to

look on the world’s wild animals not as detrimental to man’s

interests, but as valuable assets to the welfare of a country.
The book is beautifully got up and the type is bold. -

A. H. B. K.

1-1/0er N atm’al H istory, by E. G. Boulenger. (Batsford, 1937.)
7/6.

This book is designed to give the school child a review of
the animal kingdom as “ a possible incentive for more detailed
study.” Mr. Boulenger writes in his foreword, that as con—
siderably more than “half a million species of living animals are
known to—day, no one book can be expected to deal with such
a vast gathering of detail, and the present volume attempts
no such impossible task.” But it sets forth in a very enter—
taining manner some of the main points of interest concerning
the great classes of the animal kingdom, and it is illustrated
by many excellent photographs.

The history of the domestication of certain animals is
discussed, and the economic importance of others is indicated.
It is therefore rather surprising, in view of the role played by
some cetacea in the latter connectiOn, that no mention has
been made of the considerable body of information which has
recently been accumulated on the habits and life—history of
these animals. Such statements that Cetochilus is the food
of the Right whale could then have been avoided. The blue
Whale (or Sibbald’s rorqual, Balaeno-ptem musculus) is the
largest animal which has ever inhabited the world, and it
deserves to be distinguished by its correct name and not
called the sulphur bottom or blue rorqual. The second largest
whale, the Finner, is not described at all, and yet this animal
is of equal importance with the blue whale to the whaling
industry. The only photograph illustrating this group is of
a sperm whale being brought ashore. Why therefore confuse
the reader’s mind by labelling it “ Pot whale,” a synonym
which appears nowhere in the text P

A strong plea for the conservation of species is made, and
Man’s ever—increasing potentialities for destruction are
deplored. Concern for the preservation of wild life “ is a matter
of recent times, and in many quarters it is gravely wondered
Whether or not our new-found zeal . . . has not come too late.”
The establishment of the controlled herds of fur—seal in the
Pribiloff Islands, one of the most successful experiments in

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I58 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

this connection, should have been mentioned, as well as the
elephant seal industry in South Georgia.

Incidentally, the southern elephant seal is wrongly named.
The author comments on the attempts made in recent years to
end the confusion in which scientific nomenclature has found
itself, and states that “ in the main ” the generic and specific
names used in the book are the ones adopted by the Zoological
Society of London. Why should one approved system of
nomenclature not be adopted m the whole? Then perhaps
such errors as M ZII’O’l/H/lgél patagom'ca instead of M troungtz leom’na
and [11 egaptem boops instead of [W egajbtertz 710d08d would not
have crept in. The proof—reading also leaves much to be
desired ; the readers have failed to correct such mistakes as
M egoptem, Ltmmaea, Ana/mtma, Arc/zz’tuthz's, and Rlzinoodon,

to mention but a few.
H. E. B.

Report of the Little Owl Form,7 Enquiry, 1936—37, by Alice
Hibbert—VVare, M.B.O.U. (H. F. G. VVitherby, Ltd,
326, High Holborn, W.C.I.‘) 3/6.

This report covers the investigation set on foot by the
British Trust for Ornithology to discover scientifically the
facts about the little owl’s present status in this country. The
little owl, of. course, is not a native British bird, but was
introduced by Lord Lilford and others from Spain and Italy,
where it was much esteemed as an aid to agriculture. It
became established here as a wild breeding bird in I899.
For some time past it has been accused of predatory habits
so successfully, by game preservers and others, as to be placed,
under the Bird Protection Acts since 1936, on the black list
of several counties. It had its defenders, however, hence the
investigation dealt with in this book. The work recorded is
an excellent example of the team spirit displayed by bird
observers working in the field, backed by the unbiassed and
meticulous labour of the very competent zoological analyst,
Miss Hibbert—Ware, who is responsible for the report. The
prosecution, typified principally by those interested in game
preservation, was invited to co—operate in the collection of
evidence during 1936, but the response from that quarter
was so slight that the investigation was carried on into I937,
with special emphasis on the influence of the little owl on
game. As a result the little owl, on its present status and
habits as revealed by the investigation, is completely acquitted
of the charges brought against it. On the contrary, it is proved
to be a substantial factor in the control of rats, mice, and

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I \ I 59

voles, and of such insect pests as crane-flies, earwigs and cock—
chafers, as well as many others to a lesser degree.

Introducing a foreign species to a new country is always
risky, but the little owl appears to be an instance where, on
balance, it is a useful colonist and should now surely be
accepted as such and placed on the protected birds’ list.

This is a book which well repays careful study and should
be in the hands of all animal welfare seekers.

Apart from the frontispiece, a. beautiful. rendering of the
little owl, the many photographs, though not pictorial, are
illuminating and instructive, and bear witness to the great
detail which has been worked through during the investigation.

A. O. ROWDEN.

Avicult‘IM/e. Vol. I. A treatise on the management of foreign
and British birds in captivity. (Published by The
Avicultural Society, 1937.)

This book was first published in 1926 and has long been out
of print. The present edition has been brought up to date by
Monsieur J. Delacour with the assistance of. six specialists on
, particular groups, and translated from the French by
Miss E. Chawner under the editorship of Mr. A. Sherriff.

The introduction, comprising some seven pages, deals
briefly with the general management of birds, cages, welfare,
diagnosis and treatment of disease, accident, or abnormalities.
Seven photographs of ideal large—scale aviaries are added to
this part of the letterpress. Then follow 272 pages of brief
description of some thousand species of birds with a wide
range of families and groups, illustrated by nine coloured
plates and thirteen plain, each plate dealing with several
species. All the illustrations are excellent. The foregoing
sets out the bare facts of the scope of the book, which appears
to be principally one for the wealthy aviarist.

It is only fair to say that the reviewer lacks sympathy
with the subject, and may therefore be biassed in spite of a
conscientious effort to be just. It is true that Man has
always captured and bent to his desires many previously
free forms of life, for instance the horse, dog, and cat, which.
have been domesticated and become real friends and com—
panions of Man. Amongst birds he has tamed the falcon
and bred the various forms of poultry which roam at com-
parative freedom around him. Most birds, however, cannot
be given their freedom or they would immediately fly away.
To the great majority freedom is an essential condition for
a normally happy life. How far, then, are we justified in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

160 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

restricting this freedom? The aviculturalist will probably
say the captive bird never goes hungry or thirsty, is protected
from the storm, is safeguarded from preying enemies, and
sings happily. Granted; but, generally speaking, will that
same bird remain voluntarily with its keeper if means of
escape are open P If not, that seems to indicate an urge more
powerful than the compensation of a carefree existence.

I was particularly struck with the note on the nightingale.
It says: “ The nightingale arrives in April and it is then
that the nightingale lover [sic] should obtain his bird. . . .
In captivity the nightingale should be kept in a box—cage
and the top and sides should be lined with green baize.”
Why green baize ? This procedure may be possible in France,
but thank goodness it is illegal in this Country. What happens
when the natural urge to migrate south is strong upon the
captive P ‘

No ; on the whole I prefer to go out to see and hear my
birds in their natural surroundings, and sometimes to achieve
the triumph of enticing the more trusting birds to feed volun—
tarily from my hand with freedom to come and go. With
unanimous good will on the part of man, how long, I wonder,
would it take for this to become a common everyday
occurrence P

The only aviaries which I should be prepared to concede
with tolerance are the public ones in zoological gardens.
They, at all events, have a wide educational. basis, although
one wonders if faithful coloured illustrations would not have
an equal value. Perhaps the retort to that is that the artist
must have prolonged access to the bird'at close quarters.

A. O. ROWDEN.

The Way of a Serpent, by T. H. Gillespie. (Herbert Jenkins,
Ltd, 1937.) 3/6. ‘

Dr. Gillespie has written this account of snakes from a
popular standpoint, and as such it is probably the best and
most exhaustive work there is. It is delightfully readable
throughout, and the author has taken, one by one, all the
misapprehensions and fallacies associated with these reptiles,
and carefully and honestly destroyed them. His position at
the Edinburgh Zoo has provided him with abundant material
for observation and study and thorough use has been made
of it.

Chapters II, V, and VI, dealing respectively with Snakes in
General, Poisonous Snakes, and British Snakes, are especially
informative, and absence of technicalities in the text does

 

 




 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS ‘I61

not conceal the writer’s sound scientific knowledge of his
subject.

The chapter on “ The Snake in the Home ” will be useful
in securing a measure of adequate treatment for the con—
siderable number of harmless snakes which are kept as pets,
and concerning which no good handbook has been published
in this country since the nineties of last century. One quails,
however, at the thought of what a snake will undergo while
being force-fed in the manner described, by an enthusiastic
but unpractised amateur.

An appendix describes the reactions of various wild and
domesticated animals in the presence of snakes, and deals
with the live food problem. One learns that most snakes can
be trained to eat dead animals, but it is by no means estab—
lished that an animal suffers any more when killed by a snake
than when killed by a man.

The photographs are good when one considers that snakes
are very difﬁcult camera—subjects, but the frontispiece hardly
does justice to the beauty of the green tree boa.

D. YOUNG.

H ow to Care for Your Pets, by Mary Sowerby. 6d.
First Steps in Aquarium Keeping, by M. G. Elwin. 6d.
First Steps in Pond Keeping, by Leonard C. Betts. 6d.

Aquarium and Pond Management for Beginners, by F. Austin
Watson. 1/9.
(The Marshall Press, Ltd., London.)

These four little books are all excellent in their way, simply
written and full of practical knowledge. Miss Sowerby’s
Care of Pets is most obviously connected with animal welfare,
but since she includes goldfish, frogs, toads, and newts in her
list, the detailed information given by the other three authors
makes a useful addition to the subject.

Nature Study Leaflets. (Published by the School Nature Study
Union.) To be obtained from E. G. Clarke, 7, Stanley
Avenue, Wembley. Price 2%d. each.

I. School Pets, their wants and ways, by Alice L. Sandford.

2. The Subterrarium .' for observing the metamorphoses
of common insects, by Higi Vliii.

3. Some Insects and their Habits, by C. E. Isaacson.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

162 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

4. Observations on Ants, by C. von Wyss.
5. The School Aquarium. Parts I and II, by C. von W yss..

The work of the School Nature Study Union needs no
introduction to educationalists, who are well aware of the
excellent work by this Society in presenting the animal world
to the school child. It is, therefore, a pleasure to make special
mention of the above leaflets, published by the Union, which
have a particular bearing on the care of pets and the keeping
of animals for observation.

ill




APPENDIX

ULAW$
(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)

President
PROF. SIR FREDERICK HOBDAY, C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E.

Hon. Treasurer
BRIG.—GEN. MAGNUS MOWAT, C.B.E., F.R.S.E., F.K.C.,
M.INST.C.E., M.I.MECH.E.

Hon. Assistant Treasurer
HELEN P. MAYO, L.D.S., R.C.S.

Hon. Secretary and Chairman of Committees
CAPT. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.sc., F.Z.S.

Hon. Artist
KENNETH BIRD, B.SC., F.K.C., F.Z.S. (Fougasse)

Hon. Secretary for Wild Life
A. H. B. KIRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., F.Z.S.

Hon. Secretary for Animals Abroad
F. JEAN VINTER, M.D., B.S.

Hon. Parliamentary Secretary
MRS. K. RAMSBOTTOM, B.SC.

Hon. Editor of “ Year Book ”
HELENE E. BARGMANN, PH.D., B.SC.

Hon. Auditors
CHAS. W. ROOKE, LANE & CO., Chartered Accountants,
2, Norfolk Street, W.C.2

Bankers

ﬂ BARCLAY’S BANK, LTD., 161, Euston Road, N.W.I
l. .

Education Secretary
JOYCE M. MOORE, B.SC.

General Secretary
MARJORIE A. CHALLEN, B.A.

BRANCHES
1 Branches are recognised in the following Colleges of the University Of
London :

BEDFORD COLLEGE ROYAL HOLLOWAY COLLEGE
BIRKBECK COLLEGE ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE
KING’S COLLEGE SOUTH-EASTERN AGRICULTURAL
LONDON SCHOOL OF MEDICINE COLLEGE, WYE, KENT

FOR WOMEN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
RICHMOND COLLEGE WESTFIELD COLLEGE

MB

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L54 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

AIMS OF ULAVVS

I. To lessen, by methods appropriate to its special character
as a university organisation, the pain and fear inflicted on
animals by man.

2. To enlist the influence of university men and women on
behalf of animals.

3. To promote, by educational and other methods, interest
in the welfare of animals in Great Britain and abroad.

4. To obtain and disseminate accurate knowledge of
problems relating to animal welfare.

5. To extend the movement to other universities, at home
and abroad.

ULAWS PRINCIPLES AND METHODS

Only in recent times have the methods of exact observation
and inference been brought to bear on human welfare and
government. The study of animal welfare is a department of
sociology which has been neglected in its scientific aspect
even more than the rest.

ULAVVS insists on the importance and power of carefully
ascertained fact for choosing problems to be solved, for
finding solutions, and for getting the solutions adopted by the
general public. Such work needs to be carried out by specialists
having the requisite technical and scientific knowledge. A
few examples will show the need for their help: opponents
of the gin-trap must understand agriculture as well as trapping ;
the problem of cruel poisons is one for the chemist ; the use
of electricity both for killing and for immobilising animals
raises questions on which the electrical engineer no less than
the veterinary surgeon has a point of view ; the mechanical
engineer has already provided the separator as a partial
solution of the problem of oil pollution, and the casting—pen
and the pig trap for the slaughter-house; the zoologist,
physiologist, and veterinarian, the theologian and the psycholo-
gist, the historian and the economist, have all some special
knowledge bearing upon man’s relationship with animals.

In choosing the problems on which to concentrate its
energies, ULAWS takes an objective point of view. The
importance of any form of cruelty is considered to depend on
(I) the number of animals affected ; (2) the intensity of pain
inflicted ; (3) the duration of the pain inflicted ; and (4) the
feasibility of obtaining reform—and on no other factor. From
these principles it follows that the Society is more than usually




APPENDIX I65

concerned with the sufferings of wild animals and even of

unpopular animals, though horses, dogs, and cats receive their
share of its attention.

ACTIVITIES

Broadly speaking, the Society’s work falls under two
headings: ~ (I) educational and (2) study of current problems
with a View to advocating the best means for their solution.

I. EDUCATIONAL WORK
(at) In connection with the University of London

It is important that the relevant facts should be brought
before students who in later life will render public service
as scientists, teachers, ministers of religion, journalists or
statesmen ; these future leaders of public opinion have, in a
university society, opportunities of associating with biologists
and veterinary surgeons. The “ animal movement” needs
the help of minds trained in the discipline of accurate thinking,
for all good causes are liable to be prejudiced by uncritical
zeal, and the contemptuous attitude towards animals which
underlies most cruelty needs to be replaced by that broader—
minded view of their nature which is deducible from biological
science.

Meetings, taking the form of addresses, discussions, debates,
lantern and film lectures, are held in colleges of the University
of London, and visits are arranged .to plaCes of interest to
animal lovers. The Society has always enjoyed the cordial
co—operation of college authorities and students’ unions.

The interest of students is also aroused by the organisation
of a panel of student speakers, who give talks on various
aspects of animal welfare in schools, clubs, and institutes.

A small but growing library of books relating to animal welfare
has been formed.

(b) In connection with other universities

ULAWS keeps in touch with members of the staffs of various
foreign universities in preparation for the eventual extension
of the organisation among university students abroad and for
the purpose of encouraging animal protection in foreign
countries. A sister Society has been formed in the Otani
University, Kyoto, Japan.

(c) Extramural

Lectures on animal—welfare problems and on natural
history subjects are arranged for members of the public who

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

166 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

have subscribed to ULAWS. The Society also organises joint
meetings with other humane, naturalist, and educational
societies.

Lectures are delivered in museums and to natural history
and university societies by the senior members of the panel of
speakers, and they and the student members give talks in
schools, clubs, and institutes. These lectures are illustrated
by lantern slides, many of which are reproductions of photo—
graphs presented to the Society by well—known naturalist
photographers.

ULAWS has produced a 16mm. silent film, “ Ann’s Dog,”
for school children, and hopes to produce others. The films
will illustrate the correct treatment of domestic animals. N 0
film will be released to the public without being closely
examined by veterinary members of ULAWS. ” Ann’s Dog,”
together with a collection of films loaned to ULAWS by the
Canadian National Parks, may be hired free of charge by
schools, clubs, and institutes. Registered postage must be
paid both ways.

2. STUDY or CURRENT PROBLEMs
(a) The Gm Trap '

ULAWS has for some years been conducting the parlia—
mentary campaign against the gin trap, with the support of
the R.S.P.C.A., Scottish S.P.C.A., National Council for
Animals’ Welfare, National Federation of Women’s Institutes,
and other responsible bodies numbering in all about 90. The
Society is in close touch with public bodies, landowners, and
farmers who are interested in the rabbit problem, and its
publications on the control of rabbits and rats are much in
demand among agriculturists.

ULAWS has taken a leading part in the campaign for
reducing the number of rabbits in the country, with a View to
eliminating the barbarous rabbit—trapping industry. The
Society was primarily responsible for the general adoption in
Great Britain of the humane and effective method of control—
ling rabbits by means of cyanide dusts, for the promotion of
the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill, introduced by Lord Tredegar
in 1935, and for the setting up in 1936, on the motion of Lord
Merthyr, of the Mersey Committee on Agriculture (Damage
by Rabbits).

The Report of this Committee, published in March 1937, is
reviewed in vol. 4 of the ANIMAL YEAR BOOK.*

* “ The Campaign against the Gin Trap,” by Capt. C. W. Hume.
ANIMAL YEAR BOOK, vol. 4, pp. 95—101.




APPENDIX 167

The present policy of ULAWS comprises three phases:
(I) the enactment, by means of either public or private Bills,
of the positive recommendations of the Mersey Committee,
including the prohibition of the setting of gin traps in the
open. If effective, these provisions would strike a blow at the
rabbit—trapping industry and thus weaken some powerful
vested interests. (2) The introduction of a Bill to prohibit the
marketing of rabbits which have been mutilated by gin trap
or snare, or have been so treated as to conceal such mutilation.
This step will have the advantage of testing the sincerity of
the principal argument urged in defence of the trap, namely,
that it is necessary for keeping down rabbits. (3) The re—
introduction of the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.

On pages 105408 of the present volume the most recent
developments in this campaign are outlined.

(b) The survey and regulation of British fauna

ULAWS is concerned at the haphazard and unco-ordinated
manner in which man deals with various elements in his
faunal environment, whether by exploitation, conservation,
or repression. Although the conservation of rare or diminishing
species is of benefit to human rather than to subhuman
creatures, it forms part of a wider field of action which involves
the whole attitude of man towards his fellow creatures.

In March 1938 a meeting of experts was held to consider

how best the desired regulation and co—ordination might be
achieved.* '

(c) Other problems confronting humane societies and individuals

ULAWS is also engaged in collecting information and
seeking reform for the following: trafﬁc in trapped furs;
treatment of animals abroad; effects of various poisons;
operations on animals with and without anaesthetics; de—
struction of sea—birds by oil waste; animal welfare on the
farm ; production of animal fixatives for perfumery.

POLICY AS REGARDS ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS

The Society is precluded by its constitution from engaging

on either side in controversies relating to scientific experiments
on animals.

AFFILIATIONS

ULAWS is a Corresponding Society of the British Associa—
tion for the Advancement of Science. It is afﬁliated to the

* See page 106 for further details of this meeting.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

168 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Parliamentary Science Committee, the South-eastern Union
of Scientific Societies, the Conference of Educational Associa-
tions, the National Council of Women, the Society for the
Preservation of the Fauna of the Empire, the Institute of
Animal Behaviour, and the Association of Special Libraries
and Information BureauX. It nominates one of the six members
of an Advisory Committee set up by the British Board of
Film Censors for the scrutiny of animal films.

MEMBERSHIP

Ordinary membership is open to present and past graduates
and undergraduates of the University of London, to senators,
ofﬁcers, and teaching and administrative staffs of the university,
to King’s.-Counsel, and to veterinary surgeons practising in
London.

All members of the public who subscribe ms. or more per
annum are eligible as Fellows, and all who subscribe £5 or
more as Patrons. '

PUBLICATIONS
BOOKS :

Animal Year Book. Volumes I, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Volume I. Price 2/—, postage 4d.
Volumes 2, 3, 4, and 5. Price 2/6 each, postage 3d.

Maii Versus Rabbit. By A. H. B. Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E.,
L.R.C.P., Lond., F.Z.S. (Monograph 4b) illustrated by
Fougasse. Second and enlarged edition 1934, with 9 art
plates and map. Price I/—, post free. ‘

The Rabbit in Australia. By David G. Stead, formerly Special
Rabbit Menace Commissioner to the Government of New
South Wales. Price 2 /—, post free. ULAWS is sole agent
in Great Britain.

MONOGRAPHS AND REPORTS:

N 0. 2a. The Destruction of Sea—birds by Oil Waste.

NO. 4a. The Rabbit Problem in Agriculture.

N 0. 4b. Man Versus Rabbit (see under BOOKS).

N O. 4c. A Solution of the Rabbit Problem : Cyanide
Fumigation.

No. 4d. The Rabbit Menace in Australia in 1933 and the

' Way Out.

No. 4e. Instructions for Dealing with Rabbits.

No. 4f. Some Facts and Queries relating to the Wild—rabbit
Problem.

No. 5c. Children and Their Pets.

No. 7a. The Pathological Effect of Poisons used for Rodents.




APPENDIX 169

No. 7b. Rat-control.
No. 8a. L’Elevage des Lapins.
No. . Christianity and the Welfare Of Animals (in prepara-
‘ tion).
No. . Man’s Relation to Nature and his Response; the
Survey and Regulation of British Fauna (in
preparation) .

PAMPHLETS IN BOOKLET FORM:

Prospectus.

Annual Reports (years I—II; 1927-37).

Man’s Duty to Animals.

Humane Education in Schools.

Animal Welfare—Its Dependence on Accurate Information.

Animal Welfare and the Teaching of Biology.

Facts about Furs.

The Countryside of England (illustrated).

Memorandum and selected précis of evidence of witnesses,
submitted to the Select Committee Of the House Of Lords
(I/-)-

Draft Clauses for one or more Bills to make better provision
for the protection of agriculture and the land from the
ravages of rabbits, and to make certain provisions with
respect to gin traps and snares and to animals caught
therein.

PAMPHLETS AND REPRINTS IN PAMPHLET FORM:

The Rabbit Menace and the Gin Trap.

The Folly of Rabbit Farming.

The Future Of the Gin Trap———A Retrospect Of the Select
Committee.

Forty Million Rabbits are sold annually.

Rabbits Ruin Grassland.

Wireless Appeal by Fougasse (illustrated).

LABELS AND BLOTTERS:

Gummed labels for envelopes (picture of trapped rabbit).
Appeal blotter with illustrations by Fougasse.
Cadet blotter for children (Pip, Squeak and W’ilfred).

POSTERS (gin. >< 13%in.) BY FOUGASSE:
NO. I. For making ULAWS known in colleges.
NO. 2. “ Death on the water ” (the Oil menace to sea—birds)
NO. 3. “ Was this the trap that caught your coat ? ”
NO. 3b. “ It isn’t cricket.” ,
No. 4. A Mosaic Of Trapped Animals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CENTENARY YEAR- - I 93 9.

“-01 HURT

\\\\\\ ll“ l/ll/I' j/Io ‘
S 5.4””..‘ /

       

Pros1dcnt»~~»HFR GRACE THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND, D. B E.

The oldest Animal Protection Society in Scotland.

Minimum Membership Subscription. 5 /— annually.
27 Inspectors (J.P. Constables) patrolling 25
Scottish Counties.

Horses’ Rest Farm. Motor horse—ambulance.

Free veterinary treatment for sick animals of the
poor.

Film and Lantern Lectures—two Lecturers.
Awards to Humane Heroes.

Prize Essay and Poster Competitions annually.

98th Annual Report, illustrated, gratis on application to :—
Lyndesay G. Langwill, Chartered Accountant

Secretary and Treasurer,

Scottish S .P.C.A.,

 

19 Melville Street,
EDINBURGH, 3

 

 

 

 

 

I70

 




 

 

 

 

OUR
DUMB FRIENDS’ LEAGUE

A Society for the Encouragement of Kindness to Animals.

GROSVENOR GARDENS HOUSE, VICTORIA, S.W.l
Telephone: Victoria 3396

O
MAINTAINS

ANIMALS ’ HOSPITAL

15,000 Patients of all kinds cured in a year.

BLUE CROSS
Horses and Donkeys looked after.

ANIMALS ’ SHELTERS
44,500 London Cats and Dogs rescued.

CAPTIVE AND PERFORMING ANIMALS
Propaganda to stop this Cruelty.

ANTI-DOCKING
To stop Horses’ tails being docked.

NORTH LONDON DOGS’ HOME

2,600 Dogs saved from the streets.

LONDON INSTITUTION

12,000 Animals rescued.

COUNTRY BRANCHES

I4 outside London.

BLUE CROSS KENNELS

Quarantine Station and Clinic.

JUNIOR BRANCH

For kindness to Animals by the young.

PROPAGANDA

Universal Legislation. Education about Animals.

INVESTIGATION DEPARTMENT

For Markets, Horse Sales, Pony Fairs, to prevent Cruelty and to
enforce the Law.

SLUM CLEARANCE DEPARTMENT

For the Collection of Unwanted Animals ; to help those Animals who
have no Home under the L.C.C. Order.

Donations gratefully acknowledged by the Secretary, Grosvenor
Gardens House, Victoria, S.W.l

 

 

 

 

 

I7I

 




 

 

 

ERUEL FURS
AND OTHERS

3

.‘u

     

 

 

How can you wear a trapped
fur, knowing that every hair
on that skin has vibrated

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with prolonged torture ? DON’T USE GINS !
It has been proved that rabbits
BEWARE ERMINE actually increase in numbers
AND BROATAIL , when Gins are used.

. They are most unsuitable for rats, as they so
Write for WHITE LIST Of Fur Crusade often escape by twisting off a foot. Write for
and Humane Trapping Campaign which full illustrated partigglars of latest efﬁcient

ways of trapping ra its, rats, mice, moles,
names furs you need ”at be aghamed to etc. ; with full instructions for using long nets.
wear. Funds needed for more Advts. Please help distribute Trapping and Fur

Crusade Leaflets.

MAJOR C. VAN DER BYL, WAPPENHAM, TOWOESTER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RABBIT AND RAT DESTRUCTION
HYDROCYANIC . ACID GAS

— HUMANE —- EFFICIENT —— SCIENTIFIC —

CALClD

H DEMOETJERIGTIONS H 885%C3(CN)2 H EXPERFrREAEDVICE H

“RICHEST IN HCN”

 

 

LONDON FUMIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Marlow House
Lloyd’s Avenue, E.C.3

AND AT Telephone : Royal 7077/8/9
MANCHESTER : St. James’ House, Brazennose Street

 

 

 

 

I72

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PLEASE HELP
THE

 

\ ‘— \ .—__

TO HELP ALL
SUFFERING ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Donations towards the

expenses of R.S.P.C.A. work
v-should Eesent to - ~ ~ «

The Chief Secretary,
R.S.P. C .A. ,

105 Jermyn Street,
London, S.W.I

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To those who love Wild Birds

| Wild birds soon respond
to encouragement and
become regular Visitors
to the bird table if food
and water are provided
3 for them.

  
     
   
   
 
  

The pleasure of watching
birds is unbounded; will
you not make some return
> for this pleasure
JV» by aiding their
champion — The
Royal Society for

V " 1*. "a; ’ - 1 n‘
, ///', (I/g’ /
1
ﬂ?"

’ /' N l

. ,7.
1/ "

The main departments of
“ work are Legislation
(parliamentary and local) ;
Watt/967‘s (sanctuaries,
safeguarding rare species,
perches at lighthouses
for migrants, etc.) ; Oil
Campazgn (to save the
sea birds); Education
(lectures, essays in
schools, letters in the
press to arouse public
opinion).

In '19; 5 the Society was successful in securing the “ Wild Birds
Charter ”——the Act prohibiting the trafﬁc in British Wild Birds.

Join the Society and thus help to safeguard your bird friends
from their many enemies ‘ '

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION!

Life Fellow . ,5 21 . Fellow From 21 /- annually
Life Member . £5 55. Member ,, 5/- ,,
Associate . From I /— annually.

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE

PROTECTION OF BIRDS

82 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I
Phone: VICTORIA 24|2

 

 

 

 

 

 

I74

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMA NE PERFUME

 

Contains no Musk, Civet or Castor.

Lavender l
6id.l62646
Eau de Cologne/lat 2 I I I

Lily, Lilac, l
-- l - 2 6 4 6 7 6
Jasmin, Violet lat / I l I

Prices of Powder, Creams, Bath Salts, etc., on application.

POSTAGE : One penny per shilling. Maximum postage 60’.
No order sent by post under 1/6

Orders supplied by the Hon. Secretary,
Mrs. E. M. Wentworth, B.SC.
4, Cedar Close,
East Molesey, Surrey

All Profits devoted to Animal
Welfare Work

HUMANE PERFUMERY COMMITTEE:
Chairman: Capt. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

Representatives from The National Council for Animal
Welfare, The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, The Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, The Ulster Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and the University of London Animal Welfare Society.

 

 

 

I75

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE

NATIONAL COUNCIL
FOR

ANIMALS’ WELFARE

 

 

AIMS

 

at the establishment in Humanity of a sympathetic

 

 

 

 

recognition of Relationship with all Living Things
and the progressive Emancipation of the Animal

Kingdom from Exploitation.

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK, I938

which, since 1922, has been celebrated annually in this

country in a gradually increasing number of districts,
begins on SUNDAY, MAY Ist.

All‘who are’willing to take part in the propaganda of the
National Council, or who wish for further information, are

asked to write to the Secretary,

The

National Council for Animals’ Welfare,

1 Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn,
London, W.C.l

’Phone : Holborn 9775

 

 

I76

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Society for the Protection of

Animals in North Africa
(Founded in October, I923)

President: Her Grace the Duchess of Portland
Hon. Secretary: Miss N. Hosali, M.Sc.

London Headquarters: l05, Jermyn Street, S.\N.|
(Afﬁliated to the R.S.P.C.A.)

 

Maintains branches and animals’ hospitals in Algeria and Tunisia at

Algiers, Biskra, Touggourt, Oran, Tunis, Sousse, and Gabes. Arab and

European dressers and organisers tour villages and markets doing

first aid and educational work. Enormous improvement in districts

covered by the Society. Extension to fresh centres urgently needed.

All persons visiting the country are asked to get in touch with the
Society before-hand.

Please send for further particulars.

The most appalling cruelties and abuses have been stopped by this Society,
but much remains to be done.

S. P.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I77

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Education in Schools and Homes
will end Cruelty, Crime and Warfare

YOU A 181.5 CORDIALLY INVITED TO SUPPORT

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

80 MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER 2
Preyz'derzz‘ : GEORGE ARLIss
Patrons :

THE DUCHEss OF HAMILTON. DR. THISTLETON MARK, D.Litt., B.Sc.
MISS LIND af Hageby. MISS JESSEY WADE. J. L. PATON, M.A.
E. A. RADFORD, M.P.

ALD. J. C. GRIMES, J.P., O.B.E. (Lord Mayor of Manchester).
Seerez‘ary and Lecturer : ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

Hon. Solicitor : FRANK LEIGH. Hon. Arrdz'z‘ory : H. J. LUNT & Co.
London Centre .'

H012. Seerez‘my : MISS BERNARD, Laycock Street Schools.
Chairman .- MISS M. E. TURNER, Inspector of Schools (Retired).
We need the Support of Friends of Children and Animals
concerning the Welfare of all Creatures in need of

Friendship and Protection,
Safeguarding of the Countryside, the Development of
Kindliness, Beauty and Harmony in Life.

Please write for Literature. Gifts urgently needed for
Constructive Educational Work.

 

 

 

 

 

Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of
the Empire
Patron .- HIS MAJESTY KING GEORGE VI.
President : The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Onslow, P.C., O.B.E.

This Society was founded in the year l903 by the late Edward North Buxton. lts
object is to ensure that no more species of wild animals shall be exterminated within the
British Empire. This object it seeks to ensure especially by promoting the establishment
of National Parks and Game Reserves.

The minimum annual subscription is ten shillings, and the Life Membership Fee £l0.

The Journal of the Society (free to members) is published thrice annually.

For further particulars apply to the Honorary Secretary, S.P.F.E., c/o Zoological Society
of London, Regent’s Park, London, N.W.8.

 

 

 

 

 

 

HAVE YOU READ _
“ THIS CRUELTY CALLED SPORT” 2

The greatest eXposure of blood sports ever written.
Copies (6d. each) can be obtained from the

LEAGUE for the PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS
7 Victoria Street, London, S.W.l

 

J

 

 

 

 

 

I78

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

“ahb the same 30km hab his
raiment of Gamel’s bair.”s“.ﬁif“i'3°w

St. 30bit
the JBupttst

 

WOVEN FUR

is in itself a manifest appeal equally
to GOOD TASTE and the CON- -
SCIENCE.

Its use has been fostered by those
who regard LIFE as SACRED, and
who cherish the ABUNDANCE
which is NATURE.

From the SCRUPLES of some a
GREAT NATIONAL INDUSTRY
has arisen for the MANY, be they
OLD or YOUNG, RICH or POOR
—for there 'is a WOVEN-FUR
for every OCCASION and CIR-
CUMSTANCE from a Shoulder-
wrap to a FuII-Iength Coat.

WOVEN-FUR is LIGHTER ——
WARMER —- CHEAPER — MORE
WEATHER-PROOF—and MUCH
MORE HEALTHY than CRUELLY
TRAPPED FUR.

May I as a PIONEER and SPECIA-

LIST show you its INFINITE
APPEAL.

MARIA OF KNIGHTSBRIDGE

No. I Wilton PLACE, S.W.I

By the P.O. .

SLOANE I772-

 

 

 

 




 




