J t , ‘ V
\‘ '1’4'8 -
a"
e

 

cnmcssm ohms
AIMS: a; cums.

 

 

ALTER; R. HADWEN.
"’ J.P., '

up... L.R.C.P.'. 54.3.0.5...
' 1* " Etc.

A
/‘

PUBLISHED BY

THE BRITISH UNION for the‘ABcu'rlO‘N OF vwnszo'nom
' ‘ ’ '1 (The British. Antiwwisectioh seesaw).

5(F0UNDRESS: FRAl‘i’OES POWER 001383). I v:
32 ‘c’HARmGV-caoss, WHITEHALL, LONDON. ssw.
. . ‘ President: mz. WAL‘IER R. HADWBN, mm, LP.“-

Secretary: mes BﬁATmcE .E. K190.

f

n.

”M

\‘o‘
‘-

L

macs, .FOURPENCE PER 00:25“-

$3 ,
mi. ”.12

 




 

. J. FRASER HEWES, Esq.

The British Union [Tb

r for the Abolition of Vivisectlon.

Headq1m1tersz32,C1-1ARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S. W

 

 

‘7 Fovundréss ’: BRANCES BQWRB COBRB. ‘

-’ President: , . ' , . .
WALTER R. HADWEN, Egg” M. D. ._. etc. ., J. P ~ - 3 3 / " ‘ f:

x 1

Hon. Treasurer: ' '_ ' . ‘ _ "

y T1151 Rev. J. STRATTOL. .M.A. _ ‘ 3‘
‘ Secretary: ~ , I‘ :7 .. 3 |

1

3 Miss B E KID'D. *
Organising Secretary: Numé GROSS.Hon.So1icito1:E KEYS-JONES, Esq _. ,
, CH
~ Central Executive Committee: _ 1‘
W

Chairman: Rev. B. 1') Memo, ALA. ‘ . , .

‘Ihe Lady KATHLEEN BUSHE. ALB. II. ROSE, Esq. , 3
Miss M ARGAEET 811.111.5111. 111:: Lady ROSMBAD 1“ , '- . 45‘:
H. (a‘r. GHANBBLLOR, Esq. ., M. P. Miss E SAWERS. ., ; . 3i
Rev. 1’. W. STAELING, MA '
The Lady TBNTBBDBN. 3 ' r-
Rev. VERSCHOYIHE M A.
HAROLD \VmsroN, Esq. '
. Miss "A. F. Wax-331.111:

Bankers: ~ \\ .. _ '\

LLOYDS BANK LIMITED, I6, St. James’ Stre at, London, S. W.

L

 

Miss E. DOUG: As HUME.

E. Hm: s-Jomns, Esq

Miss S S. Mel-m0. 3

R. D. PBANKRRD, Esq. ., M. D.
Mrs.1’z)scon

 

“THE ABOLITIONIST "

Monthiy Organ of the BPItISh Umon. _,; f“!
CONTAINING A ‘ J . , ' , A , Q
High-glass Articles on the Moral, Scientific and Historical ABpeas A ‘- 3.

\of the Ahﬁ-«Vivisectioﬂ Question-
Replies to the Research Defence saciety;
' Racy Critici3m of New VivtSectionai “Cures” °
Chronicle of the Month’s Work, Etc.

 

Should be read by all Humanitarian».

l
. Specimen Copy sent post free to any addrees , ' ‘ .2 3 ‘

 

’ YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION (3.222223%) 2/6 per annum.

 

   




3,. i Val-3:3

THE

CULT or THE VlVISECTOR. '

A Criticism of his Aims and Claims.

1“?“er *4 '

q.“

nfmvif‘vgu ?‘-, -<Ag(glg_:):‘,v::‘"w‘5 ; a :.':V

 

 

 

By WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P., M.D., L.R.C.P.,
*
E M.R.C.S., (5’00.
5" s. W—
E? iii-lo -
The meaning of the term “ Vivisection.”
The strict meaning of the Latin derivative signifying the
g; cutting of living beings is no longer adhered to, but the word
,5: . f“. Vivisection is used comprehensively to embrace all scientiﬁc
- investigations on living animals, including poisoning, starv-
3 5-, I ing, baking, suffocating, burning, inoculating and every other
i if“ kind of similar research.
: E The object of Vivisection. ‘ .
:17 /’ The object ﬁrst and foremost in the mind of the vivi-
: sector is to attain knowledge. Few have admitted that their
'7 investigations have a prime; facie purpose of directly beneﬁt-
ing either medicine or surgery; many vivisectors scorn the
E . idea. They readily confess that the gain of abstract
knoWledge, the clearing up of abstruse points in physiology,
form the chief object of - attainment; and when it is
remembered that original physiological research will gain
the coveted Fellowship of the Royal Society and other

learned bodies, together with the emoluments and honours
which eventually follow in its train, one can readily under-
stand the inducement which is held out to the vivisector to
prosecute his methods.

I

The resulting alleged benefits.

f

Up to the present time I am not aware of any deﬁnite
beneﬁts either in the amelioration or cure of human maladies

 

-W ”WWW-5; "f: arr; Pm "a???" 237' “M“"Vi'isi‘v We

 




 

(2)

or disease which have resulted from this practice. Great
promises are repeatedly made and high hopes are ever enter-
tained in the direction of human beneﬁt but still no practical
result is forthcoming. It is true that the medical professiOn
as a whole hold an. entirely opposite opinion to this, but the
medical profession know very little of this technical subject ;
very few of its members have ever investigated the correct-
ness of the assertions made on behalf of the claims of the
vivisector, and are far too busily occupied with their daily
routine to interest themselves with a controversy which has
really no practical bearing upon their work.

Is Vivisection a cruel practice?

In the report of the Royal Commission for 1876 we read
that Sir William Fergusson declared that if the public really
knew what was actually going on in this country they would
expect an interference on the part of the Crown and
Parliament. And the Commissioners asserted, “ Even if the
weight of authority on the side of legislative interference had
been less considerable we should have thought ourselves
called upon to recommend it by the reason of the thing. It
is manifest that the practice is from its very nature liable to
great abuse. . -. . It is not to be doubted that inhumanity
may be found in persons of very high positions as
physiologists.”

Did the Act of 1876 modify this
state of things? '

“The Cruelty to Animals Act” prohibits any painful
experiments on a living animal under a penalty of £50 for
the ﬁrst offence, and £100 or three months’ imprisonment for
any subsequent offence. This prohibition was made subject
to certain restrictiOns. The experiment must be for the
advancement of new physiological discOveries or knowledge
useful in prolonging life or alleviating suffering. The
experimenter must hold a licence and perform the experiment
in a registered place. The animal must be anaesthetised and
killed before recovery if pain was likely to follow. And,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

""
294%

\
.

 

 

(3)

ﬁnally, no such experiments were to be allowed for the

illustration of lectures in medical schools, nor for attaining
manual skill.

How its provisions were nullified.

But certain provisos were added granting special
certiﬁcates to licensees allowing them to experiment before
students if absolutely necessary for their instruction ; also, if
anaesthetics would frustrate the object of an experiment, they
might be dispensed with, and the animal might be kept alive
as long afterwards as necessary until the object should be
attained; and, lastly, ...experiments not necessarily for new
discoveries. but for testing former ones, were to be allowed if
“ absolutely necessary ” for the effectual advancement of such
knowledge. Thus the second part of the Act entirely vitiated
the ﬁrst part, and the position of the vivisector was left
precisely as it was before the Act was passed except for the
restrictions as to licence and place. The fact that cruelty
does exist may be proved for himself by anyone studying a
modern work in physiology or medicine, or examining T he
Journal of Physialogy and other similar publications during
the last thirty years since the Act was passed.

Are not anmsthetics invariably used?

In the actual cutting operations chloroform oraaether or
A.C.E. mixture is generally administered; usually morphia
is also injected, and not infrequently curare. Some very
severe experiments are recorded under morphia alone (which,
although only a narcotic, is nevertheless, for the convenience
of the vivisectors on these occasions, oftentimes called
an anaesthetic). Severe electrical stimulation experiments are
recorded under morphia and curare. The latter drug paralyses
the motor nerves, but leaves the sensory nerves intact. No,
natural respiration can then be carried on, even the muscles
of the larynx being paralysed ; artiﬁcial respiration has to be
kept up, and the animal can give no sign of the torure it may
be passing through. '

It may be urged, however, that at least the morphia will

 




 

(4)

preclude suffering. But, in the ﬁrst place, when an animal is

curarised, it is impossible to be sure that it is under the
V inﬂuence of the morphia; it is apparently lifeless and cannot
respond to pain; in the second place, morphia in itself does
not render the animal insensible to pain; it stupeﬁes it to
some extent and destroys its poWer of resistance. No
surgeon would perform a major operation upon the human
subject under morphia, or there would have been no ground
for the surgeon’s rejoicings when chloroform was discovered,
and we passed from the terrible days of narcotising to those
of aneesthetisation. But there is afurther objection, in that an
overdose of morphia would be dangerous, and very small
doses frequently produce in dogs symptoms of diarrhoea,
vomiting and convulsions, and interfere with experimentation.
Curare obviates the necessity of any too great nicety upon
this point.

Anasthetics andm—after.

So with chloroform and mther. Dogs—the chief animals
used in major investigations—are likely to succumb if the
anaesthetic be pushed to its full extent, unless very great care
is exercised in its administration ; hence morphia is usually,
and curare is not infrequently injected, and “light anaestheti-
sation ” resorted to. The aneesthetisation being for the most
part kept up by mechanical means, and not by the personal
application of a medical attendant. In some cases, such as
Drs. Brodie and Dixon’s experiments on “ bronchial muscles,”
an anaesthetic would interfere with the inquiry into the
reﬂexes. .

When, however, the operative procedure is over, and the
animal lingers on, often for a considerable period, the suffering
and pain at times are very great. This is evidenced in Dr. Rose
Bradford’s experiments on fox—terriers in partial nephrectomy,
and Dr. Walsh’s experiments in excising the pan athyroids of
"cats, and numerous experiments on the brains of monkeys by
various physiological investigatms.

Vivisection in relation to Medicine.

The greater part of experiments in this department,

 

 

 




(5)

numbering many thousands annually, consist of inoculations.
These are frequently compared to a pin-prick, and such
comparison is correct so far as the initial procedure is con-
cerned. In the subsequent history, however, the matter is
not so simple. Dr. Thane, the Home Ofﬁce Inspector, in his
Annual Report for 1901, says : “ The experiment does not
terminate with the injection. . . . The effect may be to
set up a condition of disease accompanied by pain, and the
experimentcontinues until the animal recovers, or dies, or is
killed. . . . In some cases, such as the injection of certain
drugs or of tetanus toxin, the effect produced is without'doubt
painful ; in tuberculosis and standardisation of diphtheria
antitoxin there is some difference of opinion among those
who have had most experience as to whether the effects pro-
duced are attended by pain or not.” -

ls Viviéection a Scientific Method?

This question is answered by the reply of Professor
Starling and other Vivisection experts to questions put by
members of the Royal Commission, namely, that: “The last
experiments must always be on man.” If this be the case,
the ﬁrst experiment calculated to yield a scientiﬁc result must
be a-human one, and all others are of necessity unscientiﬁc.
Moreover, an animal whether anaesthetised or not is invariably
in an abnormal condition which militates against a scientiﬁc
conclusion either physiological or pathological. Further,
there is an obvious difference between a healthy animal

experimented upon in a laboratOry and a sick patient who is

treated in bed; it is an illogical method of studying human
disease. And if there are such marked differences in
idiosyncrasy among human beings themselves, how much
greater and more misleading must be the differences. between
higher and lower animals, and between animals of the same
class and genera, especially where anatomical and physio-
logical constructions are so diverse?

Are the Vivisection results reliable?

To quote men of experience upon this point, Lawson Tait
said: “ Vivisection has done nothing for surgery but lead to

 




 

 

 

 

(6)

horrible bungling.” Sir Wm. Fergussondidi“ not know of any-
thing in the realm of surgery that had been initiated by any
work or experiment on the lower animals.” Sir Chas. Bell,
who discovered the double action of the spinal nerves, declared
“experiments have never been the means of discovery; and a
survey of what has been attempted of late years in physiology
will prove that the opening of living animals has done more
to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the just views taken from
the study of anatomy.” Sir Frederick Treves’s testimony,
which he published in The British Medical Journal in November,
1898, is striking: “ Many years ago I carried out on the
Continent sundry operations upon the intestines of dogs, but
such are the differences between the human and the canine
bowel that when I came to operate upon man I found I was
much hampered by my new experience, that I had everything
to unlearn, and that my experiments had done‘little but unﬁt
me to deal with the human intestine.”

True and false methods of research.

When we come to examine the claims of brain investiga-
tions, no less an authority than Prof. Charcot, of the Salpetriere
Hospital, Paris, has declared: “The only really decisive
data touching the cerebral pathology of man are, in' my
opinion. those developed according to the principles of the
anatomo-clinical method. That method consists in ever
confronting the functional disorders observed during life with
the lesions discovered and carefully located .after death. To
it, I may justly say, we owe whatever deﬁnite knowledge we
have of brain pathology. As for the localisation of certain
cerebral functions, this method is not only the best, but the
only one that can be employed.”

The differences between animals and man are fatal to .
correct conclusions as regards experimental drug testing and
poisons; frequently a drug poisonous to man is inert when
given to an animal, and the action will vary even in different
species of the same class. Moreover, as regards the reliability
of vivisection from a scientiﬁc point of view, conclusions are
largely discounted by the fact that the investigator is limited
to objective signs. He is not qualiﬁed to judge correctly of

 

 

 




(7)

subjective symptoms concerning a creature which cannot
express its feelings in articulate language. This fact probably
accounts for the proverbial contradictions upon practically
every scientiﬁc point which obtains among vivisectors. It is
needless to say anything about the fashionable “ up to date ’.’
' method of treatment yclept serum-therapy, than that whilst
the germ theory of disease upon which it is based is unproved
and far from scientiﬁc, the statistics by which it is sought to
establish its reputation are equally unsatisfactory and still

more unscientiﬁc. The dangers associated with the system are
acknowledged by all.

The Morality of the Question.

That animals—each according to its own class—have
remarkable intelligence, no one will doubt. That they are
equally as sensitive to pain as human beings, none who have
taken the trouble to understand them will deny. In many
cases the sensory nerves of lower animals are far more highly
developed than in human. That these creatures have rights
as belonging to the same creation as ourselves is a fact that
few persons prepared to think for themselves will call in
question. The only argument which can be urged as a ground
for the exploitation of these sentient and sensitive creatures
can be the cowardly one of vicarious suffering—suffering, too,
on behalf of those whose right to demand it consists solely in
the possession of the power of the strong against the weak.

If the practice be not only cruel and misleading, un-
reliable and unscientiﬁc, but also immoral, it is, in my opinion,
the duty of a great and noble profession like that to which I
have the honour to belong to decline to lend its countenance
thereto.

 

 

 

 

BRITISH UNION for the ABOLITION OF VIVISEGTION
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society).
. (FOUNDRESS: FRANCES POWER OOBBE). .
32 GHARING GROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.
President - - DR. WALTER R. HADWBN, M.D., J.P.
Secretary: MISS BEATRIGE E. KIDD.

 

F. J. BROOKE, Printer, 2 Westgate Street, Gloucester. 18086

 

 




n. .

n,‘ ‘9" .y..l“ ,_' “"‘.A'
W,¢,»Q.a;gfvh—x' ?
in“: ' ‘3; "v R. .x«.f’

‘, ., A} 22;”

r“ .

   

 

. -

WW xwvwv‘w 1:232: V
(.-,.~““\~'43 , . "11 x :‘L:

,r.
_‘ 1' =

     
 

 

-ir - N'-
i

 

,ﬁﬂﬁﬁ_-__.

 

READ THE

‘ I 0 iti 0 n i st

THE ORGAN OF THE

BRITISH UNION FOR
ABOLITEON OF VIVISECTION.

c .

m ,;,.. m n».,, . .e. _ 5-, . . "
®3%%viﬁf’ 1.; it: ~ 415: “- :1 ‘ .e u ...I
‘. a .72 w, c «I. 1v - < _ _ A- -’ ,-

 

   

' if $154316le ”ﬁxawkﬁi‘gimw
2‘, , , b": 3 ,A K. ; :- 1: .:: -". .';

- (ax. ‘
“ sﬂnww“.
:‘I ‘7

 

Price 2/6 per annum, post free.

 

 

Orders to be sent to the Secretarym
Miss B. E. KIDD,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

The Bl‘ltlSh Umon
for the Abolition Off V 1wseetlo11

(The British Ants-Vawecetxon ﬁnescty)

 

 

. Forxnnms FRANCES pJ)w ER (303813. 3 '
H033- 8a).. -, _‘ , f I E333. 13332318333333:
WALTER R. HADWEN, 11.1), etc, J. P.-- I The Rev. J SIAATTOA 11. A.

3,,4I . -I 66331233123 3/. MISS B. E. KID-D.

Iv“ Oﬁcm‘ . .3,sCHARIIt.x.ORObb, LONDON, S. .V.

 

 

From the Autobwgraphy of Miss E. P. COBBE. ~

' "To those of myh'eade‘rs who may desire to contribute to the
Ant1=V1visectnon Cause. and who have shared my Views on it as set
forth in my. numb dess pamphlets and letters, and to those specially
who, like myself, intend to bequeath money to carry on the war
against scientific crueliy, I now earnestly say as my final eeunsel:

upport the British Union ”

 

°' in the case of benefactors dé‘s-iring to bequeath Eegacies in Support:
of the Cause, they are respecttullv urged to clearly state in their
“fills, “The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,” and to
make them payable to the Treasurer to:- the time being. ' "

2.33.,

 

Form of Bequest.

I bequeath unto the vsoeIIetyI 01311331 THE BRITISH UNION I
FOR THE ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION the sum of .................. ‘ ....... 3
«free of Legacy 0110!, and I direct that the same shall be paid to
the treasurer for the time being 33f 5.11311 last-mehtioned Society ‘
exclusively out of such part of my personal estate as may legal];

be bequeathed IroIr charitable purposes, Ian‘d in priOrlty to 111! other ‘ ‘

payments. _ a

a“

 

By virtue of the Act of .V ictona, cap. 26,1111 ‘Wills and Cedicils must le in
miting, signed by the Teﬁtator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the
'l‘ostat-or and of each other). .. . 4 ,

' U

. A Donation Of Five 1901111319 and upwards eonstitutes a Life Member.

An Annual Subgcription of Ten Shillings " constitutes an Annual Member. I
" 12632355131331)” byII' 0303:3124 Cheque or fatal 0101333 Smaller Donations gratefully ‘
accepted. 4

An Annual Payment Of" .8. 6d cbnStitutes an AsSociete of the Union. ,

 




 

‘ r‘b'l‘he’; Cult of the V1v:sector .- - . - 4d, '
' ~Some Recent Viwsection Practices in English _

1V ;‘§._2.Vivnsection . its Follies and Crueities‘ and

 

SELECTED ANTI=VIVISELTTON
LITERATURE

 

 

Pamphlets b j Dix. HADWEN J P.

. Per
Doz.

Laboratories " 1,. A - - ' " 1/"
' “1A Medical View of the Vivisecuon Question ._ 9’-

u/

the Way to Fight it - - . - v «- -. 1/-
The Antltoxm Treatment of Diphtheria 1/6 ;

1 E 1 English Viwsectlon Expenmen . A. _ - , 4d.
, _. _ ”f'i‘lThe Humour oi the ViviseCtor 5 s- ' - _ g ﬁd‘
’ ,m'fTuberculosxs and Cow’s Milk ' 4-. " -_l . , 1/...

{54 Was Jenner a Charlatau ? - a -' .. 1/—

Babette between Dr. Hadwen and Mr. Stephen

_ Paget -. " " ‘ " ' 4-1/6
5 ' De. bate between Dr. Hadwen and Dr. Eastham , 1/-

; Correspondence between or. HadWen and Sir ,1 .
, Victor Hot-slay ' - - =- . - ' - 1/-

; Views of Men and Women of NOte on the“ ' . .
Viwsectlon QueStion - ‘-' '- - ‘ 2/“
, ' ‘ ' (Illustrated mth Portraits.) ‘ \
‘ ”in/The Case against Vaccination .. :- -‘ '7 1/"- ‘ '
‘ The Controversv in “The Standar ” =-‘ - 2/3

Per

‘ 100‘ “i

2/-
7/6

‘ 12/6

7/6
10/-
2/3
2/5
7/6
7/6

10/-
7/6;

U116
"12/6
.V ‘ 716 N
V 15/“

 

By Miss FRANCES POWER COBBE.

‘ ”I ' The Bony History of the Antl- Vivisection Movement. .

34f.

 

,. 5'4 Light In Dark Places. , Gratis.

by BEATRlCE E KIDD.

‘ Why- we, Object to :1 Restriction BiIi. 9d. (102., 5/‘- 100-

' “ Aoﬂ- Yivisection Politics. 4d. per 1102., 2/3 per 10;).

k' _‘ Do you [ma/W? ‘ (Illustrated). 44. per «102., 2/3 per 100.
’ .‘_"7-lze Inspector 3 Returns for 1908. 3d. per (102., 2/- per
. T he “I. oilicy of AbOIitIon. I/- per «102.. 7/6 per 100.

100.»

 

j i 4 By Miss A. F. WHITELEY

Some Medical Views of Vivisection. 3.1. each. 2/- doz.

 

, . g}, F J. BROOKE, Printer and Batakbinder, 2 Westgate Street, Gloucestex. 18086" ' V

 

 




