 




THE DOG IN MEDICAL RESEARCH

Revise& Edition
by
Keith S. Grimson, MD.
Chairman, Committee on Revision
Surgery Study Section
Division of Research Grants
National Institutes of Health

US. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Pubiic Health Service

National Institutes of Heaith, Division of Research Grants
1961

 




 

COMMITTEE ON REVISION

Dr. KEITH S. GRIMSON, Professor of Surgery, Duke University,
Chairman

Dr. CARL A. MOYER, Professor Dr. JONATHAN E. RHOADS,
of Surgery, Washing ton Professor of Surgery,
University University of Pennsylvania

 

 

 

SURGERY STUDY SECTION

Dr. TRUMAN G. BLOCKER, Jr., Chairman

Dr. HAROLD B. BOYD ’ Lt. Col. JOHN A. MONCRIEF
Capt. ROBERT B. BROWN 4 Dr. ANDREW G. MORROW
Dr. CHARLES G. CHILD 3d Dr. IVILIAM H. MULLER, Jr.
Dr. KEITH S. GRIMSON Dr. EMANUEL M. PAPPER
Dr. JAMES D. HARDY Dr. HENRY T. RANDALL

Dr. C. IVALTON LILLEHEI Dr. JOHN A. SOHILLING
Dr. CHAMP LYONS C01. DON S. VVENGER

Dr. K. ALVIN MERENDINO
Dr. RAYMOND J. HELVIG, E reoutive Secretary

 

 

Public Health Service Publication No. 312, Revised 1961

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Ofﬁce
Washington 25, D. C. - Price 15 cents

 

 

 




 

 

CONTENTS

Page
Surgery Study Section-_-__-_________-__‘_-____-_; ________ ‘ ______ '_-__ II
Guiding Principles in the Care and Use of Animals __________________ '_ _ _ _ IV
Introductiom-_-____-_--_____________________-___________ni ________ , 1
Sources of Animals_______________-_________-;_, ___________________ 2
Selection for Special Purpose_s____________-______-________.__‘___.'______' 3
Care and Handling_.‘_________-_-_-__-__~____._,___-_______' _________ ‘ 4
Quarters ___________ __ ________________ ‘ ____________________ ‘—¥—,———A~—r—‘-.   6
Feeding_ _________________________________________________ ' ________ _ 9
Humane Treatment of Animals __________________ '-_-; ________________ 10
Appendix A: Organizations Interested in Laboratory Animals ____________ 12

Appendix B: i\’lodel Pound Law _____________________________________ 14

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Guiding Principles in the Care and Use of Animals

Only animals that are lawfully acquired shall be used in this laboratory,
and their retention and use shall be in every case in strict compliance
with state and local laws and regulations.

Animals in the laboratory must receive every consideration for their
bodily comfort; they must be kindly treated, properly fed, and their
surroundings kept in a sanitary condition.

All major operative procedures must be done under general anesthetic;
minor operative procedures may be done under local inﬁltration
anesthesia. If the nature of the study is such as to require that the
animal survive, acceptable technique must be followed throughout the
operation on dogs and cats. If the study does not require survival, the

animal must be killed in a humane manner at the conclusion of the
observations.

The postoperative care of experimental animals shall be such as to
minimize discomfort during convalescence. All conditions must be main-
tained for the animal’s comfort in accordance with the best practices in

small animal hospitals or in accordance with the practices followed in
human medicine and surgery.

When animals are used by students for their education or the advance-
ment of science, such work shall be under the direct supervision of an
experienced teacher or investigator. The rules for the care of such
animals must be the same as for animals used for research—Approved b2!
the Council of the American Physiological Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

INTRODUCTION.

This is the third revision of the brochure, “The Dog in Medical
Research,” published under the sponsorship of the Division of Re-
search Grants, National Institutes of Health. The ﬁrst two editions1
included discussions on the topics of “Annual Research and Medical
Progress” and 011 “Public Under standing of Animal Research,” which
ale omitted in this revision.

The eminent value and usefulness of the dog in medical research,
long known to p1 ofessional investigators, still deserve increased
understanding and appreciation by laymen who are concerned about
the welfare and happiness of both animals and man. To this end, a
brief section on “Humane Treatment of Animals” has been added to
this edition, together with an appended list of organizations interested
in the care of laboratory animals.

This guide has been written primarily for investigators with proj-
ects requiring dogs, including those investigators who are in institu-
tions receiving research grants from the National Institutes of Health,
Public Health Service, Department of Health, Education, and VVel—
fare. With increasing professional and public interest in the care of
research animals, it is hoped that it will be useful to all personnel
responsible for maintenance of facilities for dogs. Details of the
accommodations and of the feeding and care programs for dogs will
vary according to the particular structure and location of each re-
search unit. Facilities in large institutions often are generally more
adequate than 111 small ones. lVith the expansion of research activi-
ties, some lab01 atories have been set up apart from the supervision
of older institutions, and occasionally independent laboratories have
been criticized for their deﬁcient animal care. In all facilities, how-
ever, regardless of size and location, the standards and ethics pre—
sented here should make for constant precautions and continuous
improvement of the conditions under which the dog may continue its
great contribution to medical knowledge.

Achievements in clinical surgery and medicine originating as a
direct result of experiments on dogs are too numerous for complete
leview here. Recent surgical examples are open- -heart operations for
repair of congenital defects, arterial operations for correction of arte-
riosclerotic obstruction of arteries to kidneys or brain, and cancer

1 (a) Supplement 221, Public Health Reports, July 1949; (b) Public Health Service Pub-
lication No. 312 (1953).

 




 

 

 

operations for perfusion of involved areas of the body using concen-
trated drugs. Scientiﬁc reports of current fundamental research
predict progressively greater clinical accomplishments. Nevertheless,
progress toward complete knowledge of the true cause and speciﬁc
treatment of many clinical diseases and disorders such as hypertension
and cancer has been tedious and slow. Maj or achievements have been
delayed by need for new information. The major source of such
information is research, particularly fundamental experiments using
animals. '

From the earliest origins of modern surgery, including anesthesia
and the avoidance of infection by asepsis, up to modern advances in
medicine, surgery, pharmacology, and physiology, research employ-
ing the dog as an experimental animal has occupied a preeminent
place. The dog has a body size, dietary habits, and physiologic func-
tions which make observations pertinent to clinical medicine and
surgery. Many studies on dogs, originally for the purpose of inves—
tigating diseases in man, also have been of assistance to veterinarians
and pet owners in bringing better health and more satisfactory pre-
ventive medicine to the canine species itself.

SOURCES OF ANIMALS

Procedures for purchase and acquisition of dogs by medical
research and educational institutions vary in different States and
communities. In discussing the acquisition of dogs, a repetition of
facts well known to experienced investigators is unavoidable. Gen-
erally there are three sources: (1)- dogs bred and raised speciﬁcally
for experimentation; (2) dogs purchased from dealers or donated
or sold by individual owners; (3) dogs unclaimed and condemned

to die in public pounds and made available through State or municipal
regulations.

( 1) 'VVhen dogs are bred and raised for experimentation, a
speciﬁc type and heredity can be obtained and controlled, and
this source may be necessary or desirable in the selection of dogs
for special research purposes in spite of the fact that it is the most

,\ expensive, and that the supply is limited.

(2) When dogs are purchased, the integrity of dealers, as well
as of individual owners, must be well established. Reputable
dealers obtain their dogs, variously, from pounds, dog wardens,
pet shops, and hunting clubs. Such dealers often keep records
of dogs received and sold, and such records can be examined by
the purchaser. The dog is legally a form of “property” and it is
advisable» to have written transfer of ownership as evidence. In-
stitutions buying dogs in good faith could be embarrassed by the
exposure of a disreputable dealer to public investigation and

 

 

 




 

criticism, even though the institutions themselves are not directly
bl ameworthy Private owners who give or sell dogs for research
should supply evidence of ownership.

(3) In those communities where public ordinances provide
that unclaimed and condemned animals be turned over to insti-
tutions for humane experimentation, the largest source of dogs
is the public pound. Although the seasonal adequacy of supply
and the quality of dogs may vary considerably, use of pound dogs
that would otherwise be destroyed has the advantage of close
cooperation between local public officials and research and teach-
ing institutions. It is legal, practical, and the least expensive
source.

Transportation of dogs requires attention and care. Reputable
dealers avoid mistreatment or close conﬁnement of animals during
delivery, and similar precautions are taken by responsible ofﬁcers of
public pounds. Dogs sold or donated by private individuals should
be transported much as pets are handled. The Institute of Lab-
oratory Animal Resources (see app. A, item 5, p. 30) has printed
recommendations concerning transportation, including such details
as: giving food and water within 2 hours of shipment, and additional
food and water if the journey exceeds 8 hours; providing protection
against heat and cold; caring especially for newly weaned pups; with-
holding the shipment of a female near term; and specifying size of
crates and pens for animals according to weight. Local rules and
regulations for care during transportation, varying in different com-
munities and climate conditions, must be complied with. Regulations
governing admission of animals to each State or between States and
State and Federal health 1equirements can be found in a manual,
“Health Requirements and Regulations Governing the Interstate and
International Movement of Livestock and Poultry,” A..R S. 91- 17,
1959, available th1ough the Agricultural Research Service, U. S. De—
partment of Agriculture, or through the departments of agriculture
of individual States.

For those interested, a model of a “State pound law” is added as
appendix B. The reader 13 also referred to the test of the Oklahoma
pound law as reproduced on pages 61 through 63 of the “Report on
the National Conference on the Legal Environment of. Medical
Science,” 1959, National Society for Medical Research, 920 South
Michigan Boulevard, Chicago 5, Ill.

SELECTION FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

Although different research projects may require dogs Of varying
sizes and breeds, all requiie healthy animals. Some experiments
need dogs of uniform age and bleed raised speciﬁcally fo1 animal

3

 




 

research. Most animals received for experimentation, however, are
mongrels of moderate to large size. In general, long-haired dogs are
least desirable because of such problems as cleanliness and the harbor—
ing of external parasites. However, these animals are satisfactory
for acute experiments which are terminated by overdose of the
anesthetic agent. Occasionally, large breeds are required, as in ex-
periments on coronary arteries. The short—haired breeds or mongrels
of moderate size are preferred for most scientiﬁc studies and are best
for those requiring continuous housing and observation. Only dogs
of a tractable disposition should be considered for long-term experi-
ments. Nevertheless, the needs of various medical research activities
are so diverse that all healthy dogs are likely to be useful.

CARE AND HANDLING

Ideally, institutions using large numbers of animals should employ
professional veterinarians to administer their central animal facilities.
Institutions using comparatively few animals may employ local small—
animal practitioners on a consultant or part-time basis. Some medical
schools have physicians as directors of their animal quarters.
Obviously the relations between physicians and veterinarians should
be close, when dogs are used in research for the advancement of
human health, with practical collaboration in the care and handling
of animals. There should be in each institution a single person, who
may be supported by an animal committee, who is responsible for the
management of animal quarters, for the health and welfare of the
animals, and the designation and enforcement of policy. The grad-
uate animal husbandman, professionally trained in animal sanitation,
feeding, and maintenance, makes an excellent assistant in large animal
colonies.

The importance of good care and handling of dogs cannot be over-
emphasized. Upon receipt, new animals should be isolated from the
rest of the colony and for 10 days placed under observation and
treatment for disease or undernourishment. During this time dogs
may become sick of distemper, intestinal parasites, or other diseases
that were in a developing stage on arrival. The general processing
of new dogs consists of bathing; clipping when necessary; treatment
of any external or internal parasites; and vaccination against dis-
temper, rabies, or both, according to the policy established by the
professional administrator of the animal facilities. Veterinarians
usually insist that a healthy colony of animals cannot be maintained
unless distemper immunization is routine.

New dogs not in good health are usually not suitable for research,
except for certain acute nonrecovery experiments, or when the
investigator wishes to study the disease the dog has acquired
naturally—for example, certain types of cancer. The suffering of

4




chronically sick animals, combined with thedanger. of infecting other
dogs, the risk to the handler, and the cost of long-term housingand
drugs, often necessitate their early sacriﬁce, preferably by an over-
dose of an anesthetic agent. A '

Any animal that has symptoms of rabies, or that has bitten a human
being, should be isolated and observed fOr at least 10 days; if it has
rabies it will die by that time. It is usual practice‘that the brain shOuld
then be examined for Negri bodies, but failure to ﬁnd them does not
exclude the possible presence of rabies virus. If a person has been
bitten, it is generally advised that a portion of the brain (but not that
used for Negri body examination) should be frozen and saved for
animal inoculation. Routine vaccination of animals against rabies
would be a good policy. .

Dipping dogs in a bath made of a solution of insecticidal and ascari-
cidal chemicals is usually performed with new animals, butit may
also be necessary later when they are in the colony. Unexplained
eczematous conditions should be diagnosed ﬁrst, however, because
some do not respond favorably to dipping in insecticidal solutions.
Bathing dogs otherwise is usually an individual procedure, varying
according to the type, and to whether or not they are used in long—term
projects.

Prophylactic use of agents for treatment of tapeworms, roundworms,
or whipworms should be left to the judgment of the professional
director. The treatment of worms should begin with diagnosis and
control, because periodic worming may interfere with experiments.
Close coordination, here as elsewhere, between the colony supervisor
and the investigator is most desirable. For example, routine worming
of dogs with liver dysfunction, making use of carbon tetrachloride, or
worming of animals with intestinal anastomosis, making use of
arecoline, might be disastrous. If pens or runways are used, routine
prophylaxis is a good colonywide practice, because intestinal parasites
can spread readily, especially in community exercise areas or in run.-
ways used for several dogs. Inquiries for additional information on
worming, or for the address of a certiﬁed consultant, should be sent to
the American Board of Laboratory Animal Medicine. (See app. A.)

Antibiotics, chemotherapeutic agents, and other drugs used in veter-
inary medicine are essentially similar in compositon and action to those
used for man. The generic or chemical names are identiﬁable, al-
though the pharmaceutical industry occasionally uses different trade
names for veterinary supply. The dose of drugs used for dogs varies
widely from that used in man because of the differences in weight. In
general, however, the per kilogram doses are much the same. .

Tumors, hypertension, heart disease, degenerative processes w1th
aging, infectious diseases, and many other disorders occurring in dogs

592915—61—2

 

 




 

 

make them appropriate for use in the investigation of the cause and
treatment of theseconditions in man.

* QUARTERS

On the question of what kind of housing (including size, location,
and construction materials) is best for dogs used in research, there
are many viewpoints. Problems of cost; efﬁcient utilization of build-
ing and ground space; proximity to surgical and laboratory facilities;
physical comfort and medical welfare of the animals; relation to
the neighboring human community—all are factors which must be
considered. But each of these is usually also the particular interest
of the persons who combine to administer, perform, service, support,
or do research. These and other attendant problems may be rec-
ognized by all, but each topic naturally seems to be more important
than the others to individual members of the research organization,
according to their responsibilities.

Medical research and educational institutions have, whenever pos-
sible, centralized their facilities for animal care. Remotely located
buildings often are inefﬁcient, and plans for animal quarters should
usually avoid distant “dog farms” and isolated buildings which re-
quire duplication of operating rooms and laboratories.

Dog quarters, within or adjoining the research center, should be
of ﬁre—resistant, sanitary construction. Floors and walls of water-
proof, hard surface, smooth concrete, or tile or terrazzo, with ample
drainage, are most desirable. Wooden partitions and platforms are
difﬁcult to maintain and disinfect. The use of masonry or metal
building materials, and heavy screening of all ground ﬂoor open-
ings, are necessary precautions against rodents. When cages are
used, concrete or metal shelving under each tier is desirable.

Dog quarters should have as much fresh-air ventilation as human
quarters. A central ventilating system with ﬁlters to prevent spread
of odors or contamination is ideal, but from a practical point of
view the use of exhaust fans is usually adequate. In some hot cli-
mates air conditioning may be helpful during the summer months, ,
particularly in surgical. recovery areas. Generally, dogs tolerate hot
weather well and, if indoor—outdoor runways are available, air con-
ditioning usually is not used.

Good lighting is necessary for proper observation of animals and
for the inspection of sanitary conditions. Daylight can be provided
by ample window space, skylights, or glass brick. All window open-
lngs, doors, and ventilation openings should be carefully screened
against ﬂies and insects. Electric illumination to supplement or re-
place daylight should be ample and well placed so that the dogs
and conditions in their quarters can be conveniently watched.

6

 




 

Central heating with correct distribution is necessary in dog quar-
ters - in most climates. Separate thermostat controls for different
areas is desirable, and is necessary in rooms where dogs’are recover-
ing from surgery. Electrically heated floor pads are also available
for use in cages in recovery areas if desired. - ,

Within the animal quarters, dogs are kept 1n cages or pens, With or
without adjacent runways. The merits of cages versus pens with
runways have been the subject of considerable discussion by admin-
istrators, investigators, veterinarians, and members of animal welfare
societies. The arguments for cages without runways stress the eco-
nomical conversion of existing buildings into animals quarters, avoid-
ing expensive new construction with outside runways; the economy
in space and maintenance, especially when cages are arranged in two
or more tiers; convenient accessibility for cleaning and observation;
and individual occupancy, preventing ﬁghting and providing isola-
tion from infection.

The arguments for runways, preferably outside, accessible to inside
cages or pens, stress the beneﬁts to the dog in comfort and freedom
for exercise. It is claimed that dogs get insufﬁcient exercise in cages
“only slightly larger than their bodies”; that in communal runways
ﬁghting can be avoided by the grouping of dogs of similar size and
sex, and of agreeable disposition; that healthy dogs will not be in-
fected if good colony sanitation is maintained and the dogs properly
vaccinated; that the noise of barking in pens and runways can be
controlled; 2 and that the expense of providing runways, whether com-
munal, small group, or individual, is increasingly overcome through
public support by larger funds for research construction in appropri-
ations, grants, donations, and ﬁnancial assistance from animal welé
fare. societies.

There is agreement that cages should be used for the short-term
holding of dogs, for the isolation of sick dogs, for surgical recovery
cases, and for pregnant dogs near the time of their delivery. In
these and any other uses of cages, dogs must be caged individually,
and they must be able to move and turn around freely, and to stand
or lie in a natural position. The use of rustproof metal cages of
adequate size for single animals (and larger size for pregnant bdogs)
arranged on metal stands or concrete shelves has proved efﬁcient.
The floor of cages should be of rustproof, heavy gage, closely woven
wire mesh or a suitable expanded or perforated metal to permit feces
and urine to drop through and thus prevent the animal’s contamina-
tion with his own excrement. It should be free of roughness that
might cause the animal discomfort. A dropping pan should be
placed underneath. The use of bedding 1S to be avoided except for

3 Constructive recommendations on this problem are given in several of the publications
listed at the end of this chapter.

 




 

pregnant females; 2 weeks before Whelping, suitable bedding of very
coarse shavings or newspapers should be provided and routinely
changed every day. ' ‘ . -
Runways and pens are of two types: one is a large area fOr several
or many dogs, called a community runway or pen; the other 1s small
and 1s used for only one dog or two cempatible dogs. Some scientists
prefer the Outdoor runway rather than one located indoors. Others
emphasize that weathering and deterioration of outside concrete floors
and saturatiOn by excreta create a difﬁcult sanitation and maintenance
problem, particularly 1n multistoried buildings. Availability of at
least some runways or exemise pens, preferably units continuously
occupied by only one or two dogs, is helpful for experiments requiring
controlled exercise, the comparison of littermate puppies, study of
infectious diseases, and for certain dietary and behavioral programs.
A statement from the Animal Welfare Institute isof interest here:
Inside kennels connecting with individual outside runways provide the best
housing for laboratory dogs. Such kennel—runway units may be used for one
dog, two compatible dogs, or a litter. They may vary in size from 4— by 6-foot
inside with 4- by 10-foot outside runways to the type provided at. the animal
hospital of the National Institutes of Health where runways measure 25 feet
in length, Some laboratories use communal runways, but this requires more
labor both in cleaning to keep the ﬂoor free of parasites, fungi, and bacteria,
and in supervision to avoid dogﬁghts. Should there be a communicable disease
in the colony, its spread would be facilitated by direct contact of sick and well
animals. For these reasons, individual runways or runways shared by a deﬁ-
nitely limited small number of dogs, are greatly to be preferred?
Sanitation ,must be the prime requirement of animal quarters; it
is essential regardless of the age or degree of modernization of facili-
ties. In all matters relating to quarters, the problem of cleanliness is
a constant factor. All floors of the area, including subﬂoors or drop-
ping trays where they are used, must be cleaned every day. Com—
munity pens or exercise areas used alternately by groups of dogs
should be hosed after each group. The sidewalls of cages, pens, and
runways must be cleaned at least once each week—preferably more
frequently. An outlet for a pressure hose supplying hot water or
steam is a necessary utility. Commercial tank spray units may be
used for detergents, insecticides, or antiseptics. Chlordane, benzene,
hexachloride, malathion, and DDT are some of the effective agents
for control or elimination of ﬂies, lice, cockroaches, ﬂeas, and ticks.
Of course, extra cages or pens must be available for the animals
during the cleaning of their units. An incinerator, installed adjacent
to the dog quarters, is an effective means for the disposal of all waste,
droppings, unused food, and cadavers.
For additional information concerning quarters for animals, the
following publications should be consulted .

3Personal communication from Mrs. Christine Stevens, president.

 

 

 




 

 

Canine Medicine, 2d edition, 1959, American Veterinary Publications, Inc,
Santa Barbara, Calif.
Planning 170777 Animal Hospital, 1956, American Animal Hospital Association,
Elkha1 t, 111.
Proceed-77798 of the Animal Care Panel, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont,
111.: ' '
Nutrition of Label atory Dogs, Robeit Uda1,4.5——16 (1953).
Dog Cages in the Research Laboratory, N R. Brewer, 4: 189—191 (1953).
Problems in the Construction of an Animal Quarters in Suburban. and
Rural Areas, R. J. Flynn, 3: 47—63 (1952).
Some Problems in Animal Quarter Construction in Urban Areas N. R.
B1 ewei 3. 64—69 (1952).
A 7Breeding Pro-gram for Laboratory Dogs, F. S. RRobscheit-Robbins, 3:
77 (1952).

, FEEDING

Laboratmy dogs require a nutritionally adequate diet which should
also have appetite appeal. Since the dog is a carnivore and protein
is the most important constituent of its diet, a Considerable portion
should be of animal origin. This can be supplied by the addition "of
meat or meat products eggs, and fish to other foods which may be
used. 7

There is a Wide variety of commercially prepared dogfoods. TheSe
are in the form of biscuit, meal, and moist canned foods. Not all of
these, however, are nutritionally adequate, and most of them must
be supplemented with meat and other products. The dried biscuit
and meal forms are most widely used, and they can be conveniently
prepared in any quantity. Although the moist canned foods are
generally more palatable, they are not necessarily more adequate
nutritionally than preperly prepared dried foods. To raise protein
levels, these commercially prepared foods are supplemented with
horsemeat, horse and pig livers, and skimmed milk. The addition
of animal fat is desirable for the health of the dog’s skin.

With the exception of vitamin C, the vitamin requirements of dogs
resemble those of human beings. Estimates of a dog’s daily vitamin
needs are as follows: _ _ ,

Vitamin A—-—70 to 80 international units per kilogram of body weight.

Vitamin B1 (thiamin chloride)———5 to 10 international units per kilogram of
body weight for mature dogs, and up to three times this amount during
rapid growth.

Vitamin B2—25 micrograms per kilogram of body weight.

Nicotinic acid—0.2 microgram per kilogram of body weight for prevention of
canine black tongue, and 0.5 microgram as a curative for this condition.

Vitamin Ba—Requirement about 0.2 milligram per kilogram 0f body weight.

Vitamin C—No speciﬁc requirement for healthy dogs.

Vitamin D—Requirements variable. Average is 1. 5 to 2 international units
.per kilogram of body weight for mature dogs; 20 to 25 units during rapid
growth.

Vitamin E—The ordinary balanced ration contains a sufﬁcient amount of this
vitamin. Need is estimated at 1 to 5 milligrams.

 

 




 

 

It is seldom necessary to supplement a good animal diet by adding any
of these vitamins.

Some additional pertinent items concerning feeding are here brieﬂy
mentioned:

Although the energy requi1e1nent for the dog is often estimated
at 80 calories pe1 kilogram of body weight, no simple relation be-
ta een energy requirement and body Weight exists. ,

Dogs that have had surgical operations reQuire additional protein,
and those depleted of protein need considerably more than a normal
animal.

Liv er and horsemeat must not be overcooked. Ten minutes of
cooking 1s sufﬁcient for 2-inch cubes.

Soybean meal is rich in protein and is a good food supplement
when additional vegetable protein is needed. .

_ Obviously, food should be fres11 at'each feeding. Any food not
eaten should be discarded When cages or pens are cleaned, and the
food dish routinely washed.

The recommendations on feeding are not to be interpreted as pro—
scribing the use of dogs in nutrition studies for which this animal
may have special suitability. These will be few, since other species
are commonly employed in nutrition studies.

HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS

“ Public understanding and appreciation of the need for animal
eXperimentation has improved considerably in recent years. Scien—
tiﬁc discussions, reports and articles in professional journals, inter-
preted in popular magazines and newspapers "by medical scie11ce
’1V1iters, have inc1 eased public knoWIedge of the value of such experi—
men ts in the prevention and owe cf human disease.

Both the layman and the medical investigator are inter ested in
improving human health, yet neither 1s indifferent to the principles
Of humane treatment for animals. The preper experimental use of
dogs and other animals is now accepted by the majority of the public.
. Scientiﬁc investigators should remember that the layman is not
always aware of the standard ’ procedures for humane treatment of
. animals—procedures that they "and their scientiﬁc colleagues take for
granted. Medical journals and biological journals, scientiﬁc exhibits
and other scientiﬁc information are often examined with interest by
the public, and texts and illust1ations may be reproduced in popular
magazines and newspapers as samples of current medical research.
Omission of such ordinary information as the fact that the experi-
mental animals shown, or described, were anesthetized, might lead
to serious misunderstanding 011 the part of the uninformed. More-
over, descriptions of scientiﬁc and surgical procedures omitting thIS
information may in good faith then be lifted out of cOntext by the

10

 

 




 

 

 

uninformed and quoted as “inhumane” treatment of experimental
animals.

It is highly important that the public have a true and undistorted
image of the medical scientist at work and a correct picture of the
actual treatment of animals, particularly dogs, used in research in
universities, medical schools, hospitals, and other research institutions.
A distorted image is not only possible, but may be more widely held
than the scientist realizes. At best the distortion pictures him as an
odd character, singleminded in his devotion to his science, and devoid
of ordinary warmth of feeling; at its worst the medical scientist is
pictured as careless of life, merciless, routinely inﬂicting pain and
indifferent to or even enjoying an animal’s suffering. Many people,
accordingly, although aware of their own and society’s debt to medical
research, neverthless have nothing but anxiety when they contemplate
the use of animals of any species, particularly dogs, in medical
research. The concern of humane societies, animal welfare, and other
groups with experimental procedures in medical research is well
known. The anxiety is fed by the occasional irresponsible charge of
cruelty or wanton neglect that may ﬁnd a place in the pages of some
newspaper or magazine. The strictly factual account of the same
incident that appears later in some professional journal or in the
Bulletin for Medical Research, folloWing careful investigation, has
little or no “news” interest .and nevercatches up with the distortion.
This concern would appear to be the direct result of acceptance,
surely in most instanCes in good faith, of the distorted picture as the
true image of the medical scientist

The persistence of the misshapen picture of the medical investigator
and his work is a threat to the further advance of medical science
itself. No beneﬁcent activity is secure in public support when any
considerable segment of society looks upon it as innately cruel. In
the public interest, therefore, it seems most important that eﬂective
measures be taken to acquaint the general public With the medical
scientist as he really is and with medical research as it really is con-
ducted. ,Any such effort will require that the scientist—each scien-
tist—take time from his work to approach and be known by the lead-
ing citizens in his community who have a sincere and constructive
interest in further progress toward the control and ultimate conquest
of disease. It also requires that the same citizens, as a public duty,
take the time to make occasional visits to the laboratories and animal
quarters of institutions where medical research is conducted. These
individuals will be able to make their own observation of conditions
in these facilities. It should be evident immediately that animals are
given good treatment. The modern equipment in the, laboratories,
and the design and cleanliness of dog and other animal quarters will
be noticed, and the fact that sedatives and anesthetics are used will

11

 

 




 

 

 

be observed. Humane care beyond the completion of the experiment,
including the autopsy and subsequent removal and disposal of the
animals, should also be evident. A tour of such a facility should
make it clear to any unprejudiced layman or group of individuals
that the scientists at work in universities, laboratories, and institutions
are treating the experimental animals humanely.

If the general public is adequately informed about the necessity
for, and the actual treatment of, experimental animals, it will surely
not allow unsound restrictive regulations against medical research.
But investigators must assume part of the responsibility for in-
forming the public. They must make the true information available
to the uncommitted layman, or they may ﬁnd that those few who
oppose animal experimentation have won the battle by default.

APPENDIX Ari—ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED IN
LABORATORY ANIMALS

From the numerous organizations, panels, or committees, function—
ing in the ﬁeld of animal care, the following have been selected so that
interested persons may request from them printed materials or more
detailed information concerning their operation.

A. UNITED STATES

1. American Board of Laboratory Animal Medicine, Argonne National Labora-
tory, Lemont, 111. A specialty board of veterinarians which encourages
education, training, and research in the medical care of laboratory animals,
and sets standards of training for specialists in this ﬁeld.

2. American Physiological Society, Committee on the Use and Care of Animals,
9650 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda 14, Md. It is concerned with the wel-
fare and use of experimental animals in education and in the advance-
ment of science. Publishes a leaﬂet, “Guiding Principles in the Care and
Use of Animals.”

3. Animal Care Panel, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, I11. Collects
and distributes information on the care of laboratory animals. Holds
national meetings and publishes quarterly “The Proceedings of the Animal
Care Panel.” Membership and participation in its conventions are open
to all interested individuals and groups.

4. Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N.Y. A non—
professional organization with wide interests in the welfare of wild and
domestic mammals and birds. Publishes “Information Report” describing
topics of general interest, frequently criticizing treatment of animals in
industry, education, and research. Prepares a looseleaf manual, “Com-
fortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” and issues a pamphlet, “Basic
Care of Experimental Animals.”

5. Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources of the National Academy Of
Sciences-National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, NW»
Washington 25, DC. Broadly interested in the quality and quantity
of laboratory animals, and sets standards for their production, manage-
ment, and care. Issues information on supply, utilization, and suit-

12

 

 




 

ability of animals. A quarterly newsletter, “Information on Laboratory
Animals for Research,” contains technical notes, lists of available pub-
lications, articles on special topics, and news items about organizations
in this ﬁeld. An animal supply list, “Animals for Research: a Cata-
logue of Commercial Sources,” is published each April. It maintains ad-
visory services to organizations which provide teaching courses for
animal caretakers and investigators, a register of commercial suppliers
of experimental animals, and a continuing inventory of surplus labora-
tory animal production. Thirteen committees on special aspects of its
program serve the Institute.

6. National Society for Medical Research, 920 South Michigan Boulevard,
Chicago 5, Ill. Founded by well-recognized scientists to improve public
understanding of the principles, methods, and needs of the biological
and medical sciences. In May 1959 it sponsored a national conference
on the legal environment of medical science; its “Report” is available
in a 114-page book.

7. 'WARDS (Welfare of Animals used for Research in Drugs and Surgery),
2225 Observatory Place, NW., Washington 7, DC. A lay organization
with a few professional members, it is primarily interested in research
animals and “the relief of their suffering and distress.” It emphasizes
improvement of quarters and care of dogs used in medical research, issues
pamphlets on medical advances through experiments on animals, appeals
for funds to aid institutions in the construction of improved quarters
with runways, and encourages legislative efforts toward establishing
standards of care and restrictions of use.

B. BRITISH AND INTERNATIONAL

8. Animal Technicians Association, address c/o Laboratory Animals Centre
(see item 10 below). An organization composed of animal colony su-
pervisors and caretakers for the development and maintenance of stand-
ards for the care of research animals. It establishes various grades
for animal technicians, gives training courses, administers qualifying
examinations for grade advancement, and issues certiﬁcates of achieve-
ment. It sponsors an annual congress at which technical and semi-
scientiﬁc papers are presented by caretakers. Publishes a bulletin,
“Journal of the Animal Technicians Association.”

9. International Committee on Laboratory Animals, address c/o Laboratory
Animals Centre (see item 10 below). An independent organization sup-
ported ﬁnancially by UNESCO, the Council for International Organiza-
tions of Medical Sciences (CIOMS), the International Union of Bio-
logical Sciences (IUPS). It was instrumental in most major countries
in having surveys made on the production and utilization of laboratory
animals, and sponsored an international symposium, “Living Animal
Material for Biological Research,” at Gif-sur-Yvette, France, in 1958.

10. Laboratory Animals Centre, Woodmansterne Road, Carshalton, Surrey,
England. Founded in 1947 as the Laboratory Animals Bureau, a com-
ponent of the Medical Research Council of Great Britain, it acts as
clearinghouse for information about laboratory animals in the United
Kingdom. It issues a newsletter and other releases; sponsors an an-
nual scientiﬁc congress; operates an accreditation program for com-
mercial breeders; and represents the United Kingdom at international
meetings. It also maintains animal colonies on which research in pro-
duction and management is performed.

13

 

 




 

 

 

 

11.11716 Univeisities Fedciation fm Animal Welfare, 7a Lamb’s Conduit
Passage, London W..C 1, England The many ofﬁcers of this federa-
tion include laymen, physicians, veterinarians, and representatives of
branches in British universities. Organized to promote humane treat-
mentvof wild and domestic animals in Britain and abroad, its diverse
membership includes antivivisectionists and animal researchers. It has
played an important role in several actions of Parliament. It is ac—
tively interested in laws limiting animal experimentation. Issued its
handbook, “The Care and Management of Laboratory Animals ” in 1947

11 i and subsequently published other items. (m 0N1 4.44% / L7 5 7 )

APPENDIX B.-—MODEI. POUND LAW

In a previous edition of this publication, a model of a State
pound law, embodying typical provisions of laws already established
in various States, was printed. It is reprinted here, with a
few modiﬁcations, for its value 111 suogesting the procedures and con-
ditions under which States or communities may act to make dogs
available for research. City ordinances have followed the same gen-
eral format, employing provisions such as those in section 4 to apply
to the local pound, and subStituting where appropriate the words
“City Board of Health” and “City Health Ofﬁcer” for the correspond—

i110 State ofﬁcials, if inspection and ceitiﬁcation of the institution a1e
provided.

MODELSTATE (OR CITY) POUND LAW

SECTION 1 .—As used in this Act (a) “Institution” means any school or college
of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, vete1ina1y medicine or ag1icultu1e, medical
diagnostic labmatory, hospital, 01 other educational 01 scientiﬁc establishment
having to do with the investigation of 01 i11st1uction conce1ning the structuie
or functions of living organisms, the causes, p1evention, control or cu1e of
diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings or animals. (b) “Public DOUHd”
means any place used by a city 01 the State, or under contract therewith, for the
detention or keeping of unclaimed 01 stray animals.

SEC. 2.——An institution requiring for the effective cariying out of its scien-
tiﬁc or educational activities the use of live dogs and cats may apply to the State
Board of Health for a license to obtain animals from the establishment main-
tained and operated by public funds, or unde1 contract with any public
instrumentality, for the conﬁnement, care and disposal of animals seized by
public authority commonly called the‘ dog pound.” If the State Board of Health
ﬁnds that the institution, by reason of its ethical standards, its personnel, its
facilities and the uses it proposes to make of animals, is a ﬁt and propel agency
to 1eceive a license, and that the public interest 11 ould be served by the iSSHEIDCe
of a license to the institution, it shall issue a license to the institution, subject to
the restrictions and limitations hereinafte1 p1 ovided.

SEC. 3.——A license shall expire annually on (date), but may be renewed
annually from year to year on application to the State Board of Health and 011
compliance with the conditions requi1 ed 11 ith 1espect of the original issuance of
the license.

SEC. 4.~—It shall be the duty of the pound supervisor to deliver from among
the available impounded animals on the demand of an institution possessing a

14

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

license, such number of animals as the institution may select: Provided, how--
ever, That such animals shall have been impounded at least 3 days and remained
unclaimed and unredeemed by their owners or by any other persons desiring the
animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees and the reasonable
expenses incurred in the dog’s detention. If a request is made on a. pound super-
visor for a greater number of dogs than he has available for release to the
institution, he shall withhold thereafter from execution all unclaimed and
unredeemed dogs until the demand has been met.

SEC. 5.——The licensed institution shall provide for the transportation of dogs
from the pound, and may use them only in the conduct of its scientiﬁc or
educational activities.

SEC. 6.——An institution shall at its own expense return to the appropriate dog
pound any available dog delivered to it which is identiﬁed and claimed by its
owner before it has been used in experiment: Provided, however, That no insti-
tution shall be liable to the owner for any injury or illness or subsequent death
of any such animal, resulting from the transportation and detention of the
dog or its proper use in scientiﬁc or educational activities.

SEC. 7 .—The State Board of Health, after notice and a reasonable opportunity
to defend, may revoke the license granted an institution (1) if the institution
has violated any provision of the Act or any rule or regulation promulgated by
the State Board of Health pursuant hereto; (2) if the standards, personnel,
facilities, practices, or activities of the institution are such that the continued
exercise of the rights conferred by the license issued to the institution is not in
the public interest.

SEC. 8.-——Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the right of an institu-
tion to obtain dogs from sources other than dog pounds.

SEC. 9.———The State Board of Health shall have the power to adopt such rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the State, as it may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this Act. The Commissioner of
Health shall have the right whenever he deems advisable to inspect or investi-
gate any institution which has been granted a license or which has applied for
a license.

SEC. 10.———This Act shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect its general
purpose to make available to qualiﬁed institutions for the purpose of scientiﬁc
investigation, experiment, or instruction unclaimed and unredeemed animals
impounded in dog pounds.

The passage of such a law as the foregoing may require considerable
preparation and discussion in some areas. Assistance and advice may
be requested from the National Society for Medical Research. (See

app. A.)

15

“.5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: I961

 

 

 




 




THE LABORATORY ~
ANIMALS BILL

To Provide for Humane Treatment

of Animals Used for Research

This is a bill designed to prevent unnecese.
sary cruelty to animals in research institutions "
receiving Federal grants, and in agencies. of
the United States government, without ham”-
pering medical research.

Some research institutions treat laboratory
animals humanely. In many others, abuses of
the kinds outlined below are to be found. Why.
should not all research institutions be obliged
to conform to the high standards set by leaders ‘
in the ﬁeld, here and abroad? ""

UNNECESSARY SUFFERING FOR
LABORATORY ANIMALS

(The following ahurer are typical of research
institution; which do not make adequate pro?
visions for the humane treatment of animals;
however, no one institution combine: them all.)

HOW IS NBEDLESS MISERY CAUSED
TO ANIMALS THROUGH NEGLIGENCE?

Imanitary conditions are a cause. Caretakers
do not keep quarters clean, sometimes through
neglect, and sometimes because faulty drainage
and lack of ventilation create sanitation diﬂi-
culties. Among other vermin, roaches multiply.

No veterinary care is available in many institu-
tions when epidemics of virus diseases, mange,
ﬂeas and worms sweep these insanitary animal
quarters. Sick and healthy animals are not
segregated; dead animals are not promptly re-
moved. Incisions become infected or begin to
bleed; stitches work loose opening the wound,
and in some cases, the body cavity; organs fall
out; and there is no post-operative care.

Callous mirhana’ling is widespread. For in-
stance, attendants hose down small cages
without removing the dogs; sick dogs are
drenched with cold water.

Malnutrition is seen widely; in certain cases,
feeding and watering are so irregular that ani-
mals have died of thirst.

WHY DOES THIS NEGLIGENCE EXIST?

In some institutions, administrators fail to
appropriate sufﬁcient funds and space for ani-
mal quarters. The low pay for the post of ani-
mal caretaker results in a large turnover of un-

 

 

 




 

skilled labor; untrained and indifferent work-
ers are left without any incentive to perform
their duties conscientiously. Many research
workers refuse to take responsibility for the
care of their animals, and do not accord even
the most cursory supervision to the caretakers;
others attempt to supervise, but are unable to
get any cooperation from the kind of personnel
they have to deal with.

HOW DOES THE UNREALISTIC
DESIGN OF ANIMAL QUARTERS
CONTRIBUTE TO SUFFERING?

Equipment at least ﬁfty years out of date is
perpetuated even in new buildings; no pro-
vision is made for some of the most basic needs
of animals, rest and exercise.

Lack of space: Animals are kept in cages so
small as to prevent them from standing erect
or stretching out. For periods as long as seven
years, healthy dogs are housed in metal mesh
cages so small that they can only exercise by
spinning around in a circle.

Lack of a resting place: Animals are forced
to sleep on metal mesh, without resting boards
or bedding. When mesh is not used, cold slop-
ing metal ﬂoors or sodden concrete may make
beds for sick animals.

Poor ventilation ana’ temperature control: Ex-
cessive heat or cold, depending on the climate,
and an overpowering stench characterize some
animal quarters.

HOW IS UNNECESSARY SUFFERING
INFLICTED ON ANIMALS DURING
EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE?

1. Adequate use is not always made of anes—
thesia. For surgical operations, muscle relax-
ants, such as curare and its derivatives, are
sometimes used to immobilize animals and are
not always. used in conjunction with sufﬁcient
anesthesia. Sedation is virtually never used to
alleviate post-operative suffering. It is worth
noting that (although this may in some cases
be justiﬁable) in experiments in many ﬁelds,
such as the study of shock, severe pain is in-
ﬂicted without the beneﬁt of an anesthetic.

2. Animals are not always killed at the ter-
mination of experiments even though they are
suffering severely; they are left to die.

3. Experiments involving the inﬂiction of
severe pain on unlimited numbers of animals
are undertaken by insufﬁciently qualiﬁed re-
searchers, and by students.

4. Experiments are sometimes designed

 

without regard to the suffering they may cause.
WHY IS THERE A NEED FOR SOME
REGULATION OF THE AMOUNT OF
SUFFERING WHICH MAY BE CAUSED
IN EXPERIMENTS ON LABORATORY
ANIMALS?

Responsible scientists plan their experiments
so as to inﬂict the least possible pain on the
smallest possible number of animals; further,
before deciding to perform an experiment,
they objectively weigh the value of the knowl-
edge to be gained against the suffering to be
caused. Such scientists have their own codes of
ethics, and it is not for them that regulation
is needed. As a leading British medical pe-
riodical, The Lancet, commented, (May 31,
1952), ”There is every reason to suppose that
individual research workers in America impose
upon themselves a code of humane regard for
animals. . . . Regulations are designed not for
the well-doers, however, but for the aberrant;
and, mankind being what it is, these are as
likely to be found among research scientists as
any other group.”

A SUMMARY OF THE CHIEF
FEATURES OF THIS BILL

1. No research grant may be made by the
Federal government to any person using live
vertebrate animals in research unless that per-
son has obtained a Certiﬁcate of Compliance
with the Act.

2. In order to obtain a Certiﬁcate of Com-
pliance, each researcher must agree to see that
his animals are given adequate care and hous-
ing, and are not subjected to unnecessary pain
and fear.

3. The researcher must submit a PIOIECt’
plan of his experiments to the Secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare.

4. Inspectors from the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare must be given
access to laboratories and animal quarters at
any time; researchers who are not complying
with the Act may have their Certiﬁcate of Com-
pliance suspended or revoked by the Secretary.

5. Laboratories of United States government
agencies must adhere to the same standards as
Federal grantees.

ANSWERS TO SOME QUESTIONS
OFTEN ASKED ABOUT THE BILL

WHY WOULD FEDERAL LEGISLATION
DEAL WITH THIS PROBLEM MORE
EFFECTIVELY THAN STATE
LEGISLATION ?

SatisfactOry administration of this bill would
require top-level inspectors of great integrity,

'A A A AH




preferably doctors of medicine, and an advisory
committee to the Secretary composed of men
of science qualiﬁed to judge whether certain
controversial project-plans _were admissible.
Such administration would place too great a
strain on state governments.

IS REGULATION OF THE KIND OUT-
LINED IN THIS BILL PRACTICABLE?

Regulation of a similar kind has been in
effect in Great Britain since 1876, and is
accepted by the scientiﬁc community there.
British research is in the front rank—from the
development of vaccination against smallpox
to the discovery of penicillin, British biologists
have contributed far more than their share to
the world’s life-saving research discoveries. Ten
Nobel Prizes for Physiology and Medicine
awarded to British research workers indicate
the scope and quality of British scientiﬁc work
under the Act.

WHAT IS THE HISTORY
OF THE BRITISH ACT?

The British Act was a sequel to a petition
to the government signed by Charles Darwin,
Thomas Huxley, Edward Jenner, Sir Richard
Owen, The President of the Royal College of
Surgeons, the President of the Royal College
of Physicians, and other leaders of science and
medicine. It was presented in conjunction with
reports from the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, and from the British
Medical Association, recommending legislation
which should embody the following principles:
that no avoidable pain should be inﬂicted in
the laboratory, that experiments involving suf-
fering should not be used for teaching pur-
poses, that painful experiments should not be
repeated once the results had been validated,
and that such experiments should only be car-
ried out in properly equipped laboratories. A
Royal Commission was appointed to study the
question, and in 1876, legislation was passed.
- The British Act differs from this bill in that
it is a criminal statute; however, since 1876,
there has never been a prosecution under the
Act. This is due to the cooperation of the
British scientiﬁc community.

The administration of the Act has been per-
fected over the years. The inspectorate has the
respect of research scientists. The consideration
and approval of certiﬁcates and the notiﬁca-
tlon of the scientist of the decision on his ap-
plication usually take about ten days. Appli-
cations of a controversial nature are judged by
an advisory committee of distinguished scien-
tlSts. An able and senior scientist may be li-
censed to perform a drastic experiment which

 




 

a poorly qualiﬁed applicant would not be per-
mitted to undertake.
IS ALL MEDICAL RESEARCH AIMED AT '
THE IDEAL OF SAVING HUMAN LIFE?
According to Life magazine, February 15,
1960, “Many doctors and professors of med-
icine dispute the value of much of the research
conducted by drug companies. Dr. Frederick
H. Meyers, Associate Professor of Pharmacol-
ogy at the University of California, bluntly
labels it ‘me-too research—the quest for patent-
able variations on things which are already
selling well.’ He adds: ‘Extraordinarily few
important new drugs have been originated by
American drug houses. Most of the major dis-
coveries have been made either in other coun-
tries or by independent, non drug-company in-
vestigators here in the U.S.”’ A considerable
number of Federal grants have been awarded
to these companies.

WOULD THIS BILL HAMPER
RESEARCH?

It would not hamper responsible research: a
humane policy in the use of animals, the main-
tenance of proper animal quarters, and the
keeping of accurate records are all habitual to
conscientiOus scientists. Those scientists who
are not maintaining a decent standard in these
matters could only be beneﬁtted by attaining
one. The use of healthy animals provides
uniform experimental results; confusion, im-
petuosity and experiments. which have not been .
thought through are less likely to occur if it is
mandatory to submit a plan of the experiments
to be undertaken. Responsible scientists in this
country and in England agree that the quality
of research is raised by such legislation.

WOULD SUCH LEGISLATION
INVOLVE AN EXCESSIVE AMOUNT
OF PAPER WORK FOR SCIENTISTS?
Apart from the procedure, which is standard
in efﬁcient institutions, of keeping identiﬁca-
tions and records of animals and their use, the
only paper work necessary would be the writing
of a brief summary of the purpose of the ex-
periments and of the proposed methods of ex-
perimentation. It would not be necessary to
ﬁll up a separate project plan for each animal
to be used, only one for each experiment or
series of experiments.

WHAT DO SCIENTISTS THINK
ABOUT CRUEL EXPERIMENTS?

There are many different views among scien-
tists. Recently, expressions critical of the pub-
lication of cruel experiments have been receiv-
ing notice. For example, a letter on the first




page of Science, January 29, 1960, stated in
part: ”In all experiments involving pain or
death to animals, i) the information to be ob-
tained should be worth (in terms of human
benefit or real increase in fundamental scien-
tiﬁc knowledge) the suffering caused, and (ii)
the same or more valuable information should
not be obtainable, with a reasonable amount
of extra effort, by more humane procedures.
These two criteria are practically platitudes.
. . . The second criterion given above was not
observed, and indeed the experiment was not
only immoral but imprecise . . . more exact
information would not have required killing
the animals in so cruel and extended a fashion.
. . . The editors of Science have a moral ob-
ligation to see that they do not encourage need-
lessly painful experimentation by their pub-
lishing policies.”

HOW WOULD THIS MEASURE
AFFECT THE TAXPAYER?

He would get a better return for his money.
Useless expenditure of Federal funds would -
be markedly reduced 1) by preventing waste
of laboratory animals dying from the effects of
mismanagement, poor housing and care; 2) by
preventing waste of research time when ex-
periments have to be repeated because animals
are unnecessarily lost, and 3) by increasing
the quality and results of biological research
wherever standards with respect to animals
are low.

The tax-payer has the right to an effective
guarantee that his tax money is not contrib-
uting to the inﬂiction of unnecessary suffering
on animals.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

 




@tmg
te

A

}%8
titlt

110k
3

/.

I;

I)

5.0%.
H4
9 Ins

I? ‘

Kamt
g} E
@ﬁﬁﬁunﬁ
Velﬂtr

O

11%
I 33110
t L

“mg
g

a m
m

(I?
l .

‘3
(.3
aft?

1

4, O
E

5

w
the

h,

5%
z
i

V; galﬁm %*
2%,]

<3
Z
2

6'
E
head by

I?
31

5
ES

glz

@
Publ

K72

\s
4
I

 




 

Copyright 1955 by Ernest P. Walker

Printed in the United States of America

Fourth Printing

Cover Photograph: Baby ”Flying” Squirrels about One Month Old. Photograph by
Ernest P. Walker

 

 

 

 

'\;.—_e_. _. ‘




 

 

 

 

 
 

7

’I/ 7 7/

é /

’x /

/,

é , 4

‘ x4 7 ’ A

W
m

by

ﬁmmet 1% Weﬂaem @eeiemet @imetmx
Wetieﬂai %eeéegieei ?ee§a

@miﬁaeeeme Emetitmiee

Published by the Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Price: $.35

 




Eton a :0 13.5: >115“. ken 10¢

 

MOPOIn— m>>mz J<ZO_F<ZKUPZ_ >m IL<KUOPOIn~

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

An interest in and fondness for animal
life is apparently a part of every child and
it is during childhood and youth that the
greatest good can be accomplished in in-
stilling a knowledge of animals and an in-
terest in our interdependence with animals.
During this period much can be accom-
plished in guiding the student towards a
sympathetic understanding of all living
things, as well as the humane and consid-
erate atttitude which results from such un-
derstanding. Many valuable object lessons
can be taught during this time.

It should be borne in mind that children
and young people, however fond of animals
or interested in them, may through careless-
ness or ignorance cause the animal serious
harm. Also, there are individuals who wil-
fully try to injure an animal, and there are
those who have received erroneous informa-
tion at home or elsewhere that are disposed
to destroy every living thing. Therefore, in
teaching the handling of animals, one should
be careful to observe the peculiarities of the
individual student and not only show him
how to care for the animal properly, but
correct him should he be disposed to injure
the animal wilfully. This should be a partic-
ularly important phase because the spirit of
cruelty to animals and wilful disregard of
their rights and comforts can readily be a
fore—runner of antisocial behavior with seri-

ous consequences in later life.

There are few subjects as complex as biol-

 

N HUMANE ATTHTUIES

ogy that are so simple to teach in the ele
mentary form. Begun even in kindergarten,
it can well be studied to the highest college
course. One field of biology teaching that
is altogether too often neglected is that of
correcting the innumerable misapprehensions
and superstitions that exist regarding ani-
mals. There appears to be an almost infinite
number of these, and even old biologists
are constantly hearing of superstitions and
notions that are new to them. Some are
merely the erroneous use of an Old World
name applied to a New World form, such
as the error of calling the North American
skunks ”pole cats,” when the term ”pole
cat” is properly applicable to a weasel-like
creature in the Old World. The well—known
Ground Hog Day fable is as persistent as
if it were true. Regarding the reptiles and
amphibians, the percentage of superstitions
and groundless fears is much higher than
regarding the birds and mammals. By skill~
ful leadership, these superstitions and erro-
neous notions can be scrutinized and the
students disabused of the wrong notions,
perhaps with the result that they may help
to educate their elders. The prevalence of
such false beliefs leads to extensive destruc-
tion of valuable animals and on many oc-
casions to wanton cruelty. The teachers who
undertake to combat such remnants of the
dark ages will be pioneers indeed and the
most fertile field for undertaking this is
with young people.

Childhood as well as early youth is a

 




 

 

valuable laboratory session and yet no form-
al laboratory is necessary for teaching. In
every community children come into posses-
sion of little creatures that interest them.
Some of these creatures are in need of help
and the child can learn valuable lessons as

 

to their requirements by being taught how ‘
to care for them. Thus they develop thEir
interest in animals and learn the basic prin~

ciples of caring for both the wild creatures

and themselves.

 

 

 

PHOTOGRAPH av INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHO'I'Os

Young Hummingbird Being Fed from an Eye-Dropper

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

\\

fif2@ﬁ@f@% WETH ANIMAL%

One of the easiest methods of stimulating
interest, and satisfying children as well as
adults, is to put out food for animals to at-
tract them to a given location where they can
be readily observed. This can be done with
a surprisingly simple array of food and is not
limited to birds and squirrels as many people
suppose. Food placed on a window ledge
in a city will almost invariably be found by
some animal if the food is suitable. Insects
can be attracted in this way in even the most
thickly populated areas. The window ledges
of tenement houses thereby become almost
as good feeding stations as the homes of the
wealthy. Sparrows, pigeons and other birds,
squirrels and insects are all fascinating crea-
tures that can be studied at close range by
the observer who will put out suitable food
and water for them and remain quietly inside
the room. Such feeding and watering need
not be limited to the winter but can properly
be carried on throughout the year. Birds that
are nesting are especially glad to have a
source of supply of such materials as raisins,
peanut hearts or crushed peanuts, bits of
meat and seeds.

Feeding and watering stations can also be
provided in back yards on the ground, on
posts, or on other elevated places.

In their active lives, children frequently
find baby birds that are just out of their nests
and learning to ﬂy; sometimes, due to the
death of the parent birds, the young are
really in need of help. Baby squirrels are
sometimes found which have fallen Out of
their nests; they have become hungry when
the mother squirrel has met with some acci-

dent and failed to return. During drives in the
country, people frequently ﬁnd small crea-
tures along the roadsides, particularly turtles,
and sometimes baby skunks, baby opossums,
and other young animals. Some are in need
of assistance; others are adults or are able to
care for themselves. Unless the people who
pick them up have a genuine interest in try-
ing to save them and will take the pains to
provide proper conditions for their survival,
the story is usually a short one—~the animal
soon dies, most often through well-inten-
tioned ignorance or neglect. It is to focus
attention upon what can and should be done
for small wild creatures which either appear
to be, or actually are, in need of help that
this pamphlet is prepared. It is not intended
to stimulate or encourage the capture and
keeping of more wild creatures, but rather to
assist well-intentioned people to do the right
thing in the right way for the animals that
fall into their hands.

 

6%,; . ./

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

 

A Yellow Jacket Attracfed to Meat on a Window-
Ledge

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

S
AYIONAL NEWS PHOTO

INTERN

PHOTOGRAPH av

   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

I know of no better way to teach young
people the importance of their own proper
nutrition and care than to let them learn how
to care for animals properly. It can be a valu-
able object lesson. Indeed, to emphasize the
proper care of different kinds of animals gives
an even wider scope to teaching than is pos-
sible by some of the laboratory experiments
in which a single animal or groups of ani-
mals are mistreated by being fed deﬁcient
diets in order to show the results of such
deﬁciencies. Such laboratory experiments, if
carried on by qualiﬁed research workers, have
a place in scientiﬁc studies, but ordinarily
only a single phase of nutritional deﬁciency
can be shown. The young person who is
shown the numerous steps necessary to pro-
vide for the requirements of different kinds

Baby Opossums Eat Watermelon for a Change

 
 

of little animals learns far more than he can
by trying to bring about one given deﬁciency.
He learns to take pride in his accomplish-
ment in raising each animal successfully and
in keeping it in good health. To do this he
must learn much regarding the requirements
of the animal in the wild—Le, how it lives.
This involves consideration of the group to
which the animal belongs —— whether bird,
mammal, reptile, ﬁsh, insect, etc. Consider-
ation must then be given to the age of the
animal, its temperature requirements, the fre-
quency with which it should be fed, whether
or not it is able to feed itself or must be
hand-fed, and the kinds of food—whether
milk, meat, soft proteins, insects, fruit, or

 

green vegetable material and the type of

housing and exercise required.

 

 




 

 

 

7

&\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

The requirements of animals are almost as
varied as the number of different kinds of
animals. Obviously it would not be POSSiblC
in a small publication to go into details con-
cerning requirements for all species of ani-
mals that might be encountered, or concern-
ing all the aﬂlictions and accidents to which
they may be subject. Therefore, the aim in
this is to outline a few general principles
for the care of wild things—a sort Of an
abridged ﬁrst-aid manual.

When a wild creature is found, the first
question that should be considered is: Does
it really need help, or is it able to take care
of itself either at the location where found
or in some adjacent, more favorable location?
A baby bird just out of the nest, learning
to ﬂy, does not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, it is much better to go quietly
away and leave it alone so that its parents
can attend to feeding it and so that it can
learn to ﬂy and take care of itself. Some—
times it is down on the ground where there
are cats or dogs or where it may be subject
to other dangers. Then a human can some-
times help it by putting it up on a limb,
back in the nest, or in some protected place.
Or, if the cat or dog can be put under re-
straint or removed, the little creature can be
left where it is. Occasionally nestling birds
are found on the ground after a severe storm.
bome of them can be saved by taking them
in, warming them and feeding them until
they are able to be released safely.

If a human being does decide to take an
animal into his possession because it is in-
jured or the parents are dead, he should at

 

raaa am an

\\

\ rLI ANILMA%

once consider what it needs in the way of
food, warmth, and protection. A great many
people immediately think of feeding birds
bread and milk. But no wild bird ever re-
ceives milk in its normal life and there is
doubt as to whether the bird's digestive sys-
tem is adapted to handle milk to good ad-
vantage. The great majority of small birds
are fed worms, insects. spiders and fruit
when they are little. \X"hen they become
older, their food may be very different.

It is important that young birds have a
warm dry place to stay. A depression in a
mass of tissue paper in a cardboard box
makes a good temporary home for a young
bird.

Turtles, snakes. lizards, salamanders, frogs
and toads that are found along the roadside
ordinarily need no help; unless they are in
some situation from which they cannot ex-
tricate themselves, they are well able to take
care of themselves and most of them would
be far better off if left alone. Almost every
one of these groups has requirements pecu-
liar to its kind. so before a person takes them
into his possession he should make certain
that he knows how to care for them or has
a source of information that will enable him
to give them proper care.

Baby opossums found in the pouch of the
mother or clinging to her after she has been
killed or injured on the road usually need
help. But frequently baby skunks, raccoons,
rabbits and other young animals are brought
in, and the person thinks that he has done
an admirable rescue job whereas probably

the little creature could have done very well

 

 

 




 

 

 

for himself if he had been left alone. Perhaps
he has lost his mother, but by the time an
animal is old enough to be out following
mother through the woods he is usually able
to obtain food for himself.

Young furry creatures that require human
help and are taken home should be offered.
warm milk, somewhat diluted in accordance
with the formula on page 22.

Anyone contemplating taking an animal
home should consider whether or not it will
be accepted by other members of the family.
Sometimes members of the family are so
strongly prejudiced against animals that they
will be seriously upset by its presence or will
do the animal harm. On the other hand, since
many such prejudices and notions are the re-
sult of ignorance, these persons often change
their viewpoint when they have an oppor-
tunity to see the animal at close range and
to come to understand something about it,
and may become interested and fond of the
animal.

Practically every wild creature is afraid of
humans, and until the human has demon-
strated his kindness to it and has convinced
it that he is not dangerous, the little creature
will be fearful and will usually ﬁght to pro-
tect itself. Taming newly caught animals re-
quires varying lengths of time, but the basic
principles are the same: it should at first be
allowed to be quiet, its food and water being
supplied by only one person who makes all
moves very gently and quietly and speaks

gently to it at frequent intervals. As the wild
thing gradually becomes accustomed to hu-
man presence, one can eventually touch it
and ﬁnally handle it; but caution should be
used that the animal is not injured, that it
does not bite one, escape, or hurt itself. Bear
in mind that the one thing above all others
feared most by wild creatures is to be re-
strained. If they are held ﬁrmly in the hand
before they are accustomed to human pres-
ence, they may injure themselves or become
so badly frightened that they are more difﬁ-
cult than ever to tame. Also, a person will
often injure the animal by holding it too
tightly in his efforts to prevent it from es-

caping.

Persons who render aid to animals that
are in difﬁculties and in need of help will
ordinarily have nothing to fear as to legal
consequences; but they should not intention-
ally capture them or keep birds or mammals
beyond the time necessary for them to re-
cover sufﬁciently to take care of themselves.

There are both Federal and State laws that
give protection to many of the wild creatures.
These laws were formulated because of the
great need to prevent excessive destruction
of the wild life; many of the laws also cover
taking animals into one’s possession even
though the animals are not killed. Informa-
tion regarding such matters can usually be
obtained from the local law enforcement
agencies, the Game Department of each
State, or the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, Washington, D. C.

 




PHOTOS
PHOTOGRAPH av INTERNATIONAL NEWS

A Young Crow Enjoys Human Companionship

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Those of us who are engaged in zoo ad-
ministration become painfully aware that a
large proportion of the people who obtain
animals with great enthusiasm soon lose their
enthusiasm when they ﬁnd that caring for
the animal involves regularity and some
work. We are constantly having offered to
us animals which people have picked up on
the assumption that they are rescuing them,
or which they have kept for a while until
they have tired of them. Sometimes the
owner has concluded that the animal is fail-
ing in health and he wishes to get rid of it
before it dies. This suggests that teachers
could well emphasize that children and adults
not take animals into their possession unless
they are certain that they know how to care
for them properly and are equally certain
that they are willing to devote the time and
effort to give them proper care.

Animals that have been captured as babies
and raised in captivity are poorly prepared
to make their own way if liberated without
a preliminary training period in the wild. If
people are so situated that they can permit
their pet to obtain a portion or much of its
food with them and go out into the surround-
ing region and gradually accustom itself to

 

a wild life, they can frequently give the pet
a good opportunity to establish itself in ad-
jacent regions with fair chances of survival.
It should be borne in mind that an animal
which is accustomed to receiving its food and
shelter from humans and has not had enough
exercise to fit it for a strenuous life in the
wild requires such a preliminary training.
Many animals when liberated are afraid of
the wild and will come back to their homes,
but will gradually extend their explorations
as they gain conﬁdence and eventually take
up their abode in the wild, often near by,
and will return occasionally to visit their
human friends. The preliminary try-out pe-
riod is of great importance for another rea-
son. If there are other animals of the same
kind living in the vicinity, they generally
have the feeling that they have a prior claim
on the surrounding territory and the pet is
likely to be attacked by them. Therefore,
the liberated pet should have the opportunity
to return to the shelter and food supply with
its human friends until it has gradually won
a place for itself in the surrounding territory
and is able to compete with the wild crea-
tures of that vicinity for both food and

shelter.

9

 




 

 

\m
\V“

\

Injuries and sickness are of course proper-
ly subject for treatment by a veterinarian, but
often a veterinarian may not be available or
the person who ﬁnds the animal victim may
not feel that he can afford to pay for veterin-
ary services. Therefore a few brief sugges-
tions may be of some assistance, but it should
be borne in mind that they are not offered
in lieu of advice of a veterinarian or a physi-
cian but rather as tentative suggestions that
may be of some assistance if a veterinarian’s

10

PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHOTOS

Baby Robin wifh Broken Leg in Splint

W ANHMAL§

or physicians advice cannot be obtained.
Injured animals that are most frequently
found are those that have been hit by a car
or occasionally those that have been injured
by hunters. When they are hit by cars, they
may be only temporarily stunned. Sometimes
they recover fairly quickly and are able to
continue on their way. On other occasions,
th€y may have suffered serious internal in-
juries that cannot be determined from ex-

ternal examination. Still others may have




sustained broken wings or broken legs. The
ﬁrst rule, like that advocated by physicians
for humans, is to make sure the patient is
made as comfortable as possible and kept
quiet. If they are stunned or subject to shock,
they may make a fairly quick recovery and
require no treatment other than protection
from further injury. If possible, they should
be liberated at the same location that they
were found. If there are severe internal in-
juries, it is rarely possible to do anything
for them other than to keep them quiet and
provide food and water in the hope that they
may gradually recover. If there are broken
wings or legs, sometimes a simple splint de-
vice can be improvised with match stems,
stiff cardboard, adhesive tape, or other ma-
terials at hand. Such efforts of repair work
should, however, be done only by an adult
or an older child who will take pains to see
that the break is set properly. If there are
no other serious injuries, the natural rapid
healing of animals will sometimes permit a
satisfactory recovery and repair of the broken
member.

During the period of recovery, it is gen-
erally a good plan to keep the animal in sub-
dued light or a darkened room, and to screen
it from View in such manner that it can feel
secluded so that it will not worry so much
regarding danger from humans, dogs, cats,
or other enemies. As it gradually recovers,
it may become somewhat tame and develop
into a pleasing pet, or it may remain fearful
of humans and their surroundings. Of those
that recover, some can resume their lives in
the wild. Others may be so handicapped that
they could. not make their own living. In
that case, the animal must become the special
charge of one member of the class.

11

Sick animals are not found so often, but
they are occasionally picked up. Usually,
however, by the time they are so sick that
humans can take possession of them, they
are past recovery; about all that one can do
is to try to make them comfortable, provide
food and water, and hope for the best. Se—
verely injured animals should be painlessly
destroyed by the means described on page 12.

In handling and caring for animals, people
will frequently sustain scratches or bites, but
for the most part if reasonable precautions
are taken there is not much more danger to
the human than there would be from a sim—
ilar break in the skin or mutilation of the
ﬂesh from some mechanical injury. Any such
breaks in the skin should be washed thor-
oughly with plenty of soap and treated
promptly with iodine or other antiseptic

preparation.

The experience of zoologists and members
of the staffs of zoos who are frequently in-
jured by animals indicates that there is very
little danger from rabies or other diseases
carried by wild animals. However, reason—
able precaution should be taken in all cases
to avoid injuries and to care for wounds from
bites or scratches of such animals as foxes,
skunks, raccoons, and opossums, as in some
regions these may carry rabies. Other animals
also sometimes carry rabies. There are even
a few records of North American bats having
rabies. An animal that has bitten a person
should be kept under observation for 14
days. If within this time it becomes ill or
dies, its brain should be examined by the
local health department. If it is still healthy
at the end of 14 days, it could not have

transmitted rabies.

 




 

”Wail %%?@%TEM% M?

Bear in mind that when ﬁrst captured,
almost all animals are scared and wish to
seek seclusion. Also, many of them through-
out their lives try to keep out of sight and
in protected locations. Indeed, some will fret
themselves to death if they cannot get out
of sight and be in the dark, or at least feel
that they are away from observation. Noc-
turnal animals must be able to get into
dark retreats.

Even animals that are often observed sun-
ning in the wild need to be able to get into
the shade at will. Turtles, amphibians, and
invertebrates have often been killed by hav-
ing their terrariums left on a window ledge
unprotected from hot, direct sunlight.

Good teaching of biology requires that
accidents such as these do not happen. Many
teachers have found that although a group
may join in caring for any animal or animals
in a classroom, the ﬁnal responsibility for
the animal’s health and well-being must
be placed with one individual who makes
a daily check on food, water, cleanliness of
housing, and health of the animal, and per-
forms any tasks which may have been for-
gotten or neglected. Care of animals over
week-ends or longer holidays must be care-
fully provided for. So must ﬁnal disposition

l2

 

of animals at the end of the school term.
It should be the aim of the class to have
rehabilitated any wild creatures which may
have been cared for so that they have be-
come self-supporting by the end of the term.
Those which cannot be successfully rehab-
ilitated, and any domestic animals such as
mice, rats or guinea pigs which the class has
maintained might be adopted by members
of the class. The progeny of such animals
should not be allowed to increase beyond
that which can easily be provided with
homes. However, should this occur, the ani-
mals can be turned over to the local humane
society for placement or painless destruction,
or the teacher can destroy them painlessly
by putting them in a covered container in
one corner of which a chloroform-soaked
cloth has been placed. Animals should not
be put in direct contact with wet chloroform
because it burns; chloroform vapor, how-
ever, renders small animals and birds un-
conscious in a short time and they die
painlessly by a means which is easy to ad-
The animals should be left in
at least one

minister.
the chloroform chamber for
half hour to be sure that they have passed
from unconsciousness to death. Stiffness (rig-
or mortis) indicates that they are dead and

may be disposed of.




‘ PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WAL

A Grasshopper Mouse (Onychomys Ieucogasfer) Standmg by the Entrance to its Nest Box

1

 

ER

 




 

%@%%@%

Space does not permit a detailed discussion
of the many different kinds of cages, aquaria,
and enclosures that may be used to house
animals, for they are varied and depend on
the requirements of the different kinds of
animals, where they are to be kept, and the
expense if any that is to be incurred. Nice-
ly constructed cages, aquaria and yards are
desirable, but frequently the animal can be
cared for almost as well by the use of in-
genuity in adapting whatever may be at
hand or readily available to accommodate it.

Creatures that require water in which to
swim, or soil in which to burrow and live,
can often be accommodated in such aquaria
as are available at many stores. Also, it is
possible to use S-gallon oil cans, that have
been thoroughly cleaned, and other con-
tainers.

One type of cage that is inexpensive, easy
to construct, and adaptable to several dif-
ferent types of creatures is composed of a
pan (preferably of the enameled type) about
12 by 18 inches, and two to three inches
deep, into which is set a strip of one-fourth
or one-half inch wire mesh fabric. The height
of the cage is determined by the width of
the strip of fabric. Fifteen inches is a good
average height. The tOp can be COnStructed
of wire fabric slightly larger than the sides
of the cage. If the portion projecting beyond
the sides of the cage is bent downward,
it overlaps the sides like the top of a suit-
case or trunk. The top is hinged to the
upper edge of the side of the cage with
soft wire.

This type of cage will accommodate such

small mammals as mice and rats and even
little creatures that need only shallow water
in which to swim or rest. A nest-box, such
as an empty rolled-oats or corn-meal box,
can be provided with a hole in the end
and soft paper furnished for nest material.
Fine clean soft sand in the bottom of the
pan helps furry creatures to keep their fur
clean.

Animals are naturally clean about their
persons so that those that are being kept in
captivity should have an opportunity to keep
clean. Their cages and nest boxes should
be carefully cleaned at regular intervals.

Most small mammals require a great deal
of exercise; therefore, if they are to be kept
in captivity for more than a few days, suit-
able provision should be made for them to
exercise. Such creatures as moles should have

earth in which to dig. The considerable array

of mouse-like creatures —~— squirrels, flying
squirrels and others — should have one or

the other of two types of exercise wheels,

described as follows:

The ferris wheel type, similar to a drum
without the heads, should have a diameter
at least three times the head and body lCIlgth
of the animal. That is, an animal which is
10 inches from the tip of its nose to the base
of its tail should have a wheel about 30
inches in diameter.

The width of the wheel is not important.
Even a BO/ineh wheel need not be more than
10 inches wide. Wheels may be very simply
or elaborately made. The picture shows a type
of construction that has been found Clklit6
satisfactory. A strip of wire fabric of fairly
small mesh is bent into a circle of the proper
SiZe for the wheel. and it is supported by




 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

 

A Laboratory White Raf Carries her Nesf a Baby ”Flying” Squirrel Hm? She Has Adopted

 

A‘u/

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

She Nurses the Squirrel on Top of Nest Box in her Cage

15

 




      

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

 
   

   
   
  
    
 

‘ Ferris Wheel Type Exercise Wheel. (The diameter should be
‘ at least three times the head and body length of the animal.)

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

Big-eared Cliﬂ‘ Mice (Peromyscus truei) Running an inclined Disc
Exercise Wheel

  

1'
PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNES

inclined Disc Exercise Wheel (See Text for size)

16

 




VALKEF

 

spokes on an axle held up by uprights at least

twice as far from the edges of the wheel as

the diameter of the body of the animal. That
is if the animal has a body diameter of two
inches, the supports should be four inches or
more from the sides of the wheel. This is to
prevent injury to the animal by being caught
between a spoke of the revolving wheel and
the support for the axle.

cThe inclined disc wheel is easier to make

and is satisfactory for mice, hamsters, and
shrews. It should be made of a disc 10 to 15
inches in diameter, of one/eighth inch mason”
ite, plywood, or other rigid material that can
be easily cleaned. On the bottom side of the
disc, at the center, a piece of sheet metal per"
haps an inch square should be placed under
a block of wood two or three inches square
and one and one/fourth inches thick. In the
center of the hole in the block of wood,
there should be bored a hole of proper size
to ﬁt freely over a nail or small rod that
projects upward through a wooden base that
is at least six inches square. This nail or rod
is bent slightly so that the disc stands in an
inclined position. The little square of metal
between the block and disc is to keep the axle
from wearing a hole in the disc. The wheel
must run very easily, as you will have only
one mouse/power to run it.

Such wheels give the animals a great deal
of pleasure and much needed exercise, and
in many instances they deﬁnitely contribute
to the animals’ health and longevity.

Digging and tree climbing animals are ac-
customed in the wild to a great deal of wear
on their toe nails. In captivity they do not
have the opportunity to keep the nails worn
down by Climbing or digging so it some-

times becomes necessary to cut the nails

back. However, it is preferable to provide
tree-climbing creatures with rough limbs to
climb so that they can keep their claws worn
down to some extent; sometimes burrowing
animals can be induced to dig into holes in
lean concrete.

The front or incisor teeth of rodents grow
continuously throughout life and they must
be kept worn down or they will grow so
long that the animal cannot eat. Therefore,
plenty of hard nuts should be made avail-
able, which the animals must gnaw into in
order to get the nut meat. Also, freshly cut
green limbs and roots will frequently be
gnawed by many animals such as porcupines.
Such woody'material is partiCularly valuable
in helping them keep their teeth in proper
condition.

It should be borne in mind that close
physical restraint is the one thing that ani-
mals fear most. If they are held in the hand
before they are accustomed to contact with
humans they will often struggle so violently
they will injure themselves. Also if they are
put into a small container without a place
to hide they may injure themselves. One
method that will sometimes help them to
feel less exposed and frightened is to put
material in the container before they are
put into it, under which or behind which
they can hide. For example, small burrowing
creatures are greatly relieved if there is leaf
mold, soil, or sand in the cage or box. Other
small mammals will be best satisfied if there
is a mass of leaves or loose cloth.

 




 

* “r v:
i

 

 

'7 > "mum—WWW"..-

 

lll lilS Ii '

To those of us who are somewhat familiar
with animals, the ignorance displayed by
many people regarding them is incredible.
We receive many calls from people saying
that they have come into possession of an
animal. They usually, but not always, recog-
nize it as a bird or a mammal (they usually
say animal), but they rarely distinguish
between reptiles and amphibians. Many
think that bats are birds and few have the
slightest conception of whether or not the

 

animals are young or adult, and what they
would normally eat. Very few realize that
reptiles must be kept warm to be active. Still
fewer realize that the amphibians must be
kept moist Very few have the slightest con-
ception of the various kinds of invertebrates
or their requirements.

It is therefore essential that the informa-
tion supplied be most elementary, simple,
readily understood, and specific.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to give
much of the needed information in written
form without assuming that the recipient of
the information has at least a fair knowledge
of the various kinds of animals. It therefore
appears advisable to adopt a method of feed-
ing that I have found over many years to
be helpful, without much danger of causing
speciﬁc harm or injury to the animals: I urge
people to offer the animal that falls into
their hands the widest possible variety of
foods and let it make the choice. I suggest
fruits, both fresh and frozen (thoroughly
thawed); fresh wholesome uncooked meat,
such as hamburger; worms and insects; eggs
in almost any form, both cooked and raw

‘- z W a 7%

18

/4. '4. «a / (a /
g £221? 2% ﬁt?

(the yolk of hard-boiled eggs is relished by
many creatures); fresh milk or milk with
raw egg and hamburger mixed in its; Such
fresh green material as lettuce, cabbage, kale,
spinach, and other leafy material including

\\\

lawn clippings, the leaves and twigs of
forest trees and shrubs, root vegetables such
as carrots, sweet potatoes, and Irish potatoes;
also grains, such as dry uncooked rolled oats,
sunﬂower seeds, and packaged bird seed.

The prepared commercial baby food called
Pablum is a nutritious combination that is
relished by many different animals, not only
in the dry form as it comes from the pack-
age, but also moistened or cooked.

People often ask whether or not the food
should be cooked. I have found that it will
stimulate their thinking to ask them who
cooks food for the animals in the wild, and
follow this up by an admonition that they
bear in mind how the animal lives in the
wild, that it will necessarily obtain its shelter
and food in the immediate vicinity in which
it is living. Since the availability of the foods
and the kinds will vary with the seasons,
the animal will normally vary its diet some-
what with the seasons, and it will have a
wide variety of plant and animal material
from which to select. In general, I believe it
safe to inform people that if an animal is
not suffering from some serious dietary de-
ﬁciency, it is well to offer it a very wide
variety of foods so that the animal can make
its own selection. With such a wide selection
before it, there is little or no danger that it
will take food which is not good for it.
This method of feeding animals has been




‘IL
"was; mg"
5 In $5 1?: " '
5.45”!»

. a, '1,

4-‘2

23,5957
1 s
”gﬁé’lléfg” i
' #:4ij
31554;?

m r.-

J.. s I 4 <1
£54712"! ~17 53

-- 7' 4951f; ' 1-‘1 ' .4. -I.""‘31552'4‘L~‘

is, s azaleas 14* ~ . ~ * ~' ~” 0 s

In " '1; ins/s ‘U Q ~III

e; ‘ 'I 537/“: 12-"
‘1‘ 0’9! 4"

#7

7 . ‘ ~‘ ‘ c in” n
.7 ‘ éﬁ’tﬁ’ﬁkg I

‘14

4% c
'2‘?

E"
. .“ \. 52$" '

192%,“? I:

a
,

I:
e"
I: r
455

s . 2:.

41.,

‘ "H a "I? I"
a 13*! a. 4?
$5551
a ”I 17 ”(-7471,
5:57- a

(t

'67

412 I9
,.

a
"m

it, p

5n ”I: ‘1, I:."l i,

AM“ in:
6’1. 5:;

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHOTOS

f Recently Hatched Baby Bird in Cotton-wool Nest
(Although this bird is being fed with an eye-dropper, it needs solid food such as worms,
‘ small bits of meat and fruit.)

A Glass Tube Made into a Feeder for Hummingbirds.

4 (It is provisioned with a liquid made up of about equal
parts of honey, Mellon’s food and water. Such a feeder
can be placed on a window ledge or elsewhere that
is accessible to hummingbirds. It can be decorated to

look like a ﬂower.)

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

19

 




 

 

given a thorough tryout with creatures re-
garding which little is known or which are
known to be very difficult to keep in cap-
tivity. Also, this method has generally been
well accepted by thousands of peOple to
whom it has been given.

With such a wide variety of food offered
to the animals, it is then an easy matter
to observe what they like and also to offer
some prepared foods. Indeed, there are a
few foods, like sweet potatoes, that seem
to be more acceptable to the animals when
cooked. However, cooking often destroys the
vitamins or washes out valuable minerals
and it is obvious that in the long run the
tastes of the animals indicate a preference
for the natural raw foods.

It should be borne in mind that the car-
nivorous animals, and others that eat animal
life, generally consume the entire body of
their victim which includes the glands, blood,
hair or feathers, and often the bones. The
whole animal is a complete food or bal-
anced diet for those creatures that live on
animal food, but red meat which humans
usually use lacks much that is essential.
Therefore it is desirable when feeding meat-
eating animals to let them have, at least at
intervals, dead whole mice, rats, pigeons, or
other animals.

Vitamins have been used with remarkable
success in many instances in building up
animals that were obviously failing and in
keeping others in good health. In general,
we do not know enough about the vitamin
requirements of animals to be able to pre-
scribe speciﬁcally, but fortunately un-needed
or excess vitamins apparently do no harm,

20

and if the animal needs any portion of the
vitamin mixture that is given, it may be
distinctly beneﬁtted. Therefore, it is some-
times a good plan to make a palatable vita-
min mixture available to animals. Such mix-
ture should be of types that can be mixed in
the milk or water or placed on food, or that
the animal will take voluntarily. V eterinari-
ans can give much good advice regarding vi-
tamin and mineral preparations for animals.
One should not attempt to force animals
to take food or medicine unless the person
prescribing and administering is well qual-
iﬁed to determine what should be given and
how it should be administered. Fresh clean
drinking water should be available at all
times, and while the addition of vitamins
to drinking water was mentioned above, it
should not be a regular practice. It should
be done only occasionally to facilitate the
animal in taking the vitamin mixture. Cod-
liver oil is a valuable supplement to the

regular food.

In view of the foregoing discussion, it
will be seen that when an animal is to be
cared for, it is important first to determine
as nearly as possible the kind of animal——
whether it be a mammal, bird, reptile, am-
phibian, fish or invertebrate. If it is a quite
young mammal, its normal food would be
its mother’s milk. If it is past the baby stage,
it should have made available to it the type
of food it would obtain in the wild or as
close an approach to it as possible. If it is
a young bird of the passerine type, which iS
the most plentiful, it will probably accept
worms of many different kinds or hamburger
and small bits of fruit. If it is an adult of the
small bird type, it will probably thrive on




this, but may also take seeds. If it is a hawk
or an owl, it should have liver, and other
organs. If it is a sea coast type of bird, or
one of the herons, it will probably accept

 

ﬁsh—either small whole ones or strips of
larger ﬁsh. It should be released just as soon
as it can take care of itself in the same area
in Which it was found.

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

A Baby Pipistrelle Bat Taking Milk from :1 Medicine Dropper
while it Rests on the Arm of the Author

21

 




 

 

 

This group includes the host of furry and
hairy creatures that range in size from the
tiny shrew—smaller than a mouse——to ele-
phants, and includes such spiny, scaled or
plate-covered creatures as the porcuprnes,
pangolins, and armadillos, also the otters
and seals that inhabit both fresh water and
salt water, and the whales and porpoises.

In this very abridged account we can con-
sider only the more common small land
forms. All of these young are nursed on
their mothers’ milk. Most of them are help-
less when born and must be kept warm and
be fed milk at frequent intervals. In general,
they can be kept warm by being placed in
a box or basket with plenty of clean, soft,
dry material such as woolen cloth or soft
cleansing tissue paper. If they are cold to
the touch, artiﬁcial heat can be supplied by
placing them near the pilot light of a gas
stove or an electric heating pad turned low,
or near a lamp bulb. Care should be taker
in all such installations that there is no
danger of starting a ﬁre and that the little
ones do not become too hot. In general,
they should be offered food at two-hour in-
tervals or even more frequently, from early
in the morning until evening, and some
will probably thrive better if they are fed
occasionally through the night. Several dif-
ferent milk formulas have been used suc-
cessfully. The one that is listed below has
been particularly satisfactory:

Two ounces of homogenized milk diluted with
one ounce of water

OR
Three ounces of cow’s milk from which about

22

one-half of the cream has been removed
One teaspoonful raw egg yolk

Four drops of Jeculin

One drop Navitol or Viosterol
One-fourth teaspoonful calcium gluconate

Stir until thoroughly mixed. Keep in refrig-
erator. Warm to body temperature the small
amount needed for each feeding.

If the vitamin and food concentrate in-
gredients are not available, some animals
will survive on fresh cow’s milk from which
about one-half of the cream has been re-
moved. Also, evaporated milk diluted with
about an equal amount of water has been
successful in some instances. The length of
time that the young should be on milk
varies greatly with the kind of animal. With
baby shrews it varies from a few days to
about two weeks. Baby "flying” squirrels
and baby tree squirrels nurse about two
months. If one does not have speciﬁc in-
formation as to the period over which it
should be given milk, he can learn from
the animal by making available to it various
kinds of solid food in addition to the milk.
When the animal has reached the proper
stage of development, it will naturally begin
to nibble on suitable foods if they are
offered. This is the beginning of a transition
period during which the animal will volun-
tarily reduce its consumption of milk and
increase the amount of solid food that it
takes. However, milk should be made avail-
able to it for as long as it will take it, even
at irregular intervals.

Doll nursing bottles can usually be ob-
tained at ﬁve and ten cent stores. These are




 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

A Bat and a "Flying” Squirrel that are Pets of the Author. (The but had entered a building
and could not find its way out. In the wild, bats and ”ﬂying” squirrels are not friends,
but these pets tolerated one another.)

2

 

 




 

 

 

fairly satisfactory for the feeding of small
animals. In selecting such bottles, it is well
to choose one that has the smallest opening
in the nipple; this will help to prevent
strangling the little creatures by giving the
milk too fast. Medicine droppers also can be
used on very small creatures. When giving
milk to the helpless young, great care should
be taken to give it slowly so that they do
not strangle. Milk bubbling out of the nose
of the little creature is a certain sign that
the milk is being given too rapidly.

Such creatures as mice, rats, rabbits,
squirrels and other rodents should be of-
fered dry oats, peanut hearts, peanuts, other
nut meats, green foods such as lettuce, car-
rots, kale, etc., and some fruit; some will
take bits of meat, cottage cheese, etc. As
soon as they are able to open the harder nuts,
such as acorns, pecans, walnuts, and hickory
nuts, they should be given plenty of these
nuts whole so that they must work for a
considerable time to open them. The front
or incisor teeth of these creatures grow rapid-
ly and continuously throughout life and must
be worn down by a great deal of gnawing.
Otherwise they will grow so long that the
animal cannot eat even though plenty of
food is available.

Young skunks, opossums, raccoons, foxes,
and other meat-eaters should be offered ham-
burger and other meats, fish, uncooked eggs,
an assortment of fruits, green vegetables, and
table scraps. Some will eat considerable fruit
and vegetable material, while others Will
take very little of this and will prefer the
meat, eggs, milk, etc. Shrews must have an
abundance of food constantly available. Their
preference is earth worms, other worms, in-

sects, meat and eggs, although some will
also eat many different kinds of food includ-

ing nut meats, sunﬂower seeds, and some
fruit and green material. Seals are mainly
ﬁsh eaters, but they should also be offered
crabs, crayfish, and shrimp.

Fish will frequently be taken by many of
the mammals. Canned salmon and canned
tuna are often relished.

Rabbits can be kept either indoors or out-
doors. If outdoors, they should be securely
enclosed so that they will not be killed by
predators. They should have a snug shelter
in their hutch where they can get away from
inclement weather, and there should be am-
ple shade so that they can get out of the
sun in hot weather. They can be fed
rabbit pellets which are available at many
of the pet stores and feed stores; grains,
such as oats and wheat; green material, such
as grass, clover, some seeds, lettuce, carrots,
kale, etc. Perhaps the most important factor
for keeping rabbits successfully is cleanliness,
because they are far more susceptible than
most animals to digestive disturbance from
soiling of their quarters and food. Their food
should be clean and fresh.

Enclosures for rabbits should have a mini-
mum of 8 square feet for the smaller kinds
of rabbits and 15 square feet for the larger
breeds. There are many different types of
enclosures that can be provided —— portable
ones with wire fabric bottoms so that they
can be moved onto clean grassy areas or

be permanently located. Any enclosure for .
rabbits should be so constructed that it can _

be kept thoroughly clean. Wire mesh bot-
toms are used in commercial rabbit raising.

24

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

They should be protected with a roof over in which they can hide and feel secure away
at least a portion of the cage and there
should be a nest box with an end or side

opening in which the animal can take

from any disturbance, and many of them
will beneﬁt by having clean nest material
such as paper or dry leaves. Those from
shelter. desert regions should have clean dry sand

Small mammals should have a nest box to help keep their fur in good condition.

‘2 J5 '
n . §€ .

. a. a '-

5532: °
“1.55:2” .42
E II ' . .
{321%
tfzﬁizﬁl ~ (I; " ‘

'1‘ ‘, . ”41a
1" ’a .7
191%] vii”
was?
3:155

:1»
5‘}
4a .

t

7w I
“Ia-b”
QED t:

#51.”

<~

”.
. I. 42 _ I‘
- mfg:

PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHOTOS

Motheriess Baby Rabbits Being Fed Milk in Do" Nursing Bottles

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The birds that most frequently fall into
the hands of humans are small and medium
size types, which are nestlings or youngsters
just out of the nest. If they have just left
the nest, their parents are usually around
and ready to take care of them, so it is well
to let them alone. Some birds that are in-
jured, usually by flying into a building or
being struck by automobiles, can best be
cared for by being kept quiet in a somewhat
darkened box or cage for a short time.

The young will almost always require some
insulating material around or over them to
assist them in conserving their body warmth,
in lieu of the hovering and warming parents.
If they feel cold to the touch, artificial heat
can be supplied as suggested for mammals.

Almost all birds of this type, whether
young or adult, can live on a diet of worms
and insects, or bits of hamburger supple-
mented by berries and other fruits; some will
take considerable quantities of seeds, grain,
and other farinaceous material such as dry
breakfast foods. The yolk of hard-boiled egg
can well be offered to many of them. Fresh
water should always be available. A good
food mixture that can ordinarily be made up
at most homes is:

Equal parts of raw hamburger, boiled eggs
(hard), and pablum.

Mix these ingredients together and roll into
small balls the size of the bird’s throat. Give
by means of a pair of tweezers. Feed every
twenty minutes during the day. Place the
food far back into the mouth of the bird.
Give several drops of water by means of an
eye dropper slowly.

26

Z i%%%

Parent birds feed their young at very
frequent intervals, many as often as every
15 minutes or even more frequently. This
suggests that the best method of caring for
such small birds is to feed them moderate
amounts at very frequent intervals.

Other birds, such as eagles, ospreys, hawks
and owls feed their young on small animal
prey such as mice, rats, fish for the ospreys
and large insects for the sparrow hawks.
Hawks and owls do well on meats, including
some liver, and fish. This is good food to
provide when it is necessary to keep them
captive in order to administer first aid. These
birds should be released as soon as possible
in the locality where they were found.

The young of herons (long-legged, long-
necked birds that usually frequent the vicin-
ity of water) usually eat ﬁsh, frogs, and
crayfish, and they will thrive best on such
a diet. However, comparatively few of these
birds fall into human hands.

Gulls, terns and their relatives, and such
sea-coast birds as murres, pufﬁns, and guille-
mots, feed almost entirely on fish.

The young of quail, grouse, and pheasants
feed on a considerable assortment with em-
phasis on insects, but also seeds and plant
food. The diet of the adults is composed of
a considerable proportion of grain, seeds,
and insects, supplemented by green food and
fruit. In captivity the young can be offered
hamburger, ground-up hard-boiled egg, bits
of such green material as lettuce, fruit, seeds
and grain.

At Easter time many children are given
baby chickens and ducks, but they are not

 

 

 




 

 

 

given information as to how to care for
them. This often leads to much suffering
and early death, with heartbreak for the
children. It has also led to legislation in
many areas making it illegal to sell these
creatures as toys.

Baby ducks and chickens can be kept out-
doors, provided the weather is above freez-
ing, but very young ones (the kind usually
sold for the Easter trade) should be kept in
a? temperature range between 500 and 800 F.
In the wild, they would normally pick up a
considerable assortment of plant and animal
food such as insects, worms, grubs, seeds and
grass, clover, etc. In captivity, they can be
fed the duck starter or the chicken starter
that is ordinarily available in pet stores. This
should be supplemented with such green
food as grass clippings, clover, or lettuce,
and other leafy vegetable material. If the
duck or chicken starter is not available, a

fairly satisfactory diet can be provided by

pouring hot water over corn meal to moisten
it so that it forms small balls or masses that
can be eaten by the chickens and ducklings.
Also give small amounts of hamburger,
small pieces of lettuce, and other leafy vege-
tables. The yolk of hard-boiled egg is also
often relished.

Parent birds do not carry water to their
young, but the food that they carry contains
a high proportion of moisture that is ordi-
narily adequate. However, it does no harm
to dip in water the food that one is going to
give to young birds so that they get some ad-
ditional moisture in this way. Raisins soaked
in water are often enjoyed. A small water
dish should be kept in the cage so that they
can drink when they want to do so.

It should be borne in mind that many of
the small North American birds are pro-
tected by Federal and State laws. One should
not plan to keep them in captivity but should
conﬁne one’s efforts to first aid.

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHOTOS

A Friendly Dog Warms Ducklings

 

27

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It should be borne in mind that reptiles
must be kept rather uniformly warm if , they
are to remain active and eat. The North
American forms should not be subject to
temperatures much below 650 F. and they
stand the best chance of thriving if main-
tained at temperatures about 800 F. If they
are subject to chilling at night, even though
they may be warm enough during the day-
time, they will refuse to eat; but being some-
what active, they will be using up energy and
will starve to death. Therefore, persons who
have reptiles of any kind are confronted with
the problem of maintaining them at a con-
stant temperature that is acceptable to the
reptiles or letting them go into hibernation
during the colder period of the year.

Hibernation is a long winter sleep that is
enjoyed by practically all reptiles in the wild
state. During this period they are entirely
inactive, their temperature is lowered and
their breathing and heart beats are greatly
reduced. If they have gone into hibernation
in a good physical state and are kept under
favorable conditions, they regularly survive
for periods of six months or more and some
have survived for much longer periods. The
aquatic forms usually hibernate in mud or
moist locations. The dry land forms usually
burrow into the soil or go into locations
where they will be protected from extremes
of temperatures and have some slight degree
of moisture about them.

Reptiles are generally much less active
physically than birds or mammals, so they
require much less food for their size. Fre-

28

quently they will eat only at intervals of
several days or longer.

Alligators, crocodiles and their relatives
eat ﬁsh and meat. It is essential that they
be kept warm, preferably not below 800;
they should be in a well-lighted location but
should have an opportunity to get out of the
direct rays of the sun. They should have a
pan or pool in which to swim and there
should be ample space above the water level
for them to dry off and bask in the sun. If
kept warm, they will usually eat meat and
fish in small amounts; the young eat daily,
but as they become older, then need not be
fed so often.
not to be bitten by them.

Caution should be exercised

Turtle;

Turtles do not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, they are generally better off
if left in their natural surroundings. How-
ever, they may be kept for a few days in a
school room without harm and then returned
to the locality where they were found. The
land forms, such as the box turtle, should
not be put into deep water but should be in
an enclosure in which there is a shallow pan
of water into which it can scramble to drink
or to soak when it wants to; there should be
a dry area, which can be sand, earth, boards,
or paper. The dry land forms eat worms,
insects and grubs, and will often take ham-
burger in captivity. They also eat some plant
material such as lettuce and kale, and some
fruit such as tomatoes, strawberries, apples,
grapes, etc. I have known a wild one that

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

VVALKER

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P

Fr! Fondles her Pef Green Snake

itfle G

Al.

 

29

 

 




 

 

 

 

lived near a picnic area that would. come to
get bread and butter and sugar. It is well
to put one or two drops of cod liver oil on
each feeding of hamburger for small and
medium size turtles and three or four drops
on the hamburger or ﬁsh for the larger size
turtles.

The fresh water forms, such as are found
around our streams and lakes and which are
sold in stores, thrive in an aquarium but
must have a dry area above water where
they can come out, dry, and sun themselves.
They are particularly fond of worms and in-
sects and will take hamburger and. bits of
ﬁsh, also small amounts of fruit and green
food. Care must be taken to keep the turtles
terrarium in a location which does not com-
pel the animal to remain in hot direct sun-
light for hours. Captive turtles and other
animals left on window ledges exposed to
the direct rays of the sun are sometimes
killed.

Snapping turtles (fresh water forms) reg-
ularly feed on ﬁsh and animal food. They
are aggressive and vicious, and give severe
bites.
considerable caution not to be bitten, for
they draw their heads back and strike quick-

Anyone handling them should use

ly and at a surprising distance. They are
best left alone.

Marine turtles are not ordinarily taken
into captivity, except occasionally along the
sea coast. They rarely thrive in captivity un-
less one is particularly well equipped to care
for them. Their food consists of ﬁsh and
other kinds of animal life, and some eat
considerable vegetable material.

Sim/€65

Snakes hold a remarkable fascination for

30

many youngsters and very few children are
afraid of them. It is apparently the adults
who pass on from generation to generation
the strong aversions, erroneous beliefs and
superstitions regarding snakes which in most
cases have little or no foundation of truth.
In North America, poisonous snakes com-
pose a very small percentage of the total
number of species and individuals. There
are only two groups that are poisonous: the
pit-vipers, including the rattlesnakes, copper-
heads, and true water moccasins, and. the
elapine snakes, including the coral snakes.
All other North American snakes are not
only non-poisonous but are generally beneﬁ-
cial in the balance of nature because they
prey upon rats and mice which are so de-
structive to our crops. Like turtles, they may
be brought to the classroom for a few days,
then returned to the place where they were
found. Most snakes can be kept in captivity
for short periods with only moderate facil-
ities and without much difﬁculty. They do
not require much care nor elaborate cages. A
box with a glass front, and a few holes or
cracks in it to admit air, is usually adequate.
Water should be available at all times.
Snakes in general eat whole animals rang-
ing in size from worms, grubs, insects, mice,
rats and squirrels to larger creatures for the
larger snakes. Many snakes also eat eggs.
The non-poisonous North American snakes
—particularly the small ones and the young
-—should be offered worms, grubs and in-
sects. The large kinds, if taken at all, should
be kept no more than a day or two, during
which time it is not necessary to feed them.
They should then be returned to the place
where they were found. Most snakes are
rather irregular in their feeding. After hav-

 

 




 

 

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

Horned and Other Lizards in a Cage that Simulates Desert Conditions. (There are sand, a
small cactus plant and stones under which they may hide. There is also a small dish of
water. The cage is well lighted, being made of pebble glass on the two sides and the
bGCk, while the front is of clear glass.)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ing eaten a good meal, they may go for sev4
eral days or weeks without eating again. If
they are cold they will not eat at all. Fre-
quently they will refuse to eat when they
are preparing to shed their skins. At this
time they should have a slightly moist loca-
tion to facilitate the loosening of the skin,
and it is well for them to have rough objects
against which they can rub to help them
remove the old skin.

Lizard;

Like other reptiles, lizards must be kept
warm; otherwise they become sluggish, will
not eat, and will want to go into hibernation.
Some lizards eat plant food such as fruits
and green leaves; others eat a mixture of
plant and animal foods, including insects and
worms. Practically all of the North Amer-
ican forms feed almost entirely on worms,
grubs and insects.

The little green or brown lizards sold at
circuses and carnivals as ”chameleons,” are
really anolis, which inhabit the southwestern
United States. Purchasers are sometimes told
that they need be fed only sweetened water.
This, however, is erroneous. They require
living insects such as ﬂies, moths, or meal
worms, and they will eat many other kinds.
One good way of restraining them and giv-
ing them an opportunity to get live food is
to build a cage of mesh small enough to
keep the lizard from escaping but large
enough to admit insects. The cage can have
in it a growing plant so that the lizard can
climb about on the plant. The cage, plant,
and lizard can be kept on a window ledge
or other location where insects can get to it

 

but it should not be constantly in the direct
rays of the sun. Insects can be induced to
come into the cage by placing water, bits of
fruit, syrup, or meat in the cage. When the
live insects come to these baits, the lizard
will have an opportunity to catch them. The
American anolis will sometimes eat some
very ripe banana, which helps to supplement
its diet.

Horned lizards of the southwestern United
States are frequently kept in captivity. They

feed most readily on ants and if one cannot

otherwise provide them with suitable food, a
small cage can be constructed of wire fabric
and placed on the ground in the vicinity of
an ant colony. With baits of sugar or other
food placed in the cage to attract the ants,
the horned lizard can be left there for a few
hours at a time to catch them.

All lizards require water but some will not
drink it freely. However, a shallow dish of
water should be made available to them. One
way of giving them water is to spray the
lizard and plant with lukewarm water at fre-
quent intervals, as lizards take up moisture
through the skin. The false chameleon or
anolis will rarely drink from a dish, although
occasionally one will drink from a teaspoon
held to its mouth. The best way to make cer-
tain that they are adequately supplied with
water is to sprinkle them, and the surface
on which they rest, with lukewarm water.
Another way that will sometimes help those
that appear to be drying up is to let them
stand brieﬂy in a shallow pan of warm
water. It is usually necessary to hold the
lizard, but keep its head out of the water;
you can sometimes see the skin absorbing
moisture like a blotter taking up ink.

32

 




 

., , ,
’é 4/
a l
/> ,0
'2 7
€ ,/

I}

The best temperature range for amphib-
ians is from 650 to 800; a temperature lower
than 65° will cause most of them to cease
to eat, become sluggish, and want to go into
hibernation.

This group includes the toads, frogs and
salamanders and the immature forms of the
toads and frogs that are known as tadpoles.
They have relatively smooth, moist skin and
must be in fairly moist surroundings to

survive.

The North American frogs and toads feed
almost exclusively on worms and insects, and
if they are to be kept in captivity, they should
be offered a good assortment of these until
the person learns deﬁnitely the kinds that
they will accept or refuse.

Very satisfactory containers are aquariums
partially filled with water and with some
area above the water level, perhaps covered
with moss. Also large cans containing water
and stones can be used, but the cans should
be discarded when they begin to rust.

Toads and Frogs

A terrarium can be arranged in an aqua-
rium, or in a box or big pan provided with
a dish of water large enough for the frog or
toad to get into. The terrarium should also
include an area, preferably with soil and per-
haps some moss or living plants, where the
animal can get out of water. Most toads and
frogs feed mainly on worms, grubs, and in-
sects, and they can often be kept with good
success. They lay their eggs in fresh water,
usually in pools in the spring time. The eggs

 

 

33

y ,

a “x
/ .4
a a
Z ,

soon hatch into tadpoles that have a tail.
They grow for a period in this stage. Finally,
the tail is absorbed, legs are developed, and
they become fully formed little frogs or
toads. Tadpoles live entirely in the water
and breathe through gills, but by a gradual
transition they become air-breathing creatures
with lungs. This is a remarkable phenom-
enon of nature that is a fascinating study
for children.

Most tadpoles feed almost exclusively on
soft plant tissues such as algae and soft
green leaves. If they cannot be provided
with water, soil, and vegetation of the type
among which they would normally live, they
can sometimes be raised on very soft lettuce
leaves that are dropped in the water and
allowed to disintegrate still further. Tiny
pieces of meat or fresh bones or bone mar-
row should also be put in the water to take
the place of the minute animal life some of
them would eat in the wild.

It is essential that tadpoles be in water
until they are ready to leave it voluntarily
to go on to adjacent drier areas after they
have absorbed their tails and gills and de-
veloped legs. At this time they are ready
for small worms and insects such as their
parents consume, but of smaller size.

Salamanders

Salamanders have tails throughout their
lives, in addition to their arms and legs. In
their early stages they have gills which are
later absorbed in most forms; some breathe
through the skin. They feed mainly on mi-

 

 

 




nute animal life and should be offered small above water on which they can rest is ade-

worms, insects and grubs. Some will also quate for salamanders. Very attractive ex-
take bits of hamburger and ﬁsh if attached hibits can be provrded by the use of aquatic
to a straw and moved slowly before them plants, moss or other types of plants.

A terrarium or aquarium with some space

 

 

 

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

Two Argentine Horned Frogs in a Cage that has a Shallow Pool of; Water,
Earth and Growing Plants

 

 

 

 




 

 

M%%

Children playing near shallow fresh and
salt water frequently capture small ﬁsh and
sometimes take them home alive. To care
for them, the ﬁrst requirement of course is
to provide either fresh or salt water, depend-
ing upon the kind of water from which they
are taken. The aquarium need not be elab-

orate. Indeed, almost any sort of a container '

that will hold enough water can be used. But
it is important that there be a considerable
volume of water in order that the oxygen
necessary for the ﬁsh to survive will not be
quickly depleted. The larger the exposed
surface of water the better. Depth is not of
so much importance but the sides of the con-
tainer must be high enough above the water
level to prevent the ﬁsh from jumping out.

Without attempting to designate the kinds
of foods that are best for the many different
kinds of ﬁsh, it is suggested that the ﬁsh be
supplied with the widest possible variety of
insects, worms, and grubs and with bits of
hamburgers, as well as small amounts of
such green foods as lettuce, cabbage, grass,
clover, and tiny bits of fruit. Small amounts
of cooked cereal can also be offered in the
water. Some satisfactory packaged ﬁsh foods
can be obtained at the better pet stores.
From this array of material, the ﬁsh will
perhaps be able to obtain food that is suit-
able for its requirements. Bear in mind that
ﬁsh eat but small amounts, so be sparing in
the quantities given.

Living aquatic plants growing in the aqua-
rium will assist in keeping the water in suit-
able condition for the welfare of the ﬁsh.

 

K)"
\Jl

Indeed, if a suitable balance of plant and
animal life is provided, it will not be neces-
sary to change the water in the aquarium.
However, if there is not enough growing
plant life, and if an excess of food is left in
the water, it will be necessary to change the
water in the aquarium at fairly frequent in-
tervals or at least syphon off from the bottom
a portion of the water and add fresh water

to keep up the supply.

SALT WATER FORMULAS

ULA ULA
‘l 2
SALT % % Pounds Ounces

Sodium chloride 2.700 2.840 28 6
Potassium chloride 0.075 0.078 121/;
Calcium chloride

(anhydrous) 0.113 0.125 1 4
Magnesium chloride

(6H20) 0.295 0.547 5 71/3
Magnesium Sulphate

(7H20) 0.682 0.719 7 3
Potassium bromide 0.010 ........
Sodium carbonate

(10H20) 0.033 ........
Sodium bicarbonate 0.193 0.013 2
Potassium nitrate ........ 0.013 2
Sodium monohydrogen

phosphate ........ 0.001 1/6
Ferric chloride ........ 0.0005 1/12

The pounds and ounces in the last column are for
100 gallons of formula 2', using soft fresh water or
distilled water. The last three ingredients in the table
should be added after the ﬁrst group has dissolved.
The resulting solution should have a speciﬁc gravity
of about 1.025, and, since most marine species do very
well at 1.020, it may be diluted to that reading if re-
quired. Some queer and interesting effects, varying
greatly with species, are sometimes seen as a result
of such speciﬁc gravity changes. Fish obviously un-
happy at 1.030 may perk up and look ﬁne at 1.020.
yet others which are dashing around and eating well
at 1.030 may decline at 1.020. The majority seem to
perfer the rather more diluted water.

From “Culture Methods

for Invertebrate Animals”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

\

IWT%

(Animals without backbones,
mainly small to minute creatures.)

There are many different kinds of inver-
tebrates, almost every one of which has its
own peculiar requirements, so it is not ad-
visable to do much more than outline a few
basic principles for their care.

Observe where they are found and the
conditions under which they are living, and
.try to simulate the conditions that nature
would normally have maintained for them
at the location where they are found. That
is, are they living in fresh water? In salt
water? In moist earth? In dry sand? Among
the rocks at high altitudes, or low altitudes?
In a hot climate, or in a cold climate? Then
consider the type of food that would be
available in those locations. By such obser-
vations and the exercise of ingenuity, even
the novice can learn to maintain very attrac-
tive and successful exhibits of invertebrates.
Containers for such exhibits can range from
cans, jars, or inexpensive aquariums to elab-
orate cages and tanks. There are a number
of handbooks and manuals that tell how to
care for some invertebrates. A few are listed
in the bibliography.

Insects are particularly interesting subjects
that are usually readily available and can
provide attractive and fascinating exhibits,
in which one can witness the remarkable
changes in the form of an individual during
the course of its life.

Creatures of the sea coast are commonly
found. Perhaps the most frequently taken of
these are the crustaceans, such as the hermit
crabs, crayfish, other little relatives of the
lobster, shrimp and edible crab. They breathe
through a gill type of apparatus and must

be kept moist if they are to survive. Those
that are accustomed to sea water should
have salt water.

There is no satisfactory substitute for sea
water, so if one intends to keep marine
forms he should make plans to obtain fresh
clear sea water regularly or to arrange to
filter and aerate his supply. Some forms of
life can be kept fairly well in a solution
consisting of either one of the two formulas
listed on Page 35.

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER
A Laboratory Jar Culture of Wax Moths and Wax Worms

36

 

 




 

 

Most of these creatures feed on a consid-
erable variety of animal and plant material
so they may well be offered bits of ﬁsh,
meat, worms, and insects, and small amounts
of green plant material—or, better yet, the
algae of the sea coast.

Clams, mussels, snails, and snail-like crea-
tures that frequent marine habitats, fresh
water streams and lakes, and dry land plants
are all found by children. Those native to
ocean beaches should be provided with salt
water and sand in which they can burrow,
or rocks on which they can climb or under
which they can hide. Sea weed and algae

and minute animal life native to the beaches
can be put into the aquarium. Such food
material as pieces of lettuce and other green
plant material and bits of ﬁsh and meat can
be sup-plied in the hope that some may be
suitable for the kinds of creatures being kept.

Fresh water forms should, of course, be
kept in fresh water aquariums with plants.
The minute animal life of fresh water
streams and ponds might also be introduced
in the hope that some of it might be suitable
food for the larger creatures in the aquarium.
In addition, such food material as was men-
tioned for the marine forms can be offered.

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNEST P. WALKER

A Pyramidal Hy Trap made of Fine Mesh Wire Fabric. (See text page 40)-
37

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

\\

   
 

W
\\\

  

-, 7 ’-. / '1. 7
4 4 g Q i. %

 

If it is not convenient to obtain live insects
and worms for food from pet stores or other
sources, it is possible to establish and main-
tain cultures for this purpose. A few of the
more important ones are as follows:

How to Rear Meal W/ormr

Meal worms (Tenebrio molitor or T. ob-
scurus) are greatly relished by many different
kinds of creatures. They can be raised easily
in pans, jars or cans that have smooth sides
and a depth of 8 inches or more. They are
generally given as food in the larval or
worms stage, which is about an inch long
and 1/8 inch in diameter. However, the bee-
tles are also relished by some animals, and
these insects are excellent food.

In the National Zoological Park, the meal
worm cultures are maintained in trays or
drawers about 40 inches long, 20 inches from
front to back, and 8 to 10 inches deep, with
metal bottoms and a metal overhang around
the edge at the top. Bran or corn meal is
put in the drawers to a depth of 2 to 3 inches
and two layers of burlap are placed on the
bran. The culture is occasionally sprinkled
lightly with water to supply moisture, and
pieces of potato, apple, and banana peel are
put into the bran to supplement the meal
worms’ diet. Do not make the bran or corn
moist, or it will mildew.

When the larvae are full grown, they con-
gregate between the two layers of the burlap.
It is then an easy matter to scoop up quan-
tities of them. It is also possible to separate
them from the bran by sifting through a

TAT%J%%%

coarse-mesh screen, allowing the bran with
the dusty residue and small worms and eggs
to fall back into the tray.

Small cultures can be kept in pound. coffee
cans, or in almost any container that has
ventilation and will retain the insects.

Meal. worms do not develop rapidly, so
one should have as much as 2 square feet
of ﬂoor space in the containers if he expects
to feed many worms to an animal. All stages
of the meal worm are relished. The worms
are preferred, but the bettles are probably
more valuable food as they are the mature

, (sexual) form.

The original stock for starting a culture of
meal worms can be obtained from some pet
stores or animal dealers. Persons who do
not have access to such sources might be
able to obtain wild ones from granaries or
other places where the worms and beetles
have established themselves in grain, bran,
meal, or Hour.

How to Rear Wsz Mot/Jr

Wax moths and wax worms (Galleria
mellonella) are relished by many animals,
though refused by some. These insects can be
raised easily and rapidly by establishing a
culture in a can or jar of at least one-gallon
capacity with a close-fitting, ﬁne-mesh wire
screen top. Fill the container about half full
with beeswax from which the honey has
been extracted, leaving the wax loosely ar-
ranged, that is, not packed down in the jar.
If bee comb is not available, the insects will
thrive on the following mixture: 1. part ﬁne

 

 

 

 




 

corn meal, 2 parts whole-wheat ﬂour, 2 parts
skim milk powder, 1 part powdered dried
yeast, and 2 parts standard wheat middlings.
This should be thoroughly mixed. When
ready for use, it should be mixed with equal
parts of honey and glycerine until it is about
the consistency of wet sand.

Start the culture with a few newly-emerged
wax moths, or wax worms in any stage of
development, and put on the wire lid so it
ﬁts snugly. If humidity is low, a tablespoon-
ful of water should be sprinkled over the
wax about once a week. If the humidity is
high, no additional moisture is likely to be
needed. Keep the culture at room tempera-
ture, and within a week or two there should
be worms, and perhaps some moths. The
growth is very rapid and the food is quickly
consumed. If properly cared for, a can or jar
of about two gallon capacity should produce
almost a quarter of a pound of worms and
moths a week.

When the moths or worms are to be given
as food, take out masses of the cocoons or
wax with worms and moths on it, and let
the animal catch them. Replenish the wax,
and the culture will continue with the great
number of tiny worms that remain in the
jar. Be certain always to leave a few newly
emerged moths in the jar to lay eggs for the
next crop.

Don’t allow the worms to escape where
they can damage cloth, paper, books, or
wood. The moths do no damage by eating,
and apparently any eggs they lay in house-
furnishings do not hatch, or at least do not
survive. The worms can do considerable
damage.

The moths or worms for starting the cul-
ture might be obtainable from bee raisers,

39

who ﬁnd them to be serious pests in apiaries.

H ow to Rear Erzclaytmeid Wimm

Enchytraeus are white worms only about
the size of a No. 20 thread and an inch long.
They are easy to raise and are particularly
good food for small ﬁsh and some other
small creatures such as crayﬁsh.

They can be raised in tight containers
such as a wooden box or dish pan. In the
container, place rich leaf mold and soil to
a depth of 3 to 4 inches. Stock the culture
soil with worms obtained from dealers in
aquarium or biological supplies or from
other sources. Rolled oats, cereals, cracker
crumbs or pieces of boiled potato can be
used as food. The soil should be kept
slightly moist; it is well to have a cover
that will rest on the soil and yet will pro-
vide some air around the edges of the cover.
This will keep Out lightand help to prevent
too rapid evaporation. The culture container
should be kept where the temperature is
about 600 F. and the culture should receive
almost daily attention to make certain that
food, moisture and temperature conditions
are maintained satisfactorily.

The worms breed rapidly, and after the
culture has been going a short time, it will
be found that the worms have collected in
groups like tangled string, for breeding. A
portion of these can be used for food for
animals and the culture can be kept going

indeﬁnitely.
How to Rear Cockroaches

Cockroaches are relished by many different
kinds of animals and since they can often
be readily obtained in the wild and can bc-

 

 

 




 

 

 

reared easily, they are of considerable im-
portant for animal food. There are several
different kinds, all of which have their own
pecularities of habits as well as form. Con-
siderable detail regarding this can be found
in the publication ”Rearing Cockroaches for
Experimental Purposes” by P. G. Piquett and
J. H. Fales, Agricultural Research Admin-
istration, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Publication No. ET-SOI.

A simple way to maintain a culture for
supplying only a few cockroaches for pet
animals is to keep them in metal boxes. A
good size is 14 x 18 X 7 inches, with a
screen mesh wire top. Convenient shelters
for the insects can be provided in the cage
by notching the upper edge of round pint
ice-cream cartons and inverting them in the
cage so that the insects can get inside the
cartons for shelter. A cage of this size will
accommodate about 600 adult cockroaches,
if it has about 11 of the round pint cartons
inverted in it. Other boxes and devices can
also be used. The inside of the cage should
be smooth and about 2 inches of the upper
edge should be smoothly and evenly smeared
with vaseline to prevent the insects from
climbing up the edge of the cage. The in-
sects can be fed many different kinds of
food. Some laboratories have standardized on
some of the dry dog rations, but a variety
of table scraps will sufﬁce for maintaining
a small colony. Water must be provided.
This can be arranged in various ways. The
insects to start the culture can be obtained
from some biological laboratories, if they
cannot be caught locally. They thrive best
at a temperature of from 700 to 800 F.

40

How to Rear Flies

Common house ﬂies (Musca domestica)
and other ﬂies are relished by many different
kinds of creatures, particularly by insect-
eating lizards. If the lizards or other pets
are kept in cages with wire mesh large
enough to admit ﬂies, these insects can fre-
quently be enticed into the cage with food
that appeals to them so that the pet can
capture the ﬂies itself. However, during the
colder months of the year this method can-
not be followed.

A ﬂy culture can be started and maintained
without much difﬁculty. An excellent method
is to make a funnel-shaped device of wire
fabric, with a door in the side of it. Invert
the funnel in a pan, in which meat or ﬁsh
is placed, and leave the door on the side
of the funnel open so that ﬂies can enter
to feed on the meat or ﬁsh and to lay their
eggs. If one desires to use the ﬂies immedi-
ately, an empty milk bottle can be inverted
over the small end of the funnel and when
the ﬂies have laid their eggs, the door to the
funnel can be closed. By gentle tapping on
the cage, the ﬂies will be induced to go up
into the milk bottle which can then be
placed in the cage of the pet which is

to be fed.

The ﬂy eggs will hatch and the worms,
called maggots, will feed on the meat or
ﬁsh. When they have reached about their
full growth at this stage, they will want
to go downward into soil or sand. It is
therefore a good plan to have ﬁne sand
in the bottom of the pan into which the
maggots can go to pupate, that is, to go
into their inactive Chrysalis state. If the

 

 




 

weather is warm, they will remain in this
stage only a few days before emerging as
adult ﬂies. If one desires to provide for a
supply during the winter period, the pupae
can be placed in a refrigerator or other cold
place and held dormant until ﬂies are re-
quired for food. Then as many pupae should
be taken out of the refrigerator as ﬂies are
needed; if they are kept warm (750 to 800
F.), the adult ﬂies will emerge within a
few days.

With careful attention and some practice,
it is possible to accumulate considerable
quantities of the ﬂy pupae during the sum-
mertime; if they are maintained within a
temperature range of 350 to 300, and if the
sand or the surroundings are kept slightly
moist, they will be available to provide adult
ﬂies throughout the winter.

Another food mixture that was developed
by Henry H. Richardson for raising ﬂy lar-
vae throughout the year is as follows:

”Wheat bran .................. 31/4 lbs.

Alfalfa meal ............... 1V4 lbsi

Water ................................. 5000 cc ,1 Mix thoroughly
Yeast suspension ...... 300 cc

Diamalt .............................. 25 cc

Add the water mixture to the bran mixture
and stir thoroughly. The amOunt of water used
in the medium is of considerable importance
and depends to some extent on the type of rear-
lng jar used and the tightness of the cover.
Tall narrow-mouthed containers need less water
as evaporation from such jars is less. The
amount of water should be such that the me-
dium will dry out on top as incubation pro-
gresses, as the mature maggots pupate here.
If too much water is used, the top of the
medium remains wet and the larvae will tend
to migrate out of the jar in their effort to ﬁnd
a dry place for pupation. Trouble with fungus
growths may also be experienced. The medium
may be used as soon as prepared.”

From “Culture .Meihods for Invertebrate Animals”

41

Maintaining Earthworm Calla/re;

Earthworms can usually be obtained in
considerable numbers during or following
light rains and they are most active in the
earlier portion of the night. If they are col-
lected at that time, they can be kept easily
under conditions that can ordinarily be pro—
vided in the home or small laboratory.
Boxes with 8 to 12 inches of rich loam,
leaf mold and dead leaves provide good
conditions for maintaining the worms. The
leaves and soil should be moistened at fre-
quent intervals but should not be saturated.
It is preferable that the temperature be
below 60° F.

Injured earthworms should not be put
into the culture but can be used for food
immediately if needed.

The earthworms commonly found around
manure piles are usually not acceptable to
animals, so while they are easily obtained
and easily raised, it is usually a waste of
effort to keep them.

While earthworms normally feed and
thrive on decaying vegetation such as leaves,
they appear to be beneﬁtted by the addition
of small amounts of corn meal or rolled oats
in the soil. Care should be taken not to
moisten the culture so much that it sour-s

or molds.

* * *

The larval and pupa forms (the quiet
stages in the bee comb) of honey bees are
relished by many animals. Cultures of honey
bees can be maintained by the same method
that bee raisers employ or the larvae can
sometimes be obtained from bee raisers.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

There are many publications that contain infor-
mation regarding how animals live in the wild
and how animals can be cared for in captivity.
Pet stores, as well as book stores, handle publi-
cations relating to care of animals. Some relate
speciﬁcally to certain kinds of animals, but often
the basic information in them can be applied to
the care of other species.

The listing herein of a publication does not
necessarily indicate that it is deemed better than
publications not listed; nor does failure to list a
publication imply that it is not satisfactory. The
list is made up of publications that have come to
the author’s attention. Since there are so many
publications on these subjects, it is not possible
to list even a large proportion of them.

>l< * >3

The United States Department of Agriculture,
through its Animal and Poultry Husbandry Re-
search Branch (Washington 25, DC), issues pub-
lications for free distribution on the care of mink,
chinchillas, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, etc.
Upon request, the Bureau will furnish a list of its
various publications on these and allied subjects.

>l< * *

Publications of the New York Zoological So-
ciety listed below are of outstanding usefulness.
(Orders for publications should be addressed to:
New York Zoological Society, The Zoological
Park, New York 60, New York, and should be
accompanied by money orders or checks made pay-
able to the New York Zoological Society.)

POISONOUS SNAKES OF THE NEW WORLD.

POPE. 56 pp, 42 illus. (2 in color) ......... 50¢
SNAKES OF THE NORTHEASTERN U.S.
POPE. 52 pp, 33 illus. (2 in color) ......... 50¢

CARE OF TURTLEs‘AND SMALL ALLI-‘
GATORS. COATES. 8 pp, 5 illus. ...... 20¢

Popular Series Booklets: ,
No. S—NORTH AMERICAN BEARS ...... 10¢,
No. 7~HUMMINGBIRDS .............................. 10¢

42

The BULLETIN of the New York Zoological.
Society and its successor ANIMAL KINGDOM,
(a periodical issued bi-monthly), contain the fol-
lowing articles of unusual interest: (Back numbers
may be available.)

The amphibians. MELLEN. 29 pp, 48 illus.

The care of salamanders and frogs in cap-
tiVity. MELLEN. 5 pp, 9 illus.

Vol. 30, No. 6 ............................................................... 60¢
The owls. CRANDALL. 24 pp, 25 illus.

Vol. 33, No. 5 ............................................................... 60¢
The crocodilians of the world. DESOLA.

24 pp, 40 illus. Vol. 36, No. 1 .................. 60¢
The smaller carnivores. DITMARS.

24 pp, 36 illus. Vol. 36, No. 5 .................. 60¢
The rodents or gnawing animals. SANBORN.

34 pp, 59 illus. Vol. 36, No. 6 ..................... 60¢

Feeding the animals. BRIDGES. 11 pp,
11 illus. The giant orioles of the trozpics.
CRANDALL. 4 pp, 5 illus.

Vol. 40, No. 3 ............................................................ 60¢
Canaries have come a long way. GORDON.
7 pp, 15 illus. Vol. 40, No. 4 ..................... 60¢

The woodchuck: lord of the clover ﬁeld.
SCHOONMAKER, 11 pp, 16 illus. The
species of fish in New York harbor. BREDER.
7 pp, 3 illus. In quest of the quetzal. VON
HAGEN. 7 pp, 8 illus. Vol. 41, No. 1 ...... 60¢

Keeping the animals well. BRIDGES.
14 pp, 19 illus., V01. 41, No. 5 .................. 60¢

Handling the animals. BRIDGES. 13 pp,
'13 illus.E Fish out of water. NIGRELLI.
8 pp, 8 illus. Vol. 42, No. 2 ........................ 60¢.

Mammallife of the forest ﬂoor.
HAMILTON. 10 pp, 12 illus. Horses
and men. BEEBE. 8 pp, 5 illus.
Vol. 43, No. 6 ............................................................... 60¢

Ten ways of helping baby birds.
CRANDALL. 3 pp, 1 illus.
Vol. 46, No. 2 ............................................................... 60¢

 




 

Chipmunk secrets. ALLEN. 8 pp., 7 illus.
Vol. 46, No. 6 ............................................................... 605,:

The gray squirrel nature’s Johnny Appleseed.
MCCLUNG. 9 pp., 3 illus.

 

Vol. 54, No. 4 ............................................................ 60¢
Frogs as friends of man. OLIVER.

8 pp., 8 illus. Vol. 55, No. 2 ........................ 60¢
MISCELLANEOUS:
Prevention & Treatment of Snakebite.

OLIVER. 32 pp, 31 illus. ................................. 30¢

A practical handbook telling you how to avoid
being bitten by a poisonous snake, and what to
do about it if you are bitten.

:1: a: *

ALL~PETS Magazine (Fond du Lac, Wisconsin)
frequently has helpful articles and carries many
advertisements of books and booklets on the care
of animals in captivity; the publishers also sell
books and booklets on this subject.

=1: >1: *

ALL-PETS BOOKS (Fond du Lac, Wisconsin)
-——Books and booklets handled by this concern are
mainly simple instructions for the care of animals.

AMERICAN CAGE-BIRD MAGAZINE (a
periodical). 3449-51 N. Western Avenue, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES OF THE PA-
CIFIC STATES. Gayle Pickwell—Stanford Uni-
versity Press, Stanford University, California; 1947

ANIMALS AS FRIENDS AND HOW TO
KEEP THEM. Margaret Shaw and James Fisher—
New York, E. P. Dutton 8; Co., Inc.; 1940

THE AQUARIUM (a periodical). Innes Pub-
lishing Co., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

(A valuable periodical on the care of fish.)

AVAILABLE PUBLICATIONS ON WILD-

LIFE. Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 186,
US. Department of Interior.

AVICULTURAL MAGAZINE (a periodical).
Journal of the Avicultural Society and the Avi-
cultural Society of America; Hertford, Stephen
Austin & Sons, Ltd., 1951, London.

(This periodical and the earlier series of both
the American and the British Avicultural Maga-
zrnes, of which this is a successor, contain many
useful articles regarding the care of birds.)

43

BIRDS. Herbert S. Zim and Ira N. Gabrielson
——New York, Simon & Schuster; 1949 (Golden
Nature Guide Series)

BIRDS AS INDIVIDUALS. Len Howard——
London, Collins; 1952

BIRDS OF THE OCEAN. W. B. Alexander—
New York, Putnam Press; 1954, new and revised
edition—-(Putnam’s Nature Field Books)

BIRDS OF THE PACIFIC COAST. W. A.
Eliot—New York, Putnam Press; 1923 (Putnam's
Nature Field Books)

THE BOOK OF WILD PETS. Clifford B.
Moore—New York, Putnam Press; 1937
(A valuable and comprehensive book)

CANARY. Gustav Eckstein——NeW York, Har-
pers; 1936

CANARY JOURNAL (a periodical). 2002 S.
17th East Street, Salt Lake City 5, Utah

CANARY WORLD AND CAGE-BIRD DI-
GEST (a periodical). Lecanto, Florida

THE CARE AND BREEDING OF LABORA-
TORY ANIMALS. Edmond J. Farris—New York,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; 1950

(While intended for laboratories, the layman can
obtain considerable valuable information from it.)

CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY ANIMALS (Revised Edition). Edited by
Alastair N. Worden and W. Lane-Fetter. Univer-
sities Federation for Animal Welfare. 7a Lamb’s
Conduit Passage, London WC. 1, 1957.

(Mainly valuable for laboratories but the lay-
man can obtain considerable valuable information
from it.)

CARE OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS. Ernest P.
Walker—~Smithsonian Institution Report for 1941.
pp. 305-366, US. Government Printing Office;
1942. (This publication is now out of print, but
might be consulted in libraries that have the
Smithsonian volume in which it appears.)

CARE OF TURTLES AND SMALL ALLI-
GATORS. Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No.
91, US. Department of Interior; 1945

CULTURE METHODS FOR INVERTEBRATE
ANIMALS. Paul S. Galtsoﬂ, Frank E. Lutz, Paul
S. Welch and James G. Needham——Ithaca, N. Y.,
Comstock Publishing Co.; 1937

(A valuable volume for laboratories and much
of the information it contains can be adapted for

use by the layman.)

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

EVERYDAY MIRACLE. Gustav Eckstein—
New York, Harpers; 1948

EXOTIC AQUARIUM FISHES. William T.
Innes—Philadelphia, Innes Publishing Company,
11th edition; 1950

(A valuable book regarding the care of ﬁsh.)

FACTS ABOUT SNAKES. Fish and Wildlife
Service Leaﬂet No. 257. US Department of
Interior; 1944

FEEDING AND CARING FOR SQUIRRELS.
Fish and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 302. US.
Department of Interior; 1948

FEEDING WILDLIFE IN WINTER. Fish and
Wildlife Service Conservation Bulletin No. 13.
US. Department of Interior; 1941

FIELD BOOK OF INSECTS OF THE
UNITED STATES. F. E. Lutz—Putnam Press;
1948 (Putnam’s Nature Field Books)

FIELD BOOK OF SEASHORE LIFE. R. W.
Miner—New York, Putnam Press; 1950 (Put-
nam’s Nature Field Books)

FIELD BOOK OF THE MARINE FISHES
OF THE ATLANTIC OCEAN. C. M. Breder
~~New York, Putnam Press; 1929——-(Putnam's
Nature Field Books)

A FIELD GUIDE TO THE MAMMALS.
W. H. Burt and R. P. Grossenheider—Boston
Houghton Mifﬂin Company; 1952

FIELD BOOK OF ANIMALS IN WINTER.
Ann H. Morgan—New York, G. P. Putnam's
Sons; 1939

FIELD BOOK OF SNAKES of the United
States and Canada. Karl P. Schmidt and D. Dwight
Davis——New York, G. P. Putnam’s Sons; 1941

(Valuable for the identiﬁcation of North Amer-
ican snakes.)

THE FIRST BOOK OF SNAKES. John Hoke
—New York, Franklin Watts, Inc.; 1952

FISH. Herbert S. Zim—New York, Simon 8:
Schuster; 1955—(Golden Nature Guide Series)

FRESHWATER TROPICAL AQUARIUM
FISHES. G. F. Hervey and Jack Hems——London,
The Batchworth Press; 1952

44

A GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF FRESH
WATER BIOLOGY: WITH SPECIAL REFER-
ENCE TO AQUATIC INSECTS AND OTHER
INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS AND PHYTO-
PLANCTON. James G. Needham and Paul R.
Needham—Ithaca, N. Y., Comstock Publishing
Associates (Cornell University Press); 1938

(A useful book by an outstanding authority.)

HANDBOOK OF AMPHIBIANS AND REP-
TILES OF KANSAS. Hobart M. Smith—Fred
Voland,, Jr., State Printer, Topeka, Kansas; 1950

HANDBOOK OF FROGS AND T OADS OF
THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. Albert
Hazen Wright and Anna Allen Wright—-—Ithaca,
N. Y., Cornell University Press; 1949 (Comstock
Handbook Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HANDBOOK OF LIZARDS: LIZARDS OF
THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. Ho-
bart M. Smith—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell University
Press; 1946 (Comstock Handbook Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HANDBOOK OF NATURE STUDY. Anna
Botsford Comstock—Ithaca, N. Y., Comstock Pub-
lishing Associates (Cornell University Press) ; 1941

HANDBOOK OF SALAMANDERS: THE
SALAMANDERS OF THE UNITED STATES,
OF CANADA, AND OF LOWER CALIFOR-
NIA. Sherman C. Bishop—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell
University Press; 1947 (Comstock Handbook
Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HANDBOOK OF TURTLES: THE TURTLES
OF THE UNITED STATES, CANADA, AND
BAJA CALIFORNIA. Archie Carr———Ithaca, N.Y.,
Cornell University Press; 1952 (Comstock Hand-
book Series)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

'HINTS ON THE CARE OF OPOSSUMS.
F181”! and Wildlife Service Leaﬂet No. 187. US.
Department of Interior; 1941

HOME-MADE ZOO. Sylvia S. Greenberg and
Edith L. Raskin—New York, McKay; 1952

(Prepared for use in schoolroom and home.)

HOMES FOR BIRDS. Fish and W’ildlife

Service Conservation Bulletin No. 14. US. De-
partment of Interior; 1942

 




 

HOW TO KNOW THE AMERICAN MAM-
MALS. Ivan T. Sanderson——Boston, Little Brown;
1951 (The New Ameriacn Library)

(Useful for identiﬁcation.)

HOW TO KNOW THE IMMATURE IN-
SECTS. P. 'C'hu—Dubuque, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown
Co.; 1949 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

HOW TO KNOW THE INSECTS. H. E.
Jacques—Dubuqlue, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown Co.;
1947 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

HOW TO KNOW THE LAND BIRDS. H. E.
Jacques—Dubuque, Iowa, Wm. C. Brown Co.;
1947 (Pictured Key Nature Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

INSECTS. Herbert S. Zim and Clarence Cot-
tam—New York, Simon & Schuster; 1951
(Golden Nature Guide Series)

KEEP THEM ALIVE! E. Ross Allen and W.
T. Neill—Ross Allen, Silver Springs, Fla.

(Covers care of reptiles and amphibians and is
based on practical experience of the authors.)

KEEPING AND BREEDING AQUARIUM
FISHES. C. W. Emmens—New York, Academic
Press, Inc.; 1953

(An excellent work that treats not only of keep-
ing ﬁsh but the raising of ﬁsh food and the numer-
ous problems of maintaining aquaria successfully.)

KING SOLOMON’S RING. Konrad Lorenz—
New York, Crowell; 1952

LIVES. Gustav Eckstein—New York, Harpers;
1932 -/

MAMMALS. Herbert S. Zim and Donald F.
Hoffmeister—New York, Simon & Schuster; 1955
(Golden Nature Guide Series)

THE MAMMALS OF EASTERN UNITED
STATES: AN ACCOUNT OF RECENT LAND
MAMMALS OC‘CURRING EAST OF THE
MISSISSIPPI. William J Hamilton, Jr., and
Earl L. Poole~Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell University
Press; 1943 (Comstock Handbook Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

THE MONKEY BOOK. Ernest P. Walker——
New York, The Macmillan Company; 1954

One section assists in the identiﬁcation of
monkeys and the other section gives general in-
formation regarding their care.)

MONKEYS AS PETS. Leonard Brandt—All-
Pets Magazine, Fond du Lac, \Visconsin; 1951

45

(Gives instructions for the care of monkeys.)

MONKEYS, THEIR CARE, TRAINING AND
FEEDING. J. Jay Segal—Printing Arts, Tropical
Hobbyland; Miami, Florida

FIELD BOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN
MAMMALS. H. E. Anthony—New York, The
Knickerbocker Press; 1928 (Putnam's Nature
Field Books)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

OUR SMALL NATIVE ANIMALS, THEIR
HABITS AND CARE. Robert Snedigar—~—New
York, Random House; 1939

PETS. Frances N. Christie—~Boston, Little
Brown & C0,; 1953

PETS, THEIR HISTORY AND CARE. Lee S.
Crandall—New York, Henry Holt 8: Co.; 1917

PHEASANT FANCIERS, GAME BREEDERS
AND AVICULTURISTS’ GAZETTE (a peridi-
cal). Allen Publishing Co., Salt Lake Citv, Utah

RAISING SMALL ANIMALS FOR PLEAS-
URE AND PROFIT. Frank G. As‘hbrook——New
York, Van Nostrand; 1951

(Treats of the care of many of the North
American species.)

REARING ’COCKROACHES FOR EXPERI-
MENTAL PURPOSES. P. G. Piquet and J. H.
Feles—Agrioultural Research Administration Pub-
lication No. ET-301, US. Department of Agri-
culture; 1952 ‘

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. Herbert S.
Zim and Hobart M. Smith—New York, Simon 8:
Schuster; 1954 (Golden Nature Guide Series)

SEASHORES. Herbert S. Zim and Lester Ingle
——New York, Simon & Schuster; 1955 (Golden
Nature Guide Series)

THE SPIDER BOOK. John Henry Comstock
—Ithaca, N. Y., Cornell University Press; 1940
(Comstock Handbook Series)

(Valuable for identiﬁcation and popular ac-
counts of their habits.)

TROPICAL FISH. Lucile Quarry Mann—New
York, Sentinel Book Publishers, Inc.; 1954

(A valuable book.)

VIVARIUM LIFE. Alfred Leutscher and Hum-
phrey Dakeyne Cleaver—London, Hume Press
Ltd.; 1952

WHAT SNAKE IS THAT? Roger Conant
and William Bridges—New York, D. Appleton-
Century Company, Inc.; 1939

(Valuable for identiﬁcation.)

 




 

 

 

rewae

Alligafors ................................................................ 28
Amphibians .............................................................. 33
Amphibians. femperafure for .............................. 33
Aquaria .................................................................... 35
Affracfing wild animals ........................................ 3
Baby animals in fhe wild ................................. 3
Baf and "flying'l squirrel (picfure) .................. 23
Baf. Pipisfrelle. baby (picfure) .......................... 2|
Bees. honey. for food .......................................... 4|
Bibliography ............................................................ 42
Bird, recenfly hafched baby (picfure) ............ I9
Birds ........................................................................ 26
Birds. food for ...................................................... 26
Birds' legal profecfion for .................................. 27
Birds. nesflings. warmfh for .................................. 26
Birds. wafer for ............ , .......................................... 27
Bifes on humans .................................................... II
Cages and housing .............................................. I4
Care. responsibilify for .................................. . ...... I2
"Chameleons" ........................................................ 32
Chickens. baby. food for .................................... 27
Clams ...................................................................... 37
Claws ........................................................................ I7
Cockroaches. rearing ............................................ 39
Coffonfail rabbif. baby (pic’rure) .................... 25
Crabs ...................................................................... 36
Crayfish .................................................................... 36
Crocodiles ................................................................ 28
Crow (picfure) ...................................................... 8
Cruel’ry .................................................................... I
Developmenf. ra’re of .......................................... 22
Ducks. baby and dog (picfure) ....................... 27
Ducks. baby, food for ........................................ 27
Earfhworm culfures ................................................ 4|
Easfer pefs .............................................................. 26
Enchyfraeid worms. rearing ._ ............................... 39
Erroneous beliefs ................................................ I
Eufhanasia .............................................................. I2
Exercise ................................................................... I4
Experimenfs. obiecfionable ................................... 5
Feeder. hummingbird (picfure) .......................... I9
Fish .......................................................................... 35
Feeding requiremenfs .......................................... I8
Feeding s’rafions ............................................ . ....... 3
Flies. rearing .......................................................... 40
Fly ’rrap (pic’rure) .............................................. 37
"Flying" squirrel and baf (pic’rure) .................. 23
Food culfures .......................................................... 38
Food. kinds of ........................................................ I8
Fos’rer mofher (picfures) .................................... I5
Fox. red. baby ...................................... From‘ispiece
Frogs ........................................................................ 33
Grasshopper mouse (pic’rure) ............................ I3
Green snake. pef (picfure) ................................ 30
Hiberna’rion ............................................................ 28
Horned frog in cage (picfure) ........................ 34
Humane deafh ........................................................ l2
Hummingbird Ipicfure) ........................................ 2
Hummingbird feeder Ipicfure) .......................... I9

Inifial handling ....................................................... I2
Iniured animals ...................................................... IO
Insec’rs ...................................................................... 36
Inverfebrafes .......................................................... 36
Labora’rory raf (pic’rures) .................................... I5
Laws profecfing wildlife ...................................... 7
Lizards ...................................................................... 32
Lizards. horned ...................................................... 32
Lizards in cage (picfure) .................................. 3|
Lizards. wafer for .............................. 32
Mammals ............................................ , ...................... 22
Mammals. food for .............................................. 24
Meal worms. rearing ............................................ 38
Mice. big-eared cliff (picfure) .......................... I6
Milk formula .......................................................... 22
Misapprehensions .................................................. I
Mussels ............................. , ....................................... 3 7
Nesf boxes ............................................................ I4
Nursing bo’rfles ...................................................... 22
Opossums. baby (picfure) ......................... . ........ 5
Rabbif. coffonfail. babies (picfure) .................. 25
Rabbifs. enclosures for ........................................ 24
Rabies ....................................................................... II
Releasing wild animals ........................................ 9
Repfiles ....................................................... _ ............ 28
Repfiles. fempera’rure for .................................... 28
Requiremenfs of animals .................................... 6
Responsibili’ry for care ........................................ l2
Robin. baby (picfure) .......................................... IO
Salamanders ............................................................ 33
Self wafer. formulas for ...................................... 35
Scrafches on humans ............................................ II
Shrimp ...................................................................... 36
Sick animals ............................................................ II
Snakes ...................................................................... 30
Snakes. poisonous .................................................. 30
Squirrel. baby I'flying” (picfure) ........ Fronf cover
Squirrel. grey—Baby. feeding (pic’rure) .......... 4
Squirrel. "flying". babies (picfure) .................. I5
Supers’ri’rions ............................................................ I
Sympafhy ................................................................ I
Tadpoles .................................................................. 33
Taming wild crea’rures ........................................ 7
Tee’rh. care of .............................................. I7 & 24
Temperafure for repfiles ...................................... 28
Toads ........................................................................ 33
Toenails ................................................... , .................. I7
Turfles ...................................................................... 28
Turfles. marine ....................................................... 30
Turfles. snapping. caufion ' .................................. 3O
Ve’rerinary care ...................................................... IO
Vifamins. use of .................................................... 20
Yellow iackef (picfure) ........................................ 3
Warmfh .................................................................... 22
Wafer. drinking ...................................................... 20
Wax mofhs and worms (picfure) ....................... 36
Wax mofhs. rearing .............................................. 38
Wheels. exercise .................................................... I4
Wheels. exercise Ipicfure) .............................. I6

 




THE NEW YORK TIMES,

 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1964.

Needless Torture of Animals

In Washington and in Albany several bills
lmttled up in committees are designed to protect
animals from the cruelty of man’s hand or neg—
lect. Animals that are to be slaughtered, or
used in medical experiments, or in science labora-
tories or in classrooms can be saved from un-
speakable pain and torture through proposed
Federal and state law.

The Clark-Neuberger bill pending in the
United States Senate and a companion bill in
the House would insure decent treatment of
laboratory animals, including adequate rest and
exercise areas, proper feeding and sanitation.
Where subjected to painful tests, animals would
be anesthetized—now not always the case.

The existing Federal Humane Slaughter Act
covers about 80 per cent of the animals slaugh-
tered in this country; but the rest can be cov-
ered only by state laws. The McEwen-Feinberg
bill in Albany would outlaw cruel practices such
as shackling and hoisting of conscious animals.
Another state bill would bar indiscriminate ex-
periments with animals in high school class-
rooms. And the problem of homeless and starv-
ing dogs and cats—posing a health hazard in
many communities, especially in New York City
———would be covered by a law encouraging the
spaying of domestic animals.

None of these bills is anti-vivisection legisla-
tion. Medical and scientific research must ‘con-
tinue for man’s health and benefit. But human
carelessness and cruelty to animals are always
present-—and always unnecessary. . .

© I964 by the New York Times Company.
Reprinted by permission

 




+ EDITORIALS

October 2, 1963

 

Laws for Humane Treatment
Of Animals Proposed

+_ “A BILL to provide for the humane treatment
of vertebrate animals used in experiments and
tests by recipients of grants from the United States
and by agencies and instrumentalities of the United
States Government and for other purposes." 80
reads the preamble to identical bills sponsored by
Senators Joseph S. Clark, Maurine Neuberger and
Stephen Young and by Representative Thomas L.
Ashley. A careful reading of S. 533 and HR. 5430
makes one wonder why any humane person would
object to their passage. Opponents of the bills are
not necessarily cruel; they simply do not want to
be bothered with establishment of standards and

regulations that would make humaneness in the
use of animals obligatory. But it is an open fact
that the absence of standards, regulations, and
powers to penalize offenders leads to neglect and
sometimes to willful cruelty in the use of animals
for experimental purposes. A member of the facul-
ty of the Oregon Medical School told Senator Mau-
rine Neuberger that “no good research can be car-
ried on on an animal that is not well treated.”
“Well, then,” said Senator Neuberger, “you surely
would not mind legislation which just guarantees
that treatment.” But the opponents of the humane
treatment bills do mind. ‘They don’t want govern-
ment interference with their freedom to treat ani-
. mals as they please, even though neglect and cruel-
ty result. They want the freedom to play God in
deciding for themselves how and when and in
what way they will use vertebrate animals for
experimentation. That kind of freedom does not
belong to them, and a society of responsible men
has no right to grant such freedom. Care

Elite Whilahelpﬁia ilnquu't .

SATURDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 12, 1963

End Research Cruelty

Bills in both houses of Congress
to eliminate unnecessary cruelty in
animal research—in so far as law
and enforcement agencies can
achieve that end—serve a commend-
able ideal and should be so non-
controversial that they ought not to
be held up by deadlocks over major
issues. We believe that the vast
majority of Americans are against
mishandling of dogs and other
animals by suppliers for laboratories
and by careless research lab
personnel.

Great Britain has had a Cruelty to
Animals Act for almost a hundred
years, sponsored originally by such
leading scientists as Charles Darwin
and Thomas Huxley. Too many in-
stances have recently come to light
of animals in laboratory cages too
small for them, animals left care-
lessly to die of thirst or starvation,
animals used for practice dissections
without anesthesia, animals kept in
makeshift, unheated, unventilated,
dirty quarters while waiting for
laboratory use.

Legislation d- e f i n i n g civilized
standards for conducting research
experiments and providing for in-
spection and enforcement is im-

and consideration are owed to animals, especially mediately desirable and should be
when they are being used for man’s beneﬁt. Be- approved without any further
yond that the nation owes to itself not only the pointless delay.

prevention of cruelty to animals but also the cul-
tivation of a civilization in which brutality, what-
ever its object, is eliminated. S. 533 and HR. 5430
would not eliminate the use of animals for scien-
tiﬁc experimentation; they would merely put such
experimentation under regulations which would en-
courage decency in men and humaneness toward
the whole animal kingdom.

Asnnrmx ma PRESS
ASBURY PARK. N. J.
D. 40.080 S. 39,701

01‘-
’KJ,

“9010;
dxe

JO Burmenno aqi nursed 01 purxuetu
10 igaueq an), 01 person eAeq snnser

alqemm Auem 00.1,“s12unue uo

musing

dn non
£101
A.

adxe )0 iuamuopueqe emduroo

am, Sioadxa- uosrad elqrsues 0N
oqe1

896151100

'znumop
ueo‘ uem
Isues are

9

Sum aIdO-ad

q will???

em 110119

apamv. out J0 mam
also am He

0153,3an

IUOIIoaS‘IAIAII
Aq paISaU-aq

d {serpent 811,1.
.1? 129.15
/
e5

Ailemg Moi

9A1;
I

'SBUIaq ueumv

o; ssaupupl pueixa on, uarpuqo asaq;
‘ssauaArssarﬁord
a

Sn ;0 Innseoq ‘seieis paiIun am 1%

‘ maunuedmoooe
'Axmuea ised am BuIInp SIBIIIILIE

'qu Burpuad am
aﬁlaqnaNﬂmIO

10; 930A 03,, Sso'IomnonV uemssarﬁ

410:) pue SWVITIIM pun asvo 8101Bu93
pun ..Soeiu‘emnqn

KepKJaAa JO iueur
12an sq Kent {mu
dxe imp, Auedwoo
41191:) am 3,0 maul

quedmoooe me SE ideooe 01 euros aAeq

Kain qatqm Butrayns pus aauelopi JO
Kirsseoeu .Iou asno

Axe/ls "edoq 3AA
pnord am am “sis;

Ana puV 'uraqi BJOJGQ
uaunxadxe sselpeau ion
awV am lo 11mm
33.1 a fine} I11

9’ SW 1! 1

81w

0 us St £11)qu Suzanne
qua uv °uoneiuauula

duIexa paeu Meteredsep
soetueumq” asam Snows

Bone . am,
m, 5119111310. u

-aounouue que
e 1011 SI Anemia 'aoueps

:51:on am OI emqmuoo
°aoeJBSIp [women 2 SI £21
-99 am. '(0999 'ON saAtmuasaIdaH J0

asn0H) mq Kamsv am mm (229 'ON 918

419s) mq Iaﬁmnan

oddns em spun;
-1oeua sq; .IaAo saIpmep

519931 W “7515
padoIaAe
'qoxeasar' :0-

uwnno ,smq am 11139 01
am my

In 10101??? am JOJ-PPES aq
-e.que[ J0 uonoeiord am, .10; M81 maul

Bunoﬁ Kuetu 001 are 9.19m, 'Kepoi mm».
am at Knanm JO anoue S; 9.1911,}, .
-xa ou SI slain mg ’uoneiueunla
qean euewnq 2 passed u;

910w SI qogqm ‘Bupayns 01'
se sum Kamsv PH? 1

92m mm 19131281
sraisﬁunox asan, em
elequoune me u; pester
seAIeSJno .raqumu oi
-uoIiaaSIAIAnue-oau,,
‘-ossV zvoppaw may

3111 U! 1311011199 1119
-Ioossv Iceman ue

qo’u‘ seq noISsamJ

on 01 Knenn .10;

o; uossaI :pafq
329.11 [01.1.1033
49s ‘Kneruo 1m,
"sseupurx J0 saI
SdnorB asam
-ue-oeu,, pue ,,
3‘11 J0 51911
SI umununu e
elqedeosaut 11
women: :0 ss
Ims pus 99183.11

-19n.I'o 3
11591.. 3 .

'3.

 




 

 

 

 

 

sautopggmlggaum

SANFORD, MAINE SEPTEMBER 26, 1963

EDl‘l‘ORIALS

IN THE NAME OF HUMANITY

There is a great deal of interest in this. area in the legis-
lation now pending in Congress to require humane treatment
of animals used for experimental purposes, judging from re-

 

 

quests the Tribune has received urging us to support this

legislation.

We are glad to accede with these requests and to sug- ‘:

gest that those readers who are interested in this legislation

write their Senators and Representatives urging them to vote

for it.

The bills referred to are those sponsored by Senators;

Maurine Neuberger of Oregon and Joseph "S. Clark of Penn-

sylvania and Representative Martha Griffiths of Michigan. ’

The Senate and House bills are identical in structure, and

are patterned after legislation adopted in England nearly 90

years ago.
This legislation is, not antivivisectionist. If it were, we

would not be in favor of it. Many of our greatest advances in '

medical science are the result of experimentation with ani-

mals —— the Salk vaccine, for example. In fact, the antivivi-f
sectionists oppose the bill, Mrs. Neuberger stated in the Sen- .
ate, “because they think it would encourage research on ani- .

mals by providing good facilities for them.”

The purpose of the legislation is simply to prevent need-
less pain and suffering of animals used in the laboratories.
Testimony presented at congressional hearings indicates that
in many instances there has been gross and unnecessary
abuse. Many of our readers have no doubt read an article by
the well known author, Cleveland Amory, in a recent issue
of the Saturday Evening Post. He gave many instances of
gruesome and unnecessary cruelty to laboratory animals. .

The bills would in no way hinder legitimate, responsible
research involving living animals. They recognize that in-
some cases the animals must be subjected to some measure of
pain, even a painful death, to enable medical researchers to
discover ways to prevent human suffering and death.

The legislation calls fOr licensing and inspection of in-
dividuals and institutions which conduct laboratory experi-
ments on living animals and which receive Federal grants
for research. Perhaps it is too limited here, for many of the
worst abuses undoubtedly occur in establishments not receiv-
ing government grants. The bills would insure humane hous—
ing and treatment of laboratory animals, including adequate
and comfortable resting and exercising areas, proper feeding,
sanitation and ventilation.

.They require that “animals used in any experiment
wh1ch would result in pain shall be anesthetized so as to pre—
vent the animals feeling the pain during and after the ex-
perlment except to the extent that the use of anesthetics
would frustrate the object of the experiment, and in any
event, animals which are suffering severe and prolonged
pain shall be painlessly killed.”

 

 

The legislation seems to contain adequate guarantees,
that medical research will not be hampered. We believe it.
should be adopted.

'IHH {011693

selenium!) gem ampaqos Kan am andsap ‘ssalzuoa

'paainbaa aq

'auo/fue Kq Anuaoap
pmom ,3qu $13.10an an aaaﬁap [eonomd e 0), Bug

'paiemﬁal 10H SUOIlnlnsui qomasaa u;
pastdo aq iouuea Knanxo Messaaauun Suriuaaead

'Hsm s3 0p ueo am items 'qamasaa ammmSaI Sui
33.13313 awos oi panama; aq mac». 1; 01 3,33;an suop,

:19qu Ktssarpeau moqum ‘SJBBK 08 “Bill 810m J01

“Will-18 u; 10398 [1; uaaq ameq saoiiemﬁax .IBHUJIS
-nmsu; asom u; pannbaa eq pmom ieqi saonoead

10 nonmamsuoo [mama am saAJesep 11 tsageuqsga
Dalia-Kwaa-Ip lot! are smmddns s11 sou 8! n ma
'PaAEN-{S aq 01 amasap pmom 3! ‘pasodoad s; mm,
“09818331 lodxaeaa ‘aneuoseaJun 9.13m sgqi J1

am [Hams ma ‘suon'emﬁaa $1,; on zoafqns aq ion
plnom ‘sptm; temps; ou eAiaoaJ Aaqiasneaaq ‘qagqm
saaeId uodn page on am PUWM ‘mm 0m! peace
“113 3! TIM am 19m iuaumzm 3111 05-19 SI atatLL

ptre 3.19:) iu'aoep Buipuewap J0 estmaJd .Iol‘etu s11
'aneasaJ u; sreuuue Suisn JO aoueuoduu pus K;
oissaoau aqi sazguﬁoaai 1,1 .10; ‘amseam isiuonaasyxin
-p,ue an ion s; ‘mq sup, mg 'pumuetu J0 axe;
ism am, 10; Kmssaoau ‘Knddequn ‘s; asn JISLLL 'uew
gigauaq $1123.13 qamasaa u! pasn stemmv queumﬁm
pueA Arm; 2 aq 101mm sun 19K pue ‘Sl’lOlAqO smaas
panama aq .pmom asoa renomppe autos 19m,

amupn Kq paaeiunoo aq pmoa uonoafqo sun 5mm.
‘13:) "suonmnsu; qaaeasaa uodn dmspaeq pm: 1900

[womppe Buysodwi ‘sauomtoqm U! was sq 1mm ‘-

l

18m 11.1045 Jaded aieondwoa Kneaaﬁ pmam 1! 19m
51886] sq; uodn Quantum pasoddo s; 1! ‘SJaqoxeasaJ
auxos mm; uoddns uom seq mq aq; qﬁnotmv

THE WACO TIMES-HERALD

Page 4-A——-Waco, Texas - Monday, Oct. 14, 1963

 

 

 

""13. TAGGAii'i‘ ...:Jiii.‘ ................... Publisher
ItaillilgtRY PROVENCE ..... . ................. Editor-ln-Chief
S. D. JONES ............................ Business Manager
Published by Newspapers, Inc., 900 Franklin, Waco, Texas
H. M. FENTRESS ............................... Chairman

 

 

 

 

Dajl (evening) except Saturday. Sunday, New Year’s, Fourth
of July,yLabor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas Day. Saturday,
Sunday and holiday issues the Waco Tribune-Herald. Second class
postage paid at Waco, Texas.

The Humanitarian's Way
Always Winds Uphill

The exasperating. frustrations that continue to
smother attempts to require elementary kindness to
laboratory animals in the United States seem to have
no end. Bills are languishing without so much as a
hearing in Congress (S. 533 and H. R. 5430) to do
away with the needless, sickening cruelty that now
prevails in a few research centers. Nobody seems to
care and thus the bills probably will continue to gath-
er dust.

These bills are not opposed to experiments on
animals. They are patterned after British laws that
have been in effect there since 1876 which simply say
that laboratory animals should be well-fed, well-
housed and not subjected to needless mistreatment
by students or incompetents. The British research

program has not been hampered by humane consider-
ation for laboratory animals, nor would ours.

The six points covered by the bills in Congress
are simple:

1*. Unannounced inspection by qualified, full-time
inspectors, with access to animal quarters, labora-
tories, and records of animal use.

2. Individual licensing by governmental authority
of all scientists desiring to use live, vertebrate ani-
mals, with the right to remove said licenses from
persons responsible for inhumane treatment.

3. Pain-curbing provision that animals suffering
severe, enduring pain must be painlessly killed in-
Stead of being allowed to linger in agony 0r being
used over again.

4. Humane care and housing, normal exercise,
comfortable resting places, adequate food and water
forall animals.

5. Student work, as distinct from research con-
ducted by qualified scientists, must be painless.

6. Records, including a statement of what is to

be done to the animals and why, identification of ani-
mals and eventful dispoSition, should be required.

There is no reason why the research centers in-

volved could not adopt these procedures without be-
ing compelled to do so. But attempts by the Society

for Animal Protective Legislation to persuade them
to safeguard their laboratory beasts have been fruit-
less. Apparently only Congress has the answer.

The society’s success in securing enactment of
humane slaughter legislation for meat packers is still
one of the highlights at recent years in terms of
civilizing influences. Its members will continue to
insist that humane treatment is the right of dumb
animals everywhere.

 

we
ﬁ HI . m
g m A ~>z
- g. ”‘4 "oar—O
H- - U"
a; 9* 2
an 60 Ian—-
I I m_f__
s 0 £35 ' 63r—
U) ‘ : (—‘J n
g :3 I"
a; ...: g a
. g. m l \n

l
1

 

[mod 01d

spxepueis Lununugm memes mono; oi spun; {maps}
9/4303: oqm sxaqamasax a .1; n b 9.1 pmom mq am,
11039.10 :0 .3213qu augment pm? etueMAstmad
50 amp '8 qdas’og sxoieua's Kq paJosuods

pasn sternum go 111311119843 eueumq samba; pmom
:10ng auo 3; $1995 .sgq'i aaaqmou 193 01 man .paunsap
smaas qogqm inq ‘noddns onqnd JO 101 e patties
sea qoiqm mq auo sauuquo 03, dn iun—mgpaad
awos sci—sum [misses am qznom uaaa ‘ssaJBuoo
u; aJaqmou 133 mm .z-‘eaﬁ sup pasodoad “0319181331
10 3,01 2 mp aq om swaas 1100pr wasaxd at”,

uodn paiamu; aq uied Kressaaauun 011 mm pun Ham
paiean ale qomasaa u; [)9er stamina imp amsse‘ oi

 




 

 

 

 

Price 10 Cents

ASKS FOR HUMANE TREATMENT IN EXPERIMENTS *

Animal-

Iclea Has

Foes in
Research

Dr. Schweitzer
Endorses It

By Jack Wilson
(Of The Tribune’s Washington Bureau)

WASHINGTON, D. C. —-
Among .the things CongreSs
is not likely to do this year
is vote on a bill to require
humane treatment of experi-
mental animals.

The bill’s sponsors, Sena-
tors Joseph S. Clark (Dem.,
Penn.) and Maurine Neuberg-
er (Dem., Ore.) aren’t openly
hOpeless‘ about their pros-
pects, but they aren’t making
even the routine predictions
for action.

This despite the fact that
their mail on the subject indi-
zates a good deal of interest,
most of it in favor of their
bill but a significant part ve-
hemently Opposed.

Agencies

_, ,_ W _ The, government agencies

involved —— including the ' Na-
tional Institutes of Health,
which would be directly af-
fected—have not yet filed the
formal statement of agency
views required in such cases.

Recent articles in two na-
tional magazines stirred up
additional interest in the sub-
ject, and Mrs. Neuberger an-
nounced that Dr. Albert
Schweitzer had written to her
endorsing the preposal.

“The ethic of reverence
for life obliges us to be
watchful, always to treat
animals with compassion,
and all the more so when
it concerns those creatures
that serve medical re-
search,” Dr. Schweitzer
wrote.

The Clark-Neuberger bill
would require researchers
who receive federal funds to
get a certificate from the De-
partment of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare before they
could use animals for labora-
tory experiments.

The department would
have to be assured that
the researchers were sup-
plying proper care for the
animals, and were not
causing unnecessary pain.
This is not “anti-vivisec-

tionist” (favoring abolition of
surgery as part of experi-
ments on animals), Clark said
during a Senate discussion of
it recently. “The anti-vivisec-

' require inclusion in our own

1 of the Saturday Review and

tionists oppose it.”

“That is correct,” Mrs.
Neuberger said. “They think
it would encourage research
on animals by providing good
facilities for them.”

Paper Work

On the other hand, many
researchers oppose it, too,
because they believe it would
add to their load of paper
work. They contend they are
already treating experimental
animals humanely.

There is no federal law on
this subject, and nothing to
prevent use of federal funds
in needlessly cruel labora-
tory experiments. On the
other h a n d, a complaint
against the bill is that it
would not reach the obscure

Animals— _
Continued on Page Nine

 

 

The Paper With the Pictures

,__A_

I
J
i

‘NEWESil‘ FACILITIES OFTEN WINDOWLESS’

‘ Charge LabKenenls

Animals-i—

Continued fr m Page One

ditions may be the worst.

There was ‘good deal of
indignation aajfew months
ago when a visitor to a
farm in Gaihsville, Va.,
found an unheated. barn
filled with scores of dogs,
living and dead, with the
bodies of hu dreds more
heaped up 0 half buried
outside the » rn.'

The farm

National Instit
that use experimental ani-
mals, ' ‘ ' .
The Clarkw gleuberger bill

" its present

   

laboratory. I
Old Pilnciples

The bill, Mrs. Neuberger
said, “is based on principles
which have been used in
Great Britain for more than
80 years. The British Cruel-
ty to Animals Act grew out
of a petition to Parliament
sponsored by leading scien-
tists of the day, including

 

 

private laborat ry, with no
federal financin , where Con-

has a supplier
for laboratorie‘ including the
tes of Health, ‘

l
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charles Darwin and Thomas
Huxley.

“The British legislation pro-
vided for licensing of indivi-
duals who use animals for ex-
perimental purposes, inspec-
tion of recordékeeping by the
government, and minimum
standards of care and com-

 

- fortable housing of animals.

“These are elements which

approach to a solution of the
problem.”
Amory Articles
Senator Clark quoted ex-
tensively from articles by
Cleveland Amory, author and
commentator, in recent issues

the Saturday Evening Post.

The Saturday Review arti-
cle concluded with a scien-
tist’s statement of “examples
of laboratory cruelty he him-
self had encountered repeat-
edly. 1

“Operations on unanes-
thetized animals because
anesthesia was inconven-
ent to the investigator; un-
dergraduate students dis-
secting unanesthetized but
drug-immobilized animals
for ‘practice’ in their spare
time; animals in cages too
small to turn around in;
animals dead from thirst
and starvation when their
caretaker over the week-
end had not come to work
and had not notified a sub-
stitute; graduate students
who professed their plea-
sure in performing painful i
experirnents.” '
Ann Cottrell Free, who has
been described as a foremost
American reporter on animal
welfare, wrote in a recent se-
ries of articles distributed by.
North American Newspaper
Alliance, Inc.:

“The obvious question—
‘Are the animals making a
worthwhile contribution to
research?’ - can be an-

 

 

 

Proponents say this cat must lie down all the time
because the wire floor of its cage in a university re-
search laboratory makes it impossible for the cat to
stand mere than momentarily.

use of animals but only to
“the misuse of God’s crea-
tures,” she added, quoting the
Rt. Rev. LeRoy E. McWil-
liams, president of the 'Na-
tional Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare.

“A major aim of five bills
before Congress,” she said, “is
to ensure by law proper hous-
ing, care and handling of lab-
oratory animals.

“The upsurge of federal
funds for animal-using re-
search has found many a
‘new-rich’ recipient franti-
cally getting his animals \
from any source, sticking
them away in makeshift
housing.

“One of the bills would bar
major surgery on experimen-

tal animals without anes-
thesia.
“Another would require

that animals used by stu-

 

swered bv ‘ves.’ ”

 

gdent surgeons be humanely

Des Moines Tribune

Des Moines, Iowa, Monday, August 19, 1963—22 Pages—Two Sections

 

Proponents of bills requiring humane treatment of
animals in experiments say this is a 5-year-old dog,
owned by the federal Food and Drug Administration,
that has spent its entire life since the age ‘of three
months in this tiny cage in the windowless basement of
a U. S. government building.

The objection is not to the}

 

 

THE WEATHER

I00...

Local—Generally fair and warmer.
Low Monday night 55, high Tuesday
78. (World’s Weather, Page 6.)

     
 

ften Un clean

= “Scientists claim, ‘maybel

e can get a clue by setting

.1 p psychoses in monkeys,’

, nd they point to a variety of

i ontrIved emotional strainsi

=3 uch as depriving infant mon—i
eys of their mothers or de-i
pi ying cats their sense ofi
i mell,‘ sight and hearing and,
iistudylng their reactions. 1
w “Neuro — psychiatrists arei

: searching for answers to emo-L
.1. tional ills through subjecting?
i monkeys, with cathodes im-
' planted in their brains, to con-
Iji stant electric shock for days
'if they do not push certain
,5 buttons as they sit in plastic,
stockade-like chairs within \
small closets with solid doors.

Overcrowded

 

 

. “Laboratory kennels are,
2' often overcrowded, unclean,“
poorly ventilated . . . .

, “Many institutions th a t
{ have built new animal quar-1
ters failed to provide dog and
cat exercise facilities.

“The newest facilities are
often windowless, air condi-
tioned mausoleums of gleam-
ing tile and row on row of
top-quality cages . . . .

Fewer Animals

“Congress can offer —-— by
law —— three different steps'\
scientists must follow to re-
duce the number of animals‘
used. This, therefore, would‘
reduce aggregate suffering. i
1. “Cut down on the repeti- ,
' tion of experiments by better}
record-keeping o 11 animals:
and better communication oni1
.- animal experiments between;
scientists. Some scientists,’
for example, claim it is easier
to repeat an experiment than

 

 

to find out whether it has
been done before. . . .

2. “Congress should put
more emphasis on the de-
velopment of substitutes for
vertebrate animals.

“The Food and Drug Ad-
ministration’s recent progress
in using chick embryos to
test effects of pesticides,
food additives and various
chemicals is encouraging. also
the use of tissue culture as
a substitute for the whole
animal is bringing about ad-i
vances in nutrition, study of.
viruses and serum develop-
ment . . .

 

 

 

 

destroyed before recovering
consciousness . . . .

Solomon’s Role

“To rule on how much pain
can be afflicted on animals
puts Congress in a true King
Solomon’s position.

“ThoSe who can not sub-
scribe to the philos0phy of
‘the ends justifying the means’ 1
say this:

“ ‘Here is a line; to cross it
into an area of intense agony
is a sin against God and man;
We must not allow science to!
walk across this line.’ '

“On the other hand, scien-
tists can exhibit pictures of
scalded children who died be-
cause no bum therapy had
been developed sufficiently to
save them.

Mental Wards

“Congressmen can be taken
to wards of mental hospitals
and shown people of all ages
who are withdrawn from life.

 

 

 

3. “Congress could encour-
age better planning and sta-
tistical design of animal-using
experiments so as to cut

down on wasteful use of ani-
mals.

.“An independent firm of
bio-statisticians —— Westat Re
search Analysts — recently
analyzed all animal-using ex-
periments published in the
United States in 1961. It re-
ported that in 74.6 per cent
of the cases better statistical
planning could have reduced
the number of animals.”

0 O 0

Members of the Des Moines
Kennel Club and Hawkeye
State Cat Club, Inc., have
voted to send written re-
quests to Iowa’s senators and
representatives asking them
to support the bills regarding
animals used in laboratory
experiments.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THESE PHOTOGRAPHS AND CAPTIONS ARE PART OF AN
ADVERTISEMENT BEING CIRCULATED BY THE MANUFAC-
TURER OF THESE "MONKEY CHAIRS”. NOTE THAT THEY
ARE RECOMMENDED FOR PERPETUAL USE (MAINTENANCE)
WHETHER OR NOT THE ANIMAL IS BEING EXPERIMENTED
ON. SCIENTIFIC LITERATUREilé REPORTS ON USE OF CHAIRS
SUCH AS THESE FOR AN UNINTERRUPTED PERIOD OF
FIVE MONTHS. THIS ADVERTISEMENT RECOMMENDS SUCH
IMMOBILIZATION FOR LIFE.

*"Proceedings of the Animal Care Panel” Vol. 7, N0. 2

For further information on legislation to prevent needless suffering of la-

boratory animals, S. 533 (Clark-Neuberger bill) and HR. 5430 (Ashley
bill) write: )

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue;
New York, N. Y. 10922

C. Waisf Piece Apparalus—prevenfs monkey from ro+a+ing and enfangling aHached
head cables (see also pholo B).

Two addi’rional affachmen’rs are available. The Waisi Piece appara’rus (see pho+os
B and C) preven’rs the animal from rola’ring and enlangling any aHached head or

body cables: The Head Isola’rion Uni’r (see pholo D) prevenls ’rhe monkey from feed-
ing or reaching his head.

This uni’r has been and is being used successfully in many aspec’rs of behavioral
research including experimem‘al psychology. neurophysiology and neuropharma—
cology. The ob’raining of specimens of blood. urine. feces, eJrc.. for micro—biological
and assay Jrechniques is grea’rly facili’ra’red.

 

 

ll“? ‘
3. Monkey in Reslraining Unil' easily iranspor‘l’ed.

A new monkley res‘rraining uni’r is now available which incorpora’res in i’rs design
+hose fealures so necessary for Jrhe main’renance. manageabili‘ry and research use of
monkeys. Wi’rh a minimum of reslrain’r. all lhe necessary feeding and cleaning
requiremen’rs areleasily managed. The animal. in i+s res’rraining uni‘r. is immediately
available for reslarch needs and can be rapidly conver’red from main’renance +0
experimenfal use wi’rhou’r +he usual slresses on bo’rh ’rhe laborarory personnel and
The monkey.

The Basic Unil. as picl'ured in pholo A. weighs only five pounds (wilhou’r base)
ye’r will accommodale monkeys from 3 +0 I5 pounds in weigh’r. H is ruggedly con—
slruc’red of non-corrosive s’rainless s‘reel and duraluminum. All a++achmen+s lo ihe
central pole can be adiusled Jro any desired posilion by precision Jrooled Allen screw
clamps. All par’rs are freely in’rerchangeable.

 

Head Isolation Unit—prevents monkey from reaching head area. Plexiglas fray
slides forward. allowing self feeding when desirable.

 

 

 

 

 




Shall They Live and Die in
Agony?

"lrreverence breeds irreverence, brutality
breeds brutality: and who can deny that the
use of scientiﬁc method and technique without
moral direction is virtually the outstanding
problem of the age?"

The Rev. Marion L. Matics

imagine waking up from an anesthetic with your
head immobilized in this instrument, a steel bar in
either ear. another in each eye. still another holding your
mouth open. The bars may hurt (sometimes they cause per-
manent deafness) but you cannot cry out or move a muscle
because you are paralyzed with curare or a similar "muscle
relaxant. " Then the doctor turns on the current that hits a
nerve in your tooth. . . . AN IMPOSSIBLE NIGHTMARE?
Unfortunately not. By crying "anti-vivisection" whenever
cruel experiments are questioned, the American Medical
Association and the National Society for Medical Research
have for years succeeded in co'wing the public and silencing
the voices of non-anti-vivisectionist humanitarians who seek
reasonable protection for the millions of animals in our la-
boratories.

IF YOU ARE FOR HUMANE ANIMAL EXPERIMENTA-
TION AND AGAINST INFLICTING UNNECESSARY PAIN
ON ANIMALS. please turn the page.

 




 

Here is how +he inslrumeni looks when +he ‘l’humb-screw
se’r’rings have been applied lo a dog —

 

or a cal —

 

The same kind of insl'rumem‘s are used for monkeys and
ofher animals.

Imagine ihaf while you were under ’rhe anesi‘heﬁc. elec-
Irodes were Implan’red in your brain. The monkey. whose

piciure appears af ’rhe ’rop of ’rhe nex+ pageI has had one
hundred needle guides implam‘ed in his skull.

 

When +he curren’r is swifched onI he cannol bear +o ea’r
even +hough he was deliberaiely deprived of food +0 make
him despera’rely hungry ("Ihe experimen’rer is offering him an
apple in +he pic+ure; +he sign behind shows +he currem‘ is
ON). (American journal of Physiology, Vol. 205. No. 5)

Or imagine +ha+ while under aneslhesia. a denial drill was
used +0 expose +he +oo+h pulp of +wo of your feelh so +hal’
when you regained consciousness, +he exposed pulp could be
given painful elec’rric shocks while your brain was "explored"
wi’rh a wire eIec‘Irode +o see wha+ par'l reacfed mosf s’rrong-
ly. (You. yourselfI of course' could no+ read because you
remain paralyzed) (American journal of Physiology,
Vol. I90. No. 3).

Or imagine +ha’r elecirodes had been deeply implanied in
a pari of your brain called ’rhe +halamus so Ihe experimenier
could. a+ willI inflicl' +he mosf inlense pain. Imagine yourself
placed in a device similar ’ro +he Sevenfeem‘h Cen‘lury slacks
and +old +o press a lever +o avoid +he pain shocks. Imagine

» -. - w y

 




+ha+ you didn'+ qui+e unders+and +he ins+ruc+ions. and +he
pain shocks increase in in+ensi+y. You have only l5 seconds
+0 learn wha+ +0 do as +he shocks build up +0 an unbearable
level of pain. You miss and allow +he "crescendo'l of shocks
"+0 go +hrough +0 i+s peak." You are in a s+a+e of panic
and canno+ possibly +urn 0H +he current An exper+ 0n +he
subjec+ of building up a ”crescendo" of pain has vividly de-
scribed +his in Man and Dolphin.

All +ha+ we have asked you +0 imagine has happened +0
highly in+elligen+ and sensi+ive animals in American ins+i+u-
+ions receiving Federal funds—+he funds +0 which you con-
+ribu+e when you pay your +axes. DO YOU THINK IT IS
TIME TO DEMAND REASONABLE CONTROL OF ANI-
MAL EXPERIMENTS?

Your +ax money goes +0 foreign coun+ries, +00' +0 pay for
animal experimen+s. Here is a pic+ure (February, I963) of a
dog being opera+ed on in full view of +he o+her dogs in an
ins+i+u+ion +ha+ received $l63,4l6 las+ year from +he Uni+ed
S+a+es Government

 

 

In +his and similar ins+i+u+ions, many cases 0+ surgery wi+h~

ou+ anes+hesia were discovered. A small group of American
and.Bri+ish humani+arians donated anes+he+ics, and +hey
con+mue +0 do so +0 spare +he animals from +or+ure. bu+

our government does nothing +0 ens
elemen’rary decency +0 animals when it
money +0 pay for experimen+s on +hem.

ure even +he mos+
hands out your

Here is a pic+ure +al(en in our coun+ry. showing s+acked
dog cages in a basement Imagine any dog you have ever
known conﬁned +0 one of +hese cages for +he res+ 0+ his life
(some dogs have spen+ seven years incarcera+ed in such
cages) while he slowly loses his sani+y. whirling in his cage
or cowering in a corner. ‘

 

Or he may be subjec+ed +0 a "surgical exercise” whose
ou+come is well known, suffer grea+ physical pain and die.
una++ended, af+er a +ew days. Perhaps he will be hosed
by callous a++endan+s if he can'+ ge+ +0 his fee+ ai‘ler +he
opera+ion.

Here is appic+ure+rkorn +he work manna? published by +he
E slfci~~— University of l‘v’iinnesoi-e +or
:a E , “l +he Iabora+ory animal af-
" +endan+s. The directions
read: “Open +he door slight-
lyI holding i+ so +he. dog
canno+ jump out Run +he
nozzle over +he +0p of +he
door as shown in +he draw-
ing on +he right Wash +he
walls and boHom gra+e. Then
run +he nnzzle under +he
door +o flush ou+ +he ca+ch pans”

When complain+s were made abouir we++ing +he dogs in
+he +hree-+ier cages from which +hey are never released for
exercise, an Assis+an+ Professor of Experimen’ral Op+halmol-
ogy rushed forward +0 defend +his +ime-honored prac+ice
0+ +he Universi+y. He even accused +hese who dared obiec+
+0 +he hosing of sick animals of being an+i~vivisec+ionis+s and
0bs+ruc+ing medical progress! ”. . . in a labora+ory se+-
ing.” he wro+e. "+he dis+or+ed mind 0+ +he an+i-vivisec+i0nis+
conver+s we++ing an animal +0 an ad of cruel+y." (Min-
nesota Daily, January 3|. I964).

 

, ,..- -' Jr! '—r.'.- "."1-
__..V mrij‘wx/ IL. .44.“ ,

 




His aHifude is a good example of whaf ’rhe Christian
Century had in mind when if ediforialized abouf oppo-
nenfs of fhe Clark-Neuberger bill nofing fha’r fhey wanf
"freedom ’ro freaf animals as fhey please even fhough neg-
Iecf and cruel’ry resulf. They wan’r 'Ihe freedom ’ro play God
in deciding for fhemselves how and when in whaf way fhey
will use verl'ebrafe animals for experimenfafion. Thai kind
of freedom does nof belong fo fhem. and a sociefy of re-
sponsible men has no righf fo granf such freedom." (Oc-
fober 2. I963)

YOU CAN HELP PASS THE NEEDED LEGISLATION

Callousness and cruel’ry are not an inevifable parf of ani-
mal experimenfafion. buf NO COUNTRY CAN PREVENT
LABORATORY CRUELTY WITHOUT A LAW SPECIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED TO PREVENT IT. The Clark-Neuberger
bill. S. 533 now pending in fhe Unifed Sfafes Senafe. and
'I'he idenfical Ashley (H.R. 5430) and Rhodes (H.R. l0|38)
bills pending in fhe House of Represen’ra’rives. are designed
for ‘I'ha'l purpose.

They are based on fhe well-fesfed principles of fhe Brifish
Ac’r which has been in effecf for fhe past 88 years wifh
fhe approval of leading scienfis’rs working under ifs pro-
visions. For example. Lord Brain pasf Presidenf of fhe Royal
College of Physicians and edifor of fhe neurological journal.
Brain, sfafes: "The exisfence of fhe resfric’rions and inspec-
fions imposed by law in my experience work exfremely well
and preven’r fhe inflicfion of unnecessary pain on experimen-
fal animals wifhouf in any way resfricfing fhe ac’rivifies of
genuine scienfific research." Professor P. B. Medawar. I960
Nobel Prize winner and Direcfor of fhe Nafional Insfifufe

for Medical Research. sfafes ’rhaf fhe law ensures "experi- '

menfs which may give rise fo pain or discomfor’r are nof
Iighfly or has’rily underfaken. The fac’r fhaf fhere are forms
'I'o fill in and an inspecforafe fo safisfy brings if home fo 'I'he
beginner in research fhaf doing experimenfs on living ani-
mals is a serious business." Professor F. A. E. Crew summed
if up by wrifing. "I do nof believe fha’r ius’r anybody should
be allowed fo do iusf any’rhing wifh a living creafure."
BASIC PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION

The Clark-Neuberger. Ashley and Rhodes bills. like Ihe
Brifish Acf on whose principles fhey are based. confain fhe
following essenfial poinfs:

I) Unannounced inspection by qualiﬁed. full-fime in-
specfors wi’rh access fo animal quarfers. Iaborafories and
records of animal use.

2) Individual licensing by governmenfal au’rhori’ry of
all scienfisfs desiring ’ro use live. verfebrafe animals. wifh fhe
righf fo remove said licenses from persons responsible for
inhumane frea’rmenf.

3) Pain-curbing provision fha’r animals suffering se-
vere. enduring pain musf be painlessly killed insfead of be-

 

 

ing allowed fo linger in agony. or being ‘used over again.
Failure fo comply wifh fhe above aufomafically gives fhe
inspec’ror Ihe righ’r fo desfroy fhe animal painlessly himself.

4) Humane care and housing, including normal ex-
ercise. comforfable resfing places and adequafe food and
wafer for all animals.

5) Student work as disfincf from research conducfed
by qualified scienfisfs. musf be painless.

ANY BILL WHICH DOES NOT HAVE THESE PROVIS-
IONS CANNOT PREVENT ABUSES IN LABORATORIES
AND THEREFORE SHOULD NOT BE ENACTED. A good
law should furfher require:

6) Records fhaf include a brief sfafemenf of whaf is
1'0 be done ’ro fhe animals and why. idenfificafion of ani-
mals and evenfual disposifion. and a brief annual reporf'.

Oppon‘enfs fry fo claim fhaf mis’rreafmenf of experimen-
fal animals is rare. Humane and honesf physicians and scien-
fisfs who have worked in various insfifufions fake an opposife
view. For example. Dr. BenneH M. Derby wrifing in supporf
of fhe bills sponsored by Sena’rors Clark and Neuberger and
Represenfafives Ashley and Rhodes. draws affenfion fo
"fhe perennial lack of considerafion for animal righfs which
may be so chronic as fo be habifual . . . " in some of
fhe insfifufions he has observed. Among "fyp'ical viola-
fions" he nofes "punifive handling of animals whose behav-
ior sfems from fear. chronic immobiliza’rion for nof weeks
buf monfhs. as for insfance fhe 'monkey ring'; confinua-
fion of surgical procedures when anesfhesia had waned if
nof passed. fhis sifua’rion compounded by Ihe use of re-
laxanfs; fhe presence of unfreafed if nof unnoficed compli-
ca’rions or associa’red illness. such as draining sinuses around
chronic surgical implanfs. diarrhea. diffuse skin lesions. and
advanced ulcerafing purulen’r conjuncfivifis wifh adhesive lid
closure. These indica’re fhe ignorance of handlers. fhe ab-
sence of awareness or denial on fhe par’r of fhe invesfigafor
and. presumably mosf imporfanf of all. fhe underlying lack
of inferesf of fhose concerned.'l

Dr. Samuel M. Peacock. Jr. wrifes. ”If is my considered
opinion fhaf profecfive legislafion for Iabora’rory animals is
long overdue. Me’rhods of procuremenf wi’rh all fhe affend-
anf problems and horrors. as well as curren’r pracfices of

‘ housing handling and excessive use. especially as feaching

maferial af fhis sfage of our scienfific developmenf are a
nafional disgrace. . . . If has almosf become a fradi’rion fo
have inadequafe animal housing and poorly frained. IOW
salaried personnel. . . . Alfhough I am sorry and even em-
barrassed for ’rhe need of if. I gladly welcome fhe oppor-
funi’ry fo suppor’r IegisIa’rive proposals. S. 533 and H.R. 5430
and sincerely hope ’rhey will pass fhis session of Congress."

The filfhy barn of Zoologicals Worldwide was inspected
and approved by fhe Na’rional Insfifufes of Healfh as a
source of experimenfal dogs. NIH received ifs Iasf order of




dogs from this place only ten days prior to its closing on cru-
elty charges' including such desperate thirst that the dogs
”fought like wild things when given water." (Washington
Star, April 9, I963). But the National Institutes of Health I
(which will receive one billion three hundred million
dollars of tax-payers' money this year) failed to notice any-
thing wrong with the animals it received. THE NATIONAL r
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH HAS HAD A FREE HAND -
IN FACILITATING NEGLIGENCE AND CALLOUSNESS
THROUGHOUT THE NATION'S LABORATORIES. The
NIH and its grantees must be inspected and supervised by a
higher authority. The Clark-Neuberger, Ashley and Rhodes
bills would provide for inspectors working directly from the
office of the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare ‘
to supervise all animal experiments in all institutions
that receive any Federal funds. Carefully selected and
trained inspectors would work as a unified body in enforcing
the humane requirements of the Act. These men would have
no other duties and no division of loyalty. They would be
answerable to the SecretaryI and the Secretary would be
answerable to the United States Congress for the humane
and efficient administration of the Act.

DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER SAYS, "IT WOULD HAVE
IMPORTANT MEANING FOR THE WORLD."

In a letter to Senator Maurine NeubergerI Dr. Albert
Schweitzer wrote:

As you feel it right for me to give my support to the law
for compassion toward laboratory animals, I do so gladly.
The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to be watchful
always to treat animals with compassionI and all the more
so when it concerns those creatures that serve medical re-
search. If you pass such a law in the United States' it will
have important meaning for the world. The law will then
gain recognition in other nations' too.

'In the beginning was the deed' is an old saying. I am '
happy that you and the Animal Welfare Institute are taking
the initiative with 5.533.

WILL YOU HELP TO TAKE THIS FORWARD STEP?
Every citizen can take part in this advancement of civili-
zation simply by writing to his Congressman and Senators
urging their support of the Clark-Neuberger ((5.533) and
Ashley (HR. 5430) and Rhodes (H.R. IOI38) bills.
Congressmen may be addressed at the House Office
Building, Washington, D.C. ’

Senators may be addressed at the Senate Ofﬁce Building
Washington, D.C. ‘

Copies of this leaflet may be obtained free from:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York, N. Y. 10022

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FifTh Avenue
New York 22. New York

To HumaniTarians:
The greaT Dr. SchweiTzer has senT from Africa his expression of supporT for The Clark-Neuberger bill.

"The eThic of Reverence for Life." Dr. SchweiTzer wroTe. "obliges us To be waTchful always To TreaT animals wiTh
compassion. and all The more so when H concerns Those creaTures ThaT serve medical research. If you pass such a law
in The UniTed STaTes. iT will have imporTanT meaning for The world."

The enclosed reprinT of The Congressional Record reporTs The colloquy beTween SenaTor Clark and SenaTor Neu-
berger on The SenaTe floor when SenaTor Neuberger placed The SchweiTzer leTTer in The Record.

SenaTor Clark said. "I should like To emphasize whaT seems To me To be The greaT imporTance of having AlberT
SchweiTzer. one of The greaT philosophers of The world. as well as one of The leading docTors in The world. wiTh a
career in helping To cure people of illness. supporT The measure which I was happy To sponsor."

In our July 24Th newsleTTer. we asked you To Take Cleveland Amory's arTicle in The July 27Th Saturday Evening
Post To your local newspaper ediTor. Now we hope ThaT you will follow up by leTTing him now abouT Dr. SchweiTzer's
leTTer and urging him To wriTe an ediTorial or arTicle on The need for enachenT of The Clark-Neuberger bill (S. 533)
and The idenTical Ashley bill (H.R. 5430). (NoTe: There is undersTandable confusion in some people's minds because
so many bills are pending. Congressman Ashley helped reduce This confusion by making his bill idenTical wiTh The
Clark-Neuberger bill. and This accounTs for The differenT number of The firsT Ashley bill. HR. 5430 is now The correcT
number. The facT ThaT many bills have been inTroduced is a sign of The inTense inTeresT in The legislaTion and should
noT be a discouragemenT To any humaniTarian. The viTaI poinT is ThaT all humaniTarians make sure ThaT any bill They
supporT conTains. The basic principles circulaTed repeaTedly by This SocieTy. placed in The Congressional Record by
SenaTor E. L. BarTleTT whose speech we senT you wiTh our lasT leTTer. and available on requesT To our office. Bills now
pending ThaT conTain These principles are: Clark-Neuberger (S. 533). Ashley (H.R. 5430). Randall (H.R. 4856). Bills ThaT
do noT conTain These principles and which musT be ﬁrmly opposed are Randolph (S. I04l). FogarTy (H.R. 4840) and
RoberTs (H.R. 4843). IT is expecTed ThaT more bills will be inTroduced and The opponenTs will do Their very uTmosT To
pass a weak bill which will noT proTecT The animals. We will keep you informed of any new acTion and of how you can
help obTain The effective legislaTion so desperaTely needed To prevenT needless suffering in laboraTories.)

SenaTor Clark summed up The purpose of S. 533 when he said. "In general. we wish To give To The animals of our
counTry who unwiTTingly and unwillingly To be sure. are making such a greaT conTribuTion To scienTific developmenT,
The kind of decenT TreaTmenT we would unhesiTaTingly give To our own caTs and our own dogs." Read The "FirsT of The
MonTh" by Cleveland Amory from The AugusT Third issue of The Saturday Review, and you will see some of The
reasons why This modesT aim is so difficulT To aTTain. (SenaTor Clark puT "FirsT of The MonTh" in The Congressional
Record — see page 4 of The enclosed reprinT.)

IF YOU WANT MORE COPIES. LET US KNOW. THEY WILL BE SENT ON REQUEST.

We are informed ThaT reporTs on The pending bills have noT yeT been submiTTed To The 88Th Congress by The
DeparTmenTs of GovernmenT ThaT use laboraTory animals and give money To privaTe insTiTuTions for animal experi-
menTaTion. LasT year. The reporTs submiTTed by agencies of governmenT using laboraTory animals were opposed To The
bills Then pending. The new CIark-Neuberger and Ashley bills aTTempT To meeT reasonable obiecTions made in These
reporTs. and iT is hoped ThaT They will be carefully reviewed now.

YOU CAN HELP TO FOCUS THE NECESSARY ATTENTION ON THE BILLS BY WRITING TO
THREE MEMBERS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S CABINET:

Hon. AnThony J. Celebrezze Hon. RoberT S. McNamara Hon. Orville L. Freeman
SecreTary of HealTh. EducaTion 8: Welfare SecreTary of Defense SecreTary of AgriculTure
WashingTon. D.C. WashingTon. D.C. WashingTon. D.C.

Respechul leTTers Telling why The Clark-Neuberger and Ashley bills are so badly needed. poinTing ouT ThaT They
will noT harm responsible research buT will prevenT large amounTs of needless suffering. will help. Please ask Secre-
Tary Celebrezze. SecreTary McNamara and SecreTary Freeman To recommend enachenT.

Sincerely.

Madeleine Bemelmans. PresidenT
ChrisTine STevens. SecreTary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York. N. Y. I0022

To Humanitarians:

When you have read the enclosed Des Moines Tribune article. "Animal Cruelty Bill Stalled." please be sure to
turn the sheet over. You will see some pathetic little monkeys immobilized for life in their monkey chairs which the
manufacturer advertises and tries to sell to laboratories for permanent maintenance of these active. lively. creatures

even when they are not being experimented on!

How long can good citizens condone the "stalling" of legislation to prohibit such completely needless mistreat-

ment of laboratory animals — of which this is iust one example?

The American Medical Association has announced to the press that it has developed a "task force" to tight the
bills characterized in a recent editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association as the work of

"humaniacs" and "neoantivivisectionists."

The behavior of these violent opponents of the humane and moderate CIark-Neuberger and Ashley bills is so
extreme that no thinking person could accept it at face value: however. it is well known that the American Medical
Association is one of the best ﬁnanced and most powerful lobbying forces in the United States. Extremist statements
in the AMA Journal inflame medical readers who are falsely led to believe that the legislation is anti-vivisectionist-
inspired; patients waiting in doctors' offices are reading an article in Today's Health warning them that cures can-
not be discovered for their diseases if the legislation is enacted; and still other parts of the "task force" are wooing

uncommitted groups urging them to support weak. substitute measures which lack sound. humane standards and effec-

tive means of enforcement.

With this kind of an adversary. humane citizens cannot rest. for delay and defeat could easily result if we do not
vigorously demand Congressional action on the identical Clark-Neuberger (S. 533) and Ashley (HR. 5430) bills. As
you know. the CIark-Neuberger bill is pending before the the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare of
which Senator Lister Hill is Chairman. The Ashley bill is pending before the House Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce of which Congressman Oren Harris is Chairman and Congressman Kenneth Roberts is Chairman
of the Subcommittee on Health and Safety to which the Ashley bill has been referred. Letters to all three legislators.
pleading with them for hearings and favorable action on the bills should help. and we suggest that. at this time. you
also write to as many members of the House Committee listed overleaf as you can. Be sure to write to any from your
own state. and ask any friends you may have in any committeeman's Congressional District to write to him urging
him to do all in his power to obtain hearings and a favorable Committee report on the bill.

PLEASE GIVE THESE REPRINTS TO YOUR NEWSPAPER. TELEVISION OR RADIO EDITOR AND ASK HIM
TO ISSUE AN EDITORIAL FOR THE CLARK-NEUBERGER AND ASHLEY BILLS OR USE ONE OF THE ENCLOSED
AS A "GUEST EDITORIAL." If an editorial in support of these bills appears in your paper. please send a copy to

your Congressman and let us know about it. too.

 




     
 

IF YOU CAN USE MORE LITERATURE TO GIVE TO FRIENDS WHO WILL WORK FOR THE LEGISLATION.
LET US KNOW. AND IT WILL BE SENT. If you wanT more suggesTions on how To help. leT us know. Too.

     
  

As Congressman Thomas L. AshleyI spons'oTv of H.R. 5430. said on The Floor of The UniTed STaTes House of
RepresenTaTives on AugusT I9Th. ". . . The imposiTion of needless pain and suffering on animals corrust Those who
pracTice iT and disgraces Those who permiT iT." This bill musT be passed.

  
    
 
 

Sincerely.

 
 

Madeleine Bemelmans. PresidenT

 
 

ChrisTine STevens. SecreTary

 
 
 

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE‘(H.R. 5430 is pending here)

  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

("Hibemocrafs'i T 2 I . Republicans . .
Congressman Oren Harris (Ark) Chairman Congressman John B. BenneTT (Mich)
Congressman John Williams (Miss) , Congressman William L. Springer (lll.)
*Congressman KenneTh A. RoberTs (Ala). _ . >l‘Congressman Paul F. Schenck (Ohio)
Chairman. SubcommiTTee on HealTh & SafeTy Congressman J. ArThur Younger (Calif)
Congressman Harley O. STaggers (W. Va.) Congressman MilTon W. Glenn (N.J.)
Congressman WalTer Rogers (Texas) ’ Congressman Samuel L. Devine (Ohio)
Congressman Samuel N. Friedel (Md.) *Congressman Ancher Nelsen (Minn)
Congressman TOrberT H. Macdonald (Mass.) ' Congressman HasTings KeiTh (Mass.)
“Congressman George M. Rhodes (Penna) . ’ Congressman Willard S. CurTin (Penna)
Congressman 'John Jarmon (Okla) Congressman Abner W. Sibal (Conn)
' »*Congressman Leo W. O'Brien (N .Y.) Congressman Glenn Cunningham (Nebr)
Congressman John E. Moss (Calif) Congressman James T. Broyhill (N.C.)
Congressman John D. Dingell (Mich) , *Congressman Donald G. Broszan (Colo)

I H*Congressman Paul G. Rogers (Fla)
Congressman RoberT W. Hemphill (S. C.)
, Congressman Dan RosTenkowskI (lll.) SubcommiTTee members are sTarred.
“(Congressman James C. Healey (N..Y)
Congressman Horace R. Kornegay (N.C.)
' 3 Congressman W. R Hull. Jr. (Mo)
' Congressman Gillis W. Long (La.)
' Congressm‘a‘h‘fiLion‘el Van Deerlin (Calif)

 

All .Represenfatives may be addressed at The House Office Building, Washington, D.C.




HEARINGS SHOW URGENT NEED FOR LAW
TO PROTECT LABORATORY ANIMALS

TESTIMONY BY EXPERIENCED WITNESSES TELLS WHY

FOR INFORMATION ON HOW YOU CAN HELP
OBTAIN ENACTMENT OF S. 533 SEE PAGE 4.

Congressional hearings were held on bills ’ro provide
for fhe "Humane Treafmenf of Animals Used in Re-
search" on Sepfember 28 and 29. I962 by fhe Hon.
Kennefh Rober’rs' subcommiffee of fhe House Commiffee
on ln’rersfafe and Foreign Commerce. Exfracfs from fhe
fesfimony of exper’r wifnesses fOr fhe legislafion are re-
printed below. '

On January 25, I963. Senafor Joseph S. Clark and
Senafor Maurine Neuberger again infroduced in fhe U.S.
Senafe a bill (S. 533) ’ro require humane freafmenf of
fhese animals and on February 7fh Senafor Sfephen
Young of Ohio joined in sponsoring if. The bill deserves
and needs fhe ac’rive supporf of all humanitarians.

A lABORATORY TECHNICIAN REPORTS ONE IN—
STANCE OF THE CRUELTY which Ihe legislafion aims
fo prevenf: "The following is an example from .my ex-
periencel of callousness and incompe’rence fhaf caused
greaf suffering fo an animal. An experimenfer (a docfor
of medicine) was preparing fo bleed a rabbi’r direcfly
from fhe hearf. This is of necessify a painful process
needing careful handling when. as in fhis parficular ex-
perimenf. anesfhefic is nof used. There were fhree or
four prolonged periods of ferrible squealing from fhe

rabbif. This was on Friday.

"The following Monday if was learned fhaf fhe animal
had broken ifs back in ifs sfruggles. The experimenf had
been posfponed and if was sfill alive. A humane animal
carefaker, affer observing if in ifs cage, came fo ask me
whaf was wrong. He was very angry and insis’renf fhaf
ac’rion be ’raken. The rabbif should have bee-n immedi-
afely desfroyed. However, if was killed several hours
la’rer as planned. by wi’rhdrawal of blood from fhe hear’r
wi’rhouf anes’rhefic. in spi’re of fhe broken back.”

Here is fhe same observer's accoun’r of general condi-
fions she has wi’rnessed: "I have been a fechnician in a

large medical school. and I can wifness fo fhe facf Ihaf
dogs are housed in cages scarcely big enough fo Iurn
abouI'I wifhouf bedding and wifh only a mefal mesh for
floor: fhaf affendanfs very offen forge’r ‘I’o feed or give

wafer fo mice in fheir crowded cagesl and deafh very

offen resulfs before fhe negligence is noficed; fha’r fhe
sfench coming from fhe building where all fhese animals

—-dogs. cafs. rabbifsl mice, ra’rs. guinea pigs. efc.. are
housed. indicafes inadequafe care; ’rha’r fhere is no frained
veferinarian in evidence; fhaf guinea pigs are somefimes
killed by being hurled a’r a fable fop; fhaf fhe same dogs-
are used again and again for operafions, and somefimes
collapse from weakness as ’rhey are dragged back fo fhe
Julief Rainey (p. 3l7) ......

scene of experimenfafion.”

A SURGEON AND PROFESSOR SAYS:

”Confrols are necessary only because some of us do
and may forgef fhaf animals canno’r speak up for fheir

Paul C. Kiernan. MD. (pp. 66-67)

own pro’recfion."

A SURGEON AND CANCER FUND HEAD SAYS:

"If is obvious ’rhaf I am nof opposed fo animal experi-
menfafion, buf only ’ro fhe needless suffering fo which
fhese animals are subiecfed, and fhe afrocious condi-
fions under which fhese poor creafures are kep’r by
cer’rain experimenfers. I do no’r see how fhis bill would
Frank E. Adairl

in any way hamper scienfific research."

MD. (p. 300)

A PSYCHIATRIST SAYS:

"If is essenfial for fhe healfh of our socie’ry fo prevenf
cruelfy. Especially imporfanf is fhe prevention of menfal
affi’rudes which gloss over and iusfify cruelly while in fee?
encouraging ifs spread.” Eleanor Crissey, MD. (p. 3l2)

A RESEARCH VETERINARIAN SAYS:

“I am wrifing fo add my supporf . . . regreffably,
many scienfisfs have been urged nof I'o supporf fhis legis-
lafion on fhe grounds fhaf (a) if is unnecessary (b) if will
hamper research. The innumerable insfances of needless
cruelfy which I personally have wifnessed. and which are
well documen’red by We Animal Welfare lnsfifufe, refufe
fhe firsf of fhese confenfions. The second is refufed by
’rhe enfhusiasfic supporf given by Brifish scienfisfs fo fheir
more demanding legislafion (fhe Brifish Acf of I876)."
Ralph Gwafkin, D.V.M. (p. 347)

 




 

A MEDICAL CONSULTANT SAYS:

H

. . . I saw utmost cruelty inflicted upon an entire
group of animals by a man [a caretaker] 'in charge' of
them. He was so 'mad' that the veterinarian who was

present with me had to assist me in stopping the 'game.
Stafan Ansbacher. Sc.D. (p. 269)

A PHYSICIAN SAYS:

"It is my firm belief that medical research would be
greatly impeded were all investigation forbidden to use
experimental animals. Such work is indispensable to

progress and should never be forbidden.

"On the other hand. there is no doubt whatever in my
mind that a great deal of present animal. experimenta-
tion is not only useless. repetitious. but cruel to the ani-
mals involved." Charles S. Houston. M.D. (p. 347)

A HUMANE SOCIETY FEDERATION REPORT:

Situation at a Local Teaching Hospital

"The dogs were housed in an old one-car garage. . . .
Badly worn cages discarded by a local veterinarian held
the dogs. Some were too small so that a large dog could
not stand at full height. The cages were filthy. . . There
was no attendant on hand. and no one appeared during
the visit. It developed that care of these dogs was in-
cidental to the ianitor work of one of the cleaners. An
operating tray stood in the middle of this room with
surgical apparatus nearby indicating surgery took place
within sight and smell of the dogs. . .

"(The chief pathologist] stated that he felt. 'If the
humane society knew about the conditions under which
these dogs were used. they would close us up in a
minute.' It was explained that Florida laws expressly
exempt animals used for medical research from any legal
protection: that the welfare of these animals is entirely
dependent upon the consciences of the people who use
them. . .

". . . While here [the representatives of the National
Institutes of Health] stated that they had seen animal
quarters much worse than these where research was

Mabel E. Crafts (p. 30l)

done.

A PHYSICIAN SAYS:

"I believe it is to our detriment that we have. up to
now. had no such national standard in our laboratories.
l have had occasion in the past. to use animals in experi-

mental work. and have seen highly humane care and
consideration for the animals; but. on the other hand. I
have seen inexcusably lax and esthetically sickening con-

Bennett M. Derby. M.D.

ditions in some laboratories."

(p. 3l3)

A PHYSICIAN, PROFESSOR, BOARD
CHAIRMAN SAYS:

”I cannot imagine any difficulty developing as a result
William

of the stipulations recommended in this bill."

P. HerbstI M.D. (p. 276)

A VETERINARY STUDENT SAYS:

"ln the first institution l visited. the dogs are never
exercised. not even on the floor while the cages are be-
ing cleaned. As I walked into a particular dog room. I
was met by a powerful stench of amonia. The cages were
solid-bottomed. and the wet metal was spotted with small
piles of wood shavings thoroughly soaked with manure
and decomposed urine —— the source of the ammonia
smell. Cockroaches were visible in several cages. crawl-
ing in the filth. even though the light in the room was
quite bright. In one cage. there was no food dish; the
food had been emptied onto the cage bottom and the
dog was nibbling on a mixture of dog food. wood shav-

ings. excretions and cockroaches. The sign on the door
of this room read 'Special Diet.' . . .

"A treadmill consists of a moving track. on which an
animal has to run in the opposite direction of the move-
ment in order to stay in the same place. This track was
covered with bloodstained burlap. The boy fastened a
leash to the dog's neck. held it tight. and without warn-
ing started the treadmill at high speed. The dog. who
was completely untrained as to what was expected of
him scrambled frantically to maintain a footing. The in-
experienced claws caught in the burlap. ripped. and be-
gan to bleed. The dog panicked, pulled violently at the
leash. and began to froth at the mouth. Only then did
the boy stop the track and returned the terrified. bleeding
and 'uncooperative' dog to its cage. If this highly re-
spected research institution is really interested in good
standards of laboratory animal care. without a Federal
law to insure it. why was an unsupervised boy. who knew
nothing of how to successfully teach a dog to run a
treadmill. placed in charge of such a task. and why was
the research scientist not around to show an inexperi-
enced technician the proper way?" Helene Artsay (pp.

309-3 l 0)




A PROFESSOR or PSYCHOLOGY SAYS:

". . . from reading fhe scienfific iournals over fhe years.
I am convinced fhaf a greaf deal of pain (even prolonged
agony) is rafher frequenfly inflicfed on laborafory animals
for reasons nof even remo’rely rela’red fo fhe reduc’rion

of human suffering." Emile Painfon. Ed.D. (p. 354)

A BIOLOGIST AND WRITER SAYS:

"When animals are mainfained under condifions of
poor housing. lack of exercise. exposed fo prolonged
suffering and shock. The resulfs of expe-rimen’rs can only
be misleading. ln fhe inferes’r of scienfiﬁcally accura’re
resulfs. if is necessary fhaf fes’r animals be mainfained in
a sfafe of general well-being. l supporf fhis bill also for
moral and humanifarian reasons." Rachel Carson (p.

274)

A PRACTICING SURGEON SAYS:

"Some animal research is. of course. mos’r essenfial.
Experimenfal dog surgery by medical sfuden’rs is abso-
lufely needless. Furfhermore. in many of our oufs’randing
feaching medical cenfers. fhere are so many surgeons
who are doing experimenfal animal surgery more fo keep
fhe surgeons busy fhan fo accomplish anyfhing of value.

This is a disgrace. Repeafing already proved sound sur-
gical procedures is only a form of sadism on fhe sur-

geon's parf." Charles N. Breed. MD. (p. 299)

A PHYSIOLOGIST SAYS:

"If has been my experience fha’r mosf experimen’rs per-
formed by undergradua’re sfudenfs become simply an
exercise in fechnique fhaf. even if if were properly ac-
quired. would have liHle or no value for ’rhe subsequen’r
career of fhe maiori’ry of fhem. while from lack of ade-
quafe fechnique fhe resulfs of ’rhese experimen’rs are
offen so equivocal or misleading as fo have no educa-

tional value. . .

(p. 69).

A COLLEGE BIOLOGY TEACHER SAYS:

"l ’rhink if indefensible ’rhaf animals are now permif’red
fo live affer undergradua’re sfuden’rs have performed
opera’rions upon fhem. Any operafions on living verfe-
bra’re animals are besf res’rricfed. as required in Greaf
Brifain. fo ’rhe graduafe level." Dorofhy Hammond.

Ph.D. (p. 3 I3)

A MEDICAL STUDENT SAYS:

"I am nof saying anyfhing abou’r fhe experimen’rs on

" Leon Bernsfein. B.Sc.. Ph.D.. M.R.C.S.

dogs and ofher animals. all sizes. as some of fhe fesfs
mighf help in some way. bu’r no one seems fo care abouf
fhem. if fhey have wafer or food or any care affer ev-
perimen’rs. or if They are kepf clean. When fhe head

guys fell you fhey always use anes’rhefics. ’rhey lie. . . .

Trying fo produce convulsions in dogs is ferrible. I know
fhey would'nf lef you see fhaf. fhough. Shock experimenfs.
removal of organs. blocking infes’rines. or fhe urine ouflef
so fhe bladder rupfures are only run of fhe mill fhese
days. You'd be surprised fo hear whaf professors and
some sfudenfs can fhink up." Leffer submiHed by Alice
Wagner. edi’ror of "Popular Dogs." name wifhheld. (p.
249-250).

A NATURALIST AND WRITER SAYS:

[A young physician] said. 'l’r is fhe prevalen’r aHi’rude
in medical schools now fhaf dogs can'f feel pain — dogs
do nof suffer.’ The prevalenl a’r’rifude: meaning. in ’rhe
simples’r Terms. fha’r medical sfuden’rs are encouraged ’ro
believe fhaf drugs fo relieve fhe animals' pain are no’r
required. . . .

"Two years ago fhe medical sfuden’rs af one of fhe
larger easfern schools were given a personalify fesf. To
everyone's surprise. if was found fhaf humani’rarian mo-

fives no longer impel fhe maiorify of sfudenfs info fhe
medical-profession. The mofive mos’r of’ren revealed. now.

is a’r fhe ofher end of fhe personali’ry scale. Thaf is 1‘0 say.
fhese boys had embarked on fheir medical careers be-
cause of an aufhorifarian benf: because of ’rheir wish fo
rule. fo domina’re. . .

"This law. if if is passed. will profecf fhe animals bo’rh
againsf cruelfy and neglecf; af fhe same fime ’rhe law
will profecf fhe resf of us by making if par’r of a doc’ror's
fraining fo learn The exercise of compassion." Sally

Carrighar (p. 3| I)

A WRITER AND NATURALIST SAYS:

"Those who. as a mah‘er of rou’rine. are engaged in
experimen’rs involving even necessary cruel’ry inevifably
become somewhaf insensifive fo suffering. Law should
effec’rively remind ’rhem fhaf fo inflicf pain. ei’rher un-
necessarily or for any purpose nof serious and urgen’r. is

barbarous." Joseph Wood Kru’rch (p. 3|5)

A BIOCHEMIST SAYS:

". . . Dr. Frederick Phillips. pas’r presidenf of fhe New
York Sfafe Sociefy for Medical Research. is quofed as
saying. (New York Herald Tribune): 'The same surgeon
who operafes ups’rairs on a man. may do experimenfal

.--‘.‘<j~. 41‘ a?"
1,... #52525 w ._V
$114. .3 ‘ '. "

_ f. ;' l’ﬁt‘uzv..;— .-

1 -‘ ":;A" :—Agt
4 A «NV -— ~. »» 4»:

 




 

 

 

surgery downstairs on an animal. He is as careful in one
case as in the other.' It is true that there are surgeons
who do experimental surgery on animals, and they may
use the same care as on patients. But surgery is not even
involved in the majority of animal experiments. Dr. Philips
is obviously using diversionary tactics to draw attention
away from the more disagreeable aspects of animal ex-
perimentation. As a pharmacologist. he knows that a
great many distressing procedures involve no surgery at
all: determination of convulsive threshold, toxicity tests.
and other pharmacological studies. Other experiments
involve procedures which would never be performed de-
liberaiely on a human being: shock studies involving burn.
hermorrhagel or tourniquet. Furthermore. much of the
surgery on experimental animals is not done by surgeons
but by physiologists who do not operate at all on humans.
There is nothing to prevent any kind of animal experi«
men’rarion. surgical or otherwise from being done by en—
tirely unqualified people. It is irresponsible to evade these
facts instead of discussing them openlyI and seeking so-
lutions to the problems they present. Dr. Phillips is further
quoted as saying. 'There is no evidence’that dogs in
cages are less healthy or happy or in more pain than
roaming free.I Evidence at least that Congress is of a
different opinion is offered by the recent passage of a
bill providing for appropriation of funds for proper hous-
ing of Food and Drug Administration beagles. including
runways to provide exercise and fresh air."

Anchel, Ph.D. (p. 306)

Mariorie

as

HERE ARE SOME OF THE STATEMENTS OF THE
OPPONENTS OF LEGISLATION, paid propaganda
writers for the National Anti-Vivisection Society. the
National Society for Medical Research; and spokesmen
for the "establishment" of organized science. the Amer-
ican Medical Association, and the American Physiolog-

ical Society.

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
IS AGAINST ALL REGULATION:

"We oppose such legislation now and in the foresee-
able future. We antivivisectionists regard vivisection as
a moral issue and have consistently opposed every pro-
posal that has been made through the years seeking to
modify the practice rather than its total abolition."
Larry Andrews (p. 286)

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL
RESEARCH SAYS LABORATORY ANIMALS
ARE MORE PAMPERED THAN PETS:

"If a Texas millionaire wanted to give his pet hound
the world's finest care. he would be hard put to equal
the kid-gloves treatment which thousands of dogs receive
today in modern research laboratories throughout the
Nation. In immaculately kept 'vivariums' maintained by
government health agencies. universities, pharmaceutical
laboratories, and research hospitals throughout the United
States and Canada, dogs and dozens of other animals

from mice to goa’rs are vastly more pampered than the

most prized household pets. . . ." Ralph A. Rohweder

(p. 317)

THE AMERICAN PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETY
CALLS FOR MONEY:

. we call for more construction and equipment
funds for training of animal care personnel and for re-

search in animal nutrition and care." Maurice B. Viss-

cherI Ph.D.. M.D. (p. l85)

THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION SAYS
THE LEGISLATION IS AN INSULT:

''This legislation implies a shocking and unjustified in-
dictment of scientists and doctors which is unwarranted.
The implication of the proposals is that, far from being
concerned with bringing possible relief and benefit to
mankind, and indeed to animals' such physicians and
scientists are mean, cruel and sadistic' requiring police
action to control them. Existing State and municipal
laws. university rules and regulations. codes of ethics. and
the actual requirements of proper scientiﬁc research are
adequate to secure and protect the objectives of the

W. J. L Blasingame, MD. (pp.

proposed legislation."
364-5)

 

We have selected quotations we consider important from the
hearings, and we urge everyone who wants more information to
read the hearings in full. The page references will make it easy
to find the full testimony of each person quoted. The pictures are
well worth examining too. Copies of the record of the hearings are
available for $|.00 from the Superintendent of Documents. U.S.
Government Printing Office. Washington. D.C.

Free copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained from:
The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

PLEASE WRITE TO YOUR SENATORS AT THE SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C. AND TO
YOUR REPRESENTATIVE AT THE HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. WASHINGTON. D.C., URGING THEM TO SUP-
PORT S. 533 FOR THE HUMANE TREATMENT OF EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS.

 




If you are for a law to prevent needless suffering to animals in laboratories without hampering
responsible research, here are the basic requirements:

A good bill MUST include these provisions:

1) Unannounced inspection by qualiﬁed, full-time inspectors with access to animal quarters, laboratories,
and records of animal use.

Individual licensing by governmental authority of all scientists desiring to use live, vertebrate animals,
with the right to remove said licenses from persons responsible for inhumane treatment.

Pain-curbing provision that animals suffering severe, enduring pain must be painlessly killed instead
of being allowed to linger in agony or being used over again. Failure to comply with the above
automatically gives the inspector the right to destroy the animal painlessly himself.

4) Humane care and housing, including normal exercise, Comfortable resting places and adequate food
and water for all animals.

5) Student work, as distinct from research conducted by qualiﬁed scientists, must be painless.

ANY BILL WHICH DOES NOT HAVE THESE PROVISIONS CANNOT PREVENT ABUSES IN
LABORATORIES AND THEREFORE SHOULD NOT BE ENACTED.

A good law should further require:

6) Records that include a brief statement of what is to be done to the animals and why, identiﬁcation
of animals and eventual disposition, and a brief annual report.

5430
S. 335 (Clark-Neuberger—Young bill) in the U.S. Senate and H.R.‘(Ashley bill) in the US. House
of Representatives, the two bills endorsed by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, contain all the
above provisions. HR. 4856 (Randall bill) contains all these fundamental humane requirements and goes
further, requiring, for example, that anyone anesthetizing an animal must have a doctoral degree. Require-
ments such as this have aroused insurmountable opposition from the medical profession. We endorse many
of the bill’s provisions, but not the bill as a whole.

NO OTHER BILLS HAVE BEEN PROPOSED THAT MEET THE BASIC HUMANE
REQUIREMENTS. S. 1041, HR. 4840 and HR. 4843 fail to do so.

One group has expressed a wish for a bill to create an institute on animal care. We do not support such
a proposal because, while it would require a large appropriation from Congress, it would not enforce
humane treatment of animals or prevent cruelty.
SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
March 17, 1963 New York 22, New York

 




 

LIST OF MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE

ALABAMA

Senator Lister Hill

Senator John Sparkman
ALASKA

Senator E. L. Bartlett

Senator Ernest Gruening
ARIZONA

Senator Carl Hayden

Senator Barry Goldwater
ARKANSAS

Senator John L. McClellan

Senator J. W. Fulbright
CALIFORNIA

Senator Thomas H. Kuchel

Senator Clair Engle
COLORADO

Senator Gordon L. Allott

Senator Peter H. Dominick
CONNECTICUT

Senator Thomas J . Dodd

Senator Abraham A . Ribicoff
DELAWARE

Senator John J. Williams

Senator J. Caleb‘ Boggs .
FLORIDA

Senator Spessard L. Holland

Senator George A Smathers
GEORGIA

Senator Richard B Russell

Senator Herman E Talmadge
HAWAII

Senator Hiram L. Fong

Senator Daniel K. Inouye
IDAHO

Senator Frank Church

Senator Len 13 Jordan
ILLINOIS

Senator Paul H. Douglas

Senator Everett M, Dirksen
INDIANA -

Senator Vance Hartke

Senator Birch E . Bayh
IOWA

Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper

Senator Jack Miller
KANSAS

Senator Frank Carlson

Senator ,James B Pearson
KENTUCKY

Senator John Sherman Cooper

Senator Thruston B- Morton
LOUISIANA

Senator Allen'J. Ellender

Senator Russell B. Long
MAINE

Senator Margaret Chase Smith

Senator Edmund S« Muskie
MARYLAND

Senator J. Glenn Beall

Senator Daniel B- Brewster
MASACHUSETTS

Senator Leverett Saltonstall

Senator Edward M Kennedy
MICHIGAN.

Senator Patrick V. McNamara

Senator Philip A . Hart
MINNESOTA

Senator Hubert H Humphrey

Senator Eugene J. McCarthy
MISSISSIPPI

Senator James O Eastland

Senator John C. Stennis
MISSOURI

Senator Stuart Symington

Senator Edward V. Long

 

MONTANA

Senator Mike Mansfield

Senator Lee Metcalf
NEBRASKA

Senator Roman L Hruska

Senator Carl T. Curtis
NEVADA

Senator Alan Bible

Senator Howard W. Cannon
NEW HAMPSHIRE

Senator Norris Cotton

Senator Thomas J. McIntyre
NEW JERSEY

Senator Clifford P. Case

Senator Harrison A. Williams, Jr.
NEW MEXICO

Senator Clinton P. Anderson

Senator Edwin L. Mechem
NEW YORK ’ 6

Senator Jacob K..Javits

Senator Kenneth B. Keating'
NORTH CAROLINA

Senator Sam J. Ervin

.- Senator B. Everett Jordan

NORTH DAKOTA

Senator Milton R. Young

Senator Quentin N. Burdick
OHIO

Senator Frank J. Lausche

Senator Stephen M. Young
OKLAHOMA

Senator A. S Mike Monroney

Senator J . Howard Edmondson
OREGON

Senator Wayne Morse

Senator Maurine B. Neuberger
PENNSYLVANIA

Senator Joseph S. Clark

Senator Hugh Scott
RHODE ISLAND '

Senator John O Pastore

Senator Claiborne Pell
SOUTH CAROLINA .

Senator Olin D. Johnston

Senator Strom Thurmond
SOUTH DAKOTA

Senator Karl E. Mundt

Senator George S. McGovern

TENNESSEE . ‘ .
Senator , IV"; “fag-m0
Senator Albert Gore

TEXAS

Senator Ralph W. Yarborough

Senator John G. Tower
UTAH

Senator Wallace F Bennett

Senator Frank E. Moss.
VERMONT

Senator George D. Aiken

Senator Winston L. 'Prouty
VIRGINIA

Senator Harry F. Byrd

Senator A. Willis Robertson
WASHINGTON

Senator Warren G. Magnuson

Senator Henry M Jackson
WEST VIRGINIA

Senator Jennings Randolph

Senator Robert C Byrd
WISCONSIN

Senator William Proxmire

Senator Gaylord Nelson
WYOMING

Senator Gale W. McGee

Senator Milward L. Simpson

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C
(Please keep this list for future reference)

 




United States
of America

(Znngrts

.

n 11 al Rent in”

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 88th CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION

 

 

Vol. 109

WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 1963

No. 89

 

 

SCIENTISTS ARE NOT ROMANS:
THE LABORATORY IS NOT THE
COLOSSEUM

Mr. BARTLETT. Mr. President, there
are many ways, of course, to measure
the level of civilization attained by a na-
tion: Citizens of a highly developed civ-
ilization treat each other with respect
and the less fortunate among them with
sympathy and concern. Citizens of
such a society also treat the members
of the animal kingdom with care and
consideration.

A good man would no more kick his
dog than he would beat his child.

We have read recently—and with con-
cern-wof vanishing numbers of song-
birds on the eastern coast eradicated
along with the Japanese beetle and crab
grass by the overuse of pesticides.
There will soon be a silent spring in
the East.

We have read recently of the d001lll¢
ing number of African game animals
and of the danger that such as the hip-
popotamus and the rhinoceros will soon
be extinct. The earth would be a lesser
place withOut these remarkable crea-
tures.

Money has been collected, organiza-
tions formed, hearings held, and action
taken to solve these problems. They are
not yet solved but we are working on
them.

There is, however, a problem shocking
in its extent and appalling in its depth
which exists across the whole country
and which is supported in many ways
by Government funds.

I refer to the inhumane treatment of
laboratory animals. For far too long
we in the Senate and in the Congress
have failed to act so as to ensure the sen-
sible, adequate and reasonable treat-
ment of animals subjected to scientiﬁc
experimentation. Too often in the past
this matter has been obscured by the
antivivisectionists who by seeking the
whole loaf have received none. I am
not arguing the antivivisection cause:
I am disassociating myself from this
cause.

Three points are clear:

First. Vivisection is necesssary for

SW are

modern science. Without Vivisection
we wouldanot have the polio serum, anti-
biotics and many of the most modern
surgical techniques. Our hope for a
control or cure for cancer is in part de-
pendent upon experimentation with
laboratory animals. This is perhaps re-
grettable but it is true.

Second. The Federal Government is
investing billions of dollars a year in
medical and biological research. This is
money well spent. Literally millions of
animals are being used in this research.
This, too, is worthwhile.

Third. Most unfortunately. however, in
a few of the laboratories supported by
Government funds these animals receive
cruel and inhumane treatment:

Cages are too small to allow the ani—
mal room to stand.

There are no regular water or feeding
facilities for the animals.

Inadequate sanitation facilities have
caused infestations of vermin and dis-
ease.

Surgical operations are performed
without anesthetics, leading to severe
pain and shock.

No postoperative care is provided once
the experiment operation is completed.

A single animal used as a training
ground for a crew of surgical students
operating upon it in a series of opera-
tions, one immediately following the
other.

Experimental animals are clamped
into observation forms which hoid them
immovable for many weeks.

Such practices as these are unneces—
sary and cruel. They should be stopped;
they must be stopped. No one, no one
can say that the progress of modern sci-
ence would be hindered or slowed in any
way by the elimination of such prac-
tices.

We must recognize that scientists need
experimental animals. Scientists in
turn must recognize that unnecessarily
cruel and inhumane treatment of these
animals will not be tolerated.

The Society for Animal Protective Leg-
islation of New York City has prepared
a short list of six points for the protec-
tion of laboratory animals. These points
outline the essential features which leg-
islation in this ﬁeld must have. I ask

unanimous consent that these may be
printed in the RECORD at this point.

There being no objection, the list was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as
follows:

If you are for a law to prevent needless
suffering to animals in laboratories without
hampering responsible research, here are the
basic requirements:

A good bill must include these provisions:

1. Unannounced inspection by qualiﬁed,
full-time inspectors with access to animal
quarters, laboratories, and records of animal
use.

2. Individual licensing by governmental
authority of all scientists desiring to use
live, vertebrate animals, with the right to
remove said licenses from persons respon-
sible for inhumane treatment.

3. Pain-curbing provision that animals
suffering severe, enduring pain must be pain-
Iessly killed instead of being allowed to
linger in agony or being used over again.
Failure to comply with the above automati-
cally gives the inspector the right to destroy
the animal painlessly himself.

4. Humane care and housing, including
normal exercise, comfortable resting places,
and adequate food and water for all animals.

5. Student work, as distinct from research
conducted by qualiﬁed scientists, must be
painless.

Any bill which does not have these provi-
sions cannot prevent abuses in laboratories
and therefore should not be enacted.

A good law should further require:

6. Records that include a brief statement
of what is to be done to the animals and
why, identiﬁcation of animals and eventual
disposition, and a brief annual report.

Mr. BARTLETT. Mr. President, the
British have had a humane treatment
law such as this since 1876. The law is
carefully enforced. It is not recorded
that it has in any way ‘restricted the
growth of science or medicine in the
United Kingdom.

' Civilization has come a long way from
the Roman games held in the Colosseum
where lions and tigers and elephants
and bulls and gladiators would ﬁght to
the death for the amusement of the
crowds.

What we no longer allow in the Colos—
seum we should now stop in the
laboratory.

 




we, the undersigned, oppose infliction of cruelty and needless

suffering on laboratory animals giving their lives for our benefit.
We object, as taxpayers, to contributing more than a billion
dollars this year for experimentation without any guarantee against
abuse, misuse, and waste of living, vertebrate animals used by

the million by recipients of federal funds.

we strongly urge the United States Congress to pass the companion
bills, 8.533 and H.R. 5&30, to require humane treatment of

experimental animals.

 

ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE MIAMI NEWS
MIAMI, FLA.
0. 154,397 3.137.140

AUG 61963 W

Noted Philosopher

Adds His Voice

The renowned philosopher and
medical missionary, Dr. Albert
Schweitzer has joined the chorus of
animal lovers who are urging pass-
age of the Clark-
Neuberger bill in
Congress to bring
about h u m a n e
treatment for ani-
mals. used in medi-
cal eXperiments.

Readers of this
newspaper are fa-
miliar with the
problem due to the
enlightening series
which appeared op-
posite this page a
couple of weeks ago. The series was
by Ann Cottrell Free of the North
American Newspaper Alliance.

SCHWEITZER

The author related the inhumane
conditions under which animals await
experimentation -— cramped, over-
crowded, unclean and poorly ventilat-
ed quarters.

Now Dr. Schweitzer has written to
Sen. Maurine Neuberger of Oregon:

“The ethic of Reverence for Life
obliges us to be watchful always to
treat animals with compassion, and
all the more so when it concerns those
creatures that serve medical re-
search. If you pass such a law in
the United States, it will have im-
portant meaning for the world.”

We heartily concur.

The Knoxville News-Sentinel
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
D. 104,085 8. 142,319

AUG 1 1 1963 gm.

Shameful Treatment

EVIDENCE HAS BEEN turned
up that-animals used for laboratory
experiments have been mistreated,
by some of the keepers as well as
by some researchers.

At one supply center, according
to information given to members
of Congress, animals were kept in
an unheated barn and were half-
starved. At some university labo-
ratories animals have been kept in
filthy, cramped cages, and have
been forced to inhale fire, have
been experimentally scalded, and

starved.

There’s no point in such bar-
barity.

A number of congressmen are
aroused over the situation, and a
bill is now pending which would
require humane treatment of all
animals used for experimental
work in laboratories.

We urge that this bill not be lost
in the rush of last-minute work
before Congress adjourns late this
year. It ought to be reported out
on both Senate and House floors
for action at an early date.

RACINE J OURNAL-TIMES

EDlTlDRlALS

 

Racine, Wisconsin.

Friday, August 9, 1963

 

 

Good Legislation Between Extremes

Legislation purporting to protect ani-
mals used for experimental purposes must
be tested by a rule of priority. The pres-
ent and future welfare of human beings
must take priority over the welfare of
animals. Too much so-called anti-vivisec-
tion legislation reverses this order.

But the welfare of animals, in terms
of minimal comfort and humane treat-
ment under experimental circumstances,
is not necessarily contradictory to the wel-
fare of humans, in terms of the continu-
ance of animal experimentation which is
necessary for advances in medical re-
search. Researchers can continue to use
animals in their essential experiments
and still see that they are decently treat-
ed and humanely disposed of.

>1< >l< >t<

Legislation is now pending in Congress,
under the sponsorship of Senators Clark,
N euberger and Young, which would ac-
complish both of these ends. It clearly
recognizes the need for animal experi—
mentation, but it sets up minimum stand-
ards of humane care of the animals being
used.

The hills (identical ones in the Senate

and the House), would permit the Secre-
tary of Health, Education and Welfare to
grant certificates of registration to those

involved in animal experimentation un-
der grants from the federal government
or one of its agencies, and impose condi-
tions, including provision for the curb-
ing of pain in experimental subjects, the
humane killing of animals which would
suffer continued pain, and insistence that
the animal subjects have clean, comfort-
able housing and adequate food and wa-
ter. These rules could be enforced by un-
announced inspection of animal quarters,
laboratories and records.
>l< >l< >l<

This walks between the extremes on I
this subject; between those who would
submit animals to careless, useless cruelty
in the name of scientific research, and
those who would ban all use of animals
in research in the name of humanity to
animals—but not to humans.

To those who are truly htimane to all
living things, and who recognize a sen-
sible system of priority, this is reasonable
legislation and deserves support.

 

Springfield (Hass.) Daily News, June 25, 1963

Cruelty to Animals

Many instances of cruelty to animals
were eliminated as horses were re-
placed by internal combustion engines,
and as movie makers found camera
techniques to suggest violence instead
of actually creating it.

The next target was the slaughter-
house. and proponents of humane
treatment of animals there won the
co~operation of some meat packers and
of some weapon manufacturers. Fed-
eral legislation which is realistic and
enforceable extended and standardized
these reforms.

The remaining problem which chal-
lenges advocates of humane treatment
of animals concerns medical research
laboratories. Many eminent doctors
whose names identify some of the great
modern miracles of medicine have
given credit to research conducted on
animals. Salk vaccine is only one of
many life-saving, health-assuring pro-
tections made possible by experiments
on animals. On the other hand, there
are those who argue that it is moral-
ly wrong for man to impose the risks
of new surgical techniques and drugs
on animals in order to make them safe
for human use.

Between the antivivisectionists who
Oppose all research surgery on living
animals, and those who fear that any
more controls will hamper or prevent
necessary medical research, are advo-

cates of a humane system which would
protect the animals from unnecessary
suffering, but still permit laboratory
experimentation on surgical and drug
treatments to save human lives. Such
a system is not unattainable. In fact,
one has been in use in Great Britain
for almost 90 years. Just last year, the
Animal Welfare Institute in New York
noted in one of its reports: “The Brit-
ish Act of 1876 stands as the most just
and humane law on animal experimen-
tation ever enacted.”

Six bills concerning medical research
on animals are now before the Congress,
and even many of those who admit that
reforms are needed in some labora-
tories argue that these can be effected
voluntarily, by self-policing. Propo-
nents of legislation are too familiar
with similar proposals from some meat
packers who succeeded in delaying ade-
quate slaughter house legislation, and
the proponents will therefore regard
any such proposal as merely a delay.
ing tactic.

The need for reform is generally rec-
ognized. The way to reform has. al-
ready been charted, and long tested,
by the British. The United States
should adopt a law which will not re-
tard the progress of medical research,
will establish humane standards of ani-
mal care and use, and will provide for
effective enforcement.

 




Wednesday
4 August 14. 1963

l

 

Uh: mnntgnmrry Ahnrrtisrr

Established 1828
Published Daily
THE ADVERTISER COMPANY

Second Class postage paid at Montgomery. Alabama

 

 

y No Subsidies

For Animal Cruelty

Experiments on living animals are
necessary in many instances to gain
the medical knowledge which leads
to the saving of human lives. Still,
there is merit in the several bills now
before Congress to abolish needless
cruelties in experimental laboratories.

The bills, it should be emphasized,
do not spring from demands of fa-
natical anti-vivisectionists who seem
to hold the life of a child in contempt
as compared to that of a kitten or

 

WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 14. 1963

 

 

MEDPORD MAIL TRIBUNE. MEDFOBD, OREGON

ﬁFor an End to Cruelty

The current session of Congress, faced with
such vital matters as the test ban treaty, civil
rights legislation, tax reform and reduction, rail-
road strike legislation, and others of significance,

’has shown no hurry on doing a job on any of

.In the field of lesser legislation, too, it has
written a record that leaves much to be desired.

One such measure which surely merits enact-
ment is one to guard against needless cruelty to
animals used in scientific experiments. Several
bills to this end are now in committee.

a m It a s

DON’T misunderstand. We are not calling for

an end to experimentation on animals, for
some of the most significant and important dis-
coveries in the past ce ntury have come from
them. We are no anti-vivisectionist.

But it has been amply documented that
cruelty to animals which is wholly unnecessary
and gratuitous does indeed exist in some scien-
tific laboratories, either the result of neglect,
or of simple carelessness.

Great Britain has a humane treatment law
which dates well into the last century, and it has

 

 

 

‘ mouse. The sponsors recognize the

value of experiments on animals but

3 they are disturbed, as any sensitive

person should be, by isolated reports

' of needless, wanton sufferings inflict-

ed on vertebrate animals in labora-
tories which are supported, in part,

. by federal grants.

Some of the reports, as given in

testimony before a congressional com-

mittee, are sickening. At a farm in
Virginia, hundreds of dead dogs and
cats were found piled in open
trenches, most of them victims of
starvation and neglect. The farm had
been leased to a firm supplying ani-
mals to laboratories and one of its
best customers was the United States
National Institute of Health.

The director of the National Catho-

I lie Society for Animal Welfare told of
‘l visiting laboratories where animals
I “are truly beaten, starved, burned,

frozen, blinded, drowned, accelerated,
; deprived of sleep, irradiated, skinned

and subjected to other methods of
inducing pain and fear.”

Such practices, unless they can be
directly related to an important med-
ical goal. have no place in American
society. Certainly they should not be

subsidized.

In many laboratories. it should be

Of the five bills before Congress,
the Alabama Federation of Humane
Societies favors Senate Bill 533
(Clark-Neuberger—Young bill) and
House Bill 5430 (Ashley bill). These
bills, in general, call for licensing of
each person who uses animals (with
the provision that the license will be
lifted for inhumane acts), registra-
tion of premises, record keeping, ade-
quate food, water and resting places,
and laboratories would be subject to
unannounced inspection.

Another bill, H. R. 4856 (Randall
bill) goes further and would require
that anyone anesthetizing an animal
have a doctoral degree. This is an
extreme provision which the Ameri-
can Medical Association says would
seriously hamper research.

Attitudes toward animal and hu-
man suffering go hand in hand. In

‘ frontier America, where bear-baiting

and dog-fighting were favorite diver-
sions, there was also callous disregard
for human life. A similar analogy can
be seen in Latin countries where the
crowds cry for the blood of a bull.

In America, such practices should
be curbed. Moderate legislation, such
as that favored by the Alabama hu-.
mane societies, should be able to
achieve this end without hampering

)
5

them. i

g
l
l
l

!

 

not hampered legitimate animal experimentation.
Surely this country is at least as concerned over

as is Britain.
HIS IS A live subject to many people. Cleve-
land Amory, writing in the Saturday Re-
view, says a piece he wrote on the need for hu-
mane legislation in this field drew more response
than any other in his memory. A later article by
him in the Saturday Evening Post has also drawn

animals who cannot speak on their own behalf?

 

much attention.

There is no excuse for the present situation,
which permits cruelty—either for cruelty’s sake
(rarely, one hopes), or by thoughtless inadver-
tence or a “don’t care” attitude.

 

 

 

We hope Congress can bestir itself this year, .
not only to enact legislation vital to the country’s

needs, but also to remove a blot of shame which

 

a simple piece of tested legislation could do.——'

 

added. the animals were well cared l

 

 

legitimate and necessary research.

 

 

DAILY KENNEBEC JOURNAL

AUGUSTA, MAlNE

Friday. August 9, I963

For A Law Against Cruelty

A reader has sent the KJ a copy of a
speech made in the Senate by Democratic
Sen. E. L. (Bob) Bartlett of Alaska June 13
on the subject of government-supported
cruelty to animals used for medical and bi-
ological research.

The senator said vivisection is necessary
and that without it “we would not have the
polio serum, antibiotics and many of the
most modern surgical techniques.”

But, he charged, “in a few of the labora-
tories supported by government funds” ani-
mals under study receive cruel and inhumane
treatment. He listed these instances:

Cages too small to allow the animal to
stand; no regular water or feeding facilities;
inadequate sanitation and resulting infesta-
tions of vermin and disease; surgical opera-
tions performed without anesthetics; no pro-
vision for post-operative care; a single ani-
mal used “as a training ground” for a crew
of surgical students in a series of Operations,
one immediately following another; animals
clamped into forms which hold them immov-
able for many weeks.

Certame no American who considers him-
self civilized would willingly pay taxes to
support any laboratory in which such cruelty
prevails. Sen. Bartlett did not name the
offending laboratories. But he did offer a
list of six points, prepared by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation of New
York, for a law curbing such cruelty. The
list follows:

1. Unannounced inspection by qualiﬁed,
full-time inspectors, with access to animal
quarters, laboratories, and records of ani-
mal use.

2. Individual licensing by governmental
authority of all scientists desiring to use live,
vertebrate animals, with the right to remove
said licenses from persons responsible for
inhumane treatment.

3‘. Pain-curbing provision that animals suf-
fering severe, enduring pain must be pain-
lessly killed instead of being allowed to linger
in agony or being used over again.

4. Humane care and housing, normal ex-
ercise, comfortable resting places, adequate
food and water for all animals.

5. Student work, as distinct from research
conducted by qualiﬁed scientists, must be
painless.

6. Records, including a statement of what
is to be done to the animals and why, identi-

ﬁcation of animals and eventual disposition,
should be required.

Sen. Bartlett noted that the British have
had a humane treatment law such as this
since 1876. “The law is carefully enforced,”
he went on. “it is not recorded that it has
in any way restricted the growth of science
or medicine in the United Kingdom.”

The United States, as a civilized nation,
should enact and enforce a similar law.

 




 

United States
of America

Congressional iRKturd

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 88”1 CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION

 

 

Vol. 109

WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, jULY 31, 1963

No. 116

 

f". “.7,— «
r. -' .

HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
USED IN EXPERIMENTATION

Mrs. NEUBERGER. _ Mr. President,
the Senator from Pennsylvania [Mr.
CLARK] and I are joint sponsors of Sen-

ate bill 533, known as the bill for hu-'

mane treatment of animals used in ex-
perimentation.

Recent editorials published in maga-
zines and other periodicals have focused

attention on the fact that the bill. is ,

quietly resting in one of the Senate’s
committees.

I, myself, have been the recipient of
a great deal of mail on the subject of
humane treatment of laboratory ani-
mals. Not all of that mail has been in
support of » my position; in fact, some
of the negative mail I have received has
come from persons in the scientiﬁc world
whom I respect very highly.

But in nearly every case I have noted.
that. they obviously. have not read the
bill. I am sure thatthe Senator from
Pennsylvania [Mr. CLARK] and sponsOrs
of similar proposed legislation in the
House, including myself, do not feel that
we wish to deter the advancement of
medical science by preventing medical
science from experimenting‘on animals.
But because a great deal” of progress is
being made in that ﬁeld all the time, our
attention has been called to the need for
some rules and guidelines for the ban-
dling of the animals. A person whom I
respect highly and who has taken issue
with me in my support of the measure
admits that there is a need for some
kind of control. I quotepart of his let-
ter:

I think what we must keep clearly in mind

.is a distinction between the humane care

of animals, and the regulatory control of
scientiﬁc experiments which are spelled out
in these bills. Most‘responsible investigators
will welcome inspection procedures which
insure adequate-housing, the use of trained
animal—care personnel and the availability
of proper facilities for the humane care of
the animals.

That is what the sponsors of the bill
hope will be accomplished by our pro-
posal.

One of the prominent doctors of the
world is Dr. Albert Schweitzer, a French-
man who 50 years ago went to what was
literally then deepest and darkest Africa.
He became a medical technician, a doc-
tor, and a lover of the people of West
Equatorial Africa. .He has devoted his
life to working with those people.
Therefore, it was a great delight for me
to receive a letter from Dr. Schweitzer
when he heard—not from me—‘of the
proposed legislation in the Senate. The
letter is written in German, and since I
do not. read German—and. I doubt if
many Senators do—'—-I had the letter
translated. I should like to read the
translation at this time: . '

 

MY DEAR SENATOR: As you feel it right for
me to give my support to the law for com-
passion toward laboratory animals, I do so
gladly. The ethic of reverence for life
obliges us to be watchful always to treat
animals with compassion, and all the more
so when it concerns those creatﬁres that
serve medical research. If you pass such a
law in the United States, it will'have impor-
tant meaning for the world. The law will
then gain recognition in other nations, too.

“In the beginning was the deed” is an old
saying. I am happy that, you and the animal
welfare institute are taking the initiative.

Faithfully yours,
ALBERT SCHWEITZER.

I emphasize the fact that Dr.
Schweitzer refers to concern for crea-
tures that serve medical research, which
is indicative of the fact that neither he
nor the supporters of the bill are opposed
to the use of animals in medical research.

Mr. CLARK. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield? ‘ ,

Mrs. NEUBERGER. ‘ I am glad to yield
to the Senator from Pennsylvania.

Mr. CLARK. I should like to empha-
size what seems to me to be the great
importance of having Albert Schweitzer,
one of the great philosophers of the

world, as well as one of the leading doc- _

tors in the world, with a career in help-
ing to cure people of illness, support the
measure which I was happy to sponsor
and of which my good friend from Ore.-
gon is the principal cosponsor.

I hope that, the Senator will have
printed in the RECORD the letter from Dr.
Schweitzer which she has just read, so

that we can obtain reprints and have ‘

them widely distributed. If the Senator
does not object, I ask unanimous consent
to have printed at this point in the
RECORD the letter from Dr. Albert
Schweitzer which the Senator from Ore-

_ gon [Mrs. NEUBERGER] has read.

Therebeing no objection, the letter.
Was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

LAMBAREN, GABON,
West Equatorial Africa, May 6, 1963.
Senator MAURINE NEUBERGER. .

MY DEAR SENATOR: As you feel it right for
me to give my support to the law for com~
passion toward laboratory animals, I do so
gladly. 'The ethic of Reverence for Life
obliges us to be watchfui always to treat
animals. with compassion, and all the more
so when it concerns those creatures that
serve medical research. If you pass such a
law in the United States, it will have impor-
tant meaning for the world; The. law will
then: gain recognition in other nations, too.

' “In the beginning was the deed” is an old
saying. I am happy that you and the Animal
Welfare Institute are taking the initiative.

Faithfully yours,
ALBERT SCHWEI'PZER.

Mr. CLARK. I ask my friend, the
Senator from Oregon, how her mail has
been running on the bill?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. My mail has
been running 5 to 1 in support of the bill

which the Senator and I have cospon-
sored. Even the negative mail in most
cases admits that there is reason for the
introduction of some kind of control
measure, though the-writers of such let-

ters do not go the entire way with the ,

bill. Responsible workers in research
laboratories admit that there are abuses
which need to be looked into.

Mr. CLARK. . Mr. President, will the
Senator yield further?-

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I am glad to
yield. '

Mr. CLARK. I would like to advise
Senators that since the ﬁrst of this year,
and through July112, I received 1,070
letters supporting S. 533, and only 345
letters in opposition, the opposition com-
ing, I regret to state, largely from doc-
tors, medical students, and scientists.

"One could tell from reading their let—
ters that the writers had not read the
bill. One could tell how terribly misin-
formed they were as to what the bill
contains. I-am conﬁdent that if those
highly intelligent people had not been
so misinformed, they would certainly
have written very different kinds of
letters. '

I have received 412 letters in support
of, and 362 letters in opposition to a bill
introduced in the House of Representa-
tives by Representative RANDALL, HR.
4856. In my opinion the Randall bill is
not as good a bill, from the point of View
either of orderly administration or of the
proper protection of animals from un-
necessary cruelty, as, the bill the Senator
from Oregon [Mrs NEUBERGER] and I
are supporting. Therefore, some of the
letters against the Randall bill come
from proponentsof our bill.

I ask my friend, the Senator from
Oregon, if she would briefly outline, so
readers of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD will
get the truth, what our bill would do.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I am glad to com-
ply by summarizing what is stated in
the introduction to the bill. It is pro-
posed to provide for the humane treat-
ment of vertebrate animals used in the
experiments and tests by recipients of
grants from' the United States, and by
agencies and instrumentalities of the
US. Government, and for other pur-
poses. One of the most important
provisions of our bill is that it would re-
quire the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare to issue certiﬁcates of
registration to persons applying for
licenses to work on animals, and that
they show that they have proper facili-

ties an‘d personnel, such as proper ken--

nels and treatment for th‘elanimals; that
they have some experience that giVes
them the equipment to comply with the
requirements of the act; and that the
animals shall receive adequate food and
water, and shall not be caused to suffer
unnecessary or avoidable pain.

 

 
 
   




The point that those who criticize the
bill fail to note is that we have a pro-
vision that the animals used in any ex-
periment which would result in pain
shall be anesthetized so as to prevent
the animal feeling the pain during and
after the experiment, except to the ex-
tent that the use of anesthetics would
frustrate the object of the experiment.
Throughout the bill there are a number
of safeguards to indicate that the spon-
sors of the proposed legislation are en-
couraging experimentation that would
be of beneﬁt to mankind.

The other point that worries some of
our detractors is that they seem to think
a great many uninformed, do-gooder
sort of laymen will come marching
through the laboratories and attempt to
criticize and expose the inhumane
treatment of animals.

The bill provides that a scientiﬁc au-
thority or board shall determine the
facts and make reports to the Secretary.
An annual report would be required to
outline the type of experiment, and to
receive approval, but I do not see Why
there need to be much worry about need-
less reporting and inspection under the
terms of the bill. Many laboratories and
research centers with which I am
familiar would not have a qualm in the
world, because they are caring for the
animals and conducting their experi-
ments according to the very best we
would expect of them.

Mr. CLARK_ Mr. President, will the
Senator yield further?

Mrs. NEUBERGER.
yield.

Mr. CLARK.- Is it not a fact that the
bill is modeled on legislation which has
been in effect in Great Britain ever since
1876?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. That is true.

Mr. CLARK. Is it not true that that
legislation, so far as one can tell, not only
has been accepted by the general public
in Great Britain as salutary, but also has
received no serious condemnation by the
medical profession of Great Britain.

MrstEUBERGER. That is quite cor-
rect.

.Mr, CLARK. I ask my. friend whether
she does not agree with me that we
ought to press very strongly for prompt
hearings on the bill before the Senate
Committee on Labor and Public Welfare.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I think ‘that is
where the points on which the Senator
and I are commenting today should be
properly presented.

Again, one of my detractors, who is a
close friend, a man I admire a great deal,
has indicated that he is aware that there
is some need for some legislation, because
he says, in his letter:

You could introduce legislation to improve
the facilities for laboratory animal care.
These urgent needs have been outlined by
Dr. Hiram Essex, emeritus professor of
physiology at the Mayo Foundation, who
heads the group of distinguished scientists
making up the National Society for Medical
Research.

This doctor and other doctors who
recognize the need for some legislation
suggest that these measures be included:

1.'Research in animal husbandry.

2. Training of animal care technicians.

3. Building of better animal care facilities.

I am glad to

4. Communication of the latest informa-
tion about animal care methods, and so forth.

‘I think this bears out the contention
that there is a real need for legislation.

Mr. CLARK. I agree. There is one
point I should like to clarify. Some of
my mail‘takes the quite erroneous posi-
tion that this is a bill sponsored by anti-
vivesectionists. The antivivesectionists
oppose the bill, do they not?

Mrs, NEUBERGER. That is correct,
because they think it would encourage
research on animals by providing good
facilities for them.

Mr. CLARK. Is it not clear also that
the bill contemplates a continuation of
scientiﬁc experiments on animals, in the
interest of improving the ﬁndings of
science and improving the medical pro-
fession, and that the Senator from Ore-
gon and I and everyone else behind the
bill knows that we must continue to con-
duct experiments on animals in the in-
terest of science?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. That is correct.
The Senator and I support apprOpria-
tions for the National Institutes of
Health, which make grants to primate
centers and laboratories for research on
animals. The Senator and I and our
colleagues approve that sort of research.

Mr. CLARK. The Senator is quite
correct. All we are trying to do is to
see that, m the course of conducting the
necessary experiments, unnecessary
cruelty will not be imposed on helpless
creatures, but that instead, if a painful
operation is necessary, the animals will
be anaesthetized; and, if, after the op-
eration, they are in suffering and pain
and cannot recover, that they will be
painlessly killed.

In general, we wish to give to the
animals of our country who unwittingly
and unwillingly, to be sure, are making
such a great contribution to scientiﬁc
development, the kind of decent treat-
ment we would unhesitatingly give to our
own. cats and our own dogs.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I quote once
more from my friend who has written
me such a wonderful letter on this sub-

.ject, because he makes a point which I

think is of interest, which we should
consider. He says:

The only scientists who are' affected by
this legislation are the recipients of Govern-
ment grants and are the men in the large
research institutes and universities who are
doing the ﬁnest work, with the best equip-.-
ment and facilities. These are the people
Who use the most humane techniques. The
incompetent or careless worker with poor
facilities would not be affected at all.

If that is true, I should like to see the
bill go further, so that all would be li-
censed. All through the letters it is ad-
mitted by the opponents that there ‘are
places where such abuses are being con-

tinued. The scientists who conduct the.

proper kinds of laboratories really be-
moan the others. It seems to me that
if we could have appropriate regulation,
it would be a guideline to which all could
subscribe. ,

Mr. CLARK. As the Senator well
knowns, Mr. Cleveland Amory, a noted
author who has written many ﬁne books,
has taken up the torch and is a strong
supporter of the bill. In the current is-

sue of the Saturday Evening Post Mr.
Amory has-an article entitled “Science
Is Needlessly Cruel to Animals.” I wish
to read a couple of paragraphs from that
article in order to emphasize what the
Senator from Oregon has said:

In an experiment at Creighton University,
for example, researchers starved dogs to
death. Some took 65 days to die. It was
later found that researchers at the same in-
stitution had performed exactly the same ex-
periment 3 years earlier.

Presumably there had been extracted
from the earlier experiment all the sci-
entiﬁc value, if any, which could come
from starving dogs to death.

At Harvard University—

I say this with shame, being a grad-
uate of Harvard myself—

At Harvard University, scientists
forced dogs to inhale ﬂame and then did
not kill them until 3 to 5 days afterward.
In.Dallas a humane-society worker dis-
covered that high-schoolers were per-
forming “survival surgery” on live dogs.

But the incident that stirred up real
nationw1de indignation occurred 1
cold day last March in Gainesville, Va.,
not far from Washington. A chance vis-
itor to a farm there discovered scores of
dogs in an unheated barn, dead animals
lying among the live ones. Many of the
latter seemed to be starving. Outside the
barn the bodies ofhundreds of dogs and
cats were found heaped and half-buried
in bulldozed trenches.

Investigators learned that the farm
had been leased to a ﬁrm that supplied
animals to laboratories. One of its cus-
tomers was the National Institutes of
Health, the vast research arm of the Fed-
eral Government. As the ofﬁcial Santa
Claus through which Congress gives al-
most a billion dollars a year to research
institutions—your tax money—the Na-
tional Institutes pays for enoMous num-
bers of lab animals. The ﬁrm, quaintly
entitled Zoologicals Worldwide, _Inc., had
made a shipment of animals to the Na-
tional Institutes just 10 days before the
discovery at Gainesville. When ques-
tioned, omcials of Zoologicals Worldwide

”tried to explain away conditiOns at the

farm and said they were “trying to do
the right thing.”

This is only a small amount of the
voluminous evidence which could. be.
brought before a Senate committee,
once we get hearings on the bill and es-
tablish the need for the legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-'
sent that a copy of Mr. Amory’s article,
entitled “Science Is Needlessly Cruel to
Anima appear at this. point in my
remarks.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. KENt
NEDY in the chair). Is there objection?

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed inthe RECORD,
as follows: ‘
SCIENCE Is NEEDLESSLY CRUEL 'ro ANIMALS-

(By Cleveland Amory)

The era of' big science is new, but it has
already brought one hideous result—cruelty
to animals on a staggering scale. In the
laboratories of US. hospitals, medical
schools, and industries an estimated 300.
million animals are currently in use in every
conceivable, and in many cases inconceiv'i

 




able, way that can be devised by the mind
of man.

So shocking has the situation become that
calm and reasonable men, including many
Members of Congress, are up in arms. There
are, in fact, six bills on the subject before
Congress. And not one of them is an anti-
vivisectionist measure. On the contrary, the
bills’ supporters accept experimentation on
living creatures as essential to scientiﬁc
progress. What appalls these persons, and
what has begun to appall the whole Nation,
is the needless pain, the suffering, that serves
no scientiﬁc purpose.

In an experiment at Creighton University,
for example, researchers starved dogs to
death. Some took 65 days to die. :4; was
later found that researchers at the sane in-
stitution had performed exactly the same
experiment 3 years earlier. At Harvard Uni-
versity, scientists forced dogs to inhale ﬂame
and then did not kill them until 3 to 5 days
afterward. In Dallas a humane-society
worker discovered that high-schoolers were
performing survival surgery on livedogs.

But the incident that stirred up real
nationwide indignation occurred one cold
day last March in Gainesville, Va., not far
fro-m Washington. A chance visitor to a
farm there discovered scores of dogs in an
unheated barn, dead animals lying among
the live ones. Many of the latter seemed to
be starving. Outside the barn the bodies of
hundreds of dogs and cats were found heaped
and half buried in bulldozed trenches.

Investigators learned that the farm had
been leased to a ﬁrm that supplied animals
to laboratories. One of its customers was
the National Institutes of Health, the vast
research arm of the Federal Government.
As the oﬂ‘icial' Santa Claus through which
Congress gives almost a billion dollars a year
to research institutions—your tax/ money—
the National Institutes pays for enormous
numbers of lab animals. The ﬁrm, quaintly
entitled 'Zoologicals Worldwide, Inc., had
made a shipment of animals to the National
Institutes just 10 days before the discovery
at Gainesville. When questioned, officials
of Zoologicals Worldwide tried to explain
away conditions at the farm and said they
were “trying to do the right thing.”

The day after the story broke in the Wash-
ington papers Representative THOMAS ASH-
LEY, of Ohio, a man with no previous con-
nection with humane work, introduced a
bill calling for regulations to prevent cruelty
to animals used in research supported with
Federal ‘funds. Almost immediately he re-
ceived thousands of letters of encourage-
ment from Americans across the country
who had read of the Gainesville incident and
were horriﬁed.

And suddenly there was renewed inter-
est in the hearings heldlast fall before a
House subcommittee. For documented tes-
timony at these hearings had shown even
before the Gainesville outrage that all was
not well behind the locked doors of this Na-
tion’s laboratories. Helen Jones, for exam-
ple, the small, slender executive director of
the National Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare, told the subcommittee that she had
visited many of this country’s most “re-
spected” laboratories. It would take “days
of testimony,” she declared, to describe “even
in the briefest form” the “atrocities that are
routine” in scientiﬁc research going on to-
day. “Animals,” she said, “are truly beaten,
starved, burned, frozen, blinded, drowned,
forced to swim and run until they die, ac-
celerated, deprived of sleep, irradiated,
skinned and subjected to other methods of
inducing pain and fear in inﬁnite variety.

“Often after undergoing burning, major
surgery, the crushing of muscles, the break-
ing of bones and other mutilating injuries,”
she continued, “they are g1Ven little or no
DOSteXperlmental care to relieve their pain
and terror. In most laboratories the ani-
mals are simply returned to a wire-bottom
cage to suffer unattended. It is not unusual

to ﬁnd animals housed in cramped cages,
without even a solid place on which to sit
or lie, for as long as 5 or even 10 years.”

'Another witness was. tall, aristocratic look-
ing Christine Stevens, head of the Animal
Welfare Institute. Herself the daughter of a
distinguished medical scientist, the late Dr.
Robert Gesell (brother of the famed Arnold
Gesell), Mrs. Stevens had visited hundreds
of laboratories all over the country, and she
described one such visit for the subcommit-
tee directly from her notes:

“All dogs caged, never released for exer-
cise. Three emaciated dogs curled up and
uninterested even though most of the dogs
were barking furiously. A gray poodle did
not respond in any way, but stood mute and
motionless in its cage. * * * Many were too
sick to rise; some had had two operations.
One heart-surgical case was emaciated, had
a tremor and lacked one eye. Red ﬂesh ex-
truded from the socket. Apparently this did
not deter its use for heart surgery.”

Another witness was author-and-scientist
Rachel Carson. And, in a letter to the sub-
committee, Dr. Charles Breed, a practicing
New York surgeon, took issue with his own
profession:

“Some animal research is, of course, most
essential. Experimental dog surgery by med-
ical students is absolutely needless. Fur-
thermore, in many of our outstanding teach-
ing medical centers there are so many
surgeons who are doing experimental animal
surgery more to keep the surgeons busy than
to accomplish anything of value. This is a
disgrace. Repeating already proved sound
surgical procedures is only a form of sadism
on the surgeon’s part.”

Then Madeline Bemelmans, president of
the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion in New York, and widow of author
Ludwig Bemelmans, placed on record a brief
portion of testimony by the eminent natu—
ralist, Sally Carrighar. Miss Carrighar
quoted a young doctor. “It is the prevalent
attitude in medical schools now," he told
her, “that dogs don’t feel pain—that dogs do
not suffer.”

Perhaps the most gruesome testimony was
delivered by Alice Wagner, editor of the mag-
azine Popular Dogs. Mrs. Wagner put into
the record an article by a student of “one
of Chicago’s well-known and wealthy medi-
cal schools.” He described a great Dane that
had been kept in a small cage for 8 months.
(“He was a blood donor for a heart—lung
machine that required blood to prime it.”)
The dog was in “terribly poor condition,”
and was badly tormented by the caretaker
boys who believed it high amusement to
poke at the animal to make him lunge at
the door. The student also wrote of dogs
which grew extremely long toenails because
the dogs were never exercised. One dog had
been for 2 days actually fastened to the
wire-mesh floor of his cage by his long,
curved nails. “About 60 percent of them,”
the student’s report said, “had their nails
grown completely around and into the foot.
" " ~"' A puppy there had ﬁnally chewed its.
foot off to free it from the wire. He died
2 days later, his leg swollen like a balloon.”

The student told of encountering an un-
trained technician who had been instructed
to inject compounds into the thigh veins of
a fully conscious dog at timed intervals. She
had only an idea where the veins lay, and she
often hit a nerve, causing great pain. The
dog visibly resisted crying out, until it could
no longer stand the pain.

The most damning indictment of the labo-
ratories was delivered by Fred Myers, whose
Humane Society of the United States is the
largest organizatiOn of its kind in the world.
Credited with having almost single handedly
rejuvenated the humane movement, Myers
has steered it away from the embtionalism
and fuzzy futilities of the old antivivisec-
tionist societies. “My society,” he told the
Congressmen, “is opposed to cruelty of every
kind under every circumstance, but we rec-

ognize that animals are going to be used in
medical research for as long as anyone can
foresee. We bring you no vivisection issue.
We submit to you only a question of
morality.”

Myers argued that besides curbing cru-
elty, the proposed legislation would actually
improve medical research and save large
sums of money now being poured into un-
necessary experimentation. He introduced
into the record the names of more than 200
nationally prominent citizens, including 24
university presidents and 46 professors of
medicine and surgery, all of whom had
signed a statement that the use of animals
in research and teaching should be brought
under control of law.

There was opposition testimony, too, of
course, most of it from spokesmen of the or-
ganizations the proposed legislation would
control. This opposition was rebutted by
Senators and Congressmen who have spon—
sored control bills. Senator JOSEPH CLARK,
of Pennsylvania, for example, put the mat-
ter on a business basis. “Just as responsible
investment bankers in time found that the
SEC is in their best interest,” he said, “so
responsible scientists would ﬁnd this legisla—
tion will beneﬁt them by controlling the
acts of the few irresponsible and thoughtless
individuals among them.” Senator MAURINE
NEUBERGER recalled her conversation with a
member of the faculty of the Oregon Medical
School who had told her that no good re-
search can be carried on on an animal that
is not well treated.

“Well, then,” said Senator NEUBERGER, “you
surely would not mind legislation which just
guarantees that treatment.”

There~ is no way of knowing which, if any,
of the six bills now pending will pass.
Roughly, each provides for—

1. Unannounced inspection of laboratories
that use animals;

2. Licensing of all scientists desiring to
use live, vertebrate animals, the licenses
revocable for cruelty;

3. Painless killing of animals that still
are suffering after an experiment;

4. Humane care and housing, and

5. The requirement that student work, as
distinguished from research conducted by
qualiﬁed scientists, be painless.

Veteran observers on Capitol Hill are some-
what incredulously predicting that at long
last Congress will- defy the powerful medical
lobby and vote legislation. If the Congress-
men do, it will be in large part because over
the past 10 years such groups as the.Humane
Society have helped erase the stereotype of
themselves as slightly funny clubs of little
old ladies who have 16 cats each and hate
people.

ANIMALs’ FALSE FRIEND

They also have dramatically presented the
fact that there is at present literally no pro-
tection for the animals. Even the so-called
American SPCA (actually it is New York
only) is not only completely ineffective in
the ﬁeld but under its current president,
William Rockefeller, is given to pious pro-
nouncements that umane societies .ought to
sell animals to laboratories. Other SPCA’s,
independent of the American, are better,
notably the Massachusetts SPCA.

One thing is certain. If Congress does
nothing, the animals will not be the only
.ones to suffer. So will medical research.
For the American public 'is rapidly reaching
the point where, without Speciﬁc assurances
that its money is not going for inhumanity
in the laboratories, it can no longer be count-
ed on to continue to write out check after
check for cause after cause.

— And the public is also rapidly reaching the

point when it will not ask, but demand, that
its Government and its scientists obey the
highest law of all. The Right Reverend Mon-
signor LeRoy McWilliams, at the hearings,
put it best. “St. Thomas, the great doctor
and theologian,” he said. “warns about the

 




proper use of animals, lest they appear at
the ﬁnal judgment against us.” Here Mon-
signor McWilliams paused. “And God him-
self,” he said quietly, “will take vengeance
on all who misuse His creatures.”

Mr. CLARK. Mr. President, will the
Senator from Oregon yield to me once
more? This is the last time.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I yield.

Mr. CLARK. I wonder if my friend
from Oregon has seen the column “First
of the Month” which appeared in the
Saturday Review of Literature for Au-
gust 3, 1963, also written by Mr. Amory

Mrs. NEUBERGER. Yes; I have fol-
lowed the Saturday Review discussion on
the bill with great interest.

Mr. CLARK. The Senator will recall
that on the ﬁrst of June Mr. Amory
wrote a very strong article in the Satur-
day Review, taking the same position he
took in the Saturday Evening Post ar-
ticle. He points out in the August 3 ar-
ticle that as a result of the June 1 article,
he received 10,000 letters, 9,000 of them
in support of his position and the posi-
tion the Senator from Oregon and I
take. What surprises him is that, with
respect to the critical portion of the let-
ters—one-tenth of the total number—-
very few letterwriters seemed to under-
stand that Mr. Amory was not opposed
to medical experimentation with animals,
but what he was opposed to was unneCes-
sary cruelty to animals in experimenta-
tion.

In a sardonic vein, he refers to his
“doctors mail.” He says among the most
stupid letters are those from doctors. I
quote from the article:

Among those who pulled out all the old
anti-antivivisectionist arguments was none
other than Dr. Morris Fishbein himself who,
although happily no longer the mouthpiece
of the AMA labeled both us and the bills in
Washington “antivivisectionist.”

I am sure my friend from Oregon is
far too young to remember Dr. Fishbein,
but I can remember when I was a
middle-aged man the complete disre-
pute he came to for taking the American
Medical Association down the garden
path of opposition to the medical care
program. In due course, he was let out
as the head of the American Medical
Association, because of the position he
took. I am afraid this kind of mail on
antivivisection is being publicized for the
people of the country with respect to
the issue.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the August 3 article from the
Saturday Review be printed at this point
in the Raconn.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows: .

[From Saturday Review, Aug. 3, 1963]

FIRST or THE MONTH
(By Cleveland Amory)

Our column of June 1, broke, we believe,
the Olympian record of Saturday Revlew’s
writer-righters. We received more than 10,-
000 letters, 9,000 favorable. What surprised
us most about the critical portion of the mail
was that very few of the letterwriters seemed
to understand that we are not opposed to
medical experimentation on animals; we are
opposed to unnecessary cruelty in such ex-
perimentation. Quoting nothing but our
“doctors mail,” however, Dr. Donald Hayes

of Wake Forest College, N. 0., suggested
“that all individuals who are opposed to ani-
mal experimentation should sign a pact. in
which they would agree not to avail them-
selves of antibiotics, antihistamines, and
anticancer drugs.” (The personal approach
of these researchers to research would itself
make a fascinating article.) Another who
signed himself just “Dr.” couldn’t wait, he
said, “until you, Mr. Amory, are being
wheeled into an operating rom. I Wonder
then if you would care about the animals.”
Still another dedicated unsignee wanted to
know how much differently we would feel
“if your mother had cancer.” (As a matter
of ironic fact, she has.)

Among those who pulled out all the old
anti—antivivisectionist arguments was none
other than Dr. Morris Fishbein himself, who
although happily no longer the mouthpiece
of the AMA, labeled both us and the bills
in Washington “antivivisectionist”——de-
spite the fact, as even he knows, (1) of the
seven bills being considered, not a single one
is an antivivisectionist bill, and (2)‘not a
single one of them is being supported by a
single antivivisectionist organization. (For
further discussion on this point, see our
article in the current Saturday Evening
Post.)

We enjoyed, too, our medical student mail.
“People like yourself,” wrote Joy Schildkraut,
of the NYU Medical School, “not engaged
in scientiﬁc research, cannot comprehend
the purpose of experiments on animals.”
Joseph Becker, a student at MIT, went
further. “The very fact that we do kill ani-
mals,” he wrote, “proves that we have the
right.”

Several doctors, among them Dr. ‘Sheldon
Adler of Cambridge and Dr. Richard Nystrom
of Delaware, both pointed as evidence of the
necessity for unrestricted experimentation to,
of all things, the recent thalidomide case——
yet hardly were their letters received when
Dr. Widukand Lenz, of Hamburg, Germany,
Who ﬁrst noted the link between thalido-
mide and infant deformities, told the Inter-
national Conference on Congenital Malfor-
mation meeting in New York, that “no
method of testing with animals allows us to
say with assurance that a drug would be
Wholely safe in pregnancy.” And Dr. Clarke
Frazer of McGill went further. “You cannot
assume,” he said, “that because a drug ap-
pears safe in animals that it will be safe
in man.”

Dr. Thomas Brock of Indiana University
told us ﬂatly that “most experimental ani-
mals are bred speciﬁcally for experimenta-
tion” and, “since such animals would never
have otherwise existed, it is hard to imagine
that their deaths, however induced, should
be of any particular importance.” Yet in
the same mall came a letter from a doctor
at MIT who admitted that he was revolted
by the fact that the animals are “frequently
stolen home pets. They are supplied by
dealers dealing directly with the thieves and
purchased from them by the research lab-
oratories. No questions are asked and no
records kept.”

The letters came, too, from Harvard, Yale,
and Princeton. From Harvard, Dean Berry
declared that the proposed legislation would
“seriously impede the progress of science”
because it was “rarely possible to carry on a
signiﬁcant series of experiments without the
ability to modify, change, and redirect the
work as it progresses.” (Obviously, Dean
Berry has not read even one of the bills, be-
cause not a single one would rob any scien-
tist of any such power.) Yale’s Dr. Kline
declared that “virtually every State of the
Union already has laws to punish irrespon-
sible cruelty to animals and children.” (The
fact is———again research would have helped—
virtually every State exempts laboratories
from anticruelty laws.‘ In some States the
exemptions are created by the implied mean-
ing of statutes, and by previous Judicial rul-
ings. In other States, the exemptions for

“scientists” are explicit and absolute. For
example, the Wisconsin statute: “As used in
this section ‘torture’ does not. include bona
ﬁde experiments carried on for scientiﬁc re-
search.” Princeton’s Dr. Harvey Rothberg’s
research on the subject was equally extraor-
dinary. He wrote to us of the “positive
efforts” of the National Society for Medical
Research and its so-called animal care panel.
Yet again, even the barest attempt to get his
facts would have told him that the latter is
actually a public relations front in front of
another public relations front—the NSMR
itself is neither a medical society nor a re-
search society but merely the paid white-
washer of the animal-using laboratories.

But the real dilly came from a lady doctor,
Dr. June Greenspan, of Riverton, N.J., who
ﬁrst declared that we should “offer ourselves
as a laboratory experiment,” then added:

“I note with interest most of your pub-
lished replies are from women agreeing with
Mr. Amory. But naturalment. Women are
ﬁne protecting babies and house pets and
some husbands. This is their job. It is to be
expected that they would be the ﬁrst (ob-
viously along with some so-called intellect-
uals) to raise a cry against such goings—on
with poor little pussy cats and doggies and
those cute little ole’ white mice. Let’s keep
these women out of the labs and let the
scientists work. Ask some women scientists
for their opinion.”

As a matter of fact we will—we can hardly
wait to get any other opinion than that one.
In conclusion, however, we should like to
quote from a doctor who asked that his name
be withheld but declared: “I hold a Ph. D.
degree and I am working at one of the most
highly regarded academic institutions of the
United States * * ‘ The facts are not con-
sistent with the oft-repeated claim that all is
well in biological research. "' ‘ * I have in-
deed witnessed cases of callous indifference,
as well as unnecessarily cruel experiments, on
numerous occasions. I wish to mention only
examples which I myself have encountered
repeatedly:

“(1) Operations on unanesthetized ani-
mals because anesthesia was inconvenient to
the investigator.

“(2) Undergraduate students disecting
unanesthetized but drug-immobilized ani-
mals for ‘practice’ in their spare time.

“(3) Animals in ’cages too small to turn
around in (some of these animals were
pregnant).

“(4) Animals dead from thirst and starva-
tion when their care over the weekend had
not come to work and had not notiﬁed a
substitute.

“(5) Graduate students who professed
their pleasure in performing painful experi-
ments. There is no reason to assume that
these students, after receiving their doctor-'
ates, will not set up research programs of
their own.”

The doctor also pointed out that all this
commotion is to get the same kind of bill
that a country named Great Britain passed
in 1876.

Mr. CLARK. I congratulate the Sen-
ator from Oregon for cosponsoring this
legislation. I pledge my support to at-
tempting to have hearings and getting
the bills to the ﬂoor. If we doso, per—
haps we can meet the desire of the ma-
jority leader to act promptly and get bills
to the floor for early consideration.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I thank the Sen-
ator.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that an editorial from the Orego-
nian of November 5, 1962, on this subject,
be included in my remarks.

There being no objection, the editorial
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

 




[From the Oregonian, Nov. 5, 1962]
ANIMALS IN PAIN.

That laboratory animals must often be
subjected to some measure of pain, even a.
painful death, to enable medical researchers
to discover ways to prevent human suifering
and death, is understood. Yet it is not con-
ceivable that unnecessary suffering and dis-
COmfort by these animals could in any way
further the canse of medical science.

Two bills now pending in Congress call
for the licensing and inspection of individ-
uals and institutions who conduct laboratory
experiments on living animals and who re-
ceive Federal grants for research.

The bills, HR. 1937 and S. 3088, are spon—
sored by Senators MAURINE NEU’BERGER, Dem-
ocrat,, of Oregon, and JOSEPH S. CLARK, Dem-
ocrat, of Pennsylvania, and Representative
MARTHA GRIFFITHS, Democrat, of Michigan.
First introduced 2 years ago, the bills have
been ‘since bottled up in Senate and House
committees.

Testimony and evidence offered at Septem-
ber congressional hearings on the bills in-
dicated gross and unnecessary abuse of lab-
oratory animals in several instances.

Identical in structure, the bills in no way
hinder legitimate, responsible research in-
volving living animals. They would insure
humane, housing and treatment of laboratory
animals, including adequate and comfortable
resting and exercising areas, proper feeding,
sanitation, and ventilation.

More important, _“animals used in any ex-
periment which would result in pain shall
be anesthetized so as to prevent the animals
feeling the pain during and after the experi-
ment except to the extent that the use of
anesthetics would frustrate the object of the
experiment, and in any event, animals which
are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall
be painlessly killed.”

Both bills are patterned after legislation
adopted in England nearly 90 years ago. Pas-
sage would 'mark only the second time that
humane laws have been enacted on the Fed-
eral level. The ﬁrst governs the slaughter
of meat animals in processing plants holding
Federal Government contracts. Oregon
adopted a similar State law in the 1961 legis-
lative session.

An objective and unemotional study of
HR. 1937 and S: 3088 reveals that the bills
do not attempt to prohibit experimental re-
search. Enactment would of course increase
the administrative costs of such research,
since records would have to be kept and re-
ports submitted periodically to the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
But we do not need to count our research
pennies as closely as that. These are good
bills, and should be adopted.

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

To active humanitarians:

In response to the letters we have received asking, ”What more can I
do to help?" this kit has been prepared. We hope it will be useful to the
best humane workers who are eager to do all they can to bring about favor—
able action on S. 533, the Clark-Neuberger bill, and H.R. 5430, the Ashley
bill, to require humane treatment of experimental animals.

The two main weapons of the opponents are l) delay, and 2) enactment
of a weak, substitute bill. We must work against both. We must keep
demanding enactment of the ClarkeNeuberger and Ashley bills till they be-
come law.

If you need more information or more literature, please let us know;

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




LETTERS TO WASHINGTON

l) Ask every humane friend you have to write to both Senators from your state,
regardless of party or other considerations, and to the U18. Representative
from your District. If one of them.is a sponsor of the bills, please thank him.

2) Letters are needed to each Committee and Subcommittee Chairman and members
before whom S. 533 and H.R. 5h3O are pending. Their names are given in the sheet
headed, HEARINGS.

3) Some people have written to every member of the Senate. Congratulations to
each one who does this!

4) The bills are pending because Senators Joseph S. Clark, Maurine Neuberger,
and Stephen Young and Congressman Thomas L. Ashley are sponsoring them. ‘They
all deserve warm letters of thanks from every friend of animals.

5) Use petitions only for non letter—writers. Petitions or signed form letters
are enormously less desirable than personal letters.

 

6) Hundreds of thouSands of letters to Congress are needed, just as in the
successful campaign for the Federal Humane Slaughter Act. Every letter counts!

 




NEWSPAP ER PUBLICITY

1)

Letters to the Editor.

a) Write, and ask your friends to write letters to the editor of
every newspaper in your area.

b) Be sure to include the names and numbers of the bills (Clark-
Neuberger bill, s. 533; Ashley bill, H.R. 5180), and give either your
own address and telephone number or the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation and its address, so that people who want to help will know
whom to get in touch with. Please send us the names and addresses of
those who call or write to you.

c) Please send us clippings of your published letters and also
those of others who write on the subject.

Editorials

a) Call upon or write to the editor of one or more of your local
papers. Give him copies of editorials which have appeared in other
papers about the legislation. Give him a copy of "Hearings ShOW'Urgent
Need for LaW'to Protect laboratory.Animals" and any other background
material in which he shows interest. .Ask him.to write an editorial in
support of the bills, or reprint as a guest editorial one of those you
leave with him. —— ,

b) When editorials appear, get several copies of the paper, send a
clipping to both your Senators, your Representative, to one or more of
the sponsors of the bills, and to us.

Columns and articles.
If you know someone who writes for a newspaper, please give him
information about the bills. If you.need extra copies of literature,

let us know, and it will be sent.

.Answering hostile statements in newspapers.

a) If a letter to the editor, an editorial, column or article
appears against S. 533 or H.R. 5430, write a letter to the editor giving
the facts about the bills and the need for their enactment. Please be
sure to send us clippings of any hostile statement so that we can also
write a rebuttal.

 




GROUP SUP PORT

1) Church groups. The following may be cited.

The support of Dr. Albert Schweitzer.

The series of editorials in.THE CHRISTIAN CENTURY.

Letters to the editor by members of the clergy.

Announcements in church newsletters on the status of the pending
bills.

Please ask the help of your clergyman in speaking and writing in support of the
bills.

If your church has a social action committee or other similar group, please ask
it to pass a resolution endorsing S. 533 and H.R. 5h30 or the-basic principles
for a good bill (see attached). ‘

2) Ohms.

a) Request permission to distribute literature at a meeting.

bi Ask to make a short presentation on the need for the legislation.
0 Propose, or ask an officer of the club to propose a resolution
endorsing the bills or their basic principles. If the endorsement is for
the principles, these should be specifically included in the resolution so
that no confusion could arise. (see enclosed statement)

In making your presentation make it clear that:

a) Every taxpayer is financing animal experimentation. Besides the

tremendous sums spent by the federal government on research in government
laboratories, hundreds of millions are given in grants to medical schools
'and other laboratories across the nation. Two thirds of'the medical
school experimentation is federal government financed.

b) The taxpayer has a clear right to demand that his tax.money should
not contribute to unnecessary cruelty to animals or be wasted. In.many
laboratories epidemics of distemper and other diseases sweep the colonies
and ruin the research projects either because the animals.die-or because
they are abnormal. This is both cruel and wasteful. ,

c) The Clark-Neuberger and Ashley bills are modelled on the British
Act, passed in 1876 which has protected animals from abuse without harming
legitimate research. This Act is supported by the scientists who work
under its provisions.

 




HEARINGS

l) Testimony from persons with first-hand experience in laboratories is
important for hearings. If you know a humane physician, veterinarian,
nurse, or laboratory technician, please request them to write a statement
in support of S. 533 and H.R. 5430 and send it to the Society fOr Animal
Protective Legislation so that we may present it at hearings When these are
held.

2) Resolutions from groups (see GROUP SUPPORT) are useful for presentation
at hearings and should also be sent to us.

3) If you live in the vicinity of Washington, plan to attend the hearings.
They are open to the public. We will notify you as soon as we receive word
of their scheduling.

H) Hearings will be held before a House or Senate Committee. Following are
the members' names.

SENATE COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE (8.533 is pending before this COmmittee)

 

 

Democrats Republicans

*Senator Lister Hill (Ala.) Chairman Senator Barry‘Goldwater (Ariz.)
of the full Committee and of the *Senator Jacob K. Javits (N.Y.)
Health Subcommittee Senator Winston L. Prouty (Vt.)

Senator Pat MbNamara (NHchJ) *Senator John G. Tower (Texas)
Senator Wayne Mbrse (Oregon) Senator Len B. Jordan (Idaho)
*Senator Ralph W. Yarborough (Texas)
Senator Joseph S. Clark (Penna.)
Senator Jennings Randolph (W.Va.)
*Senator Harrison A. Williams, Jr. (N.J.)
Senator Quentin Burdick (N.Dak.)
*Senator Claiborne Pell (R.I.)
Senator Edward Kennedy (Mass.)

Subcommittee members are starred.
ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.

HOUSE COM/[ETTEE 9131 INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COM/JEROE (H.R. 5180 is pending here)

 

Democrats Republicans

 

Congressman Oren Harris (Ark.) Chairman Congressman John B. Bennett (Mich.)
Congressman John Williams (Miss.) Congressman William L. Springer (Ill.)
*Congressman Kenneth A. Roberts (Ala.). *Congressman Paul F. Schenck (Ohio)
Chairman, Subcommittee on Health 8c Safety Congressman J. Arthur Younger ( Calif.)
Congressman Harley O. Staggers (W.Va.) Congressman Milton W. Glenn (N.J.)
Congressman Walter Rogers (Texas) Congressman Samuel L. Devine (Ohio)
Congressman Samuel.N. Friedel (Md.) *Congressman Ancher Nelsen (Minn.)
Congressman Torbert H. Macdonald (Mass.) Congressman Hastings Keith (Mass.)
*Congressman George M; Rhodes (Penna.) Congressman Willard S. CUrtin (Penna.)
Congressman John Jarmon (Okla.) Congressman Abner W. Sibal (Conn.)
*Congressman Leo W. O'Brien (N.Y.) Congressman Glenn Cunningham (Nebr.)
Congressman John E. Moss (Calif.) Congressman James T. Broyhill (N.C.)
Congressman John D. Dingell (Mich.) *Congressman Donald G. Brotzman (Colo.)
*Congressman Paul G, Rogers (Fla.)
Congressman Robert W. Hemphill (S.C.)
Congressman Dan Rostenkowski (Ill.)
COngressman James C. Healey (N.Y.)
Congressman HOrace R..K0rnegay (N.C.)
Congressman w. R. Hull, Jr. (MO.)
Congressman Gillis W. Long (La.)
Congressman Lionel van Deerlin (Calif.)

subcommittee members are starred. .
AIJ;EEEEEEENHMETVEB.MAY.BE.ADDRESSED.AT’THE HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.

 




PUBLIC RELATIONS RELEASE: ADLAI STEVENSON

Just before the June 5th Primaries, the D—D League legal counsel were about

to bring Quo Warranto proceedings against the American Humane Association and
certain anti-vivisection organizations affiliated with the same. When our
legal advisers were retained it was of no interest to them or us whether they
happened to be Republicans or Democrats. The Pound-dog issue is not a Partisan
one. Republicans own and love dogs and have to pay a license for their dog.
And Democrats own and love dogs and have to pay a license for their dog. Mr.
Nixon and Mr. Kefauver, and his children and the Nixon children would always
want to do the right thing by THE DOG. The Dog Defenders League and I, person-
ally, were happy to know that the candidates for the Presidency in California
Primaries were ALL dog owners and therefore interested in the Pound issue.

That explains also the advertisement which appeared in the Washington Daily .
News, June 13, 1956 (rather paradoxical that the Dog Defenders League should
come to the assistance of the President, the~Vice~President and several U.S.
Senators because, as regard to their dogs, they have no vote and must,,like it
or not, submit to a ruling of one of the Commissioners --- or so did certain
”humane” organisations insist). -

We know, of course, that Adlai Stevenson, so deeply involved with Jake Arvey,
the Chicago boss, who was the first in our country to change the Dog Control
law (making it obligatory to sell or surrender the unclaimed pound dog to
research laboratories instead of destroying him humanely) had approved of and
permitted this Chicago Ordinance to become the State-wide law in Illinois
while he was Governor.

It did not occur to us, however, at that time, how deeply involved he was.

We had forgotten that it was when the Democratic Party was at the height of
its power that the National Science Foundation Act was created and became

Law 507 in l9h6. At that time William Randolph Hearst, a great dog friend,
in his papers, and several U.S. Senators and Representatives opposed a clause
which would have changed our State Dog Control laws as stated above.

To be frank, we have no idea what the Los Angeles Times implied with the words
”Stevenson—Kefauver, the dog and cat ticket”. BUT NOW WE KNOW to what an
extent Adlai Stevenson is obligated to Roger Lacy Stevens, the multi-million~
aire real estate man, whose wife poses as a humanitarian, the President and
founder of the Animal Welfare Institute Operating a humane society near Ann
Arbor, Michigan and maintaining headquarters in the Empire State Building,

350 Fifth Ave., New York. .

The object of Mrs. Christine Stevens'"humanitarianismy is to secure the un-
claimed dogs of public pounds for research work for as cheap a price as possi-
ble BUT TO PROMISE THEM BEI'I‘ER TREATMENT THAN EITHER'I’O.

In the financial world Roger Lacey Stevens is known as an immensely wealthy
real estate man who, together with William Zeckendorf, controls some
$300,000,000 worth of property. It was Stevens that organized a syndicate
that bought the Empire State Building in New York for $51,500,000 --» highest
price paid for a single building according to the NEW YORKER. It is from here
that the Animal Welfare Institute is conducted. He organized the Detroit Real
Estate Snydicate together with investors Ben Tobin and Alfred B. Glancy, Jr.,
two Michigan men --- the latter the Vicevpresident of Christine Stevens'

 




Page 2

Animal Welfare Institute. Roger Stevens is the treasurer. Stevens has been

a Democrat all his life, capecially interested in the works of Lincoln Steffens
and "New Deal" Thurman Arnold and Jerome Frank. In 1952 Stevens became deeply
involved in politics. He became chairman of the Finance Committee of National
Volunteers for Adlai Stevenson and was one of the Democratic Party's principal
fund raisers and, as we hear, has remained so.

The principal reason for the defeat of Estes Kefauver in California, after his
great success in Minnesota, has been laid to "lack of money" while Stevenson,
they say, "is tremendously wealthy himself and has wealthy support".

As stated before, the conduct of Public Pounds and the license required from
owners of dogs, is a matter of interest to dog owners ONLY and, of necessity,
cannot be made a Partisan issue. The dog owner must obey the law and pay his
tax regardless of his political allegiance. In California and, I believe in
most States, dog clubs have, before election (Just as other organizations

do) sent out recommendations as to those legislators who have given their
specific interests consideration regardless of Partisanship. There are 28,000
dog license holders in San Francisco and so their vote is not quite negligible.
George D. Collins, one of the men who, in l95h, was selected by the Democratic
Party to run for Controller, received a vote of l,7hl,025 -~~ 1,657 more votes
than Mr. Graves who ran for Governor. Mr. Collins was the proponent of the
San Francisco and Marin County Pound Legislation. This year no position was
offered him by the Democratic Party.

None of the other candidates for the Presidency, at the recent Primaries, used
his dog ownership for his own proPaganda. Alone, Adlai Stevenson, whose

record is known in Illinois as a promoter of the much-opposed Pound-dog Seizure
Legislation advocated by the American Humane Association and the Animal Welfare
Institute of the Empire State Building, N.Y. tried, as he did before in 195h,
to secure the popular vote by appealing to the cat and dog lover.

Mr. Stevenson's self advertising was again revealed at a party given in honor
of Prince Aly Shan, Rajah of Lak Shampur (see Herb Caen‘s column, June 19)
for whose entertainment an Indian elephant performed tricks and an Oakland
fakir performed the rope trick. Caen tells that when the rope was fully
extended a card reading "VOTE FOR STEVENSON” was revealed for the benefit of
another of the guests --- Attorney-General Pat Brown.

The explanation for this is that the Indian Government has declared a ban on
the export of monkeya,and Mrs.Christine Stevens, in the name of her.Animal
Welfare Institute, of which she is founder and president, and her husband,
Roger Lacey Stevens is the treasurer, has been using her "humanitarian“
endeavors to impress the Indian Government of the welfare and good treaoment
that is accorded those animals in the United States.

In a long distance conVersation today Mrs. Marion Mill Preminger (Otto
Preminger) assured us again that the Schweitzer award was definitely not author-
ized by Prof. Schweitzer; that he knew nothing of the experiment in question or
of any award to be given in his name.

V“ v
e
“v.-
~ \
'Q ‘0 t v ‘1.

a.

Submitted by Public Relations
DOG DEFENDERS LEAGUE

OF CALIFORNIA

P.O. Box 310

San Francisco, California

 




THE VANCOUVER BRANCH, B.C. S.P.C.A.
IMPORTANT CIRCULAR TO S.P.C.A. MEMBERS ROOM 5, 505 HAMILTON ST., OCT. 2h,1951.

 

RECENT DECISION CONCERNING MEDICAL USE OF POUND DOGS

AT THE LAST MEETING OF THE VANCOUVER BRANCH OPEN TO.ALL MEMBERS AN
IMPORTANT MOTION WAS PASSED CONCERNING THE ABOVE MATTER. HOWEVER, AS ONLY A
PROPORTION OF THE TOTAL MEMBERSHIP WAS PRESENT AT THIS MEETING, DESPITE PRIOR
NOTIFICATION, AND AS INCOMPLETE OR GARBLED ACCOUNTS OF WHAT WAS DECIDED AND WHY,
HAVE SINCE APPEARED IN THE PRESS, AND AS THIS WHOLE MATTER IS ONE OF SUCH
EXTREME IMPORTANCE TO ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN THE WELFARE OF ANIMALS, IT HAS
BEEN DECIDED TO SEND THIS CIRCULAR TO.ALL S.P.C.A. MEMBERS SO THAT THEY MAY
KFOW EXACTLY WHAT HAS DECIDED AND WHY.

CITY POUND DOGS WILL NOT BE USED FOR SURVIVAL EXPERIMENTS: YET THE
ANII‘LS USED IN THIS WAY ARE THOSE WHICH DO NEED OUR PROTECTION MOST OF ALL. WE
CANNOT HOPE TO GIVE THEM THIS PROTECTION UNLESS WE ARE ABLE TO GO INTO THE
HOSPITALS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES AND SEE WHAT IS GOING ON.

PERHAPS WE CAN EXPLAIN THE POSITION BEST BY QUOTING YOU THE PRESS RELEASE
WE MADE TO THE THREE VANCOUVER PAPERS ON OCTOBER 19, I951, WHICH IS AS FOLLOWS:

QUOTE -~ TO MANY LOVERS THE WHOLE IDEA OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION USING LIVING
ANIMALS IN ITS WORK IS AT LEAST SUSPECT IF NOT ACTUALLY REPUGNANT.

THE VANCOUVER BRANCH OF THE S.P.C.A. THEREFCRE FEELS IT IS DESIRABLE TO
SET OUT THE REASONS WHY IT RECENTLY AGREED, SUBJECT TO CERTAIN CONDITIONS, TO.A
LIMITED USE OF POUND ANIMALS BY THE MEDICAL FACULTY AT UQB.C.

FIRSTLY THE FACT HAS TO BE ACCEPTED THAT SOCIETY TODAY REGARDS THE USE
OF LIVING ANIMALS AS A NECESSARY MEASURE FOR MEDICAL PROGRESS. ALSO THE
FACULTY OF MEDICINE AT ULB.C. HAS INDICATED TO THE S.P.C.A. THAT THE UNIVERSITY
MUST CONDUCT ITS TEACHING AND RESEARCH IN FONEORMITY WITH PRACTICES IN OTHER
FIRST CLASS MEDICAL SCHOOLS.

HOWEVER IT HAS ASSURED THE S.PzC.A. THAT IT WILL BE FULLY COOPERATIVE
REGARDING THE CONDITIONS IN WHICH EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS ARE USED.

IF THE S.P.C.A. HERE TO ADOPT AN ATTITUDE OF UNCOMPROMISING TOTAL
OPPOSITION TO THIS PRACTICE, THE FEELINGS OF SOME PEOPLE MIGHT BE SOOTHED BUT
THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMALS THEMSELVES WOULD SUFFER, SINCE THIS WOULD PRECLUDE
TIE POSSIBILITY OF COOPERATION WITH U.B.C.'8 MEDICAL FACULTY WHICH AT PRESENT
ALLOWS THE S.P.C.A. TO SEE WHAT IS TAKING PLACE.

IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT THE S.P.C.A. SHOULD BE IN.A POSITION TO EXERT SOME
PRACTICAL INFLUENCE OVER THE MANNER IN WHICH LIVE ANIMALS ARE KEPT AND USED AND WE
ARE GLAD TO STATE THAT WE HAVE RECEIVED THE FULLEST COLLABORATION FROM THE
MEDICAL AUTHORITIES TO DATE IN THIS RESPECT.

ONE IMPORTANT FEATURE OF THIS COOPERATION RECEIVED IS THAT THE MEDICAL
FACULTY HAS AGREED TO PERMIT THE S.P.C.A. ACCESS AT ALL TIMES WITHOUT APPOINTMENT
T0 INSPECT ANIMAL PREMISES AND ANIMAL WORK.

IT SHOULD ALSO’BE EMPHASIZED THAT THE S.P.C.A. AGREED TO THE USE OF
UNCLAIMED POUND DOGS ON THE STRICT UNDERSTANDING THAT SUCH ANIMALS WOULD BE
USED SOLELY IN NON~SURVIVAL WORK, IE., WHERE THE ANIMAL IS NEVER ALLOWED TO
REGAIN CONSCIOUSNESS BUT INSTEAD DIES UNDER THE ANAESTHETIC. ALSO IT IS
AGREED THAT NO WORK WILL BE DONE ON THE ANIMALS UNLESS THEY ARE COMPLETELY
UNCONSCIOUS.

1

OTHER CONDITIONS LAID DOWN BY THE S.P.C.A. AND ACCEPTED BY THE MEDICAL
FACULTY OF ULB.C. INCLUDE THAT:

1. THE ONLY DOGS USED WILL BE STRAYS WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN CLAIMED AND

WOULD OTHERWISE BE DESTROYED BY THE CITY.

J NO DOGS TAKEN TO THE POUND BY THEIR OWNERS FOR DESTRUCTION BE USED.

. NO DOGS BE USED WHICH HAVE PROPER IDENTIFICATION MARKS THEREON. A

. THE CITY AMENDS THE POUND BY~LAW§TO EXTEND THE HOLDING PERIOD FOR
STRAY DOGS FROM THE PRESENT TWO TO FOUR DAYS EXCLUDING HOLIDAYS.

. THE POUND MANAGEMENT RETAINS THE RIGHT TO REFUSE TO SURRENDER ANY
SPECIFIC ANIMAL.

. THE MEDICAL FACULTY'S RECORDS OF ANIMALS USED BE OPEN TO INSPECTION
BY THE S.P.C.A.

. THE WHOLE MATTER BE ON A TRIAL BASIS FOR A YEAR.

 




PAGE 2

IT IS WORTH MENTIONING HERE THAT IF POUND DOGS WERE NOT USED FOR THESE
PURPOSES THIS WOULD MEAN THE DEATH OF TWO DOGS INSTEAD OF JUST THE ONE UNCLAIMED
POUND STRAY WHICH MUST DIE ANYWAY.

THE DECISION OF THE S.P.C.A. IN THIS IMPORTANT MATTER WAS NOT MADE
HASTILY BUT ONLY AFTER MUCH SERIOUS CONSIDERATIONS. FURTHER IT HAS A DECISION
REACHED BY A MOTION PASSED BY A MAJORITY VOTE AT A REGULARLY CALLED OPEN
MEETING OF THE VANCOUVER BRANCH OF THE SOCIETY AND SUBSEQUENTLY ENDORSED BY
T‘E EXECUTIVE OF THE PROVINCIAL S.P.C.A. -- END QUOTE.

THAT IS THE PRESS RELEASE WE MADE. THINK THIS MATTER OVER CAREFULLY.
WE SIICERELY HOPE YOU.AGREE WITH THE DECISION MADE BY THE S.P.C.A. WE FEEL
THIS IS THE ONLY WAY WE WILL HAVE A.CHANCE TO HELP THE ANIMALS AND THEREFORE
IT IS CERTAINLY NORTH A TRIAL. IF YOU.AGREE THEN WE HOPE YOU WILL NOT FORGET
TO CONTINUE TO GIVE US YOUR MORAL AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT. WE NEED THEM BOTH
NOW} MORE THAN EVER BEFORE. WE FEEL THIS IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO START
HELPING THE ANIMALS USED IN MEDICAL WORK. PLEASE DO NOT LET THESE ANIMALS
DOWN.

D.C. RIOHARDO, SEC. MANAGER.

 




Telegramanainbros Telephone: -24993

Erma Hﬁﬁ‘a arias mmé‘fa sﬁa— ”an «as: ( 2 oaﬁ aﬁﬁm )

Receptzon Commzttee

AILIL lllNllDll/A IHIUIMIAINIIIIAIRIIAINI CQINIIFIEIR BQIEINICE

Chairman: - 10th SESSION
SETH ANAND RAJ SURANA 2950, Katra Khuslzal Rai,

M.L.A
DELHI.l8fch.Aug.,.-. 195 3 .

Shrimati Lakshmi N. Manon,
NEW DELHI.

Dear Friend,

Today, the nations of the world areafmad after pursuit of
power. ' Warlike mentality is a universal disease. Exploitation,
cruelty and destruction are too common in day—to-day life of man. Wars
have destroyed everything that is best in Man i e. it has brought
famine, disease, starvation, dislocation of trade, unemployment,
social distress and decline in the normal standards of life. We must
destroy war or war will destroy civilisation. To destroy war we must
discourage war mentality. This war mentality is created by the
present education and destructive modes of life such as killing for
food, fashion, sport, religion and science. The war mind of the
modern man must be combated with the weapon of new education and non-—
violent modes of life. Let nations of the world forget religious and
political differences and follow one Religion of Universal

Brotherhood and recognise the sanctity of life in human and subhuman

creatures. Such aHumanitarian religion will only help us to build
up a new civilisation, a Brotherly civilisation based on peace and
goodwill.

 

Tenth ALL— INDIA HUMANITARIAN CONFERENCE will be held on 30th
and 31st August 1955 at Delhi to consider the above aspects. This
Conference will also consider a bill “PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS” sponsored by Shrimati Rukmani Devi Arundale, Member
Parliament, which will come before the present session of the
Parliament. Steps will also be taken to ensure full public support
to this Bill.

Thousands of preachers, workers and admirers of this
noble cause from all over the country will gather to participate in
the Conference. They will heartily welcome suggestions for this
noble cause from your side on this occasion. It is hoped that you
will kindly send your message and blessings for the success of the
Conference in time so that it may be readout in the Open Session on
30th and 51st August, 1955.

Yours faithfully ,

Jam-unwwmr can. V/{H

(TANSUKHRAI JAIN)”
General Secretary.

 




RMATlON

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Rli I' II R 1‘

May-June. I958

THE NATION’S PRESS DEMANDS
EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER
LEGISLATION

On June 18th, Swift, Armour, Cudahy, Wilson and
other meat_packers won a round in their ﬁght against
humane societies, the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, and religious groups such as the Board of Social
and Economic Relations, of the Methodist Church, the
Southern Baptist Convention, the National Council of
Catholic Women, and other citizens who are seeking to
curb cruel slaughtering practices. The humane slaughter
bill had long been delayed in the Senate Agriculture Com-
mittee after passing the House of Representatives over-
whelmingly this February. Senator Ellender, Chairman of
the Committee, obtained defeat of the humane measure
by amending it into the study bill which the meat packers
wish to see enacted as a hedge against effective legislation.

The bill'met this same fate in the Committee in 1956.
,But thewHoyse Committee on Agriculture investigated

‘ ..,.__,.._.ﬂ 7.. a.;.l,‘

slaughterhouses in person, yobserved cruel methods in use
on most animals and practical humane methods in use in
some plants. They sent an effective bill (requiring the use
of humane methods by all packers wishing to contract with
the government) to the House by a majority of 25 to 3,
and it was passed by voice vote. The Senate Committee
did no slaughterhouse inspection. At the recent hearings
they even refused to see and hear a sound ﬁlm graphically
depicting routine pig slaughter as inﬂicted on more than
80,000,000 pigs each year. Then they passed a study bill,
which would not protect even one animal, by a vote of
10 to S.

Humane slaughter proponents will contest the decision.
They state that the Senate as a whole cannot be dominated
by the meat packers. The United States is one of the few
civilized countries which does not require humane slaugh-
tering methods in its packing plants. Humane methods
whereby animals are rendered insensible to pain and fear,
have been proved to save money by reduction of bruising
of meat, injury to workers on the killing ﬂoor, reduction
in labor turnover and operation, and'other factors. More
mail has reached Washington for enactment of the legis-

lation than on any other issue during the past two years.

Newspapers throughout the nation have been demand-
ing enactment of effective legislation, and strong editorials
have appeared in the New York Times, the St. Louis
Post Dispatch, the Denver Post, the Chicago Daily News,
the Cleveland Plain Dealer, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette,
the New Orleans Times-Picayune, the Dallas News, the
San Francisco Examiner, the Mobile Register, the Little
Rock Democrat, the Portland Press Herald, and many
others. Some of the editorials which have appeared since
the study bill was reported out of the Senate Agriculture
Committee are reprinted on page two.

22 EAST l7’rh STREET. NEW YORK 3. N. Y.

Vol. 7' No. 3

THE OVERHOLT CLINIC CASE

When the bodies of four dogs were found in a pond
near Franklin, Massachusetts, on March 30, local police
ofﬁcials set out to investigate. The bodies showed signs of
recent operations, but no one knew who had performed
them. The investigation led to a kennel in the woods
where dogs which had undergone major heart surgery and
tests on the heart-lung machine were maintained on mud
and were fed garbage. Not surprisingly, the mortality was
high, but the doctor who did the operations, Dr. Fred
Panico of the Overholt Clinic, had never found time to
visit his animal quarters, and he expressed satisfaction at
the condition of the animals when they were brought to
him, although others who saw them were horriﬁed at their
emaciation. His attitude in this respect is typical of far
too many research workers who, like Dr. Panico, are very
much interested in their work, but totally indifferent to
their experimental subjects.

The publicity attendant on this case (in which both Dr.
Panico and his animal caretaker, James Hawkins, were
found guilty of cruelty to animals), has led apologists to
seek refuge in the statement which is accurate so far as it

‘ goesr'thsz‘thedank hovel in Franklin is not the usual ac?”

commodation for experimental dogs.

The point which the Animal Welfare Institute hopes
will be driven home to all honorable scientists is that the
Dr. Panicos of medical research do not care how their

animals are housed and cared for. Whether it be mud
and garbage, or wire mesh and pellets, whether the dogs
are totally neglected or whether they receive a daily hosing
along with their cages by callous attendants, it is all one
to this type of research worker. In the hope that decent
research workers will read the following testimony pre-
sented at the trial, and that it will lead them to insist
ﬁrmly upon decent treatment of experimental animals, ex-
cerpts from the court record are printed below.

The trial of Hawkins, one-time employee of the Over-
holt Clinic of Boston, who kept the dogs on his chicken
farm and sold eggs to the hospital, was held on May 14,
1958 at the District Court, Wrentham. The ﬁrst witness
was the Chief of Police who had discovered the dogs.

The Court.

Chief of Police. The pen was about eight feet long and
ﬁve feet wide at that section. Inside the pen were eleven
dogs that were very thin, some of them had rashes, skin
rashes. One of the hounds was pregnant and also thin through
the chest. There were two containers of a thick, muddy sub—
stance which was also garbage.

The pen was how large?

Lawyer for the defendant. I ————-

The Court. I think that is generally accepted, what gar-
bage is. I don’t think you have to describe that. I will
admit that.

Chief of Police. There was also a dead chicken with the
feathers on that one of the dogs was licking the feathers off
and also attempting to eat the chicken. I asked Mr. Hawkins
where the dogs had come from, and he said from the Overholt
Clinic in Boston. And, as I stated, he was paid $50 a week.

. . He also stated that the dogs that were operated on he
was to feed, and when they wanted the dogs back at the
Overholt Clinic they would call him and notify him which
dogs they wanted to see back at the clinic. There was one
thin black dog that was laying on its side. I ﬁrst thought
the dog was dead.

(Cozztinaed on Page 4)

 

 

1.;4.‘ 60/4 thhi:}';' .. -

L".

-~.

. '{ﬁ MhWTK‘A-mﬁgiwmﬁ .u

 

 




on: mashingtnn first

PAPER

 

SUNDAY. JUNE 12. 1060
Tcmporizmg With Cruelty

It is a real misfortune that the Senate Agricul-
tui'e Committee. yielding to the pressure of a
number of big meat packers. reported on Wednes-
day a cynical bill calling for a two-year study
of humane methods of slaughter in American
packing houses. The committee had before it a
moderate practical measure. a companion to the
Poage bill passed by the House of Representatives.
which would have precluded United States Gov-
ernment purchases of products from slaughter-
houses employing inhumane techniques. The bill
thoroughly deserved the Agricdlture Committee‘s
approval. We hope it will be substituted for the
dilatory and evasive measure reported by the
Committee when the issue comes to the floor.

There is no need whatever for a two-year study
of humane slaughter techniques. They have been
studied and perfected by universities; they have
been tested in operation by a number of progres-
sive meat packers: they have long been in use——
and required by law—in ciwlized European coun-
tries. Thcy are based on the simple principle
that an animal ought to be rendered unconscious
before it is killed—instead of being put to death
by the sadistic methods still widely used in the
United States. Abandonment of unnecessary
cruelty to animals in this enlightened land is long
overdue.

MIAMI. FLA.
N

Cite. 0. ”9.269 - 5. ”5.926

N“ 2 L.‘ 1958

 

W. Cruelty In Our Society

e Humane Slaughter Bill_will
sooiihcoma ore mmr fi-
nal action. No sensible objections to
its passage have been presented.

The Department of Agriculture
has yielded to the pressure of the
American Meat Institute in calling
for further study of the bill —— an
old and sure method of killing need-
ed legislation. But with .humane
slaughter already the rule in many
of our best packing houses and in
most European countries, what is
there to study?

The only expense to the packers
will be cost of conversion from bar-
baric wheels and stickers to a me
chanical stunning device or anes-
thetic equipment. Screams from
bleeding animals. which are often
dropped still conscious into a scald-

ligious Observances.

 

__T_HE NEWS.GAZETTE

The fact that legislation is ev it
necessary to require kindness wh
should be voluntary is a sad co - I
mentaryLon our :‘gﬁoﬁggtfxgzed ponent, Senator Rumors of Louisiana. who is
society. th en .

e
ic

Champaign-Urbana -- The Home Of The University of Illinois

HARTFORD CONN. COURANT
June 28. 1958

' Humane Slaughtering Is
Blocked in Committee

t ll once remarked that he
Senator William Pure ke so mud! mail .5

ever seen anything evo
ill: [iiopOsed humane slaughter bill. Other senator:
have had the same experience. The champions :
legislation to modernize America's slaughtering me: .
ods were gratified when the House _of Hepresen :-
tives passed the bill without killing it withiamen l
ments. The bill went next to the Senate Agriculture
Committee where. as everyone knew.'the packing
interests waited with their heaviest fire. The bi
didn‘t have a chance. And while committee chair-
man Senator Allen Ellender and his. colleagues
looked on. the packers trimmed the bill to. then:-l
taste. The resulting bill provides for study. an
ore.
“milliliis lii‘app’ened in the same committee two years
ago. The committee members didnt set foot in a:I
slaughterhouse. Nor would they listen to a soun
him about it. No wonder the senators voted 10-5 to
pass the study bill. Their fellow Congressmen in the
House. on the other hand. had looked in hon
slaughtering techniques. They saw the cruel and t ey
saw the humane. and voted for the humane. That
the members of the agricultural committee were in-
diflei'ent to the bill's purpose speaks poorly of them.
The facts. had they been given a hearing. would
have “on out. But the committee heard only a few
packers who did not want to be bothered with
5. .
ChanBgei’iiig a small group. these packers have avoided
battle in the public forum. And so efforts like that
of religious groups and the General Federation of
Women's Clubs went virtually uncontested. except in
Senatorial chambers. Here the powerful members of
the American Meat Institute worked lard. They sold
the right senators on the idea that. changing 'to
humane methods would be costly: that it was nothing
to jump into; and that it should be studied. And
this worked. “hat is most disappointing is that
much of the support given by other senators had

MONDAY. Jml :0. l0“. POUNDS!) lit-IS.

Ellis

film Enuuocs. Publisher.

 

ing vat, would arouse the comp”. KindneSS to Animals

‘on of an but the most cailouaed in—
dividuals.y'l'iie agony can be avoided
by orrly a small cash outlay.

The only unselfish objectitlm ttutti: 9
bill, which passed the House as e ‘ S d
ruary. comes from Orthodox Jewish Furtller tu y
groups. But the bill specifically states
that the law will not apply to re-

Shouldn’t Require

UPPORTERS of the Humane Slaughter Bill
have lost a battle. but they are determined
h that they have not lost a war. Their setback
me in the Senate Agriculture Committee. lt
bore the personal stamp of their long-time op-

the committee chairman. . _

The voting line-up was a curious one. This
measure, which would oblige meat packers do-
ing business with the government to use humane
methods in killing animals. does not seem to
have a partisan coloration. nor does it imply any
liberal-conservative division. The Senators who
defeated the bill in committee. however. are the
ones who often combine to kill liberal legisla-

on.
‘1 This committee bloc consisted of Democratic
Senators Emerson. JOHNSTON, HOLLAND, Exer-
umo and TALMADGI, all from the Deep South.
combined with Republican Senators YOUNG,
Tuvs. Hicxsxaooru. Muno'r and Scnoarrn,
all Northern conservatives. Five Senators stood
outagainst this majority of 10. They were Dem-
ocrats Humans“. Svasmc'rou and Paoxaanta,

 

W@nmoaﬁﬁm 25. 1958. —24 Pm.
Ellender’s Bill Would Only,
Delay Humane Slaughter

Adoption of legislation It protect animals
from needless cruelty ’in slaughterhouses win be
delayed for at least two more years if a bill ap-
proved by the Senate Agriculture Committee be.
comes law.

. Earlier this year the House passed a bill re-
quiring the use of specified humane slaughter
methods by all plants selling meat to the More
government after Dec. 31.‘1959.

Sen. Allen J.‘ Ellender (or...) said tas‘bln
approved by the committee he heads is aiMmt
making humane slaughter compulsory after the.
subject has beemthoroughly studied by federal
scientists and experts.

The measure provides that after a twoye‘;
study. the secretary of agriculture must nova
mend legislation making the use of approv' i
slaughter methods mandatory for all livestock
and poultry plants.

Humane societies and other groups have been

ssing for adoption of the House bill with its
an on government purchases from
b adopt humane methods. plants failing

Some meat packers and the administrationi
have favored the research approach. Many sup-
porters of the House bill regard the proposal for
at least two more years of study as merely a
stalling tactic. They contend that there is no
need for two years additional study of the hu-
mans methods which are already in use in some

 

 

American plants and required by law in Western
urope

The vast majority of Americans are likely to
agree that livestock shouldbe protected against
unnecessary pain and suffering.
If a law is needed to accomplish this humenc
purpose it should be enacted as promptly as
possible in a country which makes much of its
concern for civilized ways of doing things but
which lags behind some European countries in
requiring humane processes in its meat plants.

 

 

 

 

plus Republicans Amen and Wmuaass.

The Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion still hopes to bring the bill to a vote on the
floor of the Senate, despite the adverse commit-
tee action. This is a difficult but a possible ma-
neuver. The Humane Slaughter advocates do not
accept for a moment the committee‘s recom-
mendation for “further study" of slaughter
methods. They point out that this has been the
excuse for inaction used by the packing indus—
try ever since the late 1920s.

[to Time for Surrender

The bill’s supporters are certainly not going
to give up what to them is a crusade for decency
and humanity. They had a notable success this
spring when their bill passed the House of Rep
rcsentatives by a rousing voice vote. Before that,
the House Agriculture Committee had made a
personal‘inspection of slaughterhouse practices.
and had come out disgusted and convinced. The
committee vote was 25 to three for the bill.

The Senate Agriculture Committee failed to
follow this good example of studying the prob-
lem at first hand in the slaughter pens. They
stayed instead in the committee room. listening
to spokesmen for most of the packing houses.

The opposition of the packers to a reform
bill is surely based on the pocketbook. They
would have to buy and install some new equip
ment, at considerable expense, if the hill went
through. Hormel 8: Co. has already installed
the recommended carbon dioxide gas tunnel for
painless hog slaughter. and the use of the cap-
tive bolt pistol for instant stunning of other ani-
mals. The company asserts that it has saved
money, quite aside from humane considerations.
But the old guard of the industry is unwilling
to try such a change of ancient practices.

They have fought a delaying action for three
decades. always asking for more time to “study"
the new methods. In view of their record. there.
is no reason to respect their intentions in this
matter. ,

Senator ELLENDER reports that he received
more than 20.000 letters from supporters of the
legislation. They were not enough to shake his
deeply entrenched opposition. Letters may still
have their effect on other members of the Sen-
ate. however. who are sensitive to public
opinion. and also to the still. small voice of their

own conscience when they think of needless
torture of dumb animals who cannot plead their
own cause.

(tourist {Enamel

Baa“ Buttress. Editor-in-Chiel.

Thursday, June 20. 1958'!!! TUBCALOMA NI“

Setback For Humane Slaughter

Supporters of a humane slaughter
bill for the meat packing industry
received a setback this week when
the Senate Agriculture Committee
amended the measure passed by
the House to make it a study
measure.

The bill was dealt with similarly
by this Senate in 1956. This year.
however. widespread interest and
support was generated for a
humane slaughter bill and the
House passed a measure requirin
the use of humane methods by at
packers wishing to contract With
the government.

Stran ely enough. the United
States a one of the few civilised
countries which does not require
humane slaughter methods in its
packing plants. Congressmen have
reported receiving more mail .on
this particular piece of legislation

w

Humane Slaughter Bill
Can Still Be Saved In Senate

EATPACKERS.

APPARENTLY there is one more M
chance for the Senate to join

the House in enacting long over- stronlly oppose mgndﬂory slaugh-
duc legislation to require humane tering rules. 59mm" going along
with them by voting for another de-

slaughter of meat animals. That
will come when an amended House
bill reaches the floor of the Senate 1"
in July.

Here. it seems to us. is an ex- pug
ample of how a powerful lobby can Herman E. Talmadge (0). 6a.;
MiltOn R. Young (R). N. D.; Ed-
ward J. Thye (R). Minn; Bourke
8'. Hickenlooper (R). 1a.; Karl E.
Mundt (R). S. D.. and Andrew I".
Schoeppel (R). Kas.

Voting for
meaht the end of a 27~year fight to W9": Hubert 14- Humphrey (D)-
bring American standards up to Milly-z Stuart SymingtontD). Mm;
those of , number of European William Proxmiretb).Wis.;George
methods re- D. Aiken (ll). Vt.. and John J. Wil-
quire that animals be rendered in- 11““ (R). Del.

If the thousands of Americans
killed. The House bill went into the who have campaigned for this bu-

thwart the wishes of the American
people.. The House recently ap-
proved a bill that would require hu-
mane slaughter methods in packing
plants. methods that already are
being used by some packers. Ap-
proval by the Senate would have

countries. Humane

sensible by shock before they are

ston (D). S. C.; S. L. Holland (D).
; James O. Eastland tD).Miss.;

this year than on any other issue
during the past two years.

Proponents of this measure now
face a rear-guard action. The
chances are that the amended
measure. if brought before the
Senate, will be passed unless there
is an all-out effort by proponents
of the House-passed bill to overturn
the 2-1 margin the revised bill
obtained in the Senate Agriculture
Committee.

Sup rters of the humane
slaug ter legislation are urging the
defeat of the bill reported favorably
by the Senate committee and an
amendment on the floor to get it
back in the form it was passed by
the House.

To this end it is urged that
members of e enata be
contacted in order that the public
sentiment on the measure can be
made known. .

Tuesdm June 24. 1958

led by the
A m e r i c a n Meat Institute.

were Ellender; Olin D. John-

humane slaughter

 

Senate Agriculture and Forestry mane legislation year after year
Committee. of which Sen. Allen J. keep up the barrage of letters that
Ellender. Louisiana Democrat. is should by now have made their

chairman. and when it was report- wishes unmistakably clear to Con-
ed out last week the proponents of gross, the bill passed by the .House
methods had may yet be saved. It can be amend-

humane slaughter

been dealt another blow. The bill ed on the Senate floor to restore the
had been amended to require the language of the original measure.
Secretary of Agriculture to study It should be restored and the Sen-.

slaughtering methods for the next ate

 

committee's action overriden.

two years. Another “study" period. so that needless cruelty to anmials
another delay in a long history of may soon be halted in a country

delays on the legislation.

that prides itself on being civilised

 

l

eon

little effect.

'riii; (TllltlS'l‘IAN SCIENCE MONITOR. BOSTON. SATURDAY. JUNE 21. 19.53

A Disappointing Report

The Senate Committee on Agricul- of the poleax and the chain and
ture. to which was referred the shackle.
humane slaughter bill passed by the The deluge of mail and weight of
House of Representatives. has recom- editorial comment which accom-
mended instead a measure which panied passage of the House bill
proposes merely further study of the showed that Americans deplore un-
subject. necessary cruelties too long toler-

This matter has been under study ated. Even that bill would not reach
of various sorts by the Department all slaughtering in the United States,
of Agriculture. humane societies. and but it would be a strong beginning.
progressive packers for at least a A mere study bill would be better
decade or two. Exhaustive hearings than nothing, but we hope the Sen— I

 

 

TRENTON. N. 1.
TIMES

Circ. D. 63.062

JUN 25 1958

{h Recourse To Cowardice

e Senate Agriculture Committee has reported
a bill which reflects the slavish subservience of its
members to the packing interests and which, if en-
acted, will be a disgrace to Congress. It provides
for cowardly escape from a humane responsibilitv.
The bill calls for a two-year study of less brutal
methods of slaughter in American packing houses
Currently, these methods are the most heartless to
be. found anywhere. But they are cheap and for
this reason the meat packers would like to continue
them. Humanity is not a characteristic of this busi-

 

iaii Antonio minim
E o l T o R i A L s

friday, June 27, 1958 5

Page 4-A

Humane Slaughter Bill
Should Be Passed Now

A bill to require a more humane method for
slaughtering meat animals in the nation's packing

have been held before congressional ate will substitute the House bill for
committees. Enough meat producers its committee's compromise and so
have adopted the captive bolt pistol move America further toward the
and the carbon dioxide chamber to ranks of nations whose meat is pm-
show that these can take the place duced humanely.

 

ness. plants has just been rcportcd out of committee in ”T PAUI DI ‘
A bm . _ the Senate. amended unfavorably from the House- J SPA FCl-i
passed b} the House of Representatives passed vcrsion. July 5, 1958 WASHINGTON STAR

would have restrained United States government
purchase of products from slaughter houses emplov-
ing inhumane techniques. It was a reasonable bill
and was deserving of Senate approval.

Instead. the Agriculture Committee chose to
throw a roadblock in its path. The course followed
reflects the Senate at its worst. It makes possible
a continuance of practices that cause agony to help .
less animals before death mercifully ends their
frilfértlzglitiile :cause. the packers. are unwilling to :0 the giggles in .1955' I-t gOt-Sidmaﬂed‘ It has

oney in humane methods of slaugh- .een )eiiic in each scssxon smcc. \lc trust this
for. time it Will pass as the House approved it.

There is no need of a study of this matter. The
eXisting conditions are known in all of their hor-
rible details. Humane techniques are emploved in
many countries. They are based on the simple prin-
Ciple that an animal should be made unconscious
before it is slaughtered. While we refuse to compel
such a piacticc. our claims upon being an en-

lightvnerl and humane people will be seriouslv
impaired. .

'l‘lic proposer] legislation has been a long—time
project of the American litimanc Association. A
careful studv of ”)0 Pl‘(l\l.<lt)nR of the House-passed
bill seems clear proof that it is a reasonable pro-
posal. It would reduce the incidence of accident to
slaughter-house workers. if uoulrl materially reduce
the loss from bruised carcasses. It would eliminate
a wasteful and needlessly cruel packing house prac-
tice that is a carryover from the Dark Ages.

The first humane—slaughter bill was presented

June lit, 1958

End This Cruelty

Revoltfng evidence of unnecessary
cruelty in the slaughtering of animals in
meat-packing plants has been presented
to committees of Congress. Several
nrms voluntarily have installed “hu-
mane slaughter" facilities. designed to
stun or anesthetlze the animal to be
killed. Many other packers have re-
fused to spend the money required to
"iii?" ksnot;l humane methods. We agree
. w t e ous ’
xylgmnzfc: method; show that they anti-cruelty 51.31.33? brillixiiarirsiwwliii
M“. Y 9 “mane Ut “Onomlcal “ purinerous organizations supporting this

Whi eg station—that inhumane ways of kill-
and adlgptttfi awaiteglsﬁfgzthti‘ﬁlag; in: beef cattle, hogs and other meat
United States government purchase prod- $3322: :ughhm be outlawed. We hope
ucts only from slaughter houses employing m a. e w l Joln'the House m writ-
humane methods, the Senate committee g a law that Wm end this cruelty.
apparently yielded to pressure and adopted
the meaningless study measure. Abandon-
ment of old methods of slaughtering are
long overdue.

Senate Humane Study
Bill Meaningless

It is unfortunate that the Senate agri-
culture committee has come up with a
bill calling for only another study of
humane slaughtering methods in the
United States.

There is no need for such a study.
Humane techniques for slaughtering ani-
mals and poultry have been developed.
reported upon and investigated for years
—not only by the universities and collEges
of agriculture but by meat packers them.
selves. The records of several large firms

 

 

 

Northern Virginia Sun

An Independent Newspaper

Tuesday. June 24. i958

Death By Too-Much-Study

The efforts by friends of the ‘
packers and major
slaughter houses of the country to defeat humane slaugh-
ter bit: studying it to death” are pretty transparent.
A 8 ast week. the Senate Agricultural Committee subst'
. g g . . . l-
aov w‘ "will":‘tlt’a..su,‘f‘....'..."3?.’.ai'""‘"' “m tuted fOi an effective measure passed by the House a bill

a providing for a two- ear s v ‘ '
‘ SUNHIUM Ill." ”MN” ill (N Uni“. sill}; S y tud“ 0f the teCIlnlqueS 0f rellder-
ll

MILWAUKEE SENTINEL

FRIDAY. JUNE 27. I95. PAGE I4. PART |

Round and Round

It is unnecessary to point out the merits of the
humane slaughter bill which would forbid U.8. 8°“

 

 

 

 

 

Hagen (coming literati!

[Si AﬂLiSﬂLD ”195

New York Warm-Telegram

the Sun
carrrsnowann newsraren.

 

FRIDAY. JUNE 27. 1958.

 

We’ve All That Study

  
   

as in aiiii . . . .
Mo menus...‘lfj.,’..m..,‘.“s.§;,1”My; 190:5: 8 To nals sznseless befme the-V are actually killed. We Need eminent agencies to buy meat: from packers not
7 , - . 0 , - . . .
sum": 3mm. -3:- .. ewe. ”m“ e f” further study of these techniques “m3 hum“ mm“ °‘ 1‘1"” mm “In“

while-ii are in use in some American packing houses as well SUCh confidence as has been expressed
is a will as needed as a two-year stud on th t _ .
of frying bacon. y e ecliniques

» . v . . Add: ions entry as Imoltlyn. N. V.
”I. U 5. Pat. Mics Givr Light U flu Proplr Will Find Their Own Way‘
MONDAY. JUN! 23. 1.5.. ~

- . .. . , Elimination f needless stiff rin b these ani-
here in the Senate s ability and Willingness to m“. in the slaughterhouse should Isak); a“. 13‘“.

write effective humane-slaughter legislation lotion acce t him-
. . . able aside
without being subjected to emotional pres. self ciin'lizepd to any person who co "\

sure contains within itself confidence the
Senate Will accept no such substitute as it
has been handed. The Committee on Agri-
culture has reported a bill of its own under
whose terms the Secretary of Agriculture
would be directed to study—for 2 more un-
necessary and unbearable years—methods of
putting meat animals to death painlessly.
There is no need for further study. In
most of the Western nations humane methods
have been adopted. In this country the meat
packers using merciful techniques have found
them efficient. economical. and safe. The
Senate committee measure will reach the
floor early next month. The New Jersey Sen-
ators are urged to move an amendment re-
storing the language of Representative
Poages (D., Tex.) simple and effective bill.
which was passed by the House in January
and thereupon to move for a roll-call vote. '
_______

 

 

What. More Study?

Four long months ago the House
. . passed
establishing humane slaughter of meat animals his]:
Eilﬁécbpolicy andlrequiring that the federal govern-
uy meat on from ckin ‘
methods. y pa g plants using humane
Now after letting the bill gather d
. . . ust all
time. the Senate Agriculture Committee has lantitlat
reported out a substitute bill. In effect it tells th:
Escretgrykof Agriculture to study the situation and
me ac in two years with re '
slatiehter bill. p posals for a numane
More studv indeed' This issue has 1
, .. - ust abo
studied to death. as the Senate committee well lictniiifsn
. . “9 hope other Senators (including New York's
livmg Ives and Jacob Javits) will reject this latest

stall and i ' .
Senate, "Sm that the House in" be Put before the

Yet the humane slaughter bill, which has l1“
ready been by e House. has been kick
around for some time now by the Senate Agricul-
ture Committee.

And it may be deomed since the committee h“
a proved a substitute bill directing the Secret!”
0 Agriculture to study the subject for two year!
and submit a proposal to Congress.

We don't quite get this. The secretary will study
the sub' t for two years and resubmit .the I!!!”
pro to Congress which are already before it-
An around and around we go!

Surely. the successful use of humane slaughter-
ing “ml-hm by some packers for many years should
be pm“. enough that such legislation should be
M Without any drawn-out, expensive and wholly
WWW “studies."

The Senate should disregard this conscience'
“1V1“ substitute measure and pass the humane
slaughter bill without delay.

‘ We note that the “humane slau hter" bill is
‘Stennte Majority Leader Lyndon Johrfson’s "prioritiig‘lizxt‘:
gdijrzjfiagsts‘ton which he hopes to get Senate action before

We realize that any priority list that is iss
press must be limited. and we hope that Mr. Joliliisd: it:
not precludedsclieduling Senate action on this measure so
that there Will be an opportunity for the full Senate to
oyer-ride its Agricultural Committee and pass the improved
liill already approved by the House.

Failing that. however.
not go ahead with the enac
As'we have said
certainly be used

 

We hope that the Congress will
tment of a two-year studv bill.
. such a bill is not needed: and it would
. . as an excuse to forestall any i‘eallv effec-
tive action on humane slaughter for another two years

“113' not face the issue now? .

 

 




 

-'7-- Themews

A ocwsrnauwaao "VI
"Oiee Ml old the people will me last. a.- Iag.‘

' Mutt NW. luetlam lesser
J“ T. Okourh. a". ruuasnsr. sun a. me
‘0” W Dr. N.W. (Zone 5i “DIST-ml
rmw-as. corn-a. a: nos-.1335"; as. use... . ....‘

® .. . .
A Merciless Stall

be of the Senate Agriculture
IFCfirlinrfiffte: should look out his window
today and see a small boy tormenting a
cat we’ll bet he’d spring into action.

. oddl , the committee as a whole
«gill calmywhen it is calledto their
atinntion that grpwn-up boys kill steer:i
lambs and pigs_ in painful. bloody an
needless brutality.

h House passed a much-needed
hufnaene slaughter bill months ago.

Senate committee has now tried
to'lsllf the bill's throat—but substituting
one which calls for a pointless twp-yam
study of packing methods. Hasn t t is
condition been ‘ studied enough?

is roposal to “study" for two more
yefhrs ispa merciless stall. The brutality;
is proven. The economic practicality o
humane methods has been demonstrated
by such progressive packers as Cudahy.

  
 

Hormel and Oscar'hfa er .& Co.. all of
whom use efficient an painless slaugh-
tering techniques.

It serves not the American public—
which has supported the humane bill by
a cascade of letters—but the selfish in-
terests of the American Meat Institute
and the institute’s pale in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. the champions of
indifference and inertia.

It might be worth while for the com-
mittee members to take a tax-paid tour
of the worst slaughter houses and then
think the whole thing over, or. better
still, take a trip (i. e., Junkot). to the
many countries where the situation that
exists here has been outlawed for many
years.

The rest of the Senate. we trust. won't
need such a ~shot view to reject
this stall and to insist that the House
bill be brought up and passed.

TOLEDO BIZADE June 30,1953

Stall On Humone'Slaughter.

HI GINA?! Agriculture Committee has re-
ported out i am directing the lecretary
of Agriculture to study methods of slaughtering
meat animals and come up within a couple of
years with legislation that would set forth what
would constitute a humane system of slaughter
in American packing houses. The committee
contends that there isn’t enough information
available to legislate now on the subject.

We are not impressed with this action or the
reason for it. for years the humane slaughter
issue has been thoroughly debated anda wealth
of information is available. Unnecessarily brutal
and clumsy slaughter practices have been docu-
mented. do has the successful use by packers
abroad. and some in this country, of more ef-
fective. relatively painless modern killing meth-
ods. To say now that further study appears
necessary is simply a way of postponing action
on a reform that the humane societies have
demonstrated is needed and feasible and which.
we think. has the support of the public behind

The House of Representatives in February
passed a bill which would compel packers who
sell meat to the Federal Government to kill
animals by humane methods. This does not go
the full length that the humane societies would
like but they approve it as a long step in the

right direction. The donate would do well to
override Its Agriculture Committee and enact
the law as approved by the House.

THE BOSTON HERALD

swan/iv. JULY is, use

A PAGE EIGHT

No Time for Pain

.LVery day in which the Senate
dﬂlies with the Humane Slaugh-
teinlill is one mom day in which
edition die a‘uelly and in pain.
33?; ﬂier passing the House by
an. overwhelming margin in Feb-
ruary the bill has been side.
tacked. supposedly because the
Senate Agriculture Committee
needs time to study slaughter pro-
oadtires.

The Committee required time
in 1956, too. when the bill met
an identical end. A House Com-
mittee then toured slaughterhouses
observing the methods that pre-
vglgd. The tour was a horrify-
iru. l‘evclation of man's indiffer-
ence to‘the fate of other species.

.uThe House Committee spon-
smldJ bill requiring the employ-
mentof humane methods by pack-
ersswishlng to contract with the
government. It was passed by
vows vote.

. But in the Senate Agriculture
1 ttee. which did no slaugh-
tqtlouse inspection, the senators
even to see a sound film
graphically depicting routine pig
s hter as practiced on more
"* 80 million pigs a year.

Instead. by a vote of 10-5. they
passed a “study” bill.

This means that the senators.
who were too squeamish to watch
hogs being massacred on a screen.
could with serenity and good con.
science condemn millions of ani-
mals to a ghastly fate. But the
bill had this feature as amended:
the senators didn't have to see
the animals die.

Perhaps it is easier and more
pleasant not to have the hideous
facts of life paraded before one.
The senators do not have to see
the wildly rolling eyes of shackled
animals, the welter of bloody
trails, the stagger of half-stunned
cattle closing with the knife. Nor
do they have to listen to the
screams and bellows of animals
in agony. Life, in fact, can con-
tinue on its cheerful round.

The firm of Hormel & Com-
pany, which has adapted humane
butchering methods. reports that
swift and efficient techniques have
proved economical. No packer
will go bankrupt because humane
slaughtering methods prevail. But
at least 10 senators are convinced
that all‘s right with the world
and business is business.

NEW “roar
NASHVILLE. TENN. ﬁctalb &
C. D

TENNESSEAN
v. .ueZSs -S. 200 Sod

_.__.:!i’"._2.§_'i5';__
There Was Plenty
Of Data, Senator

EFFORTS to get humane slaughter
legislation enacted a an a
strange turn In a senate committee.

the measure, peaaed overwhelmingly
In the house last February, provides that
after Jan. I. mo, humane methods must
be used by packers who make contracts
with the federal government. Such meth-
ods would include instant stunning of ani-
male with a mechanical instrument or
Ineafhctiaation- with carbon dioxide.

Both methods have been used on mil-
lions of animals by packers who are vol-
untarily humane. but more millions are
either hammered into insensibili’y or
stuck with knives and let bleed.

A great deal has been written about
humane slaughter and there are a number
of examples of packers who use more hu-
mane methods successfully. House discus-
sion brought out much information about
humane methods.

So it is strange that the senate agri-
culture and forestry committee approved
an amended bill to require the secretary
of agriculture to draft legislation setting
forth what constitutes humane slaughter-
ing. Chairman Allen Ellende'. (D-La.)
aald there was insufficient information
available to write regulations.

That must have come as a surprise to
myriad humane societies, women's clubs.
church and farm groups which support
humane slaughter methods. All would
have been pleas'cd to make available to
Mr. Ellender reams and reams of informa-
tion, including the successful methods
need by voluntarily humane packers

It is hoped the committee will recon-
sider its action and vote out a bill similar
to that passed by the house.

CHARLO‘m, NC NEWS
' JUN 25 1958

As Subtle As A Blow

PUT lT bluntly. them M.

ier bill was bludgeoned in the Sen-
ate Agriculture Committee last week
with the kind of vehemence the meat
packers usually reserve for dumb ani-
mals.

Rather lhan approxe legislalion simi-
lar to the Poage Bill passed by the
House of Represenialises. committee
members voted for a iwo~year “study"
of painless slaughtering methods.

Both the American Meat institute and
the Department of Agriculture were lob-
bying vigorously for “study" legislation.
It is a familiar dodge. Similar delaying
tactics have sentenced great bundles of
worthy‘legislaiion to a lingering death in
the past.

The bill is expected to reach the Sen~
ale floor in July, it: amendment. to
return to it the effective language of
Rep. Posge‘s bill. would mark the begin-
ning of the cnd of slaughterhouse cruel-
ties to animals in the United Slates.

There is no need for any additional
"study" of humane slaughtering meth-
ods. They have already been studied in
enormous detail and perfected with great
care by U. S. universities. Painless kill-
ing methods are in use and. in fact. re-

FOLSDIZD A'Ill. l0. lld

”Spread ate Trust"—noasca census

datum

- I-r-a he. fie-h. I'll-ls. and. 0's— lad. fen-- Add; noon. 1-... r...- g... 5,_ ‘ Jr.

 

 

Wednesday. Jaly 9. I958

 

The Senate Must Save
Humane Slaughter

Animals can feel pain as keenly as
human beings and are equally prey
to fear and terror. But they can‘t
speak or vote. and therefore have no
inﬂuence in Congress. Which is about
the only available explanation why
the Humane Slaughter Bill. after
passing the Rouse, has been put on
ice by the Senate Agriculture Com-
mittee on the flimsy pretest that it
requires “further study" of slaughter-
ing procedures.

Further study; For thirty years. this
has been the excuse advanced for
delay by some of the big meat packers.
The House Agriculture Committee
made a personal tour of the slaughter-
houses and was immediately convinced
that changes were necessary. The
Senators. however. stayed in Wash-
ington. refusing even to see a film
depicting the slaughtering of hogs.

Just what do the' advocates of
humane slaughter want? All they
want is the introduction of methods
to render animals lnsenslble to pain
before they are butchered. either by
electric stunning or by carbon dioxide
gas. The oMection from packing
houses seems to be that these methods
would be too espenalve. But one firm
that has adopted them. Hormel & Co.
says that they are saving it money.
80 it would appear that humane
slaughtering is to the advantage of
the meat packer, quite apart from
considerations of common decency.

Fortunately. supporters of humane
slaughter are determined not to let
the issue die. They have worked hard
for their objective, especially in the
last two years. We earnestly hope that
the full Senate will do something to
save this bill as a working measure
before Congress adjourn.

On The Head

quined by law in civilised European
countries. A few U. S‘. packers find these
methods both economical and efficient.
It is plainly absurd to postpone action
in the United States merely to confirm
the proposition that cruelty is cruel.
All that proponents of humane slaugh-
ter legislation want is a system in which
the animal is rendered quietly“ uncon-
scious before it is killed. it is a reason-
able enough goal in a civilised society.

CHARLESTON. S. C.
NEWS & COURIER
Cure. 0. so m . s. 60.5))

JUN 28 1953
Painless Slaughter

.The humane slaughter bill was
given a mercy death In the Senate
Agriculture Committee last week.
The committee declined to approve
legislation designed to bring an end
to slaughterhouse cruelty to anie
msls. The members voted for a
two-year study of painless slaugh-
tering methods

Maybe the committee believes
that the people of this country
are the dumb animals. The subject
of. humane slaughtering laws has
been discussed "for years. Either
the United States does or doesn't
need such laws. A Congressional
study of this problem is a waste of
the taxpayers‘ money. One of the
most effective painless way of kill-
ing legislation in Congress is to stu-

dy it to death.

\_
YOUNGSTOWN. o
. DlCA’I‘OR mo
Cm: D. 98 352 - S. “0.293

JUN 24 1958

End Packing lfouse theliy .'

Because comparative] '
y few Americans it
about the inhumane methods used in slam

cruelty in the packing houses.
week two House measures we
feared in a Senate committee \vhicllie f:
51(3)::ng tah‘.‘stu:il',y” bill. instead. The legisla-
y a erenta of h -
terlng would have umane alsugh

only from ckln
methods. pa g plants using humane
The ”study" bill is obviousl
y a del

measure. asked by the American Meatyil'ng-
alitute and the Department of Agriculture. It
proposes that the Secretary of Agriculture
stud) slaughtering methods for two years.

The carbon dl.

b
com: leading packers during the last few

The humane organizations char
meat industry's efforts to kill a‘n. 3&3:
humane slaughter law are strikingly similar

the ustrys opposition to the lost In
spection Act early in the century.

here is no point in continuing slaughter-
house cruelty any longer. There n
economic reason for it. The "study" bill is

titration of the
Humane Slaughter Bill.
~ __ ..._

UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE
ADOPTS HUMANE RESOLUTION

At the International Plenipotentiary Conference on the
Law of the Sea in Geneva, Switzerland this spring, a
resolution was passed by unanimous vote condemning cruel
practices in the killing of whales, seals, fish, sea birds and
polar bears. The delegation from Nepal sponsored the
resolution, and Dr. Harry Lillie of Scotland, former sur-
geon to an Antarctic whaling expedition, acting as their
independent advisor, took part in conferences with 73
delegations. When information about the present methods
of whaling and seal killing had been disseminated, the ma-
jority of the delegates expressed enthusiasm for humane
legislation, and support for it came from every part of
the world.

The President of the Conference, Prince Wan of Thai-
land, lent his inﬂuence in initiating action, and Dr. Carlos
Sucre of Panama, Chairman of the Committee which
adepted the resolution, took a leading part in the effort.

When the resolution was proposed to the Assembly as
‘a whole, the Nepalese delegate said, "In the midst of our
securing our food and other products in the Territory of
the Sea, could we not come to giving some thought to
the suffering we inﬂict on these creatures whose lives we
take: the inhabitants of this territory that we exploit?”

India seconded the resolution, and Burma and Mexico
spoke in favor of it, and asked that Dr. Lillie be given
the ﬂoor to state the case for the animals. "In the capture
and killing of many of these creatures,” he said, “there is
suffering inﬂicted which in this age of advancement is
certainly not a credit to us. . . . That such industries can
be worked in a reasonable humane way is shown by the
careful control that is used in such as the North Paciﬁc
fur sealing and the scaling of South Georgia. Our re-
3ponsibili'ties in this are world wide.”

After a series of speeches in favor of the humane reso-
I’Utioﬂ, it was redrafted by a Committee of Nepal, Monaco

and Australia, and on April 26th it was passed as a Con-'
ference Resolution by the Plenary without dissent.

It states: "The United Nation: Conference on the Law
of t/ye Sea requests States to prescribe, by all means avail-
able to them, those methods for the capture and killing of
marine life, especially of whales and seals, which will spare
them suffering to the greatest extent possible.”

In England this resolution was the subject of speeches
in the House of Lords on June 26th. Lord Pethick-Law-
rcnce and the Lord Bishop of Portsmouth described the
cruelty involved in the use of the standard explosive har-
poon in the whaling industry. The Bishop spoke of the
"stewardship for which [man] bears responsibility to the
Creator.” He pointed out that frequently this principle 15
observed but that frequently, too, it is threatened or ﬂouted.
"The view that man is a sort of monster callously and
irresponsibly engaged, out of his lust for gain and power,
upon the rape of the sea and even of the air, regardless
of the waste of natural resources, regardless of the dis-
ﬁgurement of the earth’s natural beauty and regardless of
the suffering inﬂicted upon the animal kingdom—that View
is, of course, a distorted one; it does not represent the
whole picture. But there is enough truth in it to justify
our serious concern. It is the more urgent and essential
that we should be concerned at a time when through the
rapid development of science and technology man’s .ca-
pacity to master the whole world has been and is being
enormously extended and increased. Limitation of suffer-
ing so far as is practicable is one important factor in the
morally responsible exercise of man’s sovereignty over the
natural creation.” The Bishop gave two reasons for re-
ducing whaling suffering to the minimum, "First, out of
consideration to the creature which is placed under our
responsible domination, and secondly, out of consideration
for the men who do the job."

It is hoped that this ﬁrst United Nations resolution on
the subject of animal protection will lead many nations to
follow its suggestions. The United States is a leader in
humane sealing practices, but in our whaling great cruelty
continues.

 




(Continued from Page 1)

Lawyer for the defendant. May that go out?
Prosecutor. I think that is proper.
The Court. He can describe the condition.

Chief of Police. The dog was in very poor physical con-
dition. It was unable to stand. Another dog was attempting
to bite an incision that had been made on its side. I asked
Mr. Hawkins where that dog had come from and he said he
had picked it up at the Overholt Clinic. . . . I asked‘ Mr.
Hawkins in the presence of Dr. Hansen and Chief Dean
and Mr. Smith how often he fed these dogs. He stated that
he fed them every three or four days. I asked him if he
didn’t think that was inadequate. He stated that he fed them
large amounts. I asked him what he fed the dogs. Garbage,
he stated, that he picked up in town and also in Boston. I
asked him about the chicken that was in the pen and he
stated that when he found a dead hen in the coop he would
throw it into the pen.

We found a dead dog in the pen that was half devoured.
He stated that the dog had died in the pen and that the
other dogs had eaten it. . . . I questioned him as to the
condition of the black dog, and he stated it was in that con—
dition when he picked it up. . I then asked him about
a thin Boxer which we had pictures taken of, and he stated
that also was in that condition when he brought it from the
clinic.

* * *

Herman N. Dean (Chief Prosecuting Officer of the Massa-
chusetts SPCA). Inside of the shelters we found eleven live
dogs and the remains of a dead dog. Just outside the gate
that entered the shelter, there was a thin black mongrel lying
on its side. Part of its chest area had been clipped, and there

was an open running wound about midway of the clipped '

area. Even though other dogs ran over the dog he did not
attempt to get up. We also found a Boxer, extremely thin,
somewhat unsteady on its feet, a female hound dog that was
about to have pups, and eight other dogs of various breeds
and combinations of breeds. For the most part, these dogs
were thin, many of them were covered with skin trouble . . .
It was mange to my observation. With the Chief, we asked
Mr. Hawkins, the defendant, when he fed the dogs. He said
every three or four days. I asked‘ him what he fed the dogs,
He said he fed them garbage that he obtained from one or
two places in Franklin and sometimes some that he received
in Boston. The Chief asked about the dead hen and he stated
that when he found a dead hen in the hennery he threw
that in to the dogs. The Chief said “Feathers and all?” and
he said yes. He asked Mr. Hawkins where he got these dogs.
He said he received them from the Overholt Clinic in
Boston. . . .

* =14 *

James Hawkins was sentenced to six months in the
House of Correction and ﬁned $250. He is appealing his
case. Mr. Hawkins appeared in Court, but Dr. Panico re-
mained prudently at home. Instead, a colleague, Dr. Nep-
tune, also of the Overholt Clinic, appeared to answer ques-
tions for him. The testimony in this case is tiresome
reading because the defense attorney interrupted the pros-
ecutor and the judge constantly. The only time he allowed
his client to speak freely was when he was explaining how
the dogs were given the same ﬁne medical treatment as
human patients. However, the testimony of the police
officer, who ﬁrst questioned Dr. Panico, gives a general
picture of the situation:

it

. . . I told him we were there checking on who operated
on the dogs that were brought to the Hawkins farm in
Franklin. He stated that he was. I told him the conditions
that we found at the farm.

The Court. What did you say?

PoIice Officer. I told him the dogs were half starved,
that I didn’t see how doctors in his position could determine
if the operations on these animals were successful if they
subject them to the post-operative treatment that these dogs
were receiving at Hawkins’ farm. He said that he was deeply
shocked to hear of these conditions, that in his opinion Mr.
Hawkins was being paid sufficient money to take care of the
dogs properly, and I asked him if he had ever gone to the
farm and he stated that he had not, that he was busy on
his experiments and that unfortunately he didn’t have enough
time to go to the Hawkins farm. . . . I then asked him about
a black dog that had been operated on in the chest area . . .
and he said he remembered the dog. . . . I asked him what

condition the dog was in when he left the hospital, and he
said the dog was up and about. . . . I said to him, “Well,
the dog is now dying, laying on its side, and the incision
has festered and open, and that when I went to the kennels
one of the other dogs in the kennels was attempting to eat
or bite that open incision.” . . . He said that he had never
had trouble with Hawkins, that the dogs that had been
brought back from Hawkins previously had all been brought
back in pretty good shape, that in his opinion they were in
good condition when Hawkins brought them back after the
operations.

“Well,” I said’, “This one certainly isn’t in good shape and
the chances are he is dead already.” And he said he was
sorry to hear that.

Q. Now have you told the Court, to the best of your
recollection, everything that Dr. Panico stated at that con-
ference?

A. Well, no. He stated. a lot of things, like he gave state-
ments about these experiments being very beneﬁcial to man-
kind. He stated that he was very busy, that these operations
required a lot of pre-operation work, and that the reason for
all this explanation was for the reason or . . .

Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, Chief of Staff of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, reported that the black dog
died, despite all that could be done for it, of an over-
whelming infection. Her temperature was sub-normal when
she was taken from the Hawkins farm to the hospital and
on autopsy Dr. Schnelle stated, ”We took more than a
litre of pus from within the heart sac. . . . There were,
in addition to that, between 600 and 700 cubic centimetres
of pus free in. the chest cavity. There was also free pus
in the abdominal cavity. . . . It is my expert Opinion that
it (the infection) was present on the 30th. . .

. . . . Do you have an opinion as to whether or not
the infection was caused by the operation?

A. I think the infection was introduced at the time of
the operation, yes.

The testimony brought out the discrepancy between the
records presented by the Overholt Clinic on the dog's con
dition and the actual condition of the animal, and Dr.
Panico was ﬁned $50 for cruel transportation of the dog.
He too appealed.

It .is obvious that the black dog’s suffering and death
did nothing whatsoever to advance knowledge beneﬁcial
in the treatment of human ills. She was one of th0usands
of experimental dogs that each year die slowly and pain-
fully without making any contribution to scientiﬁc knowl-
edge. They die thus uselessly 'because scientists as a whole

have so far been unwilling to face their responsibilities to

experimental animals. They have given widely publicized
lip-service to the care given these animals.

"EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS RECEIVE TREAT-
MENT COMPARABLE TO THAT GIVEN HUMANS.”

”EVERY CONSIDERATION IS GIVEN TO THEIR
BODILY COMFORT.”

Everyone who has lived in a State where an animal
seizure bill campaign has been waged has had these
phrases drummed in‘ his ears repeatedly. But quite apart
from the individual case of the black female mongrel lying
in the mud with her festering wound, and the dog that
had already died and been partly eaten by the other starv-
ing dogs, representatives of the Animal Welfare Institute
have visited laboratories where these same words ”Every
consideration is given to their bodily comfort” were ac-
tually posted on the wall, while caged dogs, too ill to stand
on their feet, were soaked with hoses, or where they lay
in ﬁlthy wet enclosures dying without medical aid of

any kind, even though they were in the very center of
a hospital.

It is doubtful whether "every consideration” will ever
be given to the comfort of experimental animals, but it is
time that 507m.) consideration be given to all of them.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Dr. Lee R. Dice

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Peter Okkelberg Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS

Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer

David Ricardo

Christine Stevens,

Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.
President

Vice-President Mary M“ R‘Ch‘rd”

Assistant Treasurer

Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary

 




 

I

M”

a

p».
s A,
if.- f 7
A‘ f‘t ‘—
it. e 1' '
i ‘5 v
3,5 “out.”
' 5" ski-WP; “
. 'Aria .' x“?!
i‘ .,.-....,«.. ‘
.. s,
,, ,n
a"

A

:4

3”}

ANIMAL WALTAAT AASTITTTT

 

March-April. I960

PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETY ANNOUNCES
IT WILL NOT PUBLISH PAPERS
INVOLVING IMPROPER USE OF

EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS

The following announcement was made on page two of
The American journal of Physiology, Vol. 198, No. 1,
January, 1960: ”Papers submitted to the American law-
nal of Physiology or the journal of Applied Physiology,
about which question is raised as to the proper use or care
of the experimental animals, will be referred to the Com-
mittee of the Society on Use and Care of Animals. In
cases where there is evidence of improper use, the papers
will not be considered further for publication.”

This announcement follows the Guiding Principles on
the Care and Use of Animals, Approved by the Council
of the American Physiological Society. Readers of the
Animal Welfare Institute Information Report may recall
that these were printed in the January-February 1954 issue
shortly after they were drawn up by the Physiological So-
ciety. The then President-elect of the Society, Dr. Hiram
Essex, said of them, "We conceived of their purpose be-
. ﬂing like the United States Constitution, broad, with details
being supplied by some other means.” U V

The American Physiological Society is to be congratu-
lated upon the new editorial policy for its two major pub-
lications. If it is strictly observed, it will be an excellent
incentive for the humane planning of experiments.

NEWl TEACHING AID PROVIDED
FREE TO TEACHERS
A new manual, Humane Biology Projects, may now be
ordered by high school biology teachers who are invited
to write for their free copy to the office of the Animal
Welfare Institute. The 48-page, illustrated manual was
designed to help teachers to give sound scientiﬁc training
and develop close observation and original thinking in
their students; it has sections on Animal Behavior, Bacteri-
ology, Botany, Genetics, Physiology, and Ecology and Con-
servation. The avoidance of any cruel experiments on
animals is stressed in the manual’s brief introduction. The
educational aims which brought about preparation of this
collection of experiments, demonstrations and projects for
Science Fairs is so well expressed in the preface contrib-
uted by Rachel Carson, the distinguished author of "The
Sea Around Us”, that it is reprinted below so that all who
receive the Information Report may read it.

Preface to "Humane Biology Projects”

"1 like to deﬁne biology as the history of the earth
and all its life—past, present, and future. To understand
biology is to understand that all life is linked to the earth
from which it came; it is to understand the stream of life,
flowing out of the dim past into the uncertain future, is
in reality a uniﬁed force, though composed of an infinite
number and variety of separate lives. The essence of life
is lived in freedom. Any concept of biology is not only
sterile and profitless, it is distorted and untrue if it puts
its primary focus on unnatural conditions rather than on
those vast forces not of man’s making, that shape and
channel the nature and direction of life.

(Continued on Page 4)

22 EAST l7’rh STREET. NEW YORK 3. N. Y.

Vol. 9 No. 2

SENATOR COOPER INTRODUCES
LABORATORY ANIMALS BILL

The Hon. John Sherman Cooper (IL, Ky.) introduced
on May 18th a bill which deserves the support of scientists
and humanitarians alike. In introducing the bill, Senator
Cooper said, "Mr. President, on behalf of myself and
Senators Mansfield, Bartlett, Byrd of West Virginia, Kc-
fauver, Morse, Proxmire, Randolph, Gruening, McNamara,

. and Clark, I introduce for appropriate reference, a bill
Awhich would provide for humane treatment of animals
used in experiments by recipients of grants from the

.United States, and by departments and agencies of the

‘ Government.

"1 am aware that there are those who have raised obs
jection to this proposal. Yet it seems to me that the Ob-
jectives of the bill are such that they are entitled to be
considered by the appropriate committees of the Congress.
I do not say that the language is perfect or that every
approach is necessarily the proper one. Certainly, the ob«
jectives of the bill are worthwhile, and it merits earnest
attention.

"I am informed that, this bill would not inhibit 9‘ P‘e'.

vent experimental research. Nor is it my intention or
that of the co-sponsors of this bill to do so. Its basic goal
is to insure that in experiments requiring the use of ani
mals, precautions will be taken and every eﬁort will be
made to conduct such experiments in a manner that is as
humane as possible. .

“I ask unanimous consent that the bill lie on the table
for 5 days so that other Senators who wish to join in
sponsoring the bill may have the opportunity to do so.”

When Senator Cooper stated that there are those who
have raised objection to this proposal, it should be noted
that quite a number of objections have come from people
who have never seen a copy of the bill but who have
been told that it is bad and should be opposed. The Ani-
mal Welfare Institute relies on the fair-mindedness and
humaneness of the generality of experimental biologists.
We are reprinting in this Information Report the full text
of 8.3570, so that judgment may be made at ﬁrst hand.
The comments, criticisms and questions of all will be
welcomed.

Legislation requiring decent care and housing for ani-
mals and humane design of experiments will help men of
good will in every part of a scientiﬁc institution to obtain
the best results under the best conditions.

It is regrettable that this bill should have inspired vio-
lent opposition from both the National Anti-Vivisection
Society and the National Society for Medical Research
whose mutual enmity does not prevent them from joining
in efforts to kill the bill.

The bill would not hamper research; on the contrary,
it would encourage scientific work of the highest quality
and, by establishing humane standards having the force of
law, would protect scientists from unwarranted attacks at
the same time as it protects animals from unnecessary

suffering.
The only questions which have been raised by humane

research workers consulted by the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute are: Will this mean much paper work? Will it take

 




 

a great deal of time? The answer to these questions is 720.
The purpose of the records called for in the bill is to
enable it to be administered 1) without confusion and
with the least consumption of time, and 2) with certainty
that persons who are not following the humane principles
established are easily identiﬁed. The written records are
designed to avoid the necessity for prolonged questioning
by personnel of the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare in order to ascertain what the animals are being
usedfor and which animals are which.

Most of the record-keeping required under the bill is
aiready carried out by responsible investigators. The cer-
tiﬁcate of compliance and the annual report with reprints
of published work attached are the only added require-
ments. In Britain, where a somewhat stricter and more
detailed law on this same subject has been in force since
.1876 with no adverse effect on the quality of biological
research in that country, the annual report is no more than
a single page requiring answers of a dozen or so lines,
listing the projects carried out, with whom the work was
done, how many animals were used and for what purposes.
The certiﬁcate of compliance would be no more compli-
cated than any other professional licensing.

For some reason, the idea. that a separate report on
every animal would have to be made has gained credence.
But this is not so. The project-plans submitted would be
no more extensive than those voluntarily submitted at the
present. time by federal grantees to the Bio-Sciences Infor-
mation Exchange of the Smithsonian Institution. (See The
A.I.B.S. Bulletin, Vol. IV, No. 5, October, 1954. "The
Bio-Sciences Information Exchange of the Smithsonian In-
stitution,” by Stella Leche Deignan, Director.)

Surely, it is well worth this very minor effort to ensure
high humane standards for American research. Those who
pay the taxes from which ever growing research funds
are obtained (a 6595 increase in government funds for
medical research was requested by research ieaders on May
19) have a right to effective guarantees that animals are
never used unnecessarily or subjected to needless suffering.

AN ACT

To provide for the humane treatment of animals
used in experiment and tests by recipients of
grants from the United States and by agencies
and instrumentalities of the United States Gov-
ernment, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That it is declared to be the policy of the United States
that living vertebrate animals used for scientiﬁc experiments
and tests shall be spared unnecessary pain and fear; that
they shall be used only when no other feasible and satisfac-
tory methods can be used to ascertain biological and scientiﬁc
information for the cure of disease, alleviation of suffering,
prolongation of life, or for military requirements; and that
all such animals shall be comfortably housed, well fed and
humanely handled.

SEC. 2. From and after January 1, 1962, no grant for
scientiﬁc research, experimentation, testing or training, and
no advance or payment under any such grant, shall be made
by or through any agency or instrumentality of the United
States Government, or by or through any person or agency
pursuant to contract or authorization of the United States
Government, to any person who uses live animals in research,
experiments, tests or training unless the person applying for
or receiving the grant has a Certiﬁcate of Compliance with
this Act, issued by the Secretary of Health, Education and
Welfare.

SEC. 3. The Secretary shall, pursuant to such rules and
regulations as he may prescribe, issue Certiﬁcates of Com-
pliance to persons applying therefor upon proof satisfactory
to him:

(a) That the Applicant’s projects involving the use of
live animals are in accordance with the requirements of this
Act and the policy of the Congress;

(b) That the Applicant’s personnel and facilities are ade-
quate and appropriate to enable it to comply with the re-
quirements of this Act and the policy of the Congress stated
herein; and

(c) That the Applicant has complied with the require-
ments of Section 4 of this Act.

SEC. 4. Each person to whom a Certiﬁcate of Compliance
has been issued, and each agency or instrumentality of the
United States which uses live animals for research, experi—
ments, tests or training shall comply with the folloWing re-
quirements:

(a) All premises where animals are kept shall provide a
comfortable resting place, adequate space and facilities for
normal exercise, and adequate sanitation, lighting, tempera-

ture control and ventilation;

(b) Animals shall receive adequate food and water a (1
shall not be caused to suffer unnecessary or avoidable I}
through neglect or mishandling; pain

(c) Animals used in any experiment which would result
in pain shall be anesthetized so as to prevent the animals
feeling the pain during and after the experiment except to
the extent that the use of anesthetics would frustrate the
object of the experiment, and in any event, animals Which
are seriously injured as a result of the experiment or Which
are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painless]
killed: y

Provided, that, unless the project-plan on ﬁle with the
Secretary speciﬁes a longer period during which animals
must be kept alive for essential purposes of the experiment
or test, consistent with this Act and the rules and regula-
tions hereunder, such animals shall be painlessly killed im—
mediately upon the conclusion of the operation inﬂicting the
injury or causing such pain.

(d) An accurate record shall be maintained of all experi-
ments and tests performed. Procedures shall be employed
to make possible the identiﬁcation of animals subjected to
speciﬁed experiments and tests, and a record shall be kept
of the disposition of such animals;

(e) All cages or enclosures containing animals shall be
identiﬁed by cards stating the nature of the experiment or
test, or numbers which correspond to such description in a
record book;

(f) Painful experiments or tests on living animals shall
be conducted only by persons licensed under Section 5 of
this Act or by students in an established training institution

. . '“wlio‘are‘ under the direct supervision of a licensee and all

animals used by students in practice surgery or other painful
procedures shall be under complete anesthesia and shall be
killed without being allowed to recover consciousness;

(g) No experiment or test on living animals shall be un-
dertaken or performed unless a project-plan is on ﬁle in such
form as the Secretary may prescribe, describing the nature
and purposes of the project and the procedures to be em-
ployed with respect to living animals;

(h) An annual report and such additional reports or in-
formation as the Secretary may require by regulation or
individual request shall be submitted to the Secretary. The
annual report shall specify the number of animals used, the
procedures employed, and such other matters as the Secretary
may prescribe, and shall include a copy of any published
work prepared or sponsored by the reporting person or agency,
involving the use of live animals; and

(i) Authorized representatives of the Secretary shall be
given access to the animals and to the premises and books
and records of the agency or person for the purpose of ob-
taining information relating to the administration of this
Act, and such representatives shall be authorized to destroy
or require the destruction of animals in accordance with rules,
regulations or instructions issued by the Secretary, in con-
ference with this Act. .

SEC. 5. For purposes of this Act the Secretary shall li-
cense individuals to engage in experiments or tests upon their
submitting an application in such form as the Secretary shall
prescribe, if the Secretary is satisﬁed that such individuals
are qualiﬁed for such purposes.

SEC. 6. If the Secretary shall at any time determine that
any agency or instrumentality of the United States has not
complied with the requirements of this Act, he shall forth-
with notify the head of said agency or instrumentality, and
if such non-compliance is not corrected to his satisfaction
within thirty days after notice is served, he shall give publlC
notice of such non-compliance.

SEC. 7. The Secretary is authorized and directed to adopt
and issue rules, regulations, procedures and orders to carry
out the provisions and purposes of this Act.

SEC. 8. The Secretary may, subject to such terms and
conditions as he may specify, suspend or revoke any Certiﬁ-
cate of Compliance issued pursuant to Section 3 of this .Act,
or any license issued pursuant to Section 5 hereof, for failure
to comply with any provision of this Act or the policy (ff
the Congress stated herein, upon notice by registered 311551
to the holder thereof. Such notice shall set a time limit within
which the holder may apply for reinstatement pursuant to
such procedures as the Secretary may prescribe. A COPY 0
any notice of suspension or revocation of Certiﬁcate. of .Com-
pliance shall be sent to all agencies which are conmdermg 0"
have made a grant to the holder of the Certiﬁcate, and no
grant or payment under a grant shall be made‘to any person
whose Certiﬁcate is suspended or revoked to the extent that
the Secretary’s order shall provide for the purpose 0f 0b-
taining compliance with this Act. .

SEC. 9. The Secretary may refuse to accept any PTO-led;
plan for ﬁling under the provisions of subsection (g) 0
Section 4 of this Act, or may strike any pl‘OJ'eCt'Pla.n from
ﬁling if he determines that it does not conform With any
provision of this Act or of the rules, regulations, procedures
and orders issued pursuant to this Act, or any of the purposes
stated herein. The Secretary shall notify the person ﬁling
the project-plan of his refusal to accept it for ﬁling 0" 0f 1:8
action in striking the plan from ﬁling, and his action shall 1:
effective upon notiﬁcation: Provided, that the Secretfﬂ'y sha
provide a reasonable opportunity for the person ﬁling S“:
Project—plan to submit its justiﬁcation thereof pursuant 0
such procedures as the Secretary may prescribe.

SEC. 10. The term “person” as used in thts
individuals, institutions, organizations, corporations an
nerships. ’

Act includes
d part-




ANIMAL CARE PANEL REPORTS
ON DOG CARE

Two outstandingly well prepared and humane articles
on the care and housing of experimental dogs have re-
cently appeared in the Proceedings of - the Animal Care
Panel. In the March, 1960 issue, Preoperative .md P0“-
operative Care of the Laboratory Dog by N. Bleicher gives
a detailed description of good care for dogs used in ex-
erimental surgery which might well be used as a model
for all institutions. Not only does Dr. Bleicher give sound
advice on disease prevention, but he recognizes and seeks
to deal with the mental suffering of dogs which has too
often been ignored in the past.

For example, under the heading ”Adaptation to En-
vironment”, Dr. Bleicher writes, "The effects of sudden
changes in the environment have long been observed. by

et Owners and animal trainers. Oddly enough, laboratory

workers often fail to observe this in the care of experi-
mental animals. In the dog the importance of environ-
mental stresses is becoming better known. (DuBois, 1955;
Smythe, 1959), and the idea that the dog should be al-
lowed to adapt to its environment before being subjected
to the stress of surgery should be given consideration. En-
vironmental stress in the dog may be evidenced by vomit-
ing, diarrhea or constipation, neurodermatitis, loss of ap-
petite, nervousness, fear, and excitability. In addition, it
is suggested that animals so stressed are less resistant to
disease and surgical trauma.

”These stresses include the changes in quarters, per-
sonnel, food, and climate. Adaptation to each is possible
with time and individual care.

”Quarters. The new dog must become accustomed to
conﬁnement to the limited space of a cage that allows
little exercise.* It has been our experience that some of
the larger breeds, especially collies, have difficulty in ad-
justing to this conﬁnement. Daily exercise periods, either
in runs or a small exercise area, are helpful. The dog
may have been accustomed to certain sleeping conditions
of which it is now deprived. Some dogs experience diffi-
culty in becoming accustomed to urinating and defecating
in the cage. Some dogs become intimidated or excited by
the proximity and barking of other dogs. Tranquilizers
are at times helpful to such dogs.

”Personnel. In the laboratory kennel the new dog must
become accustomed to handling by new people. Most
dogs seem quite affectionate from the start. Others are
frightened and therefore difficult to handle. Each attempt
to handle the animal only serves to increase its fright and
belligerence. These animals need patience, time and gentle
treatment to win their confidence. Frequent hand feeding
of dog biscuits and meat tidbits is an excellent way to
befriend a dog.”

Quite a number of the problems so explicitly described
above could be eliminated by the provision of humanely
designed animal quarters, but it is clear that Dr. Bleicher
is doing the best he can with the facilities provided, and
the individual care he suggests is a most vital requisite
regardless of the type of housing provided.

It is certain that if Dr. Bleicher’s suggestions were fol-
lowed in all experimental canine surgery, the mortality of
laboratory dogs would be greatly reduced. For example,
he states, ”It should be standard practice to keep the
animal in the laboratory until recovery is well advanced
unless an adequate recovery area is available.” Regrettably,
thls is far from being common practice.

Further, under the heading ”Observation”, he states:
”Dogs should be observed frequently during the imme-
diate postoperative days. Particular attention should be
given to the animal’s feeding behavior and to the detection
0f systemic infection. Rectal temperatures taken daily for

*Nme The Animal Welfare Institute strongly objects .to the
w‘despread use of cages for housing of dogs and urges instead
the use of roomy inside enclosures connecting whenever possr—
ble With outside runways.

:‘eet'ufift 3f to 5 days may aid in early detection of disease.

b . 0 normal renal function may be determined by
0 servmg the dog 5 urinary output. A few moments spent
quietly observing the animal’s behavior in the cage can
be flu“? helpful. If possible, the investigator should not
be. noticed by the dog, or no overt attention should be
paid to the dog, so that its behavior will be as nearly
normal as possrble. Often a dog will appear normal and
active when the investigator comes to the cage and handles
the animal although it otherwise shows evidence of dis-
comfort or other adverse behavior. At this time one might
notice evrdence of pain, and can observe respiratory move
ments and general behavior. This presupposes, of course,
that the observer is familiar with the normal preoperative
characteristics of the animal. Abnormalities observed can
be evaluated in relation to the nature of the experiment
and appropriate corrective measures can be taken.

”During the later postoperative period each dog should
be seen daily for general appraisal of its condition. At
least once a week extra attention should be given to the
wound area, presence of parasites, weight, and a discussion
with the animal caretaker of the animal’s feeding, elim-
ination and behavior.

”Only in this way can the individual dog be maintained
in optimum health, and disease detected and treated
promptly.

"Relief of Pain

”The detection of pain in the dog is often quite difﬁ-
cult. This, unfortuately, has led many people to assume
that pain is not present postoperatively. There may be
some truth to the impression that the dog possesses a
higher pain threshold or can endure more pain before
showing evidence of discomfort. This should not, how-
ever, excuse us from the responsibility of examining each
animal for evidence of pain and treating for it.

”Signs of pain in the dog are: a) Withdrawal or yelp-
ing on touch to a painful area... b)Licking or biting at an
area. c) Avoiding use of the afﬂicted part. d) Refusing
food. e) Vomiting, especially in esophageal and abdom-
inal cases. f) Withdrawal behavior, pacing, belligerence.
g) Excessive barking or howling. h) Ulcerated and de-
nuded areas are generally painful. i) Headache is general-
ly characterized by squinting, withdrawal, ﬂinching on
noise, back arched and head withdrawn, and photophobia.

”We must constantly be aware of the responsibility to
detect pain when present and to administer suitable anal-
gesics, local or systematic."

The article concludes: ”Dogs housed in cages or on a
hard surface for a long time may develop callouses on
their paws that become sore and are painful (Moss, 1959).
Cage padding, resting areas and exercise periods may help
in prevention and treatment. Callouses should be pro-
tected with soft padding and treated to prevent infection
and promote healing.”

The problems associated with the caging of dogs have
been wholly eliminated by Drs. A. C. Anderson and
H. R. Baker, whose paper, The Produrion and Use of
Beagles for Radiobiologz'cal Rerearc/a appeared in the
June, 1959, Proceedings of the Animal Care Panel. They
write: "Two important factors contributing to the general
health of the dog are: allowing at least 10 sq. ft. of pen
area per inch of body height for each dog, and proper
nutrition. Although several rations and dietary regimes
have been tried, we have found that meat is highly de-
sirable in the ration.” They further state: "The optimum
number of dogs for each pen is two, Which permits. com-
panionship and minimizes undesirable traits such as jump-
ing, pacing, and digging.”

Since all of their dogs are bred for the purpose, the
trauma Dr. Bleicher describes in some dogs suddenly
forced into laboratory conditions never comes about with
these beagles. .

The conclusion states: ”We feel that the four main
factors contributing to a successful kennel are: .1. Ade-
quate space for voluntary exercrse. 2. Maintaining dogs

 




 

 

in pairs for companionship. 3. Proper nutrition. 4. Ra-
tional use of therapeutic measures.’

In these two articles, the needs of experimental dogs
are recognized as they should be in all institutions doing
work with dogs. These needs, in summary, are for friend-
ly treatment, companionship of another dog whenever
possible, thorough and capable veterinary supervision dur-
ing sickness and convalescence, space for exercise, a com-
fortable resting place, good food and fresh water.

LEGISLATION PROPOSED
ON MASS APPLICATION OF
AGRICULTURAL POISONS

A chemical pesticides coordination act was proposed
by U .8. Representative Leonard G. Wolf, March 31, 1960,
and a companion. bill introduced in the Senate by Senator
Warren G. Magnuson, May 3. Their purpose is stated as
follows: "to provide for advance consultation with the
Fish and Wildlife Service and with State wildlife agencies
before the beginning of any Federal program invplving
the use of pesticides or other chemicals designed for‘ mass
biological controls."

In introducing H.R. 11502, Representative Wolf said,
"I have today introduced a bill to avert the serious and
unnecessary losses of fish and wildlife that have occurred
in many areas as a result of the careless or uninformed use
of chemical pesricides." He further stated, “The need for
coordination in the use of pesticides has been amply demon.
strated, Mr. Speaker. This is but another example of the
problems we encounter in this age of technology when
man's invention of new tools frequently outruns his wisdom
in using them.” He quoted a statement of the Southeastern
Association of Fish and Game Commissioners, February
25, 1960, as follows: “In an east Texas area bird life dec
creased 92 to 97 percent in 2 weeks along ranch roads
in treated areas. In acre plots studied, bird pepulatioos
were reduced 85 percent and nesting success 89 percent.
An Alabama 9,900-acre area experienced an 88 percent
decrease in its quail population following treatment and
a Georgia area, even after two breeding seasons following
poisoning, showed considerably less than half the normal
number of quail found on adjacent and comparable un-
treated land.”

Representative‘yllolf further Stated, ”My bill would assure
that in any program proposing to drench the land with
powerfully toxic chemicals, we know what we are doing
before we expose wildlife, domestic animals—and man
himself -—- to unknown hazards."

Hearings on HR. 11502 were held May 3, 1960 before
the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation
headed by Representative Frank P. Boykin of the House
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries. The Ani-
mal Welfare Institute submitted testimony urging enact-
ment of HR. 11502.

(IOMFORTABLE PIOUSING
FOR F.D.A. BEAGLES
URGED AT HEARING
At the hearings held May S, 1960 before the Saute
Appropriations Subcommittee headed by the Hon. Lister
Hill (D. Ala), animal protective organizations including
the Animal Welfare Institute requested favorable action
on the request by the Food and Drug Administration for
a laboratory-kennel building to be located in a non-urban
area. The kennels would provide outside runways connect.
ing with individual inside enclosures for the hundreds of
test dogs now shut in small mesh-bottom cages in the sub-
basement of the South Agriculture Building, deprived for
years of normal exercise and daylight. It is hoped that the
building will be constructed in the near future. The case
is urgent.

SENATOR NEUBERGER

Senator Neuberger was a. public servant such as our
country needs, courageous, humane and with a sense of

justice. He was most widely known as a conservationist,
but all who worked to obtain enactment of the Federal
Humane Slaughter Act know that his unﬂinching deter-
mination to see animals decently protected was of incal-
culable importance in bringing about passage of" the law
in 1958. He had a true sympathy for animals and was,
in the experience of the officers of the Animal Welfare
Institute, completely fearless.

To the very end Senator Neuberger was doing his best
to stop cruelty. He had sent a trusted representative to
inspect the test beagles perpetually caged in the sub-base-
ment of the South Agriculture Building, and was effective-
ly supporting action to release the dogs from this cruel
and useless imprisonment. He expressed the desire to co-
sponsor the laboratory animals bill. He was the chief
sponsor of the humane trapping bill.

The Wilderness Bill, still pending before the Senate
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, lost a most
ardent and able supporter when Senator Neuberger died.
This bill would preserve in perpetuity a tiny part of the
magniﬁcent wild mountains, forests, rivers, lakes and sea-
shore of our country. It will be' a great tribute to the
memory of the Senator if the bill is passed. For our
country, it will be a triumph of wisdom and restraint that
will be admired for centuries. It will stand as a memorial
to a truly great man.

NEW TEACHING AID
(Continued from Page 1)

"To the extent that it is ever necessary to put certain
questions to nature by placing unnatural restraints upon
living creatures or by subjecting them to unnatural con-
ditions or to changes in their bodily structure, this is a
task for the mature scientist. It is essential that the begin-
ning student should first become acquainted with the true
meaning of his subject through observing the lives of
creatures in their true relaiton to each other and to their
environment. To begin by asking him to observe artiﬁcial
conditions is. to create in his mind distorted conceptions
and to thwart the development of his natural emotional
response to the mysteries of the life stream of which he
is a part. Only as a child’s awareness and reverence for
the wholeness of life are developed can his humanity to
his own kind reach its full development.

RACHEL CARSON”

Publication of the manual was made possible by the ﬁne
generosity of the Ingram Merrill Foundation which do-
nated the cost of the printing. The entire contents of the
manual was contributed, and the Animal Welfare Institute
is very grateful to the scientists and educators who so
generously cooperated in its preparation. Special mention
should be made of Dr. Charles G. Wilber, Chief, Com-
parative Physiology Branch, Directorate of Medical Re-
search, U.S. Army Chemical Warfare Laboratories Army
Chemical Center; Dr. Dorothy D. Hammond, Assistant
Professor of Biology, Hunter College; Dr. Lee R. Dice,
former Director, Institute of Human Biology, University
of Michigan; Dr. H. W. Youngken, Jr., Dean of the
College of Pharmacy of the University of Rhode Island;
Dr. Ernest P. Walker, former Assistant Director, National
Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution; Dr. L. S. Mc-
Clung, Chairman of the Committee on Education of the
Society of American Bacteriologists; Dr. R. Dean Schick,
Professor of Science at the New York State University of
Education, and to the following members of the staff of
the New York Botanical Garden: Dr. Marjorie Anchel,
Dr. Alma Barksdale, Mr. Charles C. Clare, Jr., Dr. Richard
Klein and Dr. David J. Rogers.

Persons who would like to obtain a copy of the manual,
though they do not qualify for a free copy, may purchase
it at cost price, 25¢. (High school teachers, principals,
superintendents, librarians, students and teachers at teach-
ers' colleges may all obtain a free copy on request.)

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkolborg Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS

Roger L. Stevens,
Transmi-

David Ricardo

Christine Stevens, Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.

Estella Draper,
President Vice-

. Mary M. Richards,
Executm Secretary

Assistant Treasurer

 

 




-- ‘3 ' -.-" Li» ' . . If: v“ ' ' ' -

~ . St ;. h, .;.-.; . ;.:.,

:. -" "‘é *5 v:- - t»: 2;: ; 41’:

-' ‘. : \ ‘-:‘ i:-;- - :~;- ».’-:- -:~;- ";:

x ‘7 . " ;.;._ ‘?:-':‘ 2'3: '41::-
- ' t1. - '11:: '5?" . :r.

x ' . t-'- " :i: .i:» - ~ 3'1

5: ’:' : -' :- .~ '5232- 1:1:3: 15:7 1 :-~ -

W E L M “E ”1T".

 

May-June, I960

COMPANION BILLS TO PROTECT
LABORATORY ANIMALS
INTRODUCED IN HOUSE

The Hon. Martha Grifﬁths (Mich.) introduced in the
United States House of Representatives on June 9, 1960 a
companion bill to Senator John Sherman Cooper’s S. 3570
for the humane treatment of laboratory animals; and on
June 14th, the Hon. Cleveland M. Bailey (West Virginia)
also introduced an identical bill. Representative Griﬁths’
record as a humane legislator is a highly successful one.
She introduced the ﬁrst humane slaughter bill in the House
in 1956, and the Federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed
in 1958. Representative Bailey is a distinguished senior
member of the House Committee on Education and Labor.*

Auguring well for prompt passage of the laboratory
animals bill is the ﬁne support given by such newspapers
as the Louisville Courier-journal, the lVas/oington Post,
the Washington Star, the Cincinnati Enquirer, the Troy
(N .Y.) Times-Record, the Progress-Index (Petersburg,
Va.), the Columbian (Vancouver, Wash.) , the IVaco (Tex)
News-Tribune, the Asbury Park (N..]) Evening Press, the
Tacoma (Wash) Daily News Tribune, the Hartford
(Conn) Courant, the Dayton (Ohio) Daily News, the
Meriden (Conn) Record-journal and the Springﬁeld
(Mass) Daily News, Waterbury (Conn) American, Ber-
<gen (New Jersey) Evening Record, Peru (Indiana) Re-
publican, As/oville (North Carolina) (Citizen, Review Press
and Reporter (Bronxville, N.Y.), Louisville (Kentucky)
Times, Christian Science Monitor, [efferson (Ohio) Ga-
zette, Town Crier, lVestport (Conn), Sacramento (Calif.)
Bee, Modesto (Calif.) Bee, Fresno (Calif.) Bee, Fort
W'ayne (Indiana) News Sentinel.

At both extremes, however, the battle against the bill
is raging with so little regard for truth that it is necessary
to correct in the following pages at least some of the
fantastic allegations which have been made. They range
from the accusation of the National Society for Medical
Research that the bill is based on a) Nazi statute which
caused people to be substituted for animals in experiments,
to the charge by the National Anti-vivisection Society that
”the bill would cover only about 1% of the vivisection
perpetrated in this country, and that adversely.” Accord-
ing to the NAVS, "if this bill becomes law, animals Wthh
should be, and perhaps have been, household pets, will
suffer more Hell than they have ever undergone before.”

It is to be hoped that decent and intelligent scientists
and animal protective workers will not be misled by the
false statements directed at them by the NSMR and the
NAVS and their allies. (The Humane Society of the
United States has provided active assistance to the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society which duplicated and dis-
tributed nationally, by permission, the HSUS statement in
opposition to the Cooper bill even before HSUS members
had an opportunity to read it in their own bulletin.)

Following is some editorial comment on the bill, and
beginning on page 2, columns are devoted to the correc-
tion of NAVS and NSMR assertions.

The Courier-Journal, Louisville, Kentucky, May 25, 1960
MEN OWE JUSTICE TO THE ANIMALS
WHO SAVE LIVES

Millions of animals are used every year for scientiﬁc ex-
periments in the laboratories of. America. Countless human
lives have been saved by the knowledge gleaned from these
adventures. Every person who has sat in a sick. room and
watched a patient win the battle against death Wlth the aid
of new drugs and new methods of treatment should offer up
a prayer of thanks for the laboratory work that has brought
such succor to suffering mankind.

Those who rejoice in the miracle of modern science could
do so with a truly full heart if they could be assured that
the animals used for experimentation have not suffered un-
needed pain in the process. No such assurance has been pos-
sible up to the present. Now it is offered, in large degree, if
Congress can be persuaded to pass a blll introduced by John
Sherman Cooper of Kentucky and 11 other Senators. It IS
ofﬁcially known as S. 3570.

Its Authority Limited .
The Cooper Bill’s purpose is “to provrde for humane treat-

* ort oes to press, news has arrived of the introduction by the tion.
jzngeolzisgr ongaine, of a third indentical bill In the House of Representatives.

 

22 EAST |7+h STREET. NEW YORK 3, N. Y.

Vol. 9 No. 3

ment of animals used for research.” Its authority extends
only to animals used by recipients of grants from the United
States Government or one of its agencies or instrumentalities.
This will in feet cover a large majority of the laboratory
animals, however. Also, the bill will place the Federal Gov-
ernment _ in the position of offering standards of decent prac-
tice for all other agencies using animals for experimentation.

The bill sets up a system of licensing for all such work
conducted or ﬁnanced by the government. Licenses would be
issued by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
whose oﬁice would also keep full records of all experiments
conducted under the bill’s terms. ' '

The legislation establishes rules which every licensee must
follow, or suffer the loss of his license. These include for
every laboratory animal “a comfortable resting place, ade—
quate space and facilities for normal exercise and adequate
sanitation, lighting, temperature control and ventilation.”
There must also be “adequate food and water,” and a ban
against “unnecessary or unavoidable pain through neglect or
mishandling.”

In the operating process, the bill requires the use of anes-
thesia to prevent pain “during and after the experiment,
except to the extent that the use of anesthetics would frus-
trate the object of the experiment.” This section is typical of
the practical and moderate tone of the bill.

A Sensible Balance

The whole measure strikes a sensible balance between the
needs of medical research and the demands of humane treat-
ment for animals. Because of its very moderation, it will
displease extremists on both sides. Those who oppose vivi—
section for even the best purposes will condemn it. Those, on
the other hand, who regard the welfare of animals as being
of no consequence whatever in experiments for the beneﬁt of

. the human race will be impatient of the bother caused by the

bill’s licensing requirements. -

Surely there are many millions of Americans, however, who
want scientiﬁc experiments to continue, but who also want to
feel that human beings are not beneﬁting by the unnecessary
agony to dumb animals. Their voices should be raised in
behalf of the Cooper Bill. They will need to speak loudly
and publicly, however, if they hope to overcome the outcries
of small but highly vocal minority groups who are bound to
oppose the measure.

The Washington Post, June 6, 1960
ANIMALS AND RESEARCH

Nearly a century ago, in response to a petition to the gov-
ernment signed by Charles Darwin, Thomas Huxley, Edward
Jenner and some other distinguished scientists, Great Britain
adopted legislation designed to prevent the inﬂiction of need-
less suﬂering upon animals used in laboratories for research
purposes. The United States has no comparable national
legislation. A bill is now to be submitted to Congress, how-
ever, to provide for the humane treatment of animals used
in experiments and tests by recipients of grants from the
United States and by governmental agencies. Carefully drafted
so that it will in no way inhibit or impede genuine research,
such legislation deserves support. '

Two postulates should be recognized. One is that experi-
ments involving pain and death for animals have enlarged
man’s knowledge and brought great gifts to humanity; such
experiments are, therefore, entirely justiﬁed. The other postu-
late is that needless pain is often inﬂicted on living creatures
through carelessness, callousness, ignorance and wanton neg-
lect in handling animals; the inﬂiction of such suffering is
unjustiﬁable cruelty demeaning to human beings. The aim
of any legislation in this area must be to promote the one
and prevent the other.

Real research will not be restricted by a law requiring
decent care, feeding and housing of animals awaiting experi-
mentation. In many experiments, it will not be inhibited by
a little extra effort expended to anesthetize animals or to put
them out of their misery when the experiment has been com-
pleted. The standards ought to be ﬁxed by scientists them-
selves .and they ought to make ample allowance even for re-
mote possibilities of advancing human knowledge. But some
setting and enforcement of standards are necessary to keep
sadism from being confused with science.

[-Inadvertently Edward instead of William Jenner
appeared in the above]

The Troy (N.Y.) Times-Record, June 6, 1960
PAY A DEBT WITH KINDNESS

Research laboratories of America use many animals for
experiments which have saved countless lives in the past and
will save many in the years ahead. These animals are sacri-
ﬁced to test drugs and new medical treatment methods so
that humanity may have a longer and better life.

Because of the boon these animals make possible for man-
kind the least that can be done is to make certain they do
not suffer needless pain. This is the goal of the Cooper bill
now before Congress.

The bill requires that laboratories keep a record of each
experiment and provide proper treatment of animals, includ-
ing a comfortable resting place, adequate space for exercise,
proper sanitation and ventilation, and sufficient food and
water.

These are minor considerations in return for what these
experiments mean to humanity. The bill makes no attempt
to curtail either scope or number of experiments which are
so productive of blessings to mankind. This is an eﬂ'ort to
strike a balance between the needs of science and the demands
of humane treatment. The Cooper bill should be passed.

, (Continued on Page 4)

 

 




 

OPPOSITION TO THE COOPER BILL

The National Society for Medical Research

The National Society for Medical Research has issued
a news release in which very serious allegations having no
foundation in fact are made about the Cooper bill for the
humane treatment of laboratory animals.

According to the NSMR, “The Cooper bill is identical
in its major provisions to the German law adopted when
the Nazis ﬁrst came into power in 1933. The Nazi law
was sponsored by Hermann Goering, who was then Hon-
orary President of the German National Antivivisection
Society. The Goering law did not prohibit animal experi-
ments but so encumbered animal experimentation that it
was cited at the Nuremberg trials as one reason why some
Nazi experimenters turned to the use of prisoners in con-
centration camps.”

It is interesting to review the history of the NSMR’s
exploitation for propaganda purposes of the fact that a
rather weak and ineffective law relating to animal experi-
mentation was passed under the Nazi regime in Germany.
In the beginning, the NSMR referred to it regularly as an
"anti-vivisection law” which required people to be sub-
stituted for animals in experiments. For example, in its
pamphlet “38 Common Questions, Authoritative Answers”,
published by the NSMR "in the interest of public en-
lightenment”, the following appears: "Ir Animal Ex-
perimentation Outlawed by any Country? No. The only
country that ever tried an anti-vivisection law was Germany
under Hitler. Buchenwald, Dachau and Auswitz, where po-
litical prisoners were arbitrarily used for animal experimen-
tation, are monuments to the Hitler anti-vivisection ideal.”

As recently as May 30, 1960, this same story was being
given out to the Tampa (Florida) Tribune which printed
the following: "Nazis Used People. Dr. David Baumann,
director of post-graduate training at Tampa General Hos-
pital, pointed out that Germany under the Nazi rule banned
experiments on animals and used humans instead.” Ap-
parently Dr. Baumann doesn’t know that the NSMR has
backed away from this version of the story.

On April 29, 1957, Edward M. Johnson, Assistant Ex-
ecutive Secretary of the NSMR, had a letter published in
the Akron (Ohio) Beacon fournal which concluded with
the following sentence: "The only national anti-vivisection
law ever passed anywhere in the world was signed in Nazi
Germany, 1933, by Adolf Hitler.” In response to a re-
quest from the Animal Welfare Institute for a copy of
this law, Mr. Johnson replied, "We have looked up the
German law, have found that it is still in effect and have
found that it does not prohibit or even seriously encumber
animal experimentation.”

Thus it may be seen that the NSMR offers three differ-
ent choices of interpretation of the German law: it abol-
ished animal experiments —- it doesn’t abolish or even
seriously encumber animal experimentation —— it so en-
oumbers animal experimentation that scientists have to use
humans instead. Obviously, the law on animal experiments
had nothing to do with human experimentation in Ger-
many. The correspondence cited in “Doctors of Infamy”
shows that the ﬁrst doctor to obtain permission to use
. humans pleaded that he had done tests with large animals
and now needed to try them on people.

The NSMR statement that the major provisions of the
German law are identical with those of the Cooper bill is
untrue. The German law is not an effective or well-drafted
piece of legislation. It does not give adequate protection
to laboratory animals, and no sincere humanitarian would
want to see it enacted in this country.

Actually, the German law is much more like the NSMR’s
own regulations accompanying the procurement bills such
as the Hatch-Metcalf Act in New York. The Cooper bill
is not a criminal statute, but the German law and the
NSMR-sponsored laws are. Also, both the NSMR and
German laws vest authority in the director of the labora-
tory and do not license or require reports from individual
scientists as the Cooper bill does. The most important
distinction of all is the fact that neither the NSMR-spon-
sored laws nor the German law have resulted in humane
treatment of laboratory animals, whereas the Cooper bill
and the British Act on whose main principles it is based
are sound and effective humane measures.

The NSMR dismisses the British Act in one sentence:
“The Cooper bill is also similar to the British law of
1876, except that unlike the British law, it does not re-

(Continued on Page 3, Column 1)

The National Anti-Vivisection Society
Clarence Richard of the National Anti-Viviseétion So-
ciety has seen ﬁt to publish a parody of the Cooper bill,
which he describes as "An Act, To license the inhumane
treatment of animals.” His hostility seems to be equally
divided between science and the government, as he begins:
”Be it enacted by the proper parties, in formal meeting
assembled,

”That it is declared to be the policy of the authorities
that animals used for scientiﬁc experiments and tests
shall be required to suffer the most excruciating pain and
the most devastating fright when the vivisector deems
this desirable in the fulﬁllment of his experiment; that
they shall be used in preference to other methods of
experiment because they are readily available, inexpen-
sive, compliant, and only animals anyway. .

This contempt for the "authorities" and the "\fivisectors”
also extends to the provisions of the bill. He seems to
ﬁnd it absurd and reprehensible that the bill should require
that experimental animals be given adequate food and
water. He is amused that the bill requires adequate sani~
tation, temperature control and ventilation in animal quar~
ters. As he puts it: "Animals must not be permitted to
die by freezing, over-heating or suffocating, until they are
actually in the experimental laboratory.” Mr. Richard
omits any reference to the section which requires the use
of anesthesia; this is surprising, as in previous publica-
tions he has stated: "Of all the factors contributing to
the continuation of suffering in laboratories, anesthetics is
the most far reaching and important . . . the public is
anesthetized, not the animals.”

The National Anti-Vivisection Society opposes any im-
provement in the care and housing of laboratory animals
with the same enthusiasm. that it expends in condemning
anesthetics. Clearly if there were no more abuses of la-
boratory animals, the “vital need” which the Society con-
ceives of itself as ﬁlling would dwindle.

Mr. Richard concludes his parody:

"Sec. 9. The term ‘person’ as used in this Act includes
institutions, organizations, corporations, and partnerships.
To sum up: vivisectors, personal and corporated.”

He goes on to say: "This bill is a snare, a delusion and
a fraud.” He explains that only one per cent of vivisec-
tors, personal and corporated, would be affected by the
bill. He states that the bill provides no penalties. He
states that the bill puts "regulation in the hands of the
vivisectors.” Differing in this from Dr. Dragstedt, he
states that "the proponents of this bill are well intentioned
people. However, the road to Hell is paved with good
intentions.” He states that the bill is "monstrous” and
that it will cause experimental animals to ”suffer more
Hell than they have ever undergone before.”

These extracts from the voluminous literature which the
anti-vivisection societies have been circulating against the
Cooper bill should be sufficient to illustrate their position
on it. They combine untrue statements about the scope
and application of the bill with the most impassioned re-
jection of its every principle. They consider its proponents
to be on the road to Hell. They believe it will lead to ”the
most shocking cruelty of the 20th century.”

In short, it is not their bill.

For the record, it is necessary to refute the false state-
ments about the Cooper bill which the National Anti-
Vivisection Society has been circulating:

1. Tbat tbe bill would protect only about one per-cent
of experimental animals. The Cooper bill would protect
all animals used in all research institutions which receive
Federal money for research. This includes every medical
school in the country. It includes virtually every university
in the country. It includes all agencies of the US. Govern-
ment which use animals for research. It includes hospitals,
institutes and other laboratories, the major non-proﬁt re-
search institutions. It is fantastic to assert that these in-
stitutions use only one per cent of experimental animals.
They use the vast majority of experimental animals.

2. Tbat tbere are no eﬁ‘ectz’oe penalties in tbe bill. The
penalty in the bill is the suspension or revocation of license
to experiment on animals. The bill requires that no scien-

(‘Continued on Page 3, Column 2)




The National Society for Medical Research
require surgeons to make their ﬁrst operations on human
patients.” Of course, the British law has no such require-
ment. It does have a prohibition against using live animals
for the sole purpose of attaining manual skill; however,
properly conducted experimental operations on living ani-
mals are completely in consonance with the Act, and any
necessary student work may be done on decerebrate ani-
mals which are not considered to be alive within the mean-
ing of the Act. (In the Cooper bill there is no reference
to manual skill, and students may use living animals if
they are fully anesthetized and not allowed to recover
consciousness. )

Dr. Lester R. Dragstedt, President of the NSMR, is
quoted as saying, ”It does not seem logical to suppose
that the bill represents a sincere effort to improve the care
of laboratory animals.” Every one of the fourteen legis-
lators sponsoring this bill is unquestionably sincere in
seeking a legal guarantee not only for improved care but
for overall humane treatment of laboratory animals. Impu-
tation of improper motives on the part of the very dis-
tinguished members of the United States Senate and House
of Representatives sponsoring the measure is of a piece
with the further statement that “the Cooper bill only pro-
poses to create a cops-and-robbers game to drain away the
time and resources of scientists who are trying to ﬁnd
better ways to save lives and alleviate suffering.” It may
be that Dr. Dragstedt’s conception of the Cooper bill as
a ”cops-and-robbers game” explains his seeming inability
to grasp its purpose and procedures. We had thought that
it was only 'the most extreme anti-vivisectionists who be-
lieve that scientists feel the urgent necessity of hiding
their activities. In Britain, all the inspectors have medical
qualiﬁcations. Their presence in laboratories should not
rouse feelings akin to those of an escaping criminal in
biologists whose consciences are clear. Certainly, it has
not done so in England. '

Disrespect for the intelligence of ordinary animal own-
ers is painfully evident in the NSMR President’s assertion
that ”No pet owner spends as much for special diets,
medicines, equipment and professional care as is spent on
test animals. This is because a stray germ or an unantici-
pated physical condition in a test animal can waste all of
the work put into a piece of research.” Why, then, have
representatives of the AWI visiting laboratories seen dogs
too sick to stand up, soaked with hoses and left drenched;
other groups of dogs covered with mange or suffering
from distemper; colonies of coughing rats, of mice scratch-
ing themselves uninterruptedly; of chickens in cages so
low they could not raise their heads; of rabbits compelled
to crouch in one position because of cages too small to
stretch out or turn around in? Why are the simplest rules
of hygiene ﬂouted in animal rooms so overcrowded that
the probability of epizootics is very high even if the utmost
precautions were taken?

It may be that Dr. Dragstedt’s boast about the huge
amount of money spent on "special diets, medicines, equip-
ment and professional care” for test animals is true. These
expenditures could certainly be reduced and the taxpayers’
money saved if the simple, basic needs of animals for a
comfortable resting place, room for normal exercise, fresh
water and adequate food, air and light were not so often
denied them.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society

tist without a license to eXperiment on animals shall be
paid Federal money under a research grant for experiments
in which animals are used, nor shall he experiment on ani-
mals in an institution receiving government funds for re-
search. Thus, the loss of license to experiment would
mean the loss of all Federal funds for research granted to
the scientist, and of the right to experiment on animals
in a government supported laboratory.

3. That the bill would not be enforced. The NAVS
offers four different and conﬂicting proofs that the bill
would not be enforced.

1. That it is similar to the British Act, which does
not protect laboratory animals, and

2. That it is similar to the California statute, which
does not protect animals, and

3. That inspectors would not know what was being
done in laboratories because they would not have "com-
petence to evaluate the work done in vivisectional la-
boratories” and so would be unable to enforce the Act,

4. That the inspectors would know all too well what
was being done in ”vivisectional laboratories” but would
refuse to report abuses because they would be ofﬁcials
of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare,
which is "notoriously sympathetic to the views of the
medical research group.”

We submit that:

1. The Cooper bill is similar to the British Act; and
the British Act is the most practical and effective legisla-
tion in this ﬁeld which has ever been enacted. It protects
animals and does not hinder responsible research.

2. The Cooper bill is not similar to the California
statute, which is not effective for the protection of labora-
tory animals because it does not make the individual scien-
tist responsible for his animals. The California law licenses
laboratories, but not individual scientists. Without the
individual responsibility of each scientist for his animals
on which the British Act and the Cooper bill are based,
enforcement of humane standards is impossible. It is not
feasible to penalize an entire institution for the offenses
of a few individuals working there, and the practical
result of such legislation is that abuses are not corrected,
because the legal workings of the bill are not practicable
for enforcement.

3. There is no foundation for a suggestion that the
inspectors would not be competent men with medical
training which would enable them to give an accurate
evaluation of the procedures being used in experiments
on animals. In England, the inspectorate is composed of
men with medical training, though not of men active in
the ﬁeld of research.

4. It is neither necessary nor desirable that the inspec-
torate should hate medical men. Rather, the inspectorate
should consist of responsible government ofﬁcials who are
concerned with enforcing the law of the land and have
sufficient technical knowledge to do so. The Department
of Health, Education and Welfare is ideally competent to
enforce the Act because it contains a balance of scientists
who can advise on technical matters and of administrative
ofﬁcials who are able to contribute the judgment of the lay-
man to the opinions of the scientists in reaching decisions.

 

SENATOR HUMPHREY PRESERVES
THREATENED INTEGRITY OF
HUMANE SLAUGHTER ACT

”The National Provisioner” in its June 11, 1960 issue
announced: "The biggest buyer of meat for the US. Gov-
ernment made a cavity, if not a hole, in the teeth of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act as another State law with
criminal penalties went on the books in Massachusetts and
action on an even more stringent measure was postponed
until fall by the New Jersey Legislature. In announcing its
procedure for implementing the Federal law Wthh be-

comes effective July 1, the Military Subsistence Supply '

Agency, purchaser of all meat for the Armed Forces, said
it will require certiﬁcation of compliance wrth the humane
slaughter regulations only in contracts exceeding $2,500.
The Agency, through its Chicago headquarters and 10 re-
gional buying oﬂices, purchases about 500 million pounds
of meat and meat products a year. Although the. ﬁgures
are not broken down by size of contract, a consrderable

portion of that volume is understood to be acquired in lots
of $2,500 or less.”

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey and Representative W. R.
Poage, chief sponsors of the legislation in the Senate and
House, and Representative Martha Griffiths immediately
pointed out that such an attempted exemption was illegal.
Senator Humphrey said on the Senate floor:

“. . . there is a law which even the US. Army does not

have authority or power to abrogate. That law was passed
by the Senate, by the House of Representatives, and signed
by the President. I am the author of the Humane Slaughter
Act, and I intend to see that the act is fulﬁlled.

“The Act will go into effect July 1. We allowed 2 years’
time for the slaughterhouses to get themselves into conform-
ity and compliance with the Act. The act providesz” [here
Senator Humphrey quoted relevant sections of the law]. He
then continued: “The law is clear. The only possibility of
exemption is by the President of the United States or by the
Congress to meet the requirements of procurement in a na-
tional emergency. The law speciﬁcally states that no agency
or instrumentality of the Federal Government shall make
any purchase -— and I underscore the word ‘any’ — of any
meat product from any slaughterer who has afﬁliates that in

(Continued on Page 4)

 




SENATOR HUMPHREY PRESERVES

(Continued from Page 3)
any way do not subscribe to and fulﬁll the requirements of
the Humane Slaughter Act.

“The US. Army had better get in line. I do not care who
the lawyer is who wrote the exemption for the Secretary of
the Army. There are no exemptions in this law. The law
is speciﬁc.

“The packers have had from a year and a half to 2 years
to bring themselves into compliance. A vast amount of pur-
chases of meat products for the Army fall into the classiﬁ-
cation of $2,500 a year or less. The Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Logistics, Courtney Johnson, is supposed to be,
according to my information, the ofﬁcial who authorized this
exemption. He, of course, is responsible for the administra-
tive application of the Humane Slaughter Act insofar as
purchases of meat products for the Army are concerned.

“I respectfully suggest to Mr. Courtney Johnson, who is a
competent and able man, that he look at the law again, and
that he call in his legal advisers and get in step with the
law. There are no exemptions, and I do not intend to see
the law emasculated by the Department of the Army. I was
afraid of this when we passed the act. That is why the law
was written as expressly and explicitly as it was. If we go
back to the hearings we ﬁnd that the feeling of suspicion I
.had at that time is well documented. I felt .that if we per-
mitted any exemptions other than for national emergencies,
we would ﬁnd some agency, such as the Defense Department,
which can always claim that an exemption is for the security
of the country, offering such exemption to ease the impact
of the law or to accommodate its own bookkeeping.

“It requires no more bookkeeping or intelligence in the
procurement section of the Army to procure meat products
according to law than it does to avoid the law. It required a
good deal more time to ﬁgure out how to evade the law and
avoid its impact. I suggest that the Department of the Army
get in step at once. It is out of step. I propose that those
in charge of this activity read the act and comply with its
provisions.

“With respect to the processors and those who are making
these meat products available to the Army, I suggest that,
despite the exemption which is granted them by the Army,
they are in violation of the law, and I would suggest that
they reexamine their contracts with the Army, because the

law is that eligibility must be certiﬁed. Eligibility means cer-
tiﬁcation of full compliance with the standards of the Humane
Slaughter Act. The one in violation is subject to criminal
penalties. I do not wish to see any of the packinghouses
brought into court through another department of the Govern-
ment and charged with criminal violation or the violation of
a law which invokes criminal penalties. So for the beneﬁt
of those processors who are apparently taking at face value
the exemption of the Army, an exemption which is null and
void, which is meaningless, which is ineffective and without
sanction, I suggest that the processors call the Army at once
and say that they do not want to involve themselves in this
kind of activity. This is a case of an instrumentality of the
Federal Government leading private industry into a violation
of the law; and the Army of the United States does not have
that much authority.

“The processors can be taken to cOurt — and they most
likely will be —- by one of the associations or one or more
competitors which are interested in the enforcement of the
Humane Slaughter Act. I hope that no such action will take
place because I do not wish to do any disservice to the pro-
cessors. So I suggest to the Army that it get busy in a hurry
and revise its order.

“I invite the attention of Senators to the National Pro-
visioner, the magazine from which I read, which is published
in Chicago, Ill. It serves the meat manufacturing industries.
It is a private publication. In the item of which I spoke,
there. is a subheadline ‘Army Snipes Humane Law.’

“The National Provision-er points out that the Army is
undermining the very act that Congress passed.

“I trust these remarks will ﬁnd their way into the hands
of the Secretary of the Army, which will save my writing a
letter to him. I trust that Mr. Courtney Johnson, the Assistant
Secretary in Charge of Logistics, will read what I have said
carefully, and if he does not, I intend to call upon the De-
partment gof Justice to enforce the law. The law is there,
and it needs enforcement. We have plenty of attorneys who
can do so. There is an ofﬁce of the US. Attorney in Chicago
that can take care of the matter promptly. The law will be
enforced.”

On June 14th, Senator Humphrey received a statement
from the Army that it will comply in full with the pro-
visions of the Humane Slaughter Law.

 

COMPANION BILLS

(Continued from Page 1)

The Evening Star, Washington, D.C., June 8, 1960
HUMANE EXPERIMENTS

Nearly all the dramatic breakthroughs in surgery and
chemotherapy which have extended man’s life span in recent
years have relied in some measure on animal experimenta—
tion. Although thousands of laboratory animals have been
sacriﬁced in the course of this research, no one can seriously
contest its value and desirability. The least man can do in
return, however, is to set standards which insure that none of
these dumb animals suffer needlessly, and that they receive
humane care amid decent surroundings.

These are the purposes of a bill introduced by Senator
Cooper of Kentucky and 12 other members of the Senate,
and we would like to add our voice to the support it has
received from numerous national organizations. Basically, the
bill would direct the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare to set up a licensing system for any animal experi-
mentation employed by the recipients of Federal grants. In
order to be so licensed, researchers would be required to com-
ply with speciﬁc conditions, primarily concerning the care and
comfort of the animals. For the most part, the larger research
institutions already take adequate precautions, but the limited
instances of appalling cruelty which have been disclosed jus—
tify governmental action.

As to detailed provisions of the bill, Secretary Flemming is
in the best position to comment, and his advice should be
considered carefully. In general, however, the spirit of the
Cooper bill steers a sensible middle course between the ex-
tremes of those who would avoid any scrutiny of their ex-—
perimentation and those who would abolish entirely the use
of animals in laboratories to save human lives.

Asbury Park (N.].) Evening Press, June 14, 1960
ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION

A bill is pending in the House of Representatives, HR
12587, and another in the United States Senate, S. 3750,
which would assure humane treatment to laboratory animals.
These are animals used for experimental purposes in science’s
effort to ﬁnd cures for human disease.

These bills do not ban the use of animal experimentation.
They merely seek to make it humane as, we assume, every
decent person would like to see it. It must be recognized that
through animal experimentation stupendous discoveries have
been‘ made which have greatly improved man’s health and
extended his longevity. It would be difﬁcult to rationalize
the abolition of such experimentation. It is equally difficult
to rationalize the continuation of such experimentation with-
out adequate assurance that cruelty will be outlawed.

The development of sound, healthy bodies and the conquest
of disease are goals worth striving for. The physical growth
of mankind is of compelling importance, but it is no more
important than his mental and moral development. Physical
hulks, with no sense of right or wrong, or with no thought

for anything but their own well-being would make a cruel
shambles of the world in a short time. It is only as man
develops a sense of compassion for other living things that
he may be said to have emerged from the brute stage. Kind-
ness to other living things is a mark of civilization.

Thus, the conclusion is obvious. If man can further his
battle for survival through animal experimentation he can
scarcely be condemned for employing it. But if he does not
surround that experimentation with every safeguard against
needless suffering he has fallen far short of the destiny he
has so conﬁdently assigned himself.

The Hartford (Conn) Courant, June 15, 1960
HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Bills have been introduced in both houses of Congress to
set standards for the treatment of animals in laboratories.
Man has beneﬁted greatly from medical research in which
animals were used in testing new drugs and techniques. Those
who oppose the sacriﬁce of animals in such experiments ap-
pear to think more of them than of people. Their feelings
for their pets have carried them beyond common sense. The
protection of animals will not be advanced by sentimentality.
But it will be furthered by such measures as those now in
Congress. They are based on experience and contain safe-
guards for both animals and scientists.

The reason for the proposed federal law is that animals
are sometimes mistreated through carelessness or ignorance.
Unnecessary cruelty has no connection with legitimate med-
ical research. Some animals must suffer in order to save
human beings, but the work should be limited by the demands
of useful experiments. Needless pain should not be inﬂicted
when there is no possibility of increasing medical knowledge.
This can be done by setting standards for laboratory care.
Recipients of grants from government agencies would be re-
quired under the proposed law to meet conditions set up by
the Federal Government.

Experience in Great Britain shows that animal experiments
can be regulated by scientists. Avoidable pain is not inﬂicted
in the laboratory. Experiments involving suffering are not
used for teaching purposes. Painful experiments are not re-
peated, once the results have been validated. And animal
experiments are only carried out in properly equipped labora-
tories. These principles have been so well enforced that since
the British legislation was passed in 1876 there has never
been a prosecution under the law. '

The bill introduced by Senator Cooper in the Senate would
direct the Department of Health, Education and Welfare to
set up a licensing system. Researchers working with federal
grants would have to comply with regulations for the care
and comfort of the animals. Adequate food and water, sani-
tation and ventilation would be required. The bill also calls
for the use of anesthesia to prevent pain where possible. Large
institutions already follow this policy as a matter of course
but a few smaller laboratories have been negligent. Unneces-
sary suffering in unimportant medical research would be pre-
vented by the adoption of a federal law.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg

Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo

OFFICERS

Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.
Vice-President

Christine Stevens,
President

Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer

Estella Draper,

Mary M. Richards,
Executive Secretary

Assistant Treasurer

 




the
ease
for

humane

VIVISECTION

by Paul W. Kearney

FEW SUBJECTS generate more heat
and less light than “vivisection,” or
animal experimentation. Because the
sad fact is that the advocates of un-
restricted scientiﬁc research can
grow as hysterical as the most ardent
anti-vivisectionists.

This is deplorable to a neutral ob-
server who can calmly consider: 1)
The great beneﬁts derived from in-
telligent animal experimentation.
2) The distressing abuses committed
in the name of scientiﬁc research.

Unfortunately, it is too easy for
those who applaud the ﬁrst to dis-
miss, as crackpots, those who abhor
the second.

It is undeniable that if “the price

Reprinted from November 1957 issue of CORONET

of the iron lung was 24 cats, or the
cost of Insulin was 33 dogs,” we got
a rare bargain. On the other hand,
one is entitled to question the neces-
sity for a Boston laboratory, while
studying the causes of human deaths
by ﬁre—to burn live pigs to death in
gasoline flames. And to wonder if
the researchers would have learned
any less if the animals had been an-
esthetized. It was in criticism of four
other equally inexplicable examples
of cruel animal research that the
late Professor Robert Gesell, chair-
man of the Department of Physi-
ology at the University of Michigan,
who had performed animal experi-
ments and taught the techniques for

Copyright 1957 by ESQUIRE, Inc.

 




 

years, said: “These ominous experi-
ments make us search our souls and
wonder what the future has in store
for us.”

One is entitled to question, too,
the needless suffering caused living
creatures in haphazard and unéuper-
vised experiments by students in
high and even grade schools, espe-
cially when those experiments prove
nothing which has not already been
proved.

The British medical journal, the
Lancet, takes a dim View of such un-
inhibited experimentation, stating
that in Great Britain laboratory ex-
periments on animals are regarded
as an unpleasant necessity. The prac-
tice is accepted because so much
good has come of it; but for a cen-
tury legislation has insured that it
be used as sparingly as possible, kept
in the hands of those believed to be
humane and reponsible, and safe-
guarded by legal restrictions from
abuse.

FROM THE HUMANE standpoint
alone, you realize the enormity of
this problem when you consider the
huge volume of experimental ani-
mals now in use. There is no na-
tional census available, but a typical
large research laboratory will use
annually around 80,000 chickens,
1,000 dogs, 1,000 rabbits, 500 cats,
40,000 rats, 500 pigs, 5,000 guinea
pigs, 280,000 mice.

I have personally visited quite a
few such laboratories in various
parts of the country. And in many of
them conditions were abominable,
as these notes made on the spot will
testify: -

At a Boston hospital: stench over-

powering; sick and. well dogs
crowded together; mange and dis-
temper evident; dogs too sick to

move lying on wet concrete ﬂoors.

At a New England medical
school: no exercise, although out-
door runways are available. Dis-
temper a serious problem. Bad odor;
quarters not good. As many as nine
experimental operations performed
per dog.

At a New York medical school:
dead dogs left lying in cages where
they died; live dogs in cages soaking
wet from ﬂoor cleaned with hose;
metal mesh ﬂoors in cages with no
reSting boards; small animals in
cramped quarters with barely
enough room to turn around.

In another hospital, where an ef-
fort is being made to rectify matters,
degs recently subjected to drastic
surgical experiments, and too sick
to stand up, sprawled on wet cement
ﬂoors which were encrusted with ex-
crement and dirt. On the door was
tacked a copy of the American Meda
ical Association’s Code governing
the handling of animals in labora-
tories.

I can give a dozen more ex-
amples, but these cases should be
sufﬁcient to raise two rather perti-
nent questions:

1. Can scientists who tolerate
such shameful conditions in their
laboratory-animals’ quarters be
truly called humane?

2. If they are unaware of such
conditions, are they really ﬁt for re-
search work?

' Dr. Gesell put it this way in a
heated exchange with the National
Society for Medical Research, the
public relations arm of the AMA

charged with combatting anti-vivi-
sectionists :

“The National Society for Med-
ical Research would have us believe
that there is an important issue in
vivisection versus anti-vivisection.
To a physiologist there can be no is-
sue on vivisection per se. The real
and urgent issue is Humanity versus
Inhumanity in the use of experi-
mental animals. . . .”

This might be put down as the
personal bias.of one man were it not
for the fact that I have had a dozen
reputable physicians conﬁrm it pri-
vately. And among them there is a
very lively conviction that far too
many animal experiments are con-
ducted for the "prestige of the re-
searcher rather than the beneﬁts
to society.

Unquestionably, too, some are un-
dertaken for baser motives. A classic
example was the notorious series of
experiments carried on for six years
by research institutions to prove——
and disprove—the theory that to-
bacco containing glycol caused less
damage to tissue than that contain-
ing glycerin. Scores of‘ technicians
under the direction of 12 eminent
Doctors of Medicine were involved
in the experiment.

One of the many tests employed
was to blow continuous streams of
tobacco smoke against rabbits’ eye-
balls to ascertain how much, or how
little, damage results. In another
experiment, smoke was pumped
through the nostrils of dogs until a
more diligent researcher came up
with the idea of cutting incisions in
rabbits’ tracheas so that smoke
could be pumped directly into the
lungs. Yet only one physician admits

to having anesthetized the animals
he used. (All of this came out during
exhaustive hearings held in Wash-
ington by the Federal Trade Com-
mission.)

Such questionable behavior for
purely commercial purposes is dis-
turbing enough. But now we are
faced with the rapid spread of an-
other distressing development: the
encouragement of unrestrained ani-
mal experimentation by high school
students; and the ofﬁcial (both med-
ical and pedagogical) approval of
fatal feeding tests on living animals
for the ediﬁcation of children in
primary grades.

Today, from coast to coast, class-
rooms from the third grade up are
displaying cages of white rats, ham-
sters or guinea pigs—which are be-
ing slowly starved to death on a
vitamin-deﬁcient diet while control
subjects are fed a balanced ration to
dramatize the distinction.

The National Cancer Institute
provides detailed instructions for a
variety of demonstration-experi-
ments for school use in which can-
cers are implanted in healthy mice
so the children can watch them die
over a period of three weeks. One of
the experiments involved skin graft-
ing—by amateurs! At Port Washing-
ton, New York, high school students
are performing these cancer trans-
plants on living animals.

This wholesale employment of
animals for classroom work is a gross
violation of the accepted principle
that a minimum number of animals
(in painful experiments) be used to
accomplish the purpose.

As a result of all this we now see,
with increasing regularity, such




newspaper headings as this from the
New York World-Telegram 69° Sun
of February 1, 1956:

GIRL CUTS ANIMALS

INTO TALENT MELON

Beneath is the story of a 15-year-
old girl who won an award for scien-
tiﬁc talent. The true scientiﬁc sig-
niﬁcance of her efforts is summed up
in the sentence: “She found the
study ‘very interesting,’ but said she
did not care to delve further into it.
She wants to study engineering
physics. . . .”

In Atlanta, Georgia, a 17-year-
old student won an entry to the Na-
tional Science Fair by putting black
widow spiders in the deep-freezer,
then injecting the venom from the
spiders’ fangs into mice. “I watched
the mice closely,” the Atlanta jour-
nal and Constitution of June 24,
1956, quotes him, “and I observed
all the symptoms of black widow poi-
soning as ,the mice died.”

In Utica, New York, a 19-year-
old student won a science prize for
radiation experiments on nearly 300
animals in his cellar laboratory “at-
tracting many neighborhood chil-
dren who came to watch.” With
tons of literature on the subject in
the Atomic Energy Commission ﬁles,
it seems inane to have a boy stum-
bling over the same ground when
the needless suffering of living crea-
tures is at stake.

The basic point is that none of
these amateur experiments has the
least scientiﬁc value beyond the sat-
isfaction of a morbid curiosity. Fur-
thermore, competent psychologists
might be able to tell us quite a bit
about the effect of this incipient
sadism on the minds of juveniles.

There is no valid scientiﬁc justi-
ﬁcation for such haphazard experi-
ments on living animals—especially
by amateurs—which cannot pos-
sibly provide knowledge we do not
already have. And if the.lessons of
the nutrition tests are considered
signiﬁcant enough to warrant visual
presentation, which is debatable, this
can be. done by photographs, slides
or motion pictures. Thus the demon-
stration could be made once and for
all on a few animals, and not need-
lessly repeated over and over again
on thousands.

SUCH OUTLANDISH practices simf
ply emphasize the extent to which,
we Americans have blindly turned
“scientiﬁc research” into a fetish,
with the result that there is today
virtually no limitation on what any
Tom, Dick or Harry with a kitchen.
knife can do to an animal so long as
he wraps it in the protective cloak of
“scientiﬁc research.”

Such practices, amateur or pro-
fessional, would not be tolerated in
Great Britain, unquestionably the
most enlightened spot on the world
map of animal experimentation.
And it has been since the passage in
1876 of its famous Cruelty to Ani-
mals Act, which has provided British
medical science with its enviable
record of both humaneness and
achievement.

Brieﬂy, the Act gives the Home
Secretary power to grant or with-
hold license for the employment of
animals in experimental research.
Thus, if a scientist wishes to conduct
an experiment on a living animal he
states the purpose and nature of the
experiment, and his qualiﬁcations.

 




 

The application is checked by a
medical board appointed by the
Crown.

Furthermore, inspectors from the
Home Ofﬁce have the authority to
visit, unannounced, any research
establishment at any time—and to
bring any violator into court, where
conviction may result in a stiff ﬁne.
Jail sentences, plus loss of license to
practice, face repeaters.

The guiding light in the British
approach to animal experimentation
is the factor called “the pain con-
ditions.” The ﬁrstprinciple isthat
pain must never be needless: if for
any reason pain is unavoidable, it
must be minimized to the absolute
limit.

For example, one clause of the
Act speciﬁes that in no case may an
experimenter permit suffering which
is both severe and likely to endure,
whether or not the main object of
the experiment has been attained.
And when the main object has been
attained, neither brief severe suffer-
ing nor prolonged mild suffering
may be permitted.

Thus in any operation—which
means not only surgery, but such
things as bruising, crushing, burn-
ing, explosion, electric shock, cor-
rosive poisons, or stress, the animal
must be-completely anesthetized by
someone who is responsible for see-
ing that the subject does not pre-
maturely regain consciousness. If
any serious injury is caused by the
operation, the animal must be pain-
lessly destroyed before recovery from
the anesthetic.

In contrast to practice in this
country, no painful experiment may
be made in England to demonstrate

something already proven; no ex-
periments may be made on living
animals merely to perfect manual
skill or to satisfy pure curiosity. And,
regardless of his technical standing,
no researcher with a reputation for
callousness, indifference or careless-
ness can obtain a permit to experi-
ment on any vertebrate animal.

It will be contended. that all of
these criteria apply in this country
without beneﬁt of mandatory legis-
lation. But this is far from the truth.

Last winter, for instance, I visited
a southern medical school which has
earned a commendable reputation
for keeping its experimental work
humane. Yet, even here, a visiting
surgeon was working on an anesthe-
tized dog which he had opened up
from throat to pelvis. Suddenly an
unexpected development transpired
in the test, which was of major im-
portance to the experiment but
which required library checking. So,
hastily and haphazardly sewing up
the dog, the researcher rushed to his
books. Some time later a volunteer
humane worker came in to ﬁnd the
animal fully conscious and in agony,
still strapped to the operating table.

It is not to be implied that prog-
ress is not being made in this coun-
try, through the voluntary efforts
of our more enlightened medical
men, and through the missionary
work of the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute of New York. Yet it'is signiﬁ-
cant that this organization—num-
bering among its charter members
such eminent scientists as Dr. Gesell;
Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director of the In-
stitute of Human Biology; and Dr.
Peter Okkelberg, zoologiSt and as-
sistant dean of the Horace Rankin

 

I




School of Graduate Studies—is reg-
ularly attacked by the extremists
on both sides.

The more progressive researchers
are also making great strides in the
development of materials which
supplant living animals for an in-
creasing number of investigations.
Lederle Laboratories’ pioneering in
the use of chick embryos in the
manufacture of their rabies vaccine
is a notable case in point. So also is
the use of embryonated eggs for the
control of cancer growth which was
reported last year by two Univer-
sity of ,Texas scientists.

The substitution of lower forms of
animal life is also an encouraging
trend; the satisfactory use of beetles
(in lieu of rats) at Rutgers; the em-
ployment of frogs (instead of rab-
bits) in US. Navy research work.

Generally speaking, however,
such voluntary policing as is repre-
sented by the AMA Code for experi-
mental laboratories doesn’t work.
Nor do such gestures as inviting “in-
spections” by local Board of Health
doctors.

I know of one case in New York

City where a humane worker re-
ceived permission to accompany one
of these inspectors _on his rounds
through the laboratories of a large
institution. While point’ng out how
ideal conditions were, the inspector
walked right past a dog whose in-
cision had c0me open and whose
entrails were hanging out.

Not until the humane worker
protested vigorously did the inspec-
tor report the condition and only
then. was something finally done
aboutit

. My purpose here is not to present
a ready-made solution, but to draw
the attention of open-minded peo-
ple, both lay and professional, to the
very real and urgent issue of Hu-
manity versus Inhumanity in the
use of animals for experimental pur-
poses. Such recognition must come
before any rational corrective mea-
sures can‘ be '. considered. And in
the absence of that recognition, no
such measures have been proposed
by either the numerous Anti-Vivi-
section Societies, or by their oppo-
site number, the National Society
for Medical Research.

Printed in U.S.A.

 




Lambs like these are sacriﬁced by the million, so that you may eat. The Biblical
expression "as a lamb to the slaughter” was inspired by their doc1hty and innocence. Do
you think they should be subjected to unnecessary cruelty on the killing ﬂoor?

THIS ANIMAL IS FULLY
CONSCIOUS and suﬂering
extreme fear and pain. The
butcher has pulled it taut by
one ear so that he can drive
his knife into its throat. Note
the tight, iron shackle attached
to the chain by which the ter-
riﬁed creature was hauled off
its feet and sent along the
"assembly line”. It would be
easy to make this animal un-
conscious before slaughter,
but the packing industry (with
a few praiseworthy exceptions)
continues with the old, cruel
methods. The method shown
is used to kill the great major-
ity of lambs, calves, sheep and

pigs.

Unconsciousness finally
comes from loss of blood
The photograph below shows
the animals pushed along the
"rail” to "bleed out”. In their
struggles, blood splashes on
the wall.

YOUR PROTEST IS NEEDED TO STOP THIS BARBAROUS C'RUELTY

Please write today to your Congressman and Senators in Washington asking them
to vote for the COMPULSORY HUMANE SLAUGHTER bills now pending. (For

more information, turn over this sheet.

 




 

HUMANE SLAUGHTERING METHODS ARE AVAILABLE

No animals need die in agony to provide the nation with .meat. Humane methods are available for
slaughtering. BUT most food animals W111 continue to SUE“ llke the Poor lambs on the cover UNLESS
a compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress.

LEGISLATION IS NECESSARY

Wherever the majority of animals are slaughtered without cruelty, it is because there is a law requir-
ing humane methods. Between 1874 and 1956, Sw1tzerland, Holland, Norway, Scotland, Ireland, Eng-
land, Finland, Sweden, Fiji, New Zealand, Denmark and parts of France, Germany, Austria and Aus-

tralia enacted such laws.

AMERICANS DEMAND THAT CRUELTY STOP

No normal person, unless he has a vested interest in them, wants cruel methods to continue.

The General Federation of Women’s CIUb59 the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen
of America, the Farmers’ Union, and animal protective societies in all sections of the nation were among
those testifying strongly in favor of compulsory humane slaughter legislation at the public hearing in
Washington April 2, 1957. .

After thorough examination of the evidence, including visits to slaughterhouses throughout the
country, the Committee on Agriculture 0f the United States House of Representatives voted 25 to 3
in favor of such legislation and the House R0168 Committee promptly approved it.

Congress received more mail from citizens asking for its passage than on any other issue last year.

ON February 4, 1958, the United States House of Representatives overwhelmingly‘ passed the 7 a
humane slaughter bill, HR. 8308, by a voice vote.

The bill was referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry where the packers’ lobby
worked ceaselessly for substitution of a study bill instead of the good bill passed by the House. After
four months’ delay, the Committee reported out this study bill, which has been accurately described in
leading newspapers as "cynical,” "heartless and hypocritical,” "conscience-salving,” "dilatory and eva-
sive” and "a stall.”

Now the whole Senate must choose between

1) The above-mentioned study bill which the packers want enacted as a hedge against effective
legislation,

or
2) The good compulsory bill passed by the House of Representatives.

It is essential that conscientious citizens write or wire their Senators urging them to vote for the good
bill and to do everything in their power to obtain its passage. It must pass to give our food animals the
protection they so desperately need.

WHAT EVERY CITIZEN CAN DO

1. Write to both Senators from your State, at the Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washington, D. C. Tell
them you want an effective law passed NOW, without further delay. (If you do not know their names,
consult your local political club, newspaper or library.)

2. Tell your friends and acquaintances, your church groups and your club groups, about the urgent
need for the legislation.

3. Ask all of them to write their Senators, urging enactment of the compulsory humane slaughter
bill.

4. Give them copies of this leaﬂet. (Free copies will be sent you on request for distribution.)

5. Ask the Editor of your local paper to publish an editorial in favor of compulsory humane slaugh-
ter legislation. (Free samplings of the many such editorials published last year will be sent you on request.)

6. KEEP ASKING for enactment until the law is on the books.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION? ON** HU—MANE‘ SLAUGHTER —.

1. Calves, sheep and hogs are killed in the same cruel way as the lambs depicted in this leaﬂet. In
the case of cattle, an effort is made to stun them in most plants. But if a hammer instead of a humane
stunning instrument is used, the animals often have to be beaten over the head repeatedly as they lunge,
fall and struggle to their feet, bellowing with pain. .

2. All these animals can be killed humanely: stunned with captive bolt pistols and mechanical
stunners (ranging in price from $100 to $200), or anesthetized with harmless carbon dioxide. Anesthe-
tization machines are available for installation in plants killing 60 to 1200 hogs per hour ($3,500 to
$39,000 plus installation costs). Use of these humane methods puts an end to the pain and fear now
being inﬂicted on more than 100,000,000 animals annually in this country.

3. Bruising of meat caused by inhumane methods wastes many millions of dollars worth of meat
annually. It is economically sound for packers to adopt humane methods.

4. Some plants have installed humane methods for part of their operations and are well satisﬁed
, with the results. (Hormel & Co., Kingan & Co., Oscar Mayer & Co. use carbon dioxide to anesthetize
hogs, and about 200 plants use one of the mechanical stunners for cattle.) But no nationally adver-
tized packer uses humane methods to kill all animals.

5. Slaughtermen currently have one of the most dangerous jobs in American industry. Struggling
with agonized animals ﬁghting for their lives, the men are often gouged and bitten, or the knife iS
deﬂected causing serious wounds. The injury rate in slaughterhouses is approximately twice that for
all other industry. By anesthetizing or stunning animals, these hazards are removed. So are the deaf-
ening screams of the pigs, the spattering of blood and ﬁlth and the intense nervous strain which cause
men to move from the killing ﬂoor, in inhumanely operated plants. as fast as they can get the senior-

ity to do so.
6. No humane slaughter bill proposed interferes, in any way, with the ritual of any religion.

7. The packers are ﬁghting compulsory humane slaughter legislation just as they once fought the
Federal Meat Inspection Act which protects the purity of our meat products. Because there is no
rational defense for inhumane slaughter, they are trying one of the oldest legislative tricks to avaid
a compulsory law: the substitution of a study commission to do research on humane slaughter—
although they have been “StUdying” the matter since 1929, when the industry promised humanitarians
to install humane methods voluntarily.

For Free Copies of this Leaﬂet, Write to:

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

 

 




HUMANE SLAUGHTER ACT

Reprint from Suggested State Legislation -— Program for 1960
Developed by the Committee on Suggested State Legislation
of the Council of State Governments

The Council of State Governments
1313 EAST SIXTIETH STREET
CHICAGO 37, ILLINOIS

 

 




 

Program for 1960 59

STATE HUMANE SLAUGHTER ACT

Recently the general public has been much concerned over the use of old—
fashioned, out—dated slaughtering methods which bring a needlessly cruel death
to livestock. In addition to the cruelty, statistics have shown an excessively
high accident rate among packing house workers and meat loss through improper
handling and inefficiency. This concern has resulted in a demand for legislation
to speed the use of acceptable methods throughout the packing industry. Public
interest and pressure on Congress resulted in the passage of federal legislation-—
Public Law 85-765 (7 U.S.C.A., sec. 1901~6) establishing the use of humane methods
in the slaughter of livestock.

The federal law will affect only those packers selling to the U. S. Government,
leaving the greater number of packers subject only to state legislation. In 1959,
a number of humane slaughter bills have been introduced in the various state
legislatures with varying provisions. Continuance of such uncoordinated pro-
posals will only cause confusion. California, Minnesota, Washington and Wis—-
consin have already enacted humane slaughter laws in 1959. To simplify com-—
pliance and to promote the adoption of acceptable methods, a suggested state
humane slaughter act, conforming in general to the federal law, would make
available the same acceptable methods to all packers, working under federal or
state laws and regulations.

Purpose of the federal legislation, Public Law 85-765, is to:

1. Prevent needless suffering of animals at the time
of slaughter;

2. Provide safer and better working conditions for
persons engaged in the slaughtering industry;

3. Bring about improvement of products and economies
in slaughtering operations;

4. Produce other benefits for producers, processOrs
and consumers which tend to expedite an orderly
ﬂow of livestock and livestock products in inter~
state and foreign commerce.

When certain provisions of Public Law 85-765 become effective June 30, 1960,
the affected packers must use methods designated by the Secretary of Agriculture.
The Federal Register of March 3, 1959, designates three methods as humane.
They are:

 

Chemical (the use of carbon dioxide gas for sheep and swine);




6O Sugge sted State Legislation

Mechanical (the use of captive-bolt stunners or gunshot on sheep, swine,
goats, calves, cattle, horses and mules);

Electrical (the stunning of swine, sheep, calves and cattle with electric
current).

The suggested state act will provide for use of similar tested and accepted
methods of humane slaughter.

The suggested state law Will exempt slaughtering in accordance with ritual
requirements of the Jewish faith or any other religious faith, so as to avoid any
interference with religious freedom. It further exempts the individual farmer
Who may slaughter an occasional animal for his own food by defining a slaughterer
as "any person regularly engaged in the commercial slaughtering of livestock."

Suggested Legislation

 

LTitle should conform to state requirements.
The following is a suggestion: "An Act to provide for
the humane slaughter of livestock":

(Be it enacted, etc.)

Section 1. The Llegislature of this state: finds that the use of humane
methods in the slaughter of livestock prevents needless suffering; results in
safer and better working conditions for persons engaged in the slaughtering
industry; brings about improvement of products and economy in slaughtering
operations; and produces other benefits for producers, processors and con-
sumers which tend to expedite the orderly ﬂow of livestock and their products.

It is therefore declared to be the policy of the state of C j to
require that the slaughter of all livestock and the handling of livestock, in con—

9 nection with slaughter, shall be carried out only by humane methods and to
10 provide that methods of slaughter shall conform generally to those employed
11 in other states where humane slaughter is required by law and to those author—
12 ized by the Federal Humane Slaughter Act of 1958, and regulations thereunder.

OO\]O\U1I-P~OJNH

Section 2. As used in this act: __ _

(a) "Commissioner" means the Lhead of the appropriate state agency 4.

(b) ”Person" means any individual, partnership, corporation, or associ-
ation doing business in this state, in whole or in part.

(c) "Slaughterer" means any person regularly engaged in the commercial
slaughtering of livestock.

(d) "Livestock" means cattle, calves, sheep, swine, horses, mules, goats
and any other animal which can or may be used in and for the preparation of
meat or meat products.

(e) ”Packer" means any person engaged in the business of slaughtering,
or of manufacturing or preparing meat or meat products for sale, either by

H _
HOQOOVQUII-FQ’NI‘

l—‘

 




cowl—t

1
2
3
4
5
6

00\10\01r£>00N}-‘

Program for 1960 61

such person or others; or of manufacturing or preparing livestock products
for sale by such person or others.

(i) "Stockyard" means any place, establishment or facility commonly
known as a stockyard, conducted or operated for compensation or profit as
a public market, consisting of pens, or other enclosures, and their appurte—
nances, for the handling, keeping and holding of livestock for the purpose of
sale or shipment.

(g) "Humane method" means either: (1) a method whereby the animal
is rendered insensible to pain by mechanical, electrical, chemical or other
means that is rapid and effective, before being shackled, hoisted, thrown,
cast or cut; or (2) a method in accordance with ritual requirements of the
Jewish faith or any other religious faith whereby the animal suffers loss of
consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the simultaneous and in~
stantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument.

Sectio_n_§. No slaughterer, packer or stockyard Operator shall shackle,
hoist, or otherwise bring livestock into position for slaughter, by any method
which shall cause injury or pain.

Section 4, No slaughterer, packer or stockyard operator shall bleed
or slaughter any live stock except by a humane method: Provided, however,
that the Commissioner may, by administrative order, exempt from com-
pliance with this act, for a period of not to exceed one year after the effec-
tive date of this act, any slaughterer, packer or stockyard operator if he
finds that an earlier compliance would cause such person an undue hardship.

Section ;5_. The Commissioner shall administer the provisions of this
act. He shall promulgate and may from time to time revise rules and regu~
lations which shall conform substantially to the rules and regulations pro—
mulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States pursuant to
the Federal Humane Slaughter Act of 1958, Public Law 85-765, 72 Stat. 862
(and any amendments thereto): Provided, however, that the use of a man-
ually operated hammer, sledge or poleax is declared to be an inhumane
method of slaughter within the meaning of this act.

Section}; Any person who violates any provision ofthis act shall, upon

conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than i: 3 dollars,
or by imprisonment for not more than C :idays, or both.

Section 7. [Insert effective date .3

The American Humane Association
896 Pennsylvania St. Denver 3. Colo.

 




Animal ¥elfare T

” Ln~t‘
€27aast 17th Stregtltute

ew Yorkﬁ, New York

The Am
Biology Teacher

 

NOVEMBER. I960 VOLUME 22. NO. 8

‘

 




 

New, 1960 Editions

All of the Turtox Biochrome Charts were redrawn and new editions
were printed during the ﬁrst half of 1960. These are now in stock and
available for prompt shipment.

TURTOX
BIOCHROME
CHARTS

In offering these beautifully executed
colored wall charts, we feel that the series
constitutes the ﬁnest biological charts avail—
able at any price.

Consider these advantages:

Scientiﬁc Accuracy. Attained by having the
art work done by an artist with experi-
ence in biological work and having every
detail carefully checked by a competent
biologist.

Size 30 X 40 inches.

Natural Colors brought out on a black back—
ground.

Durable Construction. Permanent paints
(not inks) are used on a non-luster water-
proof background. Entire chart may be
wiped with damp cloth or cleaned with
wall paper cleaner.

Keyed. Small type used for keys on each
chart.

Economical. Compare the price of these with
other colored wall charts.

 

The Bio-chrome Charts available are:

 

ZOOLOGY T45 Clam T110 Mushrooms
T50 Shark M r hantia
Tig émeba T55 Perch T115 a c
rantla T60 Fro T116 Moss
T20 Hydra g T120 Fern
T30 Earthworm 90 “0818 rue
T35 Crayﬁsh BOT‘ANY T130 Llly
T40 Grasshopper T105 Algae T140 Leaf Anatomy
Plain Charts ,
unmounted With Wooden In Metal:
Prices with 1/2 ” mar- rollers top Chart Head
gin at top and bottom with Tripod
Single charts ____________________________ $12.00 $12.75
Set of 6, any selection ____ 71.50 76.00 $75.00
Set of 12, any selection ___________________ 141.50 150.50 144.00
For more than 12 charts, add per chart ____ 11.75 12.50 12.25

In ordering, please be sure to specify type of mounting wanted.

UCTS GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE

Incorporated

8200 South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago 20, Illinois

 

The Sign of the Turtox Pledges Abs ute Satisfaction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The New Look in Science Education ............... 469
Arthur S. Flemming

The Process of Science.......................... 469
Orr E. Reynolds

Apologies for a SIIp 470

PIasI'ic Skull .................................... 470

A Look at Biology .............................. 470

Small Animals in ihe Classroom .................. 47I
Die’rrich C. Smii'h

The American Biology Teacher Editorial Staff. . . . . . 477

Code for Use of Animals in High School

BiologyCourses........ 478
Survival in JIhe Sea. 478
The Green DrInk 478

John Brainerd
The Abuse of Animals in Ihe Classroom and
How H Can Be Avoided ....................... 479
Animal Welfare Ins+i+u+e
Some Feeding Problems Solved ................... 483
Sisier Mary Adelaide

Additional Reports on Experimen+a+ion.. 484
A SquI'ion +o Ihe Live Animal Problem
in High School .............................. 485
Mary G. Gibbon
Biological Program of Spaceship .................. 486

Academician N. M. Sisakyan
New Anti-Serum Des’rroys Sympatheiic

Nervous Sys’rem .............................. 488
Building Animal Cages and Containers
for Classroom Use 489

Paul W. Welliver

Looking Ahead in Science ....................... 493

Fellowships .................................... 493

Dedica’rion Ceremonies.......................... 493

HerediI'y by TV ................................. 493

Live Animal Study in ’rhe Beginning Zoology Course 494
A. M. HolmquisI'

Radiation and High School Teaching .............. 496
Donald J. Fluke

Journal of Biology—I960” .. . . . . . 497

ReporiL on a Florida Science Study Program. ...... . 498
Doris Timpano

Audio-Visual ReponL ............................. 500

Conservation PublicaI'ion ......................... 500

NewBiinography. 500

Slippery Skins of Germs ......................... 500

Chemical Trap.. 500

Nomina’rions for I96| Oiiicersu .............. 50I

BookReviews........ .. 504

 

Cover Picture
This picture of a classroom scene was taken
by Paul Welliver in Roosevelt Jr. High
School, Williamsport, Penn, in connection
with his article carried elsewhere in this issue.

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY
TEACHER

Association of

 

Publication of the National Biology
Teachers.

Issued monthly during the school year from October to
May. Second class postage paid at Danville, Illinois.

Publication Ofﬁce—Interstate Press, 19 N- Jackson St.,
Danville, Ill.

Editor—PAUL KLINGE, Coordinator for School Science,
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

The Indiana University address will be the ofﬁcial editorial
ofﬁce.

Managing Editor—~MURIEL BEUSCHLEIN, 6431 S. Rich-
mond, Chicago 29, II.

Subscriptions, renewals, and notices of change of address
should be sent to the Secretary-Treasurer, HERMAN KRAN-
ZER, Department of Education, Temple University, Philadel-
phia 22, Pennsylvania. Correspondence concerning advertising
should be sent to the Managing Editor.

Annual membership, including subscription, $6.00; sub-
scription to Journal, $6.00; inlividual copies $.80; outside
United States, $6.75; student /nembersh1p, $2.00.

/

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
BIOLOGY TEACHERS
INVITES YOU TO JOIN NOW

Solve Your Teaching Problems By Sharing
Them

6000 Other Teachers Now Enjoy—
New twists to demonstrations that are old

to them.

Hints on how to use the community as a
laboratory.

Excellent scources of useful ﬁlms and lit-
erature.

The advantage of learning about new teach-
ing techniques.

The privilege of publishing their ideas for
others to use.

The privilege of serving on committees in
their ﬁeld of interest.

Professional news.

Membership Includes
A. I. B. S. JOURNAL—5 ISSUES
THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER
—8 ISSUES

both for $6.00 per year.
Student membership—$2.00

 

iﬂﬂﬂlﬂﬁﬂﬂWﬂW
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION

 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
BIOLOGY TEACHERS

 

 

 

Name
(PLEASE PR NT)
Address
Dues: $6.00 a year, including subscription i0

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

For one year (8 issues)

THE AI BS BU LLETI N

For one year (5 issues)

Send application Io:
Herman Kranzer. Secretary-Treasurer
Depar’rmen’r of Educaiion.
Temple University,
Philadelphia 22' Pennsylvania

PWWE

 




 

 

 

BIOLOGY TEACHERS ALL PREFER FOETAL PIGS OVER CATS
AFTER THE FIRST TRIAL ORDER. LARGE DOUBLE INJECTED
FOETAL PIGS II TO 12 INCHES LONG ARE IN GOOD SUPPLY
AND ARE ALWAYS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT.

The 11 to 12 inch double injected foetal pig is available in the two positions we
regularly advertise, natural and with legs extended away from the abdominal
and thoracic areas. Foetal pigs in both positions are packed ten to the box and
are shipped in plastic bags in wax lined cartons. They can be purchased with or
without the Odlaug dissection manual. All prices include the freight, too. The
prices quoted on this page are all inclusive and there are no extras. These prices
are applicable only to quantities in multiples of ten. Arteries are injected with
red latex and the veins are injected with blue latex.

1 Box (10) Natural Position $81.50 With Manuals $86.50
1 Box (10) Extended Position $88.50 With Manuals $88.50
2 Boxes (20) Natural Position $58.80 With Manuals $68.80
2 Boxes (20) Extended Position $57.20 With Manuals $67.20
8 Boxes (80) Natural Position $80.70 With Manuals $95.70
2 Boxes (80) Extended Position $85.80 With Manuals $100.80
4 Boxes (40) Natural Position $107.60 With Manuals $127.60
4 Boxes (40) Extended Position $114.40 With Manuals $184.40
5 Boxes (50) Natural Position $180.00 With Manuals $155.00
5 Boxes (50) Extended Position $188.00 With Manuals $168.00
6 Boxes (60) Natural Position $155.40 With Manuals $185.40
6 Boxes (60) Extendrd Position $165.00 With Manuals $195.00
7 Boxes (70) Natural Position $180.60 With Manuals $215.60
7 Boxes (70) Extended. Position $191.80 With Manuals $226.80
8 Boxes (80) Natural losition $205.60 With Manuals $245.60
8 Boxes (80) Extended Position $218.40 With Manuals $258.40
9 Boxes (90) Natural Position $280.40 With Manuals $275.40
9 Boxes (90) Extended Position $244.80 With Manuals $289.80
0 Boxes (100) Natural Position $255.00 With Manuals $805.00
0 Boxes (100) Extended Position $271.00 With Manuals $821.00

IN YOUR SCIENCE INSTRUCTION THE ANATOMY OF THE MAMMAL IS VERY
IMPORTANT. WHY WASTE YOUR MONEY ON CATS? THE FOETAL PIG AND
THE ODLAUG MANUAL ARE THE BEST BUYS TODAY.

ORDER YOUR FOETAL PIGS NOW
FROM

BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH PRODUCTS CO.
243 West Root Street, Stockyards Station
Chicago 9, Illinois

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

QUALITY MATERIALS
DEPENDABLE SERVICE

LIVING ZOOLOGICAL
CULTURES

Protozoa
Hydra
Planaria
Invertebrates
Vertebrates

LIVING BOTANICAL CULTURES
& MATERIALS

Algae
Insectivorous Plants
Aquarium & Terrarium Assortments

PRESERVED MATERIAL

Zoology
Embryology
Skeletons
Botany

OUR 14th YEAR

Connecticut Valley Biological
Supply Co.
Valley Road
Southampton, Massachusetts

WARD'S MICROSCOPE SERVICE

Proper Maintenance and Repairs
Add Many Years to the Life of Your
Student Microscopes

WARD’S offers a complete maintenance and
repair service for all microscopes cleaning, ad-
justing, lubrication, repairs. Replacement parts
readily and continuously available for B&L and
A0 instruments. Reﬁnishing done if desired.
Protect your investment in valuable microscopes
by sending them in for periodic servicing. Pro-
long instrument life, save money with Ward’s
4-Point Service:

1. On request, VVard’s will send packing ma-
terials and labels for shipping microscopes to us.
You pay only transportation.

2. Upon receipt of the microscopes, we exam-
ine them and send you a detailed estimate of
recommended work.

3. When you authorize us to proceed We
commence work immediately.

4. The microscopes will be returned to you
before the speciﬁed use date. Service date af-
ﬁxed to each microscope as handy reminder.
Permanent service record kept on each instru-
ment. We suggest regular servicing every 3 to
5 years.

Your microscopes will last longer with proper
servicing! ‘

WARD'S Natural Science

Establishment. Inc.
P. O. Box l7l2—Rochester 3. New York

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zen you” {tom now you I” be glad you bought QIal-aipéco
THE ORIGINAL “SAFETY FEATURE" MIOROSOOPE

$|05.3O EACH
in quantities of 5 or more gzal-aipéco
STUDENT MICROSCOPE

$117.00 EACH LIST PRICE
MODEL GBZA (WITH CONCAVE MIRROR)

ALL METAL CONSTRUCTION
INDEPENDENT FINE ADJUSTMENTS (NOT ONE THAT
ACTS ON THE COARSE ADJUSTMENT)
FIRST QUALITY MEDICAL OPTICS
|6mm OBJECTIVE (IOX) NA. 0.27
4mm OBJECTIVE (44X) NA. 0.66
IOX HUYGHENIAN OCULAR
ELONGATED BASE TO PROTECT OBJECTIVES
SAFETY MOUNTING OF MIRROR
DISC DIAPHRAGM LIGHT CONTROL

 

Lower price ................... $| l7.00
In quantities of 5 or more. . . .Each I05.30
TRANSPORTATION INCLUDED
Or with substage iIIuminator instead of mirror . . . Same price.

 

THE GRAF-APSCO COMPANY

M°del GB 2A 5868 Broadway Chicago 40' ”L

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

NOW READY!
Groups | and II

New DENOYER-GEPPERT SCIENCE CHARTS

New in plan “organization ' purpose ' content

 

       
 
 

   

N
Dmorsaﬁsppsm SCZEZNCE seams EC‘Ch 54X44 '" C°'°"5
Cmcumrom SYS'IEM Bieasrws Srmm
”53¢” ﬁtmzcmgcmxa :9 :«s Nxmxs a: ‘ {wig-pray 92> vtmkxzx‘: vx >3 v
‘ 9 f. :fmﬁiwrww " . '1 , p DGSI The Science of Living Things

1. Life on Earth
2. Plants
8. Plant Classiﬁcation
4. Animals
Animal Classiﬁcation

6. Carbon-Oxygen-Nitrogen
Cycles

7. Human Nervous System

8. Human Muscular and
Skeletal Systems

 

 

9. Human Circulatory and
Digestive Systems

10. Human Respiratory, Lym-
phatic and Endocrine
Systems

Food
12. Health and Safety

 

 

 

DGSI! The Science of the Earth

1. Picture History of the Earth

2. The Earth as a Sphere

8. Relationships of Earth and
Sun

4. Maps

5. Time

6. Inside the Earth and Layers
of the Atmosphere

Wind Systems of the Earth

Changing Surface of the
Earth

9. Rocks and Minerals
10. Rocks and Soils
11. Water on the Earth .
Picture History of the Earth 12. Conservation .

   

    

DGSIi—i

For full information send for Circulars S3la and S3ib

DENOYER-GEPPERT COMPANY

Charts 9 Models ’ Microscopes ' Slides
5235 RAVENSWOOD AVENUE CHICAGO 4O lLLINOlS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The New Look in Science Education

ARTHUR S. FLEMMING

Secretary of Healfh, Education, and Welfare

Elementary and secondary education in the
United States is in the midst of a healthy
ferment. Everywhere, we see new approaches
to curriculum development, new methods
of classroom teaching, and new ways of pre—
senting traditional subject matter.

This process of innovation is perhaps most
exciting—and most promising—in the ﬁeld of
science. In man schools at the high school
and junior high school level, experimentation
is supplementing lectures. Youngsters are
gaining a deeper understanding of the mean—
ing of inquiry, observation, and analysis—the
very essence of the scientiﬁc method.

Already high school science projects, fairs,
and similar undertakings have produced
impressive results. Our young students are
demonstrating great insight and keenness of
mind and are already making new contribu—
tions to scientiﬁc knowledge.

Certainly, such promise should be en—
couraged. It might well be extended, under
careful supervision, to as many scientiﬁc dis—
ciplines as possible. Appropriate research proj-

ects in the biological and social sciences can
be as exciting and rewarding to high school
students as experiments in the physical
SC1ences.

Animal experimentation is at the heart of
research in the biological and life sciences.
Considerable study, of course, needs to be
done on the extent and appropriate nature
of such experimentation at the junior and
senior high school levels. Many animal studies
are too complex for youngsters and, of course,
it is important for young students to be
thoroughly trained in the humane care of
laboratory animals. Thus, biological experi—
ments in secondary schools should be con-
ducted under very careful supervision and
guidance.

Nonetheless, I am conﬁdent that suitable
projects in this ﬁeld can be developed for
students in the junior and senior high schools.
Indeed, this kind of supervised training can
help develop a more profound appreciation of
the value and dignity of life. And it can help
advance a vigorous brand of science education
in the United States.

 

The Process of Science

ORR E. REYNOLDS, Director
Office of Science, The Department of Defense

No threat to the national defense is greater
than the possibility that a potential enemy
nation might beat the United States to revo—
lutionary scientiﬁc discoveries that could tip
the balance of world power. Future dis—
coveries comparable to the discovery of
nuclear ﬁssion will take place. Will they take
place in the United States or elsewhere? The
‘security of the United States depends signiﬁ-
cantly upon the answer.

Scientiﬁc leadership must be, therefore, a
major element of over—all defense policy for
the United States.

It is the policy of the Department of
Defense to concern itself broadly with the
scientiﬁc resources of the nation.

469

National security is, however, but one of
the blessings of a fertile environment for
science in America. Science is the process
of obtaining factual knowledge about any
conceivable thing. Therefore every aspect of
life is or can be affected by science. Yet few
people understand the nature and the thrill-
ing potentials of science. Understanding
science should not be difﬁcult because the
fundamental motivation behind science has
been the yeast of human progress since
antiquity—the curiosity of man for knowl—
edge about himself and his environment.

In primitive societies explanations of
natural phenomena———including human be-
havior—was usually based on an assumption

 




 

 

470

of supernatural forces. The assignment of
supernatural causes for natural phenomena
stemmed from the imagination of man based
on his observations of nature. These re-
scientiﬁc ideas are not greatly different from
the hypotheses which constitute the ﬁrst
step in scientiﬁc research. The difference
between science and other processes of intel—
lectual invention is that to scientists an idea
is not regarded as a fact or as a truth until it
has met rigorous tests of validity.

The scientist calls a raw idea a hypothesis.
After the idea has gathered sound supporting
evidence it becomes known as a theory. Only
after some kind of direct proof has been
demonstrated, is the precious label of “fact”
bestowed, and even that is tentative. Scientists
must always be willing to strip away the
credentials of a “fact” if new, conﬂicting

j evidence appears.

So you see that the great contribution of
science to human knowledge is not the ability
to produce imaginative hypotheses. Rather it
is the methods by which the validity of
hypotheses can be tested by experiment.

Science highlights what is true in large
part by revealing what is not true; i. e., what
has failed the validity checks. The experi-
mental methods of science free man from the
confusing maze of conﬂicting opinion. It is
as though the compasses by which man
steered his various courses pointed helter—
skelter in every way and science provided
ways to test compasses.

It seems virtually certain that science will
continue to exert greater and greater inﬂuence
over our lives, which is to say that man will
as time goes on act more and more on the
basis of veriﬁable knowledge and less on the
.basis of fantasy.

I believe, therefore, that young people are
not prepared for life in the modern world
without having actual experience with the
idea-testing experimental methods of science.
Science education is inadequate if it onl
imparts useful facts, ﬁgures, and other ideas

from the past. The student must become ac—
quainted with science as a dynamic creative
process, and he can gain this acquaintance
only by conducting careful experiments him—
self with his own ideas.

When people deprecate the ﬁrst inept
experimental research of students and say, for
instance, that “cancer will not be conquered

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

in a high school or grade school laboratory,”
they have missed the entire point.

It is ignorance of science—the greatest force
in the modern world—that must be con-
quered in school laboratories.

 

Apologies for a Slip

The May, 1960, cover picture was labeled
as being a cross-section of a corn stem. Several
alert readers questioned this, and on the best
authority we can ﬁnd, it turns out to be a
cross—section of an asparagus stem. The
photographer, F. Paul Ralston, Knoxville,
Iowa, promises to change his slide label, and
both he and the editor apologize for the mis—
take.

 

Plastic Skull

Anatomically correct and easily disassem-
bled, an unbreakable plastic, life—size human
skull makes possible the study of the cranial
cavity, nasal passages, sinuses, jaw structure,
etc. Complete with stand, instruction, and
anatomy chart, it is priced at $4.95 postpaid
and available from the Edmund Scientiﬁc Co.,
Barrington, New Jersey.

 

 

A LOOK AT BIOLOGY

To many, biology is all so confusing,

Just hard, cold facts—not a bit amusing.

And yet it is something always around us;
The bee, the tree, the frog, and the fungus.
Don’t throw up your hands in exasperation
Over all these things with no set formation.
Look at that tree and study its bark;

Find a turtle, and follow that lark.

Now you are studying biology right

By using your nose, your ears, and your sight!
Debbie White

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Small Animals in the Classroom

DIETRICH C. SMITH,* University of Maryland, Baltimore

A simple classroom demonstration involving
a study of some phase in the growth, develop-
ment, behavior, or reproduction of a pair of
white rats, guinea pigs, hamsters, or mice
can arouse enough curiosity, stimulate enough
interest, and present a great enough intellec—
tual challenge to hold the attention of a class
for months and to keep a teacher busy answer—
ing questions for the rest of the year. There
is no substitute for life, and a biology class
without living material is like a music class
without a piano. All manifestations of life
are fascinating and none should be neglected.
Flowers and fruits, frogs and ﬁsh, cocoons
and birds’ nests, all have a place in the class—
room, but none of these can be compared to
the appeal of a small mammal; warm, furry,
brighteyed, alive with curiosity one minute,
probing every nook and cranny of his cage,
and then curled up in sleep the next.

Such at least has been the experience of
the Maryland Society for Medical Research
which six years ago began placing small
mammals in selected classrooms throughout
the state and has by now sponsored over 650
animal projects in Maryland schools. With
this experience behind it, the Society is in
a position to evaluate its program critically.
In all this time there has not been one un—
toward incident, not one adverse word of
criticism regarding the conduct of the project
from those in a position to know what was
going on, teachers, parents, children, supervi-
sors, principals, and casual visitors and onlook—
ers. Quite the contrary, our ﬁles bulge with
letters of thanks and praise from the teachers
and students we have helped. We have charts,
graphs, tables, and protocols, some the work
of individual students, others the work of the
class as a whole, sent to us each year to show
us what has been done with our animals. All
in all, there has been no phase of our educa—
tional program which has proved to be more
rewarding and which has been received with
more thanks and appreciation. It is indeed

*Secretary, Maryland Society for Medical Re-
search, Professor of Physiology and Associate Dean,
School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 522 W.
Lombard St., Baltimore 1, Maryland.

471

a privilege to render a service to such a
devoted and enthusiastic group of teachers.

The Society is an organization dedicated to
informing the public, particularly in Mary—
land, regarding medical research, what it has
done, how it has done it, and what it might
reasonably be expected to do in the future
if given the kind of support it needs. The key
role that animals have played and will continue
to play in the almost explosive expansion of
medical research characteristic of the past
ﬁfty years should be recognized and under-
stood. One of our basic goals is to further

this knowledge.

To do this effectively it seemed to us
that an appreciation of the basic concepts
of medical research on which our present
health standards rest and on which the con—
tinued conquest of disease depends should
be an integral part of every high school
biology course. This means the teacher must
be able to impart a knowledge of the broad
principles by which science operates, the
rigorous examination of data, the careful
plotting of controlled experiments, and the
stern discipline to which the scientist must.
hold himself. The biological sciences follow
the same general procedures as do the
physical sciences with one important excep—
tion; they deal with living things. Life is
complex, and its manifestations not always
predictable, probably because our knowledge
is far from complete. But even so, great
progress has been made in controlling its
processes through the application of the ex—
perimental method. The essence of this method
is the ability to do an experiment in such
a way that under similar circumstances it can
be duplicated exactly as described. This
means precision in performance, careful plan—
ning, accurate recording of data, and above
all, the use of control experiments.

What better way to illustrate these basic
procedures than by doing a simple animal
experiment in the classroom? In fact, this
approach is so obvious and so appealing that
it must occur spontaneously every year to
thousands of teachers, many of whom attempt
to implement their idea immediately, not

 




 

 

 

 

472

always with favorable results. The wide—
spread interest in this area points up the need
for control, regulation, and above all, a mech—
anism for giving practical advice.

Anyone who has ever worked in a medical
research laboratory is sooner or later asked
to lend, give or even sell a rat, mouse, or a
guinea pig to some enterprising teacher w1th
whom he ma or may not be personally
acquainted. The Maryland Society for Medi—
cal Research was no exception; in fact, the
number of requests was such that it was
obvious some policy would have to be adopted
to deal with it. Thus our Small Animal Class—
room Project was born, for, recognizing the
need and realizing the necessity for keeping
the enthusiasm of potential biologists within
reasonable bounds, the Society decided in
1955 to put the placement of animals on some
other basis than a casual, informal one. The
response was immediate and enthusiastic, un—
assisted by any fanfare, ballyhoo, or pub-
licity, it grew steadily until today it is one
of our major activities.

This is the way it works. A teacher wishing
animals ﬁles an application indicating the
animals he wishes and the type of experiment
he intends to perform. On the application, the
choice of the experiment is limited to either
a simple dietary experiment on a vitamin
deﬁciency, thiamine in the rat, or ascorbic
acid in the guinea pig, or a genetic experiment
on the inheritance of albinism in mice. Learn-
ing experiments with rats or mice, involving
the use of a maze, have also been tried with
success. Time has shown this choice to be
more than adequate, and it is not necessary
to promote sensational experiments, such as
placing mice in rockets, attempting to repeat
surgical experiments, or trying to ﬁnd a cure
for cancer. In fact, such experiments should
be done at the high school level only with
great caution and under careful supervision
lest they lead to unfortunate results and un-
desirable publicity. They should never be
undertaken unless they can be continually
supervised by a well qualiﬁed biologist. It
is because of the danger of abuses that the
Society feels it essential that they try to
bring some order and reason into what
could easily become a chaotic situation if
not guided by hands experienced in animal
experimentation.

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

All teachers requesting a project must sign
the following agreement:

“I agree that at all times it will be my responsi-
bility to see that the animals entrusted to my care
are properly treated and housed in accordance
with enclosed copy of ‘Guiding Principles in the
Use of Animals by Secondary Schools,’ and that
no experiment will be performed upon them other
than authorized b the MARYLAND SOCIETY
FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH and that directions
for the experiment supplied by the M.S.M.R. will
be meticulously followed in order to avoid suffer-
ing by the animals. It is also understood that the
M.S.M.R. assumes no responsibility for any prop-
erty damage or personal injury that might be
caused by the animal. I also agree that a repre-
sentative of the M.S.M.R. shall have the privilege
of visiting my classroom during hours arranged
with me in advance to observe how the project is
progressing. I understand I am to call the M.S.M.R.
if the animals become sick, injured, or if I need
any advice regarding their care, disposal or the
performance of the experiment. The MARY-
LAND SOCIETY F OR MEDICAL RESEARCH
shall have the right to copy and reproduce at their
expense any of the data obtained or any photo-
graphs taken of the experiments.”

No experiment involving dangerous drugs,
chemicals, radioactive isotopes, or carcinogens
has ever been approved, nor is it likely to be.
The society feels that the classroom is not
the place for projects of this type which
should instead, if performed by students, be
done in the laboratory of a qualiﬁed investi-
gator where he can exercise day to day
supervision. Note that the agreement requires
adherence to the “Guiding Principles In The
Use Of Animals By Secondary Schools” as
approved by the National Research Council
and the National Academy of Sciences. These
Guiding Principles are as follows:
“1. The basic aim of scientiﬁc studies that involve
animals is to achieve an understanding of life, and
to advance our knowledge of the processes of life.
Such studies lead to a respect for life.
2. A qualiﬁed adult supervisor must assume pri-
mary responsibility for the purposes and conditions
of any experiment that involves living animals.
3. No experiment should be undertaken that in—
volves anesthetic drugs, surgical procedures, path-
ogenic organisms, toxicological products, carcino—
gens, or radiation, unless a biologist, physician,
dentist, or veterinarian trained in the experimental
procedure involved assumes direct responsibility
for the proper c ‘-I' ‘uct of the experiment.
4. Any experiment must be performed with the
animal under appropriate anesthesia if the pain in-
volved is greater than that attending anesthetiza-
tion.
5. The comfort of the animal used in any study
shall be a prime concern of the student investi-

gator. Gentle handling, proper feeding, and pro-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

vision of appropriate sanitary quarters shall be
strictly observed at all times. Any experiment in
nutritional deﬁciency may proceed only to the
point where symptoms of the deﬁciency appear.
Appropriate measures shall then be taken to cor—
rect the deﬁciency, or the animal killed by humane
methods.

6. All animals used must be lawfully acquired in
accordance with state and local laws.

7. Experimental animals should not be carried over
school vacation periods unless adequate housing is
provided and a qualiﬁed caretaker is assigned spe-
ciﬁc duties of care and feeding.”

However, it should not be thought we are
completely rigid in the matter of “off—beat”
experiments or unsympathetic toward any-
thing but the tried and true. If by chance a
teacher wishes to elect something else than
stated in the application, a project proposal
can be submitted with the application. If it is
feasible, if it does not violate any of the
principles regulating proper care of animals,
and if the teacher has had sufﬁcient back-
ground in biology to inspire conﬁdence in his
ability to carry through such a project, animals
will be supplied, food and special diets pro-
vided when available, and all other possible
assistance given, including suggestions as to
what scientists in the area might be approached
for expert guidance and help.

Such projects serve well in encouraging
potential research biologists, and they should
be given all assistance possible. Often times
they win prizes at science fairs and attract
a great deal of favorable publicity, but be—
cause they are usually done by one student
working on his own, they are limited in scope
so far as bringing home the facts of animal
experimentation to all of the students in a
classroom or a school. For this purpose the

 

Figure 1. Students inspecting a guinea plg preparatory
to beginning dietary study.

 

 

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 473

   

Figure 2. Weighing the subject of a nutrition experi-
ant.

simpler types of experiments are much more
rewarding since they become a joint coopera-
tive classroom exercise. They can be under-
taken with a reasonable expectation of success
and at the same time teach some basic prin-
ciples regarding controlled experimentation
and the humane care of animals.

Once a project has been set up in the
classroom, the Society does not feel that it
can now proceed to forget it. Quite the
contrary, we acknowledge a continuing re-
sponsibility and to discharge this obligation
we have established a Visiting Committee, one
member of which visits each classroom in the
immediate area at least once during the year
to observe how the project is progressing and
to offer help and advice if needed. In addi-
tion, the teachers are encouraged to call us at
any time if assistance is needed, and there are
many who do, and at the end of the year to
submit a report on what was accomplished.
In this way we have accumulated an impres—
sive collection of growth curves, pedigree
charts, pictures, and records which keep us
well informed about what is being done.

Not only are the teachers supplied with
animals and food but also with complete
directions for the care and feeding of the
animals entrusted to them, as well as complete
directions for performing the experiment
chosen, and for making whatever equipment
is needed. Except for a good kitchen scale
which should read to a fraction of an ounce,
or better yet be calibrated to read in grams,
all of the equipment required can be made
easily and cheaply. The manufacture of cages
poses no problem, and directions for making

 

 




 

 

 

474

 

these are supplied to all teachers. Hardware
cloth and tin pie plates serve very nicely as
raw materials and can be put together in
the proper fashion by even the least mechan—
ically inclined individual. Glass aquarium
bowls make excellent homes for mice. Even
bird cages of one kind or another have been
used on occasion. Bedding can be obtained
from a variety of sources if wooden shavings
are not available. Old newspapers, paper
towels, toilet paper, and even string all make
excellent nesting material. In fact, setting up
and equipping the experiment becomes one of
the more challenging and interesting features
of the work, and it is often amazing as well
as very heartening to see the ingenuity and
skill which goes into such efforts.

The effects of a small animal in a classroom
are many and not always immediately appar-
ent. The most important objective is to give
the student some understanding as to how
science works, particularly what it can and
cannot do, and how important it is to plan
carefully if valid results are to be achieved.
A broad understanding of the scientiﬁc meth—
od, its limitations, is an educational respon-
sibility with high priority in our society today,
and it is certainly not too early to begin in-
struction in this area in the high school
classrooms. On the one hand, many of our
citizens fear sCience and scientists, while on
the other, many—and the two classes do not
exclude each other—look to science to solve
all our problems from over—population to
cancer. Obviously a small animal project is
not going to bring about insight and com-
prehension to all overnight, but it will serve
to bring home to many some of the techniques

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

N ovember, 1960

used in animal experimentation and perhaps
stimulate a few to pursue the matter further.

In doing a dietary experiment the growth
of one or more pairs of carefully selected
animals is observed and recorded. No exper-
iment appears to be simpler, yet there are
pitfalls. First of all, it should be established
that the control and experimental animals
both grow at the same rate on the same diet
and under the same environmental conditions.
It is surprising how often this simple elemen-
tary fact is overlooked and a preliminary
series of observations not made on the animals.
Once the experiment is in progress is any
observed difference in growth actually due to
the difference in diet? If the animals have
been kept together in a single cage does the
necessary separation to insure that they get
separate diets in itself introduce a new factor
into the environmental situation that might
or might not affect growth? Is any decrease
in growth rate in the experimental animal
the result of the absence of some nutritional
factor, or is it due to some change in the
palatability of the diet? Is the effect reversible?
This last question should present no difﬁculties
if the experimental animal is placed on the
adequate diet, and the control on the in-
adequate diet after the effect on weight is
clearly developed in the ﬁrst. The teacher
is always cautioned to continue the exper-
iment only to the point where a difference
in growth is noticeable, and above all, not to
permit the experiment to proceed to the point
where lesions may occur or where paralysis
may set in. Finally, do both animals grow in
a normal fashion after they have both expe-
rienced a period on a deﬁcient diet?

 

Figure 4. Plotting a growth curve.

 

 

 




 

 

V01. 22, N0. 8

Such an experiment as this requires careful
planning and takes at least three months to
perform successfully. Students in any class—
room where this has been done will certainly
have an appreciation of the thought and
preparation that is required to bring such a
project to a successful conclusion. Here of
course the teacher plays an important role in
pointing out the necessity for such care as
well as the signiﬁcance and importance of con—
trol experiments.

There are two types of experiments on
simple dietary deﬁciencies that are relatively
easy to perform within the time available
to the average classroom. One is the study
of thiamine deﬁciency which usually mani-
fests itself by loss of appetite and weight loss
in a rat within two to three weeks after
going on the diet. The deﬁcient diet is easy
to make by placing ordinary rat pellets in an
autoclave under steam pressure for about ﬁve
hours. This actually can be done in an ordinary
steam pressure cooker by anyone who has
a reasonable understanding of how to pro—
ceed. In practice, however, the Society sup—
plies for the experiment, along with the rats,
autoclaved pellets in which thiamine has been
destroyed. The other dietary project is an
ascorbic acid deﬁciency study in guinea pigs
performed by feeding guinea pigs a pellet diet
unsupplemented by fresh green leaf vegeta-
bles. Most pellet diets for guinea pigs either
do not contain ascorbic acid or contain it in
inadequate amounts because the heating and
subsequent drying of the alfalfa from which
the pellets are made destroys the ascorbic
acid. Thus guinea pigs kept on a pellet diet
are always given a supplement of greens if
they are to stay in good health. Consequently,
a pair of guinea pigs, one on pellets alone,
and one on pellets plus lettuce, will usually
show a divergence in growth within two to
three weeks. If they do not, it is probably
because the pellets contain enough ascorbic
acid to prevent a weight loss. If this is so the
difﬁculty can usually be remedied by drying
the pellets in a hot oven for several hours or
exposing them to the direct rays of the sun
for the same length of time. Again, the
experiment should proceed only to the point
where there is a clear cut difference in weight
between experimental animal and control.

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM

475

 

Figure 5. A Science Fair prize for a genetic experi-
ment on albinism in mice.

When this is established the diets should be
reversed.

Another type of classroom project which
is simple to perform, since it does not involve
any sort of experimental procedure other
than letting nature take its course and which
takes several months to perform, is of course
a genetic experiment. A classroom is supplied
with a pair of mice, one an albino, and the
other a brown or black coated animal heter—
ogygous for albinism. The Society breeds
such animals and keeps a stock on hand.
If the two are mated there should be among
the progeny, according to the Mendelian
laws of inheritance, an equal number of
albino and dark coated mice, and, within the
limits of probability, such is usually the case.
We can also supply an albino mouse and a
mouse homogygous for black or brown coat,
and by breeding such a pair, and obtaining
all black or brown progeny, and then in-
breeding these, it can be shown how a reces-
sive character appears in the second generation
after being completely hidden in the ﬁrst.
Other types of matings are also possible, such
as homozygous brown crossed with a heter—
ogygous brown.

There is no need to dwell on the interest
which a prospective litter of mice will arouse
in a classroom nor the satisfaction and even
pride in their ultimate arrival. Once on the
scene, there is ample opportunity to discuss
their growth, watch the gradual appearance
of fur, the opening of the eyes, the ﬁrst
awkward attempts to walk, and the ﬁnal
attainment, of complete independence and

 




 

 

 

476 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

adulthood. These progeny in turn can be bred
as soon as they matured, usually in eight to
ten weeks, and so the whole cycle of mam—
malian reproduction is open for demonstration.
If such an experiment is begun early enough
in the school year, there will be time to
breed several generations and to work out
the inheritance of albinism in various genetic
combinations.

Besides the immediate purpose of the exper-
iment, other lessons can be learned as well,
not the least of which is the proper care of
animals, knowledge which can be applied by
the students to their own pets at home. All
children keep pets at some time or other in
their lives, and most parents are only too well
aware that these same children can be woefully
irresponsible when it comes to seeing their
pets are properly housed and fed. We do not
pretend a small animal classroom project will
automatically correct this state of affairs, but
it certainly affords an opportunity for the
teacher to bring home to the child some
elementary principles regarding animal care.
There is also the added excitement and in—
terest in an experiment that involves a living
animal. Children come to be concerned about
their charges in a manner quite different
from what they feel about a chemical reaction
in a test tube, the motion of a pendulum, or
the dried up exoskeleton of a crayﬁsh, impor-
tant as these things may be. Here is a wonder—
ful opportunity to teach the principles of
humane care of animals, to bring home the
thought that no one is more concerned about
this than the research scientist, who quite
apart from his natural sympathy, knows the
success of his investigations depends upon good
health in his animal colony.

Then too a small animal project points up
the necessity of careful planning and think-
ing ahead. The organization of the experi—
mental team is important. Who is responsible
for cleaning and feeding, who is responsible
for weighing, who keeps the record and plots
the graphs? Such tasks should be, and usually
are, rotated among the students so that all will
have a share in all phases of the investigation.
From time to time there should be informal
progress reports and discussions of the data
to date. When the project is complete, a
formal presentation of the data before the
entire class, or even the entire school, with

N ovember, 1960

charts and graphs carefully worked up, is a
real challenge to some enterprising and prom-
ising person in the group and should be under-
taken if at all possible.

Finally, anyone who has ever done scientiﬁc
investigation knows that research does not
always run smoothly. Animals get Slck, they
die, they do not behave in the manner ex-
pected of them. The records may get mixed
up, directions are misinterpreted, a sudden
snow storm may close the schools for a day or
two. All these things, and many others, can
happen, and preparations must be made to
deal with them when they occur and to guard
against their happening in the ﬁrst place.
One false move may destroy the validity of
months of work. Only careful planning, un-
remitting caution, and constant vigilance will
insure a successful outcome. This in itself
is a lesson of great value, and even if an
experiment should “fail,” much can be learned
from the attempt. If nothing else, it should
dispel any idea scientists get their results
by waving magic wands. Sometimes the ﬁnal
report of an experiment sounds deceptively
simple, so much so in fact, that it makes
research seem easy. On the other hand, some
people attribute an esoteric quality to research
beyond the reach of the ordinary mind, and
projects such as these should dispel such
ideas since they show that the application
of thought and common sense will make the
basic principals involved comprehensible.

In spite of all of these obvious virtues there
are unfortunately those who violently object
to placing small animals in the classroom.
Nothing seems to arouse the fury of the
antivivisectionists and their fellow travellers
more. Many of these latter are estimable but
misguided people who loudly profess their
devotion to medical research but who some—
how, whenever the chips are down, are found
on the side of those who would cripple it
with unfavorable legislation. Recently articles
have appeared in national magazines by jour-
nalists who seem to have been taken in by
these people, either through misguided zeal
on their part, or by failing to resist the
temptation to write a sensational if grossly
distorted story. There is little point in an-
swering such articles directly. The Maryland
Society for Medical Research believes the
facts should speak for themselves, and they

 

 




 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

point with pride to their own experience in
placing animals in the classroom. This is an
area that requires careful thought and intel-
ligent planning as do any areas which involve
the education of the young. Such planning
and thought have not been neglected, and
numerous scientiﬁc groups are giving this
problem their serious attention. Among them
are the National Research Council and the Na-
tional Science Foundation, the American Insti-
tute of Biological Sciences and the National
Society for Medical Research. Certainly Amer-
ican youth should not be deprived of the satis-
faction and the beneﬁts that come from the
study of the living mammal because some
people who do not know what they are talk—
ing about become overly vocal in their opposi—
tlon.

This is not the time to hamper the teaching
of biology. There is no doubt we are caught
up in the forces of a great scientiﬁc revolu-
tion which has changed the lives of all us in
the western world more in the last ﬁfty
years than in all previously recorded history.

Furthermore, this scientiﬁc revolution has Just

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 477

begun, and if its early fruits do not destroy
mankind in the immediate future, there is
no predicting to what heights or depths it
will ultimately lead him. Man is on the
threshold of space; the peaceful use of
atomic energy is in his grasp. In the biological
ﬁelds we have just begun to feel the effects
of the population explosion, a product in a
large measure of medical research and its
application to public health and preventive
medicine. In all probability organ transplants
are just around the corner if the immunolog-
ical problems are solved as they probably will
be, and the era of artiﬁcial organs is already
upon us. New drugs will appear which will
so alter and control man’s physical and
mental makeup that the mind shudders at
the possible implications if their control falls
into the improper hands. The biochemist is
rapidly unravelling the structure of the chem-
ical compounds responsible for the transmis-
sion of hereditary traits, and he may very
well be on the threshold of protein synthesis
and the creation of life itself. The ability to
understand, let alone manage, these develop—

 

Editorial Matters:

Assistant Editors:

Regional Editors:

Advertising and Promotion:
Newsletter:

Subscriptions, Mailing, and Budget:

 

The American Biology Teacher
Editorial Staff

Editor: Paul Klinge, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana

Style Guide: John Breukelman, Kansas State Teachers College, Emporia, Kansas

Index: John Woolever, Sarasota High School, Sarasota, Florida

Book Reviews: John Hamilton, Park College, Parkville, Missouri

Filler: William Kastrinos, Glen Bard High School, Glen Ellyn, Illinois

Audio-Visual: Richard Fox, Redwoods Community High School, Peoria Heights, Illinois
Biology-in-the-News: Brother Charles, St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minnesota

Health Education: Virgil Heniser, Howe High School, Indianapolis, Indiana

Frances L. Behnke, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York 27, New York
John G. Navarra, Jersey City State College, Jersey City 5, New Jersey

Irving Keene, Weston High School, Weston, Massachusetts

Edith Curry, 8465 La Mesa Boulevard, La Mesa, California

Katherine Hertzka, H84 Beech Valley Road, N. E., Atlanta 6, Georgia

David Fagle, Marshalltown High School, Marshalltown, Iowa

Joseph Novak, Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana

David Lockard, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania

Managing Editor: Muriel Beuschlein, Chicago Teachers College, Chicago 21, Illinois
Editor: Frances Gourley, LaPorte High School, LaPorte, Indiana

Secretary-Treasurer: Herman Kranzer, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

 

 

 




 

 

478 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER November, 1960

ments will require a citizenry with a sound
education in science and its techniques. Al—
ready the gulf between the scientist and the
nonscientist is beginning to widen. C. P.
Snow has eloquently called attention to the
gap between these two groups and calls upon
the western world to close this gap with all

possible speed if it wishes to survive.1 The
duty of the biologist is clear; he must do all
he can to broaden the understanding of his
science among all elements of our population,

1Snow, C. P., The Two Cultures and the Scientiﬁc
Revolutiom, Cambridge University Press, New York,
1959.

 

Code for Use of Animals in High School
Biology Courses"

The ﬁrst aim of demonstrations that involve
animals in high school science courses is to
achieve an understanding of life processes.
Such studies lead to a sympathetic respect for
life. A second aim of animal studies is to
provide future citizens with some knowledge
of the principles of health, disease, and
medicine, and of some aspects of agriculture.
In addition, by achieving these goals, some
students are motivated to become the medical
and biological scientists of the future.

Experiments which are useful for high
school students are not necessarily the same
as those which would be done in a university
or medical school. Much can be learned about
life processes from microorganisms and plants;
invertebrates and cold-blooded vertebrates
can be used for many animal studies in high
schools, but birds and mammals are essential
to the demonstration of certain concepts be—
cause of their closer similarities to man. The
same guiding principle of respect for life in
the use of animals for the welfare of man
should apply in the study of all living objects,
including the conservation of useful plants.

All observations on animals must be per—
formed in a humane fashion and anesthetics
used as appropriate for the kind of organism,
the intactness of the animal, and the type of
observation.

To guarantee that students acquire the
Splrlt of humane treatment of animals a
qualiﬁed adult supervisor must assume primary
responsibility for planning and conduct of
demonstrations involving intact living animals.
Such supervrsion must extend to both class—
room and extracurricular projects.

.*These principles have been promulgated by a spe-
c1al.comp111tltlee with Professor Ladd Prosser Uni-
verSIty o inois, as chairman. Th h ' ,
endorsement of the AIBS. eY 3V6 the fun

Proper quarters and care must be provided
at all times, including vacation periods. Stu-
dents should be instructed in the principles
of humane treatment of animals, and training
in the proper handling of animals should be
a part of the preparation of all high school
biology teachers.

 

Survival in the Sea

Marine science, understanding how various
forms of life adapt themselves to an under—
water environment in the eternal struggle for
survival, is the theme of the newest NET Film
Service series, “S'I/I't'im/ in the Sea.” The
four 30—minute ﬁlms are designed for use in
high school and college biology classes and
for general adult grtmps. Titles in the series
are: IVhe’re Land and ll'i‘rter .lleet; On the
Roe/cs; Life on the (fort/l Reef; and The Life
Cycle.

The series is available in either color or
black and white from NET Film Service,
Audio-Visual Center, Indiana University,
Bloomington, lndiana. The purchase prices
are $125 for black and white, and $250 for
color prints.

 

The Green Drink

There once was an alga, Chlorella,
A Bostonian grexv in his cella.
His brainv idear
\Vas to mix it. with beer
To give to his lrish maid, Ella.

(In case vou haven‘t noticed, a
Bostonianis verv apt to leave off
a ﬁnal “r” onlv' to sneak it out-
landishlv onto. the end of some
unsuspecting \vord.)

John Brainerd

 




 

The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and

How It Can Be Avoided

Animal Welfare Institute, New York

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Professor of
Pharmacology at Ohio State University,
recently wrote: “It seems to me that it is
wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en-
thused over biological sciences that they are
anxious to undertake extensive animal experi—
mentation without the background, the ex-
perience, the judgment, or the wisdom that is
necessary in handling animals appropriately
for complicated biological experimentation. In
other words, I think we had better continue
to learn the hard way: there is plenty of bi-
ology to be gotten from a study of unicellular
organisms that can be readily obtained in an
high school laboratory, and handled and fol-
lowed with skill and convenience. We are apt
to get into trouble using animals.”

Sensationalism in the teaching of high school
biology seems to us to be on the increase. No
doubt the majority of our teachers avoid the
practices listed below, but there are numerous
cases of educators, possibly unable to convey
the intellectual interest of their subject by
more conscientious means, encouraging chil—
dren to make cruel and pseudo-scientiﬁc ex—
periments paralleling whatever ﬁeld of research
15 rece1v1ng popular publicity at the time.

Following are examples of the type of pain—
ful and uncreative experimentation to which
our organization is opposed. Pupils have been
taught to “make routine transfer of cancer
cells peritioneally in mice,” and a machine
has been devised'to force mice to inhale high
concentrations of tobacco smoke and pepper
1n connection with the national enquiry,
“Does smoking cause lung cancer.” Objections
might also be raised to certain experiments by
which “the effects of radiation on rats are
determined,” especially since the students con-
cerned have not yet mastered the anatomy
and physiology of the rats they are destroying.
Again, at the height of the Sputnik publicity,
children were taught to detonate home—made
rockets containing mice, and here, while the
making of the rocket may have familiarized
the children with some principles of me-
chanics, the inclusion of the mouse, the thing
that gave the project its glamor, had no sort

of justiﬁcation. As the New Y 07/3 Herald
Tribune commented: “Let youngsters ﬁre off
tiny Sputniks if they can. But why imprison
a mouse, or any living creature in one, if no
knowledge is to be yielded by its death?
Killing a mouse, suddenly, may be necessary
to prudent housekeeping. Subjecting one need-
lessly to 3,284 feet of . . . terror shows little
reverence for life. If increased interest in sci—
ence is to lead merely to greater callousness,
the world will not have moved ahead.”

To criticize such misplaced attempts as the
high school research projects described above
is not to suggest that all animal life be excluded
from the biology classroom. The judicious
introduction of some forms of life can be a
valuable teaching asset. Students will take a
keener interest in the forms they are studying
if they have an opportunity to observe them
in life. They can be led to develop responsibil—
ity for animals kept in the classroom; pros-
pective scientists must be made to realize that
a normal healthy condition in the research
animal is the sizze qua non of an authentic
biological experiment, and that it is a part of
the scientist’s job to see that his animals are
well kept. All students may be trained to
make careful and precise observations of the
physical form and of the habit or movements
of the species they are shown. The importance
of a well developed technique of observation
in biology can hardly be overestimated. Many
important discoveries were not the result of
hypothesis and experiment but were instead
chance observations by trained observers. Sir
Alexander Fleming’s discovery of penicillin
is a recent example. Interest, responsibility,
and a technique of observation may be culti-
vated in students with the help of animal life
kept in the classroom.1 The major problem
is the selection of suitable forms.

1Students may be interested to read some works ‘
on animal behavior by such distinguished observers
as Tinbergen, Lorenz, Eckstein, von Frisch, Fabre,
J. S. Harley, and others. The Animal Welfare In-
stitute is preparing a pamphlet which will include a
select bibliography of the writings on behavior most
useful to the high school student.

479

 




 

 

 

480 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

Many teachers and scientists agree that
some important principles of biology can be
taught successfully with the help of live uni-
cellular organisms such as protozoa, yeast, and
bacteria. Colonies of ants, or, in rural areas,
of bees, may be especially housed for class ob-
servation. The study of genetics is well illus-
trated by breeding the fruit—ﬂy, Drosopbila.
Higher forms, such as reptiles, mammals, and
birds, may be kept for general observation;
however, the dissection of dead specimens,
supplemented with models and ﬁlmstrips,
should suﬂice to give the student a working
knowledge of their anatomy and physiology.
Crude experiments involving surgery or stress
are not the training students need. Respect
for living things, sound judgment, reliability,
and a technique of observation will go further
towards making competent biologists than will
the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery
in supposed imitation of a fantasy hero.

Students who are induced to perform pain-
ful experiments on the higher animals should
ﬁrst be made aware of two points:

1. What they are doing is not advancing
scientiﬁc knowledge or serving any al-
truistic purpose.

2. The enjoyment of tumor transplantation
or other simple surgery is not an intel—
lectual pleasure; the child who takes
pleasure in such practices is likely to be
indulging the darkest and most destruc—
tive side of his personality.

Teachers and students alike ought to give
careful thought to these two points so as to
be in a position to take moral responsibility
for their acts if there is anything hazy in their
realization of the above two points.

If animals are to be kept in the classroom,
it is of the ﬁrst importance that the teacher
should enforce a serious and knowledgeable
attitude toward their care. Most students will
be interested in constructing and outﬁtting
suitable quarters for classroom animals; some
will be willing to undertake care and feeding.
It is essential that the routine of cleaning,
watering, and feeding be inflexiblv carried
out. Some teachers have found that the best
method is to assign two volunteers to each
cage of animals for an entire semester. The
daily ration of food and water for each cage
and the routine days for cleaning should be
posted, so that in case of absence substitutes
will know where to take over. Sudden changes

November, 1960

in diet may cause colic and intestinal disturb—
ances. Care must be taken that a triple ration
of food and water is always provided on Fri-
days. Vacation periods present a major prob-
lem: in our experience, scbool janitors are
never reliable animal caretakers. It will prob—
ably be necessary for the animals to board
with the teacher or with a really responsible
student. The teacher who decides to kee
animals in the classroom must take the ultimate
responsibility for the care and feeding of the
animals at all times.

Two indispensible pieces of equipment for
keeping rodents are the water bottle and the
food hopper. The hopper prevents animals
from scattering and wasting their food; the
water bottle ensures that the drinking supply
will not be spilt and the animals left thirsty
during an unsupervised period. A water bottle
is simple to make. Through the cork of the
bottle goes a piece of glass tubing with an in—
ternal diameter of 3/8”, and thick walls. The
outer end of the tube has been rotated in a
Bunsen ﬂame until the opening is between
1/16” and 1/8” in diameter and bent at an
angle of not more than 450 out of straight, so
that, when the bottle is hung inverted in the
cage, the spout curves downwards and out-
wards. If the cork is airtight, the water will
not run out when the bottle is ﬁlled but will
always be available at the tip of the tube. The
table gives measurements for some common
laboratory animals:

Capacity of bottle
Mouse Rat Guinea Pig Rabbit
402. 1 pt. 1 pt. 1 pt.
(for 1 rabbit)

Distance of spout from
cage ﬂoor for adults:

for young
11/2 II ()II 4/; 6/!
same 3” 2” 3"

All caged animals require fresh water at all
times, and food should also be available to
tbem on a twenty—four bom‘ basis.

If the cages are placed in an area receiving
direct sunlight at any time of day, a sunshade
must be provided by attaching brown paper
to the sides and top 'of about one—third of the
cage area. Animals must never be left in a
draft, but adequate provision for ventilation
must be made, especially over the weekend-

It is also the teacher’s responsibility to klll
diseased or unwanted animals by a humane

 

 




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

method. The best killing method is the chlor-
oform chamber. A chloroform chamber is a
box containing a wire netting shelf raised
above the ﬂoor level, with a perforated lid. A
piece of cotton wool saturated with chloro-
form is placed on the ﬂoor of the box, and the
animal is placed on the wire netting shelf
above. The animal must never come into direct
contact with liquid chloroform which ir-
ritates the mucous membranes. Since the ob-
ject is to anesthetize, not to asphyxiate, an
adequate amount of outside air must enter the
box until the animal is unconscious. The animal
may be observed through a hole in the lid;
if it struggles, more air should be admitted;
when it becomes unconscious, all outside air
should be cut off. Never remove the animal
from the chloroform box or dispose of the
body until it is stiff and cold.

Mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, frogs, and
fish are some of the animals most likely to be
kept in the classroom. The teacher should
familiarize all students with the basic require-
ments of the chosen species and demonstrate
the correct method of handling it. Some notes
on the basic care and handling of the common
species follow: These notes outline minimum
standards; students may be encouraged to raise
these standards further. For example, they
may wish to design roomier cages with more
elaborate exercise facilities or nest boxes than
are described below; experimenting in obtain-
ing the optimum housing arrangement or diet
will train students to make close observations
of the animals’ condition.

Mice: Four mice or a breeding pair may be
kept in a cage 6” x 12”, but a larger cage will
provide more space for activity and more op—
portunity for interesting observations. Mice
can be kept in a wire mesh cage with a wire
mesh ﬂoor and a movable tray beneath, which
should be lined with newspaper and cleaned
daily. However, recent scientiﬁc studies
show that a solid nonporous cage ﬂoor, cov-
ered with peat moss or shavings, provides an
optimum environment for mice, and that mice
thus housed are healthier and more content
than mice kept on wire mesh. The whole cage
should be _washed in soap and hot water
weekly. If there is a possibility of infection,
disinfectant should be added to the water. The
cage must be thoroughly dried before the
mice are replaced. Mice are sensitive to sud-
den changes of temperature and thrive at tem-

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 481

peratures of 680—720. Suckling mice require a
temperature of 760—780. Mice are by nature
nocturnal and should be provided with a dark
corner in the form of a nesting box. It Should
contain bedding material such as shredded
paper, woodshavings, or cotton wool. A con-
venient nesting box is a small metal cup, in-
verted, with an entrance cut in one side at the
rim. An exercise device such as a Ferris wheel
is a good idea. Mice are omnivorous and will
thrive on a diet of meat, ﬁsh, cheese and vege-
table scraps, supplemented with bread, oats,
sunﬂower seed, hemp, or millet. It is also pos—
sible to feed them on a diet of commercial
mouse pellets if these are supplemented with
greens, yeast, and any of the above mentioned
foods. An exclusive diet of commercial mouse
pellets may result in malnutrition and canni-
balism. Mice are usually docile; a mouse may
be picked up by placing the ﬁngers under the
animal and gently easing it into the palm of
the hand. Mice may also be lifted, not carried,
by the base of the tail if excitable. Gentle
stroking may help to calm them.

Rats: A rat cage should be similar in design to
a mouse cage but considerably larger. Seven
hundred square inches of ﬂoor space is the
recommended minimum for eight rats. Rats
require a nesting box. Cleaning the rat cage is
an identical operation to cleaning the mouse
cage. Rats are susceptible to respiratory dis—
eases, and a constant temperature of 65 O-7OOF.,
low humidity, and good ventilation are essen-
tial to good health. Rats may be fed on a diet
of commercial rat pellets, supplemented with
grain, greens, milk, meat, ﬁsh, and vegetables.
While rats are intelligent and make excellent
pets, an angry or frightened rat will inﬂict a
painful bite. It is advisable to handle rats
gently, to avoid sudden movements, and to
ive the rat time to realize it is going to be
handled before picking it up. The best way
to pick up a rat is to place the hand palm
down over the animal’s back, with the thumb
and foreﬁnger around the neck, and the re—
maining ﬁngers around the animal’s body to
take the weight. Rats are playful and appreci—
ate exercise facilities such‘ as Ferris wheels.
Nonbreeding rats and mice should be separ-
ated from breeding specimens.
Guinea pigs: Guinea pigs may be kept in pens
whose ﬂoors are covered in a 2” layer of saw-
dust or peat moss followed by a layer of straw.
An adult guinea pig requires one square foot or

 




 

 

 

 

 

482

ﬂoor space but will exercise better in a larger
area. If guinea pigs are kept in wire mesh bot-
tom cages, the mesh must be %”, otherwise
the animals will suffer leg injuries. In a Wire
mesh cage bedding material such as peat moss
or softwood sawdust must be provided.
Guinea pigs may be fed on hay, which must
be kept in a rack to prevent soiling, commer—
cial guinea pig pellets, and fresh greens. If a
liberal supply of grass, clover, alfalfa, cabbage,
kale, chicory, lettuce, or sprouted grain is not
given, guinea pigs develop a Vitamin C de—
ﬁciency which is often fatal. Guinea pigs
thrive in a cool, dry climate, 650-79013. They
should be handled gently, avoiding pressure
on the abdomen. Pregnant females should not
be handled. To pick up a guinea pig, place one
hand well up across the shoulders, with the
thumb behind a front leg, and the ﬁngers well
forward on the opposite side. Work ﬁngers
gently under the hindquarters to take the
weight.

Rabbits: Rabbits require a roomy cage. One
square foot of ﬂoor space for every pound of
rabbit is a general rule. Rabbits rest extended
with their feet stretched out behind them, and
any cage which prevents them from doing
this should be allocated to a smaller species.
The cage floor should be covered with 2” of
softwood sawdust or peat moss. Rabbits pre—
fer a cool temperature, 600—65017. Strong drafts
or strong sunlight are to be avoided. Rabbits
may be fed on commercial rabbit pellets or on
a grain mixture of whole oats, wheat, and bar-
ley. They also require a good quantity of
alfalfa or clover hay, and green, and root
vegetables daily. If rabbits are put out to grass,
or given an excessive quantity of green food,
they should ﬁrst be given a meal of grain or
pellets, to prevent them from taking a surfeit
of green food and developing colic. Never
lift a rabbit by the ears without supporting
its hindquarters with the other hand. It may
be preferable to grasp the rabbit by the scruff
of the neck while supporting the hindquar-
ters as above. Rabbits are inclined to jump and
kick when lifted; they must be treated gently
but ﬁrmly. Rabbits not gentl handled mav
scratch. Adult rabbits should be housed singly,
as they often ﬁght.

Amphibians: Frogs may be kept in large tanks
or concrete pools. It is essential to provide a
resting place outside of the water in the form
of a raft or raised plank. The top of the en-

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

N ovembei, I 960

closure must be screened to prevent escape.
The water must be changed daily, unless a
system of running water is used. Frogs kept
in foul water die. A diet of maggots, meal—
worms, slugs, earthworms, blowfly larvae, or
meat is suitable and should be placed out of
the water. Methods of raising these larvae and
worms are described in the Animal Welfare
Institute publication, “First Aid and Care of
Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker. Toads
should have a similar diet. They thrive in a
large cage whose floor is covered with moist
earth or gravel. A rockery of stones or bricks,
under which the toads can retire, is recom—
mended. Frogs and toads may be killed in a
chloroform chamber.

F isb: An aquarium may be planted with pond—
weed which will increase the oxygen content
of the water and stocked with a few snails
which feed on decaying vegetable matter and
help to keep the aquarium clean. Further
cleaning may be carried out with a siphon.
Sudden changes in water or water temperature
are harmful to ﬁsh, and all the water in an
aquarium should never be changed at once.
Chlorine is harmful to ﬁsh, and tap water is to
be avoided if pondwater is available. If tap
water must be used, it should stand in shal-
low pans for several days before use. When
water weed will grow in water, it is generally
safe for ﬁsh. It is essential that the aquarium
should contain adequate water and water
surface. One gallon of water per inch of ﬁsh
is a general rule. For six one-inch ﬁsh, an
aquarium 16” X 9” X 9” is adequate. This
provides 5 gallons of water and 144 square
inches of air surface. Overfeeding and over-
crowding are the most frequent causes of
death to aquarium ﬁsh, according to the
New York Aquarium. Goldﬁsh mav be fed
Chopped raw meat, or angleworms, and a good
quality of commercial ﬁsh food. In feeding
tropical ﬁsh it is especially important to pro-
vide a variety of different foods so the ﬁsh
can select what they prefer, because the die-
tary needs of the different species are not well
established. Tropical ﬁsh aquaria should be
maintained at a constant temperature of 750F..
and a cover provided to prevent the ﬁsh from
}umping out. In order to avoid overfeeding,
remove any uneaten food ten minutes after th€
ﬁsh have been offered it.

The Animal Welfare Institute would be
glad to furnish a list of books and pamphlets

 




 

V01. 22, N0. 8

relating to animal care and teaching with ani-
mals in schools. Especially recommended are
the pamphlet, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” free on request by a teacher; an
English publication, “Animals in Schools,” by
J. P. Volrath of the Universities Federation

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLAssRooM 483

for Animal Welfare; and “Humane Biology
Projects,” now available from the Animal
Welfare Institute. Address enquiries to: The

Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street,
New York 3, New York.

 

Some Feeding Problems Solved

SISTER MARY ADELAIDE, Marian College, Indianapolis, Indiana

The value of living animals in the laboratory
is recognized by every biology teacher who
possesses the true professional spirit. If these
animals are to be kept over a considerable
period of time the problem of providing food
for them is not always easy, especially in the
case of the very common laboratory animal,
the frog.

We are all aware of the fact that, in order
to attract the attention of frogs, food must be
moving; that insects on the wing, therefore,
form their natural diet. When ﬂying and
hopping insects are no longer available out of
doors, one must look for suitable substitutes.

Earthworms make an excellent substitute
for insects. These can be easily collected
in the fall long after grasshoppers are no
longer available and in the spring before the
insect world is astir. A mass of squirming
earthworms on the drained ﬂoor of a frog
tank or a few dropped onto a white sheet
of paper never fail to attract the attention
of the occupants. They may not dispatch
a worm with the same speed as they do a
butterﬂy or a grasshopper, but they do so
nonetheless effectively. An interesting tug
of war may develop when the attention of one
frog is caught by a large dangling worm, half-
swallowed by another frog. You may be
impelled to end the struggle by snipping the

worm in two.

Other creeping and crawling creaturGS 511Ch
as slugs, centipedes, pill bugs, even ants, make
satisfactory food for frogs. They are quick
to sense the presence of food that is accom-
panied by even the slightest movement It is
safe to say that any Visible, motile object, no
matter how small, yet not too large, may b6
captured and relished by a hungry frog.

During a prolonged winter season it may be
impossible to obtain any living food for labora-
tory animals. At such times one must resort
to force-feeding of frogs, if they are to be
kept in a vigorous, healthy condition. With
a little practice this apparently impossible
task can be quickly performed. Two pairs of
forceps, two pairs of hands, and pieces of
meat of almost any kind are all that is neces—
sary. The upper jaw can be forced open with
one pair of forceps while the lower jaw
is grasped with the other pair. Once the
jaws have been separated, they can be kept
so with one pair of forceps while the food
is dropped into the mouth between the open
prongs. It will be necessary to force the food
back into the pharynx. This can be done with
the handle of a teasing needle or any similar
blunt object. Once the food has reached the
pharynx the frog will swallow automatically.
One can even note the animal’s preference for
certain foods, for example hamburger, which
he swallows with avidity. This is most easily
served in a frozen condition. If there is a
refrigerator in the laboratory, keeping a
supply of food on hand for this purpose is
simple since one can store the remains of a
freshly dissected animal or the ﬂesh of an
animal, such as a squirrel, accidentally killed
by a passing auto. The force—feeding of a
large number of frogs may seem tedious and
time—consuming for a busy teacher, but it is a
task which elementary school boys will gladly
perform for the college teacher who is for—
tunate enough to have youngsters from the
neighborhood making occasional visits to the
laboratory.

However, force-feeding need never be re-
sorted to if one keeps on hand a culture of the
meal worm, T‘eﬁebrz'o. The larvae of these

 




 

 

 

 

 

484

beetles, now commonly used as ﬁsh bait and
bird food, make excellent food for frogs, as
does the adult beetle. Cultures can easily and
economically be kept in the laboratory all year
round.

Snakes are interesting animals and can serve
useful instructional purposes in biology classes
but feeding them also poses a problem for the
inexperienced. When ﬁrst deprived of outdoor
freedom they usually sulk and refuse to
eat. Frogs and mice placed in their cage
remain untouched. If they persist in this
hunger strike for months, or if suitable food
is not available, one must resort to force—
feeding if they are not to starve to death.
This can be done in the manner described for

the feeding of frogs.

A large pilot blacksnake after six months
of captivity and force—feeding began to feed
freely on frogs and mice placed in its cage.
It is not necessary that these animals be alive,
at least in dealing with some snakes. This is
most convenient since a mouse caught in a
trap provides the snake with a most acceptable
meal. It should be noted, however, that such
mice should not be “too dead.” A snake has
a keen sense of smell and will not touch
decaying ﬂesh. An excess supply of dead mice
at any one time can be frozen and used later.

A bat can be of service to the biology
teacher and can be kept alive for a long
time indoors if food is supplied. Fruit juices
can be fed with a pipette or fruit can be
dropped into the mouth. Grasp the animal
by the nape of the neck with one hand pro—
teCted by cloth or glove and with the other
pipette the juice, or even sugar water, into
the mouth or drop small pieces of grape or
apple. As the bat invariably opens its mouth
and squeaks when held in the manner sug-
gested the need of force—feeding as with frogs
and snakes is eliminated. Most bats will swal—
low food that pleases them once it is in the
buccal cavity. Forcing it into the pharynx
or esophagus is not necessary.

A shrew is an interesting object of observa—
tion in a biology laboratory because shrews
are quite uncommon, and for most students,
the novelty of making their acquaintance and
observing their incessant activity is a lesson
in itself. A shrew requires a tremendous
amount of food for its size but fortunately
is both vegetarian and carnivorous and never

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

requires force-feeding. A study of all the
varieties of food consumed by this little
creature would make an interesting project.
They are fond of corn and other cereal grains,
of earthworms and slugs. Placed in a terrarium
with frogs and salamanders a shrew will
readily dispose of several in a few days, leav-
ing not even a trace of a bone. The utter
confusion resulting from trying to house a
shrew with such peaceloving animals as am-
phibians makes the observer realize the im—
possibility of “taming the shrew.”

Motivation for the above suggestions on
feeding of laboratory animals was provided
by Harold Kaplan’s very practical article
“Diseases in Laboratory Frogs and TurtleS”
which appeared in the May, 1958, issue of the
ABT, in which Mr. Kaplan, in a paragraph
on the feeding of frogs makes the point that
“feeding frogs is laborious.” These few notes
may be helpful to fellow biology teachers
and relieve somewhat the labor involved in

feeding, especially the frog.

 

Additional Reports
on Experimentation

Other reports which might be of interest
to those teachers interested in animal experi-
mentation are:

“Animal Experimentation in Secondary
Schools,” The Bulletin for Medical Re-
search, January-February, 1960, Vol. 14,
No. 1, pp. 16—19. This is published by the
National Society for Medical Research, 920
South Michigan Boulevard, Chicago 5,
Illinois. Ralph A. Rohweder is Executive
Secretary.

“Animal Experimentation by Secondary
School Students,” Report on'the National
Conference on the Legal Environment of
Medical Science, May 27-28, 1959, National
Society for Medical Research and the Uni-
versity of Chicago, pp. 5 5-5 8.

“A Symposium on Laboratory Animals:
Their Care and Their Facilities,” The [0157“
nal of Medical Education, January, 1960,
Vol. 35, No. 1, 55 pp.

Proceedings of the Animal Care Panel;
March, 1960, Vol. 10, No. 1, Animal Care
Panel, Inc., Box 299, Lemont, Illinois.

 

 




 

A Solution to the Live Animal Problem in
High School

MARY G. GIBBON
Baldwin High School, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

One of the most distressing problems for
a high school biology teacher is the one which
confronts her every spring—that of “farming
out” or disposing of live animals which have
accumulated over the school year. The prob—
lem became especially acute this year since
we are now the proud possessors of a modern
suite of classrooms with their accompanying
“small animals” room. We acquired some
white rats and one hooded rat who was
promptly adopted by all. He was so loveable
that he was handled by many. He fathered
several litters of hybrid hooded and albino
rats. Offers of rats as gifts were politely re—
fused; pet shops declined them, and out of
all the population I possessed, I managed to
farm out four of them and gave away six
for breeding purposes. I was desperate when
a chance remark by one of my colleagues
set me thinking, and I came up with a solution
which, I hope, will be of some help to any
other poor soul who is suffering with the prob-
lem of disposing of rats.

A former student, who is studying mor-
tuary science, stopped by to visit one day,
so I asked him to teach me and some of my
boys to embalm rats. He was agreeable, and
so we selected three boys who were willing;
together we all learned what to do. We tried
the arterial method, usually used on humans,
but found the artery of the rat is too small
to be used; then we used the cavity method
of enbalming, which is usually used on small
children. The embalming ﬂuid is the type
used for cavity work. Arterial ﬂuid can be
used, but it is more expensive. Our embalm—
ing ﬂuid has all been donated by local morti—
cians. It is diluted as per the directions on
the bottle.

First we selected a rat, placed it in a plastic
bag and applied tap gas to the open end. We
found this to be a painless method of killing
the rats, and by far, the cheapest. We tried
ether and chloroform and did not ﬁnd it
any better than natural gas. The animal just
goes to sleep, and that is all there is to it.

485

After we are sure of death and the heart has
stopped, the animal is laid on its back with
the legs spread out, and the injection of the
embalming ﬂuid begins. We use a 10 cc.
syringe and an intramuscular needle. Injec-
tions of ﬂuid are made into the heart, lungs,
and abdominal cavity. It is especially impor-
tant that the abdominal cavity be done thor-
oughly because here is where putrefaction
sets in. For this reason plenty of ﬂuid is
pumped in from six different places. If the
animal is a male, inject the scrotum in several
places, then the tail. The animal is then turned
over and the back is injected in several places
so as to reach the muscles. Each leg is injected
in both directions so that the ﬂuid gets into
the feet as well as into the upper part of the
leg. Next, inject the neck, then turn the ani—
mal on its side and the brain through each
ear. Now the embalming process is completed.
The animal is placed in a jar of formaldehyde
ready for dissection at a future date.

The boys who were the ﬁrst to do this
work have taught their successors, and we
are now ready for the third generation of
“teen—age morticians,” as they call themselves.
We dissected the rats last year and found
them to be in an excellent state of preserva—
tion. In addition, I found the students very
interested in this dissection since it is a mam—
mal. They kept repeating to one another as
well as to me such phrases as, “This is what
I look like inside”; “Is my diaphragm as tough

as this one?” “Do we really have as much

intestine, proportionally, as this rat?”

We also discovered that we had killed tWo
pregnant rats, which were a tremendous
source of interest.

The project did not cost much except .in
time, but it was really worth it. We have more
rats for this year’s class to dissect. I can rec-
ommend this school project as a worthwhile
teaching device and an acceptable method
of solving the ever-increasing school rat popu—
lation.

 




 

Biological Program of Spaceship"

ACADEMICIAN N. M. SISAKYAN
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

The science of the laws of life which up to
now embraced our planet only has currently
acquired new perspective. Cosmic biology
has made its appearance and is successfully
developing. Every observation of the test
animals on the spaceship, every observation
of the rhythm of their vital functions and
digressions from normal during the period
of launching, as well as its subsequent restora—
tion, is of unmatched signiﬁcance for physi-
ology, biochemistry, and medicine.

The orbiting of a spaceship carrying numer-
ous instruments and living organisms around
the Earth, the possibility of carrying out TV
observation of the state of the animals during
ﬂight and, ﬁnally, the ﬂawlessly executed re—
turn of the spaceship, instruments, and living
organisms to the Earth mark an important
stage in preparations for a future manned
ﬂight into space. However, for such a ﬂight
to be possible many problems must be solved
and very complicated ones at that.

The ﬁrst of these is the creation of a power-
ful carrier rocket with a high—precision sys-
tem of control that would insure that the
spaceship keep strictly to its plotted orbit
and return to a predetermined area on Earth.
We have already witnessed how successfully
this problem was solved by Soviet scientists
and designers.

The second problem is elaborating the
techniques of returning the vehicle and space
traveller to the Earth. The successful ﬂight
of the second satellite-spaceship has shown
that this problem too is being solved by Soviet
scientists. If a manned ﬂight into space de—
pended only on the successful solution of
these ﬁrst two problems, we might say with
certainty that this ﬂight was literally a matter
of the most immediate future. But in order
for such a ﬂight to be materialized another
very complicated problem must be solved—a
normal biological environment must be created

for man during his ﬂight.

=*This article is being published because it might be
of interest to our readers anxious to know more about
Soviet work in this area. It originally appeared in
Pravda, August 25, 1960.

The conditions which man will meet
in a ﬂight into space are already known in
many respects. These include unaccustomed
acceleration, weightlessness, low pressures,
Vibrations, unusual composition of the sur-
rounding environment, inﬂuence of penetrat—
ing radiation carrying high—energy particles,
unusual View of the world around where, for
instance, the sky will be black, and other
conditions of the cosmic environment differ—
ing from those in men’s environment on the

Earth.

Much of this can be studied and foreseen
to prepare the future space traveller for this
unaccustomed environment. But it is one
thing studying these conditions with the help
of instruments on rockets and satellites and
testing the inﬂuence of these conditions on
man on Earth. It is an entirely different thing
to be convinced ﬁrst hand or to prove experi—
mentally that all computations were correct,
that everything required for the normal vital
functions of the human organism in conditions
of space ﬂight had been taken into considera—
tion and provided for. In this respect an in-
valuable service is being rendered to man by
the space pioneers, that is, the dogs which he
sends on ﬂights into outer space. Observations
of other animals that have been in outer space
also provide valuable material.

Man’s invariable companion in future ﬂights
and, in particular, in landings on other planets
must be green vegetation. On the Earth this is
not only part of a customary and pleasant
environment—it is absolutely essential for man.
These plants create organic substances which
serve as food for man and animals, they
cleanse the air of carbon dioxide, the product
of their respiration, and generate oxygen in
the process of photosynthesis. This job is
done by land and the tiniest water plants.

The higher plants provide man with valu—
able and diverse products and materials. But
they possess a sharply deﬁned cycle of Vital
processes. Unicellular water plants cultivated
in artiﬁcial nutrient media remain regularly
active in growth and photosynthesis over a
long period of time. They produce organic

486

 




 

V01. 22, N0. 8

substances, cleanse the air of carbon dioxide,
and enrich it with oxygen.

All this determined the manifold and pro—
foundly elaborated content of the biological
program carried out on board the spaceship.
The main tasks of these biological experiments
were: to study the peculiarities of Vital func—
tions of various animal and vegetable organ—
isms in conditions of cosmic ﬂight; to do re—
search regarding the biological effect on living
organisms of the basic factors in space travel,
long periods of overstrain, weightlessness,
transition from sub-to super-weight, and vice
versa; to study the effect of cosmic radiation
on animal and vegetable organisms, that is,
on the state of their Vital activities and hered-
ity; to make a study of the effectiveness and
features governing the functioning of the
systems ensuring vital activities in ﬂight, for
example, the systems of regeneration, thermo—
regulation, feeding and water supply, waste
disposal, and others; to study the effectiveness
and reliability of operation of the descent
and landing systems of the spaceship’s cabin

with containers for biological objects.

The passengers taken along included the
simplest modern living organisms such as
bacteriophages or bacteria parasites, various
microorganisms, intestinal bacilli, butyric acid
fermentation bacteria, staphylococci, fungi
cultures, actinomycetes, and unicellular green
plants. The representatives of the higher plants
included spiderworts in bloom, seeds of maize,
and of various varieties of wheat, peas, and
Nigella. There were also insects—Dmsopbz’la,
and cancerous cells of man. This wide range of
different biological objects varying in level of
organization and in demands to environment
conditions will undoubtedly help to settle
questions concerning “biologically transfer-
rable” elements of the environment in cosmic

ﬂights.

Cancerous cells found in man have been
cultivated for many years in glass jars in-
dependent of the human organism. Their be—
havior in conditions of space ﬂight will enable
us to judge to a certain extent the effect of
speciﬁc conditions created in cosmic ﬂight
on human cells and tissues. In the future, it
will obviously be possible to carry out re-
search with normal human cells which have
also been long cultivated independent of the
human organism. Among the biological ob—

BIOLOGICAL PROGRAM or SPACESHIP

487

jects belonging to this category that were
placed in the container of the spaceship were

conserved segments of tissue, skin, of man and
rabbit.

Some of the bacteria which underwent this
cosmic experiment are the constant compan-
ions of man and animals. They usually live on
the surface of the body (staphylococci) or
else in the intestines (intestinal bacilla of vari—
ous types). It is very important to know how
these companions of the human organism
react to the unusual conditions of cosmic
ﬂight: whether their activity lowers or
heightens, etc. This might have direct bearing
on the health of the space traveller.

At the same time microorganisms, bacteria
and fungi, are very convenient and com-
paratively simple biological models on which
to study the general laws of how the envirOn—
ment and conditions of existence inﬂuenCe
elementary vital processes. They are particu-
larly useful in studying the inﬂuence of outer
factors, for instance, radiation, on heredity.
Thanks to the high speed at which they mul—
tiply and at which generations succeed each
other, it is easy to reckon the results of various
physical and chemical inﬂuences.

Among the “passengers” of the spaceship
we see representatives of bacteria more sensi—
tive to radiation, as the intestinal bacilli “KK-
12,” and highly stable bacteria, intestinal ba-
cilli “V.” Of particular interest are the fungi,
actinomycetes, many of which are used to
make antibiotics.

There can be no doubt. Ascertaining the
inﬂuence of space ﬂight conditions on these
animal and vegetable organisms is of great
signiﬁcance.

The ship also had some mammals on board,
white and black mice and rats in addition to
the dogs, Strelka and Belka. According to the
dogs’ behavior during ﬂight they can be
divided with sufﬁcient clarity into types of
higher nervous activity. Strelka is the calm,
strong, and even—tempered type as contrasted
to the more irritable, reactive, and mobile
Belka. The difference in types of higher
nervous activity provides a convenient case
for determining the particulars of these ani—
mals’ state or conduct under the inﬂuence of
different factors of the ﬂight. This circum-
stance is of great scientiﬁc interest.

Of tremendous signiﬁcance for a future

 




 

 

488

manned ﬂight is the possibility of rapid bi—
ological regeneration of the atmosphere inside
the hermetically sealed cabin, the possibility
of enriching it with oxygen making use of
the products of man’s vital activities. This
entails creating artiﬁcially conditions in a
closed sector of space that would, on the one
hand, place the space traveler into conditions
that he is used to in life on Earth and, on the
other hand, solve the complicated problem of
providing him with everything required for
normal existence during a prolonged ﬂight.

To solve this problem, unicellular micro-
scopic green algae, C blorella, was placed in the
container. This will obviously be a valuable
companion of space travelers on long ﬂights
since it is capable of supplying oxygen for the
air in the cabin. It is very important to ascer-
tain how these so-called oxygen factories will
behave in conditions of space ﬂight.

In the past decade the all—round study of
Cblorella has assumed great scientiﬁc and
practical interest, not only in connection with
its possible use in cosmic ﬂights, but as a
potential source of full-value nutrition attain—
able in unlimited quantities over enormous
areas of water on our planet.

A manned ﬂight into outer space entails
thorough and diverse preparations. It can-
not be dictated by mere publicity or similar
considerations. Therefore, the program of
biological research foresees settling the entire
complex of questions directly connected with
ensuring normal working ability, vital activity,
and absolute safety of man’s ﬂight into the
Universe. In this connection the attention paid
to genetic research is fully justiﬁed. The
phages, microorganisms, higher plants, insects,
tissue cultures, mice and rats, that made this
trip into space have long been classical objects
for this research. The experiment carried out
in space will not only make it possible to as—
certain the biological action of certain ﬂight-
factors to a greater extent but will determine
their possible inﬂuence on future generations.

It goes without saying that it is still im-
possible at present to make ﬁnal conclusions.
The data acquired must be thoroughly studied
"and analyzed. At the same time the fact that
all these representatives of the organic world
retained their vital function and returned
safely to the earth is in itself an outstanding
achievement. There can be no doubt that we
now have all grounds for saying in all cer-

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

N 01767411967”, 1960

tainty that man’s age—old dream of ﬂights
into outer space is close to being materialized.
Tremendous prospects will unfold not only
for studying the laws governing life on Earth
out in cosmic space but for settling the
question of whether life on other planets
exists and in what forms.

 

New Anti-Serum Destroys
Sympathetic Nervous System

A substance which may have clinical value
in dealing with ailments stemming from the
tensions of modern life has been discovered
by zoologists at Washington University, St.
Louis. The substance, an anti-serum, selec-
tively destroys the sympathetic nervous sys-
tem when injected into animals without
otherwise interfering with their vitality.

Two scientists, Dr. Rita Levi—Montalcini,
professor of zoology at Washington Univer-
sity, and Stanley Cohen, former associate
professor now at Vanderbilt University, were
major ﬁgures in the work.

The sympathetic nervous system has a role
in regulating blood pressure, and it indirectly
controls the bio-logical source of certain emo-
tional states. Since many human ailments can
be traced to excessive activity of the sym—

athetic nervous system, there has been
considerable interest in ﬁnding ways of cut-
ting down its activity. '

Drs. Levi-Montalcini and Cohen obtained
the anti-serum by injecting puriﬁed extract
of mouse salivary glands into rabbits. Pre-
viously, the scientists had learned that mouse
salivary glands, snake venom and a certain
type of cancerous tumor occurring in mice
contained an agent that caused abnormal
growth of sympathetic nerve ﬁbers.

“When we injected the anti-serum from the
rabbits into new-born mice,” Dr. Levi-Mon-
talcini said, “we got an almost complete
disappearance of the sympathetic nervous
system.”

After this, the material was tried on rats,
rabbits, kittens, and a squirrel monkey, with
the results being a 90 to 99 per cent disap—
pearance of the sympathetic nervous system in
a few days. Another interesting aspect of the
research is the indication that an agent essential
to the growth and maintenance of the sym-

pathetc nervous system is normally present
1n the blood.

 




 

Building Animal Cages and Containers
For Classroom Use*

PAUL W. WELLIVER

Traveling Science Teacher, Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies
Oak Ridge, Tennessee

Biology teaching is coming alive. All over
the country the leading educators in life sci—
ences are urging that more living specimens
be introduced into the biology teaching
program. The response among teachers has
been good, and gradually the odor of form—
aldehyde which once permeated and dom-
inated the high school biology classroom is
being overcome by the educationally more
desirable odor of living things. At last the
biology room is a living room, and high
school biology is truly becoming a study of
living things.

With the introduction of more and more
animals into the classroom, many diﬂiculties
present themselves. The teacher is confronted
with the problem of housing, feeding, and
caring for these animals. To overcome these
diﬂiculties one must possess proper equipment,
have the necessary know-how, and organize
efﬁcient student help. However, the question
which is probably most often asked when the
problem of keeping animals arises is, “Where
am I going to put them?”

The answer to this question lies in your
basement, in your attic, in the storage rooms
at the school, and, yes, even on the junk
piles. One need only to utilize the materials
which he finds in these places in order to
devise suitable containers in which to keep
the animals which he wants. Not knowing
exactly what you may ﬁnd when you explore
these regions of our home and school, I
am unable to tell you what to build and how
to build it. However, my purpose is not to
answer these questions for you but rather to
help you to best answer them for yourself.

What then. should you do when you find
yourself asking the question, “Where am I
gomg to put them?” It is up to you to design
a cage from the materials which you have
available. But before you begin sawing, ham-

 

*Given at the NABT meeting with the A133 at
Pennsylvania State University, August, 1959.

489

 

mering, and bolting things together, the fol-
lowing factors should be given careful
consideration.

Does the cage sufficiently resemble the
natural habitat of the animal to provide com—
fort and insure longer life?

Does the construction of the cage make it
possible to feed and water the animals easily
and make regular thorough cleaning possible
with a minimum of effort?

Are you using good, and yet inexpensive,
materials in the construction?

Is the cage being constructed in the best
way possible to fit into the space which you
have for it in the room in which you teach?

Is your work neat? There seems to be a
feeling among many who use home—made
equipment in their teaching that an effort

 

 




 

 

 

490 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

 

should be made to insure that it appears home—
made. This I believe 'to be a mistake. Neat—
ness is among the most important lessons
which our students must learn, and whenever
a good example can be set, I feel that it
should be done. If a coat of paint would
help to enhance the finished product, then
by all means apply it.

So far we have said nothing about getting
ideas for the types of cages one could build.

 

Using the idea employed in the cage on the left
front, new cages were developed using the same
general plan but different materials.

 

A garbage can—used to house an opossum.

The most valuable source of these ideas lies
in your own imagination, and there are several
methods for stimulating creative thoughts.
As a biology teacher you are probably
ﬂooded with advertisements from science
supply companies picturing and describing
equipment which will meet this need. Study
these advertisements carefully. Is it possible
that with materials which you have available,

 

A multipurpose cage constructed from barrel
lids and hardware cloth.

N017677/Zb67‘, I 960




Vol. 22, N0. 8

 

An inexpensive cage for rats, mice and hamsters
made from cake pans and hardware cloth.

you could build something which will per-
form the same function and possibly do it
better?

The vertical and horizontal observation ant
nests which most biological supply com—
panies have available can easily be constructed
using scraps of lumber and pieces of window
glass. Rat, mouse, and hamster cages can be
assembled using hardware Cloth, strips of

Two types of observation ant nests built from
WYlhdow glass and scraps of lumber.

BUILDING ANIMAL CAGES AND CONTAINERS 491

 

Using oil cans to construct a cage for insects
and a cage for small mammals.

metal, aluminum baking pans, or whatever
suitable materials you may have available.
Look at the other advertisements. What do
you have which could be used to build a cage
of that type?

Often when you need a cage for a new
animal, you can devise a design based on
another cage which you have used previously
and which has proved its usefulness. To illus-
trate this, let us look at an example of how
such a development actually took place. The
cage from which the other ideas evolved is
a home—made cage familiar to many biology
teachers. It can be constructed simply by
forming a cylinder of hardware cloth and
ﬁtting an aluminum cake pan on the top and
bottom. A ﬂoor may then be made by wiring
a disc of hardware cloth into the cylinder
about an inch above the bottom. Such a cage
is very effective for keeping small laboratory
animals.

One day a student brought in some insects.
Window screening was substituted for hard-
ware cloth and the insects were housed.

When the rats began to have litters, again
the original cages proved to be inadequate; this
time because they were too small. In a search
for something to build a larger cage, two
twenty-inch diameter metal barrel lids offered
the solution. Substituting the barrel lids for the
cake pans and making a larger hardware cloth
cylinder to ﬁt them, the new problem was
solved.

When an opossum was brought to school
the need for a proper cage was renewed. This
time a garbage can was utilized. The can it-
self served as the base. A cylinder made of
lawn fencing was slipped over the top of the

 




 

 

 

492

can and rested on the handles of the can.
The lid was then placed on top of the cylinder
of fencing. Again the general idea of the
original cage was used, but it was adapted
to the new situation. To complete the interior,
a platform was placed at about the level of
the top of the can, and a stick attached to
the platform hanging down into the can so
that the opossum could climb up and down
as it wished. New ideas had developed from
a familiar method.

Another way to gain inspiration is to look
at materials around you while constantly
asking the question, “What kind of a cage
could I make out of that?” You would be
amazed at the number of times a good answer
presents itself. Ten-quart oil cans may be
converted into homes for many types of
animals. Jars can be used for many purposes.

Suppose, for example, you do not have
sufficient aquarium space for the ﬁsh and
other water animals that you wish to keep.
A gallon jug with the top cut off can be used
for a small aquarium. The top can be re—
moved by passing an electric current through
a nichrome wire wrapped around the jar
at the level where the break is desired. If
the break does not take place by just heating
in this manner, remove the wire from the
jar and run cold water over the place where
heat was applied. If done properly, the jar
will be cut with an even, level rim. The
nichrome wire can be replaced by a piece of
string soaked in alcohol and burned while
surrounding the jar. This is perhaps a more
convenient but less effective method.

Realizing that it is not essential to look

 

Some plastic containers obtained at a variety
store Wthh would be useful for keeping living
things.

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

 

An aluminum pan and hardware cloth make a
home for mice.

through the sides of an aquarium, one can
ﬁnd many substitutes for the standard aquar-
ia which are excellent for keeping ﬁsh and
such animals as turtles, frogs, crayﬁsh, snakes,
etc. Dishpans, washtubs, all sorts of plastic
containers which can be found in the stores,
and even an old bathtub are all ideal. By
setting up the proper environment in the
containers mentioned, or in any other con—
tainer which you may have available, excellent
substitutes for expensive aquariums can be
devised. Incidentally, the reference to the
use of a bathtub was not made in jest. Bath-
tubs have been used with much success in
the classroom for keeping this type of animal.

These are only a few examples of things
you have around you every day which would
be useful for keeping animals. Keep looking.
There are lots of possibilities.

Current science education journals as well
as books and pamphlets on science teaching
methods will provide you with helpful sug—
gestions. Adapt these suggestions to your own
needs and situation. Information ranges from
very Simple methods of keeping animals in
jars to detailed plans for constructing more
elegant devices. For example, a long time
des1re for an observation beehive was fulﬁlled
after a search of the literature which revealed
plans for building one.1

What I have tried to present is not a list
of cages which I feel that every biology
teacher should make. Rather, I have attempted
to give some suggestions as to how to develop
ideas which will best make use of the resources

 

J . . -
Shaw, F- R» “Observation Beehives: Constructlon

—Use,” Gleaming: in Bee Culture, November, 1952,
Vol. 80, No. 11, pp. 656—658.

 




 

 

Vol. 22, No. 8

 

Using a hot wire to cut glass and produce useful
containers.

which you have in order to fulﬁll your own
needs. The number of examples which I have
given has been small but the possibilities are
numberless. -

It is important that the biology classroom
in your school be a living biology room. The
neXt time that the appearance of an animal
prompts the question, “Where shall I put
it?” spend a few moments in your attic, in

BUILDING ANIMAL CAGES AND CONTAINERS

493

your basement, in a hardware store, or just
staring at a pile of junk. The answer is sure
to be there.

Bibliography

Buck, M. W., Pets from the Pond, Abingdon Press,
New York, 1958.

Morholt, E., Brandwein, P. F., Joseph, A., A Source-
hoo/a for the Bi010gical Sciences, Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York, 1958.

Nixon, A., “Life in the Biology Laboratory,” Science
Education, Vol. 18, No. 4, December, 1934, pp.
225-229.

Shaw, F. R., “Observation Beehives: Construction——
Use,” Gleanings in Bee Culture, Vol. 80, No. 11,
November, 1952, pp. 656—658.

Wilson, S. O., “A Biology Classroom Zoo,” School
Science and Mathematics, Vol. XLIII, No. 375,
April, 1943, pp. 345-351.

—————— , Living Specimens in the School Labora-
tory, General Biological Supply House, Inc., Chi-
cago, 1944.

—————— , Turtox Service Leaﬂets, General Biological
Supply House, Inc., Chicago.

—————— , UNESCO Source Boole for Science
Teaching, UNESCO, Paris, France, 1956.

 

Heredity by TV

An educational television series called
“Heredity,” produced by the KUHT Film
Production Department, had its national pre-
miere the week of July 17. The series began
in San Francisco, Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh,
and New Orleans, as well as Houston. The
program will be seen at later dates in about
40 other cities. The nine half—hour programs
were produced for National Educational Tele—
vision by the University of Houston station.

 

Fellowships

Facts about fellowships for health research
provided by federal and non—governmental
agencies are now available in a single report,
“Fellowships for Health Research,” issued
by the National Health Council. Based on a
meeting of the Council’s Committee on Re-
search, the report contains information about
the fellowship and traineeship programs of
four federal and twenty-two non-govern—
mental agencies.

COpies may be purchased for $1.00 from
the National Health Council, 1790 Broadway,
New York 19.

Dedication Ceremonies

Western Washington College, Bellingham,
Washington, will dedicate its new $2,500,000
Haggard Hall of Science in ceremonies De-
cember 1—4, 1960. The keynote address will
be given by Dr. William H. Pickering,
Director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratories.
Dr. Linus Pauling will speak on molecular
biology, and Dr. Paul F. Brandwein will
discuss science education. Other topics to be
dealt with by other speakers will include
oceanography, cosmology, and related fields.
Specific. information about the program may
be obtained from Dr. E. F. Neuzil, Depart—
ment of Physics and Chemistry.

 

Looking Ahead in Science

A report of the Production Seminar and
Conference on the Improvement of Science
Education in the Elementary School, October
5-10, 1959, has now been published as “Look-
ing Ahead in Science” by the California State
Department of Education in Sacramento. This
very ﬁne bulletin has been produced by the
Bureau of Elementary Education of the Cali-
fornia school system.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Live Animal Study in the Beginning Zoology

Course

A. M. HOLMQUIST
St. Olaf College, Norfhfield, Minnesota

For several years the observation of live
animals has been a regular part of the labor-
atory procedure of our introductory zoology
course. We have continued the practice these
many years because it has been successful
in student interest and achievement. Even
though the students may many times have
seen such common animals as the frog, the
earthworm, or the grasshopper, most of them
have never before taken time to observe
their activities at close range. The students
respond with much enthusiasm to this type
of laboratory work, ask many questions, and
give every indication that they are taking
the work seriously and getting much out of
the study. With adaptations, this type of study
lends itself to both high school and college
levels.

Live study of animals has many values to
recommend it. It has helped to rescue the
course from mere carcass study and to restore
the course to its rightful place as a study of
life. Live study furthermore lends variety to
the laboratory schedule of work, gives the
students a chance to see how the structures
operate which they have just studied in the
preserved specimens, corrects abnormal im-
pressions of the animals such as faded colors
and color patterns, shriveled skins, twisted or
flattened bodies, abnormal positions of limbs,
and other distortions. Live animals also demon—
strate their natural movements and activities,
and, perhaps, also their voices. There is also
an opportunity to impress respect, under—
standing, and consideration for animals. Pithed
or anesthetized animals can also be used to
demonstrate the actions of internal organs;
e. g., heart beat, blood flow, lung action,
peristalsis, muscle contraction, and other
internal activities. Making use of the live
animal supply, one can use freshly killed
animals to demonstrate the natural color,
normal position, distensibility (e. g., lungs)
of internal organs, to offset the abnormal
impressions obtained from the decolorized,
and often displaced, organs of the preserved
spec1mens.

The live study follows the dissection or
other morphological study of the organism in
order that the student may first become
familiar with the structures and their
functions.

Live specimens of the animals to be studied
in the course are collected or purchased just
before their use in the laboratory if they
are available at that time. They are in best
condition and will show most normal activity
when they are fresh from their native habitat.
If they cannot conveniently be obtained at
the time they are to be studied, they are
collected when available in the fall or spring
and maintained in the laboratory until needed.
If they must be maintained in the laboratory
for some time before use, they must be kept
in good condition with proper food, regular
feeding, water, light, space to exercise, and
in as natural surroundings as possible. Inter-
ested members of the class may be enlisted
to help collect the animals and maintain
them in the laboratory and may thus see the
natural habitats of the animals, methods of
collection, and activities of the animals in the
ﬁeld. Usually these volunteer helpers become
so enthusiastic and interested in the ﬁeld work
that their enthusiasm is passed on to the
class when the animals are studied.

In all of these studies, it is important to
keep the animals calm and unexcited so as to
get somewhat normal responses from them.
This is especially important in the live study
of vertebrates and the higher invertebrates.
To this end, the animals should be handled
as little as possible. If handled, they should
be handled gently and slowly. It is important
to avoid quick, nervous movements of one’s
body and hands in or near the containers;
slow movements do not excite them. Loud
noises of all kinds should also be avoided.
This small bit of technique in handling ani-
mals should be called to the attention of the
students at the beginning of the study.

Control of the class often becomes more
diﬂicult during live study exercises. The stu-

494




Vol. 22, N0. 8

dents often become noisy as they react to some
sudden and unexpected activity of the animals.
This can be forgiven since they are reacting
for the most part honestly to their work.

One or two live specimens are gently
placed in each glass container, and if possible,
one or two containers per laboratory table.
If the animals are terrestrial, the containers
should be provided with a moist bottom of
wet paper toweling or moist sand to prevent
drying of specimens. If they are aquatic,
enough water should be provided to allow the
animals to swim in it freely. Battery jars,
museum jars, glass food containers, ﬁnger
bowls, Syracuse watch glasses, and aquaria
may be used as containers. The size of the
container depends upon the size of the animals
to be studied. There should be ample room
in the container for the animals to move about
in it. If locomotion is to be observed, the
size of the container must be several times the
length of the animal. Precautions must of
course be taken to prevent the escape of the
animals, especially if they are terrestrial ani—
mals. The animals and their containers are
set out on the laboratory tables at least a
half hour before the beginning of the labora—
tory period in order to quiet them before the
students arrive. As soon as the students arrive,
it has been found neCessary to caution them
against disturbing the animals in any way
until they have received instructions.

Three or four students can observe the
animal at the same time if the specimen is
large enough to be easily seen with the naked
eye. A reading glass may be helpful for the
smaller specimens or for smaller details, and
a compound microscope may be necessary
for tiny organisms.

If specimens are necessarily feW, arrange
for the students to make their observations in
small groups at various times during the

period.

The study is directed by numerous guiding
questions on a duplicated work sheet or on a
page in the laboratory manual. The questions
are organized under such topic headings as
5126, C0101“, posture, methods of locomotion,
breathing movements, movements of body
parts, Speed of movements, degree of activity,
method of feeding, responses to various stim-
uli, and the like. In some cases, simple ex—
periments may be performed on responses to

LIVE ANIMAL STUDY

495

touch, light, moisture, temperature, and other
ecological factors. The questions should be
suggestive rather than complete in order to
allow for some original observations by the.
students.

Quiet, patient watching is needed for best
results. Occasional gentle handling or prod—
ding may be necessary at times to stimulate.
the specimens to activity. If there are many
sections in the course, it would be distinctly
advantageous to have sets of fresh animals to
replace the fatigued ones, especially if the
animals have undergone much prodding or
necessary handling.

The amount of time set aside in the labora—
tory schedule for live study work on a partic—
ular type of animal may vary from a whole
period on such an animal as the frog to just
a few minutes on such an animal as Hydra.
The amount of time that may be devoted to
the study of any given organisms may depend
upon the amount of activity shown by the
animal, the diversity of activity, the com-
plexity of organization, and in general the
number of observations possible on the ani-
mal. The amount of time also depends upon
the instructor’s objectives in the study. A mere
quick look at a live animal has very little
lasting pedagogical value in impressing the
animal upon the minds of the students. There
must be some effort expended in the live study
to aid in retention and to overcome the dead
aspects of dissection and other purely mor-

phological study.

In order to secure serious attention from
the students, it is necessary to demand that
all observations be recorded and handed in
at the close of the laboratory period. To save
the students’ time in recording the observa—
tions and the instructor’s time in checking
the papers later, the report is topically organ—
ized, and the notations made wherever pos-
sible in abbreviated sentences or even with
one or two words. Thus:

C010r:—Dorsal side dull red, ventral side
paler.
Size:—Body length 6 inches when re—
laxed.
General activity:——Sluggish. Movements
slow. Animal spends much time lying
quietly in the corner of the jar.
It should be made clear to the students that
this abbreviation of statements does not mean

 




 

 

 

496

a curtailment of number of observed facts
but on .the contrary allows more time to re-
cord more facts. Duplicated form sheets could

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

be used to speed up the recording of observa—
tions and to facilitate checking by the instruc-
tOI‘.

 

Radiation and High School Teaching

DONALD J. FLUKE, Director
Duke University Summer Institute in Radiation Biology, Durham, North Carolina

Radioactivity is becoming a high school
classroom staple. Geiger counters share bench
space with microscopes, and fume hoods are
bright with the yellow and magenta colors
of the Atomic Age. Both in quality and in
quantity the quiet innovation is paced by a
program, now in its ﬁfth year, in which the
Atomic Energy Commission, The National
Science Foundation, and over a score of
universities join in training and equipping
high school teachers. Several things are
immediately impressive about the program:
its present size, the eager acceptance and
exploitation of its possibilities by teachers, and
the careful and varied manner in which its
growth has been guided.

In terms of size approximately 750 teachers
have already received from six to eight weeks
of intensive summer training. Approximately
400 more are scheduled for this summer. In
our own institute at Duke University Marine
Laboratory every participant and visitor is
caught up by the enthusiasm with which the
new group of twenty each summer tackles
the unusual assignment, an enthusiasm which
continues to come back to us in letters ﬁlled
with clippings, questions, and comments on
how it works out in the classroom. When a
high school teacher with years of experience
writes back to say, “This fall seemed like
my ﬁrst year teaching again instead of my
thirteenth,” we know that we have something
good going.

The program began with three summer
institutes in 1956, one each at Harvard, Duke,
and the University of New Mexico. Although
designed primarily for biology teachers, the
institutes have from the start included teachers
of physical subjects as well. In succeeding
years the program has grown to ﬁve and
then to twelve institutes, and last summer to
nineteen, including two for college teachers.
National meetings of institute representatives

have helped new institutes to build on the
experience of older ones and to ﬁnd their
own special improvements.

“Radiation Biology” has been the guiding
title, but in most of the institutes radioactive
tracer technique has received a more sub—
stantial effort than has practical study of
radiation effects. The area of interest may
not be very logically deﬁned, but it meets the
test of pragmatism. A high school teacher can
more easily and safely use P32 in tracer
quantities than he can a cobalt source or
X—ray machine capable of damaging living
things. Work with tracers ﬁts immediately
into analytic uses. At the same time the
teacher can talk about atomic reactors, the
balance between hazards and uses of radia—
tion, and the whole spectrum of radiation
biology in relation to policy and to society.

Each teacher is provided with a kit of
equipment for high school use. The kit
includes a scaler-ratemeter with Geiger
counters capable even of C“1 work, an. electro-
scope, a diffusion cloud chamber, supplies
for autoradiography, and numerous smaller
items. Of equal importance are supplies of
radioisotopes sent twice a year to each insti-
tute graduate who requests a shipment.
Exempt quantities of nine or ten different
materials are included, allowing a variety of
classroom uses. The preparations made for
the arrival of these shipments are reﬂected
even in the local press. Boxes are opened by
rubber-gloved hands over paper—covered panS,
while disciplined crews of student helpers
hold implements and Geiger probe monitor
at the ready. The way these teachers organize
things no student can miss the fact that the

Atomic Age arrives twice a year in a package
of little Vials.

What can a high school teacher do with
ten microcuries of P32 or similar materials?
Many of the teachers undertake some exer-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

cises in counting technique ﬁrst, teaching
the use of radiation detectors, and also point-
ing up a beautiful example of the statistical
nature of measurement. Within the same
basic context some have devised ingenious
demonstrations of the inverse square law, an
unexpectedly popular activity. Then they go
on to translocation exercises with plants. The
student, who puts a bean seedling brieﬂy into
a P32 solution and then cuts up the plant
and counts each part before and after drying,
learns something about movements of dis-
solved materials inside plants. Demonstrations
of diffusion and osmosis are high on the
popularity list. The chemically—minded work
out solubility products, demonstrating and
utilizing the tremendous sensitivity of tracer
methods. Some show I131 uptake in thyroid
or follow red blood cells with Cr“.

While it would be much harder to injure
anyone or anything with 10 microcuries of
P32 than with even small amounts of sulfuric
acid, mercury, or ether, for example, the
teachers undertake exaggerated. precautions,
mostly for instructive value. The program is
not only safe for the high school class, but
it teaches radiation safety.

Most of the teachers use plants more often
than animals, partly because of the greater
simplicity of handling plants. Radioactivity
put into a mouse can get out of the cage and
run around. It might even be eaten by the
school cat, a kind of inadvertent food chain
study which most teachers wish to avoid. But
for those who do undertake animal work,
partly because of the pedagogical value of
animals, the nature of the tracer quantities
of radiation allow many informative exercises
without harm or trauma to the animals. The
teacher has available subtle tools which make
easier the respect for life which must always
be inherent in good biological teaching.

How does the radiation institute program
work out for the high school student? Have
many been inﬂuenced toward basic work
sooner in preparation for science careers? We
know that institute—trained teachers have
turned out science fair winners and have put
science clubs into better competition with
Other extracurricular attractions. We have had
College freshmen stop by with greetings from
a teacher we trained but have yet of course
F0 get our ﬁrst graduate student possibly
Inﬂuenced toward quantitative work by the

RADIATION AND HIGH SCHOOL TEACHING 497

radiation institute program.

These things show up, but from the van-
tage point of an institute director most of the
iceberg is hidden. What we do see is the
teachers, and what we see of them encourages
us very much that the ultimate beneﬁciaries
are getting everything we could hope and
more. Status is a currency of the times, and
our teachers demonstrably go back home
with some. A high school teacher, who has
dug hard on basic radiation science all sum-
mer, has heard a number of radiation research
scientists, has talked till all hours with his
colleagues from over the country, and comes
home with a very tangible set of mysterious
modern gear, is not quite the same man or
woman. Unless he lives in a university city
he is probably the local radiation expert, and
he knows it. He is ready for the school
assemblies, PTA meetings, and Lions Club
talks that can let him get at some of the
questions that students and adults will ﬁnd
he can discuss. Our participants have origi—
nated TV series based on their training, have
served on state advisory boards for radiation,
have taken prominent part in Civil Defense
activities, and have even done some commer—
cial consulting on the side. The high school
teacher who rides that kind of wave of topi-
cality, even for just a time, is on a new basis
in the classroom, a focal point for student
interest, a galvanic center for student activity.
For at least one institute director the greatest
fun of the whole program has been seeing
the high school teachers go out with a new
enthusiasm in their profession, and to have
the opportunity of helping keep that excite-
ment glowing.

 

Journal of Biology—1960

The very excellent publication by the stu—
dents in the Biology Department of the Bronx
High School of Science is now available as
the [ozmml 0f Biology—I960. It may be
obtained from the school, 75 West 205th
Street, New York. Dr. Jerome Metzner is
chairman of the department, and this latest
issue is another evidence of what ﬁne work
high school students can do. Biology teachers
will be quite interested in reading about the
research projects which these students have
carried on.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Report on a Florida Science Study Program"

DORIS TIMPANO
Jamaica High School, Queens, New York

This report represents a summary of the
activities of a group of honor science students
from Jamaica High School, Queens, New
York, during the Christmas holidays, De-
cember, 1959. The program was motivated last
July when I participated in a National Science
Foundation Program for biology teachers at
the Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid,
Florida, under the direction of the American
Museum of Natural History. VVhile studying
ﬁeld biology in the Everglades, I conceived
the idea of sharing this unusual and very won-
derous experience with my students. The
following program is the result of my deter—
mined effort to enable our students to have
similar experiences.

Thirty—six biology students from our high
school participated in THE FLORIDA SCI—
ENCE STUDY PROGRAM. These students
were selected on the basis of their interest in
the biological sciences and on their scholar—
ship. They studied, traveled, and constantly
observed the wide range of biological phe-
nomena on their own time and at their own
expense. The purpose of this program was to
enrich their biology curriculum through un—
usual ﬁeld experiences. The activity-packed
program began at Pennsylvania Station in
New York on December 26 when we departed
by rail for Daytona Beach, Florida. This eight—
day study program, entailing over thirty—ﬁve
hundred miles of travel, took us throughout
the interesting state of Florida and ended on
January 3 with our return to New York and
the return to our classes.

Highlights of the program included: Visits
to Silver Springs, Cypress Gardens, and the
Parrot Jungle; Lecture and trip through a
pineapple plantation; Botany program at the
Highlands Hammock State Park; Visit to the
Archbold Biological Research Station as guests
of Richard Archbold and discussions with
scientists working at the station about their re-
search projects, Everglades orientation and
lecture programs conducted by the rangers
and naturalists; Trips through the Everglades

*The author reports that several civic groups have
expressed an interest in helping ﬁnance this unusual
ﬁeld trip during Christmas vacation.

by catwalk, bus, and boat; University of
Miami science program conducted by Dr. H.
Leigh; Orientation program in marine biology
at the Seaquarium.

While traveling from one point to another,
the students experienced the unusual in science
education. They were members of a new
kind of school—a classroom on wheels. Our
bus was equipped with a micrOphone over
which I was able to conduct “class.” We dis—
cussed what we had seen and what we were
soon to see. We reviewed recently learned
ideas and connected them with our school
work. We reﬁned our methods of observation
as we were trained how to look for the plants
and animals we studied. As we traveled down
Florida’s central scenic route, we observed
examples of biological principles in operation.
Once, our bus stopped while our ranger-guide
jumped out and attempted to catch an Indigo
snake for our examination. Students learned,
ﬁrst—hand, how quickly a snake will react. We
lost our snake!

Immediate Accomplishments

A. Although we were primarily concerned
with the observation and collection of
factual information, in our classroom
sessions we constantly strived to arrive at
the larger biological concepts which were
to be obtained from our experiences.
Following are some of the many princi—
ples and concepts enumerated by the
students during our evaluation sessions.

1. Evolutionary concepts stressed—par-
ticularly,
a) survival of the ﬁttest
b) natural selection
c) variations within a given species
(1) mutations and their place in

modern evolution

2. Plant and animal adaptations were

in abundant evidence.

3. Parasitic, symbiotic, saprophytic and
host relationships were observed, dis-
cussed and better understood.

4. Taxonomy, its purposes and func-
tions, was better understood as the

498

 

 

 

 




Vol. 22, N0. 8

 

 

 

s t u d e n t s familiarized themselves
with terminology and the keys to
plants and animals. ‘

5. Applied conservation was illustrated
by rangers. Their comment, “Take
only a snapshot, leave only your
footprint,” was a good lesson in the
preservation of natural habitats.

6. Controlled burning of forest areas
in the Everglades illustrated the
principles of succession which the
rangers were trying to prevent.

7. Details of the scientiﬁc method were
observed in practice and indelibly
recorded in the minds of students
as they watched scientists at their
work.

8. The drudgery and the discipline of
science were stressed.

9. Students learned why the Ever-
glades National Park was set aside
and the need for the preservation of
natural habitats for the maintenance
of the continuance of some species.

10. The variety of plant and animal
life was clearly observed by the
tremendous abundance of natural
life found only in Florida where the
temperate and the sub-tropic zones
meet and mingle to form a habitat
unique in the continental United
States.

11. Dramatic illustrations of plant trop-
isms were observed and explained.

12. Students also gathered information
about the social, economic, political
and historical background of Florida
which will enrich their general
knowledge.

These were some of the scientiﬁc con—
cepts that we emphasized. It is very true
that these students have already learned
some of these ideas from more traditional
sources such as textbooks, and academic
work; however, it is equally true that
they will not soon forget these concepts
which were so well illustrated before
their own eyes. To this end, this pro-
gram was dedicated.

B. All of the students participating in the

program evidenced deep interest in re—
turning to Florida either with this group

or with their parents and friends to “-\

REPORT ON A FLORIDA SCIENCE STUDY PROGRAM

D.

499

study and stay in the Everglades for a
longer period of time.

. The students, in their desire to continue

learning about the interesting places they
have visited, are planning to form a
science club which will enable them to
continue to build upon the knowl—
edge they have gained and will enable
them to teach others what they have
learned. Some of the students plan to
learn more about the Florida bird life
already seen; others plan to delve deeper
into Everglades ecology.

Students and teacher—guides alike kept
records of the program in several ways.
Some kept journals; others took movies,
snapshots, and slides. A ﬁne collection
of color slides which illustrate many
phases of our science activities is now
available for showing to interested clubs,
organizations, and other science pro—
grams without charge.

E. The trip was not completely science.

Where possible, the students took ad—
vantage of the opportunity to swim,
ﬁsh, and sunbathe. It is interesting to
note that even during their leisure mom—
ents, many students pursued activities of
a semi-scientiﬁc nature. Some chose to
go deep—sea ﬁshing; others collected
shells, crabs, coconuts, marine life, and
other science materials.

Evaluation

It is diﬂicult to evaluate a program of
this nature. The results may not be evi—
denced for many years. Of this, I can be
sure, each student, in his own way, will
remember this program as a highlight in
his high school learnings and will be in-
ﬂuenced by it. Field biology has become
to them an interesting and exciting ex-
perience. Each participant has already
evidenced increased maturity and emo-
tional development as a result of this
unique experience. He has learned to
accept adult responsibilities in a new
situation of living and working together
toward the goals of learning enrichment.
This represents preparation for future
adult living.

Future Programs

At present, we are planning similar pro-

 




 

 

 

500 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

grams to include science work in the
Florida Keys in addition to our present
areas of concentration. Greater partici-
pation from Florida scientists is antici-
pated in future programs because of
their excellent response to our enthusi-
astic youngsters. Other science groups

November, 1960

are evidencing interest in participation
in the planning and implimentation of
this program. Civic groups are being en-
couraged to provide scholarships for
future programs to enable deserving
science students to broaden their science
horizons.

 

Audra-Visual Report

“An Experiment in the Use of Films for
the Inservice Training of High School Chem—
istry Teachers,” is a report of 18 pages now
available from Samuel Schenberg, Director
of Science, Board of Education, City of New
York.

 

Conservation Publication

A recent publication, “Snow Surveys and
Water Supply Forecasts,” is available from
The Soil Conservation Society of America,
838 Fifth Avenue, Des Moines 14, Iowa, for
$0.50 per copy.

 

New Biblagraphy
“Suggested Science Books for the Pupil and
Teacher,” a new publication of the College of
Education, State University of Iowa, Iowa
City, Iowa, is now available from the Exten—
sion Division at ten cents per copy. Especially
useful for teachers of K-9.

 

Slippery Skins of Germs

The slippery skins of germs—key factors
in the body’s defense against disease—are be-
gining to give up their secrets. Chemical
studies have established a relationship between
the chemical structures of these “skins,”
known as polysaccharides, and the body’s
ability to produce germ—ﬁghting antibodies,
reported Dr. Paul Rebers, assistant professor
of immuno-chemistry at the Rutgers Institute
of Microbiology. Of the more than 70 dif—
ferent polysaccharides associated with the
pneumonia germ, the chemist has determined
the chemical structure of one. The structure
of only two others has as yet been deter-
mined. The amount of antibodies produced

to ﬁght a germ depends on the type of sugar
molecules and how they link together in the
polysaccharide.

“Certain proteins in the blood stream of
disease-immune animals, called antibodies, are
able to combine speciﬁcally with the disease—
causing bacteria, often by means of the sur-
face polysaccharides and sometimes through
proteins,” the biochemist explained. “This
combination is an important step in the body’s
defense system. The nature of this combina-
tion is highly speciﬁc depending upon the
strain of bacteria, which in turn is related to
the chemical structure of its surface.”

 

Chemical Trap

A chemical trap that captures an important
vitamin in corn, making it nutritionally un—
available, has been detected in research re-
ported by a chemist of the United States
Department of Agriculture.

The existence of the trap—which holds the
niacin, a B-vitamin, at 1,000 times the con-
centration at which it occurs in whole corn
—was conﬁrmed in rat feeding tests, described
by Donald D. Christianson of the U. S. D. A.
Northern Utilization Research and Develop-
ment Division, Peoria, 111. A. better under—
standing of the relation between high—corn
diets and pellagra, a niacin-deﬁciency disease
which attacks the nervous and digestive sys-
tems is expected from the studies, he said.

The problem of the poor nutritional utiliza-
tion of niacin in corn has been recognized for
many years, and it was previously suggested
that the niacin of corn was chemically bound
in a manner that made it unusable by animals.
Interestingly, Dr. Christianson said, in coun—
tries where tortillas are a common food, there
is less pellagra than in other high-corn con-
suming areas. Alkaline treatment of corn
during tortilla manufacture may liberate the
niacin, he stated.

 




 

Nominations for 1961 Officers

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
BIOLOGY TEACHERS

In accordance with the constitutional pro-
vision on elections, a Nominating Committee
was appointed by President Howard Weaver.
Members were: Paul Klinge, Chairman;
Frances Gourley, Brother Charles, Richard
Weaver, and Irving Keene. Their nominations
are presented below. Ballots will be mailed
shortly.

A new feature of this year’s election will
be the election of Regional Directors. Their
duties will be to represent their regions on
the Board of Directors, to promote regional
activities, and to initiate teacher award pro-
grams. Their biographical backgrounds will

be carried in the December issue.

Officer duties, brieﬂy, are: President—Elect,
prepare for presidential duties and arrange
AAAS meeting; First Vice—President, sub—
stitute for President and arrange AIBS meet—
ing; Second Vice—President, substitute for
First Vice—President and promote aﬂ‘iliate
memberships; Third Vice—President, substitute
for Second Vice—President and in charge of
membership promotion; Secretary—Treasurer,
keep records, disburse and receive funds, and
receive membership dues; and Recording
Secretary, keep oﬂicial Board minutes and
have stationery printed.

Candidate for President-ElectL
Muriel Beuschlein

Present Position: Associ—
ate Professor of Bi-
ology, Chicago Teach-
ers College, Chicago,
Illinois.

Degrees: B. E., Chicago
Teachers College. M.S.,
Northwestern Universi—
ty. Finishing Ph.D.,
June, 1961, North-
western University.

 

Experience: Science
teacher in junior high
school for 7 years.

Film advisory committees, AIBS and Indiana
University. Coordinator for program of teaching

501

societies, AAAS, 1959. Coordinator, 4 in-service
courses, Chicago Teachers College and Chicago
Academy of Science.

NABT Activities: Managing Editor, ABT, since 1951.
Chairman, Illinois Conservation Committee, Chi-
cago Membership Committee, Constitution Revi-
sion Committee, Policies Committee. Member, Liai-
son Committee and Afﬁliation Committee.

Organization Membership and Activities: Fellow,
AAAS. Member, NARST, CASMT, NSTA, CESI,
and CEA. Panelist, National Science Foundation.
Secretary, Sigma Delta Epsilon.

Publications: Articles in ABT, CASMT, and other
professional journals. Booklets: “Free and Inexpen-
sive Materials for Conservation and Resource Use
Education,” Interstate Printers, 1958; “Free and
Inexpensive Materials for Science Education,” Cbi-
cago Scbools ]0urnal, 1959. Co—author: “Things to
Do in Science and Conservation,” Interstate Print-
ers, 1960. Educational author of ﬁlms and ﬁlmstrips.

Candidate for President-Elect
Frances M. Gourley

Present Position: Biology
teacher, LaPorte High
School, LaPorte, Indi-
ana. Biology instructor,
Purdue University Ex—
tension Center, Michi-
gan City, Indiana.

Degrees: BS. and M.S.,
University of Illinois.

Experience: High school
teacher in Illinois and
Indiana for 25 years.
Biology instructor,
Purdue University Ex—

tension Center, 5 years. Senior Counselor, High

School Science Student Institute, Indiana Universi—

ty, 1959—1960. President, Biology Section, Indiana

State Teachers Association, 1957-1960. President,

Biology Section, Central Association of Science

and Mathematics Teachers 1950—1951.

 

NABT Activities: National Membership Chairman,
1947—1951. Member, Executive Board. Editor, N ews
and Views of NABT, 1958-1960.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
NABT, CASMT, AAAS, AIBS, ISTA, Delta
Kappa Gamma, Indiana Audubon Society, Indiana
Academy of Science. President, Conservation Sec—
tion, CASMT, 195 8-1959. Member, Executive Board,
CASMT.

 




 

 

 

502

Candidate for First Vice-President

Clarence J. Goodnight

Present Position: Profes—
sor of Zoology, De-
partment of Biological
Sciences, Purdue Uni—
versity, West Lafay-

ette, Indiana.

Degrees: B.S., M.A.,
Ph.D., University of

Illinois.

Experience: Teaching and
research assistant. Uni-
versity of Illinois. In-
structor in Biology,
Brooklyn College, Uni-
versity of Illinois, Jersey City State Teachers Col-
lege. Research associate, American Museum of
Natural History, New York. Co-director NSF
Summer Institute for High School Biology Teach-
ers, New Mexico Highlands University. Director,
NSF Summer Institute for Biology Teachers, Pur-
due University. Research at Cold Spring Harbor,
New York, and Friday Harbor Marine Station,
State University of Washington. Co—ordinator of
teaching activities in Department of Biological
Sciences, Purdue University.

NABT Activities: Organized symposium on teaching
of invertebrate zoology for AIBS meetings at
Stillwater, Oklahoma.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa, Indiana Academy of
Sciences, Society of Systematic Zoology, Ecological
Society of America, Society of Zoologists, Society
for the Study of Evolution, Nature Conservancy,
American Microscopical Society, American Society
of Limnology and Oceanography, Association of
Midwest Biology Teachers, NSTA. Fellow, AAAS.

Publications: Author of numerous articles in various
scientiﬁc journals. Author of article and book re-
views for American Biology Teacher. Co-author,
zoology text and laboratory manual. Co-author
with Paul Klinge and R. R. Armacost of high
school biology text (in press). Co-author of col—
lege biology text (in press) with R. R. Armacost
and M. L. Goodnight.

 

Candidate for First Vice-President
Stanley B. Mulaik

Present Position: Associ-
ate Professor of Zoolo—
gy, University of Utah,
Salt Lake City.

Degrees: B.S.,
T e a c h e r 3
Pennsylvania. M . S . ,
C o r n ell University.
Ph.D., University of
Utah.

Experience: Grade school
and high school teach-
er in Pennsylvania.
Consultant, instructor,

State
College,

 

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

and director for nature study in camps in Penn-
sylvania, New Hampshire, and Texas. National staff
of Girl Scouts as nature study director. Consulting
specialist, Dugway Ecological Laboratory. Associ—
ate Director, NSF Summer Institute, University of
Utah. Research grants (NSF).

NABT Activities: Consultant, NABT North Central
States Biology Teachers Conference, 1955. State
membership chairman, Utah. Member, Conserva-
tion Committee.

Organization Membership and Activities: President,
South Texas Science Teachers Association. Editor,
Newsletter, ANSS. Vice-President, Conservation
Education Association. Member, NARST, Sigma
Xi, Utah Academy of Science, Wilderness Society,
Soil Conservation Society of America, State Gen-
eral Science Curriculum Committee, NSTA, State
Conservation Education Council, Biological Society
of Washington, Entomology Society of Washing-
ton, AAUP, Nature Conservancy, Society of Sys-
tematic Zoologists. Fellow, AAAS, Texas Academy
of Science. Member, Natural Resources Council

of America. Past President, Western Section,
ANSS. President, ANSS, Utah Nature Study

Society.

Publications: 35 papers in zoology.

Candidate for Second Vice-President
Sister Hilaire 1

Present Position: Chair-
man and Professor of
Biology, Rosary Col-
lege, River Forest, Illi-
nors.

Degrees: .—\.B., M.A., and
Ph.D., University of

Illinois.

Experience: 39 years of
teaching at college
level. Professor of Bi-
ology, College of New
Rochelle, New Ro-
chelle, New York.

Participant, School and College Workshop, Uni—

versity of Chicago. Participant, Summer Institute

for Teachers of College Botany, Cornell Univer—

Slty.

 

NABT Activities: Participant, North Central States
Conference for Biology Teachers. Member, Illi—
nois State Membership Committee. Chairman,
Catholic Membership Committee.

Publications: Microthyriaceae, Mycologia and Uni—
versity of Illinois Monograph series. Effects of
Water Source on Toxicity of Mercurial Poisons,
journal of Heredity, 1951.

 




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

Candidate for Second Vice-President

Brother G. Nicholas, F.S.C.

Present Position: Re-
search Associate, De-
partment of Biology,
Notre Dame Univer-
sity, Notre Dame, Indi—
ana. Instructor, Holy
Cross School of Nurs—
ing, South Bend, Indi-

ana.

Degrees: B.S., Catholic
University. MS, Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh.
Ph.D., University of
Notre Dame.

Experience: Biology Teacher. LaSalle High School,
Cumberland, Maryland. Directed excavations, Cum—
berland Bone Cave.

 

NABT Activities: Member, Cooperative Committee
of AAAS, Membership Committee. Chairman,
State Membership Committee. Assistant editor,
ABT.

Organization .Membership and Activities: President,
National Speleological Society. Fellow, AAAS.
Member, Council of AAAS, New York Academy
of Sciences, Pennsylvania Academy of Science, So—
ciety of Systematic Zoologists, Society of Mam-
malogy, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, Alpha Epsi-
lon Delta, Teacher Preparation Committee of

BSCS, AIBS.

Publications: Checklist of Macroscopic Troglobitic
Organisms of the United States, American Mid-
land Naturalist, July, 1960. Articles in ABT, Science,
Scientiﬁc Monthly, Scientiﬁc American, Proceed-
ings of the Pennsylvania Academy of Science.

Candidate for Third Vice-President
Robert L. Smith

Present Position: Chair-
man, Biology Depart-

ment, DeKalb High
School, DeKalb, Illi—
nois.

Degrees: B.E., Illinois
State Normal Univer-
sity, M.A., (zoology),
University of Michi—
gan.

Experience: State chair-
man, Illinois Junior
Academy of Science,

. 1949—51. Elementary

SCIBHCC consultant, Illinois Department of Public

InStljlction. Participant, Darwin Centennial Cele-

bration, University of Chicago.

N AB T Activities: State and Regional Chairman, Con-
Sflrvation Project. National Membership Chairman
Sm(3.1955. Participant, North Central Conference
on Blology Teaching.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,

 

NOMINATIONS FOR 1961 OFFICERS

503

ANSS, NSTA, Illinois Junior Academy of Science,
Northern Illinois Association of Biology Teachers.

Publications: Contributing author, NABT Conserva-
tion Handbook. Article on biology clubs in ABT.

Candidate for Secretary-Treasurer

Herman C. Kranzer

Present Position: Asso—
ciate Professor of Ele-
mentary Education,
Teachers College,
Temple University,
Philadelphia, Pennsyl—

vania.

Degrees: B.S., (forestry),
M.A., (education),
University of Michi—
gan; Ed.D., U.C.L.A.

Experience: Taught sci—
ence and conservation,
Work-Learn Camp for

Older Youth, Michigan; Teacher—counselor, Clear

Lake Camp, Battle Creek Schools. Outdoor Educa—

tion Director, Culver City, California. Director,

Conservation Workshop, West Chester State Col-

lege, Pennsylvania. NDEA lecturer in elementary

science. Director, Conservation Education Labora-
tory for Teachers, Pennsylvania State University.

Assistant Professor of Science Education, Pennsyl-

vania State University.

NABT Activities: Secretary-Treasurer, 1960.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
NSTA, Pennsylvania Science Teachers Association,
Conservation Education Association, Phi Delta
Kappa. Board of Directors, Pennsylvania Forestry
Association. NSTA Teaching Materials Review
Committee.

Publications: Education in the Out-of—Doors, Penn-
sylvania School Study Council. Bulletin of the
Michigan Secondary School Association. A Com—
munity School Work-Learn Camp, Michigan De—
partment of Public Instruction. Article in Metro—
politan Detroit Science Review.

 

Candidate for Recording Secretary

Frances L. Behnke

Degrees: B.S., M.A., Uni-
versity of Arkansas.
Ph.D., Teachers Col—

lege, Columbia Univer-

sity.
Experience: Science
teacher, Little Rock,

Arkansas, and Atlanta,
Georgia. Faculty, Barn-
ard College and Hunter
College. John Hay
Whitney Fellow, Col—
umbia University.
Member, Science Man-
power Project. Consultant, Thomas Alva Edison

Foundation.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

504

NABT Activities: State chairman, Conservation
Project. Local chairman, AAAS meetings. Mem—
ber, Local Arrangements Committee, AAAS meet-
ings, 1956. Participant, North Central Conference
for Biology Teachers.

Organization Members/sip and Activities: Vice-

President, Iota Sigma Pi. Member, AIBS, Georgia
Academy of Science.

Candidate for Recording Secretary
Audrey E. Pressler

Present Position: Biology
Teacher, Fre derick
High School, F red—
erick, Maryland.

Degrees: A.B., Hood Col—
lege. Candidate for
M.S., University of
Michigan.

Experience: High school
biology teacher for
many years. Partici—
pant, NSF Summer In-
stitute for teachers Of

High School Biology,

 

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960

Indiana University; Writing Conference for Source—
book, Michigan State University. Awarded NSF
fellowship for University of Michigan. NSTA.
STAR program winner.

NAB T Activities: State Membership Chairman, Mary--
land. Member, Conservation Committee. Local
chairman, AAAS meetings, 1958.

Organization Members/nip and Activities: Member,
NEA, NSTA. Reviewer, AIBS Film Series, Mem-
ber, Welfare and Nominating Committees, Mary-
land State Teachers Association. Treasurer and
Vice-President, Maryland Science Teachers ASSO—
ciation. Secretary and Member of Board Of
Trustees, Maryland Biology Teachers Association.
Member Of Executive Committee and Chairman
of Teacher Welfare Committee, Frederick County
Teacher’s Association. Corresponding Secretary,
Frederick County Science Teachers Association.
Past President, Junior Woman’s Club and Fred—
erick Hood Club.

Publications: Article in Tbe Science Teacber. One of
authors, Laboratory and Field Studies in Biology.

 

Book Reviews

THE CELL, FOUNDATIONS OF MODERN BIOLOGY
SERIES, Carl P. Swanson, 114 pp., $1.50, Pren—
tice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,
1960.

An auspicious begining for a series which
should be on every bio-logy teacher’s bookshelf.
Well illustrated, this slender paper—backed volume
is written in an easy, readable, but information—
packed style. The author includes in this effort
to present the latest in cytology, something of the
history Of the cell concept, exceptions to its gen-
eralities, tools and techniques, structure and me*
tabolism, mitosis and meiosis, reproduction in
plants and animals, embryology, and cell death.
The DNA concept is thoroughly taken up, and
the role the cell plays within the history of the
organism is an outstanding feature. There is no
undue emphasis on structure, but whenever it is
taken up it is tied to metabolism. The treatment
Of cell growth incorporates much of the new
concepts Of embryology. Heartily and enthusi-
astically recommended.

P.K.

GENETICS NOTES, Fourth Edition, James F. Crow,
149 pp., Burgess Publishing Company, Minne-
apolis, Minnesota, 1960.

This is a spiral-bound book by a distinguished
geneticist which is precisely what its title implies
—notes for a genetics course. The right hand pages
are consistently blank for right-hand writers who

want to take further notes. The book is engag-
ingly and simply written—a ﬁne capsule summary
of the major genetic concepts. Each chapter ends
with excellent problems. The book progresses
rapidly from Mendelian laws, and within nine
chapters is into biochemical genetics and ends
with material on the origin of life. Recommended
for those teachers whose genetics courses were
sometime ago as well as the neophyte who is just
beginning.
P.K.

THE EDUCATION OF TEACHERS: CURRICULUM PRO-—
GRAMS, Kansas TEPS Conference, 453 pp.,
$53.50, National Education Association of the
United States, Washington, D. C., 1959.

This is the next conference report in the series
begun at Bowling Green, Ohio. AS the title indi—
cates, the primary emphasis is on teacher prepar-
ation rather than certiﬁcation. The NABT was
represented in this conference although no elabo-
rate emphasis is made on science teacher prep-
aration. In large measure, the Garrett report,
prepared under the auspices of the Cooperative
Committee of the AAAS, is the basis for the rec-
ommendations for science teachers. The intro-
duction is an excellent summary of the details.
Individual college programs for teacher prepara—
tion are summarized. Any one interested in this
area will have this volume available.

P.K.

 




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

THE SEAHORSE AND ITS RELATIVES, Gilbert Whit-
ley, Joyce Allan, 84 pp., $6.00, Charles T. Bran-
ford Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 1958.

A delightful, little Australian book on seahorses
and their relatives. There are numerous illustra—
tions. Anatomy, habits, classiﬁcation, and their
very interesting and unusual sex life are told in an
interesting style. One chapter on culturing the
ﬁsh should be of particular interest to teachers.

P.K

GOOD HEALTH, Benjamin F. Miller and Zelma
Miller, 546 pp., $6.00, W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia, Pa., 1960.

A very good high school and freshman
college text directed to those areas of study
which rightfully belong to health education.
The authors have made a direct approach to
the problems of maintaining good health, thus
avoiding any negative, moral, or morbid at-
titudes.

Use of this book would eliminate the com—
mon practice of many teachers and texts to
make the course one of physiology and anato—
my. Certainly the use Of this book would be
more meaningful following a good course
In biology; however, the presentation is such
that this is not imperative. The subject mat—
ter is such as to make the student aware of
his responsibility for public health as well
as for himself.

Virgil Heniser
Howe High School
Indianapolis, Indiana

MEDICINAL PLANTS OF THE ARID ZONES,
UNESCO, 96 pp., $3.00, Columbia University
Press, New York, 1960.

This booklet, Part XIII in the UNESCO
Arid Zone research series, considers the botan-
1cal and pharmacological aspects of a number
Of higher plants of the more arid regions of
the world. Particular attention is also given
to the commercial possibilities. An extensive

bibliography is included.

SCIENCE MATERIALS—PREPARATION AND Ex-
HIBITION FOR THE CLASSROOM, GORDON G.
Pond, vi + 132 p., $2.75, Wm. C. Brown
Co., Dubuque, Iowa, 1959.

The biology teacher’s desk is the frequent
repository for animals, plants, rocks, and an
almost inﬁnite array of objects brought by
Students to “Show the teacher.” Most teachers

BOOK REVIEWS

505

are happy to have students express their inter-
est by bringing in these specimens and use
them to teach the student something about
science. One of the best ways to encourage
this kind of activity is to have the student
prepare their specimens for display to other
students. Pond’s little book contains informa-
tion about how to prepare these displays and
the more formal exhibits used for teaching
purposes. Information is included on the prep-
aration of labels and setting of displays of
materials in anthropology, geology, paleon-
tology, zoology, and botany. Illustrated direc-
tions are given for making models, plaster
casts, plastic embedded specimens, study skins,
herbarium specimens, and many other kinds of
preparations. A short section on the presenta-
tion of projects for science fairs is included.

This book is set up for use as a text by the
inclusion of perforated quiz sheets at the end
of each chapter. Its primary value, however,
is as a reference source rather than as a text—

book.
John M. Hamilton
Park College
Par/eville, Missouri

THE WILD MAMMALS OF MISSOURI, Charles
W. Schwartz and Elizabeth R. Schwartz,
xvi + 341 p., $5.95, University of Missouri
Press, Columbia, Missouri. 1959.

The Missouri Conservation Commission has
been fortunate for many years to have the
services of Charles and Elizabeth Schwartz.
The former is an artist with the knack of
capturing his subjects with his pen so that
they look alive, yet clearly illustrate tax-
ondmic details. Together, the Schwartzes have
produced exceptional wildlife ﬁlms, books, and

articles.

This book contains ﬁfty—seven full page
plates, each devoted to a single species. Most
of these plates include drawings of the animals
in their natural environment; dorsal, ventral,
and lateral views of the skulls, feet, and
other taxonomic details. In addition, one or
more ﬁgures is to be found on each page Of
text. These show the distribution in North
America, ecological characteristics, tracks, and
other aspects of the life of the mammals d15-
cussed. The text, written for the non—specialist,
contains a wealth of useful information pre-
sented in a delightful manner. In addition to
descriptions of the animals, there are discus-

 

 

 




 

 

 

506

sions of the habits, homes, foods, and economic
control and importance of each of the major
species described.

Because of the diversity of habitats pro-
vided by the state, The Wild Mammals of
Missouri includes most of the mammals found
in Central United States and is useful over
a much wider area than the title implies.
The price is unusually low for a book as well
illustrated as this one.

John M. Hamilton
Par/e College
Par/eville, Missouri

A LABORATORY MANUAL FOR LIFE SCIENCE,
Herbert Drapkin, iii + 129 p., $2.40; N-P
Publications, Palo Alto, California, 1959.
This is a manual for a one—semester course

in biology for non—science majors. Much of

the work is on living or freshly killed organ—
isms, and many of the exercises involve simple
experiments by students working in groups.

The directions are clearly written, and they

should contribute to the learning process of

the student. Numerous optional experiments
are suggested. Except for an exercise on

Protozoa, the work is limited to vertebrates

and higher plants. Four of the exercises are

on systems of the fetal pig. There are no
exercises on embryology or ecology.

john M. Hamilton
Par/e College
Parkville, Missouri

WARD AND WHIPPLE’S FRESH-WATER BIOLOGY,
2nd ed., W. T. Edmondson, Ed., xx —|—

1248 p., $34.50, John Wiley & Sons, New
York, 1959.

Ward and Whipple’s Fresh Water Biology
played such an important role in turning my
interests to biological science that it seems
appropriate that I abandon tradition and
review the new edition in the ﬁrst person.
One can hardly speak of an old friend in the
impersonal way that one is expected to write
book reviews.

In the late twenties, When I was in high
school, my teacher had a shelf of books in
his classroom which he encouraged students
to read during the noon hour and after school.
I remember just two of these: Slosson’s Crea—
tive Chemistry and Ward and Whipple’s
Fresh W'ater Biology. I used to thumb through
the latter endlessly, wondering at the diversity

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960‘

of animals to be found in ponds and streams
and learning that it was possible to ﬁnd the
names of these creatures and something about
their habits. I was determined that someday
I would own a copy of that book. It was
several years before I did, but for twenty—ﬁve
years I have been reaching for my copy ﬁrst
when trying to identify a strange animal,
knowing that the answer I would ﬁnd would
be out of date, but this book always seemed
to be the logical place to start. Certainly it
was an important factor in starting me on the
road toward becoming a biologist. I think that
this is a good example of something that we
teachers tend to forget—that the right book
placed in the hands of a student at the right
time may do more to stimulate him than
our most brilliant class presentation or our
most carefully prepared laboratory exercise.

The total format of the new Fresh Water
Biology is similar at ﬁrst glance to the old,
but is, at last, brought up to date. It is still
essentially a book of illustrated keys, with
introductory material for each group to enable
the nonspecialist to make a tentative identi—
ﬁcation of his specimen. W. T. Edmondson
has made wise decisions in the changes that
were made in the second edition of this work.
The internal parasites, H. B. Ward’s specialty,
have been omitted since they are not truly
aquatic except for brief free-swimming stages.
The aquatic vertebrates have been excluded
since there are other books in which they
are covered much more completely than could
be done in a work of this size. The spiders
associated with the water are also excluded.
On the other hand, the bacteria and the
vascular plants have a much more complete-
coverage than in the ﬁrst edition. The bryo—
phytes, tardigrades, and polychaets which
were not included in the ﬁrst edition are
treated here.

Each chapter is devoted to a major tax—
onomic group and is treated by a specialist.
The authors include such well known biol—
ogists as F. K. Sparrow (Fungi), L. E. Noland
(Ciliophora), L. H. Hyman (Coelenterata
and part of the Turbellaria), H. B. Hunger—
ford (Hemiptera), H. S. Conard (Bryophytém
and many Others. Two workers W. R. Coe
(Nemertea) and j. P. Moore (Hirudinea),
have revised the sections they wrote for the
original edition published in'1918. Edmond-

 




 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

son’s chapter on the rotifers should make it
possible for a student to identify many of the
specimens he encounters of this diﬂ'icult
group. As in the old edition, the ﬁgures which
accompany the keys are a great help in iden—
tiﬁcation.

I am sure that most fresh—water biologists
join me in welcoming this new edition of an
old friend. It is unfortunate that the publishers
found it necessary to set the price so high,
for this will keep the new Ward and Whipple
from the shelves of many biology teachers
where its presence might stimulate students
to choose biology as their ﬁeld of study.

John M. Hamilton
Park College
Parkville, Missouri

DR. CARLOS J. FINLAY, BOOKLET ON SANITATION
HISTORY, 140 pp., Ministry of Health and Hos-
pital’s Assistance, Havana, Cuba, 1959.

An addition to the library on the history Of
science. Published on the occasion Of Dr. Finlay’s
nomination tO the Hall Of Fame, all the pertinent
documents concerning his life and his scientiﬁc
discoveries are compiled here.

P.K.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT, Phyllis C. Martin,
Elizabeth Lee Vincent, William A. Osburn,
541 pp., $6.50, Ronald Press Company, NeW
York 10, 1960.

This is a most unusual book for elementary
college courses in human anatomy and phys-
Iology. Written with strong overtones of
psychology, embryology, and developmental
anatomy, the treatment of this traditional
course should be considerably enlivened by
theuse of this book as a text. When psycho-
logical ideas are presented, it is done with
direct reference tO the human body, anatom—
ically and/or physiologically. Each body
System also includes some embryological
development. It seems, all in all, a most appro-
prlate text for the age level Of students
normally in college classes.

Written in quite a readable style, the authors
are to be congratulated for packing into each
chapter a wealth of information presented in
a Way students will enjoy reading about.
Chapter end material includes a selected list
Of appropriate ﬁlms.

.The chapter on skin was most fascinating
Wlth information seldom found in this type

BOOK REVIEWS

507

of text. But to the biologist, it will be a pleasure
to ﬁnd man described continually in reference
to his place in the biotic and physical world.
A listing of chapter headings may give a false
impression that this is just another anatomy
and physiology text. But a reading will con—
Vince the teacher that this is truly a text to
consider. .

P. K.

OPERATION NEw YORK, USING THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT OF THE CITY As A CURRICU-
LUM RESOURCE, 117 pp., $1.00, Board Of
Education of the City of New York, 1960.

One of the most unusual little volumes to
cross this editor’s desk. Even the way it was
written has a ﬂair not found in most books.
This is the result of a curriculum Study
carried out by persons with a variety of back—
grounds and then tested. The result is not
the usual report, but it is a resource book on
how to use an urban environment for biologi-
cal education. It is truly a unique volume.

Although it is tailored for the New York
City area, other urban biology teachers can
learn a great deal from this. It starts with a
study of the stone in the school building it-
self, going on to gutters, drainpipes, etc. Soon
the biological environment is discussed. A
variety of ecological situations are described,
and soon the richness of the biological com—
munities in an area such as New York City
is unfolded in amazing detail. Then the
changes which occur during the year are
noted. The booklet concludes with a descrip-
tive listing of the main areas of New York
and its rich variety of teaching resources.
Urban biology teachers will do well to ex—
amine this book. P.K.

FOSSIL PLANTS OF INDIANA, Report of Progress
NO. 14, James E. Canright, 45 pp., $.75,
Indiana Department of Conservation, Geo-
logical Survey, Bloomington, Indiana, 1959.

An illustrated booklet for biologists inter—
ested in the fossil remains of biological speci—
mens. There is an introduction of geological
background, types Of fossils, and maps of
fossil bed locations. Emphasis is on the coal-
forming plants. The booklet concludes with
a phylogenetic listing of the fossil plants and
illustrations. A handy reference.

P. K.

 

 

 




 

EXPOSED!

 

INFECTIONS

 

HANDS—most active in distribution of INFECTION! For the manage-
ment and handling of specimen containers requiring a label, use a
“no-lick” TIME Tape or TIME Specimen Collection Label for service, a
new advancement specified in the “Guide to Laboratory Safety”.*

Every dressing, every collection of
specimen, blood, sputum, etc. requires
hand service. Eliminate contact by
using the satin finish, vinyl coated
TIME Tape or Label.

A qualified consultant will teach you
the effective TIME procedure. It is
your first step to a safer laboratory.
Write today to Dept. FH.

* In April 1960 issue of Lab World.

 

   

   
 

\ PROFESSIONAL TAPE CO., INC.
355 BURLINGTON AVE. 0 RIVERSIDE, ILL.
chkory 7-7800

 

 




 

BARRON’s TEEN-AGE SUMMER GUIDE, M.
Reinhold, 148 pp., $1.50, Barron’s Educa-
tional Series, Inc., Great Neck, New York,
1960.

A very handy paper-back for school coun—
selors and parents. Opportunities are listed for
useful summer activities for youngsters 14—18.
Liberally illustrated, the topics covered are
travel, domestic and foreign, camps, wilder-
ness trips, work camps, summer jobs, study,
and a useful appendix listing many opportun—
ities by geographic region. A host of useful
tips for teenagers in obtaining these activities.

P. K.

VERTEBRATE DISSECTION, Warren F. Walker,
Jr., 340 pp., W. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1960.

This is a laboratory manual for the study
of comparative anatomy. The drawings are
good, and there is a very informative appendix
on preservation of animal specimens. Elaborate
dissection instructions are a ﬁne feature.

P. K.

 

ANATOMY STUDY CARDS

Completely illustrating the human body-
skeleton, muscles and muscle insertions

SET l offers thorough coverage of the Skeleton, Muscles and
Muscle Insertions. Over 100 anatomical illustrations scientiﬁcally
organized on 21 laminated cards. Already in wide use as a
Study aid and refresher, SET I has been recommended for
adoption by many Anatomy, Art, Nursing, Biology, Pre-Med and
Phys. Ed. instructors. Examination cards are available for inter-
ested faculty members.

(Iver 90 illustrations of (4) vertebrates
on 21 Double-Faced, pocket-size cards

SET 3 covers the COMPARATIVE anatomical structure of four
vertebrates: The Cat, Frog, Shark and Necturus. Over 90 black
and white illustrations on 21 laminated cards. Each of the four
vertebrates is treated separately in full anatomical detail includ-
ing appropriate nomenclature throughout. Organized as a handy,
authoritative reference and study for students and teachers.

lIST PRICE -— $2.50 CARD SIZE 2V2"): 3V2"

   

Student Merchandise, Inc. 350 Fifth Ave..
NEW YORK. N. Y.

To Serve

The Busy Biologist
The Cooperative Advertiser

Recognizing the pressure at your duties and
knowing your interest in the products that our
advertisers have to otter in the tield of biology.
you need only put checks on the squares below,
sign the coupon and mail it to Muriel Beuschlein.

643i 5. Richmond St.' Chicago 29. Illinois.

December, 1960

Visual Sciences
Ward’s Natural Science
Welch Scientiﬁc

(Please Print)

Name
Position
School Name
School Address

City

free folder
catalog 608-AB
catalog

[:J American Optical brochure
G Armstrong Associates brochure
1:] Barnes and Noble literature
E] Bausch and Lomb catalog D4079
[:1 Biological Research catalog
[:1 Carolina Biological catalog
[:1 Connecticut Valley catalog
[:1 Contemporary Films literature
I] Denoyer-Geppert circular S31
[:1 Difco Laboratories literature
[I Doubleday literature
E] Edmund Scientiﬁc catalog AX
[:l Elgeet Optical literature
[I General Biological catalog #6,?
E] Graf—Apsco catalog
[:1 Harvard Apparatus literature
[1 D. C. Heath literature
[:J Henry Holt literature
E] Charles Lane literature
[:1 National Biological catalog
1:] A. J. Nystrom and Co. NDEA catalog
E] Professional Tape literature
[:1 W. B. Saunders literature
[:1 Sheldon Equipment information
[:1 Student Merchandise literature
[I Swift Instruments literature
[1 Triarch Products catalog 11a
[:1 Unitron catalog
[:1 D. Van Nostrand literature
Cl

El

Cl

 

 

 

 

State

 

_____

 

 




 

 

 

 

A BRILLIANT FILM . . .

JOURNEY
INTO SPRING

The coming of spring to
the English countryside, A
detailed observation of
animal, pond and plant
life; in exquisite color that
exposes the fascinating
world that lies behind the
English country scene.

. I6mm Sound

. Color; 30 min.

. Rental: $IO

. Sale: $250

. Send For Our Latest
Catalog of Outstanding Films.

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

Contemporary films inc.

ORegon 5-7220

267 w. 25 St., Dept. ABT, N. Y. 1
Midwest Office

614 Davis St., Evanston, Ill. DAvis 8-2411

 

Triarch Products

‘—

 

 

 

 

Fine Microscope Slides for
Discriminating Biologists

 

More than l.000.000 Triarch Slides
have been sold to over I200 Colleges
and Universities throughout the world.
Ask them for an appraisal!

For current Catalog No. Ila
write to:

GEO. H. CONANT

Ripon. Wisconsin

 

 

Rare Insect-Eating Plants
Fascinating Study Projects

 

Watch Venus’s Fly Traps lure, catch and eat insects.
Bright colored traps seize unwary victims as shown
here. Fascinating for biology, botany, science class
study. Easily-grown bulbs sprout leafy traps within
weeks. Special school price, six bulbs, sphagnum
moss, color picture and culture instructions, $3.50

postpaid. Three bulb package $1.95. Germination
guaranteed. Free brochure.

ARMSTRONG ASSOCIATES, INC.
Box 127 B, Basking Ridge N. J.

 

 

 

 

WE SPECIALIZE

IN DEPENDABLE AND EXTENSIVE
SETS OF LIVING CULTURES

 

.....

Brmr'n Planariu as .czrft/‘licd in the
High School Iizz'crtr‘ln'atc Set.

L52h High School Protozoan Set (5 cultures)

L52k Debris and Plankton Collection ,
L54 High School Invertebrate Set (6 representatIVP-SI
LGIIIS Drosophila Set (2 cultures)

AGIOO Genetics Set Kit d
LBI9 Large Set of Ten Algae (individually packe )
L827 Lichen Set (4 species) .

LBI22 lnsectivorous Plant Set (5 specnmens)

—We Guarantee Safe Arrival .
of All Living Materlals—

for

For more information on the many sets available and
immediate class orders write to -—

CAROLINA BIOLOGICAL
SUPPLY COMPANY

ELON COLLEGE, NORTH CAROLINA
Free Catalog Available to Teachers

 

 

 

 




 

 

Creative Teaching Unlimited

with the A0 Spencer Cycloptic Stereoscopic Microscope

 

Hunt and select individual protozoan with eye dropper

 

See exquisite detail in 3-D

The A0 Spencer CYCLOPTIC Stereoscopic Micro-
scope exposes the student to three-dimensional micro-
sc0pic worlds beyond the scope of their everyday
experiences. Gross specimens, such as fossils, insects,

ark, larva, etc., assume new proportions of interest
when seen in sharp, erect, magniﬁed three-dimen-
sronal detail.

If at all possible, there should be at least one AO
CYCLOPTIC in every biology class .. .set up and
readily available for use by all students. Invite them
to bring in their own specimens for study and 3-D
V1ewing.The student’s-interest is aroused. . .he partici-
Pates actively...the learning process is quickened.

f9.) Amer-wan Optical

SPENCER

Company

INSYIUMINT DIVISION, IUH’ALO IS, NEW YORK

 

 

Study living chick embryo during development

Observe teeming intusoriu iungle in 3-D

AO Spencer CYCLOPTIC Stereoscopic Micro-
scopes are built to withstand hard usage by the most
active class. Rugged, construction guarantees years of
service. Special ”Permanent" bonding agent assures
positive prism alignment. Tough baked, epoxy enamel
ﬁnish resists chipping, abrasions and chemical deteri-
oration.

The unchallenged superiority of the AO CYCLOP-
TIC has been time-tested and performance proved...
thousands are in daily use in education, research and
industry.

Colorful 36 page brochure is yours for the asking,
mail handy coupon below.

DEPT. M58

Please send SB56 brochure on AO Spencer CYCLOP’I‘IC

Stereoscopic Microscope.

 

 

Name

Address

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Saunders Books -

College level texts also valuable as references for the

secondary school instructor or for class use in accelerated

Marshall & Lazier —
An Introduction To

HUMAN ANATOMY

This text presents a clear. complete. inte-
grated picture of human anatomy for the
beginning student. Brief discussions on
the functional reasons for various struc-
tures are included.

The text progresses from gross anatomy
to the finer structures. giving the student
the opportunity to satisfy his general
curiosity before settling down to the
more detailed work involved in the study
of cells and tissues.

An introductory chapter acquaints the
student with the definitions. methods.
spatial relations and planes of reference
he will use in his work. Footnotes give
the meaning and derivation of the new
and difficult terms confronting the stu-
dent. Muscles are discussed in functional
groups. providing a logical way of re-
membering and associating individual
muscles.

Paragraphs entitled "Practical Considera-
tions" briefly outline what happens when
a particular muscle or nerve is iniured.
329 labeled drawings give the student
the clearest and best possible presen-
tation.

By CLYDE MARSHALL. M.D.. Formerly Assist-
ant Professor of Anatomy. Yale University
School of Medicine. Revised by EDGAR
LAZlER, Ph.D.. Professor of Zoology. Univer-
sity of California at Los Angeles. 420 pages.
5%" x 8'/2". with 329 illustrations. $4.50.

Fourth Edition.

Available at College
Bookstores or by
Ordering Direct From...

 

 

 

programs

Homer—THE VERTEBRATE BODY

Here is a superior study of comparative anatomy for general college
students and especially for those planning further study in any specific
or related phase of biology. A study of the form and function of the
vertebrate body is interwoven with embryological. paleontological. his-
tological and evolutionary material. Coverage is truly comparative and
does not overemphasize human structure. A wealth of illustrations help
the student see beyond those observations he has made in the labora-
tory. Function is fully considered. making it possible to understand the
relations of the various systems within the animal and the animal in
relation to its environment. Teaching aids include supplementary refer-
ences and two appendices on Synoptic Classification of Vertebrates
and Scientific Terminology. Histological discussions show the basic
materials of which gross structures are composed and offer an appre-
ciation of the function and existence of glands.

By ALFRED SHERW’OOD ROMER. Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology.
Director. Museum of Comparative Zoology. Harvard University. 644 pages.
6" x 9V4". with 390 illustrations. $7.00. Second Edition.

Homer — The Shorter Version of
the Second Edition of THE
VERTEBRATE BODY

Designed for a shorter course in comparative anatomy. this book is a
skillful abridgement of the longer Romer text described above. All
maior items of the original work are incorporated and the famous
clarity and easy understanding still prevail. Every one of the 390 excel-
lent illustrations has been retained. Text material has been meticulously
rewritten. not merely condensed. The first three chapters. including
introductory material on the vertebrate body plan. the natural history
topics. discussions on family trees and the handy appendices are repro-
duced without change. The author gives an interesting account of the
ICilicinges undergone by the vertebrates in the course of their eventful
IS ory.

By ALFRED SHERWOOD ROMER. 486 pages. 6" x 91/4", with 390 illustragisogs.

W. B. SAUNDERS COMPANY
West Washington Square
Philadelphia 5, Pa.

 

 

 




 

‘E/geef of Rochester. . . Presents:

o o o a new 5"",
on Student-Teaching

  
  

Elgeef-oLYMPus Model 5-2

Pictured standard model 5-2
with double revolving nose-
only piece with hard-coated parfo-

$99M

cal, achromatic interchange-
able 10>< (N.A. .25) and
40X (N.A. .65) obiectives.
Built-in revolving aperture
disk to control illumination.
10X Huygenian coated lens
eyepiece. Choice of concave
mirror or interchangeable 20
watt illuminator (Model LSK)
as shown.

in lots of five

 

list price $110.50 each

Write for information on other
student-teaching models and
complete microscope line.

 

microscopes

Science means progress, and to help
both teachers and students meet the
challenge of a changing world, Elgeet
presents a superb new microscope
with research instrument features
never before offered in student-teach-
ing models!

The inclined eyepiece is typical of
the many new features, extending to
students the beneﬁts of unsurpassed
convenience, ease of operation, and ef—
ﬁciency combined with working com-
fort, resulting in maximum learning
possibilities even over prolonged pe-
riods of close concentration.

Rugged and versatile, the Elgeet-
Olympus is precision engineered and
designed for years of trouble-free serv—
ice and priced for educators seeking
the very best . . . on a budget.

MAIL COUPON NOW

Dept, SM-l4

Elgeet Optical (30., Inc., Scientiﬁc In-

strument and Apparatus Div., 838

Smith Street, Rochester 6, New York.

1:] Please send me complete literature
on the New Elgeet-Olympus Micro-
scopes.

[:1 Please send name of Elgeet Dealer
nearest me for free demonstration.

Address ............................................. - .....
City ................................ State

  
 
    
   
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
    
 
    
 
 

 

Elgeef OPTICAL CO., INC. . . . SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT AND APPARATUS DIVISION
838 SMITH STREET 0 ROCHESTER 6. NEw YORK

((deW/Idmymm anWWMI/I WWI/MU

 

 

 




 

ENOHmOH <ch <>_..c>w_.m m_um0_Z_mZ OOrrmOjOZm
<<_._.I :r>Zm: mvaZmZ O>mmm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Imwwbaﬂcz O>mmm NOOFO@_O>F >20
m0» m._.>ZU>_~U mmZCm mOrUmwm O”Z:.IO...O@_0>_. mug—“mm
K ,

“\duud N¢

I\L 0072246

VV W_®I._. I>ZU

Vn/“uv COO—N mIO<<Z

VV

VV

V _...O_~ _.>_~®m m._A_Zm
rmﬂ. I>ZU 0>_u>0_._.<n o ._._~><m
03—022.
/\
:5 N w.
159 m
mql 6.6..
_N
007E246
_uO_~ mZ>_._.. m_A_Zm
O>_u>0_._.<n wmv ._._~><m

 

 

 

 

O>_u>0_._.<u

_~ ®r>mm 401
_me0._. Um><<mwm
OOWZmE. O.»

C. m. Z>._.._. ._.<_um

mz._.OZO_.OQ_O>_. 0.9mm

E®I._. I>ZU
GOO—N OZ_.<

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_om OI>Zwmzm m._..

2§ 8%. 292 «9% s z. <.

C

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(Ghoughtful revision of

a famous textbook

MODERN
BIOLOGY

1 960

Moon, Otto, and Towle

 

This present edition maintains the systematic organization which leads from basic prin-
ciples governing all life to more involved concepts; from simplest organisms to more
complex plants and animals and, ﬁnally, to man. The new material reﬂects recent
progress in different phases of biology and medicine, radiation and biology, and bio-
logical problems of space travel. New full—page anatomical drawings and a new
Trans-Vision of the human body.

Clearly-delineated Units of Study help students to inductively systematize and analyze
specific organisms and their differing ways of life:

UNIT 1: BIOLOGY—THE SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF LIVING THINGS
UNIT 2: THE RELATIONSHIPS OF LIVING THINGS

UNIT 3: FLOWERLESS PLANTS

UNIT 4: THE HIGHER PLANTS

UNIT 5: THE lNVERTEBRATES—ANIMALS WITHOUT BACKBONES
UNIT 6: ANIMALS WITH BACKBONES

UNIT 7: HOW BIOLOGY APPLIES TO OURSELVES

UNIT 8: BIOLOGY AND THE PROBLEMS OF DISEASE

UNIT 9: THE BIOLOGY OF HEREDITY

UNIT IO: SAFEGUARDING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES

All teaching aids available including BIOLOGY INVESTIGATIONS (Workbook); TESTS
IN BIOLOGY; Teacher's Manual; Teacher’s Edition of BIOLOGY INVESTIGATIONS;

Keys to TESTS.

HOLT, RINEHART AND WINSTON, INC.

383 MCICIISOI'I Avenue 536 MISSIOH Street
New York 17 San Francisco 5

 

 




 

 

‘ UNITRON STUDENT AUTO-ILLUMINATION MICROSCOPE, MSA 1

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The UNITRON Student Auto-Illumination Micro-
scope, Model MSA, employs a newly designed
stand in which all components and controls are
within easy reach. The inclined eyepiece tube
allows comfortable posture and may be turned in
any optional observing direction to permit two
students sitting side by side to share a single
instrument. With the built-in illuminating system of
the superior low-voltage type, each student is
assured of the correct lighting. The transformer is
conveniently housed in the microscope base itself
where it contributes to the stability of the stand
rather than to the clutter of the laboratory table.

Model MSA comes complete with triple revolving
nosepiece and three obiectives: 4X, 10X, 40X;
three eyepieces: 5X, 10X, 15X; coarse focusing
with safety stop; fine focusing; condenser and iris
diaphragm; filter holder and filter; accessory sub-
stage mirror; wooden cabinet and dustcover.
Mechanical stage available at extra cost.

Unit price $107 5-10 $9630
11-24 units $94.l6 units

 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

   
 

UNITRON STUDENT MICROSCOPE, M S

Despite its low cost, UNITRON Model MUS offers
features lacking even in much more costly models
usually offered for student use. For example, both

fine and coarse focusing are provided — not
merely a single focusing control; an iris diaphragm
to regulate aperture for highest resolution -— not

merely a disk diaphragm; and a condenser system
for optimum illumination.

The optical performance of Model MUS at each
of its magnifications is equivalent to that of expen-
sive research models. All mechanical parts are
machined to close tolerances and the stand is
beautifully finished in black and chrome. Model
MUS comes complete with triple revolving nose-
piece and three obiectives: 5X, 10X, 40X; choice
of two eyepieces from: 5X, 10X, 15X; coarse
focusing (accessory safety stop available); con-
denser with iris diaphragm; inclinable stand; plano-
concave mirror; wooden cabinet and dustcover.
Mechanical stage available at extra cost.

Unit price $74. each 5-l 0 $ 60
11-24 units $65.12 Units 66

 

‘TI'HWW

 
    
 
   
 

     
 
 
   

n mnnhm'z‘m 3‘

_




unexcelled quality at budget prices

 

UNITRON DISSECTING ADS

  
   

Heavy base, micrometric
rack and pinion focusing, arm
rests, mirror and background
plate, large glass stage
plate, Steinheil magnifiers.

ADS: for IOX, 20X

$3250

UNITRON PHASE MPEA

The ﬁrst student phase
model ever to be offered.
Observe protozoa, plankton,
etc. in the living state without
chemical staining. Obiec-
tives: 4X, PIOX, P40X. Eye-
pieces: 8X, 15X. Con-
denser and phase dia-

 
 
    
   
    
    
      
    
   
    

   
    
      
     
     
      
  
 

phragm. Write for a reprint
of Professor Corrington's
article on this remarkable
instrument.

MPEA ..... ......$99

(f.o.b. Boston)

ADSA: for 5X, IOX, 20X

$3550

 

TRON STEREOSCOPIC MSL N PHOTOMICROGRAPHY SET

Duplicates the perform-
ance of costly apparatus.
Fits any standard micro-
scope. Mounting brackets
adjust for your camera.
Viewing telescope allows
focusing and selection of
field while the camera is
in position.

Model ACA. . $3995

A wide field, binocular,
3-D dissecting model.
DiOpter and interpupillary
adiustments. Removable
glass stage plate. One set
of eyepieces for IOX, 20X
or 30X included; others
available at extra cost.

Model MSL ..... $II°

(f.o.b. Boston)

 
   
    
    
   
    
     
      
      
  
  

' ACCEPT A FREE 10 DAY TRIAL

We invite you to try any UNITRON Microscope in your
own classroom for IO days at absolutely no cost or
obligation. Let our instruments prove their value and
quality to you, before you decide to purchase. You will
see for yourself why UNITRON is the choice of America's
leading universities, schools, and industrial laboratories.

      
       
     
   
     
    
        
   
   
   
     
 
 

Uses the some large,
heavy stand as our re-
search models. Three ob-
|ectives: 4X, IOX, 40X; three
eyepieces: 5X, 10X, 15X.
Coarse and fine focusing.
Condenser and iris dia-
phragm. Filter holder and
ﬁlter. Mechanical stage
available.

MLEB..........$II8

 
 
   
     
  

M'II'HIS COMPLETE CATALOG ON UNITRON
CROSCOPES IS YOURS FOR THE ASKING!

degggzgomplele information on the UNITRON Models

Of micro mm“ as well as on many others for all types

a v I s‘3°I3Y- You quI find this informative publication
0 uable addItIon to your files.

UNI T RON

INSTRUMENT COMPANY. MICROSCOPE SALES DIV.
66 NEEDHAM ST.. NEWTON HIGHLANDS 6i. MASS.

 
        
   
 
  
 

 

    

Please send me your complete catalog on
UNITRON Microscopes. 7

 

 

       

 

HIGHER QUANTITY DISCOUNTS
NOW OFFERED ON MOST MODELS

See our i""I'mr’rant announcement on page 453

Name and Title

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I School or College |

 

I Address
State

 

City

 

 




 

 

 

 

BIOLOGIEAL RESEARGH PRODUCTS GOMPANY

“WE have the talent to create”
“WE have the skill to produce” ”
“The laboratory where quality c”omes ﬁrst
“Get more value for less money

Little words that mean a lot. Important Big little words that are the very, basis
of our business. Words that have dynamic meaning. The thoughts behind these
words are the foundation of the Biological Research Products Co.

We do create ideas . . . that are c0pz'ed by our competitors.

We do produce in tremendous volume . . . unmatched elsewhere.
We do have the highest quality material . . . fully guaranteed.

We do get more value for less cost . . . we are eﬁicient. .

We give you more value for your dollar . . . we pass the savzngs on.

Now We Prove It Again
"Vertebrate Anatomy and Its Highlights"

Here is an all new set demonstrating that all we have, said above is true. This
is the teachers set to be used for demonstrational dissection. This is the bright
students set to be used as a project for the entire class. This is a set that can be
used by two students working as a team. This is a set that can be supplied to
every student if your budget allows it. Thisis a set that costs you just ten dollars
delivered anyplace in the United States.

Here is what you get . . .

Two nine to ten inch double injected foetal pigs, one male 311d one female.

One manual to assistin the dissection by Theron Odlaug.

One sheep brain with hypophysis and cranial nerves.

One sheep heart in the pericardial sac with blood vessels intact.

One sheep kidney.

One tongue and throat of the sheep for larynx, pharynx, esophagus and
trachea relationships.

One ox eye with the eyelids intact.

One dissection guide for the ox eye.

One piece of spinal cord from the ox.

The two foetal pigs are the m
and circulatory principals.
enlargements which can b

ain items in the set. They help you to teach systemic
The other specimens are the highlights. They are the
e used to better advantage because of their size.

All of the above comes to

that also includes the man
foetal pigs”

you in one gallon wide-mouth jar packed in a carton
ual, the dissection guide and two plastic bags for the

Ten Dollars
Delivered to any point in the continental United States.

(Advertised only in the American Biology Teacher)

 

 




 

 

The Double lniected Foetal Pig Is Used in Many
High Schools to Teach Their Students the

Facts of Mammalian Anatomy at Low Cost.

The Biological Research PrOducts Co 1115 a \CIV good combina—
tion offer that will save you conside1able quantities of \0111
smel) needed funds This offe1 is the seven- to nine— inch double

injected foetal lpig and the Odlaug dissection guide. lhese handy
sized little pigs are packed 4 per wide-mouth gallon jar in a con—
venient-to—handle carton that also includes 4 71111111111115 and four
1111115110 bags. Each carton complete weighs only 14 pounds. This
light weight saves considerable freight, too.

Unit of 4 specimens ...................... 0 8.60

3 Units (Dozen specimens) .............. 35 23.00
12 Units (48 specimens) .................. Si; 92.00
25 Units (100 specimens) ................. $184.00

All shipments me made p1ep1id and the shipping ch110es \xill be
added to you1 invoice. You get oan one bill and that includes
the pigs the manuals and the height too.

The Odlaug Dissection manual and the 7— to 9- inch double in~
jected foetal pig is the best buy today. The a1te1ies a1e injected
with red latex and the veins a1e injected with blue latex.

ALL MATERIAL CARRIES A 100% GUARANTEE

BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH PRODUCTS CO.

243 West Root Street. Stockyards Station
Chicago 9, Ill.

A complete set of catalogues will be sent to you on request.

 

 

 

 




 

BICO

BLOOD
TYPING,
SETS

blood grouping. . .
Rh factor . . .

hemoglobin
values . . .

 

Bico has developed these blood-typing sets to meet the requirements of today’s advanced
courses in biology and physiology. The determination of the blood group, the Rh factor,
and the hemoglobin value is quickly and easily demonstrated. The set is complete and
ready to use.

Included is a simplified instruction leaﬂet and a 66 page manual published by the
country’s leading blood preparation center. This manual presents a comprehensive,
authoritative discussion of the latest approved blood-typing methods and related topics.

Included in the set:

] Anti—A Serum 5cc. BT-l Blood-typing Set .......................... 9.00
l Anti-B Serum 5cc. BT 2 Bl d . c b l . l d
1 Blood lancet - oo -typ|ng JSI', as a ove, a so Inc u es
1 Hemoglobin scale AnTI-RIT typing serum ......................... 12.00
6 Slides . . BT-3 Set of 5cc. each of Anti-A and Anti-B serum ...... 4.50
1 Glass marking pencrl
I Sterilizing SOlUIlO" BT-4 Rh typing serum 2cc. ....................... 3.00
Mixing sticks
Instruction leaﬂet SWIO Hand lens le, for examining blood clumping. . . . 1.25

Blood typing manual

BICO STUDENT DISSECTION UNITS . . . No. SU-22

JUMBO SIZE SPECIMENS
OUTSTANDING VALUE

Most convenient way to order material for biology classes.
Each Unit in an individual glass jar. Superior specimens,
jumbo size: starﬁsh, earthworm, crayﬁsh, clam, perch and
grass frog. Set of quiz sheets for each Unit included. ,

SU-22 ..................................... Each $1.50
12. or more, each ........ $1.40 50 or more, each $1.30

0 Free quiz sheets included with each student unit ordered

 

-S I- ®MIGHUSBUPES

 

 

Unconditionally Guaranteed
Delivery from Stock

NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY CO., Inc.
230 W. Superior St. Chicago IO, Ill.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 
 
  
   
    
     

Model

290”

I
I
COMPLETE WITH :
WOODEN CASE .

 
 

1 8 MIT ms- :m UML'NTS, In c-
" 1572 N. FOURTH STREET _o SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

 
   

L__——-_

VARI-POWER

STEREO MICROSCOPE

lnsfanf. positive powers

by dial changer

NO annoying in-befween powers
Parfocal from power to power
FlatI crisp image

Coated Optics

Long working distance
Reversible. inclined body
Extension travel Of rack block
Adjustable inferpupillary distance.
50 mm.-8O mm.

Image always erect

Heavy. well-balanced stand

Modern sand finish

000 00000000 0

This newly designed Swift Microscope
Offers an improved concept in Wide-
field-Sfereo microscope design. Instant
positive power change in a wide selec-
tion Of magnifications by simple rotation
Of the Vari-Power drum. Positive click
action for each power selected; no
annoying in-between powers. This Swift
instrument features a wide field Of view
with long working distance and parfo-
calify from power fo power. This instru-
ment is Of rugged construction and
serves many applications in diversified
fields Of Education. Powers 7.5x, l0xl

SBwv_5 l5xl 20x' 30x.

MODERN Mail Coupon Today FOR FREE DEMONSTRATION
SAND --_..__....._____.._...______
FINISH I SWIFT INSTRUMENTS. lnc. “WV-5

1572 N. Fourth Street, San Jose, California
Without any Obligation on my part,

El Please send me complete literature.

D Please schedule demonstration through
authorized Swift dealer.

NAME ..................................
TITLE ...................................

ADDRESS ...............................
CITY ................... STATE .......... .'..I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee it of 3.5x or lZOX

or anywhere

     
   

 

in between

Focus on any classroom
specimen—and see it in just the
size you want. Bausch & Lomb
StereoZoom® Microscopes

give you continuously variable
power. Just a turn of the knob gives you an inﬁnite
choice of repeatable magniﬁcations throughout the
entire stereo range of your instruments.

There’s a new “Power Pod” design, too. Completely
encloses the optical system in a single unit——
eliminates image jump and blackout and keeps out
dust, dirt, and sticky ﬁngers.

Bausch & Lomb StereoZoom Microscopes are priced
well Within your budget. Why
B AUSCH 8: LOMB not see one soon in a free
City Zone ...... State ............ smcs 1553 classroom demonstration?

Course taught

l.— ——————— — _______ ————

- 1
BAUSCH & LOMB INCORPORATED I
71811 Bausch St., Rochester 2,» N. Y. I
E] Please send Catalog D-15 with complete in- I
formation on B&L StereoZoom Microscopes. :

|

|

E] Please arrange a free classroom demonstra—
tion at my convenience.

Name .. Title .................... I

 

Address

 

 

  

l
|
l
|
l
I
l
|
l
| School or Collegp
I
I
|
l
I .
L

_____._ _____ __.__________l

 

 




 

  SSC

 

Announcing Special Offerings

To help introduce ESSCO biologicals
to new accounts, we are offering spe-
cially low prices on materials in regu-
lar classroom use. These items will
always be our ﬁnest quality, and
carry our guarantee to be ideally pre-
pared and preserved, and free of any
fault.

 

For November 86 December Only

WHITE MICE—Two adult males and two adult females, stand— $300
ard laboratory strain, sleek and healthy

AQUARIUM PLANTS & ANIMALS—Living balanced assort-
ment for a 10 gallon tank. Includes Elodea, Duckweed, snails, $500
mussels, planaria, hydra, daphnia, crayﬁsh, and leeches

PIG EMBRYOS—MEDIUM (5”—7”) Plain preserved $600 per dozen
ASCARIS—Pig round worms, plain preserved $100 per dozen

50 Gal. STOCK AQUARIUM TANK—Running water, mounted $9500
on stand.

Write for New Complete 1960 Catalog Illustrating
Biological Specimens —- Live & Preserved — For Your Every Need.

EDISON SCOTT SQUIRE 00., INC."

BOYD, WISCONSIN

   




 

 

 

 

 

Especially selected for the high school
biology student from the famous

games

 

COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES

Biology
by Gordon Alexander. A summary of general prin—
ciples. Illustrated. 7th ed. 253 pages. $1.50
Zoology

by Gordon Alexander. A summary of biological prin-
ciples with a survey of the animal kingdom. Illus-
trated. 4th ed. 290 pages. $1.75

Each COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES volume is carefully
prepared and checked by specialists in the subject
ﬁeld. Accurate, concise, comprehensive, they are
particularly helpful to advanced high school students
Who want the best possible preparation for their
college courses and entrance exams are ideal for
review, lead bright students on to independent study
by referring them to authoritative sources for addi-
tional information.

 

EXAMINATION COPIES of the above books are available free for teachers. Write to us on your school letterhead.

games

 

: M16 105 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 3, N. Y. Educational Specialists since 1873

Publishers of COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS and COLLEGE ENTRANCE COUNSELOR,
the most reliable and comprehensive source of information on American colleges now available.

 

USEFUL OPTICAL BARGAINS

LARGE-SIZE OPAOUE PROJECTOR

Ideal for enlarging and proiecting
drawings, photosl formulasl etc.. for
classroom study. Low-cost unit takes
any opaque copy up to 6" x 6"—pro-
iects image 3l/2 feet square at 6 feet.
7% feet square at l2 feet—in true
color. exact proportions. Broadens use of visual aids.
Increases class interest. Projector is Ill/2" high. l3l/4"
wide, 9" front to back, pressed steel in black wrinkle
finish. bakelite handle. Lenses are 2 plano-convex. 3V4"
diameter. mounted in 5V4" barrel. Uses two ZOO-watt
bulbs. not included. Complete with slide platform to
hold illustrations. 6-ft. electric cord. heat resist. plate
glass mirror.

Stock No. 80.066-AX ................ $42.00 Postpaid

 

 

NEW! ROTATING MICROSCOPE STAGE
Shows TOP and SIDES of Subiect!

:tA brand-new development of Edmund. This
Rotating Microscope Stage permits examina-
tion of top and sides of gems and minerals
without moving subiect or holding by hand.
Angled first surface mirror allows this top-and-
Slde inspection. A touch of the finger revolves
center platform and rotates subiect under
microscope. Flat edge of wheel indicates com-
plete revolution. Sturdy metal with plastic ro-
2”

 

tating parts —— size 2" x 2” x .
Stock No. 50,269-AX ............ $9.95 Postpaid

 

oaorn av srocx NUMBER .smo curcx on momr ORDER . suisucnou ouaumno!

 

 

Offspring of Science . . . REALLY BEAUTIFUL!
CIRCULAR DIFFRACTION-GRATING JEWELRY
A Dazzling Rainbow of Color,|
This new kind of jewelry is capturing atten-
tion everywhere. Shimmering rainbows of gem-
Iike color in iewelry of exquisite beauty—
made with CIRCULAR DIFFRACTION-GRAT-
ING REPLICA. Just as a prism breaks up light
into its full range of individual colors, so

does the diffraction grating.

 

Stock No. 30,349-AX Earrings ....................... $2.75 ppd.
Stock No. 30.350-AX Cuff Links ...................... $2.75 ppd.
Stock No. 30,372-AX Pendant ........................ $2.75 ppd.
Stock No. 30.390-AX Tie Clasp ....................... $2.75 ppd.

 

 

ERECT IMAGE LOW POWER
MICROSCOPE — 5X. l0X. 20X
$60.00 Value — Only $I9.95

Extremely sturdy with rack and pinion focusing.
color corrected opticsI turnable microscope body
for inclined viewing, three different powers. long
working distance under obiectives, sutficnent eye
_ relief for easy viewing. Made from war surplus
“ “““y optical instrument so that you actually get
$60.00 of value. Weighs 4 lbs., l3" high. IO-DAY FREE TRIAL!
Accessory obiectives available for powers of ISX. 30X, 40X..

Stock No. 70,|72-AX ........ . ................. $l9.95 Postpald

GET OUR BIG FREE CATALOG No. AX
I44 PAGES! OVER I,000 BARGAINS!
We have the world's largest variety of Optical items. Bar;
gains galore . . . War Surplus—lmported-fDomestIc.
Our stock includes Microscopes, Telescopes, Satellite Scopes.
and Spectroscopes, PrismsI Lenses, Recticles. Mirrors and
dozens of other hard-to-get Optical items.

Ask for FREE CATALOG No. AX

  

 

 

‘ EDMUND SCIENTIFIC CO" HARRINGTON, N. J.

 

 




 

 

 

355% '.

New——
Turtox Sets for Making
Micro-Replicas

 

 

 

Hundreds of permanent snow ﬂake rep-
licas can be made with the Turtox Snow
Flake Replica Kit.

Begonia leaf surface replica made with
the Turtox Micro-Replica Kit.

Set consists of a box of one hundred
plastic micro cover slips, a 4-ounce bottle
of solvent, and a detailed and illustrated
instruction leaﬂet. Kit ___________ $2.00

Dozen kits ______________________ 22.00

320A905 Micro-Replica Kit for Surface
Details. This simple and easily used kit
permits any teacher or student to pro-
duce in minute detail permanent micro-
casts of surfaces of leaves and stems, of
plants, epidermis of animals, etc. to
show cells, ﬁbers, hair, etc. in three—di-

mensional relief. The resulting cover- 320A908 Snow Flake Replica Kit. This

slip casts, when studied under the
microscope, show details never seen in
ordinary microscope slide preparations.

The technique is simple and rapid.
The ﬁnished replicas, which show sur—
face structures with startling relief and
clarity, are fastened (with Scotch tape)
to standard 3X1 inch slides to facilitate
viewing and integration with the regular
microscope slide collection.

interesting kit contains sufﬁcient ma-
terial to make hundreds of permanent
replicas of actual snow ﬂakes. The re-
sulting detail is sufﬁciently ﬁne for
critical microscope examination.

Kit consists of bottle of solution, glass
applicator, and a leaﬂet of detailed in—
structions. Kit __________________ 2.00
Dozen kits ______________________ 22.00

 

 

 

The new 944-page Turtox Biology Catalog No. 62, published onAugust
20, 1960, describes all of the biological science materials authorized for
purchase under Title III of the National Defense Educatlon Act.

\QlUGICA
a“ _ [5/

‘9 /""“- k1?»

iiUL'Ts

 

GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE

Incorporated

8200 South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago 20, Illinois

The Sign of tbe Turtox Pledges Absolute Satisfaction

 

 

 

 




 

——Welc/r—
SYNTHETIC SKELETONS-Miniature and Full Size

Accurately Scaled in Durable, Washable, Synthetic Bone

 

 

 

Composition
preferable
to natural
bone
For all General
purposes

Resistant
to Breakage

ZK500. MINIATURE SKELETON,
Painted. The muscular origins are
painted in blue, and the muscular in—
sertions are in red on one side of the
skeleton. Complete with wooden case,
plastic skeleton cover, and illustrated
key card.

 

Each $187.00

 

No. ZK402
ZK402. SKELETON, Human Model, WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG OF

Adult, Painted. The muscular origins are , T ,
painted in red and the muscular inser- CHARTS, MODELS AND MANY
tions in blue. The various muscles are
marked and labeled on one side. The OTHER ITEMS FOR THE BIOLOGY

skeleton is complete, with stand, plastic

cover and illustrated key card. LABORATORY-
Each $305.00

W. M. Welch Scientific Company

DIVISION OF W. M. WELCH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ISIS Sedgwick Street. Dept. F Established I880 Chicago l0, IllinoisI U. S. A.
Manufacturers of Scientiﬁc Instruments and Laboratory Apparatus.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Patrolman John Mobley, winner of the 196h Schweitzer Medal,with
his wife and sons, Michael and Mark. Mobley holds "Lady", the

pet he got following his laboratory cruelty call in order "to
give a good home to at least one dog."

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

March 22, 1958

To Humanitarians:

No action has yet been taken on humane slaughter legislation by the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Opponents of effective legislation to
protect animals hope to kill it all together by prolonging the delay still
further. WE MUST DEMAND ACTION IMMEDIATELY.

Please write today and ask your friends to write to the two Senators
from your state (seeﬁenclosed liEting for theirﬁﬁenes.5 ”Ask them.tovrequest
the Committee on.Agriculture and Forestry to act promptly on the measure so
that it can be voted on by the whole Senate and enacted into law in this
session of Congress. .Ask your Senators to vote for ittas soon as it reaches
the floor. It will be very helpful if you will send us copies of their replies.

 

 

H.R 8308, which passed the House of Representatives on.FebruaryvAth, and
S. lh97, which has been amended to be identical with the House bill, are now
before the Committee. Also before the Committee is a bad bill which would
merely set up a study commission on humane slaughter. This bill has the SUPPOI't
of the packers and would delay for two years or more enactment of effective
legislation.againstslaughterhouse cruelty. Be sure your Senators know you do
not want a study bill, but you do want the identical good bills (S. 1A9? and
H.R. 8308) to be passed by the s'é'nate.

Enclosed are quotations from some of the editorials in favor of humane
slaughter legislation which have been appearing in newspapers all over the
country in the past two months. Also enclosed are statements made in the
debate tn the House of Representatives by the Hon. w. R. Poage (Dem.Texas) and
the Hon. William.Dawson (Rep. Utah). Please give the editor of your local
newspaper the material and ask him to write an editorial in favor of the
legislation. (let us know if you want us to send you additional literature
to give him”) ‘

If you or your friends have not written to the members of the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, please write to each one now. Their
names are starred on the enclosed list of Senators.

IF EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION IS NOT PASSED BY THE SENATE
BEFORE CONGRESS ADJOURNS THIS YEAR, THE PROGRESS ALREADY MADE WILL BE LOST.
THE BILL WOULD HAVE TO START AIl.OVER AGAIN IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ANOTHER LONG YEAR OF CRUELTY WOULD BE IN STORE FOR OUR FOOD.ANIMAIS. EVERY
HOUR TENS OF THOUSANDS OF THEM ARE BEING KILLED IN PAIN.AND FEAR THAT IS AS
HORRIBLE AS IT IS NEEDLESS. HUMANITARIANS MUST NOT.ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE.

No normal person can be in favor of continued, unnecessary, mass cruelty,
but many people are still unaware of this cruelty in our slaughterhouses. It
is our duty to inform all citizens through every means we can. Humane ministers
are putting announcements on the need for the legislation in their church
bulletins. Please ask your minister to do the same. Ask any club or group
to which you belong to request all the members to write the Senators. Please
do everything in your power to increase still further the public demand for
this humane legislation so that it will be enacted this year.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, SecretarysTreasurer

 




QUOTATIONS FROM SOME RECENT EDITORIALS
ON THE NEED FOR EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

THE LOUISVILLE (Ky.) COURIER JOURNAL, February 18, 195%, "The American who thinks
arhightmare of needless agony is an alien problem is an American who has never
visited an abattoir in his own country. Here he will find a scene of cruel carnage
that will make his gorge rise with fury and shame..."

THE DALLAS (Texas) NEWS, February 6, 1958, "The humane slaughter measure now goes to
the Senate where early approval should be given.... Requirement that animals be
rendered insensible to pain before being butChered is a reasonable and fair one.
The wonder is that so long and hard 3 fight has had to be made in Congress for it."

 

THE NEW YORK WORLD-TELEGRAM.AND SUN, February 7, 1958, " A step toward ending medieval
slaughtering practices in the meat-packing industry has been taken by the House....
Certainly this is an overdue reform. The meat-packing business is no frolic at best,
but there is no excuse for inflicting needless cruelty on animals. We hope the .
Senate speedily concurs.

THE CLEVELAND (Ohio) PLAIN DEALER, February 27,1958, ” A humane slaughter law is
‘needed. We think the bill should be passed. It would make our breakfast bacon
taste a greal deal better.”

 

THE SAN FRANCISCO (Calif.) EXAMINER, February 8, 1958, ”Pending in Congress is
H.R. 8308, a measure that would require meat packers to folIOW'humane methods
of slaughter after December 31, 1959.... The House has passed the measure, and
it has gone to the Senate Agriculture Committee. It deserves the support of
California's two Senators.”

 

THE HARTFORD (Conn.) COURANT, February 3, 1958, ”It is inconceivable that a majority
of this nation's representatives do not favor humane slaughtering by the meat
packers. The opposition is small but well organized and substantially financed. If
this minority group is successful in defeating humane slaughter bills this year, it
will be a dark day for the constitutional process intended to serve America's best
aspirations.‘

THE PITTSBURGH (Penna. ) POST- GAZETTE, February 6,1958,"...the House passed
legislation providing that the Federal Government shall not buy meat which hasn' t
been provided through humane slaughter methods. The Senate should promptly follow
suit.”

 

THE BOSTON (Mass. ) HERALD ,February 7,1958,"The new humane slaughter bill passed
by the House and sent to “the United States Senate should mark the beginning of the
end of barbaric slaughterhouse practices.... Let' 3 hope the Senate approves the
bill and allows the Secretary of Agriculture to invoke these methods which are
clean, swift, and the mark of a truly civilized society." Reprinted in:

THE SHEFFIELD (Ala.) TRI-CITIES DAILY, February 14, 1958, and

‘THE GREELEY (Colo.) TRIBUNE, February 21, 1958.

 

 

 

 

THE MIAMI (Fla. ) NEWS, January 7,1958,"The bill should be passed without further
delay. Inhumane slaughter is contrary to American philosophy and tradition."

THE FORT WAYNE (Ind. ) NEWS- SENTINEL, February, 1958, ”Despite the fact that a few
members of Congress elected to make the o_ccasion one of unseemly facetiousness, the
HumaneSlaughtethJl.has passed in the House of Representatives.... 'clowning'

brought down some laughs but apparently no votes against the humane slaughter bill.
Indeed, it was immediately followed by 122- 73 House rejection of a substitute
measure, setting up a commission 'to study' humane slaughter measures, proposed by
the minority who opposed the slaughter bill. The House struck down the proposed
substitute by a voice vote to enact the bill."

 




      
  
  

.- -2-

   
    
   
     
  

THE MOBILE (Ala.) REGISTER, February 10, 1958, "The forces holding back and carrying on
a propaganda attack against the supporters of humane slaughter can be sure they are on
the losing side. In the end, their defeat is certain. The tide of public sentiment will
run stronger and stronger against them until the fight for humane slaughter is won!"

 

 

THE ALLENTOWN (Penna. ) CALL, February 17,1958,”The slaughter of animals for meat continues
to follow a pattern that goes back to the cruelty of medieval days but very likely will be
ended in this country by the end of 1959...”

 
   
      
    
       
    
    
      
      
   
        
    
     
  
   
   
  
     
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
     
   

 

fﬂﬂi NEWPORT NEWS (Va. ) TIMES HERALD, February 1,1958, "There's good news for the many
people who have shuddered over accounts of cruelty to food animals slaughtered by some
nationally known firms. Reports from Washington are that the bill to require humane
methods of slaughter has won public support almost unparalleled.... There seems no good
reason whatever not to pass this legislation.”

 

 

THE GALVESTON (Texas) TRIBUNE, February 7, 1958, ” A Society that condones brutality and
needless cruelty to animals dumb though they be, is to that extent a traitor to the
humane tradition most of us believe in.” Reprinted in:

THE BUTTE? (Mont.) POST, February 14, 1958.

   

THE RAMSEY (N. J.) JOURNAL, February 13, 1958, "Human nutritional needs being what they
are, we must kill to live -- but there is no need to do it cruelly or wastefully.”

 

THE FAIRMONT (W. Va.) WEST VIRGINIAN, February 6, 1958, ”'Humane slaughter bill...
passed House this afternoon.’ That's really good news. Now if only the Senate
will follow through.”

 

 

THE SALEM (Ohio) FARM AND DAIRX, February 12, 1958, "Opponents to the bill are claiming

that it will bring chaos to the slaughtering industry, because nobody has agreed what is
'humane.' We hope this weak cry influences nobody. In the first place, they have until
the end of 1959 to get the program started. In the second place, they should have been

warned by all the bills they managed to kill off in past years, that the issue had to

be faced some day.”

 

THE MEDFORD (Oregon) MAIL TRIBUNE, February 12, 1958, ”No one knows of course how the bill
will fare in the Senate. But 'insiders' in Washington are quoted as saying that 'Nobody
votes for cruelty.'”

 

 

THE PALO ALTO, (Calif.) TIMES, February 11, 1958, ”The great majority of packers, however,
still use old fashioned slaughtering processes that torture the animals, debase the peOple
who work with them, and sicken those who see or learn about them."

 

THE SOUTH BEND (1nd.) TRIBUNE, February 17, 1958, ”...The suffering on the killing floors
of the American slaughterhouses remains the foremost problem in the cruelty to animals area.
It will continue so unless a compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress.”

 

THE KNOXVILLE (Tenn.) NEWS SENTINEL, February 24, 1958, "Perhaps never before has
the U. S. Senate had an Opportunity to end with one vote so much cruelty.”

 

 

-6

THE WASHINGTON (D.C.) POST, March 19, 1958, ”...humanitarians for years have campaigned to
force civilized methods of slaughter on American meat packers. They have brought to light
senseless cruelties in the killing of livestock. They have jogged the consciences of their
countrymen into recollection that a decent concern for even the least of God's creatures

is a hallmark of humanity. ...these methods...should be required by law in the United
States in order to bring this country's practices into conformity with its civilized
pretensions and preachments."

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE --- NEW YORK 22, N.Y.

March 11, 1960

Dear Humanitarian:

Your help is urgently needed to protect hundreds of friendly, affectionate
beagle dogs against cruelly close quarters.

 

Here is the situation: In the sub-basement of the South Agriculture Building
only a few blocks from the capitol in Washington, D.C., over two hundred dogs are
confined in all metal cages whose mesh floors are the only place for them to rest.
These dogs are never remoVed from the cages for the purpose of giving them exer—
cise. They spend from two to seven years in these cages in a room where daylight
never penetrates. The cages are 36" X 30" and it is pitiful to see some of the dogs
whirling round and round in a frantic attempt to compensate for natural motion.
When a Visitor comes, the nOise is deafening, for hOpe of release seldom dies among
these trusting animals. Only a few cower silently in the back of their cages. The
rest bark wildly, wagging their tails and begging the visitor to let them out°

These beagles are being used to test the new additives and food colors that
food manufacturers are using, or wish to use, in human food. The dogs eat food
into which measured quantities of the additive are mixed. In most cases, little or
no harm is done to the dog as a result of the test, but all of the dogs are suffering
from the cruel. and unnecessary incarceration imp-o—s-Eed on them for lack of decent
animal quarters.

 

Certain scientists who had allowed themselves to become callous to the
situation recommended that it be perpetuated in the prOposed $25,000,000 building
for the Food and Drug Administration now awaiting authorization by Congress.

The plans as originally drawn provided for the same perpetual caging in windowless
rooms. Fortunately, an alert and humane newspaperwoman, Ann Cottrell Free,
learned of the plight of the beagles and brought public attention to it. Representatives
of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, and of other humane organizations,
have since been seeking to obtain a change. Officials of the Food and Drug
Administration are anxious to provide comfortable quarters for their test dogs.

They are trying to improve the plans, but unless the Congress directs construction

of such quarters, authorizes them and appropriates funds for them, there is no way
to humanely house the many dogs of the Food and Drug Administration laboratories.

Humanitarians throughout the. nation should let the Congress know that they
will not tolerate this senseless and completely unnecessary cruelty.

Please WRITE TODAY to the Chairmen of the Committees considering the
building and to as many members of the committees as you can. ASK YOUR
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO DO THE SAME. Please make it clear that you
want the new Food and Drug Administration building to include comfortable
kennelarunways for all the dogs, or, if necessary, to provide such accomodations
in a supplementary structure.

The men who can do most to ensure decent housing for the beagles are:

Senator Dennis Chavez, Chairman, Senate Public Works Committee, Congressman
Charles A. Buckley, Chairman, House Public Works Committee and Senator Lister
Hill, and Congressman John E. Fogarty, Subcommittee Chairmen of the Senate and
House Appropriations Committees under whose jurisdiction appropriations for the
Food and Drug Administration Buildings will come.

PLEASE URGE THEM TO DIRECT PROMPT CONSTRUCTION OF COMFORTABLE
QUARTERS FOR THESE DOGS.

 




Page 2

The names of the members of the Public Works Committees are listed below.
Please write to as many as you can, especially those'from your own or nearby
states. If you could see and hear the beagles in the sub-basement, no effort
would seem too great.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary- Treasurer

SENATE PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats

 

Senator Dennis Chavez, New Mexico
Senator Robert S. Kerr, Okla.
Senator Pat McNamara, Mich.
Senator Jennings Randolph, W. Va.
Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, Minn.
Senator Stephen M. Young, Ohio
Senator Edmund S. Muskie, Maine
Senator Ernest Gruening, Alaska
Senator Frank E. Moss, Utah
Senator Oren Long, Hawaii

Republicans

 

Senator Francis Case, S. Dak.
Senator Thomas E. Martin, Iowa
Senator John-Sherman C00per, Ky.
Senator Hugh Scott, Pa.

Senator Winston Prouty, Vt.
Senator Hiram Fong, Hawaii

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE.“

 

Democrats

 

Hon. Charles A. Buckley, N.Y.
Hon. George H. Fallon, Md.
Hon. Clifford Davis, Tenn.
Hon. John A. Blatnik, Minn.
Hon. Robert E. Jones, Ala.
Hon. Frank E. Smith, Miss.
Hon. "John C. Kluczynski, Ill.
Hon. T. Ashton Thompson, La.
Hon. Iris F. Blitch, Ga.

,Hon. James C-. Wright Jr., Tex.
Hon, W. R. Hull Jr... Mo,

Hon. Kenneth J. Gray, Ill.
Hon. Frank M. Clark, Pa,
Hon. Ed Edmundson, Okla.
Hon. John J. McFall, Calif.
Hon. Charles H. Brown, Mo.
Hon. Gracie Pfost, Idaho

Hon. John Young, Tex.

Hon. Denver D. Hargis, Kans.
Hon. Frank W. Burke, Ky.
Hon. Harold T. Johnson, Calif.
Hon. Robert E. Cook, Ohio

Re public ans

 

Hon. James C. Auchincloss, N.J.
Hon. Gordon H. Scherer, Ohio
Hon. Gardner R. Withrow, Wisc.
Hon. Wm. C. Cramer, Fla.

Hon. John F. Baldwin, Calif.
Hon, Fred Schwengel, Iowa

Hon. Edwin B. Dooley, N.Y.
Hon. Wm. S. Broomfield, Mich.
Hon. Howard W. Robison, N.Y.
Hon, Dean P. .Taylor, N.Y.

Hon. Walter M. Mumma, Pa.

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:

SENATE OFFICE BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D.C.

ALL CONGRESSMAN MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:

HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D.C.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGlSLA’I‘lON
745 Fifth Avenue a...» New York 22, N3 Y.

March 11, 1960
To Humanitarians:

Egg; beta iﬁ.§£§§§§l¥.2§9d9d to protect hundreds of friendly, affectionate
beagle dogs against cruelly close confinement.

Here is the situation: In the sub«basement of the South Agriculture Building
only a few blocks from the capitol in Washington, D° 0., over two hundred dogs are
confined in all metal cages whose mesh floors are the only place for them to resta
These dogs are E3335 removed from the cages for the purpose of giving them exercise.
They spend from two to seven years in these cages in a room where daylight never
penetrates. The cages are 36" by 30" and it is pitiful to see some of the dogs
whirling round and round in a frantic attempt to compensate for natural motion:

When a visitor comes, the noise is deafening, for hope of release seldom dies among
these trusting animalsa Only a few cower silently in the back of their cagesn The
rest bark wildly, wagging their tails and begging the visitor to let them outs

These beagles are being used to test the new additives and food colors that food
manufacturers are using, or wish to use, in human foods The dogs eat food into
which measured quantities of the additive are mixeda in most cases, little or no
harm is done to the dog as a result of the test, BEE all of the dogs are suffering
from the cruel and unnecessary incarceration imposed on them for lack of decent
animal quarters.

Certain scientists who had allowed themselves to become callous to the situation
recommended that it be perpetuated in the proposed $25,000,000 building for the Food
and Drug Administration now awaiting authorization by Congress. The plans as
originally drawn provided for the same perpetual caging in windowless rooms. Fortu~
nately, an alert and humane newspaperwoman, Ann Cottrell Free, learned of the plight
of the beagles and brought public attention to it. Representatives of the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation, and of other humane organizations, have since 1
been SEBkiﬂg to obtain a change¢ VOfficials-of the Food and Drug Administration are
anxious to provide comfortable quarters for their test dogs” They are trying to im~
PTOVQ the plans; bUt unless the Congress directs construction of such quarters,
authorizes them and appropriates ﬁunds for they}i there is no way to humanely house
the many dogs of the hood and Drug Administration laboratories.

 

 

Humanitarians throughout the nation should let the Congress know that they will
not tolerate this senseless and completely unnecessary cruelty.

Please WRITE TODAY to the Chairmen of the Committees considering the building
and to as many members of the Committees as you can, ASK'YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS
TO DO THE SAMEl Please make it clear that you want the new Food and Drug Adminis~
tration building to include comfortable kennelmrunways for all the dogs; or, if
necessary, to provide such accomodations in a supplementary structure.

The men who can do most to ensure decent housing for the beagles are:

Senator Dennis Chavez, Chairman, Senate PUblic Works Committee Congressman Charles

9631!“: mxw

A. Buckley, ChairmanS House Public Works Committee and Senator"ﬂi§€g¥M§?TT?MZ§
Congressman JohEWETWFEgartyywsubcommittee Chairméhmof the Senate and House Appro“
priations Committees under whose jurisdiction apprOpriations for the Food and Drug
Administration Buildings will come.

PLEASE URGE THEM TO DIRECT PROMPT CONSTRUCTION OF COMFORTABLE QUARTERS FOR
THESE DOGS.

 




Page 2
The names of the members of the Public Works Committees are listed below.
Please write to as many as you can, especially those from your own or nearby :
states. If you could see and hear the beagles in the subwbasement, no effort
would seem.too great. '

Sincerely,

iMadeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretarwareasurer

SENATE PUBLIC WORKS CWITTEE

Democrats Republicans

 

Senator Dennis Chavez, NeW‘waico

Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PUELIC WORKS

Robert s. Kerr, Okla.
Pat McNamara, Mich.
Jennings Randolph, W. Va.
Eugene J. McCarthy, Minn.
Stephen M. Young, Ohio
Edmund S. Muskie, Maine
Ernest Gruening, Alaska
Frank E. Moss, Utah ’
Oren Long, Hawaii

Democrats

Hon.tCharles A. Buckley, .. Y.
Hon. George H. Fallon, Md.
Hon. Clifford Davis, Tenn.
Hon. John A. Blatnik, Minn.
Hon. Rebert E. Jones, Ala.
Hon. Frank E. Smith, Miss.
Hon. thn C. Kluczynski, Ill.

Hon. T.

Ashton Thompson, La.

H011. Iris F. BlitCh, Ga.
Hon. James C. wright Jr., Tex.

Hon. W.

R. Hull Jr., Mo.

Hon. Kenneth J. Gray, Ill.

Senator
Senator
Senator
Senator
senator
Senator

COMMITTEE

Francis Case, 3. Dak.
Thomas E. MMrtin, Iowa
John Sherman Cooper, Ky.
Hush w, Scott. ,Pa.

Winston Prouty, Vt.
Hiram Pong, Hawaii

Republicans

 

James C. snehincloss, N. J.
Russell V.‘Mack, wash.
Gordon H. Scherer, Ohio
Gardner R. Winthrow, Wise.
Wm. Ca Creamer, F134.

John F. Bladwln, Calif.
Fred Schwengel, Iowa
Edwin B. Deoley, N. Y.

we. S. Bronmfield, Mich.
Howard W. Kobison, N. Y.
Dean P. Taylor, R. Y.
Walter M. Mums, 3? .

Hon, Frank M. ClarkL/gawm

Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.

”-WDMMnWMM, ,5

"'M .u-Mw-v- '-" '

Ed Edmuna’sﬁT’OkIa.
John J. McFall, Calif.
Charles H. Brown, Mo.
Gracie Pfost, Idaho

John Young, Tex.

Denver D. Hargis, Kane.
Frank W. Burke, Ky.
Harold T. JOhnson, Calif.
Robert E. Cook, Ohio

ALL SENATGKS MAY BE ADDRESSEE AI:

SENATE OFFICE salesmen,
wesamerou, n. 0.

ALL CONGRESBMAN MAY BE ABERESSED AT:

Hesse OFFICE BEJELDING
wsssnmos, s. c.

 




    

 
   

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE w: NEW YORK 22, NoY,

March 11, 1960

Dear Humanitarian:

Your help is urgently needed to protect hundreds of friendly, affectionate
beagle dogs against cruelly close quarters, ' -. ,_ = ,

Here is the situation: In the submbasement of the South Agriculture Building

' . only a few blocks from the capitol‘in Washington, D',C‘,, over two hundred dogs are
confined in all metal cages whose mesh floors arei‘th'e only place for them to rest,

These dogs are never removed from the cages for the purpose of giving them exercise

They spend from two to seven years in these cages in a room where daylight never

penetrates. The cages are 36" x: 30" and it is'pitiful to see some of the dogs

whirling round and round in a frantic attempt to compensate for natural motion,

When a visitor comes, the noise is deafening, for hOpe of release seldom dies among

these trusting animals, Only a few cower silently in the back of their'cages, ,The

rest bark Wildly, wagging their tailsandpbegging the visitor to let them out,

0

These beagles are being used to test the new additives and food colors that food
manufacturers are using, or wish to use, in human food, The dogs eat food into
which measured quantities of the aditive are mixed, In most cases, little or no
harm is done to the dog as a result of the test, Mall of the dogs are suffering

from the cruel and unnecessary incarceration imposed on them for lack of decent
animal quarters,

Certain scientists who had allowed themselves to become callous to the situation
recommended that it be perpetuated in the proposed $25,000,000 building for the Food
and Drug Administration now awaiting authorization by Congress, The plans as
originally drawn provided for the same perpetual caging in windowless rooms.
Fortunately, an alert and humane newspaperwoman, Ann Cottrell Free, learned of
the plight of the beagles and brought public attention to it, Representatives of the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, and of other humane organizations,
have since been seeking to obtain a change, Officials of the Food and Drug
Administration are anxious to provide comfortable quarters for their test dogs,

They are trying to imprOve the plans, but unless the Congress directs construction
of such quarters, authorizes them and apprOpriates funds for them, there is no way ’
to humanely house the many dogs of the Food and Drug Administration laboratories.

Humanitarians throughout the nation should let the Congress know that they
will not tolerate this senseless and completely unnecessary cruelty,

Please WRITE TODAY to the Chairmen of the Committees considering the
building and to as many members ofthe committees as you can, ASK YOUR
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO DO THE SAME, Please make it clear that you
want the new Food and Drug Administration building to include comfortable

kennelwrunways for all the dogs, or, if necessary, to provide such accomodations
in a supplementary structure,

The men who can do most to ensure decent housing for the beagles are:

Senator Dennis Chavez, Chairman, Senate Public Works Committee Congressman

Charlee A, Buckley, Chairman, House Public Works Committee and Senator Lister
Hill, and Congressman John E, Fogarty, Subcommittee Chairmen of the Senate and
House Appropriations Committees under whose jurisdiction apprOpriations for the
Food and Drug Administration Buildings will come, '

PLEASE URGE THEM TO DIRECT PROMPT CONSTRUCTION OF COMFORTABLE
QUARTERS FOR THESE DOGS,

 

 




Page 2

The names of the members of the Public Works Committees are listed below.
Please write to as many as you can, eSpecially those from your own or nearby
states, if you. could see and hear the beagles in the sub-basement, no effort
would seem too great:o ’ l '

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretarwareasurer

SENATE PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats Republicans

 

 

Senator Dennis Chavez, New Mexico Senator Francis Case, S, ‘Dak.
Senator Robert S, Kerr, Okla, Senator Thomas E, Martin, Iowa
Senator Pat McNamara, Mich. Senator John Sherman COOper, Ky,
Senator Jennings Randolph, W, Va, Senator Hugh Scott, Pa,

Senator Eugene J, McCarthy, Minn, Senator Winston Prouty, Vt,
Senator Stephen M, Young, Ohio Senator Hiram Fong, Hawaii
Senator Edmund S, Muskie, Maine

Senator Ernest Gruening, Alaska

Senator Frank E, Moss, Utah

Senator Oren Long, Hawaii

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats . Republicans

 

 

Hon, Charles A, Buckley, N,Y, Hon, James C, Auchincloss, N,J,
Hon, George H, Fallon, Md, , Hon, Russell V, Mack, W'asho
Hon, Clifford Davis, Tenn, Hon, Gordon H, Scherer, Ohio
Hon, John A, Blatnik, Minn, Hon, Gardner R, Winthrow, Wisc.
Hon, Robert E, Jones, Ala, Hon, ‘Wm C° Cramer, Fla,

Hon, Frank E, Smith, Miss. Hon, John F, Bladwin, Califo

Hon, John C, Kluczynski, Ill, Hon. Fred Schwengel, Iowa

Hon, T, Ashton Thompson, La. Hon, Edwin B, Dooley, N,Y,

Hon, Irish F, Blitch, Ga, Hon, Wm, S, Broomfield, Mich,
Hon, James C, Wright Jr,, Tex, Hon, Howard W, Robison, N,Y,
Hon, W, R, Hall Jr,, Mo, Hon, Dean P, Taylor, N,Y.

Hon, Kenneth J, Gray, Ill, Hon, Walter M, Mumma, Pa,
Hon, Frank M, Clark, Pa,

Hon, Ed Edmundson, Okla, ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:
Hon, John J, McFall, Calif,

Hon, Charles H, Brown, Mo, SENATE OFFICE BUILDING
Hon, Gracie Pfost, Idaho WASHINGTON, D,C,

Hon, John Young, Tex,

Hon, Denver D, Hargis, Kans, ALL CONGRESSMAN MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:
Hon, Frank W, Burke, Ky,

Hon, Harold T, Johnson, Calif, HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING

Hon, Robert E, Cook, Ohio WASHINGTON, D,C,

 




Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

August 26, 1959

To Humanitarians:

Good neWs from Washington: the United States Senate has voted to
protect the wild horses and burros Yesterday afternoon H HR 2725, passed
by the House of Representatives on August 17th, received Senate approval
All that remains to make it law is the Presidential signature,

The effective leadership of Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana
deserves high praise from all humane citizens, Grateful thanks are due, too,
to the Senate coesponsors of the bill, Senators Prescott Bush, Howard W,
Cannon, John Sherman COOper, Paul H, Douglas, James E. Murray, and
Richard L, Neuberger,

Congressman Walter Baring of Nevada, originator of the legisla=

tion, introduced the bill last year and again this year in the House of Repre—
sentatives and led the campaign for its passage in the House Congressman
“Thomas J Lane, Chairman of the subcommittee which held hearings, and
Congressman Emanuel Celler, Chairman of the full Judiciary Committee,
gave excellent support If you would like to express your thanks to one or
‘more of these humane Senators and Representatives who have done so much
to prevent cruelty to defenseless animals, it would be appreciated and well
deserved°

Your efforts on behalf of the wild horses and burros have played
a great part, as they should in a democracy, in ending the atrocious cruelty
inflicted for years on these animals because there was no Federal law to stop
it, We wish to thank you for all that you have done, May we also request you
to let us know sometime at your convenience whether or not you wish to re:
main on our mailing list for information on animal protective legislation?
We are anxious to keep all interested people on the list but need to conserve
our limited funds and to augment them when possible in order to carry on the
work for legal protection of animals from unnecessary suffering,

With kind regards,
Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens , Secretary» Treasurer

 




SIXTY CENTS

Trouble
with

Tex hooks
Martin. Mayer

JAMES THURBER
C. P. SNOW

George Samerjan

 




 

 

 

FAUBION BOWERS

THAT MRS. STEVENS

the animals ’ best friend

How one shy, slender woman has managed
to bully Congress. terrorize the meat industry,

alarm a lot: of doctors . . . and convert

herself into the most eﬂective

lobbyist to hit Washington in many years.

0 N E day in 1958, a group of friendly Con-

gressmen called on President Eisenhower
“just to keep him informed on what people are
thinking.” They were specially thanked, because,
as the then President commented wistfully, “If I
depended on my mail, I would imagine humane
Slaughter the only thing anyone is interested in.”
That same year the Humane Slaughter Bill was
listed ofﬁcially as “Major Legislation” for the
Eighty-ﬁfth Congress along with Statehood for
Alaska and Hawaii, Atomic Secrets, and the Space
Agency.

The New York Times, in an editorial, referred
to the issue of humane slaughter of animals that
we eat as “offbeat and less than world-shaking.”
True as that may be, it still allowed Senator
Humphrey of Minnesota to remark, in connec-
tion with his mail, “Man, I’ve never seen any-
thing like it . . . thirty-ﬁve, forty-ﬁve thousand
letters.” And in turn Senator Ellender of Loui-
siana, the arch—opponent of the Humane Slaugh-
ter Bill, spoke from his side with more rue than
surprise in his voice, . . never so much pressure
in all my twenty-two years on Capitol Hill.”
The New York Times at a later date again re-
ferred to the matter as, , , long—controverted."

Wrapped at the center of this miscellany 0f
facts—beginning well before 1958 and continu-
ing [Oday in countless ramiﬁcations—are the urge
and push of a unique personality, Christinfi
Stevens.

At fashionable parties in New York, Christine
Stevens is familiar, by sight at least. Sometimes
the gatherings are theatrical, where her husband
(he produces plays) will be deferentially sur-
rounded by actresses. Or the occasions may be
political ones where her husband (he has fund-
raised for Democratic candidates) will be locked
in colloquy with party stalwarts. Or they may be
society affairs where the rich like to match money
with other rich—whether the money is in oil,
real estate, politics, or the arts—and here again
her husband will be in the forefront. He is
Roger Stevens, the man who once bought and
soon sold the Empire State Building. “For the
fun of it . . . and the prestige,” he says with
humor and frankness.

The party-giving and going New Yorker is in-
clined to see Mrs. Stevens, physically, as tall,
pretty, graying, blue-eyed; and, psychologically,
as silent, rather withdrawn, tranquil, placid, and
hard-to-know. But down in Washington, if you
say “Christine Stevens,” the response is electric
and the name carries with it an exclamation
point independent of husband or money. There
she is “relentless,” “sure-footed,” “ﬁnagling,”
“frightening,” “‘a real jewel,” “meddlesome,”
“impeccably on the side of right,” and “a nui-
sance but I like her”——all according to which of
four hundred members of Congress you happen
on. No one who was involved in the 1958 up-
roar over humane slaughter or who has been
drafted into her present efforts—which range
from wild horses (lat.er made famous by the
movie, “The Misﬁts”), through marine mammals
on the high seas, to experimental animals—will
deny that virtually single—handed she brings to
bear the most powerful and persistent lobbying
force Washington has met in a long while. As a
lobbyist she inherits the Mark Twain tradition

 

 

 

 




 

 

78 THAT MRS. STEVENS

(his lobby-horse was copyright protection) of
dignity, grandeur, a righteous ideal, and un-
yielding pressure. It is not to be confused with
the more familiar and less savory lobby of the
cocktail party, payoff, and horse trade.

The Mrs. Stevens that one might overlook at a
public function is, however, where animals are
concerned, inescapable. So much so, in fact, that
within the span of a decade she has managed
to establish herself as America’s leading pro-
tagonist for animal protection in all its sensible
forms—as against groups as far-ranging as various
meat-packing associations and the antivivisection—
ists. Her aim has not been that of the Buddhists,
who advocate “protect animals by not eating
them,” nor that of the antivivisectionists who
reckon the iron lung in terms of the twenty-three
cats it cost and insulin by its thirty-three dogs
and ﬁnd the price too high. She is simply
“against cruelty . . . that’s needless.”

Mrs. Stevens’ ﬁrst distinction is that she is the
president of the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI),
a ten-year-old, tax-deductible organization whose
motto is “Animals work for you—AWI works for
them.” And the work is sufﬁcient to have ofﬁces
at 22 East 17th Street in New York and to em—
ploy two full-time secretaries. As the core of
this outﬁt, the advisory committee, Mrs. Stevens
has assembled a galaxy of dedicated enthusiasts
whose names include best-selling biologist,
Rachel Carson, and book-award-winning Joseph
Wood Krutch. Nor does AWI balk at nepotism.
Dr. Robert Gesell, until his death a couple of
years ago, graced the masthead as guiding light.
Head of Michigan University’s physiology de-
partment, he also was the brother of the cele-
brated child psychologist, Arnold Gesell, and
father of Christine Gesell Stevens herself. (De-
spite her academic background and the fact that
she met her husband on the Campus at Ann
Arbor, neither Mrs. Stevens nor Roger ever
ﬁnished university.) And perhaps chief among
the working members of AWI’s roster of names,
Kittybel, the Stevens’ daughter, is probably the
wisest young woman in America when it comes
to animals and political lobbying on their behalf.

Around this nucleus of the famous and the
family, but apart from the lengthy list of paying

 

Oklahoma-born Faubion Bowers has written
four books dealing largely with the theatre arts of
Asia and Russia and is working on a biography 0
Scriabin. His articles have appeared in many maga-
zines, and his play, “The Daytime Moon,” will be
produced off-Broadway in September. He is mar-
ried t0 Santha Rama Ran, the writer.

 

contributors to AWI, are several notables who
“sympathize.” Mrs. Roosevelt is one, and her
most recent action was to write a letter to the
PTA deploring uncontrolled classroom experi-
ments on live animals. Another is Adlai Steven-
son. Long before Governor Stevenson had met
either of the Stevenses he had endeared himself
to animal lovers in Illinois by vetoing the “Act
to Provide Protection to Insectivorous Birds by
Restraining Cats.” However it was phrased, the
measure was designed to declare cats a public
nuisance and to require their licensing, and by
Governor Stevenson’s reasoning, to legislate
against cats in favor of birds would only open
up further combat areas—cats versus dogs, say,
and birds versus worms.

Adlai Stevenson is not only a friend of animals
and of AWI, but of another of AWI’s great
friends, Dr. Albert Schweitzer. According to
Schweitzer, “one of the three most important and
enduring marks of a civilized person is kindness
to animals,” and his writings and concern with
the “boundless ethic” and “reverence for life”
have been well publicized over the years. In
1955, Christine Stevens conceived the idea of an
annual award for humane activity to be known
as the Schweitzer Medal, and along with this
honor goes a medallion stamped with a picture
of Schweitzer and his dog.)

The ﬁrst recipient of this Schweitzer-endorsed
Schweitzer Medal was a young scientist who re-
signed from his radiobiology laboratory on being
denied permission to destroy a dog suffering
from “twenty-seven different fractures as the re-
sult of radioactive injections.” Last year, the
prize went to an African chief, the Tanganyikan
head of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. At Mrs. Stevens’ invitation,
Adlai Stevenson made a presentation speech and
used the opportunity to tell the AWI a Schweitzer
story. It seems that once when the two men were
standing outside the leper hospital in Lambare’ne’,
Stevenson noticed a mosquito on Schweitzer’s
shirt and swatted it without thinking. Schweitzer,
however, “looked very stricken . . . ‘It was my

mosquito,’ he said. ‘You had no right.’ ”

From loving animals to lobbying for them 1‘6-

quired another step in Mrs. Stevens’ life. Since
AWI is a non-proﬁt institution with tax—deducti-
ble status it cannot legally “agitate or influenc€
legislation.” And because the urgency of humane
slaughter was increasing (the eleven million
members of the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs were becoming aroused), Mrs. Stevens
created the Society for Animal Protective LegiS"

lation or APL. Here, Mrs. Stevens is the secretaryo

 

 




 

 

 

treasurer and her close associate and friend, Mrs.
Ludwig Bemelmans. is president.

APL has no ofﬁce, only a room stacked with
books (King Solon'mn’s Ring, Living Free, etc.),
papers, and unanswered letters in the Stevens’
chic apartment on Madison Avenue (around the
corner from the Bemelmans Bar and the Carlyle
Hotel). Its staff is one part-time stenographer
and the mascot, Barney, a giant Newfoundland
dog.

APL is registered under the federal lobbying
act for the privilege of skulking in corridors,
buttonholing our lawmakers, and propagandiz-
ing, along with several thousand other associa-
tions, including the mighty enemy of much of
Mrs. Stevens’ work, the American Medical As-
sociation.

IT BEGAN WITH A FILM

‘X } HILE the AMA spent $160,000 on

lobbying last quarter (a ﬁgure which
scandalized more people than Mrs. Stevens and
her friends), APL usually spends between $3,000
and $8,000 a year. Most of this money comes
not from the Stevens’ pockets but from inter-
ested citizens in almost every state of the union.
A few give substantial sums; hundreds send a-
single dollar bill or a few stamps. (Stamps are
more than welcome since mailing information
is the most expensive part of any “propaganda”
operation.) Those who work for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation are volunteers and, of course,
don’t get paid.

Eight years ago APL faced its ﬁrst great chal-
lenge—the Humane Slaughter Bill. Here, in Mrs.
Stevens’ words, is how it happened:

"Back in 1954, Arthur Redman, a man from
Seattle in his seventies, had a ﬁlm of a hog
slaughterhouse, with a sound track full of
screams. He’d sell it for $25 and it was decided
to have it as part of the American Humane
Association’s convention in Atlanta that year.
It W218 pretty horrible and people ran for the
doors. I’d never been to a meat packer’s or
packing house myself, but after that I did go ' ' ‘
In Europe. They’re ahead of us there, more
gentle, Switzerland, for instance, had legal hu-
mane slaughter in l874, and English dOCtorS
learn their surgery under the humane act 01’
1876. It works. .

"After that movie, we all resolved to get a bill
going t0 StOp that kind of senseless cruelty. What
I say thfn I give talks here and there is that all
we mean to do is eliminate the inflicting 0f great
pain and fear on animals. It’s part of 0111‘ coun-

 

BY FAUBION BOWERS 79

try’s moral growth . . . to treat animals as hu-
manely as possible,

“It’s horrible for the ‘knockers’ too, and dan-
gerous. [Knockers are the men who with long
ten-pound sledgehammers hit the cattle on the
head as they are forced through slaughterhouse
passageways] They miss half the time and lots
of them drink before coming to work. I can’t
blame them, but it doesn’t help their aim any.
The knockers often get hurt, the animals panic
and bruise their meat or become ‘stiff’ which
means that they don’t bleed properly and can’t
be butchered well. Some estimates on this kind
of careless slaughter and callous transport go as
high as $50 million a year, and ‘cherry bruises’
on hams alone represent a $90,000 loss a year.
Frightened animals are poor bleeders and poor
bleeders are ‘dark cutters’ [off-color meats].

“L. W. Murphy had already invented the C02
tunnel—gas that puts animals to sleep and makes
killing them easy, while they’re unconscious.
There are lots of ways . . . the Captive Bolt
Pistol, Electric Stunning Tongs, the Stun-o-Matic
for killing turkeys, but the packers (except for
Hormel and Seitz, they’re marvelous) wouldn’t
use them. Around 90 per cent of all our meat,
they say, is handled by about ten companies,
although there are a couple of hundred big
slaughterhouses and 3,000 little ones. We wrote
to lots of them. Some answered; some didn’t.
Some promised that they were using humane
methods already and we’d go see for ourselves
and they wouldn’t be at all. Lip service, that’s all.

“We particularly objected to shackling and
hoisting. One foot of the animal is chained and
he’s hoisted upside down by a long conveyor belt.
A man slits his throat to let him bleed into
unconsciousness. Sometimes they’d miss but still
the animal would be shunted straight into the
scalding vats—alive.

“We were quite ruthless about getting the right
man to introduce the bill. Hubert Humphrey
was deliberately picked, not because he’s intel-
ligent (he is) but because he’s a ﬁghter. V‘Ve
needed a ﬁghter, and we needed one more than
we knew at the time. “70. had against us the
Secretary of Agriculture, Benson, and his whole
department; the American Meat Institute: the
Farm Bureau, the National Grange, the National
Cattlemen’s Association.

“You would have thought the bill asked for
the moon. Aled (that’s Welsh) P. Davies was the
lobbyist for the American Meat Institute (they’re
all the big packers) and the Senate kept turning
the bill into a Study 3i”. which is another way of

putting it aside forever. They even made it a

 

 

 




 

 

SO THAT MRS. STEVENS

religious issue. They got the orthodox rabbis to
oppose us. Actually kosher killing is humane, as
they cut the head almost entirely off, and death
comes instantaneously. All we objected to was
the shackling and hoisting that are no part of
the Jewish ritual. People called us Nazis. They
said that Goering sponsored a German antivivisec-
tion law and that’s why the Nazis experimented
on human beings. Well, we checked it all very
carefully and it isn’t true. There never was an
antivivisection law in Germany. The idea was
to undermine us.

“It’s hard to explain why the packers were
against us. No one is for cruelty to animals. The
installations we recommended cost very little
and would save them a fortune. But I guess it
boils down to the fact that nobody likes to' be
told what to do.

BETTER THAN OPENING NIGHT

‘X l E W E RE almost deadlocked when
ﬁnally Bob Poage of Texas—he was vice
chairman of the House Agricultural Committee—
came up with a stroke of genius. His committee
had visited a lot of slaughterhouses and saw the
need for our bill, but he said instead of trying
to make it a criminal law to make it an incentive
law. Instead of punishing packers for killing in-
humanely, to reward them for killing humanely.
Every last one of those ten major companies has
government contracts, some for as much as a mil—
lion dollars a year. (Time says that the govern-
ment buys $250 million worth of meat products
a year; and Newsweek puts it at a billion and a
half.) So the bill was changed to read that the
government would only buy meat that had been
humanely killed, from packers who killed all
their meat humanely.

“Then our foes started calling it a ‘make-be-
lieve bill’ because it had no penalties. In those
days Kittybel and I were in Washington twice a
week. We’d split up to visit every Congressman
and Senator in town. In lobbying it’s very im-
portant to distribute literature and answer ques-
tions. They must be informed. They only want
to know facts and deﬁnite information, and that’s
just what we wanted to give them, or their
assistants. We’d talk to whoever in the ofﬁce
would see us. You don’t always get to the top,
but I once called Senator Hickenlooper off from
the ﬂoor—and he came. You have to sign a little
card, stating your name and your business, and
the Senator himself came right out to the hall
and met me. He wanted my facts, and I wanted
him to have them.

 

“You see, the secret of lobbying is to wear the
man down. Keep on. Don’t let an issue die.
When they tried yet once again to turn Humane
Slaughter into a Study Bill, I sent telegrams to
every newspaper in the country, and we got hun-
dreds and hundreds of editorials on our side.
(AWI has two enormous scrapbooks full‘ of
sympathetic press clippings.) People are glad to
know if something is going on. That’s the secret.
. . . No. The real secret, and there’s only one, is
to get people to write to their Congressman or
Senator. That is what works.

“That’s our real secret, but you know what our
main strength is? Never exaggerate to get a per-
son excited, and never be wrong. You lose your
usefulness. Our literature may be boring, but it’s
accurate. You must avoid the emotional aspects
of Animal Welfare, otherwise you get—oh—the
antivivisectionists: ‘Women! Your sex partici-
pated in cutting the windpipes of eight dogs.’

“The Humane Slaughter Bill took three years’
work, from 1955 to 1958. It ﬁnally came to a
vote, and Roger and Kittybel and I were in the
gallery. Humphrey had to talk for eight hours.
If he left the ﬂoor they’d start misrepresenting
and he had facts. It’s a technical subject, how
much new installation costs, how much waste
there is. He’d only race out for a cup of coffee
and back he’d come. It was one of the biggest
turnouts the Senate ever had. We were all sur-
prised. The ﬁrst issue to vote on was whether to
make it a Study Bill or Mandatory. For this the
vote almost went against us and then Senator
Kennedy and two others came in and we won—
forty-three to forty. Roger said it was more ex-
citing than an opening night. Later the same
day, they voted on the Mandatory Bill and there
the vote really went in our favor—seventy-two to
n1ne.

“We weren’t really worried about a Presi-
dential veto, because as you remember Black
Angus were an Eisenhower specialty and we had
lobbied fair and square.

“Our work should be over, but now we’ve got
HR. 1987 (introduced by Representative Martha
Grifﬁths) and S. 3088 (introduced by Senator
Joseph S. Clark) logjammed down in Washing-
ton. They’re to ensure the best care for all the
millions of animals now being used in scientiﬁc
experiments, and the humane design of those eX-
Iaerlments. Some animals are very badly treated,
like those sub-basement beagles, In the Food
and Drug Administration, the beagles were kept
for years without exercise, without room to
stretch. . . .

But to return. to humane slaughter. There’s

 

 

 




 

 

one thing I never will understand—why anyone
would seriously oppose the concept to begin
with.”

Many people, however, must still be won
over. The major slaughterhouses with govern-
ment contracts were reached by the Humane
Slaughter Bill hut hundreds of smaller ﬁrms are
exempt from federal control and inspection, so
the ﬁght has been carried down to the state level.
To date, thirteen states have supplemented the
federal law. In New York and New Jersey, re-
ligious protests are complicating the issue, despite
the fact that kHslICI‘ meats would be unaffected
“by measures of this kind.

“’hen you meet Christine Stevens it is hard
to reconcile the immediate picture of reserve and
quiet with the bullying and cajoling which lie
behind the successful passing of the Humane
Slaughter Bill and on which her measure of fame
rests. You ﬁnd yourself searching for clues as to
what would turn an affection for animals into a
passion for their defense. Mrs. Stevens herself
has made the search too. Perhaps it was the

JOHN HOLMES

FAITHFUL READER

BY FAUBION BOWERS 81

traumatic experience when she was a child of
having a Belgian stud horse belonging to her
father die at the hands of a neglectful caretaker.
Or perhaps it was a result of the idleness the war
forced on her. In Florida, where her husband
was stationed in the Navy, she had nothing bet-
ter to do than make paintings of breeds of dogs
for the local humane society. (She is an artist by
profession and has illustrated a couple of chil-
dren’s animal books.) But if ever the ﬁnal spur
to action was needed, it came from a handshake.
Finally, after her observations in Europe in 1954,
Mrs. Stevens had the courage to visit a slaughter~
house in Chicago. As she was about to leave, one
of the workers standing there simply shook her
hand without opening his mouth.

“Perhaps it was my imagination, but that silent
handshake seemed to say, ‘Do something about
this. . . . I work here, and can’t.’ I don’t even

remember what he looked like, but I can still

feel his grip.”
Imagination or not, it was an important hand-
shake. Mrs. Stevens did do something about it.

I’D RATHER read stories that end before I want them to,

Than long,

long stories I don’t want to ﬁnish but should

Before I begin the next—which might be one that ends

Without my hearing the re

d-headed girl whose wit I like

Speak her wild mind out—or might be another long one.

I read about a wronged husband w
W ife’s betrayer down to the bones,

But wh et to it ears later, aroun . . .
Y g Y h terminal fac111t1es, but only one.

I knew one preacher w1t

All m visitors oversta an hour, an _ .
Y yus man I know, I catch myself WlShlng

up one measure, goes two.

Even on the most famo

To have been there. Music backs

e oVer before the principals know it,
love-making makes its own end.

Funerals and weddings ar
And with or without words,

And a story is a story as long a
enceme

116g: 551:? so long to lose new characters

e are too many, many, speakmg parts.

tion, not in westerns. In easterns.

the world and all the stores closed.

d break it up and out of there,

k book, and ﬁnish it before bed,

sic on, the family in and out.

Inaugurals and co .
On the drama page, 1
In the old plot, and ther
I’m in a hurry for new ac
Hungry like the end of ,
But even if I had forever, I
To the library for a one—wee
Chewing and talking, the mu

ho boiled his black-hearted
an artist in a limited way,
(I page ﬁve hundred ﬁfty?

(:1 when I go to call,

3 there are new happenings.

nts would never get raves

Harper’s Magazine, July 1962

 

 

 

 




