THE FRUITS OF VIVISEGTION.

AREPLY TO SIR ANDREW CLARK, BAR'ij.

BY LAWSON TAI‘T, F.R.C.S., LL.D., &C.

 

 

(Reprinted from the HOSPITAL, November 19th, 1892.)

SIR ANDREW CLARK begins by an assertion that the law of
vicarious sacriﬁce is a law of the physical, mental, moral, and
spiritual life. If the poor dogs and rabbits for whom he
claims the merit of vicarious sacriﬁce had any knowledge of
what they were doing, had votes on the question of their
torture, and could escape if they wished it, I could admit that
there was some clear association of the “ vicarious sacriﬁce”
with their sufferings, for Torquemada’s Jews could yield their
wealth and leave Spain. But Ferrier’s monkeys had no
choice, and could not escape.

Sir Andrew further says: “Experiments performed upon
animals with due care, for a high purpose, in a reverend
spirit, and with results in good transcending any suffering
inﬂicted, are not cruel,” and so on. At the beginning of the
next paragraph he says it is folly now to argue the question
whether experimental research has contributed to the
advancement of theoretical and practical knowledge. But I
submit that this is the whole question. Sir Andrew makes
assertions: he must prove them. He asserts a right, and he
must prove it, that right being to cause other creatures to
suffer in our service. It cannot be admitted for his argument
merely that it has been always and everywhere assumed and
practised; and the reason against such an admission is given
in Sir Andrew’s own words, that “ cruelty lies in the wanton
inﬂiction of suffering, and in the performance of experiments
carelessly designed or barrenpin results of good justifying the
suffering which has been inflicted.” As a rough example of a
large number, let me take the experiments of Rutherford,
Bennett, and Gamgee, which were wanton in their number

 




 

2

(nearly seven hundred animals were sacriﬁced), were care-
leSsly designed, and were not only utterly “ barren in results
of good justifying the enormous suffering involved,” but the
conclusions derived from them were absolutely false.

Sir.Andrew says that it is certain that no substantial
advance has. been made in physiological knowledge, and none
in the departments of midwifery, surgery, and -medicine
without the assistance of this method of research. I deny
this statement altogether; but even if I admitted it, Sir
Andrew has yet to overcome the difﬁcult questions—\Vas that
assistance absolutely essential for the advance ? Was it not
possible to dispense with it? If Sir Andrew will give
categorically his examples, I shall carefully consider them
and show a fallacy, if I can ﬁnd one, as I feel sure I can.

He takes ﬁrst of all the worn-out story of Harvey, who
'did net discover the circulation of, the blood. If he had
discovered it the result would have been in spite of his
vivisectional blunders. He next says that the mortality in
, childbed in Vienna was at one time 16 per cent—it was over
30 per cent. at the Krankenhaus, where alone the high
mortality existed. Outside that pest- house there is no reason
to believe the puerperal mortality amounted to more than
1 per cent. He says that by long and patient study, assisted
by experiments upon animals, the mortality was reduced to
under 1 per cent. I challer ge Sir Andrew‘ to produce his
authority. Semelweiss, who discovered the cause, never
made a Single experiment on an animal for the purpose; at
least, he, gave none as his reason. He merely noticed that
the women who died were nearly all .attended or examined by
students who came straight from the charnel houses. He
made them Wash their hands in a solution of chlorine, and at
once the mortality fell to less than a third, but it is not
1 per cent. yet.

Sir Andrew’s next illustration is amputation in. the time -

of Ambrose Pare, and its results in the present day,
and the differences, he says, were brought about entirely
through the knowledge acquired by experiments upon living
animals. But Ambrose Pare’s method of ligature in ampu-
tations was retained in every day. use till 1878. From
1-708 till 1878 a vast array of experimenters on the ”blood
vessels appear (I regret to say my own name will be found
on the list), making confusion worse- confounded by .the

-32-




-Q.

3

discrepancy of their results. ' It was not till common sense
prevailed, till plain pure silk was used for the ligature, and
both ends cut short, that any real progress was made.
The improvements have been due to hygiene and clinical
observations. . '

Of the Operation of ovariotomy exactly the same thing is
true, and from 1809 till 1878 there is nothing but a‘story of
failure, because men would 'go on experimenting on animals
and would not listen to the common-sense teaching of such men
as Houston, Macdowell, Nathan Smith, and Baker 'Brown.

Sir Andrew further ventures on other surgical examples as
instances of the beneﬁts of vivisection: Operations on the
stomach—I am inclined to grant this, as they are all failures
and now almost given up. Amputating the larynx—fan
utterly abominable operation. Removal of one kidney, which
was introduced by Simon, of Heidelberg, and Campbell, of
Dundee, as the result of surgical mistakes, in both instances

turned into surgical triumphs, and having as much to do with

vivisection as they had to do with the Song of Solomon. Of

(his surgical examples the last is the worst—the extirpation
, of portions of the brain and spinal cord. But a great deal
of brain surgery was done before Sir' Andrew was born.

I can show him a list of overﬁfty cases of brain operations
performed between 1806 and 1865. The early attempts to
localise brain tumours were ineffective, but in the Medical
Times and Gazette, of September ,8th, 1883, we have evidence
that, “Now, thanks to the careful clinical observation and
research and accurate \pathological study of such men as
Broca, Chamot, Flechsig, and others, we are beginning to
see that eachvconvolution has its‘special function, and no
other.” We have also the evidence of the famous Editor
of the British Medical Journal, Mr. Ernest Hart, in the ,
Journal for December 27th, 1884 (the year following
that of the evidence thereby corroborated), that the results of
the vivisectional experiments in the researches of Munk,
Christismi, Goltz, and Lort are a “maze of conﬂicting state-
ments.” Mr. Horsley’s celebrated successful case, which died
at about the end of a month in the same year, brought out
the'fact that the greatest living surgeon, Professor William .
Macewen, of Glasgow, had for eight years been doing opera-
tions of the same kind, but only far more brilliant and

far more successful, in which the splendid diagnoses and

 




4

triumphant treatment were due to “a careful study Of the
symptoms.” ‘

Sir Andrew next asserts that we have discovered the nature
and relations of infectious diseases, and learned how in some
measure to prevent the development and to control the Spread
of fevers, cholera, anthrax and septicaemia. I cannot even
gueSs to what he alludes in this assertion. If he will give
particulars I shall look into‘ his case,but it seems to me to
carry absurdity on the face Of it.

Finally, Sir Andrew says, “For your pleasure, or for your
proﬁt, or for any other object than the promotion of know-
ledge, you may without let or hindrance beat, starve, muti-
late, Or destroy as many animals as you please.” But if you
beat or starve an animal to the point of torture, you will be
punished; What he means is that, for purposes of sport,
many cruel things are done: But those who vivisect do so in
the holy name Of Science, and surely cannot seriously mean
to support it by pleading the example Of ignoble sport! If
vivisection isto be defended, it is not to be done by ancient
history or inaccurate statements concerning modern surgery.
In the domain of the practice Of medicine Sir Andrew Clark

may ﬁnd refuge, but-in the former two matters I am at home.

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR. THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION,
20, VICTORIA STREFT, S.W. 11.92.

 




