Presentation of the

Qlloert Schweitzer Hward
of the

Hnimal Welfare Institute, U. S. H.

Jilt’wg

Cf)”

tr vw/
w ‘

Plddress

on the occasion
by
Shri H. M. Patel

Former Finance Minister of the
Government of India

and
Chairman, Indian Board for Wildlife

Embassy of the United States of Qmerica
New Delhi
4th Hugust 1980

 




 

 

Your Excellency, honoured guests, ladies and gentlemen,

I am greatly honoured and consider it a privilege to
have been chosen for this Award.- When Mrs; Christine
Stevens, the President of the Animal Welfare Institute of
the USA, informed me in early 1979 of the honour that the
Institute had done me, she graciously invited me to the USA
to receive it; I demurred and proposed instead that the
Award Ceremony should take place in India as I believed
that an occasion such as this would provide a valuable
Opportunity to give greater publicity to the cause of conserva-
tion in our own country where this is so greatly needed:
Since then events intervened and my own unavoidable
involvement with the change of fortune of the Government
then in power and the events that followed have been
responsible for the unfortunate delay in holding the ceremony;
I would be grateful if my sincere apologies for whatever
inconvenience or embarrassment this may have caused
could be conveyed to the InStitute, and to Mrs. Stevens in
particular.

When I was first informed that this honour had been
bestowed upon me, l was hesitant to accept it. I was very
conscious of the fact that the personal contribution l have
made to the cause of conservation which has prompted the
Institute to do me this honour, was no more than that of a
committed conservationist to whom fortuitous circumstances
provided the Opportunity to fulfil a long standing ambition-
to serve the cause of conservation from a position in which
I felt I could make a real contribution.

ln honouring me I realise that the Institute is in fact
honouring the small but rapidly growing band of dedicated
conservationists in this country whose voice has for too long
been a cry in the wilderness; And by bestowing this honour
upon me it is giving the cause to which we are dedicated
the recognition and prominence it so rightly deserves;

t

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

While Finance Minister of the Government of India I
sought and was granted the privilege of assuming the
reSponsibilities for guiding the deliberations and activities
of the apex body of the Government of India concerned
with conservation of wildlife and its habitat—the Indian
Board for Wildlife, as its Chairman. I realised that in this
capacity and with the support I was in a position to secure
from Government for conservation in its broadest sense, I'
might be able to translate many of my own convictions
about the importance of conservation into a living national
ethos.- And also that I could persuade the Government of
India to accept conservation as a fundamental principle in the
shaping of its plans for the future development of the country;

Reflecting upon develooments that have taken place in
our country during the last few decades it was increasingly
evident to me that in our headlong rush for so—called
progress, we. like all other countries, had begun to undermine
seriously the very foundations of our own existence
by failing to recognise and be guided by the principles of
conservation. And that if the accelerating pace of develop-
ment and change continued in geometrical progression as it
has been doing, this process of destruction would soon
bring us to a point of major national economic and social
crisis; It is my belief that such a crisis is already in sight:

It never ceases to amaze me that many of our economists
and planners still fail to recognise that today's inflation has
its origins in the rapid depletion of living and other natural
resources. The growing recession in the West is clearly
ascribable to the improvident use of these resources and is
now sought to be overcome by drawing in ever greater
degree on the world's natural resources, and increasingly
from the developing countries. While this may. provide us
a measure of immediate prosperity, this can only be of a
temporary nature and might well result in immeasurable
harm in the long run unless we are able and willing to take
a longer term view—namely a conservation view—of the
exploitation of our natural resources; Our search for solutions

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

to our economic ills within the framework of traditional
economic palliatives I consider to be an exercise in futility,
for we will merely be attempting to treat the symptoms
without diagnosing the cause and treating what to me is
the obvious disease.

We are fortunate that there are now peOple in high
places in our Government who are seized of the critical
importance of conservation and are prepared to give it the
place of priority and central importance in our national
scheme of things that it must rightly receive; Nothing has
heartened me more than to see the evidence of this concern
in no less a person than our Prime Minister. Her unequivocal
stand in favour of conservation and environmental protection
and the sense of urgency and determination with which she
has set about evolving a policy and translating it into action,
has aroused hope and enthusiasm among all who are
involved in the conservation movement in this country;

More than ever before, time is against us, and the
need to move forward rapidly with a clear broad based
plan of action touching upon every aspect of socio-economic
development has at no time been greater than it is today;
During the time that l was Finance Minister and later Home
Minister of the Government of India, and acting concurrently
in the capacity of Chairman of the Indian Board for Wildlife,
I considered it one of my foremost responsibilities to help
conceive and give shape and content to what I hoped
might represent a National Conservation and Environment
Protection Policy which would cut across all political,
economic and sectoral barriers, and provide the country
with a framework in which to shape its entire broad range
0f plans for the national development of this country.
i was able to assemble what I considered to be the finest
scientific talent in the country, which, supported by some
of the most senior and knowledgeable government admini-
Strators and others including conservationists, formed a
group that deliberated far over a year to formulate the
national policy I had in mind; I do not take prime credit

3

 




 

 

for what this group achieved, for each one of them I' believe:
was inspired by the same vision as I of the barren lands
of this great country of ours made verdant and fecund:
The efforts of this group, if I may say so, were singularly
successful; The draft of a National Policy that emerged
represents in my view a level of thinking, perception and
objectivity of the very highest order, unbiassed by any
considerations other than the ultimate well-being of our
country; It is entirely non-controversial and the ethics it
eSpouses are wholly in keeping with the concept of an
egalitarian society which must be our ultimate national goal
it the ends of social and distributive justice and equality
of Opportunity are to be achieved; I am confident that the
labours of this grOUp—the " lnformal Group" as I chose to
call it— will be of help to our Prime Minister in her efforts-to
achieve the goals of conservation that she has set herself.

A fundamental truth that has surprisingly evaded many.
including the majority of our conservationists, is that the
goals of conservation are entirely in harmony with the ends
of social justice. They moreover carry an added dimension-
which the Gandhian philosophy prOpounds — of a way of life
that embodies simplicity, frugality, and indeed, of austerity.
What the missionaries of the Gandhian philosOphy have
failed to achieve, the imperatives of conservation will force
upon us. And I believe this will happen before the turn of the
century; How much better would it be for us to recognise
the inevitability of this eventuality and plan deliberately for
this moment of truth rather than find ourselves compelled
by privation and the inexorable forces of nature to make
aerpt and painful changes in our life styles and value-
systems and be deprived of much that we could, through
conservation, have continued to enjoy:

I express these convictions not merely in the context.
of our own national goals and aSpirations, but believe that
these apply in varying measure to every nation on earth. The
time has come when people. can no longer exist alienated
from nature. The fundamental truths which inspired our

4

 

 




forebears must once again become the living truths that
guide our lives and shape the institutions in which we have
enshrined the precepts and principles of our existence; Earnest
discussion at the highest level, nationally and internationally,
must now commence so that it may become possible to
formulate a new outlook, a new philosophy as it were, that
will enable us once again to live in harmony with nature,
taking only what we must from it, while supporting and
strengthening the systems that sustain it. Though these
beliefs have not yet found the degree of public expression
that present day national and international circumstances
justify, there are now men and women of stature in various
parts of the world who share these convictions; Upon them
rests the reSponsibility to arouse a worldwide concern and

the will to act, and act now, before our own continuing
folly deprives us forever of our choices in the way we

wish to live and the options that still remain open to us;
It is Institutions from all over the world such as the Animal
Welfare Institute of the USA inspired by the vision, humanity,
and deep sense of reverence for life of men like Albert
Schweitzer, who must share responsibility for leadership in

this great and vital endeavour.

To the Animal Welfare Institute, I offer once again my

“expressions of deepest gratitude for the honour it has done
me by this award;

 




. 2‘ .1;

 

 

., ,

,Wﬁ'r e,
~M~gg§§§z§ég
5.5”] {54"

.N
a . "

 




 

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Presented Annually for an Outstanding Contribution to
Animal Welfare

In 1954 a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr.
Albert Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr.
Schweitzer had gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

1960

1961

1962

SCHWEITZER MEDALISTS

Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of
500 experimental beagles, whose humane treatment
of the animals and high standards of care and hous-
ing exemplify the purpose for which the Medal was
struck.‘

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B. Sc., M.l.
Biol, Director—General of the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare, London, England, author,
speaker, Founder of U.F.A.W., which pioneered in
enlisting scientific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of “The Case for Humane
Vivisection,” the first article calling for humane treat-
ment of research animals to appear in a national
magazine.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author of the first
humane slaughter bill introduced in the Congress of
the United States and Chief Senate Sponsor of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

Congressman W. R: Poage, Chairman of the
Committee on Agriculture, United States House of
Representatives, then Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief House
Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief Z. S.
Fundikira, President, of the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, numbering 40,000 African members.
Presentation of the Medals in Africa was made by the
Honorable G. Mennen Williams. In New York the
Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson made the Schweitzer
Award address.

William H. A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal
columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

‘ Dr. Bay later resigned after being refused permission by new management
to end the suffering of a beagle with 24 fractures.

196

196

196.

196i

196‘

196‘

196

197i

197




1963

l 964

1965

1966

l 967

1968

1969

1970

1971

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose dis—
covery and reporting on hundreds of Food and Drug
Administration test dogs perpetually caged in a
sub-basement led to Congressional action providing
comfortable kennel runways for them.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force,
whose prompt reporting on suffering and neglect
of experimental animals led to improvements in their
care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States Abe Fortas, author of the first Federal bill to
require humane treatment of research animals.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A. S.
Mike Monroney, who sponsored and fought for
enactment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act,
passed by a vote of 85 to O in the United States
Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhern and Dr. Earl Jones of the United
States Department of Agriculture, who prevented
much suffering by meat animals through their work in
disease eradication and by laboratory animals

through effective implementation of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan
Department of Agriculture, who created the first
Animal Welfare Committee of the United States
Animal Health Association.

Stan Wayman, Life photographer, whose “Concen—
tration Camps for Dogs” and other picture stories
brought recognition to millions of people that animals
need protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard-hitting columns against
cruel experiments by school children resulted in
Westinghouse science fair prizes being changed to
eliminate any experimention on captive vertebrates.
The Medal was presented by Senator Charles Percy
(R., 111.).

Hon. Thomas Foley (D., Wash.), who won enact-
ment of the Animal Welfare Act amendments of 1970
including the requirement for “appropriate use of
anesthetic, analgesic and tranquilizing drugs” for
experimental animals. The Medal was presented by
Senator Warren D. Magnuson (D., Wash.).

 




Hon. Russell Train, Chairman, President’s Council
on Environmental Quality, who was successful in
obtaining unanimous adoption of a resolution for a
ten-year international moratorium on commercial
whaling. The Medal was presented by Hon. S. Dillon
Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Scott McVay who pioneered in obtaining the listing of
all the great whales on the US. Endangered Species
List. The Medal was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot,
Senior Scientist, the President’s Council on En-
vironmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poisons
spread on federal lands and who has sought a mora—
torium on commercial whaling. The Medal was pre—
sented by Hon. Russell Train, Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency.

Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by
laboratory dog dealers in the 1960’s and initiated an
animarlport in Washington, DC. to help animals
transported by air. The Medal was presented by
Senator Lowell Weicker (R., Conn.)

Daniel Oduber, President of Costa Rica, for outstand-
ing achievement in creating major national parks, in
Costa Rica, where wildlife can flourish. The Medal
presentation was by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.

Yoko Muto, animal caretaker at Tokyo University,
and representative of the Japan Animal Welfare
Society, for her seven years’ unstinting efforts to allay
the suffering of thousands of dogs used for experi-
mental surgery, by gentle, personal nursing given
each animal. The presentation was made by Ambas-
sador Mike Mansfield.

Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, and author of A Policy for National Conser-
vation, for his contributions to wildlife conservation
and humane education as Indian Minister of Finance.

Roger and Katharine Payne, for their leadership in
the protection of whales, through meticulous scien-
tific study and close observation of living Humpback
and Right whales. Medal'presentation by Senator
Paul Tsongas, (D., Mass.)

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 




"l-

1 H-M-“"‘Pate1gets
“ animal v“Hare ‘
award from U S

innw1nnnrlmg4.onnh

. The, Albert Schweitzer medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute
of the United States was present;
ed to Mr H. M. Patel, former
Chairman of the Indian Board
for Wildlife, on August; 4.

Mr Archer :82. Blood, Charge
d’aﬁaires, US embassy, presented
the award on behalf of the~ Ani-
mal Welfare Institute. '

The schweitzer medal, institut- ‘
ed in 19954, has been presented
each year “for recognition on: an .j
individual, who has made an ontw
stamding contribution to amine}
welfare and conservation of wild-
life and its habitat”,

Fomner Finance and. Home
Minister Mr Patel is the . ﬁrst
Asian to receive this prestigious
award.

In brief remarks after receiv-
ing the inscribed bronze medal,
'Mr Patel said that - the award
was in fact not merely honouring 1
him but also honouring the rapidly, ‘
growing band of dedicated con-
sennationists in the country.

During his - tenure as Chairman.
of the Indian Board for Wildlife,
Mr Patel set up an informal
group which included tap scient-
ists and Government of India
policy‘ makers who framed and
developed for the ﬁrst time a
comprehensive integrated natim
nal environmental policy . This
national policy envisaged crea—
tion of a central executive
. mechanism for implementation.

. Mr Patel complimented Prime
i Minister Indira Gandhi, the
; present chairman of the Indian
‘ Board for Wildlife, on. her
strong advocacy of conservation
and environmental protection in
India. He said the sense of urg—
ency and determination with
which Mrs Gandhi has set about
evolving a. policy and. translating
it into action, has aroused hope ,
and enthusiasm among,r all who. ,
are involved in the conservation 7
movement in. the country.

Mr Patel emphasized the need?
to accept conservation as a living .
national ethos and as a funda»
mental principle in, shaping
India’s plan for future rievelonv"
ment. “Many of our economists
and planners,” he remarked, “fail
to recognize that the origins of:
today’s inﬂation are found. in the,
rapid, irresponsible, communion
of living and other natural re-
sources.” l

Prominent conservationists who!
have received the award in past
years ‘ include Rachel Carson;
author of Silent Spring—former
Us Vice-President, the late Sena-i
:tor 1'1th Humphrey, Daniel
Odube'r, President of Costa Rica.
and Dr 'Lee M. Talbot present
Director General of the Interna-
tional Union, ,Ior the Conserva-‘

. tion or Nature and National Re- ;

INDIAN EXPRESS

ﬂ_—_—‘~—._—_~———n——

.- .mmm mm... a, > “

Mr H. M. Pat 1, . ' 9 .. ’ ‘ . .
Welfare Institfrte filt- ”1:12:13?“ fliome Minister, receiving the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Ani 1‘
, , rom Mr Archer K. Blood, Charge d’Aﬁ'a-ires, US Embassy in Nev; 131$: ‘

on Monday. -- Express photograph. (Report on p 4).

. ”W095 (ML; ;

a my» 1&1314’4?‘ I - :13,”

u.
Fa."

 




_ o

 

 

 

 

 

'. TRIBUNE .975“
Schweitzer Medal
for HM. Patel

NEW DELHI, Aug 4*(?.T.I.')—-
' The Albert" Schweitzer Medal of.
the Animal Welfare Institute of
1' the U.-S.A. was presented to Mr
; H. M. Patel, former Chairman of
‘ the Indian Board for Wildlife, on
August 4. " . .

Mr Arsher K, Blood, Charge
d’Affaires, US. Embassy, presentv:
ed the award on. behalf of the
Animal Welfare Institute. - - . ‘

The Schweitzer Medal, institu—
ed in 1954, has been, presented
each year “for recognition of an
individual, who has made an out-
- standing contribution to animal
welfare and conservation of Wild-
. life and its habitat.” ’

A former Finance and Home
Minister, Mr Patel is the first Asi.
an to receive this award.

 

TRI BUNE
Aug‘ 5’ 198 0

 




NATIONAL HERALD
Aug. 5,1980

xSchwm m1 medal

r f 01* HM P3161

NEW DELHI! Aug. 1- ._ The“
Albert Schweitzer Medal Of the
Animal Welfare, InStitute’ of the 3
U‘S.A. Was presented to Mr. H ‘
M Patel, former Chairman ,of the .'
Indian Boardz'for Wildlife, here“ 1
today Mr "Archer K "Blood
Chmgp d’Affaires U. S. Embassy
331t~entbd the award on behalf of
the Animal Welfare- .ﬂStitutﬁ

The Schweitzer Medal. institur 3
ted“ in 11954; has been presented
each. year “for recognition 101-: ari
individual Who has madp an Out-
Standing contribution to anima} }
v alfalg and? conservation of Wim—
11ij and its habitat ”1

M1 Patgl former Finance and
I'lome Mmlster iS the flrS't A‘Slan
to Laceivp this plestig 10113 award“

' In brief acceptance remarks ‘
after receiving the inscribed bron- '
Ze medal he complimented Prime 3‘
MllllSteT Indira Gandhi the pre. ’3
sent Chairman of the .Indian 1
Boajd for Wi]dlife on her Strong
advocaCy of conservation and en. 3
v110nmenta1 piotectlon in India
Iain/J 1;: 1.21111; V’s-1 1:. "dnﬁsqn; 011511
”11131133111111 311111 aouepma st exaql
(”(dV) 21‘ ﬁnV XHOL MEN

1
1

 




TIMES OF INDIA

 

Mr H. M. Patel, former cheirm an of the Indian Board for Wildlife and former ﬁnance minister,
receiving the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute of the USA from Mr Ar-
cher K. Blood, U.S. Charge: (1’ alfaires, in New Delhi on Monday. ——TOI photo.

 

HM Patel receives
l SchweitZer Medal

NEW DELHI, August 4 (PTI): The
Albert Schweitzer Medal of the animal
welfare institute of the United States
was presented today to Mr H. M.
Patel, former chairman of the Indian
board for wildlife.

Mr Archer K. Blood, Charge
d’Aflaires in the US. embassh
presented the award on behalf of the
animal welfare institute.

The Schweitzer medal. instituted in
1954, is presented each year ‘for re-
cognition of an individual, who has
made an outstanding contribution to
animal welfare and conservation of
wildlife and its habitat”.

Mr Patel is the first Asian to re-
ceive this prestigious award.

Mr Patel who is also a formeri
ﬁnance minister, commended '11:}?
Prime Minister, Mrs Indira Gandhi‘s
‘unequivocal stand’ in favour of en-l

vironmental protection. l

 




STATESIVUXN
Aug. 5 , 198 0

’RARE HONOUR F035
' H. M. PATEL

By A Staff Reporter ‘

7 The Albert Schweitzer Medal of

tihe Animal Welfare Institute of a

the United Sire-tee was presented i
:to Mr H_ M_ Patel, farmer Union
Minister end Chairman "of the
India-n Board for Welfare, in New
Delhi on Monday. Mr Patel .is the
ﬁrst Asian to receive the medial.
Other re'c'i'pisemts include the late
Mr LHub-emt HUmzph-rvey of, the USA
and.» President Daniel Ordu'ber 'Olf
Costa Rica. ‘
The medal was presented by Mr
Amclhle'r K, Blood, Change de’Affalimes
of the US. Embassy in India, It
, has been awarded every yea-r since
1954 to individuals making out-
eMnding comitmiibuﬁon to animal

welfare. ' '

 

 

 




HI NDU STAN TIMES
A 3.1g 0 S , 198 O

:Sghweitzer.Medal 1

Hindustan Times 'eCo-rresp()‘113.{h§2,x‘1‘t~ " ' g
, NEW DELHI, A-ug.-.4-—-Th»e -rA;1'bIe~rt-
Sdhweei‘tzer Medal of the 'Andmaél
Welfare Institute of the Unit-ed
States was today present to Mr'
H. M. Paztetl, [former Chairman of
—.I e Indian Board ﬁoir WeiIl-dsldlfe.

 

 




. '21] @3333 m“: -

, ‘7? W, (5 Lam-ﬁrm ,mﬁﬁa-
m Gm W 55 1W? $333333
3% 333 Q33 «2‘? zﬁ‘t; aﬁ'Wf
‘92”??th 3333333 m
V? ﬂﬁﬁhwmagﬁzkmmqnn}
I?” 3%"?WW'U3W 33‘: em: :
if}? it??? 3% xfa'Wm 1‘ " ..
1 ”"33 W ‘3333 am: gar m
‘ “WWW-333333 TI“? WW

1

1

1‘33 ‘FWWI W333 F331: um:
i .

i"

‘Wv'a'mmgﬁ,

331333 3% mm W33 WW“

\ﬁfqéﬁzﬂiﬁﬁﬁwﬁ'mﬁ dun

$51319: . '5'1

 

Q

HI NDUSTAN (Hindi)

 




 

'V'

)-

    

 

 

 

.82 34:): a -4 . _ ‘
44.44:}: 2;: 42:44 ‘42 4:444:44}?
42.42 42424: 44: 444:4 4.4244 4.4:
4:424: 44: 4442443: 24: 4: £44: 44:
442.44: 44: 22324:: 4442.8 44444414: 4:44.; 4
4:444: 4.44: 4444: 4,4 4:44:44: 4:444:24
-4:42 4431422444 4244 4 44244414: 4

42 44:44: 4.4: 4:4

 

 

   

.L-do ’3. "

 

 

 

 

2544:} 32W 4144+: 4:42.443: 44413.41
Eu: 4% 4:4; 4444.: 42444242. 4244:
4:44: .424: 44:44: 4.4: 4:44:44 4:42:44
44:4: 44: 4:4:44: 44: 4444:4424: 4:4.
42W34~4= 42444422442444:
4:344: 444343: 44244:: 324:. 4: 44:4;

 

 

 

0961‘s '3nv
83444.4 .LVHVHG 4m

 

 




. 111111121111 11 111111_' 23 11:3 ‘

1 . 111111 11: 117111111 1 2 1112‘
2- 12 21:11:11 21 ;

: ‘ 1.1112131221111212 1,11.

22 12111. 11111112 11111 ,

I . 12 111112111 11111 2111 211 A. .1
121111 112112} 211 2 2E 21 11:: 1
11111111111 2 12111: 111 11:;

_ - . 11211211111111

3 ‘- 1211111221: 111211112 2 1.1111124: ‘

1111 2 111111211 2 1112111. 211111 ' .

i ‘ 2 112111 11121 12- 921111 212; 1111

f _1 12 2 2:111 11112113 211 :

* ; 121111111111 11121: T

_ 1112 2221221 1122122 121112311; j

‘32 111111111 221 11112113 211
11112121: 111111 1112121 21.21.15;

~12 12211 ohh 61b 111 11111112
112121: 2 11.1 2111 11111 11112111: I

; I1. 2122 02 111111 11:: 12211111:

:1 111111112 12111111 121121 12111: -

77 I 112111 21111211 11111

__ , at: 91211
1112111 22.}:
1% 2121 11111 021.5 1

 

0961" S 'Env
NDPHV 1:111

 




 

‘ ”~41
United States
International Communication Agency '

American Center

— .24 Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi -110001 Phone : 46841

 

(Not to be published before 7 p.m., August 4)

August 4, 1980

SCHWEITZER AWARD FOR INDIAN CONSERVATION LEADER

NEW DELHI (USICA) -- The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the
Animal Welfare Institute of the United States was presented
to H.M. Patel, former Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, on August 4. Archer K. Blood, Charge d'Affaires,
U.S. Embassy, presented the award on behalf of the Animal
Welfare Institute.

The SChweitzer Medal, instituted in 1954, has been
presented each year "for recognition of an individual who
has made an outstanding contribution to animal welfare and
conservation of wildlife and its habitat."

Patel, former Finance and Home Minister, is the first
Asian to receive this prestigious award. Prominent
conservationists who have received the award in past years

include Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring; former U.S.

 

Vice President, the late Senator Hubert Humphrey; Daniel

Oduber, President of Costa Rica and Dr. Lee M. Talbot,

present...

 




present Director General of the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature and National Resources (IUCN).
In brief acceptance remarks after receiving the
inscribed bronze medal, Patel said that the award was in
fact not merely honoring him but also honoring the rapidly
growing band of dedicated conservationists in the country.

During his tenure as Chairman of the Indian Board for

Wildlife, Patel set up an informal group which included

top scientists and Government of India policy makers which
framed and developed for the first time a comprehensive
integrated national environmental policy. This national
policy envisaged creation of a central executive mechanism
for implementation.

Patel complimented Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the
present Chairman of the Indian Boardikanildlife, on her
strong advocacy of conservation and environmental protection
in India. He said the sense of urgency and determination
with which Mrs. Gandhi has set about evolving a policy and
translating it into action, has aroused hope and enthusiasm
among all who are involved in the conservation movement in
the country.

Patel emphasized the need to accept conservation as a
living national ethos and as a fundamental principle in

shaping...

 




- 3 -

shaping India's plans for future development. ”Many of

our economists and planners," he remarked, ”fail to
recognize that the origins of today‘s inflation are found
in the rapid, irresponsible consumption of living and

other natural resources.”

 




2/27/79

Mr. Dick Lewis
Medallic Art Company
Old Ridgebury Road
Danbury, CT 06810

Dear Mr. Lewis,
Enclosed is one of the Schweitzer medals whﬂch you cast for us

last year. Please have this engraved in the appropriate spot
on the obverse

SHRI H. M.

Would you let me know when you receive this and can give me a
delivery date for the completed work.

Thank you.

John Gleiber
Assistant to the Officers

 




2/5/70

I have taken f0 Dr. Eerfrand fhe followins
information 3% his reouesf:

Schweitzer medal informafional brochure (for him to fake f0 India)

AHI Educafionel Meterinle list
the lest three annual reeorts (the curren+ #9 will be available in e

\ few weeke)
(He needed fhese becauee he is gettinc some internal Questions concerning

his mxmxaxx AW] board narficﬂpation.)

/f1

 




ADDRESS ONLY THE DIRECTOR,
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

United States Department of the Interior

FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
WASHINGTON, DC. 20240

February 2, 1979

Mrs. Christine Stevens
1686 34th Street NW
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Christine:

I have enclosed the biographical data available from the
Indian Embassy on Shri H. M. Patel who is now Home Minister
for the Government of India. Mr. Patel has been particularly
active in wildlife conservation, pursuing a lifelong interest
in wildlife. This does not appear on the official biography
but I have added information to that effect at the bottom.

Mr. Patel is currently Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, the combination government/nongovernment policy
board responsible for wildlife policy direction for all India.
‘Ti is b Icyicbcutqulvcb from milita 13-, 6.31.3.“
gculture, forestry, education, science and finance ministries
as well as representatives from the university community and

Enongovernment organizations.

ﬁAs I understand it, Mr. Patel was in a large part responsible
for curtailing trade in wildlife and is currently examining
“Indian trade in reptile products. The attached paper, which
Mr. Patel wrote for the Himalayan Conference, indicates his
sound ecological approach and long view toward India's future.

 

I will be happy to pursue the possibility of Mr. Patel receiving
the Schweitzer medal when I am in India the week of February 12.

I will be able to gather more detailed information on Mr. Patel' 3
background in wildlife and environment during that trip.

Sincerely,

p /”
,’»-'

/

era . Bertrand
Chief, International Affairs

Enclosure

 




PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
******

SHRI H. M. PATEL

 

A retired civil servant and an experienced administrator,
particularly financial management, Shri H.M. Patel, was born in
Bombay on August 27, 1904. Having had his schooling at St. Kavier's
High School, Bombay, he proceeded abroad and did his B.A. from
Oxford and B. Com. from London.

Shri Patel has had a successful administrative career to
his credit. He was appointed Sub—Divisional and District Officer,
Sind, and Sind Separation Officer in Government of Bombay in 1936-37.
He took charge as Secretary of the Stock Exchange Committee and was
appointed Trade Commissioner for India in Northern Europe (Hamburg)
from June 1937 till the outbreak of the War. He assumed charge as
Deputy Trade Commissioner and Trade Commissioner, London in
September 1939 and worked in that capacity until July 1940. Ie
was Secretary of the Eastern Group Supply Council in 1941-42 and
Deputy Director—General Supply Department from 1942-43. He rose
to be the Secretary of Department of Civil Supplies and later he
took over as Cabinet Secretary. He became Secretary in the Ministry
of Defense in October 1947 and worked as Partition Secretary and
Defense Secretary from 1947 to 1949. He was Secretary, Food and
Agriculture in 1950—53 and in the Department of Economic Affairs.
He was the Principal Finance from 1954 until his retirement in 1958.

Shri Patel joined Swatantra Party and became President of the
Gujarat State Unit (1967—72). He was elected Member of the
Gujarat Assembly from 1967 to 1971. He served as the President of
the All India Swantantra Party for two years in 1971 from Dhanduka
in Gujarat.

Keenly interested in education, Shri Patel was Chairman of
the Charutar Vidya Mandal, Vallabh Vidyanager, District Kaira and
Sastu Sahitya Trust, Ahmedabad.

Shri Patel is widely travelled. He has visited UK, USA,
Europe, Far East and Japan. He is keenly interested in Tennis,
Reading and Wriging. '

Shri Patel contested the 1977 Lok Sab Sabha election from
Sabarkantha constituency in Gujarat on the Janata Party ticket
and was elected.

Shri Patel had had a lifelong interest in wildlife and wildland
conservation and is currently Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, the all Indian policy making board which examines government
practices as they might affect wildlife and all government actions
directed at wildlife and wildlands conservation. Under Mr. Patel's
leadership, the government has recently developed a broad—based and

 

 




ecologically sound forest management policy fully recognizing
the value of wildlife as an integral part of the forest resources.

 




wtb 4/ +_ W

\

. : Pi? : itJec
K i «.3 one:

 

 

INAUGURAL ADDRESS
by
SHRI H. M. PATEL
Union Minister for Finance

Mr Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen :

To be among learned men is a pleasure. To inaugurate their delibe-
rations on so lofty a subject as the Himalayas is indeed an honour.
Therefore, it would be appropriate that at the outset I express my grati-
tude to the Chairman and the Members of the National Committee on
Environmental Planning and Coordination and the Steering Committee
of this Seminar for the honour they have conferred on me.

In a small way I have been connected with nature conservation for
sometime now. The more I ponder over the need for conservation and
the strategies therefor the more I become convinced of the need for
generating informed public and official opinion towards conservation
matters. This to me seems to be a lengthy and fairly difﬁcult task but a
task on which work should, nonetheless, be begun at the earliest.

Let me first pose the question “why conservation” ——~ as this ques-
tion is being asked by both the laymen and the advocates of rapid eco~
nomic development. Critics attribute to the term conservation an elitist
connotation and the less charitable among them an ethereal unreality.
Conservation has been dubbed a static concept freezing human societies
at given stages of development so that the existing distinctions, econo-
mic and social, between man and man may continue. May be the coun-
tries of origin of the modern conservation movement and the strata of
society to which its standard bearers belong have something to do with
this criticism.

Therefore, to answer the question “why conservation” it is neces-
sary to provide an answer to the question—~“what is conservation”.
Early man was so integral a part'of nature that his impact on the other
components of the biosphere was hardly distinguishable from the impact
of animal species. However the social and cultural evolution of man has
been marked by a growing conﬂict between him and nature. More by
design than by accident his seeming ascendency over the biotic commu-

12

 

 




nities of plants and animals and inanimate environment scaled greater
and greater heights leading to a state of mind which comprehends man
as the master of nature and someone apart from it. This feeling of eu-i
phoria or self-deception, if one may so call it, was engendered by man’s
small numbers over long periods of his history and the seemingly inex-
haustible storehouse of nature. However, every step which mankind
took towards progress only increased its dependence on nature. The
position today is that human numbers are large and resources are
limited. The life-supporting systems of the earth are threatened with
irrevocable damage. ’

The biosphere which is a part of our planet is the grand stage on
which living communities of men, plants and animals interact with each
other and with their environment. How much living and non-living
matter are related to each other on the biosphere has been well brought
out by the Russian scientist Vernadsky. He divides the biosphere into
three main components, namely, life, biogenic matter and biocosnic
matter. All living matter of the biosphere constitutes life. Organic sub-
stances like coal, petroleum and soil humus produced by living matter
constitute the biogenic component. The biocosnic component is pro—
duced as a result of interaction between living matter and inorganic sub-
stances like sedimentary rocks, clay minerals, water and the atmospheric
gases. The interaction between the components of the biosphere is a
complex processwhich seldom stops. Human beings, plants and animals
continuously exchange matter and energy among themselves and with
the environment. Thus man while admittedly having an unusual role on
the biosphere is undoubtedly a part of nature, his life and death being
inextricably woven with the environmental interactions. As Dasmann
puts it “Man apart from environment is an abstraction; in reality no
such being could exist”. I

It is interesting to consider some of the instances in human history
when man wittingly and unwittingly brought out practically irreversible
changes in his environment. One theory has it that the African and
Asian deserts where substantial p0pulations once thrived have been the
result of unwise land use practices. The exploitation of timber of the
Lebanese mountains for building the powerful navy of the Phoenicians
laid bare the mountainside which, to compound the disaster, was also
subjected to heavy grazing by goats‘and sheep. Similar demands for
building naval and maritime strength, demands for grazing land and
fuel wood, wrought havoc in other parts of the Mediterranean region. A

13

 




comparison may also be drawn between the Nile Valley and the Tigris
and Euphrates Valley. While the Nile Valley continues to be a great
centre of population as in the days of yore, the Tigris and Euphrates
Valley now supports only a fraction of its former population. This is‘
accounted for by the continued fertility of the Nile Valley. brought about
by favourable ecological factors. Firstly, the Ugandan swamps and the
mountains of EthiOpia where the headwaters of the Nile originate have
throughout history remained free from pressures of excessive human and
livestock population. The swamps and the vegetation in the highlands
held soils from being washed away in 'too great a quantity to the valley ,
downstream. The load of silt which the waters carried was light and
manageable thus contributing to the fertility of the Nile Valley. Ade-
quate drainage provided for the ﬂowing away of excess water protecting
the soil from becoming saline. The drainage channels also remained
comparatively free from silting.

The picture in the Armenian highlands from where the Tigris and
Euphrates originate was however different. These highlands were the
habitat of large populations of human beings and livestock. They were
also on the migratory routes of nomads and sustained all the devas-
tation that hillside farming, over grazing and timber felling could pro—
duce. The resulting soil erosion Carried increasingly unmanageable loads
cf silt to the Tigris and the Euphrates Valley. The silt filled the irriga-
tion canals which gradualiy felt inte disuse. Waterlogging and soil sali-
nity assumed significant proportions and it is postulated that these ecs
logical factors ultimately led to the collapse of the Babylonian civiliza-
tion in the Tigris and Euphrates Valley.

Many instances in recent times similar to the above could be
quoted. The Nile delta itself is experiencing the adverse impact of the
Aswan high dam. Waterlogging, soil salinity and enhanced threat of the
outbreak of Bilharziasis are said to have resulted due to the construc—
tion of the dam. Further the ﬁsh catch in the Mediterranean is report-
, ed to have gone down alarmingly due to loss of spawning grounds
upstream and a substantial fall in nutrient—rich silt reaching the sea.
'In our own country effects of soil erosion arising out of poor and often
improper land use practices are of no little concern. Exploitation of
forests with an eye only on quick returns, agriculture in hilly areas with-
out adequate soil conservatiOn measures and over grazing all have led
to a situation where the life of many river valley projects has been

14

 




sharply reduced. The recurrent ﬂoods and drought in some parts of the
country are as much due to manmade factors as to natural causes.

Given this background the term conservation assumes a special
meaning today. It is no longer understood as merely depicting nature
reserves or national parks or snowy peaks and lush meadows to which
only the afﬂuent and the adventurous could repair. It has come to
assume a very live meaning of profound signiﬁcance to man’s future.
It could be deﬁned as “the rational use of the environment to provide
a high quality of livingfor mankind”. It stresses man’s wise use of his
environment involving a consideration 'of the long-term impact of his
actions. It does not preach abnegation or inaction. Conservation is
very much a dynamic concept. ‘

Such being the content of conservation, it is obvious that the need
for action is urgent. To formulate a sound workable plan of action and
then to take steps to give effect to it, that becomes the ﬁrst requisite.
There must be a clearly enunciated policy expressing commitment to
the cause of conservation. Desperate, piecemeal and ad hoc approaches
without an overall policy framework would even in the short run cause
more harm than good to the cause of conservation. Happily, one ﬁnds
the concern for conservation reﬂected in the Constitution under Article
48 (A) which states that, “The State shall endeavour to protect and
improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of
the country”. Under Article Sl (A) (g), a duty is cast upon the citizens
“To protect and improve the natural environment including forests,
lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassion for living creatures”.

This constitutional backing should enable us to lay down a conser-
vation policy inspired by environmental considerations. It should
identify the deﬁciencies in the present situation and enunciate a stra-
tegy to govern all development. It should lay emphasis on understand-
ing the concept of coo-systems for rational resource management. This
would by necessary implication eschew sectoral approaches to resource
management. For too long has resource management suffered from
narrow sectarian interests with disastrous consequences for the environ-
ment and the very objectives pursued by these interests.

To implement a policy in which the cost-beneﬁt calculations would
inﬂuence resource management, decisions would need to be broadened to
include the costs of environmental degradation. It is admitted that these
costs are quite often incapable of being stated with any degree of pre-
cision. But it is equally true that sufﬁcient knowledge is available to

15

 




arrive at workable trade—oil's. Even a qualitative appreciation of the pro-
blems involved would in the initial stages sufﬁce to arrive at happy
compromises. This is however possible only when a conscious effort is
made by the planner and the project formulator to look upon. resource
management in an integrated manner keeping in view ecological princi-
ples. Every project for resource management must of necessity have an
environmental impact statement which shall identify to the extent
possible the environmental repercussions of the project. This would
need a multi-disciplinary approach to the problems involved.

I am happy to note that the incorporation of environmental guide-
lines in resource management has made a beginning under the auspices
of the National Committee on Environmental Planning and Coordina—
tion. Power generation projects which bring in substantial environ-
mental consequences are examined by this Committee. Large scale
industrial projects like mining, fertilizer manufacture and the like are
also being referred to this Committee. It is therefore only appropriate
for the Committee to concern itself with the development of so vast a
region as the Himalayas. '

There is a Sanskrit proverb which says that a hundred divine
epochs would not suffice to describe aii the marvels 0f tne Himalayas.
This awesome chain of mountains stretching nearly 1700 miles has from
time immemorial held an indescribable charm, inspiration and spiritual
signiﬁcance to the millions of the Indian sub-continent. It is well-nigh
impossible to describe in words the mysticism and the religious aura
that surround these mountains. Great sages and poets have tried to

escribe the sheer majesty and charm of the Himalayas but could never
fully capture in words the eternal truth which abides in them.

It is only in the modern age that man has begun to look at the
abode of the Gods for the exploitation of its material resources. The
natural resources of the Himalayan region are very vast indeed. The
great rivers which spring from the snowy expanse hold immense poten-
tial for a multiplicity of uses. Power generation, irrigation and naviga—
tion spring to mind as three most important uses of these waters. Experts
feel that an integrated plan for management of these water resources
to beneﬁt not only the northern states but the entire country is overdue.

Forests and forestry have a special place in the lives of the people
in the Himalayan region. Forests serve a host of needs not only of the
local communities but also of people far beyond. Besides their commer-
cial value, the Himalayan forests have an important ecological role.

1.6

I had earlier t.
the catchment
role in contro
streams and ir
Of late, t
contain have
creasing need
lands, clearin
works and the
country. Thes
tiees so that s .
ecelogy of the
Although
so far not b
antimony, ha
been reported
and natural g
the coming
become an i
Adequate ens
Tourism
years due to
and recreatio
own impact .
clamour for l
rance of the ‘-
tenance.
Already
beginning to
ces by men.
without loss
organised at.
awareness in
region has b
interpret the
policy towar
ment such a
and technol
would be be

 




Ihad earlier talked of soil erosion brought about by deforestation in
the catchment areas of rivers. The Himalayan forests play a crucial
role in controlling soil erosion and consequent silting of the rivers,
streams and irrigation canals in the plains.

Of late, the forests in the Himalayan region and the wildlife they
contain have come in for some harsh treatment. This is due to the in-
creasing need of the local communities for fuel wood and grazing
lands, clearing of forests for the construction of communication net-
works and the rising demand for wood for construction purposes in the
country. These demands underscore the need for sound forestry prac-
tices so that sustained yields could be realised without impairing the
ecology of the areas. ,

Although economic mineral deposits of any signiﬁcant scale have
so far not been discovered in the Himalayan region, occurrence of
antimony, barytes, bauxite, bentonitic clay and a few other minerals has
been reported. The search for oil is also on in the Himalayan foothills
and natural gas has been struck at some places. If exploration work in
the coming years reveals ecOnomic deposits, mining activity would
become an important factor of ecological disturbance in the area.
Adequate environmental safeguards would need to be provided.

Tourism is yet another activity that has come to the fore in recent
years due to its attractive commercial returns and its educational
and recreational value. Like any other human activity, this too has its
own impact on the local environment. Unless carefully managed, the
clamour for lucrative immediate returns may soon lead to the disappea-
rance of the very natural factors from which tourism draws its sus-
tenance. -

Already the Himalayas, abundant though their resources still are, are
beginning to show the scars of the unwise exploitation of these resour-
ces by men. It is imperative that effective wide-ranging action is taken
without loss of time. That is why I feel that this Seminar is being
organised at the right time. One sees the beginnings of a general
awareness in the country of the new dangers to which the Himalayan
region has begun to be subjected. One sees the urgent need to read and
interpret the warnings correctly and to adopt without delay a sound
policy towards the Himalayas and their wise‘exploitation. To imple-
ment such a policy, we today possess the‘ necessary scientiﬁc knowledge
and technological tools and to translate into action measures which
would be beneﬁcial to the region and therefore to mankind. I see that a

17

 




u
any. air am». an... . - .rI'

.. m y. amp-ms”: u~.r~.--wwmnn'<¢tw ‘Mvn'nx—"CVV .

 

number of leading specialists of
this seminar and that these papers

invited participants who in tum
ﬁelds. I warmly commend this imam;
mittee on Environmental Planning

ship of its Chairman, Dr B.P. I

I wish the participants a stzz‘aeigré
they would make will be of
aizaistrators and the community in

doubt that the recommendations

value to planners, policy makers. as:
general. I can only hepe that these
readily accepted by the authorities,

to give effect to them.
Thank you.

...:untry are presenting papers at

:_.‘:s.i lead to discussion ameng the

she men of distinction in their

taken by the National Corn-
-? Coordination under the ieader-

~ exchange of views. I have no

emmendations will not only be

2. that they will proceed speedily

 




Seminar on

AFFORESTATION AND
SAVINGOF WILDLIFE IN MAHARASHTRA

Inaugural Address by
SHRI H. M. PATEL

Union FinanCe Minister

28TH AUGUST, 1978 AT 3.30 RM.
MERCHANT CHAMBER BUILDING. CHURCHGATE, BOMBAY

 




.I am happy to be present here today to inaugurate the seminar organised by the Indian
Merchants’ Chamber on Afforestation and Saving of Wildlife in Maharashtra. I am particularly
happy to know that an organisation such as yours has begun to take an interest in so vital and yet
soneglected a subject. .

» . ~ 2.1 I have for quite some time been deeply interested and concerned about the problems of
conserving India’s living natural resources, particularly its forests and the great nattiral heritage
which has been bequeathed to us—our wildlife; our animals, birds, insects and our plants—which
in their. numbers, diversity and beauty are among the country’s most valuable assets.

.- 3. Of all the problems that confront those of us concerned with Conservation today, there is
in my opinion none more important than the protection of our forests, what we have left of them,
and particularly our all too few remaining virgin forests. These constitute the most effective means
of conserving and ensuring the long term productivity of our soil and water resources and provide
the ’ major habitats for our wildlife. Many of us do not appreciate the extraordinarily effective
rule that virgin forests play, and believe that similar beneﬁts can be achieved from manmade forests.
It takes little observation to appreciate, as I am sure many of you have, at least those of you Who
have: wandered through some of the virgin jungles of our country, the remarkably efﬁcient manner.
in which Nature has clothed and protected the areas covered by these forests. The way in which
it-has provided for the existence of a great diversity of vegetation—of tall trees to provide the top
canopy of the jungle, smaller trees to form middle hampers, still smaller trees and shrubs to. provide
the lower; hampers and ﬁnally an enormous variety of low growing vegetation—bushes, ferns,
grasses, mosses and the like to form the ground cover. All of these together with their intricate
network of widespread and deep root systems contribute bothto the formation of vital top soil and
provide protection against the erosion of such soil from wind and the rapid run oﬁ of rain water.
They also ensure the capacity of these areas to hold moisture for gradual release during the "dry
months through springs and streams. Failure to realise this, and the wanton and shortsighted
felling of trees in the catchment areas have resulted in loss of valuable soil and silt and in pro-
gressively more violent ﬂoods, which grow with each year in their destructiveness.

; ~: ,4. But these are only a part of the many beneﬁts that virgin forests provide. The natural

coo-systems which they support provide genetic pools of irreplaceable botanical and zoological
species which may one day prove to be our saviours from existing and hitherto unknown diseases.
We are fortunate that up to present times Nature’s muniﬁcence has been so great that we have
not yet been forced to exploit the vast majority of these species, many of which can provide untold
scientiﬁc and economic beneﬁts to our country and to the world. They constitute a store—house
of enormous wealth; capital that left to Nature’s own dynamics rather than to human contriving
can grow at a rate far greater than would be possible in any commercial or ﬁnancial institution of
human design.

5. To the human spirit virgin forests have been a source of inspiration, tranquillity and solace
from time immemorial. We stand in danger of losing all this and more if the rate of destruction
of‘our‘forests, both virgin and others, continue at the pace it is today. One major cause of all

 




,2 '

this destruction is the pressure of population. I believe that in the long run there can be no escape
from the growing pressure of demand on our forests and all natural living resources until each of
us individually and collectively cultivate what I would describe as a conservation ethic, a conserva-
tion philosophy, at the core of which must be the acceptance of a value system based upon the
consumption of only minimal material needs. I am not one of those who subscribes to the view
that happiness is a huge bank balance, a vast wardrobe, gargantuan meals and the many other
luxuries with which many of us among the more affluent classes of society surround ourselves and
appear to enjoy. Many of us suffer from one or other of the modern diseases caused by over-
consumption and unnatural life styles. L am convinced that we would be far happier and healthier

 

if we consumed muchless. ‘Most importantly we would also thereby be helping those less fortunate
than ourselves to reshape their aspirations to ﬁt with greater accord to the Conservation imperatives.
of contemporary times. The economics of a consumer society, as it is traditionally known, are in
f ..

mun“.-

 

conﬂict with the conservation ethics of today and must of necessity undergo a fundamental reor1enta-
tion based on the concepts I have mentioned if we are to live at greater peace and equ111br1um

“may“...

,, W”...—

6. The complete protection of our virgin forests and a total moratorium for a giVen period .of

any exploitation of them is, I am convinced, the single most effective way of protecting our wildlife,

and ourselves. But to implement this effectively a solution to a human problem of great complexity.
and magnitude must ﬁrst be found. The fuel and fodder requirements of the majority of our people
come from wild uncultivated trees and plants, and alternative sources must be found if we are to
meet, as we must, these basic and essential needs. This should compel us to apply our talents more
sustainedly to the problem of utilising solar energy. Also many industries today depend on forests
for their sources or raw material. These requirements too must be met. The only solution lies,
I feel, in a system of agro—forestry based on the intensive cultivation and cropping on a multi-.
purpose basis of speciﬁcally demarcated areas outside our virgin forests that today carry no vegeta-
tion at all or at best very little. This would include Industrial and Social Forestry as the terms are
now understood through both of which a rapidly increasing proportion of the country’s requirements
Of fuel, fodder and industrial raw material must be met. W0 will dispute my thesis

a.“ .as -¢...,“W

of the need to treat our virgin forests as inviolate and would have these areas subjected to

 

 

Wation by human agencies to serve immediate and multiple human uses. I can only say that
Wﬁjhd hope that wisdom will dawn on them soon. For we have not much time to
- Wing the right policies in this regard. I hold ﬁrmly to the view that we can go on
neglecting this only at the peril of losing the most valuable natural asset of the country and the
major bulwark against loss of agricultural productivity in some of our most fe1tilc agricultural tracts.
Though I do not have accurate and uptodate statistics, I have reason to strongly suspect the recorded
ﬁgures of the areas of our existing forests. Many of our 30- -called fOrests, I believe, have long
since disappeared and many of the areas recorded as forests are in fact barren tracts no longer
capable of carrying stands of perennial vegetation without a major investment of resources. It is
my belief, and I am happy to say that this point of view is receiving far greater support than ever
before, that the investment of the country’s resources in protecting our existing forests and in
reaﬁorestation should be given far greater priority than hitherto and that the direct and short term

economic and social payoffs will amply justify such investment. The Indian Board for Wildlife

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

3

of which I am Chairman has recently attempted to recast for Government’s consideration the
National Forestry Policy with a view to providing greater protection to virgin forests and to high-
lighting the need for a far, greater effort at establishing Industrial and Social forests. . I must confess
that I am not by any means content" with our efforts in this direction and believe that a much more
drastic reorientation of our forest priorities is called for to ensure effective Conservation, if we are
to avoid the risks to which I have pointed.

7. .I have so far been emphasising only the conservation aspect of natural living resources.
There is also another kind of destruction that is taking place: through the fouling of water and air.
In all this, in the solution of the conservation problems as a whole that confront us today, there is
much that organisations like the Indian Merchants Chamber of Commerce can do. They can act as
a catalyst in the formation of responsible citizen groups. Such groups have a part to play in a
democratic system such as ours today. The need to organise to inﬂuence Government and society
is at no point of time more critical than in the area of environment.

8. Such groups can exercise their inﬂuence in a variety of ways. They could act as the
environmental conscience-keepers of the country and seize every opportunity of reminding all
these whose business it is to implement these policies to do so zealously. Such agencies and
individuals will shed their general apathy towards problems of conservation and environment
if they begin to understand more clearly the signiﬁcance of environmental issues and adapt
the exercise of their authority to the fulﬁlment of environmental objectives. I am sorry to say
that too many of us today are tradition and habit bound and therefore unable to respond

imaginatively and effectively to the problems and situations engendered by environmental
Considerations; ' -‘ " ~- -' , .A . , .

9. But to be successful, citizen groups that make environmental issues their major concern
must be capable of identifying and touching a deep nerve in the public psyche. Their programmes
must ﬁrst stimulate and then articulate deeply felt desires and serious concerns-of the wider public.
Responsible citizen groups which espouse environmental causes must emphasise the need for
institutional and substantive reform. Much of our country’s social and institutional infrastructure
requires fundamental reform before our institutions can respond adequately to the environmental
dimensions of our lives today. In saying this "I refer as much to changes necessary in governmental
procedure as to the practices of private enterprise affecting the obvious problems of air, water and
soil pollution and the preservation of wildlife. Such groups should see to it that the public are
kept well informed of what is happening around them and in the country. Public review and
criticism must be forthc‘ormninmggprornptlywat the earliest stage of. anymajorproject which has. an.
Wiriml impact. It is when such a project is merely under consideration that

mmmwtdo much to ensure that relevant environmental aspects are not over-
looked when the formulation of such a project is taking place. Considerable legislation already
exists to provide legal restraint to activities—industrial, commercial and even governmental, that
violate conservation norms. And where it does not, it is the duty of responsible elements of the
public such as those who form your membership, or the citizen groups to which I have referred,
to press everyone in authority to seek enactment of such legislation.

10. It is through a democratic process that the present Government has successfully restored,
that citizens can participate in the formulation of good projects. Through the participation of

 

 




4.

voluntary groups, Government would be able to obtain information which only deeply concerned
citizens could provide. Also through public participation, possible hostility to a proposed project
can be anticipated and diffused and methods adopted of modifying the project to take into considera—.
tion relevant environmental factors. The most valuable achievement of such mam-each would
be a sense of participation and joint responsibility between Government and the people.

11. If the Indian Merchants Chamber is to contribute to the solution of the conservation

problems that confront us, and if it ﬁnds merit in the suggestions I have made, its ﬁrst duty would
be to educate its members and through them the Industrial and Commercial community as a whole,
on the role and importance of forests, on the role and importance of conservation generally and to
secure the protection of these forests by the local authorities against unscrupulous, illicit and
shortsighted exploitation. It should also regard itself as the custodian of the wildlife of these areas
and act as a catalyst to generate governmental action in securing the declaration of increasing areas
as reserved or protected forests. ' I understand that an excellent example of what can be done is
one in Maharashtra itself for which we have to thank the house of Tata and Mr. Sumant
Moolgaokar, in particular, to whose foresight and imagination we owe the declaration of the .
catchment areas of Shirawte, Kundali and Thokarwadi lakes and their hinterland as a protected area.
The enforcement of protected area laws also is as much a concern of responsible local citizens as
it is of the local Forest Department. I have no doubt that the professional, managerial and technical
skills and experience that the members of this Chamber can marshal can be put to excellent use in
the protection and development of forests of the State in the wider interests of the community
as a whole.
f 12. In accepting the invitation of the President of the Indian Merchants Chamber to inaugurate
this seminar, I have come here in the hope and belief that I shall be initiating discussion on a subject
that is of as deep signiﬁcance and concern to all its participants as it is to me, and that this seminar
will not be a mere academic exercise offering an opportunity for those who are looking for
intellectual diversion from the tedium of their normal industrial and commercial lives. I hope
very much that those who have been responsible for organising this seminar and those who are
participating in it will seek to evolve a positive plan of action—a plan of action in the implementa—
tion of which members of the Indian Merchants Chamber will devote their individual time and
resources. . ,

13. It is my belief that mankind today stands at the crossroads of human history, at a historical
watershed. legs essential for us in the current generation, in the current century, to pause and take
stock of the growth rate of our population, our productivity, the rate at which we have been eating
into our limited resources, the effects of the policies we have pursued hitherto affecting our environ-
ment, the technological, scientiﬁc and other resources we possess, if we are to regain lost ground.
Then, with a sense of destiny, we must proceed to recast the value systems that have served us so
far in such progress as we have achieved so that they ﬁt‘ more appropriately with the new
environment we have created around us. And this time, let us hope, we will have a better
understanding of our environment and seek to nourish and strengthen it rather than pollute and

foul and erode it as we have been doing so far.

 

 




BY AI R I‘-’IAIL_

TEE rial, mm
HOME MINISTER
INDIA

NEW DELHI. - 110 001.
March 17, 1979.

Dear Mrs . Stevens,

Thank you very much for your letter dated
27th February 1979. I am grateful for the offer of
the award of the Albert Schweitzer Medal, though as
I told Dr. Gerard Bertrand, I am not certain that
I deserve it: In fact in the normal course I would
have danurred from accepting it except that I shall
look on it not as a personal award but as testimony
of international, particularly U.S. recognition of
the growing Wildlife Conservation movement in this
country and appreciation of the efforts being made
by Conservationists here to save our endangered
Species and their habitat.

In this regard I do hope you will understand
if I suggest that it would be more apprOpriate if the

award were to be made in this country where it would
receive the widest publicity and thereby help to
promote greater public interest, concern and involve-
ment in Conservation. Might I also add especially
that this purpose would be served particularly wall
if: as Dr. Gerard Bertrand suggested, the presentation
were to be made by someone of international standing.
This wOuld ensure world wide media coverage and
hOpefully attract international support to our efforts
so essential to Speedy achievement of our objectives.
Conservation of Wildlife has now become truly a matter
of global Concern. Conservation can know no national
boundaries and stmng technical support from whatever
quarter of the globe this may be available must be
attracted and welcomed if our objectives are to be
achieved within the very limited time frame now left
to us. The publicity centred around an important
Conservation event such as the award of the Albert

Schweitzer Medal could well be orchestrated to Serve
this purpose.

 




Would.you be so good enough to consider my
suggestion? And may I say again how deeply I appreciate
the offer of your Institute's prestigious award.

yours sincerely,

/}\i/{L§?/

(H.M. PATEL)

Mrs. Christine Stevens,
President,

Animal Welfare Institute,
POO. BOX 3650,
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20007,
U. Svo

 




v ....
"m

‘, ‘g
,4" . ,. ‘

 




.. Charutar Vidya Mandel
H. M. Pate' . VaHabh Vidyanagar 388l20
Gujarat

August 5, 1980.
Dear Mrs. Stevens,

The 1979 Albert Schweitzer Nedal.Award
has finally been presented to me at a ceremony
that took place on 4th August '80 at the U.S.Enbassy
in Delhi. I am distressed by the embarrassment that
this.long delay must have caused you and the Animal
Welfare Institute for which I must ask you to accept
my sincere apologies. I can only hope you will
understand that circumstances beyond my control were
largely responsible for this delay. I have endeavoured
to explain these in my acceptance speech, a c0py of
which I enclose.

I am also enClosing a COpy of a booklet

brought out by friends and wellqwishers containing
some of the speeches I have had occasion to make on
@onservation in 1977 and 1978.

I thank you and the Institute again
for the honour done to me.

'Yours sincerely,
M m
(7:1 .M. PATEL)

Mrs. Christine Stevens,
President,
Animal‘Welfare'Institute,
P.0- BOX 3650’

WASHINGTON D.C. 2007
LTOSOAO ﬂ:

 

 




Septembar 23,’1980

* Ali Silver ‘

Archives oentrales Albert Sohwsitzer
Maison Albert Sehwoitaor

7F 68140 Gunsbaoh

FRANCE -

Dear Ali Silver.-

. Thank you for your letter of September 2. 1980. We have

made the adciress change you requested.

‘Wa are pleased to announoe that the 1979 Animal Welfare
Institute Schweitzer medal was presentsd.on.August 4, 1980 to Shri
H. M4 Patel, former Finance Minister of the Government of India
: and chairman of the Indian Board of Wildlife. .A copy of his
eloquent acceptance spoeoh is enclosed for your use in your-french
Bulletin. The presentation was made by U.S. Ambassador Robert
Gohean at the 8.3. Embassy in Delhi. - ' t

we have also selected the 1980 recipients for the Schweitzer
Modal ~.Dr. Roger Payne and his wife and codworker;'Katherine. The
Paynos as a team.havs been among-tho foremost observers of whales,
anﬁ they are known to the world for the recording of the “Songs of
tho Humpbadk Whale.” Dr. Payne has made majOr contributions to the
understanding of whales and scientific Goonmsntation of their
biological status. ‘ ‘

Dr. and Mrs. Payne spent.two years in the study of the Southern
Right Whales off the coast of Argentina. living in close proximity
with them and learning to identify each individual whale by its'
markings. scars and other particular features. Dr. Payne is the
originator of papulation studies of this species by aerial photography
followed by identification of individuals, a painstaking effort
Which makes counts possible without.harm to the Whales, in contrast
to the conventional system used by the International Whaling Commission

 




ﬁli Silver
September 23, 1§80
Fage 2

which requires shooting a riflembarrelwsized "Discevary Marker“ into
the whgle. This market lodges in the animal until its death, being
recovered on a whaling vessel when the whale is aismembered

Thank yau for your encouragement.

Sincerely.

Fran Lipscomb
Executive Assistant

FLzlt
Enclosure

 




ROGER PAYNE JOINS AWI SCIENTIFIC
‘ ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Foremost observer of whales, known to the world for
his recording of the “Songs of the Humpback Whale”
and his television documentary “Monsters of the Deep”,
Dr. Roger Payne has made major contributions to
understanding of whales and scientific documentation of

' ' their biological status. The Animal Welfare Institute is

proud to announce that he has joined the AWI Scientific
,gﬁdvisory Committee. - K . ' ‘ . .

Dr. Payne spent two years in the study of theSouthern
Right Whales off the coast of Argentina, living in close
proximity with them and learning to identify each
individual whale by its markings, scars and other
particular features. He is the originator of population
studies of this species by aerial photography followed by
identification of individuals, a painstaking effort which
makes counts possible without harm to the whales, in
contrast to the conventional system used by the
International Whaling Commission which requires
shooting a rifle-barrel-sized “Discovery Marker” into the
whale. This markerlodges in the animal until its death,
being recovered ori’fWhaling vessel when the whale is
dismembered. '

Dr. Payne’s scientific work is conducted under the
auspices of the New York Zoological Society and the
Rockefeller University.

 




Archives centrales
Albert Schweitzer

Maison Albert Schweitzer - F 68140 Gunsbach ,

+W.L.1LM “a.“ mwcsww‘

QM in...“ 95;...» MI? U4. Lao-what.
JLL. l2 WM 44.; L: M M
W L ELL... 4 J, WLL
‘jﬁimw' - “moi. Maﬁa? an...» .5.» Co-LM
‘3‘“ Mama.»
:35: 68”“? Caz/MALL
L¢=?W).W:J “WW1

04‘- » bgl‘lO OWLJ ?W

 

 

Commission de I’Oeuvre Spirituelle d’Albert Schweitzer
(rattachée a I'Association Internationale de l’Hépital A. Schweitzer).
Siege de la Commission: Gunsbach pres Colmar (France).

 




’Armﬂnchu; ctulLru]{n;.A1!nw t SCIWWEiLROY
- Maison Albert Schweitzer
F 68140 Cunsbach_x

_..- .9 ‘ ~—
. . r ‘ “ I 3‘ -/'V I”? ’3 ."./I 1‘“.
“w W\. 9' » \r 4' ’ ~..- ‘--‘

 




  

Archives centraies
Albert Schweitzer Maison Albert Schweitzer - F 68140 Gunsbach

     
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
  

15 Mao/yd...» 4:139.‘
94.0.“. W. khan/“L,

LﬁomWo-e» 841.12....L“ 9.3,qﬁlo,
wmoﬁwwcmwmuuﬁw
vLQ-om WDJaWLiWnMQM W4~3-w
WA’CMT—‘MBW-Fv‘w‘f' ~WW-ﬂ—0M‘Ws
Léomtg... 245% W-a.a€o OMB/3:434.ng
Minmmtwo
9..Q.¢,n_.~t %L.... ,3» ”Lola—0.1 4.2+.PQWWo—F
WM MW? (MWQWM oak
(1%,o-anmwkageg,

54...“? WW, uWueWQMW
JanuLmLaWj/MWGLQM,WMW
um oil» WA» 4‘“ «M4249...

JNAvwinW-gg‘zmi

Umw£mm~ﬁw4n~wawwm
www-4u moirwwm-ﬂaw...

 

 

94% W,

QM») (Lam.

 

 
 

Commission de I’Oeuvre Spirituelle d'Aibert Schweitzer (rattachée a I’Association Internationale de i'Hépital
A. Schweitzer). Siege de la Commission: Gunsbach pres Colmar (France). Téléphone (89) 77.31.42

 
 




September 8, 1980

Mr. H. M. Patel

Charutar Vidya.Manaal
‘Vallebh.Vidyanagar 388120
Gujarat

INDIA

Dear Mr. Patel 3

I was delighted to receive a copy of your fine address When you
accepted the Albert sohweitzer Award of the Animal Welfare Ineti~
tute. we are all very'heppy that the ceremony has now taken
place, and thank you very much for sending an inscribed copy of
your book, A Policy for National Conservation. I am taking it
‘with me to read on a trip which I begin this week.

I am informed that you have a daughter Who is mudh interested in
the protection of animals, and I hope you will give her my good
'wiehea and invite‘her to write to me, too.

we wish to join hands with you in protecting wildlife and other
anhmale throughout the world and look forward to having your
advice and suggestions in the future.

With kindest regards,

Sincerely.

Christine Stevene
President

 




H. M. Patel

Charutar Vidya Mandal
VaHabh Vidyanagar 388I2O
Gujarat

August 5, 1980.

1979 Albert Schwo. . I M3331 Award
been 333333333 to II I oerc mn3v \
31333 oh éﬁﬁ‘gnvﬂat 2 at the 3.3.“33333y
“I am dist“ 33333 oy he 3mbarr33333nt that

1333 delay 3333 hav3 333333 you and tIm .Anima 31
«dI“ Ines titut3 f0? WIMVM I mu3t akk you to accept
3133333 330"0313°. I can only hope you will
uhﬂerstaad 3333 Wroum33330 s 333,I33d mv Wit o] were
13333IV r333o331313 for this d3133. I have endeavoureu
to 333I3In £3333 In.my 3333pt3333 p3 ,oL, a COpy oI

.1- ' T
33.". E ‘3 9;:1-2. 1‘31 ‘ .

*JW

3033 OI a booklet

I 33 aIso enCI 33I33 3
330133+ out by Iri3nd3 33I'W3713353h33
I ha v3 333 03333323

4.37/3 ﬁj/N ‘ (Q
:139 SUQTEEJL§SBJ

3333 oi? : .
@onsevvahzon In 1977 and 1978.

3—you muithe
1033 to me.

'Iours 313333313,

MM“

P3.M. P II EL)

‘J

933v3ns,

“ U10

3;

“—4
w—J.
Y; Hi

'Instituté,

2097

U) Q) C) {~1- (‘D in

C
k

 




May 22, 1979

Honorable John Kenneth Galbraith
Harvard University

207 Littaner Center

Cambridge, MBssachusetts 02138

Dear Mr. Galbraith,
This year the Albert Schweitzer Award of the Animal Welfare

Institute goes to India‘s Home Minister Shri H. M. Patel in
recOgnition of his vigorous conservation of wildlife.

Recalling a Pleasant conversation with you some years ago about
animal welfare, I‘m emboldened to ask you whether you would possibly
consider making the presentation? It would be a tremendous honor
for all concerned if you would consent to do so.

Minister Patel has requested that the award be made in India, and
we, of course, will EOIIGW'h§8'wishes.

The time of the award can be set to fit your schedule and his.
‘ Roger joins me in expressing the hope that you may view this
award as of sufficient importance for you to take the time to fly
to India. Your willingness to do so would go far to encourage a real
spurt of conservation effort there. '
Best‘wishes.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




A IRMA IL.

Miss A. Silver

Maison Albort Schwe itz‘cr
68140 Gunsbach

FRANCE

Dear Miss Silver :

It was: good to hear from you again. and I am sorry that you

have not rcgularly received information about the presentations
of the Schweitzer Medal. I am enclosing a copy of the listing
of Mcdallists. and under separate cover we will be sending you
cOPies of Information Reports and Annual Reports in which further
details concerning the different awards over the years are
described so that you can put them in your: Archives. .

After you have looked over this material. let us know whether
there are specific publications of which you would like to have
extra copies. we have plenty of extras of some and only a few

of othors, so it in better for you to indicate which you would
like to have; At a minimmn, I should think you would like a good
supply of the listings of Schweitzer Mcdallists. We will be happy
to send you as many as you can use.

Wc just received confirmation that Shri H. M. Patel will accept
the Medal this year. He is Home Minister: of India and a very
strong supporter of the protection of wildlife. No announcement
has yet been issued concerning his selection. but you should
surely be among the first to know of it.

 




ADDRESS ONLY THE DIRECTOR,
HSH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

United States Dapartment of‘the Interior

FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
WASHINGTON, DC. 20240

(”lg In Reply Refer To:
" FWS/IA

June 21, 1979

Sr. Godofredo Stutzin
Huerfanos 972

Of. 508

Santiago

Chile

Dr. Mr. Stutzin:

As a follow-up to the letter of 17 January 1979 from

Dr. Gerard Bertrand to you concerning a possible trip

by Robert Brownell to Chile this year to discuss con—
servation work on the sea otters, Dr. Bertrand has asked
me to bring you up to date concerning Dr. Brownell's
plans.

Unfortunately, Dr. Brownell has had to postpone his trip
to Chile until perhaps November or December of this year.
Dr. Brownell or I will be in contact with you as plans
develop for such a trip.

We are particularly pleased to hear that Chile intends

to soon ratify the International Whaling Convention. This
is a very important step towards the worldwide c0nservation
of these marine mammals. '

cc:

IA Reading File
Curt Freese
lghristine Stevens _
BOb Brownell Curtis Freese

Bill Eldrige, Alaska International Affairs
Staff

Sincerely,

FWS/IA: CHFreese: lcm: 6/21/79

 




H .M . PATEL 2, Akbar Road

New Delhi 110011

November 15, 1979

Ms Christine Stevens,
President,
Animal‘Welfare Institute,
P.O. Box 3650,
WASHINGTON D40. 2000?,
U.S.A.

Dearlis Stevens,

'You must forgive what'might have appeared to be an
apparent discourtesy When I proposed the postponement till
January 1980 of the formal ceremony awarding me the.Albert
Schweitzer Award for 1979. I had a special reason for
suggesting this and confess I should have written earlier to
explain why I felt this was necessary. I trust you will
overlook this lapse.

I had explained to Dr. Gerard Bertrand when he first
informed me of the honour you proposed to do me that the
award ceremony would be a particularly suitable occasion to
give valuable publicity to the importance of'Conservation.in
this country. I Should in fact explain in this regard that
my reason for declining your very kind invitation to come
to the USA to receive the award arose from my belief that
if I did so the possibilities that the occasion would provide
to publicise Conservation in India would to some extent be
diminished. Conservation as a movement in this country has
only just begun to gain momentum and those of us committed
to it owe it to the cause to seek every opportunity of
advancing it through increased public awareness to a point
where it pervades every facet of our social and economic
planning and activity. While I believe this will eventually
happen prolonged delay is already costing us dearly.

I seek your understanding of the reasons for which
I proposed the postponement of the award ceremony and hope
that any awkwardness which this may cause will be more than
compensated by the advantages of holding it in.the more
favourable circumstances that should prevail after our
forthcoming elections are over and the public attention is
less distracted by national politics.

With my kindest regards,

Yours sincerely,

Mad

(H . M. PATEL)

 




October 14, 1980

Application FOR

Mr. H. M. Patel

Cherutar Viéya Mandel
Vallabh Vidyanegar 388120
Gujarat

INDIA

.Deax Mr. Patel,

Enclosed is a copy of the Information RepOrt reporting on the
Schweitzer Award to you (page 4). I’m sorry the photographs of
the presentation didn’t arrive before press time, but excerpts
from your fine statement will, I hope. make up for this.

I have read your back, §_PORig1 for National Conservation,from
cover to cover and marked many passages which I hope we may quote
on future occasions. It is a most impressive document.

I hope you plan to be present at the CITES conference in February
and 100k forward to making your acquaintance at that time.

With kindest regards ,
Sincerely,

Christine‘Stevens
President

 




February 27, 1979

The Honorable Minister Shrl H.M. Patel
Minister of Home
South Block '
New Delhi, India

Dear Minister,

Dr. Gerard Bertrand has just returned with the welcome news that
you will accept the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal welfare
Institute. We are greatly honored.

-I have read with admiration your inaugural address at the Seminar
on Afforestation and Saving of'Wildlife in Maharashtra.. The whole
world needs to hear your forthright statement that those who dis~
puts the need to treat India's virgin forests as inviolete are
wrong. Such forests and their wildlife inhabitants desperately
need protection on story continent. Year wise words should be
heard as widely as possible. ‘

It would be_a great thing if you were able to take the'ttme to
fly to Washington to receive the award. We would do everything
:_within our power to make your visit as pleasant for you and as

; effective for the cause of animals as possible. No espouse would
be incurred by you or your government’for transportation.

I look forward to hearing from you about a date when you oeuld
voome if-this is possible, so we can make appropriate arrangements
at this end. We want to invite a distinguished and influential
person to present the award to you and will need to provide a
suggested date as far in advance as we nan.’ I hope the presenta-
tion can be made this Spring, before the end of April it that

 




would fit your adhedula, but we will, of course, be guided firat
of all by your convenience.

Reapectfully yours,

Christina Stevena
President

 




