Leaﬂet No. 83.

AN INDICTME’NT OF THE AMERICAN SLAUGHTER
HOUSE

BY DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, BOSTON, MASS.
President of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., etc.

[Address delivered at the Annual Meeting of the New York State Humane
Societies held at Auburn, N. Y., November 15—16, 1911]

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.——You have done me an honor of which
I am not unappreciative in asking me to address you upon this occa—
sion. I accepted the invitation, not because I could ﬁnd nothing
more to do in Massachusetts, nor because I felt that New York
State, any more than my own, needs to be aroused to its duty in the
matter I am here to present. Nothing but the conviction that I
ought to seize every opportunity to do what I can to put an end to
some of the most needless cruelties of which, we as a nation are
guilty, has led me to appear before you asking for your considera—
tion of my plea.

My theme is not a pleasant one. No sensitive person, quick to
feel the sufferings of any fellow creature however lowly, can listen
to its discussion with any save a painful interest.

THE PURPOSE STATED

Let me state as clearly as I can the one deﬁnite thing I have
come to try to do. It is to call your attention afresh to the crying
need of reform in the methods used in American slaughter houses
in the killing of our food animals.

That the subject must be one of great importance is evident, ﬁrst,
from the number of these animals that are annually destroyed to
meet the demand for food. By as careful an estimate as I have
been able to make from the examination of federal and state sta—
tistics, something over a hundred millions of cattle, sheep and swine
are slaughtered every year in this country in what we may speak
of as its public and private slaughter houses. One has but to- think
of what is involved in this statement to understand that, human
nature being what it is, the trafﬁc in meat being carried on as it is,
now in vast wholesale establishments, and now in the obscurity of
a thousand little barns or shacks hidden away in the woods, or
unseen by any except the few,——-one has but to dwell, I' say, upon
this, for a moment, to realize that there is bound to be inﬂicted
upon these poor creatures annually slain for food, an amount of
cruelty, at least of needless suffering, that beggars description. The
very nature of the business is demoralizing. Men who engage in it

I

 




 

inevitably grow dull to the cry of pain. There is not one of us who
would not yield to the same inﬂuence.

In the second place the importance of the subject looms before

'us when we take cognizance of the fact that the whole question

touches vitally that other question of the public health. No one
denies to—day the peril fro-m eating the ﬂesh of animals that come
to their death amid conditions that have terriﬁed them, or crowded
their last moments with torturing pain.

PRESENT METHODS

I. What are the facts as to the prevailing methods now employed
almost universally throughout our several states? They are largely
the same that were pursued by American butchers ﬁfty years ago.
In spite of our humane societies, notwithstanding their splendid
achievements in other directions since the days of Henry Bergh,
this vast ﬁeld, where cruelty outnumbers its victims many fold
when compared with any other, has scarcely been invaded by us.
Here and there, of course, some society has entered one or more of
these chambers of horror and demanded that certain practices
should cease; but so little has public opinion been aroused, so far
have we as humane organizations failed to do our duty, that no
national or state legislation with regard to methods of slaughter
has been secured that has materially changed conditions. HOW
many of our convictions for cruelty, reported by us year by year,
are for cruelties occurring in slaughter houses? And yet that these
places are the daily scenes of many an unnecessary inﬂiction of pain,
not an agent of any of our societies questions.

WHY PRESENT METHODS ARE TOLERATED

The explanation of the public indifference to- this subject is

I doubtless to be found in the fact that the slaughter house and all it

stands for is something far removed from our daily life. We never
see it. It is seldom called to our attention. Few ever think of
visiting it. Here and there will be found a man who, as a boy fol—
lowed his curiosity far enough to see some animal butchered, but
the chances are that for years he has never given the matter a
moment’s thought. He sees the meat on his table, but there rises
in his mind no picture of the shambles where the ﬂoors run red
with blood; where men pursue their tasks with hands and clothing
crimson—dyed; where cattle, sheep and swine struggle in the agony
of death. The choice steak brings no vision of gaping throat and
pleading eyes; the tender chop no suggestion of a lamb hanging by
the leg and mutely bleeding to death. The sights and smells, the
ﬁlth that is a part of the slaughtering pen, are as unthought of
things as though they pertained to the life of men in the jungles of
Africa. And as for women who may be counted upon to champion
almost every righteous cause, here is a realm of cruelty they simply
cannot enter to see with their own eyes. Few of them could endure .

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

the sight. Many a strong man who has forced himself to stand
for a single hour amid such scenes has gone away faint and sick
at heart, resolved never to repeat the sad experience.

The lame, or galled, or worn—out horse is in evidence to all, in
city or country, who have eyes to see. The long train load of patient
cattle stands upon the siding as our train passes; the homeless cat,
the starved dog without a master,—these are daily coming to our
attentiOn, and we prosecute for the cruelty and build our shelters
and refuges; but the cattle, the swine that die each day, the lambs
that are led to the slaughter without a cry,—these we see not, think
not of, so out of our world they seem to be.

PRESENT METHODS DESCRIBED

You must permit me brieﬂy to describe to- you the methods that
characterize the average slaughtering establishment as it exists
among us. The larger animals, such as the bullock and the cow,
are generally stunned either by a blow which shatters the brain, or,
in some cases, by a bullet. The bleeding follows while the animal
is, of course, unconscious. Wherever the Jewish method of
slaughter is used, as it is wherever cattle are killed for the Hebrew
trade, the animal is destroyed while in full consciousness and with-
out previous stunning. According to the Hebrew ritual for slaugh—
tering, founded, not upon the Old Testament scriptures, but upon
the teaching of the Talmud, it is claimed that the life of the victims
must be taken by the use of the knife which is drawn deeply across
the throat. Death ensues at last from loss of blood. This prac—
tice involves no little cruelty even before the knife is used. The
animal’s feet are ﬁrst made fast by chains or ropes, then it is
thrown heavily to the ﬂoor by jerking its feet out from under it,
then the head is pried back until the upper part of the face is ﬂat
, upon the ﬂoor, and then the knife opens wide the throat.

With the smaller animals, calves, sheep and swine, the custom is
almost universal among American butchers to kill with the knife
without any attempt to render the animal ﬁrst insensible to pain.
So far as I can learn, in some instances calves are stunned before
they are bled, but the common practice with calves and sheep and
swine is to haul them up by a hind leg, or with calves and sheep
hang their legs, tied together, over a hook, and then to cut their
throats.

I have stood, more than once, with watch in hand and timed the
death struggle of many Of these unfortunate animals and found that
it was anywhere from two to ﬁve, and in some cases six minutes
before it ended and the ﬁnal collapse came. All this we know is
wholly unnecessary. A properly delivered blow, or a bullet ﬁred
into the brain, all sensibility to suffering ceases, and the bleeding
follows with no consciousness of pain.

In our great packing houses calves and sheep and swine, herded
in their several pens, are one by one jerked up by a chain fastened

3

 




 

' about a hind ankle, carried, thus suspended, by an overhead device
one after the other down the line to- where the butcher stands. As
rapidly as he can thrust his knife into the throat he does his part
of the work; on they swing down the line, the blood pouring over
face and eyes in blinding ﬂood while they slowly bleed to death,
struggling more or less violently with their waning strength.

Let me give you in another’s language an account of what he saw
in a great New England establishment:

As a quick, clean business proposition the slaughter of 250 hogs
,an hour which I witnessed recently, would seem to be, and doubt—
less is, the acme of a perfected business system.

I have nothing but words of praise for the cleanliness, order,
system and courtesy displayed throughout the whole place. Gov—
ernment inspection, I learn, has done much to bring about these
conditions. That they do exist in this particular establishment I
am glad to testify, and I noticed that everything which ingenuity,
and regard for cleanliness, and even the welfare of the animals,
could suggest up to ten minute-s of the time of killing and ten
minutes thereafter, was to be observed.

But there is a period of half an hour in each hog’s life, even at
this establishment, which must be concentrated hell for it, and I
lay the scene before the reader, not to excite prejudice against a
business enterprise as considerate and humane probably as it is
necessary to be, under existing laws, with due regard for the exi—
gencies of business, but rather to stir up the consumers of the pro-
duct to place on the statute-books laws that shall require their meat
to be absolutely without taint of cruelty in its preparation:

“ Out of the cars into long runs swarmed an ‘ afternoon’s kill’
of handsome vari-colored western hogs, into the clean cement—ﬂoor
pens of the housing barn, glad of an outing—reasoning, I suppose,
that liberty or partial freedom was theirs again. Up a long incline
they are shoo’d, over a ﬁfty—foot ‘ bridge of sighs,’ or ‘ squeals,’ as
you prefer, and shunted ﬁfteen or twenty at a time into a smaller
enclosure where two men with stout sticks stand to welt them into
the slaughtering—pen when the time arrives.

“It is in this ﬁrst pen that the hogs’ hell begins. They are
oblige-d, with every evidence of utter terror and with heads huddled
piteously together seeking common protection, to listen to the wild
pandemonium broken loose just over the bars where their fellows
are being jerked up alive by a hind leg to receive, ten feet farther
on, the fatal knife—thrust which transforms their already horrid
contortions into a diabolical frenzy, this ﬁnesse of cruelty to- a
human food-product ﬁnding its ﬁnal expression in unearthly squeal—
ing ﬁltered through quarts of spouting blood.

“ Two hogs dropped off the hook before they were stuck, as I
looked on, some 300 pounds of dead weight falling on the animal’s
face from a height of ﬁve feet.

4

 




“ I saw a hog’s eye jammed in during the pummeling with clubs
administered by the two Hessians in the outside pen whose business
it was to force the animals into- the slaughter-pen.

“ This clubbing is necessary at this stage of the killing, under
existing conditions, and whether the hog gets maimed is of no
moment. He’s going to die soon anyway.” .

IN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES

Scenes like theselin certain European countries would be con-
sidered as relics of barbarous times, unworthy a modern state, and
a disgrace to any community. Germany is so far ahead of us in
her-methods of slaughter, in the building of public abattoirs, in the
humanity that characterizes her handling of all food animals, that
one familiar with conditions there stands amazed at the inexpli-
cable savagery that is permitted in the slaughter pens of the United
States. Except when the Jewish rites are observed, all animals,
large and small, are stunned before they are bled. In Switzerland,
so rigid is the law that no exception is made even out of considera—
tion for the Hebrew’s religious ideas, and the Jew must obtain his
meat from across the border. Sweden, Austria, France, all are far
in advance of us in the humaneness of their slaughtering methods.
England alone of progressive European nations, though the subject
is being much agitated there, is still permitting theexistence of
innumerable private slaughter houses with all their attending evils,
their larger opportunities for cruelty, their unsanitary surround—
ings, their multiplied facilities to escape supervision and inspection.

In the great abattoirs of London I witnessed this summer the
slaughtering of animals by methods that seemed utterly to have
ignored the fact that the victims of the butcher were capable of
suffering pain. A description of conditions existing at Deptford
and Islington as I saw them many of you would not permit me to
give. The horror of it could hardly _be endured.

THE GREAT END TO BE SOUGHT

II. The second thing I want to say is this: What is the one ﬁrst
goal we are to set before ourselves as humane organization, the
attainment of which we are to seek in the matter of slaughter house
reform? There can be no question as to the answer. It is the
requirement by law that every animal killed for human food shall
be ﬁrst rendered unconscious by some method of stunning before
the knife is thrust into its throat. Even England has been aroused
to demand this. A Parliamentary committee appointed to examine
into the subject with great care, has reported, as its ﬁrst recommen-
dation, that all animals shall be stunned previously to killing. It is
true their recommendation has not become law, but so far as the
British government itself is concerned it has adopted the recom-
mendation, and in every abattoir connected with its army and navy
stations all the animals are stunned. In the great naval center at

'5

 




 

 

Chatham, where I witnessed an exhibition of stunning with the
‘f Humane Killer” which the Royal S. P. C. A. is seeking to intro-
duce, the rules of the establishment require that every employee
shall make the humane treatment of animals a matter of primary
consideration and no needless pain is to be inﬂicted.

There will be much besides to strive for when we have attained
this one great goal. We shall insist that no animal be permitted to
stand where it can see the process of slaughter going on with its
fellows as they pass through the various stages that await it, from
entrance to the blood—reeking pen to the dressing of the carcasses.
We shall demand, as it is demanded in most European abattoirs,
that all signs of blood and refuse shall be thoroughly washed from
the slaughter-pen before the next victim is brought in, and then
we shall claim for, the animal immunity from the cruelty of any
device by which, before it is stunned, it is jerked up by chain or
rope and suspended in the air. These other things we are bound
to seek as time goes on, but the ﬁrst thing, the one thing that is of
supreme importance is the stunning by blow or bullet before the
knife thrust.

TH E OPPOSING FORCES

III. In the third place I want to call your attention to the forces
that will'most bitterly oppose us and which will delay our victory
to the last possible moment. The Hebrews, of course, will meet us
with their claim that we are interfering with their religious rites.
The cry will be raised, as it has been raised in every country in
Europe where this agitation has gone on, that the motive behind
our contention is born of race prejudice. When we pleaded for a
law last spring before the Massachusetts legislature that would
make stunning compulsory, the accusation was made that it was
anti—Semitism striving to make its voice heard in this fair land of
religious freedom.

Let me say that I yield to no man in my admiration of the
Hebrew race. To Israel humanity owes a debt greater by far than
to any other people that have shaped the destiny of mankind.
Greece with her treasures of art and philosophy, Rome with her
splendid system of order and Jurisprudence—these historic nations
have given the world nothing that measures up to the sublime gift
of a faith that numbers among its saints and heroes such a law giver
as Moses, such a prophet as Isaiah, such singers as her psalmists,
such a character as Jesus. The descendants of ancient Israel,—
the Hebrew of to-day, whose fathers have suffered at the hands of
Christian nations persecution and injustice and outrage that are
the darkest blots on the pages of mediaeval and modern history,
these I too respect, and against their religious convictions would
not lightly speak a word. But humanity cannot be permanently
ignored by any religion. No faith that bids a man be cruel or
unkind even to the lowliest creature that has capacity for pain can
stand before the onward sweep of things. The Hebrew, basing

6

 

 

 

 




 

 

his ritual for slaughter chieﬂy upon the oral traditions handed down
from more or less uncivilized times, must, soon or late, abandon
practices that the enlightened conscience of to-day condemns.

I know well he claims" his method is humane. Has argued long
to prove it. The total refutation of his argument is to go and watch
him slaughter. Whatever men may say of his method in its theory,
whatever they may write about it in the quiet of the study,—one
hour at the shambles refutes his claim and robs his plea of every
vestige of its power.

The second, and I feel conﬁdent the most hostile opponents of
the reform we seek, namely, the stunning of all animals before
they are bled, will be the great packing concerns of the land with
their vast accumulations of wealth by which they have inﬂuenced
and can inﬂuence legislation that interferes with their business.
The ground of their opposition will be the waste of time that
humaner methods will involve. From the moment the calf, or sheep,
or pig is driven into the slaughter house till the carcass swings into
the cooling room, everything is arranged to coin moments, even
seconds, into money. To be obliged to consider the claims of these
animals for humane treatment 'will be called by them a wanton
infringement upon their commercial rights and a foolish demand
of sentimentalists. '

Yet throughout the German Empire, except as I said where the
Jewish method is allowed, all calves, sheep and swine are stunned.
N o nation is surpassing Germany to—day in_the rapid growth of her
magniﬁcent industries, in the progress of her business enterprises,
but in all her public abattoirs, and these she has insisted should be
built in every city and in all towns of any importance, men stop long
enough to kill humanely and none have worked harder to secure
the laws that demand such procedure than the superintendents of
her abattoirs and many of her leading butchers.

I am not unmindful of the fact that we as individuals, or as
humane societies have little right to inveigh against the Jewish
method of slaughter so long as millions of our smaller animals are
killed by our own butchers and packing house companies in pre-
cisely thesame inhuman way, their throats being cut while fully
conscious and without previous stunning. Because an animal is
small has it any less claim upon us for justice and mercy?

OTHER THINGS LATER

I have already wearied you, and I fear too far taxed your patient
interest. I must leave untouched many a phase of this subject that
is worthy of careful consideration. There is no time to speak of
the devices invented and widely used in Germany in the process of
slaughter which have as their sole purpose the destruction of food
animals in the most painless way. The shooting mask, the bullet
and the bolt pistols which are so sure and so rapid in their opera-
tion,—these, too, we must have, and are bound to have in time as

7

 




 

 

we move upward toward the levels of a more humane civilization.
The need of abolishing the private slaughter house and of the
building by all our municipalities and larger towns of public abat—
toirs, is pressing more and more upon thinking men here as in
England. The important question as to whether animals, stunned
before being bled, bleed as freely as those slaughtered solely by the
knife, a question answered beyond controversy by the experiences
of hundreds of German abattoir superintendents, and by pains—
taking scientiﬁc tests,-—enone of these matters have I time to discuss.

Permit me in a ﬁnal word to say what the hour supremely
demands from us as humane organizations. First and above all
else to work as individual societies, and so far as possible, as bodies
united in a common purpose, to secure such legislation in our sev—
eral states as will make compulsory the stunning of all animals
killed for food before the use of the knife. To this end nothing
will be of greater service than securing, if we do not already have
it, legal authority for our agents to be present at all places in our
respective states where animals are in the process of being slaugh—
tered. The doors opened to us in Massachusetts by such a law has
been of inestimable value in obtaining the facts that make possible
the awakening of that public opinion, without which we cannot win
our goal.

TH E INDIVIDUAL APPEAL

And now to my individual hearer this last appeal. Wreates
this demand that brings to the shambles every year to die at man’s
hand the more than a hundred millions of cattle, sheep and swine
that are annually sacriﬁced for food? Every man, woman and child
who eats the meat their carcasses supply. After the last word is
said about the ranchman and the railroad, about the callous drover,
the butcher whose hands must drip with blood, the packer who
grows rich out of his trafﬁc,——we come face to face with ourselves.
But for us there would be no demand and so no supply. Upon us
then, no less positively and heavily rests the moral obligation to do
the utmost that is within our power to see that these victims of our
appetite and desire are slain in what shall be to them as painless
and merciful a death as the noblest humanity can devise.

[Note—Copies of this address, and other humane literature, may be
obtained from The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y

 




