'TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS

 

 

March 21, 1986

Professor Tom Regan
3509 Eden Croft
Raleigh, N. C. 27609

Dear Tom:

Here are copies of the two.reviews of your
anthology Mgore: The Early Essays.

Reviewer II makes several recommendations for

the expansion of your Introduction. Would you
please telephone to let me know the extent to

which it would be feasible—~and in your View,

desirable——to make such changes?

I would appreciate your telephoning no later than
Friday, March 28. As you know, I can be reached
in New York Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; in
Philadelphia Tuesday and Thursday.

Very best regards,

suf§Q31 Q
.1

Jane Cullen
Senior Acquisitions Editor

 




'March 8, 1986
To: Jane Cullen

Dear Jane,

The "Big Three" of British philosophy, perhaps of
wor -philosophy, in the 23th century are Bertrand Russell, Ludwig
Wittgenstein, and G. E. Moore. Anything by Moore, therefore, is
of interest to philosophers, and a collection of his essays that
have gone unnoticed will certainly attract the prefession's
attention.

1
Professor Regan has performed a service, an important one, in
resurrecting these essays. It is in fact surprising that this was
not done before, so Professor Regan is to be congratulated for
recognizing the merits of republishing these journal articles
by Moore that antedate the writings with which his reputation is
mainly identified. It is not so much that these articles have
been forgotten as that they were never properly noticed and
appreciated, and Regan's Introduction suggests, among other
things, why this situation occured.

Regan correctly observes in his Introduction that the ten essays
reproduced in his book represent an "early" Moore ( but perhaps
not, as Regan also puts it, a "private" Moore -p.8). Through
these essays we obtain a picture of Moore's philosophical
origins, of his initial preoccupation with Kant, Hegel and
McTaggart. They afford us the opportunity of following Moore's
intellectual development from an early concern with neo-Idealism
to his subsequent realism and empiricism as represented in his
more celebrated writings.

Philosophers will find in such articles as "Freedom," "The Value
of Religion," "Mr. McTaggart's ‘Studies in Hegelian Cosmology,'"
and "Mr. McTaggart's Ethics," a Moore rather different from the
one they came to know in his later publications. These are
interesting mainly for comparative purposes, although, as is true
of any great thinker's works, the minor contributions will not
fail to be intrinsically rewarding. Other articles in Regan's
collection such as "The Nature of Judgement," "Necessity,"
"Identity," and "Experience and Empiricism" are especially
intriguing because they adumbrate some of Moore‘s subséguent,
distinctive themes.

Because of his role in shaping contemporary philosophy, Moore is
a permanent subject for discussion, and, I venture, it is time
for a vigorous revival of attention to his contributions. Beyond
stimulating curiosity in the early Moore, Professor Regan's book
may help towards a genuine resurgence of interest in Moore's life
and thought. I am delighted to see Regan's book added to the
literature. ' .

 




North Carolina State University

School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Department of Philosophy and Religion

(919)737-2477
Raleigh, NC 27695-8103

March 27, 1986

Jane Cullen

Temple University Press
Oxford and Broad Streets
Philadelphia, PA

Dear Jane:
Just a few lines concerning a few matters of business.

I. Enclosed please find my (very slightly) revised work on Moore: The
Early Essays. As I mentioned to you over the phone, I do not think it
fair to change my Introduction substantially after Timothy Moore has
given his permission to reprint the essays. The few changes I have made
concern (a) the correction of some false statements on pp. 7—8 and (b)
the inclusion of two new paragraphs about Bloomsbury's Prophet. In
addition bathe new material under the heading "Acknowledgements," these
are the only serious changes, I've made. Even these, however, should be
approved by Timothy Moore, and so I have sent a copy along to him.

 

 

 

2. Also enclosed please see copies of an exchange of correspondence between
Professor Al Mele and myself. As I explain to Mele, I think you are the next
person he'll be hearing from.

3. Concerning Edward James's Using Ethics: Beyond Tolerance, I must confess
that my heart does not leap up. I think we should aim much higher, both

in terms of substance of the material the Press publishes and in terms of

the stature of the authors -— with the former sometimes over—riding the
latter.” I myself don't think James's candidacy triumphs given either criterion.

 

I hope the enclosed materials are useful and timely.
With all good wishes,
/
/6’“"
Tom Regan
Enclosures

TR: aa

"T'Ker-L,
* TRAY uJQxﬁEJ~<DC£xok 67J%;19/94ﬁ} (“ﬂ/LLEE3 "" V; OCE‘CLLQ _ "
SI

C474<r «égi {24L¢4J£3 tacnz‘ {ear QQ§’*’YA‘Z/ \<%{ chf‘ 0—.

gC/LQLAACD NQV‘L/ Sqé" 5' (~kaan PL “KW—:1 .

North Carolina State University is a Land—Grant University and a constituent institution of The University at North Carolina.

 




Report on MOORE: THE EARLY ESSAYS, ed. Tom Regan

Whether there is merit or not in republishing Moore's early
essays depends on several facfgz (l) the merit of the essays
themselves, (2) what they showxof Moore's develoPment, (3) what
they show of a particular period or corner in the history of
philosophy, and (4) whether there is sufficient present interest
in Moore himself.

(1) In some cases early works of a notable person have their
own merit-~they are gems that would be valued even if the person
had done nothing after that. In other cases interest lies wholly
in relation to the person and his/her distinctive qualities. The
sonnet recently alleged to be written by Shakespeare is very obviously
of the sdcond sort. Much<3f Kant's early work is of the first. The
early Wittgenstein is of importance because the TRACTATUS is a
masterpiece; it need not borrow significance from either the later
PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS nor from the innumerable stories about
Hittgenstein's idiosyncrasies.

Regan's Introduction has practically nothing to say on this
question of intrinsic significance for the early essays. He appear!
to assume that because we are interested in the later Moore we should
be interested in the early Moore. Doubtless Ayer and Warnock and
Stabbing would be interested to learn that Moore had written on things
they thought he had not written about or that he had metaphysical
aspirations innis youth. but they could reasonably ask whether those

writings had anything significant to say. In short, it is not enough
thatp'there is an early Moore.

I think a modest case can be made for the work of the early Moore,
but the editor has the task of making clear its signifcance in some
detail; he cannot rest with the dubilation of discovery. Why, for
example, is "The Value of Religion" worth reading? It can't be Just
because Moore had the problem that practically everybody of his time
had, in coming to terms with traditional religion in the first burst
of Darwinism; that would not be interesting enough, and in any case
he doesn't discuss this. It is not worth reading as a precursor of
the la:}er Moore because the later Moore doesn‘t disuuss the problems
of this essay. It is not worth reading because it takes a moral
approach to the question of religious faith--Kant had done thaCt.

It ig worth reading, I think, because it shifts the question in a

strange direction beyond Kant: not do we demand religion as a moral
requirement, but ought we to believe? He does not make much of this,

but it is an off—beat formulation. Maybe it is a staid British analogue
of the more active Ametican "will to believe" of William James. 30 too,
the editor has the responsibility of convincing the potential reader

that the paZper on "Identity" is worth reading, at least as an exhibition
of the complexity of an apparently simple idea. Or that "McTaggart's
'Studies in Hegelian Cosmology'“ is more than a,l cat—and-mouse game

by a friendly reviewer.

 




-2.

(2) The case for repuglica:tion is easier when the claim is that
the eafrly essays show us in the making some of the features that are
importﬂan in the later works. For example, is the essay on "Freedom"
significant because it starts turning the formulation of the problem
from its traditional struggle about causality to the almost linguistic
analysis of "avoidabhlity" --a formulation developed in Moore's later
ETHICS, which in turn guided Stevenson's chapter on the question in
his ETHICS AND LANGUAGE and became a stajhdard source for linguistic-
analytic interpretations? There agre also, of course, the intimations
of Moore's idiosyncrasies of style and technique that are so marked in
his later work. The nus ways in which the essays prepare the way for
ideas that 5:?9 distinctive in PRINCIPIA ETHICA should be outlined in
the Introduction more systematically. Since this is where the relation
of early and late may be expected to count most heavily-—apart from the
eppstemology of Common Sense-- the tracing of deveIOpment here would
be one of the essential reasons for republication. If the earby works
don't throw much light on the difficulties of PRIhCIPla ELLICA then
they lose a great part of their interest.

(3) The early essays are of interest also beca:use they throw
light on a particular period in the history of philosophy. It is A“
well known thaZt the nee-negelian idealism dominated the late nineteentkh
and early twentieth century in Engla:nd but was sharply challenged.
Special interest attaches to Moore and Russell in that challenge
because they ha:d both been attracted to Idealism and so for both it
was a conversion. The essays may help round out the story in their
criticism of Bra:dley, McTaggart's Hegel, particularly too as they
show Moore‘s direct relation to Kant-~not through Hegel. Now this has
interest for the period, apart from relation to the later Moore.
On the other hand, hoore's treatment of Idealism has nothing to show
the historical context of Idealism and why it was importa:ht on the
aritish scene at that time. It would be helpful i5 the Introduction
focused on the role of Idealism and helped the reader see the importance
and difficulty of the break.

(4) Finally, is the later Moore of sufficient interest today to
warrant publishing his early essays? It is a fact that for a great part
of the century Moore wasx almost a saint in the pantheon of powerful
and pepular pniIOBOphical movements-—at least a hero. Logical empircists
admired his emphasis on clarity and precision, while Ordinary Language
analysts saw him, with his complex non-formal analysis, as at least a
grandfather of the movement. To some extent this adulation has ebbed
with the present generatiOA. hoore remains in the galaxy, but how
extensive is his recognition?

Several factors are warking for that recognition. Interest in
the history of philOSOphy has grown remarkaZbly in the past few decades.
Moreover, it is not being done in a narrow lay, but in a brander
philosophical manner in which the life, the context, the period, the
vital social movements, have begun to have a place-not Just as A
background but as helping shape thdphilosophy. Further, the interest
in the history of philosophy has found expression recently in a movement
for publishing the complete works of central figures. This is now in
process in America for Dewey, James, Santayana, as well as Peirce; in

Britain at least for Adam Smith, under philosophica‘l auspices. It is

 




~3-

a spreading movement. Moreover, as we near the century's end, there
will doubtless be more intensive historical study of twentietn century
ethics. Here meore's PRIMCIPIA ETHICA has a securetposition as the first
impartant work of the century. Anything that can convincingly show

it helps to understand PRINCIPIA will be significant.

On the whole, then, I think there is merit for the philosophical
enterprise in republishing the early papers at this time. But I think
it will not be successful unless there is an Introduction that argues
for its significance more extensively and more systematically. I have
suggested some of the lines that might be pursued. The presentation as
it now stands does not do the Job. It is not a question QST a whole
Moore versus half a Moore. It is the task of explaining in detail
wha: t the early essays are a”bout , and what of importance they show.
Perhaps theretaven ought to be an introduction to each essay, to some
extent outlining, and certainly focusing on the major points and
relating them to their specific problems. In theggeneral Introduction
it might even be helpful to give an account of the major thesis of
BLOOMSbURY'S PROPHET« Much of Regan's enthusiasm for the early essays
reflects that work, but the reader of this book and its introduction
is not even told of Moore‘s wider relations.

Would the book be attractive to libraries and to Journals for
review? I should think college anuu university libraries would want it
(questiOns of budgeTand decreasing federal support apart). It also
stands a good chance of being dealt with in acaldemic journals,
certainly in Notes, if not always in reviews. (The latter w:ould be
helped by the more ample editorial material I suggested. )I think the
Journal of the Histgry_oi Ideas would give it an early paragraph; the
Journal of the Historym of Philosophy a late but careiul review, aan
Ethics an early review. It would L,et attentions from analytically
minded Journals (Philos0phicalmﬁeyieg and Mind) at least out of piety
to Moore. Perhaps also from more general-cultura l Journals if tied to
the Bmoomsbury work. (The New York Beyiew_of hoggg might think it a
natural for Stuarﬁ:hampsn1re or hernard Williams to review.) I doubt
if it would reach the Les ﬁggeIeszimgs or the Phila deIphia Inquirer -
though both na:ye surprisingly goon culturally-oriented reviews.

 

 

 

Let me add a few points about items in the Introduction:
(a) p. 10, line 9 from the bottom} The reader may think "played again"
is temporal, putting Stebbir g after Warnock. I suggest "played earlier?
The time-span is considerable and is obscured by using in the bibliography
the date of later republication for Schilpp (see note 3). The original
date in the early 19403 should at least be given.

(b) pp. 18-19. On the idealism in PRINCIPIA. The influence of idealism
there needs more ca:reful discusssion, as compared to other sources-—
for exajmple the rise of the idea of "tertiary qualities", the
separation of normative and descriptive, etc. Does Moore here rest on
the unreality of time or the reality of numbers? If the latter carries
a greajter weight, it is a Platonic idealism, not a Bradleian.

(c) p. 20, line ll--"beca:use it present us". Strictly, the collection
doesn't present a fuller more realistic view. It "helps us get" one.

(d) I regret that p. 7 of the Introduction is missing in the copy sent me.

I may have missed something in the way Regan gets into his presents“ tion.
(Beginnings sometimes set the tone.)

 




