  llNllll AL FA RE

 

 

November-December I963

LABORATORY ANIMAL CONSULTANT

Beginning January ﬁrsr, Thomas L. Kind will join the
Staff of the Animal Welfare Institute working on a special
projeCt on laboratory animal welfare which will include
preparation of [a ﬁlm on care and housing for distribution
at cosr to laboratories throughout the country.

Mr. Kind will visit laboratories, bringing with him
praCtical information on the handling and treatment of
animals, and assembling material for publications to sup-
plement the existing AWI manuals, "Basic Care of Ex-
perimental Animals” and "Comfortable Quarters for La-
boratory Animals.” New, humane techniques will receive
special attention.

Mr. Kind was educated in London and spent several
years on the Veterinary Staff of the London Zoo, where
experience with the large variety of animals gave him a
broad background on the care of different species. Mr.
and Mrs. Kind ﬁrst met through her research on otters, a
projeCt which followed her Study on the ecology of the
wild rabbit for the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
The Kinds have two young sons.

In 1955, the Kinds came to the United States to man-
age a wildlife sanctuary which was, unfortunately, de-
Stroyed by freeway construcrion. Mr. Kind then joined
the staff of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County,
Ann Arbor, Mich., where he is now Executive Director.

Because of the wide experience he has had in the
management of all types of animals, Mr. Kind’s advice
will be of unusual value to scientiﬁc institutions. He is
prepared to travel to all parts of the country, and there is
no fee for consultation. A limited number of reference
books will also be available free through Mr. Kind to
laboratories whose budgets for such purchases are in-
adequate.

The AWI is indebted to a generous donor who has
made possible these valuable new services.

Insritutions wishing Mr. Kind to advise them on the
care, treatment and housing of their animals after the
New Year should write now to the New York office of
the AWI, suggesting a date when they would like to have
him come.

SCHWEITZER AWARD TO
ANN COTTRELL FREE

Ann COttrell Free, author and journalist well known
for her humane writing, has been named the Schweitzer
Medalist for 1963. The ninth annual Albert Schweitzer
Award of the Animal Welfare Institute will be presented
to Mrs. Free at the Institute’s annual meeting, December
16th, by Dr. Fairﬁeld Osborn, world leader in conserva-
tion, Director of the Conservation Foundation, President
of the New York Zoological Society, and author of "Our
Plundered Planet” and many other books and articles.

Mrs. Free’s effecrive efforts on behalf of the test beagles
of the Food and Drug AdminiStration, caged for two to
seven years in windowless sub-basements nOt far from the
Nation’s Capitol, are familiar to readers of the Informa-
tion Report. It was she who ﬁrst learned of the existence
of the subterranean dog rooms. The new kennel-runways
(Vol. 12, No. 3) are now complete, and if all goes well,
at leaSt some of the dogs will have been moved from
their grim conﬁnement into the light and airy quarters
at Beltsville before December 16th.

"Forever the Wild Mare”, a new book by Mrs. Free,
has jusr been published by Dodd, Mead and Company,

22 EAST I7tl1 STREET. NEW YORK. N. Y. l0003

Vol. I2 No. 5

New York. The story of the adventures of a fourteen-
year-old boy, a Przewalski horse, a Scottish Major, a
Buddhist lama and a United States Senator, to name a few
of the main characters, it follows a ﬁne tradition of boy-
hood adventure stories in American literature, and it bOth
symbolizes and explicitly emphasizes respect for nature
and the rights of living creatures. "Forever the Wild
Mare” won this year’s Dodd, Mead Boy’s Life Writing
Award.

Mrs. Free was the author of a series of articles released
this summer by the North American Newspaper Alliance
on current conditions for animals in laboratories and legis-
lation proposed to correCt inﬂiction of needless suffering
on them. Her many Other articles on humane subjecrs
include reports on humane slaughter, peSticides, and wild-
life. Mrs. Free, who lives in Washington, is the wife
of Washington correspondent James Free, and mother of
eight-year-old Elissa.

 

 

EDITORIAL FROM "THE CHRISTIAN
CENTURY”, OCTOBER 2, 1963

Laws for Humane Treatment
of Animals Proposed

“A BILL to provide for the humane treatment of ver-
tebrate animals used in experiments and tests by recipients
of grants from the United States and by agencies and
instrumentalities of the United States Government and for
other purposes.” So reads the preamble to identical bills
sponsored by Senators Joseph S. Clark, Maurine Neuberger
and Stephen Young and by Representative Thomas L.
Ashley. A careful reading of S. 533 and H. R. 5430
makes one wonder why any humane person would object
to their passage. Opponents of the bills are not necessarily
cruel; they simply do not want to be bothered with estab-
lishment of standards and regulations that would make
humaneness in the use of animals obligatory. But it is an
open fact that the absence of standards, regulations, and
powers to penalize offenders leads to neglect and some-
times to willful cruelty in the use of animals for experi-
mental purposes. A member of the faculty of the Oregon
Medical School told Senator Maurine Neuberger that “no
good research can be carried on on an animal that is not
well treated.” “Well, then,” said Senator Neuberger, "you
surely would not mind legislation which just guarantees
that treatment.” But the opponents of the humane treat-
ment bills do mind. They don’t want government inter-
ference with their freedom to treat animals as they please,
even though neglect and cruelty result. They want the
freedom to play God in deciding for themselves how and
when and in what way they will use vertebrate animals for
experimentation. That kind of freedom does not belong
to them, and a society of responsible men has no right to
grant such freedom. Care and consideration are owed to
animals, especially when they are being used for man’s
beneﬁt. Beyond that the nation owes to itself not only the
prevention of cruelty to animals but also the cultivation of
a civilization in which brutality, whatever its object, is
eliminated. S. 533 and HR. 5430 would not eliminate the
use of animals for scientiﬁc experimentation; they w0uld
merely put such experimentation under regulations which
would encourage decency in men and humaneness toward
the whole animal kingdom.

 

 

 




JUNIOR ANIMAL TECHNICIANS
COURSE

At the November 13th session of the course being
conducted by the National Capital Area Branch of the
Animal Care Panel for Junior Animal Technicians in
the area, held at Howard University Medical School,
Washington, DC, Dr. Jules Cass, Chief, Research in
Laboratory Animal Medicine and Care of the Veterans
Administration, discussed the reasons for and the plan-
ning of animal experiments with the Technicians, draw-
ing upon their varied experience and knowledge in de-
veloping their understanding of the scientiﬁc method.
Dr. Cass asked the President of the Animal Welfare In-
Stitute to speak about "The Principles of Humane Ex-
perimental Technique” by W.M.S. Russell and KL. Burch
(Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, 111., 1959). This talk is
printed below.

The Three R's

"Dr. Cass has asked me to talk with you about the
book, ‘The Principles. of Humane Experimental Technique,’
to whose preparation we in the Animal Welfare Institute
contributed in various ways because we believe the sub-
ject is so very important. Dr. Russell and Mr. Burch are
the authors, and they divided the main body of the book
into three parts that they are called ‘the three R’s’. Just
as reading, writing and arithmetic are basic to all further
learning, so Replacement, Reduction and Refinement are
basic to the humane planning of biological experiments
which may involve animals.

"All of you know that it is a big job to take good care
of animals. They must be kept clean and well-fed, fresh
water must be constantly before them, they muSt have a
comfortable place to rest and sleep, and if they become dis-
eased or injured they need special attention and care. It is
a big job just to keep an eye on every one of the animals in
your charge, checking to see that they all are eating nor-
mally, examining any that show signs of ill health—a
ruffled coat, a hunched position, running eyes or noses,
unusual scratching or biting, unaccustomed quietness, a
peculiar gait or stance or manner of holding the head. As
you all know these are just a few of the signs that
something is wrong and that you need to draw it to the
I attention of the veterinarian or of the research worker
whose animals they are.

"Vertebrate animals——mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits,
dogs, cats, monkers and others—are subject to the same
sort of ills that we are, and while this is one of the rea-

sons they are valuable for research, it is also one of the
1 reasons why they present serious problems in research,
for when they are ill, uncomfortable, frightened, or even
juSt anxious, their response to the experimental procedure
may be abnormal, and the experimental results may be-
come confused, and sometimes completely wrong. I re-
member hearing a veterinarian at one of the national
Animal Care Panel meetings report on a product manu-
factured by his company which had been shelved because
the dogs on whom it had been tested had died. Every-
body thought it was highly toxic. Two years later it was
’ tried on a new group of dogs—healthy dogs this time,
. kept in good quarters—and it turned out nor to be toxic
at all! Rechecking of the old results revealed that the
dogs had died of distemper. That is a simple, straight-
: forward example, but sometimes the results may be much
more seriously misleading. Research often builds on past
research, and any ‘link’ in a chain of experiments may
prove the old saying that no chain is Stronger than its
weakeSt link. Every experiment, if it is worth doing at
all, should be done right, and that means that where ani—

 

mals, are used they must be in top condition and given
the very beSt care and most comfortable quarters pos.
sible.

"To return to our three R’s and particularly to the
ﬁrst one, ‘Replacement’, it is obvious that whenever it
is possible to dispense with the use of vertebrate animals
for any experiment or test, it is humane, scientifically
sound and economically reasonable to do so. For example,
all vitamins used to be tested on chicks, rats or Other
vertebrates. Today bacteria are regularly used for some of
these tests, and by their very nature a colony of bacteria
is much more uniform than any colony of rats could
be. Moreover, vast numbers of baCteria can be maintained
on one little plate of agar jelly, so all the effort involved
in maintaining a rat colony and all the space it takes are
eliminated at one stroke. Similarly, tissue cultures have
offered a fertile field for research and testing. Their use
led to the discovery of the ECHO viruses and the adeno-
viruses—bOth well known to the readers of newspapers.
As Dr. F. K. Sanders states in this connection, 'the animal
virologisr has great cause to rejoice at his liberation from
the hazards and uncertainties of animal experiment’
through the use of tissue culture. 'The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique’ also discusses the uses
of chemical tests and of micro-organisms and tissue cul-
ture in relation to toxicity testing, carcinology, chemo-
therapy, pharmacology and bioassay.

”Then it turns to the second ’R’: Reduction. Reduction
here applies to experiments and tests which require the use
of animals. The aim—and this is of particular importance
if the procedure is painful or otherwise distressing to the
animals—is to use just as few animals as possible. Even if
the test is not painful, it is desirable to keep animal num-
bers as low as possible in the interests of control of disease
and the provision of adequate space for each individual. I
am sure you already know that overcrowding makes good
animal husbandry virtually impossible. Disease can sweep
an overcrowded animal room and destroy the basically
stable conditions upon which most research depends. Even
if the animals do nOt come down with an infectious
disease, experiments have shown that overcrowding in
itself has an adverse effect so that in a given test, over-
crowded animals will show a far wider variation in re-
sponses to the same dose of the same drug than do animals
kept in reasonably comfortable and roomy quarters.

"Anorher important reason to keep the numbers of
laboratory animals within bounds is to allow you to care
for them as individuals. There is still much to be learned
about the effect you may have—for good or ill—on experi-
ments through the kindness (or lack of it) and care you
give the animals in your charge but it it known that an
individual animal technician can keep mortality in his
colony low and that his absence may result in an increased
death rate. Here is a real test of your skill and under-
standing. And to do a ﬁrSt-rate job you must not rush,
slamming cage doors, tossing animals around or mistreat-
ing them in orher ways, that I have seen in some labora-
tories. Such practices, like overcrowding, have an adverse
eﬂect on the animals and an adverse effect on the research
which is the purpose of the animals being in the laboratory.

"Thus, the second 'R’, Reducrion, helps improve scien-
tiﬁc accuracy as it increases humane treatment of animals.
The careful, personal attention of each animal technician
or handler for his charges, each important as an individual,
is possible when numbers are nor too great. Each of you
has the role in the laboratory that nurses have in human
hospitals, for you carry out the routines prescibed by the
dOCtor and keep the patients as comfortable and contented
as possible. JuSt as good nursing can make the difference
between continued illness or a return to health in a human

 




 

patient, so your considerate care can do the same with
animals undergoing tests or treatments.

"T he lasr of the three 'R’s’, Reﬁnement, is closely re-
lated to this fact. It is the scientist’s way of making an
experiment as humane—as painless and undiStressing for
the animals—as he possibly can. He may have to think
hard in order to ﬁnd a means of obtaining the information
he seeks without causing unnecessary suffering. For ex-
ample, if you asked a layman if he thought it would be
necessary to inﬂict pain on an animal in order to tesr the
potency of a pain-relieving drug, he would be likely to
say yes. A good pharmacologist, however, will point out
why this is not so. He could show you various tests for
analgesics far more accurate than a crude inﬂicrion of
pain; for example, the moment at which '1 guinea pig
injected with a particular analgesic ﬂicks his skin as a
point of light focused on his shaved back becomes in-
creasingly warm, or the point at which a rat lifts his tail
from a surface which becomes increasingly warm, or the
point at which he leaves that surface to sit in a cooler
spot. Such tests, when standardized, give comparative
potencies so the experimenter knows whether his test
substance is more or less effective than, for example,
aspirin.

”Research men who devise new humane methods de-

serve the very greatest credit and respect. To use crude and
needlessly painful methods is n0t the mark of a good

scientist. To quote ’The Principles of Humane Experi-
mental Technique’ again: ‘Violence is the last refuge of
the incompetent.’

”Your cooperation in the reﬁnement of technique can
be important, and your presence in the animal room and
prompt reporting of changes in the condition of individual
animals or groups of animals can be of great value to the
busy experimenter who does not have the animals under
his eye at all times. It is you who can let him know if an
animal appears to be suffering and is in need of a seda-
tive, a tranquilizer, or an analgesic—or, if the animal is
very badly off, of euthanasia, a vital humane duty in the
laboratory.

"A painless death is the right of animals in the labora-
tory, and it should be administered to any suffering animal
just as soon as you are directed or allowed by the research
worker to do so. As Dr. Carrier said when he spoke to the
National Animal Care Panel here in Washington a few
years ago, ’We won’t allow them to die in agony.’ It was

thus that he summarized the British Act which has hu-
manely regulated animal experiments in Britain for the

pasr 87 years. Dr. Carrier was the Chief Inspecwr for the
Home Office for 14 years, so he knew whereof he spoke.

"In conclusion, I would like to emphasize how important
the Animal Welfare Institute considers your work to be.
Your observations can be as valuable to the research
worker as the nurse’s report to the physician, and your
easing of pain or of fear should be such as you would
like yourself to receive at the hands of the nurse if you
were hospitalized.

"Many of you may be familiar with the manual pre-
pared by the Animal Welfare Insritute and available free
on request to all animal technicians and handlers. If you
wish to have a copy, you may obtain one by writing your
name and address on this paper. Unlike the book I have
been discussing, ‘Basic Care of Experimental Animals’ is
entirely composed of practical information on the care
of animals, and I am conﬁdent that you will ﬁnd it useful.”

SIXTH PRINTING FOR
"FIRST AID AND CARE OF
SMALL ANIMALS”

In response to the continuing demand by teachers for
the InStitute’s manual "Firsr Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” which was ﬁrst published in 1955 for use in
primary and secondary schools, this publication has just
gone into its sixth printing. It is provided without charge
upon request to teachers, scout leaders, librarians and
Others who work with children; additional copies may
be purchased at cost, 55¢.

"First Aid and Care of Small Animals” is a concise and
readable 48-page booklet, with 23 phOtographs, many of
which were taken by the author, Ernest P. Walker, former
Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in
Washington, D.C. who is now completing a monumental
three-volume work on the mammals of the world.

The Institute’s Other publication for school use—
”Humane Biology Projects”—also continues to be avail-
able without charge to biology teachers, superintendents,
librarians, etc. Prepared especially for high school use,
this is a 44-page illustrated manual containing over 100
experiments and demonstrations for teaching and help-
ing students with their Science Fair projects. It was pre-
pared by the Institute with the assistance of research
scientists and educators and designed to aid the teacher
in developing in his students original thinking, pains-
taking observation, understanding of scientiﬁc procedures
and respect for the rights and feelings of all forms of life
which possess sensibility.

THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1963.

 

HUNT CONTINUES
F OR CANCER DRUG

Chemicals Tested in Last 10
Years Fall Short of Coal

By ROBERT C. TOTH
Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, Oct. 12—Ten
years ago, at the height of the
wonder-drug breakthroughs, the
Government embarked on a
search for a chemical to cure
cancer.

It has been a massive effort
-—as close to a medical “crash
program" as yet seen. .It has
cost $234,500,444 so far, but has
been unsuccessful in its primary
goaL

The search has helped de-
velop new knowledge about can-
cer, and helped prolong the life
and ease the suffering of pa-

drug that is dramatically better
than those available before the
tients, but it has found no new
program began,

More than 27,000 Americans
have had one or another of the
poisonous, but promising, chem-
icals dripped into their veins in
hopes that the substances would
kill cancer cells faster than
they killed healthy tissue.

More than 170,000 chemicals,
from antibiotic “beers" to syn-
thetic war-gas derivatives, have
been screened at scores of med-
ical institutions and drug com-
pany laboratories, Most were in-
jected into animals with tumors.
One year more than 1,000,000
mice wereused in the tests. ~

The program, directed by the
National Cancer Institute, has
been derided as a “shotgun” ap-
proach—one that puts the cart
before the horse by searching
for a cure before knowing the
cause.

It has also been called “Con-
gressional medicine."

 

 

lcancer experts did not want the
program at first, fearing that
the “engineered, developed pro-
gram” that Congress was push-
ing was neither feasible nor
desirable. ,
An expert committee set up
by the institute at the direction
of Congress in 1953 explored the
possibility of such a program,
but recommended against it.
Congress then got the insti-
tute to form a second commit-
tee, this one headed by a chemo-
therapy champion, Dr, Sidney
Father of Boston’s Children's
Hospital, It found in favor of a
program. . i
,The budget for the program
has risen steadily.. It is now
$44 million, including about $12
million for grants outside the
program but related to chemo-
therapy. _ ’
“We have certainly not found
a cure for canca’g," said Dr.
Kenneth M. Endicott director
of the institute and first chief
of the chemotherapy program.

which are somewhat better than
those known before the pro-

prolong the patient's life some-
what and make him more com-
fortable, but that's all.”

Two types of cancer have

reacted favorably to chemical
agents: acute leukemia, for
which about a half-dozen chem-
icals help to prolong life, and
choriocarcinome, a very rare
uterine cancer. One chemical
has made the latter disease dis-
appear for at least five years
in about 15 women.,
Half of these chemicals, how-
ever, were known before the
program began, and the newer
ones are not much, if at all,
better than the older ones.

59 New Substances Found

All told, 138 of the 170,000
screened compounds have been
tested in patients; and 59
“new” substances have emerged.
Of these, 10 have been found

 

4

gram began b1”: none are dra- stances, according to Dr. T.
matically better," he said. “They

better antitumor properties
than previously known sub-

Phillip Waalkes, associate di-
rector of the institute for col-
laborative research.

In addition, two steroid der-
ivatives have been found that
are as good as the naturally

occurring testosterone for
breast cancer, Dr. Waalkes
said.

The basic problem remains:
There is no drug that cures any
of the 20 to 30 common types of
cancer in man, nor any that is
always effective against any one
of the 70 or more rarer cancers.
This makes it very difficult
to devise a laboratory test cer-
tain of detecting a chemical that
might be effective against hu-
man cancer.

In 1955 scientists decided on a
test using the tumors in three
types of mice. This “screen”
had a 90 per cent chance of
detecting the chemicals then
known to be active in some way

 

 

 

“We have a dozen chemicals

 

Most Government and private

 

to have as . good or slightly against tumors.

 

 

Copyright 1963 by The New York Times Company. Reprinted by permission.

 




SHOOTING DEER WITH BOW AND
ARROW OUTLAWED IN BRITAIN

The Deer Act, 1963, came into effect in Great Britain
November lst. Of particular signiﬁcance among its pro-
visions is the outlawing of bow and arrow shooring which
had previously been permitted in Britain, as it is in our
country. A special listing of prohibited ﬁrearms and am-
munition is also provided under the Act. This should
prevent the use of inadequate weapons capable of wound-
ing but nor of killing a deer, a vitally important humane
requirement.

Close seasons and other conservation matters are also
dealt with in the new Act, which prohibits night shooting
and shooting from vehicles. It provides a penalty Of twenty
pounds for the ﬁrst offense and ﬁfty pounds or three
months in jail for a subsequent offense.

The Deer Bill was promoted jointly by UFAW (The
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare) and the
British Field Sports Society, with the active support of the
National Farmers’ Union, Country Land-Owners’ Associa-
tion, Fauna Preservation Society, Council for Nature, For-
estry Commission, Nature Conservancy, and British Deer
Society. The London Gun-makers Association gave tech-
nical assistance.

In order to understand the importance of outlawing
bow and arrow hunting, two quotations from experienced
sources follow:

"If there is any sure way to kill a deer instantly with
a bow I—and a great many other archers—would
certainly like to know about it. It would prevent
untold suffering each fall . . . I still believe that
target shooting, competitively or Otherwise, is an ab-
sorbing and worth-while sport. But unless big-game
archery can be made deadly, I think it ought to be
outlawed in every state. SO far as I am concerned
personally, however, a law won’t matter. I have seen
enough and I am through—Clare Conley.” ("True,
The Man’s Magazine” November, 1959)

"Five days after the opening of the season for hunt-
ing deer with bows and arrows in 1958, a deputy
State Game Prorecror wrote: 'I have seen 11 deer
in the woods with arrows Sticking in them. Today
I shot an eight point buck with my riﬂe that had
an arrow sticking in its stomach . . . There was a
doe in my yard this morning with an arrow sticking
in the side of its face. 'It gOt away before I could
show it. This is the most vicious and cruel thing

that has ever happened in Pennsylvania.’ ” ("Animal-
dom” November, 1959)

HUMANE RULES AT INLAND EMPIRE
SCIENCE FAIR

The Science Fair to be held in Spokane, Washington
in April is governed by humane rules sent out well in ad-
vance of the Fair. In a bulletin announcing the eleventh
annual Inland Empire Science Fair, the following sound
requirements are included:

”Dangerous chemicals, open ﬂames, explosives, poison-

ous reptiles or starvation experiments on animals may not
be exhibited. Live animals must be fed and watered by
the exhibitor, who must also clean cages daily. No verte-

brate animal used in a project may be subjected to any ex-

periment which interferes with the animal’s normal health
or causes any pain or distress.”

Congratulations to the science teachers and sponsors re-
Sponsible for this wise and humane ruling!

SWISS SYMPOSIUM ON LABORATORY
ANIMALS

A symposium on "The Environment of Laboratory
Animals and Its Standardization in Biological Tests” was
held in the Institute Of Physiology, University of Bern,
Switzerland, on May 4, 1963. At the request of the Animal
Welfare Institute, Dr. W. H. Weihe, Of the Institute Of
Physiology, has written the following brief report on
the symposium.

"More than 100 scientists Of different disciplines Of
Biology and Medicine attended. The aim of the sympo-
sium was to discuss the various factors in the environment
of laboratory animals, which musr be taken more into
consideration in setting up animal experiments, in order
to improve the reliability and reproducibility of results.

"Seven main lectures, prepared in the form of review
articles, were presented. The titles of the leCtures were:
Breeding and Housing of Laboratory Animals (H. Hurni,
Bern); The Genotype as a Variable Factor in Animal Ex-
periments (R. Loosli, Basel); The Significance Of BIO‘
logical Rhythms for Animal Colonies and Animal Experi-
ments (J. Aschoff, Erling-Andechs, Germany); The Im-
portance of Nutrition of the Rat as Laboratory Animal
(H. Zucker, Munich); The Inﬂuence Of Temperature
as a Factor of the Physical Environment on the Metabo-
lism of the Rat (W. H. Weihe, Bern); Mortality Curves
and Growth Features of a Breeding Colony Of Wistar
Rats for Age Studies (D. Gsell, Basel); The Standardiza-
tion of Laboratory Animals for Hormone Bioassays and
the StatiStical Evaluation of Results (H. Weiser, Basel).

“The enlarged text of the lectures given in German
will be published in a supplemental issue Of Internationale
Zeitschrift fur Vitaminforschung (Hans Huber, Bern), to
be available by December, 1963.”

In the introduction to the supplement, which will be
approximately 160 pages, Dr. Weihe very kindly ex-
pressed his appreciation tO the Animal Welfare Institute
for supplying 100 copies of its publication "Basic Care
of Experimental Animals,” stating: "In North America
the Animal Welfare Insritute of New York endeavors
to provide enlightenment about experimental animals. I
mention this organization especially because it supplied
us with 100 free copies Of the booklet “Basic Care of
Experimental Animals” for distribution. This booklet pro-
vides a solid foundation of preparatory knowledge on re-
search animals, nOt only for laboratory personnel but for
academic personnel in experimental biology as well.”

NOTICE

Several readers have notiﬁed us that they have failed
to receive several INFORMATION REPORTS The Institute
has recently changed its mailing service arrangements, and
trusts that from now on the REPORT will reach all readers
promptly. Meanwhile, we would appreciate hearing from
any persons who may not have received all issues; back
copies will be sent promptly upon request.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Rachel L. Carson

Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens,
President

Alfred R. Glancy, Jr.
Vice-President

Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer

Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary

 




 

May — June -— July. I965

The Littlewood Report

The recently published "Report of the Departmental
Committee on Experiments on Animals,” presented to
the British Parliament by the Secretary of State for the
Home Department, is an important landmark in the
development of civilized thinking on animal experimenta-
tion. It deserves thoughtful study by scientists and ani~
mal protective workers in our country. Those who hold
extreme views on either side of the question should con-
sider the eminent fairness of this report.

The following lead article from the May eighth issue
of the BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL is reprinted with
the kind permission of the editor.

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

The highly informative report1 about experiments on
animals published last week by the Home Office sets
out in its 255 pages 15 general findings and 83 recom-
mendations in a masterly fashion. The reporting com-
mittee of 14, under the chairmanship of Sir Sidney Little-
wood and with the assistance of Mr. P. Beedle, of tne
Home Office, as secretary, has a remarkable achievement
to its credit in completing within two years a compre-
hensive study of a complex subject which has expanded
with a speed linked to that of the growth of science in
general since the Cruelty to Animals Act was drawn up
89 years ago.

The terms of reference were: "To consider the present
control over experiments on living animals, and to con-
sider whether, and if so what, changes are desirable in
the law or its administration." The question of the supply
of animals for experimental purposes was considered
to be included in this and has indeed formed an im-
portant part of the report. Evidence was taken from
scientific societies and bodies representing research work-
ers with direct experience of the working of the Act;
organizations for animal welfare; anti-vivisection societies;
and members of the general public. In addition visits
were made to 29 establishments registered for experirnents
under the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876. Proper ack-
nowledgment is made to all the sources, and where
appropriate. each is mentioned as putting forward parti-
cular reasoned views.

Although the terms of reference did not include inquiry
into the need for experiments on animals, since it had
already been established by two Royal Commissions, the
Committee has properly emphasized that every research
worker using animals ”incurs a moral responsibility to
justify his action and a duty to limit pain and give proper
care.” In this light it is immediately reassuring to note
its general finding: "From our own visits to laboratories
and discussions with licensees and animal attendants we
have been greatly impressed with the prevailing standards
of humanity and with the condition of the animaals we
have seen. We have seen no foundation whatever for
any general suspicion let alone sharp criticism of the
concern of licensees for their animals.”

The text of the report has been composed with great
skill, achieving brevity with a clarity and a frankness
especially important to such a topic. The reader is left
With the feeling that the committee has combined sen-
sitivity towards the experimental animals with acknow-
ledgrnent that they must be used in the service of all
other living creatures. In scope it is wider than might
have been expected, achieving correct perspective by a
well-selected historical summary both of the achievements
due to experiments on animals and of the evolution of
the law and the welfare societies concerned with their
protection. The all-important topic of pain in animals is
the subject of a whole section, plus an appendix2 which

1‘,

 

22 EAST l7th STREET. NEW YORK, N. Y. l0003

Vol. I4, No. 3

should be illuminating to scientific and non-scientific
readers alike. Undoubtedly the report should be read by
all who profess an interest in the very serious business
of using living animals for the advancement of medical,
veterinary or other biological science, whatever their call-
ing.

The national press has in general headlined the news
of the report as urging tighter control over experiments
on animals. Strictly speaking this is a true summary, but
possibly misleading to the man in the street who may
read little further. Much of the "tighter control” has
been advocated by those working under the Act them-
selves; some is to give the force of law to established
Home Office practice; some endorses certain of the provi-
sions already attached to every license by the Secretary
of State. Thus the only two recommendations which the
Committee considers should be implemented immediate-
ly—namely, the reconstitution of the Advisory Commit-
tee to be a highly active body and not merely called for
special cases, and the increase in the number of the in-
spectorate from its present 8 to 21 —-— were both con-
sidered by the various research organizations as well as
by the animal welfare societies to be long overdue. Furth-
er, the direction that, "No operative procedure more
severe than simple inoculation or superficial venesection
should be permissible in any experiment without anaes—
thesia of the animal involved” is really an endorsement
of Condition 4 of each licence as at present issued. The
statutory power recommended for an inspector to order
the immediate destruction of an animal suffering con-
siderable pain is of similar significance for Condition
3(6). This latter looks dramatic, but from the tone of
the report it is clear that it can rarely be necessary.
However, it is right that such a safeguard should be seen
by the public to be a matter of law.

'The use of curare-form drugs should be prohibited except
in conjunction with anaesthesia of sufficient depth to produce
loss of consciousness.” This at first looks like a restric-
tion, but as at present the use of such drugs on the liv-
ing animal is subject to special permission unless the
creature is decerebrate it may in fact be a relaxation.
Moreover, since the report recommends abolishing the
system of certification in extension of what may be done
under licence alone and replacing it by licences stating
specifically the procedures available to each holder in-
dividually, an overall tighter control is in fact achieved.
At the same time much administrative work engendered
by the present clumsy certification system will be elimin-
ated. A further and valuable relaxation recommended is
in regard to teaching, for students without licenses but
under the continuous supervision of licensees may be
allowed to work on fatally anaesthetized animals in
future instead of on animals rendered decerebrate by

surgical means to destrOy their ability to feel pain. From‘

this perhaps the only confusion arises, since the report
also recommends that animals shOuld no longer be made
decerebrate under the Cruelty to Animals Act for the
purpose of teaching. But presumably this is not intended
to ban the use of the decerebrate creature as a prepara-
tion from which lessons about the function of the
central nervous system may be learned.

Other important points can here be touched on only
briefly. There is no evidence of serious wastage of ani-
mals by needless experimentation. The numbers used are
likely to continue to increase, and the committee considers
there should be no general barrier to experiments on
animals for achieving new biological knowledge. Animals
used for production of bi010gical products (such as vac-
cines) should come under the Act, as should animals
born of animals under experiment.

1':

 




The sponsorship of licences should be in the hands
of people more directly in contact with the applicants,
and initially licences should be probationary. The Sec-
retary of State should be empowered to make regula-
tions governing the husbandry of laboratory animals. The
career of inspectors should be made more attractive, the
report recommends; recruitment should be restricted to
people with veterinary or medical qualifications, equal
numbers of each. And “The Secretary of State should
be empowered, subject to consultation with the interests
concerned, to prohibit the use in laboratories of animals
not bred for the purpose in registered laboratories or
breeding units outside laboratories.”

In addition, and presumably as an interim measure,
the committee suggests that a system of “approved col-
lectors might be instituted for obtaining animals from
breeders producing animals for purposes other than lab-
oratory use. Provision for the dissemination of more in-
formation to the public about the nature of animal ex.
perimentation is advocated. This is of fundamental im-
portance in dispelling any public disquiet, and licensees
would welcome it.

This frank report is exactly what was needed at the
present juncture. Most of those who intend to look at
it will no doubt start with the Summary of Conclusions
and Recommendations, but it is much to be hoped that
they will follow up all the references given there to the
main body of the text and be stimulated into thinking
well beyond that.

Cleveland Amory’s Animal Kingdom
At World’s Fair

A new approach to humane education has been under-
taken by Cleveland Amory. In an exhibit at the Better
Living Center of the World’s Fair, a series of glassed-in,
air-conditioned rooms show groups of animals that de-
light and fascinate the constant stream of youngsters who
come to look and learn. The old-fashioned farm yard
is the most popular of all, with no battery cages or close
confinement of the so~called “intensive” farm manage-
ment. Ducks and geese, rabbits and chickens, a pony, a
calf, a kid and a donkey are on view, probably for the
first time, to many city children. They may, if they come
by at the right time, see a coyote sitting comfortably on
a sofa with a young girl eating a dish of ice-cream -—
though, as noted elsewhere in this Information Report,
bounties are still paid that encourage the painful trap-
ping of these animals in some states.

Altogether, there are eight different rooms, seven con~
taining animals, one containing an exhibition of animal
protective work done by different, independent humane
organizations throughout the nation. The Animal Wel-
fare Institute has made the illustrated children’s leaflets,
"You and Your Dog” and "Kittens and Cats" available
to all the children who attend the exhibition.

Mr. Amory deserves great credit for an original and
positive contribution to the teaching of kindness.

 

 

Anti-Cruelty Statutes Upheld

Pigeons have been the target, in the last few years, of
a hate campaign of singular virulence. The cruel poison,
strychnine, has been widely used by officials of govern-
ment, and in New York State a bill has been introduced
two years running to exempt pigeons from the provisions
of the anti-cruelty laws which apply to all other animals
except those in scientific institutions being used for ex-
perimental purposes.

It is encouraging to report that for the second consecu-
tive year the bill has failed to pass. Citing the numbers
of letters received in opposition to the bill, the Chair-
man of the Senate Committee before whom the bill was
pending, has answered that "after a great deal of study,
we have reached the conclusion that it is not advisable
for the Conservation and Recreation Committee to report
the measure out.”

Whenever an attempt is made to weaken the anti-
cruelty laws, whether by reducing their coverage or depress-
ing their quality, vigorous citizen protest is in order, and
it can be expected to succeed. Pigeons in New York State
may be captured and painlessly killed, but they continue
to be protected against cruelty by statutory law.

 

New A.W.I. Manual
by Ernest P. Walker

The manual, "Learning From Our Fellow Mammals,” by
Ernest P. Walker is in the final stages of preparation for the
printer. Written for inclusion in the author’s three-volume
"Mammals of the World” (Johns Hopkins Press, 1964)
which has already become a classic, it represents the heart
of his thinking on these animals.

The illustrations include many photographs, taken by
the author, of mammals of his own personal acquaintance.
His remarkable work in catching expressions of a wide
variety on the faces of some of those that shared his
apartment carries on ideas about facial expression which
Leonardo da Vinci and, later, Charles Darwin sought to
crystallize.

The manual will be free to teachers and will be avail-
able at cost price (expected to be $1.00) to others. Or-
ders are being accepted at this time at the office of the
Institute.

 

The Importance of Avoiding Mental

Suffering In Laboratory Animals

The Animal Welfare Institute has long sought to im-
press those responsible for the care and management of
laboratory animal colonies with the need to avoid at
least the most obvious causes of mental suffering in ani-
mals. But AWI efforts in this area have met with con-
siderable resistance. Sentimentality and anthr0pomorphism
are invoked as explanations for what appears to us to be
the simplest common sense; for example, the observa-
tion that mammals generally suffer from loneliness if
kept in solitary confinement.

For those who insist upon documented physical proof
of distress, the following paper is reprinted from
SCIENCE, October 25, 1963, Vol. 142, No. 3591,
page 507 with the kind permission of the American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science, and of the
authors.

LONG-TERM ISOLATION
STRESS IN RATS

Abstract. Rats isolated for long periods became nervous
and developed caudal dermatitis (scaly tail). After 13
weeks of isolation, rats had beaoier adrenals and thyroid
and lighter spleen and tbymus compared wit/2 rats kept
in community cages. T/ais indicates an endocrinopat/sy wit/a
layperfunction of the adrenal cortex. '

Toxicity and nutritional studies on rats and mice are
often long term procedures involving the use of animals
confined in individual cages. This arrangement facilitates
clinical observation and allows food consumption data
to be taken on an individual basis. Although this practice
may be desirable and necessary, it is probable that the
data derived from such studies do not reflect the func-
tionings of a normal animal. In recent years evidence
has accumulated which shows that animals isolated for
long periods of time have altered physiological and be-
havioral characteristics. This condition has been referred
to as "isolation stress” by several investigators (1, 2).

In short-term experiments (up to 10 days) isolated
mice or rats have lowered resistance to stress (3) , lower
food consumption and weight gain (4) and smaller
adrenals (5) as compared with animals kept in groups
of two or more. Long-term isolation (usually longer than
1 month) may bring about just the opposite effects. The
mouse subjected to long-term isolation has greater food
consumption, and a tendency toward larger adrenals
(2). In addition, lower thyroid, spleen and ovary weights,
increased oxygen consumption, and absolute leukopenia
and eosinopenia have been observed (2). The last men-
tioned is suggestive of hyperadrenocorticism. Mice of the
CH strain kept in individual cages were found to have
a higher incidence of convulsive seizures than that found
in paired grouped mice (6). Isolated mice consistently
develop a head twitch similar to that observed in mice
treated with lysergic acid diethylamide (7). The aggressive-
ness of the isolated mouse has been used in the testing
of tranquilizers (8). Also, an increase of plasma 17

 




hydroxy-ketosteroid (sic) has been shown in isolated rats
(9). A study of the influence of dietary fat on the
cardiotoxicity of isoproterenol led to the incidental ob-
servation that the toxicity of this compound is greatly
increased in isolated rats (10).

Over 350 weanling rats of the Wistar strain bred and
raised in this laboratory were used in the following ex-
periments. Half of these were housed individually and
half were housed in groups of ten. All were fed Master
Fox cubes, to which they were given free access. The isola-
tion period did not exceed 13 weeks. Except where iso-
proterenol was used, rats were killed by exsanguination
under light ether anesthesia.

Clinical symptoms of isolation stress became apparent
after 4 to 6 weeks. At 3 months the isolated rat is a ner-
vous, aggressive intractable animal. The tendency to bite
is so pronounced that normal handling procedures are
not feasible and it is necessary to use heavy leather gaunt-
lets or to anesthetize the rats. The most prominent phy-
sical symptom is an ascending caudal dermatitis in 100
percent of isolated rats, compared to a zero incidence in
community-caged animals.

The results shown in Table 1 indicate that an endo-
crinopathy exists in the isolated rat which probably in-
volves the adrenal cortex, considering the increased
weight of the adrenal glands. It is significant that certain
aspects of adrenal cortical function regulate the pattern
of protein and carbohydrate metabolism.

The marked difference in the toxicity of isoproterenol
between isolated and community-caged rats provided a
criterion for following the development of isolation
stress. The toxicity did not change appreciably in the
first 3 to 4 weeks of isolation, but by 8 weeks the LD”
was approximately 118 mg/kg compared with ap-
proximately 815 mg/kg in the control in COMunity
cages. After 3 months of isolation the LD50 was less
than 50 mg/kg. Twenty-four rats were used for each
LD5° determination.

The reversibility of isolation stress was also establish-
ed, the toxicity of isoproterenol being used as the param-
eter. Rats which had been returned to community cages
for 19 days, after 3 months in isolation, showed a nor-
mal sensitivity to isoProterenol and no sign of their
previous intractability. Earlier studies had indicated that
a 1-week period of communal life was insufficient to ef-
fect this recovery (10).

Table 1. Some differences observed between rats kept in
community cages and rats kept in isolation for 13 weeks.
Organ weights given in grams.

 

 

No. of
Sex rats per Isolated Community
group
Adrenals (relative wt)

M 20 0.013 0.011
F 20 .030 024*
Spleen (relative wt)

LA 20 .213 .239*
F 20 .257 284*

T/Jyroid (relative wt) ‘

I“ 20 .007 .006
F 20 .010 .008*
Thymus (absolute wt)

M 20 .269 335*
.F 20 .250 .307*
Liver glycogen (g/ 100 g tissue)1
54 5 .500 .740
F 5 .450 .420

-—~_

*1? = 0.01. TDetermined according to the method of I.
Kahan, Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 47, 408 (1953).

In attempts to overcome the effects of isolation, rats
were handled for 5 to 10 seconds daily for 4 months.
This amount of handling was only partially successful in
overcoming isolation stress as measured by absolute
lymphocyte count and the plasma corticoid level (11).

Rats kept in pairs for 3 months were found to be normal
in behavior and in response to isoproterenol.

When the full significance of isolation stress is re-
cognized, the use of paired or routinely gentled animals
could become a standard procedure in chronic toxicity
and nutritional studies. '

ANITA HATCH
TIBOR BALAZS *

Food end Drug Laboratory,
Ottawa, Ontario

G. S. WIBERG
H. C. GRICE

References and Notes

1. T. C. Barnes. Federation Proc. 18, 365 (1959); E.
Ziskind, I. Am. Med. Assoc. 168, 1427 (1958).

2. A. S. Weltman, A. M. Sackler, S. B. Sparber, S.
Opert, Federation Proc. 21, 184 (1962).

3. K. Martindale, G. F. Somers, C. W. M. Wilson,
I. Plectrm. Pbczrmczco'l. 12, 153T, (1962).

4. H. F. Harlow I. Genet. Psychol. 41, 211 (1932)

5. E. C. Grant and M. R. A. Chance, Animal Behavior
6, 183 (1958).
6. I. T. King, Y. C. Lee and M. B. Visscher, Proc. Soc.
Exptl. Biol. Med. 88, 661 (1955).
7. D. L. Keller and W. W. Umbreit, Science 124, 723
(1956).

8. H. C. Y. Yen, R. L. Stanger, N. Millman. I. Phar-
macol. Exptl. Tbemp. 122, 85A (1958); T. C. Barnes
Federation Proc. 17, 347 (1958).

9. H. C. Y. Yen, C. A. Day, E. B Sigg, Pbarmacologist
4 (1962).

10. T. Balazs, I. B. Murphy, H. C. Grice, J. Pbarm
Planrmacol. 14, 750 (1962).

11. A. M. Hatch, M. Cann, G. S. Wiberg, S. Zawidska,
H. C. Grice, in preparation.

* Present address: Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River,
New York.

1 5 August 1963.

 

New York State Anti-Cruelty Law
Retained After Battle

The New York State Assembly and Senate voted to ex-
empt the anti-cruelty statutes from the Revision of the
Penal Law and to place them in their entirety and with-
out any change whatever, in the Agriculture and Markets
Law.

The move was made after extensive citizen protest
against weakening of the anti-cruelty statutes as prOposed
in the Penal Law Revision bill. The Assembly Rules
Committee sponsored a bill, prepared by the Revision
Commission’s counsel, to exempt the anti-cruelty laws.
Commenting on the action of the legislature, the Chairman
of the Legislation Committee of the New York State
Humane Association, Mr. Henry Redman Dutcher, said:
"The same procedure will be followed for the prosecu-
tion of cruelty cases under the Agriculture and Markets
Law, subsequent to September 1, 1967, as is now being
followed under Article 16 of the Penal Law.”

This is an important victory for the humane cause, and
humane organizations in other states threatened with sim-
ilar revisions, based on the unsound recommendations of
the American Law Institute, can point now to both New
York State and Minnesota as examples to follow. In both
states, owing to the objections of humanitarians, the ex-
isting anti-cruelty statutes were exempted from the revi-
sions and retained in their original form. The American
Law Institute failed to consult with lawyers familiar with
anti-cruelty legislation before writing this section of the
so-called ”model” penal law. The result is that the animal
protective section is hopelessly weak and inadequate. It
should be firmly rejected wherever it may be proposed.

 




 

 

ALL HEAVEN IN A RAGE: by E. S. TURNER
(St. Martin's, New York, 1965)

The war against cruelty has never before received historical
treatment at once so brilliant and so thorough. The author
tells ”how the British nation was persuaded, shamed, shocked
and coerced into, showing mercy to the ‘brute creation.’
The nation once known as "the hell of horses” today has
the best animal protective legislation in the world, but
Britain’s early culture was cruel in the extreme. The passion
for cruelty was so strong that, even after bull-baiting had
been outlawed by Parliament, national troops had to be sent
out to enforce the law against an angry, stone-throwing mob.

In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries bull-baiting
was not only a popular pastime but a legal requirement.
Butchers who killed a bull humanely were prosecuted. No
law against cruelty existed then, and, as the author points
out, "A repellent and largely forgotten feature of the
seventeenth century was the rage for vivisection which all
over Europe seized speculative philosophers and their ad.
herents . . . In France . . . fashionable ladies who used to
attend the disembowelling of dead criminals for the frirron
now watched living dogs turned inside out . . . In England,
the game gained a grip after the Civil War. The new
intellectual pursuits were dismembering, poisoning, drown-
ing, suffocating, gutting, burning, impaling, draining, starv-
ing and injecting."

Poets and artists led the way to reform. Alexander Pope
and William Hogarth both felt strongly, the latter remarking
that if his works served to check the prOgress of cruelty
he would be more proud of being their creator than if he
had painted Raphael's Cartoons. He showed a series of
common cruelties and their demoralizing effect on the
perpetrator, "Tom N ero.”

John Wesley preached kindness to animals. Dr. Johnson
wrote against cruelty. William Blake’s "Proverbs" from
which the title, "All Heaven in a Rage,” is taken, thundered
against callousness as well as cruelty. William Cowper and
Sir Edwin Landseer, both active humanitarians, portrayed
animals so feelingly that Englishmen could hardly fail to
appreciate them, and Queen Victoria, a strong supporter of
animal protection, gave the designation “Royal” to the
S.P.C.A., and made it the most formidable foe of cruelty
ever organized.

The high points of debates during the years when
Lord Erskine and Richard Martin struggled to get an
anti-cruelty statute on the books, make fascinating
reading. The Secretary at War, William Windham, was an
untiring opponent of all humane measures, and he used
the same arguments that have served his successors down
to the present day. "The laws are already sufficient to
prevent abuse," he said when Lord Erskine pressed a bill
to outlaw bull-baiting, and when the general anti-cruelty
statute finally passed, he remarked sourly that it was "a
Bill for harassing and oppressing certain classes among the
lower orders of the people.”

E. S. Turner leads the reader unfalteringly through the
extraordinary hypocrisy and stubborness of the OppositiOn
to every humane reform. And he says, ”when all the
ironies and anomalies and hypocrisies have been disc0unted,
Britain can still claim a wider range for her compassion
than most countries. In two lands which claim to be the
founts of Liberty things are done to laboratory animals
which are not tolerated here.” The last of the great achieve-
ments of legislation was Britain’s outlawing of the leg-hold
trap in 1963. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation
(1933), the regulation of animal experimentation (1876),
and a long series of lesser humane laws are accounted for, but
the book ends with the modern problems: poisoning of
birds by pesticides intended for insects, and the .dark,
cramped life imprisonment of calves, pigs and chickens
raised by ”intensive” methods for the table.

‘.

"All Heaven in a Rage” is not a reassuring book, but it
should be read by all who give thought to the progress
of civilization.

 

Michigan’s Bounty On Foxes And
Bobcats Repealed ‘

A ten year struggle to abolish Michigan’s cruel Bounty
Laws on foxes, bobcats and coyotes resulted in partial
victory on June 22nd when the Legislature passed Senate
bill 76 by a 64-27 vote. The passage of this bill eliminates
the payment of bounties on foxes and bobcats. However,
the bill does not go into effect until ninety days after
the Legislature adjourns for the year. If the Legislature
remains in session until the end of the year, the effective
date of this legislative measure will be March, 1966.

Last year the bounty hunters collected $184,585 on
foxes, and an additional $2470 on bobcats. Some bounty
hunters dig out fox dens, kill the pups, but carefully
allow the mother to go free to raise more bounty- produc-
ing foxes. Other instances have been reported where
foxes have been raised domestically and then slaughtered
for bounty. The abolishment of bounty payments will dis~
courage this brutal and wholesale killing of foxes and
bobcats.

A similar bill which would erase bounties paid on
coyotes —— $15.00 for a male and $20.00 for a female ——
died in Committee. Senator Carl O’Brien, Chairman of
the Conservation Committee, who introduced the bounty
abolishment bills, is Optimistic about its passage next
year. Until that time, Michigan coyotes will die painful-
ly and slowly in steel traps because they still have a
price on their heads.

Wolves in the state of Michigan were dangerously
close to extinction and in 1960 the bOunty on them was
repealed. The repeal of the fox and bobcat bounty is a
step forward in preserving the balance of nature. The
passage of a bill to protect coyotes will be the final step
in making Michigan a bounty-free state.

 

AWI Booth at AAHA Convention

At the 32nd annual convention of the American Animal
Hospital Association held March 14-19, attended by vet-
erinarians from all parts of the United States as well as
eight foreign countries, the Animal Welfare Institute
maintained a booth exhibit with a representative in at-
tendance to answer inquiries and distribute literature. The
Convention was held at the Sheraton-Park Hotel in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Considerable interest was expressed in the various Ani-
mal Welfare Institute publications on exhibit, as well as
in four books distributed by the Institute: ”UFAW Hand-
book on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals,"
"An Introduction to the Anaesthesia of Laboratory Ani-
mals,” ”Small Animal Anaesthesia" and ”Animals and
the Law.”

Many copies of the Institute’s manuals that are provided
without charge to scientific institutions —— ”Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals" and ”Basic Care of
Experimental Animals” —- were given out upon request.
”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” was especially in
demand and several orders were taken for the new revised
edition of the manual. Copies of the bi-monthly Informa~
tion Report were also made available to those attending
the convention.

Several seminars were held during the convention, in-
cluding one in which Dr. Oliver Graham-Jones, editor of
”Small Animal Anaesthesia,” spoke on ”Handling and
Care of Zoo Animals.”

Bill To Stop Pet Stealing Introduced

As we go to press, Rep. Joseph Y. Resnick (D., N. Y.)
introduced a bill (H. R. 9743) to prevent theft of dogs
and cats for sale to scientific institutions. Congressman
Resnick decided to introduce the bill when he received an
appeal for help in retrieving a dog believed to have been
stolen and transported across state lines to an animal
dealer in his District. The dog had changed hands four
times in two days. The owner of the missing dog, a
nurse, drove all night accompanied by her three children
in order to try to gain access to the dealer’s premises,
but she was refused admission. Before the dog could
be traced, it had been used in an experiment in a New

York hospital and the body had been incinerated. The
hospital had, according to a spokesman, sent out a call
for six male Dalmations, but the dealer had "rung in two
females on us.” It was one of these females that was
used in the experiment July second. Congressman Res-
nick pointed out that an order as specific as this was an
invitation to theft. H. R. 9743 would license dealers and
institutions purchasing animals from them. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture would be responsible for carrying
out the provisions of the bill. Congressman Pepper has
introduced a similar bill (H. R. 9750) and Senator Clark
plans to introduce a bill in the Senate.

 




AIIIIIAI WEIEAEE IIIETITETE

P. 0. Box 3492, Grand Central Station, New Yorh, N. Y. 10017

April - May - June, 1966

' HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND
SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE
ACT ON ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

The ‘last issue of the Information Report told of ap-
proval by the Livestock Subcommittee of the Poage bill,
H. R. 12488. The bill suffered a severe setback in the
full House Agriculture Committee, which cut the scope
of the bill from all vertebrate animals down to two
species only: dogs and cats. It further cut the coverage
down by eliminating the care and housing of animals
inside the laboratories. The House bill now requires only
dealers to maintain humane standards set by the Sec-
retary Of Agriculture. A new number was given this
altered bill, H. R. 13881. It was reported to the House
of Representatives and passed on April 28th by a vote
of 352 to 10.

The original Poage bill, endorsed by the Animal Wel-
fare Institute, was strongly opposed by the National
Society for Medical Research. Medical spokesmen at the
hearings referred to the Poage bill and thirty other then
pending bills as "the program of the humaniacs” and
charged that these bills “constitute a threat to the
health Of all Of us.” However, an unexplained change
in strategy by the National Society for Medical Research
and American Medical Association suddenly caused
them to reverse their previous position with respect to
requirements for licensing laboratories and the animal
dealers with whom they do business. Congressman Poage
stated on the floor of the House of Representatives that
he had letters from both the NSMR and AMA support-
ing H. R. 13881, a number Of whose provisions they
had emphatically and repeatedly opposed at public hear-
ings September 2, 1965, March 7 and 8 and March 25
and 28, 1966.

The House-passed version Of H. R. 13881 does the
following: 1) Licenses dealers who sell dogs and cats

(cont. on page 3)

i As we go to press: June 22nd. The U. 8. Senate
' unanimously passed the Senate Commerce Committee
. version of HR 13881 by a roll-call vote of 85-0. The
., bill’s provisions are given on page 4.

#A
V

Vol. 15, NO. 2

NAVY TREATS DOLPHINS HUMANELY
Cooperation Cited

In response to protest: concerning new: report: which
erroneously charged the U. S. Navy with training dolphin:
to rant enemy rahmariner with exploriver, the following
clear and encouraging letter has been written by Dr. F. G.
lVood, [r., Head, Marine Science; Dir/irion, U. 5. Nat/a1
Mimi/e Center, Point Magn, California. It it reprinted
with hi: permirrion.

We at the Point Mugu Marine Bio-Science Facility were

also disturbed by the newspaper report, though for a
different reason; we were disturbed because it was quite

(cont. on page 2)

 

THE WASHINGTON POST

MONDAY, JUNE 13, 1966

Animal Protection

The Senate Commerce Committee has, in a humane way,
taken the bull by the horns so to speak and put the
brand Of its approval on a solid, sensible bill to protect
research animals from needless, wanton cruelty. Its bill,
introduced by Senator Magnuson and measurably
strengthened by Senator Monroney’s amendment, is
markedly superior to the animal care measure passed by
the House. We hope that the Senate will give it speedy
endorsement and that the House will accede to its wise

humaneness.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill would require
laboratories, animal dealers and persons transporting
animals to be used in scientific research to observe
certain elementary standards to be set by the Secretary
Of Agriculture for the handling of these creatures before
they are used for experimentation. The standards would
be designed to deter the stealing of pets for sale to lab-
oratories and to require giving them decent shelter,
ventilation, sanitation, food and water. The legislation
would not limit or affect actual use of the animals for
scientific experimentation in any way.

There is not a syllable in this bill that can be said
to impair or impede research. It is not anti-vivisectionist,
or antimedical or antiscientific or anti-anything save
senseless neglect and brutality. It amounts to no more
than a simple expression of humanity.

 




 

Navy Treats Dolphins Humanely
(mm. from page 1)

misleading in the form that it appeared in most news-
papers. The New Bedford, Mass. Standard Times was
one of the few papers that printed the release apparently in
its entirety. You will see from the enclosed copy of the
article that the reporter was responsible for the refer-
ence to using porpoises as weapons. Humane con-
siderations aside, we consider the idea of using porpoises
to ram submarines, mines, or underwater missile installations
quite impractical and we can conceive of no use to which
a porpoise might lend itself that would necessitate blow-
ing up the animal.

Our major research objectives have been and are con-
cerned with determining and measuring the capabilities
of these animals to aid man in the ocean environment,
an environment in which man is ill-equipped to operate.

You may have seen newspaper articles about our por-
poise Tuffy who demonstrated at SEALAB II last fall the
ability to serve as an underwater lifeguard and delivery
boy for the aquanauts living on the ocean floor.

Porpoises, and other marine mammals, have evolved
remarkable adaptations to their aquatic environment. Two
of our researchers have been studying one of these adapta-
tions, a sonar system that differs from man-made sonar.
So far in this study they have found that their porpoise,
a female bottlenose named Doris, can distinguish copper
plate from aluminum plate by echo-ranging alone. Doris
permits them to place soft rubber suction cups over her
eyes, then swims to the opposite side of her tank to push
one of two paddles. These are made of the two dif-
ferent materials, and Doris selects the one she has been
trained to push.

It was this study, briefly mentioned in the course of a
presentation at an undersea symposium, that led the

reporter to speculate on what, to him, seemed "obvious”
applications.

In our training methods we rely on reward to obtain
desired behavior. The porpoise receives fish when it re-
sponds correctly, and the reward is withheld when it
doesn't. But every animal receives its full ration of food
everyday. (Porpoises are relatively not highly motivated
by food, and it serves no useful purpose to starve them.)

Even if we knew of a technique by which forceful
coercion could be applied we would not use it because
it would ruin the animal very quickly. Whether we are
working with them in tanks or in the open sea, every-
thing we do requires the porpoise’s voluntary cooperation.

I believe your information that Dr. Lilly has a grant
from the Navy is erroneous. To my knowledge, his
earlier support from the Ofﬁce of Naval Research was
terminated some years ago. I do not know what his
sources of financial support are at the present time.

It is difﬁcult to cope with assumptions based on mis-

 

 

apprehension and misinformation. If I have not adequate-
ly explained our purpose and indicated our attitude
toward the animals we work with, please do not hesitate
to let me know. We can appreciate your concern, and
that expressed by many others who interpreted the article
as your informants did. We have had to devote a good
deal of time to the preparation of individual replies to
letters we have received. Your letter has given us an
opportunity to provide factual information to a number
of concerned individuals from whom we have not heard
directly.

I can assure you that the men and women who are
working with porpoises here are equally concerned with
the animals’ welfare. After months of training their por-
poises, feeding them, learning from them, and coming
to recognize them as individual personalities, they have
become quite attached to them. The porpoises at Point
Mugu are in no danger of becoming unwitting Kamikazes.

 

A REPORT ON CRUELTY TO
TENNESSEE WALKING HORSES

by Pearl Twyne, Prerident, Virginia Federation of
Human: Societier, Inc.

Over a period of six years, the Virginia Federation of
Humane Societies has investigated horse shows in many
states having Tennessee walking horse classes. Appalling
cruelty was found to have been inflicted on the horses
in these classes. They are cut with a razor blade in the
forefeet and salt applied, they are blistered with chemicals,
and the tender pastern area bruised by excessive chain-
ing. The chains rub up and down on the inflamed area.
beating on the coronet band, which becomes bruised
and swollen.

When the front feet are sore, the horse puts his rear
feet as far as possible under him to support most of his
weight. This lowers his rump, which gives him more of
the walking-horse conformation. Even colts~ are made sore

" while still young so that the spine will grow in such a

way as to lower the rump permanently. Nails are some-
times driven in the sensitive part of the fore feet. These
are hidden under pads.

Because of the extent of this brutality over state lines,
Federal legislation is the only answer to this abuse. Sen-
ator Joseph D. Tydings of Maryland is interested in cor-
recting this cruelty. He has introduced Senate Bill No. 3338,
which will make it unlawful to transport or ship in
interstate commerce any horse whose feet and legs have
been made sore for competitive purposes. The bill has
been referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture
and Forestry.

Further information may be obtained by writing to the
Virginia Federation of Humane Societies, 1830 North
Ode Street, Arlington, Virginia.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

House of Representatives and
Senate Commerce Committee
Act on Animal

Protective Legislation ,

(mm. from page 1)

to laboratories, 2) Requires these dealers to maintain
humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture,
3) Licenses laboratories receiving Federal funds or puro
chasing dogs and cats in interstate commerce, 4) Requires
both dealers and laboratories to keep records of dogs
and cats, 5) Provides a penalty of up to $500 a day
for failure to comply with the law, 6) Provides for
removal of Federal funds from laboratories for wil-
ful violations.

There was no opposition whatever to H. R. 13881 on
grounds that it was too strong. The ten members of
Congress who voted against it did so because they pre-
ferred a bill providing criminal penalties, including a
$10,000 fine, for animal dealers, a prohibition of the
sale of dogs and cats at auction or by weight, and a
requirement that dealers give the animals care equivalent
to that which a humane and conscientious owner would
give his pet.

The strategy employed by the ten dissident members
followed the all-or-nothing line advocated by the Nation-
al Catholic Society for Animal Welfare. They did not
attempt to offer strengthening amendments to H. R. 13881.
Instead, they made a move to recommit the Poage bill and
substitute the Helstoski bill or Bolton bill. Such a move
was obviously destined to failure.

The Senate Commerce Committee studied the testimony
submitted at hearings March 25th and 28th; and several
redrafts were made of S. 2322, sponsored by Sen-
ators Magnuson, Clark, and Brewster. In one draft, lab-
oratories were removed from the bill’s requirement for
humane care and handling. Senator A. S. (Mike) Monroney
moved to restore this essential feature of the bill.

On May 25th a final set of hearings was scheduled
for discussion of his amendment.

Scientists Split on Monroney Amendment for
Laboratory Animals

Senator Magnuson, Chairman of the Committee, open-
ed the session calling on Senator Joseph S. Clark (1).,
Pa.) who strongly urged passage of S. 2322, including
the Monroney Amendment. He asked how institutions
receiving more than a billion dollars a. year from the
Federal Government could claim to be unable to meet
costs of caring for their animals humanely. He charged
”the medical oligarchy" with misrepresenting the issues
and ridiculed the proposed self-policing of the American
Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Annual Care
which would approve laboratories for grants under the
NIH bill, rival legislation, referred to the Senate Labor and

Public Welfare Committee. The Secretary of Agriculture is
empowered under S. 2522 to set humane standards for
research animals in dealers’ premises and laboratories
except when undergoing experimentation.

Dean John Hogness of the University of Washington
School of Medicine took precedence over government
witnesses to enable Senator Magnuson to hear the wit-
ness from his state. Dean Hogness testified against the
Monroney Amendment emphasizing his desire for the
increased funding provisions in the NIH bill. However,
in response to questions by Senator Norris Cotton
R., N. H.) he admitted that no funds would be need-
ed to bring animal care standards in his medical school
up to a point which would meet USDA requirements
it 8. 2322 is enacted. He said government funds would
be needed for future expansion only. Asked about his
experience as a "site visitor” for the National Institutes
of Health, he said he had seen dogs in cages that were
“totally inadequate" because they were so small, but he
had “not gone into the periods" the dogs were kept
in the cages.

At the request of Senator Frank Lausche (D., Ohio),
Dr." Albert Sabin of the University of Cincinnati Col-
lege of Medicine also preceded government witnesses.
Dr. Sabin spoke in behalf of the National Society for
Medical Research. He testified against the Monroney
Amendment and for the NIH bill, stating that laboratory
animal quarters were "much better than the slums where
people who take care of them [the animals] have to
live." Despite this claim he also asserted that if they
had to meet humane standards set by the Secretary of
Agriculture, numerous laboratories would be "put out
of business.” Asked by Senator Monroney whether his
laboratory was open to inspection by animal protective
organizations, Dr. Sabin said, “We do not encourage
migration of people who have no business there," and
added that there have been cases where “corners" have
been photographed or when someone would "pick out
some godawful thing you can find anywhere and that
gets splashed all over the papers.” Though he said this
often occurs, documentation of these unusual charges was
not offered.

Dr. James Shannon, Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health, and Dr. Philip Lee, Assistant Secretary
for Health and Scientific Affairs, U. S. Department of
Health, Education and Welfare, appeared next. Their
testimony followed the pattern set by Dr. Sabin and
Dean Hogness. They insisted that even though full ad-
vantage had not been taken of the matching grants for
construction of animal quarters initiated by Senator
Monroney in 195 7, the solution to the whole problem
lay in providing more money now. Dr. Shannon said
that about half of the animal facilities in the United
States are in need of improvement but denied that NIH
had been remiss in allowing this situation to develop,
though he also testified that NIH supplies about 2/3

 




 

of the money for the research. The traditional unwill-
ingness of NIH and HEW to take responsibility for
the treatment of animals bought with the money they
grant, was underlined when Senator Monroney cited a
case of extreme, prolonged neglect of laboratory dogs
by an NIH grantee, quoting a letter from HEW’s Dean
Coston, advising that the institution itself is in the best
position to rectify conditions and that New York State
law would take care of it. HEW’s Dr. Lee hastened
to endorse the Coston position of relying on inadequate
state laws to correct abuses under NIH grants.

Speaking for the Monroney Amendment was Dr.
Bennett Derby, Head of Neurology, Veterans Administra-
tion Hospital, New York City. Senator Monroney had
to use the gavel to restore order as HEW witnesses and
their friends stood conversing or leaving the room.

Referring to “illness, malnutrition, pain and extreme
restraint in experimental quarters" which he had seen,
Dr. Derby recommended, "The agency ideally suited to
enforce the proposed legislation is the Department of
Agriculture. Broadly experienced in animal husbandry and
regulation of interstate commerce, the Department of
Agriculture is equipped with the experience and person-
nel for this task. Moreover, not immediately involved in
medical research, the requisite degree of objectivity will
be attained.”

Next to appear was Dr. G. W. Irving, Jr., Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Research Service. The Department
of Agriculture deferred to HEW on inspection of labora-
tories. Dr. Irving, nevertheless, responded readily to ques-
tions on the competence of his veterinarians to administer the
whole program. He said Agriculture could, and if Con-
gress so decided, would, inspect laboratories as well as
animal dealers to enforce humane care and housing. A
biochemist trained at Cornell and George Washington
Universities, Dr. Irving indicated familiarity with ex-

perimental animals and noted animal disease lab-

oratories under the Department’s current jurisdiction. He
had completed estimates on implementing the entire pro-
gram.

The Last witness, Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, Surgeon-in-
chief, Metropolitan Hospital, Detroit, and Clinical As-
sociate Professor of Surgery, Wayne State University
School of Medicine, endorsed the Monroney Amend-
ment and documented the decreasing humaneness and
increasing expediency of the National Institutes of Health
on animal care. He quoted from NIH’s 1949 "Care of
the Dog Used in Medical Resear ” as follows: “Each
animal should have the chance to enjoy a short period
of exercise outside every day when weather conditions
permit. It is not always possible to have outside runs
for the dogs, especially in a crowded metropolitan
locality. However, they are always desirable and should
be provided if possible.” The 1965 Guide, submitted

as a model by Dr. Shannon, states in part: ”One of the
most widely debated questions in the field of animal
care concerns the need for ‘exercise’ in the housing of
laboratory animals . . . whether dogs and other animals
are 'exercised’ and what form it should take, is a mat-
ter of professional judgment."

Concerning the American Association for Accredita-
tion of Laboratory Animal Care, which would accredit
laboratories were the NIH bill passed, Dr. Gimbel said,
”This sort of Protective Association tends to protect
its members rather than the animals. To suggest that it
does away with the need for external inspection and
legislation is equivalent to claiming we have no need
for fire or building codes because construction engineers
are competent and know what ought to be done.”

Senate Commerce Committee Approves Bill

On June 7th the Senate Commerce Committee voted
to add humane standards of care for animals in lab-
oratories to the House-passed H. R. 13881. The bill
now goes to the full Senate. Very full discussion pre-
ceded the Committee report on the Senate version of
HR. 13881. It was the fourth Committee Print of
S. 2322, written after the second set of hearings,
May 25th. As a result of this careful study, all reasonable
objections to the bill were met by changes in drafting.

The Senate version of H. R. 13881 requires lab-
oratories, animal dealers and persons transporting the
animals to care for and handle them humanely. Dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs will
come under the protection of the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, who will set and enforce humane standards includ-
ing minimum requirements with respect to the housing,
feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shelter from ex-
tremes of weather and temperature, separation by species
and adequate veterinary care. Dogs and cats sold by
dealers to laboratories must be marked or identified in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe, and
records must be made and kept by dealers and research
facilities so that theft of these animals for sale to lab-
oratories will become virtually impossible. All laboratories
using dogs or cats are included in the bill, and they
must humanely care for the other animals mentioned,
too. No dog or cat may be sold or offered for sale in
commerce at a public auction or by weight unless in
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
Dealers who violate the law may be fined $1,000 and/or
imprisoned up to one year. Research facilities are sub-
ject to cease and desist orders by Federal Courts if
found in violation by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Compliance with the humane regulations will be
mandatory on both laboratories and dealers six months
from enactment except that special permission may be
obtained in some cases by laboratories which require ad-
ditional time for necessary alterations.

 

ll
ll

 

m

 

 




ATTACK ON AWI
INSPIRED BY EXTREMISTS

My testimony at the Senate Commerce Committee
hearing: on S. 2322 and S. 3059 ha: become the center
of an organized attach by the National Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare and the Humane Society of the United
Stater. It 5887723 appropriate, therefore, to publiyh in full the
text of my prepared tertimony and to follow it with com-
ments on the anrwerr I made to question: by Senator:
Cannon and Dominick concerning procurement of im-
pounded animals by laboratories.

Statement by Christine Stevens
In Favor of S. 2322 and S. 3059
Senate Commerce Committee Hearings,

March 28, 1966

The Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, which I represent, are in favor of
S. 2322 and S. 3059 and hope the Committee will in-
clude the best features of both bills, including in parti-
cular the broad coverage whereby all vertebrate animals in
both laboratories and dealers’ premises and in transport
must be humanely handled and cared for. We believe the
provision for stopping payments of Federal funds to any
institution which refuses to obey the law is a sound sanc-
tion and should be included. It has worked well in the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act of 1958 and should be
equally effective in stopping abuses in care and housing of
animals for experimentation.

Scientific groups are making a determined effort to have
the provisions requiring humane care and housing of animals
in laboratories deleted from these bills. Despite all evid-
ence to the contrary, they still claim that outside intervention
is not needed because the laboratories will regulate them-
selves.

The spokesman for the Animal Care Panel, Dr. Howard
A. Schneider of the A.M.A.’s Institute for Biomedical Re—
search, Education and Research Foundation, even goes so
far as to assert that “the house of science” (as he calls
the laboratories) is already in order. At House hearings
March eighth, he pointed with pride to the status quo say-
ing, “for more than 14 years the Animal Care Panel has
been putting that house in order. Mr. Chairman, that house
is in order, and if there are those who would carp at that,
let them come forward at another time and place to vent
their concerns.”

Hoping to head off the growing demand for regulatory
legislation, the A.M.A. and other like-thinking groups have
organized the “AAALAC.” The AAALAC -—- American As-
sociation for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care —-
is the brain-child of the National Society for Medical Re-
search, the A.M.A., Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Associa—
tion, and thirteen others. This AAALAC will send members
of its Council on a “site visit” to a laboratory for a fee
of $100 to $1,000. If the laboratory is accredited as a
result of this “site visit,” the accreditation is valid for
five years,

What, exactly, would be accomplished by the “site visits”
and accreditation? A view from the inside will make this
clear; and I quote from the testimony of Dr. Samuel Pea-
cock, who was unable to be here today because he is so

greatly occupied with research and writing for a scientific
meeting: “I have always used animals in my research and
will continue to do so. I am a member of the American
Physiological Society and American Academy of Neuro-
logy.” Of the AAALAC he writes: “Self regulation through
the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care is a farce. For example, one of the facilities
with which I am a consultant research associate, was in-
spected by a committee representing this organization. Their
appointment was set up a week in advance. The animal
colony attendant worked overtime for days cleaning up the
colony, painting cages, etc.

No cats were ordered for the week so that the usual
overcrowding would be avoided. When the committee ar-
rived, they saw cats each in his own cage with food and
water. Had they arrived unannounced one week later, they
would have seen four or five cats in cages designed for
one cat, cages with dead cats among the living, neither food
nor water in the cages, and a crate of new cats for which
there was no room at all. Such a situation is not at all un-
usual. In short, the research community will not and cannot
regulate itself. If they could, the present conditions would
not exist. The animal quarters in research facilities I have
seen have been totally inadequate for the task expected of
them.” Clearly, the provision in pending legislation for
licensing research institutions and requiring humane stand-
ards of care and housing by them is essential,

Dr. Peacock’s estimate on mortality of animals received
from dealers agrees with that I reported1 from three other
scientific institutions (Brooklyn Jewish Hospital, Bionetics
Laboratory of Hazleton, and Downstate Medical Center of
New York State University). “In general,” he states, “we
usually find that 30 to 50 per cent of our animals will
die before they are used for research.”

Dr. Peacock sums up the situation concisely: “The animal
dealer for economic reasons and ignorance will not reform
his methods unless he is forced to do so. The research in-
stitutions and universities will not improve their facilities
unless forced to do so for basically the same reasons. As
long as the research worker has enough animals to do his
work, the present system, unless forced by public opinion
to change, will continue indefinitely, completely uncontrolled.”

“Enough” animals, of course, means quite different things
to different scientists. Ten thousand dogs a year may be
used up by the University of Minnesota, for example, and
every possible source, both in and out of the State, tapped
to give the dog to the researcher at the minimal charge
of $5.75.2 '

Opponents of the pending bills have asserted that if only
pound animals were available locally to scientific institu-
tions, there would be no dog dealers and, hence, no dog
thieves, However, this assertion is out of line with the
facts. For example, Minnesota3 has had a law for no less
than 17 years requiring every pound in the State to supply
animals to research, yet the dog dealing business in Minn-
esota is a thriving one, and the laboratories even import
dogs from out of State, including Wisconsin (which has a

1Hearings, Subcommittee on Livestock, House Agriculture
Committee, March 7, 1966.

2Figure given AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant in 1964.

3For other examples of failure to prevent dog dealers’ ac-
tivity in seven other of the eleven States that have
forced surrender laws, see p. 43, House hearings, Septem-
ber 2, 1965, entitled “Regulate the Transportation, Sale,
and Handling of Dogs and Cats Used for Research and
Experimentation.”

 

 

 




State law prohibiting the shipment of dogs and cats over
the State line for purposes of experimentation). So press-
ing is the demand for dogs in Minnesota and so interested
are the suppliers in being reimbursed for their efforts, that
dogs are apparently being reshunted through different lab-
oratories after their use.

Ralph Mayer, whose clear and accurate testimony before
the House Agriculture Committee March eighth I commend
to your attention, reports that he was assisting a surgeon
at an operation when they found a one-inch polyethylene
tube in the dog’s spleen. This dog and another in the same
group of stock dogs had incisions on their abdomens, in-
dicative of previous experimental use.

In his testimony, Mr. Mayer stated: “Before the arrival
of a member of any animal welfare organization, we are
all warned and briefed as to what to do and what to hide . . .
No pain relievers have ever been given to my knowledge to
any dog including the major surgery cases . . . Infections are
very frequent and often fatal. . . At the time I was work-
ing with the dogs as an animal caretaker, I actually got
in trouble with my foreman for spending too much time water-
ing them . . . I would not leave a room until I was sure every
one had as much as it could drink plus a full pan. . .
The floors of the cages are of a wire mesh . . . Very
frequently dogs have caught their toes in this mesh and
suffered considerably before they were noticed . . . There
have been times when it was necessary to anesthetize them
to remove the toes from the grid. I have seen a dog with
toes on each of three legs caught so that the dog was
completely immobilized.”

Checking with Mr. Mayer about any improvements this
well-financed government laboratory might have made since
the extreme negligence and callousness it has displayed
was brought out at public hearings, I learned that No
dogs were caught in the mesh on Sunday; and Thursday a
dog, which has been in the laboratory since 1962, was
found with a terrible infection in his foot. But instead of
changing the cage floors, they put the men who feed and
care for the animals to attaching screening (of the type
used for screen doors) onto the floors of the cages. This
is done with wire. Mr. Mayer is glad to make the effort
to spare the dogs the pain of caught toes which swell and
become infected. However, since the cages are hosed with
the dogs inside them, cleaning these makeshift floors is
far from satisfactory. Moreover, the screen, not designed
for such a purpose, is often torn by the dogs and sticks
up with sharp points, sometimes in the middle of a cage
so a dog cannot lie down without lying on the sharp
screening. Such is the cruel, penny-pinching practiced by
those who unblushingly ask the Congress to appropriate
millions of dollars for their use.

Photographs of a few of the 1,400 dogs currently caged
at a different institution, the University of Minnesota Med-
ical School, are herewith submitted. Dogs come out of
these cages alive for one purpose only: Experimentation.
Never are they removed for exercise, even thongh the cages
are too small for the larger dogs to stand or lie down in
normal comfort. The Minnesota fashion of hosing the cages
with the dogs inside is practiced here, too, with the
result that the dogs are often wet, Others testifying for
the Animal Welfare Institute will give examples of sim-
ilar mistreatment in other major laboratories throughout
the country.

I trust that the legislative history of the measures you
are considering here today will make it perfectly clear that
such care and housing could not be condoned once the

 

 

.r

bill you approve in this Committee becomes law. The
abuses in care, housing, and handling are various. Some are
peculiar to laboratories, others to the premises of dealers,
still others to conditions of transport. All, however, could
be corrected without delay were simple rules of animal hus—
bandry, including sufﬁcient food, water, space, air, warmth, and
a comfortable place to rest, required.

Breeders of laboratory animals, like the laboratories
themselves, wish to be exempt from the humane provisions
of the measure; and the National Society for Medical Re-
search wants them and the dealers in exotic species, in-
cluding primates, excluded from the bill. A look at the
Constitution and By Laws of the Laboratory Animal Breed-
ers Association, September 8, 1961, throws an interesting
light on a relationship between animal suppliers and the
personnel of scientific institutions which may account for
at least some of the extreme overcrowding of animals that
causes so much useless misery. Section D (4) states: “Bri-
bery to obtain business is forbidden.” No doubt those who
drew these by-laws were well acquainted with the need
for their provisions. Here, again, the rush to get “enough”
animals into the laboratory brings about abuses which
could be prevented by licensing and inspection of dealers
and laboratories.

Inspection by voluntary agencies is diﬂicult and often
impossible, and I would submit for the record notes on
some efforts to observe conditions in primate transport
and housing by dealers and laboratories. It is clear that
many of those concerned feel a strong compulsion to hide
the facts both from animal welfare workers and from the
public. In this area we move into big business and its
sometimes eccentric idea of public relations. For example,
last week Merck’s refused to permit a representative of

the Animal Welfare Institute to see the monkeys it was

bringing through the airport. Ten years ago, Parke-Davis
worked with us to make a major improvement in shipment
and reduction of mortality in their monkeys. Parke-Davis
and AWI personnel together made a surprise visit to the
airlines, bringing in a big load, and saw the extent of
sickness, death, overcrowding and mishandling. But with
every passing year, the laboratory interests, both com-
mercial and non-profit, receive increasing numbers of mil-
lions of dollars and their arrogance seems to increase cor-
respondingly. They want no objective, disinterested third
party to observe their care and handling of animals or to
enforce decent standards where these are lacking. A sound
federal law such as you are here considering today is es-
sential.

There is no other way to stop the enormous extent
of needless suffering now being inflicted on experi-
mental animals entirely apart from experimental pro-
cedures themselves. By providing the Secretary of Agri-
culture with the authority to enforce minimum standards
of care, housing and handling for experimental animals be-
fore they reach the laboratory and while they are there
(always excluding the experimental procedures) the Con-
gress would provide a means to change cruel practices as
rapidly and effectively ds it did when it passed the
humane slaughter bill, a humane law which has been ef-
fectively administered by the Department of Agriculture.
Legislation embodying the basic principles of S. 1071 will
be needed to regulate experimentation, but that is not an
issue here today. It is entirely appropriate that inspectors
for the Department of Agriculture should enforce a law
dealing with the care, housing and handling of animals
and with the identification of dogs and cats to prevent
theft of pets. Indeed, no other agency of government is
so well qualified for this task.

 

’ T-”

 

 




 

 

 

 

As testimony from those who have had their pets stolen
shows, present laws are hopelessly inadequate to deal
with this problem. No expenditure of time and money is
adequate to locate a dog once he has been taken. Even
when a man is known as a thief, efforts by local police
and detective agencies to convict him are rare because
animals cannot speak, and it is not necessary to break
into a house to steal them. After months of intensive
effort, Vermont law enforcement oﬂicers apprehended cat
thieves; and a Missouri dog thief was recently fined, but
even his whereabouts are now a complete mystery. These
thieves are unlikely to be the big dealers who cross
State lines with their double-deck truckloads of dogs. For
example, Mike Kredowski, who boasted at House hear-
ings, March eighth, that he sold 60,000 dogs to laboratories
last year, is not the one to steal a dog. It is essential
that small as well as big dealers be licensed and inspected
if theft is to be stopped and that big dealers be required
to give a full accounting of the source of the animal.
'Merely to license interstate dealers in dogs and cats cannot
stop the theft, to say nothing of the cruelty.

The breeding of dogs and cats for research is being
carried out successfully on a small scale. Using impounded
animals for non-survival experiments under full anesthesia
and breeding them for chronic studies is by far the best
solution both scientifically speaking and from the stand-
point of animals and animal owners.

These bills would encourage solutions of this type to

the procurement problem. They would raise standards
throughout the animal experimentation industry, improv-
ing research as they cut down on unnecessary suffering.
We have heard no reasonable arguments against this
moderate and desperately needed legislation, and we
earnestly request that you give a favorable report to a
strong, effective bill.

Comments

For the second time since the founding of the Animal
Welfare Institute in 1951, an attack aimed at discredit-
ing the Institute’s work has been launched because the
Institute has always favored the most humane means
of supplying dOgs and cats for research; namely, the
breeding of animals for chronic work which may in-
volve pain and which necessarily involves a proper know-
ledge of the animals’ background, and the provision of
animals about to be destroyed by local authorities for
experiments which cause no pain at all because they
are carried out under full anesthesia from which the
animal is never allowed to recover consciousness. This
system would completely avoid all of the ghastly cruelty
in the dog and cat dealer rackets which have been
so fully documented in recent months. It would eliminate
the shipment of frightened animals over long distances
so that laboratories can avoid visits by local people
who have lost their pets. It would prevent all pain in-
fliction on any animal that had ever been a pet. It
would reduce the number of animals used for pain-
ful experiments.

With these clear humane advantages and the attendant
scientific advantages in improving accuracy of research
and reducing overall costs, it might be thought there

would be support from both scientists and humanitarians.
Extremists on both sides, however, use this rational solution
to make trouble for the Animal Welfare Institute.

The first such occurrence was in 1952 when the Na-
tional Society for Medical Research sent out a letter
to all humane societies stating that the AWI was prepar-
ed to get animals for laboratories out of pounds. and
shelters. The letter carefully avoided any mention of
the crux of the matter: that the animals could be
used only for painless experimentation. The NSMR
clearly hoped to cause division in the ranks of sincere
humanitarians by the attempted smear of the AWI.

Again, in 1966, the National Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare has sent out a letter headed in capital
letters, "Warning to humane societies.” Again, the let-
ter emphasizes the release of animals for laboratories
from pounds and shelters, and again it fails to mention the
key point: for painless research only, though a series of ex-
cerpts from my testimony was attached in which I said
repeatedly, "if the laboratories were carefully regulated
so there would be no question but what the animals
were actually anesthetized, used, and never allowed to
recover from anesthesia.” A second letter to NCSAW
“members and friends” deliberately suppresses this es-
sential qualification.

AWI policy over the years has been emphasized in
the Information Reports which are regularly sent to
every humane society in the United States and every
member of the Federation of Societies for Experimental
Biology. To give a few examples, Vol. 1, No. 2, Feb.
ruary-March, 1952, stated: " . . . the agreement provides
that stray dogs at the pound (operated by the city
[Vancouver], not SPCA), if unclaimed at the end of
the holding period and therefore scheduled to be destroy-
ed, may be available to authorized medical institutions
provided that they are used only for those experiments
in which they are first placed under full anesthesia,
never permitted to recover consciousness, but pass direct-
ly into death. The agreement provides for inspection
by the SPCA at any time, unannounced without appoint-
ment. It has also resulted in the University’s medical
curriculum providing a regular place for lectures to med-
idal students by the SPCA on humane treatment of
animals. The whole agreement is cooperative, and no
force is involved.”

Information Report Vol. 3, No. 1, January-February,
1954 (excerpt from my testimony on proposal to supply
dogs to laboratories from the District of Columbia
pound): " . . {the use of impounded animals should
be limited to non~survival experiments, in which the
animal is first fully anesthetized and is killed without
recovering consciousness. In this way, public confidence
in the pound can be maintained, for no impounded animal
will be subjected to suffering. It would mean, in ef-

 




 

 

 

 

 

feet, that a humane death would be administered in a
laboratory rather than in the pound.”

Information Report Vol. 5, No. 3, May-June, 1956:
“Animal seizure legislation seeks to compel humane socie-
ty animal shelters to turn over dogs and cats for ex-
periments of any type which a laboratory may see fit
to perform, regardless of the degree or duration of pain
which may be inflicted. Humane society shelters were
founded to protect lost and homeless animals from suf-
fering. The most improper and immoral thing they
could do with these animals would be to release them
unconditionally to the only places in the United States
which are outside the jurisdiction of the anti-cruelty
laws: experimental laboratories.” '

Information Report Vol. 8, No. 2, May-June, 1959:
"The best solution to the procurement problem known
to the Institute is to provide animals for non-survival
experiments under full anesthesia from public sources
wherever such animals are needed, and to breed animals
for chronic experiments. But this solution is opposed
so strongly, not only by anti-vivisectionists but by the
National Society for Medical Research, that it has had
very limited use to date."

The policy expressed in the above quotations is and
has been for the past fifteen years the stated position
of the Animal Welfare Institute. The question arises
now, why is there a deliberate attempt to create hysteria
concerning this long-held view?

Why did the Humane Society of the United States
make a special effort to include a hostile article on it
in their bulletin just before it went to press?

Why did the NSMR think it worthwhile to circulate
the same idea at an earlier stage in the fifteen-year-long
struggle of the Animal Welfare Institute to obtain
decent treatment for experimental animals?

The basic answer lies in the seemingly unending dis-
pute between anti-vivisectionists and their opposite num-
bers in the scientific community who prefer dogma to
reason and misrepresentation to fact. When the Sat-
urday Evening Port quoted the chief founder of the
HSUS as saying that every member of the board was
an anti-vivisectionist, the full meaning of the quotation
was probably not apparent to the editors. They used
the quotation simply as a weapon to discredit in a blanket
manner an article by Cleveland Amory (a non-anti-
vivisectionist director of the HSUS) which reported, for
the most part accurately, on abuses in laboratories. What
they failed to realize was the fund-raising potential in-
volved in the statement. According to a release by one
of the founders of the HSUS, about half a million dol-
lars was obtained from three trusting elderly anti-vivi-
sectionists on the basis that the HSUS was really an anti-
vivisection society.

Humane Society of the United States Sued ‘
by Members ' '

At the moment the HSUS is being sued by a group
of its members whose petition for reforming the Society
through a by-law change was ignored by the directors
until legal action became imminent. The interest of the
HSUS Treasurer in funds his company reportedly receives
from the National Institutes of Health for animal ex-
perimentation has raised questions by HSUS members con-
cerning the policies adopted by the board on legislation
relating to laboratory animals.

The suit charges:
"6. The by-laws contain no ethical standards pro-
hibiting possession by directors, ofﬁcers or employees
of interests in conflict with the purpose of the
Society resulting from investment, proprietary in-
terest, employment or engagement in animal re-
search activities. Upon information and belief plain-
tiff alleges that conflicts of interest of such type
exist within such categories of the Society.”
It is further charged that:

"directors, ofﬁcers and employees of the Society plan
and intend to use the membership list, facilities,
funds and credit of the Society for the publica-
tion and distribution to the members of the Society
of propaganda adverse to and in disparagement of
the merits of the proposed amendments and the
proponents thereof, and are now engaged in such
propagandizing activity. Plaintiff says that such ac-
tivities and purpose serve the personal motive and
interests of those participating therein, and is in
violation of their fiduciary duty of impartiality and
abstention from service of their personal interests
in their relations with the Society and its members.”

The funds referred to reportedly amount to nearly one
million dollars.

The outcome of this suit will be of interest to those
who have watched the Humane Society of the United
States 1) Abandoning the strong H. R. 3036, probably
the most demanding laboratory animal legislation ever
introduced in Congress, 2) Endorsing the compromise
Rogers-McIntyre bill, 3) Opposing the Monroney amend-
ment to require humane treatment of animals in lab-
oratories, 4) Claiming that the humane treatment of
animals in laboratories should be under the jurisdiction
of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee where
strong bills for protection of laboratory animals have been
pending without action for six years.

Legislation for Animal Welfare, Inc., a newly reg-
istered lobby employing a well-known Washington law-
yer, Rein Vander Zee, as lobbyist, has been taking the
same position as HSUS on recent laboratory animal leg-
islation. According to. Mr. Vander Zee, this group is
supported by the HSUS and other sources he declines
to name.

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if

“a “2.. ,

  




. ‘ =‘.-r,\m"...tr;‘~'~b‘ "Q
- . .~ ’u’n‘l‘Vl

UNDER TWO FLAGS

Copyright © |i97| Chicago Sun-Times. reproduced by courtesy of
WiI-Jo Associates. Inc. and Bill Mauldin.

MORATORIUM ON WHALING
From The Congressional Record
HON. JOHN D. DINGELL
of Michigan
In The House of Representatives
Tuesday, December 14, 1971

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, Secretary of Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton, in a statement released by his
office on December 12, 1971, called for a moratorium
on whaling.

So that my colleagues will have an opportunity to
be aware'of the Secretary’s views on this matter, I
insert the text of the statement at this point in the
Congressional Record:

Secretary Morton Calls for Moratorium
on Whaling
“We must accelerate the worldwide fight to pre-
serve the great whales,” Secretary of the Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton said today while commenting on
the fact that after 200 years the United States has
now stopped all commercial exploitation of whales.

The Department of the Interior’s ban on the im-
portation of vhale products, including oil, meat, teeth
and ambergris, went into final effect last week. Even
the import of foreign cars containing whale oil additive
in their transmissions will be affected. In line with In-
terior’s stand, the Department of Commerce will issue
no licenses after December 31 to US. commercial fish-
ermen to take whales on the Endangered Species list.

“The whales are an international resource belonging
to the many and must not be exterminated for the
few,” he said. “This Administration, acting on prin-
ciple and despite the unfortunate economic hardship it“
has brought to some firms, has set an example that
hopefully other nations will follow.”

“We have done everything we can unilaterally. We
must now concentrate our efforts on getting the Inter—
national Whaling Commission to enforce their own
regulations and to set realistic catch quotas by indi-
vidual species and area in order to allow a maximum
rebuilding of all whale populations.”

At its annual meeting last June, the Commission had
agreed unanimously that all member nations should
implement the international observer scheme for the
1971-72 whaling season. “I was keenly disappointed
that the Sogiet and Japanese whaling fleets sailed for

CIAkLJ'uo SUﬂ-TtMlS

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTL

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

the Antarctic in October with no international observers
on boarc,” Morton said. “It is clear that time is run-
ning out for the whales.”

“If the Commission cannot move quickly and surely
to meet its international obligations, a moratorium on
all whaling is the only solution. Both houses of Con-
gress have passed a resolution calling for a 10-year
moratorium and we support it,” Morton said.

“As long as man views these magnificent creatures
as solely an economic product, we are in grave danger
of destroying the complex web of life of which man is
an inextricable part.”

“In this environmental decade, it would be barbarous
to stand idly by while the last of earth’s largest and—-
next to man—most intelligent creatures are reduced to
pet food, face creams and lubricating oils,” said Morton.
“All whale products have synthetic substitutes and are
no longer essential to man’s well-being. Yet the rate
of killing in recent years has already driven some spe-

c1es to the brink of extinction and now threatens those
few remaining species whose populations are still large
enough to be commercially exploitable.”

It was in an effort to halt this slaughter that Interior
last December placed all eight species of great whales
on its list of endangered foreign wildlife. This move
cut off a US. market which had consumed more than
20 percent of the world’s whale products.

However, a “hardship clause” in the Endangered
Species Conservation Act of 1969 allowed 12 months
in which firms that import and use such products could
fulfill existing contracts. All special , 'ermits issued for
this purpose during the past year y,’Interior’s Fish
and Wildlife Service expired on midnight of December
1,1971. The last import permits for whale oil was is-
sued in August and the last for meat products in De-
cember 1970.

In September this year the Fish and Wildlife Service
denied a request by a major importer for an additional
3,000 long tons of sperm whale oil. Officials said they
felt that granting such a request, well above the firm’s
previous importation levels, could only result in more
endangered whales being killed.

“Another valid reason to stop whaling,” Morton said,
“is the recent discovery by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration of excess mercury in whale meat.” More
than a million pounds of contaminated meat destined
for pet food have been seized.

Morton concluded, “Now that the US. no longer
has any commercial interest in whales, either as bar-
vester or as consumer, we are in a position to provide
leadership in the worldwide drive to preserve the whale
as a vital part of the marine ecosystem.”

Jan.-Feb.-March, 1971

AWI URGES MORATORIUM ON
KILLING OF WHALES

A Moratorium on the killing of whales has been pro-
posed by the Animal Welfare Institute, the Interna-
tional Society for the Protection of Animals, and the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. A rest period
of at least ten years is needed to save the great
whales. Whaling ships are catching more small whales
now because of the scarcity of the large ones; how—
ever, when large ones can be had, they, too, are killed,
even in some instances members of species which are
theoretically protected by agreement of the Interna-
tional \Vhaling Commission.

This June the International \Vhaling Commission
is scheduled to meet in \\'ashington, DC. The Com-
mission was formed in 1937 and sets quotas on the
killing of whales each year: however, the scientific
committee's recommendations are regularly exceeded
when the members of the Commission vote behind
closed doors. The result is the steady decline of the
whales, with disastrous losses in the population of
many specie:

 




 

Two major whale-protective actions have been taken
by the United States government in recent months:
first, the inclusion of the sperm and baleen whales on
the Endangered Species List by then Secretary of
the Interior, Walter Hickel; second, an order by See-
retary of Commerce, Maurice Stans which effectively
ends whaling by United States concerns. The Stans
order carried out the intent of the Hickel listing. In
issuing the order Secretary Stans said, “In the past,
thoughtlessness and irresponsibility have removed no
fewer than 120 different species of wild life from our
planet.” The United States is now in the strongest
possible position to urge the needed moratorium on

the killing of whales, since it has done its utmost with-
in the past year to provide the protection which is
essential if all species of whales are to survive.
Studies of these highly intelligent and remarkably
gentle animals should be instituted during the mora—
torium. There are vast differences between the dif-
ferent species. For example, While the Humpback
Whale produces music which sounds like that of a
gifted modern composer, there are other whales whose
communication is carried on in a series of clicks, so
far not decoded by human observers. Funds are need-
ed to record the sounds of the Bowhead Whale. The
audience created by the recording of the Humpback
Whales’ extraordinary songs—songs sung without vocal

cords—awaits the next scientifically recorded mes-
sage from the deep.

Species listed in the Survival Service Commission
Red Data Book of the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature include: Fin \Vhale, Balae-
noptera physalus (Linnaeus, 1758‘); Southern Right
Whale, Eubalaena australia (Desmoulins, 1822);
Humpback Whale, Megaptera novaeangliae (Boro—
wski, 1781); North Pacific Right \Vhale, Eubalaena
sieboldii (Gray, 1864); Pigmy Blue \Vhale, Balae—
noptera musculus brevicauda (Zemsky & Boronin,
1964); Greenland Right Whale, Balaena mysticetus
(Linnaeus, 1758); Blue Whale, Balaenoptera muscu-
lus musculus (Linnaeus, 1758). Secretary Hickel ex-
plained clearly why he placed on the Endangered Spe—
cies List, whales which do not appear in the Red Data
Book. In an article in Sports Illustrated, December
14, 1970, he said, “. . . in view of the existing evi—
dence on the status of whales, I made this decision
for the following reasons. First, it appeared that the
whaling nations still viewed whale resources on a
short—term basis. Many scientists have told me that
if present trends continue, all large whales will be

driven to the point of possible extinction within a few

years . . . during the peak year of 1930—31 whalers
took almost 30,000 blue Whales—the mightiest cre—
ature ever to live on the face of the earth. Today some

estimates of the number surviving are as low as 600,
the highest 3,000. They have been protected since
1965, but the question is: Are there enough animals
left for males to find females across the great oceans?
The numbers are so low that the death rate from
natural 'causes and from occasional ‘accidental’ har-
pooning may be much greater than the birth rate. It
would be a crime beyond belief if in the same decade
that we walked on the moon we also destroyed the
largest animal that ever was. The humpback whale,
a playful monster renowned for its unearthly songs
and foam-spattering leaps, has also been reduced to
the point of possible extinction. The bowhead and
two right whale species, almost exterminated by early

 

‘9 ‘

hunters, have never really recovered. Only the Cali-
fornla gray whale, after decades of complete protec-
tion, has made a partial recovery.

“Now the 80-foot finback is being pursued down
the same'path. From a peak Antarctic harvest of over
30,000 in the early 60’s these waters now yield only
some 2,500 whales a year. Just a few years ago an
annual harvest of 10,000 fins could have been carried
out indefinitely, but the ‘pattern of predation,’ as Scott
McVay, Chairman of the Environmental Defense '
Fund, calls it; *c'Ontinues. With the fins on the way
out, the whalers are now concentrating on the smaller
sei and sperm whales. As they go down the line,
they must kill more whales, and even porpoises, to
make the business barely pay. In 1930-31 some 43,000
whales yielded 3.5 million barrels of oil. In 1966—67,
52,000 whales yielded a mere 1.5 million barrels.

“But consider that the International Whaling Com-
mision’s present kill quotas for baleen whales in the
Antarctic are 20% higher than those recommended
by its own scientific committee and that the male
sperm-whale catch in the North Pacific is a shocking
2%. times the sustainable yield estimated by Japanese
scientists. The IWC agreed to reduce its sperm Whale
quota by a meager 10%, but the whaling nations still
refuse to allow international observers to supervise
the regulations on quotas, size and species. On this

basis cetologists contend that these species will be
commercrally extinct within 10 years.

“The second reason I took this action was that all
whale products, with the exception of the meat, can
be produced by other means. After we killed 'off the
buffalo we found replacements for its meat’and hide.
Must we kill off the great whales before we use the
replacements for its products? Soap, margarine, beauty
cream, machine oil and pet food are hardly a justi—
hahle reason to destroy the world’s mightiest creature.
Substitutes can he used for all of these products——
even the sperm oil so prized in industry. . . .

“.\*Ielville would be surprised to learn whaling
reached its height in the last decade. The lookouts
have been replaced with radar and helicopters, the
longboats with 20—knot whale catchers. A factory ship
can dispose of an 80-ton carcass in 30 minutes. No

animal can endure such a massive technological on—
slaught.”

 

Jam-F eb.-March, 1972

WHALE OIL SUBSTITUTE

Senator Hugh Scott (R., Penna.) author of the
Resolution requesting The Secretary of State to call
for a ten-year international moratorium on the killing
of all species of whales and dolphins, spoke on the
floor of the Senate, March eighth on the invention of a
whale oil substitute by a young chemist, Alex D. Rec—
chuite at Sun Oil Company’s Research Center.

“I cite this incident,” Senator Scott said, “as an ex-
ample of what industry can accomplish when presented
with challenges of all kinds, be they environmental,
consumeristic, or other. This is how one company met

its responsibility to the environment and to its cus-
tomers.”

(Continued on page 3)

 

SQOOO

[\v\—/ﬁ

 

 

M
:3
’ “

I‘ve-1 FlNBACK \ ilsek

 

/ l

 

 

NO. or WHALES KILLED

 

l 1930 1940
-____l A

WORLD CATCH

    

d’
1950

‘.
’4’
.a”
0‘

 

OF BALAENOPTERA WHALES

 

 

 




In an article from The Sun Oil magazine entitled,
“Giving the Whale a Fighting Chance,” Bud Davis
describes what happened. “At the time the ban on
whale imports was announced, sulfurized natural sperm
oil was the only known substance which could give
these oils the required resistance to high temperatures
and pressures. Without it, a sizeable amount of ma-
chinery in the U.S. might literally grind to a halt-

“In anticipation of the ban, many researchers began
looking for a sulfurized sperm oil substitute. One such
selentlst was Alex D. Recchuite, a young chemist at

Sun Oil Company’s research center in Marcus Hook,
Pennsylvania.

“Late in September 1970, Mr. Recchuite discovered
how to make a. synthetic sulfurized sperm oil. ‘Sun
sells more than 50 products containing sulfurized sperm
oil —— mainly industrial lubricants —— and we knew an
embargo could be instituted at any time,’ he explained.

‘So our gear oil lubricants group started looking for
a substitute early in 1970.’

April-May-June. 1972

STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE VOTES 53-0
FOR IO-YEAR MORATORIUM
ON WHALING

A special report to The Washington Post with a
date—line Stockholm, June 9, begins: “The US. dele-
gation to the llZ—nation environment conference here
won a victory today for their proposed 10-year world-
wide moratorium on commercial whaling.

“The Ammican proposal—considered by many skep-
tics as a test of Whether anything could really be ac-
complished at this international meeting was approved
by a vote of 53 to 0, with only Japan, Brazil and South
Africa. abstaining. '

An article by Walter Sullivan in The New York
Times the day before reported on a rally held June 8:

“The crusade for a resolution drew an oddly assorted.
group of environmental protectors out into the Swedish

“ ‘I ot involved in the ro'ect in a roundabout wa . , . .
g p J y countrys1de last nlght to hear the lugubrious cry of

The gear oil group was testing everything on the mar-

ket —— unsulfurized‘ as. well as sulfurized sperm oil
substitutes. I was in the research center’s metal work—
ing group at the time, but the men in gear oils asked

us to help out because we had more experience with
sulfurization.’

“At first, all Mr. Recchuite did was sulfurize the
straight sperm oil substitutes that were brought to him.
But each time, he became more involved in the pro-
ject. ‘A few of the substitutes seemed to have the right
properties,’ he noted, ‘but they were very costly. Others
were easily sulfurized, but would not dissolve in the

base oil. Still others were very difficult to sulfurize at
all.’

“Then one day Mr. Recchuite came up with what
he calls a ‘harebrained idea’for a synthetic product
that would be inexpensive, easily sulfurized, and sol-
uble in a variety of base oils. With the help of his co.-
worker, Edward Jolly, he made some of the product
and took it to the gear oils laboratory for testing. ‘To
our surprise it worked just fine.’ He recalled as though
he was still surprised. ‘So we applied for a patent.’

“The process was licensed to Mayco Oil and Chemi-
cal Company of Bristol, Pennsylvania, a firm with ex-

tensive experience in sulfurization and the ability to
get the discovery into commercial production quickly.

“It is now being marketed by Sun and many other
firms under the trade name Maysperm.”

whales across the pine-studded landscape.

“The group included United States Government rep-
resentatives, and their host was the Hog Farm .Com-
mune from New Mexico. '

“The common objective is approval of a proposal,
placed before the United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment on American initiative to ap-
peal for a 10-year moratorium on commercial whaling.

“If the resolution is passed, the International'Whal-
ing Commission, which meets in London late this
month, will find it hard to ignore.

“The commission is composed of 14 nations that have
been active in whaling. Because of the decline in whale
populations, only Japan and the Soviet Union now con?
duct large-scale hunting.

“The whale cries were generated, both from tape
recordings and by human imitation, at a demonstratiOn
last night that brought conference officials and dele-
gates to the, Hog Farm Commune’s encampment on
the city’s outskirts. The Hog Farm is a traveling group
of American youths who live in buses.

“Maurice F. Strong, the dapper Canadian who is
secretary general of the United Nations conference,
mounted the rough—hewn platform and made his way
through garishly clad youths to a microphone that
moaned in the brisk wind.

“The plight of the whale, faced with extinction, an-
ticipates that of man himself, Mr. Strong said. .The
long-range purpose of the conference, he added, IS to
enable man to avoid such a fate, and he urged the
youths to continue goading the conscience of the world’s
governments. .

“Mr. Strong’s remarks reached across the generation
gap and his audience rich in beards, long hair and blue- ‘
jeans, gave him an ovation. After the reading of a poem,
part of which was ostensibly written by a _wl1‘a:l_ew,g_wrtl}

\\_L
y .

A bus decorated to look like a whale led a group of about 2,000 persons in a
demonstration supporting the 10-year whaling maratorizmt.

 




prolonged moans and groans, Walter J. Hickel, former
United States Secretary of the Interior, climbed onto
the floodlit platform. .

“He was introduced by Stuart Brand, wearing a
plumed top hat. Mr. Brand was author of “The Last
Whole Earth Catalogue,” which won a National Book
Award this year. Mr. Hickel said it Would be ‘a crime
beyond belief if in the same 'decade that man walked
on the moon he also destroyed the largest creature on
earth.’

“Today one of the Hog Farm buses, draped in black
plastic of the refuse-bag variety to resemble a whale,
led a parade through Stockholm, followed by youths
carrying flowers and either making whale noises or
crying ‘Val! Val!’ the Swedish word for whale and
the ancient cry'of Norwegian whalers.

“While the Soviet Union has boycotted the confer-
ence in protest at East Germany’s exclusion as a vot-
ing participant, Japan is here and fighting the ban.
A Japanese amendment to the recommendation would
limit the prohibition to ‘endangered whale stocks.’

“This, in the American view, would open a loophole
large enough to make the resolution valueless.”

Fortunately, the Japanese failed to influence the Con-
ference. According to The I/Vashington Post the cause
of the Whales “has won enormous and extremely emo-
tional international support, and this expression of so
firm an opinion by so nearly global a body has come
only a few days before the International Whaling Com—

mission is to meet in London.”

 

July, August, September, 1972

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL

WHALING COMMISSION MEETING
by Tom Garrett
\Vildlife Conservation Director of
Friends of the Earth

On June 26, only two weeks after the passage of the
U.S. resolution at Stockholm calling for a ten year
moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, the
International Whaling Commission convened its 24th
annual meeting in London. I attended the conference
as an “advisor” to the U.S. delegation, and was able
to observe, and in an extremely minor way participate
in, the conference.

The delegates, for the most part the same men who
have attended IWC meetings for years and compiled
the shameful, tragic record of the IWC, shrugged off
the results of Stockholm and conducted business as
usual. Two long-delayed reforms, the replacement of
the Blue Whale Units by species quotas, and an “in-
ternational observer” scheme were put into effect. Un-
der the constant prodding of U.S. Chairman Russell
Train, some small reductions in some quotas were
agreed upon. But of the fourteen nations attending,
only the U.S., Mexico, Argentina and the United King-
dom supported a moratorium on whaling. Australia
and Norway, whose governments voted for the whaling
resolution at Stockholm, opposed .it in London.

The first act of the Commission in its opening plen-
ary session, after the delegates had run the gauntlet of
Friends of the Earth (FOE) pickets, led by Angela
King of FOE Ltd’s London office, was to eject the
press. A U.S. resolution to re-admit newsmen failed
to receive a second. Dr. J. M. McHugh of the U.S. the
chairman of the IWC, then dutifully warned delegates
and observers not to divulge the proceedings to the
press or public. .

The proceedings, within technical committee ses-

 

sions and later plenary sessions, then fell into a pat-
tern. The ]apanese delegation, consisting of the owners
of the major Japanese whaling companies and led by
former IWC chairman and President of the Japan
Whalers Association, I. Fujita, vehemently opposed
any attempt to reduce quotas. He was supported closely
by the Soviet Union, by the delegate from Panama who
showed startling enthusiasm for the Japanese cause,
and by South Africa, Australia, Norway and generally
Iceland. The Canadian delegate, Dr. Sprules, who had
been expected to support the U.S. position on the basis

of his government’s expressed policy, sat with an
owner of a Canadian shore whaling station on his
right, wavering nervously, and often, in effect, sup-
porting the Japanese. Only in the case of Finback
whales, was Chairman Train able to lever down the
low Japanese-Russian offer, from a kill of 700 in the
North Pacific to 650, from a kill of 2000 in the Antarc-
tic to 1950. Both populations of whales are now tragic-

      

ally close to complete disappearance. Last' year the
Russians and Japanese were not able to find and kill
enough fin whales in the North Pacific to fill a quota
of 1000, and wound up with a “take” of 813. In the
Antarctic, the “sustainable yield” is estimated at around
2000. For a decade, between 1952 and 1962, as the
industry (under the aegis of the IWC) turned on the
Finback in the Antarctic following the destruction of
the Blue Whale, over 20,000 Finbacks were killed an-
nually. In 1960-61, over 27,000 were killed.

The quota of Sei, Sperm and Bryde whales remains

at the “low offer” of the Japanese and Russians, set
at maximum sustainable yield estimates made on the
basis of Japanese and Russian sightings and catch
data. Quotas were imposed on Sperm whale kills south
of 40°N. for the first time. A quota on Minke whales,
which are now beginning to be massively exploited
following the destruction of the large whales, was set
in the Antarctic at 5000. The Canadian Atlantic shore
stations, which it is now admitted, “mistakenly” deci-
mated the North Atlantic Finback population remains
without IWC quota or supervision.

The American delegation left the conference frus—
trated and disappointed at the intransigence of the
Japanese and the Russians, and at the weakness and
vacillation of delegations which, it had been hoped,
might take a stand for the whales. But there was some
encouragement over the limited reforms secured, and
over the shattering of pernicious traditions of the Com—
mission. Veteran delegates, who were used to operat—
ing the Commission as a closed, private club were dis-
mayed when Chairman Train held a news conference
mid-way through the Commission proceedings, and di-
vulged the votes of the commissioners on the U.S. pro-
posal for a moratorium. As a result several commis—
sioners, notably those 3f Norway and Canada were
strongly censured by their home governments. Public
interest representatives on the U.S. delegation were
also pleased at the prospect of a strong governmental
friend of whales succeeding Dr. J. M. McHugh, who
resigned at the close of the meeting, as U.S. commis-
sioner, and at the militantly protectionist attitude dem—
onstrated by Mexico, Argentina, and to some extent
the U.K. There was optimism that the U.S. by care-
fully preparing the groundwork, particularly by in-
ducing some of the non-whaling countries who voted
for the moratorium at Stockholm to join the Com-
mission and thus provide the votes to override Japanese
and Soviet intractability, and through fielding a less
mediocre panel of scientists, who are less willing to
extrapolate from Japanese and Russian data and who
have no record of collaboration with previous policies
of the IWC. There is considerable optimism that the
strong tide of worldwide public opinion may, by next
year, have affected the policies of more member gov-
ernments.

In the meantime the appalling massacre continues.
Quotas have been established for the killing of over
35,000 whales next year. There are fewer whales be-
ing killed primarily because there are fewer whales to
be killed. The men controlling the Japanese and Rus-
sian fleets do not seem to have retreated at all from
their determination to extract the maximum possible
profit from the now aging factory ships, even if it
means the extirpation, or “commercial extinction” of
the great whales. There will never be any shortage of
arithmetical jugglers to talk of “surplus” and “sustain-

. able yield,” and thus obscure the tragedy in a sickly

patina of “scientific” justification.

What happens now may be to a great extent de-
pendent on the actions of conservationists. Last sum~
mer FOE joined with the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation to force the ten year whaling mora-
torium resolution through Congress, in the face of hos-
tile government witnesse-s.. scornful whaling scientists
who said the resolution Would make the U.S. “look
silly,” and a stoney silence on the part of most estab-
lished conservation organizations. Now the seeking of
a moratorium is public U.S. policy, and the policy of
numerous other governments, who endorsed the reso-
lution at Stockholm. The United Kingtibm, under the
prodding of FOE Ltd., is expected 'to announce a ban
on the importation of whale products.

We will sit down, in the near future with other
strong conservation groups to work out an effective
common strategy to keep‘up the pressure on whaling
this coming year. An economic boycott has’been sug-
gested, and we certainly do not rule out this"tactic.

In an eloquent and scathing denunciation of the IWC,
Mexico’s commissioner told the London meeting that
Mexico does not accept the view that “in order to have
a meaningful voice” in determining the future of
whales, we must kill “what are probably the most

amazing of nature’s creatures, and kill them for profit.”
Neither does FOE!

    
 




January, February, March, 1973

April, May, June, 1973

 

NEWS IN BRIEF
ON MARINE MAMMALS

’ A partial ban on imports of whale products to the
United Kingdom went into effect March 15th when The
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food announced that,
with the exception of sperm oil, spermaceti wax, ambergris .
and products incorporated abroad into manufactured goods,
no whale parts or derivatives would be permitted entry.
Friends ' of the Earth, .Ltd. is working for a total ban.

* t 3'!
Canada’s Minister of the Environment, Jack Davis, an-

nounced the closing of Canadian whaling stations beginning
December 21, 1972. On March 16, he announced that no

Chairman Train with his daughter Alexandra after re-
ceiving the medal.

ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
PRESENTED TO RUSSELL TRAIN

Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality,
Russell Tram,” was the Schweitzer Medallist at a
ceremony held in the Smithsonian Institution’s Hall of
Life in the Sea November 21, 1972. Secretary of the
Smithsonian, Dillon Ripley, made the presentation.

Chairman -‘ Train played a leading role in obtaining
the 53-0 vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of
a ten-year international moratorium on commercial

permits would be issued for spOrt hunting of beluga whales.

tit

Shortly before the hearing scheduled in Washington on
the request by Bergner International Corporation for an
economic hardship exemption under the Marine Mammal
Protection Act to import approximately 10,000 sealskins
Bergner voluntarily withdrew its application. Blueback seals
the young of the rare hood seal which is normally defended

by both parents, were among those named in the application.

* * *
Australia has banned importation of whale products

from countries who do not belong to the International

killing of whales. At the International Whaling Com- Whaling Commission.

mission meeting which followed soon after in London,
he proposed that the press be admitted to the hitherto
secret sessions, but no country seconded his motion,
so, after the voting, Mr. Train called a press confer-
ence at the American Embassy and reported on how
the representatives of the different countries voted on
the US. proposal for a moratorium.

Before turning his efforts to whales Russell Train
brought help to the land animals in Africa through the
African W ildlife Leadership Foundation. Later, as
Chairman of CEQ, he and his associates played a major
part in bringing about that most humane Executive
Order, the barring of poison for predator control. on
the public lands. His achievements in the ﬁght against
ocean dumping and in the development of the World

July, August, September, 197 3

 

JAPANESE FIRM SELLING
CANNED WHALE MEAT

IN UNITED STATES

Not only is Japan continuing boldly in the face of
world opinion to kill thousands of the whales that have
Heritage Trust convention, will make it possible for been listed by the United States Department of the Interior
countless creatures to have a place where they can as endangered with extinction, but a Japanese Company, «
survive. the Diamary Trading Company, is reportedly the source of

the whale meat which was recently being offered for sale

illegally in New York.

Diamary sold smoked whale meat to an American outﬁt
known as “Reese Finer Foods,” a subsidiary of the com-
pany that produces Pet Milk. Macy’s Gourmet Foods Shop
was selling the illegal canned whale meat which has now
been conﬁscated by the Attorney General of New York
State, Louis J. Leﬂrowitz. Whale products may not be sold
or offered for sale in New York under the State’s law pro-
tecting endangered species of animals. Attorney General
Leﬂrowitz announced August 10, 1973 that his ofﬁce had
conﬁscated 17 cases of the Diamary Trading Company’s
whale meat. As the result of the investigation by Assistant
Attorney General Joel H. Sachs of the Environmental Pro- '
tection Bureau, a large supply of the illegal whale meat was

. located at the warehouse of Reese Finer Foods, Inc. at
1325 Morris Park Avenue in the Bronx.

Under the terms of an assurance of discontinuance
signed by Reese Finer Foods, the company admitted its
violation of law and agreed to forfeit its existing supplies
of whale meat to the State and to refrain from selling any
products in New York State made from any species of en-
dangered wildlife. In addition, Reese paid $800 in costs
to the State. Any evidence of further violation by Reese
will constitute prima facie proof of a violation of the laws
and will subject it to additional penalties.

The violation of New York State law points to possible
violation of at least one federal law. Federal investigation
is on the way. _

Readers of the Information Report are urged to keep a

sharp lookout for any whale products on the shelves of

grocery stores or supermarkets and to report immediately

any such products they may find. A sample of any product
suspected of being illegal should be purchased at once as
evidence. Please send the information to the Animal Wel-
fare lnstitute at the address on the masthead.

*Now Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 

WHALE TEETH SMUGGLER FINED

Reprinted from “The Province” Vancouver, Canada

January 12,‘ 1973
Special to The Province

SEATTLE — Donald Gordon Cochrane, 27, of Van-
couver was fined $500 and ordered out of the' United
States Friday after he pleaded guilty in US. District
Court to illegally transporting 168 pounds of whale
teeth into the US. .

Cochrane was arrested Dec. 21 after US. custom
agents found two bags of the teeth, one under the seat

and one under the hood of Cochrane’s car, said Douglas
Graham, assistant US. attorney.

The teeth were from a sperm whale, which the US.
has declared an endangered species. This makes killing
the whales and transportation of any parts of such
whales illegal.

Graham said the teeth had not been declared to
customs by Cochrane. .

District Court Judge William J. Beeks at ﬁrst sen-
tenced Cochrane to be deported, but later modiﬁed it
to an order to leave the country, said Graham.

Maximum penalty under the law which Cochrane was
charged under is one year in prison and a $10,000
fine. It is a misdemeanor rather than the more serious
classiﬁcation of felony. Aliens convicted of felonies are
barred from future entry into the U.S., said Graham.

Cochrane, unable to raise bail set ﬁrst at $5,000 and
then reduced to $1,500, had been held in custody in
Seattle since shortly after the incident.

Graham said court was told Cochrane had been ap-
proached by a person in Vancouver to take the teeth
to Blaine and at ﬁrst had refused. He later agreed to
make the trip to Blaine where he was to have met a
man, turn over the teeth and receive $200, Graham

said.

 




f:

- Emwluy b
. ,t-‘curLHumr

jor
Wight;

, . I . 1' l
a I ' 3}

CON SERV ATIONISTS CALL FOR
WHALING MORATORIUM

Boycott of Japan proposed

Dear Prime Minister Tanaka,

Don’t let the greedy whaling industry ruin Japan’s inter-

national reputation. Lead your country to join the over-

whelming majority of world Opinion for a ten-year mora-

torium on commercial killing of whales.

Defenders of Wildlife The Fund for Animals
Friends of the Earth

Humane Society of the United States
Society for Animal Protective Legislation

These words on a six-foot-long sign were part ofa demon-

stration held on the occasion of the Japanese Prime Minis-
ter’s State Visit, July 31 , 1973. Gathered in Lafayette Park
opposite the White House, where the Prime Minister had
just been driven, was a crowd of whale protectors carrying a
variety of Save-The-Whale signs and accompanied by the
recorded songs of the humpback whale.

Cleveland Amory, President of The Fund for Animals,
addressed the gathering forcefully calling for a boycott of
Japanese goods till Japanese whaling stops. “We mean busi-
ness,” he said, “not Japanese business.”

Information on how to help the boycott is obtainable
from the Animal Welfare Institute. Free leaflets and re-
prints for distribution are available on request.

Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor @1973,
The Christian Science Publishing Society. All rights reserved.

FIGHT TO SAVE WHALES
INTEN SIFYING

The voice of the Japanese whaling industry was heard
loudly and persistently at the 1973 meeting of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission held in London June 25-29.
The lWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, the super-secret arm of an
organization which denies the press entry even to its plen-
ary sessions, is a center of disagreement about the state of
whale popu1ations. It is supposed to present “the best scien-
tiﬁc evidence” to the commissioners to help them in mak-
ing decisions, but as Sir Peter Scott pointed out, there are
differences of opinion up to 300% among the scientists
concerning the condition of whale stocks. Most serious are

the indications that expediency, not science, dictates cer-
tain statements expressed behind the closed doors by Japan-
ese scientists. A vote of 13 to 1 against Japan in the plenary
session when Japan sought to raise the Minke whale kill for
the ’73-’74 season, gave hope to conservationists that the
most blatant demands of the Japanese whaling industry,
under the leadership of Commissioner Fujita, erstwhile
vice-president of the commercial fisheries association in
Japan, are ﬁnally under ﬁre, even by the other nations
that still kill whales.

The attempted increase in the kill of the small Minke
whales represented an effort to ﬁll oil barrels and meat
lockers left empty by reduction in the killing of the big
ﬁn whales whose stocks, in turn, began to be massively de-
pleted after the blue whale, biggest of all the world’s ani-
mals, had been decimated by the whalers. When the blue
whale population fell from an estimated 200,000 to only
about 1,000 it was no longer of serious commercial interest
and it was at that point, and that point only, that the Inter-
national Whaling Commission listed it as a species not to be
killed by member nations.*

In an all-out effort to protect all Species of cetaceans, the
United States proposed in 1972 and again this June, a ten-
year international moratorium on commercial whaling. Last
year the proposed moratorium was defeated by a vote of
4-6 with 4 abstentions. This year it wOn a majority; 8-5
with one abstention, but a % majority under IWC rules is
required for a resolution to pass, thus it failed to be adopted.

The two major whaling countries, Japan and Russia, who
between them, kill some 85% of whales taken each year,
both threatened to disregard the majority decision even if
it had reached %. They continue to threaten to give up the
International Observer Scheme in the Antarctic which be-

gan only a year ago after having been unsuccessfully pro-
posed for 14 straight years. This scheme is designed to pre-
vent cheating by placing an observer from another country
on whaling ships and shore stations to check infractions.

The only voluntary concession by a major whaling coun-
try was the pledge of the Soviet Union to “phase out” kill-
ing of ﬁn whales in the Antarctic by the 1975-76 season.
It was this offer by the USSR. which made it possible
to pass,by a vote of 7-2 with 5 abstentions, a reduced quota
of 1,450 ﬁn whales in the Antarctic for the 1973 season,
with a complete phase-out within three years. The byzan-
tine relationships within the IWC are such that although
the U.S.S.R. volunteered the phase-out on ﬁn whales, it
voted “no” when the same proposal was made by the US
stating that Soviet approval applied only when attached to
a previous Norwegian proposal!

Dr. Robert White, U.S. Commissioner, argued forcefully
for the moratorium. He cited the vote in Geneva the week
before, pointing out that it was the follow-up of the Stock-
holm Conference and that the governing council of 58 na-
tions considered the moratorium prOposal and directed the
Executive Director again to urge the International Whaling
Commission to adopt a 10-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. Dr. White noted that Japan alone expressed reser-
vations; no other government among the remaining 57,
which includes the Soviet Union, expressed a reservation.

Dr. White, a scientist himself, spoke frankly about the
limitations of the scientiﬁc data available, characterizing
it as “highly uncertain and in many cases questionable.”
He pointed out that the views of the United States on the
moratorium were not capricious or hastily arrived at. He
asked unanswerable questions, for example, why have sei
whales off South Africa virtually disappeared? Is it because
the quotas are too high? Or is it because of what we do in
the Antarctic? Can the social structure of these animals

sustain catches based on maximum sustainable yield? Are
we justiﬁed in using the maximum sustainable yield concept
which has evolved from studies of ﬁsh?

Fujita speaks up for Whaling Industry

“What little scientiﬁc knowledge we have,” he warned,
“is cause for caution.” But Mr. Fujita complained that Dr.
White’s speech in defense of ﬁn whales “increases inter-
national tension,” and that he was exhausted by what he
called “dramatic, intense scenes.” He urged that “the indus-
try and their interests should also be taken into considera-
tion, or I should say, their interests should- not be disre-
garded” a suitable quotation for The New Yorker’s Depart-
ment of Understatement. The International Whaling Com-

*Non-member whaling nations such as Brazil and Peru whose whal-
ing industries are closely integrated with Japan’s, can still kill blue
whales if they can ﬁnd any to blast with explosive harpoons sup-
plied along with catcher boats from Japan.

 




  
    

    

0 a

mission, after it had rejected the moratorium, approved in
vote after vote on different species in different parts of the
ocean, a kill of 37,500 individual whales in the coming
season.

At the conclusion of the International Whaling Commis-
sion meeting, representatives of observer organizations who
had attended the plenary sessions agreed thataboycott

of Japanese goods was essential if the continued decimation

of whale populations were to be prevented.

“Of all our fellow mammals, the most remote and the
most difﬁcult to understand is the great whale,” wrote
Faith McNulty in a New Yorker proﬁle on whales, August
6, 1973.*

But whales are constantly commanding more attention
and more sympathy with their plight. As Time magazine
(July 16, 1973) put it, “The great gentle creatures need it.
Of an estimated original population of some 4.4 million
whales, no more than a few hundred thousand are left.”
The Japanese last year killed 14,477 whales. “Once every
17 minutes,” Time wrote, “a great whale is killed, its back
blown open by a grenade-tipped harpoon, its blood spewing
into the ocean. The chief purpose: the manufacture of cos-
metics, margarine, transmission oil and pet food.”

Canada Urges Moratorium

The opening speech of the Canadian Commissionerwwas
personally composed by the Canadian Minister of the En-
vironment, Jack Davis. The statement follows in full.

“Since the meeting of the Commission a year ago, Canada
has stopped its commercial whaling operations in the North
Atlantic. Two small land stations at Dildo and Williams-
port in Newfoundland have been closed as has another sta-
tion at Blandford in Nova Scotia. As a result, Canada’s pro-
duction of ﬁn and sei whales has ceased. The total ban,
which became effective before the whaling season opened
in 1973, will extend for an indeﬁnite period.

“Whaling on Canada’s West Coast ceased in 1967. So,
the latest developments on Canada’s East Coast takes
Canada out of commercial whaling altogether. With the
exception of a few whales which are killed by our Eskimo
and Indian peOple for their own use, there is no whaling
anywhere in Canada at the present time. Nor, is there any
intention of starting up whaling operations again in the
foreseeable future.

“Canada’s decision to stop the taking of ﬁn and sei
whales off Nova Scotia and Newfoundland followed a close
analysis of whale population data and catch per unit of
effort information prepared by our scientists. The total
stock of ﬁn and sei whales had been reduced sharply as a
result of operations from the mid-1960’s onward. While
the industry, to remain ﬁnancially viable, required a catch
of the same order as that achieved in recent years, it was
estimated that the remaining stocks were only sufﬁcient
to support an operation of about one third that size.

“Had the Canadian industry been permitted in 1973 to
take the estimated sustainable yield of 143 ﬁn whales and
70 sei whales, the remaining stocks might have remained
at or about their present low level. However, uncertainty
as to the true size of the remaining stocks together with
information from the companies which indicated they were
already losing money led to a decision to close Canada’s
East Coast whaling operations altogether.

“Looking back over the past decade, it would appear
that the level of cropping of ﬁn and sei whales was too
high. It was much higher than the optimum sustainable
yield of whales of these types off Nova Scotia and New-
foundland. We have, therefore, decided to rebuild these
stocks to a point where there can be no doubt of their
survival now and in the long run.

“There has been some discussion, recently, of the kill-
ing of white or beluga whales for sport in Hudson’s Bay.
Our Minister of Fisheries, together with our Minister of
Indian and Northern Affairs, however, intervened and a
ban was instituted to ensure that a hunt of this kind
would not get under way in Canada.

“In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that the
Canadian Delegation hopes it will be able to make an effec-

*Due for publication in book form by Doubleday this faIL

  

 

tive contribution to the deliberations of this Commission.
While Canada is no longer engaged actively in commercial
whaling, it continues to be interested in whales. Our whale
research program will continue and we will maintain our
membership in the International Whaling Commission in
the belief that its future deliberations will help to rebuild
those whale stocks found off the coasts of Canada and oth-
ers found throughout the world’s oceans.”

 

October, November, December, 1973

U. S. GOVERNMENT,
CONSERVATION ORGANIZATIONS SCORE
JAPANESE AND RUSSIAN REPUDIATION
OF WHALE PROTECTION

The Government of the United States has responded vig-

orously to the Diplomatic Note from the Government of
Japan which objected to conservation decisions taken at the
International Whaling Commission meeting in June and
stated that it would not adhere to them. A cable signed by
Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, made a detailed re-
sponse and concluded with the following strongly-worded
paragraph: “Such wholesale disregard for views of all other
member nations with few exceptions leads to several ques-
tions. Why should there be a Commission if its decisions
can simply be ignored? Why should scientiﬁc committee
prepare recommendations? And why should twelve of four-
teen member nations push for improvements in Interna-
tional Whaling Commission if progress made can be destroy-
ed by one or two nations? United States Government is
extremely disappointed with backward step occasioned by
Japanese objections and is hopeful that Japanese Govern-
ment will reconsider its decisions in the next ninety days
and make its plans regarding strengthened Secretariat
known and thereby indicate its intention to make IWC a
viable conservation organization.”

Not long after the Japanese rejection of three whale-pro-
tective measures, the Soviet Union joined in rejecting two
of them with the result that more whales can be expected
to be blasted with the explosive harpoon this year than in
1972 despite the overwhelming international support for a
moratorium on commercial whaling (See Information Re-
port, Vol.22, No.3)

Joining the AWI in the boycott of Japanese and Russian
goods are Friends of the Earth, Defenders of Wildlife, En-
vironmental Policy Center, Fund for Animals, Animal Pro-
tection Institute, Let Live, Inc., Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation, and the National Wildlife Federation
whose three and one-half million members makes it the big-
gest private conservation organization in the world.

An editorial in The New York Times, November 26,
1973, stated in part:

“Japan would have the world believe that it must elim-
inate the whales of this planet to satisfy the protein needs
of its people. There is every reason for the world to believe,
instead, that Japan’s declared refusal to abide by the quotas
set by the International Whaling Commission last June has
much more to do with greed than with need.

“The ﬁn whale, the killing of which the commission voted
to phase out, is reported to have declined from 380,000 at
the end of World War II to some 77,000 today. Japan,
which belongs to the commission, objected to the phase-out
and has now served notice that it will not comply. . .

“If the singing humpback whale and the magniﬁcent blue
are not to be followed to the brink of extermination by
other whale species, Japan and Russia will have to be effec-
tively impressed with the fact that world opinion is against
them. It was not enough for them, apparently , that the
United Nations Conference on the Human Environment

went on record by an overwhelming vote of S3 to 0 for a
ten-year moratorium on the killing of all whales.

 




January, February, March, 1974

AFL-CIO VOTES TO SAVE WHALES

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations passed a Resolution at its last
annual convention to Save the Whales. The full text of the
Resolution follows:

Preservation of World Whale Stocks

WHEREAS, With the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act in 1972, the United States committed itself
to a major campaign to reduce the senseless and wasteful
killing of marine mammals. Many of these animals,
including seals, porpoises and whales, were considered to be
endangered and had been hunted to the point where stocks
were seriously depleted and in some instances exhausted,
and .

WHEREAS, Since the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, signiﬁcant steps by the US, both
unilaterally and multilaterally, have succeeded in setting up
reasonable programs to preserve ocean mammlas, and

WHEREAS, However, one species of mammal, the
whale, continues to be hunted by several foreign nations,

and the future survival of this ocean creature is in jeopardy.

The major hunters of whales are the Japanese, and to a
lesser degree, the Soviet Union. Together, the two nations
account for over 90 percent of the whales killed throughout
the world, and

WHEREAS, The continuing desire of these two nations
to maximize their whale harvest runs contrary to the views
of the majority of the nations, including the United States,
represented on the International Whaling Commission, the
body which regulates the worldwide hunt for whales, and

WHEREAS, At a recent conference of the Commission
in London, Japan and Russia voted to continue to take
whales in the face of worldwide sentiment that all whale
killings should be halted, U.S. representatives pointed out
that forecasts of whale populations are unreliable and that
even with quotas, there is a grave risk of stock depletion.
They urged that all nations follow the US. lead in declaring
whales “endangered species” and prohibit either the
hunting or importation of whales or whale products, and

WHEREAS, Thus it is vital that if effective management
of this ocean resource is to take place, then the wholesale
killing of whales must be prohibited until there is sufficient
knowledge about the size and habits of whale stocks. This is
particularly true in light of the many other less depleted
ﬁsh stocks available to the Russians and Japanese that
could replace the whale’s limited role as food for humans
and animals; therefore, be it

RESOLVED: That the AFL-CIO calls upon Japan and
Russia to abide by world opinion expressed at the recent
London meeting of the International Whaling Commission,

and cease the hunting of whales in order that this important

sea mammal can be preserved and allowed to grow in

numbers, and also urges the Administration to bring

pressure on these nations to comply with world sentiment
_. that whales are endangered and must be preserved.

 

TALBOT PRESENTS MEDAL TO McVAY

The 1973 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute was awarded to Scott McVay for his
distinguished service to the cause of the whales, tens of
thousands of whose dwindling numbers are being painfully

killed by explosive harpoons to satisfy commercial avarice.
The presentation was made by Dr. Lee M. Talbot, an
intensive fellow fighter for the whales in his capacity as
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality.
Jason Robards, star of A Moon for the Misbegotten, and
of countless other plays and ﬁlms, spoke movingly at the
ceremony of his love for the gray whales he watches on
their annual migration as they pass his home on the coast of
California. Robards called for decisive action by Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger to halt the slaughter by Japan and
the Soviet Union.

Texts of the presentation and acceptance speeches
follow:

Remarks of Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the
Council on Environmental Quality, at the presentation of
the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Mr. Scott McVay. Kennedy
Center, Washington, DC. December 18, 1973

C Q

It is a great pleasure and honor to have been invited by
the Animal Welfare Institute to make the 1973 Schweitzer
Medal presentation to Mr. Scott McVay.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by
the Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. It is
particularly significant that both last year’s and this year’s
medals have been given to individuals involved with the
conservation of whales.

In its early days, the Schweitzer Medal was awarded to
individuals who had contributed to animal welfare through
work involving humane handling of experimental animals.
The fourth Medalist, then Senator Hubert Humphrey,
authored the first humane slaughter bill introduced to
Congress. Subsequently, the basis for the award broadened
as our awareness of the ecological facts of life has increased.

We have gradually become aware that animals do not
exist in isolation, but that they must be considered to exist
at the center of a web of interrelationships — and that the
welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of that
web.

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition

that this factor applies as much to man as to any other
living thing with which we share the earth. We have come to
realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the
ecosystems on which we rely; and the survival of any of the
species which are components of these ecosystems is a part
of this. There has also been a growing international
component to this new environmentalism. This was
epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on Human
Environment where 113 nations to a large degree laid aside
their political differences to concentrate their efforts on the
world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included
agreement on over 100 specific actions, on United Nations
environmental institutions and a declaration of
environmental principles; yet the issue which became the
symbol of the Conference was the whale. There is probably
no living thing today that has come to be as representative
and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international
conservation concern. They have represented a true tragedy
of the commons. They have been all-too exemplary of the
over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its
resources by shortsighted human action. In the past they
represented a significant natural resource. With successful
conservation, they may again in the future. More than that,
they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of
their unique size, their social structure, their songs, and
from what many believe to be their kinship to us as
intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and
endangerment at the hands of a handful of greedy
industries and peoples. Beyond all this, whales no longer
represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If
we prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well
for our ability to manage any of the other species for which
there is so much greater incentive of exploitation. In other
words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales
successfully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so
successfully with any other component of our living
environment.

As a scientist, I cannot say it is more important to
conserve the whales than it is to conserve any other group
of living things; but as one concerned with conservation in
general and with the politics and policies of international

environmental concern, I can say that there is probably no
one group animal which has the signiﬁcance of whales to
world conservation.

Scott McVay is at once a most unlikely protagonist of
the whale issue and a most appropriate one. He is unlikely
because there is little in his background to suggest whales.
In Princeton he majored in English and wrote his senior
thesis on George Bernard Shaw. When he graduated, he
listed Sculpture among his special interests and indicated he
planned an architectural career. He subsequently became,
among other things, recording secretary, assistant treasurer,
and assistant to the President of Princeton. He is currently

Executive Director of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
in New York. This I submit is a most unlikely background
for a champion of the whales.

Yet, at the same time, it is a highly appropriate
background. As I have described earlier, the whales have
become a symbol to a great many people in a great many
countries. Indeed they are doubtless more important to the
general public than they are to the scientiﬁc specialists.

 




' Scott says that his interest in whales was first aroused by
Melville’s Moby Dick. In any event following his work at
Princeton he went to the Communication Research
Institute at Coconut Grove, Florida, to work on a study of
the life and language of the bottle-nose dolphin, and by
1965, he wrote in his college year book that his intent was
to contribute to man’s understanding of the life and
language of the whales.

Since that time, he has made truly signiﬁcant
contributions to the public understanding and awareness of
the problem of conservation of the whales. In 1966 his
article in Scientiﬁc American “The Last of the Great
Whales” provided one of the first definitive views the public
had received of the tragic results of modern whaling. His
subsequent articles, for example, in Natural History
Magazine, the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, National Parks,
Audubon, the American Scientist, and two op-ed pieces in
The New York Times have all contributed to a growing
'public awareness of the problem and concern with it.

In his role as spokesman for the public concern with
whales, he has served as the lead witness invited from
outside government at the congressional hearing in 1971
which led to the congressional resolution calling for
a moratorium on whaling; he was an invited speaker
representing the conservation vieWpoint at the 1971
International Conference on Whale Biology, and further in
his role as a citizen spokesman, he was Observer to the
International Whaling Commission meeting in 1970, and a
full member of the US. delegation to the IWC in 1971 and
1972.

He made a significant contribution to the decision of the
Mexican Government to declare Scammon’s Lagoon in Baja,
California, as a permanent whale sanctuary.

In 1970, he traveled to Japan to encourage six leading
scientists to form a committee for preservation of whales
under the chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former President
of the Tokyo University. .

Following his work on dolphin communications in
Florida, he expanded his interests to larger whales and has
organized two expeditions to the Arctic to study the
bowhead whale along the northwest coast of Alaska, one in
1971 and another this year. In conjunction with the
bowhead work he traveled with us to the Soviet Union in
January of this year as a member of the first working group
to be convened under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement. He is also co-author of “Songs of the Hump-

back Whale” which appeared in Science in 1971.

From this I believe it is clear that he had indeed
accomplished his aim of contributing to man’s
understanding of the life and language of whales, but — and
this is somewhat heretical coming from a scientist ~— in my
Opinion far more important is his contribution to public
understanding and awareness of the plight of the whales
and as a citizen spokesman, his contribution to Government
actions on behalf of the whales.

Last year’s Schweitzer Award went to Russell Train
because of his key role personally in our Government’s
efforts to conserve whales, but he also symbolized the
efforts of our Government.

But in this as in other endeavors the Government and
the public represents an essential partnership. This year’s
Schweitzer Award is being presented to Scott McVay both
because of his personal key role in and contributions to
whale conservation and also because he is symbolic of the
citizen role in this endeavor which is so important to animal
welfare and welfare of our environment.

It therefore gives me very great pleasure to present to

Remarks of Scott McVay Chairman, Committee on Whales,
Environmental Defense Fund

“WHAT ON EARTH WAS A WHALE?
THE CHILD ASKED US
IN AN INNOCENT VOICE”*

This occasion gives me a chance to mention several

persons who have made substantial contributions to whale
conservation and acknowledge many more besides who may
be unrecognized, many whose contributions in the weeks
ahead will tell whether some species of whales will survive.
The crisis today is sharply deﬁned, carrying the unanimous
conviction of the United Nations conferences in Stockholm
and Geneva — and the principal conservation groups around
the world — the Killing of Whales Must Stop.

The scale of the whale tragedy may be sensed by the fact
that no one is working full-time on the conservation of the
whale, although two countries participate year around in
the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating
recently even the moderate accords reached at the
International Whaling Commission meeting last June in
London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be
more keenly felt than the reason of science or a planetary
ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed, or an obligation that reaches down
the centuries to leave as much of the natural world whole

and intact as we can. '

To understand where we are going, we recall where we

have been. Conservation of the whale has had the
intermittent attention of a remarkable set of men and
women. At the top of the roster is the late Remington
Kellogg of the Smithsonian who worked toward
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s and caused
the International Whaling Convention to meet in
Washington in December, 1946. With Johan Ruud of
Norway, Dr. Kellogg led efforts within the International
Whaling Commission in the 1950’s to curb unrestrained
whaling by five nations for, an annual quota of 16,000 blue
whale units which was no quota at all. Through the efforts
of Ruud and Kellogg, a Committee of Three Scientists was
appointed in 1960 to review the data and make
recommendations. In violation of the Commission’s pledge
to comply, the recommendations of the scientists were‘
deferred and deferred again in 1963 and 1964.

I first met Dr. Kellogg in 1959 or 1960. On my third

visit to his office at the Smithsonian within the next year or

two, I pressed this fine old gentleman, who had high black
shoes propped up on his desk, why so little progress was
being made to conserve whales. His heavy mailbag as US.
Commissioner to the IWC suggested widespread concern.
He countered by saying the whale had no lobby, and only

one person came back three times. He said he was tired of
pounding his head against a stone wall and that others
would have to take up the cause.

As each of us in the conservation community and the'

Federal bureaucracy has learned, things which matter most
with us must be acted upon. You can not assume that
someone else is carrying the ball. With Dr. Kellogg’s
encouragement, “The Last of the Great Whales” was
written in 1964 and eventually appeared in Scientific
American in 1966.

A member of the Committee of Three Scientists who

saw beyond the data the true scale of the whale tragedy was

Sidney Holt, a biologist for 16 years with FAO, who
showed leadership, vision and good sense at the
International Conference on Whale Biology in June, 1971,
making a major contribution to the basic recommendations

of the conference.

In Japan, Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history _,
of Japanese medicine, is an authority on the anatomy of -'
the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four
decades testifies to the significance of the cetacean brain
and its importance in understanding the human brain. In

one paper he wrote,

you, Scott, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute.

The present author has often told his students a ia‘ole
of his own, imagining two high peaks in the realm oi
Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt. CET ACEA,
the latter boasting of a much greater height than the

former.

Dr. Ogawa is a member of our committee for the
preservation of whales in Japan. and he is especially upset
by the unchecked slaughter of dolphins and porpoises by
the Japanese.

Schweitzer Medalisr Scott .llcl'ay speaking on whales. mom The Dav ”2,- WW Bgmmgs Emma, by Kenzabum 0e.

 




Another staunch advocate for the whale is Rod
Cameron, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, who approached me in 1969 to head up the EDF
whale effort. Among his contributions was testimony in
1970 in Washington at an Interior hearing to consider the
placement of the Sperm whale) on the endangered list and
later in San Francisco at a Department of Commerce
hearing to consider closing down whaling operations in
California. If the whales have an attorney, it is Rod
Cameron.

One biologist exemplifies a new approach to the study
of the whale, Roger Payne. For five years he observed and
recorded the Humpback whale off Bermuda, working on
the assumption that you must spend extended periods of
time with whales in their ocean habitat to understand them.
Our joint discovery of the Song of the Humpback Whale
and its detailed analysis was published in Science in 1971,
and through Roger’s efforts a record was made which has
‘ sold 100,000 copies. (The whale is still more eloquent than
any of his surrogates!) It was Roger’s idea to recommend
the great whales for Interior’s endangered species list. Payne
is now nearing the end of more than 18 months’ study of
the Southern Right whale off the Patagonian coast of
Argentina. When he returns, his films and reports will
contribute substantively to our future view of whales.

The first of a progression of events which have led to a
consolidated U.S. position on the whale problem, with a
close working relationship between the environmental
community and Federal agencies, was the designation by
Secretary of Interior Walter Hickel of eight whale species as
endangered in the Federal Register of December 2, 1970,
following six months’ debate. “Buff” Bolilen ably sustained
this decision against heavy pressures within government and
from the importers of Sperm whale oil. Indeed, his role
cannot be overestimated.

The Secretary of Commerce followed in due course with
the closing of whaling operations in California in December,
1971.

Perhaps we should pause to acknowledge the leadership
of the next Secretary of Commerce, Peter Peterson, who
took steps to deal with the large-scale slaughter of porpoises
by the tuna fishery working out of southern California.
(This is usually referred to as “the incidentail slaughter of
porpoises.” The slaughter is not incidental. It is part and

parcel of the purse-seine technique since the pole and line
were put aside.)

A quarter million porpoises have been lost every year for
many years. How big a number is that? It is the number of
people in this room plus one thousand like gatherings. In
the early 1960’s as many as one million porpoises perished
every year. Secretary Peterson gave this problem high
priority, and substantial funds and personnel have been
committed to its resolution. Robert White, the
Administrator of NCAA (National Oceanic and
AtmOSpheric Administration), shares this commitment and
is seeing 'to its implementation. The tragedy is of staggering
proportions. Six to eight times as many porporises were lost
in tuna nets in the first three months of this year as there
were whales taken on the high seas last year (upwards of
300,000 against 37,000). This remains a National Tragedy,
and when an extension is sought for the two-year
exemption to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the
appear warrents close scrutiny. (The Environmental
Defense Fund recently ﬁled a letter prior to the December
10, 1973 deadline for comment at this juncture.)

Perhaps we should pause to recognize another dimension
of the whale saga, the aesthetic one. Not only have
symphonies been composed using the song of the
Humpback whale, but the whale’s sounds and motions have
inspired performances of considerable diversity among

professional and college groups across the country.

An artist has emerged who has done a series of whale
works, major drawings and illuminated sculpture. He will be
regarded one day as an artist of the ﬁrst rank. William
Scoresby noted in 1820, “ ..the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and so preposterous,

that they tend rather to mislead than to assist the practical
zoologist.” The comment still obtains today, but we are
fortunate that Larry Foster of Oakland, California is
contributing to an improved understanding of the shape,
markings, and motion of the whale. He is known for the
beauty and precision of his work, and to see his originals is

almost as exciting as seeing a great whale. . .

Philippe Cousteau’s underwater ﬁlm of the Humpback

whale showed a fantastic underwater ballet of a mother

swimming on her back with outstretched flippers cradling,

but not touching, an infant breathing frequently at the
surface. . .

1‘

The image of the great Arctic whale, the Bowhead, is a
living one now —— after our eXpeditions of 1971 and 1973 —
an image of a whale that breaches in Spring, a great whale
that may on occasion be surrounded by a “halo” of smaller
belugas, a whale that can rise before you in those frozen
seas like the fabled Atlantis, again and again as it spouts
nearer. (A one-hour ﬁlm documentary of this year’s
expedition will be completed in April.). .

Permit me to read a rough translation of a passage from
a recent book, The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by
Kenzaburo Oe, the leading writer in Japan today.

One desolate twilight evening
on a high tower overlooking a valley
deep in the woods where I grew up,
together with several adults
I stood looking toward the West.
The dream was unlike other dreams,
because I was no longer a child
but was now one of those adults,
and yet in the sense that
I had been included in the group
as the one who least understood what was going on,
this dream was after all like all the others,
it became like one of those daily nightmares,
as the western sky took on a dark red hue
without a sign of light,
and we all sunk into the darkness and
were buffeted by profuse winds which blew up.
One old man, bursting the silent atmosphere of
expectation, said: “Ah, finally, the last whale died.”
We pushed each other for the first position,
pounding down the hill as if trying to crush
pebbles beneath our sandals with our feet,
we went down to the valley,
but as we were about to say,
“finally the last whale. . . ”
to the child who was standing
on the cobbled path in the dark valley,
“What on earth was a Whale?”
the child asked us in an innocent voice.
I tried to explain to him about whales,
but since I didn‘t remember a thing about whales
myself, I clammed up.
And then I realized with a sense of fathomless
annihilation that the old man of just now
was the “me” of the past
and the child none other
than the “me” of the future.
The face of the child,
looking up silently at me,
distinct in the evening light,
was crumbling away.

Besides major literary contributions in Japan by ,
Kenzaburo Oe and Sakyo Komatsu, and others, six
distinguished scientists led by Dr. Seiji Kaya, former
president of Tokyo University, have been working for the
preservation of the whale through articles, appearances on
television, and meetings with top government officials.

Also, the actions of our neighbors to the South and to
the North are encouraging. In response to a proposal we
submitted in June, 1971, to Eduardo Jimenez Qonzales of
the Mexican Embassy, President Luis Echeverria declared
Scammon’s Lagoon a permanent whale sanctuary. In
December, 1972, the Canadian Commissioner of Fisheries,
Jack Davies, closed their three remaining whale stations
(two in Newfoundland and one in Nova Scotia).

A year ago Russell Train’s formidable contribution was

recognized in this ceremony. Thanks to his interest and
leadership in June, 1972 the first resolution reported out of
the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment
called for a ban on the killing of whales by a vote of 53 to
zero. (It is worth noting parenthetically that someone on
the periphery suggested a second somewhat similar
resolution be submitted substituting the words “human
being” for “whale". Thus, a ban on the killing of human
beings for ten years was briefly considered but quickly
abandoned since it would be such a departure from past
and current practices. . . And yet if we do achieve a
moratorium on the killing of whales, it may prove a useful
precedent.)

Chairman Train led the U. S. delegation to the
International Whaling Commission two weeks later,
providing inspired leadership, and he was ably followed by
Robert White, the new U. S. Commissioner, in June 1973.
(By the way tomorrow evenirg you may watch Dr. White
on the Dick Cavett show and sense the depth of
commitment within government to the whale problem; he
will speak about the follow-up to Secretary " of State
Kissinger’s tough cables recently to Tokyo and Moscow and
perhaps of the leverage in soybeans and wheat.)

 




’Six months ago, the moratorium was approved by 8 of
the 14 delegations to the IWC, a majority but not the
necessary three-fourths vote required for adoption. As a
compromise three modest accords were reached. Fin
whaling was to be phased out in three years. A quota for
Minke whales of 5,000 was set, as Was a by-area quota for
Sperm whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese have now
repudiated these three agreements, and the Russians the
last two. (The Russians have given up on the Fin Whale.)
The blatant disregard of the Commission means that we
have essentially an outlaw situation, and the imminent
collapse of the International Whaling Commission puts
other international negotiations, which also must proceed
on good faith, in jeopardy. We’ll come back to this shortly.

First, we should acknowledge four major books over a
five-year span written on this continent that have
contributed to the growing awareness about the plight of
the 'whale and our interconnected destiny. We will sample a
couple lines from each.

The Year of the Whale by Victor B. Scheffer (1969)
“Will the orbiting satellite speak through Space to tell the
hunter where to find the last whale?”

The Blue Whale by George L. Small (1 971) “The tragedy of
the blue whale is the reﬂection of an even greater one, that
of man himself. What is the nature of a species that
knowingly and without good reason exterminates another?
How long will man persist in the belief that he is the master
of the Earth rather than one of its guests?”

A Whale for the Killing by Farley Mowat (1972) “(It
was) identified as a Fin whale, the second largest animal
ever to live on earth. We could see the marks of
bullets—holes and slashes—across the back from the
blowhole to the fin. It was just beyond me to even begin to
understand the mentality of men who would amuse
themselves filling such a majestic creature full of bullets.
Why try to kill it?”

Lord of the Fish by Faith McNulty .(1973) “Leaders of
the conservation ﬁght in this country talk of a United
States boycott of Japanese goods and an appeal to the
Common Market to close off Europe as a market for whale
products. . .such tactics, which reduce the issue to dollars,
rubles, and .yen, are the only ones likely to work where
appeals to humanity, ethics and pure reason have failed.”

One American scientist who has kept a low profile
(that’s how things get done) deserves our special thanks
today. He drafted U. S. policy for the 1971 IWC meeting in
Washington. He drafted the U. S. resolution at Stockholm
calling for a ten-year moratorium on the killing of whales.
He has 'been accessible to conservationists except when
behind the wheel of his sports car. Reminding all hands of
the shaky data base, he has contributed to the formulation
of U. S. policy for the past two IWC meetings in London-
and has been a skillful negotiator in the hour-by-hour
deliberations with the Russians and Japanese. Last January
in Russia, he showed a gift for working with the Russians
on the development of joint studies of endangered species.
Lee Talbot, we are in your debt.

One of the perquisites of the pilgrimage for whales is
the people you meet along the way. Some join for a time
and are most welcome. Others are in for the duration. Such
is Christine Stevens, who if I could put her into one word,
and could pronounce it, it would be “indefatigable”. She
has stuck to the central issue — to stop the killing of
whales. Singlehandedly, she pushed the moratorium
resolution through the Senate in 1971, and in due course,
following public hearings, it was adopted by the House of
Representatives. This step made possible the next step at
Stockholm where the consolidated U. S. view found the
support of 52 other countries. Mrs. Stevens has,
furthermore, been a prime mover behind the broadly
supported boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods in the
United States which will persist until the whaling irons rust-
in the racks. This gentle woman’s reverence for life and
tenacity for its preservation must become more widely
shared if we are going to make it.

Others making lasting contributions from the private
sector are known to you, the gentleman-from-Wyoming
Tom Garrett, journalist Michael Frome, biologist Steve
Seater, Lewis Regenstein of the Fund for Animals, and the
anonymous heroes of the'editorial pages of The New York

Times and Washington Post. Joan Maclntyre is leading the
children’s crusade. Tom Kimball’s strong unequivocal stand
on the boycott commands respect, as he speaks for
three-and—one-half million members of the National Wildlife
Federation.

'Tomorrow morning Senator Magnuson,'a previous
Schweitzer medalist, and Senator Pell will introduce a
resolution expressing the concern of the United States
about the exploitation of certain marine resources, which
encompasses not only a condemnation of Japanese and
Soviet whaling malpractice but also deals with the depleted
salmon and halibut resource.

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my magniﬁcent wife,
Hella, who has made my participation in the whale effort
possible and much more besides.

Henry David Thoreau once wrote,

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of
whalebone and whale oil be said to have discovered
the true use of the whale? Can he who slays the
elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the
elephant’? These are petty and accidental uses; just as
if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and ﬂageolets of our bones...

We wonder, is our obituary scrawled in the fate of the
whale? Maybe. But we have made a beginning at
restitution. We are dimly sensing the outlines of whales,
when spouting, breaching, courting, loving, nursing. We
know the True Use of the Whale transcends the marginal
uses of blubber, beef and bone. We sense that our own
humanity is inextricably wedded to the destiny of the
whale. We know that time is short, and the next few weeks
will spell the outcome of the struggle. Reluctantly, because
of other problems for the Japanese, we must carry the call
for the boycott of goods to the corners of the land and
beyond. These may be uncertain times, but of one thing we
may be certain. If the last whales die, something in us will
die, too. When the children ask later, “What on earth is a
whale?” —— I hope we may answer, “THAR SHE BLOWS!”

 

April. May, June, 1974

THE IWC MEETS,
AND THE KILLING CONTINUES

Every day of the week beginning June 24th, delegates of
the 15 member nations of the International Whaling Com-
mission argued over and voted on the killing of whales. On
the opening day, the Japanese delegation told the press that
although their country was opposed to any blanket morato-
rium it would accept a reduction in the size of the catch. *
But the decrease in number of whales to be harpooned this
year is only about a half of one percent: 37,300 as com-
pared with last year’s quota of 37,500. The Japanese Com-
missioner, Mr. Iwao Fujita voted consistently for the high-
est quotas at every opportunity.

The ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling, unan-
imously adopted at the Stockholm Conference on the Hu-
man Environment in ’72 and at the United Nations Envi-
ronment Program meetings in Geneva and Nairobi in ’73
and ’74, and proposed by the United States for the third
successive year at the IWC, was amended by Australia to
provide a selective moratorium on species or populations of
whales when their numbers fall below Optimum population
levels. Adopted by a vote of 13-2, the proposal is not due
to be put into practice till after the next IWC meeting, a
year from now. It is widely believed that this will result in
an end to the killing of ﬁn whales for an indeterminate pe-
riod while this persecuted species tries to repopulate itself;
however, Japan and the USSR both voted against the selec-
tive moratorium. Although they have ninety days to lodge
objections and bow out of the whole scheme, under the
provisions of the loophole-ridden IWC treaty, it is obvious
that their vested interests are best served by a seeming com-
pliance while foot-dragging in all the time-honored ways
known to international negotiations.

An Asahi Evening News headline gave the Japanese
Government position: “Japan will not protest selective
whaling ban”. The Government “feels it would be more re-
alistic to present the Japanese case strongly during the pro-
cess of working out whaling curbs on the basis of the
London decision”.. A few days earlier in Y omiuri, the Direc-
tor of the Ocean Fishery Department predicted the reaction
to the moratorium on killing fin whales which is expected
under the terms of the selective moratorium: “The Govern-
ment will not change its attitude of opposing it to the last”.

 




 

Clearly, there is no basis for optimism in saving the tin
whales or any other great whale from extinction. Izach one
of these animals is worth about $25,000. ( ommereial m-
stincts operate, powerfully to fight for every last whale.

Even a discussion on development of a humane killing
method for the thousands of whales whose deaths the IWC
formally approves, was blocked by the Japanese Commis-
sioner when the American Commissioner, Dr. Robert
White, asked that it be placed on the agenda. Because ofthe
Japanese action, another year must go by before humane
methods can even be talked about, much less implemented,
as the killing continues.

The ten-year moratorium is needed more than ever, and
the boycott of Japanese and Russian goods, combined with
a government embargo of as many of these goods as possi-
ble, is the only sure route to success in saving the whales.

Nearly all of the counter-argument offered by the Japa-
nese whaling industry is based on the use of whale meat for
human consumption in Japan. But if the industry were
genuinely concerned with providing the maximum amount
of protein to feed people, it would have to take a complete-
ly different point of view. Based simply on the amount of
tons of dead whale to be procured over a period of years, it
would have to stop killing fin, sei and sperm whales now. In
a statement at the conclusion of the meeting John Burton

of Friends of the Earth, Ltd. said, “It is perhaps worth re-
minding the Commission of the price the world is being
asked to pay for the compromise which you have reached.
One way of looking at it is to calculate the loss of whale
catch in the future, if you continue to permit a catch of
1000 fin whales in the Antarctic instead ofa zero quota, in
the recovery period. The figure is a loss of about one to one
and a half million tons over the recovery period.”

These figures lend credence to the belief of many con-
servationists that the whaling industry is quite prepared to
“kill the goose that laid the golden egg” so long as their
short-term proﬁts continue up to the cut-off point they
select, and that they have as little interest in the welfare of
their own species as they have in that of the whales.

23,000 sperm whales are scheduled to be slaughtered in
the coming season, but Mr. Burton continues, “If sperm
whales are calculated on the real basis of weight, they are
already far below maximum sustainable yield level. So in
terms of the Australian amendment, the sperm whale

should be classiﬁed as a ‘protected stock’ and have a zero
quota next year.”

As never before, scientists are in the forefront of the
battle over whales, for the action taken at the 1974 meeting
of the International Whaling Commission puts the burden
of proof squarely on their shoulders. With a data base so
uncertain that there is a range of disagreement among sci-
entists from 300 to 100070, the decisions they take on the
symbol of the Stockholm Conference on the Human Envi-
ronment, the most enormous creature ever to exist, the
gentle, musical whale, cannot be casual.

The Japan Economic Journal (July 9, 1974) is crowing
over the “defeat of the US. which sought a 10-year ban on

whaling”. It is delighted that IWC action “revived the or-
thodox method of control of ﬁshing resources with regard

to ways and degree of restraint of ﬁsh (sic) catch”. It urges
that “Japan should keep asserting” that blue whales “are on
a steady rise”. This last recommendation suggests that Pro-
fessor George Small’s, “The Blue Whale,” winner of the Na-
tional Book Award for Science two years ago, hit home
with its incontrovertible analysis of the decimation of the
species.

To date, the economic has successfully dictated to the
scientiﬁc where whales are concerned. Scientists from whal-
ing nations have slavishly followed the recommendations
or, more likely, the orders of the captains of commerce. An
interesting example of this relationship was reported at the
1974 annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science by Dr. lee Talbot, Senior Scien-
tist of the Council on Environmental Quality. His paper
included this passage:

“The following incident from last year’s Scientiﬁc Com-
mittee meeting is illustrative of the way in which the Com-
mittee and through it, the IWC, has been used. There had
been considerable discussion about the recommended quo-
tas for Minke whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese had
come in with an estimate of the number of Minke whales
that was twice the previous year’s estimate. On that basis
they insisted that the Minke quota be increased from the
5,000 of last year — which in any case had been exceeded —
to 12,230. Since the data base was essentially the same as
last year, the Japanese conclusion was a statistical reshufﬂe
and was strongly challenged by various members of the
Committee from various nations. A rigorous reassessment

    

  

of the available figures by the Scientific Committee failed
to support the Japanese ﬁgures and supported the 5,000
quota. In discussion it had been suggested that the reason
for the changed ﬁgures of the Japanese was that their in-
dustry required about 5,000 Minkes and that they had
agreed the previous year to a quota of 5,000 not realizing
that the Russians were also going to take Minkes. Con-
sequently, with the Russians involved, the only way to
assure that Japan got its 5,000 was to produce figures
which doubled the base population. With this in mind the
following interchange is instructive. It is as near to verbatim
as my notes taken at the time would allow:

“Japanese representative, obviously irritated and frus-
trated at the refusal of the rest of the Committee to accept
the higher population figures, ‘It is embarrassing for me to
say this, but my government plans to take this many Minke
whales and what does the Committee think about this?’

“Talbot: ‘Do you mean to tell this Committee that your
government has decided in advance what number of whales
they are going to catch this coming year, and that you are
asking this Scientiﬁc Committee to endorse your industry’s
prior decision?’

“Scientist from a southern hemisphere country, jump-

ing to his feet and hitting the table, ‘Why that’s criminal!’
“Scientist from another southern hemisphere country,
‘What do you think they have been doing in here allalong?’ ”

A recommendation to assert that the pitiful remnants of
the blue whale pOpulations are steadily rising is of a piece
with the “scientiﬁc” findings about the Minke whales.

The New York Times (July 15, 1974) editorialized in re-
sponse to a letter from the Japan Whaling Information
Center, remarking in part, “Other misinformation put for-
ward by the ‘Information’ Center is equally puzzling. If
‘meat is the prime reason’ for Japanese whaling, why is half
the catch composed of sperm whales, which are not eaten
at all?”

Perhaps we should look for that answer to a report on a
Japanese whaling company in Peru, Cia. Ballenera del
Kinkai S.A. In a ten-page report, Nelson Puch Chang in-
cludes the following information: “Crew: 16 seamen of
Japanese nationality, Captain, ofﬁcers and harpooners. The
former engaged directly by Cia. Victoria del Kinkai, and 9
Peruvian seamen taken on by Cia. Ballenera del Kinkai . . .
Whales are generally harpooned at the height of the thorac-
ic cavity. This is due to the fact that harpooning the sperm
whale in the head is avoided, as it is the head which con-

tains the spermaceti . . . the cable is let out gradually, in
synchrony with the tugs produced by the wounded animal
in its eagerness to get away . . . During the visit, both to the
processing plant and to one of the Ballenera del Kinkai’s
Whalers, it was possible to observe the following points:
Nervousness and reserve in the various tasks carried out by
the company. The employees, workmen and seamen work-
ing at the land station seemed to have their lips hermeti-
cally sealed, as if they had been given orders not to reply to
any type of question . . . The total number of whales and

sperm whales caught during the undersigned’s visit to the
Colorada Paita installations by the Whalers operating for the

company was 46 specimens in all . . . Of these 24 specimens
were not of the minimum size stipulated in Articles 11 and
12 of the South Paciﬁc regulations . . . The Kinkai Whaling
Co. does not intend the ﬂesh of the Sperm whale to be used

for direct consumption by persons or animals . . . The

Union Secretary also said that one of the members of the

crew of the Whaler Victoria 8 had told him that two whales
were hunted which were measured by the whaler’s crew,

and as the size of these whales was much smaller than the

stipulated minimum given in Article llof the Regulations,

they were thrown back . . . No strict control exists, as there

is no permanent staff either in the factory or on the Whalers
. . . a kilo of sperm whale tooth costs $155 to 160 delivered

to Paita. The cost is high considering the means of the Peru-

vian artisan . . . The export of spemr whale teeth should be

prohibited.”

Mr. Chang concludes his damning report with a recital of
the penalties to which the Japanese whaling company,
Kinkai, should be liable including conﬁscation and ﬁnes
(for a repeated offense), up to “the market value of the
ships perpetrating the infringement,” and also ten times the
value of the product. To date, Peru, which collected a three
million dollar ﬁne from Onassis in 1954, has looked the
other way with respect to the Japanese violations.

It is interesting that release of the report on the high
cost of sperm whale teeth reported by Mr. Chang should
coincide with introduction of bills in the Senate and House
of Representatives to amend the US. Endangered Species
Act to provided an exemption for the merchants of whales’
teeth and scrimshaw. The difﬁculty of discriminating be-
tween the teeth of whales long gone and that of recently

 




killed ones poses difficult questions of enforcement. Hear-
ings were held on .the Studds bill, HR. 16079 (similar to
Senator Kennedy’s bill, 8.3751) on July 29th. One supplier
states (New Bedford Standard Times, June 24, 1974) he has
“about $30-40,000 invested in whale ivory and can’t afford
to write that investment off”. Commercial profit at every
level is the enemy of the whale.

The essence of the International Whaling Commission
meeting was captured by the Mexican Commissioner, a
veteran of three meetings. Her closing statement is quoted
below in full:

STATEMENT BY MEXICO
by Miss S. Fuentes-Berain

“It is for three years now that I have sat on this Commis-
sion as the representative from Mexico and my statement of
disappointment 'at the end of our discussion has become,
sadly, almost an item of the agenda. I have hoped that with
patience and understanding we would see the Commission
assume its global responsibility to adequately protect en-
dangered species of whales. The Stockholm’s UN recom-
mendation for a world wide moratorium on commercial
whaling was greeted by my Government as a serious sign
that the time had come to take decisive steps to fulﬁll our
commitment to protect and conserve whale stocks — not
only for present utilization, but for the future needs ofun-
born generations. As you may recall, my Government, in
recognition of this need, declared the ﬁrst international
whale haven in Baja California in 1972. We have, as you
also know, consistently and hopefully supported the pro-
posed moratorium. We feel it is still the most effective way
to insure the survival of stocks in questionable condition,
and insure adequate understanding of the status of all
stocks through an intensified scientiﬁc programme.

“We must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that this recent
meeting causes us little optimism. Unlike Mr. Rindal, we see
no essential change in either heart or policy concerning our
basic responsibilities. We are deeply concerned over the ac-
tion of those delegations which support the ten year mora-
torium on all commercial hunting, and yet, consistently
vote for high quotas on individual species. We are also deep-
ly concerned over the failure of the Commission as a whole
to recognize the serious danger to Antarctic and North
Paciﬁc ﬁn whales and to put conservation considerations
ahead of economic considerations at this critical juncture.
It is difﬁcult for us to understand how delegations can sup.
port a total moratorium, and then abstain from, or vote for
high quotas on ﬁn whales.

“Perhaps the most encouraging sign at this year’s meet-
ing is the Commission’s willingness to not only strengthen,
but to broaden the scientiﬁc basis of its management poli-
cies. We feel that attention should be paid to obtaining data
on the breeding behaviour of whales as it influences repro-
duction; as well as making allowances for behavioural in-
ﬂuences on sighting data. We hope that there will be a more
complete ﬂow of scientiﬁc information on the subject and
welcome the increased input of scientific information from
FAO and the United Nations Enviromnent Programme.

“In conclusion I would like to say, somewhat sadly, that
if the immediate future does not bring signiﬁcant protec-
tion for the whales where they are endangered, and the ten
year moratorium with a broadened and deepened interna-
tional research effort, is not approved, this Commission will
be known to history as a small body of men who failed to
act responsibly in the terms of avery large commitment to
the world and who protected theinterests of a few whalers
and not the future of thousands of whales.”

 

October, November, December, 1974

 

THE BOYCOTT CAMPAIGN
TO SAVE THE WHALES
News from Foreign Correspondents

From Norfolk, England a page of signatures on the boy-
cott petition which reads: “To the Governments of Japan
and the Soviet Union: We the undersigned, deplore and
detest the thoughtless commercial slaughter of the world’s
whale populations, and we demand that this barbaric

. practice cease immediately. We hereby pledge that until
you cease the killing of the great whales, we shall not
knowingly purchase any product from, travel to, or have

'1 any trafﬁc with your countries.”

The accompanying letter notes, “I might mention all
listed herein are commercial divers presently working the
North Sea. We wish to congratulate you on your efforts
and hope your energy in these matters continues with the
same gusto. Very truly yours, R.D. Kross.” The names
include British, Canadian and American addresses for the
divers.

From Athens, Greece, a page of signatures to the peti-
tion from medical and veterinary medical practitioners.

From Toronto and Vancouver, Canada, a series of
clippings on demonstrations held at the time of Prime
Minister Tanaka’s visit in late September. “Chanting
Demonstrators Urge Japanese Leader to End Whaling,”
read a banner headline in The Toronto Star, September
26th. Under a subheading, “Closeted With Barrett,” the

article stated, “Later in Vancouver, he was closeted in a
20-minute closed-door session with British Columbia
Premier David Barrett. Barrett would not comment on the
subject ofthe discussions, but an ofﬁcial in Barrett’s ofﬁce
said afterward Tanaka was given a statement suggesting a
10—year moratorium on whaling.”

Under the headline, “Tanaka Gets Call ‘Save the
Whales’ ” The Vancouver Sun, September 26th, stated:
“Demonstrators demanding an end to Japanese whaling,
hounded the footsteps of Premier Kakuei Tanaka on his
ofﬁcial visit to Vancouver Wednesday.

“At the University of British Columbia where Tanaka
unveiled a plaque on the site of the New Asian Centre,
protesters from the Greenpeace Foundation picketed him
with signs saying, ‘Spare the Whales’ . . .”

In The Varsity, September 27th, we are informed, “The
visit was also marked with a demonstration outside Con-
vocation Hall by people urging a boycott of Japanese

goods in light of continued Japanese whaling. Japan has
ignored calls for an international moratorium to preserve

the endangered species.
“As he left the Convocation Hall, Tanaka accepted a

copy of The Varsity which printed an article on whaling.
The paper was thrust into his hand by demonstrators.

“After Tanaka left, University of Toronto President
John Evans told the group he had explained their concern
to Tanaka. According to Evans, the Japanese Prime
Minister promised to look into it.”

 

April, May, June, 1975
SCIENTIST EXPLAINS WHY WHALERS CAN

MAKE MORE MONEY BY KILLING WHALES
TO EXTINCTION

In the modern world it does pay to kill the goose that
laid the golden egg. Dr. Colin W. Clark, University of
British Columbia mathematician, explained to a
scientific conference held at Airlie in early April the basic
facts behind the destruction of the great whales.

An article by John H. Douglas in the April 19, 1975,
issue of Science News states in part: “...the argument
that diminishing returns will halt overexploitation before
the point of extinction is reached is incorrect, he [Clark]
says; and he derives a formula to predict when extinction
will be economically profitable. The results fit the case of
presently endangered whale species with foreboding
accuracy.

“At the heart of Clark’s arguments is the fact that fish-
ermen (or hunters or foresters) must invest large amounts
of money, at high risk, into equipment, in hopes of large
profit, rather than socking it away more securely in a
bank, and settling for a smaller rate of return. The index
a commercial fisherman would use to make this
judgment is called the ‘discount rate’ - simply the rate of
return his boat must give him each year in order to have
paid for itself by the time it wears out, while yielding
more profit than would have been gained by investing tire
money elsewhere. Since fishing is a risky business (the
boat may sink before it wears out), discount rates of 20
percent a year are not unreasonable.

“Expressed in these terms, the higher the discount
rate, the more fish a man has to take to stay solvent; and
if he is in competition with many other fishermen who
feel the same way, overfishing eventually results. But
what happens when this overfishing causes a decline in
the fish population? So long as one can make more
money from sale of a fish than it cost to catch it,
economic considerations alone offer no reason to slow
down the fishing effort. Indeed, even if one owned all the
fish, faced no competition, and could take them
at leisure, Clark has derived a theorem that says over-
fishing to the point of extinction remains profitable so
long as the discount rate is more than twice the annual
reproduction rate of the species in question.

“Thus, a whale herd, which has a reproduction rate of
about 10 percent a year, will be placed in jeopardy of
extinction whenever the discount rate rises above 20
percent —- which explains why all eight of the world’s
great whales are now on the endangered species list.
Similar arguments can be used to explain why several
terrestrial animals are in danger of extinction and why
foresters continue to clear-cut vast stretches of virgin
jungle without concern over whether it can ever be
regenerated.”

A Louis XIV mentality survives in the attitudes of
international businessmen who profit from the destruc-
tion of whales and of forests. “After us, the deluge”
would seem to be their motto.

 

 




 

July, August, September 1975

MIKI DODGES PRESS CLUB
QUESTION ON WHALES

Japanese Whaling Fleets will Not Be Scaled Down

Twenty-seven conservation, environmental and .hu-
mane groups presented a petition to Prime Mmlster
Takeo Miki of Japan August fourth, calling for an end to
whaling by Japan and requesting assurance that excess
whaling ships not be sold or transferred for further
whaling. The tragic history of whales has seen transfer of
whaling vessels and equipment from country to country.
In the past the Japanese whaling industry has entered
into joint ventures with other countries and currently
operates such subsidiaries in Peru, Chile and Bram] and
supports whaling operations in Iceland and Korea
through technical assistance and purchase of whale
products. .

At the National Press Club Luncheon in Washington

where Miki spoke August sixth, Club President William
Broom noted that the largest numbers of questions
received were on the subject of whales. Stating that he
would condense the questions, he noted that the world
catch of whales was declining, inquired about a possible
end to whaling and asked specifically about the fleet
which The Japan Times had reported would be dropped
from this year’s antarctic voyage: “What are the plans
for disposition of the fleet? Will it be converted or sold to
other countries for continued whaling?”

The Prime Minister did not address these questions at
all. Instead he said the Japanese government would abide
by, without any reservations, the conclusions reached by
the International Whaling Commission in June in
London (a fact already disseminated to the press a week
before by the Japan Whaling Information Center). The
Prime Minister added that “we are going to abide by any
responsible scientific research findings.” He did not
mention, of course, that the recommendations of the
Scientific Committee of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) were repeatedly, strongly, and

sometimes successfully opposed by the Japanese
Commissioner at the IWC meeting.

A particularly outrageous example occurred with
regard to sei whales in one of the antarctic areas when
Japan rather than following the recommendation of the
Scientific Committee for a quota of zero. In this area, 540
sei whales are now scheduled for slaughter. In another
area 110 additional seis will be available for harpooning.
At an estimated $7,000 per sei whale, that amounts to

$4,550,000. The head of one of the “big three” Japanese
whaling companies, who regularly attends the IWC
meetings, confirmed the estimate of value per sei whale.

Conservationists are asking whether it is these
additional millions going into Japanese whaling industry
pockets that make it possible to send all four whaling
fleets to the antarctic again this year, contrary to the
previous reports. Before the IWC meeting The Japan
Times, June 17, 1975, stated that either one or two of the
fleets would be dropped from the coming season’s voyage

“depending on catch quotas to be decided by the IWC,
based on the new whaling control method.” Now,
however, The Japan Economic Journal, August 5, 1975,
reports: “Three Japanese whaling companies have
decided to maintain the past scale of operations in the
forthcoming Antarctic whaling season, starting next
October, despite the International Whaling Commis-
sion’s vote to cut sharply Japan’s catch quota.* They are
Taiyo Fishery Co, Nippon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd. and
Kyokuyo Co.

“The companies will send four whaling fleets, of which
one is specialized in catching minke whales.”

Meanwhile a significant footnote has been added to
the April 19th San Diego Tribune report “Japan Firm
Seeks Baja Whaling Rights” which stated in part:
“Japanese whaling interests are checking into the
possibility of commercially harvesting gray whale off the
Baja California coast...The proposal to harvest gray
whales off the Mexican coast was made by the Los
Angeles office of Y.M. Pacific company, a Japanese firm
representing the Taiyo Company of Japan, that country’s
leading whaling firm. Under the proposal, Japanese
whaling ships and porcessing vessels would establish
offshore stations to harvest whales on a regular basis.

 

  

Q)

“Motosuki Yuri, of the Y.M. Pacific Co., said he is
aware that whaling is a very sensitive issue, and that it
will not be easy to get permission from the Mexican
government.”

The new report indicates that the proposal was
accompained by an offer to “invest millions” if the
necessary permits could be obtained. Taiyo has denied
that they were trying to get permission to kill gray whales
in the Mexican whale sanctuary, but the memory lingers
on since Mitsubishi, a giant Japanese conglomerate, has
a salt producing operation at Guerrero Negro in
Scammon’s Lagoon, where the whales congregate eaCh
year.

Mitsubishi also owns a substantial part of Ballenera
del Kinkai in Peru, a whaling operation noteworthy for
its total disregard for conservation principles. After
Peru’s leading wildlife protector, Felipe Benavides,
finally succeeded in having this whaling station inspect-
ed, it was found that half the whales the inspector saw
were undersized. The inspector wrote that everyone
“Seemed to have his lips hermetically sealed.” Peru
refuses to join or adhere to quotas set by the IWC, thus
Japanese whaling in Peru “doesn’t count” in IWC catch

limits. Approximately 2,000 whales are killed off
Peruvian shores each year.

Will excess catcher boats from Japan’s antarctic ﬂeets
be transferred to Peru or other coastal nations to increase
the total whale catch even further? The Japan Economic
Journal report referred to earlier states that “the three
fishing companies are expected to decrease the number
of catcher boats and crew members" going to the
antarctic even though all four fleets will sail as usual.

George Small's The Blue Whale, winner of the 1972
National Book Award for Science, describes earlier
Japanese government policy on whaling outside the IWC
as follows:

“In October, 1967, Japan granted licenses to 2
companies to engage in whaling off the coast of Chile in
1968. It made no stipulation against the killing of blue
whales although it had the power to do so as a member of
the International Whaling Commission. Under the
Chilean flag they could kill blue whales, ship the whale
products to Japan, and remain exempt from any of the
regulations of the Whaling Commission.”

*Note: This year's IWC quotas total 32,578 whales, 0
reduction of approximately 8,500 from last year.

, \\
f” 64% ‘
/

7

a /—\
ﬂaw/W

/%
7W”

\\

 

This picture, courtesy of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., shows
the cruel war on whales still carried out by Japan and the
U.S.S.-R. with helicopters, airplanes, ships, radar, ASDIC, and
bombs that detonate inside the whale.

 
    

  




_ October, November, December 1975

PERSECUTION OF DOLPHIN S BY THE
TUNA INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE

Final regulations promulgated December 2nd by the
Secretary of Commerce reverse the strong proposed
regulations published in the Federal Register in
September to reduce the numbers of dolphins“ killed by
the tuna industry when it pursues the playful mammals
and encircles them in its gigantic purse seines in order to
capture the schools of tuna fish that swim beneath the
dolphins.

The following excerpts from 1975 government observer
reports, copied by representatives of the Environmental
Defense Fund under the Freedom of Information Act,
exemplify the flouting of the modest National Marine
Fisheries Service regulations, in effect during the past
fishing season, to protect dolphins. The regulations have
yet to be enforced, although the Marine Mammal
Protection Act provides for penalties up to $20,000 fine
and a year in prison for wilful violations.

The regulations require tunaboat captains to “take
every possible step to minimize the incidental mortality
and serious injury of marine mammals.” Conditions of
wind, sea and visibility are specifically mentioned. Yet
observer reports include:

0 “The captain backed down in complete darkness.”
(60 killed)

' “The usual panicking after dark coupled with poor
visibility and sharks contributed to large mortality.” (123
killed)

0 “Sun was almost down when set began. Lots of
spinners. I was surprised the set was even made.” (16
killed)

0 “The primary cause of mortality was definitely the
extremely strong current. The net collapsed and many
porpoise were trapped in canopies.” (64 killed)

The regulations also specify that the purse seine
should not be set when the number of dolphins or tuna
are likely to cause mortality. Yet observers noted:

0 “Most of the porpoise not caught in the net are
packed tightly together.” (120 killed)

' “Backdown after disaster. Too many porpoise -
several deaths before backdown, entanglement in 2” and
4” webbing - mass entrapment - just too many porpoise.
They were packed like sardines.” (133 killed)

0 “Porpoise set more than I ever thought possible.
About one mile long by 1/2 mile - solid...Now that they are
caught it looks unreal. Where do they come from? They
almost fill up the net completely. Skipper says at least
150 tons of tuna...Wind is gusty at 20 knots. It’s getting
rough and a frightening rip current. The rip current is
making this set a disaster.” (738 killed)

The regulations require that “backdown and other
release procedures be continued until all live animals

have been released from the net.” But observers report:

0 “Skipper reluctant to prolong backdown to extradite
those unfortunate remaining spotted porpoise.” (12
killed)

0 “There was no backdown; contents of net (9 porpoise)
was sacked and dumped out.”

0 “When backdown was terminated I counted at least
50 porpoise alive in the net.” (66 killed)

0 “Skipper ended backdown when there was still a
good number in net and cork tenders didn’t reach them
in time.” (5 killed) -

0 “During backdown 30 left in net. Captain said
-———— and ended backdown. All died being sacked up
except one went through powerblock alive.”

The regulations specify: “During and after backing
down operation at least two men shall remain at the
corkline in a boat suitable to extricate live entangled
porpoises, where possible, and release them over the
corkline.” Yet observers report:

0 “I went out there believing that the fishermen would
do anything, even risk their life, to save porpoise. This
was a complete fallacy on my boat. First of all, there was
only one rescuer at corks (I assumed that there would be
2 or more). Secondly, he not only did not risk his life for
porpoise, he did very little to help them at all, and

Vol. 24 No. 4

thirdly, I was surprised when I saw him using a big gaff -
(which he used throughout the entire trip) to remove live
porpoise from the backdown area. Also, the net tender in
this boat stayed tied to the side of the backdown area
during backdowns, not going to help porpoise until
backdown was almost completed.” '

0 “No fish in net, just porpoise. Tender watched
porpoise die - no effort was made to reach them until too
late. If you are not going to try to release porpoise, why
have a man in the backdown area?”

0 “One of the tagged ones was injured seriously; he
thrashed around on deck like he had internal injuries,
bleeding out of the mouth. Once released, he found it
difficult to swim and disappeared. I think he probably

died." (15 killed)

0 “About 30% of these porpoise were babies, some of
them aborted.” (40 killed)

0 “One newborn went through the powerblock and was
dumped dead.”

0 “Because net collapsed and malfunctions occurred,
mass mortality occurred. Large number of porpoise
caught in folds of net suffocated.” (183 killed)

0 “One problem occurred when the skipper had me
removed from deck during a set because I would not say
that I would falsify my tally sheets (number porpoise
killed).”

Reports like these stand in stark contrast to the
promises made by the tuna industry during hearings held
prior to the enactment of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. Back in 1971 the Congress and the public
were assured that the industry had the problem “licked.”
Captain Joe Medina stated, “One point I am trying to
make, the fishermen will do anything to save the
porpoise. We always have and always will, but I think
this new net has been the salvation for us and I think we
have the problem licked...in a year the whole ﬂeet will
convert over and everybody will have the new net...we
have the problem licked. I say this is one thing fishermen
always try to do is save the porpoise caught because with-
out them we would not be in business.”

So much for the gratitude of the tuna industry.
Hundreds of thousands of dolphins have died in the
purse seines or been mangled in the powerblocks since.
the 1971 hearings, but the Tuna Research Foundation
has just created a new film intended to convince viewers
that crewmen constantly risk their lives jumping into
shark-infested waters to help the dolphins out of the net!
The film was shown to key members of Congress to gain

'their support in the industry’s successful campaign to

weaken proposed regulations.

Public protest against the cruelty and against the
misrepresentation, which is designed to cover up the
cruelty, may move a greedy industry, deaf to the pleas of
conservation and humane groups. We suggest you
express your vieWs to the presidents of the following
major tuna canners. Van Camp has just had three huge
new purse seiners, costing approximately five million
dollars each, built for it. The larger the vessel the more
dolphins it kills.

Del Monte Corp.

215 Freemont St.

P.O. Box 3575

San Francisco, CA 94119

Bumble Bee Seafoods Star-Kist Foods, Inc.
50 California Street 582 Tuna Street
San Francisco, CA 94111 Terminal Island, CA 90731

H. J. Heinz Co.
P.O. Box 57
Pittsburgh, PA 15230

Van Camp Sea Food Co.
P.O. Box 82568
San Diego, CA 92138

Ralston-Purina
Checkerboard Square
St. Louis, MO 63188

‘Editor’s Note: For all practical purposes, the words “dolphin" and “porpoise"
are interchangeable. “Dolphin" is derived from the Creek. The ancient Greeks
admired and cooperated with the dolphins and never killed them, but rather
rewarded them for their assistance in ﬁshing. The word “porpoise" derives from
the Latin ”porcus" (pig) “piscis” (ﬁsh), a derogatory description by sailors who
killed these beautiful intelligent creatures for their oil. The AW! prefers to use the
word “dolphin," but in quotations the word “porpoise" will be found since it is
the term adopted by the National Marine Fisheries Service and the tuna industry.

 

 




IN PRAISE OF WHALES

The National Whale Symposium held at the University
of Indiana in Bloomington, November 9-12, drew great
audiences including save the whale activists, marine
biologists, artists, teachers and students from across the
cOuntry and even across the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Envisioned by John Jay Goodman, an undergraduate
who spent a year planning and organizing it, the series of
musical, artistic, scientific, and political events, many of
them taking place simultaneously in numerous auditoria
and halls of the University, surpassed all expectations.

A huge sculpture by Larry Foster on a level green lawn
gave the impression of a whale surfacing. It was
constantly surrounded by fascinated children. The
children’s own exhibition arranged by Tamar Griggs who
edited There ’s A Sound in the Sea (The Scrimsha'w Press,
1975) consisted of the original drawings and paintings,
poems and statements she selected from thousands of
youthful expressions on whales. Eight foot long paper

sculptures made by children of the major whale species

floated above the heads of the viewers.

The New York Camerata played two new musical

compositions commissioned for the event. ROger Payne’s
“Songs of the Humpback Whale” were beautifully
interwoven in “Elegy for 3 Whale”. Dr. Payne himself
took an active part in the symposium as did Dr. Sidney
Holt of the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization who has brought his scientific expertise to
bear in efforts to control whaling nations.

Dr. Edward Mitchell of the Fisheries Research Board
of Canada gave his audience a glimpse at the unscientific
methods of the International Whaling Commission’s
Scientific Committee where papers may be submitted,
used as arguments with respect to the state of whale
stocks and permissible quotas, then withdrawn and never
published. Dr. Mitchell’s scholarly reporting on the
small whales, whose capture is not even subject to weak
IWC controls, raised great concern about the future of
these creatures being killed in large numbers for their oil
and meat.

Felipe Benavides, Peru’s leading conservationist,
concluded the conference with a ringing call to protect
the whales. Resolutions adopted at the close of the
symposium included support of a consumer boycott of all
products from the Soviet Union and Japan until a

ten-year moratorium on whaling is achieved, support of

Congressional bills calling for an embargo on products of

commercial whaling companies, establishment of a killer

whale sanctuary in Puget Sound, and establishment of a

limit on the number of dolphins that may be killed by the

tuna industry in the coming fishing. season.

 

“EMPEROR HIROHITO PLEASE
SAVE THE WHALES”

Demonstrations pleading with Emperor Hirohito to
use his influence to end commercial whaling by Japan
took place in most of the cities that the Emperor visited,
October 2nd to 13th.

A report in The Washington Star, October 3, 1975,
headed “Terribly, Terribly Polite...But a Whale of a
Protest” by Lee Flor read in part, “The lawn was rain
lush green and the sun pushing through overcast skies as
Hirohito, the 124th emperor of Japan and the first of his
line to visit the continental United States, alighted from
his limousine at the White House South Portico and
President Ford walked forward to shake hands. Suddenly
a loud buzz pierced the decorous calm and a tiny plane
trailing a 100—foot long banner flew through the northern
sky. ‘Emperor Hirohito Please Save the Whales’ said the
banner.

“The message from the Animal Welfare Institute, a
leader in the fight to preserve the world’s dwindling
whale population, was one of a surprisingly few
unanticipated events to challenge security forces during
the Emperor’s first day in Washington...The tiny plane
never flew closer than three blocks north of the White
House and did not violate its air space according to the
Federal Aviation Administration.”

Reports on the flight appeared world wide - even in
China and received front page notice in The New York
Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington
Post. The United Press reported on the demonstration at
Woods Hole, Massachusetts, organized by Carol Koury,
where a thirty foot banner stretched between two boats
reading “Your Imperial Majesty, The Whole World
Looks To You As Emperor Of A Great Maritime Nation
And As A Distinguished Marine Biologist To End The
Commercial Killing Of Whales.”

In Tokyo, The Yomiuri Shimbun, October 4, 1975,
headlined its report “Direct Appeal Using Cessna
Airplane - Demonstrations for Protection of Whale Will
Be Still Continued,” and began, “Associations for the
Protection of the Whale waited for the Emperor and
Empress, preparing a big placard on which Fuji-Yama
mountain was drawn just like “Fugakuzu” by Hokusai.”
(The print by Katusushika Hokusai (1760-1849) is one of
the most famous of the Ukiyoe school. Fuji-Yama
appears in the distance behind an enormous curved
ocean wave.)

The demonstrations were carried on Japanese
television via satellite to Japan.

Current Status of Japanese and Russian Whaling

According to press reports, the minke whale fleet was
dropped from Japan’s antarctic whaling expedition this
year, and a further cut-back is anticipated in March
when consolidation of the whaling companies is expected
to be worked out. However, no final report is available
yet.

The Novosti Press Agency of Moscow reported,
November 3, 1975, “It is not merely in words but also in
deeds that the Soviet Union is considerably reducing
whaling in the antarctic,” Mr. Vladimir Tverjanovieh,
chief specialist of the USSR Ministry of Fisheries, said in
a Soviet press interview in connection with the
forthcoming whaling season. “The Soviet Union would
not be sending this year one of its three fleets, the Yuri
Dolgoruki, which is based in the Baltic, and had reduced
the total number of its whaling vessels.”

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan. M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock. MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece

David Ricardo—Canada

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C.. B.Sc., M.I. Biol.—United Kingdom

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Ofﬁcers
Roger L. Stevens. Treasurer
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Kristina Harper, Administrative Assistant
Janet Keyes. Whale Campaign Secretary

 




January, February, March, 1976

GOVERNOR LAMM URGES COLORADOAN S
NOT TO BUY GOODS FROM JAPAN OR
RUSSIA TILL THEY STOP WHALIN G

Colorado Save the Whales Symposium Precedes
Whale Week

In an Executive Order issued March 1, 1976, Hon.
Richard D. Lamm of Colorado proclaimed Save the
Whale Week March 7-13. The Proclamation reads as
follows:

“Whereas, the complexity and variety of life forms
that inhabit this planet with us add to the beauty and
quality of our lives; and

“Whereas, whales are just now being recognized as
gentle, social and perhaps next to the human race, the
most intelligent animal on earth; and

“Whereas, modern expensive whaling fleets have
systematically driven the larger species of whales to near
extinction and are turning to smaller species as well as
smaller and younger members within each species; and

“Whereas, Japan and Russia account for over 85% of
the 30,000 whales killed each year; and

“Whereas, the only justification for continuation of
this practice is short term eConomic profit since virtually
all products which are derived from whales have
substitutes which don’t require the extermination of a
species; and

“Whereas, Colorado, being at such altitudes where
oxygen is in much more limited supply than along the
coasts, is tied very closely to the delicate balance of the
ocean where 70% of our oxygen is photosynthetically
produced; and

“Whereas, it is felt that as the whales go so go the

oceans, and as the oceans go so goes the environment,
causing the whale to become the symbol of the inter-
national environmental movement;
' “Now, therefore, 1, Richard D. Lamm, Governor of the
State of Colorado, do hereby proclaim the week of March
7-13, 1976, as Save the Whale Week in the State of
Colorado, and urge all citizens of Colorado to join with
the five million Americans who have pledged to refrain
from purchasing Japanese and Russian goods and
services until these countries agree to stop whaling.”

 

“Whales in the Rockies”

A Colorado Save the Whales Symposium was held at
the University of Colorado at Fort Collins, March 5, 6,
and 7, 1976. Coordinated by Steve Smith and Bruce
lmfeld of the Colorado Student Coalition, the sympo-
sium featured a talk - entitled “The Bloody Whaling
Business” by Rex Weyler of the Greenpeace Foundation
following a film of last summer’s confrontation with the

‘
l

Gn'l‘ﬂpt'uce Photo

go. my
in?" .

Russians 150 miles off the California coast where sperm .
whales were being harpooned. After a send-off by some
25,000 well-wishers in Vancouver, British Columbia, the
Phyllis Cormack, manned by a Greenpeace crew, went to
sea to find whales and Whalers and to attempt to put a
human shield between the two by 10wering two Zodiacs at
the site of the harpooning.

The photograph shows one of the two zodiacs with the
Russian factory ship and two catcher boats.rWeyler
described how the harpoon gun shot just over the zodiac
killing a female sperm whale. A male sperm whale
attacked the Russian catcher boat, but his brave attempt
was ended when he was blasted by another explosive
harpoon. The Russian vessel then left the area, and eight
whales escaped, at least from that attack.

Tom Garrett, Conservation. Director of Friends of the
Earth and a U.S. delegate to the IWC spoke on “The
International Whaling Commission - Past, Present and
Future” describing his experiences in trying to get the
Commission to adopt a ten-year moratorium on
commercial whale killing.

Tamar Griggs’ show of childrens paintings, poems and
stories of whales (now being handled by the Smithsonian
Institution) formed the pictorial framework in which
whale films, speeches and discussions took place.
Paintings by local children were also included.

“Boycott” was the title of the speech by Christine
Stevens. President of the Animal Welfare Institute.

It was the organizers of the symposium who
approached Governor Lamm with the idea of the
proclamation. They found the Governor, a well known
environmentalist, very receptive. He had read A Whale

for the Killing by Farley Mowat and had been deeply
moved by the book. Great appreciation of the Governor’s
actibn was expressed at the conclusion of the program.

 

SEA WORLD RELINQUISHES FIVE
KILLER WHALES

Orcz’nus area, the killer whale, is now worth $100,000
to $125,000 each. Sea World, Inc., possessor of a permit
issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service (U.S.
Department of Commerce), authorizing it to capture four
of these small, toothed whales before the end of the year,
pursued a pod with a fast boat and aircraft for some “.5
miles down Puget Sound before capturing five. Several
hundred people saw the maneuvers and their reaction
was one of widespread anger.

Senator Warren Magnuson, who has been pressing for

a killer whale sanctuary in Puget Sound, had just
reiterated his request to Governor Dan Evans when the
Sea World capture crew made headlines on their whale
round—up.

The Attorney General instituted legal proceedings on
behalf of the Governor for release of the whales and
revocation of Sea World’s permit on the grounds of
extreme harassment and inhumane treatment of the
whales which had not been revealed in the application

.s-~r-.-.Iu..—o~ .: 5" 'M
O ' I

.2 IT‘

.»k

i av, ‘ g . ‘7 l ‘ l _ . V ‘5 .
. w.“ - . a” . . 'ﬁ ~ ‘ . . M pus. . . .,
’ a . 2: '5‘“, “midi!” :F‘air w .. _ "5 " i

. , -_. _,, H . . -

"« ‘ - a?” 4 M. ~_ ‘. -
.._-. My ﬁyw -.- 53.3w . ﬂ .-... ' ' _
,.....- — —¢1‘»'“"‘~ '3‘!” w W' ~. I‘

,. ..-,J mﬁ . h...» ,

-_ “a... 3:2“ m * ‘W‘ ... -. .. .

~_.___

..

 




for the permit. While Sea World was appealing the
injunction issued by Judge Sharp which would have
required release of the whales, two of them escaped from
the net which imprisoned them. A third was released
because it was larger than the size designated in the
permit. But two of the whales were removed to Sea
World’s tank on the Seattle waterfront where the whales
were measured and remeasured. One was determined to
be 17’ 11%” long - just one quarter inch short of being
oversize for the permit limitation.
A further two days in court, March 22 and 23, brought
about a settlement in which the whales were released to
Dr. Albert W. Erickson of the University of Washington
for a period not to exceed ()0 days. Erickson holds a
permit for attaching radio transmitters to whales in order
to trace their movements. Sea World agreed never to
attempt another capture of killer whales in State of
Washington waters. (British Columbia has taken
separate action to prohibit taking in its waters). However,
Sea World still holds a valid permit to catch four whales
elsewhere.

Although the world population of this remarkable

species has never been accurately determined, scientific
data recently developed suggests that such estimates as
have been made are overestimates. Work by Dr. Michael
Bigg, using new photographic methods, indicates a
population of resident and transient orcas in the Puget
Sound area of about 65 to 70 in four pods. Previously it
had been thought that there were as many as 300.
Even the highest estimate of the world population is only
10,000 animals.* Great whales whose estimated
populations are at this level are on the Endangered
Species List. While evidence has not yet been put forward
to require listing of killer whales. this may soon become
necessary. especially since the species' habits cause those
outside the antarctic to spend much time in waters not
far removed from shore. [t is thus subject to danger from
pollution to a greater extent than species spending more
time in the open ocean.

Estimates of the world wide population vary widely
with estimates at 2.500. 3.()()(). 4,()()() and 10,000 with the
assumption that most of them live in the antarctic.

When killer whales are captured it is not at all unusual
for one or more to die.

Senator Magnuson introduced a bill. 5.3130. to amend
the Marine Mammal Protection Act to establish a
permanent moratorium on the capture of killer whales.
The bill has passed the US. Senate.

An identical bill was introduced in the House by
Congressman Don Bonker.

 

A WHALE MAKES FRIENDS

According to George Bryant. Associate Travel Editor
for the Toronto Star, who took the photograph of the
playful young gray whale. “The first friendly encounter
between whale and human ever recorded took place this
week. A young 30-foot seven—ton gray whale dubbed
Nacho made history by seeking out the company of man,
using a rubber dingy as a plaything and allowing himself
to be petth and scratched...

“Estimated to be 2 years old and to weigh nearly as
much as two full-grown elephants. he played like a
boisterous youngster. rolling and splashing and diving,

, ..-_ 1.. ‘ﬁ... ; s 2......
. .. .. “9:2...“ m,
a i r .< ' .-
ﬂ -.._, . "' >1”: '7 ..~ "‘“ >
‘ 'M

Photo by George Bryant

nudging and butting the raft and obviously enjoying the
human attention.

“At frequent intervals he would suspend himself in a
vertical position and slide his giant head from the water
to see what his audience was doing and to be scratched
and petted.

“At no time did he make an aggressive move. In fact
his every action was surprisingly gentle, moving his
gigantic body only inches at a time when being handled
by humans.

“He appeared beside the ship in the afternoon while
the three dinghies were away from the ship and
played about the hull for an hour, once seizing the
anchor rope in his mouth and starting to tow it away.

“Then the dinghies returned and he went off to meet
them.

“He followed the rubber craft back to the ship and
then. apparently enchanted by the texture of the rafts,
began lltl’l.’/.llllg and playing around one that had been

trailed from the stern.

“He pushed it and rubbed it, bounced it on his nose,
lifted it on his back. dove beneath it and generally acted
like a mammoth pup with a new toy.

“Periodically he would slide his great head from the
sea to allow a jet of water from the stern of the Salado to
play on his face or let the ship’s 33 passengers stroke his
nose and scratch his cheeks.”

The young whale left at nine pm. but was back before
six the next morning and played through the day. “At
one point the skipper of the Salado, John Koehler, went
into the raft to repair a line broken by the playful toss of
the whale and Nacho (the Spanish diminutive for the
name of the lagoon) slid the forward part of his head into
the air beside the craft - towering above both it and John
- in an obvious attempt to see what had changed the
weight of his plaything.

“'l'his projection of the head vertically above the water
by whales is known as spy hopping and there has been
argument about its purpose.

“Some cetologists (whale experts) maintain it is done
to assist digestion while others say that it is done to bring
the eyes. which are well back on the head. above the
water.

“Well. there was no doubt about what Nacho was
doing. He was taking a look into the dinghy. And having
satisfied his curiosity. he began to play again with the
craft and John. lifting both in the air and obviously

enjoying the whole thing.

“But with all his weight and power he never once
turned the raft over.“

7

(Readers who wish a complete reprint of the article may
write to AWI to request a free copy.)

 

NEW ZEALAND BANS COMMERCE
IN WHALES

The government of New Zealand has banned
importation of whale products. The action was prompted
by the government’s concern about the depletion of
world whale stocks. and the fact that some species are
faced with extinction.

The import prohibition covers whales, live or dead,
meat and edible meat offals of whales, whalebone,

 




ambergris, whale oil, whale fat, sperm oil and train oil,
and spermaceti.

The Minister of Overseas Trade stated that in
introducing this restriction, New Zealand was following
the lead of the United States which operates a total ban
and other nations such as Australia and the United
Kingdom which have partial bans on the importation of
whale products. Recent evidence suggested that this type
of action has been successful in bringing moral pressure
to bear on those nations still involved in large scale
whaling to review their operations. It was hoped that New
Zealand’s action would add to this pressure.

 

FUJITA HEADS NEW CONSOLIDATED
COMMERCIAL WHALING COMPANY

The Japanese whaling industry has undergone a major
reduction in vessels and personnel. A new company, the
Japan Joint Whaling Company, was formed February
16th. According to The Japan Times of that date, it “will
begin operation in northern Pacific waters in May.” The
three big fishing companies, Taiyo, Nippon Suisan and
Kyokuyo, each put up 32% of the capital, and three small
ones added one or one and a half per cent. Whaling
department personnel will be reduced from about 3000
to 1500. Head of the new Japan Joint Whaling Company
is Iwao Fujita, former director of the government
fisheries agency, Japanese Commissioner last year to the
International Whaling Commission, and head of the
Japan Whaling Association.

According to the Tokyo Shimbun (February 15, 1976)
Japan has 34 whaling vessels, but the new joint whaling

company is buying only three factory ships and 20
catcher boats. That leaves 11 vessels unaccounted for. A
short term regulation has prevented sale of these vessels
outside the country but such temporary measures cannot
be relied upon in the future especially since the Japanese
press uniformly reports that the new Japan Joint
Whaling Company faces serious financial problems. As
The Japan Times (March 3, 1976) stated, “...Japan, the
largest whaling nation in the world, found itself
increasingly isolated at International Whaling Commis-
sion meetings and other related international confer-
ences despite its vigorous campaign to defend its
position. The country came under pressure particularly
from animal protection and environmentalist groups in
the U.S. and other advanced Western nations which
claimed that Japan was hunting the whales to
extinction.”

The Japan Times explains that Mr. Fujita is_ “less
than confident, however, when it comes to the immediate
business prospects of his fledgling company. He expects
that operations will remain in the red or stay barely at
break-even point ‘fOr the time being’ partly because the
market is limited and partly because production costs,
particularly payrolls, have risen. Demand is a critical
factor in the continued operation of the whaling industry.
Some people raise the possibility that demand for the
whale meat may diminish as the Japanese dietary
standard improves. As an official of the Fisheries Agency
points out, whale meat does not taste particularly good,
and housewives buy it because it is cheap.

“Japan consumes about 100,000 tons of whale meat a
year (in 1973, according to the Japanese Whaling

Association, one fourth of it was imported from the
Soviet Union). That represents one per cent of the
nation’s total annual fish catch.”

Conservationists have expressed concern lest the
excess whaling equipment be merely shifted to nations
such as Peru or Chile which are not even subject to
International Whaling Commission restrictions. Kinkai,
the whaling company in Peru, is owned by major
Japanese business concerns and ships whale products to
Japan.

The Far Eastern Economic Review (March 26, 1976)
states, “The Japanese are also reported to have been
negotiating the sale of these additional boats to Third
World Countries which are interested in whaling but are
not members of the AWl and so not bound by quota
restrictions.”

 

 

    

April, May, June, 1976

 

1976 MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION

The two major whaling nations, Russia and Japan,
again demonstrated in unmistakable terms at the 1976
meeting of the International Whaling Commission their
unwillingness to acCept scientific assessment of the
populations of whales in setting limits to the killing.

The Scientific Committee of the International

Whaling Commission recommended major reductions in
the harpooning of sperm whales. In one area, for
example, Japan proposed that 3188 should be killed,
while the IWC Committee said the number should be
reduced to 826. Although Japan, in. the person of Mr.
Yonezawa, a fisheries scientist who has long advocated
maximum whale killing, led the fight, it is the Soviet
Union that is most interested in sperm whales. Sperm OH
is used in Russian missiles and submarines.

Six separate votes were recorded as the hard-core
whaling countries confronted the whale conservation
countries on the sperm whale question. Dr. Robert
White, U.S. Commissioner, stated ﬂatly: “The United
States made its compromise with the whaling nations last
year. We won’t compromise on the compromise. The
U.S. intends to stick with the recommendations of the
Scientific Committee even if we leave without a quota.”
Dr. Andreas Rozental, Mexican Commissioner, said that
if one more whale than the Scientific Committee allowed

were placed on the quota it would show that the New

Management Procedure had failed, and if the whaling
nations were going back to the whole system of political
bartering, Mexico would demand the total moratorium
which, he predicted, could pass in 1977. The
Commissioner for New Zealand which has just rejoined
the Commission, pronounced himself stunned by the
whaling nations’ effort to double the sperm whale quota.
He said the whale has become a symbol for
environmental pressure the world over, and that there
were very real political pressures in his country for its
protection.

Despite all pleas, however, Japan, Russia, South
Africa, Norway and Denmark formed a block against
conservationist votes till the very end of the meeting
when, after a long filibuster by Mr. Yonezawa who made
lengthy appeals to what he characterized as an
“unwritten law” of the IWC against a second vote on the
same numbers, the fifteen commissioners voted 10 to 3
with 2 abstentions to accept the Scientific Committee
recommendations on sperm whales in the Southern
Hemisphere. South Africa and Norway abstained, while
the Danish Commissioner followed the lead of Japan and
Russia to the very end. ,

If either or both of these countries decide to take an
objection to the decisions reached by the 3/4 majority of
the International Whaling Commission they can do so
up to September 25, and in that case they will not be
bound by the terms of the treaty. If they adhere, it is
expected that a further reduction in whaling equipment
and personnel will be made this year. Japan reduced
industry employees from 3000 to 1500 last year, and
Russia dropped one of its three antarctic ﬂeets.

The reduction of Japanese and Russian ﬂeets will not
prevent extinction of the whales, however, if excess
whaling vessels and equipment are transferred to other
nations for more whale killing. The United States was
defeated in its attempt to amend the Schedule of the
IWC so that member nations would be bound by treaty
obligations not to transfer whaling vessels. Japan led the
fight against it and even opposed a nonbinding
resolution on the same subject. This resolution passed
but its ineffectiveness was made clear by the Chairman of
the Technical Committee who sought to win the Japanese
vote by pointing out, “A resolution is not binding on
anyonef’

A second resolution against purchase of whale
products from countries that do not adhere to IWC
quotas was also opposed by the whaling nations. Only
Argentina, France, Mexico and New Zealand supported
this U.S. proposal. Meantime, the pirate whaler M V
Sierra plies its trade, killing hundreds of endangered sei
and Bryde’s whales and throwing most of their bodies

 

 

  




back into the sea, keeping only the choicer cuts for sale in

the Japanese whale meat market. Registered in

Lichtenstein with a South African captain, ﬂying the

Angolan ﬂag, and labelling the meat “Product of Spain”

it pays no attention to the IWC quotas or regulations -

and the IWC refuses to adopt so much as a resolution to
discourage purchase of its products.

Although both Russia and Japan must take a part of
the responsibility, it has recently been charged that
South Korea is guilty of driving the gray whales on the
Asian side of the Pacific to extinction, yet Japan buys
whale meat from South Korea and insists that the whales
killed by that country not be included in the IWC quota.
Mr. Uchimura, the Japanese Commissioner, said South
Korea would demand compensation if Japan ceased
buying whale meat from her.

Repeated efforts have been made by the United States
to persuade South Korea to join the IWC, but these
efforts have failed, and South Korea is free to kill as
many whales as she can of any species, age or condition
without so much as accounting for them.

It may seem contradictory to readers of this report that

efforts are made to bring nations into the I WC when it is
so weak an organization, so weighted in favor of
commercial whalers. If there were another forum, the
IWC should be disbanded. But so long as even small
reforms can be made through its quotas and regulations
it is better that all whaling fall within its regulations,
however feeble. But the big whaling nations want to keep
the IWC weak. For example, Japan threatened to “take a
reservation” (that is, refuse to adhere to the decision) if it
had to increase its contribution to the IWC in a
substantial manner.

The Soviet Union reacted violently to a proposal that
the quotas be based on weight rather than on numbers of
whales. (The weight per whale of sperm whales has been
going down steadily under the fierce hunting pressure).
Mr. Nikoronov, the Soviet Commissioner, called the
weight criteria “worse than the global moratorium.” He
said that “actual operations will become impossible
under such drastic measures.” Again the conflict
between whaling and scientific analysis came to the

surface.

Sometimes the scientific analysis is stymied within the
Scientific Committee itself. Dr. Sidney Holt was called
upon in the meeting of the Commissioner to tell of a
miscalculation on sei whales in the antarctic, two stocks
of which he characterized as “extremely depleted.” In
Area II they are down to 30% or less of their original
population because they were left open to exploitation.
The Chairman of the Scientific Committee spoke of a
lack of data at the beginning of the meeting - yet no
corrective action was taken by the Commissioners. The
whales are far from safe under the jurisdiction of the
IWC.

Quotas set for 1976 total 27,939 whales, and, of course,
this does not take into account the whales killed by
countries that don’t belong to the IWC. Last year whalers
were unable to meet all the quotas allowed them even
though these were reduced by about 8,500. The results of
the further quota reduction of about 5,000 this year
remain to be seen but they are not likely to make much
difference to the whales since the bulk of the reduction
comes in quotas for sperm whales in the Southern
Hemisphere where whalers missed reaching last year’s
quota by about 4,000 whales.

In short, reductions in quotas sound like much more
substantial progress than they really are, for where they
merely reflect the whalers’ inability to find the whales to
kill such progress is illusory. What is needed is the ten
year moratorium on commercial whaling unanimously
adopted at the Stockholm Conference on the Human

Environment and called for by conservation and humane
groups world-wide. Dr. Kai Curry-Lindahl, spokesman
for the United Nations Environment Programme,
emphasized that UNEP is committed to the ten year
moratorium. The United States and France restated
their desire for the moratorium. Mexico cited Mexican
law as “totally prohibiting exploitation of all marine
mammals, especially whales.” New Zealand and France
referred to legislation in preparation in their countries
for further protection of marine mammals. New Zealand
recently prohibited imports of whale products and

France expects to do so soon. But these are only a few
countries.

Australia still kills sperm whales and her nationals
chair both the IWC itself and its Scientific Committee.
Conservation moves were more than once ruled out of
order from the chair.

Next year’s IWC meeting will be held in Canberra,
Australia June 20-25.

 

July, August, September, 1976

 

WHALING FLEETS ON THE DECLINE

The public outcry against commercial whaling is taking a steady
toll of the Japanese and Soviet whaling fleets.\These marauding
factories for whale butchery may soon disappear from the high
seas if the present trend continues.

Japan has just announced a 50% reduction in its pelagic

whaling operations for the upcoming whaling season. Just two

fleets will sail to the Antarctic. Last year there were three, the year

before there were four Japanese fleets. Only one Japanese fleet
will work the North Pacific next summer.

The Japan Joint Whaling Company, formed last spring when
the six Japanese whaling companies consolidated their operations,
now has just three factory ships and 20 catcher boats. Only two
years ago, there were at least six factory ships and more than 80
catcher boats sailing under the Japanese flag. The new company is
poorly capitalized and is reportedly suffering huge losses in its
attempt to keep the whaling industry alive. Before the
consolidation, one of the major whaling companies, Nippon
Suisan, reported a $5 million loss on its Antarctic fleet.

The total Japanese Antarctic whale catch this year was just 5%
of the Japanese catch in 1964. The declining catches and
international pressure forced a 50% reduction in the whaling
workforce last year, from 3000 to 1500. The recent
announcement means a further reduction to 750 workers.

Bowing to intense pressure, the Soviets announced September
30 that they would not file an objection to the new sperm whale
quotas set in June by the international Whaling Commission. The
Soviets had bitterly fought the 55% reduction in Southern Ocean
sperm whales, their principal quarry. Last season the two Soviet
fleets killed more than 6400 sperm whales in the Antarctic. This
winter it looks as if they will be allowed only 4500. It is
questionable whether the Soviets can afford to send two fleets
again for such a reduced quota.

The Soviets apparently divulged their long-range whaling plans
when a Russian diplomat inadvertently stated that they would end
whaling within two years. The incident occurred in Vancouver on
August 25 when a press conference was held aboard a visiting
Russian warship.

Nikolai Makarov, charge d’affaires at the Soviet embassy in
Ottawa. was asked to comment on the activities of the Greenpeace
anti-whaling expedition. Makarov replied that the whaling
controversy had become “a political matter” to the Soviet Union
and that they would end commercial whaling “in a year or two."

The Soviet diplomat wasn’t supposed to disclose his country’s
whaling plans, because the Ministry of Fisheries in Moscow
promptly denied Makarov’s statement. The fisheries ministry
spokesman did say, however, that the Soviets will not be doing
“much" whaling by 1980 because of the dwindling whale
population.

If in fact the Soviets do go out of whaling soon, the pressure will
intensify enormously on the Japanese to do the same. Both
countries have acted in concert in whaling strategy for many years.

Japan is already deeply concerned about the international
outcry against her whaling operations. The Japanese business
community has begun to speak out against whaling in the
corporate boardrooms of Tokyo. The boycott has done
considerable damage to Japanese sales in the US. and to the
image of Japanese business overseas. The government of Prime
Minister Miki is also moving to put an end to the dying whaling
industry. Only labor union opposition to job cuts is keeping the
whaling ships on the ocean.

On July 28 the New York Times editorialized: “The boycott of
Japanese products by private American groups—and the threat of
its spread—persuaded the Tokyo Government that a sentiment it
may have thought was quixotic was nonetheless real and deeply
felt. The Soviet Union perhaps can be persuaded as the Japanese
have been, that survival of the fabulous whale is not a passing flight
of fancy but a matter of continuing deep and serious world
concern."

Now is the time to redouble our pressure on Japan and the
Soviet Union to finally convince them to put a quick end to their
dying whaling industries. Write to the leaders of these countries
and demand that they heed the outcry of the international
community. Their addresses are:

Prime Minister Takeo Miki, Embassy of Japan,

2520 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC. 20008

General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, Embassy of USSR,
1125 16th St NW, Washington, DC. 20036

 




  

October, November, December, 1976

 

GOVERNOR BROWN FOCUSES ON WHALES

“California Celebrates The Whale” was the title of Governor
Jerry Brown’s hommage to the largest animals ever to live on
earth. Speeches, films, music, and exhibits, featuring Roger
Payne’s narration of his observations of the lives of the Southern
Right whales, drew huge ‘crowds to Sacramento, November 20th.
Many organizations, including the AWl, had booths for the public.
Volunteers Nancy Motz, George and Harriet Powell, and others
distributed AWl fliers and bumper stickers urging the boycott of
Japanese and Russian goods. AWI helped make possible the
appearance of the celebration’s most knowledgable historian of the
destruction of the great whales, Tom Garrett, Conservation
Director of Friends of the Earth, whose comprehensive analysis of
the plight of the whales brought home the extreme urgency for
action to his listeners. His address appears in full below:

A TIME OF MAXIMUM PERIL
by Tom Garrett

Ladies and Gentlemen, for 50 million years since early in the
Eocene epoch the lines of mammals leading to moden whales
evolved and flourished in the oceans, entirely free of direct
influence of terrestrial animals.

In the past 1000 years, hardly an evolutionary flick of an
eyelash, an entire suborder of unique and magnificent mammals,
the whalebone whales, and several species of toothed whales as
well, have been pushed within sight of the awful vertex of
biological extinction by human whalers. Most of this has occurred
within the past 300 years, much of it within our lifetimes.

There have been many thousands of humans over the years;
investors, inventors and engineers; sailors down on their luck, or
too drunk to know better, who signed aboard a yankee whaler;
laborers toiling in the stench and steam of a modern factory ship,
who.have worked—knowingly or haplessly-toward the destruc-
tion of the great whales.

Compensation has ranged from the merest pittance to an
average 50% return on investment during the humpback phase of
modern whaling from 1908 to 1914. But whaling has, by and
large, been unusually profitable, reflecting the vulnerability of its
victims. The city of Sandefjord, seat of Vestfold county Norway,
which served for 70 years as the human womb for the growth of
modern whaling, enjoyed during much of that period the highest
per capita income of any city in the world.

The employment peak for modern whaling occurred in
1960-61, when 19,641 men (9748 Japanese) worked aboard the
expeditions engaged in antarctic whaling. This occurred 30 years
after the peak kill in antarctic whaling, when 10,691 men, virtually
all Norwegian took 21/2 times the biomass of whales taken in 1961,
with a fleet of catcher boats having less than 1/3 the total
horsepower. It occurred when the antarctic Humpback stocks were
gone, the Blue whales virtually gone, the collapse of the fin whale
stocks imminent and in clear view. It occurred 32 years after Lars
Christensen, President of A/S Thor Dahl, Norway’s largest whaling
company began reinvesting profits from whaling into shipping on
the theory that the destruction of the whales had become
inevitable. The great surprise to the Norwegian and British in-
vestors and to most scientists was not that the stocks collapsed, but
that they lasted as long as they did.

No whaling ship has left Sandefjord in nine years. This coming
antarctic season with an expected Japanese workforce at under
1500, and a slightly larger Soviet contingent, the pelagic work-
force will total between 3000 and 3500.

It is only now, with the ability of whales to sustain the death tech-
nology unleashed against them nearing its end, that the effort
being expended to save whales has risen toward parity with the
pressure for their destruction. It is only now that we have some
basis for hoping that at least some species of commercially exploit-
able whales will not share the earlier fate of stocks and species
more vulnerable, and that the tragedy of the great whales will not
progress to the macabre conclusion so long predicted.

During the past two years, the lWC has adopted quotas under a
scheme called the “New Management Procedure” which have
led to complete protection for Fin whales in all oceans except the
North Atlantic, for Sei whales in one area of the antarctic and in
the Pacific. The baleen whale biomass available to the whaling
industry under lWC quotas has been halved in this period. Sperm
whale quotas were this year reduced, and assigned on an area by
area basis, in a manner which imposes severe operating restraints.
Under these strictures, pelagic whaling has changed from a highly
profitable activity, to an activity which is in the classic economic
sense, unprofitable.

But if this is a time of hope, with the drastic consolidation and
retrenchment now occurring within the whaling industry, it is also a

    

 

time of maximum peril. If the major whaling nations are permitted
to sell equipment to entrepreneurs operating under flags of
nations not subject to lWC regulations, and if nationals from
whaling nations who possess the necessary expertise to operate
this equipment are permitted to do so, the recent modest “victory”
within the lWC will prove to have been Pyrrhic indeed.

Certain stocks of baleen whales are, indeed, “commercially

extinct”. The Right whales which wintered along the European
coast, and which supplied victims for the first open boat
commercial whaling, begun by the Basques before the year 1000,
are gone. The Humpbacks which migrated south along the
European coast are gone also, as are the‘blue whales. The Atlantic
Bowhead, or Greenland whale, which sustained 200 years of
Dutch and British whaling, hangs to existence by an eyelash west
of the Davis Strait, at the mercy of marauding natives, but of no
commercial interest. The right whales which once migrated along
the North American coast, and sustained the first American
whaling industry exist as a tiny and unrecovering remnant. The
Humpback stocks which wintered along our Pacific coast were
destroyed in their summering grounds off Alaska by the Soviet
fleet in the late 19503 and early 1960’s, and progressively
exterminated in their wintering grounds by two US shore stations
while the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries watched benignly. They
are gone.

The Korean stock of Grey whales is gone. The north Pacific
Right whales may be gone.

Other relict populations, now under lWC protection, remain of
potential commercial value. These whales, despite their small
numbers, are critically vulnerable because of the regular migratory
pathways they follow, and because of their wintering concentration
in discrete breeding and calving grounds. Examples are the
southern Right whale stock which Dr. Roger Payne has studied off
Patagonia, and the Humpbacks which Dr. Winn has found
wintering in three concentrations in the Caribbean. Surplus
whaling equipment in the hands of criminals such as the owners
and operators of the ship “Sierra” could readily be amortized in a
single season by raids on these evidently recovering remnants.

Moreover, there are enough Sperm whales in the wintering
areas of [WC protected stocks, such as the few southern
Humpbacks which return to ancestral wintering grounds off
Angola and Zaire, off Madagascar, off Tonga and off the west coast
of South America; or northern Humpbacks who winter off China,
to subsidize their total destruction. This is, in fact, doubtless
happening off Peru where a Japanese owned company whales
without. restriction, off Africa where the “Sierra” is operating, and
off Korea.

The subsidization of the complete, or nearly complete
destruction of one stock of whales by simultaneous exploitation of
another, more numerous stock has been a consistent motif in the
death symphony of whaling, and there is every reason to expect

that it will operate to destroy the last Right and Humpback, and in
good time Fin and Sei stocks, if we permit it to do so.

The International Whaling commission this c'Jne in London
passed a comparatively weak recommendation, requesting that
member governments “to the best of their ability” act to prevent
the transfer of whaling equipment supplies or expertise to nations
not members of the lWC.

A second resolution, sponsored by the US, providing that no
member nation of the lWC should import whale products from
nations which are not lWC members was beaten when Canada
and several European members sided with Japan, which provides
the major market, and much of the capital, for unregulated
enterprises. The text of the defeated resolution was taken,
incidentally, from a resolution passed in 1938 by a meeting of the
International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling.

Until the whaling commission adopts provisions for economic
sanctions against non complying members, and non members, its
function will be largely dependent on the willingness of member
nations to act unilaterally.

There have, in fact, been only two successful international con-
ventions for the protection of Marine Resources: The Fur Seal
Convention signed in 1911, and the North Pacific Halibut
Convention concluded with Great Britain in 1923. Both conven-
tions were established to deal with stocks decimated below the
point of major commercial significance. The Halibut stocks were
painfully rebuilt, only to be scooped up as incidental catch to
Japanese ground fishing. The restored fur seal herds are also
declining, with the disappearance of food fish in the Bering Sea.
Beyond these two isolated, and rather anomalous instances, the
only actions which have significantly altered the fate of whales or
other marine creatures, either within or outside an international
regulatory framework, have been unilateral.

In the case of the whales, Norway possessed the power to halt
expansion of whaling until the late 1930’s. This was because the
specialized expertise which made whaling operations succeed was
Norwegian. Until Japan entered the antartic in 1936, Norwegians
manned each and every ship, regardless of flag, involved in pelagic
whaling. Even then, the first factory ship was sold to Japan by a
Norwegian company, and managed by Norway during its initial
season. The German fleet was manned largely by Norwegians, and

 




A TIME OF PERIL

conﬁnued

was developed and partially financed through the complicity of
both the Norwegian and British industries. Two US. flag factory
ships which engaged in the infamous massacre of humpbacks in
their calving grounds at Shark Bay off the west coast of Australia in
the late 1930’s, were Norwegian flag of convenience operations
mounted to get behind the US. tariff wall.

The Norwegian government, through its whaling Act of 1939,
finally cracked down on its industry by assuming control over the
transfer of any Norwegian flag ships for the purposes of whaling,
and by restricting its citizens from working aboard vessels of
nations with whaling regulations less strict than those of Norway. In
1946, the Crown decreed that Norwegian citizens could not serve
aboard expeditions which were not operating before World War II,
except by special dispensation. Such dispensation was, unhappily,
granted the ship “Slava”, ex German “Wickenger” given the
Soviet Union by the war reparations commission, manned and
operated by Norwegians during the first seasons. Norway’s action
to protect its industry was too little and too late to stop the larva
from devouring the parent, along with their mutual prey. But it did
prevent Australia, Italy and Argentina from entering pelagic
whaling. and made ventures by the Dutch and Onassis operated
by rouge Norwegians and by Germans trained prior to World War

II. markedly unprofitable.

Unilateral action, in the form of a citizens’ economic boycott,
taken by the US. conservation community, and the threat of
economic action posed by the US. Congress, and by the
administration through the Pelly amendment to the Fishermen’s
Protective Act which permits the embargo of fish products from
nations “acting to diminish the effectiveness of an international
agreement for the conservation of marine resources,” have been
largely resposible for the gains which have been made within the

Having said that, I am bound to note that the US, contrary to
conventional wisdom, does not have hands clean of responsibility.
If it had not been for US. State Department, the whaling
convention of 1946 would have been a good deal stronger than it
was, and there is an outside chance that it might have worked to
halt the precipitous destruction of the whales. The fact is the 1946
Convention represented a considerable recidivism from the 1945
protocol to the 1937 International agreement for the Regulation of
Whaling, and a truncation of favorable trends running within that
agreement toward establishment of economic sanctions against
non-complying nations.

The extent to which the effort of the late Dr. Remington Kellogg
to achieve these goals was undercut by State Department
bureaucrats, may be appreciated by the following exchange, taken
from the Transcript of the 1946 Convention.

Mr. Dobson, for the United Kingdom: “We are not interested in
the 1945 US. proposal restricting sale, loan or delivery of vessels,
equipment or supplies designed especially to whaling operations
to countries who are not parties to the Agreement”. Mr. Flory for
the United States: “We now, with somewhat more mature con-
sideration, believe that in preparation for this document, economic
sanctions of this nature might be quite inappropriate in a longer
range agreement. It might very well be appropriate to eliminate the
quest of economic sanctions at this point and resort to the usual
procedure of using persuasion and such diplomatic representation
as may be necessary in order to get any refractory governments to
concede the principles set forth in this agreement”.

Mr. Flory later characterized “this sort of thing” as “contrary to
the spirit of free enterprise”. It will come as no great surprise for
you to learn that certain American investors were at that time
negotiating with Aristotle Onassis for a revival of US. flag whaling.

A second egregious action of US, vigorously but unavailingly
opposed by other allied nations was taken by Supreme Command
Allied Powers (SCAP) in Tokyo, also in 1946, also with the
concurrence of the State Department. This was to deliberately
sponsor renewed Japanese involvement in pelagic whaling. It is
most ironic that the commercial and operational modes which
provided Japanese post war whaling with its celebrated “meat
margin”, and made Japanese operations far more profitable than
whaling for oil conducted by European nations, were imposed by
SCAP.

Indeed, since SCAP took the whale oil in return for helping
finance the expeditions, the Japanese companies had no choice
but to concentrate on efficiently producing and marketing whale
meat.

The campaign to save the great whales, begun modestly by a
few persons a few years ago, has swept this nation and the world. It
has achieved important success. But it can still fail.

If we falter now, if we fail to pass necessary legislation which is
still pending in the US. Congress, if we fail to leave behind us the
cynicism and timidity, the genuflection to transient pressures and
bureaucratic penates, which has often characterized US. policy
toward whales in the past both in government and among conser-
vationists, we may still be remembered, as the generation which
went to Mars looking for algae, while the last great whales, with
immense brains unplumbed and unfathomed were destroyed in
the world’s oceans.

 

SOUTH AFRICA GOES OUT OF THE
WHALING BUSINESS

The Union Whaling Company of South Africa announced in
October that it “has ceased operations and is disposing of its
whalers, machinery and other equipment.” (Mainichi, Tokyo,
Japan, October 21, 1976).

According to the report, L.C. SUrmon, Managing Director of the
company, which is the largest landbased whaling operation in the
world, said it had become uneconomic “as a result of a drastic

reduction in whaling quotas worldwide.”

Surmon is quoted as saying, “A quota of 500 whales is simply
not enough to allow for a profit.”
The Union Whaling Company killed mainly sperm whales,
quotas‘ for which were reduced this year by some 4,000. In 1967

the kill from the Durban Shore Station was 2,847 sperm whales
and 236 baleen whales.

 

JAPANESE WHALERS HAULING IN $3,600,000
ON A “SCIENTIFIC PERMIT”

Bryde’s whales are worth about $15,000 each according to
industry representatives at the last meeting of the International
Whaling Commission. At that price, the 240 Bryde’s whales that
Japan hasjust assigned itself under a “Scientific Permit” are worth
$3,600,000.

The International Whaling Commission allows for the issuance
of such permits by contracting governments without any
consultation with other IWC members, although there was once a
desultory discussion in the IWC’s Scientific Committee about the
desirability of consultation. Had Japanese scientists at the last
meeting proposed to take 240 Bryde’s whales there would
certainly have been opposition.

The sudden announcement in the wake of major IWC quota
reductions in 1975 and 1976 suggests a desperate move by the
Japanese whaling industry to revivify itself by opening up new
whaling areas. There is a zero quota on Bryde’s whales in those
parts of the Southern ocean where Japanese catcher boats will
now pursue and harpoon these endangered whales. The permit
issued by the Government of Japan to Yoshio Fukuda, Director of
Japan’s Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory, states the
purpose to be to estimate “the population size and structure of this
stock for rational exploitation.”

Previous to this venture the only recently permitted killing of
Bryde‘s whales in the Southern hemisphere were nine in 1974
taken by South Africa. A pirate whaler, the Sierra, has been taking
over four hundred whales a year in the area, however. It is
uncertain whether they were sei or Bryde’s whales. The two
species are sufficiently difficult to distinguish one from the other
that they used to be counted together under the designation
sei/Bryde's. Baleen whales, both enter the Japanese whale meat
market, whether taken under the new scientific permit or by the
outlaw Sierra which is registered in Lichtenstein but sells her
produce to Japan.

Until 1970 when Secretary of the Interior, Walter Hickel, placed
the great whales on the US. Endangered Species List, the last US.
whaling company killed and processed 60 gray whales each year
under a “scientific permit.” The US. Government put a stop to this
commercial operation. The Government of Japan should do the
same.

Please write to Prime Minister Miki urging an end to commercial
whaling and an immediate cancellation of the permit his
Government has issued to'kill 240 endangered Bryde’s whales in
excess of the quotas established this June by the International
Whaling Commission. Let the Prime Minister know you are
boycotting Japanese and Russian goods till these nations end their
massive pelagic whaling and that you are gravely disappointed in
the new move to increase the kill by unilateral action. He may be
addressed as follows:

Prime Minister Takeo Miki *
Embassy of Japan ,
2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
Washington, DC. 20008

 

* Note: Prime Minister Takeo FUkuda
has succeeded Mr. Miki in

office. Please write him
at the same address.

 




 

 

 

long war of attrition

between conservationists

and whalers is paying off —
for the whales.

Meeting in Canberra last week
the International Whaling Com-

mission heavily reduced kill
quotas for the second year run-
ning.‘

On' the recommendation of its,
scientific committee. and under
considerable pressure from con-
Servation groups, the IWC Will
allow member countries to slaugh-
ter 18,000 whales in 1978 — al-
most 10,000 fewer than this year.

And while conservationists
preSsing for a 10-year moratori-
um to allow stocks to recover
claim publicly that this is unac-
ceptable, privately they concede
it was the best that could bee-x-
pected under the circumstances.

Judging by the reaction of the
Japanese and Soviet commission-
' ers there was little joy in the
result for them.

The Japanese, g particularly,
fought a long series i;_ofrlcslin-g
procedural battles ,WIthin.-. the
commission in their efforts. to
secure bigger quotas. __

In the end the onesmall con-
cession they were able to wring
from the IWC was an agreement
that a virtual moratorium im-
Posed on northern Pacific sperm
whales would be reviewed in time
for the neXt whaling, season.

Japan, which together with the
Soviet Union accounts for.75 per
cent of the world’s whaling ac-
tivities, claims that without a.

War

THE

 

reasonable quota in the northern
Pacific its industry would be in
jeopardy .

The sense of knock-backs suf-
fered by Japan prompted some
pessimists to suggest that it Will
make good its threat to walk out
of the IWC -_-— thereby destroy-
ing any effectiveness the organise
ation may have.

But this does not take account
of the immense international pres-
sure, both official and unofficial.
which can be mobilised in defence
of the whale by countries like
Canada, Britain and most particu-
larly the United States.

 

Ever since the US closed down
its last whaling stations and. pass-
ed the Maritime Mammals Pro-
tection Act in 1972'it has been at
the forefront of moves" to halt
commercial .Whalingij‘ﬂ

. Its delegation in" Canberra 'co-n-
Sistently. adopted a hard-13m; 9051'
tion. against the. Japanese» the
Sov1ets, [the Icelanders and the
Scandinavians.

That it did not place a 10-year
moratorium resolution on the

agenda was- more recognition of

the futility of such a move than
any lack of will.

The US position is consider-
ably strengthened by President
Carter’s personal commitment on
the issue.

 

pays

TONY WA}:
KER reports

 

on the results

of the In-

 

 

te rri ational
W h a I i 1:
Com mission

meeting in

Canberra.

 

As Governor of Georgia and
member of the advisory com-
mission to the US delegation at
the 1972 UN conference on the
human environment i StockhOlm,
Carter was a strong one behind
moves for a moratorium.

His message to the commission
last week, delivered by Republi-

can Congressman Paul McC‘los-
key.'.wa's simple and. direct. _

He “WOuld' ‘ “maintain firm 'US
E‘UPPOrt for a 10-year. moratorium
011’ the commercial killing of
whales.”

The President had also asked
80vern‘ment agencies to report to
him within 60 days any actions
that diminished the effectiveness

 

of theIWC’s conservation pro-
gramme.

This message would not have
been lost on the Japanese who
have. a notorious reputation for
flouting the spirit if not the letter
of the international whaling co-
venant.

Not only does Japan use a loop-
hole which allows whales to be

killed in the interests of science
to add to its commercial catch
(it did this recently in the case
of 200, rare Bryde’s whales), it
also “sponsors” the whaling act-
ivities of countries which refuse
to join the IWC.

A prime example is Peru where
a largely Japanese-organised and
financed whaling station supplies
a reported 2500 tonnes of meat
annually to Japan.

There is also the case of the
pirate whaling ship, Sierra which
operates off the west coast of
southern Africa.

Efforts by conservationists to
find out who owns the ship have
been unsuccessful beyond estab-
lishing the fact that it flies a
Somali ﬂag, is registered in Liech-
ensteirn and is captained by a
Norwegian.

MOSt of the Sierra’s produce

finds its way to Japan via the
Ivory Coast, according to UN
sources.

Whaling by countries outside
the IWC accounts for about 10
per cent of the world’s catch.

But what is really worrying
IWC offimals and representatives
of the UN Food and Agriculture
Organisation is that while quotas
forrmember countries go down
the “take”.by the outlaws con-
tinues to rise.

They point .out that as long
as countries like Japan provide
markets and support for renegade

Whalers then there is very little
the IWC can do.

Certainly the commission did
not take up the Option presented
by a US resolution last week
which, had it been accepted,
would have prevented the impor-
tation of .whale products from
non-member countries.

The wdnder of all this is that
Japan chooses to risk continued
international censure in the inter-
ests of a food source! which ac-
counts for less than half of one
per cent of its protein intake.

The latest ﬁgures show the
consumption of whale meat in
Japan at 0.3 per cent and de-
creasing.

 

use is that
animal pro-

The Japanese res
its future source ‘0
tein is seriously threatened by
the declaration of. 320-kilometre
ﬁsheries zones by countries such
as the US.

For this reason, so the. Japan-
ese argument goes, whaling has
assumed even greater importance.

This may be so but the suspi-
cion remains that like the beef
lobby the whalers somehow have
their claws intoithe ruling Liberal
Democratic Party. ‘

The. Australian position last
week was one of cautious sup-

Off for Whales

port for all the recommendations
of the scientiﬁc committee.

Our delegates took a mildly less
adventurous } posture than their
British, New Zealand and Cana-
dian counterparts.

'Which is not surprising when
it is realised that Australia is one
of the dwindling minority within
the IWC which continues whaling
actiVities.

There is no doubt that if the
question of moratorium had been
posed the Australian delegation
would have voted against it ..

In, the event the real winners
last week, with the exception of
the whales which escaped the
quota for next year, were the
conservationists.

The conservation lobby demon-
strated an awesome power to
mobilise public interest—at least
if the vast amount of newspaper
'space and prime time televisron
devoted to the issue is any indiu
cation.

Even hardened international
campaigners |like Greenpeace
Foundation activist Mike Mc-
Gonigle were “amazed” by the
level of media interest they were
able to generate. ’

, Whether. it had any effect on
the sober-suited“.commissioners is
hard to say but certainly over a
period of years the lobby can be
credited with. saving some species
from" extinction.

In the case of several others
their help came too. late.

 




 

 

L
THE WHALE
sLAueI-iren

 

 

 

by JQSEPH GLASCOTT,
Environment Writer

DR IVAN V. Nikonorov
has the physique of a
Rus'sian bear and a vague
facial resemblance to the
American actor Jack Pa-
lance.

But the menacing appear-
ance is deceptive. He is one of
the mostamiable, charming
whale killers you could meet.

Dr Nikonorov, chairman of
the Soviet Union’s Ministry of
Fisheries Department, is the
chief Russian Commissioner to
the International Whaling
Commission, which has been
meeting all this week in Can-
berra.

The Soviet Union and Japan
are the world’s two major
whaling nations, Between them
they kill ‘75 per cent of whales
taken by Whalers annually.

Both countries still operate
big Ocean-going whaling fleets,
complete with factory ships. of.
the type which, from the early
years of the century, have
brought most of the great
whale species .— the Blue,'»‘the
White and the Humpback—to
the point of extinction. Both
are now hunting and killing
the remaining large species --
pspecially the Sperm, and even
the small Minke and Sei
whales —— over the oceans of
the world.

 

 

The Whalers in retreat

Japan is usually the target
for conservationists and non-
whaling nations. This is under-
standable because Japan em.
ploys what can only be des-
cribed as deceptive means of
avoiding international controls,
and is the most obdurate nation
on the issue of whaling conser-
vation.

But what about the Soviet
Union? Here is one of the
world’s two great superpowers,
with enormous natural resour-
ces and technology at its com-
mand. Yet it insists on remain-
ing a major whaler as though
this archaic form of obtaining
resources was its life blood.

I asked Dr Nikonorov and
his Russian delegation yester-
day why whaling was import-
ant to the Soviet Union.

Dr Nikonorov was in turn
jocular and serious. He does
not speak English nor I
Russian. But he spoke every
word' to me directly, forcing
my absolute attention between
the interruptions for his trans-
lator.

I” came away with the
impression that whaling mat-
ters little to the Soviet Union.
Dr Nikonorov said whaling
products were regarded as
important to his country for
the supply of sperm oil, the
production of margarine and
perfume, for use in pharma-
cology, for stock meal and as
a source of Vitamin A protein.

There was some hesitation,
to consult with other delega-

tion members, when I asked
whether the Soviet Union did
not have the technology, as
did'the United States, to pro-
vide alternatives for these
relatively minor uses of whale
products. The Soviet Union
was not yet ready to use alter-
natives, he said.

The Soviet Union now had
four factory ships, a 50 per
cent reduction from its earlier
ﬂeet, and the whaling industry
employed about 5,000 people.

He agreed that whaling was
not an important industry in
the Soviet 'Union, amounting

to only about 1.5 per cent of
the nation’s industrial output.
“lt‘s small but expensive,” he
said: It cost the Soviet Union
$95 million a year to keep its

four whaling ﬂeets on the
oceans.
Dr Nikonorov laughed

when I asked whether there
was .a public conservation
movement against whaling in
the Soviet Union. He pro-
duced his card and said: “My
department is the conservation
movement.”

He and other delegation
members laughed also when

.-.
......

 

asked whether the Soviet
whaling ﬂeets had a military
surveillance role. “One of our
whaling ﬂeets was in Sydney
recently,” he said. “We were
completely Open. Everybody
was welcome to come abbard.”

The sale of whale meat by
the Soviet Union to Japan is
a source of hard currency for
the Soviet Union. The Soviet
Union, by far the largest ex-
porter of whale meat to Japan,
supplied 22,853 tonnes in
1976.

Dr K. Yonezawa, Japanese
Commissioner at the IWC con-

 

Part of the Japanese delegation. At front, from left, Mr T. Saito, Mr Yonezawa and Mr Y. Fuzimoto.

fcrcnce, sent a message to say
he was too busv to talk to me.
Indeed, Japan seems to be
awfully busy at this conference.
Its delegation consists of about
20 members and observers
which, at the opening session,
took up four rows of chairs
behind the Commissioner.
While not giving interviews,
the Japanese have prepared a
brochure explaining their posi-
tion on whaling. This says that
Japan’s land areas are only
about 380,000 sq km, of which
about 13 per cent is arable. Its
people therefore depend on the

sea for slightly more than half
of their animal protein.

“The fact that the Japanese
eat whale meat may seem
strange to other people,” the
brochure says. “However the
Japanese people have utilised
whales as a food source for
more than 1,000 years.”

The argument of the Soviet
Union and Japan is that the
IWC system of. “controlled bar--
vesting” is the answer to whale
conservation.

But after poring over the
IWC. scientiﬁc committee’s re-
port, one can only be amazed
at the description of the docu-
ment and its deductions as
“scientiﬁc.” Time and again,
the IWC scientists admit that
they lack reliable information
on which to base accurate-
whale population ﬁgures. Yet
they make recommendations
on killing quotas—presented
as seientiﬁc deductions, but
seemingly based on past catch-
ing numbers.

The Japanese eat whale
meat raw, baked, grilled and
processed into canned food.

But what the brochure does
not disclose is that whale
meat, according to inter-
national statistics, amounts to
only 0.33 per cent of the
Japanese diet. Moreover, this
proportion is decreasing as the
Japanese turn to other meat
— and it is expensive: about
$2 3. kg.

The great irony is that Aus-
tralia, while defending whal-
ing, could be selling its vast,

 

 

.WJ:

conservation

unmarketable beef produce to
Japan to replace that country’s
present consumption of whale
meat.

The sad fact to emerge from
the ﬁrst Australian meeting of
the IWC is that the whole
organisation appears more con-
cerned about bureaucratic self-
preservation rather than whale
preservation.

One can only Wonder why
the Australian Government
spends so much effort, through
its Primary Industry Depart-
ment, protecting the insigniﬁ-
cant Australian whaling opera-

‘7

Dr Nikonorov . . . “My department is the (Russian)

7 the Sydney Morning Herald. Fri. June 24, 1977 1

   

. . 'o - n n . .
uni-(Invdh'a

movement."

tion at Albany, Western Aus-
tralia.

That said, it must be
acknowledged that the Can-
berra conference has gone fur-
ther than ever before in
acknowledging the whale as
an animal species worthy of
protection.

It has been a hallmark con-.
vention. For the ﬁrst time the
IWC has been brought under
concerted public scrutiny.

There is little doubt after
the events of this week’s
meeting that the writing is on
the wall for the whaling in-
dustry.

 

 




April, May, June, 1977

 

PRESIDENT CARTER’S POSITION
ON WHALES

In his Environmental Message May 23, 1977, President Car-
ter spoke out firmly on Saving the Whales: “Sharing the world-
wide public concern about the condition of marine mammals,
especially whales, I have directed the Secretary of Commerce,
with the foreign policy guidance oftheSecretary of State to:

“Prohibit commercial whaling within our ZOO-mile fishery
zone; ‘

“Pursue negotiations with the International Whaling Com-
mission for a stronger international conservation regime for
whales and other cetaceans, affording protection for them
throughout their range;

“Maintain firm US. support for a ten-year worldwide mora-
torium on the commercial killing of whales; and

“Report to me within 60 days any actions by other countries
that have diminished the effectiveness of the International
Whaling Commission’s conservation programs.”

In a cable to US. embassies in Tokyo, Moscow, Mexico City,
and Copenhagen, and the American Consul in Casablanca,
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance stated that all commercial whal-
ing within the US. 200-mile Fishery Conservation Zone is pro-
hibited. The cable further indicates US. support for the Inter-
national Whaling Commission and the desire to revise and
strengthen it. “The US. Government position is that coastal
states should have the right to take action more restrictive than
that agreed upon in the international body but not to take less
restrictive action and thereby weaken internationally accepted
conservation measures.”

July, August, September, 1977

 

BATTLE FOR THE WHALES AT CANBERRA

The International Whaling Commission meeting in Canberra,
Australia, June 20-24, made the largest cut in whale killing quotas
in its history. Total is 17,839 for 1978, down 10,100 from this
year

Worldwide demonstrations preceded the Canberra meeting
which was intensively covered by the Australian press (see pages
2 and 3 for two of the many excellent reports). The Commission
prohibits entry to its sessions by the press, and in a secret meeting,
voted again to exclude reporters, but accurate information was
regularly conveyed to newsmen in defiance of the rules.

Whale Survival Day rallies and demonstrations, held in
response to the Animal Welfare Institute call for action took place
Just before the IWC meet1ng1n Washington, DC; Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Syracuse, NY ,CIifton, N..;J Greenfield Center, N..Y; New York,
N.Y.; ,Batavia, N.Y.; Cranston, R.I.; North Attleboro, Ma.; Warren,
Ma.; Hingham, Ma.; Springfield, Ma.; Bel Air Md; Wayland, Ma.;
Alexandria, Va.; Carbondale, 11.; Indianapolis, -I.;n Munster, In.;
Columbia, Mo.; Lansing, ML; and Tracy, Ca., and in Europe, in
Zurich, Switzerland; Vienna, Austria; and Hocheim, Germany.

The Washington rally was held in Lafayette Park across from
the White House featuring a forty foot whale float and a banner
thanking President Carter for his Saving the Whales statement 1n
his Environmental Message. A second Presidential Message
directed specifically to the IWC was brought to Canberra by the
U. S Commissioner, Dr William Aron.

Petitions circulated at the Washington rally stated: “To the
International Whaling Commission meeting in Canberra,
Australia, June 20-24, 1977. We, the undersigned, demand
TRUE ACTION to save the whales at this meeting of the

International Whaling Commission, including: 1) PROHIBITION
of purchase of whale products from non-IWC nations, 2)
PROHIBITION of sale of whaling vessels, harpoons, and other
equipment to non-IWC nations. 3) A RAPID phase-out of all
commercial whaling to the total moratorium unanimously voted
at the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment.”
More than three thousand of the people gathered in Lafayette
Park for the rally signed the petitions, and they were carried to
Australia by the President of the Animal Welfare Institute who
presented them to the Chairman at the opening session, stating,
“I have flown directly from the biggest whale demonstration
Washington has yet seen. . .where the author of the prize-winning
Blue Whale, Professor George Small, was repeatedly interrupted
by loud bursts of applause as he explained and condemned the
sordid economics of whaling. . .”

Resolutions were passed by the IWC on points one and two,
but they do not constitute binding treaty obligations. A one-third
reduction in the whale killing Quota could. be interpreted as the
first step in a phase—out if it continues next year, but a special
meeting of the IWC Scientific Committee, to be held in
November, must confirm the greatest of cuts: the sperm whales in
the North Pacific. The 1978 quota is set at 763 in contrast to the
1977 quota of 7200. Soviet and Japanese whalers are seeking
out these whales even now for a massive slaughter. They may be
met in mid-Pacific by the new Greenpeace subchaser that intends
to sail between the whalers and the whales to prevent them from
being harpooned.

In this most critical year for whales the IWC unanimously put
the United States on notice that it could no longer tolerate the

SUMMARY OF MAJOR ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS UNDER THE
MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT AND ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT
DURING 1976 THROUGH MAY, 1977

SUMMARY OF VIOLATION

 

PERSONS CHARGED DATE CLOSED PENALTY

 

Japanese M/V DAIRYO MARU #11385 Importation of Whale Meat March 25, 1976 $5,000

 

Jerry 0. Mitchell
Chula Vista. California

Capture, possession and sale of 21 dolphins June 17, 1976
(24 counts); conspiracy (1 count)

90 days for conspiracy, 1 year
probation for the other 24 counts *

 

Herbert Hope
Florida City. Florida

Possession of illegally taken dolphins

July 7,1976
(1 count) -

30 days plus 1 year probation

 

Delbay Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kenilworth, New Jersey

Interstate sale of products containing
spermaceti

Aug. 10,1976 $10,000

 

Dome Laboratories
West Haven, Connecticut

Interstate commerce in products
containing spermaceti

Oct. 13, 1976 $5,000

 

Richardson-Merrell. Inc.
Wilton. Connecticut

Interstate commerce in products
containing spermaceti

Nov. 1, 1976 $7,500

 

 

 

Almay. Inc.
Apex. North Carolina

Interstate commerce in products
containing spermaceti

Dec. 6, 1976 $2,500

 

Chic-In Leather Corporation
New York, New York

Importation of Sealskins Dec. 9, 1976 $100 plus forfeiture of 420

Sealskins valued at$11,000

 

Sea World . Inc.
Orlando, Florida

Receiving Whale Tooth scrimshaw in
Interstate commerce

Dec. 15, 1976 $7,000 plus forfeiture of

33 scrimshaw items

 

Walt Disney World
Orlando. Florida

Receiving Whale Tooth scrimshaw in
Interstate commerce

Feb. 28, 1977 $3,500 plus forfeiture of 21

scrimshaw items

 

Werner G. Smith, Inc.
Cleveland, Ohio

Interstate sale and exportation of sperm
Whale oil and spermaceti (430 counts)

Mar. 25, 1977 $32,500

 

Scrimshaw Handcrafts, Inc. Interstate sale of whale tooth scrimshaw

Los Angeles, California

May 6, 1977 $6,000 plus forfeiture of 80

scrimshaw items

 

 

 

 

 

 

*On June 13, 1977, the Fifth U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this conviction on grounds that the Marine

US. Department of Commerce
Mammal Protection Act does not control the conduct of American citizens in the territorial waters of a foreign country.

 




increasing harassment and killing of Bowhead whales by
Eskimos, Aleuts, and Indians under the exemptions allowed them
by the US. Marine Mammal Protection Act. The IWC Scientific
Committee recommended a zero quota for these endangered
whales. More than 100 Bowhead whales were harpooned by
whalers from Eskimo villages in the 1977 spring hunt, but
three-quarters of the wounded escaped or sank. The total
Bowhead population is estimated to be between a few hundred
and two thousand. Congressman Paul N. McCloskey (R. Calif.)
promised that the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee of which he is a senior member will make vigorous
efforts to solve the problem if necessary.

A resolution was adopted calling for reports from member
countries on the time it takes each whale to die after first being
struck by a harpoon—a small step towards providing a less cruel
death for the thousands of these sensitive, intelligent creatures still
being killed for human use. Suggestions for humane killing
methods are being collected and should be sent to Dr. Edward
Mitchell, Fisheries and Marine Services, Box 400, Ste-Anne de
Bellevue, Province of Quebec, H9X 3L6, Canada.

Australian conservationists are fighting to end whaling in their
country where a single shore station at Cheynes Beach, Western
Australia, still sends out boats every morning to kill sperm whales.
They urge American friends of whales to write to the Prime
Minister of Australia asking him to put a stop to Australian
whaling. Only 90 people are employed in whaling at Cheynes
Beach. Australia, a country with enormous natural resources, can
readily absorb this small number of workers into its labor force. An
“airletter” obtainable at the Post Office, costs 21c and may be sent
to any part of the world. Or you can put 31c postage on your own
envelope. Please ask to be informed of the decision of the
Australian Government. The address:

Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser
Parliament House
Canberra, ACT. 2600, Australia

January, February, March, 1978

 

STATEMENT BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE

ON THE IWC DECISION ON NORTH PACIFIC
SPERM WHALES '

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) ‘ is unhappy both about the conclusions reached by the
Scientific Committee at their special meeting in Cronulla and by
the way they were reached. It is not confident that an adequate
assessment of the status of the stocks was made nor that the
mathematical model used is valid. It notes that the Scientific
Committee stated that the dramatic change in the stock assess-
ment was largely brought about by an adjustment of the effort
modifiers and it regrets that no indication of the sensitivity of
these results to those statistics was given. This is particularly
serious when one of the effort modifiers used, that for ASDIC
was calculated from data sufficiently problematic to be derived
from operations in both the North Pacific and the Southern
Oceans. IUCN further notes the Scientific Committee’s request
for raw data to be made available prior to the meetings of the
committee and feels that this is an absolute prerequisite for
adequate assessment. IUCN therefore feels unable to support
the commission’s decision to endorse the Scientific Committee’s
recommendations on the quotas for the 1978 North Pacific
Sperm whale season. Accordingly, it reserves its right to con-
tinue to work for alternative assessment and management
procedures to those used by the IWC.

' Dr. John Beddington represented the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature at the Scientific Committee Meeting
of the International Whaling Commission at Cronulla, Australia,
November 21-25, 1977 as an observer. He also represented the
IUCN at the Tokyo meeting of the IWC where he submitted this
statement.

THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

Tokyo’s International Whaling
Commission Meeting

The much heralded reduction in sperm whale quotas
achieved this June at the Canberra meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) was reversed in Tokyo in Decem-
ber. With a massive demonstration outside the Japanese For-
eign Office where the meeting was held, whalers and their
cohorts in the Seame’n’s Union shouted into bullhorns and
waved signs calling for what they termed scientific utilization of
whales. The Commissioners rushed with unprecedented haste
to vote an increase of killing 5,681 sperm whales in the North
Pacific. (They raised the 1978 quota of 763, voted this June, up
to 6,444; the 1977 quota was 7,200).

The Chairman of the Commission, Arthur Bollen of Australia,
issued a press release at noon after switching from the Technical
Committee meeting into full plenary session. Commissioners
had only just received a scientific paper criticizing the figures
and had had no opportunity to study it.

Some of the commissioners had not even received this paper
by the world’s leading whale population scientist, Dr. Sidney
Holt of the UN. Food and Agriculture Organization. The paper
is reprinted in the column at the right. Dr. Holt flatly states that
the figures adopted by the Scientific Committee at its November
meeting, preceding the Tokyo IWC meeting, are not credible.
His reasons are clearly and scientifically stated and are worth
reading in full.

Other scientists found the analysis of Dr. Seijo Ohsumi of the
Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory so difficult to believe
that the Committee decided to pool the figures they had from
southern hemisphere sperm whaling with those Dr. Ohsumi
presented for the North Pacific. By mingling the incredible figure
with an existing figure from a different part of the oceans, they
came up with a figure which no scientist advocated on the basis
of research; nevertheless, since it issued from the Scientific
Committee, and most countries have slowly and painfully come
to the conclusion that the Scientific Committee should be
supported, most of the commissioners came to Tokyo with
instructions to vote for its findings and they did so.

Only France had the courage to vote against the massively
increased quota. The United Kingdom abstained. All other
nations (Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa, United States, and the Soviet Union) voted for the
increase.

The United States has fought hard over the past four years to
end the former practice of IWC Commissioners voting quotas
much higher than those advised by the Scientific Committee. Its
success in establishing the reputation of this Committee created,
for this session at least, an uncontrollable monster.

All of the data on which Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was based came
from Japanese whaling vessels. The data goes back to periods
when there were no international observers aboard the vessels,
and even now, the observers are not in a position to attest to the
type of data involved In any case, the raw data was not even
submitted to the other members of the Scientific Committee.
This is the sort of presentation on which the Committee, and the
Commission is asked to operate.

The Russians who kill even more sperm whales than the
Japanese simply refuse to supply any but the most limited data.
Scientists from non-whaling countries have devoted little time to
the analysis of such data as they are able to get their hands on.
Thus, although Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was not accepted without
doubts, questions and arguments within the Scientific Commit-
tee, it constituted by far the greatest inﬂuence on the outcome of
the Committee’s meeting at Cronulla, Australia just before the
full IWC meeting of the Commissioners in Tokyo.

Secrecy

The actions of the IWC, seem to an observer, to be guided by
two ruling passions: secrecy, and the killing of whales to the
maximum degree possible in the prevailing climate of public
opinion. At this session, it betrayed a strange dichotomy with
regard to the press. As noted above, the Chairman of the
Commission insisted that the Commissioners vote immediately
and finally on the greatly increased sperm whale quota for the
North Pacific because of the interest of the Japanese press in
knowing the outcome.

On the other hand, the secrecy rules with regard to the
Scientific Committee were so strict that nothing more than the
bare figure of increase leaked out until the morning of the
Tokyo meeting of the full Commission when Dr. Holt made
copies of his paper available.

On the following day, a statement by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the major international body providing expertise on endangered
species, was issued by Dr. John Beddington. The IUCN state-
ment appears below.

 




SPECIAL MEETING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
TOKYO, DECEMBER 6-7, 1977

Statement by Dr. Sidney J. Holt

Observer representing Food and Agriculture
Organization

It was with great regret that the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation (FAO) found that, due to unforeseen circumstances, it
was not possible for a representative to attend the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in Cronulla. This means that my
comments must be based on study of the report of the
Committee and of the background papers, instead of on an
intimate knowledge of, and participation in the Committee’s
discussions, as is usual. I have however, consulted some of the
participants in the meeting and thereby assured myself that
there are no fundamental misunderstandings involved in the
following remarks. It is important, in such matters, to try “to see
the wood for the trees” and this is perhaps more easy than if we
had been involved in the very complex and difficult discussions
of the meanings of the data and the properties of the assess-
ment models used. In this position one may try to assess the
overall credibility of the advice the Committee has now pre-
sented to the Commission. I hope my friends in the Scientific
Committee will forgive me if I say that the results are not
credible.

In recent years the advice of the Committee has on several
occasions been that quotas should be drastically revised, usually
downward. Such advice has been received with surprise and
displeasure by some Commissioners. Such proposals for revi-
sion have been based on analyses taking into account more
data, or using better analytical models, or both. In the present
case the proposed stock classifications are dramatically changed
and quotas revised upwards on the basis only of a re-application
of the same model, using few new data. This calls for a more
than usually close look at the way in which this has come about.

It is not easy to see by inspection how the “Allen model”
works. For this reason FAO posed last July—that is, immediate-
ly after the decision to call a Special Meeting—a number of
written questions to the Convener of the meeting, with copies to
the Secretary of the Commission and to the Chairman of the
Scientific Committee. Unfortunately these questions have not
been answered, but we consider them still to be relevant. They
concern the separate effects, on assessments, of changes in the
assumptions concerning the efficiencies of recorded whaling
effort, and in the assumed pregnancy rates and their depen-
dence on density. It seems that:

a) the reclassifications proposed are virtually entirely due to
changes in assumed efficiency factors—including the effect of
catcher size, but mainly the effects of ASDIC; and

b) the suggested quotas for females derive essentially from
an assumption that pregnancy rate increases by 25% (from
0.20 to 0.25) from one extreme of population density to
another. Evidence has been presented concerning the average
level of pregnancy rate, but none whatever for the range of
density dependence, nor even that the pregnancy rate actually
has increased with the decline in numbers of biomass, either of
females, or of males plus females. In my opinion the range
adopted and even the direction of change, are complete
guesses. Thus, if the range were actually 0.210 to 0.235 the
quotas would be about halved; if it were 0.19 to 0.29 they would
be doubled; and so on. The actual range may well be outside
such assumed values. The proposed quotas should be viewed
in the light of such very considerable ignorance.

However, the biggest factor in the revised advice is the new
position taken by the Committee with respect to the effective-
ness of ASDIC, which is in some respects the opposite of what
has been written and said in scientific discussions in recent
years. It is now said not only that ASDIC is used by the
Japanese catchers only in chasing, but also that the main effect
of introducing ASDIC has been some reduction in the time
spent chasing. Since that time is a rather small fraction of the
catchers’ day’s work, this is held to justify the Committee’s
adoption of a very low value of the ASDIC efficiency factor as
concluded in recent analyses by Japanese scientists. However, it
is admitted that many chases were, especially before ASDIC
came into general use, unsuccessful, and it has been affirmed on
earlier occasions that use of ASDIC greatly increases the
likelihood that a chase will result in capture. If this is so the
increase in efficiency could be great, and would not be meas-
ured as the inverse of chasing time. Unfortunately neither the
report nor the background documents are informative on this
crucial matter.

Then it is necessary to seek an explanation of why the ASDIC
efficiency factor reported by Japanese scientists is low compared
with all previously published studies, which range up to 100%
and more. A possible explanation is to be found in the detailed
account given of the Japanese operational method, in which it is
emphasized that catchers attached to one expedition always
work cooperatively, throughout the search and hunt. This

means that the comparison of catches by ASDIC-fitted boats
with those without ASDIC, in the same expedition and during
the same season, is spurious as a measure of the efficiency
factor. Further varying practices between expeditions from one
year to another might account for the extreme variation in the
estimates quoted. There is therefore no good reason to accept
the low values in preference to the much higher values obtained
in earlier critical studies.

There is an interesting consequence of the new theory that
ASDIC is not very useful—:and it has been said that it could
even be a disadvantage—in sperm whale hunting, but that it has
been installed at considerable expense primarily because of its
value in baleen whaling. If this view were accepted, most
assessments for baleen whales would need to be revised,
because baleen whaling effort has not been corrected for
ASDIC in the assessments on which present classifications and
quotas are based. I suggest that such revision will lead at least to
enhanced protection for sei whale stocks and to prolongation of
the protection of fin whale stocks.

Another point that should be taken into consideration is the
decision of the Scientific Committee to retain 1947 as the initial
year on which to base classification advice. The catch data
presented show that, on the basis of the model adopted, the
land-station catches of females from the Western Division for 20
years before 1947 would have been sufficient to hold the
number of females down to between 90 and 95% of their initial
number. Consideration of this fact would be enough to lead to
classification of females as “protected” in the Western Division.

The last point I wish to make refers to the absurdity of con-
tinuing to equate one female with one male in calculating the
appropriate quotas for sperm whales, ignoring the fact that each
male yields two or three times as much oil, meat and meal as
one female. Apart from the fact that it has not yet been shown
convincingly that there is any sustainable numerical advantage
in catching any females, there is clearly no advantage in
catching females if account is taken of the great difference in size
between the sexes. Among the unanswered questions posed by
FAQ to those responsible for the models adopted was the
question ‘of just how great the calculated marginal advantage, by
weight or number is—if there is one—and how much, and in
what ways, such a calculation depends on the assumed values
of the parameters used in the model. It may be worth recalling
also, that if a stock is classified as “initial management,” as is
now proposed for the Eastern Division, there is even more
reason to take account of the size differences, while the stock is
still well above the “optimal” levels.

In sum, to an “observer” it does not appear that the advice
now presented is more reliable or more likely to be correct than
the advice previously offered. The complex calculations that
have been made are on the one hand incomplete in that the
properties of the model and their dependence on precise
parameter estimates and assumptions have not been revealed
and, on the other hand, are such that they obscure the facts that
the crucial parameters have been guessed rather than esti-
mated, and that the calibration of crude effort data to take into
account increasing efficiency is still very far from satisfactory.

Some breakdown of operational features has at last been
provided for one part of one of the pelagic fleets, 15 years after
the Scientific Committee first asked for such data; but the
breakdown available still omits critical information—such as the
change in the frequency of successful chase, and the time series
of searching time per catcher day’s work. Further, the analysis of
such information as is given leaves a great deal of room for
doubt as to what is actually being estimated, and whether the
undoubted increases are yet adequately being taken into ac-
count

Without departing from the principle that management must
be based on the best scientific advice, it seems it would be wise
for the Commission also to take into account:

a) the very great uncertainties in the assessment of sperm
whales which persist, practically unchanged, despite the
best efforts of the Scientific Committee;

b) the likely direction of biases in the data and in the assess-
ments (including an arbitrary starting year of 1947, long
after intensive sperm whaling started);

c) the fact that assessments are still based on data from only
a relatively small part of the sperm-whaling ﬂeet; and that
those data are incomplete and have been presented
selectively.

d) the consequences to the baleen whale assessments of the
“new theory” concerning the technology of sperm whale
hunﬁng.

It would be appreciated if these observations could be

included in the documentation of the present meeting.

6 December, 1977

 




AprlI —JuIy, 1978

 

WORST MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION IN SEVEN YEARS.

The thirtieth meeting of the lntemational Whaling Commis-
sion (IWC) opened in London, June 26th in an atmosphere of
mistrust and belligerence even more acute than usual. The
European edition of Time magazine, July 10, 1978, under the
heading “A Whaling Ban Harpooned in London,” stated in part:

“To ban or not to ban? This was to have been the confer-
ence’s crucial focus. Panama’s crusading commissioner, Jean
Paul Fortom-Gouin, had proposed. a ten-year moratorium on
all commercial killing, a suggestion strongly supported by
President Carter in the past. But before the conference got under
way, Fortom-Gouin was suddenly summoned to his embassy,
demoted and replaced by Panama’s Ambassador to Britain
Roger Decerega, who promptly withdrew the proposal. Why?
According to a diplomatic source, the Japanese had earlier
threatened to cancel a sugar deal worth $9.75 million to the
Panamanians if the ban was pressed home. The Japanese
denied the blackmail charge.

“Conservationists looked for support from the U.S., tradition-
ally a vociferous opponent of whaling, but Commissioner
Richard Frank failed to fight a conference ruling that no other
nation could resubmit Panama’s proposal. Frank argued that

the necessary three-fourths-vote majority simply was not there.
More to the point, the US. could hardly pressure Japan and
Russia into a total ban while pushing for a greater bowhead take
for Alaska’s Eskimos.”

The Commissioner for Argentina made a stab at keeping the
moratorium proposals on the agenda, inquiring whether a single
delegation could withdraw an item from the agenda. But the
Chairman, Arthur Bollen of Australia, who has a long history of
pro-whaler rulings from the Chair, said it was his interpretation
that since the moratorium was being removed by the govem-
ment that placed it on the agenda, it couldn’t be placed on the
agenda again for another 60 days. Thus the “whalers club”
disposed of the long-awaited vote with the same dispatch a
factory ship uses in packing away the body of a dead whale, its
identity destroyed in a matter of minutes.

It appeared that the whalers took another member aboard in
the form of the US. Commissioner Richard Frank, Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
who expended virtually all his time and energies on trying to get
the highest possible quota on bowhead whales in order to
appease Eskimo whalers and, in so doing, in effect helping the
Russian and Japanese whalers get the highest possible quotas,
too. For every bowhead Frank got for the Eskimos, the Russians
and Japanese were seeking and usually getting a thousand sei,
Brydes, minke or sperm whales. Appeasement of whalers
whether commercial or aboriginal, was the order of the day in
the most scandal-ridden and worst-conducted meeting of the
past seven years.

Nothing was done about the pirate whaler, Sierra 1, which has
now acquired a second vessel,2a converted Japanese stern-
trawler, and transferred its operations from Africa to the North
Atlantic where it is killing fin, sei, and Brydes whales outside the
quotas and selling the meat to Japan.

Populations of whales have decreased so much that, with the
exception of the shocking meeting in Japan last December 3
every IWC meeting since 1972 has reduced the whale quotas
by hundreds or even thousands of whales. Despite these
reductions, the quotas were, more often than not, unmet
because the whales could not be found to fill them. This year,
the IWC put off discussion on the sperm whales in the North
Pacific for a special meeting in December. Its actions to date are
calculated to save Only 65 whales.

The failure of the Commission to set a quota to reduce the
Korean catch of whales in the Sea of Japan demonstrated the
inability of non-whaling countries to organize even the most
obviously needed action. The traditional leadership as set by
Russell Train, Robert White, and William Aron, was abandoned.
South Korea, which sells approximately 60% of its whale meat
to Japan while continuing to put off joining the IWC, has
averaged a kill of 473 minke whales a year over a considerable
period. Last year, the IWC’s SCientific Committee recommend-
ed that the catch not be increased, but Korea paid no attention.
When it more than doubled its kill, for a total of 1003, in 1977,
the Scientific Committee Report merely expressed a weak hope
that Korea would not still further increase its catching effort!

1 New reports circulating at the IWC meeting indicate that the Sierra, hereto-
fore secretly owned through a Liechtenstein corporation, is in reality owned by

Japanese and Norwegian interests.

2 At press time, it was learned that this vessel. the “Tonna” has been destroyed
by a dead whale‘whose huge bulk tilted the vessel so far that it capsized and

sank.

3 See Information Report Vol. 27, No. 1

 

Dr. Roux, the French Commissioner, proposed a quota be set
using the historic catch figure 473. Seven nations voted with
France, but three voted against it: Japan, Norway and the Soviet
Union. Thus, the 8-3 vote failed because of the three-quarters
majority the IWC requires. The three major whaling nations
blocked the Wishes of the majority, and South Korea remains
free to kill as many whales as it pleases, while still proclaiming
that it will become an IWC member by the end of the year.

For an overall view of what happened at this confused
meeting, summaries under subject matter headings may be
useful.

Quotas. Technically, the total quota was reduced by 695, but
because no quota was set for Korea, 530 must be subtracted
leaving 65. It is to be hoped that major reductions will be made
in the sperm whale quotas for the North Pacific after the special
meetingof the Scientific Committee November 18-27.

Scientific Committee. A number of governments have di-
vested their commissioners of decision making powers by
instructing the inexperienced officials they appoint to vote the
recommendations of the lWC’s Scientific Committee. In doing
this, they fail to recognize that the Scientific Committee does not
always make definite recommendations. On the contrary, the"
Committee, a loosely defined body which never votes but
operates by consensus (with frequent references to non-Con-
sensus opinions) often hints that it is up to the Commissioners to
make decisions in areas which 1) are not strictly scientific, 2) in
which agreement has not been reached, or 3) in which a
population or stock of whales is decreasing but for which the
“New Management Procedure,” a system the Scientific Com-
mittee considers itself bound to honor, demands a quota. The
commissioners generally hope to “play it safe” by sending deci-
sion-making back to the Committee. The United States official
position was to support the most conservative position for
whales whenever the Scientific Committee failed to reach
consensus. In practice, however, this did not always occur.

Soviet Union. Commissioner Nikonorov, accompanied for
the first time in three years by crack Soviet lawyer Lafitsky,
speaks sonorously in Russian, and his pronouncements some-
times dwell on an alleged Soviet love of nature but they are
totally uncommunicative of any Soviet activity with respect to
whales. When Mexican Commissioner Rozental politely in-
quired, “Would it be possible for the Soviet delegation to inform
the Commission what use is made of the 178 gray whales
taken?” Mr. Nikonorov stated through his interpreter that he
had already answered this question when Mr. Rozental was not
present and would speak with him privately about it. In fact, no
statement had been made by Nikonorov on this subject. It is
rumored that meat from the 178 gray whales the Soviets kill
every year, allegedly for essential subsistence for native peoples,
is being used on mink farms.

Recollection of the report of the friendly young gray whale
tugging on the hawser of a California whale-watching boat", of
the fact that this huge but gentle creature allowed thirty—three
people to pat her, and‘that she returned to play with them again
the following day, makes the idea of a Russian harpooner
blasting her with an explosive harpoon in order to feed caged
mink to sell in the Leningrad fur auctions, especially revolting. If
Commissioner Nikonorov is not prepared to state publicly what
becomes of the gray whales who venture past his nation’s
shores, we can hazard a guess that this is no subsistence kill for
starving aborigines.

Brian Jackman reported in The London Sunday Times that a
Russian fleet allegedly killed nearly 2000 whales over the quota.
No serious investigation of the matter has been made, and the
only nation that even tried to persuade the IWC to look into it
was the United States. Every other nation on the IWC Infractions
Committee (whose meetings were closed to observers) voted
against investigation. The other members, USSR, Australia,
Brazil, Japan and Iceland, are whaling nations. All of them
except Brazil also opposed an expanded observer program. In
short, they want business as usual and no questions asked.

According to US. Commerce Department figures, Japan has
received all of Russia’s whale exports since 1973. In 1976, over
ten million dollars changed hands.

Cost of operating whale catchers has risen steeply, as evi-
denced by the current Russian price of about $190,000 for a
month’s charter in a proposed IWC marking and sighting
program in the Indian Ocean, three times the figure quoted last
year. The charter was never taken up for lack of funds.

In 1977, Nikonorov stated in an interview 5 that it cost
$95,000,000 a year to put the Soviet Whaling fleet on the seas.
Figures like these suggest that the killing of whales is a mere
excuse for sending out the huge motherships crammed full of
electronic gear. But they continue to decimate the whales. Even
the little orcas, the star performers at US. oceanariums, worth
$250,000 alive, are slaughtered by the Soviets in the antarctic.
Last year they harpooned 77 orcas, an increase of 350% over

4 See Information Report Vol. 25, No. 1
5 Information Report Vol. 26, No. 3

 

 




the numbers killed in the past eight seasons. The IWC doesn’t
even attempt to put brakes on the killing of small whales.

Japan is fighting hard to protect its dying industry. In so doing
it is making itself increasingly unpopular. And though it now kills
only half as many whales as the Soviet Union, it provides the
market for whale products that has prevented whaling from
dying a natural death in a number of other countries.

Commissioner Yonezawa, unlike his Russian counterpart,
speaks up for more whale killing on every possible. occasion
during the meetings. He urged that no quota be set for Korea;
he urged the Commission to leave sperm whale quotas at the
same level as decided at the Tokyo meeting, despite grave
concerns expressed with respect to several different stocks by
the Scientific Committee. He, together with the commissioners
from other whaling countries opposed a further meeting of the
Scientific Committee on the grounds that it would cost too
much, and when the Whale Protection Fund offered to pay the
cost of the meeting, the Commission would not accept the
money, the Russian'Commissioner stating that “It is notvthat we
are so poor that we must extend our hand to this or that
organization. I don’t think we should do that as a matter of
principle.”

Not only did Japan seek the highest possible quotas, its
commissioner opposed proposals that would lead to more open
regulation of whaling. For example, he spoke against providing
copies of observers’ reports on request, saying that these might
be used later on to prosecute, and that the observer might be
facing a libel suit or damage‘ suit. He wanted observer reports to
be limited to contracting governments and members of the
delegation.

When the question of receiving and considering documents
from non-members including observers was brought up, Mr.
Yonezawa tried to delay any action for a year by saying it would
be, “wise for the Commission to look into the costs involved. I
think we should, before deciding at this meeting, refer this
matter to the Finance and Administration Committee for com-
ment.”

When the International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN), the leading international organization whose scientific
contributors throughout the world make possible the publication
of the famous “Red Data Book” on endangered and threatened
species, was recommended for advisor status in the IWC, Mr.
Yonezawa stated “I would like to register my objection to this
proposal,” and he succeeded in preventing IUCN from obtain-
ing that status. It remains as a mere observer.

Disastrous though this meeting was, the fact that public
indignation against commercial whaling is growing more rapidly
throughout the world than ever before—gives reason for hope.
The whalers are fighting back using disreputable methods
suggestive of a desperate last-ditch effort to gain their ends.

Friends of whales can help tip the balance in the following
ways:

1) Write to Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps urgently
requesting her to place on the agenda of the next IWC meeting
a moratorium on pelagic (deep sea) whaling. Point out that
75% of whales are killed beyond the ZOO-mile limits of any
nation’s shores and that only three nations still engage in pelagic
whaling: Russia, Japan and, to a very limited extent, Norway.
This vote can be won if a serious effort is made by the Carter
Administration.

Hon. Juanita Kreps

Secretary of Commerce

14th and Constitution Avenue

Washington, DC. 20230

2) Write to Secretary of State Cyrus Vance urging him to
pursue established U.S. policy for a moratorium as a matter of
priority.

Hon. Cyrus Vance

Secretary of State

2201 C Street

Washington. DC. 20520

3) Boycott Russian and Japanese products and write letters
to let the makers know why. Some addresses:

Stolichnaya Vodka and
Nazdorovya Champagne
Pepsi-Cola

Anderson Hill Road
Purchase, NY. 10577

Toyota
2055 W. 190th Street
Torrance, Ca. 90504

Datsun
18501 S. Figueroa Street
Carson, Ca. 90744

Aeroflot Airline
545 Fifth Avenue
New York, NL‘Y. 10017

Sony
9 West 57th Street
‘Iew York, NY. 10019

Baikal and M2 Shotguns
Universal Sporting Goods
7920 NW 76th Avenue
Miami, Fl. 33166

ETHICAL QUESTIONS OF WHALING‘
by Roger Payne, PhD.

Research on whales demonstrates that they are in possession
of unusually large brains. Although there is no general agree-
ment on what the function of these brains may be, it is a
principle of evolution that such a complex organ does not
develop in a species unless it confers an advantage, on the
survival of that species.

Recent research on whales has demonstrated that some
species have very complex repertoires of sounds; that Other
species make sounds that can carry over distances of thousands
of miles; that still others sing long, complex (and, to human ears,
beautiful) songs, that these sOngs are constantly changed ac-
cording to laws of form that are remarkably similar to some laws
of human musical composition, and that these laws are in-
herited culturally or genetically. The function of the songs and
the reason they change so constantly are unknown, but the
ability to memorize a song lasting perhaps 25 minutes, and to
incorporate in it all of the complex annual changes, presum-
ably indicates something of what the whale’s brain can do.

In at least four separate laboratories in the United States,
there is research currently in progress on techniques for com-
municating with cetaceans. Though different in detail, these
efforts are essentially modifications of techniques pioneered by
primatologists for teaching American Sign, computer, and sym-
bolic languages to chimpanzees and gorillas. The early emphasis
in that research was on demonstrating that some non-human
animals are capable of the same abstractions necessary to com-
municate via human languages. That chimpanzees and gorillas
are capable of such abstraction is now widely accepted.

The current research with porpoises, though it employs the
same techniques, has a different emphasis. One current direc-
tion is an effort to learn more about behavior of porpoises in the
wild by teaching a porpoise a simple language and then askin it
simple questions. Conversations are envisioned such as: “ e-
fore you came here, how many fish did yOu eat each day?” or
“Did sharks ever attack you?” or “Do you like it here?”.
Questions of this and of greater complexity have been asked of
and answered by non-human primates, and present indications
suggest that porpoises will do well in such tests. If so, animal be-
haviorists may soon resemble their anthropologist colleagues as
regards study teChniques—interviews with the subject may
become a principal tool of investigation in animal behavior.

We have been discussing research projects that are currently
underway, not simply plans for the future: Should these projects
yield positive results (and current indications strongly suggest
they will—and soon), it would probably seem ironic, if not
unethical, to many more people than have hitherto been
involved in questions of whale conservation, to recognize a
value for porpoises and whales only in relation to how much
they contribute to human nutrition or in respect to their worth as
lubricants.

The problems of research with large whales are manifest,
experimentation under controlled conditions is unknown, and
we must be content at present with simple observations. In spite
of these limitations, it is already obvious that whatever it is
cetaceans uSe their large brains for, it is almost certainly not the
same as what humans do with theirs. Thus, regardless of the
answer, it promises to be one of the most intriguing discoveries
of the future. By continuing whaling, we threaten this mystery;
we threaten the legacy we leave for our descendants, and, thus,
we threaten our options as a species.

In the United States, we spent, during 1975, mOre money on
seeing live marine mammals (in zoos and aquaria, on whale-
watching tours, in television specials, and in books and maga-
zine articles) than the largest whaling nation made from whaling.
It is clear from this and from the increasing presence of whales
in the literature, art, music, sculpture, dance, conservation
efforts, news media coverage, and legislation of this country that
an increased awareness of the values of whales in their live state
makes the practice of whaling unacceptable to US. citizens on
ethical grounds.

* Prepared for submission to the International Whaling Commission, 1978.

 

AUSTRALIA STOPS KILLING WHALES

On the opening day of the Australian official Inquiry on
Whales and Whaling before Sir Sydney Frost, the last Australian
whaling company announced that it was ending its operations
this year. Thus Australia joins the ranks of ex-whaling nations. It
is vital that its quota not be taken by Russia or Japan.

 




January, 1979

 

INTERNATIONAL ACTIONS TO
PROTECT ANIMALS

Resolution for a Moratorium on Commercial
Whaling Adopted at Ashkhabad

At the meeting of the International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature in Ashkhabad, U.S.S.R., a resolution calling for a
moratorium on commercial whaling was adopted without
opposition. Fifty-nine nations, members of IUCN, were present
at this meeting in addition to representatives from private
groups interested in conservation and the environment, in-
cluding the Animal Welfare Institute.

This carefully phrased scientific resolution which is quoted in
full below reinforces the international position adopted at the
Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment in 1972
when 53 nations voted for a ten-year moratorium on commer-
cial whaling. In that case, abstentions were noted for Japan,
Brazil, and South Africa. Support for a moratorium is clearly
gaining throughout the world.

The 14th General Assembly of the IUCN meeting in Ashkha-

bad, USSR, in September and October 1978 resolves that:
(a) IUCN should continue to call for a moratorium on commer-
cial whaling until it can be demonstrated
i) that the population levels referred to under the Inter-
national Whaling Commission’s New Management
Procedure as protection stocks, sustained manage-
ment stocks and initial management stocks can be
determined accurately;
that the consequences for the ecosystems concerned
of removing large portions of the whales’ populations,
and such populations’ capacity for recovery can be
predicted;

iii) that an effective mechanism exists for detecting and
and correcting mistakes in the management of any
stock;

iv) that whaling technology and equipment are no longer
being transferred to non-member nations of IWC;

v) that member nations of IWC are no longer purchas-
ing whale products from non-member nations.

(b) IUCN and its members should work together vigorously to
ensure that the above conditions are met as soon as
possible.

(c) IUCN and its members should actively promote adherence

to the International Convention for the Regulation of

Whaling by all nations, both whaling and non-whaling.

 

New Zealand Marine Mammal Protection Act

New Zealand has enacted a Marine Mammals Protection Bill
which goes into effect January 1, 1979. The Minister of
Fisheries Honorable J.B. Bolger, stated in introducing the legis-
lation that it provides “for the complete protectiOn of all marine
mammals whether dead or alive within New Zealand fisheries
waters, that is, within the 200 mile exclusive economic zone.
Certain limited exceptions are allowed for a person who finds or
collects parts of a marine mammal also for cases where special
permits have been issued, but the Ministry is to be advised of all
such takings and findings. The import and export of marine
mammals or their products is also banned except pursuant to a
permit issued by the Minister of Fisheries...The Minister...may by
notice in the Gazette define a Marine Mammal Sanctuary...”

The Act repeals the Whaling Industry Act of 1935, and the
Seal Fisheries Acts of 1895 and 1912, among other former laws
based on the killing of marine mammals.

In concluding, the Minister pointed out that “the importation
of any whale or whale products into this country is completely
prohibited at present by the Customs Import Prohibition
(Whales and Whale Products) Order 1975.

“I am well aware that many people are concerned about
cruelty that is often inflicted on marine mammals. However, I
believe we do not require any more legislation to prevent
cruelty because we already have the Animals Protection Act
1960, which is being amended this year to provide for increased
penalties to act as stronger deterrents.”

The Act provides a $5,000 fine for using “any purse seine net
in any area in which marine mammals are present without
having in the net an escape panel or aperture from which any
dolphin or porpoise can readily escape.” A $10,000 fine may
be levied for taking a marine mammal without a permit. Permit-
tees are required to report on any marine mammals injured or
killed with numbers, date and location, the cause and “meas-
ures taken to avoid further such injuries or deaths.”

DANCES AND BALLOON LAUNCHINGS
ON BEHALF OF WHALES

While the commissioners argued over whale-killing quotas at
the Japanese Foreign Ministry, whale activists took to the street
outside. Martita Goshen, ballerina and choreographer of the
ballet, “A Day in the Life of a Whale”, danced up and down the
line of hundreds of picketing members of the All-Japan Sea-
men’s Union whose scorn when she began changed to silence
as she expressed joy, fear and finally death of the whale.

With John Perry’s group she was forced to leave the Ginza by
Tokyo police as she was warming up on a portable ﬂoor. A
crowd of some 200 Japanese booed the police but could not
sway them, so Perry and Goshen retreated to a park where
delighted Japanese children played with Flo.

Television and press coverage of these peaceful whale
demonstrations, made possible in part by contributions from the
AWI whale fund, was extensive. The Mainichi Daily News, an
important Tokyo paper, carried a large front-page photograph
of Martita dancing on the pavement with Flo in the background.
The Japanese public became aware through the many articles
and interviews of the plight of the whales and of international
determination to save these internationally migrant creatures
from the threat of extinction. Perry continued his journey with
Flo to Kyoto, Nagoya and Osaka meeting with press and media
in each city. A continuation of the Save the Whales tour,
featuring the flying humpback whale, is planned for March and
April in the United States.

“Flo", The Symbol of the Whales of the World, Flies Past
MountFuji

“Flo”, John Perry’s Hot Air Balloon in the Shape of a
Humpback Whale, Makes Her Way Down the Ginza During the

Tokyo Meeting of the IWC.

 




IWC CUTS SPERM WHALE QUOTAS BUT
REVERTS TO WHALERS CLUB SECRET
SESSIONS TO DODGE PRESS AND OBSERVERS
by Lewis Regenstein

At the December 1978 special meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (l.W.C.) held in Tokyo, significant pro-
gress was made in reducing commercial whale killing.

In the area off Australia called Southern Hemisphere Division
5, where a quota of 561 sperm whales had been set for the
Australian whalers this June, a zero quota was agreed upon,
and Australia reaffirmed its earlier announcement that it has
ended commercial whaling. And in the North Pacific, where last
year’s sperm whale quota was 6,444, a quota reduction of 41%
was achieved over the opposition of Japan and the Soviet
Union.

But despite these gains, accomplished in a large part because
of public pressure from the US. and around the world, the great
whales remain severely endangered by the commercial whalers,
and much more needs to be done quickly to protect the whales
if their survival is to be guaranteed.

The stage was set for this l.W.C. meeting when its Scientific
Committee (S.C.) met a few weeks earlier to recommend what
quotas could safely be set on sperm whales in the North
Pacific. For the first time, the SC. formally admitted that it did
not have adequate knowledge and data to make such projec-
tions, and that its models and methodology were not reliable,
thus confirming what conservationists had been saying for
years. (This was most clearly demonstrated in 1977 when the
SC, in December, recommended raising the North Pacific
sperm whale quota set the previous June from 763 to 6,444,
an increase of almost 1,000% which was based on highly
suspect “new data” belatedly submitted by the Japanese
whaling industry).

Nevertheless, despite its admitted lack of competence, the
SC. “in view of substantial scientific uncertainty in both the
population estimates and the validity of the assumptions on the
population response,” did come up with a quota recommenda-
tion of zero for females, and one for males that would be

“conservative” and in any case not exceed that of last year.
The reason the SC. was finally forced to take such a conserv-

ative position is that it is now apparent - even using the manipu-
lated data of the whaling industry - that the severely depleted
sperm whale stocks in that area are rapidly declining, pregnancy
rates are decreasing, and the trend will continue for the
foreseeable future even with a zero quota. There can thus be no
“sustainable yield” from this population. ,

But the ambiguous report issued by the SC. left enough
loopholes to allow the Japanese and Russians to press for a
high male quota along the lines of last year, which was 5,105.
Moreover, after claiming for years that its whalers could differen-
tiate males from females, the Japanese reVersed themselves and
insisted that they could not tell the difference between a female
and a young male (one less than 42 feet long) and thus they
had to have a quota for females as well.

The US. delegation, to its credit, pushed hard for a zero
quota for both males and females. Neither side could obtain the
necessary three-fourths majority, so the upshot was a compro-
mise quota of 3,800 males, including an Ill/2% female“by-
catch” amounting to 437 females. This quota was obviously the
result of political compromise and not even the whalers can
credibly claim that it is based on scientific recommendations, as
they have done in the past. The deal was worked out by the
commissioners at a private meeting, behind closed doors, in the
old tradition of the “whalers club.”

There are several important things to keep in mind about
these figures. First of all, they represent a 41% decrease from
last year’s quota and will make whaling that much more difficult
and expensive, and less profitable, for the Japanese and
Russians. But it should also be realized that the l.W.C. has tradi-
tionally set sperm whale quotas at higher levels than the
industry can fill, and each year less whales are caught than is
permitted. The reason for this is obvious: there are simply far
fewer whales out there than the “data” indicates. So this year’s
reduced quota should be considered in this context and even
that may be too high to be filled.

Also, we might take some comfort from the agreement that all
whaling there will cease when the female “bycatch” of 437 has
been reached. But it is also quite possible that females killed
when the limit is approaching will either be discarded or
counted as males. Until an effective international observer
system is instituted, particularly at Japanese shore stations, no
one will ever know to what extent the quotas and regulations
are being adhered to.

It should be emphasized that what progress was made was
accomplished because of the leadership of the US. delegation,
headed by Whaling Commissioner Richard Frank, who is
Administrator of the Commerce Department’s National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (N.O.A.A.). On the key votes,
the US. was supported by France, Mexico, the Netherlands, and
sometimes by the United Kingdom. Opposing protection for the
whales were commercial whaling nations and their allies, led by
Japan and the Soviet Union, with Denmark, Norway, Iceland,

and South Africa following along.

The main reason more progress was not made was the lack of
support for conservation measures from the bloc of countries
not involved in commercial whaling but which for some reason
or another chose not to oppose it: Argentina, Australia, Canada,
Denmark, New Zealand, and, at times the United Kingdom. By
abstaining on key votes and/or by supporting Japan or not
speaking up during public and private discussions over quotas,
these nations, in effect, made it impossible for major actions to
be taken to save the whales from extinction. The Commis-
sioners from Canada and Denmark, M.C. Mercer and E.
Lemche respectively, went out of their way to block the US.
attempts to secure more protection for the whales.

One reason the US. did not have more support was that the
US. Department of State has made no real, effective effort to
line up other countries on the side of conservation. The State
Department even held up sending a cable prepared by N.O.A.A.
to the other 16 nations of the l.W.C. asking for support on key
issues. In some cases, the cable arrived too late to do any good.
At least in part because of this lack of US. action in the face of
strong Japanese pressure, Argentina voted down the line with
the Japanese. Brazil and Panama did not even bother to send a
representative; and Canada, Australia. New Zealand, and the
Urlilited Kingdom refused to take a firm stand one way or the
ot er.

Another failure of the l.W.C. was in not taking effective action
to deal with the killing of whales by non-l.W.C. countries, like
Peru and Chile, which still kill protected and critically endang-
ered species, such as blue and humpback whales, even includ-
ing pregnant females, nursing mothers, and infants. Much of the
whale meat from these outlaw whalers is bought by and
imported into Japan; and Japan and Norway supply many of
the harpoons, ships, and other equipment to them. In 1977, the
l.W.C. passed a resolution calling on member nations to ban
such imports and supplies; but in the first eight months of 1978,
Japan increased such whale meat imports by 48%. This
situation subverts what little protection the l.W.C. does afford
the whales, and endangers the survival of many whale stocks
and species. Although the problem continues unabated. the
l.W.C. still refuses to ban trafficking with outlaw whalers.

The future outlook for the whales is mixed. As whale quotas
are progressively whittled down, whaling becomes less and less
economical to pursue. Already the Japanese and Russian
whaling fleets. like the guotas. have been more than halved in
the last decade, with the total 1979 l.W.C. quota ending up at
about 20,000. Although Japan is determined to continue its
coastal-based whaling stations, the days of the large scale
commercial whaling ﬂeets traversing the oceans appear to be
numbered. The question is, can commercial whaling be stopped
while there are still enough whales left to allow for their
recovery? Other species of whales which have been hunted to
near extinction - and then given nominal protection - the blue,
the humpback, the right - have not shown any real signs of
recovery despite years of ostensible protection. Today, we are
witnessing the destruction by the l.W.C. of other species, such as
the sperm whales. Our goal is to halt the slaughter while there is

still time to save them.
Japan’s leading newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, even
attacked Japan’s duplicity in an editorial, December 23, 1978. It

stated: “At the end of last year, despite the fact that the
Government carried out administrative guidance, imports of
whale meat from countries which are not IWC members
increased drastically. Such a situation, which will be criticized by
other member nations, should be speedily corrected. Japan
must put its own house in order...”

The next l.W.C. meeting in London, July, 1979 will be a
difficult one. Several of the unregulated whaling nations, may
join up, thus further diluting the US. inﬂuence. If we are not to
lose much of what we have accomplished, the State Depart-
ment must make every effort to get other l.W.C. nations to
support a whaling moratorium and/or drastically lowered
quotas, and to persuade other non-whaling nations, such as
Sweden, Switzerland, Kenya, and Costa Rica, to join the l.W.C.
Otherwise, pressure from the Soviets and Japanese will con-
tinue to dominate the Commission.

Moreover. we must maintain the pressure on our own govern-
ment to continue a pro-conservation position. This year the
Alaskan Eskimos will be pushing hard‘for an unreasonably high
quota of critically endangered bowhead whales. The administra-
tion will thus be under tremendous pressure not only to agree to
a quota that could jeopardize the bowheads’ survival but also to
trade off a few bowheads for thousands of sperm whales. Many
conservationists suspect that this happened, in effect, in 1977
when the Japanese did not oppose a bowhead quota in excess
of the zero quota set by the Scientific Committee, and the US.
voted to increase the North Pacific sperm whale quota from 763
to 6,444.

Already, public pressure has helped save tens of thousands of
whales from being killed each year, and possibly prevented the
disappearance of several species and population stocks. If we
are ultimately to save the remaining whales - the largest and
among the most intelligent and fascinating animals ever to live
on earth - we must keep the pressure on.

 




WORLD WHALING SHOULD END -
VERDICT IN ON WHALING
by Joy Lee

December 18th, 1978 saw the release of the report of the
Australian Inquiry into Whales and Whaling. Former Chief
Justice of Papua New Guinea, Sir Sydney Frost who headed
the nine month Inquiry recommended that

0 whaling should end and that Australia should oppose
the slaughter of whales by other nations
protection should be given to whales in the 200 mile
zone including Australia’s Antarctic territories
the Whaling Act should be repealed and replaced with a
Marine Mammals Protection Act‘
a ban should be placed on the import of all whale
products by 1981
research should be funded on the humpback, right and
sperm whales off the Australian coast
Australia should remain a member of the IWC and liaise
with other nations for strong conservation measures
a plan should be developed for marine resource exploit-
ation to prevent the harvesting of krill from affecting the
recovery of the whales

' Division V sperm whales should be given immediate
protection

The report which is expected to be implemented by the
Australian Government will reverse that nation’s strong support
for whaling, and conservationists are hoping to convince the
Prime Minister, Mr. Malcolm Fraser, that the findings from the
Inquiry, should be presented to the United Nations.

The Inquiry was the most comprehensive and objective ever
held on this issue and involved written submissions from two
hundred scientists, individuals and organizations knowledgeable

on whales. Public debate by world authorities also helped
resolve points of controversy. The Judge examined the meth-
ods of population estimates, the harvesting theory, the history of
whaling, the operation of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, the evolution of whales, their behavior and brain structure,
their social organization and the evidence supporting the claim
that they are an intelligent group of mammals. In addition the
Judge attended the June meeting of the lWC and met with
leading European and American scientists.

The most important question now waiting to be answered is
whether Japan and Russia will act responsibly and give serious
consideration to the recommendation that world whaling should
end?

The Australian Inquiry proved conclusively that whaling
cannot be justified in 1979. If the industry which is carried out
largely by two economic superpowers continues into the 1980’s

it will be another mark against man’s claim to be an intelligent,
rational species.

February-March, 1979

CRUELTY TO SMALL WHALES DECRIED
BY NORWEGIAN VETERINARIAN

In an article by Arvid Bryne headlined “Whaling with Harpoon
Barbaric - Would be Forbidden if Used in Slaughter House”
(Dagbladet, December 12, 1978) Norwegian veterinary inspect-
or Atle ¢rbeck S¢rheim stated, “A whale’s sensitivity is presum-
ably like that of a human. Both are mammals and the nervous
system of the whale is also highly developed...Suppose such a
method of killing were used on land — in a Norwegian slaughter-
house? We would move in and forbid it immediately. The main
rule in our animal protection regulations is that the animals
should not suffer needlessly. More specific regulations are in
force regarding the domestic animals we raise and slaughter, and
for reindeer, as well. We have no regulations for whaling...sup-
pose someone took a cold harpoon [a one—half meter long iron
shaft with barbs. see photo] on land for elk-hunting. What would
the reaction be if someone shot an animal in the flank with this
grapple-like object and let it bleed to death while it was struggling
to get free? There would certainly be a cry of outrage. The picture
is dramatic, but not unrealistic. We shall take this problem up at
the Veterinary Directorate and see what can be done with that
killing method."

A Norwegian member of the International Whaling Commis-
sion’s Scientific Committee told Dagbladet that efforts have been
made since 1920 to find a better method of killing whales.‘

The article concludes: “The hunting of small whales takes
place along the coast of northern Norway, the Norwegian Sea,
and around Spitzbergen, lceland,_and Greenland. In practice.
only black whales are taken nowadays. The hunt takes place
mainly in the spring and summer, and about 90 ships from all
parts of the country take part. There are no big companies
involved; it is mostly small-boat owners who themselves sail on
board who carry on the small-whale hunt. This year they were
allotted a quota of 1790 animals in Norwegian waters and 200
near Iceland and Greenland, but the hunt was stopped after 1450
whales were taken because of poor market conditions."

I’In the killing of small whales with the ”cold" harpoon the chances of killing a
whale with the ﬁrst harpoon by hitting a vital spot are even smaller than with the

grenade-tipped explosive harpoon used for killing large whales. Small whaling is
not controlled in any way by the International Whaling Commission.

A whale harpoon with barbs extended. This harpoon is at the
Horda Museum, but the harpoons of today are not remarkably
different in construction. [Dagbladet]

TAIYO LOSES $20 MILLION IN
JAPAN JOINT WHALING COMPANY

The Japanese whaling industry is virtually bankrupt. It only
survives with a government subsidy of some $10,000,000 a year,
and the Taiyo Fishery Company which owns 30% of the Japan
Joint Whaling Company, recently suffered an operating loss of
$20,000,000 in this company according to the Japan Company
Handbook published by The Oriental Economist for the first half
of 1979.

The Japan Joint Whaling Company was formed in 1975 after
Nippon Suisan lost $5,000,000 in its whaling operations for the
year. Nippon Suisan, a fishing company which is second only to
Taiyo in size, agreed with the rest of the whaling industry in
Japan that competition in whaling was no longer economically
feasible, but the industry argued that by joining forces, elimina-
ting competition and forming the Japan Joint Whaling Company
that with government help, it would get back on its feet in three
years. That has not happened. The big fishing companies
continue a highly profitable trade in fish, but it is clear from the
report on Taiyo’s twenty million dollar loss that whaling signifi-
cantly decreases those profits. There is no longer any rational
argument for the continuation of commercial whaling.

April - May - June, 1979

PRESIDENT CARTER ON U.S. EFFORTS TO

SAVE WHALES AND OTHER ENDANGERE
, SPECIES D

A memorandum from the President to the Secretary of the
Interior and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality, April 24, 1979 states:

“Subject: Enforcement of International
‘ Endangered Species Requirements
‘Previously, I asked you to work together to establish better
procedures to develop United States positions for the Con-
vention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES).
I would like you to expand your effort to include an assessment
of US. enforcement of these trade restrictions and to make
recommendations for improvements in enforcement efforts
government-wide. I would like you to work with the Depart—
ments of Agriculture, Justice and the Treasury (Customs) on
this effort."

In a letter of the same date to Brock Evans. convener of the
conservation community's meetings on proposals for Presi—
dential consideration. the President stated: “On US. whaling
policy, Administrator Frank is pursuing vigorously a strategy for
insuring that a commercial whaling moratorium is on the Inter—
national Whaling Commission agenda this year. He is working
with the State Department. other agencies and with the conser-
vation community to see that the moratorium proposal receives
as much support as possible from other nations. He is aware

that this effort enjoys my full support."

 




BAD NEWS FOR WHALES FROM
CHINA FISHERIES MONTHLY

The latest report on Japanese whaling outside the regulations
of the International Whaling Commission comes from a Taiwan-
ese publication, China Fisheries Monthly, No 316, April, 1979.
A translation by the National Marine Fisheries Service reads as
. follows:

Taiwan Develops a Coastal Whale Fishery

Because the imposition of international controls on the
Soviet and Japanese whaling industries has made it difficult
for them to operate, Taiwan is now experimenting with a plan
to develop a small-scale coastal whale fishery.

Since Japan’s five whaling corporations came under uni-
fied management, the number of Japanese whaling vessels
has been reduced significantly. Taiwan has reportedly already
purchased a small number of used whaling vessels from
Japan to perform small-scale experimental fishing. According
to reports, Taiwan currently has four such whaling vessels.

Each year the International Whaling Commission passes a
resOlution against transfer of whaling equipment to non-lWC
nations, and each year Japan continues to violate the resolutiOn
and to increase its importation of whale products from unregu-
lated sources including the pirate whaling vessel, “Sierra.”

MORATORIUM 0N COMMERCIAL WHALING
PASSES U.S. SENATE

On May 15, 1979, Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash.)
spoke on the Senate floor for his resolution calling for a
moratorium on commercial whaling, stating,

Mr. President, today we have before us Senate bill 586, The
Foreign Relations Authorizations Act. Incorporated in this
bill is Senate Concurrent Resolution 14 calling for a morator-
ium of indefinite duration on commercial killing of whales. I
wish to take this opportunity to once again draw your
attention to the plight of these magnificent creatures. It is
essential that we reaffirm at this time the commitment of the
people of "the United States to protect these awesome
inhabitants of the seas.

The reluctance of whaling nations to abide by the pro
tective measures established by the International Whaling
Commission is cause for grave concern. Compliance with the
international whaling management measures is tenuous, at
best, and difficult, if not impossible, to monitor and enforce.
The result is a continued decline in certain whale populations
and a growing sense of frustration among those desirous of
protecting these delightful beings from the depredations of
man.

I have jointly initiated a measure to place sanctions on
those determined to thwart the desires of the international
community to protect the remaining whale populations. This
was done by amending the Fishery Conservation and Man-
agement Act to require the Secretary of Commerce to deny
access to the US. fishery conservation zone to any nation
found in violation of an international whaling or fishery con—
servation program. While effective, this provision only affects
those nations fishing in our fishery conservation zone; thus
some further measure must be instituted that will reach all
whaling nations.

The US. delegation must present a consensus at the forth-
coming meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
July. I believe passage of this provision will give a clear indica‘
tion to the US. delegation and to the IWC itself that the
American people. as represented by this Congress, are
opposed to the commercial killing of whales.

A moratorium on commercial whaling would provide a re-
spite in the taking of whales that would allow those stocks that
are depleted or declining to begin to recover. It would also
provide a situation that would allow for effective enforce-
ment: Theoretically under the moratorium, no commercial
whaling would occur and thus anyone attempting to traffic
whale products would be in obvious violation and appropri-
ate sanctions could be invoked. This moratorium would not
prohibit scientific investigations concerning cetacean popula-
tions and would provide the time to compile more adequate
information on whale stocks. .

Approval of this provision by the Senate will serve as a
clear demonstration to the world that the American people
are determined to end the pursuit and slaughter of these rare
and intelligent creatures. I urge my colleagues to support this
measure.

The Foreign Relations Authorizations Act incorporating the S.
Con. Res. 14. moratorium resolution. passed the Senate by a
vote of 84 to 10. The full text of the resolution follows:

Moratorium on the Commercial Killing of Whales

SEC. 403. (a) The Congress finds and declares that——

(1) whales are a unique marine resource of great esthetic
and scientific interest to mankind and are a vital part of the
marine ecosystem:

(2) the protection and conservation of whales are of par-
ticular interest to citizens of the United States;

(3) in 1971 the Congress adopted resolutions requesting
the Secretary of State to negotiate a ten-year moratorium on
the commercial killing of whales;

(4) the United States, which effectively banned all com-
mercial whaling by United States nationals in December 1971
has sought an international moratorium on the commercial
killing of whales since 1972;

(5) the United Nations Conference on the Human Envi-
ronment adopted a resolution in 1972 calling for a ten-year
moratoriumon commercial whaling;

(6) the United Nations Governing Council for Environ-
ment Programs in 1973 and 1974 confirmed such call for a
ten-year moratorium, and the Council continues to support
ongoing efforts relating to whale conservation;

(7) the International Convention for the Regulation of
Whaling, signed in 1946, as implemented by the International
Whaling Commission, is not providing adequate protection to
whales;

(8) the data-gathering structure established under the Ir.
ternational Whaling Commission has not provided all th’
available data necessary for sound whale conservation;

(9) there is strong evidence that the members of Interna
tional Whaling Commission continue to import, in some
instances in increasing amounts, whale products from coun
tries not members of the Commission; and

(10) defects in the implementation of the International
Convention for the Regulation of Whaling by the Inter
national Whaling Commission allow harvests of the (H
clining whale species.

(b) The Congress hereby urges—

(1) the International Whaling Commission to agree to n
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales; and

(2) Brazil, Denmark, Iceland, Japan, Norway, the Soviet
Union, and the Republic of Korea, as parties to the lnterna~
tional Convention for the Regulation of Whaling and which
still engage in commercial whaling, and Chile, the People‘s
Republic of China, Peru, Portugal, the Democratic Republic
of Korea, Spain, and Taiwan, as countries which are not par-
ties to the Convention and which still engage in commercial
whaling, to recognize and comply voluntarily with a morator-
ium on the commercial killing of whales. as endorsed by the
United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and
the United Nations Governing Council for Environmer
Programs.

July - Aug-st - September, 1979

MINKE WHALES BEAR THE BRUNT
OF A DYING lNDUSTRY‘S GREED

Offered up on the whalers’ altar this year are the small mink:
whales whose quotas rose at the International Whaling Commis—
sion (lWC) meeting in London, July 9-13, 1979. More than
12.000 are scheduled for killing next season by lWC member
nations. How many the outlaw whalers will take is unknown.

All will be killed with primitive “cold harpoons“, weapons
which do not even have ammunition so that a well placed shot
could kill instantly. The reason? Because explosives would
destroy part of the meat. Here is a clear measure of the whalers'
greed and of their total lack of concern for the suffering they in-
flict on highly developed. sensitive, social animals.

Resolutions passed at this lWC meeting recognize the
seriousness of the cruel methods used to kill whales, but no
substantive action was taken to stop it.

The two major conservation gains made in London were the
Indian Ocean Sanctuary, proposed by a new lWC member, the
Seychelles. and a moratorium on factory-ship whaling except
for minke whales, a compromise achieved due to the per—
sistence of Jean-Paul Fortom. Scientific advisor to the Panama-
nian Commissioner.

The Seychelles delegation was headed by the nation’s High
Commissioner Bernard Loustau-Lalanne. Dr. Lyall Watson was
scientific advisor. Widely distributed before the meeting was a
well-reasoned and handsomely printed proposal. “The
Seychelles Initiative." and a series of back-up documents effec-
tively substantiating the several proposals. The central view of
the island nation is well expressed in the following: . .the
Government of Seychelles finds it difficult to accept a policy
under which all stocks of all species of whale must be open to
extensive exploitation unless they be depleted. No such policy
exists for terrestrial resources. No nation declares that all forests
or all wildlife have to be fully exploited without preserving any
for the non-commercial, non-exploitive benefit of future genera-
tions.

“Our major natural resources lie in the rich waters surround-
ing our tiny land area and we are determined that they shall not
be destroyed before we and our children have the chance to en—
joy them and to decide for ourselves how, or even if. they
should be deployed."

Danish Commissioner Lemche who has a mysterious affinity
for pro-Whaler amendments even when they affect areas half
way round the world from Denmark, proposed that the Indian
Ocean Sanctuary be cut off at 55° South. This was the only
weakening amendment carried. What it means is that Japanese
and Russian whaling fleets in the antarctic can kill minke whales.

The Indian Ocean Sanctuary. as adopted by a three-quarters
majority vote of the Commissions. comprises an area six times
the size of the continental US. This is an important achievement
and shows what can be done by the inspired initiative of a small.
new lWC-member nation.

The factory ship moratorium proposal was an amendment of-
fered by Panama to the US Commercial Whaling Moratorium
agenda item which had gained a simple majority in Technical
Committee - 11 to 6 with o abstentions - but which could not

 




muster the necessary three-quarter majority for adoption in the
plenary session. Denmark’s Lemche tacked on .an exemption
for minke whales to the Panamanian amendment, and the
package was adopted with only Japan and Russia opposing it.
The three abstentions were all from whaling nations: Brazil,
Korea and Spain.

Since that time the government of Brazil has informed the
US. State Department that Brazil will end whaling in two years.

Because minke whale quotas were raised, the lowering of
sperm whale quotas led to a total reduction of only four or five
thousand (the inclusion of new IWC members who whale con-
fuses the total). Last year the quota was 19,719. This year it wil
be 15,835.

Most votes on quotas took place on the last night. The session
extended till five the following morning. A number of oppor-
tunities to reduce specific quotas were lost, perhaps through ex-
haustion and inattention, perhaps through prior agreements
reached at lengthy private Commissioners’ meetings which took
place throughout the week.

The bowhead whale quota which the United States has had to
struggle to obtain for Alaskan Eskimos during the past two years
subjects our country to strong international criticism because the
IWC’s Scientific Committee consistently recommends a zero
quota owing to the severely endangered status of the bowhead.
This was brought about by extreme exploitation by Yankee
whalers in the last century. Intensive efforts to count adults and
calves over the past two years, while revealing a larger number
of adults than the low end of initial estimates, provide dis-
quieting information on calves, suggesting that the Eskimos’

selection of young whales is preventing recovery of the popula-
tion and that it may decline to extinction under the present
regime.

Dr. J. Ovington, Commissioner for Australia, delivered a
strong statement at the meeting concluding: “if we stick with
these figures. the species is doomed.”

PIRATE WHALING:
TAIYO FISHERIES ROLE EXPOSED

New Proof is Uncovered, Former Section Chief Fronts for
Dummy Company

WHALING NATION JAPAN - LOSS OF HONOR

(Translation of an article from the Tokyo Shimbun (circula-
tion 3,500,000) August 1, 1979.)

A TOKYO SHIMBUN investigation has revealed, as of July
315t. that Taiyo Fisheries Co. has, in fact. been secretly involved
behind the scenes in the secret import into Japan of whalemeat
from the SIERRA, a Cyprus flag ship notorious overseas as a
“pirate whaling ship” which ignores the regulations of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission (IWC). Taiyo has, up until now,
continually denied accusations by anti-whaling organizations
that it is the “wirepuller” for the covert operatiOns.

Taiyo Fisheries, from about 6 years ago, when the IWC’s
regulations became stricter, has bought wholesale the secret
whalemeat under an agreement between the SIERRA AGEN-
CY (South Africa). the operator of the SIERRA and Taiyo
Canada, its foreign subsidiary company.

On one hand, Taiyo negotiated to place Japanese meat in-
spectors (on the ship), and then the main Taiyo Fisheries Com-
pany Whaling Division Chief went directly to South Africa,
directly associating with SIERRA officials, and has been officially
employed there to facilitate the secret whalemeat imports.

The identity of the company secretly importing the whalemeat
from the SIERRA was unknown.

However, the truth of the matter is that this unknown com—
pany’s president was the same operations division chief who ap-
peared in South Africa.

Substantiating Evidence,
A Business Name Card

The SIERRA (683 tons) is an “anonymous” whaling vessel
flying under a Cyprus flag of convenience. It has a Norwegian
captain and gunner, and is manned by a South African crew.
The SIERRA is run by a South African management company.
And for the last ten years. it has plied the Atlantic Ocean using
the port of Los Palmas in the Canary Islands as its base.

lndiscriminately hunting Fin. Humpback. female Blue and
other endangered species protected by the IWC whaling ban,
the SIERRA put into practice outrageous fishing methods such
as cutting off only the choice meat sections which would bring a
high price in Japan, while dumping the remainder into the
ocean. At the end of last June, these practices and the fact that
four Japanese meat inspectors were onboard were exposed by
English anti-whaling organizations; and in early July at the Lon-
don IWC General Meeting, Japan was placed in an extremely
untenable position.

At that time, the anti-whaling groups published documentary
photographs showing the transfer of 164 tons of illegal whaIe~
meat last December in Los Palmas harbor from the SIERRA to a
Japanese Freezer ship, the YAMATO FUAA (captained by
Kozo Koieke). Subsequently, the source of this importing into
Japan became a major issue.

In early July, an American anti-whaling organization visiting
Japan made public documents proving that negotiations took
place between Taiyo Canada, a Taiyo Fisheries Co. subsidiary
(Newfoundland, E. Terada, president) and the SlERRA's
management company, Sierra Agency, (Capetown).

 

j, ‘1‘- .-

According to the 3 year contract initiated in 1973, 1) Taiyo

Canada would buy wholesale 3,000 tons of whalemeat from the
SIERRA; 2) Taiyo Canada would hire and employ flensing
specialists for the SIERRA. And thus, the connections between
Taiyo Fisheries and the pirate whalers became clear.

According to this newspaper’s investigation, the company
which last December imported into Japan the SIERRA’s whale-
meat was C.D. JAXON of Tokyo, a fishing company located in
the Tamachi ward of Tokyo (N. Higuchi, President; founded in
May, 1978, Capitalization 2 Million Yen). This company’s
registered place of business is President Higuchi’s home, and the
only corporate officers listed are members of Higuchi’s family.
Furthermore, the company’s three employers have their office
in a one room Tokyo apartment.

This N. Higuchi, the president, (age 44), was a former Taiyo
Fisheries Co. Whaling Division section chief who also was
employed as Taiyo’s North American enterprises sections chief.
When the Tokyo Shimbun Newspaper asked Sierra Agency
(Andrew M. Behr, Pres.) employees, officials and former
seamen about Higuchi, we were told, “He’s the man who came
to purchase the SIERRA’s whalemeat since 1973.”

Sierra Agency also revealed:

1) That there was a very close business relationship between
Behr and Taiyo Canada since 1973.

2) That it is a fact that there was a basic guaranteed contract
with Taiyo Canada to purchase whalemeat wholesale and
to dispatch Japanese whalemeat inspectors on the
SIERRA.

3) That Higuchi came to Capetown each year to arrange the
actual whalemeat import.

4) That Higuchi is still known as “Taiyo Fisheries Co’s
Mr. Higuchi.”

5) That there exists a separate dummy company to facilitate
the export of the SIERRA’s whalemeat.

6) That phony labels saying “Product of Spain” were used to
disguise the whalemeat’s place of origin.

The Tokyo Shimbun learned that the dummy export com-
pany registered in the Carribean Sea’s Bahama Islands and is
called “C.D. JACKSON-Bahamas.”

And, an English anti-whaling activist, Nick Carter. recently
received from Sierra Agency sources the business name card
used in 1973 by Higuchi when he visited the Sierra Agency as
Taiyo Fisheries Whaling Enterprises section chief representative.

On the reverse side of the name card Taiyo Fisheries Co’s
main office address in English lettering is scratched out and
Higuchi’s home address—the Tamachi residence serving as
CD. Jackson’s office——is written in.

From this it appears that Higuchi, while employed by Taiyo
Fisheries, negotiated the purchase of the SIERRA’s whalemeat
as Taiyo Fisheries’ representative, and Taiyo Fisheries, in order
not to surface as the import source, formed a dummy company.

In February of 1977, Higuchi formed C.D. JAXON of Tokyo,
and that was the year that the IWC General Meeting decided to
ban imports from non-member nations. This was because, at the
end of 1977, the Fishery Agency Director issued an adminis—
trative order to end imports from non-member nations.

Heretofore. Taiyo Fisheries had flatly denied any contract by
Taiyo Canada saying, “We did enter into negotiations but no
contract was made. As far as the purchase of SIERRA whale-
meat is concerned, we do not have anything to do with that."

However, from the SIERRA officials’ admission, the namecard
and other evidence, the fact that Taiyo had used Higuchi’s “two
faces” to secretly import whale meat is clear.

G. Barker, a white South African seaman who worked on the
SIERRA from 1973 through 1978 told the Tokyo Shimbun: 1)
The four Japanese whalemeat inspectors aboard the SIERRA
were employed by the Taiyo Canada, and 2) these inspectors re-
ceived payment from both the SIERRA and Taiyo Canada. Com—
missions included, they made more than twice what the average
seaman did, and it totaled to more than $3,000 per month.

This substantiates that the Japanese whalemeat inspectors
were employed by Taiyo.

The SIERRA’s whalemeat imports were first carried out by the
coastal whaling firm, NITTO Whaling; but six years earlier NIT—
TO quit and was replaced by Taiyo Fisheries. Consequently.
NITTO Whaling completely admitted these facts.

Furthermore, C.D. JAXON of Tokyo's president, Higuchi, is
presently abroad to dissolve the whalemeat import contract.
Company employees contracted during his absence said. “We
know neither his whereabouts nor his time of return."

October-November-December, 1979

WHALE MEAT DEALER DECLARES
BANKRUPTCY

3.

According to a news release on world ﬁsheries issued by
the National Marine Fisheries Service, “A major Japanese
whale meat dealer, Aiba Shoten Co., went bankrupt recently
after accumulating debts totaling over $57 million. This was
the third largest commercial bankruptcy declared in Japan
this year. The company had recently attempted to diversify
into frozen ﬁsh marketing because of Japan’s lower inter-
national whaling quotas, but the capital costs needed were too

high for the company to remain proﬁtable.”

 




 

July, August, September, 1974

SOUTH AFRICAN SEALS WHIMPER
AND SQUEAL IN AGONY

Dent Denies lmport Permit for Skins

On September 12th, Secretary of Commerce Frederick
Dent denied the permit requested by the Fouke Fur
Company to import unlimited numbers of skins of nursing
seals from South Africa. Under the terms of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act, no permit may be granted for
importation of a seal or other ocean mammal or any part or
product of the creature if it has been taken in an inhumane
manner.

The horrors of the South African seal kill were
graphically described in an illustrated article in the
September 15, 1974 edition of The Sunday Telegraph
(London, England). The Telegraph ’s Cape Town
correspondent wrote:

“About 80,000 semi-weaned seal pups have been culled
in the three-month culling season, just ending, along 1,000
miles of the South African and South-West African coasts.
Their pelts will soon be on the way to fur brokers in
London and other European cities.

“This skin trade is highly lucrative. It earns South Africa
at least $1 million a year in foreign exchange.

“Renewed allegations that the culling involves cruelty
have been denied by the Department of Sea Fisheries. The
department awards culling concessionsto private contractors
who submit tenders annually.

“Mr. C. S. Bosman, assistant director of the Sea Fisheries
department in Cape Town, said to me that there was no
cruelty. His department maintained an inspectorate to see
that the regulations were observed.

Photographer ‘repelled’

“The ‘ latest charges of cruelty come from Mr. Woolf
Avni, a photographer. He said he was utterly repelled by
what he saw when he went to take pictures in Seal Island,
one of South Africa’s main seal colonies, in Falsebay, near
Cape Town.

“Landing on the island, which is no more than a rocky
outcrop over which the long South Atlantic swells break
continuously, is a hazardous operation. The winter just
ending has been the worst South Africa has had for 50
years and ﬁerce storms have left a litter of wrecks and miles
of oil polluted beaches around its coast.

“Throughout July and most of August the unusually bad
weather gave the seals a stay of execution. When Malgas

Two, a converted fishing boat with a crew of eight,

eventually set out for the island the men were clearly in a
hurry to make up for lost time and to achieve their target
of 3,000 seal pups culled.

“What happened on Seal Island may not be typical of the
culling operation as a whole, but this is how Mr. Avni
described it:

“ ‘The men, each armed with a wooden stave about 6
feet long and as thick as a man’s arm, formed into a rough
line abreast and started herding the seals towards a rocky
ledge, clubbing as they pressed forward. Many of the seals
were left whimpering and squealing in agony as the hunt
went on. Soon the rocks were red and. slippery with blood.

Continued on page 2

 

Boatman clubbing young seals on Seal Island, off the coast
of South Africa. (from The Sunday Telegraph)

 
 
 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

Vol. 23 No. 3

WORLD CONGRESS FOR ANIMAL PROTECTION

The World Federation for the Protection of Animals
holds an International Congress every four years. The most
recent, held under the auspices of the Council of Europe in
Strasbourg, France, September 10-14, 1974, was, by
general consensus, considered to be the most valuable to
date. Its theme, “Animals in a Changing World,” put
emphasis on modern problems such as factory methods of
livestock production in which animals are denied many of
the opportunities they formerly enjoyed under traditional
farming methods.

The commercial killing of whales and exploitation of
other endangered species received frequent attention by
speakers. Laboratory animals and the use of alternative
methods for research and testing were the subject of a
working group discussion.

In opening statements by ofﬁcials of the Council of
Europe, the position of the Council in defense of human
rights was emphasized with ethical values including the
decent treatment of animals, both domestic and wild, as a
corollary. The Council was characterized as a guardian of
the rights of nature.

Convention on Animal Transport

Dr. Golsong, Director of the Council’s Legal
Department, recognized the important role of the World
Federation for the Protection of Animals in framing the

Continued on page 3

 

MAGNUSON, FOLEY URGE
ANIMAL TRANSPORT REFORMS,
ABOLITION OF SADISTIC ANIMAL FIGHTS

Two major animal welfare bills wereintrodUced Sep't-
ember 30th by Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash.). In
introducing the bills he said:

“Mr. President, today I am introducing a bill similar to one
introduced in the House by my friend and colleague from
the Fifth District of the State of Washington, Representa-
tive Thomas Foley. Known as the ‘Animal Welfare Act
Amendments of 1974,’ the legislation is designed to im-
prove the conditions of animals in transit. Mr. Foley’s bill
also contains a prohibition against the shipment of dogs in
commerce for use in fights conducted for sport and wager-
ing. 1 plan to introduce separate legislation today dealing
with the subject matter.

“The need for national legislation to protect animals in
transit has been proven during hearings conducted by sever-
al congressional subcommittees, most recently at hearings
held by Congressman Foley’s Subcommittee on Livestock
and Grains of the House Agriculture Committee. Witness
after witness has recounted the neglectful and inhumane
handling of pets and laboratory animals during commercial
shipment. During transit by ﬂight, for instance, there is
often no way to control the temperature or other environ-
mental conditions of the compartment in which animals are
carried. And some have suggested that the most dangerous
time for animals in transit is not actually during shipment
from one terminal to another, but after they have arrived at
the second terminal and before they are either picked up or
delivered to their ﬁnal destination. For instance, a recent
shipment of laboratory mice bound for NIH, having survi-
ved the plane ride, was subsequently roasted to death when
the crates in which they were shipped were left out on the
airport runway under the blazing sun for several hours. One
need only travel across the Potomac to Washington Nation-
al Airport to witness the crowded and substandard con-
ditions which exist for animals in transit - conditions com-
mon at many airports and other terminals throughout the
country.

“The present Federal Animal Welfare Act provides stan-
dards for the care and housing of animals in laboratories
and other facilities through regulation of animal dealers, ex-
hibitors, and research facilities. That law does not provide
standards for the care of animals by the common carriers
and intermediate handlers who transport the animals to the
dealers or researchers. The ‘Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1974,’ which I introduce today, will rectify this
situation and bring common carriers and intermediate hand-

Continued on page 2

 

 




REFORMS continued from page 1

lers under the purview of the Animal Welfare Act. To fac-
ilitate enforcement of the act, all common carrlers and 1n-
termediate handlers who deal in animal shipments Will be
required to register with the Secretary of Agrlculture and
keep such records as are required by the Secretary. The act
directs the Secretary to promulgate standards for the. care
of animals in transit, including standards for containers,
feed, water, ventilation, temperature, and veterinary care.
The bill also requires the issuance of aveterinary certiﬁcate
prior to the shipment of an animal certifying that the
animal is healthy enough to withstand the shipment. It pro-
hibits, in most instances, the shipment of dogs and cats
younger than 8 weeks, and permits the Secretary of Agr1-
culture to make similar rulings for other animals.

“The need for this legislation is obvious. Consideration of
the Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1974 will be high
on the list of priorities of the Senate Commerce Committee
during the remainder of this Congress and during the next
Congress. . .

In introducing his anti-d og—fight bill, Senator Magnuson
said. in part:

“Dogfighting is a terrible thing. A young puppy destined
for a life in the ﬁght ring is ‘fed’ a score or more of cats
and younger dogs to hone its blood instincts. As the puppy
develops a trained appetite for blood and killing, it is

physically attuned and “conditioned” for fighting. The -

training period ends and the animal is brought to the ring to
face other dogs of similar size and weight. These matches
are barbaric. A match will last anywhere from 30 minutes
to 21/2 hours. The dog will attack various parts ofits Oppo-
nent’s body, such as the ears, legs, or throat, and chew in-
cessantly. The match ends when one dog dies or “curs out”
- turns away and refuses to fight any longer.

“Money, as well as blood, ﬂows freely at these matches.
The Times claims admission costs run between $3 and $10,
and the average bets at a big ﬁght equal around $500.
Sometimes these ﬁghts are turned into degrading family
affairs, with children as well as adults attending ..... Other
animals such as raccoons and bears, are also pitted against
each other for sadistic entertainment. The legislation which
I will introduce today is designed to prevent the use of all
animals in these barbaric affairs. In addition, my bill would
ban the manufacture and shipment of any equipment or
devices such as spurs or gaffs used in these fights. The bill
would be administered by the Department of Agriculture,
which would have the authority to draw up regulations
under the act, and would be jointly enforced by the Dep art-
ments of Agriculture and Justice.

“Mr. President, our society is subjected to enough cruelty
and violence without these scurrilous activities. This sit-
uation demands immediate national legislative attention.”

MEETINGS SCHEDULED IN GREECE

Dr. T. G. Antikatzides, who represents Greece on the
International Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute,
has suggested that an announcement be published in this
issue of the Information Report on two international
meetings to be held July 9-12, 1975 in Thessaloniki: the
World Veterinary Congress, which meets every four years,
and the International Committee on Laboratory Animals
which will hold its sixth Symposium concomitantly. Dr.
Antikatzides is in charge of the local organizing committee
for ICLA. The Committee states:

“Symposium themes are:
. “1. Training in laboratory animal science. Areas of special
interest: Place of laboratory animal science in bio-medical
research; training of research workers; training of animal
technicians; training of veterinarians in laboratory animal
medicrne; training in laboratory animal science in
developing countries; impact of legislation regulating animal
experrmentation on training in laboratory animal science.

“2. The laboratory animal in the study of reproduction.
Areas. of special interest: Choice of animal models,
espeCIally primates, for studying human reproduction;
comparative chemistry and physiology of the gametes;
anlmal models for research on: ovum implantation,
maturation and early development, genetics, immunological
aspects, testing of drugs for mutagenicity and
teratogenicity; in vitro methods using animal eggs and cells;
differences in metabolism and effects of contraceptive
sterords between common laboratory animals and primates.”

The opportunity for advancing good training of everyone
who works with laboratory animals, whether the scientist
who designs the research, the animal technician who cares
for the animal, or the veterinarian who ministers to it; for
discusslon of sound regulatory legislation; and for
1mprov1ng animal birth control methods, should make this a
most valuable symposium.

Abstracts should be submitted before February 1, 1975
to the Chairman of the ICLA Program Committee, Dr.
Nlcolae Simionescu, Yale University School of Medicine,

Cell Biology Department, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510.

 

SEALS continued from page 1

“ ‘As the seals were cornered and dragged squealing to
the ledge for the ﬁnal stabbing, ﬂocks of cormorants were
crushed against them, too.

“ ‘Soon there was a sort or trench about 20 feet long and
three feet deep full of dead birds as well as dying seals
Finally when about 400 dead and dying seals had been
herded against the ledge, the men moved in to dispatch
them ﬁnally by stabbing them through the heart.

Lying in agony

“ ‘This part of the operation took about one and a half
hours, which means that some of the seals were lying there
in agony for the whole of that time.’

“Mr. Avni added: ‘It was a total exercise in butche
unspeakably' cruel and wasteful. There were rivers of blood
pouring off the rocks.’ ”

The horrors described by the photographer were
conﬁrmed by scientiﬁc observation of the veterinarians and
Commerce Department personnel from the United States
who were present during several of the “knocks.” Dr. W. M.
Wass, Professor and Head, Veterinary 'Clinical Sciences,
Iowa State University reported in part: “In South African
sealing the procedure is one of clubbing the animals while
they are moving. In most cases while they are striving to
escape to the water. The ineffectiveness of the clubbing
done in the kills observed is probably demonstrated by the
fact the 25% of the skulls we examined at necropsy did not
contain signiﬁcant fractures. Sticking and bleeding were
likewise inadequate. It appeared in many instances that the
chest and major vessels were not opened and that the
animals did not in fact die quickly from exsanguination..
Due to the hasty and frantic nature of the killing process, it
appeared that many animals were killed which were not of
marketable size, that is, they were either too small or too
large . . . Many animals were observed to vomit milk. Their
use for pelts would appear to be explicitly prohibited by
the U. S. Marine Mammal Protection Act as it now reads.”

Dr. L. E. McDonald, Professor of Physiology and
Pharmacology, Associate Dean, College of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Georgia, noted in part:
“Approximately one-half of the animals received a proper
first knock over the cranial cavity which rendered
unconsciousness. Nearly all animals are hit more than once,
the average being three knocks per animal. Several were
observed to receive the ﬁrst knock in the middle of the
back or on the nose. Several seconds to several minutes
elapsed before a satisfactory knock followed . . . On August
12, one animal vomited one quart of milk twelve minutes
after end of clubbing. The lungs were protruding from the
thoracic opening and regular gasping was occurring. At
ﬁfteen minutes post clubbing, this consultant requested a
second blow to the seal’s head which induced two feeble
gasps then no movements. At twenty-ﬁve minutes
post-knocking, two seals were having regular respiratory
gasps although the thorax had been opened. A sticker
returned and cut the great vessels or heart at this time in
one animal which caused a gush of blood followed by a lack
of respiratory movements. On August 13, even though the
S. A. Sea] Scientist and the foreman warned the stickers to
be certain to cut the great heart vessels, several thpraxes
were not opened. Sixteen minutes after clubbing ended,
one animal made vomiting movements and expelled 1-2
quarts of milk . . .”

 

AWI SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE MEETING

A meeting of the Scientiﬁc Advisory Committee of the
Animal Welfare Institute was held to review enforcement of
the Animal Welfare Act, P. L. 91-579, in particular the
research facility reports. An analysis submitted to the U. S.
Department of Agriculture was approved by the Com-
mittee. Of particular concern to the Committee was dev-
elopment of more uniform and accurate reporting.

The analysis stated in part, “A seemingly better form of
reporting is the following: ‘If the use of anesthetics, anal-
gesics, or tranquilizers to prevent pain or distress would be
inconsistent with my research protocol or experimental
design, I will submit a detailed description of the protocol
including procedures to be performed and evidence Why
anesthetics, analgesics or tranquilizers would interfere wrth
the experimental design in writing to the attending veter-
inarian (Director of Laboratory Animal Medicine)’. (Cornell
University Medical College). The report states: ‘Two re-
search projects that were planned would have caused paln
to animals. At the request of the veterinarian, the protocols
were modiﬁed to prevent pain. Therefore, there were no ex-
periments causing pain’. The modiﬁcation of experimental
procedure referred to is certame praiseworthy and suggeStS
that something along the lines of this form would be de-
sirable for all institutions. However, nothing in this or most
other annual reports indicates whether analgesics and/0T
tranquilizing drugs were used in addition to anestheticsaor
following procedures which, although painless to begin Wlth
caused later suffering. It is essential that next year’s foml
for annual reports should be so designed as to elicit this In-
formation”.

 




WORLD CONGRESS continued from page 1

European Convention for the Protection of Animals During
International Transport. This Convention has been in force
since 1968 and requires introduction of legislation at the
national level to ensure that:

1) animals are ﬁt for transport;

2) animals receive adequate rest before transport;

3) animals are given adequate space, food, and water

during transport;

4) inspection by veterinary ofﬁcers is carried out;

5) port and harbor installations are adequate.

The requirements are binding on the 13 states that have
ratiﬁed the Convention: 12 Council of Europe member
nations and Spain. The Netherlands and Ireland have not
yet ratiﬁed.

The Convention, Dr. Golsong stated, is now open to
accession by non-European, non-member states; and if the
majority of contracting parties should come from non-
member states, he noted the Council of Europe would glad-
ly relinquish the administration of this Convention, the ﬁrst
to deal with animal protection at the international level. He
noted further that this year it is expected that a Convention
of farm animals will be completed and that two further
Conventions, one on slaughter methods, the other on
laboratory animals, are also being planned.

Factory Farming

Ruth Harrison, author of Animal Machines *, speaking on
factory farming, pointed out that by switching subsidies
and grants, governments can quickly change the systems
used in production of meat and eggs. In Britain an annual
price review on farm products is held.

Dr. Paul Leyhausen of the Max Planck Institute suggested
that battery rearing of chickens is linked up with the
overcrowding of human populations in what he termed
“our own overdeveloped countries”.

Dr. G. Van Putten of the Research Institute for Animal
Husbandry (Netherlands) emphasized the suffering caused
animals by lack of occupation resulting in boredom. Busy
for about 20 minutes a day (two 10-minute eating periods),
during the other 23 hours and 40 minutes, the animal can’t
do anything. In a pen or cage made from concrete or steel,
with no straw in it and no possibility to move, “I think
they suffer very much from inability to do anything,” said
Dr. Van Putten. He described his observations of veal calves
during the night as well as the daytime. “We see in these
veal calves faint ruminating. You can see them grinding
their teeth or wagging their tails for 15 minutes. The faint
ruminating can go on for hours, and they don’t have
anything to ruminate.”

Commenting on pigs kept on concrete without straw, he
said, “Swine are very active animals . . . the only thing they
can do is gnaw on each other, bite each other’s hair, hooves,
or tails, and, at last, change over to cannibalism.”

An oversimpliﬁed environment without distraction leads
to the inability to stand stress, Dr. Van Putten explained.
Animals in such an environment have no means of getting
used to stress.

Illness caused by bad housing has been studied in Sweden
where data has been collected on the results of keeping veal
calves in darkness, on bad ventilation which results in
pneumonia in swine, and dusty conditions causing lung
infections both in the animals and in farmers who enter
their quarters.

Professor Ingvar Ekesbo of the Swedish Royal Veterinary
College pointed out that the real cost of highly intensive
methods is not generally computed, for example, costs for
manure disposal are not usually included, and in one case,
manure went directly in a European river.

Dr. Ekesbo’s paper, “Animal Environment and Health,”
stated in part:

Modern animal husbandry implies alterations in the

animal Phenotype, in animal environment, and in the
relationship between animal and environment. These
changes have proved to affect animal health as
revealed by alterations in animal disease patterns and
their incidence (3). The Swedish District Veterinary
Ofﬁcer’s annual reports show that between 1957 and
1967 the reported total disease incidence increased
for cows from 23 to 44% of the total cow population
and for swine from 9 to 20% of the total number of
Plgs for slaughter. An analysis of these ﬁgures shows
that these increases are mainly due to diseases of
man-made environmental origin. Some examples of
that will be given.
. The incidence of stillborn calves has proved to
Increase with increasing herd size. The incidence of
stillborn heifer calves in 1969 in dairy herd sizes of
10'15, 20-30 and more than 50 cows was 3.05, 3.53
and 4.51% respectively. Corresponding ﬁgures for
bull calves were 4.19, 4.58 and 6.64% (7). This can be
explained as an effect of the diminished time for
attention as this time will normally decrease for each
animal with increasing herd size. One of the main
Oblectives, with increasing herd size, is to reduce the
ratio of man-hours per animal and year.

*Now available in paperback from Ballantyne.

 

. “There is positive correlation,” he said, “between the
incidence of ‘trampled teats’ and mastitis and lack of
bedding for dairy cows. Fattening pigs without access to
straw as bedding have a higher incidence of tail biting than
pigs with straw. Diseases of environmental origin can be
effectively controlled only by preventive measures as
conventional therapy cannot be directed against the original
cause of disease.”

In Sweden post graduate courses in animal hygiene and
preventive medicine are being taken by all District
veterinary ‘officers; plans for building or remodeling
hvestock facilities must be approved by these veterinarians,
and manufacturers of new equipment for animal
env1ronment are subject to requirements for testing and
approval for animal health and welfare before the product
is put on the market.

Mr. George S. Drysdale, Senior Vice President of WFPA,
reminded the Congress that Professor Brambell, author of
the major scientiﬁc report to the British Government on
intensive livestock rearing, said it was a moral question
rather than a scientiﬁc one. Birds should be able to stand
up and stretch their wings; animals in sweat boxes should
be able to turn around. But the Brambell Report was not
accepted by the government, and the system continues,
including such mutilations as the debeaking of poultry and
removal of tails of animals in dairy farming.

Cruel Netting of Song Birds

Madame E. Breydel of Belgium reported that the netting
of migrating song birds was banned in her country in 1972
but allowed again last year. The netting is scheduled to
begin this year on October ﬁrst. The dead and injured
birds are eaten, the survivors sold to bird collectors. The

trade is said to be very lucrative. letters of protest should
be directed to:

Mr. Lavens, Minister of Agriculture
rue de la Loi
Brussels, Belgium

A documentary ﬁlm produced by Dr. A. G. Grasmiller
entitled “Vogelmord” (Death of Birds) was shown to the
delegates and may be obtained through WFPA.* The
struggles of the delicate little ﬁnches and larks in the heavy
nets is a gruesome sight. Equally revolting is the tying of
the decoy birds with hooks through their wings to lure their
fellows into gunshot range. One bird is shown tethered near
a can full of water but just short of it. The bird’s desperate
ﬂuttering as it tries and fails over and over again to get a
drink is one of the most loathsome pieces of cruelty to have
been documented in this way. The ﬁlm continues through
the sale of the mountains of tiny carcasses in the market
square of Verona, Italy, their plucking, cooking, and
consumption. Two million signatures on a petition to the
Italian Government failed to stop the slaughter. A boycott
campaign against Italian goods and a petition to the Pope
have now been undertaken in an effort to end the cruel
decimation of the birds, many of them rare species, as they
run the gauntlet through the Italian, French, and Belgian
barrage.

Alternatives to Laboratory Animals

Dr. Stefan Chorherr of The Microbiological Institute,
University of Munich, presented a paper on the history of
developments of cell cultures for production of vaccines.
He emphasized the great suffering formerly undergone by
animals infected with rabies in order to produce anti-rabies
vaccine to protect other animals. Today, he pointed out, it
is possible to reproduce all cell types in test tubes. Cell
culture, he said, is a great step forward. He emphasized that
it is high time that all rabies vaccine come from cell
cultures. “Everybody engaged in the protection of
animals,” he said, “should support scientists in their search
for procedures alternative to those involving experimental
animals and the wholesale implementation of the
procedures worked out in order to effect substantial curbs
on the number of animal experiments necessary.

Dr. Josef Kb'nig reported on his visits to experimental
laboratories in eight different European countries andothe
new Austrian law on animal experiments which came into
force July, 1974. His paper provides a summary of
conditions in England, France, Germany, Holland,
Switzerland, Austria, Italy and Denmark. In the latter
country, he noted: “Heads of laboratories Visited produced
inevitably a rather thick ledger: the so-called Journal
which is required by law and issued by 'the Minister of
Justice. The chronological entries therein include number
and species of animals used, object and detailed description
of the experiment, method used for anesthesia and
euthanasia, stage of experiment at which euthana51a was
carried out, etc. If the animal was not destroyed, the
reasons must be given in the ‘Journal.’ In the case of dogs,
cats and monkeys, the future fate of surv1vmg animals must
be stated.”

The Animal Welfare Institutle was represented 3:13:
ress b its President w 0 gave a paper en .1
Sﬁals in 3laboratories Throughout the World, XVlth a

Review of the Present Situation in the Umted States.

*World Federation for the Protection of Animals
37, Dreikonigstrasse, CH 8002 Ziirich, Swﬁzerland

 




Meat Animals

In the working session on transport and slaughter, Mrs.
Eileen Bezet of the Dartmoor Livestock Protection Society
reported that the British Veterinary Association this year
has expressed the opinion that animals should be
slaughtered as near to their home farms as possible. This
View was unanimously endorsed by the Congress. Mrs. Bezet
gave examples of mass suffering and death in transit, for
example: “Calves were being ﬂown to the Canary Islands
off the coast of Morocco. On a single ﬂight from the south
of England, 174 out of 240 died of suffocation and heat
stroke.”

Dr. A. S. Venkatchalam of India called for pragmatic
measures to protect animals, citing the teachings of
Buddha, Ashoka, St. Francis, Richard Martin, Henry Bergh,
Albert Schweitzer, and Mahatma Gandhi.

J aqueline Gilardoni of Paris spoke on tranSport, restraint
and slaughter of meat animals in France, emphasizing the
difficulty in obtaining enforcement of the laws that have
been passed to protect these animals.

Wild Animals

Heinrich Windischbauer, who gives the large birds at the
Hellbrunn Zoo complete freedom to come and go as they
please, summarized his paper as follows:

The modern zoo should forget about bars and
cages and should establish as close a contact as
possible between animals and humans (meaning
attendants and visitors). If animals are kept happy
and content they will approach the human with
conﬁdence instead of aggressiveness. The Hellbrunn
zoological garden near Salzburg, Austria, in its natural
setting of mountain rocks, does not aim at displaying
a great variety of animal Species but at allowing
visitors to come near and get friendly with such
species it has. This does not exclude predators or big,
wild cats which are kept behind simple wire fences.
None of the other enclosures are higher than 3 feet.
Animals are kept busy and distracted at Hellbrunn
Where all of them live an outdoor life. And they are
being well treated. Kindness and good food attract
them to an extent that vultures and other large birds
are absolutely free to ﬂy as they please — and they
will always return to their home.

Sue Pressman of the Humane Society of the United
States spoke on inspections and efforts to improve
American zoos.

Professor H. Kraft of the University of Munich’s
Veterinary Clinic spoke on control of animal populations
and urged that biological methods be employed; that is,
sterilization and use of natural enemies. He stressed that use
of any kind of poison must be avoided for environmental,
ethical, and humane reasons.

At a work session on control of animal populations, Dr.
Ralph Korkhaus of Hanover, described a newly developed
product which gives promise as a birth control substance
not only for pigeons, for which it was developed, but for
dogs and cats. He condemned the cruel poisoning of
pigeons.

Dr. Paul Leyhausen, who serves on The Survival Service
Commission of the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature, urged member organizations of
WFPA to ask their governments to ratify at the earliest
possible moment the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Ten ratifications
are necessary before the Convention goes into effect. To
date, countries that have ratiﬁed are: the United States,
Nigeria, Uruguay and Switzerland.

Patricia Forkan of the Fund for Animals spoke on
protection of whales. She urged member societies to “start
a boycott of Japanese and Russian products, work with
your governments to ban the import of any whale
product.” Boycott literature and buttons were made
available to all the delegates by the AWI.

Mr. H. J. Weichert, Vice President of WFPA, also gave his
attention to the plight of the whales:

Animal protectors and biological scientists have
been trying for years to stop whaling. On account of
intensive catching, the whale population has been
severely reduced, some species are facing extinction.

At present, it is merely Soviet Russia and Japan who,

together, have 85% of the whaling fleet . . .

The United States repeated their proposal to stop

whaling for 10 years at this year’s Whaling
Conference on 29th June, and again it was rejected

Pa'ciamﬂFo an:
Congress of The World Federation for the Protection of
Animals in session at Europa House, Strasbourg, France.

 

by Soviet Russia and Japan. Both countries also voted
against quota limitation of minke whales and against
a geographical restriction for sperm whales in the
southern hemisphere. Japan also opposed the planned
stop of ﬁn whale catching in the Antarctic Sea as
from the middle of 1976. The Soviets, however,
would be prepared — so they declared — to do away
with the larger part of their whaling ﬂeet, but only if
Japan would do the same. However, Japan is not
prepared. In 1973, 123,000 tons of whale meat was
processed in Japan.

The next Congress of the WFPA is planned for 1978 in

Mauritius.

 

USDA PROMULGATES REGULATIONS

Proposed Veterinary Care, Space and Exercise,
and Audio-Visual Requirements

On September 25, 1974, regulations were promulgated
under the Animal Welfare Act to require some release from
cages for laboratory dogs. The regulations represent a com-
promise arrived at after eight years of argument. It is not
surprising therefore, that they are modest and limited, re-
quiring only that “random source dogs”, that is, the mixed
group obtained from dog pounds and dealers, must have
half an hour’s exercise daily during the business week. How-
ever, even these dogs according to the proposed regulations,
would remain cooped up in their cages over every week
end; their ﬁve-days-a-week brief exercise periods would not
begin till they had spent 21 solid days in a cage; and even
this extremely limited exercise would not apply to dogs
bred for laboratory use — the thousands of beagles, for ex-
ample, used by the military and many other research es-
tablishments.

The regulations state in part: “Dogs held in a restricted
environment may develop abnormal behavior (exhibited by
such signs as whirling, depression, inappetence, copraphagy,
and self-inﬂicted injuries) or may refuse to eliminate body
wastes. Dogs developing these or similar problems shall be
provided veterinary medical care and released permanently
to runs or other primary enclosures which may correct such
abnormal behavior, assigned promptly to short term, termi-
nal experiments, or immediately euthanized.”

The fact that these horrors have been allowed to con-
tinue for years despite enactment of the Federal Labora-
tory Animal Welfare Act in 1966, demonstrates the un-
regenerate recalcitrance of a certain element in the medical
research community. Long delay in the publication of the
regulations is credited to complaints that compliance would
cost too much. Such complaints are negated by the fact
that large numbers of animal-using laboratories already
comply with the proposed standards.

The AWI recommends that the proposed regulations be
strengthened to require that all those laboratory dogs still
housed in cages be provided with daily opportunity for ex-
ercise outside the cage from the time they are acquired. The
rest of the proposals are sound and should be adopted as
written.

Those who wish to add their voices to the demand for
this simple decency in treatment of animals to whom the
human race owes so much, are urged to write to:

Administrator

Veterinary Services

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services

U. S. Department of Agriculture

Washington, D. C., 20250
Deadline for comments on the pr0posed regulations is Nov-
ember 25th. The date and page number of The Federal Reg-
ister in which the proposals were printed should be in-
cluded in such comments: September 25, 1974, pages
33420-21.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, MD. Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Bennett Derby, MUD F_ Barbara Orlans, PILD. JOIIIl Walsh, IVIHD
Lee R' che’ Ph.D. International Committee
T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. ~— Greece David Ricardo — Canada
Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. — United Kingdom

N. E. Wernberg - Denmark

P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V. — France
Ofﬁcers

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President

Barbara Gould, Administrative Assistant
Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary

 

 

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

October, November, December, 1976

Vol. 25, No. 4

 

GOVERNOR BROWN FOCUSES ON WHALES

“California Celebrates The Whale” was the title of Governor
Jerry Brown’s hommage to the largest animals ever to live on
earth. Speeches, films, music, and exhibits, featuring Roger
Payne’s narration of his observations of the lives of the Southern
Right whales, drew huge ‘crowds to Sacramento, November 20th.
Many organizations, including the AWl, had booths for the public.
Volunteers Nancy Motz, George and Harriet Powell, and others
distributed AWl fliers and bumper stickers urging the boycott of
Japanese and Russian goods. AWI helped make possible the
appearance of the celebration’s most knowledgable historian of the
destruction of the great whales, Tom Garrett, Conservation
Director of Friends of the Earth, whose comprehensive analysis of
the plight of the whales brought home the extreme urgency for
action to his listeners. His address appears in full below:

A TIME OF MAXIMUM PERIL
by Tom Garrett

Ladies and Gentlemen, for 50 million years since early in the
Eocene epoch the lines of mammals leading to moden whales
evolved and flourished in the oceans, entirely free of direct
influence of terrestrial animals.

In the past 1000 years, hardly an evolutionary flick of an
eyelash, an entire suborder of unique and magnificent mammals,
the whalebone whales, and several species of toothed whales as
well, have been pushed within sight of the awful vertex of
biological extinction by human whalers. Most of this has occurred
within the past 300 years, much of it within our lifetimes.

There have been many thousands of humans over the years;
investors, inventors and engineers; sailors down on their luck, or
too drunk to know better, who signed aboard a yankee whaler;
laborers toiling in the stench and steam of a modern factory ship,
who.have worked—knowingly or haplessly—toward the destruc-
tion of the great whales.

Compensation has ranged from the merest pittance to an
average 50% return on investment during the humpback phase of
modern whaling from 1908 to 1914. But whaling has, by and
large, been unusually profitable, reflecting the vulnerability of its
victims. The city of Sandefjord, seat of Vestfold county Norway,
which served for 70 years as the human womb for the growth of
modern whaling, enjoyed during much of that period the highest
per capita income of any city in the world.

The employment peak for modern whaling occurred in
1960-61, when 19,641 men (9748 Japanese) worked aboard the
expeditions engaged in antarctic whaling. This occurred 30 years
after the peak kill in antarctic whaling, when 10,691 men, virtually
all Norwegian took 21/2 times the biomass of whales taken in 1961,
with a fleet of catcher boats having less than 1/3 the total
horsepower. It occurred when the antarctic Humpback stocks were
gone, the Blue whales virtually gone, the collapse of the fin whale
stocks imminent and in clear view. It occurred 32 years after Lars
Christensen, President of A/ S Thor Dahl, Norway’s largest whaling
company began reinvesting profits from whaling into shipping on
the theory that the destruction of the whales had become
inevitable. The great surprise to the Norwegian and British in-
vestors and to most scientists was not that the stocks collapsed, but
that they lasted as long as they did.

No whaling ship has left Sandefjord in nine years. This coming
antarctic season with an expected Japanese workforce at under
1500, and a slightly larger Soviet contingent, the pelagic work-
force will total between 3000 and 3500.

It is only now, with the ability of whales to sustain the death tech-
nology unleashed against them nearing its end, that the effort
being expended to save whales has risen toward parity with the
pressure for their destruction. It is only now that we have some
basis for hoping that at least some species of commercially exploit-
able whales will not share the earlier fate of stocks and species
more vulnerable, and that the tragedy of the great whales will not
progress to the macabre conclusion so long predicted.

JAPANESE WHALERS HAULING IN $3,600,000
ON A “SCIENTIFIC PERMIT”

Bryde’s whales are worth about $15,000 each according to
industry representatives at the last meeting of the International
Whaling Commission. At that price, the 240 Bryde’s whales that
Japan hasjust assigned itself under a “Scientific Permit” are worth
$3,600,000.

The International Whaling Commission allows for the issuance
of such permits by contracting governments without any
consultation with other lWC members, although there was once a
desultory discussion in the lWC’s Scientific Committee about the
desirability of consultation. Had Japanese scientists at the last
meeting proposed to take 240 Bryde’s whales there would
certainly have been opposition.

The sudden announcement in the wake of major lWC quota
reductions in 1975 and 1976 suggests a desperate move by the
Japanese whaling industry to revivify itself by opening up new
whaling areas. There is a zero quota on Bryde’s whales in those
parts of the Southern ocean where Japanese catcher boats will
now pursue and harpoon these endangered whales. The permit
issued by the Government of Japan to Yoshio Fukuda, Director of
Japan’s Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory, states the
purpose to be to estimate “the population size and structure of this
stock for rational exploitation.”

Previous to this venture the only recently permitted killing of
Bryde’s whales in the Southern hemisphere were nine in 1974
taken by South Africa. A pirate whaler, the Sierra, has been taking
over four hundred whales a year in the area, however. It is
uncertain whether they were sei or Bryde’s whales. The two
species are sufficiently difficult to distinguish one from the other
that they used to be counted together under the designation
sei/Bryde’s. Baleen whales, both enter the Japanese whale meat
market, whether taken under the new scientific permit or by the
outlaw Sierra which is registered in Lichtenstein but sells her
produce to Japan.

Until 1970 when Secretary of the Interior, Walter Hickel, placed
the great whales on the US. Endangered Species List, the last US.
whaling company killed and processed 60 gray whales each year
under a “scientific permit.” The US. Government put a stop to this
commercial operation. The Government of Japan should do the
same.

Please write to Prime Minister Miki urging an end to commercial
whaling and an immediate cancellation of the permit his
Government has issued to kill 240 endangered Bryde’s whales in
excess of the quotas established this June by the International
Whaling Commission. Let the Prime Minister know you are
boycotting Japanese and Russian goods till these nations end their
massive pelagic whaling and that you are gravely disappointed in
the new move to increase the kill by unilateral action. He may be
addressed as follows:

Prime Minister Takeo Miki
Embassy of Japan
2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
Washington, DC. 20008

 

During the past two years, the [WC has adopted quotas under a
scheme called the “New Management Procedure” which have
led to complete protection for Fin whales in all oceans except the
North Atlantic, for Sei whales in one area of the antarctic and in
the Pacific. The baleen whale biomass available to the whaling
industry under lWC quotas has been halved in this period. Sperm
whale quotas were this year reduced, and assigned on an area by
area basis, in a manner which imposes severe operating restraints.
Under these strictures, pelagic whaling has changed from a highly
profitable activity, to an activity which is in the classic economic
sense, unprofitable.

But if this is a time of hope, with the drastic consolidation and
retrenchment now occurring within the whaling industry, it is also a

[continued on page 2]

 




 

A TIME OF PERIL

[continued from page 1]

time of maximum peril. If the major whaling nations are permitted
to sell equipment to entrepreneurs operating under flags of
nations not subject to lWC regulations, and if nationals from
whaling nations who possess the necessary expertise to operate
this equipment are permitted to do so, the recent modest “victory”
within the IWC will prove to have been Pyrrhic indeed.

Certain stocks of baleen whales are, indeed, “commercially
extinct”. The Right whales which wintered along the European
coast, and which supplied victims for the first open boat
commercial whaling, begun by the Basques before the year 1000,
are gone. The Humpbacks which migrated south along the
European coast are gone also, as are the‘blue whales. The Atlantic
Bowhead, or Greenland whale, which sustained 200 years of
Dutch and British whaling, hangs to existence by an eyelash west
of the Davis Strait, at the mercy of marauding natives, but of no
commercial interest. The right whales which once migrated along
the North American coast, and sustained the first American
whaling industry exist as a tiny and unrecovering remnant. The
Humpback stocks which wintered along our Pacific coast were
destroyed in their summering grounds off Alaska by the Soviet
fleet in the late 1950’s and early 1960’s, and progressively
exterminated in their wintering grounds by two US shore stations
while the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries watched benignly. They
are gone.

The Korean stock of Grey whales is gone. The north Pacific
Right whales may be gone.

Other relict populations, now under lWC protection, remain of
potential commercial value. These whales, despite their small
numbers, are critically vulnerable because of the regular migratory
pathways they follow, and because of their wintering concentration
in discrete breeding and calving grounds. Examples are the
southern Right whale stock which Dr. Roger Payne has studied off
Patagonia, and the Humpbacks which Dr. Winn has found
wintering in three concentrations in the Caribbean. Surplus
whaling equipment in the hands of criminals such as the owners
and operators of the ship “Sierra” could readily be amortized in a
single season by raids on these evidently recovering remnants.

Moreover, there are enough Sperm whales in the wintering
areas of IWC protected stocks, such as the few southern
Humpbacks which return to ancestral wintering grounds off
Angola and Zaire, off Madagascar, off Tonga and off the west coast
of South America; or northern Humpbacks who winter off China,
to subsidize their total destruction. This is, in fact, doubtless
happening off Peru where a Japanese owned company whales
without restriction, off Africa where the “Sierra” is operating, and
off Korea.

The subsidization of the complete, or nearly complete
destruction of one stock of whales by simultaneous exploitation of
another, more numerous stock has been a consistent motif in the
death symphony of whaling, and there is every reason to expect
that it will operate to destroy the last Right and Humpback, and in
good time Fin and Sei stocks, if we permit it to do so.

The International Whaling commission this June in London
passed a comparatively weak recommendation, requesting that
member governments “to the best of their ability” act to prevent
the transfer of whaling equipment supplies or expertise to nations
not members of the IWC.

A second resolution, sponsored by the US, providing that no
member nation of the lWC should import whale products from
nations which are not IWC members was beaten when Canada
and several European members sided with Japan, which provides
the major market, and much of the capital, for unregulated
enterprises. The text of the defeated resolution was taken,
incidentally, from a resolution passed in 1938 by a meeting of the
International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling.

Until the whaling commission adopts provisions for economic
sanctions against non complying members, and non members, its
function will be largely dependent on the willingness of member
nations to act unilaterally.

There have, in fact, been only two successful international con-
ventions for the protection of Marine Resources: The Fur Seal
Convention signed in 1911, and the North Pacific Halibut
Convention concluded with Great Britain in 1923. Both conven-
tions were established to deal with stocks decimated below the
point of major commercial significance. The Halibut stocks (were
painfully rebuilt, only to be scooped up as incidental catch to
Japanese ground fishing. The restored fur seal herds are also
declining, with the disappearance of food fish in the Bering Sea.
Beyond these two isolated, and rather anomalous instances, the
only actions which have significantly altered the fate of whales or
other marine creatures, either within or outside an international
regulatory framework, have been unilateral.

In the case of the whales, Norway possessed the power to halt
expansion of whaling until the late 1930’s. This was because the
specialized expertise which made whaling operations succeed was
Norwegian. Until Japan entered the antartic in 1936, Norwegians
manned each and every ship, regardless of flag, involved in pelagic
whaling. Even then, the first factory ship was sold to Japan by a
Norwegian company, and managed by Norway during its initial
season. The German fleet was manned largely by Norwegians, and

 

was developed and partially financed through the complicity of
both the Norwegian and British industries. Two US. flag factory
ships which engaged in the infamous massacre of humpbacks in
their calving grounds at Shark Bay off the west coast of Australia in
the late 1930’s, were Norwegian flag of convenience operations
mounted to get behind the US. tariff wall.

The Norwegian government, through its whaling Act of 1939,
finally cracked down on its industry by assuming control over the
transfer of any Norwegian flag ships for the purposes of whaling,
and by restricting its citizens from working aboard vessels of
nations with whaling regulations less strict than those of Norway. In
1946, the Crown decreed that Norwegian citizens could not serve
aboard expeditions which were not operating before World War II,
except by special dispensation. Such dispensation was, unhappily,
granted the ship “Slava”, ex German “Wickenger” given the
Soviet Union by the war reparations commission, manned and
operated by Norwegians during the first seasons. Norway’s action
to protect its industry was too little and too late to stop the larva
from devouring the parent, along with their mutual prey. But it did
prevent Australia, Italy and Argentina from entering pelagic
whaling, and made ventures by the Dutch and Onassis operated
by rouge Norwegians and by Germans trained prior to World War
II. markedly unprofitable.

Unilateral action, in the form of a citizens’ economic boycott,
taken by the US. conservation community, and the threat of
economic action posed by the US. Congress, and by the
administration through the Pelly amendment to the Fishermen’s
Protective Act which permits the embargo of fish products from
nations “acting to diminish the effectiveness of an international
agreement for the conservation of marine resources,” have been
largely resposible for the gains which have been made within the
IWC.

Having said that, I am bound to note that the US, contrary to
conventional wisdom, does not have hands clean of responsibility.
If it had not been for US. State Department, the whaling
convention of 1946 would have been a good deal stronger than it
was, and there is an outside chance that it might have worked to
halt the precipitous destruction of the whales. The fact is the 1946
Convention represented a considerable recidivism from the 1945
protocol to the 1937 International agreement for the Regulation of
Whaling, and a truncation of favorable trends running within that
agreement toward establishment of economic sanctions against
non-complying nations.

The extent to which the effort of the late Dr. Remington Kellogg
to achieve these goals was undercut by State Department
bureaucrats, may be appreciated by the following exchange, taken
from the Transcript of the 1946 Convention.

Mr. Dobson, for the United Kingdom: “We are not interested in
the 1945 US. proposal restricting sale, loan or delivery of vessels,
equipment or supplies designed especially to whaling operations
to countries who are not parties to the Agreement”. Mr. Flory for
the United States: “We now, with somewhat more mature con-
sideration, believe that in preparation for this document, economic
sanctions of this nature might be quite inappropriate in a longer
range agreement. It might very well be appropriate to eliminate the
quest of economic sanctions at this point and resort to the usual
procedure of using persuasion and such diplomatic representation
as may be necessary in order to get any refractory governments to
concede the principles set forth in this agreement”.

Mr. Flory later characterized “this sort of thing” as “contrary to
the spirit of free enterprise”. It will come as no great surprise for
you to learn that certain American investors were at that time
negotiating with Aristotle Onassis for a revival of US. flag whaling.

A second egregious action of US, vigorously but unavailingly
opposed by other allied nations was taken by Supreme Command
Allied Powers (SCAP) in Tokyo, also in 1946, also with the
concurrence of the State Department. This was to deliberately
sponsor renewed Japanese involvement in pelagic whaling. It is
most ironic that the commercial and operational modes which
provided Japanese post war whaling with its celebrated “meat
margin”, and made Japanese operations far more profitable than
whaling for oil conducted by European nations, were imposed by
SCAP.

Indeed, since SCAP took the whale oil in return for helping
finance the expeditions, the Japanese companies had no choice
but to concentrate on efficiently producing and marketing whale
meat.

The campaign to save the great whales, begun modestly by a
few persons a few years ago, has swept this nation and the world. It
has achieved important success. But it can still fail.

If we falter now, if we fail to pass necessary legislation which is
still pending in the US. Congress, if we fail to leave behind us the
cynicism and timidity, the genuflection to transient pressures and
bureaucratic penates, which has often characterized US. policy
toward whales in the past both in government and among conser-
vationists, we may still be remembered, as the generation which
went to Mars looking for algae, while the last great whales, with
immense brains unplumbed and unfathomed were destroyed in
the world’s oceans.

 




U.S. ANIMAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION MAKES
ANIMAL WELFARE RECOMMENDATION TO US.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Acting on the recommendations of its Animal Welfare
Committee, the US. Animal Health Association passed a series of
resolutions relating to implementation of the Federal Animal
Welfare Act by the Secretary of Agriculture. The first resolution
states:

WHEREAS, recent national publicity involving
exposure of puppy farms also classified as “puppy mills”
with stress of inadequate care and disease conditions;
and

WHEREAS, this national publicity involved the
United States Department of Agriculture as a partner in
the episode of shOcking puppy farms by exhibiting a lack
of funding and sufficient personnel

THEREFORE, we strongly recommend that immedi-
ate consideration be given to INCREASE FUNDING
and PERSONNEL for Veterinary Services, APHIS, to
an extent great enough to overcome the current
problems existing throughout the country and to
achieve compliance with the act in a prompt and orderly
fashion.

We also recommend that a copy of this resolution be
submitted to the United States Secretary of Agriculture
for action.

USAHA further asked the Secretary to:

1) Require photographic identification of each dog and cat sold
to random source dealers for resale and of the license plate of the
car of persons offering the animals for sale. The purpose of the
documentation is to discourage theft of animals and facilitate
successful prosecution.

2) Publish final regulations on exercise for laboratory dogs.

3) Incorporate in regulations and/or standards under the
Animal Welfare Act the provisions relating to multiple surgical

operations on a single dog published by the Institute of Laboratory

Animal Resources in “The Guide for the Care and Use of
Laboratory Animals.” (This would prevent a series of painful
operations on the same dog simply to save money.)

4) Revise Veterinary Services Forms 18-23, Annual Report of
Registered Research Facility, to clarify and more accurately reflect
the actual use of anesthetics, analgesics, and tranquilizers on
animals involved in research, testing, or experimentation.

 

SOUTH AFRICA GOES OUT OF THE
WHALING BUSINESS

The Union Whaling Company of South Africa announced in
October that it “has ceased operations and is disposing of its
whalers. machinery and other equipment.” (Mainichi, Tokyo,
Japan, October 21, 1976).

According to the report, L.C. Surmon, Managing Director of the
company, which is the largest landbased whaling operation in the
world, said it had become uneconomic “as a result of a drastic
reduction in whaling quotas worldwide.”

Surmon is quoted as saying, “A quota of 500 whales is simply
not enough to allow for a profit.”

The Union Whaling Company killed mainly sperm whales,
quotas‘ for which were reduced this year by some 4,000. In 1967
the kill from the Durban Shore Station was 2,847 sperm whales
and 236 baleen whales.

 

“THE ‘BAD BOATS’ HAVE GOT TO GO”

Reporting on Marine Mammal Protection Act hearings held
before an Administrative Law Judge in San Diego, on killing
dolphins in tuna purse seines, the Los Angeles Times, in an article
by Larry Pryor, November 29, 1976, states in part, “Information
about how the fleet operates at sea, the tonnage of tuna caught,
the number of porpoise killed, and the cost of operations has been
scanty and unreliable.

“ ‘The problem won’t be solved until people talk honestly about
what’s going on,’ one government source said. . .

“Observations by the Fisheries Service personnel aboard seiners
and results of various experiments this year show that the skill and
motivation of the captain and crew may be the most important
factor in saving porpoise.

“ONLY THREE BOATS ACCOUNTED FOR 35% TO 40%
OF TOTAL PORPOISE MORTALITY THIS YEAR [emphasis
supplied], according to reports from the fleet.

“Reports from observers on boats this year showed that some
skillful captains and crews killed virtually no porpoise and a
majority of the boats were below the average of one kill per ton of
fish.

“But six boats in the sample had an inordinately high kill rate,
ranging up to four kills per ton. If a boat fished at that rate for three
trips, it could kill 12,000 porpoises in one season alone.

“The realization that a few boats, poorly handled and with
obsolete nets, could force the whole fleet to stop fishing months
before the season ends, has brought a unanimous response from
industry and environmentalists that the ‘bad boats’ as they are
called at the hearings, have got to go.”

BOOK REVIEW

Painful Experiments on Animals, by Dallas Pratt, M.D., (Argus
Archives, New York, NY. 1976) Paperbound $2.95.

This comprehensive review of the current status and available
statistics on experiments and routine tests which cause suffering to
the animal subjects gathers together in orderly fashion a great deal
of material from different sources to provide the best existing
composite picture of the situation in the United States. It should be
read by everyone interested in these animals whether scientist or
layman and whether the reader’s primary interest is concern for
the animals themselves or the advancement of science.

As a Doctor of Medicine and a man of letters, Dr. Pratt views the
current scene compassionately and analytically. His terse
summaries admirably focus on a whole series of platitudes relating
to use and procurement of laboratory animals. For example,
quoting a New York Assemblyman’s appeal to “the large savings
to tax-payers” under the State’s Metcalf-Hatch dog and cat
procurement law, Dr. Pratt writes (pp. 99-100) “It is true that dogs
from New York pounds currently cost an average $7 and cats
$5.50, prices which reflect the fees set by the Department of
Health to reimburse pounds for the maintenance of the animals
during the statutory three-day holding period after requisitioning.
Bristol-Meyers, a proprietary drug company with annual sales of
$11/4 billion acquired 14,000 dogs and cats under Metcalf—Hatch in
1966-74 from the Syracuse SPCA, of all places; in 1974 paying
$5.60 per dog and $6.00 per cat. It is hard to see how the benefit
this concern reaped from cheap, second-hand pets represented
‘large savings to the taxpayer.’ ”

In a section called “Pain as a Cause of Aggression The Ulrich
Experiments,” Dr. Pratt’s sardonic ending, “Are there any
volunteers?” caps the following description of experimental

procedure: " l he metal floor of the cage was heated, causing the
rats to jump about, licking their feet as it grew hotter. Then the floor
was cooled with dry ice ~ this was not effective in producing
fighting: the rats lay on their backs to escape the cold. Bursts of
intense noise (135 dcb., sustained for more than 1 minute) were
introduced. The effects of castration were tried; the animals were
shocked wearing hoods, and, finally, one pair had their whiskers
cut off and were blinded by removal of their eyes.

“Ulrich looks forward to studies on humans. ‘Naturally the moral
and practical difficulties are tremendous. Yet, as our knowledge of
aggression in lower animals progresses and as more and more
feasible methods of studying aggression in humans are developed,
a clear picture....should emerge.’ (Ulrich, R., 1966).”

Dr. Pratt’s query about volunteers concludes the chapter.

Going to the original sources, the most horrifying illustration in
the book is a chart showing the reaction of rabbits’ eyes
traumatized by test solutions (US. Food and Drug Administration).
Following the twelve photographs of eyes in varying stages of
disintegration are quotations from reports submitted under the
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act by such companies as
A.&P., Norwich Pharmacal, Revlon, USV Pharmaceutical Corp,
Westwood Pharmaceuticals, Avon and Lederle, Pratt writes,
“When animals are forced to undergo such suffering, the very least
one expects is that the tests will be reliable and the results
meaningful. A comprehensive study of these eye and skin irritation
tests, conducted in 25 cooperating laboratories (including Avon,
Revlon and American Cyanamid-Lederle) by Weil and Scala of
Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, and the Medical Research Division of
Esso, revealed ‘extreme variation’ in the way the laboratories
evaluated the rabbits’ reactions to standard irritants. The
investigators concluded that ‘the rabbit eye and skin procedure
currently recommended by the Federal agencies....should not be
recommended as standard procedure in any new regulations.
Without careful reeducation these tests result in unreliable results.’
(Weil and Scala, 1971).”

Another old saw examined with some care by the author is the
generalization that whole animal tests are superior to substitutes in
protection of the public. Pratt cites the case of thalidomide which
produced deformed infants. He writes “Although tests of
thalidomide in many species of pregnant animals failed to produce
deformities in the offspring, Lash and Saxen have now described
tests on cultured human embryonic tissue which clearly indicate
the danger of the drug. In the presence of thalidomide (especially
during the second month of pregnancy), there is a significant
decrease in cartilage development, predicting the limb deformities
which actually occurred in the children of women in Europe who
had received the drug in the early 1960’s (Lash, J., 1971). If similar
tests on human embryonic tissue had been performed at the time
the drug was first developed, instead of misleading animal
experiments, the tragedies which resulted from its use might have
been avoided.”

The author states the objective of his book clearly at the outset:
“....to evaluate animal suffering and to consider each and every
case as a serious ethical and humane problem, not to be dismissed
on grounds of economics, scientific freedom, statutory require-
ments, health benefits, or alleged divine sanction.” If “Painful
Experiments on Animals” is widely read in the scientific
community the objective should receive practical application.

(Note: The book may be ordered from Argus Archives, 228 East
49th Street, New York, NY. 10017).

 

 

 




NATIONS CONFER ON ENDANGERED
SPECIES TREATY

Bern, Switzerland was the site of the first meeting of the
contracting governments since the Convention on Trade in
Threatened and Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora was
signed in 1973. Thirty-three nations have ratified the treaty and
the representatives present from twenty-four of these countries
worked with praiseworthy efficiency November 2-6, 1976 towards
its implementation and the necessary additions to the lists.

The United States successfully proposed that the meetings of
the plenary and the Committees be Open to the public throughout
(a contrast to the International Whaling Commission which
excludes the press except for opening and closing statements)
Hon. Curtis Bohlen, head of the US. delegation said “It is the
position of the United States that public awareness is crucial to the
success of the convention.”

The representative of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., Joanna
Gordon-Clark, urged that all cetaceans be included on either
Appendix I (endangered) or Appendix II (threatened species) of
the Convention. The observer from the Netherlands, Dr. Van Bree,
pointed out that this was of such importance that it should be
discussed here as well as at the IWC. Dr. Kai Curry-Lindahl of the
United Nations Environmental Programme said that the small
cetaceans are not regulated by the IWC at all. Towards the end of
the conference the US. proposal to put fin whales on Appendix I
and Sei on Appendix II, with certain qualifications consonant with

the lWC schedule, was all that was approved, however.

The Conference decided that all primates not listed in Appendix
I should now be listed on Appendix II, thus regulating the trade
and enabling statistics to be reliably compiled.

A resolution was passed urging a phase-out of the trade in wild
animals and birds for the pet industry. It was the consensus of the
participating countries that pets ought to be bred rather than
captured in the wild, caged and transported to the consuming
countries. Countries where creatures are currently exploited for
the pet trade were urged to reduce and finally eliminate such
activity. The difficulties are exemplified by the fact that although
Madagascar has prohibited all export of wildlife, all the Madagascar
hedgehogs can be bought in Europe.

An organization called Conseil International de la Chasse (ClC)
(literal translation: International Council on Hunting; official
translation: International Council on Game Management) was
represented by a very active, multilingual individual concentrating
on establishing trophy hunting for leopards. He began, however
by advocating importing trophy heads of rhinos already listed on
Appenide (endangered list) from places where these rare animals
are somewhat less likely to become extinct in the near future.
Seeking to threaten the nations who have ratified the treaty to
protect endangered species, he stated that Mexico does not
support the Conference because it suggests that they “are not
capable of managing their own game.” The representative of
Ghana strongly opposed trophy hunting of rhino. He supported
the move by Canada to place all elephants on Appendix I, and in a
rare expression by applause, supported the United Kingdom’s
statement that it has denied the entry of trophies of endangered
animals. A number of African countries were conspicuous by their
absence from the Bern Conference - for example Kenya, whose
representative Perez Olindo had played a leading role in obtaining
a strong treaty in 1973. The representative of Ghana emphasized
more than once that reference to the problems of countries that
had not yet ratified the convention should wait for such countries
to appear and speak for themselves. In the end the United States,
Switzerland and Zaire having opposed endangered listing for
African elephants, Canada withdrew its proposal. The Asian
elephant is on Appendix I, the African on Appendix II.

Professor Wynne-Edwards of the United Kingdom, Chairman of
the Scientific Committee, spoke feelingly for the large birds of prey
such as the Lammergeier, slow to reproduce and in great demand
in safari parks which are proliferating. He urged Appendix I listing
for all big birds of prey. But the representative of Iran said the
family was “fairly common” in Iran, and the representative of the
International Council For Bird Protection, strongly anti-protective

’

in his numerous interventions, insisted that the entire species was
not threatened with extinction. The Swiss delegate asked whether
“the experts” could distinguish between the subspecies of falco
peregrin us. “No” said the young ICBP representative. He was “just
going by the list,” he said. The wise, old Wynne-Edwards again
urged backing of the Swiss proposal because of the “enormous
increase in trade.” He was defeated, however, and the species
went on Appendix 11 rather than Appendix I.

A total of 44 animals were added to Appendix I, 64 to Appendix
II. After considerable debate, the sea turtles, including the
loggerhead, Pacific ridley, hawksbill, leatherback and green turtle
were added to Appendix I. All rhinos were added to Appendix 1.
Among furbearing animals, the Asian lion and European otter
were added to Appendix I; the grey wolf, all other otters, fur seals,
bobcat, lynx and all other cats not already on Appendix I were
added to Appendix II.

A steering committee composed of the United States,
Switzerland, Canada, Ecuador and Ghana was established to
organize a special meeting within 6-12 months to develop
identification aids, to prepare guidelines on care and shipment of
living animals, to develop a simplified marking method for
shipment of preserved specimens between museums, to consider
problems of control of parts and products of listed species, and to
analyze the listings for scientific validity.

The next Conference of the parties is scheduled for the first
quarter of 1978 in Accra, Ghana.

 

FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF THE
WORLD WILDLIFE FUND

Meeting in San Francisco, November 29 through December 1,
about 800 people from all parts of the world including the King of
Sweden, the Crown Prince of Norway, the Prince of Nepal and
high officials of the Governments of Costa Rica, India, Peru and
Venezuela, and representatives from 28 other nations took part in
a series of seminars relating to the theme of the World Wildlife
Fund Congress, “The Fragile Earth.”

The major program launched at the Congress is the
International Marine Campaign for 1977-78 for which ten million
dollars is sought to finance projects on critical marine habitats, Law
of the Sea legislation, marine pollution, and endangered marine
species. .

Resolutions adopted by the Congress include important
recommendations on conservation of whales and dolphins.

The resolution entitled “Conservation of Whales” calls for an
immediate moratorium on commercial whaling, for particular
attention to studies of live whales and notes that “loopholes in the
International Whaling Commission convention have been
repeatedly used to prolong the existence of an industry which is
dying as a result of its own excesses.”

The resolution entitled “Depletion of Porpoise Stocks in the
Eastern Tropical Pacific by the International Purse Seine Fleet”
concludes: “The Fourth International Congress of the World
Wildlife Fund, meeting in San Francisco, USA, from 29
November to 1 December 1976: Commends the member
Governments of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission
for their action and urges them to press forward vigorously
through the IATTC to achieve new techniques and fishing gear
that will immediately reduce the tragic kill of porpoise and
ultimately permit tuna to be caught without placing the nets
around porpoise, and that all nations that use purse seines should
enact legislation equivalent to the United States Marine Mammal
Protection Act which sets a goal approaching zero mortality and
serious injury rate for porpoise; Further encourages the United
States Government fully to enforce the Marine Mammal
Protection Act and urges The Congress of the United States to
maintain the integritty of the Act and resist all attempts to weaken
it.”

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D
Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John .Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece

David Ricardo—Canada

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. BioI.—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

 




 

 

 

 

ATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

April, May, June, 1977

Vol. 26, No. 2

 

PRESIDENT CARTER’S POSITION
ON WHALES

In his Environmental Message May 23, 1977, President Car-
ter spoke out firmly on Saving the Whales: “Sharing the world-
wide public concern about the condition of marine mammals,
especially whales, l have directed the Secretary of Commerce,
with the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State to:

“Prohibit commercial whaling within our ZOO-mile fishery
zone;

“Pursue negotiations with the International Whaling Com-
mission for a stronger international conservation regime for
whales and other cetaceans, affording protection for them
throughout their range;

“Maintain firm US. support for a ten-year worldwide mora-
torium on the commercial killing of whales; and

“Report to me within 60 days any actions by other countries
that have diminished the effectiveness of the International
Whaling Commission’s conservation programs.”

In a cable to US. embassies in Tokyo, Moscow, Mexico City,
and Copenhagen, and the American Consul in Casablanca,
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance stated that all commercial whal-
ing within the US. 200-mile Fishery Conservation Zone is pro-
hibited. The cable further indicates US. support for the Inter-
national Whaling Commission and the desire to revise and
strengthen it. “The US. Government position is that coastal
states should have the right to take action more restrictive than
that agreed upon in the international body but not to take less
restrictive action and thereby weaken internationally accepted
conservation measures.”

A, _. ~ ~ «'0

Boxed—for Life. Danish Veal Calves.

3&5? are

ANIMALS IN FACTORY FARMS
by Ruth Harrison

Progressively over the last twenty years farmers have had to
increase the productivity of their land in order to meet rapidly
rising costs. The squeeze has been especially serious for the
farmer with a limited acreage. The only way he has been able to
increase output has been by the improvement of crops and of
livestock. At the same time the human population has been
growing not only in numbers but also in affluence, and affluence
has led to a higher demand for animal products and especially
for meat.

Agriculture had not previously appeared an attractive enough
market on which to devote funds for research, but its prospects
as a growth industry opened up possibilities to a wide range of
commercial interests. Geneticists and other agricultural scien-
tists, manufacturers of housing and equipment, of drugs and
feeding stuffs, poured money into research to produce an
animal, house, feed and medicate it, so that it put on the
maximum amount of flesh in the shortest possible time and with
a minimum of effort on the part of the producer.

The farmer is consequently faced with a wide choice of
products, each firm claiming to have produced by experiment
that their product will bring him the extra success and profit that
he needs. Competition is fierce and he is pressured by high
powered salesmanship and advice. Every aspect of his manage-
ment and methods is open to improvement, and as equipment
and materials become more sophisticated and gadgetry more

[continued on page 2]

      

Ruth Harrison

 

 




ANIMALS IN FACTORY FARMS

[continued from page 1] . '
ingenious he is under constant social pressure to modernize his
methods.

The terms ‘intensive farmer’ and ‘factory farmer’ are usually
taken to be synonymous, but in fact they mean very different
things. All farming is, in general terms, intensive today in that
farmers are intensifying their output. The intensive farmer uses
technology with discretion. He makes use of improved know-
ledge to increase the productivity of his livestock through better
breeding and better management and feeding. He may increase
livestock numbers and stocking rates but e does not signifi-
cantly change the pattern of life his animals lead.

The factory farmer aims at a maximum turnover of capital
with a minimum of effort, his main criterion being immediate
profitability. He uses new systems—developed first and fore-
most for his own convenience—which subject the animals to
conditions to which they are not adapted, systems which, in
their extreme and stringent forms, have been described by a
psychiatrist as “characterized by extreme restriction of freedom,
enforced uniformity of experience, the submission of life
processes to automatic controlling devices and inflexible time-
scheduling . . . and running through all this the rigid and violent
suppression of the natural.” Many of these farmers are not really
farmers at all but business interests running their farms from
their offices by remote control.

In most European countries, including all member states of
the European Economic Community (EEC), there are laws
making it an offense to treat animals cruelly.

The Swedish Animal Protection Act of 1944, which covers
animals kept in captivity, states that “animals shall be treated
well and as far as possible protected from suffering. The . . . ani-
mal housing shall provide adequate space and shall be
maintained at a satisfactory level of cleanliness . . . Animals shall
be provided with the necessary food and water.” The Danish
Act of 1950 and the Norwegian Act of 1935, amended in 1951,
have similar provisions. The Criminal Code of the Netherlands,
in dealing with offenses against morality, makes it an offense to
injure the health of animals, to inflict unnecessary injury or pain,
or unreasonably to withhold necessary care from animals. The
French Rural Code simply lays down that the willful] ill treat-
ment of domestic animals is forbidden. The Swiss Penal Code
makes it an offense to intentionally ill-treat, seriously neglect or
unnecessarily overtax an animal. The 1965 Animal Welfare Act
of Luxembourg makes it an offense to treat animals cruelly and
includes as an act of cruelty “the housing of domestic. ..
animals. . . in such a manner that they suffer from the lack of
space in the stall or enclosure in which they are kept or from in-
adequate ventilation, lighting or protection from the elements.”
It also lists “failure to supply animals put out to pasture with
sufficient water for regular drinking.”

All these provisions come under acts offering protection to
animals in general and are not designed specifically to protect
animals on the farm.

There are, however, clauses specifically dealing with farm
animals. For example, in Germany, Norway, Denmark and
Luxembourg, force-feeding is forbidden; in Denmark and
Sweden tethering so as to cause discomfort or pain is forbidden;
in Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands it is forbidden to
insert or fasten anything other than a smooth ring to the snout
of a pig to stop it rooting. ln Norway the castration of poultry is
forbidden, in other countries castration of farm animals is
controlled, so are other mutilations. The Danish Act proscribes
the keeping of hens in battery cages.

In Britain the 1911 Protection of Animals Act makes it an

 

Prison Bars of Typical British Sow Salls.

 

 

Dex Harrison

This Calf Never Knew Life Beyond this Incredibly Cramped
Stall Until It was Slaughtered [Denmark]

offense to cause unnecessary pain or unnecessary suffering to

an animal, and lists some acts which cause pain and some which

cause suffering (to torture, infuriate or terrify an animal). In

1968 an Act was passed, the Agriculture Miscellaneous

Provisions Act, which was designed to give specific protection to

livestock situated on agricultural land. It makes it an offense to

cause ‘unnecessary pain or unnecessary distress’ to such
animals, gives the Minister power to make regulations covering
every aspect of the animal’s life, and enables the Minister to
issue Codes of Practice to give guidance to stockmen—the
codes to be voluntary and not enforceable. So far four Codes
have been issued (for Cattle, Pigs, Domestic Fowl and Turkeys),
and regulations have been made prohibiting the docking of tails
in cattle, controlling it in pigs, and proscribing surgical castration
of poultry, any operation on a bird with the object or effect or

impeding its flight, and the fitting of blinkers to a bird by a

method involving the penetration or other mutilation of the

nasal septum.

The 1968 Act in Britain was introduced on the recommenda-
tion of the Brambell Committee—a technical committee set up
in 1964 to examine the conditions under which livestock were
kept in ‘intensive husbandry systems’ and to make recommen-
dations where necessary. This, I believe, was the first such
committee to be set up anywhere covering farm animals, and it
had as its chairman Professor Rogers Brambell, a distinguished
zoologist, and amongst its knowledgeable members Dr. (now
Professor) W.H. Thorpe, an ethologist of international standing.
The Committee published its Report in 1965 and this report has
had a profound influence throughout Europe. The Committee’s
principal finding was:

“In principle we disapprove of a degree of confinement of an
animal which necessarily frustrates most of the major activities
which make up its natural behavior.”

They were especially concerned as to “the possible cumula—
tive effect on the animal of the long continuance of conditions
which might be tolerable, or even acceptable, in the short term.
Factors producing prolonged stress, discomfort or depriva-
tion . . .may, on occasion, be of much more significance for the
total welfare of the animal than more acute, but transitory,
suffering.”

The mandatory regulations they suggested (which have not
been implemented) were based on five basic freedoms:

“An animal should at least have sufficient freedom of
movement to be able without difficulty to turn round, groom
itself, get up, lie down and stretch its limbs.”

Other recommendations for immediate alleviation of suffer-
ing were that an animal’s diet should be such as to maintain it in
full health and vigor, that there should be sufficient light in
animal houses for routine inspection; they condemned lack of
bedding and totally slatted floors, mutilations such as de-beaking
of poultry and docking of pigs’ tails, and also close tethering
other than for short periods.

Long term recommendations were for a new act specifically
to protect farm animals (see above); for a Standing Committee
to carry on where they left off and to advise the Minister; for
more behavioral studies to be carried out on the behavior of
farm animals; and for work to be undertaken as a matter 0
urgency into developing and improving loose housing systems
to replace systems of extreme confinement.

The German Animal Protection Act of 1972 is the first Act
anywhere to recognize behavioral distress. lt lays down that:

“Any Person who is keeping an animal or who is looking after
it:

1. shall give the animal adequate food and care suitable for its
SP€Ci€S; and he shall provide accommodation which takes
account of its natural behavior; (emphasis supplied)

2. shall not permanently so restrict the needs of an animal of
that species for movement and exercise that the animal is ex-
posed to avoidable pain, suffering or injury.”

 




 

th Harirson

Playful Piglets Have No Room to Romp in These Cramped
Battery Cages [Britain]

So far there have been no EEC Directives covering the
conditions under which farm animals are kept.

However, the Council of Europe, of which all EEC countries
are members, as well as Austria, Cyprus, Greece, Iceland,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, has drawn up a
Convention “On the Protection of Animals kept for Farming
Purposes” following a recommendation from the World Federa-
tion for the Protection of Animals. Conventions of the Council
of Europe may be signed and consequently ratified by member
states. Signing is only an indication of general agreement with
the convention, ratification is only possible if the country
concerned pases—or already has—legislation covering the
conditions contained in the convention.

Article 3 of the Council of Europe convention states:

“Animals shall be housed and provided with food, water and
care in a manner which—having regard to their species and to
their degree of development, adaptation and domestication—is
appropriate to their physiological and ethological needs in
accordance with established experience and scientific know-
ledge”; and Article 4 states:

“1. The freedom of movement appropriate to an animal, having
regard to its species and in accordance with established ex-
perience and scientific knowledge, shall not be restricted in
such a manner as to cause it unnecessary suffering or injury.

2. Where an animal is continuously or regularly tethered or
confined it shall be given the space appropriate to its
physiological and ethological needs in accordance with es-
tablished experience and scientific knowledge.”

Other general principles are set out. Those states ratifying the
convention will then set up working parties to draw up detailed
regulations to be applied. So far no state has yet ratified the

fconvention but it is hoped that some will do so in the near
uture.

All of which sounds splendid on paper and one can but hope
that it will lead to effective action. But so far, in spite of all this
legislation throughout Europe (apart from hen batteries in
Denmark) hens are kept in cages in which they cannot spread
even one wing, can only stretch their necks by putting them
through the bars of the cage, are forced to stand permanently
on a 1:5 slope of wire mesh (which often damages their feet),
and are allowed less than half a square foot of floor space. If you
Open up your AWI Information Report ,and hold the narrow end
close to you, you will have a ‘battery’ floor space (14” wide by
17” deep) which will house up to five'birds—each weighing up
to 6 lbs—throughout their productive lives. Turkeys, ducks, quail
and broiler chickens are similarly crowded.

In spite of the legislation calves for the ‘white veal’ trade are

kept throughout their lives (this can now be up to 22 weeks of
age) in pens so narrow that after the first few weeks of life they
are unable to turn round and in the last few weeks even to
groom themselves. We can approximate the size of a veal pen
with AWI Reports. If you take four reports, open them and lay
four sheets with the wide sides below each other you have a
Space 56” deep by 17” wide. Add another 5” or 7” down the
Side and you have a space 22” (or 24”) wide by 56” deep
(sometimes 60”) in which a calf will stay until it reached around
350 lbs. in weight.
' In spite of the legislation piglets may now be kept in either
Individual cages or multiple cages, and both sows and fattening
P198 in stalls designed to prevent them turning round. Close
tethering of sows, causing neck and body lesions, is common.

In Switzerland the federation of animal welfare societies
recently conducted a massive campaign aimed at getting rid Of
hen batteries and veal crates. They rightly pointed out that there
Were Perfectly sound alternative methods for keeping these
animals. So far they have not achieved their aims, but they have
been successful in alerting the agricultural industry to the
Intensity of public disquiet and causing the poultry industry to
100k seriously at its future methods. An international poultry

 

journal recently carried the following warning to producers:

“When your cages reach the end of their working life, what
will you replace them with? Indeed, will you be replacing them
at all? . . . .the environment of the future may be different
perhaps involving more space for birds, which the industry must
be prepared to consider.”

On a more hopeful note a little more work is now taking place
to develop alternative systems to those of close confinement. In
Britain, the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare em-
ployed a zoologist to study the behavior of hens under battery
and deep litter systems. He then developed a cage aimed to
give advantages to both the farmer and the bird. The cage,
measuring 1 meter deep by one meter high, had littered nesting
boxes at ground floor and ‘first floor’ levels, perches on which
the birds could rest. Partitions between nesting boxes soon fell
away permitting the birds free access between cages. This meant
that birds could escape aggressors by going through the nesting
boxes into another cage. The birds could also scratch around in
the litter when egg laying was completed for the day, and the
fact that very little time was spent on the wire prevented the
development of over long claws seen in ordinary cages.

Work is proceeding on similar lines all over Europe and,
hopefully, will help to turn the tide away from the present severe
confinement of birds.

In several European countries it has also been found possible
to keep veal calves in groups bedded on straw and fed through
teats on automatic milk machines. It has been found that the .
small amount of straw ingested by a well-fed calf up to around
16 weeks is not enough to darken the flesh significantly and the
animals can lie comfortably and move freely.

Extreme methods have developed largely through expedien-
cy, and have been encouraged on the basis that ‘what is new, is
progress and must be good—we must never halt progress’. In
Britain at least they have been actively supported with
government grants, government research, by being derated, and
by the side-stepping of really effective legislation.

 

EXOTIC BIRD TRADE AGAIN INTRODUCES
NEWCASTLE DISEASE TO U.S.

The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service ofthe US.
Department of Agriculture is again struggling to prevent spread
of exotic Newcastle disease which cost $56,000,000 to eradi-
cate last time it started spreading in the United States. The cruel
and unnecessary trade in wild-caught foreign birds is respons-
ible. Huge lots of little finches from Africa and India, Mynah
birds and parrots are brought to this country in cramped cages.
In a recent case more than one thousand birds died in a single
shipment. It is believed that they had received no water for three
dayd

This trade is technically legal. It is accompanied by intractable
smuggling of exotic birds across the Mexican border. A report in
the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association
(Vol. 170, No. 4, February 15, 1977) states:

“A case of bird smuggling in Texas vividly demonstrates
conflicts in the US code between Public Law 87-518 and the
Lacey Act. Conflict also exists between US Department of
Agriculture (USDA) responsibility to protect the health of the
US domestic animal population and the responsibility of the US
Fish and Wildlife Service to preserve members of a wild species.
In this case conflicts arose when 326 parrots with an estimated
value of $50,000 were seized by US Treasury agents after the
birds were smuggled into Texas from Mexico. The parrots were
initially retained at a USDA facility. Veterinary Services, USDA,
requested custody of the parrots so that they could kill them.
The birds were being confined in small cages, and were suffering
from stress, dehydration, and starvation. Several were dead.
The US attorney requested that the birds be kept alive as
evidence. The US Customs Investigation Service and the US
Fish and Wildlife Service made arrangements for the birds to be
placed in a bird quarantine facility. After 17 days in quarantine,
the birds had nasal and ocular discharges, pasted vents, leg and
wing paralysis, and torticollis. Many died. Then, 33 days after
seizure and after Mexico refused to allow the birds entry,
custody of the birds was given to Veterinary Services and the
birds were killed. Subsequent laboratory studies confirmed that
the birds were infected with velogenic viscerotropic Newcastle
disease, which had recently been eradicated from southern
California at the cost of $56 million.”

 

EATING CHINA’S WILD ANIMALS
by Michael Webster

The mention of Hong Kong conjures up an image of a city,
and I doubt whether many people who have not been there,
and even some who have, realize that it contains some relatively
remote areas of unspoiled countryside. The larger mammals are
all gone, and the annual tiger scares usually originate from the
footprints of a large dog and the imagination of a local farmer.
Several small mammals still exist, though most are becoming
rarer. Birds, however, occur in great variety and relative
abundance.

In terms of the conservation of wild creatures, Hong Kong
should be less concerned with its own wildlife than with the

[continued on page 4]

 




EATING CHINA’S WILD ANIMALS

[continuedfrom page 3]

wildlife which passes through Hong Kong in the course of
trade . . . or meets a grisly end there. Exotic delicacies such as
monkeys’ brains scooped still warm from the skull of the living
monkey, or bears’ paws roasted and then sliced from the living
bear are horrors of the past, though it is still possible to find
people who have witnessed the former, ten to fifteen years ago.

When the Washington Convention on Trade in Endangered

Species of Wild Flora and Fauna entered Hong Kong’s legisla-
tion, if in a slightly modified form, last August conservationists
hoped for some improvement. In particular, it was hoped that
the enlightened inclusion of all hawks and owls among the fully
protected species would cut down the considerable trade in
these birds. In 1975, over 7000 hawks and 9000 owls were
imported from the People’s Republic of China for quasi-medical
purposes and the concoction of gourmet dishes. Broth of owl is
good for the eyesight and hawks, usually also in a soup,
strengthen the old. We saw magnificent imperial eagles, eagle
owls, goshawks and others confined in tiny cramped cages,
often with their wings tied or wired to their bodies, and
occasionally with their bills wired together also, being hawked
around the bustling streets or jammed tightly together at the
wholesalers. Many birds died from a broad spectrum of avian
diseases; it was impractical in most cases to release the birds
because they could not have fended for themselves with
primaries and retrices battered and broken through mishandling
in transit. One local conservationist did rehabilitate a number but
usually it was'necessary to keep them in captivity for months
until they had molted their primaries.

Birds of prey were not the only sufferers. Several species of
small cats and civets met the same fate. They were trapped in
leg-hold traps in China and often arrived in Hong Kong with
broken and gangrenous legs. They huddled apathetic in their
cages until prodded with iron bars or lighted cigarettes;
fierceness makes them more “efficacious” for use in a general
tonic. Chinese pangolins were imported by the thousands. This
highly beneficial mammal was persecuted again for quasi-
medicinal purposes, doubtless to the detriment of those
communities plagued by the house termite, Coptotermes
Formosanus on which it feeds. lts supposed qualities could
come out of a medieval bestiary. lts scales are infused to make a
kind of tea which is good for skin complaints or to improve
lactation in nursing mothers. lts blood is mixed with rice for
strength.

lt was customary, until recently, to scoff at folklore medicine
as primitive and ineffective, but it would be a mistake to
condemn the traditional medicine of China. It would be equally
a mistake to think that folk medicine is as effective as acupunc—
ture. The truth is that like most natural medicine, some is
effective and some is nonsense. For example, the eating of
meats such as dog and civet in cold weather to keep the body
warm has a scientific explanation for these meats are rich in
amino acids and will have a warming effect. Curiously, the
pangolin has perhaps been saved from near extinction because
there is a theory in China that it may be possible to extract a
cancer cure from it. This is a recent development which has
caused the virtually complete banning of pangolin exports since
1975. There may be some truth in it according to a medical
friend because of the abundance of corticoid compounds in the
scales. Nonsense remedies can usually be distinguished because
they belong to one of two categories; either they enlist magic,
such as eating newborn rats by the light of a full moon to cure
tuberculosis, or they are the results of wishful thinking, such as
the wide variety of aphrodisiacs and restorers of strength and
failing faculties.

The new legislation met with a series of snags. Before it was
passed, the main objections were from a gentleman who
wanted to set up a quarantine station for birds to be exported to
the United States. Which birds has never been entirely clear, but
it is known that a permit to set up a similar institution in Papua
New Guinea, was refused. Subsequent problems came from the

unpreparedness of the Hong Kong government to enforce the
legislation, even those parts of it such asthe ban on owls and
birds of prey which were added by local officials. Leopard skins
for example had to be licensed but nobody had designed the
license form. Meanwhile. virtually every furrier had stocks and
China was readily exporting them. In early 1974 a reporter was
shown a stack of 500 leopard skins in a single cold store.

The second problem was that the importers from China are
Communist-dominated organizations who have for years been
allowed to carry on their business, often in defiance of
government regulations and even, sometimes, without a license
of any sort. During, and just after, the Communist riots of 1967
there was reason behind this but the political angle has long
since lost its importance although it was still being used by the
enforcement authorities as an excuse for not doing its job. .
Strident calls from conservationists met with government
evasions and a desperate search for ways out of the dilemma.
Eventually a raid on the main importer resulted in the seizure of
a single goshawk, but no prosecution was taken on the advice of
the Attorney General. It is interesting that this was first reported
as the seizure of a goshawk, but very quickly became altered to
the voluntary surrender of a goshawk. White-naped cranes, a
species in much more serious'and immediate danger, passed
through in some numbers. Eight were seized, some of which
were later returned to the importer, and it is believed that a
further 25 passed through undetected by the authorities.

The third problem was one which has plagued enforcement
authorities all over the world, the difficulty in recognizing some
endangered species. Hong Kong has eliminated subspecific
designations from the schedule of protected species, but it just
does not have, and never will have, the available experts to
identify rare snakes (there is a huge trade in snakes for food)
and some of the less frequently seen mammals and birds.

The fourth difficulty is the lack of priority accorded to
enforcement of this law by the government. The government is
not willing to spend enough money to secure adequate
enforcement of the law; it will spend the absolute minimum for
appearance’s sake.

Animal lovers have objected to the trade because of the rarity
of some of the species involved and the cruelty involved in the
trade. The catalogue of barbarities is as appalling as the clubbing
of young seals in Canada or the torturing to death of leopards to
avoid damaging the skins. l have already mentioned untreated
wounds from leg hold traps. l have also seen a porcupine
cannibalised by the other occupants of its cage, a barking deer
with its legs broken by a deer trap, monkeys with their tails
broken off leaving a bloody stump or with wounds on their front
limbs so ghastly that the bone could be seen from the front and
back of the hand, eyes gouged out, young pangolins ripped
from their mothers and cast aside to die, swans with broken
wings, pangolins again in convulsions, prey and predator in
adjacent cages and so on and so on. The only objective is to
keep the animal alive as long as possible so that the meat can be
eaten fresh.

The new legislation may begin to have some effect when the
Government of Hong Kong feels itself strong enough to take
firm action against one of the major Communist importers. So
far the impact has been minimal. The excuses which made the
trade accepted in the late 1960’s no longer apply. All that
hinders a clampdown on the trade is the inertia and incompe—
tence of officials who are more concerned with working towards
their pensions than with doing a good job.

However, the final solution really lies with the People’s
Republic of China. Precious natural assets in the shape of
rodent-eating and insect-eating species are being destroyed for a
minimal financial return. This is being realized in Peking but in
Hong Kong we get the impression that the local authorities in
Kwangtung Province take very little notice of what the central
government says on such matters. And, of course, as most of
the animals are consumed in Hong Kong, the outside world can
only show its disapproval, it cannot stifle the trade by refusing to
buy.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

S cienttfic Committee

Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, PhD

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, PhD.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.——Greece

David Ricardo—Canada

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C.. B.Sc., M.I. Biol.——United Kingdom

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Officers

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

Marilyn Chamberlain. Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

 




BATTLE FOR THE WHALES
AT CANBERRA [continued from page 1]

increasing harassment and killing of Bowhead whales by
Eskimos, Aleuts, and Indians under the exemptions allowed them
by the US. Marine Mammal Protection Act. The IWC Scientific
Committee recommended a zero quota for these endangered
whales. More than 100 Bowhead whales were harpooned by
whalers from Eskimo villages in the 1977 spring hunt, but
three-quarters of the wounded escaped or sank. The total
Bowhead population is estimated to be between a few hundred
and two thousand. Congressman Paul N. McCloskey (R. Calif.)
promised that the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee of which he is a senior member will make vigorous
efforts to solve the problem if necessary.

A resolution was adopted calling for reports from member
countries on the time it takes each whale to die after first being
struck by a harpoon—a small step towards providing a less cruel
death for the thousands of these sensitive, intelligent creatures still

being killed for human use. Suggestions for humane killing
methods are being collected and should be sent to Dr. Edward
Mitchell, Fisheries and Marine Services, Box 400, Ste-Anne de
Bellevue, Province of Quebec, H9X 3L6, Canada.

Australian conservationists are fighting to end whaling in their
country where a single shore station at Cheynes Beach, Western
Australia, still sends out boats every morning to kill sperm whales.
They urge American friends of whales to write to the Prime
Minister of Australia asking him to put a stop to Australian
whaling. Only 90 people are employed in whaling at Cheynes
Beach. Australia, a country with enormous natural resources, can
readily absorb this small number of workers into its labor force. An
“airletter” obtainable at the Post Office, costs 21c and may be sent
to any part of the world. Or you can put 31c postage on your own
envelope. Please ask to be informed of the decision of the
Australian Government. The address:

Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser
Parliament House
Canberra, ACT. 2600, Australia

HUMPBACK WHALES—Richard Ellis has produced this stunning scene of a mother Humpback whale and her calf. It is
now available as a six-color print, measuring 20”x26”, to anyone donating $15 or more to the Animal Welfare Institute
Save-the-Whales Campaign. Ellis, who is the world’s foremost marine life artist, painted the Humpbacks after swimming
with them in Hawaii last winter. You can acquire this magnificent print by supporting our efforts. PLEASE HELP US.

 

YES! I want to help save the whales! Enclosed is my tax-deductible donation of $ ............. to the Animal Welfare
Institute. Please send me ........... print(s) of the Humpback Whales by Richard Ellis. ($15 minimum donation per
print.)

Name .............................................. , ..............................................................

Street ...................................... City ........................................ Zip .......................

Send to: Animal Welfare Institute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007
Make checks payable to Animal Welfare Institute.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kiernan, MD.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee
T.G. Antikatzides. D.V.M.—Greece David Ricardo—Canada N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.——United Kingdom
Officers

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson. Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

 

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute’s latest annual report filed with the New York State Board of Social
Welfare is available upon written request to the Institute at the address on the masthead, or to the New
York State Board of Social Welfare, Office Tower, Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY. 12223

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 October, November, December, 1977 Vol. 26, No. 4

 

Dear Reader:

This quarter, rather than sending the usual Information Report, we have decided to send you a recent
publication of the Federation of American Scientists (FAS) which we think you will find of special interest.
As you know, the movement for animal welfare has long sought larger numbers of involved and
compassionate scientists.

It is gratifying to find that an eminent scientific organization, the Federation of American Scientists is
seeking, as the enclosed Report shows, to catalyze the formation of an organization of scientists concerned
with animal welfare. In this regard, the FAS is following the path of the British Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare (UFAW) with which we have worked for many years.

The Director of the Federation of American Scientists, had, as you will see, some kind words to say
about the Animal Welfare Institute on page 2 of his Rep'ort. But he also had a criticism:

“As an experienced observer of small public interest organizations, there is little
doubt in my mind that the Animal Welfare Institute is in the highest 5 percentile in
effectiveness, and in cost-effectiveness also. It is extraordinary how much you are
doing. The many Congressional staffers who praise the work of the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation and of the Animal Welfare Institute to the skies are testimonial to
it.

“Where you have fallen down, I think is in devoting so much time to the substantive
effort, and in showing such reluctance to advance your own Institute, that you lack the
resources you need to propell your many projects. You simply must advise the
recipients of your many free mailings, that these informational bulletins cost money,
and that they should, at the least, join the 4,000 supporters of the Animal Welfare
Institute to help defray the cost of the mailings.”

— Jeremy Stone, letter of Oct. 4, 1977

I hope this frank analysis by a respected and independent scientist will make you want to send us a fully
tax deductible contribution. The Animal Welfare Institute needs your support now and appreciates your
commitment to the well being of animals.

Sincerely,

[$22 52;...

Christine Stevens, President

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute’s latest annual report filed with the New York State Board of Social
Welfare is available upon written request to the Institute at the address on the masthead, or to the New
York State Board of Social Welfare, Office Tower, Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY. 12223.

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

January, February, March, 1978

Vol. 27, No. 1

 

THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

Tokyo’s International Whaling
Commission Meeting

The much heralded reduction in sperm whale quotas
achieved this June at the Canberra meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (lWC) was reversed in Tokyo in Decem-
ber. With a massive demonstration outside the Japanese For-
eign Office where the meeting was held, whalers and their
cohorts in the Seamen’s Union shouted into bullhorns and
waved signs calling for what they termed scientific utilization of
whales. The Commissioners rushed with unprecedented haste
to vote an increase of killing 5,681 sperm whales in the North
Pacific. (They raised the 1978 quota of 763, voted this June, up
to 6,444; the 1977 quota was 7,200).

The Chairman of the Commission, Arthur Bollen of Australia,
issued a press release at noon after switching from the Technical
Committee meeting into full plenary session. Commissioners
had only just received a scientific paper criticizing the figures
and had had no opportunity to study it.

Some of the commissioners had not even received this paper
by the world’s leading whale population scientist, Dr. Sidney
Holt of the UN. Food and Agriculture Organization. The paper
is reprinted in the column at the right. Dr. Holt flatly states that
the figures adopted by the Scientific Committee at its November
meeting, preceding the Tokyo lWC meeting, are not credible.
His reasons are clearly and scientifically stated and are worth
reading in full.

Other scientists fOund the analysis of Dr. Seijo Ohsumi of the
Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory so difficult to believe
that the Committee decided to pool the figures they had from
southern hemisphere sperm whaling with those Dr. Ohsumi
presented for the North Pacific. By mingling the incredible figure
with an existing figure from a different part of the oceans, they
came up with a figure which no scientist advocated on the basis
of research; nevertheless, since it issued from the Scientific
Committee, and most countries have slowly and painfully come
to the conclusion that the Scientific Committee should be
supported, most of the commissioners came to Tokyo with
instructions to vote for its findings and they did so.

Only France had the courage to vote against the massively
increased quota. The United Kingdom abstained. All other
nations (Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa, United States, and the Soviet Union) voted for the
increase.

The United States has fought hard over the past four years to
end the former practice of [WC Commissioners voting quotas
much higher than those advised by the Scientific Committee. Its
success in establishing the reputation of this Committee created,
for this session at least, an uncontrollable monster.

All of the data on which Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was based came
from Japanese whaling vessels. The data goes back to periods
when there were no international observers aboard the vessels,
and even now, the observers are not in a position to attest to the
type of data involved. In any case, the raw data was not even
submitted to the other members of the Scientific Committee.
This is the sort of presentation on which the Committee, and the
Commission is asked to operate.

The Russians who kill even more sperm whales than the
Japanese simply refuse to supply any but the most limited data.
Scientists from non-whaling countries have devoted little time to
the analysis of such data as they are able to get their hands on.
Thus, although Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was not accepted without
doubts, questions and arguments within the Scientific Commit-
tee, it constituted by far the greatest influence on the outcome of
the Committee’s meeting at Cronulla, Australia just before the
full IWC meeting of the Commissioners in Tokyo.

Secrecy

The actions of the IWC, seem to an observer, to be guided by

two ruling passions: secrecy, and the killing of whales to the
[continued on page 2]

HEARINGS TO PROTECT ELEPHANTS

. . within the last years the threat to all Africa’s elephants
has grown even more critical, and there is no parallel for
their plight among living creatures. . . They are magnificent
animals. They can communicate with one another, you
know, and when one falls to the ground, others come to his
assistance and try to pry him with their tusks back to his
feet—some say because they know the great weight of his
bulk will collapse his lungs if he stays down too long...
Elephants are believed to have some conception of death,
and possibly even of the reasons they are hunted. They
have been known to seize the tusks from a dead member of
the family and smash them to pieces. Here in Uganda,
during one of the cropping episodes, the ears and feet of
the destroyed elephants were stored in a shed to be
prepared for sale as handbags and umbrella stands. A
group of elephants broke into the shed, removed the
objects, and buried them. Scientists involved in the episode
are said to feel uncomfortable still about the incident.”

The Last Place on Earth, Harold T.P. Hayes,

New York, Stein & Day, 1977.

On December 13, 1977, Chairman John Murphy (D., NY.)
held hearings on HR. 10083 introduced by Representative
Anthony Beilenson (D., Calif.) to prohibit importation of ele-
phant products before the Committee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries. [continued on page 3]

 

SPECIAL MEETING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
TOKYO, DECEMBER 6-7, 1977

Statement by Dr. Sidney J. Holt

Observer representing Food and Agriculture
Organization

It was with great regret that the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation (FAO) found that, due to unforeseen circumstances, it
was not possible for a representative to attend the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in Cronulla. This means that my
comments must be based on study of the report of the
Committee and of the background papers, instead of on an
intimate knowledge of, and participation in the Committee’s
discussions, as is usual. I have however, consulted some of the
participants in the meeting and thereby assured myself that
there are no fundamental misunderstandings involved in the
following remarks. It is important, in such matters, to try “to see
the wood for the trees” and this is perhaps more easy than if we
had been involved in the very complex and difficult discussions
of the meanings of the data and the properties of the assess-
ment models used. In this position one may try to assess the
overall credibility of the advice the Committee has now pre-
sented to the Commission. I hope my friends in the Scientific
Committee will forgive me if I say that the results are not
credible.

In recent years the advice of the Committee has on several
occasions been that quotas should be drastically revised, usually
downward. Such advice has been received with surprise and
displeasure by some Commissioners. Such proposals for revi-
sion have been based on analyses taking into account more
data, or using better analytical models, or both. In the present
case the proposed stock classifications are dramatically changed
and quotas revised upwards on the basis only of a re-application
of the same model, using few new data. This calls for a more
than usually close look at the way in which this has come about.

It is not easy to see by inspection how the “Allen model”
works. For this reason FAO posed last July—that is, immediate-
ly after the decision to call a Special Meeting—a number of
written questions to the Convener of the meeting, with copies to
the Secretary of the Commission and to the Chairman of the
Scientific Committee. Unfortunately these questions have not
been answered, but we consider them still to be relevant. They

' [continued on page 2]

 

 

 

 

 




 

MEETING OF INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
[continuedfrom page 1]

concern the separate effects, on assessments, of changes in the
assumptions concerning the efficiencies of recorded whaling
effort, and in the assumed pregnancy rates and their depen-
dence on density. It seems that:

a) the reclassifications proposed are virtually entirely due to
changes in assumed efficiency factors—including the effect of
catcher size, but mainly the effects of ASDIC; and

b) the suggested quotas for females derive essentially from
an assumption that pregnancy rate increases by 25% (from
0.20 to 0.25) from one extreme of population density to
another. Evidence has been presented concerning the average
level of pregnancy rate, but none whatever for the range of
density dependence, nor even that the pregnancy rate actually
has increased with the decline in numbers of biomass, either of
females, or of males plus females. In my opinion the range
adopted and even the direction of change, are complete
guesses. Thus, if the range were actually 0.210 to 0.235 the
quotas would be about halved; if it were 0.19 to 0.29 they would
be doubled; and so on. The actual range may well be outside
such assumed values. The proposed quotas should be viewed

in the light of such very considerable ignorance.

However, the biggest factor in the revised advice is the new
position taken by the Committee with respect to the effective-
ness of ASDIC, which is in some respects the opposite of what
has been written and said in scientific discussions in recent
years. It is now said not only that ASDIC is used by the
Japanese catchers only in chasing, but also that the main effect
of introducing ASDIC has been some reduction in the time
spent chasing. Since that time is a rather small fraction of the
catchers’ day’s work, this is held to justify the Committee’s
adoption of a very low value of the ASDIC efficiency factor as
concluded in recent analyses by Japanese scientists. However, it
is admitted that many chases were, especially before ASDIC
came into general use, unsuccessful, and it has been affirmed on
earlier occasions that use of ASDIC greatly increases the
likelihood that a chase will result in capture. If this is so the
increase in efficiency could be great, and would not be meas-
ured as the inverse of chasing time. Unfortunately neither the
report nor the background documents are informative on this
crucial matter.

Then it is necessary to seek an explanation of why the ASDIC
efficiency factor reported by Japanese scientists is low compared
with all previously published studies, which range up to 100%
and more. A possible explanation is to be found in the detailed
account given of the Japanese operational method, in which it is
emphasized that catchers attached to one expedition always
work cooperatively, throughout the search and hunt. This
means that the comparison of catches by ASDIC-fitted boats
with those without ASDIC, in the same expedition and during
the same season, is spurious as a measure of the efficiency
factor. Further varying practices between expeditions from one
year to another might account for the extreme variation in the
estimates quoted. There is therefore no good reason to accept
the low values in preference to the much higher values obtained
in earlier critical studies.

There is an interesting consequence of the new theory that
ASDIC is not very useful—and it has been said that it could
even be a disadvantage—in sperm whale hunting, but that it has
been installed at considerable expense primarily because of its
value in baleen whaling. If this view were accepted, most
assessments for baleen whales would need to be revised,
because baleen whaling effort has not been corrected for
ASDIC in the assessments on which present classifications and
quotas are based. I suggest that such revision will lead at least to
enhanced protection for sei whale stocks and to prolongation of
the protection of fin whale stocks.

Another point that should be taken into consideration is the
decision of the Scientific Committee to retain 1947 as the initial
year on which to base classification advice. The catch data
presented show that, on the basis of the model adopted, the
land-station catches of females from the Western Division for 20
years before 1947 would have been sufficient to hold the
number of females down to between 90 and 95% of their initial
number. Consideration of this fact would be enough to lead to
classification of females as “protected” in the Western Division.

The last point I wish to make refers to the absurdity of con-
tinuing to equate one female with one male in calculating the
appropriate quotas for sperm whales, ignoring the fact that each
male yields two or three times as much oil, meat and meal as
one female. Apart from the fact that it has not yet been shown
convincingly that there is any sustainable numerical advantage
in catching any females, there is clearly no advantage in
catching females if account is taken of the great difference in size
between the sexes. Among the unanswered questions posed by
FAQ to those responsible for the models adopted was the
question of just how great the calculated marginal advantage, by
weight or number is—if there is one—and how much, and in
what ways, such a calculation depends on the assumed values
of the parameters used in the model. It may be worth recalling
also, that if a stock is classified as “initial management,” as is
now proposed for the Eastern Division, there is even more
reason to take account of the size differences, while the stock is
still well above the “optimal” levels.

In sum, to an “observer” it does not appear that the advice
now presented is more reliable or more likely to be correct than
the advice previously offered. The complex calculations that
have been made are on the one hand incomplete in that the
properties of the model and their dependence on precise
parameter estimates and assumptions have not been revealed
and, on the other hand, are such that they obscure the facts that
the crucial parameters have been guessed rather than esti-
mated, and that the calibration of crude effort data to take into
account increasing efficiency is still very far from satisfactory.

Some breakdown of operational features has at last been
provided for one part of one of the pelagic ﬂeets, 15 years after
the Scientific Committee first asked for such data; but the
breakdown available still omits critical information—such as the
change in the frequency of successful chase, and the time series
of searching time per catcher day’s work. Further, the analysis of
such information as is given leaves a great deal of room for
doubt as to what is actually being estimated, and whether the
undoubted increases are yet adequately being taken into ac-
count

Without departing from the principle that management must
be based on the best scientific advice, it seems it would be wise
for the Commission also to take into account:

a) the very great uncertainties in the assessment of sperm
whales which persist, practically unchanged, despite the
best efforts of the Scientific Committee;

b) the likely direction of biases in the data and in the assess-
ments (including an arbitrary starting year of 1947, long
after intensive sperm whaling started);

c) the fact that assessments are still based on data from only
a relatively small part of the sperm-whaling ﬂeet; and that
those data are incomplete and have been presented
selectively.

d) the consequences to the baleen whale assessments of the
“new theory” concerning the technology of sperm whale
hunﬁng.

It would be appreciated if these observations could be

included in the documentation of the present meeting.

6 December, 1977

 

THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

[continuedfrom page 1]

maximum degree possible in the prevailing climate of public
opinion. At this session, it betrayed a strange dichotomy with
regard to the press. As noted above, the Chairman of the
Commission insisted that the Commissioners vote immediately
and finally on the greatly increased sperm whale quota for the
North Pacific because of the interest of the Japanese press in
knowing the outcome.

On the other hand, the secrecy rules with regard to the
Scientific Committee were so strict that nothing more than the
bare figure of increase leaked out until the morning of the
Tokyo meeting of the full Commission when Dr. Holt made
copies of his paper available.

On the following day, a statement by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the major international body providing expertise on endangered
species, was issued by Dr. John Beddington. The IUCN state-
ment appears below.

 

STATEMENT BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE

ON THE IWC DECISION ON NORTH PACIFIC
SPERM WHALES

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) " is unhappy both about the conclusions reached by the
Scientific Committee at their special meeting in Cronulla and by
the way they were reached. It is not confident that an adequate
assessment of the status of the stocks was made nor that the
mathematical model used is valid. It notes that the Scientific
Committee stated that the dramatic change in the stock assess-
ment was largely brought about by an adjustment of the effort
modifiers and it regrets that no indication of the sensitivity Of
these results to those statistics was given. This is particularly
serious when one of the effort modifiers used, that for ASDIC
was calculated from data sufficiently problematic to be derived
from operations in both the North Pacific and the Southern
Oceans. IUCN further notes the Scientific Committee’s request
for raw data to be made available prior to the meetings of the
committee and feels that this is an absolute prerequisite for
adequate assessment. IUCN therefore feels unable to support
the commission’s decision to endorse the Scientific Committee’s
recommendations on the quotas for the 1978 North Pacific
Sperm whale season. Accordingly, it reserves its right to con-
tinue to work for alternative assessment and management
procedures to those used by the IWC.

‘ Dr. John Beddington represented the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature at the Scientific Committee Meeting
of the International Whaling Commission at Cronulla, Australia,
November 21-25, 1977 as an observer. He also represented the

IUCN at the Tokyo meeting of the IWC where he submitted this
statement.




HEARINGS TO PROTECT ELEPHANTS
[continued from page 1]

The increase in US. ivory imports, corresponding with the
Shocking decimation of the elephants is tabulated below in
material submitted by Dr. William Y. Brown, Executive Secre-
tary of the US. Endangered Species Scientific Authority.

Major US. Ivory Imports
Reported by the US. Department of Commerce

Year $ Value Year V l

1972 ............. 1,524,093 1975 ............. 2 7378621379
1973 ............. 1,719,879 1976 ............. 4:354:031
1974 ............. 2,083,317 1977 (Jan-Oct) ..(3,943,964)

(x 1.2) ..... (4,732,757)

Dr. lain Douglas-Hamilton,

ally, as my bill does. We should formally propose to the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species that
all trade in elephant products cease until large and healthy
elephant populations have been re-established over broad
geographic areas where elephants have traditionally roamed.”
The Department of the Interior reacted to the Beilenson
challenge by proposing to list the African elephant as “threat-
ened” and offered the public a choice of four ways to curb ivory
smuggling. Only the total ban on importation into our country
can give effective help to the elephants. Those wishing to
express their support for the ban should write to Hon. Cecil
Andrus, Secretary of the Interior, Washington, DC. 20240.

 

the world’s leading expert on
African elephant populations
flew from Africa to testify at the
hearings. He estimates the pop-

ProvisionalMinimum Population

RECENT POPULATION ESTIMATES FOR THE AFRICAN ELEPHANT

(from Douglas-Hamilton, 1977c) 1

Information

 

ulations at 1.3 million with de- Country Population Estimate Trend Available
struction .of from 300,000 to Angola 5,000 Decreasing Little
4OO’OOO.1” 1976' Clearly, ””3 Benin 600 Decreasing Considerable
rate Of killing, mostly poaching Botswana 25,000 Probably stable Nearl com lete
for the ivory market, cannot Burundi Unknown Unknown I Non: currint
continue for long,.yet there '5 Cameroon 7,000 Increasing in North' Little
“OISIQrUhat: Is 1:339] up. F ll Central African Decreasing in South
NatrlonalgTDnarR, hacall T481309 :1:- Empire 68’500'103’000 Decreasing Considerable
hants in 1973. by 19’7 6 there Chad 15,000 Decreasing rapidly Considerable
xvi/ere onl 2448 Rw . Congo 2,000 Decreasing rapidly Little

_ l P9 k , .f enzon Equatorial Guinea Unknown Unknown None current
Nanoa‘: . ar hwent rom 2731 Ethiopia 500 Decreasing Little
ta)“ 7. 1n tf e same period. Gabon Unknown Unknown None current
( fStffROé‘tyto DfrBTromeh l Gambia Recently extinct _ —

n ae O 00 ’ e n- Ghana 1,000 Decreasing in some areas; Little

side Story of Idi Amin” by Hen-
ry Kyemba (New York, Grosset
& Dunlap, 1977) we learn,

Guinea-Bissau
Ivory Coast

“The army is vigilant about sup- Kenya
pressing smugglers who repre- Lesotho
sent competition to their own Liberia
smuggling operations.” (p. 234) Malawi
The initial source of Amin’s Mali
wealth is described by Kyemba Mauritania

as follows, “In Amin’s dealings
with the Congolese gold and

Mozambique

ivory no records were ever ' '

kept. The goods came by truck giggly:

to his house. He did not have to Rhodesia

account for what he sold. He Rwanda

siﬁply began to bank for him- Senegal

se very large sums, regularly °

and in cash—up to 300,000 gigglilfone

shillings at a time—amounting South Africa

to something like a million dol- Sudan

lars in all.” (p. 29). Swaziland
Representative Beilenson’s Tanzania

testimony at the hearings em- Togo

phasized the need for a ban on Uganda

trade in elephant products. The

major portion of his statement Zaire

follows: Zambia

Recently extinct

increasing in others

 

“In the early 1970’s, reports
from East African wildlife ex-

 

5,000 Decreasing rapidly Considerable
55,000-75,000 Decreasing rapidly Nearly complete
Recently extinct — —

200- 1 ,000 Decreasing Little
2,800-3,200 Decreasing slowly Considerable

1,000 Decreasing Little

Possibly small Unknown Little
relict pop—10
1,500-5,000 Unknown Little
2,000 Stable Considerable
1,200-1,500 Decreasing Considerable
22,000 Decreasing slowly Considerable
170 Stable ‘ Nearly complete
400 Decreasing Considerable
100-500 Decreasing Little
13,000-25,000 Increasing Considerable

7,750 Stable Nearly complete

50,000 Unknown Little

Recently extinct —— —

300,000 Probably decreasing overall Nearly complete

100 Unknown Little
4,000 Catastrophic decline Nearly complete

in 1973-6
300,000 U‘nknown Little
350,000 Decreasing Considerable
Total Minimum Population Estimate for Africa: 1.3 Million

 

 

perts alerted me to the over-

exploitation of elephants to

SUpply the world’s demand for a luxury item-ivory. In 1975, as
a Senator in the California state legislature, I introduced legisla-
tion to ban the import to and sale of elephant ivory in California.
At that time, my efforts were unsuccessful in the face of
Organized opposition from ivory traders. However, the next
year, India banned the export of Asian elephant ivory, and the
Department of Interior reciprocated by listing the Asian ele-
Phant as an endangered species. The California state legislature,
realizing the additional pressure this would put on already
threatened African elephant herds, passed my bill which totally
banned the import of all elephant ivory to California.

“However, legislation by one state alone is not sufficient to
reduce the contribution of this country to the destruction of the
largest living land mammals. Thus, on November 15 of this year,
I introduced a bill (HR. 10083) to ban trade in elephant
DTOducts nationwide and to ask other nations to join in sus-
Pending trade in ivory. . . .

“In 1976, the US. received over one-quarter of the carved
and uncarved ivory exported from Hong Kong, the largest ivory
trading center in the world. The United States must take the
lead to stop the growing trade in elephant ivory and to alert
ConSumers to the wanton waste of a species which they
erl‘C‘Ourage for the satisfaction of frivolous desires.
, Only a total ban on trade in elephant products will stop the
lmports. Partial prohibitions on trade have been ineffective
against sophisticated smugglers and forged exportation docu-
E521): certifying that the ivory came from elephants killed

“I also think it is important to attack the problem internation-

NEW REPORT ON A CRUEL TRADE

“The Bird Business,” by Greta Nilsson reports on the importa-
tion of cage birds into the United States. Sponsored by the
World Wildlife Fund, the Humane Society of the United States,
the Animal Welfare Institute, the Fund for Animals and De-
fenders of Wildlife, it documents the numbers of birds imported,
and the quarantine station system which is supervised by the
US. Department of Agriculture to ascertain the presence of
Exotic Newcastle Disease—a major threat to the American
poultry industry. Costs to the American taxpayer are estimated
at $100 million for the USDA. Newcastle Disease Control
Program since 1972. In 1976, over 282,000 birds entered the
country for the purpose of sale as pets, but only 178,000 were
released from the quarantine stations. The remaining birds
(36.7%) died of Newcastle and other diseases or were refused
entry due to exposure to the disease.

The world-wide trade of birds is increasing as prices rise due
to the aggressive salesmanship by bird dealers of exotic, pets;
wild populations of birds are being depleted by the removal of
an estimated 5 million birds per year in South America, Africa
and Asia for the cage bird markets in Europe, Japan and the
US. Mortality in transport and captivity is high, and public
knowledge of avian biology and the care of birds is minimal. The
risk to the environment of escaped birds becoming established is
of great concern to ecologists, since well over 20 species of cage
birds have already become residents of the continental United
States, competing with native species.

Copies of this important analysis, the first of its kind in the
United States, are available from the Animal Welfare Institute

for three dollars postpaid.

 




    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EAGLE RESCUED FROM LEGHOLD TRAP

Don Reese of Dorris, California observed a golden eagle
flying with a leghold trap in which it had been caught. He
followed it until it became entangled, and succeeded in remov-
ing the trap from its foot.

In response to congratulations on this humanitarian effort, Mr.
Reese wrote in part: “Enclosed are prints of the golden eagle
which I rescued near Dorris in September of this year. I have
added some comments which though not official, since I not
now a member of a public agency, are based on some familiarity
with the problem. The problem breaks down into two unrelated
functions: wildlife conservation, and mitigation of cruelty.

“Penalties relating to eagles are already strict enough. En-
forcement,” he points out, “is the problem . . .Though the steel
trap is at best an indiscriminate contrivance, much modification
could be done.” Reese recommends, “Outlaw the use of the
oldstyle non-offset jaw ‘bonecrusher’ ” He also points out that

landowner predator trapping is too much exempt from re-
sponsibility such as daily checking of traps and use of a state
assigned number stencilled on the trap. “It is obvious that laws
relating to bait placement are being violated, or birds of prey
would not be caught,” he writes. “Who wouldn’t be willing to
have a rancher reimbursed for what little damage, for example,
eagles might do to lambs, if the damage, indeed, is taking
place?”

Mr. Reese also suggested that eagles would benefit from more
intensive management and protection and less ”dragnet ex—
tensive approach.” Mapping the habitat of each pair of golden
eagles in the Western States (a pair ranges over 200 to 400
square miles) and the flyway and wintering areas of the bald
eagle. “Know where they live, and the problem of protecting
them is easier,” says Reese. “They are easy to spot. Even
intermittent surveillance by members of private associations
such as the Audubon Society would be of great benefit. Wildlife
officials cannot possibly do the job alone.”

And, finally, he bemoans the destruction of habitat. “For
example, 18,000 acres of pristine public land still exists in one
block here in Butte Valley, a haven for 125 pronghorn antelope,
a pair of eagles and other wildlife, all of which would disappear
if agricultural interests get their way in development through the
federal Bureau of Land Management.”

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.

International Committee

    
 
  
   
   
   

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.l. Biol—United Kingdom

Officers
Christine Stevens, President Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

  

    

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

NE. Wernberg—Denmark
Angela King—United Kingdom

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

January, February, March, 1978

Vol. 27, No. 1

 

THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

Tokyo’s International Whaling
Commission Meeting

The much heralded reduction in sperm whale quotas
achieved this June at the Canberra meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) was reversed in Tokyo in Decem-
ber. With a massive demonstration outside the Japanese For-
eign Office where the meeting was held, whalers and their
cohorts in the Seamen’s Union shouted into bullhorns and
waved signs calling for what they termed scientific utilization of
whales. The Commissioners rushed with unprecedented haste
to vote an increase of killing 5,681 sperm whales in the North
Pacific. (They raised the 1978 quota of 763, voted this June, up
to 6,444; the 1977 quota was 7,200).

The Chairman of the Commission, Arthur Bollen of Australia,
issued a press release at noon after switching from the Technical
Committee meeting into full plenary session. Commissioners
had only just received a scientific paper criticizing the figures
and had had no opportunity to study it.

Some of the commissioners had not even received this paper
by the world’s leading whale population scientist, Dr. Sidney
Holt of the UN. Food and Agriculture Organization. The paper
is reprinted in the column at the right. Dr. Holt flatly states that
the figures adopted by the Scientific Committee at its November
meeting, preceding the Tokyo IWC meeting, are not credible.
His reasons are clearly and scientifically stated and are worth
reading in full.

Other scientists found the analysis of Dr. Seijo Ohsumi of the
Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory so difficult to believe
that the Committee decided to pool the figures they had from
southern hemisphere sperm whaling with those Dr. Ohsumi
presented for the North Pacific. By mingling the incredible figure
with an existing figure from a different part of the oceans, they
came up with a figure which no scientist advocated on the basis
of research; nevertheless, since it issued from the Scientific
Committee, and most countries have slowly and painfully come
to the conclusion that the Scientific Committee should be
supported, most of the commissioners came to Tokyo with
instructions to vote for its findings and they did so.

Only France had the courage to vote against the massively
increased quota. The United Kingdom abstained. All other
nations (Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa, United States, and the Soviet Union) voted for the
increase.

The United States has fought hard over the past four years to
end the former practice of IWC Commissioners voting quotas
much higher than those advised by the Scientific Committee. Its
success in establishing the reputation of this Committee created,
for this session at least, an uncontrollable monster.

All of the data on which Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was based came
from Japanese whaling vessels. The data goes back to periods
when there were no international observers aboard the vessels,
and even now, the observers are not in a position to attest to the
type of data involved. In any case, the raw data was not even
submitted to the other members of the Scientific Committee.
This is the sort of presentation on which the Committee, and the
Commission is asked to operate.

The Russians who kill even more sperm whales than the
Japanese simply refuse to supply any but the most limited data.
Scientists from non-whaling countries have devoted little time to
the analysis of such data as they are able to get their hands on.
Thus, although Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was not accepted without
doubts, questions and arguments within the Scientific Commit-
tee, it constituted by far the greatest influence on the outcome of
the Committee’s meeting at Cronulla, Australia just before the
full IWC meeting of the Commissioners in Tokyo.

Secrecy

The actions of the IWC, seem to an observer, to be guided by

two ruling passions: secrecy, and the killing of whales to the
[continued on page 2]

HEARINGS TO PROTECT ELEPHANTS

“. . . within the last years the threat to all Africa’s elephants
has grown even more critical, and there is no parallel for
their plight among living creatures. . . They are magnificent
animals. They can communicate with one another, you
know, and when one falls to the ground, others come to his
assistance and try to pry him with their tusks back to his
feet—some say because they know the great weight of his
bulk will collapse his lungs if he stays down too long...
Elephants are believed to have some conception of death,
and possibly even of the reasons they are hunted. They
have been known to seize the, tusks from a dead member of
the family and smash them to pieces. Here in Uganda,
during one of the cropping episodes, the ears and feet of
the destroyed elephants were stored in a shed to be
prepared for sale as handbags and umbrella stands. A
group of elephants broke into the shed, removed the
objects, and buried them. Scientists involved in the episode
are said to feel uncomfortable still about the incident.”

The Last Place on Earth, Harold T.P. Hayes,

New York, Stein & Day, 1977.

On December 13, 1977, Chairman John Murphy (D., N.Y.)
held hearings on HR. 10083 introduced by Representative
Anthony Beilenson (D., Calif.) to prohibit importation of ele-
phant prouucts before the Committee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries. [continued on page 3]

 

SPECIAL MEETING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
TOKYO, DECEMBER 6-7, 1977

Statement by Dr. Sidney J. Holt

Observer representing Food and Agriculture
Organization

It was with great regret that the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation (FAO) found that, due to unforeseen circumstances, it
was not possible for a representative to attend the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in Cronulla. This means that my
comments must be based on study of the report of the
Committee and of the background papers, instead of on an
intimate knowledge of, and participation in the Committee’s
discussions, as is usual. I have however, consulted some of the
participants in the meeting and thereby assured myself that
there are no fundamental misunderstandings involved in the
following remarks. It is important, in such matters, to try “to see
the wood for the trees” and this is perhaps more easy than if we
had been involved in the very complex and difficult discussions
of the meanings of the data and the properties of the assess-
ment models used. In this position one may try to assess the
overall credibility of the advice the Committee has now pre~
sented to the Commission. I hope my friends in the Scientific
Committee will forgive me if I say that the results are not
credible.

In recent years the advice of the Committee has on several
occasions been that quotas should be drastically revised, usually
downward. Such advice has been received with surprise and
displeasure by some Commissioners. Such proposals for revi-
sion have been based on analyses taking into account more
data, or using better analytical models, or both. In the present
case the proposed stock classifications are dramatically changed
and quotas revised upwards on the basis only of a re-application
of the same model, using few new data. This calls for a more
than usually close look at the way in which this has come about.

It is not easy to see by inspection how the “Allen model”
works. For this reason FAO posed last July—that is, immediate-
ly after the decision to call a Special Meeting—a number of
written questions to the Convener of the meeting, with copies to
the Secretary of the Commission and to the Chairman of the
Scientific Committee. Unfortunately these questions have not
been answered, but we consider them still to be relevant. They

‘ [continued on page 2]

 




MEETING OF INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
[continuedfrom page ll

concern the separate effects, on assessments, of changes in the
assumptions concerning the efficiencies of recorded whaling
effort, and in the assumed pregnancy rates and their depen-
dence on density. It seems that:

a) the reclassifications proposed are virtually entirely due to
changes in assumed efficiency factors—including the effect of
catcher size, but mainly the effects of ASDIC; and

b) the suggested quotas for females derive essentially from
an assumption that pregnancy rate increases by 25% (from
0.20 to 0.25) from one extreme of population density to
another. Evidence has been presented concerning the average
level of pregnancy rate, but none whatever for the range of
density dependence, nor even that the pregnancy rate actually
has increased with the decline in numbers of biomass, either of
females, or of males plus females. In my opinion the range
adopted and even the direction of change, are complete
guesses. Thus, if the range were actually 0.210 to 0.235 the
quotas would be about halved; if it were 0.19 to 0.29 they would
be doubled; and so on. The actual range may well be outside
such assumed values. The proposed quotas should be viewed
in the light of such very considerable ignorance.

However, the biggest factor in the revised advice is the new
position taken by the Committee with respect to the effective-
ness of ASDIC, which is in some respects the opposite of what
has been written and said in scientific discussions in recent
years. It is now said not only that ASDIC is used by the
Japanese catchers only in chasing, but also that the main effect
of introducing ASDIC has been some reduction in the time
spent chasing. Since that time is a rather small fraction of the
catchers’ day’s work, this is held to justify the Committee’s
adoption of a very low value of the ASDIC efficiency factor as
concluded in recent analyses by Japanese scientists. However, it
is admitted that many chases were, especially before ASDIC
came into general use, unsuccessful, and it has been affirmed on
earlier occasions that use of ASDIC greatly increases the
likelihood that a chase will result in capture. If this is so the
increase in efficiency could be great, and would not be meas-
ured as the inverse of chasing time. Unfortunately neither the
report nor the background documents are informative on this
crucial matter.

Then it is necessary to seek an explanation of why the ASDIC
efficiency factor reported by Japanese scientists is low compared
with all previously published studies, which range up to 100%
and more. A possible explanation is to be found in the detailed
account given of the Japanese operational method, in which it is
emphasized that catchers attached to one expedition always
work cooperatively, throughout the search and hunt. This
means that the comparison of catches by ASDIC-fitted boats
with those without ASDIC, in the same expedition and during
the same season, is spurious as a measure of the efficiency
factor. Further varying practices between expeditions from one
year to another might account for the extreme variation in the
estimates quoted. There is therefore no good reason to accept
the low values in preference to the much higher values obtained
in earlier critical studies.

There is an interesting consequence of the new theory that
ASDIC is not very useful—and it has been said that it could
even be a disadvantage-in sperm whale hunting, but that it has
been installed at considerable expense primarily because of its
value in baleen whaling. If this view were accepted, most
assessments for baleen whales would need to be revised,
because baleen whaling effort has not been corrected for
ASDIC in the assessments on which present classifications and
quotas are based. I suggest that such revision will lead at least to
enhanced protection for sei whale stocks and to prolongation of
the protection of fin whale stocks.

Another point that should be taken into consideration is the
decision of the Scientific Committee to retain 1947 as the initial
year on which to base classification advice. The catch data
presented show that, on the basis of the model adopted, the
land-station catches of females from the Western Division for 20
years before 1947 would have been sufficient to hold the
number of females down to between 90 and 95% of their initial
number. Consideration of this fact would be enough to lead to
classification of females as “protected” in the Western Division.

The last point I wish to make refers to the absurdity of con-
tinuing to equate one female with one male in calculating the
appropriate quotas for sperm whales, ignoring the fact that each
male yields two or three times as much oil, meat and meal as
one female. Apart from the fact that it has not yet been shown
convincingly that there is any sustainable numerical advantage
in catching any females, there is clearly no advantage in
catching females if account is taken of the great difference in size
between the sexes. Among the unanswered questions posed by
FAQ to those responsible for the models adopted was the
question of just how great the calculated marginal advantage, by
weight or number is—if there is one—and how much, and in
what ways, such a calculation depends on the assumed values
of the parameters used in the model. It may be worth recalling
also, that if a stock is classified as “initial management,” as is
now proposed for the Eastern Division, there is even more
reason to take account of the size differences, while the stock is
still well above the “optimal” levels.

 

In sum, to an “observer” it does not appear that the advice
now presented is more reliable or more likely to be correct than
the advice previously offered. The complex calculations that
have been made are on the one hand incomplete in that the
properties of the model and their dependence on precise
parameter estimates and assumptions have not been revealed
and, on the other hand, are such that they obscure the facts that
the crucial parameters have been guessed rather than esti-
mated, and that the calibration of crude effort data to take into
account increasing efficiency is still very far from satisfactory.

Some breakdown of operational features has at last been
provided for one part of one of the pelagic ﬂeets, 15 years after
the Scientific Committee first asked for such data; but the
breakdown available still omits critical information—such as the
change in the frequency of successful chase, and the time series
of searching time per catcher day’s work. Further, the analysis of
such information as is given leaves a great deal of room for
doubt as to what is actually being estimated, and whether the
undoubted increases are yet adequately being taken into ac-
count

Without departing from the principle that management must
be based on the best scientific advice, it seems it would be wise
for the Commission also to take into account:

a) the very great uncertainties in the assessment of sperm
whales which persist, practically unchanged, despite the
best efforts of the Scientific Committee;

b) the likely direction of biases in the data and in the assess-
ments (including an arbitrary starting year of 1947, long
after intensive sperm whaling started);

c) the fact that assessments are still based on data from only
a relatively small part of the sperm-whaling fleet; and that
those data are incomplete and have been presented
selectively.

d) the consequences to the baleen whale assessments of the
“new theory” concerning the technology of sperm whale
hunﬁng.

It would be appreciated if these observations could be
included in the documentation of the present meeting.

6 December, 1977

 

THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANC Y

[continued from page 1]

maximum degree possible in the prevailing climate of public
opinion. At this session, it betrayed a strange dichotomy with
regard to the press. As noted above, the Chairman of the
Commission insisted that the Commissioners vote immediately
and finally on the greatly increased sperm whale quota for the
North Pacific because of the interest of the Japanese press in
knowing the outcome.

On the other hand, the secrecy rules with regard to the
Scientific Committee were so strict that nothing more than the
bare figure of increase leaked out until the morning of the
Tokyo meeting of the full Commission when Dr. Holt made
copies of his paper available.

On the following day, a statement by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the major international body providing expertise on endangered
species, was issued by Dr. John Beddington. The IUCN state-
ment appears below.

 

STATEMENT BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE

ON THE IWC DECISION ON NORTH PACIFIC
SPERM WHALES

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) ‘ is unhappy both about the conclusions reached by the
Scientific Committee at their special meeting in Cronulla and by
the way they were reached. It is not confident that an adequate
assessment of the status of the stocks was made nor that the
mathematical model used is valid. It notes that the Scientific
Committee stated that the dramatic change in the stock assess-
ment was largely brought about by an adjustment of the effort
modifiers and it regrets that no indication of the sensitivity of
these results to those statistics was given. This is particularly
serious when one of the effort modifiers used, that for ASDIC
was calculated from data sufficiently problematic to be derived
from operations in both the North Pacific and the Southern
Oceans. IUCN further notes the Scientific Committee’s request
for raw data to be made available prior to the meetings of the
committee and feels that this is an absolute prerequisite for
adequate. assessment. IUCN therefore feels unable to support
the commission’s decision to endorse the Scientific Committee’s
recommendations on the quotas for the 1978 North Pacific
Sperm whale season. Accordingly, it reserves its right to con-
tinue to work for alternative assessment and management
procedures to those used by the IWC.

" Dr. John Beddington represented the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature at the Scientific Committee Meeting
of the International Whaling Commission at Cronulla, Australia,
November 21-25, 1977 as an observer. He also represented the
IUCN at the Tokyo meeting of the IWC where he submitted this
statement.

 




HEARINGS TO PROTECT ELEPHANTS

[continued from page 1]

The increase in US. ivory imports, corresponding with the
shocking decimation of the elephants is tabulated below in
material submitted by Dr. William Y. Brown, Executive Secre-

tary of the US. Endangered Species Scientific Authority.

Major US. Ivory Imports
Reported by the US. Department of Commerce

ally, as my bill does. We should formally propose to the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species that
all trade in elephant products cease until large and healthy
elephant populations have been re-established over broad
geographic areas where elephants have traditionally roamed.”
The Department of the Interior reacted to the Beilenson
challenge by proposing to list the African elephant as “threat-
ened” and offered the public a choice of four ways to curb ivory

Year $ Value $ V l smuggling. Only the total ban on importation into our country
1972 ........... 1524093 1975 2778879 can give effective help to the elephants. Those wishing to
1973 . . . . . ' . . . . . :1719879 1976 """"""" 4’354’031 express their support for the ban should write to Hon. Cecil
1974 ............. 2,083,317 1977 (Jan-Oct). 1'. (3:943:964) Andrus, Secretary of the Interior, Washington, DC. 20240.

(x 1.2) ..... (4,732,757)

Dr. Iain Douglas-Hamilton,
the world’s leading expert on
African elephant populations
flew from Africa to testify at the
hearings. He estimates the pop-

 

(from Douglas-Hamilton, 1977c)

ProvisionaIMinimum Population

RECENT POPULATION ESTIMATES FOR THE AFRICAN ELEPHANT —\

Information

 

ulations at 1.3 million with de- W Population Estimate Trend M—
struction of from 300,000 to Angola 5,000 Decreasin Little
400,000-in 1976. Clearly, this Benin 600 Decreasing Considerable
rate 0f klllmg, mostly poaching Botswana 25,000 Probably stable Nearly complete
for the WOW market, cannot Burundi Unknown Unknown None current
continue for long, yet there is Cameroon 7,000 Increasing in North; Little
“0 $19“ that it is letting 1113- Central African Decreasing in South

If} Uganda, Kabalega Falls Empire 68,500-103,000 Decreasing Considerable
National Park had 14,309 819- Chad 15,000 Decreasing rapidly Considerable
phants 1“ 1973; by 1976 there Congo 2,000 Decreasing rapidly Little
were only 2,448- Rwenzori Equatorial Guinea Unknown Unknown None current
National Park went from 2,731 Ethiopia 500 Decreasing Little
to 794 m the same period. Gabon Unknown Unknown None current
(Testirnony Of Dr. Brown). Gambia Recently extinct - -

In A State Of Blood The In- Ghana 1,000 Decreasing in some areas; Little

side Story of ldi Amin” by Hen-
ry Kyemba (New York, Grosset

 

Guinea-Bissau

Recently extinct

increasing in others

f? Dunlap, 1.9.77) we learn, Ivory Coast 5,000 Decreasing rapidly Considerable
Thearmy ‘5 Vlgllant about sup- Kenya 55,000-75,000 Decreasing rapidly Nearly complete
pressmg smugglers who. repre- Lesotho Recently extinct —— —

sent competition'to tile” 0W“ Liberia 200-1,000 Decreasing Little
5mU9911I‘S operations. (p. 234) Malawi 2,800-3,200 Decreasing slowly Considerable

The initial source of Amin’s Mali 1,000 Decreasing Little
wealth ‘5 described by Kyemba Mauritania Possibly small Unknown Little

as follows, “In Amin’s dealings relict pop-10

With the Congolese 901d and Mozambique 1,500-5,000 Unknown Little
ivory no records were ever Namibia 2000 Stable Considerable
kept. The QOOdS came by truck Nigeria 1,200-1,500 Decreasing Considerable

t0 hls house. He d‘d “Qt have to Rhodesia 22,000 Decreasing slowly Considerable
account for what he sold. lHe Rwanda 170 Stable Nearly complete
Simply began to bank for him- Senegal 400 Decreasing Considerable
self Yew large sums, regularly Sierra Leone 100-500 Decreasing Little

and 1“ cash—.up to 300,900 Somalia 13,000-25,000 Increasing Considerable
shillings a? a time—amounting South Africa 7,750 Stable Nearly complete

to something like a million dol- Sudan 50,000 Unknown Little

lars m all.” (p. 29)- . , Swaziland Recently extinct — —

Representative Beilenson 5 Tanzania 300,000 Probably decreasing overall Nearly complete

testimony at the hearings em- Togo 100 Unknown Little

phaSized the need for a ban on Uganda 4,000 Catastrophic decline Nearly complete

trade in elephant products. The in 1973-6

major portion of his statement Zaire 300,000 Unknown Little

follows: Zambia 350,000 Decreasing Considerable

In the early 1970’s, reports
from East African wildlife ex- TotaIMinimum Population EstimateforAfrica:1.3 Million

perts alerted me to the over—
exploitation of elephants to

 

supply the world’s demand for a luxury item—ivory. In 1975, as
a Senator in the California state legislature, I introduced legisla-
tion to ban the import to and sale of elephant ivory in California.
At that time, my efforts were unsuccessful in the face of
organized opposition from ivory traders. However, the next
year, India banned the export of Asian elephant ivory, and the
Department of Interior reciprocated by listing the Asian ele-
phant as an endangered species. The California state legislature,
realizing the additional pressure this would put on already
threatened African elephant herds, passed my bill which totally
banned the import of all elephant ivory to California.

“However, legislation by one state alone is not sufficient to
reduce the contribution of this country to the destruction of the
largest living land mammals. Thus, on November 15 of this year,
I introduced a bill (HR. 10083) to ban trade in elephant
products nationwide and to ask other nations to join in sus-
pending trade in ivory. . . .

“In 1976, the US. received over one-quarter of the carved
and uncarved ivory exported from Hong Kong, the largest ivory
trading center in the world. The United States must take the
lead to stop the growing trade in elephant ivory and to alert
consumers to the wanton waste of a species which they
encourage for the satisfaction of frivolous desires.

“Only a total ban on trade in elephant products will stop the
imports. Partial prohibitions on trade have been ineffective
against sophisticated smugglers and forged exportation docu-
lments certifying that the ivory came from elephants killed
egally.

NEW REPORT ON A CRUEL TRADE

“The Bird Business,” by Greta Nilsson reports on the importa-
tion of cage birds into the United States. Sponsored by the
World Wildlife Fund, the Humane Society of the United States,
the Animal Welfare Institute, the Fund for Animals and De-
fenders of Wildlife, it documents the numbers of birds imported,
and the quarantine station system which is supervised by the
US. Department of Agriculture to ascertain the presence of
Exotic Newcastle Disease—a major threat to the American
poultry industry. Costs to the American taxpayer are estimated
at $100 million for the USDA. Newcastle Disease Control
Program since 1972. In 1976, over 282,000 birds entered the
country for the purpose of sale as pets, but only 178,000 were
released from the quarantine stations. The remaining birds
(36.7%) died of Newcastle and other diseases or were refused
entry due to exposure to the disease.

The world-wide trade of birds is increasing as prices rise due
to the aggressive salesmanship by bird dealers of exotic pets;
wild populations of birds are being depleted by the removal of
an estimated 5 million birds per year in South America, Africa
and Asia for the cage bird markets in Europe, Japan and the
US. Mortality in transport and captivity is high, and public
knowledge of avian biology and the care of birds is minimal. The
risk to the environment of escaped birds becoming established is
of great concern to ecologists, since well over 20 species of cage
birds have already become residents of the continental United
States, competing with native species.

Copies of this important analysis, the first of its kind in the

 

 

United States, are available from the Animal Welfare Institute

“I also think it is important to attack the problem internation- for three dollars postpaid.

 




 

 

 

EAGLE RESCUED FROM LEGHOLD TRAP

Don Reese of Dorris, California observed a golden eagle
flying with a leghold trap in which it had been caught. He
followed it until it became entangled, and succeeded in remov-
ing the trap from its foot.

In response to congratulations on this humanitarian effort, Mr.
Reese wrote in part: “Enclosed are prints of the golden eagle
which I rescued near Dorris in September of this year. I have
added some comments which though not official, since I not
now a member of a public agency, are based on some familiarity
with the problem. The problem breaks down into two unrelated
functions: wildlife conservation, and mitigation of cruelty.

“Penalties relating to eagles are already strict enough. En-
forcement,” he points out, “is the problem . . .Though the steel
trap is at best an indiscriminate contrivance, much modification
could be done.” Reese recommends, “Outlaw the use of the
oldstyle non-offset jaw ‘bonecrusher’ ” He also points out that
landowner predator trapping is too much exempt from re-
sponsibility such as daily checking of traps and use of a state

assigned number stencilled on the trap. “It is obvious that laws
relating to bait placement are being violated, or birds of prey
would not be caught,” he writes. “Who wouldn’t be willing to
have a rancher reimbursed for what little damage, for example,
eagles might do to lambs, if the damage, indeed, is taking
place?”

Mr. Reese also suggested that eagles would benefit from more
intensive management and protection and less ”dragnet ex-
tensive approach.” Mapping the habitat of each pair of golden
eagles in the Western States (a pair ranges over 200 to 400
square miles) and the flyway and wintering areas of the bald
eagle. “Know where they live, and the problem of protecting
them is easier,” says Reese. “They are easy to spot. Even
intermittent surveillance by members of private associations
such as the Audubon Society would be of great benefit. Wildlife
officials cannot possibly do the job alone.”

And, finally, he bemoans the destruction of habitat. “For
example, 18,000 acres of pristine public land still exists in one
block here in Butte Valley, a haven for 125 pronghorn antelope,
a pair of eagles and other wildlife, all of which would disappear
if agricultural interests get their way in development through the
federal Bureau of Land Management.”

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M.D.
Bennett Derby, MD. F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.l. Biol—United Kingdom

Officers
Christine Stevens, President Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

NE. Wernberg—Denmark
Angela King—United Kingdom

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

V ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

April —July, 1978 Vol. 27. No. 2

 

YOKO MUTO RECEIVES SCHWEITZER MEDAL
FROM AMBASSDOR MANSFIELD IN TOKYO

Ambassador Mansfield and Miss _Muto

In recognition of her eight years of devoted care of thou-
sands of dogs undergoing experimental surgery at Tokyo
University Medical School, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the
AWI was awarded to Miss Yoko Muto. The presentation was
made by Hon. Mike Mansfield who retired as Majority Leader of
the US. Senate in 1976 and is now serving as United States
Ambassador to Japan. The ceremony took place in the embassy
in Tokyo on April fourth.

In presenting the medal, Ambassador Mansfield said:

“Some of you may know that a gold replica of the Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute was presented
to Dr. Schweitzer himself in Oslo, Norway in 1954. Since then,
this annual award has gone to men and women who, because
of their compassion for all the creatures of this earth, have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. The recipients
include the late Senator Hubert Humphrey, Rachel Carson, the
author of Silent Spring and former United States Supreme
Court Justice Abe Fortas. These are but a few of the names on a
long list of those who have worked for the better treatment of
animals. To this distinguished list, today, we add the name of
Miss Yoko Muto. ,

“Miss Muto started to work for the Japan Animal Welfare
Society in 1970, and for the past 8 years, has applied herself
diligently and unselfishly to her chosen field. She has been
singled out for her compassion and willingness to go that extra
mile to help animals, in whatever way she can. The record
shows that Miss Muto thought nothing of working on holidays
and weekends to ensure that the animals were fed and that she
invariably did all she could to see that they were as comfortable
as possible. Of course, these are but a' few of the reasons why
she was selected to receive this award. The many reasons can
perhaps be best summed up by the inscription on the medal,
which reads: ‘We need a boundless ethics which include the
animals also.’ Because she has taken these words to heart, I am
pleased to present this medal to Miss Yoko Muto.”

 

ALTERNATIVES FOR INHUMANE
SCIENCE FAIRS
by F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.

The long-time offender of humane standards, the Interna-
tional Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF) was held May 14-18
in Orange County, California. The situation was interesting
because this fair, whose permissive rules governing animal study
by high school students allow severe pain inﬂiction, was held in
California where a humane state law prohibits painful science
fair projects. However, the California law applies only to high
school student projects conducted within-state, whereas the
ISEF brought in projects conducted by students from out-of-
state. The following are typical examples of what was en-
countered in this year’s fair.

[continued on page 2]

A PERSPECTIVE ON OUR NATION’S EFFORTS
TO PREVENT EXTINCTION OF SPECIES

by Tom Garrett

The Pleistocene epoch, beginning about three million years
ago, produced the greatest flowering of the age of mammals.
Sixty thousand years ago, however, in Africa, there occurred the
firstofa series of wholesale extinctions. About 40 percent of the
larger mammals on the continent became extinct within a few
thousand years.

In Europe, from 30,000 to about 10,000 years ago a similar
wave of extinction carried to oblivion about half of the larger
mammals: Merck’s rhino and the wooly rhino, the mammoth
and the straight tusker, the steppe bison and the Irish elk to
name a few.

Then, in North America, with the end of the great Wiscon-
sonian glaciation, 10-13,000 years ago, there occurred an epi-
sode of catastrophic mass death that swept from the earth 70
percent of the genera of large North American mammals: the
American mastodon, the giant beaver, the giant ground sloths,
new world camels and horses, the dire wolf, Felis atrox the
plains lion.

The sudden mass extinctions, affecting in most cases the
largest and the strongest mammals, adapted to climatic vicis-
situdes and free of natural enemies, occurred in each case with
the emergence or invasion of advanced human hunting cul-
tures. All evidence points to these hunting cultures as the
major and probably the sole agent of extinction.

As human hunting cultures reached South America there
passed, along with the glyptodonts and the giant armadillo,
the last ground sloths and the last new world horses. The arrival
of human hunting cultures in Australia resulted in the extinction
of 40 percent of the larger marsupials, including Diprotodont, a
wombat the size of a rhino.

The human invasion of Madagascar a thousand years ago
resulted in the extinction of about 40 percent of the species of
lemurs, including Megaladapus who was as large or larger than

a gorilla and all of the other large diurnal lemurs; a pigmy hippo,
a giant fossa, and the elephant bird which nested in great
numbers on the coastal plains, and whose eggs-the largest
known from any bird—may still be found. With the colonization
of New Zealand by the Maori about 800 AD there passed from
existence 22 species of moas, giant ground birds which had
assumed the terrestrial niche normally occupied by mammals.
Of this order, only the little kiwi, which survived by its insignifi—
cance and fossorial habits, is extant today.

It would appear, following the extinction of the more vulner-
able species, that pre-civilized hunting cultures may have come
into a libration with their environments. However, with the
advent of civilization there was unleashed against the already
impoverished postpleistocene fauna a new and more terrible
and implacable assault, compressed in time, concentrated in
ferocity.

In 300 years, an evolutionary ﬂick of an eyelash, an entire
suborder of unique and magnificent mammals, the great baleen
whales, have been brought within sight of biological extinction
by human whalers. Most of this has occurred within our
lifetimes. Within a century, our forefathers destroyed the vast
ﬂights of the passenger pigeon. In half a century, following the
extinction of the eastern bison, the plains bison was pushed as a
deliberate policy of the US military bent on subjugating Indians
to the lip of the abyss of extinction. Within 20 years from its first
encounter with humans, the Steller sea cow was extinct.

It was throughthe efforts of a small group of Americans led
by Dr. William Hornaday at the close of the last century, that the
plains bison was spared extinction. Since that time there has
been what a modern media type might call a “spreading back-
lash” against the destruction of species. The National Bison
Range was established in 1908. The Audubon Society, along
with the redoubtable Dr. Hornaday who set up Washington,
DC’s first wildlife lobby, saved most of the “plume birds” from

[continued on page 2]

 




 

EXTINCTION OF SPECIES
continued am a e 1] .
[the millinef; ind‘fisgtgry. Excess killing of most game birds and
animals was gradually curbed, and depleted populations
restored. .
This trend in the United States was matched by trends in
other nations. The restoration of the pronghorn in the western
US in the 1920’s and 1930’s, for example, found its counterpart
in the restoration during the same period of the Saiga antelope
on the Soviet steppes. '
Twelve years ago, after authorizing various pieces of legisla-
tion to succor individual species such as a 1958 bill to restore
the Hawaiian goose, or Nene, this committee reported out our
nation’s first “across the board” legislation to protect endan-
gered species. It has twice strengthened this legislation. The En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 is one of the strongest and most
comprehensive pieces of wildlife legislation ever written.

Since The Convention on International Trade in Endangered

Species of Wild Fauna and Flora was negotiated under the
mandate of the 1969 Act no less than forty-six nations have
joined the United States in passing legislation to protect en-
dangered species, and are now parties to the international
convention. An increased recognition of the gravity of the plight
of endangered wildlife appears to be seeping into the aware-
ness of numerous governments.

Despite these seeming successes, the past decade has beyond
doubt been the most disastrous in the history of the planet. The
next promises to be worse. There may well be more extinctions
in the next 30 years than in the last 30,000.

Today, not only individual species, but the fauna and ﬂora of
entire regions are subject to destruction, indeed are being
destroyed, implacably, often irrevocably, by defofestation, de-
sertification, laterization, erosion, urbanization, not over a course
of centuries, but year by year, at a terrifying rate.

In a few more years, if the present trend continues, practically
all of the unique fauna of Madagascar, including the 28
remaining species of lemurs, and most of the native ﬂora will be
gone forever. Even greater disasters are gathering in southeast
Asia and in Amazonia.

Direct pressure on wildlife is everywhere mounting, reaching
a state of organized extermination in parts of Africa, and to a
lesser extent southeast Asia and northern South America. Ani-
mals such as the Black Rhinoceros or Grevy’s Zebra, which

seemed secure a few years ago, are in imminent danger of
extinction through poaching.

It is a striking fact that during a time when wildlife numbers
are plummeting worldwide, the importation of wildlife products
into this country, and the use of domestic wildlife products, is
increasing dramatically. Imports of items manufactured from
wildlife increased from 1.7 million in 1972 to 91 million in 1976.
Imports of skins and hides rose from 910,000 in 1973 to 32.5
million. Game trophy imports rose from 2800- in 1973 to
34,000. In these sameyears the status of crocodilians through-
out the world, and of sea turtles throughout the world has
become desperate.

Just as the amounts imported have soared, the prices com-
manded by many such products have mounted astronomically.
The price of ivory has increased at least ten fold since 1970.
Prices paid for Grevy’s zebra hides increased from $150.00 in
1972. to $2000.00 in 1977 on the New York market. It is little
wonder that this zebra faces extinction along with Hartman’s
mountain and Cape mountain zebras.

Enforcement, to succeed, must rise commensurately to the
traffic it is forced to regulate, not to remain static in the face of
vastly increased traffic. Further, if we are to prevent extirpation
of species, rather than react too late as is probably the case with
the zebras mentioned, we must routinely ban the importation of
entire classes of products: all ivory, all zebra skins, all crocodilian
skins, all turtle products.

A minor illustration of the quality of the enforcement of the
Act may be found in the fact that tortoise shell from hawksbill
turtles, listed as endangered since 1970, was being exported
spenly it:1 Japan ind1976, from Puerto Rico, sold openly in San

uan an even a vertised in “ ” ' ' '
guide to the island. Que Pasa, the offiCial tourist
. The case of the Florida manatee is equally tragic. This animal
is well known and well liked by the public and has been
designated the Florida State animal, yet amid talk of protecting
it and in the face of a clear legal obligation to protect it. under
two federal laws, the manatee remains without protection
against the major sources of human caused mortalit Th
anilrrtilal is sliding closer, each year, to extinction y. e
e current population of manatees in Florida i l

1000. From 1975 through 1977 the Fish and “1331;222:321;
lab in Gainesville salvaged and examined 183 dead manatees

Twenty-three additional deaths were veriﬁ
. ed. 0th
mortality undoubtedly occured. Clear er unreported

ly a three year mortalit f
over 20 percent of a population of mammals which does Sligt

mature sexually until age eight, and which may reproduce only

once in three to five years, is far in excess of what such
population can bear.

der half of the known mortality was human caused. Human
activities. motorboat and barge collisions, drownings in auto-
matic ﬂood control gates, death through chilling when power-

 

 

plants hosting wintering populations of manatees shut down
are largely preventable. .

Nothing has been done by the Department of Interior to aid
the animal, and almost nothing has been done by the state. Last
year there were four “enforcement actions” by Interior no
arrests, no convictions. One such action, in fact, consisted in
blowing a dead manatee which had been mistaken for a ﬂoating
mine.

It is at this juncture, with so much dependent upon the United
States activating its all but stillborn (endangered species Program
that the Act has come under the most determined attack in the
Congress. The Senate amendment, passed July 19, is aimed at
Section 7 which has been characterized as the “heart” of the
Act.

The first part of Section 7 imposes a positive duty on Us
Agencies to use existing programs to carry out purposes of the
Act, and to carry out “conservation programs” in consultation
with the Secretary.

The second portion of Section 7 departs from past wildlife
law which simply regulated trade and taking, by acknowledging
that no species can or does exist in isolation, and that it is
perfectly academic whether or not an animal is deliberately
molested if its habitat is destroyed.

The obscure species which have figured in several recent
controversies, are of course, part and parcel of very specific
environments. Their disappearance, almost invariably, signals
the functional end of the habitat in which they live in whatever
region, in whatever river system comprised their range. Their
disappearance signals the end perhaps of free ﬂowing, unpol-
luted water on a river, the end of inland marshes in a region.
The end of the snail darter, for example, would mean the end of
any large, free ﬂowing stretch of river in the entire Tennessee
system, the end of a running water fishery, the end of 17,000
acres of prime bottom farmland and additional thousands of
acres of forest and pasture. It would mean the end of the bond
that humans had with that land before it was wrenched forcibly
from them, including severance ties of the Cherokee people
with ancestral sites. There would be far, far more that is
absolutely irreplaceable and unique ending forever, foreclosed
forever, than the little snail darter.

Most of the potential controversies which are now simmering
under Section 7 involve not obscure species, but birds 'and
mammals well known and cherished by the public. These
involve, among others, grizzly bears, Asian elephants, Southern
sea otters, Whooping cranes, Florida everglades kites, Bach-
man’s warblers, Mississippi sand hill cranes, Florida manatees,
Bowhead whales, Laysan Monk seals.

The Senate amendment applies to these species as much as
to the snail darter. The interests pushing for amendment no
more care what happens to these species than they care what
happens to the snail darter.

Most of the conﬂicts involving these species are doubtless
resolvable if the Agencies make good faith efforts to consult and
to modify their projects and activities. It is hard to imagine,
however, that most of the Agencies would pass up an 0131301“
tunity to shunt the decision to a committee where political pres-
sures from vested interests can be focused.

The present act sets forth a firm national policy to prevent the
extinction of species, and makes it clear that no agency is
exempt from the requirements of that policy. If the Senate
amendment becomes law, we will then have an Act that
protects endangered species only when they don’t get in the
way of “progress.”

 

ALTERNATIVES FOR INHUMANE SCIENCE FAIRS
[continued from page 1]

Out-of-State Projects
The International Science and Engineering Fair'

ISEF rules sanction live animal surgery, and induction of
pathological conditions. Projects are supervised. All the prOIeCts
described below were judged by the ISEF standard-setting

Animal Experimentation Committee as being in full compliance
with the rules.

Examples

‘ “Dangerl? Carcinogenic Effect of Trichlorethylene” was
the title of a project from Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The
well-known carcinogenic effects were catalogued by the young'
ster as follows: white mice developed sores at the base of the fur,
sunken eyes, purple discoloration of feet and tail, humped back
and unusual lumps. Furthermore the student encountered
problems with the animals having mites and suffering pneu-
monia which are common signs of poor housing conditions.

' The growth of tumors in rats was the topic of a Projed
undertaken by a student from Oklahoma City. Animals were

3‘ It is noteworthy that obtainin in ' ' its has become
increaf’ingly difﬁcult over recentgyeafl'ZImgnrfgwoi-Iullesgs 6:231: forbids photO'
graphic display of animal surgery. dissections or autopsies. Such photos can .be
3233‘“? “1 accompanying notebooks. However, these notebooks, which also give
d tlis 0 doses of anesthetics or toxic agents, and describe results of numbers °

ea - 5’ ct?" are not usually accessible to the public because of roped 0ff areas and

tight seem-it). man . _ . , . , . nt‘
. ° ' ' ' gements, Stud] ' ublic accou
ability is diminished, if not eliminztee: forced. The result ls that p

 

subjected to a series of surgical procedures. First the ovaries
were removed, then some animals also had a gland removed
from the base of their brain. Finally all these animals received
pieces of tumor taken from the testicles of donors and trans-
planted into the recipient animals’ eyes. The student found
rapid growth in some eye tumors. Conclusions were drawn
regarding the inﬂuence of certain sex hormones on these
tumors.

0 Awards were given by General Motors, and by the Ameri-
can Speech and Hearing Association to an unscientific project
showing that alcohol causes deformed babies. The 16 year old

. student from Greenway, Virginia, operated on pregnant mice to

remove the developing babies.

0 “I impaired a pigeon’s vision” states the report of a high
school student in Ogden, Utah in a project on birds’ homing
instincts. The unremarkable result was that “When I released the
pigeon with the impaired vision it was confused and it did not ﬂy
directly home.” The student had administered a prescription
drug normally used for treating human eye infections-which, in
normal doses, is not toxic. General Motors awarded a 4th prize
to this project.

0 The stated purpose of a project entered from Louisiana
was to demonstrate the already well-established fact that noise
can cause severe emotional disorders in animals. Baby mice
were subjected to very loud music until they became aggressive
and failed to eat.

0 Eleven dogs were the subject of a study reported as the
work of a 17 year old student from Mount Clemens, Missouri.
The project entitled “Intracardiac Conduction Alterations dur-
ing Hemorrhagic Shock” was conducted in a research institut-
ion. Dogs were anethetised and bled to produce a state of
shock. Various procedures were then tried to relieve the shock.
Rewards were given to the student by the American Medical
Association and the US. Army. The National Society for
Medical Research supports the view that dog experiments and
dog surgery by high school students is appropriate education.
The American Medical Association has, in the past, supported
monkey surgery by high school students. What is the limit to
what high school students should do?

Award winning projects displayed at the 1977 ISEF were
reported in a recent article by Michael W. Fox and M. Andrea
Ward (The Science Teacher, 44 (6), 1977, 31-33). Like this
year, this. fair included several projects with no recognizable
justification. For instance, a student amputated the tails and feet
of lizards to show the already well-documented fact that tails
regenerate and limbs do not; the well-kndwn poison, lead, was
fed to white rabbits to confirm long established results of harm;
incisions were made along the backs of rats to study the rate of
healing under different conditions, but the “usefulness of the

infOrmation is totally obscure,” according to Fox and Ward.

ISEF-Affiliated Fairs

Reports were available from two local fairs affiliated with the
ISEF. In both fairs there were cases of animal abuse.

For this year’s Baltimore, Maryland science fair, a young boy
surgically opened the chests of animals to observe their heart
beats. He administered alcohol in the false belief that this is an
anesthetic. Alcohol is not an anesthetic. When challenged by the
humane judge at the time of the fair, the boy admitted that the
animals “squirmed” when he made the incisions. Suitable
complaints were lodged, but the harm was already done to the
animals. So long as animal surgery is permitted in science fairs,
such incidents will continue.

Two projects in the Washington, DC. fair, held March 19,
1978, “certainly did display . . . cruelty” according to Thomas E.
Diggs, public science supervisor, as quoted by The Washington
Post. The DC. science fair officials acted correctly in disquali-
fying the projects and forbidding their exhibition.

In contrast, the following are some of the projects exhibited by

California students in their local and regional fairs and at the
ISEF.

California Student Projects

The California law states that in public elementary and
secondary school students projects

“no live vertebrate animal shall be experimentally medi-
cated or drugged in a manner to cause painful reactions or
induce painful or lethal pathological conditions, or injured
through any other treatment including, but not limited to,
anesthetization or electric shock, as part of a scientific ex-
periment or for any purpose whatever};

Examples

' An eighth grader at the Rancho Santa Fe Middle School
received a first award from the Zoological Society of San Diego
for her project “Development of a Protozoan Toxicity Test”
disPlayed at the Greater San Diego Science and Engineering
Fair. This work sought to establish a method for testing toxicity
in lower forms of life rather than in small mammals which are
usually used.

' “Bean Clams” was the title of a project also at the San
Diego Fair. An investigation was made of different types of

predators on each of several beaches by studying the character
of the holes bored in the clams’ shells. Conclusions were drawn
regarding the population levels of various specifically identified
predators.

0 An observant girl discovered a colony of crickets all of
whom had a naturally occurring abnormality in their leg de-
velopment. She sought to cross breed these crickets with the
crickets from another colony who had normal limb devel0p-
ment in order to determine possible genetic inﬂuences (San
Diego Science Fair).

0 Three well-researched projects, one on the depletion of the

whale population, one concerned with the death of wildlife '

resulting from oil spills and involving studies of miscibility of oil,
water and soap, and one in which the student considered the
similarities between non-human animals and humans were all
rewarded with Outstanding Achievement Awards at the Mo-
desto Science Fair.

0 The effects of light on the activity levels of hermit crabs
were carefully documented for a project which received a
Special Award at the Modesto Science Fair.

0 A Del Mar student investigated planaria, a ﬂatworm com-
monly found in streams, to see if they can see color.

0 “Recruitment Behavior of Nectar Gathering Honey Bees”
was the topic of a project by a Fresno student.

0 Other California students studied themselves. One project
for instance was concerned with sensitivity levels of touch and
another dealt with dental hygiene.

Only one project was encountered that was not in compli-
ance with the state law. The project was disqualified, had no
opportunity to win a prize, and was not allowed to be exhibited.

Californians (both high school teachers and concerned citi-
zens) are satisfied that the law is being enforced. The quality of
work produced by California high school biology students is first
rate. Nothing has been lost either in sophistication or excellence
of experimental work from this successful elimination of projects
involving animal pain. In fact, much has been gained by
providing budding biologists with a sound ethical basis for their
investigations which will contribute positively to decisions they
face as future scientists, Veterinarians, doctors, or as future citi-
zens. Credit goes to Senator Rodda of the state legislature and
to California biology teachers for this much-needed successful
establishment of meritorious standards.

California is not, of course, free from inﬂuences that promote
inappropriate biology education. A new book, edited by B. L.
Hart of the University of California, Davis, and published in
California consists of experimental projects for undergraduate
psychology students. It contains contributions from 15 Ameri-
cans. It is one of two books “whose absolute lack of concern
with. the suffering of animals” (emphasis in original) is protested
in a recent article by Dr. R. F. Drewett of the Department of
Psychology, University of Durham, England (New Scientist, 3
Nov. 1977,, Vol. 76, No. 1076, page 292).

What is particularly alarming is that whereas these inhumane
books are written for undergraduate students, some of the very
same projects are attempted in the US. by high school students.
Projects involving brain surgery, the deleterious effects of
well-known poisons and induction of severe psychological stress
to animals are among projects advocated in one or other of
these books. Projects on each of these topics have appeared in
recent science. fairs.

What Can Be Done

What is the solution to these long-standing problems that high
school educators and science fair officials face? From my view-
point, as a physiologist who has been personally involved in
animal experimentation and who feels that humane animal
study by professional scientists to obtain new knowledge is
justified, I am concerned about the basic tenet on which the
ISEF rules are based. In the 19605 ISEF promulgated a set of
rules based on acceptance of animal surgery and inﬂiction of
painful pathological conditions on vertebrate animals by high
school students. Over the years, these rules have been dressed
up with certain revisions but the basic premise remains. Even
though these rules have been tried for all this time, and have
been shown to fail, ISEF, with the support of the National
Society for Medical Research, has clung to them.

In contrast, two other prestigious national competitions for
high school students have confronted similar problems of
animal abuse faced by ISEF and have solved them. Both have
arrived at similar conclusions. The Westinghouse Science Talent
Search (WSTS) in the US. and the Canada-Wide Science Fair
at one time have permitted exhibition of students projects
involving animal surgery and animal pain. The Canada-Wide
Science Fair changed its rules in two stages. Sensitive to the
needs of young students to learn about mammalian physiology
and to observe live organisms, the Canadians first tried rule-€-
that prohibited any pain inﬂiction (including surgery) but thCh
sanctioned non-painful studies. However, these apparently sen-
sible rules did not work in the context of science fairs. Inap-
propriate projects continued. The reason was that conditions In
extracurricular activites such as science fairs are so ripe for

[continued on page 6]

WORST MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION IN SEVEN YEARS.

The thirtieth meeting of the International Whaling Commis-
sion (IWC) opened in London, June 26th in an atmosphere of
mistrust and belligerence even more acute than usual. The
European edition of Time magazine, July 10, 1978, under the
heading “A Whaling Ban Harpooned in London,” stated in part:

“To ban or not to ban? This was to have been the confer-
ence’s crucial focus. Panama’s crusading commissioner, Jean
Paul Fortom-Gouin, had proposed. a ten-year moratorium on
all commercial killing, a suggestion strongly supported by
President Carter in the past. But before the conference got under
way, Fortom-Gouin was suddenly summoned to his embassy,
demoted and replaced by Panama’s Ambassador to Britain
Roger Decerega, who promptly withdrew the proposal. Why?
According to a diplomatic source, the Japanese had earlier
threatened to cancel a sugar deal worth $9.75 million to the
Panamanians if the ban was pressed home. The Japanese
denied the blackmail charge.

“Conservationists looked for support from the US, tradition-
ally a vociferous opponent of whaling, but Commissioner
Richard Frank failed to fight a conference ruling that no other
nation could resubmit Panama’s proposal. Frank argued that
the necessary three-fourths-vote majority simply was not there.
More to the point, the US. could hardly pressure Japan and
Russia into a total ban while pushing for a greater bowhead take
for Alaska’s Eskimos.”

The Commissioner for Argentina made a stab at keeping the
moratorium proposals on the agenda, inquiring whether a single
delegation could withdraw an item from the agenda. But the
Chairman, Arthur Bollen of Australia, who has a long history of
pro-Whaler rulings from the Chair, said it was his interpretation
that since the moratorium was being removed by the govern-
ment that placed it on the agenda, it couldn’t be placed on the
agenda again for another 60 days. Thus the “whalers club”
disposed of the long-awaited vote with the same dispatch a
factory ship uses in packing away the body of a dead whale, its
identity destroyed in a matter of minutes.

It appeared that the whalers took another member aboard in
the form of the US. Commissioner Richard Frank, Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
who expended virtually all his time and energies on trying to get
the highest possible quota on bowhead whales in order to
appease Eskimo whalers and, in so doing, in effect helping the
Russian and Japanese whalers get the highest possible quotas,
too. For every bowhead Frank got for the Eskimos, the Russians
and Japanese were seeking and usually getting a thousand sei,
Brydes, minke or sperm whales. Appeasement of whalers
whether commercial or aboriginal, was the order of the day in
the most scandal-ridden and worst-conducted meeting of the
past seven years.

Nothing was done about the pirate whaler, Sierra 1, which has
now acquired a second vessel,2a converted Japanese stern-
trawler, and transferred its operations from Africa to the North
Atlantic where it is killing fin, sei, and Brydes whales outside the
quotas and selling the meat to Japan.

Populations of whales have decreased so much that, with the
exception of the shocking meeting in Japan last December 3
every IWC meeting since 1972 has reduced the whale quotas
by hundreds or even thousands of whales. Despite these
reductions, the quotas were, more often than not, unmet
because the whales could not be found to fill them. This year,
the IWC put off discussion on the sperm whales in the North
Pacific for a Special meeting in December. Its actions to date are
calculated to save Only 65 whales.

The failure of the Commission to set a quota to reduce the
Korean catch of whales in the Sea of Japan demonstrated the
inability of non-whaling countries to organize even the most
obviously needed action. The traditional leadership as set by
Russell Train, Robert White, and William Aron, was abandoned.
South Korea, which sells approximately 60% of its whale meat
t0 Japan while continuing to put off joining the IWC, has
averaged a kill of 473 minke whales a year over a considerable
period. Last year, the IWC’s Seientific Committee recommend-
ed that the catch not be increased, but Korea paid no attention.
When it more than doubled its kill, for a total of 1003, in 1977,
the Scientific Committee Report merely expressed a weak hope
that Korea would not still further increase its catching effort!

Dr. Roux, the French Commissioner, proposed a quota be set
using the historic catch figure 473. Seven nations voted with
France, but three voted against it: Japan, Norway and the Sov1et
Union. Thus, the 8-3 vote failed because of the three-quarters
majority the IWC requires. The three major whaling nations
blocked the wishes of the majority, and South Korea remains
free to kill as many whales as it pleases, while still proclaiming
that it will become an IWC member by the end of the year.

1 New reports circulating at the IWC meeting indicate thoatOthe Sierra, hereto-
tOre secretly owned through a Liechtenstein corporation, is in reality owned by
Japanese and Norwegian interests.

2 At Press time, it was learned that this vessel, the “Tonna” has been destroyed
by a dead whale whose huge bulk tilted the vessel so far that it capsized and
sank.

3 See Information Report Vol. 27, No. 1

4

 

For an overall view of what happened at this confused
meeting, summaries under subject matter headings may be
use u.

Quotas. Technically, the total quota was reduced by 695, but
because no quota was set for Korea, 530 must be subtracted
leaving 65. It is to be hoped that major reductions will be made
in the sperm whale quotas for the North Pacific after the special
meeting of the Scientific Committee November 1827.

Scientific Committee. A number of governments have di-
vested their commissioners of decision making powers by
instructing the inexperienced officials they appoint to vote the
recommendations of the lWC’s Scientific Committee. In doing
this, they fail to recognize that the Scientific Committee does not
always make definite recommendations. On the contrary, the
Committee, a loosely defined body which never votes but
operates by consensus (with frequent references to non-con-
sensus opinions) often hints that it is up to the Commissioners to
make decisions in areas which 1) are not strictly scientific, 2) in
which agreement has not been reached, or 3) in which a
population or stock of whales is decreasing but for which the
“New Management Procedure,” a system the Scientific Com-
mittee considers itself bound to honor, demands a quota. The
commissioners generally hope to “play it safe” by sending deci-
sion-making back to the Committee. The United States official
position was to support the most conservative position for
whales whenever the Scientific Committee failed to reach
consensus. In practice, however, this did not always occur.

Soviet Union. Commissioner Nikonorov, accompanied for
the first time in three years by crack Soviet lawyer Lafitsky,
speaks sonorously in Russian, and his pronouncements some-
times dwell on an alleged Soviet love of nature but they are
totally uncommunicative of any Soviet activity with respect to
whales. When Mexican Commissioner Rozental politely in-
quired, “Would it be possible for the Soviet delegation to inform
the Commission what use is made of the 178 gray whales
taken?” Mr. Nikonorov stated through his interpreter that he
had already answered this question when Mr. Rozental was not
present and would speak with him privately about it. In fact, no
statement had been made by Nikonorov on this subject. It is
rumored that meat from the 178 gray whales the Soviets kill
every year, allegedly for essential subsistence for native peoples,
is being used on mink farms.

Recollection of the report of the friendly young gray whale
tugging on the hawser of a California whale-watching boat? of
the fact that this huge but gentle creature allowed thirty-three
people to pat her, and that she returned to play with them again
the following day, makes the idea of a Russian harpooner
blasting her with an explosive harpoon in order to feed caged
mink to sell in the Leningrad fur auctions, especially revolting. If
Commissioner Nikonorov is not prepared to state publicly what
becomes of the gray whales who venture past his nation’s
shores, we can hazard a guess that this is no subsistence kill for
starving aborigines.

Brian Jackman reported in The London Sunday Times that a
Russian ﬂeet allegedly killed nearly 2000 whales over the quota.
No serious investigation of the matter has been made, and the
only nation that even tried to persuade the IWC to look into it
was the United States. Every other nation on the IWC Infractions
Committee (whose meetings were closed to observers) voted
against investigation. The other members, USSR, Australia,
Brazil, Japan and Iceland, are whaling nations. All of them
except Brazil also opposed an expanded observer program. In
short, they want business as usual and no questions asked.

According to US. Commerce Department figures, Japan has
received all of Russia’s whale exports since 1973. In 1976, over
ten million dollars changed hands.

Cost of operating whale catchers has risen steeply, as evi-
denced by the current Russian price of about $190,000 for a
month’s charter in a proposed IWC marking and sighting
program in the Indian Ocean, three times the figure quoted last
year. The charter was never taken up for lack of funds.

In 1977, Nikonorov stated in an interview 5 that it cost
$95,000,000 a year to put the Soviet Whaling ﬂeet on the seas.
Figures like these suggest that the killing of whales is a mere
excuse for sending out the huge motherships crammed full of
electronic gear. But they continue to decimate the whales. Even
the little orcas, the star performers at US. oceanariums, worth
$250,000 alive, are slaughtered by the Soviets in the antarctic.
Last year they harpooned 77 orcas, an increase of 350% over
the numbers killed in the past eight seasons. The IWC doesnt
even attempt to put brakes on the killing of small whales. .

Japan is fighting hard to protect its dying industry. In so dorng
it is making itself increasingly unpopular. And though it now kills
only half as many whales as the Soviet Union, it provides the
market for whale products that has prevented whaling from
dying a natural death in a number of other countries.

Commissioner Yonezawa, unlike his Russian counterpart,
speaks up for more whale killing on every possible occasion
during the meetings. He urged that no quota be set for Korea;
he urged the Commission to leave sperm whale quotas at the
same level as decided at the Tokyo meeting, despite grave

4 See Information Report Vol. 25, No. 1
5 Information Report Vol. 26, No. 3




 

concerns expressed with respect to several different stocks by
the Scientific Committee. He, together with the commissioners
from other whaling countries opposed a further meeting of the
Scientific Committee on the grounds that it would cost too
much, and when the Whale Protection Fund offered to pay the
cost of the meeting, the Commission would not accept the
money, the Russian'Commissioner stating that “It is not that we
are so poor that we must extend our hand to this or that
organization. I don’t think we should do that as a matter of
principle.”

Not only did Japan seek the highest possible quotas, its
commissioner opposed proposals that would lead to more open
regulation of whaling. For example, he spoke against providing
copies of observers’ reports on request, saying that these might
be used later on to prosecute, and that the observer might be
facing a libel suit or damage suit. He wanted observer reports to
be limited to contracting governments and members of the
delegation.

When the question of receiving and considering documents
from non-members including observers was brought up, Mr.
Yonezawa tried to delay any action for a year by saying it would
be “wise for the Commission to look into the costs involved. I
think we Should, before deciding at this meeting, refer this
matter to the Finance and Administration Committee for com-
ment.”

When the International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN), the leading international organization whose scientific
contributors throughout the world make possible the publication
of the famous “Red Data Book” on endangered and threatened
species, was recommended for advisor status in the IWC, Mr.
Yonezawa stated “I would like to register my objection to this
proposal,” and he succeeded in preventing IUCN from obtain-
ing that status. It remains as a mere observer.

Disastrous though this meeting was, the fact that public
indignation against commercial whaling is growing more rapidly
throughout the world than ever before—gives reason for hope.
The whalers are fighting back using disreputable methods
suggestive of a desperate last-ditch effort to gain their ends.

Friends of whales can help tip the balance in the following
ways:

1) Write to Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps urgently
requesting her to place on the agenda of the next IWC meeting
a moratorium on pelagic (deep sea) whaling. Point out that
75% of whales are killed beyond the ZOO-mile limits of any
nation’s shores and that only three nations still engage in pelagic

whaling: Russia, Japan and, to a very limited extent, Norway.

This vote can be won if a serious effort is made by the Carter
Administration.

Hon. Juanita Kreps

Secretary of Commerce

14th and Constitution Avenue

Washington, DC. 20230

2)Write to Secretary of State Cyrus Vance urging him to
pursue established US. policy for a moratorium as a matter of
priority.

Hon. Cyrus Vance

Secretary of State

2201 C Street

Washington, DC. 20520

3) Boycott Russian and Japanese products and write letters
to let the makers know why. Some addresses:

Stolichnaya Vodka and
Nazdorovya Champagne
Pepsi-Cola

Anderson Hill Road
Purchase, NY. 10577

Aeroflot Airline
545 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY. 10017

Baikal and M2 Shotguns
Universal Sporting Goods
7920 NW 76th Avenue
Miami, Fl. 33166

Toyota
2055 W. 190th Street
Torrance, Ca. 90504

Datsun
18501 S. Figueroa Street
Carson, Ca. 90744

Sony
9 West 57th Street
New York, NY. 10019

ETHICAL QUESTIONS OF WHALING‘
by Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Research on whales demonstrates that they are in possession
of unusually large brains. Although there is no general agree-
ment on what the function of these brains may be, it is a
principle of evolution that such a complex organ does not
develop in a species unless it confers an advantage on the
survival of that species.

Recent research on whales has demonstrated that some
species have very complex repertoires of sounds; that other
species make sounds that can carry over distances of thousands
of miles; that still others sing long, complex (and, to human ears,
beautiful) songs, that these sOngs are constantly changed ac-
cording to laws of form that are remarkably similar to some laws
of human musical composition, and that these laws are in-
herited culturally or genetically. The function of the songs and
the reason they change so constantly are unknown, but the
ability to memorize a song lasting perhaps 25 minutes, and to
incorporate in it all of the complex annual changes, presum-
ably indicates something of what the whale’s brain can do.

In at least four separate laboratories in the United States,
there is research currently in progress on techniques for com-
municating with cetaceans. Though different in detail, these
efforts are essentially modifications of techniques pioneered by
primatologists for teaching American Sign, computer, and sym-
bolic languages to chimpanzees and gorillas. The early emphasis
in that research was on demonstrating that some non-human
animals are capable of the same abstractions necessary to com-
municate via human languages. That chimpanzees and gorillas
are capable of such abstraction is now widely accepted.

The current research with porpoises, though it employs the
same techniques, has a different emphasis. One current direc-
tion is an effort to learn more about behavior of porpoises in the
wild by teaching a porpoise a simple language and then asking it
simple questions. Conversations are envisioned such as: “Be-
fore you came here, how many fish did you eat each day?” or
“Did sharks ever attack you?” or “Do you like it here?”.
Questions of this and of greater complexity have been asked of
and answered by non-human primates, and present indications
suggest that porpoises will do well in such tests. If so, animal be-
haviorists may soon resemble their anthropologist colleagues as
regards study techniques—interviews with the subject may
become a principal tool of investigation in animal behavior.

We have been discussing research projects that are currently
underway, not simply plans for the future. Should these projects
yield positive results (and current indications strongly suggest
they will—and soon), it would probably seem ironic, if not
unethical, to many more people than have hitherto been
involved in questions of whale conservation, to recognize a
value for porpoises and whales only in relation to how much
they contribute to human nutrition or in respect to their worth as
lubricants.

The problems of research with large whales are manifest,
experimentation under controlled conditions is unknown, and
we must be content at present with simple observations. In spite
of these limitations, it is already obvious that whatever it is
cetaceans use their large brains for, it is almost certainly not the
same as what humans do with theirs. Thus, regardless of the
answer, it promises to be one of the most intriguing discoveries
of the future. By continuing whaling, we threaten this mystery;
we-threaten the legacy we leave for our descendants, and, thus,
we threaten our options as a species.

In the United States, we spent, during 1975, more money on
seeing live marine mammals (in zoos and aquaria, on whale-
watching tours, in television specials, and in books and maga-
zine articles) than the largest whaling nation made from whaling.
It is clear from this and from the increasing presence of whales
in the literature, art, music, sculpture, dance, conservation
efforts, news media coverage, and legislation of this country that
an increased awareness of the values of whales in their live state
makes the practice of whaling unacceptable to US. citizens on
ethical grounds.

* Prepared for submission to the International Whaling Commission, 1978.

 

AUSTRALIA srops KILLING WHALES

On the opening day of the Australian official Inquiry on
Whales and Whaling before Sir Sydney Frost, the last Australian
whaling company announced that it was ending its operations
this year. Thus Australia joins the ranks of ex-whaling nations. It
is vital that its quota not be taken by Russia or Japan. .

 

_. . 0....)




 

ALTERNATIVES FOR INHUMANE SCIENCE FAIRS
[continued]

problems that more stringent measures are needed than for
curricular classroom projects. Nationwide revisions therefore
retained these rules only for classroom projects but established
more stringent rules for science fairs. The Westinghouse Science
Talent Search, however, made their rule change abruptly when
in 1969, protests were made over a prize-winner who had
blinded sparrows then starved some to death.

The significant factor is that both these competitions, through
different routes, arrived at the same conclusion. Both competi-
tions now ban all high school surgery and all animal experi-
mentation except non-harmful observational studies of pets and
wildlife. Both competitions have thereby successfully eliminated
inhumane projects. Both competitions reward excellence in
science and stimulate bright youngsters.

The state of California and two major national competi-
tions have achieved good standards. These experiences show
us that humane study of live animals can continue in biology
classrooms but toleration of improper standards is not neces-
sary. Alternatives to inhumane science fairs exist, are used, and
should be made universal.

 

LAW ENFORCEMENT
Bird Dealers Found Guilty

According to a recent news media account, the owners of
Basically Birds in Alpine, California, have been found guilty of
charges involving smuggled birds. The owners, William Hamp-
ton and Marion Martinez, pleaded no contest. Hampton was
sentenced to 18 months in prison and given a five-year
probation. He was fined $5,000. Martinez was not given a
prison sentence but was put on five years’ probation and fined
$2,500. (Reported by R. O. Wagner, American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquaria).

Endangered Species Violator Convicted in
New Mexico and Kentucky

On February 27, Thurman Wit of Albuquerque, New Mexico,
was sentenced on two counts of having violated the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 by attempting to shoot two
whooping cranes north of the Bosque del Apache National
Wildlife Refuge. Apprehended by special agents of the Fish and
Wildlife Services Division of Law Enforcement, Wit was sen-
tenced on the first count to six months in jail, of which he must
serve 30 days, plus three years of supervised probation. On the
second count, he was given three years of supervised probation
and forbidden to hunt or even carry firearms for three years.

On the same date, Ronnie Dale Nanney of Hardin, Kentucky,
was sentenced on one count of having violated the Bald Eagle
Protection Act by shooting an immature bald eagle. In passing
sentence, Judge Edward J. Johnstone emphasized the serious-
ness of Nanney’s offense and the importance of protecting the
Nation’s wildlife. Accordingly, Nanney was sentenced to one
year in jail (suspended); active probation for three years, during
which time he will have to work on a conservation project for 80
days; forfeiture of his rifle; and a fine of $2,500, which is
believed to be the most severe fine ever imposed in a bald eagle
shooting case. (Endangered Species Technical Bulletin, April,
1978).

WANTED: BIRD SMUGGLERS

Smuggled birds continue to threaten the health of pet bird
and poultry ﬂocks in the United States. Indications are that
every recent outbreak of exotic Newcastle disease has been
caused by birds brought in this country illegally.

At a meeting on poultry health, sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), representatives of the pet

bird and poultry industries said they wanted to help counter the
threat by reporting suspected smuggling activities.

US. Customs Service, therefore, has made available the
phone numbers of its regional directors for investigations. Any
information concerning the possibility of smuggled birds may be
reported to one of the following officers:

Boston, MA 021 10 ......................... (617) 223-0086
New York, NY 10008 ...................... (212) 466-5940
Baltimore, MD 21202 ...................... (301) 962-2637
Miami, FL 33131 ..................... . ..... (305) 350-5331
Chicago, IL 60603 .......... j ............... (312) 353-9226
Houston, TX 77002 .......................... (713) 658-8339
New Orleans, LA 701 12 .................... (504) 589-2747
San Francisco, CA 94105 .................. (415) 556-1780
Los Angeles, CA 90053 .................... (213) 688-4692

Information concerning the possibility of smuggled birds
may also be reported through USDA at Hyattsville, MD
(301) 436-8061.

“PRAISE IS DUE . . .”

In an editorial which summed up the good news about the
dramatic drop in dolphin casualties in purse seines, The Los
Angeles Times gave credit to “the environmentalists for de-
manding protection of the porpoise, the government for impos-
ing the lower quotas, and the tuna captains for accomplishing
what they said was impossible.” The April 17th editorial appears
in full below.

FISH STORY

American tuna captains went on strike a year ago to protest
government restrictions on the number of porpoises that they
could kill in their nets. The fleet laid at its moorings for 90 days
in a futile effort to secure higher quotas on the air-breathing
mammals, which accompany schools of tuna and guide the
crews to their deeper-swimming quarry.

The skippers said that the 1978 kill quota of 51,946 porpoises
would force them to return to port with half-empty holds, while
foreign vessels, not bound by the regulations, could stay on the
fishing grounds much longer.

As it turns out, those fears were unjustified. The catch by the
130 American seiners is above last year’s, and the porpoise
slaughter is dramatically lower.

As of March 20, the catch of skipjack tuna was 56,762
tons—24,155 over last year. There was a smaller gain in the
yellowfin catch—52,660 tons, compared with 46,429 in the first
quarter of 1977. And, far from returning to port with small
catches that would not even cover the costs of a voyage, 88 of
the seiners have gone to canneries in California and Puerto Rico
with full holds—a majority of them twice.

During the same three months, only 2,038 porpoises died in
the nets. At that rate, the kill for the entire year would be only a
fourth of the allowable quota of 51,946.

There were a number of reasons for the fleet’s success—new
seines that permit more porpoises to escape, greater care in
freeing those still caught in the three-quarter-mile-long nets, and
the presence of government observers on a number of the
vessels.

The future—for the ﬂeet and the porpoise—looks even
brighter. The US. Tuna Foundation, which represents the
fishery, is spending $1.6 million to test still-newer nets and
maneuvering techniques. Six government scientists will sail with
the crew of an experimental seiner on five voyages this year.
Those efforts should reduce porpoise mortality even further—
and without harm to the industry.

Still another beneficiary is the consumer. Tuna prices, which
rose sharply last year, are heading down because of the larger
catches.

Praise is due environmentalists for demanding protection of
the porpoise, the government for imposing the lower quotas,

and the tuna. captains for accomplishing what they said was
impossible.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scien tific Committee

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee
T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—-Greece David Ricardo—Canada

Maior C. W. Hume, OLB.E., M.C.. B.Sc.. M.l. Biol.-—United Kingdom
Angela King—United Kingdom .
Officers

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, o.c. 20007

August—October, 1978 Vol. 27, No. 3

 

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS IN THE UNITED
STATES AND DEVELOPING SUBSTITUTES
by Christine Stevens

PRESENTED AT THE WORLD CONGRESS FOR ANIMAL
PROTECTION — WEST BERLIN
SEPTEMBER 27, 1978

Crisis in Testing Thousands of Compounds Spurs
Interest in Alternatives to Laboratory Animals but
Massive Suffering Continues in Animal
Experiments

In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency
and the National Institutes of Health are devoting substantial
efforts to development of tests for toxicity of the ever increasing
number of drugs, additives and other compounds which find
their way into the bodies of human consumers. The motivation
is practical. Live animal tests take longer, are more expensive
and provide a wider opportunity for error than do correspond-
ing tests using bacteria or tissue culture, but none of the tests is
perfect. Methods which eliminate use of conscious, live mam-
mals, or which put off such use until a new compound has run
the gamut of in vitro tests, are being developed under contract
to the National Cancer Institute. For example:

A $161,949 per annum contract initiated June 30, 1975 is
designed to “develop rapid and reproducible screening assays
for chemical carcinogens in epithelial cultures” using rat liver
epithelial cultures.

A $228,412 per annum contract initiated June 30, 1975 is
designed “to develop and validate a reliable and reproducible
assay system for the demonstration of neoplastic transformation
in a cell culture system using BALB/c3T3 mouse embryo
fibroblasts.”

A $332,991 per annum contract initiated June 9, 1971 is
titled “In Vitro Study of the Nature of the Interaction Between
Chemical and Viral Carcinogens.”

A $59,041 per annum contract initiated March 29, 1978 “To
determine the predictive value of a mammalian cell system
using DNA repair as an end point in the evaluation of chemical
compounds for carcinogenic potential.”

A series of 21 other contracts in the same general range of
funding were initiated between 1972 and 1978 under NIH’s In
Vitro Carcinogenesis Program.

EPA’s work in progress is primarily on mutagenicity tests
which will also predict carcinogenicity. In late 1978 and in 1979,
EPA will be supporting development research on in vitro
systems for teratogenicity. Studies are also underway to assess
and improve existing animal toxicity methods including the
reduction in required numbers of animals and species to
adequately define potential toxic effects, for example, those in
which both the rat and the dog have been used in the past.

These are encouraging signs.

Further encouragement to the process would be provided
under a bill sponsored by Congressmen Drinan and Green in
the US. House of Representatives, H.R. 10484. The bill “to
promote the development of methods of research, experi-
mentation and testing that minimize the use of, and pain and
suffering to, live animals” states that “the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare is authorized to make grants to public
and non-profit private entities to support research into, and the
development of, new methods of research, experimentation
and testing (including computer modeling and analysis of tissue
cultures), which methods use no or fewer live animals or
produce less pain and suffering in such animals than the
methods currently in use.” The proposed authorization would
be for ten million dollars per year for five years.

Successful development of even one such test could save far
more than the cost of the grants. To quote Environment
(Washington, DC. June, 1978), “Professor Bruce Ames of the
University of California (Berkeley) who developed the increas-
ingly widely used test for determining whether chemicals are

ANIMAL WELFARE PROGRESS IN THE
NINETY-FIFT H CONGRESS

Animal Birth Control

For the first time, funds for research in animal birth control will
be available from the US. Department of Agriculture. Senator
John Melcher (D., Mont.) proposed an amendment to the agri-
cultural appropriations bill on the ﬂoor of the Senate to include
twenty million dollars for veterinary research, recommending
that five percent be allocated for research in animal birth control.
The Senator said, “We have it almost within our grasp to
provide for humane methods of controlling predators, decreas-
ing the population of unwanted and uncared for dogs and cats.
Stray dogs and cats in almost all communities are a drain
financially, a public health problem, and humane control through
lower birthrates is in' my judgment a necessary and prime
goal.” The Senate passed the Melcher amendment. Although
the House of Representatives conferees brought the total down
to five million, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland confirmed
that an additional ten million for special grants to animal health
research is available. Thus, up to $750,000 should be distributed
in the general area of predatory and other animal birth control.
Information concerning grant applications should be addressed
to Dr. E. J. Splitter, Cooperative Research, Science and Educa-
tion Administration, US. Department of Agriculture, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20250.

Humane Slaughter

The Federal Meat Inspection Act was amended to require
that all meat for human consumption be slaughtered by hu-
mane methods. The new amendments provide authority for the
inspectors to stop the slaughtering line until any abuse or
malfunction of humane slaughter equipment is corrected. This
highly effective principle is copied from the authority the in-
spectors have had for many years to stop the line if sanitary
standards are not maintained. The inspector affixes a notice
which is removed only when compliance is re-established.

The new humane slaughter amendments to the 1958 law
also deny entry into the United States of meat from inhumanely
slaughtered animals.

 

mutagens (most, if not all mutagens are also carcinogens), also
reports that it may soon be possible to determine not only
mutagenic/carcinogenic which chemicals are mutagenic but the
extent of their potency. ‘There is an indication,’ Professor Ames
states, that there is a quantitative correlation, not only with car-
cinogens in the same chemical class, but across a broad range of
classes! Since there are about 63,000 chemicals presently in
common use, with new ones being added every day, such a
quantitative correlation based on the relatively easy and inex-
pensive Ames test (two days and $250, while white-mice tests
for carcinogenicity average about $150,000 per chemical and
can take many months) could prove vastly important in pro-
tecting the public from cancerous chemicals.”

It frequently happens that by protecting animals people are
better protected too. Thus we should be able to enlist a broad
range of support for our efforts to replace painful experiments
on animals.

Painful Experiments

To do so it is essential to recognize the scale and the nature of
the suffering currently being inﬂicted. During the past year, the
Animal Welfare Institute has conducted an intensive examina-
tion of the literature concentrating on the last three years, using
some computer searches but depending largely on library
research scanning twenty-five or thirty of the major journals.
The result is a report by Jeff Diner covering a series of areas
including electric shock, burns, stress, eye manipulations, Noble-
Collip Drum trauma, radiation, and aggression research. You

[continued on page 2]

 

 




 

," 8"“,

 

 

“542‘ . u

    
   
  

q:

n, -

1m ‘ w .az.4.;::s<«.;.«:i’z’.mz‘~'-

Iv:

‘ .1..'
stasis:
a.

 

. - .,.; , .,.. .. . ..... - I

. . ,., t. a“ ‘1' “1». ‘ . .— r‘ ' ‘ ;
r ,- ~ _ ‘ ‘ . “ e ‘ v"“' .1 ‘ _ . .
'. ”na§,m ' 4': 'g‘. ._ ‘ '

v. --. *"5~““.5'w- L ,. . 2:. ,

I . I ‘ . V .~ - s W K "15:31.11 4

-- ‘ ., ,’ . " . 7’ ~ \

. ‘- ., :‘- .' . ,....¢..1‘} n

' . ’ i - ‘4' i '3‘ ‘ . t

' ' r' ' '

‘ " . 1'“ . - ‘ «arm' 0

.4 . - _. ,7 J . l l

, o _ J , r, ~31 . P‘ ‘ ’

v .. , a, . . p _ »

#31,.Jin 3;}; ’3‘ ‘

:. a “34,3, . '

I
. 4

Fig. 1. Photograph of Monkey 3-” seated in the restraining chair with attached neck yoke-Lateral head move-
ment was restricted by the rectangular stops on either side of the monkey's head, and vertical head movement
by the base plate of the neck yoke. Movement of the upper body was permitted through an arc determined by
the hinge located above and to the rear of the monkey’s head. Pressurized air was delivered to the monkey 5 face
through the curved stainless-steel tube (covered with black tape). One end of a flexible polyvinyl chloride tube
was connected to the stainlesssteel tube behind the neck yoke. and the other end to the solenoid-operated
valve (not shown) located below the waist plate of the chair. The front and left side walls of the chair “ch

removed for the photograph.

 

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS IN US.
[continued from page 1]

will note that these are not “vivisection” in the classic sense.
Surgery is not necessarily involved though it may be as an
adjunct. Experimental surgery, especially on dogs, continues to
cause a great deal of pain and distress, much of which could and
should be alleviated by post-operative use of pain relieving
drugs, good nursing care, and careful feeding. We must press for
these needed improvements through law enforcement and
other means of persuasion. And we can observe through visits
to laboratory animal quarters what progress is being made.

Punishment

With respect to psychological experimentation, however,
which is most often responsible for merciless persecution of
captive animals through painful and uncontrollable electric
shocks, observations in the animal house are inadequate and it
is necessary to turn to reports in scientific journals. There is an
entire literature based on “punishment” and “punishers” con-
sisting of electric shocks to the feet, shaved tails, tooth pulp, or
brains of primates, cats, dogs, rabbits, hamsters, rats and mice.
Animals are taught to avoid shock by such methods as pulling
levers or pecking keys, then the game is suddenly reversed, so
the creature is deliberately frustrated to the point that he
develops ulcers. For example, “. . . when [rhesus] monkeys were
put into a marked conflict situation in which avoidance re-
sponses which had previously always prevented shock and now
unpredictably delivered shock, lesions [ulcers] developed in
seven of the eight subjects.” (American Journal of Digestive
Diseases, 22 : 888-897, 1977).

Depending on his species the animal subject may squeal,
tremble uncontrollably, defecate, run frantically, freeze, curl up
in a ball or in certain types of experiments develop what is called
“learned helplessness”-—a state in which he no longer even tries
to avoid painful electric shock, no longer reacts to it, but
simply suffers it. One study over a four year period subjected
150 dogs to “inescapable shock.” (Experimental Psychology:
General, 105 : 3-46, 1976).

 

Some creatures simply die as four squirrel monkeys did after
a 24-hour shock avoidance session in which shocks re-occurred
at five second intervals if not avoided. The paper cites “. . . the
emotional reaction and anxiety which are involved in attempt-
ing to contend with the shock stress. Stress-induced death was
related to helplessness or giving up reaction which was ac-
companied by a depression of cardiovascular function.”
(Psycho-Physiology, 14 : 322-328, 1977).

A forthright scientist criticized in print an experiment in which
heart attacks were induced in dogs following which they were
repeatedly subjected to electric shocks while confined to Pav-
lovian slings. He wrote: “The small amount of information
gained by the experiment of Corbalan et al is overshadowed by
the detriment to the medical profession in general and to animal
experimentation in particular. The design of their experiment is
not in compliance with the guidelines published in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 9, Chapter 1, Part 3, Section 3.0,
Paragraph c(3) stating that the use of three classes of drugs
(anesthetics, analgesics and tranquilizers) shall effectively mini-
mize the pain and discomfort of the animals while under experi-
mentation. . . . Future reports of similar experiments should be
rejected by every reputable medical journal.” (The American
Journal of Cardiology, 37 : 116, 1976).

“Punishment” is commonly inflicted on pigeons by shOCkS
through electrodes implanted around the pubis bone. The
pigeons may be starved to 70% of their normal weight, to
increase their desire for the grain they have been taught to
expect as the result of pecking the correct key. Then a shock is
pdrtnicriiisgtghed withl egclrilkey peck and the effect of various drugs

ese . emica at olo a uar
1976, 1-7). gy nd Pharmacology, 13, Jan y

Electric shock experimentation appears to require little skill,
Wthh may Partially account for its unfortunate popularity. The
tolerance of the editors of some journals seems boundless. A

adding electric shock
sought to avoid. One cat
discarded because she clu
not trot well,” reads the

“that received shock had to be
ng SO tightly to the belt that she could
Paper. The arts degree candidate dis-

 

 




 

covered that “food cats walked more upright,” while “. . . a cat
walking to avoid shock maintains a crouching posture.” (Phy-
siology and Behavior, 16 : 141-146, 1976).

It is hardly surprising that some of the animals have sought to
outwit the designers of the experiments. Footshock is com-
monly used in the enormous number of shock experiments on
rats and some of these creatures have learned that “Foot-
shock, even when scrambled, can be drastically altered in effec-
tive duration or intensity by rearing, hopping or jumping; and
some experimentally-sophisticated rats have been observed to
balance on single grid bars, lean against non-conductive walls,
or even roll over onto their fur-insulated backs. Even more
sophisticated experimenters have lowered ceilings, shaved fur
off animals, and removed all insulated apparatus surfaces, but
animals are still able to alter shock aversiveness by subtle
postural adjustments. . .” (Physiology and Behavior, 19 :
815-818, 1977).

The authors offer a system unmodifiable by intelligent rats —
but they also cast a question over the accuracy of a great deal of
past work.

When extreme pain is caused as it so often has been, this is a
most serious matter. To quote from a paper that examined the
effects of two kinds of pain on cats: dull pain through electric
shock to tooth pulp, “bright” pain to their feet. “Since 14 mA
was the maximum amount of current that could be generated
by our apparatus, it was not possible to determine if foot shock
levels greater than that would have led to escape responding.”
These unfortunate cats endured this powerful maximum shock
to their feet because the dull, diffuse pain to which they were
also being subjected caused them to “assume a fixed posture

with limbs extended.” (Journal of Neuroscience Research,
2 : 283-289, 1976).

Immobilization

Dogs restrained in Pavlovian slings, monkeys in monkey
chairs, small animals in plastic tubes, all are shocked — or, in
some cases, other forms of “quantifiable and effective punish-
ing stimulus” are used. This squirrel monkey is rigidly restrained
and pressurized air is blown in varying degrees of severity into
his face. He was one of six “food-deprived squirrel monkeys
exposed to a multiple fixed-ratio schedule in which every
thirtieth lever pressing response produced food. . .” and who
was then subjected to the much-hated blasts of air between the
eyes without being able to turn his head. Small wonder that,
hungry though he was, it “effectively suppressed the ongoing
level of responding.” (The Experimental Analysis of Behavior,
29 : 341-345, 1978).

Blinding

He might be counted lucky as compared with a blinded
squirrel monkey with electrodes implanted in the brain whose
“paucity of movement and lack of appetite suggest a physio-
logical effect . . . it was common to discover the blind squirrel
monkey . . . with its head between its knees, tail over its
shoulders.” (Archives italiennes de Biologie, 114 : 23-48, 1976).

Rhesus monkeys blinded and later subjected to hallucinogens
“manifested increased vocalizations during hallucinogen ses-
sions” and one died after administration of one of these drugs.
(International Pharmacopsychiatry, 11 : 150-156, 1976).

Five 19-day old macaques had their eyes removed to study
social interactions, such as measurement of the time it took
them to reach their mothers after being separated from them —
a test repeated with the mothers sedated to the point that they
did not give alarm calls. (Journal of Abnormal Psychology,
84 : 519-523, 1975).

Blinding is so terrible a form of injury that it has, in the past,
rarely been undertaken. Yet examples such as these show a
willingness to permanently deprive highly developed animals of
their vision, not even with the aim of helping to prevent or cure
blindness in human beings but for psychological studies.

Solitary Confinement

Total isolation imposed on 15-day old Rhesus monkeys who
remained in their cells for eight months without seeing any living
creature showed the results by self-clasping, rocking, huddling,
self-mouthing and self-aggression. The paper concluded that the
“data argue against the isolation syndrome in monkeys as a
model for human psychoses. . . .” (American Journal of Psychia-
try, 133:1165-1170, 1976). How, then, is eight months of
solitary confinement for these infant primates to be justified?

Pain and Fear

Or how do the psychologists interested in “Geophagia in

Response to Stress and Arthritis” justify the pain they caused by
A producing “a generalized arthritic syndrome of pain, heat, and
joint swelling” in rats and then forcing them to swim in cold
water? “The stressed rats squealed loudly while being placed in
the swim tank,” state the authors. But squealing did them no
good. Nor did knowledge of geophagia (the consumption of
non-nutritive substance) advance since “there was no difference
in the amount of geophagia shown by stressed or unstressed
animals. . . .” (Physiology and Behavior, 19 : 265-267, 1977).

Burning

We all know the painful sensation that follows even a small
burn, but in none of the studies noted in the Diner report is any
mention of post-burn analgesia made. The actual burning is
done under anesthetic but there pain relief ends. In three recent
papers in which guinea pigs were immersed in boiling water
only one even provided post-burn anesthesia. In this case,
“whiffs of halothane” were given “before being burned and for
approximately five minutes afterward” to the guinea pigs which,
the authors state, “was long enough to ensure that they felt no
pain as indicated by the absence of squealing.” The animals
were kept alive up to 72 hours after the burn injury. (American
Journal of Physiology, 231 : 892-902, 1976. 232 : E415-418,
1977. 233 : E80-85, 1977).

139 dogs suffered experimental burning of the esophagus
with lye and were kept alive for six weeks unless they lost 15%
or more body weight as the result of severe constriction of the
esophagus. They were divided into three groups to test the
effect of two different treatments. However, histologic study of
the injured esophagus of the dogs after they were killed showed
that the “sequence of injury and repair events was indistinguish-
able among the three groups.” (Surgery, 81 : 431-435, 1977).
The large numbers of dogs subjected to such an extremely
painful intervention calls for scrutiny of the way in which this
experiment was planned. There was no mention of pain
relieving drugs during the six weeks. Like many others in the
report, it was funded by the National Institutes of Health.

Drumming and Forced Fighting

The Noble-Collip Drum, a Canadian invention, was thought
by many humanitarians to have faded away since it was
severely criticized by six scientists writing to The Lancet in 1949.
Unfortunately, recent papers show that the University of Missis-
sippi, Albany Medical College, and the State University of New
York at Brooklyn are still subjecting rabbits and rats to traumatic
shock by spinning them hundreds of times inside the drum
where they hit the projections that are built into the drum to
produce the bruising injuries for which this instrument is famous.
(American Journal of Physiology, 230: 7-13, 1976), (Journal of
Surgical Research, 22 : 370-375, 1977), (American Journal of
Physiology, 231:842-847, 1976), (American Journal of Pa-
thology, 70:57-62, 1973), (Laboratory Investigations, 35:501-
506, 1976), (The Journal of Trauma, 18:38-42, 1978).

One of the strangest current phenomena in the scientific
literature is the popularity of encouraging animals to fight each
other by giving them painful shocks. “All pairs emitted shock-
correlated audible vocalizations during the inter-shock interval
when attacks occurred,” states a study designed to measure
ultrasonic vocalizations occurring in shock-elicited aggression. In
this study, pairs of albino rats were placed in a small chamber for
5-10 daily fighting sessions and subjected to fifty separate
shocks each session. (Animal Learning and Behavior, 5:199-
202, 1977).

Some of the aggression studies border on the bizarre. Who
would have thought that a student might achieve a Master’s
degree by producing “Trained fighter mice” placing them in a
glass battery to battle spayed female mice smeared with the
urine of male mice that had been injected with various hor-
mones, and carefully recording the number of bites and other
aggressive acts? (Behavioral Biology, 22 : 343-353, 1978).

A tavored method of encouraging one mouse to bite another
is to dangle the so-called “victim” mouse by the tail bumping it
into the fighter mouse’s hindquarters till he becomes impatient
enough with the annoyance to bite the unfortunate victim. A
surprising amount of government funds from such institutions
as the US. Public Health Service and National Science Founda-
tion seems to be available for studies of this nature in psychol-
ogy departments throughout the country as indicated in the
forty-six papers summarized in the AWI report.

It is clearly essential that, at the same time that alternatives to
laboratory animals are being developed in some fields, a
reduction in suffering inﬂicted on the millions of animals now
undergoing experiments and tests be made. With that end in
view, the AWI has prepared a policy statement.

Animal Welfare Institute Policy on the Use of
Vertebrate Animals for
Experimentation and Testing

Abstract: Animals should be used for experimentation only 1)
when there is no known feasible alternative; 2) after review of a
carefully designed experiment based on knowledge of existing
literature on the subject; 3) using the smallest possible number
of animals 4) of the most suitable species, 5) maintained in an
optimum environment, 6) under the care of trained, sympa-
thetic personnel, and 7) preventing pain, fear, and anxiety by
judicious experimental design and generous use of anesthetic,
analgesic and tranquilizing drugs. 8) Endangered species should
not be used; 9) Threatened species should only be used for
experiments conforming with requirements for human experi-
mentation.

Animals should not be subjected to any pain, fear or anxiety
which can be avoided. This means:

1) If other equally effective methods of experimentation or

 




testing are known to be available they should be used in
preference to any experiment likely to cause pain or fear to an
animal.

2) If the experiment or test can be conducted on a fully
anesthetized animal it should be, and, if injury is caused, the
animal should be destroyed without regaining consciousness,
OR: ‘

3) If it is imperative that the animal survive the injury inﬂicted,
sufficient pain-relieving drugs must be administered to prevent
each animal from feeling pain.

4) Nursing care must be provided to all animals following
surgery or other injurious interventions.

5) Competent staff should be available at all times, day and
night, weekends and holidays to care for experimental animals.
They must make rounds for the purpose of ascertaining the
state of the animals’ health and well-being. They must be
authorized to dispense pain-relieving or tranquilizing drugs or,
where specified, to phone the investigator or director for such
authorization with regard to specific animals at any time.

6) Before undertaking any experiment involving animals, the

experimental design must be reviewed by a committee including
a senior scientist in the discipline involved, a veterinarian
familiar with the treatment, care and management of the species
of animal involved, and a person primarily concerned with the
welfare of animals. Purpose of the review is to ensure 1) that it is
not feasible to substitute for the use of animals, 2) that the least
possible distress and injury is caused, 3) that excessive numbers
of animals are not used, and 4) that appropriate anesthetics,
analgesics and tranquilizers are employed if needed. In those
special circumstances in which the investigator feels his research
would be marred by general anesthesia or use of narcotic
alkaloids, this should be given special scrutiny by the review
committee, and, if necessary, by a further impartial authority.
The committee must also ensure that no experiment is under-
taken by a person untrained in the methods to be employed and
that the kind of animals selected are the ones most likely to
develop the new knowledge or test result being sought.

If a disagreement between the investigator and the institu-
tional committee cannot be resolved, and the design of the
experiment is questioned either 1) on the basis of inadequate
preparation and review of the literature and sound scientific
conception, or 2) on the basis of the humane considerations
listed above, the proposal should be submitted to an objective
committee or arbitrator who is not associated with the institution
and a decision taken based on evidence requested or submitted
to the committee or arbitrator.

7) No endangered species should be used for experimental
purposes. Threatened species should only be used under
constraints which prevent risk of death or serious injury as
required in human experimentation. Capture and transporta-
tion of wildlife for laboratory use must be subject to regulation
and inspection both nationally and internationally.

8) The great majority of experimental animals are bred for the
purpose. This is the preferred method of acquiring animals.
They should be raised in facilities whose standards of housing
and care are equal to those described in this statement for
animals under experiment. Dogs and cats, for use in experi-
ments under full anesthesia from which they are not allowed to
recover but pass directly into death, may be obtained from
among animals already condemned to death in pounds because
no homes can be found for them. This simply constitutes a
change in the place where euthanasia is conducted. Transporta-
tion and handling of these and all other animals must be
humane, providing the same high standards of sanitation,
ventilation and temperature control as for animal quarters.
Transportation should be conducted by the most rapid means
feasible. The size of the cage must permit normal postural
adjustments for any animal.

9) Euthanasia must be considered a major responsibility.
Animals should be killed by anesthetic overdose and their
inability to recover ensured by surgical means. No animal
should be discarded without holding it long enough after death
to observe rigor mortis.

Housing of experimental animals must be so constructed and
maintained as to provide for the activities natural to the species.
Enclosures or cages must be sufficiently large and well construc-
ted to permit burrowing, climbing, perching, swinging, walking,

stretching, rolling, or other normal actions ordinarily seen in the
species when not confined. Any exceptions to such basic rules
for housing for purposes of a particular experiment must be
considered as part of the experimental design and reviewed as
outlined above.

If funds are not available for housing any particular species
comfortably, providing a diet which will maintain optimum
health, providing veterinary and nursing care following surgical
or other adverse experimental intervention and providing high
standards of sanitation, ventilation and temperature control at
all times, the experimentation should not be undertaken.

Well trained staff 'who like animals and sympathize with their
feelings are essential. They must be observant and make their
observations known to the director of the laboratory or other
person with authority to act in all cases. For example, moribund
animals should be euthanized. Suffering animals should be,
depending on the situation and the nature of the work, euthan-
ized, anesthetized, sedated or otherwise treated to prevent
suffering.

Experimental animals, sacrificed for human benefit, should
be provided optimum'living conditions before, during, and after
their use. This is a minimum repayment for their services — the

only one which can be made.

Painful animal experiments should not be conducted. for any
frivolous or non-essential purpose; therefore, new products
should be tested to the greatest extent possible using substitutes
for living, conscious vertebrates; and where known substances
are being evaluated, safe and painless human testing should be
substituted, as, for example, in the way that new soaps, creams,
and other cosmetics are tested by leading manufacturers.

Where obviously harmful effects can be predicted by the
chemical or physical properties of a new product, for example a
strong acid, it should be automatically given a warning label
without requiring further animal testing.

Tests of products in different countries should be coordinated
to eliminate useless duplication. Experiments or tests should not
be carelessly repeated merely because it is easier to use animals
than to search the literature or because a competitor will not
release his test data. Duplication of an experiment or test should
be undertaken only for a genuine scientific reason.

it.

In closing, I wish to emphasize the great importance to
individual experimental animals of the way in which they are
housed and cared for. I have drawn attention to some instances
of what is actually done to the animals under experiment by
citing examples from current journals. However, there are also
many experiments which are far less hard on the animals, but
nevertheless cause them to suffer because they are so closely
confined and lack the most basic provisions for their well being.
The US. Federal Animal Welfare Act passed in 1966 and
amended in 1970 and 1976 brought about discard of the worst
of the hideously cramped cages in which large animals such as
dogs and monkeys could not even raise their heads or stretch
their legs; however, laboratory animals need and deserve more
than bare minimum standards in their housing and mainte-
nance. Therefore, education and public demand is necessary in
addition to legislation.

The Animal Welfare Institute publishes manuals which it
provides free on request to laboratories. The new revised
edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals is in
press at this moment. It contains illustrations of the best
institutional housing for laboratory animals we know of. Supple-
mented by Basic Care of Experimental Animals in English and
Spanish and Animal Expressions, a photographic footnote to
Charles Darwin’s The Expression of the Emotions in Man and
Animals, and a film, “Laboratory Dogs”, the program gives
humane scientists and administrators the tools they need to
improve conditions for the animals in their institutions.

To persuade institutions to spend the necessary funds, hu-
mane citizens must demand good treatment for laboratory
animals. The last two pages of the new Comfortable Quarters

for Laboratory Animals shows a laboratory that uses cell
cultures. Wherever alternatives to laboratory animals are adopted,
the funds saved should be applied to better housing and care for
the remaining animals. All humanitarians should insist upon
decent treatment of these animals that suffer and die for human
beings.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans. Ph.D

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides. D.V.M.—-Greece

Angela King—United Kingdom

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens. Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O._B.E., M.C., B.Sc.. M.I. Biol.—-United Kingdom

Officers

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Linda T yrrell, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator

 




        

   
  
    
     
 

 

 

 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

January, 1979 Vol. 27, No. 4

 

 

IWC CUTS SPERM WHALE QUOTAS BUT
REVERTS TO WHALERS CLUB SECRET
SESSIONS TO DODGE PRESS AND OBSERVERS
by Lewis Regenstein

At the December 1978 special meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (I.W.C.) held in Tokyo, significant pro-
gress was made in reducing commercial whale killing.

In the area off Australia called Southern Hemisphere Division
5, where a quota of 561 sperm whales had been set for the
Australian Whalers this June, a zero quota was agreed upon,
and Australia reaffirmed its earlier announcement that it has
ended commercial whaling. And in the North Pacific, where last
year’s sperm whale quota was 6,444, a quota reduction of 41%
was achieved over the' opposition of Japan and the Soviet
Union.

But despite these gains, accomplished in a large part because
of public pressure from the US. and around the world, the great
whales remain severely endangered by the commercial Whalers,

[continued on page 3]

 

DANCES AND BALLOON LAUNCHINGS
ON BEHALF OF WHALES

While the commissioners argued over whale-killing quotas at
the Japanese Foreign Ministry, whale activists took to the street
outside. Martita Goshen, ballerina and choreographer of the
ballet, “A Day in the Life of a Whale”, danced up and down the
line of hundreds of picketing members of the All-Japan Sea-
men’s Union whose scorn when she began changed to silence
as she expressed joy, fear and finally death of the whale.

With John Perry’s group she was forced to leave the Ginza by
Tokyo police as she was warming up on a portable floor. A
crowd of some 200 Japanese booed the police but could not
sway them, so Perry and Goshen retreated to a park where
delighted Japanese children played with Flo.

Television and press coverage of these peaceful whale
demonstrations, made possible in part by contributions from the
AWI whale fund, was extensive. The Mainichi Daily News, an
important Tokyo paper, carried a large front-page photograph
of Martita dancing on the pavement with Flo in the background.
The Japanese public became aware through the many articles
and interviews of the plight of the whales and of international
determination to save these internationally migrant creatures
from the threat of extinction. Perry continued his journey with
Flo to Kyoto, Nagoya and Osaka meeting with press and media
in each city. A continuation of the Save the Whales tour,
featuring the flying humpback whale, is planned for March and
April in the United States.

“Flo”, The Symbol of the Whales of the World, Flies Past

TRANSPORT IMPROVED FOR PETS
AND LABORATORY ANIMALS
by Fay Brisk

Humanitarians have won another round in their efforts to
improve commercial travel for animals thanks to new regula-
tions issued December 1 by the US. Department of Agricul-
ture’s Animal Care Staff.

As a result, pets and laboratory animals in transit are less
likely to suffer from the cold in airline and other cargo terminals
this winter and will be afforded some relief in hot weather.

This latest battle stemmed from proposed revisions to USDA
regulations to the 1976 Animal Welfare Act, which appeared in
the Federal Register on October 17. While USDA imposed no
restrictions on shipping weather, there were some major
changes:

To insure humane treatment in cargo terminals, where
animals often wait many hours for transfers or pickup, USDA
proposed that the air temperature surrounding crated animals
not be allowed to exceed 85 degrees F. (which would register
about 95 degrees inside the commonly used crate). Auxiliary
ventilation would be required when the surrounding tempera-
ture reached 75 degrees. Temperature readings would be taken
at a distance of three feet from the crates, rather than inside the
crates as originally required.

Scientific data, which showed that subjecting warmblooded
animals to temperatures higher than 95 degrees F. is inhu-
mane—and may cause brain damage—left no room for debate.
Aside from some airlines that envisioned installing exhaust fans
or other cooling equipment in their cargo terminals, there
appeared to be little opposition to the proposal, and it was

adopted as a final ruling. [continued on page 2]

 

“Flo”, John Perry’s Hot Air Balloon in the Shape of a
Humpback Whale, Makes Her Way Down the Ginza During the
Tokyo Meeting of the I WC.

Mount Fuji

 

 

 




 

TRANSPORT IMPROVED FOR PETS [cont from pg. 1]

The clash came over USDA’s proposal to reduce the accept-
able minimum temperature in terminals to 35 degrees F.—-10
degrees lower than the existing allowable minimum even
though tests showed that it would be just as cold inside the
shipping crates. (The difference in temperature between the
outside and the inside of crates narrows as the thermometer
drops).

Sadly, demand for this temperature change—with the sugges-
tion that it could be lowered to 20 degrees F., “or even 10
degrees”—-came from a group of breeders who raise and sell
purebred dogs as a hobby and ship them to dog shows or to
other hobby breeders.

Charging that some airlines would not accept dogs for
shipment because their animal holding areas were unheated,
the hobby breeders pressured USDA for nearly a year to lower
the minimum temperature regulation.

They insisted that their dogs, even “show poodles with large
areas of closely-shaved skin,” could survive in frigid weather,
making it clear that they were guided by an animal’s capacity to
endure, rather than concern for its comfort.

They also argued that they were being discriminated against,
because USDA-licensed breeders (mostly puppy mill operators
who sell to pet shops) can offer airlines “certificates of acclima-
tion” to certify that their dogs are accustomed to low tempera-
tures, and thereby obtain a waiver. They chose to ignore,
however, the fact that these certificates must be signed by a
licensed veterinarian before they are given to an airline or other

carrier, and that any shipper guilty of abuses can be prosecuted
by USDA. Hobby breeders, who have managed to evade being
licensed by USDA, cannot use “certificates of acclimation,”
because there is no way, at the present time, to prosecute them
for their abuses.

In the end, USDA decided to publish the temperature change
as a proposal, and invite public comment. One of the angriest
letters came from a hobby breeder who disagreed with the
organized group. She opposed the change. “It’s cruel!” she
wrote.

Humane groups and other concerned citizens found ample
grounds on which to protest. A participant at the Animal Air
Transportation Association convention in Toronto introduced a
resolution, and the Association sent a telegram to USDA
requesting that the 45-degree minimum be maintained.

The Washington (DC) Humane Society, which in 1972
initiated the expose of the mistreatment of air-shipped animals
and led a nation-wide crusade to obtain reforms, called upon
humanitarians to express their views. One letter, in particular,
reflected the general mood:

“As a humane agent in Pennsylvania, I would arrest a citizen
under our cruelty law, section 5511 (c), for allowing a puppy to
sit in a crate at 35 degrees F.”

USDA is considering rulemaking to give hobby breeders and
pet owners the option to submit their own “certificate of
acclimation” to lower temperatures, providing the certificate is
executed by an “accredited” veterinarian. (An “accredited”
veterinarian is a licensed veterinarian who has been officially
authorized by USDA to perform certain duties, and can be
penalized for violations. The same accreditation should also be
required of veterinarians who sign health certificates for puppy
mill operators and other animal dealers).

The new rules were slated to go into effect on January 2. On
the whole, these and other existing rules seem to provide better
treatment for animals in transit without placing undue hardship
on either shipper or carrier. But there is more to be done before
“undue hardship” can be considered lifted from the animals:
——The airlines .must be persuaded to uphold the temperature
rulings in their cargo terminals. Turning down animal shippers
because of an airline’s lack of compliance will only encourage
him to shop around for another airline that will accept his
animal even though the second route may take much longer.
(This is already being done).

—It has not yet been determined how long an animal may
remain at a terminal before it must be turned over to a kennel or
a veterinarian for proper care.

—Hunting-dog dealers must be licensed by USDA. Testimony at
four Congressional hearings left no doubt as to their practice of
shipping sick dogs with false health certificates.

—A serious crating problem still exists.

At present, animals may be shipped in crates that have only
eight percent ventilation on four sides, or 16 percent ventilation
on two opposite sides. The vast majority of puppy mill operators
ship this way in doorless plastic containers, which because of a
similarity of design are often referred to as “egg cartons.” With
temperatures in these crates getting as high as 95 degrees—or
even higher—the “8 percenters” become intolerably humid in
the summer, steaming with moisture from urine and feces.
Although they are not shipped in these plastic containers,
laboratory animals and many other animals can be adversely
affected by the 8 percent minimum ventilation requirement.
However, indications are that help is on the way, since USDA is
already seeking data to correct the problem. As a starter, the
National Institutes of Health has advised that “NIH monkeys are
shipped in crates with 50 percent of the back and 50 percent of
the9front screened for good air flow.” And the Society for

 

Animal Protective Legislation and a new, ad hoc National
Committee on Animal Transport are working to obtain a 25
percent minimum ventilation requirement in all crates.

Opponents to this ventilation increase already are saying that
the animals can survive without it. But “survival” is a long way
from humane treatment. As Dr. G.D. Hanneman, A Federal
Aviation Administration veterinarian puts it: “Because an ani-
mal does not die or show outward signs of illness when stressed
by environmental conditions does not mean it is in the best of
health. Just because an animal is able to tolerate such conditions
of temperature, humidity, varying COglevels, noise, confine.
ment, reduced air flow, and total darkness rather than light does
not mean the animal is being treated humanely or safely.”

In its own way, USDA was saying the same thing, When it
decided not to lower the minimum temperature to 35 degrees!

 

x

INTERNATIONAL ACTIONS TO
PROTECT ANIMALS

Italy Bans Import of Seal Fur

Dr. Simeone, Director for US. Italian Trade of the Ministry of
Foreign Trade, announced a ban on the import of seal hides
and furs into Italy. In a letter to the American Embassy in Rome,
Dr. Simeone noted that the US. Marine Mammal Protection Act
of 1972 was instrumental in acquiring government of Italy
approval to prohibit the importation of baby sealskins.

Resolution for a Moratorium on Commercial
Whaling Adopted at Ashkhabad

At the meeting of the International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature in Ashkhabad, U.S.S.R., a resolution calling for a
moratorium on commercial whaling was adopted without
opposition. Fifty-nine nations, members of IUCN, were present
at this meeting in addition to representatives from private
groups interested in conservation and the environment, in-
cluding the Animal Welfare Institute.

This carefully phrased scientific resolution which is quoted in
full below reinforces the international position adopted at the

Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment in 1972
when 53 nations voted for a ten-year moratorium on commer-
cial whaling. In that case, abstentions were noted for Japan,
Brazil, and South Africa. Support for a moratorium is clearly
gaining throughout the world.
The 14th General Assembly of the IUCN meeting in Ashkha-
bad, USSR, in September and October 1978 resolves that:
(a) IUCN should continue to call for a moratorium on commer-
cial whaling until it can be demonstrated
i) that the population levels referred to under the Inter-
national Whaling Commission’s New Management

Procedure as protection stocks, sustained manage-

ment stocks and initial management stocks can be

determined accurately;

that the consequences for the ecosystems concerned

of removing large portions of the whales’ populations,

and such populations’ capacity for recovery can be
predicted;

iii) that an effective mechanism exists for detecting and

and correcting mistakes in the management of any

stock;

that whaling technology and equipment are no longer

being transferred to non-member nations of IWC;

v) that member nations of IWC are no longer purchas-
ing whale products from non-member nations.

(b) IUCN and its members should work together vigorously to
ensure that the above conditions are met as soon as
possible.

(c) IUCN and its members should actively promote adherence
to the International Convention for the Regulation of
Whaling by all nations, both whaling and non-whaling.

ii

V

v

iv

_4—

New Zealand Marine Mammal Protection Act

New Zealand has enacted a Marine Mammals Protection Bill
which goes into effect January 1, 1979. The Minister of
Fisheries Honorable J.B. Bolger, stated in introducing the legls’
lation that it provides “for the complete protection of all marine
mammals whether dead or alive within New Zealand fisheries
waters, that is, within the 200 mile exclusive economic zone-
Certain limited exceptions are allowed for a person who finds or
collects parts of a marine mammal also for cases where special
permits have been issued, but the Ministry is to be advised of all
such takings and findings. The import and export of marine
mammals or their products is also banned except pursuant to a
permit issued by the Minister of Fisheries...The Minister...may,by
notice in the Gazette define a Marine Mammal Sanctuary...’

The Act repeals the Whaling Industry Act of 1935, and the
Seal Fisheries Acts of 1895 and 1912, among other former laws
based on the killing of marine mammals.

In concluding, the Minister pointed out that “the importation ‘
of any whale or whale products into this country is completely
prohibited at present by the Customs Import Prohibition
(Whales and Whale Products) Order 1975.

[continued on page 3]

 




NEW ZEALAND PROTECTION ACT [cont from pg. 2]

“I am well aware that many people are concerned about
cruelty that is often inﬂicted on marine mammals. However, I
believe we do not require any more legislation to prevent
cruelty because we already have the Animals Protection Act
1960, which is being amended this year to provide for increased
penalties to act. as stronger deterrents.”

The Act provides a $5,000 fine for using “any purse seine net
in any area in which marine mammals are present without
having in the net an escape panel or aperture from which any
dolphin or porpoise can readily escape.” A $10,000 fine may
be levied for taking a marine mammal without a permit. Permit-
tees are required to report on any marine mammals injured or
killed with numbers, date and location, the cause and “meas-
ures taken to avoid further such injuries or deaths.”

 

[WC CUTS SPERM WHALE [cont. from page 1]
and much more needs to be done quickly to protect the whales
if their survival is to be guaranteed.

The stage was set for this l.W.C. meeting when its Scientific
Committee (S.C.) met a few weeks earlier to recommend what
quotas could safely be set on sperm whales in the North
Pacific. For the first time, the SC. formally admitted that it did
not have adequate knowledge and data to make such projec-
tions, and that its models and methodology were not reliable,
thus confirming what conservationists had been saying for
years. (This was most clearly demonstrated in 1977 when the
SC, in December, recommended raising the North Pacific
sperm whale quota set the previous June from 763 to 6,444,
an increase of almost 1,000% which was based on highly
suspect “new data” belatedly submitted by the Japanese
whaling industry).

Nevertheless, despite its admitted lack of competence, the
SC. “in view of substantial scientific uncertainty in both the
population estimates and the validity of the assumptions 0n the
population response,” did come up with a quota recommenda-
tion of zero for females, and one for males that would be

“conservative” and in any case not exceed that of last year.
The reason the SC. was finally forced to take such a conserv-

ative position is that it is no?» apparent - even using the manipu-
lated data of the whaling industry - that the severely depleted
sperm whale stocks in that area are rapidly declining, pregnancy
rates are decreasing, and the trend will continue for the
foreseeable future even with a zero quota. There can thus be no
“sustainable yield” from this population.

But the ambiguous report issued by the SC. left enough
loopholes to allow the Japanese and Russians to press for a
high male quota along the lines of last year, which was 5,105.
Moreover, after claiming for years that its whalers could differen-
tiate males from females, the Japanese reversed themselves and
insisted that they could not tell the difference between a female
and a young male (one less than 42 feet long) and thus they
had to have a quota for females as well.

The US. delegation, to its credit, pushed hard for a zero
quota for both males and females. Neither side could obtain the
necessary three-fourths majority, so the upshot was a compro-
mise quota of 3,800 males, including an Ill/2% female“by-
catch” amounting to 437 females. This quota was obviously the
result of political compromise and not even the whalers can
credibly claim that it is based on scientific recommendations, as
they have done in the past. The deal was worked out by the
commissioners at a private meeting, behind closed doors, in the
old tradition of the “whalers club.”

There are several important things to keep in mind about
these figures. First of all, they represent a 41% decrease from
last year’s quota and will make whaling that much more difficult
and expensive, and less profitable, for the Japanese and
Russians. But it should also be realized that the l.W.C. has tradi-
tionally set sperm whale quotas at higher levels than the
industry can fill, and each year less whales are caught than is
permitted. The reason for this is obvious: there are simply far
fewer whales out there than the “data” indicates. So this year’s
reduced quota should be considered in this context and even
that may be too high to be filled.

Also, we might take some comfort from the agreement that all
whaling there will cease when the female “bycatch” of 437 has
been reached. But it is also quite possible that females killed
When the limit is approaching will either be discarded or
Counted as males. Until an effective international observer
System is instituted, particularly at Japanese shore stations, no
One will ever know to what extent the quotas and regulations
are being adhered to.

It should be emphasized that what progress was made was
accomplished because of the leadership of the US. delegation,
headed by Whaling Commissioner Richard Frank, who is
Administrator of the Commerce Department’s National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (N.O.A.A.). On the key votes,
the US. was supported by France, Mexico, the Netherlands, and
Sometimes by the United Kingdom. Opposing protection for the
Whales were commercial whaling nations and their allies, led by
JaPan and the Soviet Union, with Denmark, Norway, Iceland,

and South Africa following along.

The main reason more progress was not made was the lack of
support for conservation measures from the bloc of countries
not involved in commercial whaling but which for some reason
or another chose not to oppose it: Argentina, Australia, Canada,
Denmark, New Zealand, and, at times the United Kingdom. By
abstaining on key votes and/or by supporting Japan or not
speaking up during public and private discussions over quotas,
these nations, in effect, made it impossible for major actions to
be taken to save the whales from extinction. The Commis-
sioners from Canada and Denmark, M.C. Mercer and E.
Lemche respectively, went out of their way to block the US.
attempts to secure more protection for the whales.

One reason the US. did not have more support was that the
US. Department of State has made no real, effective effort to
line up other countries on the side of conservation. The State
Department even held up sending a cable prepared by N.O.A.A.
to the other 16 nations of the l.W.C. asking for support on key
issues. In some cases, the cable arrived too late to do any good.
At least in part because of this lack of US. action in the face of
strong Japanese pressure, Argentina voted down the line with
the Japanese. Brazil and Panama did not even bother to send a
representative; and Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the
Urrilited Kingdom refused to take a firm stand one way or the
ot er.

Another failure of the l.W.C. was in not taking effective action
to deal with the killing of whales by non-l.W.C. countries, like
Peru and Chile, which still kill protected and critically endang-
ered species, such as blue and humpback whales, even includ-
ing pregnant females, nursing mothers, and infants. Much of the
whale meat from these outlaw whalers is bought by and
imported into Japan; and Japan and Norway supply many of
the harpoons, ships, and other equipment to them. In 1977, the
l.W.C. passed a resolution calling on member nations to ban
such imports and supplies; but in the first eight months of 1978,
Japan increased such whale meat imports by 48%. This
situation subverts what little protection the l.W.C. does afford
the whales, and endangers the survival of many whale stocks
and species. Although the problem continues unabated, the
l.W.C. still refuses to ban trafficking with outlaw whalers.

The future outlook for the whales is mixed. As whale quotas
are progressively whittled down, whaling becomes less and less
economical to pursue. Already the Japanese and Russian
whaling ﬂeets. like the quotas. have been more than halved in
the last decade, with the total 1979 l.W.C. quota ending up at
about 20,000. Although Japan is determined to continue its
coastal-based whaling stations, the days of the large scale
commercial whaling ﬂeets traversing the oceans appear to be
numbered. The question is, can commercial whaling be stopped
while there are still enough whales left to allow for their
recovery? Other species of whales which have been hunted to
near extinction - and then given nominal protection - the blue,
the humpback, the right - have not shown any real signs of

recovery despite years of ostensible protection. Today, we are
witnessing the destruction by the I.W‘.C._of other species, such as
the sperm whales. Our goal is to halt the slaughter while there is
still time to save them.

Japan’s leading newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, even
attacked Japan’s duplicity in an editorial, December 23, 1978. It

stated: “At the end of last year, despite the fact that the
Government carried out administrative guidance, imports of
whale meat from countries which are not IWC members
increased drastically. Such a situation, which will be criticized by
other member nations, should be speedily corrected. Japan
must put its own house in order...”

The next l.W.C. meeting in London, July, 1979 will be a
difficult one. Several of the unregulated whaling nations, may
join up, thus further diluting the US. inﬂuence. If we are not to
lose much of what we have accomplished, the State Depart-
ment must make every effort to get other l.W.C. nations to
support a whaling moratorium and/or drastically lowered
quotas, and to persuade other non-whaling nations, such as
Sweden, Switzerland, Kenya, and Costa Rica, to join the l.W.C.
Otherwise, pressure from the Soviets and Japanese will con-
tinue to dominate the Commission.

Moreover, we must maintain the pressure on our own govern-
ment to continue a pro-conservation position. This year the
Alaskan Eskimos will be pushing hard‘for an unreasonably high
quota of critically endangered bowhead whales. The administra-
tion will thus be under tremendous pressure not only to agree to
a quota that could jeopardize the bowheads’ survival but also to
trade off a few bowheads for thousands of sperm whales. Many
conservationists suspect that this happened, in effect, in 1977
when the Japanese did not oppose a bowhead quota in excess
of the zero quota set by the Scientific Committee, and the US.
voted to increase the North Pacific sperm whale quota from 763
to 6,444.

Already, public pressure has helped save tens of thousands of
whales from being killed each year, and possibly prevented the
disappearance of several species and population stocks. If we
are ultimately to save the remaining whales - the largest and
among the most intelligent and fascinating animals ever to live
on earth - we must keep the pressure on.

 




ACTIONS BY U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF AGRICULTURE TO ENFORCE
ANIMAL WELFARE ACT

In recent administrative actions, USDA’s Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service revoked the license of a Massachu-
setts animal dealer, Ivan N. Likar, on a 16-count violation of the
Animal Welfare Act. Likar operates as President of the “Animal
Research Center of Massachusetts, Inc.” in New Braintree. The
action has had a long history. According to a news release
issued by APHIS:

...the original complaint listed flagrant deficiencies in hous-
ing, waste disposal, identification, sanitation and husbandry
practices during inspections conducted between Aug. 25
and Oct. 25, 1974. In addition, on Feb. 24, 1977, a dog
sold by this dealership to the Massachusetts General
Hospital was found to have a string and chain embedded in
its neck.

...An administrative law judge reviewed the case on June
12, 1978, and imposed the revocation along with a
permanent order not to repeat the violations. In addition,
the judge assessed the corporation and Dr. Likar each
$1,000 in civil penalties. After the judge’s decision went
into effect on July 21, neither party can deal in animals
regulated under the Animal Welfare Act.

WORLD WHALING SHOULD END -
VERDICT IN ON WHALING
by Joy Lee

December 18th, 1978 saw the release of the report of the
Australian Inquiry into Whales and Whaling. Former Chief
Justice of Papua New Guinea, Sir Sydney Frost who headed
the nine month Inquiry recommended that

0 whaling should end and that Australia should oppose
the slaughter of whales by other nations

0 protection should be given to whales in the 200 mile
zone including Australia’s Antarctic territories

O the Whaling Act should be repealed and replaced with a
Marine Mammals Protection Act‘

° a ban should be placed on the import of all whale
products by 1981

0 research should be funded on the humpback, right and
sperm whales off the Australian coast

' Australia should remain a member of the IWC and liaise
with other nations for strong conservation measures

0 a plan should be developed for marine resource exploit-
ation to prevent the harvesting of krill from affecting the
recovery of the whales

0 Division V sperm whales should be given immediate
protection

The report which is expected to be implemented by the
Australian Government will reverse that nation’s strong support
for whaling, and conservationists are hoping to convince the
Prime Minister, Mr. Malcolm Fraser, that the findings from the
Inquiry, should be presented to the United Nations.

The Inquiry was the most comprehensive and objective ever
held on this issue and involved written submissions from two
hundred scientists, individuals and organizations knowledgeable
on whales. Public debate by world authorities also helped
resolve points of controversy. The Judge examined the meth-
ods of population estimates, the harvesting theory, the history of
whaling, the operation of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, the evolution of whales, their behavior and brain structure,
their social organization and the evidence supporting the claim
that they are an intelligent group of mammals. In addition the
Judge attended the June meeting of the IWC and met with
leading European and American scientists.

The most important question now waiting to be answered is
whether Japan and Russia will act responsibly and give serious
consideration to the recommendation that world whaling should

end?

The Australian Inquiry proved conclusively that whaling
cannot be justified in 1979. If the industry which is carried out
largely by two economic superpowers continues into the 1980’s
it will be another mark against man’s claim to be an intelligent,
rational species.

VETERINARY SCHOOL REDUCES NUMBERS OF
ANIMALS USED FOR TEACHING
by RS. Brodey, DVM, MS

Professor Surgery

University of Pennsylvania

School of Veterinary Medicine

At the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary
Medicine, the Laboratory of pharmacology and toxicology is
reducing the yearly number of laboratory experiments in the
teaching program to a minimum. No further experiments in
toxicology are being carried out, as video tapes of individual
experiments done previously are used to teach students. In the
pharmacology labs, wet labs are still being carried out but the
number of animals used is steadily decreasing. For example, all
experiments using cats to demonstrate various effects of drugs
on the nervous system are no longer necessary, as video tapes
are being used. The American Veterinary Medical Association
publishes bulletins on continuing education which summarize
the available audio-visual programs on a host of experimental
subjects. Furthermore, the American College of Veterinary
Toxicologists and the American College of Veterinary Pharma-
cology and Therapeutics are also coordinating their efforts to
share the audio-visual programs available at various schools.
These cooperative developments have already gone a long way

in reducing the number of animals used in the training of
veterinarians.

 

U.S. ANIMAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION
RESOLUTIONS FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

At the annual meeting of the United States Animal Health
Association in Buffalo, New York, October 30 to November 2,
1978, the Animal Welfare Committee, chaired by John C.
Macfarlane, made a series of recommendations, and they were
adopted by the Association. The resolutions follow:

We recommend that this committee go on record supporting
the present livestock transportation research, as it relates to
diesel fumes; temperatures and air movement; as these factors
may relate to the shipping fever complex.

We commend Congress and President Carter for passing the
appropriation for an increase for the Animal Welfare Act.

We request the President and Secretary Bergland to make
these funds available to the enforcement agencies promptly. We
further request that next year’s appropriation include a fifty
percent increase in order to properly fund the Act.

This committee recommends that the proposed standards
and regulations for the humane handling, care, treatment and
transportation of marine mammals, (Federal Register, Sept. 19,
1978) (APHIS) be modified before final promulgation in the
following ways:

( 1) Double the size of pool area available to cetaceans

(2) Require a study to determine whether salinization is neces-
sary for the comfort and well being of sea lions

(3) Require compliance with minimum standards within a
period of three years

(4) Require three (3) tests weekly for water quality, to ensure
adequate sanitation at all times

We urge the USDA to expedite promulgation of standards for
exercise for laboratory dogs.

The Animal Welfare Committee recommends that the regula-
tions proposed by the Animal and. Plant Health Inspection
Service, (Federal Register, October 17, 1978) be adopted with
respect to the reduction in upper temperatures, (95°F. to 85°F.
permitted for dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, primates and guinea
pigs in transit). However, the committee recommends that the
present minimum temperature of 45°F. be retained for all
species regulated, and not lowered to 35°F.

The Animal Welfare Committee wishes to express deep
appreciation to Senator John Melcher for his leadership in
obtaining appropriations for veterinary research, including ani-
mal birth control research, and to Secretary Bergland for his
statesmanship in making this important work possible.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans. Ph.D

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides. D.V.M.—Greece

Angela King—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada
Maior C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C.. B.Sc., M.I. Biol.—United Kingdom

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

St aff

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

 

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

ONE MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF TRAPPED
FURS SMUGGLED INTO TEXAS

Two and a half tons of raw skins of furbearing animals — from
the endangered Mexican lynx to domestic tabby cats — were
seized by federal authorities on February 24th.

According to The El Paso Times, February 28, 1979, “Tom
Riley, local head of Fish and Wildlife, said the seizure is the largest
ever made in the United States. Riley said the skins were
confiscated on the 37,000-acre ranch of David W. Adams.
Adams was arrested along with four alleged illegal aliens.

“The men were charged in Pecos with conspiracy to smuggle
and smuggling the skins from Mexico into the United States;
violating the endangered species laws; and illegally transporting
the skins in interstate or foreign commerce [Lacey Act].

“Adams is out of jail on a $15,000 personal recognizance bond
and the alleged aliens are being held under $30,000 bonds each,
Riley said. He said the four allegedly were used by Adams to
complete the skinning of the hides...The agent said 1,556 skins
were of the Mexican lynx, which is an endangered species. He

[continued on page 4]

February-March, 1979 Vol. 28, No. l

TAIYO LOSES $20 MILLION IN
JAPAN JOINT WHALING COMPANY

The Japanese whaling industry is virtually bankrupt. It only
survives with a government subsidy of some $10,000,000 a year,
and the Taiyo Fishery Company which owns 30% of the Japan
Joint Whaling Company, recently suffered an operating loss of
$20,000,000 in this company according to the Japan Company
Handbook published by The Oriental Economist for the first half
of 1979.

The Japan Joint Whaling Company was formed in 1975 after
Nippon Suisan lost $5,000,000 in its whaling operations for the
year. Nippon Suisan, a fishing company which is second only to
Taiyo in size, agreed with the rest of the whaling industry in
Japan that competition in whaling was no longer economically
feasible, but the industry argued that by joining forces, elimina-
ting competition and forming the Japan Joint Whaling Company
that with government help, it would get back on its feet in three
years. That has not happened. The big fishing companies
continue a highly profitable trade in fish, but it is clear from the
report on Taiyo’s twenty million dollar loss that whaling signifi-
cantly decreases those profits. There is no longer any rational
argument for the continuation of commercial whaling.

W s“

1%%%

Photo by ECO

Beautiful and Gentle Even When Strung Up by Their Tails for
Slaughter, Blue White Dolphins in Kawana Harbor, lzu
Peninsula, Japan.

These dolphins, killed for human consumption contain, an
average of4 ppm ofmercury, ten times the Japanese Health and
Welfare Ministry limit of 0.4 ppm.

 




A CALL FOR ETHICAL CONSIDERATION
OF HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF ANIMALS
ABNORMALLY IMMOBILIZED

BY MEAT INDUSTRY

The recently published “The Ethology and Ethics of Farm
Animal Production, Proceedings of the 28th Annual Meeting,
Commission on Animal Management and Health,“ held in
Brussels, Belgium, August 1977, contains valuable information
pointing to the urgent need to reform the intensive livestock
industry. Selected quotations from the eleven papers are given
below. ..

Professor H.C. Adler of the Royal Veterinary and Agricultural
University, Copenhagen, Denmark states in part: “Intensive
systems are characterized by more animals per unit, less space
per animal and mechanical equipment instead of persons attend-
ing the animals.

“For Denmark the development can be illustrated by a few
figures. The amount of animal production was approximately the
same in 1960 and 1974, the number of production units have
been almost halved, their average size almost doubled, the man-
power halved. Two more figures may also deserve mention. One
is that 130,000 men fired from agriculture during the period
concerned is a figure which is very near the figure for the total
unemployment in Denmark at present. The other point is that
capital investment for farm buildings in 1974 was 4 times as much
as in 1960.

“Never before has man placed his food-producing animals
under circumstances so far from their original environment.
Never before has man required so much in respect of their
adaptability, and never before has he paid so little attention to the
behavioural needs of his animals.”

Professor I. Ekesbo, Veterinary College, Skara, Sweden states
in part: “The fact that we are losing exact expressions for different
animal behaviour patterns is one of many obvious examples of
the great changes that have taken place in animal husbandry in
the last decades and which are closely related to other changes in
society. As a matter of fact, we no longer talk about animal
husbandry but about livestock production. The change from
‘husbandry’ to ‘production’ has meant some problems both
ethologically and ethically...

“An appraisal of animal health shows that while the number of
cows in Sweden decreased from about 2.1 million in 1947 to
about 750,000 in 1973, the disease incidence - reported by the
veterinarians to the National Board of Agriculture - did not
decrease at the same rate. The same development with regard to
disease applies in principle also to swine...

“The increase of mastitis is due to many different factors.
However, the most common cause is most likely traumatic
injuries to the udders. One important factor is that the udders
have become increasingly large through the production growth.
These traumatic injuries occur more easily when the animals are
prevented from getting up or lying down normally. A combina-
tion of a too short stall and an unsuitable tie or feeding rack inhibit
the animals’ normal movements with risk for udder injuries.
Slippery concrete surfaces are equally risky. If the stall is too
short, the animals get abnormally dirty which may also be a
predominating factor for mastitis. The importance of bedding is
emphasized by one investigation showing that cows with access
to straw bedding had 3.9% tramp-led teats while cows without
such bedding had 10.1%...Sows in stalls or cages in barren
environments often maniacally bite the tubular wall of the cage
front...Naturally, if the environment causes injury to the animals,
their behaviour changes. Cows exposed to manure gas poisoning
develop an abnormal leg position, poultry in cages deformed
claws etc...

“Right now the discussion concerning ethics, ethology and
animal health is carried out with great optimism in Sweden. In
1973 the Swedish Parliament took the internationally unique
decision of ordering that all plans for re- or new construction of
animal environments have to be examined from the point of view
of prevention of cruelty to animals through the agricultural
boards by veterinarians specially trained for the purpose.”

Dr. G. van Putten, Research Institute for Animal Husbandry,
Zeist, The Netherlands, describes comfort behavior in pigs. Citing
The Brambell Report (1965) he emphasized its advice that every
animal be able to carry out exploratory behavior and comfort
behavior. Dr. van Putten describes the pig’s care of its skin
through wallowing, bathing, and rubbing and the normal appear-
ance of the skin-of healthy pigs. However, he points out, “Pigs,
kept in a pen, have to be satisfied with lying down in places, which
have become wet from urine and faeces. In this situation they
look very dirty. Many pigs, however, find out that they can make
their own wet place by splashing water out of the drinking bowl. If
they have only a drinking-nipple, they may press their backs to
the valve and thus take a shower, or they bite or press the valve
and let the water run out of their mouth to wet the floor. This the
reason why many pig-keepers cut off the water supply for the
self drinkers during the major part of the day.”

7“

Van Putten also refers to pigs sounds of pleasantness” citing
Grauvogl (1958) and stating that “pigs have a highly developed

 

vocabulary.” He concludes, “Pigs have very complicated pat-
terns of behaviour. Domestic pigs are by no means degenerated
to walking sausages. However, modern husbandry systems offer
only very limited facilities to express the behaviour they want to.
Neither do modern housing systems provide stimuli eliciting the
most important patterns of behaviour, like for instance comfort
behaviour.

“Comfort behaviour is very important in the everyday life of
the 700 million pigs (Schwark et al., 1976), sharing this planet
with us. Nevertheless we construct their pens or stands in such a
sophisticated way, that there is no possibility left to carry out the
most essential forms of comfort behaviour.”

He recommends that “we should take the decision to provide
every new pig pen at least with showers for the necessary cooling
' and with horizontal and vertical bristles to enable grooming of the
sides and the backs of the pigs involved. This is a responsibility we
have accepted by taking pigs out of the natural environment to
which they were adapted, to keep and select them for our own
beneﬁt”

Ruth Harrison, author of “Animal Machines,” stated “Last
year, in Britain alone, around half a million sows were kept in
stalls in which they were unable to turn round. They stood on an
unbedded floor of concrete or slats. Some were kept almost
continually in darkness. Some forty thousand young calves were
reared for the ‘white veal’ trade in slatted floored crates, unable to
turn round, unable to lie down freely, unable even to groom
themselves freely. Some were kept in near darkness. Around
forty five million hens were kept in crowded battery cages, unable
to spread even one wing and balanced permanently on sloping
wire. There are other similar systems...The systems have been
embraced by business interests entering farming rather than by
farmers, and by some scientific and government circles adhering
to the philosophy that anything that is new is progress and
progress must not be halted. This has resulted in an unfortunate
bias in research and in subsidies, grants and taxation.”

I"Available from Birkhauser Verlag, P.O. Box 34, CH-4010 Basel, Switzerland.

 

NEW N.I.H. ANIMAL WELFARE POLICY

Effective January 1, 1979, revised rules of the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) entitled “Responsibility for Care and
Use of Animals” have been issued. They cover grant applica-
tions, contract proposals or any other request for NIH support.
As in the past, the grantee or contractor institution must provide
an assurance that it is committed to follow twelve NIH prin-
ciples, among them these four which need careful scrutiny and
thought by administrators, institutional committees, and others
concerned with the use of experimental animals to ensure that
they are, in fact, being adhered to.

1. “The research should be such as to yield fruitful results for
the good of society and not random or unnecessary in nature.

2. “The experiment should be based on knowledge of the
disease or problem under study and so designed that the antici-
pated results will justify its performance.

3. “Statistical analysis, mathematical models, or in vitro biologi-
cal systems should be used when appropriate to complement
animal experiments and to reduce numbers of animals used.

4. “The experiment should be conducted so as to avoid all
unnecessary suffering and injury to the animals.”

The NIH rules state “Grant applications and contract pro-
posals shall indicate whether animals are involved in the pro-
posed activity and the rationale for using animals. Information
should be provided to confirm that the species and numbers of
animals are appropriate, that unnecessary discomfort and injury
to animals will be avoided, and that analgesic, anesthetic, and
tranquilizing drugs will be used where indicated to minimize
stress to the animals.”

NIH Awarding Unit responsibilities include the following:
“NIH staff and initial review groups who review applications and
proposals will be alert for procedures or conditions in the
application or proposal that may violate the Principles, and will
bring them to the attention of the awarding unit staff and the
advisory councils or boards by a special note on the initial
review group’s summary statement.”

The funding may be stopped under the following provisions:
“If deemed appropriate, the NIH may refuse to make to that
institution further awards involving the use of animals, suspend
or terminate support of specific projects involving the use of
animals, suspend or terminate support of projects by a specific
investigator, or suspend or terminate support of all projects
involving animals at that institution.”

 




ANIMALS AND THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS

The Animal Welfare Institute has just published the newly
revised third edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights. This
unique paperback book contains accurate information on exist-
ing laws for the protection of animals.

AWI is raising charitable funds in order to make one free copy
available upon request to public libraries, police chiefs and
humane societies around the country. To date, over 2,700
libraries in 49 states and 2,900 police chiefs in 48 states have re-
quested the book, and the demand continues. We have just sent
out the free offer to humane societies with the last Information
Report, Vol. 27, No. 4.

In providing this book to libraries, we hope to disseminate the
vital and relevant facts concerning animal welfare to the general
public. At the same time, Animals and Their Legal Rights will
assist police chiefs in the enforcement of local and federal laws for
the protection of animals against cruelty, abuse and neglect.

Animals and Their LegalRights has nineteen chapters with
an extensive appendix, together totaling 279 pages. It is available
to individuals at cost price: $2 per copy.

Following is the table of contents.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Acknowledgements
Introduction

Chapter I
The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws in the United States
by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson
Chapter II
First Federal Law to Prevent Cruelty to Animals
by The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
United States Department of Agriculture
Chapter III
Humane Slaughter Laws
by Emily Stewart Leavitt
Chapter IV
Laboratory Animal Welfare
by Christine Stevens
Chapter V
Animals in Factory Farms
by Ruth Harrison
Chapter VI
Dogs
by Christine Stevens
Chapter VII
Cats
by Emily Stewart Leavitt
Chapter VIII
Horses
by Pearl Twyne
Chapter IX
Birds
by Greta Nilsson
Chapter X
Laws Regulating the Sale of Small Animals and Birds
by Christine Stevens and Mary Anderson
Chapter XI
Fighting and Baiting
by Christine Stevens and Diane Halverson
Chapter XII
Humane Education in the Public Schools
by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Bianca Beary
Chapter XIII
Organizations for the Protection of Animals, and
Law Enforcement Agencies
by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson
Chapter XIV
Trapping and Poisoning
by Christine Stevens and Martha Scott
Chapter XV
Marine Mammals
by Christine Stevens
Chapter XVI
Laws to Protect Wildlife
by Dona Finnley
Chapter XVII
Cruelty on the High Seas, Importation of Wild Animals and Birds
by Frederick A. Ulmer, Jr.
Chapter XVIII
The Law and the Nonhuman Primate Trade
by Shirley MCGreal
Chapter XIX
International Animal Protection
by Christine Stevens

APPENDIX

Anti-Cruelty Laws Prohibiting Inhumane Transport Of Animals:
Penalties

Time Limit in State Laws for Transporting Animals Without
Food, Water and Rest

Alabama—Title 2: Handling of Livestock in Markets and in
Transit

State Anti-Cruelty Laws Prohibiting Inhumane Transportation or
Handling of Poultry

Greased Pig Contests and Turkey Scrambles

European Convention for the Protection of Animals During
International Transport

Laws Permitting Citizen Entry to Relieve a Confined, Neglected
Animal

Federal Humane Slaughter Act

Foreign Anti-Cruelty Laws and Humane Slaughter Laws

Foreign Laboratory Animal Welfare Laws

Council of the European Communities Directive on Stunning of
Animals Before Slaughter

European Convention for the Protection of Animals Kept for
Farming Purposes

British Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876

French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals

Animal Protection Act of 1972: Federal Republic of Germany,
Animal Experiments

Rules and Regulations on Zoos (Pennsylvania, Florida and
Georgia)

Swedish Regulation of Exhibition, Training, and Filming of
Animals in Zoos, Menageries, Circuses, and Race Tracks

Responsibility of Motorist Striking an Animal

State Laws Prohibiting Use of Live Birds as Targets to be Shot at

Shooting at Caged or Staked Animals

Revised Rules Governing Pulling Contests

Laws on Dog Stealing

Penalties for Conviction of Dog Larceny

Procedure for Citizen Request of Cruelty Investigation in the
State of Minnesota -

Animal Health Division, US. Department of Agriculture

State Law Libraries

Statutes of the 50 States, American Samoa, Canal Zone, Guam,
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and the Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

Some Publications Of the Animal Welfare Institute

Bibliography

HUMANE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS OFFICE
ESTABLISHED IN FRENCH GOVERNMENT

An office in France’s Ministry of Agriculture has been es—
tablished for humane protection of animals according to the
current issue, No. 929 of the Bulletin of Oeuvre d’Assistance
aux Betes d’Abattoirs (OABA), an organization devoted to the

protection of livestock and poultry. .
“The creation of this office greatly facilitates our work,” said

Madame Jacqueline Gilardoni, OABA President, “and ensures,
in emergency cases, a rapid solution. Rapidity, this key word in
ending suffering, is appreciated by us to the full.” The initiative
was taken by Director of Quality, Dr. Mathieu, and the responsi-
bility for carrying out the work assigned to the Controller-
General and the Chief Veterinary Inspector of the Ministry
of Agriculture.

 

 

WISCONSIN FROG DEALER CRUSHES
PREGNANT RANA PIPIENS
CAUSING 13% MORTALITY

Manager Cites 30-year Experience
in Animal Shipment

The Animal Welfare Institute has been asked to alert readers of
the Information Report to the actions of “GRASKA” a major
supplier of frogs to US. laboratories.

Dr. Krystyna Ansevin, Associate Professor of Biology, Rice
University, Houston, Texas, writes of the shipment of 180 gravid
female rana pipiens in two boxes each measuring 21”x14”x7”.
“...the frogs had apparently had to be pushed by force into each
of the two boxes. In fact, they were packed so tight that, in a
closed and stapled box, they were actually under pressure: one
dead female was retrieved from the box bent in half and its verte-
bral column broken. Other animals had broken limbs. About
13% of the females arrived dead or near death.”

Dr. Ansevin further states, “On January 15th I called
GRASKA and expressed my dismay to the sales. manager. I
told him that I considered this to be a case of appalling cruelty to
animals as well as of an inexcusable waste of specimens of a
species which is already depleted by water pollution and is so
exploited for the purposes of research that it is heading towards
becoming an endangered species in this country. Also, that I
viewed this incident as an attempt to sell an inferior quality
merchandise to a customer...As an explanation for the over-
crowding of the frogs to the point of forcible packing of the
females (he admitted that he had prepared this order personally)
he only quoted his thirty-odd year experience in shipping live
animals.

“I find the manager’s admission that he himself (rather than
some new inexperienced worker at the company) had packed
the frogs in such an inexpert and inexcusably cruel manner even
more reason to call for some action to protect both GRASKA’S
animals and its customers.”

 




CRUELTY TO SMALL WHALES DECRIED
BY NORWEGIAN VETERINARIAN

In an article by Arvid Bryne headlined “Whaling with Harpoon

Barbaric - Would be Forbidden if Used in Slaughter House”
(Dagbladet, December 12, 1978) Norwegian veterinary inspect-
or Atle ﬁbrbeck S¢rheim stated, “A whale’s sensitivity is presum-
ably like that ofa human. Both are mammals and the nervous
system of the whale is also highly developed...Suppose such a
method of killing were used on land —- in a Norwegian slaughter-
house? We would move in and forbid it immediately. The main
rule in our animal protection regulations is that the animals
should not suffer needlessly. More specific regulations are in
force regarding the domestic animals we raise and slaughter, and
for reindeer, as well. We have no regulations for whaling...sup-
pose someone took a cold harpoon [a one-half meter long iron
shaft with barbs, see photo] on land for elk-hunting. What would
the reaction be if someone shot an animal in the flank with this
grapple—like object and let it bleed to death while it was struggling
to get free? There would certainly be a cry of outrage. The picture
is dramatic, but not unrealistic. We shall take this problem up at
the Veterinary Directorate and see what can be done with that
killing method.”

A Norwegian member of the International Whaling Commis-
sion’s Scientific Committee told Dagbladet that efforts have been
made since 1920 to find a better method of killing whales.‘

The article concludes: “The hunting of small whales takes
place along the coast of northern Norway, the'Norwegian Sea,
and around Spitzbergen, Iceland, and Greenland. In practice,
only black whales are taken nowadays. The hunt takes place
mainly in the spring and summer, and about 90 ships from all
parts of the country take part. There are no big companies
involved; it is mostly small-boat owners who themselves sail on
board who carry on the small-whale hunt. This year they were
allotted a quota of 1790 animals in Norwegian waters and 200
near Iceland and Greenland, but the hunt was stopped after 1450
whales were taken because of poor market conditions.”

*In the killing of small whales with the “cold" harpoon the chances of killing a
whale with the first harpoon by hitting a vital spot are even smaller than with the

grenade-tipped explosive harpoon used for killing large whales. Small whaling is
not controlled in any way by the International Whaling Commission.

 

WILDLIFE TO BENEFIT FROM
EMBARGO PROVISION

The Pelly Amendment of the Fishermen’s Protective Act of
1967 was strengthened last year by making its international
embargo sanctions applicable to terrestial as well as marine
animals if they are endangered or threatened. The law which
was originally enacted with a view to protecting the integrity of
international treaties on marine resources has yet to be invoked;
however, its passage in 1971 is credited with preventing juvenile
pelagic salmon from being overharvested by Denmark, and, in
1975, certification by the Department of Commerce that Japan
and the Soviet Union had “diminished the effectiveness of an
international fishery conservation program” by filing objections
against quotas set in 1973 by the International Whaling Com-
mission, led to a statement by President Ford that he would not
embargo fisheries products from these nations “at this time”
because no further objections were filed in 1974. Since the
issuance of this statement, no objections have been filed by any
nation to quota reductions established by the IWC. President
Carter has recently put Chile and Peru on notice after they were
certified for killing whales in areas protected by IWC regulations.

The new amendment is expected to provide an effective
deterrent to violation by any nation of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered and Threatened Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora, providing as it does for a presidential
embargo of any or all wildlife products from the offending
country. Trade in ivory, skins of reptiles, pelts of endangered
spotted cats, giant otters and other rare mammals, feathers from
endangered birds, or the birds themselves, captured for the
exotic pet trade, all are now subject to an important economic
sanction under US. law.

Readers are urged to notify the Animal Welfare Institute of
any violations of these laws which they may witness or learn of.

A whale harpoon with barbs extended. This harpoon is at the
Horda Museum, but the harpoons of today are not remarkably
different in construction. [Dagbladet]

 

ONE MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF TRAPPED FURS
SMUGGLED INTO TEXAS

[continued from page 1]

said a lynx coat in Europe sells for between $15,000 and
$20,000. He said there were 5,878 skins of the ring‘tail cat, 3,000
of grey fox, 4,820 of coyotes, 1,088 of raccoons, 636 skunks, 562
badgers, three house cats and one unknown fur of an animal kin
to the tapir...

“Riley said the house cats were probably ‘just a mistake. They

’7’

walked into a trap.

Clark Bavin, Chief of the US. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Law
Enforcement Office said, “That high desert and mountainous
area has been the focus of numerous smuggling operations in the
recent past...We’ve seen an increase in smuggling of ocelot and
jaguar skins...The smuggling of live parrots and reptiles for the
exotic pet trade is particularly intensive.”

Due to insufficient allocation of funds for law enforcement in
the US. Department of the Interior, there is only one agent in this
critical border area.

According to enforcement personnel, US. Customs filed a
petition to condemn the furs and sell them at auction; however,
the defendants’ attorneys are seeking to pay the storage costs.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby. M.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans. PhD

Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides. D.V.M.——Greece

Angela King—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice—President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E.. M.C., B.Sc.. M.I. Biol.—United Kingdom

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Sta/f

Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

April - May - June, 1979

Vol. 28, No. 2

 

CITES MOVING TOWARD MATURITY

The second meeting of the parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) took place in San Jose, Costa Rica, March 19 -
30, 1979. The Convention seemed to come of age, having
weathered six years of growth from its inception in 1973 when
80 nations gathered in Washington to take part in drafting it.
Member nations now number 51, and 16 non-member coun-
tries sent observers to Costa Rica.

A remarkable synthesis took place during the course of the
lengthy and demanding meetings, and the final result was
superior to that planned by any single nation in attendance. Of
particular note were the frequent strongly conservationist inter—
ventions by third world countries, for example, the represent-
ative of Bangladesh’s condemnation of animal dealers based on
that nation’s experience with respect to rhesus monkeys.

The delegations of the United States and the United Kingdom
both took very active roles in the debates, and each prevented
the other from making retrogressive changes in the operation of
the Convention. When the UK. attempted to obtain approval of
its “minimum list” a solid block of opposition, led by the United
States and vigorously supported by the non—governmental
observers from the world conservation community, prevented
its adoption. This list, whose adoption would have led most
nations to treat it as “The List” — a maximum list, in effect — would
have permitted many parts and products of endangered or
threatened species to enter trade, even if they were actually
labelled with the name of the species. British Customs, an
agency known for its rigid views, was responsible for the
proposal which, fortunately, met with little favor in the world
community in general.

With regard to the criteria for deleting or adding species to the
Convention’s three appendices, however, the shoe was on the
other foot. Britain stood staunchly for the “Berne Criteria.”
These are standards which were adopted at the instance of the
United States delegation at the first meeting of the parties in
Berne, Switzerland in 1976. The United States, however, at the
strong urging of the International Association of Fish and
Wildlife Agencies, had suffered a change of heart; and the
position adopted in 1979 by the U.S., after many heated
interagency meetings, called for a suspension of the require—
ments for scientific data to delete a species placed on one of the
appendices before such scientific requirements had been insti-
tuted at Berne for addition of a species. The argument in the
United States centered on a single species, the bobcat, whose
fur has become so fashionable in West Germany, Japan and
Italy that a single pelt may sell for as much as $450. The State of
Louisiana felt sufficiently strongly about the matter that it sued
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The controversy has not yet
been resolved. However, the interest the international commun-
ity evidenced in this internal dispute was tepid to non-existent.
The parties were overwhelmingly against weakening the stand-
ards for deletion of a species. However, the UK. came to the
rescue of an embarrassingly isolated U.S. delegation with a
skillfully drawn amendment to the U.S. proposal. The amend-
ment put the Berne criteria back in full force. The U.S. accepted
the UK. proposal and it was unanimously adopted thus rein-
forcing the criteria by demonstrating solid international support
two years after their adoptiOn.

Another important contribution by the UK. was its proposal
to add some rare dolphins to Appendix I (endangered) and to
add all cetaceans not on Appendix I to Appendix II. A comprehen-
sive publication on this subject was distributed by the UK. to all
who attended the conference, and additional information was
supplied to the U.S. delegation which had opposed the UK.
proposal before coming to Costa Rica. The U.S. changed its
position to support, and the broad listing received equally broad
support.

(continued on page 2)

MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL WHALING
PASSES U.S. SENATE

On May 15, 1979, Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash.)
spoke on the Senate floor for his resolution calling for a
moratorium on commercial whaling, stating,

Mr. President, today we have before us Senate bill 586, The
Foreign Relations Authorizations Act. Incorporated in this
bill is Senate Concurrent Resolution 14 calling for a morator-
ium of indefinite duration on commercial killing of whales. I
wish to take this opportunity to once again draw your
attention to the plight of these magnificent creatures. It is
essential that we reaffirm at this time the commitment of the
people of ‘the United States to protect these awesome
inhabitants of the seas.

The reluctance of whaling nations to abide by the pro-
tective measures established by the International Whaling
Commission is cause for grave concern. Compliance with the
international whaling management measures is tenuous, at
best, and difficult, if not impossible, to monitor and enforce.
The result is a continued decline in certain whale populations
and a growing sense of frustration among those desirous of
protecting these delightful beings from the depredations of
man.

I have jointly initiated a measure to place sanctions on
those determined to thwart the desires of the international
community to protect the remaining whale populations. This
was done by amending the Fishery Conservation and Man-
agement Act to require the Secretary of Commerce to deny
access to the U.S. fishery conservation zone to any nation
found in violation of an international whaling or fishery con-
servation program. While effective, this provision only affects
those nations fishing in our fishery conservation zone; thus
some further measure must be instituted that will reach all
whaling nations.

The U.S. delegation must present a consensus at the forth—
coming meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
July. I believe passage of this provision will give a clear indica-
tion to the U.S. delegation and to the IWC itself that the
American people, as represented by this Congress, are
opposed to the commercial killing of whales.

A moratorium on commercial whaling would provide a re-
spite in the taking of whales that would allow those stocks that
are depleted or declining to begin to recover. It would also
provide a situation that would allow for effective enforce-
ment: Theoretically under the moratorium, no commercial
whaling would occur and thus anyone attempting to traffic
whale products would be in obvious violation and appropri-
ate sanctions could be invoked. This moratorium would not
prohibit scientific investigations concerning cetacean popula—
tions and would provide the time to compile more adequate
information on whale stocks.

Approval of this provision by the Senate will serve as a
clear demonstration to the world that the American people
are determined to end the pursuit and slaughter of these rare
and intelligent creatures. I urge my colleagues to support this
measure.

The Foreign Relations Authorizations Act incorporating the S.
Con. Res. 14, moratorium resolution, passed the Senate by a
vote of 84 to 10. The full text of the resolution follows:

Moratorium on the Commercial Killing of Whales

SEC. 403. (a) The Congress finds and declares that—

(1) whales are a unique marine resource of great esthetic
and scientific interest to mankind and are a vital part of the
marine ecosystem;

(continued on page 3)

 

 




 

TRAPPED
by John B. Oakes

THE NEW YORK TIMES, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1979

The men and women who carelessly toss the furry skin of a
wild animal across their shoulders - just as their ancestors did in
the forests of Northern Europe and Asia several thousand years
ago —- may not know it, and if they do, surely prefer not to think
about it, but with few exceptions what they’re really doing is
flaunting evidence of many hours or even days of torture suffered
by each wild animal whose pelt they wear.

There is no escape from this ugly fact, nor can it be hidden
either by ridicule of the “do—gooders” who are trying to put a stop
to this anachronistic form of cruelty or by the false claim that
abolition of the steel leg-hold trap will destroy the fur industry.

For those who prefer facts to emotion on this touchy subject, a
look at the facts will show that:

0 The steel leg-hold trap, as normally used on land through—
out the United States and Canada, is a monstrously brutal
method of capturing wild animals.

0 The overwhelming preponderance of wild (as distinct from
ranch-raised) animals whose pelts are used in the American fur
industry are caught by the steel leg-hold trap although more
humane, if more expensive, alternatives are available.

0 Use of this trap has already been outlawed or restricted in a

number of fur-producing countries and in a few American states.

0 The recent shift in fashion toward “fun” furs has raised the

demand (and prices) for pelts of relatively common wild animals,
usually taken 'by this barbaric device.

When the steel trap is sprung on an animal’s leg, the traumatic
effect has been compared to that of a car door smashing a human
finger caught between the hinges. But (unless the trap has been
set underwater, in which case the animal fairly quickly drowns)
the agony does not end there; it only begins.

The trapped animal will almost certainly thrash wildly about in
terror, rage, pain and panic, breaking its teeth on the steel trap or
the chain that holds it in place. Occasionally the victim will
succeed in gaining freedom, after hours of struggle, by wrenching
or biting off its own foot at the point where the steel jaws have
already dug into the bone. This is known in the trade as “wring-
off” and the animals that thus leave one paw behind them are the
lucky ones.

The others — the vast majority of the millions trapped on land
each year — are eventually worn out by the struggle and lie inert
and exhausted, without food or water, until the trap line is visited,
which may easily be two, three or more days later. At that point,
the victim at last is put out of its misery, usually by clubbing or
strangulation — provided it has not already starved or frozen to
death. It has been estimated by Government trappers (and the
United States Government is the biggest single trapper of all with
its indefensibly wasteful predator—control program) that about 75
percent of the unwanted animals caught in traps set for other
species are so badly injured that they have to be destroyed.

More than six and one—half million muskrats and three million
raccoon were trapped and killed in the United States in 1976- 77;
nearly 175,000 coyotes; 21,000 badger, etc., etc. — to a total of
more than 16 million wild animals in that year alone, taken by an
estimated two million trappers, licensed and unlicensed.

Various substitutes for, or modifications of, the leg-hold trap
have been tried but are not in general use in this country, except

perhaps for an “instant kill” trap that has its own dangers and
defects.

Nearly a dozen countries, including Denmark, Norway, Swe-
den and the United Kingdom, forbid use of the steel leg—hold trap.
80, to a limited degree, do a few American states, including New
Jersey, where a battle is going on right now to extend the prohibi—
tion to all counties in the state. Senator Harrison A. Williams of
New Jersey and Birch Bayh of Indiana have introduced compar-
able legislation at the Federal level.

The fur industry itself has been enjoying an economic revival in
the last few years, sparked in part by the new emphasis on “fun”
furs trapped in the wild. The rise and use of wild-animal furs (80
percent of which in the United States are caught in the steel leg-
hold trap) accounts for a significant part of what today has
become a $700 million business.

That’s why it’s becoming more urgent than ever that the
abominable cruelty of the leg-hold trap and the needless suffer-
ing it entails be brought to the attention of otherwise sensitive
men and women who through ignorance or indifference don’t
hesitate to wrap themselves in the skin of an animal that prob-
ably dies under frightful torture.

John B. Oakes is the former Senior Editor of The New York
Times.

© 1979 by the New York Times Company. Reprinted by permission.

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT HEARS CRITICS OF
ITS POLICIES AND
PROGRAMS 0N CARNIVORES

On January 12, 1979, an Administrative Law Judge from the
US. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) conducted hearings in
Washington on the Service’s “Animal Damage Control Pro-
gram” (ADC). Representatives of animal protection and conser-
vation groups urged that an entirely new Draft Environmental
Impact Statement be prepared owing to the 'tendentious nature
of the DEIS submitted; however, the decision has been taken to
proceed to the final statement, which is expected to be com-
pleted by the week of June 18.

The program was also severly criticized on its merits by the
Inspector General of the US. Department of the Interior itself in
a thorough 55-page analysis. He stated, “the Fish and Wildlife
Service cannot effectively determine whether the estimated
expenditures of $18 million in fiscal year 1978 had a significant
impact on the prevention of livestock losses by predators in
areas where Animal Damage Control methods were utilized.”

The leg-hold trap is widely used in the ADC program, and
trappers employed in this multimillion dollar government pro-
gram routinely set the traps Friday and do not return till
Monday. This cruel system goes On year after year in order to
avoid paying overtime. Thus animals suffering broken bones
and teeth are left to fight the steel trap for up to 72 hours before
being killed.

The Department’s own testimony at hearings before the
House Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife Conservation, and
the Environment in 1975 documents the enormous amount
and intensity of the pain and fear inflicted:

“Mr. Leggett: Would there be a substantial number you

release alive?

“Mr. Rost: Yes.

“Mr. Leggett: Are you able to make an estimate at this point?

“Mr. Rost: Oh, I would say perhaps 25 to 30 percent of those

taken are in good enough condition to be re-
leased. Now, if the leg is twisted to the point we
feel the animal would not survive, it is dispatched
at the site. . .Some animals fight harder than others,
and do more damage faster than others.“

*Hearings before the US. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Fish-

eries, Wildlife Conservation and the Environment on Painful Trapping Devices,
November 17,18, I975.

 

CITES [continued from page 1]

All species of hawks and eagles not listed on Appendix I were
placed on Appendix II when the Swedish proposal for this
purpose was adopted. Denmark proposed similar action for the
owls, and this too was voted by the parties.

The Convention requires humane handling of live animals
listed on appendices when the animals are in transit from one
country to another. A comprehensive draft of a manual for use
by the parties was prepared by experts working with TRAFFIC
(Trade in Rare Fauna and Flora in Commerce), a subsidiary of
the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Veteri—
narians from the San Diego and Gladys Porter Zoos and the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals formed a
working group at the Costa Rica meeting to consolidate modifi—
cations of the draft, and it was approved for publication.

A series of procedural matters were solved generally to the
benefit of species; for example, the loop hole which had allowed
dealers to import hybrids without having to follow convention
regulations was closed, as was a loop hole concerning species
which their owners claimed were bred in captivity even when
the pregnant mother had been captured in the wild. Readers
who are interested in a detailed accounting of all agenda items
may write to the Office of Endangered Species, U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Services, 18th & C
Streets, N.W., Washington, DC. 20204.

A discordant note was struck at the conference when sea
turtle exploiter Antonio Suarez was observed to be present one
day, seated with the Mexican delegation. Mr. Suarez’ operation
in Oaxaca, where he has a turtle slaughter house supplied by
the threatened female Pacific Ridleys as they swim back to their
ancestral beaches to lay their eggs, was widely publicized in
Outside magazine. Tim Cahill wrote of his observations when he
went with the ABC Sports TV crew filming the official opening
of PIOSA, Suarez’ turtle company. A few quotations tell the
sorry tale. “All up and down the beach, tiny turtles were making
their way out to sea. There were half a dozen men walking the
beach with white styrofoam boxes, collecting the hatchlings. I
saw dozens of boxes containing about 200 animals apiece, and
was told that the men were doing something scientific that had
to do with the preservation of the Ridley. No one seemed willing
to tell me any more than that...

“The conveyor belt carried the turtle to another room where it
was placed on a slaughtering table. Every turtle I saw gutted that
day was a female, and all of them had eggs in their oviducts.
The eggs and entrails were placed in a large plastic bucket-
Later, I was told, the eggs would be taken to the new lab and
buried in the sand and new turtles would grow from these eggs. ~

“It wasn’t until much later that night that certain things began
bothering me. Some of the men working at the lab were the
[continued on page 3]




same men I had seen collecting turtles at Escobilla for that
unspecified ‘scientific’ purpose. Many of the men working at the
lab were the same men I had seen gutting turtles at the
slaughterhouse the day before. They all wore the same green
T-shirts and shorts.

“We had come to the lab unannounced. When we got there
the men were taking the hatchlings out of the tanks and putting
them in the boxes. We asked why. The tanks, we were told,
were dirty, and since the pipes weren’t working, they had to be
emptied, cleaned and filled with new sea water. This made
sense. Except...looking back on it, not one of the tanks was
refilled until it became apparent to the workers that we meant to
stay for some time.

“It was Monday. The governor and the officials had left. Was
it possible that the turtles we saw - the ones supposedly hatched
at the lab — had been brought in from Escobilla? For a day? For
the governor’s visit and the dedication?. ..

“An unsettling thing happened when we returned to slaugh-
terhouse cove after the first day of diving. The manager of the
slaughterhouse asked us all to leave, and he threatened force if
we didn’t. Why had they been so anxious to have us film the
dedication on Sunday, but wanted us out of there on Tuesday...

“The second visit to the lab was a revelation. All the tanks
were empty. There were no hatchlings. There was no sea water.
Nothing.

“The largetanks outside, containing the mature turtles, were
empty. One misshapen adult female lay on her back, dead
beside the tank. She had been left there to bake in her own shell.

“Ten styrofoam boxes, like the ones we had seen at Escobilla,
were stacked by the side of the building, apparently forgotton.
There were 200 hatchlings in each box and all were dead or
dying. The only person at the lab, an old man eating his lunch
under a tree, explained that all the hatchlings had been dumped
at sea. As for the styrofoam boxes, somebody must have for-
gotten them after they brought the hatchlings in from the beach
at Escobilla on Saturday, the day before the dedication. Sure, he
said, it would be okay if Juan Jose’ put the hatchlings out to sea.
Somebody had just forgotten to do it. The mature adults, the
man said, had been taken to the slaughterhouse...”

Undeterred by any expose’, Antonio Suarez, a Spaniard who
is said to own considerable real estate and a brewery in Mexico,
came to Costa Rica hoping to interest other developing coun-
tries in his sea turtle operations. A film white—washing the
PIOSA operation, was twice shown in a public room adjoining
the conference area. The film, complete with mood music and a
script boosting the turtle slaughterhouse and laboratory, as “a
boundless source of employment and income” had no identifi—
cation as to its producer and source, it would have been easy to
assume that it was a Mexican government film.

Inside the conference hall, information on exploitation of
threatened and endangered animals was more frankly dis-
cussed. The Brazilian head of delegation pointed out that the
thousands of skins imported from her country by consuming
nations were all, without exception, illegal. The Peruvian dele—
gate said no export permit had been given for any of the 7,000
skins which went into trade in 1977. Tables prepared by the
Secretariat show that only a small proportion of the skins
tabulated by Customs in the importing countries were checked
under provisions of CITES. Enforcement is badly needed in
order to give animals the protection designed for them by the
nations who drafted and ratified the convention.

A steering committee composed of representatives from all
parts of the world was created. It consists of Australia, Brazil,
Nepal, United Kingdom, United States and Zaire and the
depositary nation, Switzerland, and past and future host nations,
Costa Rica and India.

The next meeting of the parties is tentatively set in India in
1981.

PRESIDENT CARTER ON U.S. EFFORTS TO
SAVE WHALES AND OTHER ENDANGERED
SPECIES

A memorandum from the President to the Secretary of the
Interior and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality, April 24, 1979 states:

“Subject: Enforcement of International

Endangered Species Requirements

“Previously, I asked you to work together to establish better
procedures to develop United States positions for the Con-
vention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES).
I would like you to expand your effort to include an assessment
of US. enforcement of these trade restrictions and to make
recommendations for improvements in enforcement efforts
government-wide. I would like you to work with the Depart-
ments of Agriculture, Justice and the Treasury (Customs) on
this effort.”

In a letter of the same date to Brock Evans, convener of the
conservation community’s meetings on proposals for Presi-
dential consideration, the President stated: “On US. whaling
POIiCy, Administrator Frank is pursuing vigorously a strategy for
insuring that a commercial whaling moratorium is on the Inter:
national Whaling Commission agenda this year. He is working
with the State Department, other agencies and with the conser-
vation community to see that the moratorium proposal receives
as much support as possible from other nations. He is aware
that this effort enjoys my full support.”

 

MORATORIUM [continued from page 1]

(2) the protection and conservation of whales are of par-
ticular interest to citizens of the United States;

(3) in 1971 the Congress adopted resolutions requesting
the Secretary of State to negotiate a ten—year moratorium on
the commercial killing of whales;

(4) the United States, which effectively banned all com-
mercial whaling by United States nationals in December 1971
has sought an international moratorium on the commercial
killing of whales since 1972;

(5) the United Nations Conference on the Human Envi-
ronment adopted a resolution in 1972 calling for a ten-year
moratoriumon commercial whaling;

(6) the United Nations Governing Council for Environ-
ment Programs in 1973 and 1974 confirmed such call for a
ten—year moratorium, and the Council continues to support
ongoing efforts relating to whale conservation;

(7) the International Convention for the Regulation of
Whaling, signed in 1946, as implemented by the International
Whaling Commission, is not providing adequate protection to
whales;

(8) the data-gathering structure established under the In-
ternational Whaling Commission has not provided all the
available data necessary for sound whale conservation;

(9) there is strong evidence that the members of Interna-
tional Whaling Commission continue to import, in some
instances in increasing amounts, whale products from coun—
tries not members of the Commission; and

(10) defects in the implementation of the International
Convention for the Regulation of Whaling by the Inter-
national Whaling Commission allow harvests of the de-
clining whale species.

(b) The Congress hereby urges—

(1) the International Whaling Commission to agree to a
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales; and

(2) Brazil, Denmark, Iceland, Japan, Norway, the Soviet
Union, and the Republic of Korea, as parties to the Interna—
tional Convention for the Regulation of Whaling and which
still engage in commercial whaling, and Chile, the People’s
Republic of China, Peru, Portugal, the Democratic Republic
of Korea, Spain, and Taiwan, as countries which are not par-
ties to the Convention and which still engage in commercial
whaling, to recognize and comply voluntarily with a morator-
ium on the commercial killing of whales, as endorsed by the
United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and
the United Nations Governing Council for Environment
Programs.

 

BAD NEWS FOR WHALES FROM
CHINA FISHERIES MONTHLY

The latest report on Japanese whaling outside the regulations
of the International Whaling Commission comes from a Taiwan-
ese publication, China Fisheries Monthly, No 316, April, 1979.
A translation by the National Marine Fisheries Service reads as
follows:

Taiwan Develops a Coastal Whale Fishery

Because the imposition of international controls on the
Soviet and Japanese whaling industries has made it difficult
for them to operate, Taiwan is now experimenting with a plan
to develop a small-scale coastal whale fishery.

Since Japan’s five whaling corporations came under uni-
fied management, the number of Japanese whaling vessels
has been reduced significantly. Taiwan has reportedly already
purchased a small number of used whaling vessels from
Japan to perform small-scale experimental fishing. According
to reports, Taiwan currently has four such whaling vessels.

Each year the International Whaling Commission passes a
resolution against transfer of whaling equipment to non-IWC
nations, and each year Japan continues to violate the resolution
and to increase its importation of whale products from unregu-
lated sources including the pirate whaling vessel, “Sierra.”

 

RESEARCH AWARDS TOTALLING $26,000
OFFERED FOR SUCCESSFUL SUBSTITUTES
FOR LABORATORY ANIMALS

International scholars from any branch of science or the arts,
whose research is conCerned with experimental and theoretical
problems of animal welfare, are eligible to participate in the Felix
Wankel Research Award for Animal Protection. Awards will be
granted up to a maximum of 50,000 German Marks for original
research work, with particular emphasis placed on contributions
in search of alternative methods to the use of laboratory
animals. For details write:

Felix Wankel Research Award for Animal Protection
Attn. Director H.J. Weichert

Ortlindestrasse 6 / VIII

D-8000 Munich 81

Federal Republic of Germany

 




PHYSICAL AND MENTAL SUFFERING OF
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS

A Review of Scientific Literature: 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner

with a preface by Samuel Peacock, Jr., M.D.

published by the Animal Welfare Institute

(210 pages, $4.00, AWI)

In order to give readers of the Information Report under—
standing of the purpose and content of AWI’s newest publica-
tion, the preface by Samuel Peacock, Jr., M.D. is reprinted in
full below.

“The Animal Welfare Institute has performed a valuable
service to the scientific community in compiling this report. Most
of us engaged in research tend to restrict our reading of the
literature to those articles in certain journals that pertain to
our own specific area of interest. In any given journal, there will
occasionally be a report of a piece of research in which the
experimental design involves intense pain, great stress, fear, or
combinations of these, for they can hardly be separated. I, for
one, tend to gloss over a paper of this type on the premise and
hope that it is either an isolated case, or that the work was so
important that the result did justify the means.

“This report, however, has surveyed a number of research
areas and a variety of journals in these areas. It becomes quite
clear that there are a great number of experiments done every
year which by design inflict great suffering of many kinds on a
variety of animal species. It is not essential to be an expert in any
one of the areas covered in this report to grasp the fact that we
scientists, in our intense desire to investigate our hypotheses, are
incredibly insensitive to the feelings of our experimental
animals.

“At least a partial explanation of this, I believe, is the tradi-
tional stance of anti-anthropomorphism in the biological
sciences. This philosophy, coupled with the mechanism of
denial, permits an investigator to rationalize almost any experi-
ment without jeopardizing his or her ethical standards. I am not
suggesting that we should all indulge in sentimental anthropo—
morphic thinking, but I am stating that biological systems
operate by identical mechanisms in man and in the mouse. To
deny the importance of the mouse’s pain, the dog’s stress, the
hamster’s sight is to defy and deny these qualities that we like to
think set us apart from them. The fact that these animals do

experience pain, stress, and fear is in fact the reason we use
them in experiments. Indeed, if they had no mechanism for
responding to stress, no afferent systems conducting sensation
to the brain, they would be of little use as experimental subjects.

“In our drive to pursue the quest for more knowledge, we
must not ignore the cost—benefit ratio, cost in terms of animal
suffering, benefit in terms of knowledge increment. Experiments
of the type cited in this report should not be done casually with
the ‘let’s try it and see what happens’ approach, with the
hypothesis developed after the fact. Indeed, they should be
carefully analyzed beforehand. Every effort should be made to
obtain date by alternate means. We should all ask ourselves, is
the cost in suffering worth the knowledge gained? Is there a
different approach to the problem? What statistical methods can
be used to reduce sample size? Is there a more simple biological
system that can be used?

“For a neurophysiologist to write a preface to a report of this
kind is not an easy task. I dislike intensely making value
judgements on the merit of another investigator’s research,
especially when that research is not in my area. However, I do
wonder if we have gained very much from many of the reports
referred to here. I feel that investigators must consider carefully
what they are doing. It seems to me that great pain for little gain
is incompatible with the scientific ethic. In short, all of us in the
biological sciences should conduct our research with reverence

for the life we are studying and sacrificing in our laboratories.
The importance of this report is that it draws our narrow focus to
a broader area and then makes us more aware.”

BACTERIAL TOXICITY TEST SIX TIMES MORE
SENSITIVE AND 192 TIMES FASTER THAN
CONVENTIONAL VERTEBRATE TEST

A new method of water pollution testing has been developed
by Beckman Instruments, Inc. which has a whole series of ad—
vantages over the current commonly used test which poisons
fish to death.

Instead of taking four days, killing fish whose variable re—
sponses make it difficult to reproduce results, luminescent
bacteria are the rapidly reacting bioassay organisms in a moni~
toring system called Microtox. According to Beckman’s Product
Development Bulletin 6964, “...the metabolism of the lumi-
nescent bacteria is influenced by low levels of toxicants. Any
alteration of metabolism in turn affects the intensity of the
organisms’ light output. By sensing these changes in light out-
put, the presense and relative concentration of toxicants can
be detected.”

The Bulletin further notes, “All you need to do is to prepare
the dilutions of the test sample. The bioassay organisms can be
handled as a simple reagent (no care and feeding required).”
With regard to accuracy, it states, “The response is quantitative
unlike quantal data such as fish deaths, accuracy is maintained
over a wide span of concentration.” On repeatability: “One very
important parameter in developing a standard bioassay is the
ability to standardize the test population. This is more easily
accomplished with bacteria than with higher organisms.”

The concept of the system is described as follows: “The
minimum requirement for monitoring toxicity is a set of inter—
dependent enzyme systems controlling measurable physiolog-
ical parameters, along with the appropriate measurement
system. For a practical, real-time measurement of toxicity, a bio—
logical system must be selected which can be measured unequi-
vocally, simply, sensitively, and rapidly. Luminescent bacteria
fulfill these criteria: They contain a diversity of enzyme systems
similar in structure and funciton to all living cells; as with other
living cells, the total metabolic process is intrinsically tied to
respiration; unlike most other life forms, the end products of
metabolism include an appreciable quantity of light; light can be
measured more sensitively with simple instruments than any
other physiological parameter.”

The Bulletin reports on a field trial as follows: “Dilutions of
untreated effluent from an oil refinery were tested with the
Microtox system and the data compared with a standard fish
test. The fish test was performed by an independent testing lab
and the procedure was a 4—day static toxicity test using fathead
minnows. The Microtox test was about 6 times more sensitive. It

is significant to note that the data points in Figure 2 generated
by the Microtox system were obtained in less than 30 minutes as
compared to 4 days with the fish test. Results with selected
reagent grade toxicants are presented in Table 1. Microtox
system data are stated as minimum detectable concentrations
and are defined as those concentrations causing a one percent
reduction in base-line light levels (i.e., ECl). Literature values of
LCso’s for 96-hour fish tests are presented for comparison.”
(LCso means the lethal concentration necessary to kill half
the fish).

All of the fish finally died from being forced to remain in the
factory effluent sample. The test, in principle, is similar to the
LDso (the lethal dose necessary to kill half the animals) which is
the test inflicted on enormous numbers of mammals in the
constantly expanding numbers of toxicity tests being conducted
in an effort to maintain a livable environment, and to prevent
genetic defects, chronic diseases, and acute poisoning by com-
mercial products which are ingested by the public or to which it
is otherwise exposed.

Beckman deserves praise for its enterprise in developing
Microtox and encouragement to develop systems of a similar
type for other toxicity tests. Since use of bacteria can provide
greater precision, speed and accuracy for the protection of the
public, reduce testing costs, and spare suffering of millions of
sentient animals, much of it long-drawn-out and excruciating,
research and development in this field should be given high
priority by government and private industry.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D
Bennett Derby, M.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D

Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece

Angela King—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.—United Kingdom

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Staff

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications Secretary
. Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

July - August - September, 1979

Vol. 28, No. 3

 

MINKE WHALES BEAR THE BRUNT
OF A DYING INDUSTRY’S GREED

Offered up on the whalers’ altar this year are the small minke
whales whose quotas rose at the International Whaling Commis-
sion (IWC) meeting in London, July 9-13, 1979. More than
12,000 are scheduled for killing next season by IWC member
nations. How many the outlaw Whalers will take is unknown.

All will be killed with primitive “cold harpoons”, weapons
which do not even have ammunition so that a well placed shot
could kill instantly. The reason? Because explosives would
destroy part of the meat. Here is a clear measure of the whalers’
greed and of their total lack of concern for the suffering they in-
flict on highly developed, sensitive, social animals.

Resolutions passed at this IWC meeting recognize the
seriousness of the cruel methods used to kill whales, but no
substantive action was taken to stop it.

The two major conservation gains made in London were the
Indian Ocean Sanctuary, proposed by a new IWC member, the
Seychelles, and a moratorium on factory-ship whaling except
for minke whales, a compromise achieved due to the per-
sistence of Jean-Paul Fortom, Scientific advisor to the Panama-
nian Commissioner.

The Seychelles delegation was headed by the nation’s High
Commissioner Bernard Loustau—Lalanne. Dr. Lyall Watson was
scientific advisor. Widely distributed before the meeting was a
well-reasoned and handsomely printed proposal, “The
Seychelles Initiative,” and a series of back—up documents effec—
tively substantiating the several proposals. The central view of
the island nation is well expressed in the following: “. . .the
Government of Seychelles finds it difficult to accept a policy
under which all stocks of all species of whale must be open to
extensive exploitation unless they be depleted. No such policy
exists for terrestrial resources. No nation declares that all forests
or all wildlife have to be fully exploited without preserving any
for the non-commercial, non—exploitive benefit of future genera-
tions.

“Our major natural resources lie in the rich waters surround—
ing our tiny land area and we are determined that they shall not
be destroyed before we and our children have the chance to en-
joy them and to decide for ourselves how, or even if, they
should be deployed.”

Danish Commissioner Lemche who has a mysterious affinity
for pro-Whaler amendments even when they affect areas half
way round the world from Denmark, proposed that the Indian
Ocean Sanctuary be cut off at 55° South. This was the only
weakening amendment carried. What it means is that Japanese
and Russian whaling fleets in the antarctic can kill minke whales.

The Indian Ocean Sanctuary, as adopted by a three—quarters.
majority vote of the Commissions, comprises an area six times
the size of the continental US. This is an important achievement
and shows what can be done by the inspired initiative of a small,
new IWC-member nation.

The factory ship moratorium proposal was an amendment of—
fered by Panama to the US. Commercial Whaling Moratorium
agenda item which had gained a simple majority in Technical
Committee - 11 to 6 with 6 abstentions - but which could not

(continued on page 2)

ACTION ALERT - News has just reached us that the
Soviet Union has sent the International Whaling Commission
a proposal to kill 1500 sperm whales (cachalots) in the An-
tarctic in the 1979-80 season. The Soviets have asked that
their proposal be put to a postal vote.

Friends of whales can help save Moby Dick’s kind from
Russian harpooners by writing heads of State of IWC nations
asking them to vote no; IWC countries are: Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, France, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Panama, Peru, Republic of Korea, Seychelles, Sweden,
South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom, USSR. and the
United States. If you need names and addresses drop us a
line and they will be sent to you.

NON-ANIMAL TESTS OF GREAT
IMPORTANCE TO HUMAN HEALTH

An article in the August, 1979 issue of Scientiﬁc American
“Bacterial Tests for Potential Carcinogens,” by Raymond
Devoret, describes clearly the value of the new short-term tests
to find out which chemicals are likely to cause cancer and even
how this happens. Dr. Devoret states: “It is estimated that more
than 50,000 different man-made chemicals are currently in
commercial and industrial use; between 500 and 1,000 new
chemicals are put on the market every year. The standard
animal tests for potential carcinogenicity take a long time and
cost a great deal of money. Fortunately there is an alternative to
the classical animal tests. One can take advantage of the pro-
found unity of living matter and resort to bacteria as the test
organisms. A bacterial assay for carcinogenicity takes a few hours
or days rather than the two or three years required for an animal
test, and it costs far less. An effective bacterial test has been
developed by Bruce N. Ames of the University of California at
Berkeley, based on the ability of a chemical to cause mutations
in bacteria. More recently, my colleagues and I at the Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique in Gif—sur-Yvette have
devised a group of tests based on a chemical’s ability to induce
the development of a dormant virus in bacteria. The Ames test
and our tests not only provide means of identifying dangerous
chemicals but also are powerful tools for learning to understand
the primary events of the carcinogenic process initiated by

chemicals. (continued on page 3)

 

PIRATE WHALING:
TAIYO FISHERIES ROLE EXPOSED

New Proof is Uncovered, Former Section Chief Fronts for
Dummy Company

WHALING NATION JAPAN - LOSS OF HONOR

(Translation of an article from the Tokyo Shimbun (circula-
tion 3,500,000) August 1, 1979.)

A TOKYO SHIMBUN investigation has revealed, as of July
315t, that Taiyo Fisheries Co. has, in fact, been secretly involved
behind the scenes in the secret import into Japan of whalemeat
from the SIERRA, a Cyprus flag ship notorious overseas as a
“pirate whaling ship” which ignores the regulations of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission (IWC). Taiyo has, up until now,
continually denied accusations by anti-whaling organizations
that it is the “wirepuller” for the covert operations.

Taiyo Fisheries, from about 6 years ago, when the IWC’s
regulations became stricter, has bought wholesale the secret
whalemeat under an agreement between the SIERRA AGEN—
CY (South Africa), the operator of the SIERRA and Taiyo
Canada, its foreign subsidiary company.

On one hand, Taiyo negotiated to place Japanese meat in-
spectors (on the ship), and then the main Taiyo Fisheries Com-
pany Whaling Division Chief went directly to South Africa,
directly associating with SIERRA officials, and has been officially
employed there to facilitate the secret whalemeat imports.

The identity of the company secretly importing the whalemeat
from the SIERRA was unknown.

However, the truth of the matter is that this unknown com—
pany’s president was the same operations division chief who ap-
peared in South Africa.

Substantiating Evidence,
A Business Name Card
The SIERRA (683 tons) is an “anonymous” whaling vessel
flying under a Cyprus flag of convenience. It has a Norwegian
captain and gunner, and is manned by a South African crew.
The SIERRA is run by a South African management company.
And for the last ten years, it has plied the Atlantic Ocean using
the port of Los Palmas in the Canary Islands as its base.
Indiscriminately hunting Fin, Humpback, female Blue and
(continued on page 2)

 




MINKE WHALES (continued from page 1)

muster the necessary three-quarter majority for adoption in the
plenary session. Denmark’s Lemche tacked on .an exemption
for minke whales to the Panamanian amendment, and the
package was adopted with only Japan and Russia opposing it.
The three abstentions were all from whaling nations: Brazrl,
Korea and Spain.

Since that time the government of Brazil has informed the
US. State Department that Brazil will end whaling in two years.

Because minke whale quotas were raised, the lowering of
sperm whale quotas led to a total reduction of only four or five
thousand (the inclusion of new IWC members who whale con-
fuses the total). Last year the quota was 19,719. This year it wil
be 15,835.

Most votes on quotas took place on the last night. The session
extended till five the following morning. A number of oppor-
tunities to reduce specific quotas were lost, perhaps through ex-
haustion and inattention, perhaps through prior agreements
reached at lengthy private Commissioners’ meetings which took
place throughout the week.

The bowhead whale quota which the United States has had to
struggle to obtain for Alaskan Eskimos during the past two years
subjects our country to strong international criticism because the
IWC’s Scientific Committee consistently recommends a zero
quota owing to the severely endangered status of the bowhead.
This was brought about by extreme exploitation by Yankee
whalers in the last century. Intensive efforts to count adults and

calves over the past two years, while revealing a larger number
of adults than the low end of initial estimates, provide dis-
quieting information on calves, suggesting that the Eskimos’
selection of young whales is preventing recovery of the popula-
tion and that it may decline to extinction under the present
regime.

Dr. J. Ovington, Commissioner for Australia, delivered a
strong statement at the meeting concluding: “if we stick with
thesefigures, the species is doomed.”

PIRATE WHALING (continuedfrom page 1)

other endangered species protected by the IWC whaling ban,
the SIERRA put into practice outrageous fishing methods such
as cutting off only the choice meat sections which would bring a
high price in Japan, while dumping the remainder into the
ocean. At the end of last June, these practices and the fact that
four Japanese meat inspectors were onboard were exposed by
English anti-whaling organizations; and in early July at the Lon—
don IWC General Meeting, Japan was placed in an extremely
untenable position.

At that time, the anti-whaling groups published documentary
photographs showing the transfer of 164 tons of illegal whale-
meat last December in Los Palmas harbor from the SIERRA to a
Japanese Freezer ship, the YAMATO FUAA (captained by
Kozo Koieke). Subsequently, the source of this importing into
Japan became a major issue.

In early July, an American anti-whaling organization visiting
Japan made public documents proving that negotiations took
place between Taiyo Canada, a Taiyo Fisheries Co. subsidiary
(Newfoundland, E. Terada, president) and the SlERRA’s
management company, Sierra Agency, (Capetown).

According to the 3 year contract initiated in 1973, 1) Taiyo
Canada would buy wholesale 3,000 tons of whalemeat from the
SIERRA; 2) Taiyo Canada would hire and employ flensing
specialists for the SIERRA. And thus, the connections between
Taiyo Fisheries and the pirate whalers became clear.

According to this newspaper’s investigation, the company
which last December imported into Japan the SIERRA’s whale-
meat was C.D. JAXON of Tokyo, a fishing company located in
the Tamachi ward of Tokyo (N. Higuchi, President; founded in
May, 1978, Capitalization 2 Million Yen). This company’s
registered place of business is President Higuchi’s home, and the
only corporate officers listed are members of Higuchi’s family.
Furthermore, the company’s three employers have their office
in a one room Tokyo apartment.

This N. Higuchi, the president, (age 44), was a former Taiyo
Fisheries Co. Whaling Division section chief who also was
employed as Taiyo’s North American enterprises sections chief.
When the Tokyo Shimbun Newspaper asked Sierra Agency
(Andrew M. Behr, Pres.) employees, officials and former
seamen about Higuchi, we were told, “He’s the man who came
to purchase the SIERRA’s whalemeat since 1973.”

Sierra Agency also revealed:

1) That there was a very close business relationship between
Behr and Taiyo Canada since 1973.

2) That it is a fact that there was a basic guaranteed contract
with Taiyo Canada to purchase whalemeat wholesale and
to dispatch Japanese whalemeat inspectors on the
SIERRA.

3) That Higuchi came to Capetown each year to arrange the
actual whalemeat import.

4) That Higuchi is still known as “Taiyo Fisheries Co.’s .
Mr. Higuchi.”

5) That there exists a separate dummy company to facilitate
the export of the SIERRA’s whalemeat.

6) That phony labels saying “Product of Spain” were used to
disguise the whalemeat’s place of origin.

 

 

 

The Tokyo Shimbun learned that the dummy export com-
pany registered in the Carribean Sea’s Bahama Islands and is
called “C.D. JACKSON-Bahamas.”

And, an English anti-whaling activist, Nick Carter, recently
received from Sierra Agency sources the business name card
used in 1973 by Higuchi when he visited the Sierra Agency as
Taiyo Fisheries Whaling Enterprises section chief representative,

On the reverse side of the name card Taiyo Fisheries Co.’s
main office address in English lettering is scratched out and
Higuchi’s home address—the Tamachi residence serving as
CD. Jackson’s office—is written in.

From this it appears that Higuchi, while employed by Taiyo
Fisheries, negotiated the purchase of the SIERRA’s whalemeat
as Taiyo Fisheries’ representative, and Taiyo Fisheries, in order
not to surface as the import source, formed a dummy company,

In February of 1977, Higuchi formed C.D. JAXON of Tokyo,
and that was the year that the IWC General Meeting decided to
ban imports from non-member nations. This was because, at the
end of 1977, the Fishery Agency Director issued an adminis-
trative order to end imports from non-member nations.

Heretofore, Taiyo Fisheries had flatly denied any contract by
Taiyo Canada saying, “We did enter into negotiations but no
contract was made. As far as the purchase of SIERRA whale-
meat is concerned, we do not have anything to do with that.”

However, from the SIERRA officials’ admission, the namecard
and other evidence, the fact that Taiyo had used Higuchi’s “two
faces” to secretly import whale meat is clear.

(3. Barker, a white South African seaman who worked on the
SIERRA from 1973 through 1978 told the Tokyo Shimbun: 1)
The four Japanese whalemeat inspectors aboard the SIERRA
were employed by the Taiyo Canada, and 2) these inspectors re-
ceived payment from both the SIERRA and Taiyo Canada. Com-
missions included, they made more than twice what the average
seaman did, and it totaled to more than $3,000 per month.

This substantiates that the Japanese whalemeat inspectors
were employed by Taiyo.

The SIERRA’s whalemeat imports were first carried out by the
coastal whaling firm, NlTTO Whaling; but six years earlier NIT-
TO quit and was replaced by Taiyo Fisheries. Consequently,
NlTTO Whaling completely admitted these facts.

Furthermore, C.D. JAXON of Tokyo’s president, Higuchi, is
presently abroad to dissolve the whalemeat import contract.
Company employees contracted during his absence said, “We
know neither his whereabouts nor his time of return.”

 

SEA TURTLES IN THE NEWS

0 A bill to reduce the seaward boundaries of world famous Tor-
tuguero National Park in Costa Rica from twelve to three miles
and to permit export of turtle products slipped through that na—
tion’s legislature attached to another bill and reached President
Rodrigo Carazo’s desk.To his great credit, President Carazo
vetoed the bill.

O The International Union for the Conservation of Nature re-
ports that the mass nesting (arribada) of Olive Ridley Sea
Turtles that have been swimming to the beach at La Escobilla in
Mexico for millions of years ended in 1977. There was no ar-
ribada in 1978 thanks to PIOSA’s ruthless exploitation. An-
tonio Suarez, the owner, (see Information Report Vol. 28, No.
2) has obtained a 1979 quota from the Mexican Department of
Fisheries of 24,000 sea turtles from July to November. Accor-
ding to the «IUCN Bulletin “November and December are ‘open
season’ with no fixed quota. Senor Suarez has said that this year
‘green turtles will not be taken’. Will this statement turn out to be
true and, if true, is it useful? Last year, for Colola and Marauta
Bay the green-turtle quota was only 20% of the whole, but the
catch was 90% greens. The reason, as a PIOSA spokesman
obligingly explained, was that ‘ridleys are now very scarce in the
area.’

“This report should not be allowed to close on a wholly de-
pressing note. Despite all obstacles, the IUCN/WWF pijeCt
team has persisted in its efforts to save Mexico’s green tur—
tles—and with some gratifying results. During last year’s nesting
season the team purchased (often of necessity, on the black
market) 100,000 green turtle eggs and released a total of
70,000 hatchlings. This success could not have been gained
without the active help of the local inhabitants - a fact which
gives grounds for hope that even at this late hour the situation
can be turned around.”

 

 

SASKATCHEWAN KEEPS ITS COYOTES TO
CONTROL RODENTS, CONDITIONS THEM
AGAINST A TASTE FOR LAMB

A lively leaflet by Saskatchewan Agriculture entitled, “COVOIQ
Control”, features aversive conditioning with lithium chloride.
Far from advocating destruction of the local coyotes by a sheep
farmer, the brochure encourages him to condition them against
sheep killing and eating and indeed to welcome them as resident
rodent eaters and defenders of their territory against stray un-
conditioned coyotes. “Watch out for signs of no coyotes or new

COVOIQS, then LOOK OUT!” cautions Saskatchewan
Agriculture. 3
(continued on page )

 




SASKATCHEWAN (continued from page 2)

The four-page leaﬂet is direct in its analysis. To quote: “Aver-
sive Conditioning. Why - The method has been designed for
use with sheep but can be used to control predation on other
animals. Each lamb killed may mean a loss of $35 and upwards.
Control costs are low (not over $35 for an average farm flock of
300 ewes). The lithium chloride used for aversive conditioning
is non-poisonous in the concentration used. Coyotes thus con-
ditioned are left to prey on rodents and thus save the pasture for
sheep.

“KNOW YOUR COYOTESI-Coyotes will eat almost anything
and a dead animal is an easy meal. Coyotes you see in winter
are rarely the ones on your range in the spring. A denning pair
of coyotes make themselves inconspicuous until pups are about
6 weeks old (June 15). Feeding a den of pups makes coyotes
look for easy meals or prey (dead cows, dead sheep or live
lambs)! Coyotes which kill lambs may not return to feed on this
prey for 3 or 4 days. Coyotes preying on sheep are likely to start
their pups off on this handy prey too, but with aversive condi-
tioning they will avoid this prey. Coyotes in your area which
have been conditioned against eating sheep will tend to exert
pressure to keep other coyotes out. From August to November
roving coyotes will move into area where there are no coyotes
(Look out)!”

This system of maintaining the resident coyotes and trying to
avoid any coyote killing at all is not new in concept although the
use of lithium chloride is relatively recent. Old hands in Wyom-
ing and California have long kept the resident coyotes who did
not kill lambs in order that other coyotes who might start sheep—
killing, would be driven off. The US. Fish and Wildlife Service
still stubbornly maintains that it can’t make lithium chloride
work. Its apparent inability to do anything outside its routine
trapping, denning, and shooting from aircraft has brought heavy
criticism on it from all quarters.

NON-ANIMAL TESTS (continued from page 1)

Explaining why bacterial tests work, the author writes, “DNA
is the hereditary material of all living cells, and both DNA lesions
and the cellular processes that repair them are remarkably
similar in bacteria and in human cells; what is detrimental to
bacterial DNA is likely to harm human DNA. That is the
theoretical justification for substituting bacteria for mammalian
cells in tests to detect damage to DNA.” The practical aspects of
protecting the public are well explained. “As I pointed out at the
beginning of this article, only a small fraction of the flood of
chemicals reaching the market every year can be tested ac-
curately by means of the standard animal assays. In order to ob—
tain results with statistical significance a great many animals must
be (or at least should be) exposed to each tested chemical; for
that reason alone a comprehensive screening of new chemicals
would be impractical (other than the few, such as food ad-
ditives, drugs and cosmetics, for which testing is mandated).
Even when animal tests are feasible, manufacturers need low-
cost, fast tests if they are to identify DNA—damaging substances
while new products are still under development and alternative
ones can still be sought.” The statistical significance is high-
lighted in the following: “One of the great advantages of assays
done with bacteria is the enormous biological amplification im-
plicit in bacterial manipulations. It is easy to grow as many as a
billion (10’) bacteria per milliliter of culture medium. A muta-
tional event such as a change in a single base pair in the bacterial
DNA, which is impossible to detect by standard biochemical
methods, will be revealed as a mutant bacterium. That single
bacterium can be selected from among 109 cells because its
daughter cells, and only they, will proliferate and form a colony
visible to the unaided eye on an agar nutrient plate. Since a col—
ony consists of about a million (10‘) bacteria, a rare single muta-
tional event with a probability of, say. one in 100 million (a
probability of (10") would thus be amplified by a factor of 100
trillion (10“).”

Citing current use of the bacterial tests, Dr. Devoret writes,
“The simplicity, sensitivity, and accuracy of the Salmonella test
for screening large numbers of environmental sources of poten-
tial carcinogens has resulted in its current application in more
than 2,000 governmental, industrial and academic laboratories
throughout the world; it is estimated that 2,600 chemicals have
been subjected to the test.” The author cites examples: “Two
impressive accomplishments of mutagenicity tests can be men-
tioned to give an idea of their value. In Japan the chemical furyl
furamide known as AF—2, was added to a broad range of com—
mon food products for some years as an antibacterial agent. It
had not shown any carcinogenic activity in standard tests on rats
in 1962 or on mice in 1971. Then in 1973 T. Sugimura and his
colleagues at the National Cancer Centre in Tokyo found that
“:2 was highly mutagenic in bacteria; they could easily
demonstrate the mutagenic activity of the additive contained in
just one slice of fish sausage! The discovery prompted a new
round of more thorough animal tests for carcinogenicity - which
Showed that AF~2 was indeed ‘a carcinogen. It was withdrawn
frOm the market. If it were not for the bacterial test, AF-Z — which
had passed two approved animal tests and been declared
neQative for carcinogenicity - would presumably still be a com-
Denent of fish sausage and other Japanese food products.

In 1975 Ames and his colleagues reported that 89 percent of
the major class of hair dyes sold on the US. market contained
mutagenic compounds. Since then the cosmetic industry has
mOdified the composition of most hair dyes."

ENFORCEMENT OF ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
Iowa

Dr. George Hoffman, one of eleven regional specialists in
USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, brought
about compliance with the minimum standards of the Animal
Welfare Act by the University of Iowa Medical College. As
reported in the Iowa City Press-Citizen, April 17, 1979,
“Housing and sanitation violations at 11 animal care facilities at
the University of Iowa will cost in the vicinity of $300,000 to rec—
tify. The cost estimate was provided by William Farrell, associate
vice president for educational development and research. Most
of that money would be used for the purchase of new, larger
animal cages, he said.

“The University also plans to hire two to four additional
animal caretakers...The University could also be slapped with
fines of $1,000 per day per citation, according to Farrell.
‘Literally dozens’ of violations, covering a wide range of short-
comings, were found by the Inspector, he said.”
Pennsylvania

A judicial officer of the US. Department of Agriculture has
upheld the decision to suspend the dealer’s license of Samuel
Esposito, owner of Quakertown Farms Kennel, Quakertown,
Pa., for 14 days. Department judicial officer Donald A. Camp-
bell also ordered Esposito to cease and desist from future viola-
tions of the Animal Welfare Act. Esposito had appealed the
original decision by a federal administrative law judge that his
dealer’s license be suspended for 14 days. Esposito, who is
licensed by the department’s Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service as a dog dealer, was charged in March of 1978 with
four counts of shipping dogs under crowded conditions.

The administative law judge that heard the case ruled that
Esposito was in violation of only two counts of the charge—
failing to transport his dogs in compatible groups and failing to
transport them in containers that were large enough for them to
turn about freely, stand erect and lie in a natural position. That
decision would have become final and effective April 1, but was
postponed because Esposito appealed.

“The flagrant violation involved in this case reveals a callous
disregard for the welfare of the animals being transported and
warrants a severe sanction,” Campbell said in his April 26 deci-
sion. Campbell’s order becomes effective May 18, and has the
force of a permanent injunction. Failure to obey can result in a
fine of $1,000 for each day a violation continues.

New York

A New York corporation, licensed as an animal dealer, has
been given 20 days by officials of the US. Department of
Agriculture, to respond to charges of violating shipping stan-
dards of the Animal Welfare Act.

Marshall Research Animals, Inc., of North Rose, N.Y., was
charged with transporting two pregnant beagles from Syracuse,
N.Y., to Cambridge, Mass, in containers that were not large
enough to ensure that each animal had sufficient space to turn
about freely in a standing position using normal body
movements, to stand or sit erect, and to lie in a natural position,
as required by federal standards.

 

UGANDA BANS HUNTING

An Associated Press report from Kampala, Uganda, August
23, states: “Uganda imposed a five-year ban on hunting today
in an attempt to save what remains of the once—great herds of
elephants, lions and other beasts that moved through its game
preserves before soldiers began slaughtering them. The prohibi-
tion, announced by Tourism and Wildlife Minister James Obua-
Otua, follows similar bans in neighboring Tanzania and Kenya.
The three nation area was world—famous as the favorite hunting
ground of professional white hunters.

“The minister said poachers killed off half of Uganda’s big
game during the eight-year rule of deposed dictator Idi Amin.
Soldiers and other modern day hunters used helicopters, ar—
tillery and heavy machine guns to kill the animals. The carcasses
were sold for fur coats and their heads were used by curio
dealers to make trophies. Since Amin’s overthrow earlier this
year, other soldiers ‘are now combing the game parks clean,
said Paql Tamukedde, Director of wildlife sanctuaries. Game
wardens cannot stop the slaughter, he said. Tanzanian troops
drove Amin from power four months ago and stayed on as a
temporary security force. .

“A biologist claimed last week that Tanzanian troops wxped
out a third of the large animals in Ruwenzori National Game
Park, and that more than 14,000 animals have been killed since
mid—April. Tanzanian commanders have begun investigating the
reports. In recent weeks, travelers have reported systematic
poaching in Kebalega Falls National Park (formerly Murchison
Falls Park) and in Ruwenzori. Both are among Africa 3 last ma-
jor reserves of elephant, lion, antelope, buffalo, hippopotamus
and other species. Those great herds of animals were the foun—
dation of the tourism industry, second only to coffee as a source
of foreign currency for Uganda. The new government is trying
to revive tourism, which Amin banned after it peaked in 1972
with 85,000 visitors. Tamakedde said many animal sanctuaries
were damaged in the war against Amin and in some areas game
is almost nonexistent.”

 




A CONVENTION IS BORN
(reprinted from the IUCN Bulletin, June, 1 979, International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.)

On 23 June a wildlife Convention was born which
in due time may come to tank with CITES as one of
the main international bulwarks against continuing
depletion of species.

A 2-week Diplomatic Conference in Bonn, West Germany,
culminated in the adoption of a Convention on the Conserva-
tion of Migratory Species of Wild Animals. It will come into
force when 15 nations have ratified.

Migratory species are defined as ‘the entire population or any
geographically separate part of the population of any species or
lower taxon of wild animals, a significant proportion of whose
members cyclically and predictably cross national jurisdictional
boundanes.

The revolutionary breadth of the Convention may not im-
mediately be plain from this somewhat ponderous language.

All migratory animals throughout the world are in principle

covered; there are no exceptions.

Admittedly this all-embracing view did not prevail without a
long, hard and ultimately costly fight. 24 hours before the treaty
in its final form was signed, a vote was taken as to whether
‘marine mammals, fish, crustacea and molluscs’ should be ex—
cluded.

41 said No and only 9 said Yes. This represented a dramatic
turnabout since the international meeting in Bonn in July 1976
to discuss the draft. At that stage the necessary two-thirds ma—
jority to include all marine species did not exist.

Defeated on this issue the 9 — Australia, Canada, Japan, New
Zealand, Poland, South Africa, Uruguay, USA. USSR - along
with certain others including Argentina, did not endorse the
Convention in the final vote. Bearing in mind that attempts to
exclude the polar regions had also been rebuffed, it is significant
that 8 of the 10 countries named above are members of the An-
tarctic Treaty and that all 10 are already catching krill.

With ‘non-supporters‘ comprising so many of the rich and the
powerful, possessing in toto such an enormous land-mass and
coastline, it might seem that the Convention was not so much
born as still-born. This would be a mis-reading. The Convention
is a strong one and several of the more prominent backsliders
will surely be shamed into reassessing their current posture.
Where necessary they can rely on a little help from their NGOs!

A most heartening aspect of the conference was the strong
conservationist stand taken by the Third World and Western
Europe. Pride of place must go to the African nations. They in-
tervened often and eloquently to bring the conference back on
course. A Declaration by the African States issued half-way
through the meeting made it clear that Africans were only in-
terested in a Convention which included all migratory species
everywhere.

The Declaration was seconded by over 30 delegations and
thereafter it was plain that the majority would not compromise in
order to ‘buy’ the support of a handful of wealthy countries
more concerned about their own fishing interests than with pro-
tecting the ‘common heritage of humanity’. The minority was
not going to be let off the hook so that they could emerge with
the appearance of being good conservationists without sacrific-
ing any of their ‘proprietary rights’.

The dispute highlighted the two opposing concepts of
migratory species: national property versus shared resources. It
bodes well for the conservation cause that in Bonn the

enlightened view triumphed - with the developing world taking
thelead.

THE concept of shared resources is, of course, implicit in
21 Convention covering species which gross national
boundaries. And the appendices spell it out. While Ap-
pendix l is for endangered species requiring immediate
protection at the national level, Appendix H is for species
with ‘an unfavourable conservation status’ requiring the
protection of international agreements.

It can therefore happen that a species is listed in both
appendices. The Mediterranean monk seal gets a double
entry; so does the vicuna. The appendices at present con-
tain no marine ﬁsh and are in other respects incomplete.
For the time being their primary purpose is to serve as ex—
amples.

 

WILD BIRDS PROTECTED BY CEC

The Council of European Communities adopted a valuable
directive for the conservation of wild birds in February of this
year. Its preamble recognizes that “a large number of wild birds
naturally occurring in the European territory of the Member
States are declining in number, very rapidly in some cases,” and
that “this decline represents a serious threat to the conservation
of the natural environment particularly because of the biological
balances threatened thereby.” lt notes that most of the species
involved are migratory and “constitute a common heritage” and
that “effective bird protection is typically a trans-frontier environ-
ment problem entailing common responsibilities;” and that con-
servation of wild birds is necessary to “the improvement of living
conditions (and) a harmonious development of economic ac—
tivities.”

The Directive mandates habitat protection including “re-es—
tablishment of destroyed biotopes” where needed for “a suffi-
cient diversity and area of habitats for all the species of birds re-
ferred to in Article 1 .” Member states “shall pay particular atten-
tion to the protection of wetlands. . and “strive to avoid pollu-
tion or deterioration of habitats.”

Annex N of the Directive bans the following:

0 snares, limes, hooks, live birds which are blind or mutilated
used as decoys, tape recorders, electrocuting devices:

0 artificial light sources. mirrors. devices for illuminating
targets. sighting devices for night shooting comprising an elec-
tronic image magnifier or image converter;

0 explosives;

O nets, traps, poisoned or anaesthetic bait;

O semi-automatic or automatic weapons with a magazine cap-
able of holding more than two rounds of ammunition.

Hunting of species listed in Annex II is permitted under na—
tional hunting laws which must include protection “during the
rearing season" and “prohibit the use of all means, arrange-
ments or methods used for the large-scale or non—selective cap—
ture or killing of birds." Derogations are permitted in the “inter—
ests of public health and safety;“ and for such purposes as “to
prevent serious damage to crops"; however the derogations
must be specific about the reasons, methods and extent of any
killing or capture. Countries are given two years in which to
“bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provi-
sions necessary to comply with this Directive."

PROTECTION OF MEAT ANIMALS
ESTABLISHED BY TREATY

The European Convention for the Protection of Animals for
slaughter was signed at Strasbourg, May 10, 1979, by the
governments of Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Ger-
many, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.

The convention applies to the movement, lairaging, restraint,
stunning and slaughter of domestic solipeds, ruminants, pigs,
rabbits and poultry. Its 24 articles are specific in their re—
quirements. For example, Article 5 states “(1) When animals are
moved their gregarious tendencies shall be exploited. In—
struments shall be used solely to guide them and must only be
used for short periods. in particular, they shall not be struck on,
nor shall pressure be applied to, any particularly sensitive part of
the body. Electric shocks may be used for bovine animals, and
pigs only, provided that the shocks last no more than two
seconds, are adequately spaced out and the animals have room
to move; such shocks shall be applied only to appropriate
muscles. (2) Animals’ tails shall not be crushed, twisted or
broken and their eyes shall not be grasped. Blows and kicks shall
not be inflicted. (3) Cages, baskets or crates in which animals are
transported shall be handled with care. They shall not be thrown
to the ground or knocked over. (4) Animals delivered in cages,
baskets, or crates with flexible or perforated bottoms shall be
unloaded with particular care in order to avoid injuring the
animals” extremities. Where appropriate, they shall be unloaded
individually.”

Article 16 states in part, “Use of the puntilla, hammer or pole-
axe shall be prohibited."

The new convention established standards which will be
helpful in connection with the 1978 amendments to the US.
Meat Inspection Act which require humane slaughter of the
animals providing meat imported from foreign countries. Pro-
posed regulations to carry out the purposes of the amendments

were published in The Federal Register June 29, 1979.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D
Bennett Derby, M.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D

Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.——Greece

Angela King—-—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President

Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.-—United Kingdom

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Staff

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007 July - August - September, 1979 Vol. 28, No. 3

 

MINKE WHALES BEAR THE BRUNT
OF A DYING INDUSTRYS GREED

Offered up on the whalers’ altar this year are the small minke
whales whose quotas rose at the International Whaling Commis-
sion (IWC) meeting in London, July 9—13, 1979. More than
12,000 are scheduled for killing next season by IWC member
nations. How many the outlaw whalers will take is unknown.

All will be killed with primitive “cold harpoons”, weapons
which do not even have ammunition so that a well placed shot
could kill instantly. The reason? Because explosives would
destroy part of the meat. Here is a clear measure of the whalers’
greed and of their total lack of concern for the suffering they in-
flict on highly developed, sensitive, social animals.

Resolutions passed at this IWC meeting recognize the
seriousness of the cruel methods used to kill whales, but no
substantive action was taken to stop it.

The two major conservation gains made in London were the
Indian Ocean Sanctuary, proposed by a new IWC member, the
Seychelles. and a moratorium on factory~ship whaling except
for minke whales, a compromise achieved due to the per—
sistence of Jean-Paul Fortom, Scientific advisor to the Panama—
nian Commissioner.

The Seychelles delegation was headed by the nation’s High
Commissioner Bernard Loustau-Lalanne. Dr. Lyall Watson was
scientific advisor. Widely distributed before the meeting was a
well-reasoned and handsomely printed proposal, “The
Seychelles Initiative,” and a series of back-up documents effec-
tively substantiating the several proposals. The central view of
the island nation is well expressed in the following: “. . .the
Government of Seychelles finds it difficult to accept a policy
under which all stocks of all species of whale must be open to
extensive exploitation unless they be depleted. No such policy
exists for terrestrial resources. No nation declares that all forests
or all wildlife have to be fully exploited without preserving any
for the non—commercial, non-exploitive benefit of future genera—
tions.

“Our major natural resources lie in the rich waters surround-
ing our tiny land area and we are determined that they shall not
be destroyed before we and our children have the chance to en-
joy them and to decide for ourselves how, or even if, they
should be deployed.”

Danish Commissioner Lemche who has a mysterious affinity
for pro-whaler amendments even when they affect areas half
way round the world from Denmark, proposed that the Indian
Ocean Sanctuary be cut off at 55° South. This was the only
weakening amendment carried. What it means is that Japanese
and Russian whaling fleets in the antarctic can kill minke whales.

The Indian Ocean Sanctuary, as adopted by a three—quarters
majority vote of the Commissions, comprises an area six times
the size of the continental US. This is an important achievement
and shows what can be done by the inspired initiative of a small,
new IWC-member nation.

The factory ship moratorium proposal was an amendment of-
fered by Panama to the US. Commercial Whaling Moratorium
agenda item which had gained a simple majority in Technical
Committee — 11 to 6 with 6 abstentions - but which could not

(continued on page 2)

ACTION ALERT - News has just reached us that the
Soviet Union has sent the International Whaling Commission '
a proposal to kill 1500 sperm whales (cachalots) in the An-
tarctic in the 1979—80 season. The Soviets have asked that
their proposal be put to a postal vote. 3

Friends of whales can help save Moby Dick’s kind from
Russian harpooners by writing heads of State of IWC nations
asking them to vote no, IWC countries are: Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, France, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Panama, Peru, Republic of Korea, Seychelles, Sweden,
South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom, USSR. and the
United States. If you need names and addresses drop us a
line and they will be sent to you.

NON-ANIMAL TESTS OF GREAT
IMPORTANCE TO HUMAN HEALTH

An article in the August, 1979 issue of Scientiﬁc American
“Bacterial Tests for Potential Carcinogens,” by Raymond
Devoret, describes clearly the value of the new short—term tests
to find out which chemicals are likely to cause cancer and even
how this happens. Dr. Devoret states: “It is estimated that more
than 50,000 different man—made chemicals are currently in
commercial and industrial use; between 500 and 1,000 new
chemicals are put on the market every year. The standard
animal tests for potential carcinogenicity take a long time and
cost a great deal of money. Fortunately there is an alternative to
the classical animal tests. One can take advantage of the pro—
found unity of living matter and resort to bacteria as the test
organisms. A bacterial assay for carcinogenicity takes a few hours
or days rather than the two or three years required for an animal
test, and it costs far less. An effective bacterial test has been
developed by Bruce N. Ames of the University of California at
Berkeley, based on the ability of a chemical to cause mutations
in bacteria. More recently, my colleagues and I at the Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique in Gif—sur-Yvette have
devised a group of tests based on a chemical’s ability to induce
the development of a dormant virus in bacteria. The Ames test
and our tests not only provide means of identifying dangerous
chemicals but also are powerful tools for learning to understand
the primary events of the carcinogenic process initiated by

chemicalS- (continued on page 3)

 

PIRATE WHALING:
TAIYO FISHERIES ROLE EXPOSED

New Proof is Uncovered, Former Section Chief Fronts for
Dummy Company

WHALING NATION JAPAN - LOSS OF HONOR

(Translation of an article from the Tokyo Shimbun (circula-
tion 3,500,000) August 1, 1979.)

A TOKYO SHIMBUN investigation has revealed, as of July
315t, that Taiyo Fisheries Co. has, in fact, been secretly involved
behind the scenes in the secret import into Japan of whalemeat
from the SIERRA, a Cyprus flag ship notorious overseas as a
“pirate whaling ship” which ignores the regulations of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission (IWC). Taiyo has, up until now,
continually denied accusations by anti-whaling organizations
that it is the “wirepuller” for the covert operations.

Taiyo Fisheries, from about 6 years ago, when the IWC’s
regulations became stricter, has bought wholesale the secret
whalemeat under an agreement between the SIERRA AGEN—
CY (South Africa), the operator of the SIERRA and Taiyo
Canada, its foreign subsidiary company.

On one hand, Taiyo negotiated to place Japanese meat in—
spectors (on the ship), and then the main Taiyo Fisheries Com—
pany Whaling Division Chief went directly to South Africa,
directly associating with SIERRA officials, and has been officially
employed there to facilitate the secret whalemeat imports.

The identity of the company secretly importing the whalemeat
from the SIERRA was unknown.

However, the truth of the matter is that this unknown com—
pany’s president was the same operations division chief who ap-
peared in South Africa.

Substantiating Evidence,
A Business Name Card
The SIERRA (683 tons) is an “anonymous” whaling vessel
flying under a Cyprus flag of convenience. It has a Norwegian
captain and gunner, and is manned by a South African crew.
The SIERRA is run by a South African management company.
And for the last ten years, it has plied the Atlantic Ocean using
the port of Los Palmas in the Canary Islands as its base.
Indiscriminately hunting Fin, Humpback. female Blue and
(continued on page 2)

 




 

MINKE WHALES (continued from page 1)

muster the necessary three-quarter majority for adoption in the
plenary session. Denmark’s Lemche tacked on .an exemption
for minke whales to the Panamanian amendment, and the
package was adopted with only Japan and Russia opposrng it.
The three abstentions were all from whaling nations: Brazrl,
Korea and Spain.

Since that time the government of Brazil has informed the
US. State Department that Brazil will end whaling in two years.

Because minke whale quotas were raised, the loweringof
sperm whale quotas led to a total reduction of only four or five
thousand (the inclusion of new IWC members who whale con-
fuses the total). Last year the quota was 19,719. This year it wil
be 15,835.

Most votes on quotas took place on the last night. The session
extended till five the following morning. A number of oppor-
tunities to reduce specific quotas were lost, perhaps through ex-
haustion and inattention, perhaps through prior agreements
reached at lengthy private Commissioners’ meetings which took
place throughout the week.

The bowhead whale quota which the United States has had to
struggle to obtain for Alaskan Eskimos during the past two years
subjects our country to strong international criticism because the
IWC’s Scientific Committee consistently recommends a zero
quota owing to the severely endangered status of the bowhead.
This was brought about by extreme exploitation by Yankee
whalers in the last century. Intensive efforts to count adults and

calves over the past two years, while revealing a larger number
of adults than the low end of initial estimates, provide dis-
quieting information on calves, suggesting that the Eskimos’
selection of young whales is preventing recovery of the popula-
tion and that it may decline to extinction under the present
regime.

Dr. J. Ovington, Commissioner for Australia, delivered a
strong statement at the meeting concluding: “if we stick with
thesefigures, the species is doomed.”

PIRATE WHALING (continued from page 1)

other endangered species protected by the IWC whaling ban,
the SIERRA put into practice outrageous fishing methods such
as cutting off only the choice meat sections which would bring a
high price in Japan, while dumping the remainder into the
ocean. At the end of last June, these practices and the fact that
four Japanese meat inspectors were onboard were exposed by
English anti-whaling organizations; and in early July at the Lon-
don IWC General Meeting, Japan was placed in an extremely
untenable position.

At that time, the anti-whaling groups published documentary
photographs showing the transfer of 164 tons of illegal whale-
meat last December in Los Palmas harbor from the SIERRA to a
Japanese Freezer ship, the YAMATO FUAA (captained by
Kozo Koieke). Subsequently, the source of this importing into
Japan became a major issue.

In early July, an American anti—whaling organization visiting
Japan made public documents proving that negotiations took
place between Taiyo Canada, a Taiyo Fisheries Co. subsidiary
(Newfoundland, E. Terada, president) and the SIERRA’s
management company, Sierra Agency, (Capetown).

According to the 3 year contract initiated in 1973, 1) Taiyo
Canada would buy wholesale 3,000 tons of whalemeat from the
SIERRA; 2) Taiyo Canada would hire and employ flensing
specialists for the SIERRA. And thus, the connections between
Taiyo Fisheries and the pirate whalers became clear.

According to this newspaper’s investigation, the company
which last December imported into Japan the SIERRA’s whale—
meat was C.D. JAXON of Tokyo, a fishing company located in
the Tamachi ward of Tokyo (N. Higuchi, President; founded in
May, 1978, Capitalization 2 Million Yen). This company’s
registered place of business is President Higuchi’s home, and the
only corporate officers listed are members of Higuchi’s family.
Furthermore, the company’s three employers have their office
in a one room Tokyo apartment.

This N. Higuchi, the president, (age 44), was a former Taiyo
Fisheries Co. Whaling Division section chief who also was

employed as Taiyo’s North American enterprises sections chief.
When the Tokyo Shimbun Newspaper asked Sierra Agency
(Andrew M. Behr, Pres.) employees, officials and former
seamen about Higuchi, we were told, “He’s the man who came
to purchase the SIERRA’s whalemeat since 1973.”

Sierra Agency also revealed:

1) That there was a very close business relationship between
Behr and Taiyo Canada since 1973.

2) That it is a fact that there was a basic guaranteed contract
with Taiyo Canada to purchase whalemeat wholesale and
to dispatch Japanese whalemeat inspectors on the
SIERRA.

3) That Higuchi came to Capetown each year to arrange the
actual whalemeat import.

4) That Higuchi is still known as “Taiyo Fisheries Co.’s .
Mr. Higuchi.”

5) That there exists a separate dummy company to facilitate
the export of the SIERRA’s whalemeat.

6) That phony labels saying “Product of Spain” were used to
disguise the whalemeat’s place of origin.

 

 

The Tokyo Shimbun learned that the dummy export Com—
pany registered in the Carribean Sea’s Bahama Islands and is
called “C.D. JACKSON—Bahamas.”

And, an English anti-whaling activist, Nick Carter, recently
received from Sierra Agency sources the business name card
used in 1973 by Higuchi when he visited the Sierra Agency as
Taiyo Fisheries Whaling Enterprises section chief representative.

On the reverse side of the name card Taiyo Fisheries C033
main office address in English lettering is scratched out and
Higuchi’s home address—the Tamachi residence serving as
CD. Jackson’s office—is written in.

From this it appears that Higuchi, while employed by Taiyo
Fisheries, negotiated the purchase of the SIERRA’s whalemeat
as Taiyo Fisheries’ representative, and Taiyo Fisheries, in order
not to surface as the import source, formed a dummy company,

In February of 1977, Higuchi formed C.D. JAXON of Tokyo,
and that was the year that the IWC General Meeting decided to
ban imports from non-member nations. This was because, at the
end of 1977, the Fishery Agency Director issued an adminis~
trative order to end imports from non-member nations.

Heretofore, Taiyo Fisheries had flatly denied any contract by
Taiyo Canada saying, “We did enter into negotiations but no
contract was made. As far as the purchase of SIERRA whale—
meat is concerned, we do not have anything to do with that.”

However, from the SIERRA officials’ admission, the namecard
and other evidence, the fact that Taiyo had used Higuchi’s “two
faces” to secretly import whale meat is clear.

G. Barker, a white South African seaman who worked on the
SIERRA from 1973 through 1978 told the Tokyo Shimbun: 1)
The four Japanese whalemeat inspectors aboard the SIERRA
were employed by the Taiyo Canada, and 2) these inspectors re-
ceived payment from both the SIERRA and Taiyo Canada. Com-
missions included, they made more than twice what the average
seaman did, and it totaled to more than $3,000 per month.

This substantiates that the Japanese whalemeat inspectors
were employed by Taiyo.

The SIERRA’s whalemeat imports were first carried out by the
coastal whaling firm, NITTO Whaling; but six years earlier NIT-
TO quit and was replaced by Taiyo Fisheries. Consequently,
NITTO Whaling completely admitted these facts.

Furthermore, C.D. JAXON of Tokyo’s president, Higuchi, is
presently abroad to dissolve the whalemeat import contract.
Company employees contracted during his absence said. “We
know neither his whereabouts nor his time of return.”

 

SEA TURTLES IN THE NEWS

0 A bill to reduce the seaward boundaries of world famous Tor-
tuguero National Park in Costa Rica from twelve to three miles
and to permit export of turtle products slipped through that na-
tion’s legislature attached to another bill and reached President
Rodrigo Carazo’s desk.To his great credit, President Carazo
vetoed the bill.

O The International Union for the Conservation of Nature re-
ports that the mass nesting (arribada) of Olive Ridley Sea
Turtles that have been swimming to the beach at La Escobilla in
Mexico for millions of years ended in 1977. There was no ar-
ribada in 1978 thanks to PIOSA’s ruthless exploitation. An—
tonio Suarez, the owner, (see Information Report Vol. 28, No.
2) has obtained a 1979 quota from the Mexican Department of
Fisheries of 24,000 sea turtles from July to November. Accor-
ding to the \IUCN Bulletin “November and December are ‘open
season’ with no fixed quota. Senor Suarez has said that this year
‘green turtles will not be taken’. Will this statement turn out to be
true and, if true, is it useful? Last year, for Colola and Marauta
Bay the green-turtle quota was only 20% of the whole, but the
catch was 90% greens. The reason, as a PIOSA spokesman
obligingly explained, was that ‘ridleys are now very scarce in the
area.’

“This report should not be allowed to close on a wholly de-
pressing note. Despite all obstacles, the IUCN/WWF project
team has persisted in its efforts to save Mexico’s green tur—
tles—and with some gratifying results. During last year’s nesting
season the team purchased (often of necessity, on the black
market) 100,000 green turtle eggs and released a total of
70,000 hatchlings. This success could not have been gained
without the active help of the local inhabitants - a fact which
gives grounds for hope that even at this late hour the situation
can be turned around.”

 

 

SASKATCHEWAN KEEPS ITS COYOTES TO
CONTROL RODENTS, CONDITIONS THEM
AGAINST A TASTE FOR LAMB

A lively leaflet by Saskatchewan Agriculture entitled, “COVOIQ
Control”, features aversive conditioning with lithium chloride.
Far from advocating destruction of the local coyotes by a sheep
farmer, the brochure encourages him to condition them against
sheep killing and eating and indeed to welcome them as resident
rodent eaters and defenders of their territory against stray un'
conditioned coyotes. “Watch out for signs of no coyotes or new
COVOtGS, then LOOK OUT!” cautions Saskatchewan

Agriculture. (continued on page 3)

 




 

SASKATCHE WAN (continued from page 2)

The four~page leaflet is direct in its analysis. To quote: “Aver-

sive Conditioning. Why - The method has been designed for
use with sheep but can be used to control predation on other
animals. Each lamb killed may mean a loss of $35 and upwards
Control costs are low (not over $35 for an average farm flock of
300 ewes). The lithium chloride used for aversive conditioning
is non—poisonous in the concentration used. Coyotes thus con-
ditioned are left to prey on rodents and thus save the pasture for
sheep.
“ NOW YOUR COYOTESI-Coyotes will eat almost anything
and a dead animal is an easy meal. Coyotes you see in winter
are rarely the ones on your range in the spring. A denning pair
of coyotes make themselves inconspicuous until pups are about
6 weeks old (June 15). Feeding a den of pups makes coyotes
look for easy meals or prey (dead cows, dead sheep or live
lambs)! Coyotes which kill lambs may not return to feed on this
prey for 3 or 4 days. Coyotes preying on sheep are likely to start
their pups off on this handy prey too, but with aversive condi-
tioning they will avoid this prey. Coyotes in your area which
have been conditioned against eating sheep will tend to exert
pressure to keep other coyotes out. From August to November
roving coyotes will move into area where there are no coyotes
(Look out)!”

This system of maintaining the resident coyotes and trying to
avoid any coyote killing at all is not new in concept although the
use of lithium chloride is relatively recent. Old hands in Wyom—
ing and California have long kept the resident coyotes who did
not kill lambs in order that other coyotes who might start sheep-
killing, would be driven off. The US. Fish and Wildlife Service
still stubbornly maintains that it can’t make lithium chloride
work. Its apparent inability to do anything outside its routine
trapping, denning, and shooting from aircraft has brought heavy
criticism on it from all quarters.

NON-ANIMAL TESTS (continued from page 1)

Explaining why bacterial tests work, the author writes, “DNA
is the hereditary material of all living cells, and both DNA lesions
and the cellular processes that repair them are remarkably
similar in bacteria and in human cells; what is detrimental to
bacterial DNA is likely to harm human DNA. That is the
theoretical justification for substituting bacteria for mammalian
cells in tests to detect damage to DNA.” The practical aspects of
protecting the public are well explained. “As I pointed out at the
beginning of this article, only a small fraction of the flood of
chemicals reaching the market every year can be tested ac-
curately by means of the standard animal assays. In order to ob-
tain results with statistical significance a great many animals must
be (or at least should be) exposed to each tested chemical; for
that reason alone a comprehensive screening of new chemicals
would be impractical (other than the few, such as food ad—
ditives, drugs and cosmetics, for which testing is mandated).
Even when animal tests are feasible, manufacturers need low-
cost, fast tests it they are to identify DNA-damaging substances
while new products are still under development and alternative
ones can still be sought.” The statistical significance is high-
lighted in the following: “One of the great advantages of assays
done with bacteria is the enormous biological amplification im-
plicit in bacterial manipulations. It is easy to grow as many as a
billion (10’) bacteria per milliliter of culture medium. A muta-
tional event such as a change in a single base pair in the bacterial
DNA, which is impossible to detect by standard biochemical
methods, will be revealed as a mutant bacterium. That single
bacterium can be selected from among 109 cells because its
daughter cells, and only they, will proliferate and form a colony
visible to the unaided eye on an agar nutrient plate. Since a coI~
ony consists of about a million (10‘) bacteria, a rare single muta-
tional event with a probability of, say, one in 100 million (a
probability of (10") would thus be amplified by a factor of 100
trillion (10”).”

Citing current use of the bacterial tests, Dr. Devoret writes,
“The simplicity, sensitivity, and accuracy of the Salmonella test
for screening large numbers of environmental sources of poten-
tial carcinogens has resulted in its current application in more
than 2,000 governmental, industrial and academic laboratories
throughout the world; it is estimated that 2,600 chemicals have
been subjected to the test.” The author cites examples: “Two
impressive accomplishments of mutagenicity tests can be men-
tioned to give an idea of their value. In Japan the chemical furyl
furamide known as AF-2, was added to a broad range of com-
mon food products for some years as an antibacterial agent. It
had not shown any carcinogenic activity in standard tests on rats
in 1962 or on mice in 1971. Then in 1973 T. Sugimura and his
colleagues at the National Cancer Centre in Tokyo found that
AF-2 was highly mutagenic in bacteria; they could easily
demonstrate the mutagenic activity of the additive contained in
just one slice of fish sausage! The discovery prompted a new
round of more thorough animal tests for carcinogenicity - which
Showed that AF-2 was indeed'a carcinogen. It was withdrawn
from the market. If it were not for the bacterial test, AF-2 - which
had passed two approved animal tests and been declared
negative for carcinogenicity — would presumably still be a com-
ponent of fish sausage and other Japanese food products.

“In 1975 Ames and his colleagues reported that 89 percent of
the major class of hair dyes sold on the US. market contained
mutagenic compounds. Since then the cosmetic industry has
modified the composition of most hair dyes.”

ENFORCEMENT OF ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
Iowa

Dr. George Hoffman, one of eleven regional specialists in
USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, brought
about compliance with the minimum standards of the Animal
Welfare Act by the University of Iowa Medical College. As
reported in the Iowa City Press-Citizen, April 17, 1979,
“Housing and sanitation violations at 11 animal care facilities at
the University of Iowa will cost in the vicinity of $300,000 to rec-
tify. The cost estimate was provided by William Farrell, associate
vice president for educational development and research. Most
of that money would be used for the purchase of new, larger
animal cages, he said.

“The University also plans to hire two to four additional
animal caretakers...The University could also be slapped with
fines of $1,000 per day per citation, according to Farrell.
‘Literally dozens’ of violations, covering a wide range of short-
comings, were found by the Inspector, he said.”
Pennsylvania

A judicial officer of the US. Department of Agriculture has
upheld the decision to suspend the dealer’s license of Samuel
Esposito, owner of Quakertown Farms Kennel, Quakertown,
Pa., for 14 days. Department judicial officer Donald A. Camp-
bell also ordered Esposito to cease and desist from future viola-
tions of the Animal Welfare Act. Esposito had appealed the
original decision by a federal administrative law judge that his
dealer’s license be suspended for 14 days. Esposito, who is
licensed by the department’s Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service as a dog dealer, was charged in March of 1978 with
four counts of shipping dogs under crowded conditions.

The administative law judge that heard the case ruled that
Esposito was in violation of only two counts of the charge—
failing to transport his dogs in compatible groups and failing to
transport them in containers that were large enough for them to
turn about freely, stand erect and lie in a natural position. That
decision would have become final and effective April 1, but was
postponed because Esposito appealed.

“The flagrant violation involved in this case reveals a callous
disregard for the welfare of the animals being transported and
warrants a severe sanction,” Campbell said in his April 26 deci-
sion. Campbell’s order becomes effective May 18, and has the
force of a permanent injunction. Failure to obey can result in a
fine of $1,000 for each day a violation continues.

New York

A New York corporation, licensed as an animal dealer, has
been given 20 days by officials of the US. Department of
Agriculture, to respond to charges of violating shipping stan-
dards of the Animal Welfare Act.

Marshall Research Animals, Inc., of North Rose, N.Y., was
charged with transporting two pregnant beagles from Syracuse,
N.Y., to Cambridge, Mass, in containers that were not large
enough to ensure that each animal had sufficient space to turn
about freely in a standing position using normal body
movements, to stand or sit erect, and to lie in a natural position,
as required by federal standards.

 

UGANDA BANS HUNTING

An Associated Press report from Kampala, Uganda, August
23, states: “Uganda imposed a five-year ban on hunting today
in an attempt to save what remains of the once—great herds of
elephants, lions and other beasts that moved through its game
preserves before soldiers began slaughtering them. The prohibi-
tion, announced by Tourism and Wildlife Minister James Obua-
Otua, follows similar bans in neighboring Tanzania and Kenya.
The three nation area was world-famous as the favorite hunting
ground of professional white hunters.

“The minister said poachers killed off half of Uganda’s big
game during the eight-year rule of deposed dictator Idi Amin.
Soldiers and other modern day hunters used helicopters, ar-
tillery and heavy machine guns to kill the animals. The carcasses
were sold for fur coats and their heads were used by curio
dealers to make trophies. Since Amin’s overthrow earlier this
year, other soldiers ‘are now combing the game parks clean,’
said Paql Tamukedde, Director of wildlife sanctuaries. Game
wardens cannot stop the slaughter, he said. Tanzanian troops
drove Amin from power four months ago and stayed on as a
temporary security force. _

“A biologist claimed last week that Tanzanian troops Wiped
out a third of the large animals in Ruwenzori National Game
Park, and that more than 14,000 animals have been killed since
mid—April. Tanzanian commanders have begun investigating the
reports. In recent weeks, travelers have reported systematic
poaching in Kebalega Falls National Park (formerly Murchison
Falls Park) and in Ruwenzori. Both are among Africa’s last ma-
jor reserves of elephant, lion, antelope, buffalo, hippopotamus
and other species. Those great herds of animals were the foun-
dation of the tourism industry, second only to coffee as a source
of foreign currency for Uganda. The new government is trying
to revive tourism, which Amin banned after it peaked in 1972
with 85,000 visitors. Tamakedde said many animal sanctuaries
were damaged in the war against Amin and in some areas game
is almost nonexistent.”

 




A CONVENTION IS BORN
(reprinted from the IUCN Bulletin, June, 1979, International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.)

On 23 June a wildlife Convention was born which
in due time may come to tank with CITES as one of
the main international bulwarks against continuing
depletion of species.

A 2-week Diplomatic Conference in Bonn, West Germany,
culminated in the adoption of a Convention on the Conserva-
tion of Migratory Species of Wild Animals. It will come into
force when 15 nations have ratified.

Migratory species are defined as ‘the entire population or any
geographically separate part of the population of any species or
lower taxon of wild animals, a significant proportion of whose
members cyclically and predictably cross national jurisdictional
boundanes.

The revolutionary breadth of the Convention may not im—
mediately be plain from this somewhat ponderous language.

All migratory animals throughout the world are in principle
covered; there are no exceptions.

Admittedly this all-embracing view did not prevail without a
long, hard and ultimately costly fight. 24 hours before the treaty
in its final form was signed, a vote was taken as to whether
‘marine mammals, fish, crustacea and molluscs’ should be ex-
cluded.

41 said No and only 9 said Yes. This represented a dramatic
turnabout since the international meeting in Bonn in July 1976
to discuss the draft. At that stage the necessary two—thirds ma-
jority to include all marine species did not exist.

Defeated on this issue the 9 - Australia, Canada, Japan, New
Zealand, Poland, South Africa, Uruguay, USA. USSR — along
with certain others including Argentina, did not endorse the
Convention in the final vote. Bearing in mind that attempts to
exclude the polar regions had also been rebuffed, it is significant
that 8 of the 10 countries named above are members of the An-
tarctic Treaty and that all 10 are already catching krill.

With ‘non—supporters’ comprising so many of the rich and the
powerful, possessing in toto such an enormous land-mass and
coastline, it might seem that the Convention was not so much
born as still-born. This would be a mis-reading. The Convention
is a strong one and several of the more prominent backsliders
will surely be shamed into reassessing their current posture.
Where necessary they can rely on a little help from their NGOsl

A most heartening aspect of the conference was the strong
conservationist stand taken by the Third World and Western
Europe. Pride of place must go to the African nations. They in—
tervened often and eloquently to bring the conference back on
course. A Declaration by the African States issued half-way
through the meeting made it clear that Africans were only in—
terested in a Convention which included all migratory species
everywhere.

The Declaration was seconded by over 30 delegations and
thereafter it was plain that the majority would not compromise in
order to ‘buy’ the support of a handful of wealthy countries
more concerned about their own fishing interests than with pro—
tecting the ‘common heritage of humanity’. The minority was
not going to be let off the hook so that they could emerge with
the appearance of being good conservationists without sacrific-
ing any of their ‘proprietary rights’.

The dispute highlighted the two opposing concepts of
migratory species: national property versus shared resources. It
bodes well for the conservation cause that in Bonn the
enlightened view triumphed - with the developing world taking
thelead.

THE concept of shared resources is, of course, implicit in
a Convention covering species which cross national
boundaries. And the appendices spell it out. While Ap-
pendix l is for endangered species requiring immediate
protection at the national level, Appendix II is for species
with ‘an unfavourable conservation status’ requiring the
protection of international agreements.

It can therefore happen that a species is listed in both
appendices. The Mediterranean monk seal gets a double
entry; so does the vicuna. The appendices at present con-
tain no marine ﬁsh and are in other respects incomplete.
For the time being their primary purpose is to serve as ex-
amples.

WILD BIRDS PROTECTED BY CEC

The Council of European Communities adopted a valuable
directive for the conservation of wild birds in February of this
year. Its preamble recognizes that “a large number of wild birds
naturally occurring in the European territory of the Member
States are declining in number, very rapidly in some cases,” and
that “this decline represents a serious threat to the conservation
of the natural environment particularly because of the biological
balances threatened thereby.” It notes that most of the species
involved are migratory and “constitute a common heritage” and
that “effective bird protection is typically a trans-frontier environ-
ment problem entailing common responsibilities;” and that con—
servation of wild birds is necessary to “the improvement of living
conditions (and) a harmonious development of economic ac-
tivities.”

The Directive mandates habitat protection including “re-es—
tablishment of destroyed biotopes” where needed for “a suffi-
cient diversity and area of habitats for all the species of birds re—
ferred to in Article 1." Member states “shall pay particular atten-
tion to the protection of wetlands. . .” and “strive to avoid pollu-
tion or deterioration of habitats.”

Annex IV of the Directive bans the following:

0 snares, limes, hooks, live birds which are blind or mutilated
used as decoys, tape recorders, electrocuting devices;

0 artificial light sources. mirrors, devices for illuminating
targets, sighting devices for night shooting comprising an elec—
tronic image magnifier or image converter;

0 explosives;

O nets, traps, poisoned or anaesthetic bait;

O semi-automatic or automatic weapons with a magazine cap-
able of holding more than two rounds of ammunition.

Hunting of species listed in Annex II is permitted under na—
tional hunting laws which must include protection “during the
rearing season” and “prohibit the use of all means, arrange-
ments or methods used for the large—scale or non-selective cap—
ture or killing of birds.” Derogations are permitted in the “inter—
ests of public health and safety;” and for such purposes as “to
prevent serious damage to crops"; however the derogations
must be specific about the reasons. methods and extent of any
killing or capture. Countries are given two years in which to

“bring into force the laws. regulations and administrative provi—

sions necessary to comply with this Directive.”

PROTECTION OF MEAT ANIMALS
ESTABLISHED BY TREATY

The European Convention for the Protection of Animals for
slaughter was signed at Strasbourg, May 10, 1979, by the
governments of Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Ger-
many. Luxembourg, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.

The convention applies to the movement, lairaging, restraint,
stunning and slaughter of domestic solipeds, ruminants, pigs,
rabbits and poultry. Its 24 articles are specific in their re-
quirements. For example, Article 5 states “(1) When animals are
moved their gregarious tendencies shall be exploited. In—
struments shall be used solely to guide them and must only be
used for short periods. In particular, they shall not be struck on,
nor shall pressure be applied to, any particularly sensitive part of
the body. Electric shocks may be used for bovine animals, and
pigs only, provided that the shocks last no more than two
seconds, are adequately spaced out and the animals have room
to move; such shocks shall be applied only to appropriate
muscles. (2) Animals’ tails shall not be crushed, twisted or
broken and their eyes shall not be grasped. Blows and kicks shall
not be inflicted. (3) Cages, baskets or crates in which animals are
transported shall be handled with care. They shall not be thrown
to the ground or knocked over. (4) Animals delivered in cages,
baskets, or crates with ﬂexible or perforated bottoms shall be
unloaded with particular care in order to avoid injuring the
animals' extremities. Where appropriate, they shall be unloaded
individually.”

Article 16 states in part, “Use of the puntilla, hammer or pole—
axe shall be prohibited."

The new convention established standards which will be
helpful in connection with the 1978 amendments to the US.
Meat Inspection Act which require humane slaughter of the
animals providing meat imported from foreign countries. Pro-
posed regulations to carry out the purposes of the amendments
were published in The Federal Register June 29, 1979.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D
International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.——United Kingdom

Angela King—United Kingdom
Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

David Ricardo—Canada

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Staff

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications Secretary
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

October-November-December, 1979

Vol. 28, No. 4

 

 

German Battery Hens: Right, at the beginning of confinement;
Left, at the end.

Photos courtesy Arbeitsgemeinschaft Deutscher Tierschutz e.V.

HEN BATTERY CAGES: THE BEGINNING
OF THE END?
by Ruth Harrison

In a former Information Report we told you of the pro—
vision in the German Animal Protection Act of 1972 that: “Any
person who is keeping an animal or who is looking after it . . .
shall provide accommodation which takes account of its na—
tural behavior.”

This clause, it is explained in the accompanying text, starts
“from the principle that the well-being of an animal by and
large is based on the normal vital functions developing and
proceeding undisturbed in a manner which is typical for the
species and does justice to the animal’s behavior” . . . “In-
fluences of any kind which lead to sustained impairment. [em-
phwis added] of the well-being of the animal” are part of the
deﬁnition of pain and suffering in the text.

These far-reaching and welcome deﬁnitions have now re-
sulted in a court ruling which could have equally far-reaching
results.

Earlier this year a test case was taken against a poultry
farmer in Darmstadt, West Germany, who keeps 60,000 hens
in 4-bird battery cages, each measuring 40x43x34/44 cms.
The Lower Court dismissed the case on the basis that the
farmer could not reasonably have known that the cages were
against the law. The Public Prosecutor appealed to the High
Court in Frankfort, who upheld the opinion of the Lower
Court that there was no case against that particular farmer
for the same reason as the Lower Court’s ﬁndings. The High
Court, however, declared that the present small cages lead to
“continuous cruelty” in that the bird’s inherent behavior, such
as wing ﬂapping, scratching, stretching, and cleaning, is pre-
vented. The Court warned that after the publicity accruing
from the case, no further defense could be made on grounds
of ignorance. (Continued on page 2)

WORLD IVORY TRADE THREATENS
ELEPHANTS

A fact-ﬁnding trip to establish ﬁrst-hand information on the
world ivory trade was conducted by Martin Howell, staff dele-
gate for the US. House of Representatives Committee on
Merchant Marine and Fisheries. Hon. John Murphy (D., N.Y.)
Chairman of the Committee, authored HR. 4685 to stop the
current disastrous poaching of the African elephant. The bill
would establish a six-month ban on importation of worked
ivory, require that all elephant products come through two
designated ports (New York and Seattle) and that only prop-
erly documented importations from countries who adhere to
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
of Fauna and Flora (CITES) be admitted.

A report of his visits to government ofﬁcials and persons
involved in the ivory trade in Great Britain, Belgium, West
Germany, South Africa, Botswana, Kenya, Hong Kong and
Japan was submitted to the Committee by Mr. Howell, and a
few excerpts and summaries of points made are given below:

While he was in Kenya “some 650 kilograms of ivory worth
over $150,000 were seized at Nairobi airport . . . The con-
ﬁscation of the ivory showed both that smuggling was taking
place, but also that the government was becoming increas-
ingly effective in its control of smuggling.”

The several experts consulted in Kenya supported the pro—
posed moratorium on importation of ivory into the US. be-
cause of the threatened status of the African elephant.

They emphasized too, that the black rhinoceros and the
hippopotamus are now endangered, and world support for
these species is urgently needed.

Philip Snyder, an American citizen who is Chief Warden of
Aberdare National Park “appeared somewhat embittered with
the difﬁculties that he was having in obtaining the proper

(Continued on page 2)

“A LIST THAT RATHER EXCITES US”
World’s Biggest Mouse Breeder “Enthused”

The upsurge in use of animals for testing is reflected in a
presentation to the New York Society of Security Analysts
April 6, 1979, by Dr. Henry L. Foster, President of Charles
River Breeding Laboratories, Inc. The ﬁgures show an in—
crease in sales from $3.9 million in 1968 to $24.4 million in
1978. As reported in The Wall Street Transcript of May let,
Dr. Foster noted:

“. . if you read the papers, everything seems to have car-
cinogenic effects. But that means more animal testing, which
means growth for Charles River . . . TOSCA (Toxic Substances
Control Act) and the GLP’s (Good Laboratory Practice regu-
lations) should mean the use of more animals, and we believe,
the use of more Charles River animals . . .

“Just let me take a few more minutes and read you a list
that rather excites us. It’s a partial list of people who are
building substantial facilities for laboratory animals.

“Herkes Chemical (Herkes Pharmaceutical) Hanover, New
Jersey 50% expansion in progress, will be completed in 1979.
We have 95% of their animal business at this juncture. No
guarantee that we’ll have it in the future but that’s the way we
stand now.

“Burroughs-Welcome in the Research Triangle has a 50%
expansion of toxicology facilities, completion 1979.

“We haven’t felt the beneﬁt of any of this yet.

“Lederle, Pearl River, $65 million toxicology facility, com-
pletion 1980.

“Procter and Gamble is going to double their animal facility
within the next ﬁve years.

“The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
has a $70 million construction project underway, completion
late 1980. Predicting a 4-5 fold increase in use of animals.

“Chemical Industry Institute for Toxicological Research, in
the Research Triangle, has 10,000 sq. ft. building, completion
March 1979. (Continued on page 2)

 

 




 

A LIST (Continued)

“Boring-Engelheim, a German company in Ridgefield, Con-
necticut, plans a $20 million expansion for their R&D labs,
mid-1979.

“Shell Chemical, Houston, toxicology facilities due for com—
pletion, 1979.

“National Veterinary Services Laboratory, U. S. Dept. of
Agriculture, $15 million project underway to test veterinary
biologicals, counterpart to the Bureau of Biologics which tests
human biologicals.

“Stoufford Chemical, $30 million toxicology laboratory,
completion scheduled in mid-1979.

“Exxon $10 million toxicology facility completion due late
1979.

“McNeal Laboratories is planning a 2x expansion of their
facility, completion, 1980.

“Monsanto Chemical Co. has just completed a large toxi-
cology facility in St. Louis.

“A lot of those names are probably familiar to you, and
probably surprise you as users of laboratory animals, but you
will ﬁnd that all substances, whether they be made by phar-
maceutical companies, whether they be made by Exxon or
Monsanto or duPont, if there is any possible human exposure
or damage to humans, or carcinogenic effects, they have to
be tested on animals. So all of these companies are building,
and this is just a partial list of the major ones we thought
would be familiar to you. So you can see why we continue
to be enthused and excited. Probably late this year, or the
beginning of next year, we should start to feel the positive
impact of some of this new construction.”

Animal sales in the UK, France, Italy and Japan also ap—
pear to be booming. The following appears in The Wall Street
Transcript:

“. . we are pleased with the operations in the U. K. and
with our increased market share.

“B. Charles River France: outstanding year. Large contract
renewed through 1984. Species sales up. ..

“C. Charles River Italy: new facilities ﬁnished. ‘Catch up
year.’ Recycling of rooms begun. Added veterinarian who
spent a month training in U. S.

“D. Charles River Japan: improvement shown. More aggres-
sive pricing, market growth. Considering expansion. Pleased
with royalties received.”

As for primates, Charles River’s Vice President for Finance
is quoted as saying, “We price primate business so that it
doesn’t matter what species it is. We should be more proﬁt-
able in 1979 than in 1978.”

Efforts by humanitarians to reduce the numbers of experi—
mental animals used have clearly been ineffective to date.

SECRETARY ANDRUS MOVES TO REDUCE
CRUELTY TO PREDATORS

In an important memorandum on the United States Depart-
ment of the Interior’s Animal Damage Control, Secretary
Cecil Andrus conveyed his decisions to the Assistant Secre-
tary for Fish Wildlife and Parks. The Secretary stated, “I
hereby afﬁrm the President’s 1977 policy.” He indicated, “My
decisions are designed to restructure the program to better
assist the sheep industry in reducing losses from predators in
an environmentally acceptable manner. To accomplish this,
we must stop relying on old methods which have proven in-
effective or are too environmentally hazardous and seek new
techniques. In some cases, a return to traditional methods
(such as herders) should be seriously considered and en-
couraged.”

Concerning preventive control, Andrus wrote “In the near
term, preventive control should be limited to speciﬁc situa-
tions where unacceptably high levels of losses have been
documented during the preceding 12 months. In the long term
through additional research, our goal should be to minimize
and phase out the use of lethal preventive controls, including
creation of buffer zones.”

He speciﬁed “(1) the practice of denning should be elimi-
nated; (2) the use of aerial shooting, particularly in winter,
should be tightly controlled to achieve policy goal (1) above;
(3) all efforts will be made to utilize traps in the most selec-
tive and humane manner possible, through such practices as
the use of tension devices, prohibition of bait sets, and
frequent checks of traps; (4) There will be no further re—
search or development of potential uses of Compound 1080.
However, research may be continued on other toxicants that
do not have secondary effects, are selective and humane.”

The Secretary’s memorandum further states “Further re—
search on compound 1080 is to be terminated. Establish a
Research Advisory Committee to assure that all new ideas
are given fair attention and to oversee the performance and
application of research efforts. This Committee should in-
clude representatives of the livestock industry, the environ—
mental community, academia, the Council on Environmental
Quality, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Bureau of
Land Management, the Forest Service, and a representative
of the Ofﬁce of the Secretary.

 

HEN BATTERY CAGES (Continued)

The German Agricultural Minister, Herr Josef Ertl, has now
taken the problem to his colleagues in Brussels to ﬁnd a
solution at EEC (European Economic Community) level. The
Commission has been asked: (a) to produce a draft directive
by 1980 aimed at the eventual banning of present commercial
battery cages, and (b) to prepare a full report on possible
alternative systems upon which concrete proposals can be
made, by September 1981.

Full-scale trials on alternative systems of egg production
have been underway in Germany for some time, and it is
hoped that these will yield the information required.

The High Court decision in Frankfort has given an added
incentive to other countries to increase their research into
alternatives. It has also made them more aware that other
systems of extreme conﬁnement may receive similar treat-
ment.

Nothing will change overnight, but change is certainly on
the way!

WORLD IVORY TRADE (Continued)

equipment for his anti-poaching activities.” He volunteered
his opinion that between the time he was appointed game
warden and the departure of his predecessor at least 100
rhinos had been destroyed. Mr. Snyder stated further that
native poachers were employing poisoned arrows and poi-
soned punji sticks which were covered with plastic and set in
game paths to kill elephants and rhino. When questioned on
anti-poaching methods which he used he stated that patrols,
ambushes, and informers were used. Some 80-100 suspects
had been apprehended in the last four months; however, thus
far he had gained few convictions . . .

“A consensus of all participating in the discussion was that
the chief enemy of elephants and wildlife in general was the
population explosion. The annual increase in population for
all of Kenya is 3.6% but in the central province where Aber-
dare is located, it is over 7% which must place it among the
highest in the world.”

The report further indicates that assistance through AID
funds could effect the saving of the African elephant if com-
bined with world pressure through CITES.

In Hong Kong, Mr. Martin Lewis, Assistant Director of
Trade, stated that Hong Kong “initially objected to CITES
regulations concerning reptile skins and ivory. In 1977, how-
ever, they withdrew the objections and followed the ex-
ample of the United Kingdom. He stated that he can block
imports of any item covered by CITES . . . Hong Kong has
banned totally ivory imports from Japan, since it did not meet
the requirements of CITES. He said the same was also true
of cat and reptile skins from Singapore.”

The report notes, “it became evident that Antwerp is truly
an ivory center for all of the trade in Europe. Antwerp fre-
quently imports ivory from Zaire, Central African Empire,
Burundi, Gabon and exports this ivory to Germany, Great
Britain, Hong Kong, and Japan and also many times to traders
in Botswana and South Africa. These African traders fre-
quently will reexport back to Europe or to Hong Kong and
Japan. The pattern which emerged was one of direct personal
contact in conﬁdence between seller and buyer rather than
the nearest geographic channel.”

Mr. K.T. Wang, reportedly the largest trader of ivory in
Europe initially registered an objection to an inspection of his
warehouse in Antwerp where approximately 30 tons of ivory
were stored. However, he travelled from Paris to Antwerp,
met with Mr. Howell, and ﬁnally agreed to his viewing the
ivory. “Again Staffdel was surprised at the size of the ivory
with at least 75 pairs of the tusks exceeding 30 kilograms
each in weight. Much of this ivory was from Zaire and again
appeared to have proper export licenses from the Govern—
ment of Zaire. Also observed were some 10 tons of ivory
which contained many small tusks of less than 4 kilograms in
weight. This 10 tons of ivory had been exported from Burun-
di with the country of origin reported to be Tanzania and
Kenya. There is little doubt that this 10 tons of ivory had
been illegally exported from Tanzania and Kenya since there
were no export permits from either of those countries. Bur-
undi appears to be a free port wherein they are not con-
cerned with the origin of products, only in levying ad valorem
taxes on diamonds, ivory, copper, and gold which may be ex-
ported through their country.” ,

In Johannesburg, South Africa, “. . . at Bushcraft Trading
Ltd., . . . Staffdel was cordially received and all records prof-
erred for inspection . . . of interest was one permit which
allegedly was from Botswana but which was later conﬁrmed
to be a forgery made in Hong Kong by a former employee Of
Mr. Ilsley . . . The American market accounts for perhaps
30% of Mr. Ilsley’s business and he was most anxious that
South Africa be excluded from HR. 4685. Mr. Ilsley also
stated that it was becoming increasingly difﬁcult to procure
ivory and that was the primary reason for his diversiﬁcation

into the manufacture of jewelry made with semi-precious
stones.”

 




ANIMAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION

MEETING
The Animal Air Transport Association held its annual meet-

ing in Washington, D. C., October 30th-November 2nd. At the

opening of the conference, the Mayor of the District of Co-
lumbia, Marion Barry, was represented by Ingrid Newkirk,

Acting Chief of Animal Disease Control. She stated:

“Mayor Barry is sorry that he couldn’t be with you this
morning, but he asked me to extend his warmest wishes for a
successful conference and an enjoyable stay in our city. The
Mayor is particularly interested in your meeting, because he
has long been associated with programs that reflect his deep
respect for the rights of animals, as well as people. Recently,
he signed into law the Animal Control Act of 1979, which
improves the services provided to pets and their owners. It
is because of his commitment to the welfare of animals and
his high regard for those of you who Share it, that he has
asked me to say a few words for him today. So, on behalf
of Mayor Barry—and myself—welcome to Washington!

“We hope you will ﬁnd the time to visit many places of
interest in the nation’s capital where, in addition to the usual
sights, we give top billing to two famous occupants of the
National Zoo: The Peking Pandas.

“It may interest you to know that, indirectly, these pandas
were responsible for events that led to the Humane Transport
Law of 1976. Because it was their much—publicized flight
from Peking that prompted one of our more concerned citi-
zens to write a letter to the Washington Star, pointing out
that other animals also need some tender, loving, care while
traveling.

“The nationwide crusade for animal transport reforms that
followed is not news to this conference, but I mention it—
not only because it was a grass roots movement that started
here—but also as a way of saying ‘thank you’ to those of
you who helped steer it through Congress.

“There is no doubt that animal transport has improved
since the new law was passed. And I might point out that
increasing the ventilation holes in commercial puppy crates
did not go unnoticed or unappreciated by humane agents who
monitored Washington National Airport during the long, hot
summer. For that improvement, we in the Washington area
again say—‘thank you’—not only because it ensures a more
humane environment for the puppies, but because many of
those puppies go to our pet shops and are purchased by con-
sumers who live in the city. They are entitled to a healthy,
happy puppy.

“Washington National Airport is a better place for animals
because of the new law, and airport personnel have become
more concerned for their comfort. But there is still room for
improvement:

—Not all animals arrive hale and hearty. Some die in transit.

—Animals still remain in cargo terminals for long hours—
sometimes overnight before they are picked up.

—Some US. Department of Agriculture regulations are still
controversial and need upgrading.

But it is in international shipments that large—scale horrors

still occur:

—More than 50 calves shipped from Nebraska to the Mideast
last year were reported dead on arrival.

—In July, 40 Baboons were stranded in Bangkok. A Thai
airline reportedly refused to carry them on to Taipei, be-
cause the crates in which they had been shipped to Bang-
kok did not comply with international standards.

—And more recently, at Rome Airport, the plight of Zebras
and Antelope not permitted to land made television news
around the world. Many of the animals died.

“These are a few of the problems that make the headlines.
To the public, they are heart-rending and dramatic, and they
must be of equal concern to you, especially in the midst of
fuel shortages and rising energy costs, which make each ani-
mal shipment a precious commodity in terms of dollars and
cents, as well as in terms of life and death. In both instances,
the stakes are high. Both are vital to the economy and good
business. Both have the same urgency.

“Transporting animals, as we all know, has become far
more complex than it was 200 years ago, when a sheep, a
duck, and a rooster were sent aloft in a hot air balloon, and
landed successfully.

“When we began shipping cattle by rail, their suffering was
indescribable. All over the world, the story was the same:
crowded conditions, ﬁlth, brutal treatment—causing the great
Dr. Albert Schweitzer to say that we must all take responsi-
bility for the “cries of thirsting creatures that go unnoticed
fr 0m the railway trucks . . .” In this country, Congress soon
Passed a law limiting the conﬁnement of these animals and
Providing for their care and rest enroute.

“Today, every state has its own anti—cruelty law prohibiting
inhumane transport of animals. The District of Columbia
Criminal Code, for example, clearly states that it is against
the law to carry any animal “in or upon any vehicle” in a
Cruel manner. And it is under the anti-cruelty laws of the
State of Virginia that humane agents are privileged to inspect
cargo terminals at Washington National Airport and rescue

 

animals in distress. Penalties for cruel transport run as high
as 24 months in prison and, or, a $5,000 ﬁne.

“The public eye is now, more than ever, on the airlines’
responsibility to uphold these laws,~and perhaps the sharpest
public eye of all, belongs to the pet owner—as many of you
have come to realize. Now that Amtrak refuses to carry
animals, pet owners without a car must ﬂy their pets from
one city to another. It’s the only way they can get them
there. Gone are the days when they could take a bedroom
or a roomette on a train, or sit in the passenger car with a
toy poodle in their laps. Today, these pet owners must go by
plane, and nine times out of ten, that means that ﬁdo rides
in the cargo compartment—or not at all. Few pets are small
enough to ﬁt in kennels that go under the seat. So, the pet
owner looks to the airlines for assurance that his pet will be
safe and comfortable in the cargo compartment. Too often
he is told by well—meaning but uninformed reservation clerks
that his pet will travel in style in an air-conditioned compart-
ment set aside from the baggage. While air travel has im—
proved considerably for ﬁdo, few airlines, if any, can boast
of such delightful accommodations. Reservation clerks should
be briefed on the facts—and so should the pet owner.

“You have an opportunity at this conference to make fur-
ther improvements in animal transport—and, judging by your
agenda, this is one of your goals. You are an association that
represents vast, multi-billion—dollar industries with expertise
in this ﬁeld. You can use this expertise to bring a masterful
voice to the concept of humane shipping. You can make
that voice a force for the future, you can lead the way.

“And now having put in a few words for the animals, I
want to wish you again—on behalf of Mayor Barry and my—
self—a very successful conference.

Thank you.”

The program covered both air and ground transportation,
and the industry, the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and
humane organizations were all represented. In a question
and answer panel, USDA responded with a promise to have
new regulations on ventilation promulgated before hot weather
in 1980.

During this panel, veteran animal dealer Fred Zeehandelaar
reported that the same people were involved in the recent
scandalous abuse of animals in the Rome airport incident and
the previous scandal featured in the old Life magazine a
decade ago in which exotic animals, including giraffes, slowly
and horribly died and were cast overboard. As reported by
Life:

“. . . aboard the British ship New Westminster City, the toll
was outrageous. Bound for New York, the ship left Mombasa,
Kenya on Oct. 12, 1969, later in the season than is custo-
mary. On board were 80 animals—giraffes, antelopes and
zebras. They traveled in cages lashed to the open deck. At
ﬁrst the weather was pleasant, and junior engineer James
Cassidy, struck by the ark-like appearance of the ship, began
taking photographs. But within a few days the 10,000-ton
ship began to pitch and roll in heavy rain squalls. Some crew-
men later said that the animals thrashed about in their cages
in a frenzy to escape. Others reported that the animals’ feed
went bad.

“. . a federal indictment charged that the animals were
‘subjected to cold and other inclement weather; the crates

. were unheated, too small, unsafe, improperly constructed
and otherwise unsuitable; [and that] the grass, hay and feed
given the animals was . . . partially inedible.’ ”

Mr. Zeehandlaar stated that he had attended the court
proceedings in the New Westminster City case, that eight
lawyers represented the six defendants and succeeded in get-
ting their clients off without any penalty.

A current proposal to amend the Lacey Act would improve
this beneﬁcial law’s enforceability. Hearings were held be-
fore the Senate Subcommittee on Resource Protection of the
Committee on Environment and Public Works, November 6,
1979.

CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE PASSES ANIMAL
RIGHTS RESOLUTION

A leader in protection of animals, Senator David Roberti
steered his animal rights resolution through the California
legislature to ﬁnal adoption September 18th in amended form.

Full text of Senate Concurrent Resolution Number 8 is as
follows:

“WHEREAS, The State of California has in the past led the ,
country in passing legislation which recognizes the principle of
animal rights; and

“WHEREAS, From childhood man should be taught to ob-
serve, understand, and respect animal life which is linked to
respect for mankind; and

“WHEREAS, To advance our civilization we must become
aware of the rights of all animals; now, therefore, be it

“Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature of the State
of California should take effective measures to protect and
defend the rights of animals by enacting humane and environ-
mentally sound legislation.”

 




 

    

CLOSE CONFINEMENT OF FOOD ANIMALS
DISCUSSED AT U.S.A.H.A.

Animal welfare problems relating to intensive livestock
husbandry were discussed at the October 30th meeting of the
Animal Welfare Committee meeting of the US. Animal Health
Association. Diane Halverson, AWI research assistant who
lives on a Minnesota farm and is compiling information at the
University of Minnesota library, prepared a paper for the
meeting. Dr. Michael Fox, Director of the Institute for the
Study of Animal Problems showed slides documenting his re-
port on animal suffering in factory farms. As a result of these
well prepared presentations a subcommittee of the USAHA
Animal Welfare Committee was formed to look into the matter
and report back next year.

Excerpts from Halverson’s paper are given below. The full
text may be obtained on request to AWI.

“. . . ﬂooring now in use for hogs includes surfaces which
cause feet and leg problems, including lameness and foot
lesions.

“Such problems are not unusual. Research has uncovered
many examples of innovations made in stock management
which do not adequately provide for the needs of the stock
and lead to economic loss.

“Cattle too are being housed on concrete, sometimes result-
ing in injury, as noted in the November 10, 1978 issue of
Hoard’s Dairyman which states in part: ‘Many dairymen have
proudly built modern, labor-efﬁcient housing for their cattle,
only to stare at a herd of sore-footed cows a few months or
years later . . . we think wet concrete is the main culprit. De-
pending on condition of the concrete, it can wear feet to a
nub or let them grow long enough, it seems, for skis. The
longer cows are on concrete, especially without tender, lov-
ing care, the worse their feet become . . new concrete pre-
sents some special problems: excessive wear, bleeding and
flat feet.’

“The trend among many producers is to use bedding for
livestock less frequently and in lesser amounts, regardless of
ﬂooring surface. The beneﬁts of bedding however, are noted
by veterinarian lngvar Ekesbo, of the Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, who writes that research in Sweden
shows that ‘cows with access to straw bedding had lower
incidence of mastitis than cows without straw bedding,’ and
a lower incidence of udder injuries such as trampled teats.
Unsuitable ties and stalls which inhibit the cow’s normal move-
ments were also observed to ‘increase the risk for udder in—
juries.’

“Since 1973 Swedish law has required a review of all plans
for new or remodeled livestock environments by Swedish
veterinary authorities and allows them to require that a man-
ufacturer have new equipment ‘tested and approved from the
animal health and welfare point of view before marketing.’
These moves have resulted in improved stock health, for ex-
ample, research reveals that Swedish ‘cow stables built after
1973 in general show better udder health than those built
before 1973.’ Thus, Swedish farmers are better able to avoid
costly mistakes . . .

“For another example of unproven housing systems, an arti—
cle in the August issue of Successful Farming summarizes
recently collected criticisms of the farrowing crate for sows
and the reasoning behind proposed alternatives, namely far-
rowing pens. The crate is employed to restrict sow movement,
protect piglets from possible crushing by their mother and
reduce labor requirements. But it so severely restricts the
movement of the sow that she has only a few inches of for-
ward and back movement and cannot turn around for the
duration of her conﬁnement there, from a few days prior to
farrowing, until weaning, which commonly occurs anytime
from three to six weeks after the piglets’ birth. Sows may also
be tethered inside the crates. Now, after many years use,
some hog farmers and swine researchers are raising increas-
ingly audible voices of doubt about the wisdom of using far-
rowing crates. But even now, as the Successful Farming
article points out, if we ‘look for research comparing crates
with other farrowing systems, we won’t ﬁnd much.’ . . .

“ ‘They’re afraid of more pig crushing. . . We did notice in
one test that sows in crates are more nervous. We measured
nervousness by the number of times they get up and down . . .
The farrowing crate keeps a sow from using her natural in-
stincts to build a nest. That just adds another stress . . . In a
pen, sows use their nest-building instincts, then settle down.

  

They can’t do that in a crate and we know that when sows
are up and down a lot, they have a much greater chance of
crUshing pigs.’ . . .

“As early as 1968 Sweden noted similar problems associ—
ated with severe conﬁnement of sows and subsequently gave
up on housing dry sows in stalls. Rather, they are now often
grouped in pens and use a stall only for eating, and the sow
may enter or back out of it at will.

“Despite the above ﬁndings, there is pressure on producers
here to conﬁne the sow as much as possible. Conﬁnement of
sows in farrowing crates is extended on some farms to con-
ﬁnement for the duration of a sow’s gestation period, so that
she is unable to exercise or even turn around for most of her
life. After weaning, sows have a brief mating period, gener-
ally in the breeding lot or pen. However, researchers at
Southern Illinois are now experimenting with the injection of
hormones into the sow shortly after farrowing, then breeding
sows artiﬁcially while still in the crate, a process which the
magazine says may someday be used on farms if the hor-
mones are ‘federally cleared for use in this manner on
sows.’ . . .

“In a report on the behavioral implications of intensive
swine rearing, Dr. A.H. Jensen of the University of Illinois
refers to the ‘stress of crowding’ which he says ‘has been
implicated in frequency of esophogastric ulcers,’ adding that
conﬁnement may ‘result in more frequent fatalities in swine
genetically susceptible to the so-called Porcine Stress Syn-
drome.’ . . .

“. . . The porcine stress syndrome (P58) in pigs is found
in about one-third of the swine herds, according to Livestock
Conservation, Inc. Hogs in crowded conditions and under
intensive feeding programs develop more ulcers than hogs
raised in the open in smaller groups. The hog with a bleed-
ing ulcer may not be noticed until he vomits blood or passes
bloody manure. By that time, it may be too late to save him.”
(The Farmer magazine, October 1, 1977).

“Dr. Fritschen suggests that in regard to conﬁnement: ‘One
must realize that conﬁnement may be viewed by the pigs far
differently than we envision it. For example, humans breaking
certain laws are conﬁned (imprisoned) for punishment. When
we conﬁne a pig we rationalize that we are rewarding it or
at least doing something beneﬁcial for it. People and pigs
being conﬁned quite likely react physiologically in the same
way.’ ”

WHALE MEAT DEALER DECLARES
BANKRUPTCY

According to a news release on world ﬁsheries Issued by
the National Marine Fisheries Service, “A major Japanese
whale meat dealer, Aiba Shoten C0,, went bankrupt recently
after accumulating debts totaling over $57 million. This was
the third largest commercial bankruptcy declared in Japan
this year. The company had recently attempted to diversify
into frozen ﬁsh marketing because of Japan’s lower inter-
national whaling quotas, but the capital costs needed were too
high for the company to remain proﬁtable.”

RACCOON DIPLOMACY

Dr. John W. Walsh, a valued member of AWI’s Scientiﬁc
Advisory Committee, has a pleasant and enjoyable solution to
the problem that suburban raccoons sometimes cause. At the
request of the editor he wrote up a description of this suc-
cessful operation:

Overheard anent Raccoons:— -

“They overturn our trash cans. They ravage the plastic
sacks. And the garbage! They scatter it after they pick and
choose what they fancy. What to do?”

Give them what they are searching for —— the bones,
fruit cores, cooked table scraps of all vegetables, potatoes,
and fat—especially fat trimmed from meat, left over bacon
drippings you’ve no more room for can be poured over scraps
of almost anything including bread scraps. That goes for the
liquid from canned tuna, sardines, etc., and ﬁsh. Any left over
seafood and skins will keep them patronizing your “restau-
rant” rather than your garbage bags, after a satisfying smor-
gasbord, who needs to raid the trash? seems to be their
philosophy. They also love canned dog food and kibbles. To
us, the pests have become pets since we started putting out
the blue-plate special at our bed-time. By the time I get back
into the house our little friends are already at work enjoying
their meal.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

Paul Kieman, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.
International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece

Angela King—United Kingdom

Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, lst Vice President

David Ricardo—Canada
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol—United Kingdom

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Staff
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

John Beary, M.D., 2nd Vice President Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications Secretary

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
ROger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant




