The Oﬂicial Journal of the League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,

101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

 

VOL. IX. No. 4.

APRIL.

l 935. 2d MONTHLY! 2/6 per annum.

post free.

 

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR

SOUTHPORT CONDEMNS CRUEL SPORTS
CARLISLE CONDEMNS HARE—COURSING

CONTENTS.

PAGE
26
2’7
29

ILLUMINATION .

THE CREED OF KINSHIP .
HARE-HUNTING PROTEST IN YORKS
DEBATE AT NORWICH

Tﬂe Editor accept: no responsiéz'lity for opinions txpreued 2'72 signed artic/a.

 

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

CRUEL SPORTS

April, l 935 Q

 

 

Page Twenty-six

VIEWS AND

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Annual General Meeting

The Annual General Meeting of the League
was duly held on March 20th as announced,
when between sixty and seventy members Were
present. Mr. G. C. Wiltshire presided, in the
absence, through illness, of Canon Donaldson,
the Hon. Treasurer, and, for the same reason,
the Editor was also unable to. be present.

Mr. Hamilton Fyfe was unanimously elected
President, and the Hon. Treasurer and Vice-
presidents were re-elected. ' The following is
the result of the ballot for the twelve places'on
the Executive Committee—Mr. E. More, Mr.
H. B. Amos, Mrs. Dudley Ward, Mr. H. J.
Adams, Mr. S. Hodges, Dr. M. Joseph, Mrs.
H. Chapman, Mr. G. C. Wiltshire, Mr. A.
Gunning, Mr. E. A. Hemingway, Mr. G. A.
S-ewell, Mr. L. J. Simons.

Several amendments to the Constitution and
Rules were conﬁrmed and others referred back;
and, for some reason or other not clear, the
Annual Report was “rejected by thirty votes
to twenty-one, ” a. number of members not voting.
A further report will be made in our next issue,
when fuller details are available.

The ﬁrst meeting of the new Committee will
be held in.‘ Room C, Livingstone Hall, West-
minster, on Tuesday, April 2nd, when the new
President has been invited to meet the members.

Liverpool, Southport, Carlisle Meetings

, In last month’s issue we gave a lengthy report
of a Public Meeting and Shop-Campaign at
Liverpool against the Hare-Coursing at Waterloo.
We also told of the presentation of a petition,
signed by several thousand local peeple, includ-
ing many leading citizens, to Lord Sefton, the
Lord of the Soil where the coursing took place,
appealing to him to withhold his support from
the Meeting on the grounds that hare-coursing
is cruel and “ no longer in keeping with en—
lightened public opinion.”

In the present issue we report the Public
Meeting and Shep-Campaign held at 'Southport
along the same lines, also another successful
gathering at Carlisle, with a challenging appeal
to Lord Lonsdale to» resign from the. Presidency
of the Longtown Coursing Club and so help break
up coursing in that district.

Together, these meetings, shop-displays,
petitions, and protests form an unusually effec-
tive exposure of the cruelties involved in hare-
coursing; and, the equally ﬁne advertisement
which our Cause has received through them in
the press should do much to hasten the end of
this “sport” in the North-West. We hope,
hoWever, our local friends will not relax their

efforts, but will keep up the pressure and so pre-
pare for a still more decisive step forward to-
wards smashing the iniquity they are arrayed
against.

Hastings Meeting

A Public Meeting “ Against Cruel Sports ”
was held on Friday, March 15th, at the White
Rock Pavilion, Hastings. Can-on C. Askwith
presided, and the chief speakers were Cdr. J. L.
Cather, Mrs. E. Zangwill, and Mr. Edwin S.
More. From reports to hand on going to press,
a very successful meeting was held, of which
details will be given in. our next issue.

Petition Against Carted Stag—Hunting

A Petition to the Chairman and Secretary of
the Berks. and Bucks. Farmers’ Stag'hounds
Committee, against- Tame (Carted) Stag-Hunt-
ing in these counties is being promoted, and
everyone interested is invited to sign it. The
wording of the Petition is as follows:—

fSi'rs~—-Wre, the undersigned, wonder whether you
are aware of the distress. in these districts caused

‘by the hunting of the Cart-ed Stag. In, View of the

fact that the late King Edward VII abolished the

Royal Buckhounds in response to public opinion,

we feel that it would be a gracious act if, in this

Jubilee Year, you follow the Royal example and

substitute the Bragg for the live animal.”

Copies of the Petition, which are due to be
returned not later than April 30, can be obtain-ed
from Mrs. Adcock, Broo-mbarn Corner, Great
Missenden, Bucks.

“The Creed of Kinship” 7

It is an unusual pleasure to us to direct atten-
tion to the publication of a book bearing the
above title, and, this, not only because it deals
With such an. important phase of the humani-
tarian gospel but also because it is written by
that doyen and eminent literary humanitarian,
Henry S. Salt.

Circumstances prevent an extended review of
the book in this month’s issue, but on another
page. we give a synopsis of it which we hope will
serve to whet our reader’s appetite for a fuller
notice next month. The book is published by
Constable, 5/- net or 5/4 post free from the
ofﬁce of the League.

Humane Life

The April number of this quarterly (7d. post
free from 94, Penn Hill Avenue, Parkstone,
Dorset) is now out and is better than the ﬁrst.
It opens with a. thoughtful article on “ We do
pray for Mercy,” which condemns cruel sports.
A charming picture of Joey, a semi-tame squirrel
nibbling nuts in the Editor’s garden, adorns the
front page.

 

 

 

 

“9....” 4;... 44.; rue-“rm“; ..;..




 

 

April, 1935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Twenty—seven

SOUTHPORT CONDEMNS CRUEL SPORTS

There were some lively scenes at the meeting
held at the Temperance Institute, Southport, on
February 20th, under the auspices of the League,
to protest against the Altcar coursing meeting.

CANON W. E. MORRIS, who presided, said
that the previous week the best part of a 100
live hares were torn to pieces by dogs at the
Waterloo Hare-coursing. This was not an.
accident. It was carefully planned and thousands
of people watched it and apparently thoroughly
enjoyed themselves. That atrocity, he added,
was not perpetrated in China or among the
Tartar troops of the Caucasus, but in England,
and in. a part- o-f England which prided itself,
and he thought rightly, upon a sense of fair
play and a marked degree of culture.

“ All blood sports were cruel.” Those were
not his words. Though they may represent his
Opinion; it was a well-known hunting man who

 

SOUTHPORT SHOP-FRONT.

used the words. He respected him for the ad-
mission because, as a rule, so much hypocrisy
and cant entered into the excuses which were
made for them. V

There were, he dared say, degrees of cruelty.
To dig up, for instance, a fox, which by its
gameness had earned sanctuary, was not only
cruel, but contrary to all true sportsmanship.
So was the hunting of a half tame and carted
deer. So also, and pre—eminently he submitted,
was the setting of two dogs to harry and tear
to pieces an inoffensive. creature of God. Two
or three years ago a man who had his own taxi-
cab was hired by two men to- take them to the
Waterloo Cup meeting. That driver had never
been before. He was just an ordinary fair-
minded British working man and he had to wait
for those two men to take them back to South-
port. That gave him an opportunity which he

did not particularly desire, of witnessing a por—
tion of the Waterloo Cup coursing. That man}
told him (the Chairman) afterwards that he
could not sleep that nigh-t for the screams of
the hares still ringing in his ears. “ Have you,”
asked Canon Morris, “ ever heard a hare scream ?f
It is like the scream of a little. child in an agony
of fear, and apparently has no effect on those.
witnessing the coursing for the Waterloo Cup."

Public Opinion

Proceeding, Canon Morris said he wondered how
many of those taking part in that harrying were
justices of the peace, because he. was quite sure
that if some working lad were brought before
them for setting two terriers on a cat, that lad
would be sent to prison with-out the option of a
ﬁne. (Hear, hear.) The day would come when
things like the Waterloo Cup would be rele-
gated to the past as bear baiting and cock ﬁght-
ing had been. He did not think that day was
very far dist-ant. (Hear, hear.) The strongest
power in the world after God was public Opinion
and the public opinion was slowly but surely
condemning this travesty of sport which Would
never be held again, by the way, if it were not
for the betting which helped to keep it alive.
(Applause) Those who made these protests
were called cranks, and he accepted the title.

A crank was a most useful and necessary
thing, without which, in one form or another, a
wheel could not be turned. “ We will,” he con-
cluded, “ go on turning the wheel of public
opinion until this offence against God and the
community has ceased to be.” (Applause)

Meeting Interrupted

At the close of the chairman’s address, there
were requests by several members of the
audience to be alloWed to make statements “on
the other side,” but Canon Morris replied “The
only thing that can be permitted is that you can
ask questions.”

Further interruptions occurred, and there were
cries of “Chair” and “Sit down,” while a voice
called out “Who will volunteer to throw them
out?” Eventually order was restored and the
meeting proceeded.

“Pleasure in C ruelty’ ’

MRS. JUDITH BRUNDRETT TWEEDALE
(hostess Manchester Poetical Society), who was
unable to be present, forwarded her address
which was read by the secretary.

Mrs. Tweedale made a strong indictment of
cruel sports in general but owing to its length the

 




 

 

CRUEL

exigencies of space compel us to hold it over
until our next issue.

MR. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, secretary of the
Humane Education Society, said blood sports
offended religious, ethical and moral principles.
He made reference to his work in. industrial
centres, and said he wished that children were
as well cared for as some of the dogs he had
seen pampered. He protested against the
making of sport out of the sufferings and death
Of God’s creatures.

MR. SHARP said the meeting held in South-
port a year ago was the ﬁrst to be held to pro-
test against the holding of the Waterloo Cup
meeting.
had been sent to the Earl of Sefton, and said
the Lancashire folk were fond of sport, but
they were going to have their sport clean. He
added that they were forming a. branch in South-
port to- deal wit-h coursing alone.

The following resolution was then moved by

Mr. Kenneth Diplock, “ That this meeting

Jage Twenty~eight

 

LIVERPOOL SHOP-FRONT.

I would like to hear something of the other side’s

point of View before condemning coursing,” and

it was heavily defeated.

A number of questions were answered.

The following resolution, proposed by the
Chairman, and seconded by Mr. Lees, was put
to the meeting and carried:——“ This meeting of
residents of Southport and district believing
that the coursing of a sentient creature for
sport is an act of gross cruelty entirely out of
harmony with modern thought, and, in addition,
violates Christian principles of Justice and com-
passion, calls upon the Earl of Sefton to with-
draw his patronage from the Altcar coursing
meetings.”

The reply of the Earl of Sefton was the same
as was made to the Liverpool resolution and
was not only a blank refusal to consider the
matter, but an appeal to his supporters to rally
to him and stand by the sport.

He gave details of the petition that .

S P O R T S April, 1935

The Liverpool (3” Southport Campaigns

Notes by The Secretary

Probably the greatest single effort against a
particular cruel sport was made in February,
when shop campaigns and public meetings were
held at Liverpool and Southport, and a. petition,
as detailed in our last issue, was promoted
against the hare-coursing for the Waterloo Cup.

The Earl of Sefton, who is the President of the
National Coursing Club, ignored the petition so
it was decided to proceed further with the cam-
paign. An empty shop was rented in Lord St.,
Liverpool, for the week commencing Monday,
Feb. 11th, and a public meeting was held on the
Friday. The following week a shop was rented
in Eastbank Street, Southport, and a public
meeting held on the Wednesday. At both shops
literature was distributed, copies of the peti-
tion were displayed, and many hundreds of addi-
tional signatures were obtained. An enormous
amount of public interest was aroused.

The public meetings were most enthusiastic,
though somewhat lively, and resolutions were
carried calling upon the Earl of Sefton to with—
draw his patronage from the sport. At the Liver-
pool meeting a further resolution was carried
urging the Government to introduce legislation
against coursing, and copies were sent to . the
Merseyside M.P.s. The meetings were well re-
ported and started a correspondence in the
“Liverpool Post,” where many letters were
published condemning the coursing. It was
encouraging to learn from one coursing en-
thusiast that the attendance at the meetings
this year was the smallest on record.

We have accomplished a most effective piece
of propaganda and shaken a traditional stronghold
of an age-old ﬁeld-sport, and whilst augmenting
our forces for a more vigorous assault, we would
appeal to the generosity of our members and
friends all over the country for contributions to
cover the expenses (amounting to nearly £50) of
the Crusade. We have thoroughly aroused local
opinion against this particular exhibition of
“ hare-mangling ” and very little extra pressure
is needed to force the ‘Lord of the Soil’ to pro-
hibit it for very shame’s sake.

We wish to tender our most grateful thanks
to Mr. A. Amos. the Hon. Secretary of the
Liverpool Animals’ Welfare Council and other
members and friends for the generous help they
gave. We also thank Miss M. A. Cummins,
the Southport Hon. District Representative and
the friends there for their kind help~ in con-
nection with the Southport- campaign.

J.C.S.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

WRAAANH . _

 

 

 

 

April, l 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Thirty~one

 

 

THE CREED OF KINSHIP*

Prompted by a hostile journalist’s remarks
that he is “ a compendium of the cranks,” Mr.
H. S. Salt has devoted the close of his life to
the writing of a book, the design of which is
to show that the various humanitarian move-
ments are, m truth, closely related, and can be
successful only when they have attained, in
combination, to what he calls “ The Creed of
Kinship.”

For it is on the single sense of kinship that
they are all based—paciﬁsm, socialism, penal re-
form, vegetarianism, anti-vivisection, the
protest against cruel sports, and the general
assertion of animals’ rights. The book, in fact,
is a statement in new form, of the principles
of the Humanitarian League. In its last chapter,
“ One who Understands,” a. personal example
is given, from the poet Shelley, of how the faith
and conscience of a future age may be partly
anticipated.

The conclusions reached in this book are as
follows:

. (1) That our so-called ‘civilisation’ is only “a
manner of speaking,” a quite rude state
as compared with what can be foreseen.

(2) That the basis of any real morality must
be the sense of Kinship between: all living
beings.

(3) That there can be no abiding national wel-
fare until the extremes ~of wealth and
poverty have been got rid of.

(4) That War will not be discontinued so long
, as soldiering is celebrated as heroic by
sentimentalists.

(5) That the Rights of Animals have hence-
forth to- be considered, and that such
practices as cruel sports, vivisection, and
ﬂesh-eating are not compatible with
civilised life.

(6) That Free thought is essential to pro-
gress, and that the religion of the future
will be a. rational belief in this Creed of
Kinship.

* Henry S. Salt. Constable. 55. net.

>l< * * >l< *

Hare Hunting Protest in Yorks.

A ten-minutes snowstorm helped to thwart a
demonstration of protest by animal lovers at the
meeting of the Airedale Beagles above Ilkley.

The demonstrators were determined, however,
and followed the beaglers out on to the gale-
swept moorland, with their banners spread in
front of them.

The demonstrators included several women.
Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, secretary of the Leeds

branch of the League for the Prohibition of Cruel
Sports, said they intended following the hunt
throughout, “ and if the quarry comes our way
we shall be on the side of the hare.”
She added that while they had no intention of
interfering, if the opportunity occurred to protect
the hare from the hounds they would do so.

A statement issued by Mrs. Beaumont pointed
out that they organised the protests as a means
of showing the public that there was a big body
of opinion in existence which condemns the bar-
barities of hunting helpless animals. They con-
tended that the drag—hunt, which means following
a trail of aniseed or other odorous substance,
would provide just the same thrills as the real
hunt, with more certainty of a good day’s sport.
. “ We consider,” the statement continued,
“ hunting of all forms to belong to the same class
of mediaeval barbarities as cock—ﬁghting and bull-
baiting, and consider the disgusting kills which
are frequently made a blot on civilisation and
Christianity, and know that many of those who
ride to hounds are unable to face a kill them-
selves."

W. Yorke Pioneer, F‘eb. 1.

Debate at Norwich

“ That the pursuit and killing of animals for
sport is indefensible ” was the subject of a debate
by the North Walsham Debating Society at their
meeting on Monday, Mr. J. B. Leno presiding.

The Rev. W. Lansdell, proposing the motion,
said he considered that the effect of blood sports
upon those who took part in them must be a
hardening of feeling and a loss of spiritual sensi-
tiveness. '

Col. W. Jennings opposed, and contended that
hunting was an instinct inherent in man, just as
it was in other animals. Field sports gave em-
ployment to a large number of peOple and helped
very largely to maintain the agricultural industry.
Dr. J. Shepheard seconded the motion, and said
that his objection was that ﬁeld sports were re-
sponsible for unnecessary cruelty. Undue im-
portance was attached to the ﬁeld sports, so that
the letters, M.F.H., after a name was a social
distinction which came before that of the holder
of a Victoria Cross. Fox hunting had been de-
scribed as "‘ the pursuit of the uneatable by the
unspeakable. ’ ’

Mr. S. G. Hare supported the opposition.

Those who took part in the discussion included
Mrs. Wallwork, Messrs. H. Cliffe, G. B. Fuller,
E. G. Loads, J. H. Adams, S.Watts, and H. P
Coates.

The voting by ballot had an unexpected result.
18 votes being recorded for each side, and the
Chairman refused to give a casting vote.

E. Daily Press.

 




 

 

Page Thirty—two C R U E L S P O R T 3 April, 1935

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

 

 

 

President~A. HAMILTON FYFE, ESQ. Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

Vice-Presidents—
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. E, ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
SIR HERBERT BARKER. G, P. GOOCH, D.Litt. HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq,
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. GERALD GOULD, Esq, BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALD. M, CONWAY, J .P. LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.
(EX-Pres., Nat. Un. T'chers.). DONALD MAcLEOD, Esq. PERCY A, SCHOLES, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). (Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic Cl.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suﬁering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”1 , '

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

AN OFFER. A copy of the “Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application.
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith‘k ........................

State

whether ..................................................... . ..... .......
Mr., Mrs., ‘
or Miss.

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo I.-OOOOIOOOOOIOOOIOOOIOOCCI

*5/- per annum includes Official Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQUEST.
To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— .
bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL Spoms, London, ‘the sum

of. ,. ............................ 1free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

BRIGHTON—Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure WANTE D, STAMPS in use before 1880. —Sewell_ 51, Lan-
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and c. water, gas caster Gate, London,

ﬁres, good garden. central. near Sea and Downs, inclu- HUMANE FUR! (fabric).._—104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, '16 and beck 7257.

17 » Norf‘ﬂk Terrace- BUDLEIGH EAL'EERRTOEI, the Coagstgl Gem offﬁmﬁh Degon.

. . Su erior oar esi ence. e rooms W1 . an o.

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE.._Vlctor1a Golf Hotel. Season rugning water, varied and attractive food. AdeQuate

terms £4/4/-. Swiss balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
periods '75 per cent.) Wormaid, “ Mountway.

a." re aid advertisements are inserted at the rate of lid. per Word per insertion or 2/6d; per line,f0,r twelve
8m insrrrtigns and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the followmg month s Issue.

 

lished b the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CBUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street.
PubWestminlgter, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bond Gate. Nuneaton.

 




