QW£$W=§ QI’IQQWFQ QWQéMQ$W£$W2$W£$W£§W£§W£9K*

:O; .OIO OIO IOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOI OIOIOIOIO OIOIOIOIO IO IO IO IO OIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO'OILOIOIOIOIO IO I '

$3

 

I .OIOIOIOIOIOIO

 

‘. 39.135295}

A VIVISECTION

§0NTROVERSY

Being a discussion on certain
Medical Theories and Statistics

TWIC‘H.

“1"‘0

 

 

 

 

 

 

carried on in the
“GHELTENHAM EXAMINER”
during
December, 1910, 8:. January, 1911‘.

Pﬁ'ﬁiﬁiﬁﬁ'ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ ﬁﬁ‘ﬁﬁﬁ% Eﬁcﬁéﬁiﬁf/ﬁiﬁm

. See. :

ILTON LANE, P

i
IOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO'OIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOI OIO

E23:

OF THE zmwxsn UNION FOR. "

75

BETWEEN

WALTER R. HADWEN

_ J.P., M.D., L.R.O.P., M.R.G.S., etc.
( President of the British Union l)for Abolition of Vivisection),

STEPHEN PAC-ET Esq...

F.R. 0-S-
(Hon. see. of the Research Defence Society).

.9
‘6‘:

WW

:2“:
c

ﬁﬁeﬁsﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁaﬁﬁﬁﬁ

EH
«M

5:9“ g§y%¢% 9.9 o

31/

i

engage

 

 

PUBLISHED BY

The British Union for Abolition of Vivisection
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society)

32 GHARING GROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON,
’ s.w.

 

 

 

 

 

ES:

 

PRICE 3a.; 27- per doz.

OO'O:O 'O OI .OIOIOIOIOIO:IOIO!IOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO OIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO:IOIOIOIO IO IO ,.

a?" ‘5?/1\% FAﬁFAﬁFACSEA‘i 331% Fiﬁ—6 f/ﬁ'ﬁﬁkﬁﬁﬁﬁ 25%“;

n63”)???

:IO' OIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO'OIO'OIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO) OIOIOIO

OIO IOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO.O.O..O..O.O.OIO.O.O..OIOIOZOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOI I I I II

3C:%:35£$\¥=2%Y%%3{%§=¥{£

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 




 

 

A VIVISECTION

CONTROVERSY

 

 

 

 

 

 

Being a discussion on certain
a Medical Theories and Statistics
carried on in the
“ GHELTENHAM EXAMINER ”
during
December, 1910, & January, 1911,

 

 

 

 

BETWEEN

WALTER R. HADWEN.

J.P., M.D., L.R.G.P., M.R.c.s., etc.
1 (President of the British Union for Abolition of Vivisection),

STEPHEN lgoAGET. Esq.,

F.R.G.S.
( Hon. Sec. of the Research Defence Society).

 

 

 

 

 

PUBLISHED BY
The British Union for Abolition of Vivisection

(The British Anti-Vivisection Society),

32 GHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON,
S.W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was —~ ‘wwtwmﬁ ‘thﬁ'ﬁ-"mw , ,. .1

 




 

 

 

A
Vivisection Controversy.

The reader who will patiently peruse and study the following
letters will ﬁnd himself rewarded, not only by the acquisition of certain
facts, but by the insight which he will thus obtain into the respective
methods in controversy of the Vivisectionists and Anti-Vivisectionists.
They are specially commended to the attention of those who take an
interest in the abstract study of debate. The only remark that needs
to be made upon them is that they are typical samples of the
Vivisection controversy, similar (on one side identical) letters having
appeared in various organs of the press throughout the country during
the past three years.

As an introduction, the report of the meeting which formed the
basis of the correspondence, as published in the Cheltenham Examiner,
is given.

 

 




 

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Thursday, Dec. Ist, 1910.

 

ANTI-VIVISECTION.

MEETING OF THE CHELTENHAM BRANCH OF THE
BRITISH UNION.

HE annual meeting of the Cheltenham and District Branch of
E the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection was held
, at the Imperial Rooms on Tuesday afternoon, Dr. E. W.
Wilkins, M.A., LL.D., in the chair. ‘

THE CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.

The CHAIRMAN remarked that they had met to renew their
warfare against a great evil, which was man-made and preventible, but
which, owing to apathy and pre-occupation, was not fully realised by
one in a hundred. His own feeling was that there was one great
principle of the universe and of human life upon which there was very
large agreement amongst all thoughtful people: poets, philosophers,
advanced thinkers, and the seers of the world had recognised and
taught that principle, which was that good, perfection, beauty,
harmony, health, peace, order was the goal, the “ﬁnal cause” of the
universe and of man, and that it was man’s work, business, duty, joy to
effect this, to bring it about. When he spoke of health, he meant
health in the largest and truest sense, not merely of the physical body,
but of the whole nature—health of the soul and the well—being of the
whole human race in every respect.

During the last twenty or thirty years the best ideals of
medical science and the art of healing had been sullied by the
adoption by a large section of the leaders of medical science of
the most detestable practices, which only needed to be thought
about in the light of the results obtained in other regions of
knowledge to be recognised as not leading to true health, and there-
fore to be rejected as false science. That was the body of practices
known as vivisection.

UNWORTHY OF HUMANITY.

Those practices fell under two heads—(I) the dissection of
living animals, often with prolonged agony, and (2) the system
and practice of deliberately implanting disease into living animals,
either with a view to watching its progress, often extended over

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(4)

periods of weeks and months, or with a View to using the body of
the animal as a kind of laboratory to elaborate diseased ﬂuids, to draw
off these diseased ﬂuids or serums, and then after various cultures and
attenuations to inject them into human bodies with a View to mitigat-
ing or preventing speciﬁc diseases.

After quoting, as an illustration of what he meant, a descrip-
tion from the Contemporary Review of August, 1909, of Colonel
Bruce’s inVestigations into the origin of Malta fever, he observed
that, whatever beneﬁcial results might be claimed from such
practices as were used towards ISO or 200 monkeys on that
occasion, they were utterly unworthy of our humanity. Those whose
aim was to live at their best should refuse and reject such gifts or
beneﬁts unhesitatingly. Health could never come that way. They
could not have a healthy body by poisoning their soul-that was, all the
higher principles of their nature. Health in the true sense included
much more than freedom from bodily disease. The great mistake
made by the medical scientists who pursued the path of vivisection
was that they subordinated regard for the moral purpose of the
universe—the divine order, beauty, harmony, love and perfection which
constituted the true end and purpose of the universe—to the study of
material forms and the order of the mechanical processes of nature.
It was on these grounds, apart from his ﬁrm belief that no real bodily
health resulted from the injection into human beings of diseased animal
ﬂuids obtained in the way described, that he should for ever refuse to
participate in their use. Prolongation of physical life or immunity
from disease, even if it could be procured, ought not to be purchased
on such terms.

DR. HADWEN’S SPEECH.

DR. W. R. HADWEN, President of the British Union, gave an
address on “ Experiments on living animals.” There was no question,
he remarked, that such experiments ran directly counter to that high
ideal of human life which Dr. Wilkins had put before them. Vivi-
section was an absolutely erroneous practice, because it dealt almost
entirely with results instead of with causes. The anatomic and
physiological characteristics of animals were, in practically every
instance, quite diverse from those of the hnman body, besides which it
was illogical to suppose that they could arrive at any scientifﬁc result
from experimenting with human disease upon a healthy animal. The
injection of a human malady into an animal rarely produced the same
disease in the animal; therefore no conclusion therefrom could be
drawn for the beneﬁt of the human race.

So far from vivisection having produced any result, it had been
nothing else from beginning to the end than a gigantic failure.
He did not know that they could have a better illustration of this
wrong-headedness, this unscientiﬁc method, than the recent onset upon
rats in Suffolk. Four persons in one house were taken ill with the
same complaint, viz., pneumonia. So far as he could gather, there
was no other symptom in the patients than inﬂammation of the
lungs; but fear was in the air, somebody whispered “Plague,”
word was sent to the Local Government Board that most likely
rats were the"cause of the plague, and some dead rats were

 

 

 




 

 

 

(5)

sent to the Board for examination. The bacteriologists thereupon set
to work and discovered in the rats what they considered to be the
plague microbe, word went forth that rats must be destroyed, and
up to the present thousands upon thousands of rats had been got rid of.

Assuming for the sake of argument that the rats had suffered
from plague, what was plague? There was no trustworthy evidence
that he, as a student of epidemiology, had ever heard of that plague
had ever come to a human being by means either of a rat or a rat ﬂea. i

THE GERM THEORY. j

The plague of mediaeval times and of the East arose from soil
poisoning—it was due to cadaveric deposit, the deposit of dead bodies,
or from ﬁlth of some kind or another emanating from the soil, To say
that plague arose from one deﬁnite cause which had never altered, and
that that cause was a microbe, was about the most absurd idea that
had ever originated in the human brain. It arose in this country, in
the middle ages, for the most part in walled cities, in monasteries, and
in the houses of the clergy. Why? Because in these places the soil
had become poisoned by a larger cadaveric deposit than it could make
use of and render immune. If they were to get rid of any disease, the
ﬁrst thing was to ﬁnd out what had produced it and to remove the
cause. The bacteriologists, however, never troubled to ﬁnd the origin
of disease: what they tried to do, as they did in the case of the so—
called rat plague, was to try and ﬁnd a microbe.

In every case of plague, whether in England, in India, in China, .
or other parts of the East, it was ofﬁcially recorded that rats always
gave the premonitory signs of the coming epidemic. That was easily
explained. In soil poisoning the smallest animals were affected ﬁrst;
then came goats, pigs, and fowls, until at last the disease reached the
human being. What, then, should have been done in East Anglia,
when the rats, as was alleged, gave a warning of this description?
Was it not to have found out what was the nature of the poison by
which the rats had become affected? He suggested various sources of
soil pollution, and ridiculed the notion that the “ plague” could be got rid
of simply by destroying vermin which had given warning of the
existence of ﬁlth. It was just as futile, he suggested, to search for the germ.

The germ theory embraced the grossest cruelty to animals.
Yet he emphatically declared that this theory—the theory that every
kind of zymotic disease had its origin in a certain microbe, and that
every speciﬁc disease had its own speciﬁc microbe—had never yet been
proved. Every attempt at proving it had ended in failure. It was M.
Pasteur who invented the germ theory. Professor Koch had put
forward four postulates which must be proved before the theory could
be accepted as scientiﬁc, but every one of these postulates had broken
down in every disease to which they had been applied. If they had
no scientiﬁc foundation for the germ theory what, then, became of the
superstructure built upon it? It crumbled to pieces. Koch had
admitted, “You cannot argue from animals to man.”

 

THE GERM CARRIER.

Another illustration of the point was the recent case of a so-
called germ carrier at Wrexham. 107 persons were taken Ill and ﬁve

 




 

 

 

(6)

died after eating pork pies. All the symptoms pointed to ptomaine
poisoning, but in order to introduce the new-fangled theory of a germ—
carrier, the Medical Ofﬁcer of Health made a bacteriological examina—
tion of the blood, &c., of all employed in the bakery where the pork
pies were manufactured, and ﬁxed upon a widow who, it appeared,
had worked at the shop for seven years before and for eight weeks
after the outbreak, yet had neither before nor since been the cause of
any mischief.

But the extraordinary part of the whole business was that the
supposed germ-earrier had never herself suffered from paratyphoid
enteritidis—the disease from which the 107 pork-pie eaters were
said to have suffered—~nor had she touched any one of the pies
which were alleged to have caused the illness, nor yet had she infected
her own children who lived with her. When science so—called had
reached this position, based as it was upon the experimentation upon
living animals, it deserved the condemnation of every common sense
man in the kingdom ; and it seemed to him if things went on much
longer in this way, that the general public would very soon have to
rise up and save the whole medical profession from the lunatic asylum.
The speaker gave a further illustration of his contention in what had
happened in the search for a germ for sleeping sickness.

PHYSIOLOGICAL CONTRADIGTIONS.

Turning to the physiological aspect of vivisection, he described
“the diabolical cruelty ” which was practised on dogs in order to
study digestion and the action of gastric juices, and quoted Professor
Starling’s evidence before the Royal Commission to the effect that
“the last experiment must be upon man.” If the last experiment
be upon man, it was perfectly clear that the ﬁrst scientiﬁc experiment
must also be upon man, and if so, then all the previous experiments
upon lower animals had been unreliable and had produced no scientiﬁc
result. A hedgehog could swallow as much opium as would last a
Chinaman a fortnight, and as much prussic acid as would kill a
regiment of soldiers; long-tailed monkeys could take large quantities
of strychnine without effect, while short-tailed monkeys were killed
with a very small dose ; and a little pigeon could take twelve grains of
morphia and ﬂy away as happy as a lark, while a single grain would
send any of those present to their last account. From every stand-
point vivisection was absolutely misleading. Lawson Tait had
declared that in surgery experiments on animals had done nothing for
the human subject except to lead to horrible bungling, while in the
matter of therapeutics the whole work of the vivisector had been
nothing more nor less than a gigantic failure. Furthermore, it was
one of the foulest blots upon a Christian country, and was diametri-
cally opposed to the morality which a Christian nation professed
to uphold.

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE CONTROVERSY

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. 8171, I910.

Research Defence Society.

Sin—At a recent Anti-vivisection meeting in Cheltenham, of
which you gave an account in the Cheltenham Examiner, December Ist,
reference was made to three diseases, plague, Malta fever, and sleep-
ing sickness. Give me leave to put before your readers, brieﬂy,
certain facts, which cannot be denied, as to the cause and the pre-
ventive treatment of the ﬁrst of these diseases.

Plague is not due to any sort or kind of soil poisoning, cadaveric
deposit, or ﬁlth. Such phrases are just a sort of popular talk; they
have no exact meaning of any sort or kind. Plague is due to a Special
germ which was discovered in 1894, by Kitasato and Yersin. In 1895,
it was found possible to immunise guinea pigs and rabbits against
plague. In 1897, Haffkine and others, having tried this treatment on
themselves, introduced it into practice. The evidence that plague is
due to a special sort of germ, and to no other cause of any kind, and
that these germs are in the blood of rats infected with plague, and in
the stomachs of the ﬂeas on the rats, is past all possibility of reason—
able doubt. When the rats die, the ﬂeas leave them, and seek live
blood elsewhere : and that is how the plague is conveyed to man.
The Suffolk patients died, not of ordinary pneumonia, but of plague
plus pneumonia: and the germs of plague were found in them during
life. These facts speak for themselves. I come now to the results
obtained by preventive treatment against plague in India.

In Undhera, an agricultural village in Baroda State, of 950
inhabitants, 513 were protected, and the rest were not. Plague
occurred, subsequentlv, in 28 families. In these families there were 7 I
protected, and 64 not protected. The 7 I protected had eight cases with
three deaths, While the 64 not protected had 27 cases with two deaths.

In a tenement dwelling at Pilat Bandar, Bombay, were 24 pro-
tected persons, and 37 not protected. Of the 24 protected, one had
plague and recovered: of the 37 not protected, 19 had plague and
12 died.

In the Army Hospital Corps, Belgaum, were 83 persons living
close to the European Military Hospital under constant supervision of
these 83 persons. 80 were protected, and only three were not pro—
tected.’ Of the three not protected, two died of plague: none of the
80 suffered in any way.

The Senior Medical Ofﬁcer, Belgaum, had, among his private

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(8)

servants" and their families, 28 protected, and only two not protected.
These two persons both died ; but none of the 28 got the plague.

At Hubli, among the railway employés, 1260 were protected, and
760 were not protected. Among the 1,260, only two died ; among the
760, there were 21 deaths.

.At the Empress Mills, Nagpur, 1,116 factory-hands were pro-
tected, and 2,663 not protected. Among the protected, six died of
plague : among the not protected, I79 died of plague.

In Bombay, a large number of municipal servants were protected.
The municipal servants occupied special municipal tenements, and were
therefore under easy daily observation. Among 3,317 protected, only
three died of plague: among 838 not protected, 18 died of plague.

In Karachi, nearly all the town scavengers were protected.
Among no less than 1,245 protected, only four died of plague: among
only 60 not protected, ﬁve died.

In the Punjaub villages, inoculation is carried out vigorously. We
have the ﬁgures large enough to satisfy anybody. We know what
happened among 186,797 protected persons, and 639,630 not protected.
Among the protected, only 314 died of plague. Among the not pro-
tected, 29,723 died of plague. That is to say, we may roughly calcu-
late that 8,000 human lives were saved by preventive treatment against
plague in the Punjaub Villages.

Let me add, Sir, that I shall be happy to send, to any of your
readers who will send me seven stamps, an illustrated pamphlet on
Plague in India, past and present, written by Lt.-Colonel Bannerman,
I.M.S., D.Sc., M.D., Director of the Bombay Bacteriological Laboratory.
It gives an admirable account of the experiments which made it clear
that rat-ﬂeas convey plague from rats to man: it also describes the
whole nature and method of the preventive treatment. I hope that
you will allow me next week to say something about Malta fever.—

1 remain, yours, etc.,
STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary, Research Defence Society.

.21 Ladbroke Square,
London, 'W., Dec. 3, 1910.

 

 

 




 

 

 

(9)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. I5, 1910.

Dr. Hadwen’s Reply to Mr. Paget.
PLAGUE.

Sir,-—Mr. Stephen Paget is a past master in the art of assertion
and denial when he has to deal with questions which he has never
adequately studied. The presumption and assumption with which he
waives the whole epidemiological history of plague as recognised by
every intelligent student of the subject, and of which I afforded ample
evidence in my lecture, is ludicrous.

He says the four patients in the little Suffolk village about whom
all this artiﬁcial and ridiculous scare has been created, died of plague
plus pneumonia. When he can show that they had any physical sign
or symptom other than that of ordinary pneumonia, it will be time
enough for him to make this assertion.

The President of the Local Government Board, in answer to
questions in the House of Commons, has never ventured beyond the
statement that plague was “suspected.” No “plague germs” were
“found in them during life.”

To the germ theory origin of plague with its rats and ﬂeas
and microbes, Mr. Paget bows. It is the latest fashion and it saves a
lot of thinking. The bacteriologists have been very busy examining
the Suffolk rats for some time, but I am not aware that they have been
able to ﬁnd a “plague” ﬂea yet—the only ﬂeas that they can ﬁnd so
far have always been declared to be of the harmless variety! The
only time they came across a real " Cheops ”was long ago down at
Plymouth, but there was no plague! The “ plague bacillus” which
they have "discovered ” has done duty already for nearly every disease
under the sun, and will probably do duty for a good many more before
they have ﬁnished with it. Bacteriologists are not certain which is the
right one, for they found one bacillus in the blood of plague patients,
and another in their buboes. Not even the Suffolk rat is genuine, for Sir
Ray Lankester, who now says the brown rat ought to be extirpated,
declared two years ago that it was quite harmless, and that owing to
its having driven the black rat out of the country, England had been
saved from the plague! The fact is, all the modern germ theorists
are covering themselves with ridicule by their contradictions and
fright.

Added to all this, I note that Mr. Hankin, Chemical Examiner
and Bacteriologist for the NW. Provinces of India and Oudh, reported
ofﬁcially to the Plague Commission, 1899, that there was no doubt
that plague occurred among human beings in whom no microbes
could be found at the time of death. Experiments have been made by
putting the alleged plague ﬂea on hum an beings, allowing them to bite,
and 1even rubbing in the supposed poison, and yet no plague was the
resu t.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(10)

As to all the instances which Mr. Paget gives of the wonderful
effects of Haffkine’s plague serum (a subject to which I did not refer
in my lecture), he surely ought to know by this time that Haffkine’s
ﬂuid has been given up as useless, and that therefore all his wonder-
ful stories must be ﬁctitious ! Mr. Paget told a similar remarkable tale
about Yellow Fever serum with precise data and statistics in his ﬁrst
edition of “Experiments on animals,” but he had to promptly with-
draw it all in the second edition; he did so without even an apology
or an explanation for having so ﬂagrantly imposed upon his readers.
All Mr. Paget’s miracles had been wrought by the wrong germ ! And
they have not yet been able to ﬁnd the right one !

Moreover there is a grave fallacy associated with all Mr. Paget’s
ﬁgures. In the ﬁrst place the differences in the fatality between the
inoculated and the uninoculated cases are for the most part slight and
are easily accounted for by the fact that the inoculated cases are more
or less selected, whereas the uninoculated include all the rapidly
fatal cases. The statistics are therefore unscientiﬁc.

In addition to this, no account is taken of the character of
dwelling place in which the sufferers lived. It has been conclusively
shown that the type of house—whether of stone with stone ﬂooring or
mud walls and a mud ﬂoor—makes all the difference to the attack rate.

Look at India as a whole. The plague began in 1896 and claimed
30,000 deaths in the year. The bacteriologists commenced the whole-
sale distribution of serum in 1897, and by the year 1904 the deaths had
reached 30,000 per week. They increased every year for nine years
(except in 1900). From September, 1906, to April 1907, there were
5, 326,000 deaths. That does not say much for serum. It only
increased the mortality. In 1908 the heavy rains washed the soil and
the slump in plague was sudden; it was almost extinguished. But
directly the heat played again on the rotting soil, cholera (another soil
poison), and small-pox (an aerial poison), took its place for a time and
produced more deaths than the plague. Now plague has come back.
And plague will continue until medical ofﬁcialdom is stOpped in its
insane process of blood poisoning and plague dissemination, and the
work of the Sanitary Engineer is called into requisition instead.

Plague broke" out in Alexandria in 1899. Dr. Rogers, Director-
General of the Sanitary Department, Egypt, “dealt with it on lines
directly opposed to Mr. Haffkine’s views.”' He scorned the inoculation,
just as Haffkine scorns sanitation. He stamped out the plague in
Alexandria in seven months.

I am, Sir, your obedient Servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.

President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection,

Gloucester, December 12th, 1910.

 

 

l

 




 

 

(II)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. 15, [910.

Research Defence Society.

Sir,—-Malta fever is another good instance of the value and the
necessity of experiments on animals. This painful, slow, exhausting,
and often fatal disease used to be the very scourge of our garrison in
Malta. The average stay in hospital, for a case of Malta fever, was
four months. In one year alone, 1905, no less than 403 ofﬁcers and
men were invalided home, as the result of Malta fever.

Sir David Bruce, as far back as I887, discovered the special germ
which is the cause of the disease. He made the discovery, of course,
by the only possible way, by experiments on animals. First, he found
certain germs, under the microscope, in the blood and tissues of
patients who had died of Malta fever. Then he cultivated these germs,
all by themselves, in test tubes apart from all other kinds of germs.
Then he introduced a little of this “pure culture” under the skin of
monkeys. These monkeys then showed the usual signs of Malta fever:
and when they died, or were killed, the germs were found in great
numbers in their blood and tissues.

If anybody thinks that Malta fever is due to any other cauSe than
these germs, he must explain how it is that several of our men of
science, in English laboratories, hundreds of miles from Malta, working
with pure cultures of these germs, have become infected with Malta
fever. There have been seven or elght cases of this kind of infection,
and one of them ended in death.

Between 1887 and 1904, some I4,000 or 15,000 of our sailors and
soldiers were stricken with the disease. At last, in 1904, our Govern-
ment sent out a Commission, organised by the Royal Society. After
much laborious work and many experiments, this Commission decided
that the disease was not conveyed through the air, nor through the
water supply, nor by pollution of sewage, nor by contact: nor was it
conveyed, like malaria, yellow fever, sleeping sickness, and simple con-
tinued fever, by the bites of insects. Finally, the Commission dis—
covered that Malta fever might be conveyed by food; for they, added
alittle of a pure culture of the germs to the food of some monkeys,
and all these monkeys developed the disease. Thus, Bruce and his
colleagues were led to examine the food supply of the garrison.

They examined, of course, the goats : because goat’s milk is com-
monly drunk all over the island. The goats themselves were healthy
enough, but many of them, when they were tested, showed signs of
having the germs in their blood, or even in their milk. Therefore, the
Commission tested some thousands of the goats. And they found, to
their great surprise, that quite 50 per cent. of them were carrying the
germs in their blood, and 10 per cent. were actually yielding the poison
of the fever in their mllk. Monkeys fed on milk from one of these
goats, even for one day, almost invariably got the disease.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(I2)

It is to be noted that, in years past, our ofﬁcers, with their wives
and children, had suffered more than three times more heavily than the
non—commissioned ofﬁcers and men. The ofﬁcers and their families,
of course, took more of the milk. If Malta fever had been due to the
unwholesome situation of the garrison, or to the bad drainage of the
harbour, then the men would have suffered. more heavily than the
ofﬁcers : for the men were crowded together in stuffy barracks, but the
ofﬁcers lived in well-ventilated houses.

About this time the ss. Joshua Nicholson shipped 65 goats at Malta
for export to America. There were 27 persons on board, between
Malta and Antwerp, where the ship touched ; and, of course, the goats’
milk was drunk on the voyage. Of these 27 persons, 17 have been
traced. Of these 27 persons, two always boiled the milk, and thus were
protected. Of the remaining 15, no less than ﬁve contracted Malta
fever. The goats were landed in America, put in quarantine, and care—
fully watched. A woman, living on the quarantine station, who took
the milk, got the fever and died of it. One by one, as time went on,
the goats all showed signs of severe infection, and all had to be killed.

In Malta, early in 1906, our men were beginning to be warned
against the goats’ milk; and on July Ist, 1906, the ofﬁcial order was
issued, forbidding the milk to be supplied to the garrison.

Now for the result of that order. Sanitary improvements may
have checked, but certainly had not stopped, the disease. In 1905,
there had been 643 cases. In 1906, up to July 1st, there had been 123
cases. During the rest of 1906, including July, August, and September,
always the worst months for the disease, there were only 40 cases. In
1907, there were 11 cases. In 1908, there were ﬁve. In 1909, there was
one. In 1910, there have been none.

The peOple of Malta, long after the garrison was protected, went
on drinking the milk, and having the fever. It remains to discover
how the goats themselves become infected, and a Commission was
recently appointed to study this particular point.

I shall be happy, sir, to send any of your readers, who will send me
a postcard, a fuller account of these facts. There has been no
criticism of them that needs any notice; and they are a striking
example of the absolute necessity of experiments on animals.
I remain, etc.,
STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Sec., Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.
Dec. 10, 1910.

 

vzahif




 

(I3)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. 22, [910.

Dr. Hadwen’s Reply to Mr. Paget.

MALTA FEVER.

Sir,——In my criticism of Mr. Paget’s letter upon plague, I proved
him to be guilty of culpable ignorance. I now charge him, in regard
to Malta Fever, with gross and reckless misrepresentations. He says,
“ there has been no criticism of his ‘ facts ’ that needs any notice,” but
Iperceive he has nevertheless very adroitly so trimmed his letter of
Dec. 15th, as to evade, if possible, the criticism and exposure to which
I have submitted the false statements he previously published upon the
same subject.

(1) He begins by exaggerating the character of Malta Fever as a
disease which is “often fatal.” Its mortality has never exceeded two
per cent.

(2) He proceeds to write a long rigmarole upon the discovery of
the “Malta Fever germ ” by Colonel Bruce in I887. As a matter of
fact, Dr. Fazeo, of Naples, had declared eight years before that in his
Opinion it was due to a micrococcu's. Colonel (then Captain) Bruce
Concluded that one out of many microbes he came across in the spleen
of a dead soldier was the identical germ. By injecting a cultivation
of it into the bodies of various animals he produced symptoms of
blood poisoning, called it Malta Fever, and alleged upon the basis of
Koch’s postulates that he had proved his case. I have shown conclu-
sively in my articles in the Contemporary Review of August and
November, 1909, that every one of Koch’s postulates has been falsiﬁed
and that, therefore, the mz'crococcus melz’tensz’s is a fraud, and I challenge
Mr. Paget to disprove my conclusions. '

(3) That germs will be found in the bodies of dead monkeys if
they have been previously injected into them is no matter of surprise,
but that does not prove that the germs were the origin of Malta Fever.
A rise in temperature in monkeys, who cannot express their symptoms,
after being injected with morbid material, is only an evidence of blood
poisoning, and the cruel conditions under which these poor creatures,
brought fresh from their forest homes, were kept and treated in the
cramped up cages which I saw on the roof of the Health Department
at Malta, were enough to account for any feverish illness, apart from
the injection. ‘

(4) Mr. Paget asks for an explanation as to why men working in
English laboratories with cultures of the alleged Malta Fever germ
contracted Malta Fever if the germ was not a genuine one. I believe
there have been two authentic cases only, one of which died. They
broke a tube containing this morbid material and injured themselves.
From the enquiries I have made as to the symptoms, they appear to
have been pure cases of septicemia. Any ﬁlth of similar character would
have produced the same result.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(I4)

(5) Mr. Paget says that the Commission which went out, after
“ much laborious work and many experiments, discovered that Malta
Fever was conveyed by food.” This is untrue. After two years of the
most atrocious and unscientiﬁc experimentation they confessed that
they had discovered nothing, and they were at their wits’ end to account
for the source of the mischief until they heard of a wild and exagger-
ated story of an American cargo boat; it was from this fairy tale
that the Commissioners obtained their “science,” or, to use Colonel
Bruce’s own words, it “clinched the fact.” The whole of the “ many
experiments” in regard to man are limited to this one solitary
ﬁctitious incident.

(6) In spite of the fact that I gave the full and authentic details
of this ridiculous story in my Contemporary articles, and although Mr.
Paget’s attention has been drawn to the facts repeatedly since, he even
now has the audacity to repeat his mis—statements. with the following
exception z—he cautiously accepts my evidence that only ﬁve men were
ill on board the joshua Nicholson, which sailed from Malta with 65
goats on board, but evades the truth by saying they were “shipped for
export to America,” and instead of honestly saying the joshua
Nicholson did not take them to America at all, he says “there were 27
persons on board between Malta and Antwerp.” All this is to try to
escape my criticism by which I have exposed his misrepresentations.

The facts are these: Colonel Bruce told the Royal Commission
that “broadly every man on board who drank the milk took Malta
Fever,” and as the result of his assertions and his professed discovery
of the goats’ milk origin of Malta Fever, he received a knighthood.
What I have proved is this , that the foshua Nicholson with 27 persons
on board only went as far as Antwerp, that the 65 goats were tran-
shipped on board the St. Andrew at Antwerp for New York with 65
persons on board ; that besides this total of 90 persons—all of whom
drank the milk of the goats—large numbers drank of the milk while
the goats were in quarantine at Antwerp, and again at New York, and
yet out of this large number, only ﬁve persons can be shown to have
been ill. There is no evidence that these ﬁve had Malta Fever
beyond a fallacious laboratory test applied to their blood after they had
fully recovered. From the clinical evidence it is highly probable it was
not Malta Fever at all, probably only sea sickness. N 0 medical man saw
them; and yet out of this wild story, and Colonel Bruce’s false state-
ments. the whole goats’ milk theory has been built up. And although
I have compelled Mr. Paget to admit the falsity of some of his state-
mints, he still goes on publishing his impudent pamphlet on the
su Ject.

(7) He says a woman living on the quarantine station who took
the milk, got the fever and died. There is no evidence that she died of
Malta Fever. Even if she did, she had drunk bacteriologically pure”
milk for three months. Mr. Paget’s treasurer, Dr. Sandwith, actually
said atBrighton a fortnight ago, that this woman’s husband died of
Malta Fever also. The statement is false. He died of “bilateral
pneumonia following inﬂuenza,” and there is no evidence at all that he
ever had Malta Fever. Mr. Paget says the goats were killed as they
“showed signs of severe infection.” This again is false : from ﬁrst to
last the goats showed no sign of infection, they were as healthy as they
were the day they left Malta. And as for the mlcrococcus melz'tehsz's

 




 

I»?

(15)

which the bacteriologists allege to have found in their milk, the Chief
Analyst in the Health Ofﬁce at Malta confessed, after I had carefully
examined these germs and had observed that they looked uncommonly
like fat globules, that it was very difﬁcult indeed to tell the difference.
I have learnt by experience that a bacteriologist with a microsc0pe on
the one hand, and a vivid imagination upon the other, can prove any-
thing he wants to.

(8). Mr. Paget winds up with statistics which he treats dishonestly.
He says “the men were beginning to be warned against the goats’
milk early in 1906.” He says this to evade the crushing indictment
I have brought against him that the milk was not stopped until July
1st. Colonel Bruce himself admitted under cross-examination that no
remedial measures were taken until July 1st, and yet before ever the
goats’ milk was stopped to the troops, the cases had suddenly drOpped
down from 643 to 120. Why? Stopping the milk on July 1st could
not stop Malta Fever six months previously. The fact was at the end
of 1905 the soldiers had been hastily removed from the horrible
insanitary St. Elmo barracks, where nearly all the Malta Fever was
occurring, to new and splendid barracks upon the hill side.

(9) Mr. Paget says nothing about the Navy. The statistics are
not good enough for his purpose. I have shown that Malta Fever has
been gradually declining in the Navy at Malta ever since the harbour
has been in the process of cleansing from its centuries of sewage
deposit.

(IO) But, perhaps, the most inexcusable assertion in Mr. Paget’s
letter-—which really amounts to a subterfuge—«is that “the people of
Malta, long after the garrison was protected, went on drinking the milk
and having the fever.” The fact is that the civil population
has never had an attack rate of more than four per 1,000, The military
have had an attack rate ten times as great and the naval ﬁve times as
great, due to the shocking condition of the barracks in the former, and
the harbour in the latter. Since the goats’ milk was stopped to the
garrison, the civil population have drunk more goats’ milk than ever,
and yet the attack rate from fever has gone down 50 per cent. What
little Malta Fever there is among the garrison is now called “Simple
Continued Fever " instead.

When I was in Malta investigating this question, I drank freely,
as likewise did my daughter, of goats’ milk, and I am prepared to
spend my next holidays there and to drink freely of any goats’ milk
which the public analyst shall certify to contain the micrococcus
melt’tensz‘s.

The military authorities and their goats’ milk theory have become
the laughing stock of all the inhabitants on the island.

Yours, etc.,
WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,J.P.

Gloucester, Dec. 19th, 1910.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(16)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. 22, I9I0.

Research Defence Society.-

Sir,—in reply to Dr. Hadwen, let me say (I), the germs of plague
were found in the Suffolk cases ; (2) his statement about these germs is
not true; (3) Haffkine’s serum, as he calls it, is not a serum at all;
(4) it has not been given up ; (5) it is useless to talk about soil poisons
and aerial poison; (6) he argues from Alexandria to India; he might
as well argue from Suffolk to India.

Let me now give your readers another striking instance of the
value of experiments on animals : the results of the preventive treat-
ment against typhoid fever, and against lockjaw.

We shall all be agreed that the cause of typhoid, and the true
cause of lock-j aw, were discovered and proved by means of experiments
on animals, and could not have been discovered, nor proved, Without
these experiments. And we all shall be agreed, that the preventive
treatment against these two diseases also is due to experiments on
animals, and would have been utterly impossible without these
experiments.

The preventive treatment against typhoid may be judged by the
statement published in the journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps,
February, 1909. ‘3 Sir W. B. Leishman published the results of anti-
typhoid inoculation in the Army up to June Ist, 1908. The total
number of men inoculated was 5,473, amongst whom 21 cases (3.8 per
1,000) and 2 deaths occurred. The number of non-inoculated was
6,610, with 187 cases, (28.3 per 1,000) with 26 deaths. The case-
mortality was 9.5 per cent. in the inoculated, and in the non-inoculated
13.8 per cent. Several of the regiments, however, were not exposed to
the chances of enteric (typhoid) fever; so that no cases occurred
amongst either the inoculated or the non-inoculated. If these regi-
ments are excluded, the incidence of enteric fever amongst the
inoculated is 6.6 per 1,000, and amongst the non-inoculated 39.5
per 1,000.”

The preventive treatment of tetanus (lock-j aw) may be judged by
two sets of facts. Horses are very liable to the disease, and an out-
break of tetanus will run through stables, killing one horse after
another. The power of tetanus-antitoxin to protect horses was demon-
strated in 1897 by N ocard, then director of the Pasteur Institute at Lille.
He demonstrated on 30 horses, that the disease could not be produced in
them by inoculation, if, not later than three or four days after the
inoculation, a dose of the antitoxin was given to them. On the
strength of these experiments, he distributed the antitoxin to
veterinary surgeons, in districts where tetanus was very common
among the horses, to be administered before the performance of
veterinary operations, or after the occurrence of accidental wounds.
Of 2705 horses thus protected, only one contracted tetanus ; and that




(I7)

one recovered. These observations were personally made, in tetanus-
infected districts, at the request of veterinary surgeons, who had
been losing every year many animals from the disease. During the
period of their observation, no less than 259 cases of tetanus were
observed among animals who had not received the antitoxin. Equally
striking results have been observed in the United States.

We come now to the preventive treatment against tetanus in
man. I pass over the Calcutta cases, and the Prague cases ; they are
striking, but the ﬁgures are not large. For large ﬁgures, we have those
curious cases which occur in American cities after the 4th of July
celebrations : the cases of lacerated wounds of the hands from squibs,
rockets, toy-pistols, &c.~, These wounds frequently get infected with
the germs of lock-j aw. “ One of the wounds most commonly followed
by lock—j aw is the blank-cartridge wound of the hand, common on the
glorious 4th of July. The death-rate from these wounds is appalling.
An active campaign has been conducted throughout the medical pro-
fession to reduce this mortality. All over the country, surgeons and
medical journals have advised the injection of tetanus-antitoxin in
every case of blank-cartridge wound. The American Medical Associa—
tion has compiled statistics of 4th of July fatalities for the past six
years. Six years ago, the 4th of July tetanus cases numbered 416.
Then physicians began a more general use of antitoxin in all cases of
blank—cartridge and cannon-cracker wounds. As a result, from 416
cases of tetanus in 1903, the number dropped to 105 cases in 1904, 104
cases in 1905, 89 cases in 1906, 73 cases in 1907, and 55 cases in 1908.”
(The Conquest of Disease through Animal Experimentation, War-
basse, New York, 1910). -

When we think of the long weariness and danger of typhoid, and
the swift horror and suffering of lock-j aw, we must be thankful that so
many lives have already been safeguarded against these two diseases.

I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary, Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.
Dec. 20, 1910.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(18)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” Dec. 29th, 1910.

Dr. Hadwen’s reply to Mr. Paget.
TYPHOID FEVER AND LOGKJAW.

Sir,—-Mr. Paget answers nothing, but denies everything, and then
rambles on to something else——a very simple method of controversy.
Let me brieﬂy examine his six-lined retort to my letter on “ Plague.”

(1) He says, “the germs of plague were found in the Suffolk cases. ’

If he will examine the contents of his own intestine in the same
way he will ﬁnd he is suffering from “plague ” likewise.

(2) He says my " statement about these germs is not true.”

Then let him disprove it.

(3) He says “ Haffkine’s serum is not a serum at all.”

That is only begging the question. I suppose Mr. Paget calls it a

“ vaccine.” It certainly is not that either. I should prefer to call it a
tube of caged ﬁlth, but I use the ordinary term.

(4) He says “it has not been given up.”

If he will turn to Haffkine’s own evidence before the Indian Plague

Commission he will see that it has been abandoned. My facts and
ﬁgures proving it to be a dismal failure remain untouched.

(5) He says “it is useless to talk about soil poisons and aerial
poisons.”

To a mind obsessed by “germs ” such is probably the case. But
When Mr. Paget comes to study epidemiological history instead of
laboratory theories it will be time enough for him to talk in this
cavalier fashion.

(6) He says I “ argue from Alexandria to India, and that I might
as well argue from Suffolk to India.”

The strange thing is that this is precisely what Mr. Paget has
done! His ﬁrst letter about Suffolk plague was full of India and
nothing else. But last week, when lecturing at Shrewsbury, he was
tackled by a member of my Committee about the plague at Alexandria,
and had to confess he knew nothing about it, and innocently asked his
interrogator if she were quite sure it was not malaria!

.Mr. Paget having settled the plague to his own satisfaction,

proceeds with his own stereotyped remarks upon typhoid. and tetanus
—-—neither of which I discussed in my lecture.
The ﬁgures he quotes from the journal of the Royal Army Medical

Corps are of a very misleading description. Typhoid fever is a soil
poison and results from the actual introduction of animal organic




(I9)

matter, usually of an excremental type, into the alimentary canal.
There is no evidence of its being epidemic in the ordinary sense of the
word, and therefore to compare a few cases of attack with the thousands
of soldiers who had never come in contact with the source of the poison
is merely playing with ﬁgures.

The cases of attack quoted by Mr. Paget are very few, only 200
among 12,000 men. Before we talk of ﬁgures, we need to know
how these 200 came to be affected, and why there were 187 in one case
and only 21 in the other. We should ﬁnd that the question of
inoculation or non-inoculation had nothing at all to do with it, but
that the whole question resolved itself into the locality where the

' detached soldiers had drunk probably of befouled water from some
shallow wells. Again, the fatality depends upon the strength of the
poison, the resisting powers of the patient, and the environment. The
difference between the fatality of the inoculated and un-inoculated
classes cited by Mr. Paget is not great, namely, in round ﬁgures, 10 per
cent. of the former and 13 per cent. of the latter; it proves conclusively
that the typhoid inoculation neither prevented the disease nor staved
off death. The slight diﬂerence must have been due to other factors.

My argument is substantiated by the evidence of Dr. Melville, late
Civil Surgeon to the Natal Field force, reported in. the British Medical
journal of April 20th, 1901. Hehad 295 cases of typhoid fever under
his care. Thirty were inoculated and 265 un-inoculated. The
inoculated fatality was 6'67 and the un-inoculated was. only 1'89. He
found that “complications among the inoculated soldiers were more
numerous, the duration of the fever longer, and the death—rate higher.”

It will be noted that the inoculated deaths quoted by Mr. Paget
were 50 per cent. greater than those of Dr. Melville, so if the typhoid
serum be of any value, it must have seriously deteriorated in its
“efﬁcacy” since the South African War.

Then Mr. Paget goes on to tetanus (lockjaw). I notice he takes
good care to say nothing about the curative properties of the anti-
tetanic serum. That, alas, has had to go on the rubbish heap, with so
many other of Mr. Paget’s boasted wonders !

He begins about horses at Lille, and lumps up hundreds, inoculated
and un-inoculated, without taking the least notice of their stables,
their treatment, or their work. It is simple enough to distribute tubes
of quackery among veterinary surgeons for their use on animals “before
operations and after accidents,” where every effort at cleanliness would
at the same time be adopted, and then claim the serum as the saviour.
Every Cheap Jack has worked the same trick for ages. Millions of
horses have been operated upon without any serum injection and have
recovered; and to compare such cases with other poor beasts which
had no vet to look after them and no one to clean their wounds is an
insult to ordinary intelligence.

Mr. Paget goes on to deal with tetanus in man, quoting the old
threadbare story of the 4th of July celebrations in America. Nearly
all of Mr. Paget’s illustrations consist of “fairy tales from countries
far over the sea,” but if I dare to quote a foreign country, he holds me
up to half a newspaper column of righteous indignation !

Now, all this farrago quoted by Mr. Paget was given by Sir Henry
Morris, President of the Royal College of Surgeons, before the present

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(20)

Vivisection Commission, and we have the beneﬁt of his cross-examina-
tion—a beneﬁt we cannot get out of Mr. Paget, for he makes his
statements and then runs away, and when his “ facts ” are disproved
and his ﬁgures are shown to be misleading he settles his opponents
with blank denials of everything. But Sir Henry Morris, at close
quarters, came off very badly, and had at last to confess (Q. 77.38) that
we “could not arrive at any absolute conclusion from the ﬁgures.”
Ehat’ therefore, knocks all Mr. Paget’s dogmatically—quoted ﬁgures on
t e head!

But more. What was proved was this—(I) That the evil results
from tetanus depended largely upon whether the 4th of July was wet
or dry ; (2) There was no evidence that the serum was used in all the
cases ; (3) That the wounds are more speedily washed now than
formerly, and that the serum has been getting the credit which belongs
to the water—tap.

Finally, Sir Henry owned that he had himself tried the anti—tetanic
serum on three cases and they all died!

When Dr. Martin, the Director of the Lister Institute, gave
evidence upon the same topic, he got on very bravely until Dr. Wilson
took him in hand, and then he candidly owned that “the chief
preventive against tetanus is to ensure that wounds are washed clean
and kept clean as possible.” Thus he gave the whole show away, and
Mr. Paget and his ﬁlthy anti-tetanus quackery are left stranded.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,

President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection.
Gloucester, December 26th, 1910.

 

 




 

 

(21)

From the “CHELTENHAM EXAMINER.”

Research Defence Society.

Sir,—~In reply to your correspondent’s letter of this week, let me
say (I) Malta fever is often fatal. (2) His accounts of Bruce’s work,
and of the cases of accidental infection in English laboratories, and of
lhe work of the Commission, are not in accordance with truth. (3)
The symptoms of Malta fever are not like sea-sickness; and the germs
of Malta fever are not like fat globules. (4) My ﬁgures were announced
in the House of Commons, last June, by the Under—Secretary of State for
the Colonies. (5) The civil population of Malta suffers less than our
men, who come new to the place; still, it suffers. (6) Your corres-
pondent’s statements, that Malta fever is now called Simple Continued
Fever, and that authorities are the laughing—stock of the island, and
that the goats on the quarantine—station showed no signs of infection,
are not in accordance with truth. (7) Of course, a man may drink
goats’ milk in Malta, yet escape the fever : not every goat yields
infected milk. But will your correspondent consent to have a dose of
the germs, in pure culture, put under his skin? Nothing with it ; just
the germs by themselves.

Let me this week take another instance of the value and the '
necessity of experiments on animals. I take epidemic meningitis : it
is also called cerebro—spinal meningitis, or “ spotted fever.” Death
from this disease‘is one of the worst ways in which a man can die. The
patient suffers agonising headache, vomiting, and other miseries, till
death comes as a merciful release; and, among those who recover,
many are left blind, partly paralysed, or weak—minded. Dr. Robb,
who had charge of the Belfast fever hospitals during an epidemic,
calls it “the most terrible in its manifestations, and the most dlsastrous
in its death-rate, of all the epidemic diseases met with in English-
speaking countries.”

By experiments on animals, Dr. Flexner and Dr. Jobling, of the
Rockefeller Institute, proved that the disease is due to a particular
kind of germs. They obtained these germs all by themselves, in pure
culture; and reproduced the disease in monkeys by injecting under
the skin a minute quantity of this pure culture. Your readers will be
glad to hear that the disease in monkeys is less violent and painful
than it is in man. By these and other experiments, Flexner and
Jobling were able to prepare a serum—treatment for cases of the disease
in man. This treatment was ﬁrst used in the Spring of 1907. I beg
your readers to study carefully the following tables :—

Results before the use of the Serum.

Of 4,000 cases in New York, in 1905, 75 per cent. died.
Baller reports from Greater New York, 2,113 cases, with 1,636

deaths, giving a mortality of 77.4 per cent.

 




(22)

Chalmers reports from Glasgow (1907), 998 cases, with 683 deaths,
giving 68.4 per cent. mortality.

Baillie reports in Belfast (I907), 623 cases, with 493 deaths, giving
79.2 per cent. mortality.

Ker reports a mortality of 78 per cent. in the Edinburgh epidemic.

Robertson reports from Leith (I907), 62 cases, with 74.4 per cent.
mortality.

Turner reports from the Transvaal, 200 cases, with 74 per cent.
mortality.

In Ruchill Hospital, Glasgow, and Edinburgh Fever Hospital,and
Belfast Fever Hospital, and the Boston Children’s Hospital, the
mortality ranged from 69 to 80 per cent.

Results from the Serum Treatment.
Cases. Deaths Per cent.

 

City Hospital, Cincinnati 45 14 31.1
Dr. Dunn, Boston 40 9 22.5
John Hopkins’ Hospital, Boston 22 4 18.1
Rhode Island Hospital I7 6 35.2
Lalleside Hospital, Cleveland 29 II 37.7
Edinburgh Fever Hospital 33 I 3 42.3
Mount Sinai Hospital (Children) I 5 2 13.3

Municipal Hospital, Philadelphia 21 9 42.7
Belfast Fever Hospitals .. 98 29 29.6

Similar results have been obtained, with similar treatment, in France
and Germany.

In one of his earlier papers, based on a large number of reports,
Dr. Flexner stated that he excluded certain cases, practically hopeless,
where the serum treatment did not have a fair chance. Excluding
these cases, the mortality was 25 per cent. Including them, it was 33
per cent.

“From these ﬁgures,” says Dr. Robb, “it will be seen that the
death-rate, in the cases not treated with the serum, averaged some 75
per cent. This has been reduced, in cases treated with the serum, to
less than half, and in many instances much below that ﬁgure. My
own experience has been that of 275 cases under my own care in
hospital, before the use of the serum was commenced, 72.3 per cent.
died; while of the 98 cases treated with the serum 29.6 per cent. died.
No selection of cases was made. . . . Great as this change in the
death-rate has been, it is not more striking than the improvement in
the course run by the cases ; for, whereas it was common to have cases
running on into weeks, and even months, such cases are no longer
met with.”

I shall be happy, Sir, to send any of your readers, who will send
me seven stamps, tWO pamphlets published by the Research Defence
Soc1ety, one by Dr. Bruce, on Malta Fever, and the other by Dr. Robb,
on Epidemic Meningitis—I remain, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Sec. Research Defence Society.

 

 

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.
December 24th, 1910.

 




 

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” fan. 52%, IQII.

Dr. Hadwen’s reply to Mr. Paget.
SPOTTED FEVER.

Sir,~—Mr. Paget’s cryptic comments upon my exposure of his
claims concerning Malta fever are only what might be expected from
such a source. It is his usual plan, namely :—pick out two or three
side issues, ﬂatly deny them, as if they represented the whole case, leave
all the rest and incontinently hurry away with: “Let me take this
week another instance of the value and necessity of experiments on
animals.” He then proceeds to give further lengthy extracts from his
comical book, “ Experiments on Animals,” which he is furnishing to
your readers in weekly parts.

It is weary work answering a correspondent who simply resorts to
denial and evasions and provides no scientiﬁc evidence in support or
defence of his assertions. Leaving his ﬂat denials, I will just
make a brief reply to his comments.

(I) He repeats: “ Malta fever is often fatal.”

Ihave proved from ofﬁcial ﬁgures that the mortality has never
been more than two per cent. of the cases.

(2) He says: “The symptoms of Malta fever are not like sea
sickness'” ' ,

I did not say they were. I stated that no medical authority saw
the men who were temporarily ill on board the joshua Nicholson.
There is no evidence as to their “ symptoms.” They were well when
they left Malta and well when they landed. And it is just as likely as
not that they simply had an attack of sea sickness. The only evidence
vouchsafed is a very fallacious laboratory examination of their blood
after they had recovered. The same result is frequently obtained in
healthy people.

(3) He says: “The germs of Malta fever are not like fat globules.”

I simply retort : “They are,” and the chief bacteriologist of Malta
admitted to me it was very difﬁcult to tell the difference. Nobody
expects Mr. Paget to know anything of the subject.

(4) He says: “My ﬁgures were announced in the House of
Commons last June.”

This is very amusing, as if Mr. Paget had ever framed any statistics
in his life ! The ﬁgures he mentions were the ofﬁcial statistics of the
War Ofﬁce, which I had already published in my Contemporary articles
months before, and on the occasion Mr. Paget refers to they were given
by Col. Seely in reply to a question put to him by a Parliamentary
member of my Committee. As they were a pure evasion, another
question was subsequently put to him which compelled him to admit
the truth of my contention, that practically all the Malta fever had
disappeared from among the troops in Malta months before the goats’

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(24)

milk was stopped. And he also had to admit that this cessation of
the fever was coterminous with the removal of the soldiers from St.
Elmo Barracks, described by one of the native doctors in a Maltese
journal as “,a veritable ditch.” But all this Mr. Paget is careful to
avoid. He relies on the evasion and subterfuge, “ My ﬁgures were
announced in the House of Commons! ”

(5) He says “The civil population suffers less than our men who
come new to the place.”

They do—some thirty times less! He hints, without saying it
outright, that it is because the natives are acclimatised. His caution
is doubtless due to the fact that I have already exposed this fallacy by
showing :—

Ist—That Malta fever is alleged by his party to be due to
goats’ milk and not to “ place.”

2nd——That as the sailors have only suffered half as much as the
soldiers there must be some other cause than goats’ milk.

3rd-—If Malta fever be due to goats’ milk, then it should produce
the fever in the natives at some time early in their lives in order
to render them immune, and there should be thousands of cases
annually, but there are no statistics in existence to support such a
theory. There have never been more than 500 cases annually out of a
population of over 200,000.

4th———The statistics are the other way; the cases in civil life are
usually about middle age and cases of 70 and 80 years are recorded
in persons who had drunk goats’ milk all their lives.

5th—«Dr. Agius, of Malta, records that he contracted Malta fever
through inhaling sewer gas although he had never tasted goats’ milk
in his life, and he was nursed back to health again by drinking goats’
milk, which he has consumed ever since.

6th—Malta fever cannot confer an immunizing effect upon the
civil population as Mr. Paget suggests, as repetitions of the disease
when once contracted are frequent.

7th——I found by enquiries that our soldiers and sailors rarely
drank milk at Malta except with tea, but the Maltese themselves
are great milk drinkers, and this, combined with the fact that they
lived under healthier sanitary conditions than the garrison, accounted
for their greater freedom from the disease.

(6) Mr. Paget asks: “ Will your correspondent consent to have a
dose of the germs, in pure culture, put under his skin? ”

I want to know why I should make such a fool of myself? I leave
all that sort of thing to innocent and superstitious people like himself.

My answer to Mr. Paget’s fresh quotations—nearly all from
America—about “spotted fever” is very simple. We had a run on
“spotted fever” in this country lately—~a complaint Without either
"‘ spots ” or “ fever” (I have seen some of them), and if all these have
been counted into the Edinburgh and Belfast statistics whilst the scare
was on, the decrease is easily understood; it is now admitted that a
number of cases of ordinary infantile paralysis have been doing duty
for “ spotted fever,” and thus all the statistics are vitiated.

But Flexner’s statistics, upon which Mr. Paget chieﬂy relies and
which he has circulated broadcast are simply fraudulent. Mr. Paget

 

 

 




._A.L

 

 

 

 

(25)

tries to anticipate my reply to him (for he knows what is coming) by
giving a garbled account of Dr. Flexner’s excuses about them. He
says Dr. Flexner “excluded certain cases, practically hopeless, where
the serum treatment did not have a fair chance. Excluding these

cases, the mortality was 25 per cent. Including them it was 33 per
cent.”

It seems quite impossible for Mr. Paget to give the whole truth about
anything. I never had to deal with such an elusive controversialist.
Allow me to quote Dr. Flexner’s own words in full :——“ In making up
the various statistical tabulations no selection of cases has been made
further than to exclude, ﬁrst, those cases which survived the ﬁrst dose
of the serum less than twenty—four hours; a second elimination
embracing a smaller number of cases, includes the rapidly fulminant
cases; a third small elimination includes several cases of secondary
and mixed infection,” etc.

This method of “ making statistics ” is one of the most delightful
specimens of impudent cooking I have ever come across. It is quite
clear that the rejected were not “ practically hopeless " as Mr. Paget
says, or the serum would not have been given. But one thing stands
out very clearly—the serum absolutely fails where it is most needed,
and the fact of certain cases “surviving the ﬁrst dose less than twenty-
four hours ” gives one “ furiously to think” ! No wonder Dr. Flexner
has now given up making his precious serum! He is evidently anxious
for his credit.

But outside his institute, in his own city, according to the returns
of the New York Health Department, the disease claims just as many
victims as ever.

I am, Sir, Your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,

President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection.

Gloucester, Jan. 2nd, 1911.

 




l E

l .

 

 

 

 

r" ;

(26)

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER.”

Research Defence Society.

Sir,——Let me this week say something about diphtheria antitoxin.
It was discovered by means of experiments on rabbits; and it has
been in daily use all over the world for ﬁfteen years. The lives which
have been saved must be reckoned, literally, by the hundred thousand.
We owe this blessing mainly to the work of Behring and Kitasato.
They started with the fact that the germs of diseases, wherever they
are, brew certain poisons, each according to their nature. They brew
these poisons wherever they are, in the blood of a man, or in the blood
of a mouse, or in a test tube. These poisons are called toxins, from
the Greek word for poison. The germs of diphtheria brew their own
special toxin, or poison. It is this toxin which produces the high
temperature, drowsiness, vomiting, and swollen glands, of a bad case
of diphtheria. The toxin is not the germs themselves; it is the
chemical poison which the germs brew. As poppies breW opium, and
cinchona trees brew quinine, so diphtheria germs brew toxin.

Behring and Kitasato found a way to protect rabbits, so that they
could not take diphtheria, not even if the germs were rubbed on the
back of their throats. Rabbits, in their natural state, can easily be
infected with diphtheria ; but these protected rabbits simply could not
take the disease. They had been protected by the following method :—
A very small dose of the toxin was given to them, not enough to kill
them. The next day they could take a rather larger dose ; the next day
a still larger dose ; till, at last, they could take, without turning a hair,
a dose of toxin large enough to kill an ordinary rabbit. The gradual
action of the toxin produced a change in their blood, I mean a chemical

change. There was some chemical change in their blood which with—
stood the disease.

Next, it was discovered that their blood acted as an antidote. If
a little of the clear part of their blood was taken, and was mixed with
some toxin, and this mixture was put under the skin of a fresh series
of rabbits, these rabbits did not die. There was enough toxin to kill
them; but the blood, which was mixed with the toxin, stopped the
toxin from killing them. The blood of the protected rabbits saved the
lives of the unprotected rabbits. It prevented the toxin from killing
them. Their blood, therefore, is called antitoxin.

Next, it was discovered that this antitoxin could catch up the
toxin, even if the toxin had forty-eight hours start. Thus, if the
toxin were given on the Monday, and the antitoxin on the Tuesday, or
even on the Wednesday, the rabbits would mostly be saved.

Next, it was found that horses, like rabbits, could be immunised :
and thus could be used for the direct service of man. These horses
receive small doses of toxin, till their blood contains antitoxin. They
are then bled, under proper antiseptic and aseptic precautions, and

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(27)

the clear part of the blood is put up in little bottles. A dose of this
antitoxin is given through a hollow needle under the skin in cases of
diphtheria.

I should like to say a word about the condition of these horses.
To begin with, their general health is carefully tested before they are
used. Then the immunising does not hurt them. They may be off
their feed for a short time, or just poorly for a short time, but not
more than that. Of course, I have seen them in a big establishment
near London. They were one and all of them sleek, healthy, well—fed,
idle, comfortable creatures. Any cab horse might well envy them. I
saw the processes of immunising and of drawing off the blood. The
horses treated each affair with the utmost indifference, and went back
placidly to the stables.

Fifteen years of incessant use all over the world is good evidence.
Go round the whole earth—London, Paris, Berlin, Rome, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, India, China and Japan, Australia and New Zealand, San
Francisco, Chicago, Boston, New York, Canada—wherever you go it
is the same story, of the lives of children saved, whole legions of them.

Fifteen years ago it was possible to compare hospitals which used
the antitoxin with hospitals which did not. It came into use in 1894.
Two hospitals in Paris, in. that year, may be compared. One used it,
the other did not. The death-rate from diphtheria at the one was 24.5
per cent.; the death-rate at the other was 60 per cent. At Zurich the
mortality was brought down, with the antitoxin, from 39.4 per cent. to
12 per. cent. Among the French Army it was brought down from II
per cent. to 6 per cent. In the vast collected ﬁgures for 266 German
towns it was brought down, between 1894 and I897, from 101 to 35 per
100,000 of the living. These are but a few of the early experiences
with antitoxin.

If we take the Registrar-General’s returns for England and Wales,
we ﬁnd, in spite of antitoxin, a terrible lot of deaths from diphtheria.
But we must remember three things : (I) Thousands of cases which
used to be called “. croup ” are now called diphtheria; (2) compulsory
education, with its vast increase of big classes in crowded schools,
helps to spread the disease; (3) there is but one way to judge the value
of a drug. Imagine a thousand cases of diphtheria. Divide them into
two groups of 500 each, treat the one group with antitoxin and the
other without. Which of the groups would have the larger mortality?
There is not the very faintest shadow of doubt as to the answer to the

A question.

It is sometimes said that the antitoxin is given all round in our
big fever hospitals, even to children who have only a trivial sore throat.

rThat is not true. It is also said that the antitoxin causes those

occasional paralyses which occur after diphtheria. That is not true.
It is also said that we cannot trust the ﬁgures given by the Metropolitan
Asylums Board, because they include, as cases of diphtheria, children
who have the germs in their upper air passages, without having the
usual symptoms of the disease. But these cases have been excluded
in the last report of the Board. Anyhow, there were only 27 5 of them;
they make no difference one way or the other. It is also said that the
mortality among children treated without antitoxin at ourifever hospitals
is less than the mortality among children treated with antitoxin. But,
if you take the bad cases, you ﬁnd that the mortality among the cases

 




 

WWMQ-:_T. -.~ » L, , _ ., _, 7

  

Nil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(28)

treated with antitoxin was 140 deaths in 895 cases, which is amortality
of 156 per cent., whereas of 15 laryngeal cases which did not get the
antitoxin, I4 died, which is a mortality of 90 per cent. These unhappy
babies were dying on admission, and it was too late to save them. The
children who got well without antitoxin were the children with triﬂing
sore throats, which did not want the antitoxin, and did not get it.

Finally, let me draw the moral from the rabbits to the babies.
The moral is, that the antitoxin must be given at once. It should be
given on the ﬁrst day of the disease. I do not say that no ill results
among the many hundreds ot thousands of cases, under wholly
exceptional conditions, followed the use of antitoxin. But I do say,
most emphatically, that it has saved legions of lives and has been one
of the best blessings ever given to medicine.

By an odd chance I have at this moment received a letter from
the Medical Health Ofﬁcer at Toronto. Certain ﬁgures were quoted
at a meeting of the present Royal Commission from Toronto. It was
said that the antitoxin had failed in Toronto. The ﬁgures were quoted
from a report siX years old. I am glad to say that the Medical Ofﬁcer
of Health assures me that the results obtained from the use of antitoxin
have been quite as gratifying in Toronto as elsewhere.

I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary, Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbrooke Square, London. W.
January 3rd, I911.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(29)
From the “ CHEL TENHAM EXAMINER,” Ian. 12111. 1911.

Dr. Hadwen’s reply to Mr. Paget.

DIPHTH ERIA ANTITOXIN.

Sin—I am afraid Mr. Paget is becoming exhausted. He has left
my replies concerning typhoid fever and tetanus absolutely alone,
contenting himself with “Let me say this week something about
diphtheria antitoxin.” He then proceeds with his stereotyped letter
upon the subject, which we are all weary of seeing in print and
answering. One quite longs for something original from his pen.

He begins, of course, by saying that “the lives which have been
saved by antitoxin may be reckoned by the hundred thousand.” He
goes on to say a little further on that the numbers consist of “whole
legions of them,” and winds up at last by reiterating : “I do say, most
emphatically, that it has saved legions of lives.” But, unfortunately,
he forgets to furnish evidence that even one single life has ever been
saved by this extraordinary production! It is like the story of the boy
and the cats on the tiles.

He has a good deal to say about "germs which brew poisons”;
about injecting germs into rabbits and rubbing the backs of the throats
of these poor little creatures with them ; about antitoxin having a sort
of neck to neck race with toxin along the course of the blood vessels
and catching it up at the end of 48 hours; of pumping diphtheria
germs into horses (although they never have diphtheria), and ﬁnally
bleeding them and putting the serum of their blood into tubes which
are sold at a thousand per cent. proﬁt under the name of antitoxin ; of
the happy condition of the horses which are thus poisoned and bled in
the El Dorado of a chemical laboratory; but not a solitary word to
show how the “legions ” and the “hundreds of thousands of saved lives ”
are calculated!

In fact, his own evidence goes to prove the opposite, for with that
strange penchant Mr. Paget possesses for always giving his case away,
he says :——“If we take the Registrar-General’s deaths for England and
Wales we ﬁnd, in spite of antitoxin, a terrible lot of deaths from
diphtheria ”! Consequently, he is obliged to leave England. He tells
your readers to “go round the whole earth—London, Paris, Berlin,
Rome, Vienna, St. Petersburg, India, China and Japan, Australia and
New Zealand, San Francisco, Chicago, Boston, New York and Canada,”
in order to ﬁnd the “legions of saved lives” which he talks about !

He says “There is but one way to judge the value of a drug.” It
is as follows :—-“ Imagine a thousand cases of diphtheria. Divide
them into two groups of 500 each, treat the one group with antitoxin
and the other without. Which of the groups would have the largest
mortality”? And then he stops, with the “imagination” on tenter—
hooks, without affording the slightest clue as to how his readers are to
solve the riddle and without providing a shade of evidence to assist in
divining the answer. It is quite a new idea as to how to “ judge the
value of a drug.” By a process of “Imagination”!

Unfortunately for Mr. Paget the Registrar-General’s Returns do
show “a terrible lot of deaths from diphtheria in spite of antitoxin.”
They prove that during 15 years since antitoxin has been introduced
into this country, the death-rate from diphtheria to the living popula-
tion has increased 25 per cent. above the 15 years antecedent to its use.
Hence it is not surprising that Mr. Paget has to roam all over the

 




 

world to ﬁnd his imaginary “legions” in lands where Registrar-
General’s statistics are not so easily available as here.

But, says Mr. Paget, one reason for these deaths is that " Thousands
of cases which used to be called ‘croup’ are now called ‘diphtheria’”l
Mr. Paget always deals in large numbers. Well, let the Registrar-
General speak for himself. Here are the ﬁgures for croup and
diphtheria together for the last 40 years in ten-year periods: Average
annual death-rate per million of the population: —

1861-70. 1871-80. 1881-90. 1891-1900.
390. 261. 286. 314.

It would be interesting to know how Mr. Paget explains the fact that
the death-rate from diphtheria and croup combined was only 261 per
million in 1871—80, and yet in 1881-1900, after six years of antitoxin
treatment, it has risen to 314? If, as he says, all the cases in the latter
group are genuine diphtheria, whereas those of the former were diluted
with croup, so much the worse for his argument. Instead of his
“ legions of lives saved,” the actual facts point just the other way.
His next excuse for the Registrar—General’s ﬁgures being so much
against him is unfortunately no better. He says :———“C0mpulsory
education, with its vast increase of big classes in crowded schools,
helps to spread the disease.” I quite agree with him, but that does
not help his case. We are not dealing with the increase of cases,
but with the saving of life. If the cases increase, so much the better
is the opportunity afforded for antitoxin to save the patients from
dying, but if, as he says, “in spite of antitoxin, the Registrar-General’s
returns show a terrible lot of deaths,” I am afraid Mr. Paget is in a
worse pickle than ever.
He goes on to talk of the Metropolitan Asylums Board ﬁgures.
Even here “the legions” are not forthcoming. They publish two tables,
the very thing Mr. Paget asks for, namely, those treated with antitoxin
and those without, and in the latter table the decline in the death—rate
is double as much as that in the former. So Mr. Paget begins making
excuses again; he says those treated “without antitoxin” were those
that had diphtheria, but got well without it! I am afraid that that
does not help him much. But alas, that table also contains all the very
worst cases', a fact which vitiates the other table he relies upon and
makes all the statistics ridiculous. It also shows that antitoxin is
powerless where it is most needed. We are still left Without evidence
of the “legions.”
“Finally,” says Mr. Paget, “let me draw the moral from rabbits
to babies.” A most interesting sequence! And he adds: “I do not
say that no ill results among the many hundreds of thousands of cases,
have ever, under wholly exceptional conditions, followed the use of
antitoxin.” That is a serious admission. Alas, there have been a
great many of such unfortunate cases, and any mother’s child may any
day be one of the “exceptions.”
Mr. Paget, therefore, has left antitoxin in a very parlous condition.
His “legions of saved lives” remain where he himself has placed them
—-in the “imagination,” but the possible deaths, as the results of this
ﬁlthy, useless, and dangerous quackery, are frankly admitted by his
own pen.——I am, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,
President of the British Union for the Abolition
Gloucester, January 9th, 1911. of Vivisection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(31)

From the “CHELTENHAM EXAMINER.”

Research Defence Society.

Sir,—~Your readers can easily test the statements in the letter
which you published last week about Malta fever. They can show the
letter to any medical man in Cheltenham or elsewhere, or to any
medical student, and ask him what he thinks of it. There is no need
for me to answer charges of evasion, subterfuge, superstiton, etc., nor
to defend Dr. Flexner against charges of fraud and impudence. I
prefer to go on with my proper business of making known the facts
about experiments on animals. I have already written about plague,
Malta fever, typhoid, tetanus, epidemic meningitis, and diphtheria‘ I
should like to say something this week about tubercle.

By the word tubercle, I mean not only consumption, but also that
vast group of other disease which are due to the tubercle bacillus,
hip-disease, spinal caries, tuberculous glands, lupus, etc. But we may
take consumption as the type of all the tubercular diseases.

Laennec, the inventor of the stethoscope, said, nearly a hundred
years ago, that consumption was a deﬁnite and distinct disease, apart
from other inﬂammations of the lung. Before his time, this distinction
had not been generally recognised. Yet we ﬁnd, and may well be
surprised to ﬁnd, that the disease was recognised as infectious, ages
before Laennec. Thus, ﬁve hundred years ago, Frascatorius had said
that consumption might arise “ from the passing of the corrupt and
noisome humours of the patient into the lungs of a healthy man.”
And, in France, in the seventeenth century, consumption was admitted
to be infectious, and some sort of isolation was practised to keep it
from spreading. But, since the true nature of the disease had not
been proved, at that time, by experiments on animals, people gradually
lost sight of the fact that it may be communicated by infection.

In 1843, Klencke, by experiments on animals, showed that tubercle
could be conveyed, by inoculation, from one animal to another. In
1865, Villemin proved, by experiments on animals, that the disease is
due to a speciﬁc living agent. By the inoculation of rabbits, he proved
that tubercle could be multiplied indeﬁnitely in animals, from one to
another; he also demonstrated the identity of consumption with other
forms of tuberculosis. Three years later, Chauveau produced the
disease in animals, not by inoculation, but by mixing tuberculous
matter with their food. Then, as the study of the disease advanced,
there came a long period of uncertainty, because animals differ so
widely in their susceptibility to tubercle. But, by 1880, this period of
uncertainty was at an end; and Cohnheim was able to say: “ Every-
thing is tuberculous which can produce tuberculous disease, by
inoculation, in animals susceptible to that disease: and nothing is
tuberculous which cannot do that." Next year 1881, came the welcome
news that Koch had discovered the tubercle bacillus, the germ itself,
the actual cause of the disease.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(32)

. To help us to understand the world—Wide importance of this great
discovery, we could not have a better guide than Koch’s own words,
published in March, 1882——-"Henceforth, in our warfare against this
dreadful scourge of our race, we have to reckon, not with a nameless
something, but with a deﬁnite germ invading the body : the conditions
of its life are for the most part already known, and can be further
studied. . . . Before all things, we must shut off the sources of
infection, so far as it is in the power of man to do this.”

Practically, as we look back over a hundred years of the study of
consumption, the names which stand out are Villemin, Pasteur, and
Koch. Villemin and Pasteur set Koch to work, Thanks to him, the
whole world learned at last the true nature of consumptiorf, the actual,
material, living cause of the tubercular diseases. Men understood, at
last, what it was that they were ﬁghting. Half a century ago, neither
the general public nor the doctors ever thought of a national crusade
against consumption, or imagined that the disease would be fought on
national lines. It is absolutely certain that the present more hopeful
and more rational views of consumption, and the present general use
of the open air treatment are both of them founded and built, not on
practice alone, but also on science. They are the result, not only of
bedside observation, but also of experiments made on rabbits and
guinea pigs. Before 1881, no doctor had ever attempted to diagnose a
case of consumption by examining the sputa under a microscope.
We owe it to experiments on animals, and to them alone, that every
medical man is better able to—day to detect consumption in its earlier
stages, when there is most hope that the patient’s life will be saved.

Again, a great part of the usual precautions now observed in the
nursing of consumptive patients, comes direct out of Koch’s work.
The same is true of the enforcement of rules against spitting in public
places. And the same is true of the present plans to make consumption
a notiﬁable disease. All these improvements in the service of the
national health are due to experiments on animals.

Again, the present use of the “new tuberculin” is giving good
results, and has helped to save or prolong many lives.

Again, experiments on animals gave us the present admirable
method of detecting the disease even in its earliest stages, in cattle.
If a cow has a little patch of tubercle in its lung, or in its udder, and
if it be tested with a dose of tuberculin put under the skin, it re-acts:
that is to say, the cow is feverish and off its feed for a few days. If
the cow be free from all disease of a tuberculous nature, it does not
re-act to the tuberculin. This test may fail if it be used on cattle
knocking about on board cattle-boats, or just landed at the docks: and
one can hardly imagine any test which might not fail under such
conditions. But, as a dairy test, or as a test for the breeding and
exporting of cattle, this use of tuberculin is everywhere approved and
employed, as a matter of routine, in all the more civilised countries of
the world. Indeed, they say in our own country that cunning dairy-
men will even fake their tuberculous cows, giving them a dose of
tuberculin a day or two before the Inspector is likely to come, so that
the cows may get their re-action over before he arrives, and may give
no further re-action when he tests them. Again, the London milk
supply is tested by the help of inoculation of guinea pigs with any
sample suspected of containing the germs of tubercle. Samples of

 




 

(33)

milk, from many dairies, are sent to the Lister Institute, by order of
the London County Council, for this purpose. .I have seen these
inoculated guinea pigs at the Lister Institute, and not one of them
was in any pain. A tuberculous gland, or a tuberculous nodule, gives
no pain to us, and cannot give pain to a guinea pig. By this very
simple test we are guarded, and our children are guarded, against the
spread of tubercle in the milk supply. This is only one of the many
instances where the real “vivisectors” are the British public, the
Government, and the Public Councils.

I do not wish, in any way, to evade the fact that the ﬁrst use of
tuberculin, the “old tuberculin,” failed. That failure happened more
than twenty years ago, and our men of science have advanced far
beyond the point where things stood in 1890. Nor do I wish in any
way to evade the fact that the general mortality from tuberculosis had
been going down for many years, before the cause of the disease was
discovered. That is not good enough security for the world’s health.
Nor do I wish in any way to evade the fact that the exact amount of
danger from the drinking of unboiled milk seemed much less to the
mind of Koch than it seemed to the minds of other men of no less
authority. Koch did not think that this danger was great enough to
warrant severe and burdensome restriction of the milk trade; other
experts thought it was.

Look which way we will to-day, either at the diagnosis of con—
sumption, or at its prevention, or at the present general advance of the
whole country to a crusade against this national evil, we ﬁnd every-
where the results of Koch’s discovery. Among all the many gifts
which have come, by. the help of experiments on animals, not only to
men, women, and children, but also to animals, surely not the least is
the discovery of the true nature of tuberculosis.

I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Sec. Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.,
Jan. 7th, 1911.

 




» ., wt‘amm ._ _ __ __._..__ __.,...n _- , ,7 n, A. , ,. - .. . u., H . ”9'7.-.—-:"~"--—

(34)
From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER,” fan. 19th, IQII.

Dr. Hadwen’s reply to ‘Mr. Paget.
CONSUMPTION.

Sir,——If Mr. Paget is satisﬁed by ignoring the deﬁnite proofs I
have provided of gross misrepresentations upon his part, of evasions
of serious charges against him and his methods, of ignorance of proven
facts, and of general distortion of historical evidence, I have no reason
to complain and the public will draw their own conclusions. As
Honorary Secretary of what he has called the “Research Defence
Society,” one would have thought his “proper business” is to defend
his position and his claim, but he says his “ proper business is to make
known the facts about experiments on animals,” and to take no notice
of any exposures of his “facts.” He refers your readers instead to
“any medical man in Cheltenham,” the majority of whom would know
no more of the subject than does Mr. Paget himself, and who, if
appealed to, would in all probability merely parrot the very same
absurdities that Mr. Paget has himself collected, or candidly confess
that they know nothing of the subject. I will give Mr. Paget credit
for consistency of method: he stands in a fortress for a few moments
and makes an oracular demonstration. As soon as his fortress is
riddled with bullets and it becomes untenable, he moves on to another
one, and says, “I should like to say something this week about so and
so,” and when this fortress becomes untenable, he moves on again!
This is “instructing the public”! I should call it “amusing” them !

However, “this week” it is “tuberculosis” or consumption, and
its treatment. As usual, Mr. Paget winds up by giving his case away.
He admits that the “old tuberculin” which worked such marvellous
miracles and brought such honours to its discoverer has “failed.” He
says the “new tuberculin” has “helped to cure or prolong many lives,”
but as he does not know how long the poor creatures who have been
experimented upon with it in hospitals might have lived without it,
this is pure guess work, and as no medical man with a reputation to
lose will pin his faith to the “new ” abomination, one can well under-
stand Mr. Paget’s cautious comment.

He further admits that “the general mortality from tuberculosis
had been going down for many years before the cause of the disease
was discovered,” which leads one to presume that the decline would
most probably have continued even if the so—called “cause” had never
been “discovered” at all.

He also admits that the great “discoverer” came to the conclusion
in his riper years that anyone might drink unboiled milk without any
fear of danger——and he ought to know most about it——as the germs it
might contain could not do any harm.

After all these naive admissions by Mr. Paget there is very little
else for me to say ; he has simply “cooked his own goose” and proved
without any assistance from me that the germ theory in relation to
tuberculosis is as visionary as it is in regard to every other disease we
have discussed in these columns.

However, I think I can help to demolish his own case even more
effectively than he has done already. I need not refer to all the
disgusting and ridiculous experiments he quotes at length which were
performed upon living animals—mainly guinea pigs and rabbits—in

 

 

”will?! xl-ﬁw'f '3'} a-..?'~}2;f 5:.

“4.,
.g e

 

 

 

 

 




 

(35)

order to elaborate the idea with which Mr. Pagets mind is obsessed.
I will settle all that in a single sentence by quoting no less an authority
than the “discoverer” himself, Professor Koch, of Berlin, who says on
page 8 of his “Cure of Consumption”:—“ Here again is a fresh and
conclusive proof of that most important rule for all experimentalists,
that an experiment on an animal gives no certain indication of the
result of the same experiment upon a human being.”

Dr. Muthu, of Mendip Hills Sanatorium, has recently declared in
his elaborate work on Tuberculosis that he found the tubercle bacillus
absent in 30 per cent. of his cases of tuberculosis. How then can it be
the cause of the disease? This germ is practically never found in the
initial stages of the disease, when, if at any time, it ought to be present.
And, moreover, other bacilli, such as the Timothy grass bacillus and
the Smegma bacillus, which are confessed to be quite harmless, and are
found in myriads about every dairy, cannot be distinguished by any
test from the so—called genuine article. The whole idea is an absurdity.

What has been proved is this: That vitiated air, added to hereditary
predisposition, or contracted lung trouble from cold, etc., will produce
the disease, and that fresh air in many cases—that is, a complete
change of environment—will cure it. This is scientiﬁc common sense,
and requires no experiments upon living animals for its elucidation,
nor have such experiments assisted it in the least. On the contrary,
they have retarded the beneﬁcent method of nature, by leading the
medical profession on to false lines, and by being the direct cause of
premature deaths.

Mr. Paget’s ﬁnal effort to show that the tuberculin which was found
useless for human beings had been found valuable for testing cattle,
whilst at the same time inferentially admitting that the germ in both
cases is the same, is too comical for words.

But Mr. Stockman, Veterinary Ofﬁcer to the Local Government
Board, showed in his evidence before the Royal Commission recently
that this theory is full of fallacies and the test affords the public no
“guarantee” whatever. It was found fallacious when applied to cattle
reared on foreign ranches when landed at Birkenhead. It could not
be applied with certain results to the cattle in a show yard or in the
market. They might react and leave you in doubt even though
tuberculous. In cases where the disease is tolerably advanced they
do not react to tuberculin at all.

The Department of Agriculture of the University of Aberdeen has
published a report showing that out of 240 cattle tested with tuberculin,
24 of those which gave no reaction and were consequently pronounced
healthy, were found post mortem to be tuberculous. And Professor
Brouere, of the Veterinary Department of the Board of Agriculture
says it has spread Tubercle Bacilli where the body was not previously
infected.

Therefore when Mr. Paget declares that his “ proper business is
to make known the facts,” there is no other conclusion to draw but
that Mr. Paget has never yet learned his business properly.

I am, Sir, Your obedient servant,
WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,

President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection.

Gloucester, Jan. 16th, 1911.

 




 

-- :mm.m.~.-—______ H... .5 _.

(36)

 

From the “ CHELTENHAM EXAMINER.”

Research Defence Society.

Sin—With regard to diphtheria antitoxin, if any of your readers
would care to have a copy of the actual tables and charts published by
the Registrar-General, and by the Metropolitan Asylums Board in itS
latest report, I shall be happy to send these facts, in return for a post
card. Your readers will then see that I have given a true account of
the case. Other statements in your correspondent’s letter may easily
be tested, by the test which I have already mentioned. The letter can
be submitted to any medical man in Cheltenham or elsewhere, or to
any Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, or to any medical student, or to any
Hospital Sister. That is an easy and fair test of your corre‘spondent’s
letters. '

My instances of the value and the necessity of experiments on
animals are not yet exhausted: and, when your readers are tired of
instances in pathology, they shall have instances in physiology.
Meanwhile, I take, for another instance in pathology, Pasteur’s
discovery of the preventive treatment against hydrophobia.

In our own country, hydrophobia (rabies) has been stamped out,
Heaven be praised, by the Muzzling Act, and by quarantine of dogs.
We live on an island: it was therefore possible to stamp out rabies by
these methods. On the Continent, and in India, different conditions
prevail. It would not be possible to muzzle all the stray dogs in
Constantinople. It would be equally impossible to muzzle all the
wolves in Russia. Happily, it was possible to muzzle all the dogs in
England.

Two facts, here, are of great importance. (I) It was Pasteur
himself who proved, by experiments on animals, that rabies is not a
disease which “comes of itself”; and it was this proof which made
our Government sure that a thoroughly effective Muzzling Act would
really put an end to rabies in this country. It was Pasteur himself
who advised the Committee, appointed by our Government, to be
content with a strong Muzzling Act. This Committee was appointed
by our Local Government Board, about 1887, to enquire into Pasteur’s
preventive treatment. The Committee went to Paris, and Pasteur said
to them, “You do not require my method in England at all. I have
proved that rabies is an infectious disease. All that you have to do is
to enforce a short quarantine covering the incubation period, and to
muzzle all your dogs at the present moment: and, in a few years, you
will be free.” (2) Pasteur’s advice to our Local Government was
zealously backed by “ the vivisectors.” It was the “ anti-vivisectors ’7
who have to bear the disgrace of stubborn and wild opposition to the
Muzzling Order. They denounced, in vehement language, Mr. Walter
Long and his Act. It does not matter now what they said. But the
fact remains, that the worst enemies of the preventive treatment
against rabies were also the worst enemies of the Muzzling Act.

 

 

 

 

 




 

(37)

Let me give some account of the way in which Pasteur was led to
discover the preventive treatment. By his earlier work, on fowl
cholera and on anthrax, he had learned the general principles of
immunity. He could standardise this or that disease. He could
store, in test tubes, this or that disease in every shade of strength, from
non-virulence up to full virulence. He. could have a “ﬁxed virus ”:
that is to say, he could have, in a test tube, a certain substance, which
would produce, in a known time, a known result, neither more nor less.
He could exactly graduate his doses, beginning at zero, and advancing
day by day, point by point, to a dose of full strength. By this gradual
method he could immunise dogs or rabbits against rabies, so that it
was impossible to give them the disease. He could also, after dogs or
rabbits had been infected with the disease, prevent it from ﬂaring up ‘
in them.

If a man is bitten by a rabid animal, and is carrying the poison
about with him in the scar, there is a period of time before the poison
gets into his central nervous system, his brain, and his spinal cord.
This period may be long, or it may be short : anyhow, there always is
a period, which is called the period of incubation, before the poison
gets too far into the system.

By experiments ' on dogs, Pasteur found that the ﬁrst signs of
rabies occurred ﬁfteen days after the poison had ﬁnally got hold of the
brain and spinal cord. Once it has got so far as that, it is too late for
the preventive treatment to have a proper chance. Therefore, if a
patient at the Pasteur Institute dies within ﬁfteen days of the comple-
tion of the treatment, the Institue very properly calls attention to the
fact. The anti-vivisectionists are not so scrupulous as that ; they
add these cases to their lists of Pasteur’s “ failures.”

The following method is in general use :——-Rabbits, not dogs, are
used: and your readers will be glad to know that, in rabbits, the
disease assumes a paralytic and almost painless form, wholly different
from the misery which it inﬂicts on dogs, let alone the bodily and
mental agony which it inﬂicts on man. The rabbits are inoculated
with a measured dose of the disease, of standard strength. They
develop the standard disease: and they die in the standard time.
When they are dead, their spinal cords, which contain the disease, are
removed, under antiseptic precautions, and are dried in bottles. As
the cords dry, they gradually lose strength, point by point, day by
day. A cord that has been dried for a fortnight has lost all strength.
One that has been dried for thirteen days has a very faint shade of
strength: one dried for twelve days is a shade stronger, and so on.
The patient begins with a minute dose of a cord fourteen days old,
rubbed up in a little water, and put under the skin through a hollow
needle. Next day, he can take, Without harm, a dose of cord thirteen
days old : next day, a dose of cord twelve days old, and so on. When
he has attained a dose of a cord only four or three days old, the treat-
ment is complete.

Now, from the study of more than 3,000 cases, it appears that the
risk of death, if a man be bitten by an animal supposed, on reasonable
grounds, to be mad, is I6 per cent, if the patient be not treated at a
Pasteur Institute. Of these 3,000 persons, 500 died in all the dreadful
agony of rabies.

With the Pasteur treatment, the mortality is not 16 in 100. It is
about one in 250.

 




(38)

I do not say that no failures, and no mischances, have ever
occurred in the twenty—six years during which the treatment has been
in use, not only in Paris, but in diverse parts of the civilised world.
But I do say, most emphatically, that thousands and thousands of
lives have been saved, by the preventive treatment, from one of the
worst deaths that a man can suffer.

Every patient at the Pasteur Institutes, in Paris or elsewhere, is
divided into three classes, (I) those cases where the biting animal was
said to have been mad ; (2) those cases where the biting animal was
demonstrated to have been mad, because its body was examined after
death, by a veterinary surgeon ; (3) those cases where the biting animal
was proved to have been mad. Either it bit other animals, and they
went mad: or, a particle of its spinal cord, after death, was put into
another animal, and that animal went mad.

We shall all be agreed that the patients in this third class were
undoubtedly bitten by animals that were mad. I have before me the
latest report from the Pasteur Institute in Paris. The number of
patients treated, during 1909, was 467. Of these 467 persons, two died,
one of whom died within ﬁfteen days of the completion of the treat-
ment. The number of cases in the ﬁrst class was 17 3 ; none of whom
died. In the second class, 220 cases, two of whom died. In the third
class, 84 cases; none of them died. The two patients who died were i
Henry Watson and George Seaman, the two English soldiers who were
bitten at Gibraltar on September 12th, 1909.

At the great Pasteur Institute in Tunis, during 1909, the number
of persons treated was 354. But three of them were members of the
Institute who had not been bitten, but underwent the treatment because
of some other reason : two patients left off the treatment for no
particular reason: and nine left it off because the animal was found
after all not to have been mad. Thus we were left with 340 cases. Of
these 340 cases, 180 were in the ﬁrst class; 125 in the second class;
and 26 in the third class. Not one of the 340 cases died.

The total statistics for 21 years at the great Pasteur Institue in
Charkow have just been published. Between 1881 and 1909, which is
21 years, 24,051 cases were treated: 19,581 in the ﬁrst class, 2,393 in the
second class, and 2,077 in the third class. Including the cases which
died within 15 days of the completion of the treatment, the mortality
was 1.1 per cent. Excluding these cases, it was 0.67 per cent. —-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,

STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Secretary, Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.
January 16th, 1911.

 

 

 

 




 

(39)

From the “ CHEL TENHAM EXAMINER,” fan. 261/2, 1911.

Dr. Hadwen’s reply to Mr. Paget.
HYDROPHOBIA.

Sin—As Mr. Paget’s only rejoinder to my reply on Antitoxin is a
further pathetic appeal to the medical practitioners of Cheltenham to
assist him and an offer to supply pamphlets which I have already
exposed in your columns, I am saved the necessity of saying anything
further about the subject. Your correspondent’s pamphlets are duly
appearing week by week ; they are now nearly exhausted and that will
end Mr. Paget, so your readers have no need to be alarmed at his
threat to commence a fresh series of reproductions when the present
series is concluded. I know his limits I

According to his usual plan of replying to one subject by dealing
with another, we are “ this week” treated to Hydrophobia.

It is rather amusing to be told that Pasteur advised muzzling as
quite good enough for England, whilst he considered his Virus was
necessary for France. Pasteur, who in all these matters was a pure
Charlatan, knew very well that if his virus were to be used in this
country the fraud of it would speedily be discovered. As it is, no
medical man of reputation in England has ever committed himself to
Pasteur’s treatment of hydrophobia.

I need not touch upon the long dissertation Mr. Paget gives upon
the ﬁlthy and horrible method of preparation, which occupies half a
column. What is more to the point is this :——That I have a collection
of some 3,000 cases of human beings treated for hydrophobia at the
various Pasteur Institutes on the Continent and in India, who have
died from the disease at varying periods after treatment. A fresh
series of fatal cases is now being published in the Abolitiom’sz‘. In many
of these cases there was no evidence that the incriminated dog was
mad at all—thus emphasising the truth of the charge made by a great
French doctor, “ Pasteur does not cure hydrophobia, he gives it.”

Mr. Paget claims that in a certain number of cases the dog was
proved to be mad. How? By inoculating the brains of rabbits with
a portion of the brain of the alleged mad dog. But the fallacy is this.
As Mr. Paget confesses, the process does not make the rabbit mad at
all, but only paralyses its hind quarters, and precisely the same result
was produced by Vulpian by injecting the brain of a rabbit with
healthy saliva. Hence this cruel experiment is no proof whatever and
the statistics founded upon it are therefore fallacious.

He points out the low death rate among Pasteurian patients. The
reason is not far to seek. So great a scare has been created of late
years, that no lady’s hand can be grazed by the teeth of her lap dog
without her being ordered to Paris to be inoculated for hydrophobla,
and in fact things have reached such a ridiculous pitch, that Lord and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(40)

Lady Minto recently submitted themselves to inoculation because
somebody else had been bitten, and they wished to be “on the safe side.”
One morning, at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, I saw about 100 persons
of both sexes and all ages inoculated; I made careful enquires among
them and I found that there was not one out of the whole number who
had any positive evidence as to having been bitten by a mad dog. In
fact, it was a question which did not appear to occur to them. No
wonder the death rate is so low. The statistics are a complete fraud.

Upon the very face of them they are fraudulent, inasmuch as for
30 years before inoculation was invented there was not more than an
average of 30 deaths in France from hydrophobia out of 40,000,000 of
people. For 30 years after inoculation the average number of deaths
with a less population rose to 100. Pray Where is the salvation? Mr.
Paget says the deaths to bitten cases before Pasteur’s treatment was
16 per cent., but now it is only one in 250. The latter can be accounted
for by the method I have described of including every bitten person
whether the dog is mad or not. But to say that the number was 16 per
100 before Pasteurism was introduced is nothing but the sheerest
impudence upon the part of Mr. Paget, for there are no statistics in
existence to justify this reckless assertion. It is mere guesswork.

Your correspondent says he “does not say that no failures, and no
mischances have ever occurred.” No, I have before me at this moment,
as already stated, 3,000 of them—all “protected” and all dead from
the disease, and yet he says with his usual exaggeration, “But I do say
most emphatically that thousands uponthousands of lives have been
saved.” He has not proved, nor can he prove,'that one single life has
ever been saved by this treatment. The evidence is all the other way.

The wicked torture and cruelty associated with the preparation of
the hydrophobic virus is hardly ﬁt for publication. Mr. Paget pretends
to describe it, but he wisely omits its most revolting features.

I invite any of your readers who desire to know more of the
subject (or indeed of any of the subjects treated in the course of this
correspondence—I cannot call it “controversy ”), to write to Miss
Kidd, 32 Charing Cross, S.W., or to our local Branch Hon. Secretary,

Miss Garnham, 38 Alstone Avenue, Cheltenham, when literature will
be immediately supplied.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.,

President of the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection.

Gloucester, January 23rd, 1911.

 

 

 




 

 

 

(41)

From the “CHELTENHAM EXAMINER.”

Research Defence Society.

Sir,——Now that I have given eight instances of the value of
experiments on animals, let me sum up the letters which you have
kindly published from me up to the present time. On December 8th,
I gave an account of the discovery of the true cause of plague, and of
the excellent results obtained by the use of the preventive treatment.
On December 15th, I gave an account of the discovery of the cause of
Malta fever, and how the disease had been extinguished, among our
garrison in Malta, by the prohibition of the use of goats’ milk, which
had been found to convey the germs of the disease. On/ December
22nd, I took for my subject the discovery of the causes of typhoid
fever and of tetanus; and the good results which had followed the
preventive treatment against these two diseases. On December 29th,
I gave the statistics of the serum treatment of the epidemic meningitis:
the cause of the disease, and the serum treatment of this disease, were
both of them discovered by experiments on animals. On January 5th,
I described diphtheria-antitoxin and the results of ﬁfteen years’
experience of its use. On January I2th, I took the subject of tuber-
culosis, and showed what great and enduring advantages were given
to the world by Koch’s work. On January 19th, I took the subject of
rabies, and gave an account of Pasteur’s work on this disease, and of
the admirable results of the Pasteur treatment.

I come now to certain statements made, by your other correspond-
ent, on these very important subjects. The germ theory of plague,
he says, “saves a lot of thinking.” H aff kine’s vaccine he calls a serum,
and says that it has been given up as useless. He says that it increased
the mortality of plague, and he calls it “an insane process of blood
poisoning, and plague dissemination.” With regard to Malta fever,
he says that Bruce “produced symptoms of blood poisoning and
called it Malta fever.” He says that the cases of accidental infection
with Malta fever in laboratories “appear to have been pure cases of
septicaemia.” He calls the work of the Royal Society’s Commission
“ most atrocious and unscientiﬁc,” and says that they got their science
from a fairy-tale. He says that they now call Malta fever by the name
of simple continued fever, and that our military authorities have
become the laughing-stock of all the inhabitants of Malta. Of
epidemic meningitis, he says that Dr. Flexner’s ﬁgures are “simply
fraudulent,” and are “one of the most delightful specimens of impu-
dent cooking.” Of typhoid fever, he says that it results “from the
actual introduction of animal organic matter, usually of an excremental
type, into the alimentary canal.” Of tetanus, he says that Dr.
Warbasse's facts are a fairy-tale and a farrago: and that the use of
tetanus-antitoxin is “ﬁlthy quackery.” Of diphtheria-antitoxin, he
says that the use of it is “ﬁlthy, useless, and dangerous quackery.”
Of tuberculosis, he says that the whole idea that it is due to the

E

E’ T
E _» F E
r; ,
E;
E
E
E
E;
E”:
E a
E
s .
E

 




 

 

 

 

(42)

bacillus of tubercle is an absurdity. And I do not doubt that he is
this week saying the same sort of things about the preventive against
rabies.

Of course, his quarrel is not with me, but with his profession. I
have only stated, in my letters, the general belief of the medical
profession. Your readers, if they have any doubt as to the fact of the
case, must show this correspondence to any medical practitioner, or
any Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, or any medical student, or any hospital
Sister, or well-trained nurse, in Cheltenham, Gloucester, or Clifton, or
anywhere else: or to any man or woman of science who has ever
studied the work of Pasteur, Lister, Koch, and their followers. The
discoveries which I have named are in use all over the civilised world.
They enter into daily practice : they are familiar to the whole medical
profession, I can only advise your readers, if they think that I have
not told the truth, to show this correspondence to their own doctor, or
to any doctor anywhere in the United Kingdom.

Let me add, that in my last letter I made a mistake. The number
of patients in Class B, treated in 1909 at the Pasteur Institute, was not
220, but 200.

But, I am not inclined to continue this correspondence. The tone
of your correspondent’s letters makes it impossible for me to take
them as a serious contribution to the present controversy. It is no
wonder, when the President of one of the sixteen anti-vivisection
societies is capable of saying such things about the work of his own
profession, that the anti-vivisection movement is fast losing hold of
thoughtful, fair-minded, and well educated people. »

I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN PAGET,
Hon. Sec. Research Defence Society.

21 Ladbroke Square, London, W.
Jan. 23rd, 1911.

N.B.—Mr. Paget having thus fulﬁlled Dr. Had-wen’s prophecy by declining
“ to continue this correspondence” when his series of leaﬂets
was exhausted, and referring the public to—inter alia—“ any
medical student” or “any well—trained nurse,” the letters came
to an end. The reader is asked to reply to the question “WHO
ARGUES?” and to remember that it is synonymous with “WHO
THINKS?”

41;;

 




 

 

 




 

Q&%Q

 

 

Gloucester :
F. J. BROOKE, Printer and Bookbinder

2 Westgate Street. 18546

 

 

mm

(3/

 




