DOCKING AND NICKING or
HORSES (PROHIBITION) BILL

 

14 POINTS

AGAINST DOCKIN G

 

This photograph of an undocked Shire Horse proves that by

braiding, instead of docking, the quarters are shewn off. The

picture also shews how long the tail bones of a horse
actually are.

{By kind permission of Lt.-C0l. R. S Timmis D 80,)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(By kind permission of M rs. Comtauld).
Undocked Percheron Mare; she works regularly on the land.

 

(Sport and General, 1933).

This Shire Gelding has only a small stump of tail left: the
rest has been amputated. He is permanently helpless against
flies.

 




 

 

 

14 POINTS IN SUPPORT
OF THE DOCKING BILL

 

“ Docking (amputation of a portion of a horse’s dock)
is a relic of the barbarous past, and is practised only by
persons who are entirely subservient to fashion. The
idea that it improves a horse’s appearance is an
absurdity, because mutilation ..... cannot be an aid
to beauty.” . ‘ .
The late Capt. M. H. Hayes, F.R.C.V.S.

in “ Points of the Horse ” (page 257).

 

 

 

THE PRESENT LEGAL POSITION

The Animals (Anaesthetics) Act, 1919, allows docking if a
general or local anaesthetic is used.

The Act is difﬁcult to enforce, as Inspectors of the. R.S.P.C.A.
and the Police have no right of entry into private property:
consequently, docking can still be carried out by the old methods
in secret. The R.S.P.C.A. has prosecuted successfully in cases of
infringement of the Act, and as it is obviously very difﬁcult to
secure evidence in such cases, it cannot be doubted that a large
number of horses are docked without an anaesthetic.

GENERAL POINTS AGAINST DOCKING
l

The cruelty caused to horses by docking is not only the pain
of the operation, should no anaesthetic be used, and the
discomfort caused While the wound is healing, but the
animal’s life-long helplessness against fly-persecution, as a
result of being deprived of its tail.

2

Few people seem to realise that the horse has a fly muscle
(called the Panniculus Carnosus) which covers the ribs, belly,
and shoulders, and which, by twitching, enables the animal
to free itself from flies settling on those parts. The tail
serves to protect the most sensitive parts of the horse’s body
(which are practically naked) from cold and injury, as well as

to keep off irritating insects, and as Nature never gives two
> [Coutinued on Page 6

 

 




 

 

 

American Standardbred Trotter. Contrast this fine animal’s tail
with the poor mutilated stump of the Hackney mare, page 5.
English Trotters should follow the American example.

 

 

 

Horse wearing the nicking harness and bustle.
Nicking is rare in England, but this illustration shows those who
know nothing about the practice just what it involves. (See page 10).

(By kind bermission of the President of the American Humane Society.)

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

., x-
./ .éf/
Mﬂ’

 

Undocked Hackney Horse, showing the
quarters as clearly as docked animal.
(By kind permission of Major R. S. Timmis, DE; .0.)

 

(Sport (8 General)

Docked and nicked Hackney Mare, showing unnatural and
cruel disfigurement, which outrage she endured for fashion.

(By kind permission of M ajor R. S. Timmz's, D.S.O.)

5

 




organs for the same purpose, no fly muscle is found in the
regions covered by the tail and mane. Thus docking robs the
animal of its specially devised defence against flies.

3

Docked horses suffer greatly during warm weather, especially
when drawing heavy loads, causing them to sweat and so
attract flies. Continual ineffective stamping when waiting
on hard roads helps to wear out their feet and legs.
Mares are particularly sensitive and liable to insect
distress when they “come into use” and when expecting
or feeding a foal. In this connection, the late Capt. M. H.
Hayes, F .R.C.V.S., has stated in his work“ Points of the Horse”
(page 258) “A docked mare ‘in season’ . . . . is a disgusting
sight which should not be tolerated in any civilised country.”

4

For the same reason, docked horses are often irritable and
nervous when being ridden or standing in harness, which is a
great annoyance to people using them.

 

 

5

Docked horses, when put out to grass,
suffer great discomfort from winged
pests. They also fail to get the rest
and quiet necessary in order to build
them up.

       

Jinn.“

Team of six undocked van horses. This photograph should convince anyone of tl
argument as here, instead of one pair of reins, several ha

 




6

Docked horses are apt to “ clutch” with the tail, which
makes grooming and sponging more difficult.

-ANSWERS TO OPPONENTS
7

Docking is only done for “fashion” or “ smartness ”: its
advocates try to excuse themselves by the following
extraordinary statements :

 

 

8

That docking enables the animal’s quarters to be shewn off :

Whilst a long tail in no way prevents the line of the quarters
being shewn, persons who wish to shorten the tail for this
purpose can either:

(a) Shorten the hair slightly at the end of the dock.
(b) Plait the long hair, bend it back over the dock and
then braid it. (See illustration on front cover).

(c) Shave and bind the tail.

 

9
That the tail of an undocked

horse may get entangled in the
reins :

A horse with a short and
stumpy tail is far more likely
to get the reins under it and
“ clutch” hard than if he has
a long flowing tail. The fitting
of a rein bracket is a final
answer to this objection, when
driving a single horse in
harness. That docking is un-
necessary in the case of a
harnessed team of 4 or 6
horses, is shewn by the illus-

 

. . (By kind peimission 0f“AnimalL¢fe,” Feb. 1936). tration on the left, and by the
e of the hollowness of the “ entangled reins” facts given on page 7, Section
gral have to be manipulated. 11.

 




 

10

That docking is necessary when a tip—cart is employed.

This is an extraordinary statement since, in the first place,
correct harnessing allows sufficient space between the
horse’s quarters and the vehicle itself. Dealing with the tail
as mentioned in Section 8, prevents the long hair below the
dock getting trapped in the cart when it is “ tipped.” Finally,
this objection is proved to- be untrue by the innumerable
undocked heavy horses working in tip-carts all over the
world. The suggestion that you should “ cut the horse
to fit the cart” is typical of the docking mind, whereas,
even if it were true that tip-carts are dangerous when
undocked horses are used, it would be the cart which should
be altered, and not the animal mutilated. As a matter
of fact, alteration of the cart is not necessary (see illustration
below).

 

This undocked Clydesdale mare works in a tip-cart regularly.
An instance of many similar cases.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

11
That it is dirty to have a full length tail:

This is another extraordinary statement, since in wet weather
the long hair of the tail may be tied up in a knot at the base of
the dock, or the hair clipped to the end of the tail bones. It is
also usual to shorten the hairs at the sides of the tail, which
makes sponging and cleaning the animal easy. There is no
valid argument in this excuse for docking, as the cleanest and
best kept horses in the world, namely, Arab, Army, Police
and Racehorses, are not mutilated in this way.

12

That it is more humane to clock a horse than to “ pull ” its tail
every few months :

Docked horses suffer from having their tails “ pulled ” just as
much as undocked ones, so there is no truth in the assertion
that docking prevents this discomfort. In any case, it is
better to have the tail hairs “pulled” occasionally than to cut
through the actual tail bones.

13
FOREIGN PRECEDENTS FOR PROHIBITING

DOCKING.

Docking is prohibited in Norway, Adelaide (S. Australia),
and in the following States of the U.S.A. :—Wisconsin,
Michigan, Massachusetts, California (San Diego and Los
Angeles), Colorado, Nebraska and Connecticut. According
to Lt.-Col. R. S. Timmis, D.S.O., (Royal Canadian
Dragoons), there are over 24 million undocked horses in
Canada and the U.S.A.—over 95 per cent. of these are used
in harness. There are also over 17 million undocked farm
horses in those countries: nor has it been the custom to
dock horses in Russia, where a very large number of sleigh,
trotting and other classes of horses are used.

9

 




 

 

14
NICKING.

Nicking entails a surgical operation, which consists in
cutting the stronger ﬂexor muscles on each side of the tail
at its base near to the body: the tail is then bent up at
nearly a right angle, tightly bandaged, and held by mech-
anical devices in this position until the wounds heal. The
aim is to paralyse the muscles which depress the tail and
keep it held away from the very part of the body which
the tail is meant to cover and protect. The wounds must
be kept open, and this can only be accomplishediy
keeping the tail upright for two or three weeks. Fashion

decrees that Hackney horses shall usually have the dock
cut off, and sometimes the remaining stump is nicked on
the underside. This practice is still occasionally carried
out in this country. (See page 4).

 

Docking is common in this country, the majority of
the horses in London streets alone having suffered this
mutilation.

English fashions are copied throughout the world.

“’ill you please help to put a stop to docking,
and nicking, for which there is no valid reason.
It is a cruel mutilation, causing unnecessary
suffering to a most sensitive and beautiful animal.
Particulars of how to help nlay he obtained front:
the Il.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, London,
S.\V.l.

In a pamphlet dealing with the subject of docking, Major
R. S. Timmis, D.S.O., of the Royal Canadian Dragoons, who
has had a wide experience in. the training and handling of

horses on the North Amerlcan Continent and in this
country, states :—-

“ I have studied every book of consequence that has
been written on the horse in the past 30 years, and

10

 

 

 

 




nowhere have I been able to find a good word to be said
for docking horses ; on the contrary, every authorlty has
strongly condemned. the practice.”

 

 

(By kind permission of The Arab Horse Society).

Arab Stallion, “ Koheilan”—Sire “ Koheilan IV,” Dam “ Gazal.” Bred at “ The Royal Hungarian
Stud of Babolna ” and imported into Poland in 1924. Sire of the Polish Derby winners “ Ikwa”
and “Jagoaa.”

This picture shows better than any argument
the beauty and balance of the natural tail.

 

 

Issued by The
ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

1 11
3M,6/37 M. & C.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Photo: W. A. Roach

Undocked Cleveland A further proof that there is no risk of rein-entanglement with

undocked horses.
’(Iv‘rom “Modem Horse Management ” by Lt. Col. R. S. ’I‘immis I).S.O. Cassell 1920.

 




