S .
f" a
. > x ,. , , .
ﬂ/ / ‘ ' "
, (J l ‘
_

Boston work-lime Re’liet
Hssociation

BULLETIN NO. 1

V Watering and Bedding 6

THIRD EDITION, AUGUST, 1915

 




 




WATERING AND BEDDING

URING the past ﬁve months an agent of this
D Association has visited 157 stables, including

almost all the large livery and boarding stables
in Boston and the neighboring cities and towns. One
object of these inspections was to ascertain the practice in
regard to watering the horses during the night, after they
have eaten their hay, and in regard to bedding them in

the day-time, as well as at night, especially on Sundays.
The agent submits the following report: ——

THE WATERING OF HORSES AT NIGHT

In most cases all the hay which horses in the city
receive is fed to them at night. It is therefore especially
important that they should be watered during the night,
and in the course of my inspection particular attention
was paid to this matter. All authorities agree, and ex-
perience teaches, that city horses should be watered be-
tween 8 P.M. (9 RM. would be better) and midnight;
but it was found that less than half of the stables visited
give their horses water after 7 RM.

And yet more stablemen volunteered information on
this subject than upon any other matter considered in
the ﬁve months during which the investigations were made.
“A horse comes in hungry,” was the usual way of putting

it, “and he wants his supper so much that he will drink
3

 




 

but little; and he ought not to drink deeply at that time,
even if he wanted to. Then he eats a quantity of dry,
heating food. He shouldn’t have water right after eating ;
but if he doesn’t get a good drink two or three hours
later, he will go through the night thirsty, and the heating
food'will burn out his insides for the lack of the water
that is needed to give the nourishment of the food a
chance to do the good it ought to be doing.” Moreover, a
horse not watered at night is very apt to drink too much
in the morning.

This night—watering is not only common humanity in
hot weather, but it is almost equally valuable in winter.
For appetite comes with the bracing effect of cold weather,
and horses eat more than they do in summer. Conse-
quently, if this extra food is to do its part in giving the
horse power to resist the cold and the strain of_winter
work, water must be given at the time when it will do
the most good, which is, in most cases, between 8 and 10
P.M., or even later. Nothing does so much to make
the food given result in extra strength, working endur-
ance and good condition.

The effect of this night-watering on the blood and
general circulation is far reaching. The thirst that follows
the digestion of a meal is the call of nature for the water
that is needed to help the good of the food to get into the
ﬂesh and blood of the animal; and equally important is

the part played by the water in sending the waste matter»

out of the body with the least possible wear and tear on
the organs that perform this indispensable duty. A horse

that remains thirsty all night cannot be expected to last
4

‘”“N -

a...»




 

.l
n

so long as one that is watered at the proper time.* A
distinguished London veterinary surgeon recently remarked :
“ Going too long without water causes more colic in horses
than anything else does.”

*At a men’s club near Boston, I was once making an address about
horses, in the course of which I urged the necessity of night-watering.
A man in the audience, who proved to be the night watchman in a
large stable near by, declared that he knew of a stable where the horses
were not watered at night, and would not drink even if they had the
opportunity. I asked his permission to test the horses in this respect,
and we went to the stable at about eleven o’clock. There were twenty
horses, and we unfastened them, one after another, so that they could
go to the watering trough if they so desired. It was a bitterly cold night
in midwinter, but of the twenty horses all but one drank, and several
drank so much that I feared they would have colic in consequence.

—H. C. M.

BEDDING AND REST

There were twenty-ﬁve horses in a stable not far from
Boston that was visited one Sunday morning. The horses
were a fair, average lot of the kind used in delivery wag-
ons and in general business. Most of them were in
reasonably good working order, and the stable had the
appearance of being well kept.

Of the twenty-ﬁve horses in the stable twenty—four
were standing up, and just one was lying down. In
twenty-four stalls there was no bedding; in one there
was a good supply. One doesn’t have to be a wizard
to guess that the horse that was getting a needed rest
was in the same stall with the bedding. All the other horses
were being deprived of what might be the best part of their
Sunday, namely, the opportunity of taking their weight off
legs and feet that usually have all, and more, than they

can do to stand the strain of the week—day wear and tear.

In another stable there is a horse that works in a
single grocery wagon. He is between the shafts three
5

 

 




 

 

 

days, but every fourth day remains in the stable. Each
morning brings him exactly the same breakfast, and
there is absolutely nothing in the care given that tells him
whether he is to go out or stay in. But he knows how to
keep his own calendar, and every fourth morning, just as
soon as he has ﬁnished eating, he lies down in comfort
on the plentiful supply of bedding which is kept under
every horse in that stable at all times; and he frequently
stays down the better part of the day.

In still another stable there are pairs of horses that are
used half a day and left in the other half. Encouraged
by plenty of bedding, they have formed habits of resting
their legs and feet at every possible opportunity.

There is an old saying that a good city horse could
use up four sets of legs and feet. This means that a
large part of his bodily strength and endurance is wasted
because lameness and suffering wear out the unfortunate
animal long before his time. “ His shoulders is all gone savin’
his legs,” was the way one stableman described the condi-
tion of a horse that had worked his body muscles to pieces
in trying to ease the strain on his battered legs and feet.

As in the case of watering at night, the extra expense
of giving a day—time bed to a horse is slight. The good
that comes out of this is reﬂected in the condition of
the whole body; and all who own horses should see that
this chance for needed rest is given their horses whenever
they are in the stable. A horse will not lie down on stable
planks unless worn and weary beyond the point where
it is right to use any animal.

GILBERT TOMPKINS.
6

 




 

POSTSCRIPT

Since this Bulletin was ﬁrst published, the Association
has received many proofs that its conclusions are correct.
For example, the owner of a large number of very ﬁne truck
horses entered his stable for a prize in the stable inspection
conducted every, year by the Association. Our inspector
could ﬁnd no fault with the stable except that the horses were
not bedded in the day time on Sunday. This fault was cor-
rected , and fourweeks later the ownerwrote to us as follows :—

“ I am now convinced that horses should be bedded both day and
night when they are in the stable. My horses now lie down a good deal
through the day on Sundays, and my teamsters all say that, as a result,
they are better horses on Monday than they used to be.”

Another owner, an expressman, wrote to us: ——

“ I went into the stable before noon on the ﬁrst Sunday that we
gave the horses bedding through the day, and I found at least a third of
them lying down. There is no question in my mind that this Sunday
bedding is not only a matter of humanity, but also 'of economy. It
stands to reason that the more a horse lies down, the longer his legs
and feet will last.”

Much other similar testimony might be offered, but the
above will be sufﬁcient.

The horses owned by William Bradley, the famous New
York contractor, are remarkable for lasting long, and in
Mr. Bradley’s stables the horses are always watered at
night, after eating their hay, and they are at all times par—
ticularly well bedded.

Copies of all Bulletins and Rules issued by us and also
printed directions for holding work-horse parades may be
had free on application, personally or by letter. The
Bulletins thus far issued are: ——

No. 1. Watering and Bedding.

No. 2. The Disposal of Old Horses.

No. 3. The Motor—Wagon and the Work—Horse.
No. 4. Vacations for Work—Horses.

The Rules are as follows: —— Stable Rules,Drivers’Rules,
Hot—Weather Rules, Noon-Feeding Rules.

In response to applications we have furnished more
than 80,000 copies of these Rules.

Our Office is 15 Beacon Street, Room 27
7

 




ﬁf‘f)

DIRECTORS

. ‘ i
HENRY C. MERWIN, Preszdent "State House, Room 356
ARTHUR PERRIN, Vice-President Q ggisher Avenue, Brookline
FRANCIS PEABODY, Vice-Presideit, $7337“ . Devonshire Building
5W4 ..r‘ a "m

LEWIS A. ARMISTEAD, Secretary [33%; 5 101 Milk Street
JOSHUA ATWOOD, 3D, Treasurer ' City Hall
DR. D. L. BOLGER 35 Ash Street, Cambridge
EDWARD H. CLEMENT Concord, Mass.
WILLIAM RODMAN FAY 84 State Street
GEORGE W. HARRINGTON Mattapoisett
JOHN H. JEWETT . 30 Nottingham Street, Dorchester
LOUIS DEB. LOVETT 149 Winthrop Road, Brookline
DR. A. W. MAY 3 Brewer Street, Jamaica Plain
W. D. QUIMBY 79 Portland Street
HUNTINGTON SMITH i 7 51 Carver Street
G. F. STEBBINS 12 Pearl Street

DR. F. J. SULLIVAN 51 Carver Street

GENERAL AGENT
A. G. MERWIN

 




