ULAWS MONOGRAPH No. 4c

REPORT ON A' SOLUTION
OF THE RABBIT PROBLEM:
CYANIDE FUMIGATION

 

By Capt. W. H. Buckley, M.F.H.

 

Abstract.—-—The plague of rabbits which followed the introduction of
trapping into West Wales could be remedied by reversion to the older
methods of rabbiting, but a new method, cyanide gassing, which has yielded
extremely satisfactory results in Australia, has recently been tested by
the author. Cyanide dusts supplied by two different ﬁrms (Geo. Monro,
Ltd., and Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd.) have now been tried at
Castell Gorfod, and it is clear that the method provides a most efﬁcient
cure for rabbit—infestation. Details are given of the author’s experience,
and some practical hints for carrying out the method are based upon it.
Land that has been treated with gas already shows a marked improvement.

§I. PAST HISTORY.

As has been explained in ULAWS monographs 4A and 4B,*
the rabbit situation in many parts of the country has become
very serious from an agricultural point of. View, whilst the argu-
ments against the gin trap from a humane, natural history and,
in many instances, a field—sports point of View are overwhelming.

It was argued by the trap—manufacturers and by professional
trappers that rabbits could not be kept down if the trap were
abolished unless a humane substitute were ﬁrst found. The
facts are entirely against this argument, as has been pointed out
in the monographs referred to.

I have always supported ULAWST because they agreed that
not only was a practical, light, efﬁcient and humane rabbit-trap
an impossibility, but it was not needed. In fact, the steel trap
itself is an unnecessary and undesirable substitute for older,
better and more humane methods.

It has been amply proved all over the country that rabbits
can be cleared and kept down Without the trap, but the older
methods take time.

A method is now available, however, by which a rabbit—infested
farm of, say, 150 acres can be cleared of rabbits quickly and easily

 

* ULAWS Monograph 4A, The Rabbit Problem in Agircalzfiire (free);

ULAWS Monograph 4B, Mari versus Rabbit, price IS.
1' ULAWS is the University of London Animal Welfare Society, 42,

Torrington Square, W .C .I .

 




 

by the ordinary farm labour for well under £5, especially if there
are no very big and difficult dingles. The work can be done
when other farm work permits and without extra labour.

Some months ago ULAWS sent me the ofﬁcial report issued
by the New South Wales Government under the title The Rabbit
Menace in New South Wales, published in Sydney, 1928. This
report deals with the whole subject from the original importation
of the rabbit right up to present-day efforts to exterminate this
animal. A few extracts are of interest :—

I . “Increased use of the steel trap has not been because this method was
more destructive to the rabbits than other methods, but because it
furnished the best results to the modern rabbiter. It will be evident
to all that methods of fumigation, . . . however effective
they may be in removing the pest in any district, . . . can
hardly suit the aims of the trapper, working to obtain skins or
carcases or perhaps both’ ’ (p. 39).

2. “There seems no doubt that the new fumigant, calcium cyanide,
is far and away the cheapest and most satisfactory so far produced”
(9 I3)-

3 . ‘ ‘The advent of this substance (Cyanogas calcium cyanide) is regarded
as the most important event in the whole history of rabbit extermina-
tion . ’ ’

4. ”It is not the intention of this bulletin to give details of early

experiments with this highly effective medium, but merely to
indicate how very successful even the ﬁrst trials were with what
at the time was an unknown and untried thing. During the years
1924-25 calcium cyanide rapidly came into use, as shown by ﬁeld
investigations and reports from stock and rabbit inspectors, in
which testimony was given as to the great efﬁcacy of both ﬂake and
dust forms of calcium cyanide, but particularly the latter, when
blown into warrens with a machine blower. The great advantages
of this system are: (I) the deadliness of the gas generated; (2) cheap—
ness; and (3) the portability of the outﬁt.
“While calcium cyanide is so deadly, it is perfectly safe to handle
and, unlike alkaloid poisons, within a short time of being‘laid becomes
innocuous. In regard to this substance, Mr. Max Henry, (‘hiel'
Veterinary Surgeon, says: ‘ So far calcium cyanide has
proved most effective. . . . If you are going to kill rabbits
this is a humane way of doing it.’ The last point mentioned by Mr.
Henry is well worthy of some attention. There is no doubt that the
method of killing rabbits with the steel gin trap is really most cruel
and inhumane, . . . inﬂicting as it does much suffering «upon.
the unfortunate rabbit. In fact the screams of the entrapped rabbits
gripped by the steel jaws of the gin have much to do with frightening
rabbits away from one part of a run to another, thus making it more
diﬁicult to eradicate the pest. Stock inspectors and rabbit inspectors
agree as to the cheapness and effectiveness 01' calcium cyanide”
(pp. 65-66)-

5. “The opinion of one stockholder . . . is typical of practically
all those who have used the substance for any length of time, and
where work has not been left entirely to more or less prejudiced or
naturally conservative farm or station hands. This man said he had
‘used everything under the sun’ and ‘there was nothing like i . ’ ‘ ’

 

 

 




 

 

 

§zﬂ EXPERIMENTS AT CASTELL GQRFOD, CARMARTHENSHIRE.

I obtained a calcium cyanide gassing outﬁt that was already
on the market (Cyanogas, supplied by Geo. Monro, Ltd. , Waltham
Cross), and I also wrote to Lord Melchett to know if I.C.I. had
any material suitable or could help in any way. I..C.I. were
kind enough. to send a research chemist down here for a week
to carry out experiments with “Cymag’ ’ dust and various pumps.
I am able to say that, as regards the products of both ﬁrms, the
results have been astounding, and the Australian experiences
quoted above have been repeated. Probably the success here
has been even greater than in Australia, since distances and
areas are not so great, there is more labour available for the
smaller areas, and the warrens are known. In a few days and
at the cost of a few shillings this method has cleared the rabbits
from areas where all methods, including intensive trapping, had
previously failed.

Over a month ago an isolated warren with some six entrances
was treated. Three full-grown rabbits and several half—grown
ones were seen outside and went in. Dust was blown into the
main hole, and as it emerged from the adjoining holes they were
stopped—up with clods. Those holes are still stopped to—day.

Work was then started on a warren nearly a quarter of a mile
long on the side of a steep hill (most of it amongst tree roots and
rocks) and 25 to 50 yards wide. One man tackled the job with
a blower and spade. He ﬁnished the Whole warren and some
adjoining banks in two days using some 25 lb. of dust. Result,
where hundreds of rabbits could previously be seen in the ﬁelds
adjoining the warren, only a few could be seen IO days later.
There were still too many left, but the following mistakes had
been made :———

(a) Not enough dust was pumped in. A fair cloud must be seen to
emerge from each hold before it is stopped. Every hole from
which such a cloud does not emerge should be treated separately.

(17) When the tube is inserted in a hole, care must be taken to see
that there are not two branches to the hole. If there are the hole
must be opened out and both branches treated separately.

(0) After continuous dry weather the earth, on banks especially,
becomes very dry and porous, and will not retain the gas so well
after the holes have been sealed.

((1) Very windy weather is unsuitable as it tends to dissipate the gas
in the earths. ‘

(e) The outﬁt should not be used on wet days.

(f) As much ground as possible should be covered at a time to prevent
rabbits coming in from outside and reopening holes.

Even allowing for the above mistakes some 70 per cent. of the
rabbits were killed. To treat a bank or hedge efﬁciently two men

 




 

Should [be employed, as one cannot work the pump and ﬁll in
holes on one side and be continually jumping over to the other
side to ﬁll in the holes as the dust emerges there. Further, a
single—handed worker is in general unable to see from which. holes
the dust is emerging.

A bank I50 yards long was next treated. .[t was so rabbit—
ridden- that the holes were almost touching one another, and
extended right out, in some cases 20 yards, into the pastures on
each side. Dozens of rabbits were seen togo in as the party
approached, and at a very moderate estimate it contained some
300 rabbits. This bank was treated in 2% or 3 hours, and some
58. worth of dust (Cymag) was blown in with an “Early Bird”
rotary blower. The work was supervised by Dr. Kennedy,
I_.C.I.., and Mr. Rodgers, an ex—gamekeeper, send down at the
request of the R.S.P.C.A. One man was on the blower and one
with a spade on each side of the bank. There was a strong wind
from the N .E. blowing, and the bank, which was sandy, was dry
and porous.

The bank was visited next morning at 10 a.m. and all holes
were found closed with the exception of three. These had been
opened from the outside, probably by old doe rabbits lying away
from their nests. In one of the holes was a dead rabbit—head
in and tail out—that had obviously met the imprisoned gas on
scratching in hours after the bank had been treated. It had
been instantly killed, for rabbits do not come out of their holes
backwards.

An isolated warren near the river was treated and. dug out
next morning. The warren had been. opened during the night
in one place. Inside was found a nest of very young rabbits
and a half—grown rabbit. All were dead. There was no sign of
contortion or distress.

Hound bitches and dogs have been actually seen to eat gassed
rabbits with no ill eﬂects.

A large wood 27 acres in extent was next tried. This wood
rises precipitously to 400 ft. It is a mass of large and small
warrens, includes two quarries, and is surrounded by rabbit—
ridden banks. Since rabbit-trapping was started in the district
this place has swarmed with rabbits. No method 'had ever
apparently reduced "them, though the district has been trapped
several times in the year with hundreds of traps. The hay crops
have been damaged every year. The whole wood was treated in
2%— days by two men. A few holes were not located, and a few
rabbits were missed in some of the deeper places, but quite 98
per cent of the holes are still closed I4 days after, and it is hard
to see a rabbit in covert or in the fields. Half—a-day walking

 

 




 

 

over this place with a pump, treating any- Open holes after a dog
has been. run round, would complete the extermination. Approxi—
mately 21 lb. of cymag were used, at a cost of about 21s.

Space precludes the addition of further details but the following
observations are of interest :—

Though the men using the (nlttits have been, in my UpllllUl], a
.little lacking in reasonable care, they have not felt any inconvenience
whatever . .

Rabbits very seldom bolt. One which. did so the other day dropped
dead within two yards at the R..S.P.C.A._ keeper’s feet, without even a
kick.

Moles have been most effectively and quickly dealt with, both
with Cyanogas and Cymag. The method is quicker than setting traps,

A demonstration. was given to tenants and neighbouring
farmers on April 8. One farmer had decided not: to sow a ﬁeld
of spring oats owing to the rabbits; the field was aetually ready
for sowing; after this demonstration, and having seen the results
already obtained here, hesowed his field the following day. His
farm was trapped twice this season; the trapper actually lives
on his farm, and is a professional trapper during the winter and
a farm hand in summer; he had entirely failed to compete with
the rabbits, and another local trapper could not undertake to
clear the land sufficiently to save the corn.

The two men employed to clear this farm are unemployed
. ex-service men. One was originally a rabbit~catcher using snares,
ferrets, nets, etc. He then took to traps after the war in order
to compete with trappers who had started this system during
the war. Two years ago he sold his traps owing to the fall in
the price of rabbits. The University of London Animal Welfare
Society are going to provide one of these men with a blower,
and after they have ﬁnished here he will find regular employment-
during the summer exterminating rabbits to save crops, and in
dealing with moles and rats.

§3. CONCLUSION.

This is a small estate of about I, 500 acres. It is not desired
to exterminate the rabbits completely, though that would be easy
and cheap by this method, but it is desired to avoid damage to
the land and crops from these pests. Extermination or even
reduction for any length of time is impossible unless the trap is
abolished, for rabbits will swarm in from adjoining land. If the
trap is abolished it will make deliberate rabbit-farming impossible.

Control of the trap is impossible. The proposal to prohibit
setting in the open is a theoretical fancy; the people who advocate
it have not thought out how it could be made effective. As long
as the trap is legal, it will be extensively used to increase rabbits.

 




 

It is useless to clear any area. when a trapper or rabbit-farmer
can continue to flood the whole area with unwanted rabbits.
Such people may not be numerous, but whilst the trap is legal
they can control. the situation.

If cattle or sheep stray and damage crops on adjoining land,
the owners are responsible and can be prosecuted. The same
law should apply to rabbits. Now that there is a cheap, quick
and certain method of keeping down. these pests, there is no reason
for not making such a law and enforcing it.

A Cardiganshire dairy—farmer is at this moment erecting some
ﬁve miles of wire netting to protect himself from his neighbours’
rabbits. If his neighbours wish to be rabbit—farmers, it is they
who should erect the wire round their own farms to prevent their
stock straying. ' '

T HE ARGUMENT USED BY TRAP—MAKERS, TRAPPERS, AND A FEW
FARMERS, THAT RABBITS CANNOT BE KEPT DOWN WITHOUT THE
TRAP, WAS NEVER CORRECT. BY CYMAG AND CYANGAS THAT
ARGUMENT HAS BEEN NOW ELIMINATED ONCE AND FOR ALL.

There is now a rush on the farms to Shut off ﬁelds and set
ﬁelds and gardens, and it is unlikely that systematic rabbit-
extermination can start for a week or so. The work already
carried out, however, on the home farm has been sufﬁcient to
obtain all necessary experience and proof. Every tenant has
been equipped with a pump and 25 lb. of dust, and they are only
too glad to take the ﬁrst opportunity of making the fullest use of
them.

Every day shows a marked difference between pasture where
the rabbits have been killed off and pasture where they have
not. There will this year be crops of hay where in previous years
there has only been stinking scootch and moss.

§4. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

Finally, I have to thank the University of London Animal
Welfare Society for the information they have gleaned on this
intricate subject from all over the world; Messrs. Geo. Monro,
Waltham Cross, Herts., the distributors of Cyanogas in this
country, for so promptly forwarding the goods I ordered;
Lord Melchett,‘ M.l*‘.H., and Imperial Chemical Industries, Mill-
bank, S.W.I; Dr. Kennedy, of that ﬁrm, who in a week’s
experiments here solved several difﬁculties which will result in a
Cheap and entirely British material being placed on the market ,' and
the R.S.P.C.A. for sending down their Rabbit-Trapping Demon—
strator, Mr. Rodge‘rs, who not only thoroughly knows his job but
was most helpful in every way. Lastly, I have to thank the
Council of the Carmarthen Branch of the National Farmers’ Union,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

-ﬁ

 

 

 

Who have supported me Whole-heartedly in my efforts to ﬁnd a.
means of satisfactorily and cheaply controlling the rabbit popula-
tion which has, through artiﬁcial conditions created by commercial
trapping, become a serious menace and loss to agriculture.

Whether the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill passes or not,
ULAWS deserve the thanks of every animal—lover, naturalist,
agriculturist- and the vast majority of all those who follow ﬁeld
sports. They have tackled with common sense, moderation and
ability a job that should have been tackled by the Government

as it has been in Australia.
Caslell (inrfnd, May, 1:035.

Published by the

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE
SOCIETY,

42, TORRINGTON SQUARE, LONDON, W.(‘,.r.

 

Enquiries as to Cgmrzogas and hand and fool (le/ﬂrs‘ s/umld be addressed 102'—w

GEO. MONRO, LTD., WALTHAM (:Ross, HERTS,

Erzqmr'z'es as to Cymag should be addressed to :———=-

IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES, LTD . ,
MILLRANK , LONDON, S .\V .1, ,

thm'rz'es as to Calcid should be addressed to 2——

THE LONDON FUMIGA’I‘ION (30., L’l“D.,
MARLOW Honsn, movns AVENUE, 113,03,

Erzqu-z'rz'es as to the ‘Early Bird’ rotary blower should be addressed to 1——

W. I. CRAVEN, LTD., 50, PORT STREET, EVESHAM.

 




 

Pwivnted in Gweart Britain by Wadsworth &. C0,, The Rydal P7833, Ke‘z'ghley.

 




