From the Molecular Biology of
Oncogenic DNA Viruses to Cancer

Oncogenic viruses, able to elicit tumor
formation in animals, have been on the
scientiﬁc scene for many years. After the
early discovery of Ellerman and Bang at
the beginning of this century, Peyton
Rous opened up the ﬁeld in the next
decade and in prophetic words gave a
good hint of things to come. However,
these discoveries were soon forgotten,
and only after a long eclipse was interest
in oncogenic viruses revived in the
1950’s. My involvement in this ﬁeld be-
gan at that time, when Rubin and Temin
worked in my laboratory with the Rous
sarcoma virus. When polyoma virus, a
new oncogenic virus with different prop-
erties, was isolated in 1958, [jumped at
the new opportunity and started working
with it. Within a short time polyoma
virus became the main interest of my
laboratory, to be joined, a few years
later, by SV40, another papovavirus. It
became clear fairly soon that the molecu-
lar biology of these viruses could be
worked out, and I set out to ﬁnd the
molecular basis of cancer induction. The
results that l and a number of brilliant
yoUng collaborators have obtained dur-
ing the following 15 years have brought
us close to that goal. I will review the
most interesting steps of our work and
will then ask some questions concerning
the nature of cancer and about per-
spectives for prevention and treatment. I
stress the relevance of my work for can-
cer research because I believe that sci-
ence must be useful to man.

 

Copyright ©1976 by the Nobel Foundation. The
author is deputy director for research at the Imperi-
al Cancer Research Fund Laboratories, Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, London, W.C.2, and a fellow of the
Salk Institute, San Diego, California. This article is
the lecture he delivered in Stockholm, Sweden on 12
December 1975, when he received the Nobel Prize in
Physiology or Medicine, a prize he shared with
David Baltimore and Howard M. Temin. The article
is published here with the permission of the Nobel
Foundation and will also be included in the complete
volume of Les Prix Nobel en 1975 as well as in the
series Nobel Lectures (in English) published by the
Elsevier Publishing Company, Amsterdam and New
York. The lectures by Baltimore and Temin will
appear in later issues.

30 APRIL 1976

Renato Dulbecco

Integration: The Provirus

Let me start with a brief review of our
work on the molecular events in transfor-
mation. The ﬁrst results, crucial for fu-
ture developments, showed that poly-
oma virus could be assayed in certain
cell cultures (1), which we call per-
missive, and could induce a cancer-like
state in other cultures (2) in which the
virus does not grow, which we call non-
permissive. The induction of the cancer-
like state in vitro was called transforma-
tion. We were able to show that the virus
contains DNA (3), and within a few
years we gave the ﬁrst evidence of its
cyclic, or circular, shape (4), which is
important for two critical biological
events: DNA replication and integration.
In integration, which we discovered a
few years later with the virus SV40 (5),
the viral DNA becomes a provirus, that
is, it establishes permanent, covalent
bonds with the cellular DNA. The cyclic
conﬁguration explains how a complete
molecule of the SV40 DNA can be in-
tegrated without losses.

Integration is one of the key events in
virus-induced cell transformation. It ex-
plained the persistence of the trans-
formed state in the cell clone deriving
from a transformed cell, since the pro-
virus replicates with the cellular DNA. It
also permitted us to resolve one of the
main questions about the role of viruses
in transformation. It was known at the
time that papovaviruses leave their foot-
prints in the cells of the cancers they
induce and those they transform in vitro,
in the form of characteristic antigens.
However, it was not known whether the
antigens were expressed by viral genes
or by derepressed cellular genes. Hence,
it was uncertain whether cells were trans-
formed by the expression of viral genes
persisting in the cells or, alternatively,
whether the virus altered the cells by a
hit-and-run mechanism, changing the ex-
pression of cellular genes and then leav-

ing. The demonstration that viral DNA is
integrated in the cells, in conjunction
with the ﬁnding that the provirus is tran-
scribed into messenger RNA (6) hundreds
of generations after the establishment of
a transformed clone, made the hit—and-
run hypothesis unlikely and supported a
continuing role of viral gene functions in
determining transformation. This possi-
bility was later supported by observa-
tions with abortively transformed cells,
which behave as transformed only for
several generations after infection, but
then return to normal (7). When they are
back to normal these cells no longer
contain the viral DNA (8).

The viral genes that remain unex—
pressed in the transformed cells, such as
those for capsid protein in SV40-trans-
formed cells, were also interesting, al-
though in a different way. In fact their
expression could be renewed in hetero-
karyons formed by fusing transformed
cells with permissive cells (9). a result
that gave the ﬁrst evidence that the viral
functions are under the control of cellu-
lar functions. The provirus thus became
a tool for studying regulation of DNA
transcription in animal cells. Sub-
sequently, the presence of giant RNA’s
containing viral sequences in the nucleus
of transformed or lytically infected cells
(10) raised the question of the initiation
and termination signals for transcription
in animal cells, as well as the question of
processing of nuclear RNA precursors of
messenger RNA, questions that are still
largely unresolved.

Viral Functions in Transformation

In the meantime efforts were directed
at identifying the viral genes transcribed
in the transformed cells. It was estab-
lished that in lytic infection with SV40
the whole viral DNA is transcribed in
two nearly equal parts—one early, be-
fore the inception of replication of the
viral DNA, the other late, after DNA
replication has begun—and that the early
RNA is also present in transformed cells
(6). Subsequently, the early and the late
messengers were found to be transcribed
from different DNA strands (11), an ob-
servation that facilitated further charac-
terization of the viral transcripts. Later
work in other laboratories with speciﬁc
fragments produced by restriction en-
donucleases conﬁrmed and reﬁned these
ﬁndings, and the results were extended
to adenoviruses by showing that a seg-
ment of the early part of that DNA is
always present and transcribed in trans—
formed cells (12).

437

 




These facts suggested that some early
viral function is essential for maintaining
the transformed state but they could also
be interpreted differently: for instance.
transformation might be caused by the
mere presence of the viral DNA in the
cellular DNA. the persistent viral func—
tions being perhaps required for estab—
lishing and maintaining integration.

Attempts were made to solve the di—
lemma by isolating temperature-sensi-
tive mutants affecting either initiation or
maintenance of transformation. Many
transformation mutants were found. with
mutations all clustered in a segment of
the early region of the viral DNA. desig—
nated as the A gene. but they were all
initiation mutants (13). These mutations
prevent the onset of transformation at
high but not at low temperature. and
cells transformed at low temperature re-

.main transformed at high temperature. It

was not possible to ﬁnd clear-cut main-
tenance mutants. that is. mutants ca-
pable of causing a complete reversion of
the phenotype when cells transformed at
low temperature were shifted to high
temperature. However. careful observa-
tion later showed that the initiation mu—
tants were also partial maintenance mu-
tants. since the cells they transform un-
dergo a partial reversion of phenotype at
high temperature (/4). This result shows
that the viral genes play a continuing role
in transformation; however. the failure
to obtain complete maintenance mutants
suggests that the relation between viral
gene expression and cell phenotype is
complex.

Search for the Viral Transforming

Protein

Further progress in this subject has
been achieved by studying the proteins
speciﬁed by the early region of the viral
DNA. This work has centered around
the so-called T antigen (/5) present in the
nucleus of cells infected or transformed
by SV40; the synthesis and properties of
this antigen are affected by mutations of
the A gene (/6). ln nonpermissive trans-
formed cells the antigen is a protein with
molecular weight of about 94.000 daltons
(/7). which binds ﬁrmly to double-
stranded DNA but without much speci-
ﬁcity ([8). That the T antigen is speciﬁed
by the viral DNA is strongly suggested
by its in vitro synthesis by a wheat germ
extract primed with various messengers
(/9). especially since the size of the pro-
duct depends on the nature ofthe messen-
ger. Thus. when the messenger was viral
RNA made in vitro by transcribing SV40

438

DNA with Escherichia ('oli RNA polym-
erase. an antigenic protein of about 62.000
daltons was synthesized; but when mes-
senger RNA extracted from infected
cells was used. the protein synthesized
was. like the T antigen of transformed
cells. of about 94.000 daltons. The dis-
crepancy of the two molecular weights
makes it very unlikely that the T antigen
is a cellular protein modiﬁed by a viral
function. because two different proteins
would have to be modiﬁed in the same
extract depending on the messenger
used. In contrast. the synthesis of a
shorter polypeptide chain with the arti-
ﬁcial messenger may be justiﬁed by the
absence of accessory signals. such as
the special nucleotide sequence present
at the 5’-end. known as “cap." polyad-
enylate at the 3’-end. and possibly other
modiﬁcations. Further deﬁnition of these
ﬁndings awaits peptide maps of the vari-
ous products.

Since the early. transforming. part of
the SV40 genome can specify proteins of
a molecular weight of about 100.000 dal-
tons altogether. the T antigen is likely to
be its sole product and. therefore. to be
the transforming protein. However. the
same protein .must also initiate viral
DNA replication, which cannot begin at
high temperature in cells infected by mu-
tants of the A gene. The different func-
tions in transformation and lytic infec—
tion could be performed by different do-
mains of the same protein. or could re—
sult from modiﬁcations (such as
phosphorylation and glycosylation) or
from processing. Processing of SV40 T
antigen seems to occur in lytically infect-
ed cells which contain a smaller T anti-
gen of about 84.000 daltons; this smaller
size contrasts with the regular size
(94.000 daltons) of the antigen speciﬁed
in vitro by messenger RNA extracted
from the same cells (17). Whether the
two forms of the antigen have different
roles in transformation and DNA replica-
tion remains to be established.

Since the transforming protein should
control both initiation and maintenance
of transformation. the partial reversion
of the phenotype of cells transformed by
A mutants when shifted to high temper-
ature may be explained by a decreased
requirement for the transforming protein
once transformation has taken place.
which in turn could result from a positive
feedback stabilizing the transformed
state. For instance. unstable protein
monomers speciﬁed by the mutated gene
might form self-stabilizing oligomers
(20). or the transforming protein might
generate changes that tend to favor the
transformed state. An example of the

latter model is the B-galactosidase induc-
tion in E. (011' which is maintained by
inducer concentrations much smaller
than that required for initiating induc-
tion. because inducer is pumped into the
cells by the induced permease (2/). I
wonder whether a certain degree of self-
stabilization of the state of gene ex-
pression is a general property of animal
cells which has developed for main-
taining differentiation.

Cellular Events in Transformation

I now turn to cellular events participat-
ing in transformation. which will be the
main problem after the remaining ques-
tions on the role of the virus have been
answered. Among the cellular events are
functional changes and mutations. Some
functional changes. which affect many
cellular properties. are associated with
the shift of resting cells to a growing
state after infection with polyoma virus
or SV40 (22); other changes observed in
transformed cells and in cancer cells in
general consist of the reexpression of
cellular genes normally expressed in a
preceding state of differentiation. in fetal
life (23). These functional changes might
be caused by the binding oftransforming
proteins to DNA; if so. they may be
mediated by an alteration of transcrip—
tion of the cellular DNA. However. we
do not know whether the transcription
pattern changes. because experiments
based on competition hybridization have
given ambiguous results. Perhaps the
methodology is not good enough. Clon—
ing of cellular DNA fragments in phages
or plasmids may afford the necessary
probes for carrying out signiﬁcant experi—
ments.

In order to understand further how the
virus deregulates cellular growth we
would need detailed knowledge of the
mechanisms of growth regulation in ani-
mal cells. which is now lacking. How-
ever. certain useful ideas about growth
regulation are now available. and can be
used to draw inferences about the action
ofthe virus. Thus it seems clear that with
a given cell type. growth regulation in-
volves a complex chain of events. begin-
ning with extracellular regulators of
many kinds. probably interacting with
the cell plasma membrane. Cytoplasmic
mediators then appear to transmit regu-
latory signals from the plasma membrane
to the nucleus. where they perhaps con-
trol DNA-binding proteins similar to the
transforming protein of papovaviruses.
The complexity of growth regulation in-
creases markedly when different cell

SCIENCE. VOL. I92

 




 

    

‘ .ypcs are considered. since they seem to
“ recognize different sets of extracellular
regulators and may have different media-
tors and DNA—binding proteins.

Proceeding from this general picture it
would be tempting to propose that the
viral transforming protein replaces one
ofthe normal nuclear regulatory proteins
of the cell and. being unaffected by the
mediators that control the normal pro-
tein. keeps growth-related transcription
going. bypassing the signals of the
plasma membrane. If so. however. the
transformed state should be dominant
over the normal state in cell hybrids.
whereas the contrary is usually true (24).
On the other hand. the dominance of the
normal state could be explained if the
transformed cells had a changed surface.
unable to respond to regulatory signals.
Such a change could result from the reex-
pression of fetal functions to make the
transformed cells anachronistic. that is.
belonging to a stage of differentiation
inappropriate to that of the organism
which contains them. The cells with an
anachronistic surface. being insensitive
to the growth regulators which operate
on adult cells in the adult organisms.
would grow without control. A striking
support ofthe role of cell anachronism in
cancer has been obtained with teratoma.
a tumor originating when cells from an
early embryo are transplanted to an adult
environment. When. after many trans-
plants. cells of this tumor are introduced
back into a blastocyst (an early embryo).
they return to normal (25). presumably
because the internal growth control of
the cells becomes again matched by the
environmental regulators of the recipient
embryo. In this model a hybrid cell
formed by fusing a transformed and a
normal cell may be untransformed if the
normal partner contributes normal sur—
face components which respond to the
normal extracellular regulators. For this
result to be possible. anachronistic tran-
scription after cell fusion should not be
initiated on the DNA deriving from the
normal parent. The virological studies
suggest that this may well be the case.
since the initiation of transformation
seems to require much more trans-
forming protein than its maintenance.

It would be important to recognize the
developmental period in which the
anachronistic genes of transformed or
cancer cells are normally expressed. not
only for understanding but possibly also
for controlling cancer. In fact. if the
growth regulators speciﬁc for the periods
expressed in cancer cells could be identi-
ﬁed. they could be used for halting the
growth of the cancer cells.

30 APRIL 1976

Role of Cellular Mutations

I will now consider the other cellular
events important in viral transformation:
cellular mutations. Several results sug-
gest that cellular mutations may be
needed for obtaining the full state of
transformation with papovaviruses.
Thus. after infection primary cultures
generate clones with various degrees of
transformation. some of which appear to
undergo full transformation in steps (26)
that may correspond to the occurrence
of cellular mutations. Cells that achieve
full traisformation immediately. as is
common with permanent lines. may have
already undergone similar mutations be-
fore infection. Some cellular mutations
occurring in transformed cells may even
be virus-induced. because in the early
stages of transformation by papovavi-
ruses cells of primary cultures have
frequent chromatid breaks (26). Con-
versely. cells fully transformed by SV4O
can revert to a relatively normal pheno-
type although they still contain normal
viral DNA and T antigen (27). It is con-
ceivable that these mutations are rever-
sions of mutations of the former kind.
which enhance the transformed state of
the cells. Stepwise transformation may
occur not only with viruses. Thus I have
observed it in primary cultures exposed
to a chemical carcinogen. In this experi-
ment fully transformed cells evolved
from the normal cells. which have limit—
ed life. The normal cells ﬁrst generate
cells with unlimited life but unable to
form colonies in agar. then cells with
progressively increasing colony—forming
efﬁciency in agar. and ﬁnally cells that
reach 100 percent efﬁciency.

All these observations show the impor—
tant role of cellular mutations in cell
transformation induced by different
agents. This conclusion is reinforced and
generalized by additional ﬁndings. such
as (i) the experimental enhancement of
the transforming activity of viruses by
mutagenic agents (28); (ii) the elevated
cancer frequency in some genetic dis-
eases; and (iii) the evidence that most
carcinogens are promutagens. that is.
generate mutagenic substances when act—
ed upon by normal metabolism (29).
Most of the carcinogens themselves
must be activated by metabolism in a
similar way in order to induce cancer.

Prospects for Cancer Prevention
I now turn to some general deductions

concerning the etiology and possible pre-
vention of human cancer which derive

from the various points I have discussed
so far. One deduction. deriving from the
persistence ofthe viral DNA in the cells.
is that we can test whether a given DNA
virus is a possible agent of human cancer
by looking for its DNA in the cancer
cells. I think that much more extensive
surveys than those carried out so far are
warranted. but they should have a sensi-
tivity sufﬁcient to detect fragments of
viral DNA of about 1 million daltons.
which is within the reach of modern tech-
nology. even with the most difﬁcult virus-
es. A positive ﬁnding would be signiﬁ—
cant because DNA viruses do not appear
to exist in widespread endogenous
forms.

Another deduction is that somatic mu-
tations are one of the fundamental in—
gredients of cancer. although they ap-
pear to require the occurrence of several
other events not yet understood. The
role of mutations in turn suggests that
the incidence of cancer in man could be
reduced by identifying as many promuta-
gens as possible. and by eliminating.
them from the environment. One impor-
tant feature of this approach to cancer
prevention is that it can be started now.
since these substances can be identiﬁed
with simple bacterial tests suitable for
mass screening (30). The feasibility of
prevention is shown by the fact that the
promutagens already identiﬁed in a pre—
liminary screening. such as tobacco or
some hair dyes. are inessential for hu—
man life (3/).

However. it is practically difﬁcult to
achieve a substantial reduction ofthe use
of these substances. as shown by the
example of tobacco. According to epide-
miological evidence. tobacco smoke is
the agent of human lung cancer. which in
Britain is responsible for one in eight of
all male deaths (32). Yet only mild sanc-
tions have been imposed on tobacco
products. such as a vague health warning
on cigarette packets which sounds rather
like an ofﬁcial endorsement. Any limita-
tion on the use of tobacco is left to the
individual. although it is clear that the
individual cannot easily exercise volun-
tary restraint in the face of very effective
advertisements. especially as one does
not usually appreciate the danger of a
cumulative action over a long period of
time.

The lax attitude of governments to-
ward tobacco probably also derives
from the difﬁculty of appreciating epide—
miological evidence. especially since this
evidence is contradicted from time to
time by single—minded individuals who
use incomplete or even erroneous analy-
ses of the data and whose views are

439

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

 




l

‘ types are considered. since they seem to

' recognize different sets of extracellular
regulators and may have different media-
tors and DNA-binding proteins.

Proceeding from this general picture it
would be tempting to propose that the
viral transforming protein replaces one
ofthe normal nuclear regulatory proteins
of the cell and. being unaffected by the
mediators that control the normal pro-
tein. keeps growth—related transcription
going. bypassing the signals of the
plasma membrane. If so. however. the
transformed state should be dominant
over the normal state in cell hybrids.
whereas the contrary is usually true (24).
On the other hand. the dominance of the
normal state could be explained if the
transformed cells had a changed surface.
unable to respond to regulatory signals.
Such a change could result from the reex-
pression of fetal functions to make the
transformed cells anachronistic. that is.
belonging to a stage of differentiation
inappropriate to that of the organism
which contains them. The cells with an
anachronistic surface. being insensitive
to the growth regulators which operate
on adult cells in the adult organisms.
would grow without control. A striking
support ofthe role of cell anachronism in
cancer has been obtained with teratoma.
a tumor originating when cells from an
early embryo are transplanted to an adult
environment. When. after many trans-
plants. cells of this tumor are introduced
back into a blastocyst (an early embryo).
they return to normal (25). presumably
because the internal growth control of
the cells becomes again matched by the
environmental regulators of the recipient
embryo. In this model a hybrid cell
formed by fusing a transformed and a
normal cell may be untransformed if the
normal partner contributes normal sur-
face components which respond to the
normal extracellular regulators. For this
result to be possible. anachronistic tran—
scription after cell fusion should not be
initiated on the DNA deriving from the
normal parent. The virological studies
suggest that this may well be the case.
since the initiation of transformation
seems to require much more trans-
forming protein than its maintenance.

It would be important to recognize the
developmental period in which the
anachronistic genes of transformed or
cancer cells are normally expressed. not
only for understanding but possibly also
for controlling cancer. In fact. if the
growth regulators speciﬁc for the periods
expressed in cancer cells could be identi—
ﬁed. they could be used for halting the
growth of the cancer cells.

30 APRIL 1976

Role of Cellular Mutations

I will now consider the other cellular
events important in viral transformation:
cellular mutations. Several results sug-
gest that cellular mutations may be
needed for obtaining the full state of
transformation with papovaviruses.
Thus. after infection primary cultures
generate clones with various degrees of
transformation. some of which appear to
undergo full transformation in steps (26)
that may correspond to the occurrence
of cellular mutations. Cells that achieve
full traisformation immediately. as is
common with permanent lines. may have
already undergone similar mutations be-
fore infection. Some cellular mutations
occurring in transformed cells may even
be virus-induced. because in the early
stages of transformation by papovavi-
ruses cells of primary cultures have
frequent chromatid breaks (26). Con-
versely. cells fully transformed by SV40
can revert to a relatively normal pheno-
type although they still contain normal
viral DNA and T antigen (27). It is con-
ceivable that these mutations are rever-
sions of mutations of the former kind.
which enhance the transformed state of
the cells. Stepwise transformation may
occur not only with viruses. Thus I have
observed it in primary cultures exposed
to a chemical carcinogen. In this experi—
ment fully transformed cells evolved
from the normal cells. which have limit-
ed life. The normal cells ﬁrst generate
cells with unlimited life but unable to
form colonies in agar. then cells with
progressively increasing colony-forming
efﬁciency in agar. and ﬁnally cells that
reach 100 percent efﬁciency.

All these observations show the impor-
tant role of cellular mutations in cell
transformation induced by different
agents. This conclusion is reinforced and
generalized by additional ﬁndings. such
as (i) the experimental enhancement of
the transforming activity of viruses by
mutagenic agents (28); (ii) the elevated
cancer frequency in some genetic dis—
eases; and (iii) the evidence that most
carcinogens are promutagens. that is.
generate mutagenic substances when act-
ed upon by normal metabolism (29).
Most of the carcinogens themselves
must be activated by metabolism in a
similar way in order to induce cancer.

Prospects for Cancer Prevention
1 now turn to some general deductions

concerning the etiology and possible pre-
vention of human cancer which derive

from the various points I have discussed
so far. One deduction. deriving from the
persistence ofthe viral DNA in the cells.
is that we can test whether a given DNA
virus is a possible agent of human cancer
by looking for its DNA in the cancer
cells. I think that much more extensive
surveys than those carried out so far are
warranted. but they should have a sensi-
tivity sufﬁcient to detect fragments of
viral DNA of about 1 mill-ion daltons.
which is within the reach ofmodern tech—
nology. even with the most difﬁcult virus~
es. A positive ﬁnding would be signiﬁ—
cant because DNA viruses do not appear
to exist in widespread endogenous
forms.

Another deduction is that somatic mu-
tations are one of the fundamental in-
gredients of cancer. although they ap-
pear to require the occurrence of several
other events not yet understood. The
role of mutations in turn suggests that
the incidence of cancer in man could be
reduced by identifying as many promuta-
gens as possible. and by eliminating.
them from the environment. One impor-
tant feature of this approach to cancer
prevention is that it can be started now.
since these substances can be identiﬁed
with simple bacterial tests suitable for
mass screening (30). The feasibility of
prevention is shown by the fact that the
promutagens already identiﬁed in a pre—
liminary screening. such as tobacco or
some hair dyes. are inessential for hu—
man life (3]).

However. it is practically difﬁcult to
achieve a substantial reduction ofthe use
of these substances. as shown by the
example of tobacco. According to epide—
miological evidence. tobacco smoke is
the agent of human lung cancer. which in
Britain is responsible for one in eight of
all male deaths (32). Yet only mild sanc~
tions have been imposed on tobacco
products. such as a vague health warning
on cigarette packets which sounds rather
like an ofﬁcial endorsement. Any limita-
tion on the use of tobacco is left to the
individual. although it is clear that the
individual cannot easily exercise volun-
tary restraint in the face of very effective
advertisements. especially as one does
not usually appreciate the danger of a
cumulative action over a long period of
time.

The lax attitude of governments to-
ward tobacco probably also derives
from the difﬁculty of appreciating epide-
miological evidence. especially since this
evidence is contradicted from time to
time by single-minded individuals who
use incomplete or even erroneous analy-
ses of the data and whose views are

439

 




l

magniﬁed out of all proportion by the
media. However, the recent recognition
that tobacco smoke contains promuta-
gens contributes direct experimental evi—
dence on the dangers of tobacco smoke,
evidence on which there cannot be any
equivocation. I, therefore, call on gov-
ernments to act toward severely dis-
couraging tobacco consumption, and to
act now because it will be at least 30
years before their action has its full ef-
feet.

/ Although tobacco smoke is a striking
example of an environmental carcino-
gen, many others are known and prob—
ably many more remain to be identiﬁed.
Identiﬁcation by conventional tests is dif—
ﬁcult because they are costly and labori-
ous, but they can now be replaced by the

_bacterial testsW; Since

the tests are easy and inexpensive it

l\.should be possible to investigate many

normal constituents of the environment,
and every new compound before it is
oﬂ’ered to the public. The feasibility of
such a program is borne out by the ﬁnd-
ing that most of the commonly available
substances are not promutagens (3]).
Given the strong correlation between mu-
tagenicity and carcinogenicity (29), any
promutagen is suspect and, if at all pos-
\1ble, should be withdrawn.

In fact, this is precisely the attitude
that scientists have taken for themselves
concerning the experiments in genetic
engineering, which carry the theoretical
possibility of creating new viruslike
molecules endowed with carcinogenic ac-
tivity. Although the danger is only hypo-
thetical, experiments that might be very
useful for science and society have been
postponed until they can be carried out
under the strictest safeguards (33). Gov-
ernments have accepted this position
and are eager to impose severe restric-
tions on the performance of these experi-
ments. While I fully approve of their
concern, I cannot help noticing that they
follow a double standard: if there is any
doubt you must discourage experiments.

 

but if there is any doubt you cannot
discourage cigarettes.

Biologists and Society

This discussion about cancer pre-
vention is a development of the experi-
mental results obtained in the ﬁeld of
oncogenic viruses, but it is also strongly
inﬂuenced by the new social conscience
of many scientists. Historically, science
and society have gone separate ways.
although society has provided the funds
for science to grow and in return science
has given society all the material things it
enjoys. In recent years, however, the
separation between science and society
has become excessive, and the con—
sequences are felt especially by biolo-
gists. Thus, while we spend our life ask-
ing questions about the nature of cancer
and ways to prevent or cure it, society
merrily produces oncogenic substances
and permeates the environment with
them. Society does not seem prepared to
accept the sacriﬁces required for eﬁec-
tive prevention of cancer. The situation
is clearly unacceptable, and we biolo-
gists would like to see it corrected. We
have ourselves begun to put our house in
order, by banning some experiments that
may contain a risk for mankind. We
would like to see society take a similar
attitude, abandoning selﬁsh practices
that are dangerous for society itself. We
would also like to see a new cooperation
of science and society for the beneﬁt of
all mankind and hope that the dominant
forces in society will recognize that this
is a necessity.

References and Notes

R. Dulbecco and G. Freeman Virologv8 396
(195 9)

. M. Vogt and R. Dulbecco, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U.S.A. 46, 365 (1960); R. Dulbecco and M.
Vogt, ibid., p. 1617.

. J. D. Smith, G. Freeman. M. Vogt, R. Dul-
becco, Virology 12,185(1960).

. R. Dulbecco and M. Vogt. Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U.S.A. 50, 236 (1963).

5. J. Sambrook, H. Westphal, P. R. Srinivasan, R.
Dulbecco, ibid. 60, 1288 (1968).

. I-I. Koprowski,

. D. M. Lindstrom and R. Dulbecco. Proc.

. P. Tegtmeyer,

.Natl. Acad. Sci.

. R. Doll,

. K. Oda and R. Dulbecco,ib1’d., .525.
. M. Stoker, Nature (London) 218p 234 (1968).
. P. Berg and M. Stoker, personal communica-

tion. .
F C. Jensen, Z. Steplewski.

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. SA. 58, 127(1967); I
F. Wakins and R. Dulbecco, ibid., p. 1396.

. S. Tonegawa, G. Walter. A. Bemardini. R. Dul-

becco, Cold Spring Harbor S.vmp Quant. Biol.
35, 823 (1970) N .
'1112

Acad. Sci. U...SA 69,1517t1972)

. P. A. Sharp, U. Petterson J. Sambrook, J. Mm

Biol. 86, 709(1974); P. A. Sharp P H. Galli—
more, 5. J. Flint, Cold Spring Harbor Svmp.
Quant. Biol. 39, 457 (1974).

. M. Fried, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S A. 53 486

(1965); W. Eckhart, Virology 38, 120(1969); P.
Tegtmeyer and H. L. Ozer, J. Virol. 8, 516
(1971).

. R. G. Martin, J. Y. Chou. J. Avila, R. Saral,

Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 39. 17
(1974); J. S. Butel, J. S. Brugge, C. A. Noonan.
ibid., p. 25; G. Kimura and A. ltagakl, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 72, 673 (1975).

. P. H. Black, P. W. Rowe, H. C. Turner, R. J.

Hubner, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 50. 1148
(1963).

Cold Spring Harbor Symp.
guant. Biol. 39, 9 (1974); M. Oxman, K. K.
akemoto, W. Eckhart, Virology 49, 675
(1972); D. Paulin and F. Cuzin, J. Virol.
15, 393 (1975).

. R. B. Carroll, personal communication.

L. Hager, R. Dulbecco. Proc.
US. A. 71. 3754 (1974); D
Jessel, J. Hudson, T. Landau, D. Tenen, D. M.
Livingston, ibid. 72, 1960 (1975); S. I. Reed, J.
Ferguson, R. W. Davis, G. R. Stark. ibid., p.
1605.

. A. E. Smith, S. T. Bayley, T. Wheeler, W. F.

Mangel, in In vivo Transcription and Trans-
lation of Viral Genomes, A. Haenni and J.
Beaud, Eds. (Institut National de la Santé et de
la Recherche Médicale, Paris, 1975).

. R. Dulbecco, Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. B. 189.

1 (1975).

. A. Novick and M. Weiner, Proc. Natl. Acad.

Sci. U.S.A. 43, 553 (1957).

. R. Dulbecco, L. H. Hartwell, M. Vogt, ibid. 53,

403 (1965); L. H. Hartwell, M. Vogt, R. Dul-
becco, Virology 27. 262 (1965).

. J. H. Coggin, J. Immunol. 105, 524 (1970).
. F. Wiener, G. Klein, H. Harris, J. Cell Sci. 8.

681 (1971).

. B. Mintz and K. Illmensee, Proc. Natl. Acad.

Sci. U.S.A. 72, 3585 (1975); V. E. Papaionnou,
M. W. McBurney. R. L. Gardner, M. J. Evans,
Nature (London) 258. 70 (1975).

. M. Vogt and R. Dulbecco, Cold Spring Harbor

Symp. Quant. Biol. 27. 367 (1962).

. R. E. Pollack, H. Green, G. J. Todaro, Proc.

Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 60, 126 (1968); H. C.
Renger and C. Basilico. ibid. 69, 109 (1972).

. H. F. Stich, R. H. C. San, Y. Kawazoe. Nature

(London) 229, 416 (1971).

. J. McCann, E. Choi. E. Yamasaki, B. N. Ames,

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 1n press.

. B. N. Ames, F. D. Lee. W. E. Durston.ibid. 70.
782 (1973).
1. L. D. Kier, E. Yamasaki, B. N. Ames,ib1'd.

4159 (1974); B. N. Ames. H. O. Kammen. E.
Yamasaki, ibid. 72, 2423 (1975).

J. Roy. Stat. Soc. Ser. A 134, 133
(1971).

. P. Berg, D. Baltimore. S. Brenner. R. 0. Rob-

lin, M. F. Singer. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
72, 1981 (1975).

SCIENCE, VOL. 192

 




  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
   
  
  
   
   

    
 

 

MOBILIZATION 3
FOR ANIMALS

PO. Box 337, Jonesboro, TN 37659, USA.

 

ALTERNATIVES TO THE USE OF ANIMALS IN EXPERIMENTATION

MATHEMATICAL AND COMPUTER MODELS: Mathematical models can be used to make direct predictions of the functions of
human systems. Computer models, by means of simulation, provide information that cannot be gained from experiments
using living creatures. Computers also play an integral part in many of the othertechniques described here. They are used,
for example, in studies of a variety of anatomical systems, organ functions, in studying heart attacks, and in nerve cell and
neuro-muscular research. Computer models of the human circulatory and respiratory systems have been used as
teaching devices at a number of medical schools. Computer and mathematical models are based on the use of equations
of‘va‘rying degrees of complexity to represent biological phenomena, and the state of all the element he model can be
examined at any point in time and their interactions resolved. Computer models are highly accurate, eir capabilities
are increasing in complexity and scope as the technology is developed.

  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
  

‘\

separation from
us providing a
ult, the effects
3 to be tested
a single organ
e a functional

TISSUE CULTURES: Ci” Cultures: Single cells from human or animal tissues are grown outside the body aft
their original tissue or organ. Each generation of these cells breeds identical cells almost without limit
constant supply of identical test materials which would be impossible with living, changing a'nimals. As a
of foreign substances ortest procedures upon completely standardized matter can be observed. Subst
fortoxicity, irritancy, etc. can be applied to cell cultures and evaluated. Orqan Cultures: Groups of cellsf "
are grown in a feeding medium. The normal structure of the organ is retained, and since the cells
relationship to each other, reactions and effects of a substance upon a complete organ can be tested wit ults similar to
those in an intact body. Either or both of these cultures can be used in biochemistry, cancer r . earch, genetics,
immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, physiology, radiation, toxicology, virus research, and the production of
vaccmes.

BACTERIA CULTURES AND PROTOZOAN STUDIES: Many species of bacteria react in the same way to toxins, mutagens, and
irritants as humans do, at least as many, and at least to the same extent that other species of animals are equivalent in
these respects. Protozoa have similar chemistry to humans and therefore can be useful in nutritional research. These
organisms reproduce extremely rapidly and are easily monitored through several generations. They are easily
standardized, controlled, stored, and maintained at a very low cost. Because animal tests take much time, only a fraction of
the vast number of new products ready for market each year can be adequately tested on animals, resulting in either a
backlog of products, in products entering the market prematurely, or in'products for which continued use over several
generations has not been properly assessed in organisms similar in functioning to humans. Animal tests are time-
consuming and expensive, and seldom reliable as bacteria cultures in most situations. Bacteria cultures and protozoan
studies can be used in cancer, birth d . t, aging, and heart disease research, in water pollution studies, and through
recombinant DNA research, in insulin, anti-virus, and vaccine development. '

GAS CHROMATOGRAPHY AND MASS SPECTROMETRY: These are methods used in identifying drugs and chemical substances
through the study of chemical and drug activity at the molecular level. Substances and solutions comprising parts of more
complex substances are separated into their basic elements through gas chromatography and then identified and
measured via the very sensitive and accurate procedure of mass spectrometry. These methods have proven very
successful in vitamin and drug research.

EGGS: Bird and reptile eggs and embryos are used to study normal fetal development and the effects of drugs on the fetus. Eggs
are also used to culture viruses and vaccines. This method has proven effective in instances where tests on animals have
yielded conflicting or useless results, when if animal tests were employed to determine results, great harm to humans may
have resulted.

RADIOIMMUNOASSAY: This consists of saturation analysistechniques using radioactive elements. Radioactive substances
similiarto those present in the body are used to analyze a wide range of materials. Radioimmunoassays greatly reduce the
number of animals needed. One animal can provide antibodies for hundreds of radioimmunoassays.

QUANTUM PHARMACOLOGY: This science utilizes quantum mechanics, an understanding of molecular structure, and
computerization, to seek an explanation of the behavior of drugs on the basis of molecular properties.




MECHANICAL MODELS: Mechanical models can be used as subjects for safety testing, such as car crash studies and tests of
fireproof fabrics, and as teaching devices. Complex models are now in final development stages for use in
anaesthesiologist training, and can provide reactions to many different drugs. A simulator has been created which
includes a heart circulatory system, lungs, and a respiratory system, along with a means of testing responses to drugs and
kidney functions, thereby obviating the perceived need for the use of animals in such situations.

CLINICAL AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEYS: Clinical surveys use human volunteers, clinical case studies, autopsy reports, and
statistical analysis linked with clinical observation of disease. This permits far more accurate observation and use of actual
environmental factors related to human disease than is possible with unnaturalIy-confined animals.

PLACENTA: The human placenta, which is usually discarded after birth of a child, can be used for practicing techniques of
microvascular surgery, and for testing toxic side effects of chemicals, drugs, and pollutants. It provides a medium far
superior to animal tissues because it is human, and it is entirely without cost.

GENETIC ENGINEERING: Genetic engineering is now being used to provide insulin of a much purer type than was heretofore
available using animals. Genetically engineered insulin will eliminate a great portion of the harmful effects suffered by
approximately 20% of the users of conventionally-produced animal insulin. In addition to insulin, growth hormone and
interferon can be produced through genetic engineering, and doubtless many other substances could be as well.

AUDIO-VISUAL GUIDES AND AIDS: Film, closed-circuit television, and video tape can all be used as teaching aids, thus sparing
thousands and thousands of animals from continued reruns of the same experiment. These methods also offer the added
advantage of allowing for repeated viewing, including play-back and holding on a specific area of a demonstration.

LITERATURE RESEARCH: Many present-day experiments are repetitive of research which has already been conducted simply
because the researcher does not have an adequate familiarity with the literature in his or her own field, because the
question has not been formulated correctly, or because experimental details are only slightly modified from previous
experiments, in order that the work will be eligible for funding as new research, or for publication as new work.

ELIMINATE THE TEST OR THE EXPERIMENT: For some experiments there is no need to consider the alternative because the
study is irrevelant to human problems, is unnecessarily cruel, is trivial, or all three. This is particularly true of behavioral
and psychological experimentation, where such experiments are the rule rather than the exception, in the development of
endless different varieties of human toiletries, and in much biomedical research, where the only motivations are
undirected curiosity and a desire to have an article published, a grant funded, or a promotion awarded, with little if any
consideration given to the suffering of the animal or the actual value of the experiment.

 




Published by FRAME

(Fund for the Replacement of Animals
in Medical Experiments)

312a Worple Road,

Wimbledon SW20 8QU.

Tel. 01-946 1450

 




The following article written by Dr T. W. Hegarty, Scientific
Adviser to FRAME, was published in the American magazine
PAREN THESE (Summer I 9 75 /.

mm
WW

Man has invented innumerable ways of using and misusing
animals in the name of medicine or biology. From the
spectacular American ape or Russian dog left to expire in
space to the inert rabbit, bird or frog served up for dissection
by students, and from the nightmare two-headed dogs created
on the operating table to the millions or is it billions of
anonymous rats and mice used endlessly to test the dubious
safety of yet another chemical introduced by man into his
environment, there is always some essential reason to justify
the use of the animal. ‘Alternatives’ are OK in theory, but
they could never be used in my ﬁeld.

Before looking at ‘alternatives’ themselves, it will help if we
categorize brieﬂy the many ways in which animals are used.
‘ Some are required for teaching and demonstration purposes
and some for veterinary research, but the vast majority are
used in basic research, for routine functions, or in research
relating in some way to the human system. ‘Basic research’ is
uncharitably described as any work for which one cannot, at
present, think of a use, and includes many biochemical or
physiological studies at the whole-animal, tissue, cell or sub-
cellular level, as well as some thoroughly unpleasant work on
animal behaviour — all carried out to further our knowledge.
Routine functions include such areas as serum, hormone,
vaccine or antibody production, the bioassay of the concen-
tration or activity of biologically active substances, and the
maintenance and testing of disease organisms. Finally, in
research relating to the human system, the animal is being used
in some way as a model for man, whether it be in the testing
of drugs or toxic chemicals, or in the investigation of human
diseases and disorders.

‘Alternatives’ conjure up the idea of complete replacement
of animals by some method not involving animals at all.
Unfortunately, ‘alternatives’ rarely meet this criterion and a
method may be preferred because feweranimals are used, or
because they are used indirectly rather than directly. An
example should serve to explain this. Polio vaccine was orig-

inally produced from virus grown directly in monkeys, but
the introduction of a culture method using monkey kidney
tissue replaced their direct involvement with an indirect
involvement as the source of kidneys. Many animals were still
required and the losses in the trapping and shipping of the
monkeys were enormous. Within the last few years, however,
general acceptance has been given to the production of polio
vaccine from virus grown in human cells cultured in such a way
as to produce vast amounts of standardized tissue without the
continuous need to provide fresh starting material. The need
for monkeys in polio vaccine production has been drastically
reduced whilst the potential safety of the vaccine has, as a
result of the new method, been equally dramatically improved.
Even now, however, complete replacement of animals has not
been achieved because, as with most tissue cultures, it is nec-
essary to provide animal serum to stimulate cell growth.
Despite the fact that-animal involvement has not been com-
pletely eliminated, most people would probably agree that the
changes represent a considerable advance over the original
method.

Some, ‘alternatives’ may seem obvious and trivial, yet are
often overlooked. Many researchers prefer to ignore the fact
that they may be able to carry out their work in the study of
basic cell function using plant or bacterial, rather than animal
material. If animal tissue is considered necessary many
researchers will choose to kill laboratory animals instead of
collecting material from a local slaughterhouse, and in studies
on blood cells human blood may be just as acceptable as blood
from laboratory animals. If these points were remembered
many animal lives could be saved.

in the detection or production of particular substances
there is no inherent merit in the use of live animals and these
are replaced as new methods. become available, but the pace
of developing and introducing such replacements could be
greatly increased. Well-established alternatives include the use
of micro-organisms instead of animals in nutritional tests. The
development of tissue cultures of human material for vaccine
production has been a real breakthrough and there is an in-
creasing number of disease organisms that can be detected in
cultures instead of animals — tuberculosis is a recent example
where a new culture test is more sensitive than the guinea pig
assay that it replaces. Radio-immunoassays, tests for partic-
ular substances using antibodies, are also replacing older,
animal-using tests, but once again animals must still be used
indirectly for producing the antibodies. Really useful ad-
vances would come from the development of tissue culture
media winch were chemically deﬁned and no longer needed
animal serum, in vitro systems capable of producing antibodies
for immunological work of many kinds, and cell or organ
tissue cultures capable of producing hormones and other

biologically active substances. The advantages of ‘alternatives’
in this ﬁeld are that they are often more convenient, easier to
standardize, more exact and may well be safer than the tests
or systems that they replace.

In toxicology, in work on fundamental aspects of human
function, and in much of the work on human diseases,
animals are used as models of the human system. This must
be unsatisfactory because other species never exactly resemble
humans in the particular aspect being studied. The move to-
ward carrying out more and more research on primates
because of their close resemblance to humans must be viewed
with equal concern in the light of recent ﬁndings in America
which suggest that the primate intellect may be far closer to
that of a human than we have cared to accept in the past.
Someone soon is going to ask the question why we think we
have the right to experiment on a chimp and not on a sub-
normal human. For many reasons we need to ﬁnd alternatives.

It would be naive to suggest that ‘alternatives’ are generally
available for human modelling, but some have already been
adopted and there is considerable potential in a number of
ﬁelds. Tissue culture is one fo the main possibilities. This
involves the growing or maintenance in test-tube conditions
of small pieces of tissue or dispersed cells. Advances are con-
tinually being made which allow cell growth to proceed at
densities closer and closer to that of the tissue from which the
cells were removed, and in some cases cells may be persuaded
to re-aggregate into tissue like material. Some cell types may
be cultured in their original state, retaining their original
properties; they may become cell strains and replicate over
many generations in a relatively normal state; or they may
become transformed into cell lines and lose their genetic norm-
ality. In either of the latter cases vast amounts of standardized
tissue may be produced and the scope for experimentation in
controlled conditions is enormous. In the study of human
diseases and disorders normal and abnormal human tissues can
be studied and subjected to experiment in the ‘test tube’.
Human tumours can, in many cases, be maintained in culture
and offer material for study which has many advantages over
tumours induced artiﬁcially in highly abnormal strains of
mouse.

In toxicology there is an urgent need to ﬁnd alternatives
to animal tests, not simply because of the large numbers of
animals used, but also because of the real doubt that these
tests are relevant to man. There can be reasonable optimism
that, with real effort spent in their development, non-animal
using methods will result in tests that are safer to man than
those which are used at present. Already successful attempts
have been made to develop cultured cell systems for the
detection of potential carcinogens, and promising results have

 




been obtained from the use of bacteria in screening tests for
potential mutagens.

Even carefully controlled testing of new drugs on humans
may become possible through the use of incredibly sensitive
analytical techniques already well on the way to being devel-
oped. These can follow the metabolism of the substance in
the body at levels far lower than an active dose, thus giving
the possibility of detecting adverse reactions before any harm
is done. This would lead to the introduction of safer drugs as
well as helping to reduce the need for animals in drug testing.

Finally, in fundamental studies, novel tissue culture systems
offer ways of replacing animals. One example in neurology is
a recent development in which nerve tissue is cultured and
undergoes structural and functional developments which are
similar to those which occur in viva.

An alternative approach in the study of cancer and other i11-
nesses is the investigation of the occurrence of disease in
relation to environmental factors, an area of research that,
according to a sub-committee report delivered to the National
Cancer Advisory Board in March, is being sadly neglected.
Recent ﬁndings on intestinal cancer in man in relation to
eating habits exemplify this sort of approach, the usefulness
of which should not be underestimated. Concentration on
epidemiological research could well help to reduce the need for
less relevant animal studies.

Tissue cultures, although having many advantages in terms
of standardized tissue and ease with which differing experi-
mental conditions may be applied, are not the only possible
alternative model. Considerable advances have been made in
the development of mathematical as opposed to biological
models, especially in such areas as heart, lung and blood circ-
ulation research. Models such as these can be derived from
basic theory alone or from a knowledge from past experimental
ﬁndings (or a combination of both) and may be used to
predict events which occur in response to applied ‘stresses’.
As with tissue cultures it is a comparatively simple procedure
to run a set of experiments with a variety of different experi-
mental ‘conditions’ which are, in this case, described in
mathematical terms.

Computer modelling has also been extensively applied to
the study of drug uptake in humans and this has already been
adopted in some medical and pharmacology schools at Uni-
versities, especially in America, as a means of teaching students
about drug responses without using animals. Computerized
‘dummies’ together with other modelling systems offer wide
scope for application but at present the substantial advantages
that this approach to teaching can offer may be being wasted
because of a lack of training of students in systems analysis

and computer science, thus denying both the students and
potential research workers the early use of this powerful
teaching and investigation tool.

This brief collection of examples where alternatives are
already taking over is by no means exhaustive and is meant
solely to show just how widely.they can be applied. Maybe
today alternatives do not exist in many ﬁelds, but who knows
whether this will still ‘be true tomorrow. Certainly there is
tremendous potential for replacing many millions of animals
used annually in routine methods for antibody, serum, hor—
mone and vaccine production, in bioassays and in screening
programmes for various types of chemical. Support for this
work and the spread of information on it is essential if rapid
advances are to be made.

The moral question of the need for animal experimentation
has not been covered at all in this short article. In the U.K.,
where figures on animal use are available, of 5 million animals
used each year less than half are involved in genuine medical
research. The greater proportion are used in areas such as the
testing of cosmetics, new tobacco substitutes (a recent case
provoking much publicity about the use of beagles), and
other non-essentials. Do animals have to die in the testing of
substances that we do not really need and in some cases we
would be better without?

Perhaps every researcher should check with his conscience
two or three times before starting any experiment — do I
really need to do it? And if the honest answer were given,
perhaps we would see a real reduction in animal experiments.

Reprinted by kind permission of the Editor of “Parenthese”.

 




SURVEY: WHO DOES WHAT

The cosmetics industry does an incred' le amount of testing on laboratory animals to
determine “safety” of its products for e on human skin, near eyes, etc. The Fund for
Animals (1112 N. Sherbourne Drive, Los Angeles 90069) conducted a survey of mayor
companies to ﬁnd out the extent to which they tested, and the results (based on the com-

panies’ replies) follow.

COMPANIES WHICH DO NOT
TEST 0N LIVE ANIMALS:

Beauty Without Cruelty
British-American Cosmetics, Ltd.
Campana Corp. Ltd.
Comfort Manufacturing Co.
Compton & Knowles Corp.
Cosmetic Creations Inc.
Dodge Chemical Co.

Duke Laboratories

Fashion Two-Twenty
Dorothy Gray

Hair: Pure Food Co.
Hickok—A Man's Company
Houbigant, Inc.

Humphreys Pharmacal Inc.
Lander Co., Inc.

Lelton International, Inc.
Menncn Corp.

Mohawk Brush Co.

Shaklee Products

Roberts -— I... E. Robert Co., Inc.
Vitabath Inc.

Yardley

 

5%

COMPANIES WHICH TEST
EXTENSIVELY AND OR USE

ANIMAL PRODUCTS

Alberto Culver Co.
Amway Corporation
Elizabeth Arden

Avon Products Inc.
Ayerst Laboratories
John H. Breck, Inc.
Bristol-Myers
Carter-Wallace Inc.
Chattem Drug and Chemical
Charles of the Ritz
Chesebrough-Ponds Co.
Coty Products

Helene C‘urtis Industries.
Dana Perfumes, Inc. '
Fabergé

Max Factor

Gillette Co.

Andrew Jergens Co.
Johnson & Johnson
Lanvin

Mem Co., Inc.

. Olay Co.
‘ Revlon, Inc.

Roche Laboratories
Helena Rubenstein

. Warner Lambert

 




3.. «I m .v ‘ri‘ .. m. ,. a A mm. cats“ 4;.» _ in? . MW .. we Wm. ,.

West view. The attractive building appears more like a ranch-type A/Iany windows keep interior bright and airy. Puppy en-
country home than animal shelter. Plan could be well adapted for a closures are of varied sizes and built on the prznczple of
small animal hospital or a breeder or boarding kennel. play pens with open tops. Note rounded concrete curbs.

 

Towards the ideal in an
jANIMAL SHELTERl

 

 

Corridor o/ kennel area shows simple.
practical construction of glazed brick and
tile, Gibraltar ﬂooring with curb. Tele-
phone extension in corridor is time saver
and convenience for small staff.

44 1‘; I\N1.VV that puppies were

W always falling out of cages.
Well. we just decided they wouldn’t

" . , , fall out.”

- é. . . ,. These words, spoken by Mrs. Chris-
Architectural beauty from all sides. This is tine Stevens, secretary Of the Ann
east view 0f Sheller- Dogs have ample Arbor Humane Society. very well sum
space where they are walked for exerczse. up the pr‘irutiples that dominated the

plans for the recently-cotnpleted new
shelter of the Humane Society of
W’ashtenaw County, located between
the two major centers of Washtenaw
County, Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti.
Michigan.

The puppies don’t “fall out” in the
new shelter because they can’t. They
are not kept in the usual tiered cages.
They have. a special nursery where
the enclosures are built on the prin-
ciples of baby play pens with open
tops. '

There were also very ﬁrm opinions
on the sizes of cages, for better com~
fort, health and efﬁciency. Being

‘_ “very anti-small cages,” according to
Reception room and oﬁice. Careful records Self-operating doors of Plexiglas Tllrs' Stevens, the two Hers Of. cages
are kept by cards identifying each dog on between inside kennels and outside in the observatlon wards, for incom-
bulletin board (behind desk). runs are readily used by the dogs. ing dogs and cats, are spacious and

 




 

; .l " -"use-«inward
-. j . r-‘_._g._§4qgué rm!”

. . mas-mm 9.»
c 0 o .w. on '90” "n‘. V

 

Construction details of self-operating doors.

of varied sizes, to accommodate either
small or large dogs, or individual lit-
ters of kittens. All incoming animals
are kept in the observation wards for
at least 24 hours, or longer if there
is any indication of illness.'For sick
animals there are special isolation
quarters, built expressly for such con-
tingencies.

These quarters, like all the rest of
the kennel are kept light and airy by
the carefully thought-out arrange-
ment and size of the many windows.
There is radiant heating and a ven-
tilating system. There are germicidal
lamps, spaced just as directed by the
manufacturer for the best efficiency
and there are built-in, self-operating
water fountains in each individual
kennel stall. All of these labor-saving
features, the construction, and archi-
tectural beauty of the building itself
can be well adapted to a small animal
hospital or a breeder’s or a boarding
kennel, with the same practical ad-
vantages.

With always “the ideal” in mind,
nearly a year was spent in study and
planning of the shelter before .it‘was
erected. The president of the Society,
Edward H. Kraus, members 'of the
Board of Directors and of the archi-
tectural and engineering ﬁrms, Giffels
and Vallet, Inc., and L. Rossetti car-
ried on an extensive correspondence
and visited shelters throughout the
United States in order. to acquaint
themselves with the best features of
each. The new shelter was made pos-
sible through the gift of the Matthaei
Foundation.

A unique feature of the shelter is
the use of Plexiglas in the swinging,
self-operating doors between the in-
side kennels and outdoor runs. The
Plexiglas was the inspiration of one
of the architects based on his experi-

ence in having owned a dog that
refused to learn to use a solid swing-
ing door in his home kennel, but
readily pushed and went through one
of Plexiglas.

It is most important in a shelter
to have the self-operating doors read-
ily used by the dogs, both for keeping
down odors and labor of cleaning
inside stalls. The use of the Plexiglas
doors has worked wonders. Even dogs
that have had no previous experi-
ence with the operation of swinging
doors use them readily when they can
see through them. Moreover, the dogs

_ are more quiet and contented when

they can sit and look out through their
window-doors. The walls of the quar-
ters are glazed brick and tile, with
ﬂooring of Gibraltar concrete.

There are individual enclosures for
ninety-one animals in the shelter. A
garage is attached to the shelter build-
ing and a second building includes
additional garage space along with a
barn for the accommodation of large
animals. There is also a residence for
the shelter manager on the three and
a half country acres. A campaign was
carried on by the Society in order to
qualify for the Matthaei Foundation’s
gift which included land, fencing and
landscaping, in addition to the build-
ings. The ofﬁcer’s residence was ﬁ—
nanced by the Society.

The majority of animals received
at the shelter are brought in as strays,

I ' l a
_ ,' __J._.I__L..J_..L.._ -~
gU-WIISOLNHON .
‘ fr-ra-s

. r'—"r""

I

I
l
I

-“ ‘OFFICE
‘ II a
II userms

walrtue

or as unwanted by private citizens, or

. picked up by a humane office'riat citi-

zens’ requests. Dogs picked up by the
COunty dog warden are also housed at
the shelter. _
Unceasing efforts are made to place
a maximum number of young, healthy
animals with families properly quali-
ﬁed to care for a pet. A weekly radio
program includes a listing of animals
currently held at the shelter for adop-
tion, or reclaim by owners. '
A complete record of each dog is
maintained in a day ledger and by
card system. Reference cards identi-
fying each dog, even to personality
and habits, are kept on a bulletin
board, with duplicate cards on the

. dog’s kennel enclosure.

When dogs are given for adoption,
the recipient is required to give refer-
ences, gets a little talk on the respon-
sibility of pet ownership, and is
presented with a leaﬂet on proper
care. Adoptions are followed up by
personal visits, or by mail. Females
are given for adoption only upon
agreement that the new owners will
have them spayed.

The Ann Arbor Humane Society is
not content with the new shelter, ﬁne
as it is, but is already engaged in an-
other campaign for certain additional
clinical equipment which the heads of
the organization feel is needed if their
“ideal of ideals” in an animal shelter
is to be fully realized.

,_-f--~-x1-_ﬁ-_

:0 Eu :r :0

I
I
I
I
I

HEALTHY DOGS RABIES

—-r--r--1--1"~"~."T-—r"r“

Reprinted from Gaines Dog Research Progress, Fall 1951

 

GARAGE




Hum“;

J
i

x"

f
,.' magamaﬁm: (II/SM >6 - :

 




 

 

VIII. THE USE OF PRE- AND POST-OPERATIVE ANALGESICS
IN EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL MEDICINE

It is common practice in clinical veterinary medicine to use analgesic drugs
before and after surgical anesthesia. The purpose of these drugs is to reduce
the sensibility of the animal and hasten induction of anesthesia, as well as to
cause a smooth recovery. It seems that these drugs should be used more than
they are in experimental medicine and surgery. Some of these drugs alter the
physiologic response of the animal to stimulus. Therefore, the pharmacologic
action as well as the investigator’s experimental design must be understood.
Carefully chosen analgesic drugs before and after surgery relieve pain, fear
and shock, thereby aiding in the humane handling of animals as well as reduc-
ing surgical risk. It is indeed true that good scientific technique and humane
treatment are so closely allied that they are inseparable.

Some of the drugs useful as pre-and post-operative analgesics or sedatives
are the tranquilizers, (e.g., Acepromazine and Tranvet), the opiates (Mor-
phine, Innovar-vet and Demerol)*, the barbiturates, and Atropine. The tran-
quilizers and opiates reduce conscious sensory perception and therefore allevi-
ate fear and reduce the amount of intravenous or inhalant anesthesia needed
to accomplish proper surgical depth. These drugs also reduce the severity and
length of the excitement stage during the recovery periods. Many surgical
endeavors can be nullified if the excitement stage during anesthetic recovery
is not mitigated.

*Morphine is not recommended for cats. It can cause extreme excitement in this species.

 

  




UK) of Pre-ana’ Port-Operative Analgericr 17

Atropine and the tranquilizers reduce secretion (i.e., saliva and bronchial
mucous). Furthermore atropine dilates the bronchials, and these effects benefit
respiration.

Care must be exercised when the analgesics are used before anesthesia
for they potentiate some anesthetic agents. Certain emergency antidotes should
be available in case of respiratory depression or cardiac failure. It would be
well to investigate and determine precisely which drugs are recommended to
overcome the effect of each individual analgesic or anesthetic.

Tranquilizers are most practical to use, and they can be readily given
by mouth. The untoward effects (mentioned in the foregoing paragraph)
are much less likely to occur if the drug is given by mouth. Dosage should
be determined by reading insert brochure and/or label on bottle, or seeking
the advice of knowledgeable laboratory personnel. Post-operative pain should
be relieved with appropriate drugs.

Sernylan (Phencyclidine Hydrochloride) is an effective means of render-
ing monkeys and apes calm and tractable. It should never be used as a general
anesthetic; however, it enhances the action of the barbiturates providing an
excellent pre-anesthetic.

Summarizing:

(1) It is necessary that scientific investigators understand and use anal-
gesics for the relief of pain; this is important for scientific as well as humane
reasons.

(2) It is important to know that deep depression and death can occur
if the analgesics are overdosed, and to understand emergency procedures
necessary to correct the effects of overdosage. Sometimes this may only re-
quire increased or better ventilation or gentle artificial respiration.

(3) The oral route is an efficient and practical method to employ for
safe administration of tranquilizers, and of barbiturates given animals to make
them calmer and more comfortable.

(4) Unlike narcotics, the use of tranquilizers requires no narcotics license
or Federally regulated accounting procedures.

(5) Always find out the exact dosage; avoid overdosing.

The following charts give dosages for common species of laboratory
animals.

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGESIC,
AN ESTHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

NOOBVQ

3"IJ..I.VD

332NVdWIH3

V'I'IIHDNIHD

N3 )IDIHD

"”8839

Old VENIOO

HBlSWVH

ASXNOW

WﬂSSOdO

lIGBVH

 

IH .— Inhalation

IV — Intravenous
Rec_ RecraIIy

P0 _ Orally

IP — Intraperitoneal
SC - Subcutaneous

lM — Intramuscular

 

ANALGESIC DRUGS

Acetalsalicylic

Acid (Aspirin)

 

 

 

Phenyl burazone
(Bulazolidin)

 

 

Meperidine
Hydrochloride
(Demerol)

Methidine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03
§
3..
‘5
9
‘
Q
O
W»
ES
“:1
N
73:.
S
1:3
&
N
I);
3
N.
S
§
N
b,

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGEﬂC,
ANESTHETIC, 0R
TRANQUILLIZING.
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

.LIGHVU
WﬂSSOdO
ABMNOW
HELSWVH
Old VENIHO
N3 )DIHD
V'I'IIHDNIHD
BBZNVdWIHD
BILLVD
NOOBVB

 

lH -— Inhalation

IV — Intravenous

Rec- Rectally
PO .— Orally

lP ._ lntraperironeai

SC .. Subcutaneous

lM — lnlramuscular

 

TRANQUlLLIZERS

Phencyclidine Hydrochloride
(Sernylan)

Use of PI'e-aml Pan-Operative Analgesic;

 

 

 

Chlorpromazine

Hydrochloride

 

 

 

 

Promazine

Hydrochloride

 

 

 

 

 

Meprobamare

(Equanil; Milfown)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALceac,
ANESTHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

.LISQVH
WﬂSSOdO
ABXNOW
HELSWVH
Old VENIDD
'HBHBD
NEXD‘IHD
V‘I‘IIHDNIHD
BBZNVdWIHD
EILLVD
NOOQVB

 

IH — Inhalation

IV - Intravenous
Rec.— Rectally

PO .. Orally

IP _ lntraperitoneal
SC — Subcutaneous

IM — lntramuscul or

 

AN ESTHETICS -
VOLATlLE

Ether

 

 

Chloratorm"

 

 

 

Halothane
(Fluothane)
Methoxyflurane
(Closed Systems)

to
&
t2.
6.
9
V.
m
0
\h
5‘
"Q:-
m
V:
N.
S
m
S.
a
N
é
N
:0
k
3:
I.3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Oral sedation should be given to dogs before using chloroform.
Chloroform should not be used in a room where mice are housed unless
all of them are to be destroyed.

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGEﬂC,
AN ESTH ETIC, 0R
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

.LISGVU
N039|d
WﬂSSOdO
ABXNOW
HBLSWVH
Old VENIDO
""8839
NBXDIHD
V‘lWIHDNIHD
BBZNVdWlHD
3'11..LV3
NOOBVG

 

lH - Inhalation

IV — Intravenous
Rec.— Rectally

P0 .. Orally

lP — lntraperitaneal
SC — Subcutaneous

lM .. Intramuscular

 

BAR BITURATES

S
(b
O
\s
:9
at
‘3.
N
R
"c
Q
a,
7‘
O
’b
3
&
N
N.
Q
N
h;
R
“N
O:
W
95
R.
v...

Pentobarbitol IV
Sodium (Nembutal) 30 up
Long duration I0 l0
lbs.
l5
over
100
lbs.

 

 

TbioOental Sodium IV
(Pentotbol) ‘ 10 up
Short duration to 50 lbs.

8-9
up to ")0 lbs.
5 over

100 lbs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Tbis cbart gives anesthetic doses for barbiturates. It. is often {helpful to use barbiturates in smaller
doses, administered orally. to make animals more comfortable and relaxed.,

 




" .ACTIONEJ INC.

and

THEFTOF DOGS AND CATS

ACTION 81, INC, a non—profit foundation chartered in Virginia, operates

as a national network to prevent, monitor, and eXpose theft of dogs and

cats within the dealer—laboratory system. ACTION 81 has contacts and/or
co—workers in every state, and in parts of Canada and England.

 

 

Theft of the founder's obedience—trained German Shepherd from Clarke”
County, Virginia, triggered the start of the network in 1974.

A Virginia State Police investigator worked for eighteen months at that
time on excessive dog theft in the Clarke County area. He uncovered
illicit but routine cash sales of dogs from a neighboring pound to a PA
dealer supplying research. 300 local dogs "vanished" in one year!!!

THEFT + POUND + CASH + DEALER + LABORATORIES = THE SYSTEM!!

 

In March, 1976, a pickup truck with 102 dogs from pounds in VA, KY, WV,
and bound for a PA dealer was stopped on I 81. Overcrowding caused the
deaths of several dogs. ACTION 81 took its name from this incident.

Dog and cat larceny for dealer-laboratory use results from the system of
procurement, and the prices paid by the medical teaching, testing, and
research facilities. It results from "No Questions Asked."

 

 

The system involves dealers and their suppliers: pounds, auctions, and
individuals stealing or obtaining family pets under false pretenses.

LOW RISK..... EASY PROFIT..... AND UNMARKED PROPERTY..... INVITE THEFT.

**********************:‘c*****k******************************************

THE ACTION 81 PROGRAM:

 

PREVENTION: "Do Not Leave Dogs and Cats ALONE Where They May Be Seen and
TAKEN." Vary the Daily Routine. Spay and Neuter. Tattoo and
Register the Tattoo. Be Sure Your Pet Wears Some Form of ID.

 

THE LOCAL LOST PET REGISTRY: Essential in areas of high theft. In 1988-9
A. 81 sent "How To Start a Lost Pet Registry” information to
to MN, CT, IL, OH, GA, TX, NV, ME, WA, NJ, PA, AZ, WY, NY,
NH, WV, MD, CA, LA, NC, OR, IN, KS, and Ontario, Canada.

 

STATISTICS: In the period 1979—1982 ACTION 81 compiled statistics on VA
dogs reported missing with signs of theft. The four year
total was 23,186 dogs in 1/7 of VA. 4.2% of the total
estimated dog population in the area of the statistics.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955-1278

 

 




Information from a sampling of 1500 stolen dogs reported to ACTION 81 in
the period 1986—89 showed the Labrador Retriever and German Shepherd
heading the list. The states of origin totaled 36 in '86—7, 42 in '88—9.

Reports of area theft problems in 1988-9 came from 43 states. Residents
of 90 jurisdictions in VA requested pet theft assistance.

 

EXPOSURE OF THE CRIME: For several years ACTION 81 organized workshops
and meetings for public awareness of pet theft throughout VA, and in WV,
OH, MT, MD, NC, CT, MN, and TN. Workshops are scheduled in 1990.

 

In 1988—9, ACTION 81 was contacted for pet theft information by
reporters in VA, WV, MD, MO, IA, IN, CA, KY, NY, NC, Wash. DC, IL, FL,
CA, CO, NJ, VT, AR, MA, and CBS "48 Hours."

ACTION 81 provided background information on the pound-dealer-laboratory
system to legislative persons at the federal, state, and local levels.

ACTION 81 LEAFLETS:

 

Action 81 and Theft of Dogs and Cats
Prevention of Dog and Cat Theft

Pound Sales Problems

The Dealer—Laboratory Connection

Do's, Don'ts for Owners of Missing Pets

VOICE of the MISSING, Quarterly Newsletter
How to Start a Lost Pet Registry

Midsummer Suffering on a Dealer's Truck
Action 81 Statement; Stolen Animals in Research
"I Could Have Stolen Your Pet" stickers/cards
Action 81 Reports for 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989.

ACTION 81 BOOKS:

 

How to Start a Lost Pet Registry

Problems of Pound Sales and Release

Theft of Dogs and Cats Factual Report

The Dealer—Laboratory Connection, Book One, 1976—87
The Dealer—Laboratory Connection, Book Two, 1988—90
Combined Index Lists of * Booklets

VOICE of the MISSING Collection, 1982—89

The leaflets and books listed above are updated regularly. The books
present articles, correspondence, and compelling evidence of dog and cat
larceny. The collection of ACTION 81 newsletters, 1982—89, contains
exact quotes from network letters and shows the nationwide extent of
this crime and the emotional trauma of the pet owners.

PLEASE CALL OR WRITE ACTION 81 IF YOU CAN DISTRIBUTE ANY OF THE ABOVE.
A CONTRIBUTION OF $10 TO ACTION 81 FOR EACH BOOK MARKED WITH A * WILL

HELP US TO CONTINUE THIS WORK. Contributions of any amount for the
other materials are appreciated but not requested.

ACTION 81 STRONGLY PROTESTS THE POUND—DEALER—LABORATORY SYSTEM OF
ACQUIRING LABORATORY DOGS AND CATS....... THEFT IS THE RESULT ...... .

 

 

 




 

 

   

  

ur state and federal laws do
not permit the permanent possession of wild
birds. Before you assume the responsibility of
caring for the bird, be aware that the task is
time»consuming, the mortality rate is high,
and that you are caring for the bird
temporarily for the sole purpose of returning
it to the wild.

The first rule of thUmb for your bird
in question is to make certain that it is an
orphan bird. The parent may be off in search
of food or some distance away observing the
progress of its offspring.

If you think the bird has fallen from the
nest, try to replace it, (the old belief that the
parent bird will reject its baby if handled by
a human is not true) or put up a makeshift
nest by using a plastic berry box with
openings in the bottom for drainage in case of
rain. Place it as close to the nest site as
possible, but keep it from the direct sun.

If the fledgling is well~feathered, place it
in a bush or a protected spot, safe from
predators.

Observe the bird for an hour or two.
This may seem like a long time, but the
responsibility you will assume will take many,
many hours and days; so give the parent bird a
chance.

 

Identification

  

Sparrow:

Very tiny, baby may be barely an inch long.
The bill is pink inside, edged with yellow.
If feathered, the feathers are brown.

 

The very bedraggled—looking young have
yellowish fuzz. Skinny bills. If feathered, the

feathers are brown.

 

 

Below is a list to aid in the identification of
your orphan bird.

and hold the mouth open while feeding it
several bites.

Tiny sparrows should be fed every ten
minutes, all day: Blue Jays, Mockingbirds,
and Cardinals every 20 minutes. As the baby
progresses, increase the time between
feedings. "

 

Doves are fed differently. Since they do
not open their mouths readily, they must be
fed with an eye dropper, preferably one with a
long tapering poing. Insert the eye dropper far
down the throat on the bird’s right side, hand
squeeze the bulb gently. The crop of a dove is
located at the base of the neck in front of the
chest. Tiny, downy doves should be fed every
30 minutes from morning until night for the
first two weeks. The crop can store a lot of
food, so stop feeding before it is full and
swollen. Overvfeeding in doves plugs the
crop, and the bird dies. If the crop does not
empty, give the bird one or two drops of warm
mineral oil or olive oil.

 

 

Unfeathered babies should be put in a
small can, bowl, or cup lined with soft tissue
paper. Place the container on a heating pad
set on low, or you may attach a 71/4 watt light
bulb (night light) to the side of the bowl
container. Maintain the environment at
80,909 Decrease the temperature gradually
as the baby gets feathers.

Feathered babies should be placed in a box
or cage lined with newspaper. Place a small
stick or branch in for a perch. Take care that
the branch has no insecticides on it.

Fledgling Care

 

 

    

Mockingbird:

W§;g;;:‘r.- -: . ,1

Feeding

 

Inside the mouth is yellow. Outside “lips” are
flabby yellow. If feathered, there are big white
patches on gray wings.

   

Blue Jay:

Dark bill with red lining. Very young have
white flabby “lips”. Blue or bluevgray feathers
with white on tips of the wing feathers.

  
 
 

Cardinal:

Usually bald around the eyes, even after it is
well feathered. Redrbrown feathers. Stout
heavy bill.

 

 

Of the five species mentioned above, all
are fed similarly with slight variations.

Emergency formula

Mashed hard’boiled egg yolk.
Warm water.
Mix to the consistency of mush.

Maintenance formula — (for small

feathered birds)

Mashed hard boiled egg yolk.

Equivalent amount of high protein baby
cereal.

Mix with warm water.

Add supplementary vitamins, one drop per
yolk. We have tried Vicon Paste. (Squeeze
out the equivalent of a liquid drop. You may
use Parakeet liquid Vitamins if convenient.
Also add 25mgs Vitamin B 1 (Thiamine
hydrochloride) crushed and mixed with

the formula. The latter is very important,
especially with Mockingbirds, for they have a
tendency toward weak legs.

Mix the ingredients to a fairly moist, but
not soupy, consistency. Only very young birds
and doves, before they are self’feeding,
should be fed with an eye dropper. Eye
dropper feeding must be done with great care,
or the baby could drown or strangle. The eye
dropper should have a long tapering point,
and the formula should be warm. If the bird is
active and hungry, and they usually are, it will
open its mouth readily. If the baby does not
open its mouth, gently tap on the side of the
beak or gently jiggle the container holding
the bird. Insert the eye dropper as far back in
the throat as possible on RIGHT SIDE OF
THE BIRD’S THROAT Squeeze the formula
gently into the throat. On all birds, except
doves, you should see a swelling on the
RIGHT SIDE of the throat as the crop fills.
Stop feeding when the crop appears full.

It does not take much, so use common sense.
If you must force feed the bird, gently, but
firmly, pry open the bill with your thumbnail,

 

 

When the bird becomes active and begins to
hop around, move it to a cage.

 

Mockingbirds, Jays and Cardinals:
When the bird begins feathering out, put the
food on a swab stick, without cotton, or a
popsicle stick, if the mouth is large enough,
and place it well back in the throat. Alternate
feedings of formula (use less water to make it
more solid) with raw hamburger. (Take care to
keep it fresh), and dry dog food pellets soaked
in warm water.

Eventually add a small jar lid of moistened
dog food pellets and hamburger in the cage.
Dip the beak into the mixture. Continue
hand feeding, however, until you are certain
the bird is eating on its own.

Doves:

When the bird begins to peck at the bottom
of the cate, sprinkle parakeet seed on the
floor of the cage. Also place a container of
water (a 11/2” deep lid will do) in the cage.
Continue to feed with an eye dropper until
you are certain that the bird is eating on its
own (when you can feel the crop full of
seeds). This transition may take 1 . 2 weeks
of supplementary feeding.

Sparrows:

Alternate formula with moistened dog food
pellets, as above. When the bird is pecking at
the formula on a swab stick or spoon, place
the spoon in the cage, and watch to make sure
the bird is eating the formula from the spoon
by itself. When this happens, sprinkle
parakeet seed over the formula, and on the
floor of the cage. Put a small jar lid ofwater in
the cage at this stage, and add hamburger bits
to the spoon. Gradually decrease amount of
formula until the bird is entirely on seed and
hamburger; then gradually add wild bird seed,
and decrease the amount of parakeet seed.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

The less dependent the bird is upon you,
the better chance it will have for survival
when released.

Once a bird eats independently, do not
handle it except in necessity.

Allow it ﬂying time on an enclosed porch
or a room where it will not injure itself.
Cover mirrors and windows at first until
you know the bird has the feel of the
surroundings. This does not take long.

When the bird is fully feathered, eating
on its own, and flying well, place the cage
outside in a safe, shady spot, and leave the
bird outside day and night. After a week,
open the cage door. Leave the cage open
with food and water, so that if the bird needs
shelter or food, it will have a refuge before
going it alone.

If you care for the bird to the point of
release, and are uncertain as to the above
procedure, you may bring the bird to the
Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary. It will be
Elaced in an outdoor facility where it will

e readied for its final release.

Tending these orphan birds is a serious
business. The reward for all your time,
patience, and a lot of luck is returning the
bird to a free life; and that, after all, is quite
a contribution.

Prepared for Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary

by Christina Swartz and Dorothy M. Weichman
Photography by Stan Ashbrook

Design by Brown, Dowling, and Kitten Inc.

Presented by Florida Federal Savings & Loan
Association. Paper from Mac Paper, Inc.,
Tampa, Florida.

week during daylight hours.

Do remember — our state and federal laws
do not permit the permanent possession

of wild birds. Before you assume the
responsibility of caring for the bird, be aware
that the task is time consuming and the
mortality rate is high. You are caring for the

bird TEMPORARILY for the sole purpose of

returning it to the wild.

You may call the Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary
for additional information if the bird does
not respond to your care.

Do handle the bird firmly, but gently.

Make certain the formula is fresh. It helps
to mix it in small amounts.

Keep food in the cage at all times when the
bird is learning to feed itself.

Keep in mind their natural diet.

Use common sense in amounts to feed.
Keep the baby warm, but not overheated.
Keep the containers and cages clean.
Release the bird in a safe and sheltered spot.

Know that these are not hard and fast rules
that cannot be altered. They are the rules we
have found to be successful at the. Sanctuary.

If you must trim trees and shrubs when birds
are apt to be nesting, check for nests before
trimming, particularly in the spring and
summer.

Know that the inherent right of a wild bird is
freedom, and the bird should be released at
the earliest possible time.

Visitation is free at the Sanctuary 7 days 3

Join the sanctuary’s membership and “Adoptva—Bird” programs. Help us help them. Please write for information.

 

Do not try to make the bird a pet. It will
lessen the chance for survival when the bird
is released.

Do not keep a buggy nest to house your pet.
Use a clean container.

Do not give him milk or other liquids.
The liquid in the formula is enough.

Do not teach the bird to fly. Throwing it
in the air may cause internal injuries when
it falls to the floor. It will learn to fly on

its own.

Funds for the operation of the Suncoast
Seabird Sanctuary come solely from
donations. Most of these funds come from
people who have joined either our
MEMBERSHIP or ADOPTA~BIRD
Programs. Under the Membership Program,
$10 entitles one to a Student Membership,
$25 for an Associate Membership, $50 for

a Family Membership, and $100 to be
recognized as a Sponsor Member. For
AdoptrA’Bird, the monthly donations are:
Birds of Prey: $10, Brown Pelican: $9,
Cormorant: $8, Great Blue Heron: $7,
Egret: $6, Tern: $5, and Gull: $4. If you
would like to join either program, please call '
(813) 3916211, or send your donation. ALL
DONATIONS ARE TAX DEDUCTIBLE.
Thank you.

Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary Inc.

 

(non—profit organization)
18328 Gulf Blvd.

Indian Shores, Fla. 33535
(813) 3916211




mHmwrmsn an<mm msuo%wsm m 8cm Umnr

 




Curious elephants smell the wind

A family group relaxing

 




