FOOD AND SPORT

By H. G. CHANCELLOR

N 0 amount of monetary compensation can make up for the
discouragement to the farmer and the harm done to the routine of a
farm by having a considerable number of acres of barley destroyed by
game. I have been over farms in which not only a large proportion of
the root crop, but every single swede and mangold has been damaged
by hares. . . . I have heard landowners, men who ought to know
better, say of such and such a farm that it was only fit to rear game.
There are very few farms of which this could be in any wise true.

From Land Problems (1912) by CHRISTOPHER TURNOR.

HE dark cloud of war is over the land. At any moment
it may burst and sow death and destruction upon us.
* If it comes, which God forbid, the most vital problem
of defence will be how to keep our people fed until the war
ends. Last time, with command of the seas and the world’s
resources available, we succeeded, but only by rationing.
Submarine sinkings were counteracted in time to escape famine.
And famine would have meant defeat and surrender. At
present, taking all food—stuffs together, we produce less than
one—half of What we consume, and are dependent for the rest
on supplies from over the seas. Stop these or any considerable
proportion of them, and we starve. Even to-day a vast number
of our population get less food than is necessary for health,
and our position is less secure than in 1918.

Then submarines were practically the only danger to
incoming food ships. To-day their size, range and power are
greater, and the danger is doubled by bombing from the air.
Then all seas and oceans were open to us. To—day fortifications
and air bases established and controlled by our most likely
enemies could close the Mediterranean and jeopardise the
West African route, thus shutting off supplies from India,
Australia, the Cape, and all the countries from which we then
imported via these routes. That this is their aim is no longer
in doubt. With these risks to face and nearly five million more
mouths to feed, how vital is the need for less dependence on
oversea supplies, Which increased home production, and that
alone, can insure.

 




 

Home production of food can be increased in one way only,
by fuller use and better use of the land. Fuller use means
bringing more land under cultivation ; better use means more
intensive use of land now cultivated. But for decades the
tendency has been the other way. Comparing the last year
for which figures are available with the year before the war :

Total area of Great Britain (excluding water) 56,201,688 acres
Total under cultivation—crops and grass (1913) 31,937,303 ,,
Total under cultivation—crops and grass (1936) 29,456,699 ,,
Lost for any kind of food production . . . . 2,480,604 ,,
Population (1913) 41,302,000, (1937) 46,008,000, Inc. 4,706,000

More People—Less Food

It will thus be seen that since 1913 our source of supply has
gone down while the number of people needing it has gone up
by millions. With greater risk of supplies cut off we are less
able to produce them at home by what 2,480,000 acres could
be made to yield. Besides this, agricultural experts declare
that, with the finest soil in the world, we get less per cultivated
acre than countries in Europe with poorer soils and worse
climate. Some years ago Lord Ernle calculated—it at one—fifth
that of Belgium and two—thirds that of Denmark.

During this period experimental stations like Rothamsted
have discovered hardy grasses that will thrive on bleak hill-
sides and hardy grains that will grow on poor soils ; chemists
have produced manures that enrich them ; agricultural colleges
have trained men in the knowledge of problems and the use
of discoveries that reduce the area incapable of profitable use
and make inexcusable neglect to restore to food production
much land now waste. On the many causes contributing to
our backwardness as compared with other countries, and on
the many remedies so far attempted, I make no comment,
except that they have miserably failed to affect the process
described. Questions of tenure, taxation, marketing boards,
protection, subsidies, quotas 6t hoc genus 0mm lie outside
the subject of this paper, which is an inquiry into how far
and in what way sport as now practised hinders the full use
of land for the production of food.

Pleasure Ground versus Treasure House

Ever since the industrial revolution the nature and functions
of rural land ownership have been undergoing change. Before
that, rural landlords depended for their livelihood on the land

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

in their possession being used. Since, in increasing numbers,
rural estates have passed into the hands of men who, having
acquired fortunes in business, have bought them as the readiest
means to acquire county status and entry into Society, i.e.
for amenity rather than profit, of which business made them
independent. Amenities is a pseudonym for amusement,
which, to the country gentleman, means sport, mainly blood
sport, the slaughter by gun or hounds of wild creatures in field,
moor and forest. Thus for decades there has been a tendency
to reverse Campbell-Bannerman’s aim, and the country has
become “ more of a pleasure—ground for the rich and less of a
treasure-house for the peOple.” Amenity has come first,
production second ; more preserves, less plough.

“ Blood sports ” means the shedding of blood as a means
to amuse and to give pleasure, a form of sadism that persists
in certain circles and is perpetuated from generation to
generation by teaching children to associate cruelty with fun,
a mangled beast as essential to the joy of a glorious cross-
country ride. But I am concerned here with economic, rather
than moral results. Blood sports require living victims,
suggestively called “ game,” for the most part. Game is
destructive. Its presence on or near farms involves risks and
losses that discourage and often prevent intensive culture. It
would be unreasonable to expect the cultivator to sink capital
in improvements that would double his output, knowing that
his crops or live stock are liable to depredation by fox, hare,
rabbit, pheasant, and that during the hunting season his fences
may be broken, his fields trodden down and whole crops
injured or destroyed in a day by fifty or a hundred men,horses
and hounds galloping over them in pursuit of a fox. Even it
sure of recovering his loss from the hunt, that would not
prevent the loss of the material destroyed to the food supply
of the nation.

Some farms are let with sporting rights reserved ; in some
cases the land is let to one tenant and sporting rights to
another. In either case the interests of the cultivator conflict
with those of the sportsman, and this cannot conduce to the
best, i.e. the most productive, use of the soil. The fact that
the Danish cultivator escapes such disadvantages may well
account for his greater return from inferior soil as compared
with his British compeer. Blood sports lead to bad farming
and under—cultivation, as well as to no farming at all over
considerable areas of game preserves and fox coverts. In so
far as that is true their abolition would bring much derelict
land into use and would add to the yield of half-farmed land,

3

 




 

 

thereby reducing our dependence on overseas produce in case
of war or blockade.

Twenty Million Uncultivated Acres

Of the millions of acres lost to agriculture since the war all
were arable except 307,000. Of England and Wales I have
not obtained detailed particulars, but it is well known that
much has been turned over to sport, from production to waste,
from treasure-house to pleasure-ground. For Scotland figures
are known, and the scandal almost passes belief. Of Scotland’s
total area, 19,200,000 acres, no less than 3,432,285 were returned
in 1920 as deer forest, of which more than a million had been
withdrawn from cultivation during the previous twenty years.
To enable a few rich men to indulge their taste for killing, not
only were thousands of crofters and others deprived of home
and livelihood, but the country was denuded of the food they
would have provided, and her defences were by that much
weakened.

The position in Great Britain is this : population to be fed
46,000,000 (1937), showing increase since before the war of
nearly 4,750,000, but a decrease in the agricultural population
of 235,000 up to 1931 (census) and many thousands since.
The 1931 census includes 10,706 gamekeepers. A glance at
the figures given above will show that after allowing for the
area cultivated and 5,000,000 acres (an outside figure) for
towns, villages and roads, there remain unworked and derelict,
yielding as food only rough grazing for a few thousand sheep,
cattle, pigs, etc., employing almost no capital or labour, the
appalling figure, 21,744,919 acres.

“The Field is Wasted, the Land Mourneth”

In other words more than one—third of the whole island
of Great Britain lies waste, while we import yearly millions of
tons these acres could be made to yield, providing homes,
maintenance and work for thousands who now overcrowd our
towns and queue up for unemployment pay at labour exchanges.
Of course on some of these acres nothing can be grown (rock,
bog, etc.), but with the resources referred to above much
“ rough grazing ” could be made to yield rich grass and some
Of it restored to arable and yield crops. Agricultural experts
have declared that most land below 1,000 feet and some up to
1,500 feet is cultivable ; but not while denuded of men and
given up to game. The Deer Forest Commission 1892 reported
that of the area then devoted to sport in Scotland alone

4

 

 




 

 

 

1,782,785 acres were suitable for crofters’ holdings. The
1,112,833 added since are practically all of that character. If
restored to agriculture thousands of despairing applicants are
ready to take up and use it.

Whatever other forces contribute to curtail the use of land,
it is clear that so far as agriculture has given place to game,
sport as now practised is a leading cause of diminishing our
economic welfare and especially our food resources, and thus
of weakening our first line of defence. It sacrifices the welfare
of 46,000,000 consumers and the livelihood of tens of thousands,
to the mere amusement of a few people, probably not more
than 20,000 in all. At a time like the present the withholding
of land from use or its transfer from plough to pleasure is as
unpatriotic as in 1916, when Lord Selborne’s Committee re-
ported “ that the waste of good land on game or games is
inconsistent with patriotism.” Without legislation the remedy
is in the hands of the few who own the land and control its use.
If they fail to act, then the Government which is responsible
for the safety of the realm, and is spending 1,500 millions to
protect it, should act. I have carefully kept politics out‘ of
this paper, my object being merely to give information. But
unlike other possessions, in legal theory land is not a property
but a trust, and under feudal tenure was so in reality. To ask
that the Government make the fact fit the theory if the land—
lords will not, is not party, only common sense. A Government
that allows land to become and remain derelict without
imposing use as a condition of holding can be neither truly
national nor patriotic, in that its regard for privilege exceeds
its concern for national safety.

Gui Bono P

The only beneficiaries of blood sports are the sportsmen,
their dependants and a few tradesmen who cater for their needs.
Everybody else suffers, farmer, small holder, poultry keeper
and above all 46,000,000 consumers. Game preserving and
pursuit promotes bad farming, prevents land settlement, lowers
productiveness and injures stock. But it would be unfair to
end this paper without examining the main arguments by
which blood sportsmen seek to justify their practice.

Justification is claimed on the ground that game and
“ vermin ” must be kept down to save farmers from ruin.
Breeding partridges and pheasants in numbers far greater
than their natural increase, importing foxes and hares from
districts where abundant to districts where they are scarce,

5

 




 

and even from abroad, are strange methods of keeping them
down. If the actual user of land were not deterred by custom
or law or the fear of his landlord’s disfavour, he could and
would keep down game far more effectively than by hunt and
battue.

Again, hunting and shooting increase the food supply by
adding venison and game to the menu. But the amount of
such addition is infinitesimal and its food value a fraction of
the value of the food production that game preservation
prevents. The argument that hunting makes for health,
adventure and manliness, that it fits men and furnishes horses
for the army, is specious but false. For these things need no
animal victim. The drag requires horses as well as hounds,
and it provides all the joys of hunting except its cruelty. As
to courage and manliness, the, terrorising and chasing and
slaughtering of a fox by fifty or a hundred men, horses and
hounds calls out no courage, and is not manly, only brutal and
cowardly, did huntsmen stop to think.

Patriotic Spending—At Home and Abroad

The huntsmen’s chief stand—by, however, is that they bring
prosperity to the villages by the money they bring and spend
there. Some years ago the British Field Sports Society pub—
lished a pamphlet in which they claim that money spent on
horses, hounds, servants and upkeep amounted to £4,550,000
per annum, to which must be added from ten to twelve millions
of personal purchases. Whether this estimate has since been
revised I know not, nor how much debited to hunting would
be spent anyway by the same persons in the same country on
equine sports like polo. But most huntsmen are well-to-do and
run accounts at the big town stores, and the amount of their
buying from village tradesmen is problematical. If the facts
given already have any meaning, the absence of game and of
the cruelty and waste involved in preserving and destroying
it would so increase rural produce and rural employment as
to make unimportant the profit from hunting made by a little
country tradesman here and there. The B.F.S.S. suggest that
if deprived of living creatures as quarry “ a proportion . . .
would be spent abroad.” I think better of the patriotism of
their members than they. But why should such spending
cease, or its benefit, so far as it is beneficial, even diminish P
Hounds will follow a scent, whether laid by animal or drag.
Substitute the drag and everything is left except the kill. If
the live quarry only will keep the chase going, then hunting,
however fashionable, fosters blood lust and should be ended in

6

 

 

 

 




 

 

' the interests of morality. The living quarry is the source of
nearly all the mischief.

Preserve the Pleasure—Stop the Slaughter

Stop preserving the fox to hunt and he will soon disappear
except in wild or remote places where he ceases to be a menace
or even a nuisance. Stop the slaughter by game-keepers of
the farmer’s friends (stoat, weasel, owl, etc.) and Nature’s
balance will quickly reduce the farmer’s pests (rats, mice,
rabbits, etc.) and make easier their extermination, if desired.
Stop preserving game and fruitful fields will replace coverts
and waste.

With a live quarry the hounds must follow over fields,
ploughed or grass, destroy fences, frighten and injure sheep,
cattle, fowls and geese, and thus deprive the land user of the
fruits of his industry. With the drag scent can be laid over
rough country where horses’ hoofs do little damage, avoiding
fences, fields and farm—yards, and leaving cultivators in peace,
and their property in safety. Secret courses can be laid, dis-
4 coverable only by the hounds, which add the spice of surprise
and adventure claimed to be the chief charm of the chase——
charm only achievable by the pitiless harrying and slaughter
of a beautiful and sensitive living creature. Taking the blood
out of sport need not reduce it in amount or enjoyment. Only
when the instinct to kill is strong is any sacrifice called for.
But when non-indulgence means increasing the agricultural
resources and food supply of the nation and thereby her safety
and independence, is not this small sacrifice worth making by
sportsmen who are patriots, or failing them, worth enforcing
by a really National Government ? '

(Reprinted by permission of the Editor from “ The Contemporary
Review”, February, 1939.)

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F.L.S. Id.

\VHO ARE THE KILL—JOYS P By Henry S. Salt. Id.

DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. 3d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West—Country Sketch
by A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WIT/’HAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

IN AT THE DEATH: Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. Id.

ETON COLLEGE HARE—HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 5d.

THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T. E. B. Clarke. Id.

T‘WO SIMILAR PASTIMES: SPORT AND WAR. By
Henry S. Salt. Id.

OTTER—HUNTING. By John Tunnard. Id.

DIGGING—OUT AND EARTH—STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 2d.

THE END OF A FOX~HUNT. Eye Witnesses’ Account.
By the Students of Paton College. Gratis.

FASHION—INFECTED SPORT. By Llewelyn Powys. Id.

SHOOTING FOR SPORT. By Mrs. Edward Clodd. 3d.

SHOULD BLOOD—SPORTS BE ABOLISHED? A B.B.C.
Debate. 2d.

OTTERS AND MEN. By H. E. Bates. Id.

‘ Junior Series ’ Leaﬂets :
(1) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals ?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of Hares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter—hunting Fair Sport?
(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Price Id. eac/y or 25 copies for Is.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

56 Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.l

 

 

 

Pub/icatiorz N0. 39. Price .Id.
Printed by Rogers G. Porter, Ltd, Tee Castle Press, Newnlmm Street, Beaﬁ’ord.

 




