 

. CONSIDERED.

 

 

 

(Earlwlr :
ED AND PUBLISHED BY HALSTEA D AND BEATY,
CITY 1931 TING WORK. LONSDALE STREET.
1889.
(From w/zom (Sepia may 56 had.)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VIVISECTION:

MORALLY AND SCIENTIFICALLY

CONSIDERED.

PRIJV'TEI) BY REQ UEST.

 

QC-arli'slt:
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY I‘IALSTEAI) AND BEA'I‘Y,
CITY PRINTING WORKS, LONSDALE STREET.
1889.

(From w/zom: Co/zz'es may {36 ﬁnd.)

 








 

 

 

VIVISECTION.

 

T may be said at the outset, that this Paper is not one which will
afford any enjoyment, as ordinarily understood, to its readers.
It is written with the hope that, though they may shrink fromva
subject so painful, it may be instrumental in directing the

attention of some, who may not previously have given it much thought,
to a matter of grave import to the man and womanhood of our country,
as well as to those creatures whom God has made dependent on us.

 

As the days go by, terrible revelations in social life, affecting classes
" or individuals, are brought before us. Is it for us to turn from them
because they give us uneasy thoughts; because, perhaps, we lose at
_ times, through them, some of our rest at night? No! no! if we would
fulﬁl the calling God puts before us, we must not attempt to live in “a
fool’s paradise,” but must face- the wrongs of man, woman, child or
animal, at whatever cost; and in God’s name, and as He directs, do all
that is in our power to redress them, and to awaken others to their
recognition.

When we read the humane provisions of the law given to the
Israelites: “Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the
corn,” “Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother’s milk,” etc. ; when
we know that God calls the “cattle upon a thousand hills” His own;
that He “knows all the fowls of the mountain,” when we ponder the
Saviour’s tender words about the sparrows—“not one of them is
forgotten before God 3” “not one of~ them falleth to the ground
without my Father”—do wenot feel that it is a Godlike thing to
do all we can to hinder the cruel torturing of these creatures?
“ We pray for mercy, and that same prayer doth teach us all (would that
it did teach all!) to render the deeds‘of mercy.”

“ He prayeth best who loveth best
All creatures great or small;
But the great God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all. ”
This Paper will by no means he a complete study of the question of
Vivisection, its aim is simply to gather together a few of the facts bearing
on some of the aspects of the subject, chieﬂy in the words of those who

have studied it and are qualiﬁed to give an opinion.

 




 

 

 

 

4

As is well known, the practice of Vivisection has greatly increased of
late years, and the temper of many of our leading scientists in England
is in the direction of its furtheredevelopment, and its assimilation to the
practice which .prevails abroad..- This was plainly expressed more than
two years ago, when a memorial was presented to the President and
Council of the Royal College of Surgeons, urging that the bequest made
to the College by the late Erasmus Wilson should be devoted to the

“foundation—in London of an institution for Physiological and Pathological
.research, including a, scheme for the enormous extension of the practice
of Vivisection. The following are the words of the memorial: “It is
_a national discredit that we have nothing in London like the splendid
'llaboratories which exist not only in the capital cities of Europe, but in
comparatively small towns such as Bonn, Strasburg, and Leipsic.” Did
(the people of England, as a whole, know the work that is done in those
Continental laboratories, they would feel it was a national glory that
such had not been established here !

. Though, owing to the strong expression of public opinion, the petition
,‘of the. “ﬁfty-eminent men of science” was not granted, yet we know that
ijiVisect'ion,’even now, is extensively practised in this country, and the
names of Professor Roy at Oxford, and Professor Rutherford at
Edinburgh, are associated with experiments of excruciating pain.
;,Be_sid,es this, a scheme was on foot for the establishment of a Studentship
_-in Experimental Pathology at Cambridge. In reference to this, H. N.
j, Mozley, of King’s College, Cambridge, wrote some time ago : “If this
scheme be accepted, we must be prepared for a large increase of cruel
experiments ; and possibly for their performance, as the scheme distinctly
.contemplates, by female candidates for scientiﬁc notoriety.” And
again, “ It is obvious, that owing to the terrible nature of many of these
scientiﬁc experiments, and the utter inadequacy of the control exercised
over the experimenters, those who give their sanction to such schemes
.run the risk of endowing cruelties of the extent and severity of which
they can form no conception.” More recently, the Senate of the
University of Cambridge has sanctioned the preparation of plans for a
Physiological Laboratory, the whole cost of which is estimated at
f; 10,000. ‘ In Edinburgh, also, there is arrangement for great extension
of the practice by the foundation of a Research Laboratory by the
College of Physicians. _

~It is well that English people should know what many of these
scientiﬁc men aim at, and the above statements express it. The
Continental practice which they applaud is—if people will honestly face
the facts—systematised cruelty. Claude Bernard, an arch-vivisector,
says of some of his own experiments, that in torture they exceed “all
which human imagination can conceive.” To this let the following
”quotation from another source be added :——-

‘ ' “ I have now before me a picture taken from Bernard’s “ Physiologie,”
representing. ﬁfteen different sorts of knives, ﬁve of scissors, eight of pincers, ﬁveof
sharp hooks, and a sort of» saw worked by a screw, all of which are regularly and
purposely made expressly for skinning animals, sawing their bone‘s'asund'er',

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

5

pulling out their bowels, gouging their eyes, twisting and cutting their nerves,
&c., AND ALL THIS WHILE THEY ARE ALIVE, also several ovens for baking am’mals
alive. Also plates of two pairs of pincers, and a saw thus described in the list, ‘ a
little saw for sawing the vertebra,’ ‘ pincers to open the vertebral canal,’ pincers
of which, the teeth cross like ‘ scissors intended to cut the bones of old
animals,’ and, crowning horror, an infernal machine invented by a certain Signor
Paolo Mantegazza, who set himself to study the philosophy of pain, and thought
it needful to create the the most intense pain he COuld conceive. One way which
he says that he found ‘ excellent !’ consisted in planting nails, sharp and numerous,
through the ‘feet of the animal in such a manner as to render the creature almost
motionless,’ because in every movement it would have felt its ‘torment more
acutely.’ He then devised an instrument to produce pain. This machine enabled

him to grip any part of the animal with pincers with iron teeth, and to crush or

tear or lift up the victim in every possible way.

This is VIVISECT’IION 3”

Again, let the following extracts, from a description given by one who

‘had visited one of these Continental Laboratories, be considered. The

details are most harrowing, but as this terrible system exists, people
ought not to shut their eyes to it.

“I paid a visit to the physiological laboratory in the University of * * *
It is in a large palace-like building. Owing to the holidays, and the absence of
professors and students, the work of vivisection was suspended. I was therefore
only able to see the different machines and apparatuses, the cages, the empty
stables, and the operating rooms. My guide, a. regular servant of the institution,
ﬁrst of all led me to a large saloon and a small room on the ground ﬂoor, in which
several tables and complicated instruments for vivisection attracted my attention.
The blood-stains still remaining on the long table clearly showed the purposes
for which it had been used. I observed, too, a large machine worked by gas,
having afﬁxed to it an ingenious apparatus and bellows for pumping air,
incessantly when required, into to the lungs of animals after they had been
treated with curarc. On asking whether the animals were rendered unconscious
before being experimented on, the answer I received from my attendant was, ‘ All
of them are poisoned with curare.’ I was then shown the large iron cases, on the
grated lids of which the dogs doomed to a painful death are laid, then an iron
cover is placed over them, having bars in it likewise, so as to allow of their death
agonies being well observed. The last dog which had died this way had been
honoured with a memento mom', for on one of the sides of the box a student had
drawn in chalk the head of a. pretty little dog having angel’s wings attached to its
shoulders, and underneath had written Requiescat in pace ./ My conductor
afterwards led me into the cellars, where iron boxes are kept for securing the
dogs till wanted for vivisection. In two small dimly-lighted chambers I saw
twenty or thirty of these iron boxes, of different sizes, capable of holding nearly
half a hundred dogs. ‘And how many dogs are wanted here every year?’ I
asked. ‘ Oh, many, very many,’ my conductor replied. ‘But where do they all
come from ?’ I again inquired. ‘ From the dealers and so ~on,’ he answered with

‘a grin on his face. What did this long-drawn ‘and so on’ mean? I need not

trouble my readers with my suspicions on this head. An intelligent dog, whiCh
probably had had forebodings of the fate awaiting him, with wonderful
perseverance had gnawed a considerable hole in one of the oaken doors, in the
hope of making his escape. ‘But it did not help the blackguard,’ sneered my
attendant, ‘for he could not have got away.’ The small windows are high up
under the ceiling, and protected with iron bars, and the principal entrance to the

f cellars is always kept ﬁrmly closed. When these gloomy chambers are well ﬁlled
' with the poor intelligent friends and companions of man, awaiting their hours of
torture, their ‘whinings and howlings must be most painful to hear. , .' . _ _._,__

 




 

 

 

 

6

“ My guide now led me into another small, very cold room, in which were two
large freezing boxes. One is for preserving the limbs and other parts of an
animal, the other, a large round tub, my guide said was ‘for freezing a. live dog till
he becomes quite stiff.’ A cold shudder creeps over one when one thinks of the
poor terriﬁed and whining animals, after being kept for weeks in these gloomy
_ cellars, being thrown at last into the tub, to be frozen stiff.’ . . . . . Lastly,
‘I was taken to the place where vivisection is practised on horses. What a
miserable ending for those poor old steeds who have passed their lives in the
service of man! In the most melancholy frame of mind I took leave of these
chambers of horrors in this Palace of Scientiﬁc Cruelty.”

In reference to the work carried on in the Strasburg Laboratory, let
the following quotation (from the celebrated Pﬂiiger’s Archie, vol. xiii.)
speak :—

“ PROFESSOR GOLTz, DR. GERGENs, AND DR. TIEGEL (of the Physiological
Institution at STRASBURG). As Hitzig, Carville, Duret, Soltmann, Schiﬂ‘,
Hermann and others had only removed small portions of the brain from the heads
of live dogs, Goltz introduced a new method, by which larger portions of the
brain were torn away and washed out, by means of heated spring-water, after the
skull had been pierced in several places. The crater-shaped cavities thus formed
were washed out. Of course, the more extensive the destruction of the brain, the
less favourable was the prospect of maintaining life. P. 5. A dog, with ﬁve
holes bored in the head and with the loss of nearly half the brain, lived from
February 14th to March 15th. P. 7. ‘ We, as well as other observers, have lost
a large number of animals through inﬂammation of the brain.’ P. 8. Only young
dogs are suitable for these experiments. ‘ No one has succeeded in destroying
the brain so extensively, and handling it so roughly, while still preserving the
creature’s life, as myself.’ P. 17. [It is Goltz who writes] . ‘In the case of
several mutilated dogs I decided to put out the left sound eye, in order to estimate
correctly the functions of the eye maimed by the loss of the brain.’ On the 8th
November, 1875, two holes bored in the head of a bull-dog and the brain washed
away. The animal becomes blind with the right eye. On December 11th ‘I
took the left eye-ball out. Fresh disturbance of the brain on the 10th January,
1876 ; a third on the 5th February, this time on the right side ; dies on February
15th.’ P. 20. On November 29th, 1875, part of the left side of the brain and the
left eye of a young hound taken out. On the 12th January, 1876, a second, and
on the 29th a third, mutilation of the brain. On the 3lst January total blindness
set in. On the 10th February the brain further destroyed. On the 4th March
again for the ﬁfth time, causing death on March 8th. ‘ A very clever lively
young female dog which had learnt to shake hands with both fore-paws had the left
side of the brain washed out through two holes on the 1st December, 1875. This
caused lameness in the right pan). On being asked for the left the dog immediately
laid it in my hand; I new demand the right, but the creature only looks at me
sorrowfully, for it cannot move it. On my continuing to press for it, the dog crosses
the left paw over, and ofers it to me on the right side, as if to make amends for not
being able to give the right.’ 0n the 13th January a second portion of the brain
destroyed ; on February 15th a third ; and on March 16th a fourth, this last operation
causing death—P. 31.”

In reference to Leipsic, one extract shall sufﬁce. It describes one of
the experiments performed by Professor Baron LESSER, and is taken
from Vz'rchozo’s Archie, Feb. 12th, I880 :—

“ The spinal cords of two dogs were severed, and after some weeks they were
scalded. The animals survived the scalding for six to ten days. . . . . . . .

’ _In Pﬂu'ger’s Archie, vol. viii., p. 468, Professor Goltz says : ‘ The severing of the
spinal cord is a terrible (furchtbare) operation, for how many sensitive parts are
crushed'in doing'it and thrown into a state of'lnﬂammatOry irritation l’ ” ‘

._ . .rﬁ ......,n /’

 

 

 




. 4r-

 

 

l
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

'2'

. Much more might be added, but surely enough has been adduced to
show the nature of the work, which the “ ﬁfty eminent men of science”
wish to have established in this country. Some may think that the pain
given, though sharp, is soon over. The previous extracts answer this,
for regarding the duration of these agonies, one of them mentions “a
dog with ﬁve holes bored in the head and with the loss of nearly half
the brain, lived from February 14th to March 15th.” 7

Many people, while shrinking from the thought of torture inflicted on
animals, soothe themselves by the belief they are rendered insensible to
pain by the use of anaesthetics. Before showing the fallacy of this idea,
it will be well to mention the different kinds of drugs supposed to have
this desired effect. .

There are to be considered : Ist, Real Anaesthetics (chloroform, ether,
nitrous oxide, etc.) 2nd, Narcotics (opium, chloral, etc.) 3rd, Mock
Anaesthetics (curare).

. 1. Speaking of real anaesthetics, Dr. HOGGAN observed in a Letter to
the Speciaz‘ar, May 29th, 1875 :—

“ The incalculable advantages which mankind has derived from chloroform as a
means of destroying the sense of pain have remained a dead letter as regards the
lower animals, in consequence of the very unsatisfactory state of our knowledge of
the line which separates insensibility from death, especially in some of those
classes of animals which are most generally employed as the subjects of physiological
experimentation. Many of these die apparently before they can become insensible
through chloroform, some of them, indeed, as soon as it has been administered.
The practical consequence of this uncertainty is, that complete and conscientious
anaesthesia is seldom even attempted, the animal getting at most a slight whiff of
chloroform, by way of satisfying the conscience of the operator, or of enabling him
to make Statements of a humane character. Not only however, are those numerous
cases to be regarded with due suSpicion in which a slight whiff of chloroform is
recommended to be given, but we have also to bear in mind, that, even where
complete insensibility has been produced at the beginning of an operation, this
effect only endures at most for a minute or two, and during the rest of the operation,
to perhaps for hours, the animal must bear its torture, as best it may. Continued
insensibility could only be maintained by continued careful administration by a
special assistant, whose undivided attention would require to be concentrated upon
this object. This, I believe, is seldom, if ever done, and even if it were so, we
should be leaving entirely out of sight that numerous class of operations in which
anaesthetics cannot be used. as they would interfere with the correctness of the
results; and where, if used, they would render the experiment worse than useless.

“ In cases of operations on the human subject, a special assistant gives his whole
attention to the administration of the anaesthetic, so as to prevent either a wakening
to sensibility, on the one hand, or a sleeping away into death on the other. Yet in
spite of the exercise of the greatest care, fatal results often occur, so often, indeed,
that some medical men make a speciality of the administration of anaesthetics, and
undertake no other practice. "

“ Personally, I may add, that the ﬁrst experiments which I attempted to make
as a student in my own private room failed, because in my anxiety to produce
anaesthesia I found that the aninral had died before the experiment could be
commenced; this, too, at a time when I had much experience in administering
chloroform in the operating theatre of the hospital. I, therefore, gave up the idea
of trying such experiments until I had had an opportunity of seeing how experienced
vivisectors managed it. I have since then had ample opportunity of seeing, and
the result of my experience was embodied in a remark I made in a letter published
three months ago, that ‘I am inclined to look upon anaesthetics as the greatest
curse to vivisectible animals.’ ” -» -

 




 

 

 

’3

a. As to narcotics. This is what CLAUDE BERNARD says of them,
Revue a’es Cour: Sezentgﬁgues, vol. vi., p. 263 :— '

“ Morphia is not an anaesthetic, but a narcotic (stupéﬁant). When it has taken
effect on a dog, he does not seek to escape; he has not the knowledge of where he
is; he no longer notices his master. Nevertheless sensibility persists, for, if we
pinch the animal, he moves and cries. At the same time, morphia plunges dogs

into a state of immobility which permits us to place them on an experimenting-
trough without tying or muzzling them.

Thus neither real anaesthetics nor narcotics avail to assuage the
agonies endured by the victims of Vivisection.

3. There remains the third alternative, the mock anaesthetic, Curare.
Here again Dr. HOGGAN bears testimony :—

~ “If there be anything reliable in the results obtained by experimental physiology,
it is the ingeniously ascertained effects of Curare. Could these now be disproved,
it would establish the proof of the sneer so often heard, ‘ that Vivisection only
requires to prove a thing, in order that fresh hecatombs of animals be tortured to
disprove it.” '

qCLAUDE BERNARD the greatest authority upon, as he is the greatest
‘dlscoverer of the effects of Curare, says of it in Revue Sez'em‘zﬁque for
1871-2, p. 892 :— ‘

“ Curare acting on the nervous system only suppresses the action of the motor
nerves, leaving sensation intact. Curare is not anqanaesthetic.” Vol. vi., p. 591 :—
“ Curare renders all movement impossible, but it does not hinder the animal from
suffering, and from being conscious of pain.” These opinions of his are to be found
repeated twenty times in the same work, in which he also mentions that they were
proved on a human patient, operated upon under the inﬂuence of Curare, who was
quite sensible throughout, and suffered frightful pain. Even in his latest remarks
on the same subject (vol. 1874-75, p. 1117) he refers to experiments where the
patients on their recovery had been able to relate “ that during paralysis they had
been fully aware of their existence, and of all that happened around them.”
Vulpian, also, the next best authority, says in the latest work, Legons sur l’appareil
locomoteur, Paris, 1875, p. 660 :—-“ Curare does not act on the sensory nerves, or at
least, does not abolish their function.”

Again, CLAUDE BERNARD, in his classic paper on “Curare,” in the
Revue de Deux Mondes, for September, 1864, after quoting the opinion
of travellers, and more especially of Waterton, says (p. I73) :—

“ Thus all their descriptions offer us a pleasant and tranquil picture of death by
Curare. A gentle sleep seems to occupy the transition from life to death. But it is
nothing of the sort; the external appearances are deceitful. In this paper it will
be our duty to point out how much we may be in error relative to the interpretation
of natural phenomena where science has not taught us the cause and unveiled
the mechanism. If, in fact, we pursue the essential part of our subject by means
of experiments into the organic analysis of vital extinction, we discover that this
death, which appears to steal on in so gentle a manner and so exempt from pain is,
on the contrary, accompanied by the most atrocious sufferings that the imagination
of- man can conceive (and mute, p. 162). In this motionless body, behind that
glazing eye, and with all the appearance of death, sensitiveness and intelligence
persist in their entirety. The corpse before us hears and distinguishes all that is
done around it. It suffers when pinched or irritated ; in a word, it has still
consciousness and volition, but it has lost the instruments which serve to manifest
them.” - . .

 

 

 




 

 

 

9

, 2721': is the substance of which the same CLAUDE BERNARD in his last
work, Lawns a’e P/zysz'ologzle Operafoz're, Paris, ~1879, .p.‘ 168, says :—-- '

“ Curare is now employed in a ‘vast number of experiments as a means.‘of
restraining the animals. There are but few observations of whlch the narratlve
does not commence by notifying that they were made on a ourarized dog.”

Dr. HOGGAN has said :—“I am inclined to look upon Anaesthetics as the
greatest curse to vivisectible animals. * * * They indeed prove far more
efﬁcacious in lulling public feeling towards the vivisectors, than pain in the
vivisected.”

In reference to the use of anaesthetics it is stated: “ If it is desired to
experiment upon a living body, that condition is not fulﬁlled by
operating under anaesthetics, since that is no longer a living bodyin
which life, with all its functions, is virtually suspended.” In support of
this View, it will be sufﬁcient to cite the following :-—- r .

SIR W. F ERGUSSON ’testiﬁes—“ I do not go in with that View, which
is very prevalent, that these experiments may now be permitted, because
We have got anaesthesia to prevent the pain. The experiment is not .of
the smallest value during its performance. You cannot makea perfect
experiment on the animal until it is in its normal condition.”—Roya-Z
ComQ. 1077. ..

Again, it may be urged that inspectors are specially employed for the .
purpose of seeing that no unnecessary cruelty is practised. As .to‘the
sham of this let the following extracts speak. They are from the
Annual Report of the Royal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, printed 1885 :— .. . . . . . -

“ The inspectors have certiﬁed without having acquired any knowledge of what
did actually occur in the physiological laboratories, and on the faith of statements
and assurances made to them by the operators. In a Law Court their
asseverations would not be accepted as evidence. . . . An inspector is
supposed to be a person who inspects ; but these gentlemen admittedly do not
inspect experiments. The inspectors are not inspectors of experiments at all.
They are simply inspectors of returns made by vivisectorS—the accuracy and
completeness of which they take for granted. -. .

Your‘Committee invite you and the public and Parliament, to consider whether
such inspection is worth the having and the paying for. . .

On a previous occasion of your Anniversary Meeting your Committee referred
in their Report to the defective system of inspecting licensed operations under the
statute ; and they then remarked, and now repeat, ‘ no other inspectors employed
by Her Majesty’s Government, are permitted to perform their duties in the
perfunctory manner followed by the inspectors of experiments on animals. If the
inspectors of factories, of mines, of schools, or of ships, were permitted to sit. in
their studies, to accept from manufacturers, managers of mines, masters and
teachers of schools, and the owners and agents of ships, statements and assurances
that they were complying with the statutory law, and with the requirements. of the
Board, of. Trade, and thereupon frame their reports to; the GOYernment departments
the public conscience of the country would be outraged, and members of
Parliament would unreservedly denounce such inadequate inspection.’ . A.

,Your Committee’s want of conﬁdence in the mark of the ins ec ' ' -
removed, but confirmed, by the con-tents- of}_-.the~laltestzreturn.” p: tors iii-Hort

O. ‘_,.~..",.'L

 




 

 

10

“ To this it must be added that Her Majesty’s present Inspector, under the Act,
Mr. J. ;E. ERICHSBN, is one of the memorialists who have shown their true
colours, by praying the College of Surgeons to found an Institution in London
which may vie with the laboratories ‘ of the capital cities of Europe;’ in other
words, with its worst torture chambers.”

The following gives some idea of the training young medical students
are receiving in our very midst. They are taken from the “ Handbook
for the Physiological Laboratory,” edited by Dr. J. Burdon Sanderson’
Professor of Practical Physiology in University College, London, in
conjunction with three other eminent physiologists. It is the chief
class-book at University College Hospital, andvother schools, and, as its
authors state, is intended for beginners in physiological work.

RECURRENT SENSIBILITY.——“This can only be shown in the higher animals,
the Cat or dog being bestadapted for the purpose. The method adopted is : The
arches of one or two vertebrae are carefully sawn through, or cut through with the
bone forceps and the exposed roots very carefully freed from the connective tissue
surrounding them. If the animal be strong, and have thoroughly recovered from
the chloroform and from the operation, irritation of the peripheral stump of the
anterior root causes not only contraction in the muscles but also movements in
other 'parts of the body indicative of pain or of sensations. 0n dividing the
mixed trunk, the contractions cease, but the general signs of pain or sensation
remain.” (p. 403). ,

TREATMENT or THE CORNEA WITH NITRATE 013‘ SILVER.—“ This consists in
ﬁrst scraping the cornea (of the eye) of a living frog or small mammal with a.
knife, 803.8 to remove the epithelium completely. Hereupon the caustic is two or
three times lightly rubbed over the whole surface, after which the, eye is washed
with saline solution, and the animal is left to itself for twenty or thirty minutes.
The corneais then excised.” (p. 39).

INVESTIGATION or THE SECRETION OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS IN THE DOG :
Permanent Submaxillary Fistula..—“ The animal having been placed on the
table, and its head secured with the aid of Bernard's holder, it is put under the
inﬂuence of chloroform. Shave the hair from the under-surface of the lower jaw.
Make an incision along the inner border of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending
forwards from the anterior margin of the digastric muscle, and dividing the skin
and platysma. Secure every vein that presents itself with two ligatures, and
divide it between them. Divide the mylohyoid muscle cautiously. Underneath
it will be found the submaxillary and sublingual ducts, which run side by side,
the submaxillary being somewhat larger and nearer the ramus of the jaw. Isolate
the duct, and divide it as near as possible to its entrance into the mouth. Close
the wound with sutures, leaving the end of the duct projecting. To prevent
its retraction, pass a suture through it. When the wound heals, the end of the
duct will come, away, leaving a ﬁstulous opening. Examine it daily, and if it has
a tendency to close, pass a ﬁne probe into it, and along the duct.” '-

’Permoment Sublz'ngual Fistula.—~‘ ‘This is made in the same way as a
submaxillary ﬁstula, and the same animal may be used for both, but the two
ﬁstulae should be on opposite sides of the head.” (p. 468).

INFLAMMA'I‘ION or BONE.—“ Germination of the cells of bone may be induced in
the long bones of mammalia by passing a red-hot needle as deeply as possible into
a bone previously freed of the soft parts covering it; and then cauterizing the
hole with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver, or by violent fracture. After a week
.or more the bone is excised.” (p. 159).

INFtAHMATORY CHANGES IN THE LIVER CELLs.-—-“ Inﬂammation of the tissue
of the liv r may be induced by passing a needle into the organ. Twenty-four to
forty-sigh hoursafter the injury the animal must be killed.” , . » . . . ' .ﬂ .

 

 

 




 

Ill

‘ . Having seen what Vivisection is, and the travesty Of the whOle thing
in reference to anaesthetics and inspection, the question must now be
considered on scientiﬁc grounds. Before approaching this aspect of the
subject, however, let the question be asked, “Is Vivisection in itself
right or wrong?” as has been well said :

“Is Vivisection—J the scientiﬁc torture of animals,’ as it has been»
rightly termed, the cutting into living ﬂesh — right or wrong? That is
the one question for us. We do not judge of a thing by its consequences :
we dare not do evil that good may come, even supposing that good does
come of these experiments. If our consciences, enlightened by the
Holy. Spirit, tell us that the thing itself is sinful, why then, no matter how
many cures can be proved ; how many diseases put an end to 3 how many,
— discoveries made i As Dr. VAUGHAN admirably says : ‘ The acquisition

of knowledge is good, but there is something higher and nobler, and
better. God intended us to seek after knowledge, and the alleviation
and healing of disease and pain is a Worthy and noble object for our

research, but may there not be a wrong as well as a right means to take,
in order 'to- 'do this ?’ ” » '

Supporters of Vivisection have claimed that by its means valuable
discoveries have’been made, and that this justiﬁes a practice, cruel in
itself. But many are the ablemen who unﬂinchingly refute this claim,
fully proving that the experiments were little more than demonstrations
of what had before been known, or that the alleged discovery had been
by other means. In a lecture delivered by John Bowie, M.D., in the
Literary Institute, Edinburgh (a reply to Professor Rutherford on
Vivisection), the lecturer refers to the claim made by vivisectors, that
the circulation of the blood had been discovered by this means, and
entirely refutes it, showing that the facts ascertained before Harvey’s
time, and which led up to his great discovery, were turned to account
by him, and a needed link supplied through posl—nzorz‘em dissections of a
lt'u‘man Vboa’y, not from experiments on living animals. The great
discovery of Chloroform was made by the late Sir James Y. Simpson,
not through Vivisection, but by means of experiments on himself and
his assistants. Other medical men of standing also take up various
points in surgery,—-brain—surgery notably,—and disprove the claims of
Vivisectors to have been the agents in obtaining valuable results now in
their possession. Among these are Dr. Keith, Edinburgh; Lawson
Tait, F.R.C.S.; “the great Dr. Johnson,” Henry Wentworth Acland,
M.D., F.R.S., Regius Prof. of Medicine in Oxford University, and
President of the MedicalCouncil 5 and very many others. Such names surely
refute the idea that it is unscientiﬁc people only, who oppose Vivisection.
In reference to Lawson Tait, J. MARION SIMS, M.D., LL.I)., writes in
the Britt's/z Medical journal, December 17th, 1881 :—-“Thus we see
that Lawson Tait has gone ahead of us all in opening up new ﬁelds in
the great domain of abdominal surgery. . . By his daring and skill
he has made easy for us many things that were before attended with
difﬁculty and danger. He is now the leader in this departmentof
surgery, and has succeeded'in opening up ﬁelds of great fertility, which
we may all freely cultivate with proﬁt.” ' " " "

 




 

i2

Ontside’the medical profession, the Lord Chief Justice’of England
and other good men and true, raise an unmistakeable protest against
this cruelty. Foremost among these, during his life-time, was the noble
Earl of. Shaftesbury.

As further proof of the unsatisfactory nature of research carried on by
means of Vivisection, let the following be given, and the proposition which
precedes them be carefully weighed :

“ If mankind are to be beneﬁted by these experiments, they should be
performed, not on the lower animals, bUt on man himself.” On this head
Sir THOMAS WATSON writes :— '

“I much question the safety of arguing from what we know happens in the
lower animals to 'what we suppose would happen in man.”—Lecturcs on the
Principles and Practice (If 11! cdz’cinc, vol. i., p. 576. ‘

Dr. HAUGHTON states :—
“You cannot argue by analogy from one animal to another.”—Royal 00m.,

Q. 1875.

Mr. WM. PRITCHARD M.R.C.V.S., Professor of Anatomy in the
Royal Veterinary College, testiﬁes z——

“ I do not think that the use of drugs on animals can be taken as a guide to the
doses or the action of the same drugs on human subjects.”—Royal 00722., Q. 908.

Professor RUTHERFORD, in allusion to his excruciating and prolonged
experiments on dogs, admits that——

. ‘_‘ The experiment must be tried on man before a conclusion can be drawn.”—-
Royal 00m, Q. 2996. . '

- Sir WILLIAM FERGUSSON testiﬁes—-

“ I am not aware of any great surgeons having been very great experimenters
on the lower animals.”

'And again—-

“ I am not aware that any very expert operator on the lower animals has made
himself thereby an expert operator on the human subject ; nor am I aware that a
great operator on the human subject has ever prided himself on being a good
operator on the lower. animals.”——R0yal 00%, Q. 1026.

Questioned further on the same point, he adds——

“ The surroundings are so very different that I should place no conﬁdence in
any man who acquired experience in that way.”——Q. 1090.

-‘ It is useless to deny that Vivisection of animals leads up to Vivisection
of the human frame. Is not the following likely to prove true in the
case of those trained to the witnessing and perpetrating of such cruelty ?
—“ With what spirit must a young man so trained, approach the
bedside of an old apple woman, or a deformed pauper, or an idiot child,
or a drunken cobbler? Are these of more value than a dog?”

' The following deserve careful consideration : Dr. MOXON asserts
that :——-

' “ There is growing up a generation of physiologists who are so imbued with the

scientiﬁc spirit as absolutely to forget, in the highest issues, that their profession
has. any practical aim.”—_—Hunterian_ Oration, ‘Medi'cal , Times and Gazette, 3rd
Auguést, 187'7.‘ - , '- :' . :' “ ‘ “ ' ' « "

.':

, ..,..1 .3 _.‘.‘ ...:. ‘.'.--..‘ 4/"

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

13

"‘ Connected with the point under consideration, and conﬁrmatory of it,
is the circumstance of the regret expressed by more than one physiologist
of eminence on account of former complicity with Vivisection. Thus-g
EDWARD CRISP, M.D., testiﬁesz— ~

‘ I am rather a penitent in this matter. I have been a Vivisector for some time,
and as I advanced in age, and, I hope, in wisdom, I saw ﬁt to alter my opiniOn.
. . . I have also come to the conclusion that, in a practical point of view,
very little good has resulted from Vivisection as regards the treatment of disease.
. . . The cerebellum has been sliced in all directions and in various
ways, and various conclusions, as is well known, have been drawn—very Opposite
conclusions indeed. . . . . I believe the advocates of Vivisection have very
much exaggerated the good resulting from it.’ ”—Royal 002m, Q. 6157,.

Turning again from the scientiﬁc to the moral aspect, “ The poet says
that ‘the whole round earth is every way bound by gold chains about
the feet of God.’ That golden chain is love to God, to man, to brute,
to all‘that moves and feels. If we consent to the torture of helpless
and defenceless creatures, simply that some men may gain knowledge,
and other men may have ease from pain (even if that were so, which it
is not), this selﬁsh sacriﬁce of the weak to the strong breaks the
link of natural mercy, and the whole chain drops to the ground.
We nourish the human intellect. on cruelty, and it grows cruel
by the nurture, as our bodily natures are moulded by the substances
they feed on.” '

_ Experiments on living men and women are not possibilities of the
future, they are present realities. Do we not know how some of the poor,
some who are unable to raise a voice in their own defence, dread
entering some of our hospitals. Shall we not raise a cry against all this?
Is it not true that “scientiﬁc curiosity” has often more to do with it
than pure love of relieving human suffering? Let us note the following
(mild as it is compared with some practices) :—

“ . . These experiments with alcohol are not made only on the lower animals.

In Dr. Ringer’s Handbook of Therapeutics, eleventh edition (1886), pp. 342, 343,
there are recorded other series of experiments conducted on human patients ;-
not ending in death, indeed, but all, too probably, in utter demoralization. ‘ Dr.
Rickards and I,’ the author says, ‘gave to an habitual drunkard, making him
dead drunk, 12 ounces of good brandy in a. single dose.’ . . . ‘Drs. Parkes
and \Vollowicz gave to a healthy young man 12 ounces of brandy daily for three
days.’ ' . . ‘ In a boy, aged 10, who had never in his life before taken alcohol
in any form, I found, through a large number of observations, a . . . reduction
of temperature.’ We should like to hear more of the fate of this p00r child of ten,
who had been kept to that age (probably by a loving and careful mother), ignorant
of the taste of alcohol in any form, and who was subjected by this zealous man of
science to a ‘large number’ of experiments in drinking to such excess as to be
available for his important ‘iobservations.’ In all human probability, the ‘ healthy
young man,’ encouraged to take twelve ounces of brandy a day, for three days,
and the poor little lad of ten, both became for life conﬁrmed sots with ruined
constitutions. But this sacred ‘ science,’ which, we are so often told, only pursues
its researches from pure zeal to relieve suffering humanity, takes, it would seem,
“neither blame no‘r shame for doing Such' deadly injury to body‘ and soul.” '

 




 

 

14

Not only is it our privilege and duty to defend the helpless animal
from torture—should we not also consider the fearful effect upon the
character of our young manhood P As a people, must not “such practices
inevitably lower our moral status by familiarizing the minds of our
youth with cruelty, and deprive us of a higher renown than any
achievement of science can win,——that of being pre—eminent among the
nations for the humane treatment of dependent creatures.” Do not the
following bear this out?

W. B. A. SCOTT, M.D., after describing how he ceased to attend
the Physiological Lectures in Edinburgh on account of the cruelty‘he‘
witnessed, says :—

“ It did not provoke the slightest symptoms of abhorence among those who
witnessed it.”—-Royal 00m, Q. 5201.

Dr. CHAS. BEI:L TAYLOR states :—

’ “ When I was a student in Paris I visited the Veterinary School, and found
there that some seven horses a week were then sacriﬁced in the practice of
Vivisection, sixty-four operations being performed on the same horse. The eyes
were cut out, the ears cut off, the tail docked, the teeth punched out, the belly
opened, the hoofs torn off. and every inch of the body ﬁred. I say that no man
can do these things without suppressing his conscience, and the man who habitually
suppresses his conscience is on the way to become a devil. These deeds are cruel
to the horse, but they are also cruel to the young men who are taken from their
mother’s apron strings, and by way of learning a profession, compelled to take part
in such ﬁendish rites as those mentioned. The young will necessarily be
demoralised and spoilt by such an education.”—S’pee0h at Nottingham.

.V JAMES 'R. MILLS, M.R.C.V.S., after naming 'a number of most
cruel Vivisections, says :—

“The experiments (made chieﬂy on cats and dogs) had no other motive than
idle curiosity and reckless love of experimentation.”———Royal 007m, Q. 4932.

AnOther writer tells “how a poor spaniel scenting its impending doom,
stood up on its hind legs, going through the performance taught it (by
some fond mistress perhaps, or some workman’s child from whom it had been
stolen), trying to soften the hard hearts around it by its simple arts, and
to move pity by its whining cries, and how one youth amongst the
students was melted to compassion, and stepped forward to beg its
harmless life, upon which, the operating professor seized at once this
very dog, plunged his knife into it, and kept it for days alive in agony,
purposely, he said, to show his contempt for the girlish sentimentality
that could care for anything so worthless as a dog’s appeal for life.”

We cannot pass the following over without notice, as showing the
callous indifference to suffering of some Vivisectors, and the state of
feeling (rather absence of it) which will be cultivated by the prosecution
of the practice. It refers to the “ plea” made that anaesthetics are used.

“ The grand effect of this plea has been to anaesthetise public feeling
on the question, and thus allow the physiologists to proceed with their
odiousand revolting work; Dr, Klein, a_n_ arch-vivisector..stated before

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

15

the Commission with regard to anaesthetics: ‘If I do experiments for
my inquiries in pathological research, except for convenience sake, as
for instance on dogs and cats, I do not use them. On frogs and the
lower animals I never use them.’ Being further asked ‘When you say
that you only use them for convenience sake, do you mean that you
have no regard at all to the sufferings of the animals?’ ‘N o regard at
all,’ was the .prompt and stern reply. He further afﬁrmed: ‘I think
that with regard to an experimenter, he has no time, so to speak, for
thinking what the animal will suffer.’ He is again asked : ‘Why do you
chloroform a cat?’ Answer: ‘We chloroform a cat because we are
afraid of being scratched.’ ‘Why not a dog?’ ‘If it is a small dog,
there is no fear of being bitten.” For convenience sake—lest they s/zonla’
receive a scratch! One’s soul swells with horror and indignation-—
words are too weak to express our condemnation and loathing. Is this
what we shall calmly sit still and allow? Shall we not do all we can to
avert so great a calamity, as that our English manhood should fall so low?
It may be mentioned that seventeen of the afore—named memorialists
“hold certiﬁcates absolving them from the use of anaesthetics, or from
the obligation of killing the animals when the experimenting is over.”

During recent years there has been great triumph among Vivisectors,
owing to the claim advanced by M. Pasteur, of having by means of
Vivisection, discovered an antidote to hydrophobia. In reference to this
matter, let the following extract, from the “Referee” for March 28th,
1886, speak :—- ' ' ‘

“ Of course, all the people who go to M. Pasteur have been bitten. That goes
Without saying. But in how many instances is it proved that they were bitten by
a mad dog? If you kill a dog directly it bites you, how are you to prove it is
mad ? The truth of the matter is that the panic has been so persistently worked
that nervous people, directly they see a dog snapping or hear it growling, believe
it must be mad, and hunt it and infuriate it until it snaps and bites at every body.
Then somebody kills it, and it is proclaimed t0 the world that the animal was
mad. M. Pasteur is an excellent and devoted man of science ; but after months
of experimenting he has not proved anything, except that some people who have
been bitten have submitted to his treatment and have mt died.”

“You may remember the sensation that was made when the little children
came over to Paris from New York. Several dogs were bitten as well as the
children—and these dogs were carefully conﬁned for three months in order to see
if they developed rabies. They did nothing of the sort, but were discharged
happy, healthy, playful animals. M. Pasteur includes these four American
children in his cases of successful inoculation reported to the Academy of
Sciences. But the dogs never developed rabies, therefore the dog that bit the
children was not mad. \Vhere, then, does the cure come in ‘2”

Pasteur’s system is one involving an enormous sacriﬁce of animal
.life, and the inﬂiction of torture on animals appalling to think of.
Apart from this, his practice is condemned scientiﬁcally by high
authority, though naturally be has been greatly applauded by the
advocates of Vivisection. His statements at the Congress of Hygiene
at Geneva, in 1886, “called forth a criticism from perhaps the most
competent authority on the. subject. in the world—Dr. Koch, the

 

 




 

:16

Director of thellmper‘ial Sanitary Ofﬁce at Berlin. Koch’s criticism
of Pasteur is of great length . . . his charges . . . are: that
his methods are ‘inexact’ and uncertain; that he is ignorant of the
initial scientiﬁc facts of the question; and that his interpretations are
generally erroneous. These various charges he proves completely
throughout the course of his criticism, by numerousexamples and
results of experiments of Pasteur’s own devising. . . .. In short,
from beginning to end, Dr. Koch’s criticism is a crushing condemnation
of Pasteur’s pretensions, methods and results 3 while the secret he makes
of his preparatory processes, in order to connect them into a mercantile
speculation, is denounced as contrary to all true scientiﬁc spirit.”

A 1 On the 4th of December, 1886,]ohn H. Clarke, M.D., of London,
wrote to the Sparta/0r, and in the course of his letter, gave the results of
the investigation of the cases of two out of three of M. Pasteur’s patients
who had died in England, out of the ﬁfty—three of those who up to that
date had died after inoculation. In each case, death was evidently the
result of the inoculation. How many more of Pasteur’s patients have
died in the succeeding years the appended facts prove, and carry their

own- comment with them. They are taken from a carefully prepared.

tabular statement, corrected up to February Ist, 1889.

TOTAL KNOWN DEATHS.

 

Inoculated in Paris (ﬁrst formula) 4.1
,, at Odessa ,, 25

,, elsewhere in Russia 7

,, under the Intensine method ‘28

,, under the third formula 51
TOTAL 152

This tabular statement contains the following details regarding the
patients: from what country or town they come; whether bitten by
dog, wolf or cat; the date when bitten; the date of ﬁrst inoculation ;
the date of death ; and the source of information and data.

In every case all these items are not given, but each is thoroughly
authenticated, and the accuracy of it, up to July Ist, I887, attested by the
evidence of Dr. Lauder Brunton, in the Report of Lord’s Committee on
Rabies in Dogs. In some of the above cases it was demonstrated that the
animals had not been mad, in others again, that the patients did not die
from hydrophobia, but probably from Pasteur’s inoculations, the symptoms
not being those of any known disease.

As a whole, the matter stands as expressed in the statement referred
to: “M. Pasteur claims to have treated upwards of 5,384 persons, the great
majority of whom have suffered no ill effects, either from the bites they
had sustained, or otherwise. Most of these, however, there can be very
little doubt, were never liable to contract hydrophobia at all. The one
{act on which the public can absolutely rely is that I 52 persons have,
since their inoculation, died.” . . . . .. , . . ' ., ~ ' .

 

 

 




 

 

 

'1'17

, It may, be ~ urged that the -C_om;mittee appointed , by the; Local
Governmenthoardvin 1886, to.examine and report upon the Pasteurian
method of treating hydrophobia, passed a favourable verdict upon its
serviceableness to science. On the other hand, it should be remembered
that this Committee consisted of men who advocate and practise
Vivisection, and that when a formal request was made that some should
be appointed who were not avowed supporters of the practice, the
proposal was rejected. The Report which appeared in 1887 was
naturally favourable.

Knowing that there is another method of treating hydrophobia, one
in which neither risk to the patient nor cruelty to animals is involved,
and one which has been repeatedly proved successful, even when the
terrible disease has developed its worst symptoms, one may ask with
surprise why the latter is not the one applauded by scientiﬁc men?
and why Pasteur’s is not wholly condemned ? The latter method has
been introduced also by a Frenchman, a Physician, Dr. Buisson. “It
:consists in drawing the poison of hydrophobia out of the body through
the pores of the skin, either by the Turkish Bath or by the Vapour Bath,”
frequently repeated, and by the administering of draughts of hot borage
tisane, to promote perspiration.

Dr. J. H. CLARKE writes: “I assure all persons, who have had or
may have the misfortune to be bitten by a mad dog, that as the evidence
at present stands, they are much more likely to be saved from the
consequences—possible or actual—of such a bite by the vapour—bath
treatment, than by M. Pasteur’s inoculation.” The Lamez‘ of August
23rd, 1884, conﬁrms this.

Moreover, this treatment is carried out in many of our English towns,
—-—London, Bath, Bristol, Worcester, Birmingham, Manchester, and
others,——and does .not involve the delay of a journey to Paris. Can
there be any doubt in the mind of those unprejudiced in favour of
Vivisection, which is the better method ?

Surely the questions : “ Is Vivisection a true aid to science? Does
its prosecution tend to the alleviation of human suffering?” have been
answered, and in the words of those qualiﬁed to judge. In the
light of all that has been adduced, does not the argumentmaintained by
the opponents of Vivisection receive added weight ? * Even this, that our
great and merciful Creator has arranged the whole eConomy of His
works in perfect harmony, and that therefore He has not hidden what is
of supreme value to the highest of His creatures, in such away, that
the needed knowledge can only be obtained through the untold torture
of the humbler, presenting the incongruity of that which is morally wrong
becoming scientiﬁcally justiﬁable. Nay, further, supposing that the
results of Vivisection have been of occasional value, supposing they
might become of greater, we are not thereby justiﬁed in using such a
. channel for our own relief—there is a n'obler road thanzthi‘s, along which
true science may travel l

 

 




 

' 1‘8

" In reference to the judgement of men 'who at- an earlier period of
their lives had practised Vivisection, the following are striking z—— -

GEORGE ROLLESTON, M.D., Linacre Professor of Anatomy and
Physiology at Oxford, says of Haller, the great Vivisector, that he

“Fell in his latter age into a permanent anguish of conscience, which is
shown in his epistles, reproaching himself most bitterly for his Vivisections ; ”

adding—-

“ I may also say (but I do not give the name) that it is within my personal
"knowledge that a person who has a considerable name before the world, and has
performed a large number of Vivisections, has expressed himself to me' as
exceedingly sorry that he ever did them.”——R03/al 007m, Q. 1290.

JOHN REID, M.D., cutoff in the prime of life by cancer at the root of
the tongue, frequently said to his medical attendants and members Of
his family, in allusion to the seat of his long continued agony :—

“ This is a judgment on me for the sufferings l have inﬂicted on animals.”—
Life of Dr. Reid, by George Wilson, M. D., F.R.S.

Sir WILLIAM FERGUSSON likewise refers to a revulsion of feeling, both on his
own part and on that of Mr. Syme, on the subject of the part they had respectively
taken in Vivisection, emphasising the circumstance that the change came, in each
instance, with more matured age and judgment—Royal 00%, Q. 1130.

When contemplating until sick at heart this terrible cruelty, do not
the words of the 8th of Romans bring cheer, as we look forward to
the time when the earnest expectation of the creature (taking this
word in its comprehensive meaning) will have its satisfaction, when
the “groaning and travailing in pain of the whole creation” will be
over ; when we shall know the fulness of the meaning of the words (as
given in the Prayer Book version), “Thou, Lord, shalt save both man
and beast!” (Psalm xxxvi., 6.) Meanwhile, let us ponder the words
which shall bring this paper to a close tfrom Word and Work) :—

“ This great evil is going on now, the question of its continuance will
again come before us. Which side are we, as C/zrz'sz‘z'ans, going to take?
Do not, at any rate, let us ignore it ; let us not pass by, like the Levite,
on the other side. To remain neutral or indifferent on such a subject is
surely unworthy of God’s children. If, after solemn consideration and
study of the facts, we can believe that a God of mercy looks with
approving eyes upon the Vivisector’s laboratory, and that the Vivisector
can kneel down, before entering it, and ask for His blessing upon the
work, the presence of the Lord Jesus during it, then let us uphold the
practice 3 but if, on the contrary, we come to the honest conclusion that
it is a sin in God’s sight, let us be ﬁrm and consistent in our opposition,
let us join the band of workers who are writing and speaking and
praying for its total abolition.”

M. E. B.

CAnLISLE,
April, 1889.

 

 

 




 

 
 

\. d»... 533).,” ,1: «HF/Fr, 4?. .74 a

 

 

 




 

a.”, , l ' .
‘ 4.‘.._....._ . ‘

w .; w -.- w _ , a

\ n .‘ ‘ . , , , .4 , , MY
‘2' A ~ , ._ . \ _ . r,<./ . SUN “V'IVAhiu
. ' , . 1 > . .‘ ‘. ~ 5 1 (' .‘ ‘3' H ‘3
‘ ‘ ‘ \ . ‘ ‘ ‘ , 1‘ ‘ ,‘ ‘ mg I‘" \
‘ .u a “1‘;
‘ e ‘ .,

' . - h
‘ ' ‘ 1' ’ J ‘11,!»

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




mw‘xlm ilk-aw; ,xtr *‘

 




