How was

Insulin
first

obtained

TRAY dogs were picked up in Toronto, some by Dr. Banting himself
(Toronto Daily Star, November 20th, 1923) and taken to the Univer-
sity laboratory. borne had their pancreas cut out; these slowly

developed diabetes, or a disease analogous to what is called diabetes in the
human subject. From healthy dogs, they became miserable wrecks.

Another kind of experiment was then performed on other dr‘gs. Their
pancreatic ducts were tied, and they were left with their normal functions
thereby disordered, while one part of their pancreas degenerated. An extract

’of the pancreas so treated was afterwards injected into the bodies of those
other dogs that had been deprived of a pancreas altogether.

Dr. Banting has recorded such things as “operating on a dog by
mistake ”“(!) and pouring boiling water into the pancreatic arteries till a dog
fainted from pain (American Journal of Physiology, March, 1924). '

After a number of experiments of this cruel nature, it was found that a
pancreas extracted from a dead animal in the slaughterhouse would do quite
as well for injection. But every dose of “insulin,” as the extract from the
pancreas came to be called, was—and is still—tested upon an animal; some-
times on dogs, more frequently now on rabbits. The result of this testing is
sometimes to produce “ violent convulsive seizures with intervals of coma "
(British Medical Journal, November 4, 1922).

The word “ insulin ” is used because the part of the pancreas which appears
to exercise a beneﬁcial effect upon diabetic patients is the secretion of certain
smaller cells, grouped together, known as the “islands” of Langerhans. The
‘rest of the pancreas, which secretes ferments, is discarded. The only difference
between Dr. Banting and earlier investigators consisted in his separation of the
two. As the effect of pancreatic juice was known before. the experiment of

 

 

 




 

trying a part of it only could easily have been made upon a human patient.
Every kind of device could have been so tried, to render the juice as effective
and as concentrated as possrble; and this could probably have been done with
a smaller element of risk than has attended the use of insulin. But first, we
have to prove the value of insulin.

There have been many medical criticisms of insulin. Dr. Roberts, writing
from the Physiological Laboratory, Cambridge, to the British Medical Journal
(December 16, 1922) described it as follows :—

“ The production of insulin originated in a wrongly conceived, wrongly
conducted, wrongly interpreted series of experiments and gross misreading
of those experiments.”

Dr. Roberts says it would appear that the effect of an extract from the
whole gland (pancreas) is greater and more lasting than that of an extract from
the degenerated gland used by Banting and Best (Bil/1.]. for 1922, Vol. ii. p. 1193)

Dr. Mackenzie VV'allis records three cases of diabetes in which the presence
of sugar in the urine was abolished as the result of simple restriction of diet,
combined with the administration of pancreatic extract (not insulin) which
was given by the mouth and not (like insulin) by inoculation. (Lancet for
1922, Vol. ii., p. 1158.) .

The Medical Research Council admits that, up to the present, insulin
can do nothing more than relieve the incurable defect of sugar storage tem-
porarily, after each injection. (As above, p. 1086.)

Other treatments relieve this defect, without the dangers of insulin.

Dr. Glover was ﬁned {30 and disqualiﬁed from driving a motor car, his
state, due to insulin, being mistaken for drunkenness. (August 13, 1926.) He
died of diabetes. '

Dr. W. R. Asplen, dealing with the case of a man who shot himself (he
had insulin injected twice daily) said insulin was “very bad for the nerves

the treatment was almost worse than the disease”. (Daily News,

February 5, 1926.)
‘ THE GREAT INSULIN “BOOM.”

The way in which Dr. Banting’s discovery was advertisel, the extravagant
“ boom” it received, had a note of artificiality which is obvious to the careful
reader. For instance, a single case of alleged “recovery " was the means of
ﬁlling columns in the newspapers. The patient (Jack Keightley) died a few
months later!

The wire-pullers and sensation-mongers succeeded in getting the Nobel.
Prize for Dr. Banting; and the Medical Research Committee has utilised the
occasion to extol experiments on animals.

THE EFFECT OF INSULIN.

Insulin is not a cure for diabetes. In that disease, the body creates too
much sugar in the blood. The administration of insulin reduces the sugar;
but it does not touch the disease. It has to be administered from one to
three times a day. While it is regularly administered, the sugar content of the
blood remains low, but it can easily become too low. This is extremely
dangerous, and the patient may die. For this reason, patients have been
advised always to carry about sugar with them, so that, if they should happen
to be found unconscious, the person who ﬁnds them can restore sugar to the
system by feeding them with it! Thus we see:

(l) That insulin is a palliative, but not a cure.

(2) That it is very dangerous.

(3) That its real effect cannot be known until the death-rates from
diabetes show whether it assists in prolonging life or not.

 

 




Those who were determined to boom insulin did not “ wait and see.”
'They instantly rushed into print, often hailing insulin as a “cure," wnich
they are obliged to admit it is not, when questioned.

WHAT STATISTICS SHOW.

Probably the ﬁrst public reference to insulin was contained in a communi-
cation to the Press in Toronto by Professor McLeod, head of the University
where Dr. Banting worked. Dr. McLeod, in commenting on the anti-Vivi
section views of Dr. Hadwen, President of the British Union for Abolition of
Vivisection, brought this discovery forward as a proof of the value of
experiments on animals. Dr. 'rladwen replied in the Toronto Globe of October
21, 19.22 :— ,

“ Like all vivisectors, Prof. McLeod is somewhat premature in announcing his results.

I believe in the old adage, ‘Never prophesy until you know,’ but I will on this occasion

prophesy that, in spi:e of the so-called ‘discovery’ and its claims, the death-rare of
dmoetes in twelve mom/13’ time unit be at least as great as it is now.”

Twelve months later, the ﬁgures were issued. Not only had the diabetic I
death-rate in Toronto increased from 77 to 85, but also in the whole of the
United States, for which the figures are as follows :~—

Year. Deaths from Diabetes.
1920 14,062
1921 14,933
1922 17,182

These figures quite staggered Professor McLeod, who, in the Toronto
Daily Star of January 3, 1924, said that they could not be explained by any
influx from another continent to get the treatment (for it was quickly obtain-
.able in Europe) and he could only suppose that the figures had been manipu-
lated. “ The figures lie 1” said he.

When anti-vivisectionists point to manipulated ﬁgures (i.e., ﬁgures
obtained by a different grouping of diseases) he would be the last man to admit
th-lt such a thing is ever done! In this case, there would be no temptation
to manipulate, as there was when typhoid was called “paratyphoid”—a
vaccine having failed! One frequently hears of deaths from insulin.

The Medical Journal of Australia has published the warning that
“hundreds of diabetics will be hastened to their graves by insulin,
before the full therapeutic significance of the preparation can be
ascertained,” and that “the sooner the public can be persuaded to
forget the word ‘insulin’ the better it will be for the unfortunate
victims ”

Here we give the deaths from diabetes in England and Wales from 1920
(two years before the introduction of insulin) to 1925 (two years alter its
use became established.

1920 1921 1922 ' 1923 1924 1925
3,749 4,092 4,545 4,366 4,254 4,357

\7Vhat about the thousands of lives which have been saved?

INSULIN COMMERCIALISED.

Insulin is patented (our Medical Research Council holds the patent here)
and vast commercial undertakings are on foot, which depend upon keeping up
the boom. Not only is a great trade made at the slaughterhouses, but a
syndicate has been formed to establish a laboratory on Vancouver Island in
order to supply unlimited quantities from the pancreas of the dog-fish! Con-
sidering the rate at which insulin is now being turned out, the only difficulty
will be to ﬁnd enough diabetic patients.

 

 




Meanwhile, doctors keep their diabetic patients 'in fairly good health for
very many years, using the old treatments, depending mainly on diet. Not
only this, but other treatments are on the market which claim to be not only
pnlliati‘vcs, but cures. Dr. Rabinowitch produced a harmlesshdrug from
glycerine as a rival to insulin ; “ Scheuer Th’e” also has its advocates-
Certainly, as the death-rates show, we are no better off for the discovery of
insulin, a treatment which was originated in some of the most revoltingly cruel
experiments carried on in any vivisector’s laboratory.

How do the rabbits fare, used for the standardisation of insulin ? This is
how the America-n Journal of Physiology, June, 1924, describes their life :~~v—

“It may be helpful to record the care our rabbits are given. Young rabbits are
started on insulin tests when they weigh. about 1 kgm. They are first given sufﬁcient
insulin to produce convulsions in order to obtain the ‘education’ phenomenon and are
then used every seven days thereafter. We think it is important that the animals-
should have convulsions each time they are used. If any fail to do so after a given
dose, more insulin is injected to produce this result. Our rabbits are given convulsions.
every seven days, even though there is no special preparation 10 be tested.” (l) V)

DO you suppose that the Maker of animals ordained that these things should
be done? Why are they done? Because the strong take advantage of the
weak,‘and few voices are raised against it. Mr. William Brown, M.R.C.V.S. says:

” The vivisector’s View largely is that these animals have no right to be protected
against suffering if the suffering can in any way be beneficial to humanity . . . the-
measure of their power of suffering is the measure of their right to be protected against
suffering First of all, do these animals suffer as we suffer? We hear it stated again
and again that they do not ; that they are not so sensitive in their nervous organisation.
Are they not? I speak from my experience. I am giving suffering, surgically, to.
animals nearly every day of my life. I have observed cats and dogs, horses, cattle and
sheep, under every kind of pain, and I do unhesitatingly say that they suffer as much as
we suffer . . . . I have operated on a dog, and I have had the dog come to me after—
wards and lick my hand and lie at mv feet and grovelL~and why? It is the poor
animal’s only way of begging me not to do it again. I have seen them thus come and
place themselves at your disposal and try to please you. I can quite imagine that some-
of these poor things will come, after they have been on the torture trough, will jump on
the bench and place themselves there to please and curry favour with their masters.
begging like poor dumb slaves, in the only way they can, to be saved from torture
and further horror. It is not that they do not suffer, it is because they do suffer, and
they dread suffering, but they have no other means of pleading with us.”*

That is the answer~supplied by a man of wide experience, whose eyes
were opened by sympathy with the animals, to whom he was only “cruel to
be kind”—to the false sentiment of Dr. Banting, who, blinded during the
experiments by the interest of his investigation, afterwards tried to show that
his dogs did not much mind having their pancreas cut out or their ducts tied,
and slowly dying of artiﬁcial diabetes !

 

* ‘ ‘A Veterinary Surgeon on the Practice of Vivisection,H issued by the Friends, A.V. Association.

a

The British Union for Abolition 0f Vivisection

(Under direct, volunteer Medical Leadership, and
the largest Anti-vivisection Society in the world)

Address : 32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.1.

Life Membership, £5; Annual Membership, 10/~; Associates, 5/~ and 2/6.

 

Howe Bros. & Co. Ltd., 60. Cheapside. 13.0.2.

 




