 

This report is circulated for com—

parison with the current report, as

being of considerable historical
interest.

 

 

 

_ University of London Animal Welfare Society.

 

REPRINT OF THE

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
YEAR ENDING AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.

 

The Society has continued during the year to prosecute, as far as possible, the aims which it has laid
down. These are to promote, by educational and other methods, interest in the welfare of animals and the
elimination of cruelty at home and abroad; to enlist on behalf of animals the inﬂuence of university men and
women, and particularly of actual and prospective teachers; to disseminate knowledge of the needs of animals
and of animal management ; and to initiate a movement which shall extend to continental and other universities.

- Great difﬁculties have been experienced from the fact that the routine work has had to be carried out
by honorary ofﬁcers whose time is subject to very heavy claims in other directions. It is desirable that the
part-time services of. a paid secretary should be obtained; but for this purpose, as well as that of a more extended
programme of publications, it would be necessary to quadruple the number of those very generous supporters
who have contributed, to the Society’s funds. The Society will, however, achieve its objects in due course
in spite «of the difﬁculties which it still has to face.

Ir’i‘T-NOVember, 1928 , the Council arranged, under the auspices of the University of London Union Society,
for af'lec'ture by Prof. J. Arthur Thomson, who chose as his subject, “Trustees for a Kingdom.” The lecture
dealt with man’s obligations towards the animal kingdom. The Councﬂ desires to record its hearty thanks
for the cor-operation of the Union and for the excellent report published in New T 70y.

At the Exhibition held at University College, in connection with the Educational Conference, from
December 3Ist till January 4th, the Society exhibited literature and a rabbit—trap, and signatures to the
rabbit-trap petition were obtained.

Prof. Hobday and Capt. Hume continued to serve as Chairman and Hon. Secretary, respectively, of the
Committee for adjudicating upon the merits of the Weinberg Pen, an apparatus for use in the casting of animals
for slaughter by the Jewish. method. Dr. Daiches represents the Board of Deputies of British Jews on this
committee. Very great difﬁculties have been experienced in obtaining a satisfactory trial, but these have
been now overcome.

The branch of the Society at Wye Agricultural College was able to begin the experiment of village lectures
on the treatment of animals with a lecture by Mr. Line, at the Broughton and Eastwell Women’s Institute,
and a further lecture by Mr. I. B. Prowse was subsequently delivered. This Branch also held, for two days
in November, a highly successful biological exhibition in support of the Society’s funds. This aroused a good
deal of local interest. Mr. Line has been obliged to resign the Hon. Secretaryship of this branch and the Council
desires to record its gratitude for his energetic and able work. He has been succeeded by Mr. F. A. Pearson.

'As an experiment , a membership subscription of Is. was introuduced to take effect in the ensuing session,
and steps were taken for organising branches in certain other colleges. Very satisfactory results were obtained
by Miss Gilbert and her helpers at Westﬁeld College, where 80 members were enlisted. A meeting was held
there in January, an address on Fur—trapping being delivered by Mrs. Louise Rourke, of Canada. At the end
of the session a group of students at Bedford College decided to devote special attention to the condition of
animals inFrance and other continental countries. In response to a letter issued by this group to the press,
substantial donations have been received for the veterinary clinic at Nimes. Steps were taken for the forma-
tion of branches in other colleges also.

 




. In April, Sir William Beach Thomas gave an address on the subject of Trapping to a meeting arranged
by the Soc1ety at the Congress of the National Union of Students held at Aberystwyth, the Chair being taken by

General Mowat. Considerable interest was aroused, and the Society’s cordial thanks are due to the N .U.S.
for their continued co-operation.

Mr. Kenneth Bird (‘ ‘F ougasse”) , who recently joined the Council, has kindly designed a poster for the

Society. This will be of great value in advertising a number of meetings which are being arranged for the
ensuing session.

Mr. Donald Macalister is setting on foot an enquriy into the persecution of wild life, beginning with the

badger and otter as typical of persecuted mammals. He will welcome ﬁrst-hand information from any reader
of this report.

The Society has also undertaken to devote special attention to the subject of trapping.

Towards the end of the Session a circular setting forth the need for the co-operation‘ of university men
and women in “zoophile” activities was sent to members of the staff and all internal students whosfé names
appeared in the University Calendar as belonging to a number of the more important colleges of the university.
It is difﬁcult to gauge the amount of interest aroused, but the circular brought some valuable new supporters
and the experience gained will be useful in future efforts of the same kind.

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS, OCTOBER Ist, 1928, TO AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.
I s. d.

N

m
0‘

00000000000.

Anonymous, per Dr.
Daiches
Barringer, Mrs. Hill, Prof. T. G.

- Bird, Kenneth, Esq. . Hobday, Prof. F. T. G. 1
Brown, R. C., Esq. ..... Holloway, College Royal I
Clive, Mrs. Hume, Capt. C. W. ..... I
Cutting, E. M., Esq Knight, Miss E. M. .....
Duffy, Mrs. Laing, Miss E. F.
Dumphreys, A., Esq. Lewis, Dr. E. C. I
Fitzgerald, E. J ., Esq. I MacAlister, D. A. , Esq. I
Gilbert, L. E, Esq ...... ‘ Millard, Dr. A. S.

Owen, D., Esq.

Paul, Mrs.

Ronald, Mrs......
Salisbury, Prof. E. J.
Ward, Miss

Westﬁeld College
\Vilkin, Mrs. C. S.
Wye Agricultural Coll.
Sums less than 25. 6d.

 

 

 

HHHmmHHHmMH.

INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT, OCTOBER Ist, 1928, TO AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.
VRECEIPTS. .5 s. d. PAYMENTS. £ 5. (1.

Income from subscriptions and don— Printing reports, note paper, circulars
ations to end or August, 1929 ..... 43 IO 6 &c. ‘

Brought forward from previous year ..... 14 II 2% Printing and postage of 7,410 propa—
ganda circulars .....

Typing of Minutes and postage

Speaker’s expenses in connection with
N.U.S. meeting .....

Hire of rooms .....

Petty Cash

 

Cash in hand to balance

mug—.m -M... - _

£58 I 8%

 

I have audited the above account of receipts and payments and certify the same to be correct
R. W. CHAMBERS.

 




