C.P.L. Leaflet No. 4

HOW CATS ARE PROTECTED BY THE LAW

Compiled from the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, and
the Animals (Anaesthetics) Act, 1919; and issued Free by

THE CATS’ PROTECTION LEAGUE

Headquartevs and Clinic
Prestbury Lodge, 29, Church Street, Slough.

Tlt is the law that:
ILL-TREATMENT.

Eng person who-—

Ill-treats, beats, kicks;

Infuriates, terriﬁes;

Carries or conveys in a manner to cause unnecessary suffering ;
Commits any act that will cause unnecessary suffering to any cat;
Causes anyone to do any of these things; or

Being a cat-owner, allows someone else to do these things to his cat ; It

Is liable to a ﬁne up to £25, or to imprisonment, with or without hard
labour, up to three months, or to both.
A Typical Case.

Man ﬁned £10 and 15/- costs for ill-treating a cat by swinging it by the
tail and banging its head on the pavement.

Eng person who—

Through cruelty causes any damage or injury to a cat;

Is also liable for compensation to its owner up to £10.

Typical Cases.
Man ﬁned £7 or 30 days’ imprisonment for beating a cat that entered his
garden.
Man ﬁned £5 for kicking a cat.

Two women ﬁned £2 2s. each, with £3 3s. costs, for trying to drown
a cat.

Five men ﬁned a total of £4 and £4 4s. costs for wounding cats by shooting.
Three men ﬁned an aggregate of £6 for inciting dogs to worry cats.

Man sentenced to 14 days’ hard labour for kicking and seriously maiming
' a cat.

NEGLIGENCE.
Eng person who—m

By omitting to do any act causes unnecessary suffering to any cat ; or
Being a cat-owner, fails to protect his own cat from cruelty:

Is liable to a ﬁne up to £25, or to imprisonment, with or without hard

labour, up to three months, or to both.
P.T.O.

 




Typical Cases.

Man and woman sent to prison for fourteen days for leaving cats without
food or water for three days.

Man ﬁned £20 and £6 6s. costs for neglecting to attend to his injured cat.

Man and woman ﬁned £10 each with £6 6s. costs for neglecting to give
proper attention to a sick cat.
Fines of various amounts were imposed upon :—
A man and woman for failing to supply proper and necessary care and
attention to a cat; they left it in a hut without food.
A woman for leaving two kittens shut in a house while she went on holiday.

Two women, in different towns, for abandoning their cats when leaving
home.

POISON.
Eng person who-

Knowingly puts, or causes to be put, any poiso ennin in or on any
land or building without taking precautions to prevent injury to
any Cat ;

Is liable to a ﬁne up to £10.
‘ A Typical Case.
A farmer was ﬁned £4 for putting poisoned meat in an open ﬁeld.

OPERATIONS.
Eng person who—-

Performs any operation on a cat without due care and humanity;
Causes anyone to do this ; or

Being a cat-owner, allows his cat to be operated upon in this manner : ‘

Is liable to a ﬁne up to £25, or to imprisonment, with or Without hard '
labour, up to three months, or to both.

Elmj person who—

Performs the operation of castration upon any male kitten of six months
or over without an anaesthetic (something to prevent its feeling any
pain like chloroform, etc.) ;

Causes anyone to do this ; or

Being a cat-owner, allows it to be done to his cat;

Is liable to a ﬁne of from £5 to £25, or to imprisonment up to three
months, or to both.
Typical Cases.

Two men each ﬁned £2 for castrating a cat Without anaesthetics.
Two men ﬁned for castrating a cat with a pen-knife and without an
anaesthetic.

NOTE.——Th€7’6 is no excuse for letting a cats-meat man or an animal
seller operate upon your kitten. Go for advice to the nearest Oats’ Shelter,
R.S.P.O.A. Dispensary, or Veterinary Surgeon.

Full particulars of the League and specimen copy of “ The Cat ”
can be had on application to The Secretary, 29, Church Street, Slough,
Bucks. (Phone 173)

 




