 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by]

Tbe 5 22247171673), Abbotsbmy, Dorset.

rice 3d.

[F. R. Winstone, A.R.P.S.

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
1 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.1

51153671}?!sz for One Y car, 122on free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pnblisbed inonz‘bl} by ibe Naz‘ional Conneil for Aninials’ Welfare
az‘ I Feaz‘bersz‘one Baildings, Higb Holborn, London, W.C.I, and all eonininnieaz‘ions regarding
ibe magazine sbonld be addressed lo fbe Editor.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.
' Vol. XLV. February, 1939 No. '4.
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
“ UTTERLY REVOLTING.” Tbe Editor 108 NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ’ANIMALS’
WELFARE 122
FROGS AND TOADS. E. G. Barlow . 109
, A REMARKABLE RESCUE. . . 123
SCIENCE AND ANIMAL WELFARE. C. IV.
Haine, M.C., 13.56. . . 110 THE LIBRARY TABLE 124
OBSERVATIONS OF A FRIEND OF NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
ANIMALS I I 5 CRUEL SPORTS I 26
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK 116 THE STATION CAT. E. G. B. 127
A COUNTRY POET- HWZW” Read I I7 LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
PORPHYRY. Basil fiarney—fanies I I 8 SPORTS I 7'8
BIRDS IN A CACTUS PLANT I 19 PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY 129
SOCIAL LIFE IN THE GREY SEAL \X/ORLD, SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
[Winifred Grabani Wilson 120 VIVISECTION 150‘
THE PLATYPUS. L. S. Elioz‘z‘ 121 RAT DESTRUCTION 151
A GLASGOW SHOP CAMPAIGN 122 CORRESPONDENCE 152
“ Bird Notes and News.” Countryside.

The leading place in the Winter Number of Bird
Z\7oz‘es and News (82, Victoria Street, S.W.1), is given to
Dr. Graham Renshaw’s fourth paper on “ Some
Extinct Birds,” with portraits, from restorations,
of the White Dodo, a species, he tells us, confused with
the Mauritius bird and “ not discovered until it had
been long extinct.” Special attention is also called to
“ The Birds of Australia ” and their eminent historian
John Gould, a reproduction given of the ﬁne plaque
portrait, in commemoration of his first landing in
Tasmania in 18 38, a copy of which has been presented

,by the Gould League of Australia to the Royal Society
for the Protection Of Birds. Incentive to visit another
continent, South Africa, is provided in Mr. J. M. Crop—
per’s alluring account of 275 species seen, even in the
worst season for birds, during an eleven weeks’
holiday, and by promise of “ a wonderful time in an
almost perfect climate.” A notably interesting paper
on “ The Birds of Italy.”—mainly Rome and its
vicinity—by Major F. \Y/. Borman, includes a remarkable
list Of birds which “ took sanctuary ” on board ship
during the crossing of the Adriatic from Durazzo to
Bari in May.

The winter issue of this quarterly contains several
interesting articles, and some excellent illustrations.
Mr. W. Kay Robinson writes on “ The Voices of
Owls ” and the late E. Kay Robinson is represented
by an article on “ Animal Relationships—the Procession
of British Wild Animals.” “ The Status of the Lap-
wing” is discussed by Miss Phyllis Barclay—Smith,
and “ Stowaways from India” by Pentland Hick.
Mr. H. N. Southern contributes an illustrated article
on Nature Photography in Winter. There are, of
course, other contributions, and the usual features
of this quarterly are well maintained. Co/nn‘ryside is
the Ofﬁcial organ of the B.E.N.A.

Sixty Years a Veterinary Surgeon.

This is the title of a book of reminiscences by Sir
Frederick Hobday, C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., President of
the University of London Animal \Welfare Society.
it is published by Messrs. Hutchinson & CO., Ltd.,
at 10s. 6d. net, and will be reviewed in our March issue

106

 

 




 

 

 

 

W-krka "2"“

”tJ

W3?
“WM-3’53"" 959%.1’724. . 1!

merma-

 

de/ary, I 939

Notes and Comments

Californian Pound Act.

The State Humane
Pound Bill which
would make it illegal
for the pounds to turn
"their animals over for
vivisection, was in—

. tended to counteract
a dog racket which,

' we are informed, is
now operated on a
vast scale. As it is it
is almost impossible to
prove whether the dogs
which find their way
into the pounds have
been stolen or are
strays picked up.
Whichever is the case,
the laboratories offer
a ready market for
them.

\While the Bill was defeated we are informed by the
President, Mrs. Rosemonde Rae Wright, and by the
Executive—Secretary, l\lrs. Dell C. Hawksford, of the
California Animal Defence and Anti—Vivisection
League, that they “ feel greatly inspired and elated by
the magniﬁcent vote of nearly 700,000 for the measure,”
as against 1,396,286 against it. “ When we consider
the ﬁnancial, professional, religious and educational
power massed against us,” they write, “ we have good
reason to feel that there is sometimes victory in defeat.”

\We offer our cordial congratulations to the Society
and to all concerned in the grand ﬁght put up for the
Bill, with our best wishes for the success of their work
during the year 1939.

 

Feline Perversity I

Some little time ago the .S‘zmda} Exprerr published
the statement that the affection of Dr. A. G. Barclay
(Nuftield Professor of bledical Research at Oxford)
for cats, and especially black cats, has grown consider—
ably less since he began his experiments on them.
“ Cats,” he is reported to have said, “ are no good for
scientific research, because each gives different results
from the other.” This certainly must be very trying
to any experimentalist, and calculated to cool off ones
affection for the perverse creatures. After all, what
are cats for? Perhaps, however, the cats won’t be
quite inconsolable for the loss of the doctor’s affection
and regard expressed in terms of powdered glass,
because, although they may thrive on the diet it can’t
be over tasty! “ We gave powdered glass to see how‘
it affected their lungs,” the doctor is reported to have
told the Swizz/a} Exprerr. “ They lapped it up and
thrived on it.”

And this is “ scientiﬁc ” research I \Wonderful I

The Little Owl Again.

Prejudice dies hard and, despite the fact that the
Little Owl was publicly cleared by the British Trust
for Ornithology in January of this year, who reported
not only that his destruction of game, poultry and wild
birds was negligible in quantity, but also that he'did
useful rather than harmful things because of his liking

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

for rats and mice, and for the enormous number of
cockchafers, daddy—long-legs, earwigs and other
insects, most of which are on the Board of Agriculture’s
list of pests. Despite all this, as Mr. Brian Vesey—
Fitzgerald recently pointed out in 1796 Field, few big
shooting landowners, no gamekeepers, and very few
farmers regard the little owl with anything but enmity.”
Why is this? This is what Mr. Vesey—Fitzgerald says:
The fox does quite a lot of harm from time to
time. The fox can wreak far more damage on a
poultry run than any little owl. But the fox
provides fun and the fox provides money, the fox
is tied up with finance—and the fox is protected.
And deer break fences and trample down crops
and kill trees. But man must have his stag hunt—
and deer are not threatened with extermination.
But the little owl can put forward no such plea
for protection, and so his life is asked of him by
those who would shoot more duck and pheasant
and by those whose business is to rear those birds
forshooting. But that is a very narrow way of
looking at the question.

The real fault of the little owl, adds Mr. Vesey-
Fitzgerald, is that he “ like the squirrel and the musk—
rat, provides no sport.” There can be, he submits, no
shadow of doubt that the little owl is useful rather than
harmful, and “ If he takes a pheasant chick or two, or
a wild duckling or two, count those against his rats
and mice and insects.”

Mrs. P. Clauss.

Another tried and true friend of animals, who will
be greatly missed, especially in Cheltenham, has
recently passed away suddenly, at the age of 70. We
refer to Mrs. P. Clauss of Abergeldie, Cheltenham,
who had been deeply concerned in work for the
welfare of animals during the whole of her life in
Cheltenham, where she had been a well—known ﬁgure
for many years. Specially interested in horses she
did a tremendous amount of good work as Secretary
of the local branch of the National Equine Defence
League, and was responsible for the Cheltenham
War Horse Fund which last year alone raised nearly
£200 for the ransom of the horses left in Belgium.

Mrs. Clauss was a member of the Committee of the
Cheltenham Animals’ Welfare Association, and took a
deep interest in the Animals’ Shelter in the Leckhampton
Road, run under the auspices of this Association.
For a number of years she was also on the local com—
mittee of the R.S.P.C.A.

A well—merited tribute to Mrs. Clauss and her
splendid work for animals appeared in the G/omexier
E650 of December 12th, last.

An Omission.

We are sorry that the name of Mr. Basil Harvey-
]ames was inadvertently omitted from the list of
contributors to THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND in the advertise-
ment of the bound volume for 1938 which appeared on
page 101 of our last issue. As Mr. Harvey—James is one
of our most regular and esteemed contributors at
least 12 articles from his pen appeared during the year
it is not surprising that several. readers wrote to the
Editor to call attention to the omission. One of these
correspondents, however, to judge from the indignant
tone of the letter of remonstrance, appeared to think
that the omission was prompted by malice on the part
of the Editor, or at least by his preference for other
contributors l Well~well—— !

 

 

107

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

February, I 939

'“ Utterly Revolting ”

BY THE EDITOR.

Cape Argus of December 29th last that

the tide of feeling in South Africa is
rising against the indignities and cruelties
.to which the performing animal is subjected,
and that the Animal \Welfare Society of South
Africa has issued a strong protest against
such performances which is receiving good
support.

IT is good to learn from a report in the

The immediate cause of this protest was
the fall of “ Tempest,” an elephant, during her
tight-rope act at the Olympic Circus in the
Allhambra Theatre on December 24th, and
the announcement in lee Argus that the trainer
intended to pursue the performance, despite
the shock which the elephant had sustained
through the fall. This, in our opinion, and

evidently in the opinion of the Society, con—l

stituted an aggravation of the original offence
against the animal for reasons which are
brought out clearly in the admirable letter of
remonstrance and protest written by the
Secretary, as will be seen from the following
summary and extracts.

The Secretary, after calling attention to the
many letters and telephone messages received
by the Society expressing the pity and indigna—
tion felt for the unfortunate elephant—“ pity
that such a digniﬁed animal should ever have
been forced to perform such an unnatural trick,
and indignation at the statement that the
trainer means to get “ Tempest ” to take the
same horrible risk again.”-——proceeds:

“ The trainer, it is hoped, will hesitate for at
least two reasons—~one moral and one legal—before
he carries out his intention. Morally he should
realise that, having fallen from a height greater
than the ceiling of an average room, it will be
mental torture for the animal to regain its conﬁ-
dence on the rope; and legally he should realise
that if the unfortunate incident should occur
again he will lay himself open to a charge under
the Cruelty to Animals Act of ‘ unreasonably
doing an act causing unnecessary suffering to an
animal.’ ”

Following up this remonstrance and warn—
ing, the Secretary points out that in the opinion
of the Animal Welfare Society the time has

come “ when all animal turns should be
abolished from the stage.” This is well said,
and we should like to see a similar declaration
issued by the animal protection and animal

108

welfare movement in this country as a preface

to a parliamentary measure providing for the

prohibition of all such turns, for as the letter
continues :

“ Performing animals are a relic of the Middle

Ages, which allowed bear-baiting (with dogs),

cock-ﬁghting and other forms of brutal amusement,

and should not be tolerated in a community of

civilised people. A circus would be just as

popular without the unnatural animal tricks that

are still a part of the programme, and to those

who have read the evidence given on oath before a

Select Committee of the House of Commons

as to how some performing animals are trained ‘

these tricks are utterly revolting.”

“ Utterly revolting ” is a strong term but it
is not too strong a characterisation of the
damning disclosures made by credible eye—
witnesses to the Select Committee as to methods
pursued in the training of performing animals
——methods which we have been assured no
longer obtain, but which, nevertheless, have
been conﬁrmed of more recent date in particu-
lar by one Lewis Herman, a trainer, in the
magazine Erqzzz're of March, 1958. Speaking
generally with regard to the methods as he
knows them, he said: “ The idea, as always,
is to ﬁnd some way of making the animal
afraid of you.” Referring to elephant training,
he remarked: “ The only way to train an
elephant is to ﬁnd some tender spot on him.
Sometimes it is in his toes. Other times it’s
in unmentionable places.” And on the subject
of dogs, and he claims to have trained hun—
dreds of dogs for every line of work; “ for
the ﬁeld, for the track, and for the stage ” :

“ In training a dog, all you’ve got to have is a
lot of patience and the knowledge that dogs are
afraid of being punished or starved. . . . It
has been my experience that kindness is wasted

on the canine family. Personally, I have never
seen a trainer who got results with kindness.”

Surely the time has come When all animal
turns should be abolished from the stage,
not only in South Africa but also in this
country, and there can be but little doubt
that the united strength of the humane move-
ment here could achieve this end. But, alas !
there is so little unity, and so the ,unhappy
animals must continue to suffer.

We wish good speed to the Animal \‘Velfare
Society of South Africa in its noble work.

 




’l’ Februaiy, 1939 - THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND ‘

i F d T d removed, 6 3 returned; the remainder appeared
I'OgS an Ga S to be quite content with their new surround—
' BY E. G. BARLOW. mgS-

Distribution.

Toad in a Hole.
It is often said that toads have been found

 

Frogs and toads are distributed over all
parts of the world except the polar regions

 

. , . . alive in rock cavities, where they must. have
and absolute desert dIStﬂCts' been deprived of air and food for long periods.
Biblical Frogs ' Naturalists have declared these tales to be due

. ~ . . to imperfect observation and easy credulity.
Pro 3 are ment - ~ -
E g IOHEd three times m the This old controversy in 1928 exc1ted the town
ible, and toads not at all. In Rev. XVI, I 5, -
1 k f b . . h of Eastland, Texas, to an extraordinary degree,
unc ean spirits are 8.130 en 0 as eing m t 6 for beneath the corner—stone of an old court—
likeness of frogs which come out of the mouth

" " " i‘J‘f‘I-a‘f‘w 1‘1? -"§i'9"~'_‘.1‘2m_

«322.3142.» '1 ‘

house that was being demolished was found a

of the dragon. - . c. ,,
live toad, which must have been there E
o o - If I ' p' ‘ ‘!
Superstition. Without a1 , food, or drink Since the building ,3

1;;

As a cure for catarrh, Pliny (2579 A.D.), had been erected some 30 years previously.
prescribed putting a live tree frog into the Such Kgasithe SEW tad by 3:16 \gorllérinen
mouth, holding it there for a minute, then gigagte r n Eidi 111g d O“dnth t6 11:1 ngé
letting it out, when it would take the catarrh h e 810 dy Wisd . cu]: a an e OWE lecam ‘1
with it. In 1955 AD.) I saw an Irish farm SSarp y. 1V1‘C into elievers and 1511 eieveis. .
worker at haymaking time in Cheshire swallow ome. ingeniﬁusb person d suggeste that t C
a live frog. This he said was cc good for a) question mig t e settle for a future genera—

} u: _ ~91 le‘r‘3 ~ §'

- . tion by sealing a toad in the corner—stone
consumption and chest diseases! . . . >‘
of the new building. The suggestion was 2;

“ Damp and Cold.” acted upon, and, With all due ceremony, the ,

toad. was incarcerated. The controversy then
took a new turn. Humanely minded citizens
Tbe Frog by Nature 2': not/.2 damp and cold said it was cruel, and demanded the release of
' Her Moe/in 2'5 large, leer Be/b/ nine/9 will lye/d; the toad “ out of respect for Christianity and

John Bunyan wrote :

 

Slye rife Janeen/leaf amending, loner 2‘0 be the humane Citizenship of Texas.” The
Croa/éz'ng z'n Gare/em, z‘lyong/y unpleasant/y. builders turned a deaf ear to this sentiment, 5'
but the protesters invoked the law on behalf ;'
“ Queer Bird.” of the imprisoned toad. After due con—
A humorous French—Canadian verse runs: sideration the Commissioner’s Court ordered
W/yaz‘ a queer [72rd z‘lye frog are! that the stone should be unsealed and the j
W/lyen lye yz'z- lye stand—almost; toad liberated. Accordingly, after 48 hours ~j,
W/bm [2e ”jg/é lye fan—417770515; imprisonment the captive was set at liberty,
W/yen lye ring lye fry—annexe; apparently none the worse for his unpleasant
He ain’t got no yenre, nard/ ; experience.

He ain’t got no fail, narﬂy, err/yer;
He 527 on aim; ne ain’z‘ gee—almost.

 

6,191?

Homing Toads.

According to Dr. Ray J. Nichols of Missis—
sippi University, toads have strong homing
instincts. He visited a certain area during
summer and autumn, catching toads. When
caught they were ﬁtted with identification
tabs. They were then carried to various
distances from their points of capture. Alto—

gether Dr. Nichols removed I41 toads from
i their homes to distances varying from two
i or three hundred yards up to a mile. 50 . . p .
rapid toads arrived home in times ranging a. 3231€E5ii€§m¥vfT514711;‘5‘:‘I-'.-'s:'.-:"‘55~21C K 1:3" '
from 24 hours to 24 days. Out of I41 toads -_ Horned 11mg.

1 . 109

 

,‘LL—Ltz'iti'f ‘ ~.¢:;: ff

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Science and Animal Welfare

February, 1939

BY C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

(T/ae following are neter of an addrerr given at
a nieeting 0f UFAW (T/ie Uninerritier’ Federation
for Animal W/e/fare), lye/d 0n jannary 2nd, at
Uninerrity College, Gainer Street, W.C.I. Tbe
C/aairrnan 0f the meeting was the Rt. Hon. Lard
Senepi/Z, A.F.C., and ﬁx Speaker Captain C. W.
Harne, M.C., B.Se., F.Z.S., t/ae Hen. Secretary
of tbe Federation. T/ae fit/Z title of Captain
fin/ne’s address i5: “ The App/nation of
Seienee t0 the [We/fare 0f Anirna/r.”)

PART 1.

N recent times

men of science

have begun to
turn their attention
to the use which is
made by mankind of
the power which they
have put into his
hands. The forma-
last year of a new
section of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science,
devoted to the study of the social rela—
tions of science was a portent of a growing
and genuine, if not yet widespread, concern
for such -matters. Naturally the use of
scientiﬁc inventions for the purposes of war,
and the far reaching effects of invention on the
social habits and welfare of mankind have
attracted the greatest share of attention,
but this afternoon I am making an appeal to
scientiﬁc men to give greater attention to those
members of our community who cannot speak
for themselves, namely the animals and birds
with whose economy human economy is
inextricably entangled.

The veterinary profession has become
increasingly concerned with the humanitarian
as well as the economic aspect of its work, a
happy development in which our own Presi—
dent Sir Frederick Hobday has played no
inconsiderable part; but apart from veterin—
arians, few scientiﬁc men have devoted their
thoughts speciﬁcally to alleviating the suffer-
ings of animals. There is, however, no sound
reason why they should not do so. Unless
we are to be narrowly racial in our interests,
we are bound to extend our sympathy to a
wider ﬁeld than that merely of man’s welfare.
man’s commercial. proﬁt, and man’s exploita—
tion of his biological environment.

 

110

 

My object this afternoon is, therefore,
to appeal to men of science to give more
speciﬁc attention to problems concerned with
the welfare of animals, and I shall be mainly
occupied with a few examples of such problems

'which either have been solved or still call

for solution. But at the outset I must refer
to the important Report on Veterinary
Education in Great Britain which was pub—
lished by the Stationery Office in July last.
That report showed that in spite of the claim
which we as a nation make to leadership in
kindness to animals, Great Britain lags
seriously behind several foreign countries,
such as Switzerland and Germany, in the
provision it makes for veterinary training
and service. The Report on Veterinary
Education advocates an increased expenditure
by the State and it does so, I must admit,
on purely economical grounds; nevertheless
if the recommendations of the Report are
carried out, those animals which are used in
agriculture will themselves greatly beneﬁt
by it. Two features of the report are of
special interest to our Federation. The ﬁrst

is the emphasis laid in it on the duty of main— A

taining animals in good health, as opposed to
that of merely attending to them when they
become diseased ; in other words on preventive
as distinct from curative medicine. The
humane value of this policy is so obvious that I
need not dwell upon it. It is interesting to
note in this connection that the State veterinary
service under the Ministry of Agriculture is
no longer, called the “Diseases of Animals
Division ” but has been renamed the “ Division
of Animal Health.” \Vith this policy of
fostering preventive medicine in view, the
report lays stress on the importance for the
veterinary student of obtaining practical
experience of farm animals under the conditions
under which they normally live. It recom-
mends that each of the veterinary schools shall
have a ﬁeld station of about 100 acres with a
small herd of milking cows, a flock of about
50 ewes, about 8 or 10 sows, a flock of hens,
and a few horses. Then again before a student
enters upon his period of clinical training in
his fourth year he is to have at least six months’
pupilage on a farm. Further, there are to be
rural veterinary hospitals corresponding to the
voluntary hospitals for human beings.

The second series of recommendations

        
 

 

 

     

‘JW‘WM «W is“ -




 

 

 

February, 1939

that is of special interest to UFAW is as
follows. It is recognised that the majority
of veterinary students have not in the past
been sufﬁciently in touch with the universities,
and it is now proposed that the curriculum
for the M.R.C.V.S. diploma should be re—
arranged so that the purely scientiﬁc work
shall be done in the ﬁrst three years in close
association with a university, while clinical
work shall be largely relegated to the fourth
and ﬁfth years, and have a post—graduate
character. Such a plan will be of advantage
not only to veterinarians and to‘the animals
with which they have to deal, but also to the
universities with which they are to be asso—
ciated. Most of the men in the universities
are apt to conﬁne their sympathies. rather
narrowly to their own species, and the presence
among them of students of veterinary science
will foster a very desirable and legitimate
broadening of our sympathies and interests.

Before passing on to others of the more
benign applications of science to the treatment
of animals, I feel bound to refer to a develop—
ment which must be a matter of grave concern
to all who have humane sympathies, namely
the introduction of mass-production methods
.in animal husbandry. These are best known
in connection with the battery system of
raising poultry, but have also been extended
to pigs and even dairy cattle. As Mr. Miller,
of the Royal Veterinary College, put it in a
recent lecture; “ Is there amongst us a real
animal lover who does not feel a qualm of pity
on a visit to a modern battery poultry establish—
ment? The picture of eggs being hatched
by the thousand, of chicks grouped, graded,
sexed and classiﬁed like so much manufacturing
raw material, and then of pullets and hens kept
in a space of exactly so many inches wide,
deep and high, fed on a standard ration,
laying one standard egg a day which rolls
along a sloping floor and then grades itself,
leaves in my mind, and I venture to hope
in the minds of others, a mixture of awe at the
efﬁciency of the system and horror for the
feelings of the birds.” Analogous methods
are being adopted in the raising of swine and
dairy cattle. How far they can be described
as cruel I hardly know. Opinions differ on
this point, and unfortunately we cannot
ask the animals themselves. Nevertheless
the sacriﬁce of all other considerations to
efﬁciency of production, labour—saving, and
commercial proﬁt, at a time when science is
putting new possibilities of exploitation into

111

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

our hands day by day, suggests the need for a
careful scutiny of the trend of animal husbandry.

I will now give an instance in which scientiﬁc
invention with one hand has inflicted a grievous
wrong but with the other has supplied a
means of redress. The invention of oil—
burning ships has spelt disaster to innumerable
sea—birds. The oil. waste when pumped into
the sea forms a sticky mass by which the birds
become fouled to such an extent that they
can neither swim nor ﬂy, and die a miserable
death of starvation. The means which have
been devised for abating this evil have been
only very partially adopted. For dealing with
waste oil in relatively small quantities, the
science of engineering has contributed the
oil—separator, which can be mounted on board
ship and used for extracting the oil from the
bilge water and the contents of the ballast
tanks before these are discharged into the
sea. Unfortunately, however, apart’from the
fact that many ships do not install. separators
at all, the device is hardly equal to dealing
with the large—scale problem constituted by
the cleaning of fuel tanks, particularly in the
case of oil tankers. In the course of time a
thick sludge collects at the bottom of the
tanks, and this has to be scraped out and dis~
posed of. Frequently the process is carried
out on the high sea with disastrous effects
on bird life. The technical problem has been
solved by the \Wheeler system, which requires
the use of a specially constructed tank—
cleaning ship kept in attendance at the port;
such ships have been used with success in
Liverpool and in naval ports. Thus the
technical solution of the problem is available,
but the difﬁculty is to get it used. The end
of the oil menace for sea—birds would be in
sight if we could secure the installation of a
tank—cleaning ship in every port, and devise
some scheme for inducing or compelling
oil—burning ships to use it.

In connection with humane slaughter the
inventor has directly applied his talents for
the advantage of animals, and with success.
Two types of humane killer pistol using a
captive bolt, the Cash and the Temple-Cox,
have long been available in this country,
together with various other pistols which on
account of their using a free bullet have not
enjoyed so much popularity. These pistols
are in general use for cattle and are used for
sheep in the majority of districts in Britain,
although a certain number of the less progres-
sive local authorities have failed to adopt the

 

 

 

 

 




 

0

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

U. H. Stone
“ . . flit yz/brfam‘z'a/ bappz'nem 2‘0 eat.”

Photo by]

bye—law by which, under the Slaughter of
Animals Act, 1933, they are empowered to
make the use of mechanical stunning com—
pulsory.

The position of pigs in the slaughter—house
is less satisfactory. Nearly ten years ago a
system of electric “ stunning” was intro—
duced. A current of approximately half an
ampere is passed from side to side through
the head of the pig, and the animal, after a
period of intense stimulation, lies inert. It
has generally been assumed that the process
rapidly produces unconsciousness, and a
number of experts have, perhaps rather rashly,
added their authority to this view.

Doubt has been thrown on the humaneness
of the method, however, by human experience.
In particular Hertz attempted in vain to
anaesthetise human patients in Paris by the
use of a current which, when due allowance
is made for the difference in wave—form,
is seen to have been little less powerful than
that ordinarily used in the slaughterhouse.
The amperage used. by Hertz was substantially
lower than that used in the slaughter—house,
and it has often been assumed that the stimulus
was correspondingly weaker. This, however,
is a misunderstanding, for Hertz used a
wave—form which is known to be about 20
times as effective as the sinusoidal wave—form
of the ordinary alternating current. The
question whether electric stunning is really
humane has, therefore, remained open, and I
regret to say that recent researches by Roos
and Koopmans in the Laboratory of Veterinary
Physiology of the University of Utrecht has
strengthened the doubts which have been felt
on the subject. These workers have shown

112

 

February, 1939

that the ordinary tests for anaesthesia, such as
the corneal reﬂex and pupil reﬂex, are not
valid in cases of electric excitation like that
under consideration, and that the first effect
of the application of current through the
brain is extreme excitation of the nervous
system. The work of Roos and Koopmans
is not yet complete, but it deserves to be
closely studied by physiologists and humani-
tarians, many of whom have jumped too
optimistically to the conclusion that the word
“ stunning ’f can appropriately be applied
to this method.

(To be continued).

Buffaloes Not Stupid

L. E. EUBAN KS.

r

INCE man considers the ability to co-

operate a sign of intelligence, buffaloes

have left ample evidence that they were
far from dull. Throughout the prairie region
of the United States, where the buffalo once
roamed, there are deep-worn circular paths.
Strangers ask questions, but only the old—
timers know the origin of these interesting
rings. They are the last reminder of the
days of the buffalo.

When attacked by wolves, the buffaloes
always gathered the weak and the young
in a group. The strong and sturdy ones
then galloped in a circle around the huddled
group. Round and round the huge fellows
raced, and the wolves could not‘break the
ring. If they got in the way of the flying
hoofs they were stamped upon and crushed to
death.

Considered by some people to have been
dumb, the buffaloes were intelligent enough
to co—operate. They pooled their strength
to protect themselves against a common
foe. When left alone the buffalo was help—
less and Could easily be overcome by a small
pack of wolves. But collectively he with—
stood the onslaught, no matter how savage.
Only the occasional buffalo that tried to
work alone fell a prey to the wolves.

Because of their remarkable instinct for
co—operation and organisation, the buffaloes
grew and multiplied until they were the
dominant animal in the West. It was only
when the white man came and started a
systematic campaign of slaughter that the
buffalo met his end.

 

 

 




 

 

February, 1939 V THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Observations of a Friend of Animals

(Extracted from Ouirpoken Envy/r 072 Music by Camille Saint-Saens. Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trubner and Co.)

insect, I will place it in this category—~with
which it is connected—for greaterconvenience.
In spite of the admiration one must feel
for its work, the spider has always ﬁlled me with
a sense of invincible horror. In the hope
of overcoming this troublesome aversion I
have from time to time tamed one of the small
animals. A certain amount of patience is
needed. At the ﬁrst attempts,‘the terriﬁed
spider’drops to the end of its thread or else
quickly hides away. After three or four days it
begins to feel reassured, but an entire week is
needed, after cunningly graduated experiments,
before it will take a ﬂy from the ﬁnger of the
observer. By this time it had lost all fear.
Mention has been made elsewhere of the
spider’s taste for music; this I have frequently
noticed out in the country when playing the
piano. Quite against my will I attracted
._ huge spiders whose vicinity was anything but
Photo by] [Eric Hosking, F.R.P.S. pleasant to me.
W451” Nefl- The most curious sign of intelligence was
HERE is agreement in no longer afforded me by the spiders of Cochin China.

regarding instinct and intelligence as In that country, Spldefs 0f enormous 312e,

two irreducible entities, and the word not at all terrifying seeing that they are never
“ unconscious ” has been substituted for the visible except fromadistance, stretch horizontal
word “instinct,” it being recognised that the and parallel lines to a relatively cons1derable
unconscious plays alarge part in human nature. distance from one tree t0 another. From
As we gradually depart from the human posi- these webs they hang, head downwards.
tion, we ﬁnd that instinct gains in extent NOW, when the French on. occupying the
what intelligence loses, and in many cases it country set .up telegraph Wires, these little
penetrates into regions which intelligence could insects, ﬁnding a .warp ready made, .tOOk
not enter: in the insect world it even arrives advantage 0f the Sltuet10h§ they established
at results we cannot understand. But, just themselves on these Wires which spared them
as in the most intelligent man, instinct, the greater part 0t thell‘ task, and contented
although degenerate, is far from having themselves With spinning the woof. on which
wholly disappeared, so in those animals they watched for thelt prey. It 15 dltthﬂt
whose instinct is ' most highly developed, not to regard this fact as the result of observa—
undeniable ﬂashes of intelligence appear. t10h and reﬂection. ’
‘We must 0 ri ht down to the amoeba, to the . . , ,
vegetable gworlgd, to ﬁnd instinct free of all Indiv1duality 1n Ants. . .
trace of intelligence: so at least it appears A greatrleal has been 531d regarding ants,
to me! and perhaps in millions of years, their actiVities and their combats._ .I Will not
if the earth is then still inhabitable, there will go 1ht0.th13 SUbJeCt but W111 81mp1y_ relate
appear under new conditions of existence a an experience I had Whleh ShOWS that 111 ants
being Of pure and fully conscious intelligence. as in men there are differences of temperament

The signs of intelligence afforded by animals and character.

 

 

 

 

 

 

have interested me from my earliest childhood. I was in the forest 0f Fontainebleau,
I will now relate a few of my observations. watching half a dozen ants feasting upon the

. excrement of a squirrel. From time to time I
Spider’s Taste for MUSIC. placed my ﬁnger near the group of gastrono-

Although zoologically the spider is not an mists; they all moved away from the banquet

113

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

.at different speeds, indicating different degrees
of fear, and always the same insects appearing
at each successive alarm. Only one ant did
not deign to pay the slightest attention.

After several attempts I put my ﬁnger close
to the group; this time they all ﬂed, with the
solitary exception of the one that had not
allowed itself to be disturbed. It quickly
turned round, threatening me with its man—
dibles; then lowering its head, it rushed upon
me at full speed. I withdrew, overcome by the
prodigious moral courage of the insect!
Where would you ﬁnd a human being with
the audacity to withstand a giant taller than
the Eiffel Tower?

True, the insect may be less conscious of
danger than we are ; man injures himself when
falling simply his own height on to the ground,
whereas the light armour—clad insect may fall
from enormous heights without suffering in
any way. None the less remarkable was the
ant’s audacity, especially when we consider
that it was purely individual, and not shared
by any of its companions. '

The calumniated Cat.

The cat has been most undeservedly
calumniated; men will not forgive him for
being proud. They regard it as beneath their
dignity to be forced to win the affection of a
superior being who is conscious of his worth

 

Photo by] Not too Ire/l pleased, perhaps? [1. H. Stone

February, 1939

and lavishes his friendship only where he
knows it will be appreciated. No animal
could be more cajoling or more faithful than a
cat, once you merit his good opinion, but he
will not tolerate ill-treatment and he is ex—
cessively jealous.

One summer, when I was living in the
country, a young tabby from the vicinity had
acquired the habit of coming to see me;
she paid me innumerable attentions all the
time I was engaged in writing the sombre
drama of Proserpine. It happened that some
one brought along for my inspection a dainty
puppy about three months old: I took it up
and kissed it. The cat seeing this, set up her
back and walked angrily away; it was three
days before she returned.

Another time I was living in a small summer—
house, with a number of neighbours all around,
similarly housed. There were numerous cats
and dogs about, and one, quite a young dog,
constituted himself my companion. The
animals met every morning in a large court-

yard; the dogs played about and gambolled

. in the happy harmless way with which we' are

all familiar. The cats took up their quarters
on packing—cases from the top of which, in a
motionless group, they looked down upon the
dogs. No words could do justice to the
attitude, at once amused and scornful, with
which they contemplated the rough sport and
play of the dogs.

Some Dog Stories.

A hedge separated me from the next garden :
I forbade my little dog to cross it. It was
amusing to see what trick and artifices he
employed to bafﬂe my watchfulness. He
would pretend to be thinking of something
quite different, to be hunting for ﬂies, then
he would suddenly take advantage of a momen—
tary inattention on my part, whether real or
pretended, and would dart away like an arrow.
During lunch, I seated him on a chair by my
side. If I scolded him for any cause whatso—
ever, he assumed an air of melancholy and
obstinately refused the choicest morsels until
I had shown, by a kiss, that he was forgiven.

May I be allowed to say a few words about
Delilah, a black griffon with dark blue eyes
which for ten years [has been the delightful
companion of my solitary old age. I will be
brief, for one is inclined to exaggerate regarding
the creatures one has loved; besides I have
no wish to relate what would be devoid of
interest to anyone but myself.

114

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February, 1939

She was not more than ordinarily intelligent,
but as she had never been punished, she was
very original and particularly dainty at times.
Her great friend was Lisette, her mother,
an excellent animal . . . . On certain
occasions Delilah was wonderfully attentive
to her mother. Neither of them was given to
begging, but whenever it chanced that they
wished to share my dinner, Delilah allowed
Lisette to come forward, taking a seat behind
her at a respectful distance so that her mother
might be served first. Not once did she fail
to do this.

One day, finding a sugar basin uncovered
and therefore accessible, Delilah took from it a
piece of sugar which she carried to Lisette,
afterwards returning for another piece for
herself. When Lisette met with a premature
death, Delilah almost pined away with grief;
she ceased eating and lost half her weight.
This was in the winter time, when I was
absent from Paris. On. my return—invariably
an occasion for joyful barks and gambols
which lasted some hours—she had regained
somewhat of her former gaiety, though we all
felt uneasy about her. Nothing less than the
arrival of a rubber ball, a novelty from London,
succeeded in making her forget her trouble
and restoring her to health. Her greatest
pleasure was to leap onto a table; she could
walk about like a cat and never upset a single
one of the fragile ornaments with which it was
covered.

On hearing a piano being played she uttered
t he most piercing cries. Whether she liked
or detested it I do not know, for she came
running up as soon as the music began instead
of running away, though she raised such a
series of howls that she had to be carried to the
other end of the building as speedily as possible.
Neither singing nor the playing of any other
instruments ever excited her to the same degree.

On the other hand, I once knew a dog which
adored the piano; as soon as the music began
he would come up and crouch beneath the
pedals : a matter troublesome enough for the
player. To rid oneself of him, all that was
necessary was to play Chopin’s music. Before
eight bars had been played, he had left the room
with dejected ears and his tail between his
legs. However often the experiment was
tried, the result was invariably the same.
Delilah knew the. sound of the Eiffel Tower
gun ; when it boomed forth, she would make
her way to the kitchen for her lunch.

115

 

Photo by] U. H. Stone

Samoyedr.

But the poor (log, in life #26 firmer! friend,
Tbe firrz‘ to 12'6/60f728, foreworz‘ 2‘0 defend.
BYRON.

A Dog’s Life

‘ T’S lovely to have a dog isn’t it? One
I can never really feel lonely with a dog to

keep one company. A member of the
family to rush out at the sound of a key
in the lock; to plant a biscuit at your feet
with all conﬁdence in the game expected;
to roll over with two fat paws ﬂopping—at
least-they’ll be ﬂopping if you should have a
rather plump little Aberdeen, as I have——
to be tickled. And if you have, I wonder if
he, or she, also pinches carrots and potatoes
from the vegetable box P—or takes you for a
walk when you thought it would be the other
way round? Have you felt as proud as a
peacock when offered the right paw in ex-
change for a biscuit?

I didn’t realise, before I owned one, how
expressive a dog’s face can be—how well he
understands you—how attractive black nose,
brown eyes and bushy black whiskers really
are.

But if you own a dog—as most people
seem to—-you will understand all about it.

CYNTHIA GRAVELY.

BZ

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Fearuary, 1939

From Onlooker’s Note Book

“ A liflle rnanz‘ly of lane and langlyz‘er,
52‘. Valenz‘ine—nirds in flee rafter.”
E. T. S.

Birds and St. Valentine’s Day.

The custom of sending Valentines had
its origin in a heathen practice associated
with the worship of Juno about this date
(February 14th.), in the calendar. Robert
Herrick (1591—1674), the London born ex—
quisite writer of lyrics dealing with love and
country life, refers to Valentine’s Day in his
lines on that day:

Off leave I beard nor/y Year/9s and Virgins say
Birds eboose fleeir males, and maple, r00, [leis day.

Michael Drayton (1565—1651), famous author
of the great sonnet, “ Since there’s no help,
come let us kiss and part,” in one of his
poems conﬁrms the opinion of Herrick :——

Muse, bid llee Morn awake,

5 ad Winter new declines,

Early bird dolly elaoose a male,
Tln's day’s S 1‘. Valentine’s.

James Russell Lowell, Born on February
22nd, 1819.

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL (1819-1891), Ameri—
can poet, essayist and diplomatist. His works
include lee Biglow Papers, A Fable for Criries,
lee Vision of Sir Lannfal, and his literary
essays among which are: [My Study [Vina/0222s,
Fireside Travels and The Carleedral. \W hat
follows is taken from My Garden Aeqztainranee.

Twice have the crow blackbirds attempted a
settlement in my pines, and twice have the robins
who claim the right of pre—emption, so successfully
played the part of border—ruﬂians as to drive them
away—.—to my great regret, for they are the best
substitute we have for rooks. At Shady Hill
(now, alas! empty of its so long loved household)
they built by hundreds, and nothing can be more
cheery than their creaking clatter (like a convention
of old-fashioned tavern—signs) as they gather
at evening to debate in mass meeting their windy
politics, or to gossip at their tent-doors over the
events of the day. ‘

Bright February.

GEORGE ELIOT (1819—80), the celebrated
novelist, whose real name was Mary .Ann
Evans, was born on a Warwickshire "farm.
She excelled as a writer of middle-class life
and character, and her work is marked by
much pathos and humour. Ada/n Bede,
T/Je Mill On flee Floss, Middlernarely, are among

116

the greatest masterpieces of fiction, whilst
Silas Marner is a gem of literary art. \‘C’ho
but one who loved the good earth could write
as follows :

Bright February days have a stronger charm
of hope about them than other days in the year.
One likes to pause in the mild rays of the sun,
and look over the gates at the patient plough
horses turning at the end of the furrow, and
think that the beautiful year is all before one.
The birds seem to feel just the same; their notes
are as clear as the clear air. There are no leaves
on the trees and hedgerows, but how green all
the grassy fields are! and the dark purplish—brown
of the ploughed earth and of the bare branches is
beautiful, too. What a glad world this looks like,
as one drives or rides along the valleys and over
the hills.

Peeress amd Pet Fawn.

HARRY MORTIMER BATTEN (1888-———),
author and naturalist. Among his works men—
tion should be made of Ranianees of flee Wild,
Birds of our Gardens and Our Country’s Wild
Animals. In Our Country’s IVild Animals the
author tells the following anecdote:

There is a pretty story among the Highland
gypsies about a certain little peeress who possesses
a pet fawn which always accompanied her in her
walks by the laughing burn and over the pine
ridge. The little lady was dearly loved by every
one, and they looked so dainty together amidst
all the brightness and beauty of their mountain
home. Fate interVened, however, and her lady-
ship was taken, but for years after her death,
and even to this day, the gypsies who camp in
these woods will tell you that on certain bright
mornings a sweet-faced little lady with a fawn
at her heels bends the bracken aside as shecrosses
the pine ridge, her face towards the morning.

Merry England. _

JOHN EVELYN (1620—1706), of scholarly and
scientific tastes, left behind him the interesting
Diary which was first printed in 1818, and
covers nearly seventy years. Evelyn’s learned
tastes are reflected in .8"le an interesting
book on tree—planting. \eriting of London
in 1660 the cautious diarist tells how he

Saw in Southwark, at St. Margaret’s Fair,
monkies and asses dance and do other feats of
activity on the tight rope; they were gallantly
clad a la mode, went upright, saluted the company
bowing and pulling OH their hatts, they saluted
one another with as good a grace as if instructed
by a dancing master. They turned heels over head
in a basket of eggs without breaking any; also
with lighted candles in their hands and on their
heads without extinguishing them.

ONLOOKER.

 




 

 

February 1939

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Country Poet

BY HUDSON READ.

NLESS one is a bookman the name of

John Clare may not be familiar;

yet to all who love the English country~
side his poems are a wayside companion.
Clare was a naturalist as well as a poet, and his
love of. Nature is beautifully expressed in his
works.

His early education was meagre, as he left
school at the age of seven, to tend sheep and
geese on the common. Whilst engaged .in this
occupation, he chanced to meet a romantic
minded old lady known locally as “ Granny
Bains,” who delighted to quote bits of poetry
and old songs, that she had heard. From
this source Clare’s poetical expression was
gradually kindled, and his admiration for
verse awakened

Later he began to scribble his thoughts on
any bits of paper he could find, and many of
his first crude rhymes were used by his mother
to light the morning ﬁre.

At thirteen he was shown a copy of Thom—
son’s Searom which so impressed him, that he
desired to possess a copy, which he bought at
Stamford for eighteenpence. His father was
too poor to give him the money, but by dint
of exertion his mother managed to give him
sevenpence. Next day was Sunday but Clare
in his excitement forgot this, and walked all the
way to Stamford to ﬁnd the bookshop closed.
On Monday he walked again to Stamford,
and was successful. in his purchase, and,
as he tramped the seven miles back to his

home at Helpstone, he read.

So great was the inﬂuence of these poems
that he composed a piece himself, under the
title of “ The Morning Walk.” At nineteen

he enlisted, but his regiment was disbanded
after a few weeks and Clare returned home.
When at Oundle he bought a copy of “ Paradise
Lost ” and the “ Tempest.”

For the next ﬁve years little is known of his
life, except that he worked for a farmer as a
labourer.

In 1817 he was employed as a lime burner,
at some village in Rutlandshire. The work
was hard and the wage ten shillings a week.
At this time Clare produced a number of
poems. During the later part of 1818 he was
out of work, and was reduced to accept relief
from the parish.

In 1820 some of Clare’s poems were pub—
lished, and they were received with laudation
by the magazines of the period. At one time
he contributed to Toe Loaa’oa .Magazz’ae.

Charles Lamb corresponded with Clare,
and in one letter says that the poet’s provincial
phrases startled him. But Lamb had good
regard for Clare’s talent, and for his poetry.

The following lines are taken from an
original copy of his “ Rural Muse ” published
in I8 35.

Old Jamar}, elaal la crispy rime,

Comer limping on, and ofz‘ea lea/res a rz‘aaa’ ;

T/Je barf} mo w-rz‘orm ne’er (lira/res lair lime,

He mead; aotpaee, but oeaz‘r lair (liloer/ag lyaaa’.
* =3 fl:

Tlle rqalrrel spatter; 21]) fee powdered oak,
Ill/lily fail eoe/éed o’er lily bead, and ear: ereel.
a: at 2i:
I love az‘ eoea—lele to walk: aloae,
Doe/a ”arrow laaer o’baag all/l9 (lea/j loom.
l/Vlzerefroaz f/oe long gram melee/really, llae mall
V jef Mark creeps oaz‘ and rpoaz‘r lair flmz'a’ loom.

 

 

  

Photo by]

  

“ How [alert 1'; be 222/20 lead; a eoam‘ry ll e.”

117

 

 

[13. Phillips

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

February, 1939,

Porphyry (233-303)

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

lower animals falls relatively short of

the general line of humaneness and
culture of Classical times, the exceptions being
therefore all the more notable—Theophrastus
(382—287), Lucretius Carus (95—51), Seneca
(died 65 A.D.), and last and mosz‘, the incom~
parable Plutarch (46—120). It was Plutarch
who first definitely preached the kinship of
the beasts with humanity as an essential part of
the “ universal benevolence,” and it is to be
noted that he was a Platonist, as so many
philosophers are in one way or another——
Plato being, as it were (though not ﬁrst in
time), the grandfather of philosophy.

The Neo—Platonists of Alexandria were, as
is patent from their name, also Platonist,
dwelling, however, almost exclusively (and
far more than Plutarch) on the mystic and
esoteric side of Plato’s teaching. This School
was founded by Plotinus, whose immediate
successor Porphyry was, we thus having a
second instance (cp.: Aristotle and Theo-
phrastus) of the successor and disciple extend—
ing the Master’s teaching to apply to the animal
world. Indeed, it would be surprising to find
any form of Pantheism or any concept of the
Immanence of Deity, not calling itself pan-
theist, which did not sooner or later concern
itself with the place of the beasts in the cosmic
order and with human relationships.

Neo-Platonism, though founded by Plo—
tinus, was adumbrated by a yet earlier philoso—
pher—Ammonius Saccas. Neither Plotinus
nor Saccas is, however, lucid to the layman
or to more than a few scholars; Porphyry is
at once the most clear and the most high—
minded of this school. \With his “ Tree,”
dividing men, animals, plants, minerals and
gaseous bodies and showing the lines of
cleavage, I have dealt in another article; it
remains for me here to give some illustration
of the tenour of his teaching in regard to
animals :—

HUMANITARIANISM extended to the

Since justice is due to rational beings,
how is it possible to evade the admission that
we are bound also to act justly towards the
races below us P

Over a thousand years later Montaigne
wrote :—

We owe justice to men, and grace and benignity
to other creatures that are capable of it; there is

a natural commerce and mutual obligation betwixt
them and us.

And in the intervening twelve centuries
nothing, with the possible exception of St.
Francis of Assisi, who was °less concerned
with Justice than other considerations, stands
on a level with these two utterances.

Plotinus supplied a ready answer to the
rather tedious individuals who say “ You put
animals ﬁrst! ” and exactly parallel accusations
are made against the internationalist that “ he
loves every country better than his own.”
“ For he,” said Porphyry, “ who loves all
animated nature will not hate any one tribe
of innocent beings, and by hOw much greater
his love for the whole, by so much the more
will he cultivate justice towards a part of them,
and that part to wbieb be is most allied.”

These extracts, it is a sad reﬂection, are
indicative of a tendency which after the passage
of over sixteen hundred years the ‘ enlightened ’
minority have only just “ caught up to,” and
which the majority still scarcely heed, while
a third section, happily also a minority, but
a not inconsiderable one, most bitterly oppose.

The Dragon-Fly

Tbe sunsbine of an early summer day

Had brougbz‘ bim out; bis old dark-greenisb skin

Had slow/I jerked and split, and now be lay

Basking on a wafer—lib, z‘ill wifbin

His stirring wings be felz‘ z‘be power flow.

Tben wiz‘b a bum of balf-expressed delngz‘

Tbe gauw membranes quiuered, and to go

Beyond bis lil 7—world into ibe ligbz‘

Beeame bis instant fbougbl—inz‘o ibe air

He launobed bimself, and witb swift wing-beats sure

He darted lbrougb fbe reeds, fluttering wbere

Tbe brngfesf flowers flasbed z‘beir colours pure.

Tbe green and gold lbai‘ glinz‘ed from bis wings ,

Were brigbi‘er far z‘ban my! lbere z‘bai‘ bloomed,

And jewels like I‘bose Iris some/limes flings

From ber sk ,I—palaoe, in bis eyes eniombed,

Spark/ed from a myriad faoezfs olear

In seinz‘illai‘ing siloer, blue, and gold.

Upwards be flew, and bigb abooe lbe mere

He eiroled, seeking wbere be migbi‘ bebold

Wii‘b ease bis little world, and quirk/r fall

Upon unwary inseoi‘s as 2‘ng sped

Across bis vision, buzzing tbrougb z‘be z‘all

Rusbes, basiening wiz‘b an inborn dread.
EDWIN G. MORGAN.

 

ug'a ‘~".

.
h“
..
v"
.3.
~ j
‘l

‘r
1

‘l
I»:
‘3
l

,l'

; = neg-3;?

‘m-

‘_ .-, km“ '2

 

 

 

 

118

NEW...“ ... :--__i_ ._ r _

 




February, 1939 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Birds in a Cactus Plant
BY C. M. CLARK.

N enchanting bloom is that of the

night—ﬂowering cactus : the Latin name

Cereus waxen—aptly describes it,
though the twisted prickly stems which
give it life are far from beautiful; they merely
serve to emphasise its charm. Being pollinated
by night—ﬂying insects, it is a highly specialised
plant: one bud, dull and uninteresting to
behold, alone betokegs expectation of blossom—
ing. A monument‘ to rigid economy it
does not waste its sweetness on the desert
air; for a brief twelve hours only, a single
night, it blooms, then droops and dies before
the sun is up.

One June day the owner of a large green-
house, wherein stood a night—ﬂowering cactus
high up on a top shelf, noticed a pair of
blackbirds ﬂying in by an open skylight to
this plant, then down to the ﬂoor and out
through a ventilator below. Soon he dis—
covered that they were building their nest
among twisted stems : they built it of spagnum
moss pulled from the other plant pots near it.
In due course eggs were laid and four lusty
youngsters hatched : but it is doubtful if they
would have survived had it not been for the
kindly attention of a gardener. He saw that
they were much distressed by the heat of the
forcing—house, intensiﬁed as it was by the
rays of the sun on the sloping glass above.
They panted and gasped, and hung their
heads over the side of the nest, until he climbed
on to the roof and spread some sacks to shade
them. Later a coating of green wash was
painted on, and this made photography
possible; a glass-house is far from ideal
for this; the lighting is exceptionally harsh.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Blackbird.

: Ousel or Ouzel (Anglo—Saxon 0516) is apparently
g the ancient name for what is now more commonly
known as the Blackbird, the turdm mam/a of ornith-
ologists. “ The adult male of this beautiful and well—
known bird,” says Newton, “ scarcely needs any
‘ other description than that of the poet :——

“ T/J€ aural—cock, r0 black of [77/16,
W’it/J orange—tawny bill.”
(Aiidrzmmzer ZW'g/Ji’r Dream.)
The female is of a uniform amber—brown above,
has the chin, throat and upper part of the breast orange-
brown, with a few dark streaks, and the rest of the
plumage beneath of a hair—brown.

 

 

 

 

 

 

119

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Feoruory, I 939

Social Life in the Grey Seal World

BY \WINIFRED GRAHAM WILSON.

HEN Kipling wrote :
You ”22152727 5mm fillyou’re six weeks old

Oryozo‘ lead will be rem/é by your heels;
Aml summer gale: and killer Moo/er

Are bezelfor 1711(7)) yea/r

he was as much exercising his faculty for
rhyme-making as giving a real warning.
For baby seals have to be taught to swim,
and it is usually when they are a few weeks
old that the teaching process begins.

The ﬁrst line of the stanza then might Well
be changed into:

Yet; 772ml leom lo rwlm at afeze/ wee/er old

without sacriﬁcing either‘ rhyme or metre
yet at the same time registering more accurately
the true state of affairs. It is the seal mothers
who are the swimming teachers, and they set
about their task with a business—like competence
which yet lacks neither tenderness nor patience.

Strangely enough grey seal babies are born
when summer is almost over, and the ﬁrst
few months of their independent lives have
to be got through when gales much ﬁercer and
temperatures much lower than those of
summer are the portion which falls to their
lot. The breeding and rearing season in
the Grey Seal world lasts from August to
October, and during that period the animals
are on land for a longer time than they are in
water.

Mr. T. H. Gillespie of the Edinburgh
Zoological Park, who ﬁnds Grey Seals ex—
tremely interesting creatures, describes the
cry of the females as “ not unlike a high—
pitched human voice.” And he considers
it not at all unlikely that the strangely human—
like quality in the “ speech ” of these animals
has contributed in no small degree to “the
foundation of the mermaid myth.” Dr. F.
Fraser Darling, whose investigation of the
social life of Grey Seals has been both careful
and far—reaching, has much to say of their life
in the breeding season. In a series of remark-
able photographs he portrays the intimate
and delightful relation that exists between
mothers and babies in the great colonies
of Grey Seals that can be found in the “ very
few sharply demarcated breeding grounds to
which they ﬂock in August.”

Dr. Darling tells of a newly born Grey Seal
pup, “ clothed in long white fur,” whose cries
and movements were singularly like those of a
human baby “ even to the point of putting its
ﬁnger in its mouth” with a sort of wistful
satisfaction in its eyes. So the human resem—
blan’ce of the Grey Seal mother extends to her

tiny child it would seem. More, it extends to_

the close relation that binds mother and child
together. A mother perhaps will lie restfully
on a rock, her white clad pup beside her.
She will feed it, caress it and “croon” to
it, then perhaps (as one of Dr. Darlings’
photographs portrays) scratch the baby with
her fore ﬂipper, looking at it the while with a
wealth of solicitude and happy satisfaction.

The gregarious character of the breeding
season lasts, as has been said, to the end of
October at the latest. Then off the Grey
Seals go to sea to a watery life again.
time seal pups have lost their baby coat,
and have acquired one more or less characteris-
tic of the adult. They have acquired too a.
certain independence and must now feed and
fend for themselves. _ _

It was one such seal youngster as this
that was washed up here on the shore at
Rhos—on-Sea some time in November. Ob-
viously worn out by the buffeting of wind and
waves it lay well up on the shingle when the
tide receded, an object of inquisitive interest
to various boys and dogs. It did. not seem

to be hungry, at any rate it refused the ﬁsh ’

offered it by a well—intentioned man. Rest
seemed to be its sole desire. In a little while
the wind dropped and after a time it found its
way back into the water. It was carried by the
current for half a mile or so to, the less fre—
quented shore of Penrhyn Bay.

Fortunately the sun came out, as it so often
and yet unexpectedly does in this area, on
days which for some hours have promised
nothing but cloud and rain.
for two hours or so the young seal lay basking
in the sunshine after whichit made its way
awkwardly once more into the water and was
lost forever to view.

The somewhat peculiar social system operat—

ing in the world of Grey Seals would lay them -

open to very rapid reduction in numbers

120

By this -

Thus it was that '

- a-” .- WW

 

 




 

 

February I 939

were they not protected by law during the
breeding season. Less than a hundred years
ago the whole species was nearly wiped out

for in the late nineteenth century “ an increas— _

ing urban market for 'pelts made annual
battues at the breeding grounds a proﬁtable
business.” In Dr. Darling’s opinion, although
Grey Seals have of late years increased in
numbers, something more is required than
the protection already afforded them. True,
during the greater part of the year when they
are, so to speak, cruising in ocean waters
they are more or less immune from danger
arising from attacks by man. But the Grey
Seal is one of those examples in which “if a
social pattern in the species is not completed
breeding does not take place at all.”

Quite what is the exact nature of this social
pattern is not yet fully determined. It is by
work such as that being done by Dr. Fraser
Darling that its details and intricacies will
eventually be ﬁlled in. One thing is clear.
Protection by law is not enough. Something

, is needed “ to act as a complement to the law,”
and in the opinion of Dr. Darling that “ some—

thing ” is a national sanctuary.

This could be provided by some remote
island where the Grey Seals could ﬁnd all

that they need: a private place in which the

cows could bear and rear their babies, to
which they could return whenever instinct
prompted them. In such a place they need
fear no molestation or disturbance; they
could complete their social pattern in the way
best suited to their character and type.

Photo by] T/Ié’ Platypus.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Platypus

BY L. S. ELIOTT.

HOUGH many of the extremely in—

teresting Australian animals are de—

creasing fast in numbers, and there is
danger of some species becoming extinct,
the most curious animal of all, the duck—billed
platypus that lays eggs and suckles its young,
is still quite plentiful in certain parts. As it
makes its nest in the banks of rivers and
creeks, it does not run the same danger of
destruction from bush—ﬁres and from the
felling Of trees as do koalas, ring—tailed
opossums and wallabies.

When we were staying in the Riverina in
New South Wales, our host told us that there
were plenty of platypuses in the creeks and
streams running into the Murrumbidgee along
the stretch which passed through his station. .
We hunted the banks, but our searches were
unrewarded.

About thirty miles from Melbourne, near
the Healsville Animal Sanctuary, platypuses
are often seen in the streams. Again our
efforts to see them were fruitless, but the
\W’arden of the Sanctuary showed us one
which was brought to him damaged. Under
his care it had begun to grow tame, and he
hoped it would become a pet like its pre—
decessor at the Healsville Sanctuary, Splash
by name, who became famous in Australia,
New Zealand and America for his amusing
and friendly ways.

 

[Victorian Government Railways, Australia. .

Amim/ia’r “ patchwork. ” (min/d, a'bz'c/J i; [IMAM/led, bar a farmer! [Jo/bl, lag/r eggs and Jack/es its" joang.

121

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Glasgow Shop Campaign

 

T/Je C omer [Window

F the ﬁve humanitarian shop campaigns

which Miss J. Lambie has conducted in

Scotland, she reports that the last,
in Glasgow, has been the best. The shop
itself, of which we are able to give two
snapshots, lent itself exceptionally well to the
purpose with its corner oblique window and
two other windows which, Miss Lambie
writes, “came right down to the ﬂoor and
almost to the pavement.”

The shop was run on wide humanitarian
lines, and in addition to the posters and litera—
ture dealing with humane education and
the posters, literature and petitions directed
against many forms of heartless exploitation
of animals, 50 patterns of “Furreen” were
shown in one of the windows with other
non—animal products such as shoes and shaving
brushes. In the photograph of the corner
window shown above, (which unfortunately
is not at all clear), a number of the posters may
be seen and the patterns of “Furreen ” detected.

 

A}: interior view.

122

February, 1939 V

The second photograph shows a small section
of the interior in which anti-vivisection and
other posters are displayed.

Miss Lambie had many visits from children
and young people (for whom special windows
were set aside) who came from Glasgow
Academy (boys) Glasgow High School (boys),
Hillhead High School, \Woodside and Kelvin—
side Secondary Schools, and Northwoodside
and Napiershall Schools among others. She
had other visitors, of course, including
medical students and she was informed by
one visitor, who called twice, that he had been
sent by a doctor to say that the authorities
ought to prosecute all people like Miss
Lambie and that she should be in prison, but
he went away with a list of books which he was
advised the doctor ought to read. Another
visitor demanded to know how Miss Lambie,
(who is a practical'Naturopath), would treat
illnesses such as diphtheria, pneumonia, etc.,
and was given illuminating information with
regard to Nature Cure. “ It’s all very
fantastic,” he said, “ No, not fantastic ”
was the reply, “it is foundational. It is
orthodoxy that is shifting sand, and change of
fashion, like clothes.”

N.C.A.W.

Hon. Organising Secretary: J. L. CATHER.

A New Branch for Lincoln. ~

HE National Organiser- has been visiting

Lincoln with a view to forming a City

Committee for Animals’ Welfare Week.
The humanitarian thought and feeling in
the City must be of a high standard as so much
support has been promised from the represen-
tatives of many activities, religious, educational,
social and humane. The Mayor is to be
President, and will preside at the inaugural
meeting in the Guildhall. on February 8th.
The Mayoress, the Sheriff of Lincoln and his

lady will support him. All religious denomina— '

tions will be associated with this work whilst
the educationalists will co—operate through
the Education Committee, the Head Teachers’
Association and the National Union of
Teachers. The Director of Education, the
Chairman of the Education Committee, the
Heads of Secondary Schools, and Presidents
of the Teachers’ Organisations will be amongst
the Vice—presidents of the WEEK. Other
organisations working on social and humane
lines including the local branch of the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Feamary, 1939

R.S.P.C.A. (the only humane society at present
in the City) will send representatives to the
Guildhall Meeting, and it is hoped they will
serve on the Committee for the \WEEK,
which is to be formed at this meeting.

During her visit Miss Barrs was invited to
attend the Rotarian Luncheon and to address
the members. After her talk a very lively
discussion took place. The Medical Ofﬁcer
of Health was present and a representative
of the fur trade, and vivisection, trapping
and fur fabric coats were discussed. Other
subjects touched upon were hunting, the
capture and training of animals for circuses
and films, and the captivity of animals for
zoos and menageries. It was certainly not a
‘dull meeting! -

In the afternoon Miss Barrs addressed the
\Women’s Meeting at the Salvation Army
Citadel and the women, too, had many
questions'to ask and a good discussion. took
place. In the evening she attended a meeting
and Social at the Unitarian Church, from which
denomination whole hearted support is forth—
coming for the \W EEK, the minister, Dr. S. H.
Mellone, being very keen on this subject
of humane education. During the evening
Miss Barrs had the opportunity of talking to
many of the members of the Church.

Weston-super—Mare. ‘

Last -month we reported the inaugural
meeting of the Animal Welfare Week Com—
mittee in Weston-super—Mare. Miss Dorothy
' Barrs, the National Organiser of the N .C.A.W.,
reports that Miss L. Baron was the originator
of the local committee, and it was through
Miss Baron’s efforts and spadework that she
made \Weston her ﬁrst piece of work in the
autumn of 1938.

A Remarkable Rescue

(Tbefo/[owz’ag wary of Me reazanéaa/e rereae of a
Car, W/Jiﬂ/J appeared in flee “ Ham‘r aaa’ Ber/é;
Gazette” of 2 5rd Deeember lax], bar been sem‘ f0
:45 for pab/z'eaz‘z'oﬂ by Mr. G. C. le'lz‘r/ﬁre 0f
Felt/9am, Mz'dd/erex).

ONE morning recently a large cat—a

beautiful black and white specimen—-
left its home at Strathﬁeldsaye and made
its way to the Pheasantry \Wood on a hunting
expedition. Unsuspecting the danger that
lay ahead, it was steathily following the track
of a rabbit, when it found itself caught by

123

' THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

the neck in a rabbit snare. It tried to escape,
but the harder it struggled the more the noose
tightened round its neck. Almost choking,
it made a last desperate effort to get away, and
Succeeded. The peg that secured the wire
to the ground was wrenched out, and away
the cat went dragging the wire behind it.
Then suddenly it heard the sound of barking
dogs in the distance, for the South Berks
hounds had just commenced to draw the wood.
The cat, terriﬁed and growing weaker with the
wire pressing into its neck, sought safety by
climbing a large oak tree. It was creeping
along a branch, when the wire became en—
tangled, causing the cat to lose its balance
and fall. The wire held fast, and the cat was
left swinging helplessly by its neck 20 feet
from the ground. Now it happened that
a number of hunting people and others
collected on the road nearby, in the hope of
seeing a fox emerge from the wood. Amongst
them was Mr. George Soper, a chimney
sweep, of Riseley, Berks. One of the Hunt
whips, who was also waiting there, heard a
slight noise above him, and, glancing up,
saw, to his astonishment, the cat hanging
from the branch. He pointed it out to those
around, including the sweep, and it was
noticed that the cat was still alive. Mr. Soper
is a lover of animals, and his ﬁrst thought
was to rescue the poor cat, but the tree was
unclimbable without a ladder. Then suddenly
an idea came to him. He ran to his cart,
unpacked his tackle, took out his rods and
largest stiff-bristled brush, and hurried back
to the oak tree. He screwed the rods together
and fixed the brush into place. Then, with
expert hands, he raised it above him and clever—
ly succeeded in balancing the cat on the top of
the brush. By hoisting it still higher, he
was able to release the wire from the branch,
and then, unscrewing the rods one by one,
he gently lowered the cat into his arms.
He removed the wire noose from its neck,
nursed and caressed it until it had sufﬁciently
recovered to purr its thanks, and then he set
it free. The cat, that had so narrowly escaped
a lingering death, scampered off towards its
home to enjoy, we hope, a merry Christmas
and live happily ever after.——A. G. H.

“ A bear; to pig)» and a band to blew.”

 

“ Pizfy and Izeeel make a/[f/er/J em.”
Ligbl‘ 0f xiiJ‘Z'a.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

w, ~1~s ._ I‘-7‘&"3=‘:<-‘

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Library Table

Mischief—The Squirrel. By Lida. Litho~
graphs by Rojan. Translated by Rose
Fyleman. George Allen and Unwin.
Stiff paper 25. 6d. net. Library edition
gs. 6d. net.

This is No. I of Pere Castor’s Wild Animal
Books. It recounts the life and adventures
of the Quick (Squirrel) family—father and
mother (Quick and Roquette) with their
children Flame, Elf, Sprite and Mischief
in the sucessive seasons of the year. It is a
delightful book with its vivacious and enter—
taining text illustrated by Rojan’s lithographs,
with which it is accurately described as “ gently
ablaze.” But it is more than a delightful
book; it is a sound book educationally, and
in its nature and humanities. Its freshness
and charm could be illustrated by many

passages. Here is one :—

. . a squirrel’s tail you must know, is the
most wonderful thing imaginable. It is a sort of
little aeroplane. A squirrel can jump from the
highest tree, a tree that seems to touch the sky,
without doing the slightest harm, thanks to his
tail. He lets it ﬂoat out while he is falling, and
comes down to earth as though he had wings.

That is why a squirrel’s tail should always be
very clean, very bushy, and as light as a feather.
Otherwise instead of supporting its owner,
it would drag him down to the ground, and the
poor little thing would be killed. So the ﬁrst
thing a baby squirrel has to learn is-«“ Fluff out
your tail.”

In the course of his enterprising career,
Mischief, unhappily, lost his freedom and we
gather that he had no use or feeling for the
idea (beloved by those who kidnap and conﬁne
the creatures of the wild) that they are more
happy and contented in captivity because they
are better fed, better housed, and better looked
after by man than they are by Nature and their
own kind. What this loss of liberty meant
to Mischief is suggested with a simplicity, and
restraint that is very striking. He found him—
self shut up in a little barred space. He could
no longer see the trees nor the strawberry
leaves, nor the little spring, and his heart was
full of grief.

- “ While the family were jumping happily in the
forest and laying in provisions, he was hopping
about sadly in his cage. Certainly he had nothing
to do at all. Every morning little Jean brought
him pine-cones, nuts and clean water.”
- But these were but poor compensations
tor the loss of liberty (even when in addition
a little sw1ng was made for him), and loss of
friends of his own kind, for——

February, 1939'

how can a little swing compare with the living-
branches of a larch or pine tree. That’s the place:
to swing in. Mischief couldn’t forget the great
forest trees.

True, little Jean was very kind to him and always.
smiled at him. Mischief felt that he almost loved
the little fellow. But this human child was not the,
least like a squirrel; he hadn’t any of the pretty
ways that the Quick family had. And he was so
frightfully big!

You should get this book and read it.
It is a ﬁne book for children. There are three-
others in the series which we have not seen—-
Quipic, the Hedgehog; Ploof, the \Wild.
Duck and Frou, the Hare. If these are of the:
same quality as Mischief, they should be in
every nursery and schoolroom. The reviewer
of the Times Literal/y Supplement says of them :
“ They have imagination, humour and a.
delicate charm that perhaps only Mr. Walt.
Disney’s Silly Symphonies can rival.”

R. H. S.

Sporting Dogs. By A. Croxton Smith. With
illustrations by G. Vernon Stokes. Country
Life, Limited. 125. 6d. net.

“Sporting dogs,” says ' the Duchess of
Newcastle in her foreword to this volume,
“ from the able pen of Mr. A. Croxton Smith,
will be of great interest to all lovers of hunting ,.
shooting and coursing.” We imagine that
few readers of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND come-
into this category. But if any of our readers.
want authoritative information about Sporting
Dogs they will ﬁnd a good deal of it here,
together with much interesting historical data.
The different breeds are dealt with in groups
and the book will specially recommend itself
to those who breed dogs for the show—ring.
The masterly illustrations by G. Vernon
Stokes are a feature of the volume, which is
lavishly produced.

Serengeti. By Audrey Moore. An Account
of the Wild Life and Safari in the African.
Game Sanctuary, Serengeti. Illustrated
from the author’s photographs. Country
Life. 108. 6d.

Most people when they read this book will
have to alter their conceptions of wild animals.
Compare for instance the popular picture
of the ﬁerce creatures of the jungle and
veldt with the following passages. . . . ‘

Running back to the house you fetch a powerful
electric torch and turn the beam of light towards
the river. A pair of saucer—like eyes answer, ,

others ﬂash and disappear, the ﬁrst pair remaining
unﬂinching. Greatly daring, you walk slowly

124

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Feémmy, [939

towards the eyes till in the far end of the beam
you can make out the form of a lioness; for a
moment she crouches undecided, and then
slinks away.
* * 91¢ *

The lions would sit and watch us walking to the
pool, and when we approached them, melt into
the undergrowth.

None of the lovers of the Great Cats
should miss reading the chapters on Lions,
they will gain an insight into the lives and
characters of these lovable, beautiful beasts
which could only have been described in
this way by one who really lives among them,
studies them, understands them and therefore
loves them.

But there are many other beasts besides
lions in the Serengeti, all of which are intro—
duced in the same sympathetic manner,
and one really feels on speaking terms with
Lion and Leopard, Waterbuck and Cheetah,
Giraffe and Impala—only the shy Eland
escapes you I

There is atmosphere in this book, and it is
the atmosphere of the wild places, so the reader
must be prepared to ﬁnd somewhat of the
relentless, the ﬁerceness of that life. There
is much talk of killing, of old age, of the
mange and the ﬂeas which afﬂict the animals
even in their own native lands.

We cannot agree with the author that there
is a difference in the blood lust of the savage
who goes on killing when he no longer needs
'bed and the English huntsman who hunts
for the “ostensible reason of helping the
farmer.”

There is an unpleasant account describing
the ﬁshing of a catﬁsh. One shrinks a little
from the author as one reads “ . . churning
the sand and reddening its cleanliness with
your sticky, oozing blood, while my knife
. hacks out your life.” But, all the same we
feel that she is growing to disliketkilling more
and more as she becomes better acquainted
with the lives and feelings of the wild life
around her. This has happened so often
with trappers and hunters that perhaps some
day the author will realise that even the
catﬁsh may perhaps have a life and identity
and feelings of its own, and that he is not hers
to kill wantonly.

In this book we ﬁnd illustrated once more
man’s fatal aptitude for spoiling and ruining
a ﬁne ideal to satisfy his idle curiosity. The
idea of National Parks and Game Reserves
such as the Serengeti was surely that the ani-
mals should have sanctuary and be preserved

125

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

from extinction. The intrusion of human
visitors to such parks should be allowed
only with the distinct understanding that no
harm shall be caused any of the animals.
Surely the zebra should not be sacriﬁced and
shot to become a decoy for the more romantic
king of the beasts, in order that visitors may
be able to go back home to show off their
photographs and gratify their vanity and
boastfulness P

» The proceeds of the book are to be devoted
to improve the water supply for animals on
the proposed Serengeti National Game Park.
There are useful appendices which deal with
Serengeti Nature Notes—List of Beasts and
Reptiles found in the Reserve—Serengeti
Birds—lnsects—and Notes on the Serengeti
flora. Y.S.

Wanted—A Home.

Ideal home desperately needed by young,
deeply affectionate, small female dog rescued
from great misery.

\Y/rite z—Horsfall, 6,
llkley, Yorkshire.

Alexandra Place,

“ W’bwoeuer /01'6’l‘/} we, Mimi/J my balm/l.”
(SIR THOMAS MORE, 1478-1535.)

 

Photo by] [LL-Col. C. H. Slat/clay

African Elep/Jam‘.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

February, 1939

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, 56, Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.I.

New Vice-Presidents.

THE Society is fortunate in having
recently added the names of two dis—
tinguished novelists Miss Naomi Jacob
and Mr. Frank Swinnerton, to the list of its
Vice—Presidents.

Naomi Jacob is well—known to readers of
this journal for her work on behalf of the
movement against performing animals. Her
novel, Honour Come Back, contains a spirited
description of the end of a fox—hunt, and the
effect of the “ kill ” on the mind of an imagina—
tive child; and she has publicly stated her
detestation of game—preservation for shooting.

Frank Swinnerton, in his novel, Happy
Famzbr, long ago used one of the meanest of
sports as a. grimly effective simile for the
callousness of the young man who, while
tormenting his girl, “ persisted like an otter—
hunter hunter at his sport.” The following
drastic statement shows Mr. Swinnerton as a
wholehearted opponent of all blood—sports :

“ All cruelty arises from stupidity. \We
should not blame our blood—sport enthusiasts ;
we should rather pity them. They are
survivals from an age when men were forced
to hunt in order to live, and are as out—of—date
as blunderbusses. All the same, they are
disgusting survivals (like those other blood
‘sports,’ bugs), and should be classed as
vermin whose extermination by the force of
public opinion 'is overdue ! ”

The Defence of Blood-sports.

Many of our readers are probably still
unaware of the wide activities of the British
Field Sports Society, founded about nine
years ago for the purpose of defending
blood—sports. It is a wealthy, powerful and
well—organised Society with a membership, we
believe, of more than 8,000 and, an income
(1957—8) of over J£5,800. According to the
last Annual Report it was able to spend
£2,211" odd on “ Salaries and Wages ” alone
at headquarters, with numerous branches
throughout the kingdom. The B.F.S.S. can
already boast of sundry successes in its work
of barring what we consider cultural progress
in connection with the protection of wild life.
Such, for instance, was the defeat in the

House of Lords in 1955 of the Bill for the
Prohibition of the Gin Trap, that vilest
instrument of animal torture. The Society
duly assisted in thus achieving this defeat in the
interests of sport (game—preservation, etc.),
as evidenced by statements in its Annual
Report (1955—6).

In View of these facts the Society’s modest
statement of its amazing “ Secret Service”
activities—which we imagine must be the
envy of diplomatic services throughout the
world——will be of particular interest just now.

The B.F.S.S. Secret Service.

“ The Defence of Sport against the attacks
of cranks and faddists is a matter which calls
for unceasing vigilance and work, which,
from its nature, can only be carried out by a
Society such. as yours. For instance, in the
Central Ofﬁce is kept a record of all the writ-
ings and sayings of anti—sport individuals
and organisations, information which alone
is of the greatest assistance in checking and
exposing the contradictory and often deliber—
ately misleading sayings of our opponents,
whilst we are often able to obtain in advance
information with regard to proposed anti—sport
activities which has enabled us successfully
to counter them and to prevent their obtaining
the publicity for which they crave.

We should, however, like our members to
understand that much of the work done by the
Society in countering anti—sport propaganda
is of a highly conﬁdential nature, and so it
must remain. To publish all the work done
in this respect would mean handing our secrets
to .our opponents—thereby, with one stroke
of the pen, nullifying much of the good that
has been done. We believe our members
will fully understand that in this case silence is
essential, but we feel it only right to assure
them that a very large portion of the good work
done by the Society is done in this way.”

From this paragraph it will be seen that the
need for our educational work is greater than
ever. We must redouble our efforts to create
an organised public opinion against. the
practice of killing for fun. This means a
very great increase in our work of bringing
home to people of all classes ‘the bare facts
of the cruelties inherent in blood—sports

 

 

 

 

 

126

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

February, 1939

The Station Cat

FAMOUS cat which was twice men—

tioned in the G.W.R. Magazine and

'honoured with obituary notices in the
local press when she died, lies buried in Good—
wick Station ﬂower garden.

Coming to Goodwick Station, Pembroke—
shire, South Wales, as a small kitten she lived
there for I 2 or 13 years. She had an adventur-
ous life. At one time the station was infested
with rats, and it was not safe to leave goods
about, but the cat killed off the rats and saved
the Railway Company many a claim. She
was much against dogs visiting the station
and on one occasion kept two dogs, the pro—
perty of a local J.P. on the ballast, and the cat
had to be moved in a basket before the magis—
trate could get his dogs. His threat to report
the matter had no effect since the cat was a
valuable servant. She inspected the vans
with the men, and at one time she was lent
to a neighbouring station where she cleared
the place of rats in less than a week. On one
unfortunate occasion when crossing the lines
she had her tail cut 0H by a train but her life
was saved by the prompt ﬁrst—aid which she
received.

Mr. Peter Williams who was a special
friend of the cat has been good enough to
supply me with the following particulars.
His letter reads :—

“ There are numerous incidents which
happened to the cat, but I shall only mention
one, she made her sleeping quarters in the
Signal Box which was open night and day,
and the roar of the trains did not affect her
sleep, but when the 5-50 a.m. Express was
about to leave she would wake up and would
insist on going outside, the express always
stopped at Goodwick and Puss would 'be
walking back and fore on the platform there
was a Dining Car on that train and the attendants
always made it a practise to throw out some
scraps for her after having these she would go
back to her sleeping berth and remain quiet
enough there afterwards. During my turn
of duty I had the privilidge to go home to
dinner and was living within 100 yards to
Goodwick Station. Pussy would be at the

gate of the station waiting me every day and‘

would follow me to the house after sharing
my dinner with her she would then accompany
me back to the station.”

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The inscription on the cat’s grave is as
follows :

“IN MEMORY OF THE STATION CAT
DIED AUGUST 2ND, 1953.

HERE LIES THE DEAR OLD STATION
CAT,

SHE KILLED SOME MICE AND MANY A
RAT.

HER DAYS ARE GONE, SHE DID HER
BEST.

AND NOW IN PEACE SHE’S LAID TO
REST.

SADLY MISSED BY GOODWICK
STATION STAFF.”

During the summer months thousands of
people visit the grave.

Mr. \Williams observes: “ When she died
I can assure you that I did miss her very much,
I think that if an animal is treated kindly that
she will appreciate it more than a human
being.”

Undoubtedly the friendliness she received
from Mr. \Villiams did much to develop her
personality.

E. G. B.

 

Photo by] [J. H. Stone

Ready for Play.

127

AV _
aar‘~ J:

IOWAETQJ _ ””3:

 

 

 

 

 

 

a; ‘ in

 

an :. m r-n -

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

1HE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Jam 1939

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.\W.I.

Further News re Eton Beagles.
THE President of the League has written

to the Provost and Fellows of Eton

asking “ whether they believe that
’God created hares to be hunted and killed
in a very brutal fashion by large numbers
of hounds, and whether they consider that
taking part in this ‘ sport ’ which is so mani—
festly unfair and unsporting, and which con—
ﬂicts with what is taught in the school as to an
allsmerciful Creator, can have a good effect
on a boy’s character.”

A number of replies have been received,
the Vice—Provost and two Governors refusing
to enter into discussion on this controversial
question. Correspondence with other
Governors is continuing.

Meanwhile we notice that the beaglers are
“lying low” as their meets are no longer
advertised in the “ sporting ” press.

Protest Against Christchurch Beagles.
Sandwichmen, engaged by the League,
paraded in front of the May Fair Hotel on
January 12th, which was the occasion of the
Christchurch Beagles Hunt Ball. They carried
boards: “ Beagling may be ‘ good fun ’ but
think of the hare, its terror and suffering.”
Leaﬂets were distributed and special police
were on duty, but none of the revellers
attempted to interfere with the protest.

Prior to the Ball the President of the League.

wrote to the patrons drawing attention to the
cruelty of beagling, and one titled lady replied
that she would not have given her name had
she realised the purpose of the Ball.

West Lanes. Crusade Against Coursing.
On December 22nd, the Vice—Chairman
and Secretary of the League were invited to a
meeting of Liverpool and Merseyside animal
welfare workers when it was unanimously
decided to form “ The Prohibition of Coursing
Committee.” This local body has already
the patronage of a number of leading citizens,
including three eX—Lord Mayors and three
M.Ps., and a public meeting has been arranged
for February 7th at 8 pm. (the eve of the
Waterloo Cup coursing) when the speakers
will include Mr. Hamilton Fyfe, Miss Marjorie
Bowen, Mr. Alex. Critchley, M.P., Miss

128

Lind—af—Hageby, Dr. \Walter Carroll and Mr.
Tom Smith. Leaﬂets and show cards are
being issued for display on the railways, and
in the shops and churches, and the Hon.
Secretary, Miss R. B. Johnston, 2, Hamilton
Road, Wallasey, will be pleased to receive
offers" of help. '

Under the control of this energetic Council
the local agitation against the mean and
despicable “ sport ” of hare—coursing will
rapidly make headway, and the Bill, already
drafted, should shortly be before the House.

Southport Protest Against Coursing.

Our indefatigable friends at Southport are
holding their protest meeting the same
evening, the chief speakers being Miss
Lind—af—Hageby and J. L. Cather, Esq.
The venue is the Temperance Hall, London
Street at 8 p.m., and a large attendance is
expected.

Wilmslow Meeting;

On February 8th our Wilmslow Working
Group have arranged a public meeting in
the Green Room, ReX Cinema at 8 pm.
The Chair will be taken by Samuel Taylor,
Esq., and the speakers will include Dr. Walter
Carroll and Mr. Arthur Middleton, Secretary
of the Humane Education Society, Manchester.

This is our first meeting in the Cheshire
Hunt district, and as a result we hope to be
able to form a local Branch.

Bexhill Members attend Meet.

Members of the Bexhill Branch attended a
meet of foxhounds at Battle on January 10th
and distributed literature. Considerable in-
terest was aroused, and the members intend to
engage in similar propaganda work during
the present hunting season.

Literary.

Authors invited submit MSS. of all types
(especially Fiction and Poems) to Publishers
of 40 years’ standing. Advice and Catalogue
free. No. reading fees. Stockwell, Ltd, 29,
Ludgate Hill, London.

 

 

 

4
1




 

 

 

 

 

Feéruary, I 939

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society
H072. Secrelaiy: D. JEFFREY \WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Coal Owners and Pit Ponies.

N his paper on “ Colliery Horses and
Pit Ponies ” which was read to the Fourth

' ‘ National Coal Convention last November,

Mr. Jestyn \Williams said, according to a
report in T66 Callieij/ Guardian (16—12—38):
“ I said earlier in this paper that I doubted
very much whether the time would come
when horses would be entirely eliminated
from underground. Personally, I do not
particularly want that day to arrive. Take
the horses themselves, do they like working

underground? Who knows? It is only a

surmise that they do not like it. . . . No,

I think if a horse really had a chance of

comparing surface work with underground

work he would choose underground work.

He has freedom from ﬂies and inclement

weather.”

Of course, this kind of statement cannot
be taken seriously for one moment. When
Mr. Jestyn \Williams joins the hunting folk
who claim that the fox enjoys the hunt,
and, those supporters of vivisection who
claim that a horse who was bled daily to pro—
duce a serum “ took it as in the course of an
ordinary day’s work,” he seems to us to part
company from those who have some faith
in reason and commonsense.

Lord Gainford, a well—known colliery
proprietor, in a report of the discussion at the
Coal Convention in the same journal, does not
attempt to go so far as Mr. Jestyn Williams
in relation to the use of ponies underground.
Lord Gainford maintained that the argument
that “it was contrary to Nature’s inclination
to work ponies underground ” might “ equally
well apply to human brings.” We will
agree that it is undeSirable andeven unnatural
f o r h u m a n

that matter (though we fully recognise
the force of economic necessity in their
case), but the horses and ponies have no
choice whatsoever and are merely the instru—
ments of man’s will and choice. The horses
and ponies as Lord Gainford knows, also
live during the whole of their working lives
below ground and do not come to the surface
daily as the men do, and except during long
(and now infrequent) mining disputes, they
are perpetually imprisoned underground.

There is no indication in this argument of
any- special responsibility towards the weaker
and more helpless. We regret that Lord
Gainford and others seem unable to realise
that we have even greater responsibilities
towards those weaker and more helpless than
ourselves. His lordship goes on to argue that
“ people who put forward such arguments do
not appear to realise that the ponies are used
underground to relieve the stress which
otherwise would fall on human beings, and
the ponies are able to do that work without
strain or difficulty.”

We reply that in the mines of Lancashire,
North Staffordshire and Scotland, as well as
in many mines in other coalfields, no ponies
are employed at all, and it is never claimed that
any stress has, as a result, fallen on human
beings. Those who wish to see ponies
eliminated from our mines point to the
advantages of mechanical, not human, alter—
natives to the use of ponies. It is probably
true to say that mechanical conveyors and
various kinds of portable motor haulers now
carry more than 60 per cent. of the total
coal output at or near the coal face where the
ponies are usually employed. Even if one
is prepared to allow for very exceptional

Circumstances

 

beings to
work below
g r o u n d ,

but Lord
Gainford
surely for—

gets the the
men have at
least some
degree of

choice in re—

 

in s o m e
old mines,
the weight
of evidence
and fact sup—
ports our
claim that
horses and

be elimin—
ated from the

 

lation to

New Farm; Ponier (wild) on Brockmbitrrz‘ Green. mines.

129

ponies should »

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

February, 1939

T he Scottish Society for the Prevention of Viviseetion

H071. Secretary: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Offiies: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET.

OB] ECT—T/ye abolition of Vz'i/ireiz‘ioa aml ilye Preamz‘ioa 0f Suffering i0 Animals Maia/9 ii em‘ailr.

Useless and Dangerous Tonsil Operations.

“ H E Medical W/orlzl ” for 16th Septem—
l ber, 1958, published the following
condemnation of the brutal removal
of tonsils which is apparently getting much
worse again after a decided improvement
following the warnings of Sir George New—
man and others. This article should be
circulated to the widest possible extent, to
heads of schools, parents and all having
responsibility for the health of children :—

“Leaw TlJase Tamils Alone is still the cry
of those who view the Public Health Services
from outside. The Royal Society has recently
published the very interesting paper read last
May by Dr. J. Alison Glover on ‘ The Inci~
dence of Tonsillectomy in School Children.’
He shows how the operation rate rose rapidly
after the School Medical Services got into
working order, until 1951, when 128,000
children were operated upon in one year. The
rapid increase of this brutality had already
called forth warnings from Sir George New—
man and others and there was presently a
decided fall, so that in 1935 there were only
8 5,000. This ﬁgure has now risen again
to 94,000 in 1957. The authorities do not
seem to understand why this should be.
The Medical Research Council expressed the
opinion that ‘it is a little difficult to believe
that among the mass of tonsillectomies per—
formed to-day all subjects for operation are
selected with true discrimination, and one
cannot avoid the conclusion that there is a
tendency for the operation to be performed as a
routine prophylactic ritual for no particular
reason and with no particular result.’

“ Most G.P.’s know well enough how this
comes about. The routine inspection of
elementary school children is mostly in the
hands of junior practitioners who lack the
experience and the time required for proper
selection of cases. They report that the
tonsils should be removed. They are then
taken out by surgeons who do not even feel
called upon to consider whether the operations
they perform are necessary or not. In most

130

cases nothing but the size of the tonsils is
considered. In the case of the well—to-do
and those children who attend expensive
schools the rate of operation is even higher
than amongst the poor. In public schools
selection should be possible, but there are, of
course, other factors to be taken into account.
The well—educated parent commonly expects
that the operation will become necessary
and is apt to suggest it to the doctor. It is
to the doctor’s interest to acquiesce and he has
probably never been taught to differentiate
between the large adolescent tonsil and the
tonsil which is really the home of septic
foci, only to be eradicated by its removal. The
specialist who sees the child may know the
diHerence, but he is often worried by parent
and doctor alike and advice to be cautious and
wait awhile is countered by the supposed
advantages of operation in the summer, or
between school terms, or before some par—
ticular examination comes along.

“ These views are not very flattering to the
profession. But can one deny their truth?
Are we not as a profession morally responsible
for many thousands of useless and dangerous
tonsil operations.”

Death after Injection.

Thomas Leech Percival, 100 Harrogate
Street, Barrow—in—Furness, aged 20 years,
died a few minutes after the second injection
of 10 c.c. of anti—scarlatinal serum, on the
day of his admission into the Devonshire
Road Hospital, with a diagnosis of scarlet
fever.

The inquest was held on 6th September

(NON/9 ”Valera Daily~ Alail, 7th September,

1958). The young man’s father stated that his
son was employed as a clerk and was robust,
having enjoyed good health. He had com-
plained of a bad throat, went to bed, but at
8 a.m. next morning he felt better. However,
the doctor who had been called in stated that
he was suffering from scarlet fever and ordered
his removal to hospital.

The young man was admitted at 12.45 pm.

 

 




 

 

Fcoraary ‘ 1939

and on the matron’s report the medical
officer in charge of the hospital injected
10 c.c. of anti—scarlatinal serum into the
patient’s buttock. At 5 pm. he examined
him, and considered that another IO c.c.
serum should be given intravenously to
prevent complications. The serum was warm
and was injected slowly into the vein of the
right arm. The patient said he felt cold in
the back as the doctor ﬁnished the injection.
The doctor told the nurse in charge that if
the patient felt shivery in a few minutes he
should be given more blankets and hot water
bottles, and the foot of the bed should be
raised. He was recalled ten minutes later
by the nurse and found the patient unconscious,
with difficulty in breathing. An injection
of adrenaline was given but he died shortly
afterwards. The cause of death was ana—
phylaxis. The doctor added: “ In this case
there were no obvious reasons why the
administration employed in 500 other cases
should not be used, as there was no reason to
suppose the patient was a hypersensitive

subject. I have dealt with 500 people and I .

have never known a similar case.”

The coroner, Mr. F. W. Poole, said :—

“ I find that in accordance with the evidence
of the doctor this unfortunate youth died
from anaphylaxis. I find that the injections
were properly administered. It is very un—
fortunate that this has happened, and I only hope
that other people who may be admitted with
scarlet fever will not be disturbed because
this youth has died under the injection.”

(NOTE—Without any serum treatment,
scarlet fever has become so mild that in some
outbreaks there have been no fatal cases at all,
and a fatality rate of I per cent. has been quite
common. In 19 54 the only death from scarlet
fever in Leicester was that of a child who was
killed by the serum treatment. Had this
young man been left at home and had careful
nursing, there is every likelihood that he would
have made a complete recovery. The relatives
of patients removed to hospitals should give
strict instructions that no serums of any kind
are to be administered—EDITOR Vaccination
Inquirer.)

(Repgintca’froni “ T/Jc Vaccination Inqniror,” N ooernbcr ut,
1938.

 

T/Je rarest road to boa/to, say what tiny will,
I 5 never to rappore we c/ia/l be ill.

Alort of More coi/J~ we poor rnorta/J know
Front doctorr and imagination flow.

(CHARLES CHURCHILL, 1731-1764).

131

l'I-IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Rat Week

HE Universities Federation for Animal

\Welfare, incorporating ULAWS, issued

a very useful document free of charge
to members of the public in connection with
Rat \Week (November 6—1;) which unfortu—
nately we were not able to print in the Novem—
ber issue of this magazine. As, however, the
destruction of rats is going on all the year
round, and not only during “ Rat \Y/eek,” the
Notes issued by ULAWS which are concerned
with humane—or less inhumane—methods
of destruction than those usually employed,
we are glad to give publicity to these notes in
the present issue.

It will be noted that in the ﬁrst paragraph
attention is called to the fact of the sensitive
and intelligent nature of these generally
despised creatures.

UFAWS’ Notes.

Rats are highly sensitive and intelligent
animals. Their destruction should be carried
out humanely, though thoroughly. Any sense
of vindictiveness should be avoided as being
irrational. '

Rat—proofing. Buildings should be so con—
structed and repaired that the entrance of rats
is prevented, and access of these animals to
food and water should be cut off.

Finnigation. Cyanide fumigants (Cyanogas,
Cymag, Calcid) are extremely effective and
humane, and can safely be used in hedgerows
and cornstacks; in buildings they are dan—
gerous, however, in inexpert hands. The
exhaust gas from a motor car (containing
carbon monoxide) is humane, effective and
safe. Sulphur fumigants and other irritant
gases should not be used, since a non—fatal
dose causes subsequent suffering.

r Ferret; ana’ a’ogr or gans provide an effective
and relatively humane method when well
trained and handled.

Bait poisonr. Most of these are excessively
inhumane, but red squill, which is effective
and a speciﬁc poison for rats, is the least in—
humane and has the advantage of not affecting
domestic animals.

Virtue; are less inhumane than most bait
poisons, but are open to other objections.

Cats, though hardly humane, have the
advantage of permanently keeping down the
rat population if they are of a good ratting
strain. In districts where gin traps are ex—

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

.,__...
, , , “gym—.Mﬁm.
:4. «.20 , .v-«q4 sang-4.1”“ ‘9" ‘

__.¢ : . ._«~.._wts 1. »‘s.r-n|~

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

tensively used, cats cannot be kept because
they are constantly caught in the traps.

Traps. The best traps are either of the
breakback type, such as the Nipper, Gripper,
Veto, etc., which kill the rat outright, or of
the doable—door cage type, like the Brailsford.
The gin trap (toothed steel trap) should never
be used, on account of its cruelty ; experiments
carried out by the Zoological Society in 1919
showed that the much cheaper breakback trap
is little less efficient, and that the double-door
cage trap is substantially more efficient. Traps
should be set in tunnels or drain pipes, or under
slanting boards leaning against a wall.

c. w. H. '

Correspondence

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

RUTHLESS REPRISAL !

DEAR SIR,—Time and time again we are told by
people who make money out of zoos, and by degenerate
people who derive pleasure from seeing caged animals,
that animals simply [one being in a cage. But the fact
remains that of late there have been an increasing num—
ber of zoo escapes. The latest escape, which received
considerable press publicity, concerned a leopard which
got away from Primley Zoo, Paignton, Devon. The un-
fortunate beast had been in jail for anumber of years for
no oHence at all. A remarkable outburst of savagery
was directed against him; because he resented an
unnatural life he was hunted by police, soldiers, men
and women, armed with guns, riﬂes, and clubs, in
cars and on foot. “ Leopard hunting became a
popular sport as the morning advanced.” (Evening
Afewr, 11/1/1939). The big game hunting mentality
was in evidence, “ I was hoping to hypnotise the leopard
with my headlights and then run over it,” gallantly
stated an ex—big game hunter (News Clnonz’e/e,
11/1/1939). And again, “ The best way to capture it
would be to bait a trap with raw meat poisoned with
strychnine.” (If any dog or cat got into the trap and

- suffered the agonies of strychnine that would be their

funeral!) The leopard, as shown by his photograph
(Evening New, 12/1/1939) is a handsome looking
creature in comparison with the photograph of the three
European statesmen in the next column. “ Normally
the leopard . . . would be more scared than the people
it frightened. If penned in a corner it would seek
to protect itself.” (News Cbronz'o/e, 11/1/1939). He
was finally shot by a soldier, who will probably be
awarded the V.C. for his heroic act. “ It was lying
perfectly still only three feet from him. It was staring
him right in the face. It did not move or hiss. He got
it with his ﬁrst shot.” (Evening News, 12/1/1930).

Doubtless those 40 hours of liberty were more
precious to the leopard than all his years of captivity.
Although better off dead it is hard lines on an animal
which was brought into this civilised jungle against
his own will.

Incidentally it drives home the fact that not until
animals are treated decently will humans be treated

February, I 939

decently. There is a close connection between a mob
hunting a leopard, and a mob hunting a Jew.
Yours, etc.,
E. G. BARLow.
77, Drakefield Road, SAY/.17.

13/1/1959-

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

SIR,——I was much pleased to see the article by the
Editor on “ Necessary?” Cruelty, also “ Horrors of
The Fur Trade ” by Katherine Cox; both in the
December issue.

With reference to the Fur Trade, it seems extra—
ordinary that in spite of many efforts to make known
the shocking atrocities perpetrated on lovely, furry

creatures, women will persist in wearing skins of -

murdered animals. Are these women absolutely
void of feeling, or has the fetish of fashion got them so
fast in his grip that they have no wills of their own?
It is perfectly revolting to see the amount of fur in
shop windows and on women in the streets.

We talk of civilisation, Christianity and refinement,
but we have no right to lay claim to any one of these
virtues, so long as this appalling state of affairs continues.
Also, the wearing of wings, feathers and whole birds
seems to be on the increase. Both wearing of fur
and feathers, are, like hunting, shooting, ﬁshing etc.,
simply relics of barbarism; of the days when our
ancestors were wild savages, living under the law of the
jungle.

It seems quite impossible to reach these fur wearing
people, for I find that newspaper Editors will not
publish letters against the wearing of fur or hunting,
etc ; possibly because they have so many advertisements
from fur shops, also so many of their patrons are fur
wearers and hunters and it would not do to offend
these great folk. So, money, as ever, is at the root of
this evil, also.

\Vould the cost of a fairly large advertisement on
hoardings throughout the country be prohibitive?
This would, in vulgar terms——“ Hit these fur wearers
in the eye,”——and maybe make some impression on
some of them.

Until some effort of this sort is made, fur wearing
will continue, and “ tenderhearted? ” ladies will
appear in churches decked out in skins and feathers
torn from their fellow creatures, children of the same
Father these people profess to worship. Truly it is
horrible. ‘

Yours,
EDITH J. C. FAYLE.

Holywood, 12/1/39.

Never, until I watched this kaleidoscope of little
life, did I realise how much rats co-operate and gossip.
Members of each species met their kind, exchanged
countless sniffs, chased each other, gambolled in play,
and dug among the roots in consort. Individuals of
different species, on meeting, would either pass each
other by or rise on their haunches with their tiny fore—
paws clenched like a pugilist’s, and sniff the air while
peering at the stranger through a maZe of quivering
whiskers. Sometimes each w0uld fall forward onto
its splayed forepaws and glance ahead like an old
solicitor’s clerk over his spectacles. Nobody seemed
to molest anybody else in this miniature world.

(Franz “ Animal Trearare ” 19' Ivan T. Sanderson.)

I32

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Februmy, 1939

 

Now Ready.
The

ANIMALS' FRIEND

Bound volume for I938 is profusely illustrated
with line blocks by NEAVE PARKER, E. G;
BARLOW, J. REID and others, and with many
reproductions of animal photographs and
studies.

 

It makes a

Grand Prize or Gift Book

and contains articles on Wild Life Ways, Stories
of Animal Life, Animal Welfare and literary
articles, reviews, verses, etc., etc., by E. G.
BARLOW, CUTHBERT O. BRIDGWATER,
HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S., L. S. ELIOTT, ERIC
HARDY, BASIL HARVEY-JEA’MES,
“ONLOOKER,” HUDSON READ, MARION
REID, ROBERT H. SPURRIER, WINIFRED
GRAHAM WILSON and others.

Over 400 pages. Bound in Orange buckram.
PRICE 3/6 or by post 4/-

May be ordered of any bookseller or obtained direct
from I, Featherstone Buildings, High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.

 

 

THE ANIMAI S’ FRIEND

 

Your Pet

drawn at your own home by

Aylwin Finch

The Animals' Fair

 

Prices from 5/6 upwards.
Apply :
Aylwin Finch,

c/o The Animals’ Friend,

Holborn, London, W.C.I

 

Have a Portrait of

who does Sketches and Portraits at

I, Featherstone Buildings, High

 

 

 

 

 

 

The practice of
Vlvisection—
with its terrible tortures inflicted

upon “our lesser brethren ”—in
particular upon dogs——

is morally bankrupt and
scientifically futile.
After a quarter-of-a—century’s research,

this academic, aimless tdil has never yet
produced any useful results. It

must be abolished.

If you are anxious to secure its total abolition,
if you shudder at the thought of the senseless
suffering it entails—write for particulars of our
work and join our League without delay. Address :

The Rev. R. DAUNTON-FEAR, B.D.,
The Vicarage, Lindfield, Sussex
(Chairman of Committee and Hon. Director)
The Church
Anti-Vivisection League

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND February, 1939

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc. ‘

Seeks to prohibit the vim'seetion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, ‘ VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

 

 

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TRY

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Airs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely W'est Country is now so well known as scarcely
to need advertising.

Established thirty-two year; it is exe/axire/y vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well—balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively
cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!
Send to-day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 33, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend
AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.
Price 1%d. post free.
Ideal Boarding Establishment Edited by JESSEY WADE.
Near Sea and Downs, generous STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. Valuable in Schools and Homes.-
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 16d.
Moderate Terms. Bound Volumes 1938. Price 1/9 per post
' artistic ana’ attractive Binding
Tariﬁ‘ : MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

The League fOr the ProhibitiOn Of Cruel 8110115

7, VICTORIA STREET, W’ESTMINSTER, 5.1V.

Preriderzt: HAMILTON FYFE
Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

Just Published——

“COURSING—NATIONAL SPORT OR NATIONAL SHAME”
By Air-Commodore L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
‘ Price 6d. post free

 

 

 

 

134

 

 

 

 




,r. - ,__..,,,,.".2

February, 1939 . THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.
DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

 

 

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
and protection.

Reportr, Leaflets and journal gladly renz‘ on application to :—
The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
GEORGE ARLISS, President. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Seereia'ry.

 

 

The International League of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
St. Hubert . The Cats Protection

BiSh ié
( op of L ge) League

This League has been instituted for the cessation The one SOCiCty deVOted 50131y to the welfare
of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and Of cats and kittens.

trapping of animals for human consumption and for

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing MEMBERSHIP 5'/ = PER ANNUM,

before all nations the realisation of the callous taking including the Society’s oﬁicial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. a THE CAT 9,

MEMBERS INVITED A . M b h' S b . . 6d
A ll information from 2“ ssocrate em ers 1p u scriptlon 35. .per annum.

The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :—-—The Secretary, 29,
I 37, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8. ’ Church Street, Slough. Bucks.

 

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

56 BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, \V.C.I.
Chair/nan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Trearurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD

N... Pub/imam FOXHUNTERS’ PHILOSOPHY

A garland from five centuries

 

A SUITABLE NEW YEAR GIFT ! Price 3d.

T . Remember the Nature Cure Hospital and
11“ CASE OF SICICNESS “SI—Nursing Home. It has been founded on
humane principles and it provides the kind of diet and treatment you would desire to have.

T . Please think of its needs. The majority of
1“ TIMES OF HEALTH 'mits patients are admitted below cost. Even

a small Annual Subscription from you would be a very great help.

 

 

63-65, Erpingham Road, Putney, S.W._15
Telephone: Putney 6602.
Out—Patient Clinic: 41, BAKER STREET, WJ. Telep/Jone: WELBECK 8348.

 

 

M.

All rubreriptionr and communication; for t/ye Magazine rboula' lie addrerrea’ “ T/Je Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Feat/Jerrtone Buildingr, Higl.) Holborn, London, IV .C .1.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

February, 1939

 

(1 EDW. 8.)

 

Edinburgh—Io, Queensferry Street.

 

Prohibition of Vim'sectz'om on Dogs (Scotland)

BILL

Provide for the abolition of Vivisection upon dogs; and
for purposes connected therewith.‘

4 E it enacted by the King’s most" Excellent Majesty, by and with

B the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :——~

1.—(l) From and after the passing of this Act no person shall
perform any vivisection on any dog, with or without the use of
anaesthetics, and no person shall be licensed to perform any such
experiment.

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall
be liable on conviction under-the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the
case of a ﬁrst offence to a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and in the
case of a second or any subsequent offence to a ﬁne not exceeding
one hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months.

2. Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in so far as
relates to dogs, is hereby repealed.

3. This Act shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January,
nineteen hundred and thirty-eight.

4. This Act may be cited as the Prohibition of Vivisection on
Dogs (Scotland) Act, 1937, and shall extend to Scotland only.
(Bill 25)

“SAVE OUR DOGS”
NATIONAL CAMPAEGN.

(Under f/ae empires of T/ae Seems/J Tar/«IVaggerr’ C lab)

OF BUCHAN.

Hon. Dr'reefor and Treasurer MISS N. IVORY.

to give it their support when re—introduced.

KIWrite for Petition Forms to Miss Ivory.

A.D. 1936.

Prohibition
of vivi—
section on
dogs.

Amendment
of 39 81 40
Vict. C. 77.

Commence—
ment.

Short title
and extent.

Pa/rom—«THE COUNTESS on HADDINGTON, THE EARL or BUCHAN, ROSALIE, COUNrEss

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill
(introduced by Mr. Joseph Westwood, M.P., in 1936) and ask them

London—7, Haymarket Court, Haymarket, SKY/.1.

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' Welfare, 1. Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn. London. W.C.l.

 

 




