WALTER D. HUDDLESTON “MM'TTEES‘ MK
KENTUCKY AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

APPROPRIATIONS

Q‘Cnifeb $fafes ﬁenaie SELESJr‘éEﬁSéZZEE °”

SELECT COM M ITTEE ON
WASHINGTON. D.C. 2.0510 SMALL BUSINESS

September 25,

Mr. Frank M. Handley
3009 Kipling Way
Louisville, Kentucky 40205

Dear Mr. Handley:
I appreciate hearing from you.

You will be pleased to know that during consideration of the
Department of the Interior FY '85 appropriations bill the Senate
Committee on Appropriations, on which I serve, approved $45,000 for
the guard dog research project. In addition, the committee
strongly noted the potential of taste aversion experiments as
having substantial merit.

I hope the Interior appropriations bill will soon be
considered by the full Senate.

Thank you for taking time to inform me of your views. If I

can assist you in the future, please let me know.

WW

Walter D. Huddleston f

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON

PHILIP L. SWIFT f
KENTUCKY

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTM
3 . ,..

CDJCnifeh ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

February 21, 1974

Mrs. Carl Ousley
11608 Owl Creek Lane
Anchorage, Kentucky 40223

Dear Mrs. Ousley:

Thank you very much for your recent letter telling me
of your concern with the poisoning of predators.

As you know, 8. 887 would put into law the President's
Executive Order banning the use of chemical toxicants in
control of predatory animals on federal lands or in federal
programs, except in emergency situations. Hearings have
been held on this bill, however, the Commerce Committee has
not met in a markwup session yet. Similar legislation has been

introduced in the House of Representatives and is pending before
the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee.

I appreciate knowing of your support for these bills.
I am certainly opposed to torturous treatment of any animals
and when legislation relating to predators comes to the Senate
floor for a vote, I will keep your humanitarian concerns in
mind.

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerely,

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON COMMITTEES:
KENTUCKY AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY

GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

’PJCniieb $fafez $91!an

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

August 15 , 1974

Mr. Frank M. Handley
3009 Kipling Way
Iouisville, Kentucky 40205

Dear Frank:

I have read with interest your recent correspondence
supporting the inplementation of the proposed Department of
Interior's regulations on the importation of injurious wildlife.

As you are aware, these regulations are now pending and
are open for public conment. In this regard, all statements made
should be sent to the Chief, Office of Environmental Coordination ,
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Washington,
D.C. 202140. I am certain that the Department would be most happy
to receive your comments.

It is my understanding that the regulations should be
finalized and ready to be inplementated by the end of this
year. I have been assured by officials in the Department of
Interior that "vested interests" will not control or impede
the finalizing of the regulations.

With kind regards .

 




‘

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON ‘ PHILIP L. SWIFT
KENTUCKY ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

’PJCniieh ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C 20510

December 20, 1973

bhf??>.éUAf21EfrbN’ELQSIWE4fEZAU5

cm x 22mm;

iMr. W. G. Duncan
519 Ridgewood Road
Louisville, Kentucky #0207

Dear mr. Duncan:

Thank you so much for your recent letter and the enclosed copy of-
Bill Peterson's editorial.

You may be interested in the latest development on the endangered
species conference report. Senator Cook has agreed to withdraw his amend—
Hent relating to construction of the road to the Zilpo recreation area and
has indicated that he will, instead, offer those words in.a separate bill
and will request public hearings early next year. The endangered species
conference report can now be taken up on the Senate and House floor for
final approval before adjournment sine die.

I hOpe that this information is helpful to you. The endangered
species legislation is certainly deserving of prompt attention by the
Congress.

NN'best wishes to you_for this holiday season.

cerely,

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON PHILIP L. SWIFT
KENTUCKY ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

”PJCnifeb ﬁfafez granafe

WASHINGTON. D.C 20510

June 28, 1973

JMs. Rose Mary Rommel
1211 Summit Avenue
Louisville, Kentucky MOZOM

Dear Ms. Rommel:
Thank you for your recent postcard.

I appreciate knowing of your support for legislation to ban
the use of steel jaw, leghold traps. Legislation designed to accomplish
this has been introduced both in the House of Representatives (H.R. 5917,
introduced.by Congressman Broomfield oijichigan) and in the Senate
(S. 1637, introduced by Senator Bayh). Senator Bayh's bill would,
in addition to establishing national trapping standards, have siX
major purposes: (1) to prohibit the use of inhumane traps on federal
lands; (2) to prohibit the interstate commerce of inhumane traps;

(3) to prohibit the interstate commerce of products taken from animals
which were captured with inhumane traps; (h) to require the inspection
of traps at least once every 2h hours; (5) to assist individual states
in complying with the requirements of the Act; (6) to encourage the
submission by individuals of information leading to the apprehension
of any individual violating the provisions of the Act.

I am hopeful that the Senate Commerce Committee, which will
review S. 1637, will recommend prompt, positive action by the Senate
to prevent further inhumane treatment to animals.

You.may be interested to know that the Senate Commerce Committee
has concluded hearings on S. 819 and S. 887, bills which would authorize
a national policy and program concerning predatory mammals; prohibit
the poisoning of animals and.birds on public lands; regulate the
manufacture, sale and possession of certain chemical toxicants; authorize
the Secretary of the Interior to help states in controlling damage
caused by predatory and depredating animals; establish a program of
research concerning control and conservation of predatory and depredating
animals; and for several other purposes. The Committee has not yet
met in executive session to make their final recommendations but these
recommendations are expected to come'before the Senate in the near
future. I will, of course, keep you posted on any floor action.

 




Ms. Rose Mary Rommel
June 28, 1973
Page two

I had earlier written to the Department of Agriculture
concerning soring of Tennessee walking Horses. As you know, soring
in any breed is an unlawful act. Since the Horse Protection Act
of 1970 was adopted to stop this soring, and since it is difficult
for the agents of the Department of Agriculture to attend all horse
shows in all states, the Department has concentrated its efforts where
the problem.is known to eXist. Department inspectors, when at horse
shows where other breeds are shown, inspect animals from all classes.
As the practice of soring diminishes in the Tennessee walking Hbrse
industry, more time and effort will be directed toward other breeds
to determine if soring occurs and then to correct it where it is
found.

Again, thank you for writing; I hope this information is
helpftl and responsive.

With kind regards.

Sin erely,

 




I“ ' L
f
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON PHILIP L. SWIFT
KENTUCKY ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

’Rlc'nﬁeh giaies ﬁenaic

WASHINGTON. 0.6. 20510

January 24, 1973

Ms. Olga Hoback
616 Oakdale Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Dear Ms. Hoback:
Thank you very much for your recent correspondence.

I understand and appreciate your concern about the need
to retain the Executive Order issued by the President which
restricted the use of poisons on federal lands. As you know,
the Senate Commerce Committee in 1972 studied legislation
which would prohibit use of all toxicants on federal lands
and prohibit field use of any toxicants which had a secondary
poisoning effect. Due to the press of business at the end
of the session, this matter did not receive final Senate
action. The sponsors are expected to introduce similar
legislation early in this session of Congress. I am sympathetic
to the problems you raise and will keep your thoughts in mind
as this legislation is considered.

Again, thank you for writing; I appreciate hearing
from you.

Sincerely,

Walter D. Huddlestonxg

 




HUDDLESTON, Senator Walter - R. - Kentucky

New l9?3 ~ 93rd Congress

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON PHILIP L. SWIFT
KENTUCKY ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

(PJCnifeh ﬁiaiez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, [3.0 20510

August 20, 1973

Mrs. Carl Ousley
11506 Owl Creek Lane
Anchorage, Kentucky 40223

Dear Mrs. Ousley:

Thank you for your recent letter. I apologize for the delay in
responding; with Congress trying to tie up many loose ends before the
August recess, I found that I had fallen somewhat behind in my correspondence.

I have talked with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
of the Department of Agriculture concerning their rules to insure humane
treatment to experimental animals. There are, at present, basic rules
existing to cover this situation. The APHIS does plan, however, to
revise their regulations —- by proposing rule changes in the Federal
Register -- which would impose a mandatory period of excercise (none
exists at the present) and to modify present requirements relating to
sizes of cages (to increase the size). This proposed rulemaking is
still in the planning stages now, but the typical procedure would be
for the APHIS to print its proposed new rules in the Federal Register,
comments would be invited for (usually) a 30-day period, then the comments
would be reviewed and AEEIS would promulgate new rules with possible
changes in their original recommendations based on the comments received.

 

As I mentioned in my letter to you of March 12, I am opposed to
needless and torturous experimentation. It appears that the new.APHIS
regulations will do much to allevaite this suffering.

Again, thank you for bringing your concerns to my attention.
With kind regards.
Sincerely,

0 ;

Walter D. Huddleston

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON COMMITTEES:
KENTUCKY AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
‘ - AND FORESTRY

APPROPRIATIONS

CDJCnifeh ﬁfaiez ﬁenafe SELEEEEE’SEéEZEEC’N

SELECT COMMITTEE ON
WASHINGTON» D-C- 20510 SMALL BUSINESS

February 15, 1980

Mr. Frank M. Handley
3009 Kipling Way
Louisville, Kentucky 40205

Dear Mr. Handley:

Thank you for your correspondence regarding several
matters of concern to you.

S. 425, a bill to end the use of steel—jaw leghold
traps, was introduced by Senator Williams on February 9,
1979 and referred to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works. The committee has not yet taken any action
on this bill. I am told, however, that early this year
hearings will be held on this issue in order to determine
if banning the use of these devices is warranted. I look
forward to revieﬂihg the results of the hearings.

Hakim,“ ~

The administration has requested $158 billion in new

appropriations for defense, some $142 billion of which
would actually be expended in fiscal 1981. Outlays for
fiscal 1981 will exceed those in fiscal 1980 by roughly
$15 billion. The budget proposes to fund a wide range of
programs, including the MX missile, a ninth Trident
submarine, air-launched cruise missiles, the XM-l tank,
the fighting vehicle system and increased numbers of F—16,
F—l8, KC—lO, and TR-l aircraft.

I believe we must always maintain a strong and
reliable defense system, and as a member of the Defense
Appropriations Subcommittee, I will be working to
guarantee that we have the military capability that we
need.

AS you probably know, the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee on November 19 reported by a 9 to 6 vote the
proposed SALT II treaty. Consideration of the treaty by
the full Senate has, however, been indefinitely postponed

and the future of the treaty is extremely uncertain.

The President's decision to postpone consideration
undoubtedly reflects the growing concern about the Middle
East and Persian Gulf area and questions about develop—
ments in other parts of the world. This is a very trying
time for our nation and it is important for us to clarify

 




Mr. Frank M. Handley
February 15, 1980
Page 2

our national interests and develop a framework within
which we can secure them.

I believe the United States must always maintain a
strong and credible military posture, and should the

treaty be brought up later, I will certainly evaluate it
in those terms.

Sincerely,

.c‘" ’9‘ (if!
f on}!
£11315":
j 3“.”
.1 "If
9"

/

1“" > .1
. V's-
. 1

Walter D. Huddleston

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON
KENTUCKY COMMITTEES:

AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

APPROPRIATIONS

,2] Cnifeh ﬁfafeﬁ $ena£e SELECT COM M ITTEE ON

INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON. 0.6. 20510 SELECT COMMITTEE ON
SMALL BUSINESS

March lh,

Mr. William Moynagh
Ramsey's Mobile Homes

Box A-13, Rt. 1
Pikeville, Kentucky hlSOl

Dear Mr. Moynagh:

Enclosed is a copy of Mr. Gary Catron's letter
in response to my inquiry on your behalf. I am pleased,
as I know you are, that Secretary Andrus' decision to
restructure the Animal Damage Control program will give
greater emphasis to nonlethal and more selective methods.
This action should make the program not only more accept-
able environmentally but also more effective.

vﬁincerely,
; j . //

Enclosure

 




’ f
1' /

1, / 4:" x c. , 2, V

United States Department of the Interior

OFFICE OF 'l‘HE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D.C.‘ 20240

Honorable Walter D. Huddleston
United States Senate ‘
Washington, D.C. 20510 g.»

Dear.Senator Huddleston:

Thank you for your letter of January 30, 1980, on behalf of Mr. William
Moynagh and Ms. Phyllis McMurry-Tate supporting the Seeretary's
decisions affecting the future of the Animal Damage Control Program.

While we recognize that there are no quick and easy solutions to

the age-old conflict between livestock and predators, we believe that
the Secretary's decision to restructure the program and give greater

emphasis to nonlethal and more selective methods ultimately will make
it more acceptable environmentally and more effective as well.

The Department will welcome your continuing interest and support
as we implement these decisions.

Sincerely,

raw—a R. Caﬁw

Gary R. Catron

Assistant to the Secretary and
Director of Congressional and
Legislative Affairs

 

 




WALTER D. HUDDLESTON COMMITTEES:
KENTUCKY AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
- AND FORESTRY

APPROPRIATIONS

gtnifeb ﬁiaies ﬁenafe SELEﬁTTEECIEéLEEE °”
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 SELECT COMMITTEE ON

SMALL BUSINESS

May 7, 1981

Mrs. William Moynagh
Ramsey Mobile Homes

Box A13
Pikeville, KentuCky 41501

Dear Mrs. Moynagh:

Thank you for your letter regarding animal protection
legislation.

Senate Resolution 65, a Bill to Promote Alternative
Nonanimal Testing Procedures, was introduced by Senator
Durenberger and referred to the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works. No hearings on this bill have
been scheduled. The Research Modernization Act, H.R. 556,
was introduced on January 5, 1981 and is pending in the House
Science and Technology Committee and in the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee. Neither committee has taken
action on this bill.

Sincerely,

     




