 

 

A CORRESPONDENCE
' * ’ “The Dally Mall” 3, .

 

 

 C' BETWEEN

f‘ sm vaa HOBSLE . L
' R WALTER R HADWE : 7
‘ ‘ ".CIVISECTION

A September 1908.

 

 

 

SUPPRESSED LETTERS ” "

Also a Letter by Dr. Durham,
with the Suppressed Reply

:,- ’ _ . . ,
E ' r _ Published by- the . , r p
’ BRITISH UNION EOR THE ABOLITION oE VIVISECTION

’ ‘ ‘ 32, Charmg Cro’Ss London, S. W - ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




w The Bntlsh Union
for the Abe! men of VIVlsectlon

—-——@oosE——— -

. I

H. S. H. PRINCESS LU’DWIG VON
LOWENSTEIN-WER'I'IIEIM.

The Lady VICTORIA CAMPBELL.

The Countess of DUNRAVEN.

EMMA, Countess of RAVENSWORTE

The Marchesa LoMELLINI (MiSs
MINA SANDEMAN).

‘The Viscount BANGOR

The Viscountess BANGOR.

" The Viscemmss BOLINGBROKE‘;

The Viscount HAEEERTON.

' ‘ -The‘ Viscountess WOLSELEY.

The Lady WIMBORNE.

‘ The Lady BAfP'I‘ERs'EA. '
.The‘ Lady DD'NBOYNE.
The Lady ROSMEAD.

The Baroness_ DE KNOOP.

-The Hon. SEYMOUR F.) ORMsRN

GORE.
Sir CHARLES SKELTON. ,
Sir GEORGE. KEKEWICH, MP.

1

 

,V Boundress : ERANcEs POWER. COBBE.

Vice—Presidents.

Sir. J—. BAMEORD SLACI‘I.»
The DEAN OF CLONMACNOISE
Col. SANDYS, M. P.

ROBERT CAMEEON, Esq, M. P
Judge Moss. A

DW. FIELD, Esq. ., M. P.

J. HODGE, Esq. MP.

J. R. CLYNES, Esq, M. P.

GILBERT MCMIOKING, Esq. ., M. P.

RICHARD BELL, Esq. ., M. 1’.

JAMES O’GRADY, Esq , M. P.

A. VV. BLACK, Esq., M. P.

”K. E. O’BRIEN, Esq , M..P

‘ Dr MAONAMABA, M. P.

Mrs. CHARLES THOMAS.

I '.*=1VIrs. FRANK MORRISON.

' ‘W. M,._;BosceE, Esq. ., J. P.

'.Mrs,. ROSCOE. ,
. WILLIAM TEEE, Esq.

'. ‘LIiSs J ANOTHA.

/ -:.Miss BAIIEN. I.

 

ALL.

, ‘ ' Hon. Secretary . ,- — .
‘ , WALTER R. HADWEN, Esq, MD.

- Hen. Treasurer:
The Right Hon. VI SCOUNT HARBERTON

Secretary
. , MISS B. E. KIDD.
'v Headquarters of the Union: 32, CHARING CROSS, VVIIIIEIIALL, LONDoN,° n. W.

Central Executive Committee.
' Chalrman: Rev. B. D. MONRO, M. A.

.' The Lady KATHLEEN BUSHE. , :ALE. H. ROSE,- Esq.

' ”W. J._ CAMERON, ESq.; MD. ;--. The Lady ROSMEAD.

j. Madame GuERINI. , - ~Rev. 'P.’ W. SPARLING, M. A.
R. W. MARIIND’AL E, Esq. ’ Rev. J. VERscIIOYLE, M. A.

» Miss S. S MONRO. . . HAROLD WHISTON, Esq.

. R. D. PRANKERD, Esq., M. D. Miss A. F. WHEELEY. .
Mrs. RoscoE. ' Rev. J. .S. WOODHOUSE, M.A.

_ - . . . Bankers. '-' , _ , .
" , LLOYDS BANELIMITED, 16,.»Sb. James Street,“ London, SW; -

 

 

 

 

 




M is",

i. ;‘ ‘g‘ix5;~’5b.’a.“"e:§“ 5‘ ~3 “"1 e . :3 w
'65.; 2; difﬁﬁirrl~fle§ﬂ§é¢ﬁ§hi :1.» . 1.1.3} .

 

“no

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

    

The correspondence that follows is oﬂered
to the public as illustrating the claims of V ioi-
section, put forward by one of the foremost
oivisectors of the day, together with a reply to

those claims made by the most prominent

. medical anti—oioisectionist. N o demand is made

on the reader save that he should carefully
weigh the arguments on both sides, but his
attention is drawn to the singular fact that on
one side only—and that not the one which is
popularly credited with attach and abuse——
has argument given place to personalities of
an untrue and libellous character. The Editor
of the newspaper which allowed such person-
alities to he introduced into a correspondence
and refused to admit a reply thereto cannot

be held free from blame.

 
 

Published by the Central Committee 0f the
British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, SW.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

THE “DAILY MAIL”
CORRESPON 6E.

 

 

ASSERTIONS 0F SIR VICTOR HORSLEY AND
CHALLENGE BY DB. HADWEN.

 

[FROM “ THE DAILY MAIL,” WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 2, 1908.]

 

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS.

“THE DEBT 0F SUFFERING HUMANITY.”

 

By SIR VICTOR HORSLEY.

 

To the Editor of THE DAILY MAIL.

SIR,——A short time ago a letter was published in
The Daily Mail expressing a desire for information
in regard to the part which has been played by the‘
use of experiments on animals for the relief of suffering.

I therefore ask your permission to respond to the
request in so far as it is at all possible to deal with a
subject of such magnitude in-the columns of a daily
journal. Conﬁning my remarks to the work of the
last ﬁfty years only in the subject of infectious dis-
eases, I would begin by pointing out that the whole
discovery of the parasitic nature of an immense
number of maladies, whether surgical or medical,
together with the consequent modern methods of

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(2)

dealing with or preventing them, is the direct outcome
or development of the experimental researches of
Pasteur and Lister, and it is only when this fact is
continually borne in mind that it is possible to realise
what an immense debt suffering humanity and suffer—
ing animals owe to animal experimentation. The
following are some examples of the beneﬁcial results
of their work :—

BOON or ANJESTHETICS.

Up to some forty or ﬁfty years ago the case of
any person who was in need of surgical treatment
was indeed a deplorable one. There was no anaes-
thetic to obliterate the pain of cutting operations,
so that the fear as well as the physical distress of the
patient must have been extreme. Suppuration, fre-
quently sloughing of the wound, great pain, and pro—
longed fever were (except by accident) the invariable
consequences of any surgical procedures.

The mortality was extremely high. Operations
upon the internal organs were in the vast majority
of cases fatal, patients with abdominal diseases
succumbing to acute peritonitis, which, as is well
known, is one of the most distressingly painful modes
of death. Surgical wards were veritable death-traps,
and patients could with difﬁculty be persuaded to
enter them, dreading not only the terrors of the
operation itself, and the subsequent inevitable weeks
of acute and wearing suffering, but the prolonged

period of disablement, weakness, and semi-starvation

at home consequent on the suppuration and fever
which they would have to go through.

To those familiar with descriptions of hospital
wards under the old régime, the change which has
been effected can only be described as stupendous.
Owing to the experiments of Lord Lister and Pasteur,
the blood-poisoning diseases, hospital gangrene,
pyaemia, septicemia, erysipelas, have practically be-
come extinct. Internal operations can be safely

 




 

(3)

undertaken for relief, and no longer death is the rule.
Wounds heal quickly and without pain or fever, so
that surgical wards are no longer shunned by patients,
Who often beneﬁt very greatly in general health from
their stay in the hospital.

In the incalculable diminution of suffering thus

,brought about in this one ﬁeld of surgical operations

alone, your correspondent’s request for evidence as
to the beneﬁcent results obtained from experiments
on animals must, I think, have been most amply
satisﬁed.

I will, however, proceed to touch upon another
point in this connection—namely, the immensely
important subject of the employment of anaesthetics.
In this ﬁeld also the understanding of their mode of
action, the consequent careful choice of drug, according
“to the nature of the operation, and the accurate
determination of a safe dosage and method of giving
it (all points of vital consequence to the patient),
not only have been worked out by experiments on,
animals, but even in the case of ether (the safest
anaesthetic we possess) Morton, the discoverer of its
use, tried, as I hold he was morally bound to do, its
poisonous effects upon a dog before giving it to men.
Flourens also did the same.

IIYDROPHOBIA.

The present generation is naturally liable to forget
that hydrophobia was at one time a disease of this
country. The cause of this terrible malady and
real method of extermination and treatment were
discovered solely by the experiments upon animals
of Pasteur. In other countries, when rabies has not
been exterminated, the mortality from hydrophobia
of infected cases has been reduced from abOut 15 per
cent. to 0'4 per cent.

But though the complete success of the methods
born of the Pasteur experiments may have caused

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(4')

many to forget that hydrophobia was once a justly

feared terror in the land, there is one disease which ,

unfortunately we have at present but little chance
of forgetting, namely, tuberculosis, which, partly for
its appalling prevalence and partly for its hitherto
supposed incurable character, has been the greatest
scourge to which the nation has been exposed. Of
late years, however, a remarkable fall in mortality
from this cause has taken place.

TUBERCULOSIS.

Since the true, 73.6., the microbic, nature of the
disease has been recognised, the consequent appropriate
methods of combating it have been adopted. Sources
of infection in tuberculous animals have been detected
and destroyed. Spread of infection from case to
case has been largely prevented, and cases which
formerly would have succumbed after a lingering
and painful illness can now be cured. It is difﬁcult
to over—estimate the share which experiments on
animals have taken in bringing about this tremendous
diminution in the pain and poverty of the community.

The claims upon your space prevent my further

extension of this letter, but before closing there is
one other beneﬁcent result of animal experimentation
to which I desire very brieﬂy to refer.
"‘ --»-;When everything that knowledge and skill can effect
has been essayed and failed, there still, unfortunately,
remain many conditions when all that can be done
for the patient is to secure by the medical use of
hypnotics and narcotics temporary unconsciousness
of the tortures of disease. The incalculable value of
the power of obtaining such relief can only be appre-
ciated by those who are calledupon to suffer or to
treat suffering. It is a fact that the value of prac-
tically every drug introduced within the last thirty
years for this most necessary and most merciful
purpose has been determined by experiments on
animals—I am, 850., VICTOR HORSLEY.

 

4+1: «- ~A «4

 




 

 

(5)

[FROM “ THE DAILY MAIL,” WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 9.]

—-_———~—

VALUE OF VIVISECTION.

—-———-_—-—u——

DEMAND FOR PROO F.

To the Editor 0/ THE DAILY MAIL.

SIR,—-—Sir Victor Horsley is not accurate in his
statements. He talks of the “ discovery of the
parasitic nature of an immense number of maladies
. with the consequent modern methods of
dealing with or preventing them.” I challenge Sir
Victor Horsley to prove to demonstration the parasitic
origin of any one of the maladies referred to, or to
show by any truly scientiﬁc evidence that the “ modern
methods ” deduced from the germ theory of disease
have ever prevented the “infectious diseases ” he
refers to in a single instance. .

Your correspondent draws a graphic picture of the\
condition of hospital surgical wards ﬁfty years ago.
He says ‘the different conditions of to-day are due
to the discoveries of Pasteur and Lister. I deny the
assertion and I challenge him to prove it. The .
Listerian theory of antisepsis has had to be given up
and the aseptic theory—that is, common cleanliness——
demonstrated by Semmelweis in the Vienna Hospital in
184-7, and prosecuted by Bergmann in Germany and
Lawson Tait and Bantock in this country, is the
“ modern method ” to which we owe our surgical
success.

Sir Victor Horsley says “ the accurate determination
of a safe dosage and method of giving anaesthetics
has been worked out by experiments on animals.”
Perhaps, then, he will account, for the numerons
inquests which are held in consequence of failure in
this respect, and in which the anaesthetist is invariably

 

 




(6)

exonerated. Animals are the last creatures which
could possibly form an efﬁcient guide as to anaesthetic
administration in man. He instances ether as'ifhaving
been ﬁrst tried upon a dog before being administered
to man. Even if such had been the case, no conclusive
evidence could have been gained as to the human
species. As Professor Starling—himself an arch-
vivisector—told the Royal Commission on Vivisection,
“ The last experiment must be on man.” ButjErich-
\ sen declares that the ﬁrst experiment in anaesthesia was
by Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Connecticut,
with nitrous oxide gas upon himself. That was in
1844.* A pupil of his, Dr. Morton, in 1846 used ether )
instead of nitrous oxide for the ﬁrst time upon some
dental patients, and it was ﬁrst used in England in 5;
December of the same year by Liston upon human
patients when Erichsen was present. The discovery
of chloroform in 1847, as an anaesthetic, as we well
know, was brought about entirely by experiments
which Professor Simpson, of Edinburgh, carried out
upon himself and friends.

,How can hydrophobia have been exterminated in
this country by Pasteurism, seeing that the Pasteurian
treatment has never been adopted here ? Mr. Walter
Long and Company say it has been exterminated
by muzzling. I will not argue that point. I simply
say it is not by Pasteurism. I challenge Sir Victor
Horsley to prove that Pasteurism in France has ever
saved a life. I am prepared to prove to him that
the hydrophobia mortality has increased since its
adoption in that country.

Let your correspondent provide evidence to support-
his contention that tuberculosis has decreased in
consequence of the alleged discovery of the microbic
origin of the disease. It would be impossible to do
so. Tuberculosis has been decreasing for many years

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Erichsen’s statement, howevel, is not quite accurate. This gas was used by
Mr. James Stodart and Mr. (afterwards Sir Humphrey) Davy in experiments upon
themselves in 1801.—W. R. H.

 




( 7 )
side by side with the prosecution of sanitary laws.
The microbic theories of Koch based upon animal
experimentation have turned out a ﬁasco. The
recognised remedy for consumption is fresh air.
It cannot even be deﬁnitely proved that the tubercle
bacillus is the fans at origo of the disease.

Finally, Sir Victor Horsley asserts, in the same
bold way that he adopts throughout, that the value
of narcotic drugs has been determined by experiments
on animals. These particular drugs are so contrary
in their action in numerous instances in animals and
man that this closing statement is, perhaps, the
rashest of all the rash assertions in your correspondent’s
long letter. Again I ask for proof.

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,

Hon. Secretary British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection, 32, Chaﬁng—cross, SW.

[The above letter only appeared in certain editions
of The Daily Mail.]

 

 

 

[FROM “THE DAILY MAIL,” SEPTEMBER 15.]

__...—.~———_..—-

SIR VICTOR HORSLEY.

_—

 

Respecting the discovery of the parasite
causing tuberculosis and of those producing other
infectious diseases, I notice that the secretary of
the society for the total abolition of experiments
on animals (N.B., man excluded), signing himself
”Walter R. Hadwen, M.D., declares himself ignorant
of any scientiﬁc method whereby. a malady can be
found to have a parasitic origin.

The Daily 111ml cannot be exploited as a means
of ﬁlling up all the hiatuses in Dr. Hadwen’s medical
\ education, but we may take this central point, since
3 the postulates laid down by Dr. Koch more than a
quarter of a century ago, and by following which

 

 

 




(8)

discoveries of the utmost value to the whole animal
kingdom (N.B., man included) have been gained,
may be of interest to your readers as well as infor—
mation to Dr. Hadwen. From the blood or tissues
of man or an animal suffering from a disease repeated
cultivations are laboriously made by Pasteur’s methods
in a bacteriological laboratory until any microbe
which may be present is obtained growing actively
and in pure culture—73.6., alone and uncontaminated
by the concurrent growth of any other microbe.

The culture of such microbe is then injected
hypodermically or into the circulation of a normal
animal. ,

If this animal develops the symptoms of the disease,
and if from its blood or tissues the same microbe is
again obtained in pure culture, that organism is
accepted. as being the parasite which causes the disease.

VICTOR HORSLEY.

 

 

[FROM “THE DAILY MAIL,” SEPTEMBER 16.]

.—..__...—_

DR. HADWEN.

._.__....___.___—

SIR,—Sir Victor Horsley has evaded every point in
“my challenge for proof of his statements, and has
avoided all reference to the points in which I deﬁnitely
showed him to be inaccurate.

He professes to deal with one point and one point
only—namely, that which concerns the germ theory
of disease—by quoting the technique of microbe culti-
vation based upon the postulates of Koch. This is
not an answer to my challenge, and his conclusions are
again inaccurate, as I will show. 1

Koch’s postulates are as follows: (1) The alleged ‘

l

 

 

speciﬁc micro-organism must be found in the disease
of which it is supposed to be the sole cause. (2) It
must not be found apart from the disease it is supposed

 

 




 

 

 

(9)

to originate. (3) It must reproduce the speciﬁc ‘disease
of which it is supposed to be the author when inoculated
into the body of z. lower animal. ,

A "-.w me to illustrate this in the case of Klebs
Lofﬂer bacillus of diphtheria. (l) The discoverer of
the germ has himself acknowledged that he found it
absent in 25 per cent. of the cases which he had diag-
V nosed as diphtheria. (2) It is well known, and has

recently been reafﬁrmed before the British Association,
that it is frequently found in perfectly healthy throats.
(3) When communicated to guinea-pigs and other
animals the disease produced bears no resemblance to
the diphtheria of the human species. Every postulate
upon which Sir Victor Horsley relies is falsiﬁed. The
trouble between English and German bacteriologists
concerning the microbic origin of bovine and human
tuberculosis saves me from dealing with that matter.

Moreover, there is a grave fallacy in all such experi-
ments, inasmuch as you cannot transfer the micro-
organism apart from the medium in which it exists, and
there is every reason to believe that these micro-
organisms are the results of disease and not their
cause.

I would remind Sir Victor Horsley that I am not
“ the secretary of the society for the total abolition
of experiments on animals (N .13., man excluded)”
But I am, as I accurately signed myself, “ Hon. Secre-
tary of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisec-
tion.” Most decidedly man would be included were
any, known deliberate attempt made at the exploita-
tion of human beings in a similar manner to that of our
helpless and speechless fellow—creatures.——I am, Sir,
your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, MD.
32, Chaﬁng-cross, September 15, 1908.

 

 

[N.B.——-—The last paragraph was not inserted in
some editions of The Daily Mail]

 

 




 

 

 

(10)

[FROM “ THE DAILY MAIL,” SEPTEMBER 22.]

Mum

SIR VICTOR HORSLEY.

To the Editor of THE DAILY MAIL.

N ow for Dr. Hadwen and his alternate assumptions
of ignorance and omniscience. In his ﬁrst letter
he professed himself ignorant of the existence of any
scientiﬁc demonstration that any disease is ever due
to a parasite or germ.

To this I replied by quoting the ordinary text-book
postulates of Koch,which are known to and accepted
by the whole scientiﬁc world, and have, resulted, as I
stated in my last letter, in many brilliant discoveries
of such germs.

PASTEUR AND KOCH.

In his second letter he admits, without the slightest
apology to your readers, that he knew of this universally
accepted scientiﬁc demonstration even while suggesting
to your readers that no such method existed. I
must confess that it does not appear to me just that
my time or that of any other busy man should be
wasted in discussion with a contestant of this character,
but I cannot pass by his wholesale travesty of bac-
teriological methods and allow him to mislead your
readers by a confused statement on a complex subject
like diphtheria. Let us begin at the beginning. Koch’s
ﬁrst great work was the elaboration of the life history
of the parasite or germ of anthrax—viz, the bacillus
anthracis. W. R. Hadwen, M.D., stands alone in the
world in professing to believe, as he tells your readers
he does, that the bacillus is not the “ cause ” of the
virulent disease anthrax, but only one of its “ results.”
If Dr. Hadwen will inject a syringeful of the anthrax
bacillus into one of his veins he will soon be impressed
by the scientiﬁc truth of Koch’s postulates, and that
his fatal illness is a “ result ” of which. the bacillus

 




 

(n)

is the ‘-‘ cause.” Until he performs this simple ex-
periment your "readers might well be spared the trouble
of perusing what every honest medical. man knows
to be the exact reverse of the ascertained facts of
pathology. I may perhaps conclude with a brief
statement of the latest outcome of Koch’s rules and
the germ theory, and your readers will recognise
how ﬂimsy are the misrepresentations by which
Dr. Hadwen seeks to obscure what is really a plain
and simple subject. This, the latest example of
Pasteur’s and Koch’s monumental work, is the case
of Malta fever. This painful disease, often fatal or
for some years shattering to the constitution, has for
many years caused heavy losses to the nation by its
ravages among the soldiers and sailors stationed at
Malta. It is, indeed, computed that some 17,000 men
have been invalided by it.

Using Koch’s postulates and Pasteur’s methods,
Colonel Bruce, R.A.M.C., discovered by experiments
on animals that the parasite causing the disease was
a microbe which he named micrococcus melitensis,
and which he had by indefatigable laboratory work
isolated in pure culture.

The next step was the discovery that the disease
was not a drain malady or air—borne, as had been
imagined by the health authorities, but that the
microbe was harboured by the goats in the island and
was present in their blood and milk.

Finally it was proved that this milk was the vehicle
by which this terribly poisonous parasite was intro-
duced into the system.

The result of this magniﬁcent work has been the
practical freedom of our men from untold misery and
suffering, for whereas in 1905 no fewer than 643
were struck down, there were only seven cases in 1907.

What a contrast your readers may now draw between
the vivisectionist’ ' and the anti—vivisectionist! On
the one hand Colonel Bruce, M.D., working incessantly
,Eor his fellow-men and receiving honours and thanks

 

 




 

 

 

 

from the British Medical Association for his noble
addition to the resources of civilisation against disease
and misery ; and on the other hand Walter R. Hadwen,
M.D., sitting at home penning scurrilous abuse of
Colonel Bruce and his colleagues, and receiving-”the

' subscriptions of the public !

On this last point one cannot but be struck by the
attitude of our nation towards experimental science.

While every advance in knowledge gained, as I
have shown, by experiments on animals is eagerly
accepted, the anti-vivisectionists have, as Mr. Coleridge
boasted to the Royal Commission, extracted from the
pockets of the public a sum not less than £80,000.

Yet they (the anti-vivisectionists) have not dis-
covered, or even attempted to discover, anything that
would relieve pain or arrest disease in man or the
lower animals. No; the whole of this vast sum of
money has passed into their hands, and has resulted
in nothing to the proﬁt or well-being of their fellow—

creatures. VICTOR HORSLEY.

 

[SUPPRESSED LETTER]
DR. HAD‘WEN.
To the Editor of THE DAILY MAIL.

SIR,——~I do not complain. of the lack of courtesy
displayed by Sir Victor Horsley in each of his letters,
but I am justiﬁed in complaining of his persistent
evasions of straightforward issues and of misrepre-
sentation. He says 2——

Drr Hadwen . . . inhis ﬁrst letter professed himself ignorant
of the existence of any scientiﬁc demonstration that any disease
is ever due to a parasite or germ. . . .- To this. I replied by
quoting the ordinary postulates of Koch. . . . In his second
letter he admits, without the slightest apology to your readers,
that he knew of this universally accepted scientiﬁc demonstration
even While suggesting to your readers that no such method existed.

What are the facts? My statement in my ﬁrst
letter was as follows :—

1 challenge Sir Victor Horsley to prove to demonstration the

 




 

<13)

parasitic origin of any one of the maladies referred to,or to show by any
truly scientiﬁc evidence that the “ modern methods ”deduced from
the germ theory of disease have ever prevented the “infectious
diseases ” he refers to in a single instance.

Sir Victor Horsley, as your readers are Well aware,
not only failed to face my challenge, but he failed to
correctly or fully quote the postulates of Koch upon
which he professes to base his theory. In my second
letter, therefore, I quoted Koch’s postulates in extenso
and quoted the cultivation of the Klebs chﬂer bacillus
of diphtheria in order to show that those postulates
failed in every particular in establishing the claims of
that bacillus as the origin of the disease in question.

How does Sir Victor Horsley meet my plain logical
conclusion and my repeated demand for “ proof ” of
his position ‘3 By complaining that his “ time ought
not to be wasted with a contestant of this character,”
and by dubbing my calm request a “ wholesale
travesty of bacteriological methods ” 1 He delibe—
rately runs away from diphtheria, as he had-already
run away from the other diseases with regard to
which I pointed out his inaccuracy, and now actually
roams off to anthrax and Malta fever. He occupies
more than a column without meeting one of my points,
and yet complains of my “ wasting his time ” !

I will not argue with Sir Victor Horsley as to whether
I“ stand alone in the world ” in my contentions or not.
I simply ask him to prove to me that he is right and I
am wrong. So far he has made no attempt to do so.
With your permission I will deal with the two fresh
instances he adduces, and your readers will be able
to judge whether he evades my answers in these further
illustrations as he has done in every other.

I will answer his anthrax illustration very brieﬂy
by saying that no less an authority than Mr. Stockman,
chief veterinary ofﬁcer of the Local Government Board,
told the Royal CommissiOn on Vivisection (Q. 2,670) :
"‘ There is great dubiety about establishing the diag-
nosis of anthrax in animals.” Also in the last report

 




 

 

 

(14)

of the medical inspector of the Factory Department
of the Home Ofﬁce it is pointed out that cases of
anthrax occur without the bacillus being found, and
the importance is asserted of having regard to clinical as
well as bacterial evidence. Thus again Koch’s postu-
lates are at fault. How does Sir Victor Horsley
explain this ‘2 .

Now a few words as to Malta fever. But ﬁrst permit
me to protest against Sir Victor Horsley’s unwarrant—
able language in speaking of “ Walter R. Hadwen,
M.D., sitting at home penning scurrilous abuse of
Colonel Bruce and his colleagues, and receiving—
the subscriptions of the public ! ” Unlike Sir Victor
Horsley, I am careful to avoid personalities. I have never
written a word about Colonel Bruce and his colleagues
in my life ; and as for any pecuniary gain in my advo-
cacy of anti-vivisection, I have never received a penny-
piece of pay from the public ; my spare time and money
I devote freely to the righteous cause I have at heart.

In regard to Malta fever investigations, Sir Victor
Horsley writes of them as “ the latest outcome of
Koch’s rules and the germ theory.” Now, the strange
thing is, that the very postulate which Sir Victor
Horsley holds to be, apparently, of chief importance
(for it is the only one he has quoted)—-—namely, that an
inoculation of germs into an animal’s body must pro-
duce a disease similar to that of which they are sup-
posed to be the origin—is here, as in diphtheria,
utterly falsiﬁed. I quote against Sir Victor Horsley
Colonel Bruce’s own words in his Royal Commission
evidence (Q. 14,242) :—

The micro-organism (of Malta fever) did multiply in their
bodies (those of the inoculated animals), but it did not give rise
to any ill-health ; it did not give rise to any fever. By looking at
the goat you could not say that that goat was ill—it gave as much.
milk as a perfectly healthy goat, it was as fat, as smooth-looking
as a healthy goat, so that it was only by the blood examination
that it was suspected that something was occurring.

In other words, Koch’s postulate was not borne
out; the .micro-organisms. were multiplied, but the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(15)*

disease was not produced. Surely this was rather an
evidence that the micro-organisms have nothing to do
with it !

But Colonel Bruce himself is not exact in his experi-
ments nor correct in his conclusions. He told the
Royal Commission that (Q. 14,240) the goat “ does
not even take tuberculosis.” This is ﬂatly denied
by the Report of the experiments of the Royal Com—
mission on Tuberculosis, Part 1., pp. 63, 78, 79, where
it asserts goats are “ very susceptible.”

Further, Malta fever is not restricted to Malta, but
occurs in India and many parts of the Mediterranean
Coast, in the Philippines and elsewhere, where goat’s
milk is not partaken of , but where insanitary condi—
tions abound. , The Malta harbour has been used as a
sewer for hundreds of years, and the decrease of Malta
fever has been concurrent with recent improved sani-
' tary conditions there. But Colonel Bruce, in obedience
to a “ scientiﬁc ” theory, did not consider the foul con-
ditions of Malta Harbour responsible, because he could
not ﬁnd the micrococcus melz'tensis in the harbour water !

Sir Victor Horsley bases the responsibility of Malta
fever upon goat’s milk because the attack rate among
the soldiers in 1906—7 was so much lower than in 1905.
But the statistical fallacy lies in this 2 That the con-
sumption of goat’s milk was not stopped until July,
1906, and yet all the previous part of the year the
attack rate was declining, proving that other factors
were at work. And not only so, but other fevers for
which the micrococcus melitensis was not responsible
declined during the same period. How does Sir
Victor Horsley explain this? Certainly not by the
goat’s milk theory I

Surely if a certain number of men drinking goat’s
milk had Malta fever, and others who did not drink it
were free, common-sense could have dictated a pro-
bable cause without torturing hundreds of monkeys
to no purpose. But, as a matter of fact, numbers drank

 




 

 

 

(16)

alleged contaminated goat’s milk without being aﬁected,
thus knocking on the head another of Koch’s postulates.

Colonel Bruce informed the Commission (Q. 14,261)
that a Local Government Board man, who was re-
commended by Mr. . Power, went out to Malta to
examine by the method of statistics the incidence
among those who drank water, beer, milk, &c. ; but
after very hard work for siX or seven months he
came to the conclusion that milk at least was not
the cause of the fever, and this conclusion was also
reached independently by Colonel Davis and others
sent out to investigate from the epidemiological
standpoint—which, fif the germ theory be correct,
ought to have ratiﬁed it.

But, in conclusion, let me ask Sir Victor Horsley
one more question : If, as he avers, Malta fever is due
to this remarkable germ, how is it that the “ modern
methods ” of serumtherapy, which he declares to be the
scientiﬁc outcome of the discovery, fail to prevent it ?
Colonel Bruce himself (Q. 14,374) declares “it has

failed.”——I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
Hon. Secretary, British Union for the
Abolition of Viw'section.

32, Charing—cross, S.W., September 22.

Mam—~w“. “ﬁﬁ __ _._.‘.

[FROM “ THE DAILY MAIL,” SEPTEMBER 11.]

 

STANDARDISATHON ' 0F DRUGS.

.__.——-———..

To the Editor of THE DAILY MAIL.

SIR,——There is one class of experiment in which the
value of trial upon animals is shown day by day, and
which has not received attention in the present corre-

 

 

 




 

 

(17)

spondence on the subject. I refer to the physiological
standardisation of certain drugs, among which ergot,
digitalis, its allies, and cannabis indica may be men-
tioned. It is a well-known fact that preparations of such
drugs are apt to vary very considerably in their efﬁcacy,
however carefully the crude drugs may be selected.

How many poor women have lost their lives, or
have been retarded in recovery through want of
really effective ergot it is impossible to say ; but it may
be asked, Do husbands, members of some “ anti-
vivisection society,” wish to see valuable time wasted
while experiments are being made on their wives with
preparations of unknown activity, when reliably tested
ones can be obtained ?

Again, there is the constantly increasing number of
new and valuable drugs, which are tried exhaustively
upon animals before they are used upon man. In such
cases questions of the known facts of bacteriology,
asepsis, and antisepsis, which some people seem to
ﬁnd difﬁcult to grasp, do not enter. If Dr. Hadwen
really wants proof, say, of the effects of antiserums
and of the facts of immunity, let him take out a
vivisection licence in this country, or let him go
abroad and work in a laboratory; let him study
the immunity which can be produced by means of
snake venom against snake venom, or of ricin (the
poison of the castor-oil bean) against ricin. Until he
has done so let him not ask for proofs on paper—let
him see with his own senses on his own work.

Some correspondents have written of cruelty and
brutality, and I may say that I have seen more cruelty
(and that wanton) in half an hour on market day
in this city than I have during all the years from 1885-
to 1905 in my work in physiological and pathological
laboratories. , '

Finally, may I point out that a very sensible reply
is given by the father in the old-fashioned child’s
book, “ The Swiss Family Robinson ” ‘3 The children
ask if they may eat some nice-looking fruit ; they are

 




 

 

 

 

 

(18)

told to try it upon the monkey ﬁrst. Who would not
do the same under the same circumstances for their
children’s sake ?
HERBERT E. DURHAM,
Hereford. MHA, M.B., 13.0., F.R.C.S.

 

[SUPPRESSED LETTE R.]
To the Editor of THE DAILY MAIL.

SIR,———Dr. Herbert Durham says he has spent
twenty years in physiological and pathological
laboratories,’ and he advises me to “take out a
vivisection licence and . . work in a labora*
tory, ” if I want proof of “ the effects of antiserums
and of the facts of immunity.” I should have thought
the proper place to learn “facts ” and “ effects ”
would be by the bedside of human patients, and not
among dogs and cats and guinea— pigs. I would
remind your correspondent of the statement published
by Koch (who, as a renowned vivisector and bacteri—
ologist, will be respected by him) when writing on
this subject in his ‘Cure of Consumption” p. 8:
‘ Here, again, is a fresh and conclusive proof of that
most important rule for all experimentalists, that an
experiment on an animal gives no certain indication
of the result of the same experiment upon a human
being.”

When Dr. Durham asks sensationally : “ Do hus—
bands wish to see valuable time wasted while experi—
ments are being made on their wives with preparations
of unknown activity, when reliably tested ones
can be obtained ‘3 ” he is simply playing to the gallery.
How are the drugs he refers to tested? In what
way are they “ standardised? ” By experiments
on the bodies of animals not two of which can be
guaranteed alike. Such “”standardisation is so
much clap-trap. For some years now the medical
profession has been placing itself body and soul in

 




 

(19)

the hands of pharmaceutical manufacturers, who,
with their enormous enterprise and ingenuity, provide
brains, prescriptions and drugs for their conﬁding
clients. It is simply one of the results of the absurd
medical fashion of the time which necessitates
certain manufacturing firms keeping huge menageries
of living creatures for the purpose of so—called drug
testing, instead. of relying upon the old-fashioned
chemical methods which invariably provide satisfac-
tory results. I do not believe that there is a single
medical man in actual practice who would be prepared
to justify by his own experience in deﬁnite cases
Dr. Durham’s unwarranted insinuation that “ many
poor women have lost their lives, or have been retarded
in recovery through want of really effective ergot.”
I am amazed at any medical man with presumed
experience in the cases to which he refers venturing
upon such a remarkable utterance.

' Dr. Durham invites me to “ study the immunity ”—
in a, laboratory—“ which can be produced by snake
venom against snake venom.” I prefer to see what
it can accomplish elsewhere. Here is the result in
India before and since the introduction of the wonder-
working laboratory snake serum :—-—

Deaths f1 om snake -bite in 1876, 15, 819—11 6., 85 4 per million living.
99 . ,, ,, 1905, 21 ,797—73. 8., 944

9, 99 5’

As Sir Lauder Brunton told the Royal Commission
on Vivisection, you require a special serum for every
kind of snake, ‘that prepared for a krait will not act

for a cobra. . . . The difﬁculty is that the
serum and the snake are not likely to be in the same
place.” This witness declared that common per-

manganate of potash was ‘a universal remedy.”

This was conﬁrmed by Major Rogers, Professor
of Pathology in the Calcutta Medical College, who
said,“ It was known thirty years ago that if permangan-
ate of potash were mixed with cobra venom outside
the body it would destroy the venom.’ But so far

 




(20)

as the snake serum was concerned, he confessed
that it was useless to give it unless you ﬁrst found
out what kind of snake bit the victim. So I fear
that Dr. Durham’s kind advice to me to become
a vivisector and “ see with my own senses myLown
work,” would not be of much practical service.

I am glad, however, to ﬁnd one point in which
I can heartily agree with him. “ In the ‘ Swiss
Family Robinson,’ ” he says, “ the children ask
if they can eat some nice—looking fruit; they are told
to try it on the monkey ﬁrst.” And with a trium-
phant interrogatory your correspondent concludes
his letter, “ Who would not do the same under the
same circumstances for their children’s sake? ” The
italics are mine. It is interesting to have the testi-
mony of a vivisector to the intelligence and natural
instinct of the Simian race. By nature a frugivorous
animal, the monkey possesses the ability, denied
to its superior in the scale of creation, of intuitively
distinguishing harmless from harmful fruit. I ask
if a creature so useful and intelligent and so closely
allied to ourselves anatomically and physiologically
should be submitted to the horrible and unnecessary
experiments in regard to which your correspondent,
Sir Victor Horsley, has to a large extent earned his
fame ?———I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
Hon. Secretary, British Union??? for the
Abolition of Vivisection.
32, Charing Cross, S.W., September .1 1.

 

THE AIOLITIGNIST.

MONTHLY ORGAN OF THE UNION. 2/6 per year, post free.

 

Orders with cash to be sent to. Miss B. E. KIDD, 32,
Charing Cross, Whitehall, London, S.VV.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

. The British Union .
for the Abolition of VIVISeetlon

 

FOUNDRESS" F RANGES POWER COBBE

- Hon. See - 21f ' Treasurer. .. .
WALTER R HADVVEN Esq, M D The Rt Hon Vlscount HARBERTO‘NT

, Secretary MISS B E KIDD
a 0772?: ' 32, Casey“; CROSS, 101111011, S W

..————-— “Y ’3'”; q...

 

“To those of my readers Who may desn'e to contribute to
the Ant1-V1v1seetlon Cause, and Who have Shared my views. on it
as set forth 111 111y numberlesS pamphlets and letters, and to"-
these specially who, like myself, i11tje11d to bequeath money to
carry on the war. against se1ent‘if1e cruelty, 1 now earnestly say
as my 1111a} counsel' .. .,

“Support the BrltISh UHIOHC, ‘-

' v1—Aulobwgraphy 0117’. P 00333

 

111 the ease of benefactors deslrmq to bequeath leqames 111'
support Of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to clearly" .1 1
State in thelr Wills “1hr: Bnnsh 13111011 for the Abolluon

erseetwnw and to make them payable to the Treasurer for:‘-____ 1 '

the tune being. . .. .

 

‘~.

'11

. ‘1...

Farm of Bequest

 

' To those Who may be mclmed to become Benefactors by Vi7ill to this
Society, the followmg form is respectfully suggested

I bequeath unto the Society called Tm: Bnrrvsu UNION 1011 THE ABORTION 1.
or VIVISFCTION, the sum of.. . ,.. free of. Legacy Duty,
and I direct tIi'at the same shall be pend to. the Treasurer for the him we béi'ng of such ldst-~ =

mentioned Sweaty, exclusively out of such part ‘of my personal estate as may. leg a ﬂy 3 .1 .1.

be bequeathed for charitable pmposes, und in pmrzty to all other payments. . ‘

. ,

 

By virtue of the Act of. Victoria, esp: 26 all Wills and Codmils must be 111’ 1" _ 7‘ .
writing, signed by the Tests tor, and attested by tWo Witnesses 111 the presence 0.1 -- ‘
. the Testator and of each other. _ _ '

A Donatiori of Five Peuﬁds and upwards constitutes a Life Member
A11 Annual Subscrlptlon of Ten Shillings constitutes an Annual Member.

 

Remittances by Crossed 0116un or Pastel order. _ Smaller Donations gratefuxly "

accepted.
‘ A11 Annual Payment o£2s 6d constztutes an Automate at; the Luca

 




' Debate between Dr Hadwen and Dr 1
r I? astham . 1/9 7/6 .
- - Correspondence between Dr Hadw en 7
' and Sir Victor HorSIey '.__ - l/- ”176' -
, Vlews of Men and ‘Wo'me‘rrbf Note on 1 ' ‘

.. the Vlvlsectmn Queston . 2/.. 12/6
1 (Illustrated with Portrauts )' ‘

 

'. thv We Object to a; Restriction 3111. 9d doz., 5/.‘100.
~ Ant1-V1v1sect10n Politics. 4d. pe1 (102., 2/3 per 100. '

 

SELECTED ANTI VlVlSECTlON
LITERATURE

Pamphlets by Dr. HADWEN.

Some Recent VlVlSCCtIOIl Practices in $3; 112% g

Enqhsh Laboratories . 1/-« 7/6 7
A Medical Vlew of the V’ivisection 1 y ‘
Question .. . ~ 2/. 12/6
Vimsectlon its Follies and Cr11elties _
y and the Way to Fight it - ._, 1/4 7/6 ‘
The Antltoxm Treatment Of D1phtherm 1/6. 10/- '_ ..
VIVISection at the Brown Institution 4d. 213
, CThe Cult of the VIVISector .* . ._;i'ld. 2/3.
The Humour of the Vivisector . . 6d. 2/6
"Tuberculos1s and COW’ 3 Milk . '. , . If/- 7/6’
_Was Jenner a Charlatan? .— 1/‘-» .7/6
-.Debate between Dr Hadwen and Mr. . ‘ '
Stephen Paqet - .. 1/6 10/a

 

._ _ v \- ,

" By Mlss FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

1:1 he Farly Hlstory of theAnt1-V1v1sectlon Movement. 3d. 1 , , - .

‘ .1 .Why We. Haxe Founded the ‘Bﬁtish Union. 9d. per (102.
‘Dquht in Dark Places Crates . , -. , _ ‘

 

By BEATRICE E. K1DD.

.7 Do you Know" (Illustrated) 4d? 1361 (102'. ., 2/3 per 100.

By M195 A.F.WH1TELEY.

Some Medlcal Views of Vivisection. 3d. each, 2/- doz.

 

 

 

.. W. 8111119111 AND SONS, Printers, Fetter Lane, London, 13.0.

 




