TEACHING BIOLOGY USING STUDENTS AS EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECTS*
BY

F. BARBARA ORLANS

E

This article is a condensed version of a chapter in "Animal
.care: from protozoa to small mammals" to be published by

Educational Programs Improvement Corporation, Boulder,

Colorado, forthcoming, 1974. Also, this was presented at

the National Association of Biology Teachers' Annual

Conference, October 13, 1973.'

 




No biology course is complete without direct
observation and study of living organisms. Study of
dead and pickled specimens is of some usefulness, but
it is the study of living matter that is fundamental
to understanding biological processes. To be.
comprehensive, a wide range of living organisms should
be observed in a biology classroom.v Not only should
there be plants, fungi, bacteria, protozoa, and other
.small animals in the Classroom, but study should be
made of representatives of many diverse animal phyla,

including small mammalian species and man.

Oddly enough, some high school and college teachers

seem to think that studying mammals means studying only
gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, and mice. Usually such
studies are made on domesticated, caged animals.
Observation of Wild animals in their natural habitats

is usually not part of a biology course.l Yet domesticated,
captive animals are quite different in their physiology
and behavior patterns than their wild counterparts. Perhaps
even more strangely, study of human physiology by direct
experimentation on human subjects is similarly neglected.
Whereas one might argue that studying wild animals in '
their native habitats presents certain problems for the
classroom biology teacher, no such problems exist for

study of human physiology.

 




There are many advantages of using human beings as
subjects for biological observation. Human subjects are
always at hand; there is minimum preparation for such
experiments.v mean subjects can follow directions and
respond verbally to provide data not obtainable from
other mammals. Whereas it may be difficult to interest
.students in the physiological processes of amoeba, the
functioning of the human body is of great importance
and interest to mast students. Some youngsters may
fail to recognize the relevance of some live animal

biology demonstrations to their own problems. For

instance, some may have difficulty relating the nutritional

requirements of guinea pigs to their own food needs.

Is it not more forceful and of more direct value for a
student to learn as much as possible by direct study of
himself?

Despite these many advantages, moSt current high
school biology courses either neglect or omit the study.
of man as a physiological entity. Many teachers never
entertain the idea of using human subjects in their
classes — maybe because they think of all experimentation
as being something that will harm or injure the subject.
Of course, proper provision must be made to ensure that

human physiological experiments are carefully chosen so

 




that neither physical nor psychological harm will befall
the subject, but even so, a wide range of educationally
sound experiments can be selected.
. Here are some suggestions:
VISION

a) 4§ye Dominance

 

Most people have a pronounced eye preference although
few people know that they do, or know which is their
preferred eye. To determine eye dominance, the subject,
using both eyes, sights a distant object through a one~
inch hole in the.center of a cardboard sheet held at armls'
length. The cardboard must be held with both hands and .
moved gradually up towards the face, keeping the distant

(Sag ﬁtﬁdm I). . ‘ . :
object sightedL‘ Determine which eye qis used (Gregg 1966).

Repeat each test several times. Is the same eye

always used to keep the object in sight?~ Is the subject's
‘dominant eye on the same side as his dominant hand and

his dominant food—chewing side of mouth? Make a record of
eye, hand, and side—of—mouth dominance for a group of,
say, 20 people to see if any consistent pattern emerges.

b) Depth Perception

 

Study of depth perception can be made with just a

large sheet of white paper (24" X 36") and a strip of
black paper about 1/2" X 12" (Minahan 1971). The
instructor acts as experimenter. Prop the large card-

board in front of the class several feet from the front

 




of the room with the t0p of the cardboard several-
inches above the eye level of the subjects. Trial 1.
Hold the black paper 3" behind the large card with about
2" showing above the card. Subjects are to judge and
record the distance between the large card and the black
strip under four conditions:

a) looking with one eye — holding head still

b) looking with one eye - moving head back and forth

c) looking with two eyes — holding head_still m

d) looking with two eyes — moving head back and forth

Trial 2: Repeat the above procedure with the strip 12"
from the card

Trial 3: Repeat at 6"

Trial 4: Repeat at 1"

Next, repeat trials one to four using a pencil instead

of the black strip. Hold the pencil so that two inches

of it show above the card, and use the same distances,

but change their order.

Each subject records his judgments (16 for the black
strip and 16 for the pencil trials). After the trials are
completed, the subjects are told the actual distances and
asked to compute their errors. The average error for the

whole class can also be computed. Which conditions produced

the poorest judgments? Which produced the best? What

 




 

depth cues were available to the subject under each of

the viewing condition? Were there any differences between

the accuracies of the judgments for the black card and

-for the pencil? Why?
HEARING

Localization of Sound

Accuracy in locating sounds can be determined by
blindfolding the subject and clinking two coins together-
(or using a snapper "cricket") at varying points approximately

' $82.?5qie 2).
3 feet from the subject's head (Minahan 1971).A The subject
is asked to point in the direction he thinks the sound is
taming from. A score of correct or incorrect is recorded
for 30 trials on each subject. What individual variations
is there in ability to locate sounds? Can training improve
this ability? Do musically talented students, who have
received training in listening carefully to sounds, score
better than average in this test?
1921.92:

Judging Different Weights

What are the limits of man's ability to judge whether
two objects are of different weights? The subject closes
his eyes and holds two 125 ml Erlenmeyer flasks by the neck,

(3.41.2 £115 “(:2 '3).
one in each hand. One flask is marked "Test" and the other

/\
marked "Control" and each initially containes 50 gm water

(1 gm = 1 ml). He reports to the experimenter if he thinks

the weights are equal. The experimenter then adds water

 




to the "Test" flask in 2 ml portions each time handing
the flasks back to the subject, randomly mixing right

and left, and each time asking the subject to determine
relative weights. When the test flask feels just
perceptively heavier, record the volume of water added.
The difference in weight between the test flask and the
control flask at this point is the "difference threshold"
for 50 gm.- Repeat this procedure starting with 100, 200,
and 500 gm of water, using larger flasks where necessary.
- How fine a discrimination can be made in judging weights?

‘ Does the difference threshold vary according to the initial

weights used? Make a graph plotting the difference

threshold on the vertical scale against the weight of the
control flask on the vertical axis. Do the results vary
much from person to person?
. PROPERTIES OF SKIN

ygpping Sweat Glands

Map the sweat glands in Various skin areas of the
body by painting a one—inch square on the palm of the
subject's hand with 1% iodine solution (McBlair l965).(%€€’ﬁﬁ“kih>'
Allow it to dry completely. Then hold a 1" square of
bond paper on it for 30 seconds, while resting quietly.
Remove the paper and count the number of bluish dots in
1 square centimeter. Each bluish dot represents one

active sweat gland. Record the result. Repeat for the

 




palm of the left hand, the sole of the foot, back of the
neck, and underarm. Repeat under conditions of light
exercise, and after sitting in a cold room.' What conclusions
can be drawn regarding the distribution and activity of
sweat glands? ‘

MUSCULAR SYSTEM

Muscular Fatigue

 

Muscle fatigue can be tested by continuously opening

and closing the hand rapidly and forcefully. Record the

number of times this is done in.20 seconds. Repeat this.

10 times and record the number of closures per trial. Graph_

,the results by plotting the number of closures against the
number of the trials. To demonstrate the importance of good
blood circulation for muscular activity, repeat this .
experiment with a constriction band on the arm to block off
the venous return.

CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

 

Heart Rate ~ A Study in Biological Variation

The range of individual biological variations in any
population has important implications for physicians in
determining the presence of abnormal signs. You cannot
know what is abnormal unless you know what is normal. An*
important health sign is the rate of heart—beat. The
extent of individual variation in heartbeat is, therefore,

of considerable importance. Heart-beat can be guaged from

 




the pulse either in the wrist or in the carotid artery in

the neck. Determine the heart rate for many individuals.
Count the number of beats per minute with the aid of a.
stop-watch. Make several determinations for each individual.
Plot the distribution curve by graphing the frequency,
(number of individuals in the sample), on the vertical axis
against the heartebeats per unit time on the horizontal

axis. The standard deviation and other statistical analyses.
can be made if the sample is large enough (Hake 197l}.

yUTRITION

PHYSIOLOGICAL PERFORMANCE AFTER EATING A GOOD BREAKFAST

IElicit reaction time, decision-making ability, and work
ability of a group of students who have regularly omitted
breakfast for four weeks; then have them eat a good breakfast.
and retest. A simple standard psychological test, which
could be used, is the time taken to sort a deck of cards into
suits and rank. Alternatively, determine simple and choice
reaction times for subjects acting as their own controls, or
use other students as controls by comparing these times for.
students who regularly omit breakfast with those who regularly '
eat breakfast. The results may compare with recent professional
findings that made use of a variety of testsﬁ when breakfast
was omitted, students took longer to make decisions, had less

neuromuscular control, and did less work.

 




NERVOUS SYSTEM

 

a) Reaction Time

 

To demonstrate the time lag between stimulus and response
(reaction time); the subject holds the thumb and forefinger of
his preferred hand about 1/2" apart while the experimenter
suspends a relatively new dollar bill vertically between them
with the center of the bill level with the thumb and finger._
The subject is told to grasp the bill as soon as the experimenter
releases it. Most subjects are unable to do this.

A variation on this is for the subject to hold a yard-
stick between his thumb and index finger; he releases'his
‘grip, then, as quickly as possible, tries to grasp the ruler
again. Measure the distance the ruler travels before it is

~stepped. Several trials should be made. The average distance

the ruler travels is a measure of reaction time. Compare the

results of several subjects.

Have the subject repeat the test after chilling his hands
in iced water.~ What effect does this have on the results and why?
b) Simple and Choice Reaction Times

To demonstrate the differences between a simple and choice
reaction time, have 10 students line up in a single column with

GeQe
each person placing hisAright hand on the shoulder of the person

($49.9, pxjsx‘fﬁ g>‘ j
in front (Minahan l97l).A The first man raises his arm so that it

can be readily seen. The subjects are told that each man will be

tapped on the shoulder and that he is to respond as quickly as

 




possible after he receives the signal. The instructor taps
'the right shoulder of the last man, and starts a stopwatch

at the same time, stopping it as soon as the head man drops
_his arm. After some practice runs, time 10 trials. Average
1 the results and compute the mean time taken for each person
to respond (simple reaction time). To measure choice reaction

time, the subjects place both hands on the shoulders of the

man next in line. This time they are to respond by tapping

the shoulder opposite the one which they received the stimulus,“
but the location of the stimulus will be unknown in advance,

and will vary from trial to trial. Make 10 trials and Compare
the results with those obtained for simple reaction times.

Which reaction time is faster? What are the neural explanations
for the differences in the two situations? Give examples of

the improvement of efficiency in industrial or other work through
organizing the task in such a manner as to reduce the frequency.
of chioce reaction times.

c) Human Error

 

A salutary experiment devised to test a person's ability
to observe accurately is to assess the errors made in a simple

counting task. ”Have the entire class open their text books to

a particular page and count the number of words on that page in
a specified length of time. Instruct them that hyphenated words
connt as one. Have them write down their answers on a piece of’

paper and collect the results. Discard deliberate attempts to

 




. .M. .. l.“ m..-“ a...“ hr.ww._..w..~m. a, l.....0.-.um..—.~...4.~ wwwmme¢4x _.., magmaawam.-x. h-M»\ J_.‘\.ﬂ.l1—Al~v: - . ”we. . n.

confound the data and.make a frequency distribution graph.
of the rest of the responses. Usually there is an enormous

range in responses.

 

d)‘ Finger Mazes - Plotting a Learning Curve

A learning curve is a graph showing the relationshipg
between.time-and the ability to complete accurately a certain
’task. It reveals the speed with which a subject has learned .
a task. One suitable task is to learn a finger maze (see Fig. 0)‘

(Minahan 1971).

.All that is needed is a 7 x 9 inch card with a 1/4 inch—

hole punched in the middle to act as a shield for the maze,
and a stopwatch. The experimenter places the card overthe
maze so that the start (marked S) shows through the hole. He
instructs the subject that on the word "go" he is to move the
card so that the maze pathway shows through the hole in the
pcard. If an incorrect path is chosen, he must retrace his
path and continue until the correct one is found. If the correct.
path is chosen, he will finally arrive at the end of the maze
marked "F" for finish.v The experimenter records the time in
seconds that the subject takes to complete the maze for each of
several successive trials. 'Continue running trials until the
subject completes at least two errorless trials. At this
point, the subject has learned the task. It may require ten
or more trials to accomplish.

To construct the learning curve, plot the number of

Seconds taken to complete_the maze on the vertical axis.

 




Compare the results of several subjects. Is the learning time

decreased if rewards are given? Do learning curves for
.different tasks have the same general shape?
Additional Experiments

References given at the concluSion of this article describe
additional experiments which use human beings as subjects and
which are suitable for high school student investigations.
Advisability of Certain Experiments

Finally, a word of caution. Teachers should be aware of the
problems associated with using students as experimental students.
The guiding principle in determining the advisability of a human
physiological or psychological demonstration must always be that

the teacher should stand in loco parentis relative to the student.

 

The teacher should not allow.any risk that a prudent parent would
not normally permit his or her child. The Association for Science
Education in England recommends the following:

The teacher should

1) Know something about the medical history of the

human subject.

2) Consult parents if there are any doubts.

3). Never press any demonstration to extremes.

4) Consult the school medical officer when necessary.

In selecting suitable biology projects, special care must
be exercised to exclude any possibility of physical or

psychological damage to the student. Among the projects

 




which involve certain human risks are demonstrations of the
effects of mild exercise and taking blood samples. On the.
whole, no swallowing experiments are recOmmended especially

if the substance to be swallowed has any chemical or drug
connotation. Giving electric shocks or other aversive stimuli
‘to humans should not be part of any student demonstration.

(A recent high school student's science competition project

involved waking up human subjects from sleep with electric

shocks. It was judged potentially dangerous to the subjects

and an unacceptable project design).

Projects which involve psychological stress orembarrassment
should also be avoided. Under no circumstances should any
subject feel under pressure to participate in any demonstration.
Whereas some students might not mind measuring their body
height or weight in the classroom, others would be sensitive
on these points. Experiments involving genetic inheritance of
certain characteristics which raise questions of paternity
are another source of potential embarrassment to some
students. The students should be fully informed of the
nature of the experiment before being asked to volunteer to-
be a subject. Don't do it the other way around. Don't ask
'for volunteers and thgn describe the experiment.

The American Psychological Association has this to say
with regard to student investigations of human behavior:
"Generally stated, . . . [ethical] principles oblige the

student investigator to inform participants of all features

 




of the investigation (including risks of physical or mental
discomfort) that reasonablypmight be expected to influence
their willingness to participate and to respect their freedom
to decline or to discontinue participation at any time ...
The student investigator is also obliged to keep confidential
any information obtained about participants during the
investigation".

A full statement of the American PsycholOgical Association's
Ethical Principles in the Conduct of Research with Humaanubjects _
is available on request from the APA's Office of Scientific' .
Affairs, 1200 Seventeenth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

'Professional scientists have given very serious

cOnsideration to establishing socially acceptable standards

for human experimentation over recent years. However, the
guidelines which have emerged from these deliberations deal
with standards governing fully—trained research workers and
do not normally deal with standards required of beginning,
untrained students. Obviously, standards for young students
are not necessarily the same as those required of fully—
trained professional researchers. Only one organization, the
American Psychological Association, has addressed itself to
problems resulting from high school student investigations of
human behvarior. To date, no organization has prepared

guidelines covering all pre—college biological (both

 




physiological and psychological) investigations involving use
of human subjects. In view of-the recent tendency to introduce

study of both human physiology and psychology into high school

curricula, it would be judicious if leaders of the biology

teaching profession devised guidelines governing all areas of
biological investigations at the pre—college level of education

which may involve ethical considerations.

 




Aclmowledgement
Photographs of students performing expe wants were ta ken by Michael
Simmonds and Edward M. 'Spivack, students of Dr Leonard Krause at

Akiba Hebrew Academy, Marion Station, Pennsylvania. Their cooperation

and that of students from Overbrook High School whoalso participated

is most gratefully acknowledged.

 




_ REFERENCES

 

Gregg, J. R. 1966.‘EXperiments_in visual science for home and
school. The ROnald Press Co., New York. (Describes about 40
vision experiments including locating blind spot, optical illusion,
measuring chromatic fields, measuring size of pupil aperture“'

and fields of vision, studies of accomodation of the eye, visual
accuity, dark adaptation, and subjectivecolor mixing).

Green, E. R. and K. Bobrowsky. 1968. Laboratory investigations-

 

 

in biology. Silver Burdett Co., Morristown, New Jersey. (Includes
digestion of starch, analysis of urine, human genetics).
Hake, J. C., Baker, J. J. W., and G. E. Allen. 1971. Twelven‘

_problems in biology: open-ended experiments for introductory‘

 

 

 

college biology. Addison—Wesley Publishing Co., Reading, Massachusetts.

 

Land, E. H. 1959. Experiments in color vision. 'Scientific
American. Vol. 200(5): 84-101, May. (Includes color perception).
McBlair, William. 1965. Experiments in physiology} The National
Press, Palo Alto, California. (Includes experiments on hair, touCh,‘
and color perception).

Minahan, N. M. 1971. Experiments on a shoestring_— a handbook I

of experiments and demonstrations for general psychology.

Available from Professor Frank Costin, Department of Psychology,
University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign, Illinois 6l80l. $1.00.
(Describes about 50 experiments on vision, learning, memory, and

effect of distraction).

 




 

Orlans, F. B. 1970. Better nutrition studies.» American

Biology Teacher.. 32, No. 8, Nov., 484-486. (Nutrition experiment).
F‘rom ‘

Orlans, F. B. Forthcoming 1974. Animal_caze;“Ergtgzga_tg,

ggmmuﬁbs. fEducational Programs Improvement Corporation, Boulder,

Colorado. (Includes various physiology and psychology experiments).

Rife, D. C. 1970. A laboratory exercise in human heredity.

The American Biology Teacher, 32, No. 5, May, 290—291. (Inheritance

ofiM and N blood types). I

Schlichting, H. 153., Jr., and R. v. Brown. 1970.'Effﬁeﬁct of background

 

(music on student performance. The American Biology Teacher, 32,
Oct- 427—429. (Studies on effect of distraction). .
Staining and observing blood cells. Biology Filmstrip Laboratory
Experiment. Silver Burdett Co., Division of General Learning Co.,
250 James Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960.

Studying blood: smear and stain.technique. Super 8 mm, cartridge
filmloop, color of‘b/w, approximately 4 min. Holt Biology Filmloops,
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., Box 3670, Grand Central Station,
New York, New York 10017.

Vogel, S. and S. A. wainwright. 1969. A functional bestiary -'
laboratory studies about living systems. p. 90-91. Addison—
Wesley Publishing Co., Reading, Massachusetts. (Conditioned
reflexes).

What makes apples sour? U. S. D. A. Science Study Aids. Available
from Educationbervices, United States Department of Agriculture,
Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville, Maryland 20705

(Relationship of pH to taste).
! 3
Q'Af

 




T‘L-JO F1333 11243

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
m
G
W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

November 5, 197a

‘Hre Harry Heduied

Chrysler Press, Inc.
114 East 13th Street,
NW 1.1.1:, HoYo 10003

Dear Mr. Modified,

would you please arrange shipment of the following
books for use at our booth exhibit here in Hhshington, D.C.
later this month - November 21-23, 1970:

400 HUMANS BIOLOGY PROJECTS

400 FIRST.AID AND CARI OF'SHALL ANIMILS
400 AIIHAL EXPRESSIONS

590 RULIS AND REASONS

Ship to follows:

. To: mm mm INSTITUTE - Booth #38
FOR: National Science Teachers Association
0/0: Grosdh-Tucker “ﬁrehouse
203R ﬂbst Virginia Avenue, N.E.
ﬁshington, D.C. 20002

The materials MUST ARRIVE at least one week before the
Zlet. Thanks very much.

Sinanely,

Wm

Barbara Gould
Adm. Asst.

P,S. Please return the extra copy letting me know how many
cartons are in the shipment. Also, please be sure to mark the
cartons so that we know which books are in which boxes!!!

w, .«m n

/ Q {A ﬁg 4 g . WW

I ‘ m
i g
{A I (<3 (Peck
f f"
//_///>' 7 c/
g , \

 




ANIMAL WELFARE Ine'rrrv'rn
P. 0. Box 3650
Wnsume'rt'nw. D. C. 20007

December 5, 1974

Mr. Pat Parkes

Humane Society of the United States
160“ K Street, N.W.

Washington, D. C. 20006

Dear Mr. Parkes,

I am sure that Pat Jones gave you a report on our booth
at the National Science Teachers Association Convention. ‘He
certainly had a good crowd of.teachers stopping by our booth
8nd I an certain they must have been talking about it for they
came looking for the materials. They were especially interested
in the reprint of Barbara Orlans article and her workshop so
I think we can consider it quite a success.

All the bills for the convention have now come in and
the total cost for the workshop, rental of booth space, decorating,
and having all the signs made was $740.65. we have paid all the
bills so if H.S.U.S. would reimburse A.HLI. for half, $370.
it will all be settled.

I certainly have enjoyed working with members of your
organization in the past, and since we are due to depart the
country soon, I will take this opportunity to wish you the
very best in your new location.

Sincerely,

(3mm Cam!)

Barbara Gould
Administrative Assistant

 




Saturday, November 23

COMMERCIALLY SPONSORED WORKSHOPS

Workshop G-1
8:30 AM to 10 AM
Continental Room

Workshop G-2
8:30 AM to 10 AM
Richmond Room

Workshop 6—3
8:30 AM to 10 AM
Wardman Room

Session 6-1
8:30 AM to 10 AM
South Cotillion Room

Session G-2
8:30 AM to 10 AM
North Cotillion Room

SERIES G

MODULAR ACTIVITIES PROGRAM IN SCIENCE
Houghton Mifflin Company. Limit 100 (K-6)
A hands-on approach to the teaching of elementary
science. Participants will workr‘with the equipment
and audio-visual aids which enrich the textbook
modules.

PRACTICAL, TEACHABLE ELEMENTARY SCIENCE
Silver Burdett/General Learning Corporation. Limit
60 (K-6)

To demonstrate the teachability of elementary sci-
ence for conventional classroom teachers.

To show elementary science as a lead-in to the
lSCS program for grades 7-9, utilizing an activity
approach with lab equipment.

TEACHING BIOLOGY USING HUMAN BEINGS AS
SUBJECTS
Animal Welfare Institute and Humane Society of the
US. Limit 35 (9-College)
Eight practical class projects in human physiology
and psychology using human beings as subjects will
be presented. Experiments will include studies in
muscular fatigue, mapping sweat glands, reaction
time, human error, touch, depth perception, eye.
dominance, and finger mazes. {3

 

 

CONCURRENT SESSIONS
SERIES G

COMPETENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY: An opportunity
for Science Teachers
A “game” presentation which gives the audience, as
participants, an opportunity to clarify definitions and
priorities concerning science education goals.
Chairman: Albert F. Eiss, Systems Specialist, Car-
roll County, Carrollton City Schools, Ga.
Homer Coker, Associate Professor, School of Educa-
tion, West Georgia College, Carrollton
Stephen B. Lucas, Associate Professor, Elementary
Education, Edinboro State College, Pa.

SPECIAL GENIUS AND UNDERFOOT
Two multi-media, multi-screen presentations.
A panorama presentation of the spirit, philosophy,
and work of the US. Department of Agriculture (Soil
Conservation Service) featuring urban, suburban, and

47

 




EXHIBITO RS

Addison-Wesley Publishing Company,
Inc.

Menlo Park, California

Booths 1 and 2

Textbooks and related materials.

Addison-Wesley Publishing Company,
lnc., Juvenile Division

Reading, Massachusetts

Booth 3

Children’s trade books for

supplementary use in sciences.

Allyn & Bacon

Boston, Massachusetts
Booth 32

Textbooks and teachers’ aids
tastefully displayed in a case
designed for that purpose.

American Gas Association
Arlington, Virginia

Booths 29 and 30

Attractive display of teaching aids
(filmstrips, charts, kits, booklets) on

natural gas for elementary through
secondary level—free to teachers.

American Science and Engineering,
Inc.

Boston, Massachusetts

Booth 5

Elementary School Science Programs:

ESS, COPES, & Components, EARLY
CHILDHOOD CURRICULUM: A
PIAGET PROGRAM.

AMSCO School Publications, Inc.
New York, New York

Booth 75

Textbooks.

, I’XAnimal Welfare Institute and The

Humane Society of The United
States
Washington, DC.
Booth 38
Distribution of humane educational
materials, single copies free to each

teacher visiting booth.

A. Balla & Company
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Booth 81

Metric teaching aids.

Bergwall Productions, Inc.
Garden City, New York
Booth 65

Color/ sound filmstrlps.

Brodhead-Garrett Company
Cleveland, Ohio

Booth 69

New method of teaching devices,
mechanical aspects of levers, gears,
fluid power and basic electricity.

Cambridge Book Company

New York, New York

Booths 23 and 24

A standard type textbook exhibit
displaying elementary and high
school science textbooks.

Carolina Biological Supply Company
Burlington, North Carolina

Booth 4

Biological supplies.

CEBCO/Standard Publishing

New York, New York

Booth 77

Science texts and workbooks,
laboratory manuals, spirit duplicating
masters and environmental workshop
program.

Central Scientific Company
Chicago, Illinois

Booth 13

Science equipment and supplies,
curriculum materials, single concept
kits, mini course materials, and
computerized purchasing program.

Combined Book Exhibit, Inc.

Briarcliff Manor, New York

Booth 58

Books of many publishers displayed
in the following categories: Study &
Teaching, Books for Young People,
Reference, Pure Science, Technology,
Social Sciences and Leisure Reading.

Delta Education, Inc.

Nashua, New Hampshire

Booth 73

Display of E88 and SCIS science kits
and associated materials.

67

 




Educational Materials & Equipment
Company

Pelham, New York

Booth 26

Microscopes for all levels; audio-visual

materials for chemistry, physics and

earth science.

Estes Industries

Penrose, California

Booth 33

Model Rocketry—kits, engines,
accessories. The many educational
applications of model rocketry will be
explained. Materials suitable for
fourth grade thru college level

will be exhibited.

Field Enterprises Educational
Corporation

Chicago, Illinois

Booth 42

The World Book Encyclopaedia,

Childcraft—The How and Why Library,

Cyclo-teacher® Learning Aid and

related reference materials, including
The World Book Year Book, Science
Year, and the Childcraft Annual.

Fisher Scientific Educational Materials
Division

Chicago, Illinois

Booths 44 and 45

Perma—SlantTM; Bacterial and Mold

Cultures, Stansi-Pak: Vacuum Pack

Preserved Dissecting Specimens,

Phyta-Clone TM: Algae Cultures,

CIear-Vue m embedments.

Food and Drug Administration

Falls Church, Virginia

Booth 78

Table top exhibit highlighting food
and drug testing techniques.
Educational materials on foods, drugs,
biologics and radiological health.

Ginn & Company

Arlington, Virginia

Booths 14 and 15

Kits, textbooks, other instructional
aids.

68

Globe Book Company, Inc.

New York, New York

Booth 36

Science textbooks for elementary,
junior and senior high schools for
students with reading and learning
difficulties.

Hampden Engineering Corporation
East Longmeadow, Massachusetts
Booth 22

Electrical power supplies,
instrumentation, test apparatus and
training equipment for Physics and
related science areas.

Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc.
New York, New York

Booth 31

Textbooks, Lab Kits and Sound
Filmstrips.

Holt, Rinehart & Winston, Inc.
New York, New York

Booth 9

Texts and related materials.

Houghton Mifflin Company
Hopewell, New Jersey

Booths 49 and 64

Textbooks, audio-visual and new
media learning aids.

Hubbard Scientific Company
Northbrook, Illinois

Booth 89

Introduces PSSP (Primary Science
Skills Project) and features Programs
& Products for Life, Earth Physical,
Biological Sciences and Special
Educaﬁon.

Imperial International Learning
Corporation

Kankakee, Illinois

Booth 53

Multimedia Individualized Science

program including kits of materials,

science equipment, audiotapes and

sound filmstrip for elementary schools.

 




NSTA EASTERN
AREA CONVENTION

November 21 -23, 1974

SHERATON PARK HOTEL
Washington, DC.

Convention Chairman
MARY B. HARBECK, Assistant Director
Department of Science, District of Columbia Public Schools
Washington, DC.
President-elect of CESI

Theme:
Science, Education, Social Concern: A Dynamic Partnership

Co-Sponsors
Connecticut Science Teachers Association
Delaware Science Teachers Association
llllnols Science Teachers Association
Maryland Science Teachers Association
Massachusetts Science Teachers Association
Michigan Science Teachers Association
New Jersey Science Teachers Association
North Carolina Science Teachers Association
Pennsylvania Science Teachers Association
Vlrglnia Association of Science Teachers
West Virginia Science Teachers Association

Cover Design: Ohaus Scale Corporation. Our Eastern Area Convention program
depicts the dynamic partnership of science, education, and social concern. The
beaker full of water, the crustacean and the sulfur dioxide formula symbolize
our deep ecological involvement, while the wood tick, the astronaut, the North-
ern Cross, and atmospheric clouds indicate our nation’s activity in science via
NSF and NASA.

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
1742 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20009

An Affiliate of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science

 

Addresses, reports, papers, displays, and exhibits were scheduled into the
convention program on an invitational basis in the interest of dissemination
and discussion. No Association endorsement of products or viewpoints is
implied and none should be inferred.

 

 

 

 




NSTA BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

F. JAMES RUTHERFORD, President

Chairman, Department of Science
Educaﬁon

New York University

New York, New York

FRED BLUMENFELD, President-elect
Biology and Unified Science Teacher
Miiiburn High School
Miiiburn, New Jersey

LESLIE W. TROWBRIDGE, Retiring
President

Professor of Science

University of Northern Colorado

Greeley, Coiorado

ELEANOR DAVEY, Member-at-iarge

Chairman, Science and Math
Department

Xavier High School

Phoenix, Arizona

FRED D. JOHNSON, Member-at-iarge
Science Consultant

Shelby County Schools

Memphis, Tennessee

MARILYN D. LUCAS, Member-at-iarge
Chemistry Teacher

Euclid Senior High School

Euclid, Ohio

ALICE J. MOSES, Member-at-iarge
Elementary Science Teacher
University of Chicago

Laboratory Schools

Chicago, iiiinois

 

ROBERT L. SILBER, Executive Director
National Science Teachers Association
Washington, DC.

DISTRICT DIRECTORS

ALBERT L. POWERS, District i
Science Department
Concord-Carlisle High School
Concord, Massachusetts

BERNARD M. McFADDEN, District ii
Science/ Health Chairman

W. Tresper Clarke High School
Westbury, New York

CONSTANCE P. TATE, District iii

Educational Specialist

Division of instruction and
Curriculum Management

Baltimore City Public Schools

Baltimore, Maryland

ANNA A. NEAL, District iV
Coordinator of Science
Fayette County Public Schools
Lexington, Kentucky

2

ROGER W. HANSON, District V
Dean, School of Natural Sciences
The University of Alabama
University Station

Birmingham, Alabama

KENNETH L. FRAZIER, District Vi
Classroom Teacher

North Olmsted High School

North Olmsted, Ohio

NANCY R. NOESKE, District Vii

Environmental Education Coordinator
(K-12)

Public Schools

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

EDWARD P. ORTLEB, District Viii
Science Supervisor, K-12

St. Louis Public Schools

St. Louis, Missouri

 




Dear Barbara:

Enclosed is the application
for booth space at the NSTA Eastern
Area Convention on November 21-23.
We will appreciate your completing
and submitting it for HSUS and AWI.

Also, please let me know the booth
that is eventually assigned to us.

Many thanks and best wishes.

at Parkes

 




APPLICATION AND EXHIBIT BOOTH CONTRACT

National Science Teachers Association

Eastern Area Convention and Exposition of Science Teaching Materials

November 21 -23, 1974
SHERATON PARK HOTEL, WASHINGTON, o. c.

This application for booth space at the above meeting, which will become a contract upon acceptance, is based upon the plan of exhibits, rates, and general exhibit
information, all of which complement and are to be considered together with details on both sides of this form. A deposit of one-half the exhibit space rental is due
with this application and the balance is due upon notice of space assignment. Failure to make full payment by October 21, 1974 will subject exhibitor to

cancellation of contract and forfeiture of deposit.

Make payment to: NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION and mail with both signed copies of this contract to NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION, 1201 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036.

COST OF EXHIBIT SPACE:

Rental cost of exhibit space is shown on the exhibit diagram.

ASSIGNMENT OF EXHIBIT SPACE:

Space assignment will be made June 1, 1974 based upon: Amount of space required; postmark of application; past participation in the National and Area
Expositions; participation in and support of other NSTA endeavors such as advertising in NSTA publications; special requirements; and general grouping of

exhibits for proper comparison.

 

. SIZE OF SPACE REQUESTED: ft. x ___.__.______.___ ft.

PREFERRED LOCATIONS: (Please choose four locations that would be suitable for your booth).
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost $
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. PLEASE SPECIFY COMPANIES AND/OR PRODUCTS YOU WOULD LIKE YOUR COMPANY TO BE NEAR TO OR AWAY FROM:

 

Near t0'

 

Away from °

BRIEF STATEMENT OF THE NATURE OF THE EXHIBIT AND TYPE OF PRODUCTS TO BE DISPLAYED:

 

 

. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS: (Indicate if water, gas, or drain are needed, and state intended use).

Gm: Drain Hot water Cold water

 

 

 

Intended use

 

Other requirements

 

. WILL YOUR EXHIBIT INCLUDE :THE OPERATION OF SOUND EQUIPMENT? IF SO, DESCRIBE:

 

(See paragraph on reverse side, “Use of Space")

. SIGNED:
Company Address

City, State, Zip Phone No
Title

 

 

 

 

Namp

 

Signature

ACCEPTED FOR EXPOSITION OF SCIENCE TEACHING MATERIALS by:
, Exhibit Manager

 

 

 

. ASSIGNED: Booth (5) No Data.

Amount Received ' Date

 

Balance Due '

Paid in Full:

 

 




Application and Exhibit Boo'l'h Contract
Additional Details and Rules and Regulations

EXHIBIT FLOOR PLAN — All measurements shown on the dia-
gram are believed to be accurate, but management reserves the
right to make such modiﬁcations as may be necessary to meet
the needs of exhibitors and the exhibit programs.

EXHIBITOR REGISTRATION AND HOUSING—Housing ap—
plications and pre—registration forms will be forwarded to ex-
hibitors after space is assigned. Registration is complimentary
for exhibitors.

RESTRICTIONS IN OPERATION OF EXHIBITS—Manage-
ment reserves the right to restrict exhibits which, because of
noise, method of operation, materials, or for any reason, become
objectionable, and also to prohibit or to evict any exhibit which
in the opinion of the management may detract from the general
character of the exhibit as a whole. This reservation includes
persons, things, conduct, printed matter, or anything of a charac-
ter which the management determines is objectionable to the
exhibit. In the event of such restriction or eviction the NSTA
and management are not liable for any refunds of rentals or
other exhibit expense.

LIABILITY—The exhibitor must surrender space occupied by
him in the same condition as it was at the commencement of
occupation. The exhibitor shall assume all responsibility for
damage to the exhibit hall by reason of his exhibit and shall
indemnify and hold harmless the exhibit facility, NSTA, and their
representatives for all liability which might ensue from any cause
whatsoever arising out of the exhibitor’s participation in the
exhibits or in convention activities. The exhibit facility, NSTA,
and their representatives will not be liable for injuries to any
person or for damage to property owned or controlled by the
exhibitor, which claims for damage or injuries may be incident
to, arise from or be in any way connected with the exhibitor’s
occupation of display space, and the exhibitor, on signing the
contract, expressly releases and indemniﬁes the aforementioned
from any and all claims for such loss, damage or injury.

CANCELLATION—Cancellation within 30 days prior to the
opening date obligates the exhibitor to full payment of the
rental. No refunds will be made after this date. If booth space is
not occupied four hours prior to the exhibit opening, manage-
ment shall have the right to use such space as necessary to
eliminate empty spaces in the exhibit hall.

SERVICE INFORMATION—All services customarily required
by exhibitors will be available and must be obtained through the
ofﬁcial service contractors. No other contractors will be permitted
without prior approval. Complete shipping instructions and infor-
mation regarding furniture and carpet rental, electrical work,
plumbing, labor for erecting and dismantling exhibits, drayage,
etc., will be forwarded to exhibitors in advance. A service desk
will be maintained in the exhibit area.

RULES AND REGULATIONS
A. General Regulations

1. Exhibit management will provide necessary watchmen dur-
ing the hours the exhibit area is closed. However, the ex-
hibitor is solely responsible for his own exhibit material
and should insure his exhibit against loss or damage.
Please put small items of value out of sight each night.

Exhibit booths must be staffed during exhibit hours by per-
sons who are well prepared to courteously and effectively
explain all products and services on display. Each exhibitor
must wear an official exhibitor’s identiﬁcation badge.

Management reserves the right to make such modiﬁcations
in the exhibit hours as may be necessary to meet program
needs.

The exhibitor agrees not to dismantle or pack his display
before the close of the exhibit.

It is understood that no rooms, suites or other space in
convention hotels will be used for exhibit purposes, work-
shops, or other exhibitor sales-related use. Invitational
cocktail parties, “open houses,” and similar exhibitor spon—
sored affairs, other than usual private occupancy, are dis—
couraged. Social affairs of all kinds should be scheduled not
to conﬂict with program events.

B. Construction and Arrangement of Exhibits

1. Exhibits must not project beyond the space allocated, or ob-
struct the view of the exhibits of others. Reasonable effort
must be made to provide space within the conﬁnes of the
booth for interviews, demonstrations, distribution of mate-
rials, etc., so that visitors do not obstruct the aisles.

In straight-line exhibits, no solid construction will be per-
mitted to exceed 44 inches in height except in the back half
of the booth, where it shall not exceed eight feet. For ex-
ample, in a 10’ x 10’ booth, solid construction above 44
inches must begin at least ﬁve feet back from the aisle line.
In island spaces or peninsula spaces—20’x 20’, 20’ x 30’, or
larger—narrow overhead panels of open “bridge—type”
construction will be permitted to a maximum height of 10
feet along the center line of the space or along the aisles
to facilitate the construction of open-type exhibits. No
equipment or partitions, except slender supporting posts,
may extend above the 44-inch height within 5 feet of any
aisle, however. Plans for island and peninsula displays must
be submitted to and approved by management well in ad-
vance of the convention.

Any part of the exhibit which does not lend itself to an at-
tractive appearance, such as unﬁnished side or end panels,
must be draped at the exhibitor’s expense. Management re-
serves the right to have such ﬁnishing done, billing the ex-
hibitor for charges incurred.

All decorations must be ﬂame-proofed. All hangings must
clear the floor. Electrical wiring must conform with the Na-
tional Electrical Code safety rules. Exhibitors must comply
with all city ﬁre regulations.

Exhibitors, or their agents, shall not injure or deface the
walls or ﬂoors of the buildings, the booths, or the equip-
ment of the booths. When such damage appears, the ex-
hibitor is liable to the owner of the property so damaged.

C. Limitations on the Use of Space

1. No exhibitor shall assign, sublet or share the space allotted
without the knowledge and consent of management. Exhibi-
tors must show only goods manufactured or dealt in by
them in the regular course of business. All exhibits, inter-
views, demonstrations, and distribution of materials shall
be conﬁned exclusively to the assigned booth and must be
relevant to the exhibitor’s products and shall not be made
primarily to attract or amuse. Sufficient space must be pro-
vided within the exhibit booth to contain persons watching
demonstrations and other promotional activities. Each ex-
hibitor is responsible for keeping the aisle or aisles near
his booth free of congestion due to his demonstrations or
other promotion.

Exhibit attendants may explain, show, or demonstrate pro-
ducts and services, but shall not make sales which result in
the exchange of merchandise and/or money in the exhibit
hall.

Projection machines shall be limited in their operation to
relevant demonstrations only, and shall not be used for
showings which are designed primarily to attract or amuse
visitors.

Musical instruments, radios, sound motion picture equip-
ment, record players, or any noise-making machines shall
be operated only at a noise level which will not interfere
with other exhibitors or add unduly to general acoustic
inconvenience. All such promotional devices must be ap-
proved by management 30 days prior to the exhibit open-
ing and must be in harmony with any agreements entered
into by the Association, the management of the hall, and
applicable labor unions. Approval cannot be given, how-
ever, for the use of sound equipment for live demonstrations
in booths less than 20’x 20’.

Distribution of items other than literature describing the
company’s product is discouraged. Such distribution is not
expressly prohibited, however, if it does not violate stand—
ards of good taste or tend to introduce a carnival
atmosphere.

6. Lotteries are inappropriate and are barred.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o o o o o o C. E. s
UTILITY SYMBOLS
MEETINGS 0 I00 AMP. PANEL 120/208 v.,
SLEEVES FOR COMPRESSED AIR N s
SUPPLEMENTAL UTILITIES
TELEPHONE AND TELEVISION
OUTLETS In
-
O GAS—WATER—WASTE
MEN
—-——— m ——L ., SCALE
' ' 55:5:
0 5 IO I5 20
EXHIBIT
I ENTRANCE
. g g Q Q Q [ﬂu no r- b—
0:
'—“I T I F I l I I 7 E u
”0'53 I I7 22 35 39 52 55 67 7| 5
—1 E I I 5' I—— ———I I—— -——-| 0 I
2 I6 23 35 40 5| 56 66 72 (3 .
Z l— I——— I—— I——— s
9 m a a
L. 5 I5 24 34 4I 50 57 65 73 I: I“ ’ ‘
<I <1
(I 2 a
I'- 2 ﬂ
0 ‘2 ...._._] I I I I I I I 1 3 a %
0 4 I4 25 33 42 49 58 64 74 :3 -
LIJ 3 v
a: ————I I I I——— ———I I 4 I——— ——I [r i g
(I
C Q 1 5 I3 26 32 BI 43 48 d 59 63 75 8 ‘
——-—I .L I E——- ---—I E I L—E——l L— % ’
6 I2 27 3| 44 47 60
I I l I , .
. 5 —I I—— —-——I '4. g o
7 II 28 — -. ,
__J g I i .
— 6\ % GROSCH "TUCKER, INC.
0 ‘ . i 6 DECOR/MING (‘IINTRM‘IORS FUR
— 45 4 ‘ . LZUNVENJIQNS ”ANDVI'RAQI SHOWS
SI lmnx — \I-u (Mums 7— r‘llaula -» Hnusnm 4—— lh-nu-I
i 29 50 ,
9 \0
8 v

 

\\\I\
\\\‘I\‘.‘

ALL BOOTHS ARE 8’ x 10’
. $300 EACH 8' x 10' OR EQUIVALENT THEREOF

\\

Eastern Area Convention and Exposition
Exhibit Hall

Sheraton Park Hotel Washington, DC.

 

 




Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

F. BARBARA ORLANS

No BIOLOGY COURSE IS COMPLETE without direct
observation of living organisms. The study of dead
and pickled specimens has some usefulness, but it
is the study of living matter that is fundamental to
understanding organic processes. The study should
be comprehensive; that is, a wide range of living
organisms should be observed in a biology class-
room. Classroom subjects of study should include
representatives of the higher animal phyla as well
as higher plants, fungi, bacteria, protozoans, and
other small animals. Among these, representative
forms of the higher animal phyla are small mammals
and man.

Oddly enough, some high-school and college
teachers seem to think that studying mammals means
studying only gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, and
mice. Usually such studies are made on domes-
ticated, caged animals. Observation of wild animals
in their natural habitats is usuallyenot part of a
biology course. Yet domesticated, captive animals
are quite different in their physiology and behavior
from their wild counterparts. Perhaps even more
strangely, the study of human physiology by direct
experimentation on human subjects is similarly
neglected. Whereas one might argue that studying
wild animals in their native habitats presents cer-
tain problems for the classroom biology teacher.
no such problems exist in the study of human
physiology.

There are many advantages to using human be-
ings assubjects for biological observation. Human
subjects are always at hand; there is minimum
preparation for such experiments. Human subjects
can follow directions and respond verbally, to pro-
vide data not obtainable from other mammals.
Whereas it may be difficult to interest students in
the physiological processes of an amoeba, the func-
tioning of the human body is of great importance
and interest to most students. Some youngsters
may fail to recognize the relevance of some live
animal biology demonstrations to their own prob-
lems; for instance. some may have difficulty relating
the nutritional requirements of guinea pigs to their

own food needs. Is it not more forceful and of more

direct value for a student to learn as much as pos-

sible by direct study of himself? _ , _ .
Despite these many advantagesgﬂost high-school

«bimgyrmms‘te’i‘the'F‘"ii'e'g'l'ect’to‘itt‘bmit the study of '

man as a physiological entity. Many teachers never
entertain the idea of using human subjects in their
classes—maybe because they think of all experi-
mentation as something that will harm or injure
the subject. Of course, proper provision must be
made to ensure that experiments in human physi-
ology are carefully chosen, so that neither physical

- nor psychological harm will befall the subject. but,
"even so, a wide range Of educatiOnally sound ex-

periments can be selected. The purpose of this
article is to suggest some of them. Equipment needs
for these experiments are minimal; materials are
easy to obtain and inexpensive.

Vision,
Eye Dominance

Most people have a pronounced proclivity to use
one eye more than the other. However, few people
know that they do so.

To determine eye dominance, the subject, using
both eyes, sights a distant object through a 2.5-cm
hole in the center of a cardboard sheet held at arm’s
length. The cardboard must be held with both hands
and moved gradually toward the face, keeping the
distant object sighted (fig. 1). Determine which eye
is used (Gregg 1966).

 

 

The author is a senior staff scientist at

George Washington Medical Center, 2001 S

St, N.W., Wash, DC. 20009, where she

writes reports to keep physicians and policy- ~ .

makers informed on the latest developments 1. l'

m intrauterine contraceptive device tech-

nology. She is also a prolific writer on a

numbei of topics including animal care.

This article is a condensed version of a

chapter in Animal Care: From Protozoa to Small Mammals
(see references) written under contract with BSCS. It was
also a paper at the 1973 NABT convention. Orlans, a physi-
ologist, holds a B.Sc.gdegree from Birmingham University,
England, and MSc. and PhD. degrees from London Uni-
versity. After completing her graduate training in 1956, she
served as a research physiologist for the National Health
Institute, US. Public Health Service. She has been active
for a number of years in the Animal Welfare Institute and
the Humane Society of the United States and maintains
membership in several professional societies.

40l

 




F'ig. 1. Eye dominance. Student sights a distant object
through a hole in a card held at arm’s length, then slowly
brings the card toward her face. At a certain point she
becomes aware that she is using only one eye—the dominant
eye.

Repeat each test several times. Is the same eye
always used to keep the object in sight? Is the sub-
ject’s dominant eye on the same side as his dominant
hand and the dominant food-chewing side of mouth?
Make a record of eye, hand, and side-of-mouth
dominance for a group of, say, 20 people; does a
consistent pattern emerge?

Depth Perception

A study of depth perception can be made with
just a large sheet of white cardboard (60 cm by 90
cm) and a strip of black paper about 1 cm wide and
30 cm long. The instructor acts as experimenter.
Prop the large cardboard about 5 m in front of the
class several feet from the front of the room, with the
top of the cardboard about 10 cm above the eye level
of the subjects.

Trial 1: Hold the black paper 10 cm behind the
large card, with about 5 cm showing above the card.
Subjects are to judge and record the distance be-
tween the large card and the black strip under four
conditions: (i) looking with one eye while holding
head still; (ii) looking with one eye while moving
head back and forth; (iii) looking with both eyes
while holding head still; and (iv) looking with both
eyes while moving head back and forth.

Trial 2: Repeat the above procedure with the
strip 30 cm from the card.

Trial 3: Repeat at 20 cm.

Trial 4: Repeat at 2.5 cm.

Next, repeat trials 1—4, but use a pencil instead
of the black strip. Hold the pencil so that 5 cm of it
show above the card, and use the same distances
but change their order.

Each subject records his judgments (16 for the

401 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER l974

black strip and 16 for the pencil trials). After the
trials are completed, the subjects are told the actual
distances and asked to compute their errors. The
average error for the whole class can also be com-
puted. Which conditions produced the poorest judg-
ments? Which produced the best? What depth cues
were available to the subject under each of the
viewing conditions? Were there any differences be-
tween accuracies of judgment for the black card and
for the pencil? Why?

Localization of Sound

Accuracy in locating sounds can be determined
by blindfolding the subject and clinking two coins
together (or by using a snapper “cricket”) at vary-
ing points approximately 1 m from the subject’s
head (ﬁg. 2). The subject is asked to point in the
direction he thinks the sound is coming from. A
score of correct or incorrect is recorded for 30 trials

Fig. 2. Localization of sound. Blindfolded subject points in
the direction she thinks the sound is coming from. Another
student records correct and incorrect responses.

with each subject. What individual variation is
found in the ability to locate sounds? Can training
improve this ability? Do musically talented stu-
dents, who have received training in listening care-
fully to sounds, score better than average in this
test?

Judging Weights

What are the limits of man’s ability to judge
whether two objects are of different weights? The
subject closes his eyes and holds two 125-ml Erlen-

 




meyer ﬂasks by the neck—one in each hand (ﬁg.
3). One ﬂask is marked “Test,” the other “Control”;
and each initially contains 50 g of water (1 g : 1
ml). The subject reports to the experimenter if he
thinks the weights are equal. The experimenter then
adds water to the test ﬂask in 2-ml portions, each
time handing the ﬂasks back to the subject but
randomly mixing the right and the left and each
time asking the subject to determine relative
weights. When the test ﬂask feels just perceptively
heavier, record the volume of water added. The dif-
ferencelin weight between the test ﬂask and the
control ﬂask at this point is the “difference thresh-
old” for 50 g. Repeat this procedure, starting With
100, 200, and 500 g of water (and using larger ﬂasks
as needed). How ﬁne a discrimination can be made

in judging weights? Does the difference threshold'

vary according to the initial weights used? Make a
graph, plotting the difference threshold on the
vertical axis against the weight of the control ﬂask
on the horizontal axis. Do the results vary much
from person to person?

Mapping Sweat Glands

Map the sweat glands on the palm of the subject’s
hand by painting 2.5 cm2 of the skin with 1% iodine
solution (McBlair 1965) (ﬁg. 4). Allow the skin to
dry completely. Then hold a 2.5-cm square of bond
paper on it for 30 seconds while resting quietly.
Remove the paper and count the number of bluish
dots in 1 cm2. Each bluish dot represents one active
sweat gland. Record the result. Repeat for the palm
of the left hand, the sole of a foot, the back of the
neck, and an underarm. Repeat under conditions of
light exercise and after sitting in a cold room. What
conclusions can be drawn as to the distribution and
activity of sweat glands?

Muscular Fatigue

Muscle fatigue can be tested by continuously
opening and closing the hand rapidly and forcefully.
Record the number of times this is done in 20
seconds. Repeat this 10 times and record the number
of closures per trial. Graph the results by plotting
_ the number of closures against the number of trials.
To demonstrate the importance of good blood-circu-
lation for muscular activity, repeat this experiment
with a constriction band on the arm, to block off
the venous return.

Heart Rate: a Study in Physiological Variation

The range of individual variation in any popula-
tion has important implications for physicians in
determining the presence of abnormal signs: one
cannot know what is abnormal unless one knows
what is normal. An important health sign is the
rapidity or slowness of the heartbeat—the heart

Fig. 3. Judging weights. The subject (center), with eyes
closed, holds two ﬂasks of water—a test ﬂask and a control
ﬂask——and judges which is the heavier. Another student
(right) has just added 2 ml of water to the test ﬂask. Suc-
cessive aliquots are added to this ﬂask until the subject
senses a difference in its weight from that of the control
ﬂask. which remains unchange’d. A third student (left) acts
as It‘f'Ol‘dGF.

rate. The extent of individual variation in heartbeat
is, therefore. of considerable importance. Heartbeat
can be gauged from the pulse either in the wrist or
in the carotid artery (in the neck). Determine the
heart rate for many individuals. Count the number
of beats per minute with the aid of a stopwatch.
Make several determinations for each individual.
Plot the distribution curve by graphing the fre-
quency (number of individuals in the sample) on
the vertical axis against the heartbeats per unit time
on the horizontal axis. The standard deviation and

> V.’ . i - 4r
,, ““7. , _. ' '
Ag-ﬂ.’".r.\ . 't'
;,- I. ““31“,”?

Fig. 4. Sweat gland activity. The subject’s hand is being
painted with a 1% solution of iodine. When it is dry, a
2.5-cm square of bond paper will be held in close contact
with the painted skin for 30 seconds. Small blue dots will
appear on the paper wherever there are active sweat glands.

STUDENTS AS EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECTS 403

 




sweat-ahxmtmmgasmmv PM '- . ...
‘I .

rawx‘

..on

other statistical properties can be determined if the
sample is large enough (Hake et al. 1971).

- Performance after Eating a Good Breakfast

Elicit the reaction time, decision-making ability,
andwork capacity of a group of students who have
regularly omitted breakfast for four weeks; then
have them eat a good breakfast and retest them for
these values. A simple standard psychological test
that could be used is the time taken to sort a deck
of cards into suits and rank. Alternatively, deter—
mine simple and choice reaction times (see below)
for subjects acting as their own controls; or use
other students as controls by comparing these times
for students who regularly omit breakfast with
those who regularly eat breakfast. The results may
prove comparable to recent professional ﬁndings
that made use of a variety of tests: when breakfast
was omitted, students took longer to make decisions,
had less neuromuscular control, and did less work.

Nervous System
Reaction Time

To demonstrate the time lag between stimulus
and response (reaction time), the subject holds the
thumb and foreﬁnger of his preferred hand about 1
cm apart while the experimenter suspends a rela-
tively new dollar bill vertically between them, with
the center of the bill level with the thumb and
ﬁnger. The subject is told to grasp the bill as soon
as the experimenter releases it. Most subjects are
unable to do this.

A variation requires the subject to hold a measur-
ing stick (meter stick, ruler) between his thumb
and index ﬁnger; he releases his grip and then, as
quickly as possible, tries to grasp the stick again.
Measure the ° ce the stick travels before it is
stopped. Several trials should be made. The average
distance the stick falls is a measure of reaction time.
Compare the results of trials with several subjects.

Have the subject repeat the test after chilling his
hands in icewater. What effect does this have on the
results? Why?

Simple and Choice Reaction Times

To demonstrate the differences between a simple
and a choice reactiOn time, have 10 students line up
in a single column, with each person placing his
left hand on the shoulder of the person in front of
him (ﬁg. 5). The ﬁrst person raises his arm so that
it can be readily seen. Thesubjects are told that
each person will be tapped , on the shoulder and
that he is to respond as quickly as possible after he
receives the signal. The instructor taps the left
shoulder of the last person and starts a stopwatch
at the same time, stopping it as soon as the head
man drops his arm. After some practice runs, time

404 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER l974

10 trials. Average the results and compute the mean
time taken for each person to respond. This is the
simple reaction time.

To measure choice reaction time, each subject
places both hands on the shoulders of the person
next in line. This time the subjects are to respond
by tapping the shoulder apposite the one that re-
ceived the stimulus; but the location of the stimulus
will be unknown in advance and will vary from trial
to trial. Make 10 trials and compare the results with
those obtained for simple reaction times. '

Which reaction time is faster? What are the
neural explanations for the differences in the two

Fig. 5. Simple reaction time. 10 students are lined up; each
has placed his left hand on the left shoulder of the person
in front. The person at the head of the line holds up his
left hand, ready to start the test (see text), while the teacher
(right) stands by with a stop watch.

situations? Give examples of the improvement of
efﬁciency in industrial or other work through
organizing the task in such a manner as to reduce
the frequency of choice-reaction times. '

Human Error

A salutary experiment devised to test a person’s
ability to observe accurately is to assess the errors
made in simple counting. Ask all the students to
open their textbooks to a particular page and count
the number of words on that page in a specified
length of time. (Tell them that a hyphenated word
counts as one word.) Have each student write down
his answer on a piece of paper. Collect the results;
discard deliberate attempts to confound the data;
and make a frequency distribution graph of the
rest of the responses. Usually, there is an enormous
range in responses.

Finger Mazes: Plotting a Learning Curve

A learning curve is a graph showing the relation
between time and the ability to complete a task
accurately. It reveals the speed with which a sub-
ject has learned a task. One suitable task is to learn
a ﬁnger maze.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9‘)
___l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 6. Finger maze. The experimenter records time and
number of sequential trials needed for the subject to learn
to trace a pathway from start to ﬁnish in the maze.

All that is needed is (i) the maze (fig. 6), (ii) a
7-by-9-inch (18-by-23-cm) card with a 5-mm hole
punched in the middle, to act as a shield for the
maze, and (iii) a stopwatch. The experimenter
places the card over the maze so that the start
(marked “8”) shows through the hole. He tells the
subject that on the word “go” he is to move the
card so that the maze pathway shows through the
hole in the card. If an incorrect path is chosen, he
must retrace his path and continue until the correct
one is found. If the correct path is chosen, he will
eventually arrive at the end of the maze (marked
“F,” for ﬁnish), The experimenter records the time,
in seconds, that the subject takes to complete the
maze in each of several trials. Continue the trials
until the subject completes at least two errorless
trials. At this point, the subject has learned the
task. He may need 10 or more trials to do so.

To construct the learning curve, plot on the
vertical axis the number of seconds taken to com-
plete the maze, against the number of trials on the
horizontal axis. Compare the results attained by
several subjects. Is the learning time decreased if
rewards are given? Do learning curves for different
tasks have the same general shape?

Comments

References given at the conclusion of this article
describe additional experiments that use human
beings as subjects and are suitable for high-school
student investigations.

Teachers should be aware of the problems asso-
ciated with using students as experimental subjects.
The guiding principle in determining the advis-
ability of a human physiological or psychological
demonstration must always be that the teacher should
stand in loco parentis; that is, the teacher should not
allow any risk that a prudent parent would not wish

his child to undergo. The Association for Science Ed-
ucation, in England, recommends that the teacher
should (i) know something about the medical his-
tory of the human subject, (ii) consult parents if
there are any doubts, (iii) never press any demon-
stration to extremes, and (iv) consult the school
medical oﬂicer when necessary.

In selecting suitable biology projects, special care
must be exercised to exclude any possibility of
physical or mental damage to the student. Among
the projects that may be risky are demonstrations
of the effects of mild exercise and the taking of blood
samples. On the whole, experiments that require the
subject to swallow something should be avoided—
if the substance to be swallowed is a chemical or
could be considered a drug. Giving electric shocks
or other aversive stimuli to humans should not be
part of any student demonstration. (Recently, in a
home-rigged science fair project, a high-school stu-
dent aroused human subjects from sleep with elec—
tric shocks geared to , the bed. Unfortunately,
requirements for protecting human subjects were so
lax that instead of this project being banned because
of the very real hazard presented, it gained a prize!)

Projects which could cause mental stress or em-
barrassment should also be avoided. Under no cir-
cumstances should any subject feel he is under
pressure to participate in any demonstration. Al-
though some students might not mind measuring
their body height or weight in the classroom, others
would be sensitive on these points. Experiments in-
volving genetic inheritance of certain characteristics
that raise questions of paternity are another source
of potential embarrassment to some students. The
students should be fully informed of the nature of
any experiment before being asked to volunteer to
be a subject; never ask for volunteers and then
describe the experiment.

The American Psychological Association (1973)
has this to say about student investigations of hu-
man behavior:

Generally stated, [ethical] principles oblige the stu-
dent investigator to inform partic1pants of all fea-
tures of the investigation (including risks of physical
or mental discomfort) that reasonably might be
expected to inﬂuence their willingness to participate
and to respect their freedom to decline or to discon-
tinue participation at any time. . . . The student
investigator is also obliged to keep conﬁdential any
information obtained about participants during the
investigation.

Professional scientists have given very serious
consideration, in recent years, to establishing social-
ly acceptable standards of human experimentation.
However, the guidelines that have emerged from
these deliberations deal with standards governing
fully trained research workers and do not normally
deal with standards required of beginning, un-
trained students. Obviously, standards for young
students are not necessarily the same as those re-
quired of fully trained, professional researchers.

STUDENTS AS EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECTS 405

 




0
r

)1

C
6

Only one organizatiOn—the American Psychological
Association—has addressed itself to problems re-
sulting from high-school student investigations of
human behavior. TO date, no organization has pre-
pared guidelines covering all precollege biological
(both physiological and psychological) investigations
involving human subjects. In view of the recent
tendency to introduce the study of human physiology
and psychology into high-school curricula, it would
be judicious if leaders of the biology-teaching pro-
fession were to devise guidelines governing all
aspects of biological investigation in secondary edu-
cation that may have ethical implications.

Acknowledgements.—Photographs of students performing
experiments were taken by Michael Simmonds (ﬁg. 1, 2, and
4) and Edward M. Spivack (ﬁg. 3 and 5), students of Leonard
Krause at Akiba Hebrew Academy, Merion Station, Pa.
Their cooperation and that of students at Overbrook High
School, Merion Station, Pa., who also participated, is grate-
fully acknowledged.

REFERENCES
Books and Articles

AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION. 1973. Ethical prin-
ciples in the conduct of research with human subjects.
Available on request from the APA’s Ofﬁce of Scientiﬁc
Affairs, 1200 17th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

GREGG, J. R. 1966. Experiments in visual science for home
and school. Ronald Press Co., New York. (Describes about
40 vision experiments, including locating blind spot,
optical illusion, measuring chromatic ﬁelds, measuring
size of pupil aperture and ﬁelds of vision, studies of ac-
commodation Of the eye, visual acuity, dark adaptation,
and subjective color-mixing.)

GREEN, E. R., and K. BOBROWSKY. 1968. Laboratory investiga-
tions in biology. Silver Burdett Co., Morristown, N. J.
(Includes digestion of starch, analysis of urine, human
genetics.)

HAIR, J. C., J. J. W. BAKER, and G. E. ALLEN. 1971. Twelve
problems in biology: open-ended experiments for intro-
ductory college biology. Addison-Wesley Publishing Co.,
Reading, Mass.

LAND, E. H. 1959. Experiments in color vision. Scientiﬁc
American 200(5) :84. (Includes color perception.)

MCBLAIR, W. 1965. Experiments in physiology. National
Press, Palo Alto, Calif. (Includes experiments on hair,
touch, and color perception.)

ORLANS, F. B. 1970. Better nutrition studies. American Biol-
ogy Teacher 32 (8):484. (Nutrition experiment.)

_. . In press, 1974. Animal care: from Protozoa to
small mammals. Educational Programs Improvement
Corporation, Boulder, Colo. (Includes various physiology
and psychology experiments on‘ many species of animals.)

erE, D. C. 1970. A laboratory exercise in human heredity.
American Biology Teacher 32(5):290. (Inheritance of M
and N blood types.)

Scnucmmc, H. E., JR., and R. V. BROWN. 1970. Effect of
background music on student performance. American
Biology Teacher 32(7):427. (Studies on effect of distrac-
tion. .

Vom)S., and S. A. WAINWRIGH’I‘. 1969. A functional bestiary
-—laboratory studies about living systems. Addison-Wesley
Publishing Co., Reading, Mass. (P. 90—91: conditioned
reﬂexes.)

Visual aids

Staining and observing blood cells. Biology ﬁlmstrip labora-

406 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. OCTOBER |974

tory experiment. Silver Burdett Co., Division of General
Learning Co., 250 James St., Morristown, NJ. 07960.

Studying blood: smear and stain technique. Super-8 mm
cartridge ﬁlmloop, color or black-and-white; approxi-
mately 4 min. Holt Biology Filmloops, Holt, Rinehart and
Winston, Inc., Box 3670, Grand Central Station, New York,
N.Y. 10017. .

What makes apples sour? [pamphlet]. USDA Science Study
Aids. Education Services, US. Department of Agriculture,
Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville, Md. 20705; (Re-
lationship of pH to taste.)

 

Inner-City Ecology

A new ﬁlmstrip for use by teachers and conserva-
tionists who are preparing themselves or are going
to prepare other adults for an inner-city environ-
mental program is now available from the National
Wildlife Federation for $5 per unit, postpaid. The
ﬁlmstrip, “A Concrete Ecology- Inner—City Environ-
mental Education,” is in color, comes with a narrated
sound cassette, and runs 20 minutes. The production
was the result of a series of inner-city environmental
education workshops sponsored by the NWF under
a grant from the US. Oﬂice of Environmental Edu-
cation. The ﬁlmstrip emphasizes the point of view
one must have in order to successfully carry out an
inner-city environmental education program, and it
gives some “do’s” and “don’t’s” for such a program.

 

NABT Convention
Calendar

The following are dates—of seminars and conven-
tions sponsored by the National Association Of’
Biology Teachers. For additional information,
write to NABT, 1420 N Street, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20005.

May 12—14, 1975. NABT-ICFAR Seminar, Indianap-
olis, Indiana.

October 23—26, 1975. NABT National Convention,
The Portland Hilton, Portland, Oregon.

October 14—17(1976. NABT National Convention,
The Regency, Denver. Colorado.

October 20—24, 1977. NABT National Convention,
The Anaheim Convention Center, Anaheim, Cali-
fornia. -

 

 

 

 




Better Nutrition Studies

Nutrition experiments. What is the ﬁrst thing that
comes to mind when you hear those words? Do
you think of deprivation studies or something else?
Thoseteachers and students who equate nutrition
experiments with deprivation studies betray a de-
cided lack of imagination. Unfortunately, various
commercial bodies have so successfully promoted
inadequate-diet experiments on animals (by pro-
viding free animals and “deprivation kits”) that
high school teachers have been conditioned to accept
these studies in the curriculum and as suitable
science-fair projects, often to the exclusion of more
revealing experiments. This heavy reliance on im-
proper-feeding experiments should be replaced by
nutrition studies that are more humane and more
relevant to society’s needs.

What’s Wrong with Deprivation Studies

Present guidelines for the use of animals in
science fairs require that deprivation-of—nutrients
experiments “proceed only to the point where symp-
toms of the deﬁciency appear” (National Society
for Medical Research Ad Hoc Committee, 1969).
However, this caution has proved ineffective be-
cause inexperienced youngsters working at home
(and even teachers, if untrained in pathology) can—
not identify that ,“point.” The lingering death of
deprived animals has been reported at several sci-
ence fairs, and yet the students have said they had
no idea the animals were so sick.

These guidelines also require that after disease
symptoms appear the dietary deﬁciency shall, if

Author’s address: 24 Plainﬁeld St., Waban, Mass. 02168.

By F. BARBARA ORLANS

possible, be corrected; otherwise the animals must
be humanely put to death. As most youngsters do
not have the experience, the equipment, or the
knowledge of the symptoms and doses needed to
fulﬁll these requirements, they should not under-
take diet-deﬁciency experiments for science com-
petitions.

In addition to the technical diﬁ'iculties of con-
ducting these experiments properly, there are moral,
psychologic, and social objections to deprivation
studies in elementary and secondary schools. Is it
morally justiﬁable to demonstrate established facts
over and over again when animal suffering is in-
volved? If the intentional inﬂiction of crippling
disease is tolerated, then with as much justiﬁcation
the effects of bad driving could be portrayed by
squashing animals between metal and concrete until
their bodies are crushed. Plainly, the adverse effects
of such demonstrations outweigh their possible edu-
cational beneﬁts. Surely the many alternative ways
of conveying the same information—movies, dis-
cussions, and the like—are preferable to those that
harm animals.

How readily do students relate their own food
habits and human nutritive problems to the ex-
perience of watching rats slowly losing their hair
and developing swollen eyes, bloody nostrils, and
pneumonia? A youngster may not be persuaded
by the teacher’s directive, “Well, now go and eat a
good breakfast.”

Hurting Animals Has Hardening Effects

It is of paramount importance that the child ﬁrst
develop a positive attitude to life and be protected

Reprinted from THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, Vol. 3:2, No. ll, November 1970

 




 

from violent experiences. A youngster is not asked
to put an animal to death; nor should he be required

to hurt one. Yet insensitiveness to these issues has ,

led the National Dairy Council (1968) to promote
second-grade class demonstrations of growth re-
tardation in chickens not fed milk products. Such
activities can be emotionally upsetting or—even
worse—emotionally desensitizing or hardening, to
immature minds. It is wrong to condition children
from an early age to watch or participate in hurting
animals. How much better it would be to have
second-graders undertake studies suggested in the
Kindness Club Project Manual (National Humane
Education Center, 1969).

A manual produced by another commercial en-
terprise to promote inadequate—diet experiments on
animals by young students states, “One who loves
animals will deeply sympathize with the [diseased]
animals when their symptoms appear but he must
realize that this is the result we have been working
for. ...” (General Biological Supply House, 1937).
But should we help children to overcome or, on
the other hand, to preserve their reluctance to hurt
animals? Sensitive youngsters turn away from de-
liberate inﬂiction of pain and disease on helpless
animals. They do not want to be responsible for
causing animals to become blind, unable to walk,
or retarded in growth. There are many accounts of
teenagers sabotaging class demonstrations of in-
adequate-diet effects by slipping the mice wholesome
nourishment when the teacher wasn’t looking. In
these formative years, should not kindly instincts be
fostered rather than suppressed?

Disproportionate Emphasis on Vitamins

The U. S. Food and Drug Administration has
said, “Vitamins and minerals are supplied in abun-
dant amounts by commonly available foods. Except
for persons with special medical needs, there is no
scientiﬁc basis for recommending routine use of
dietary supplements” (Federal Register, Dec. 14,
1966: 31 FR 15746). Many food and drug company
advertisements, however, prefer to suggest that
large numbers of affluent, overfed Americans may
suffer vitamin deﬁciencies, and too many teachers
unwittingly promote this fancy by undue attention
to vitamin-deﬁciency experiments. James L. God-
dard, former commissioner of the U. S. Food and
Drug Administration, has declared, “We may al-
ready have achieved an optimum of misunderstand-
ing about the nature and value of [vitamin] prod—
ucts” (Goddard, 1968; italics in original).

Attention should be directed, instead, to the real
American problem: obesity. As many as 23% of teen-
age girls and 18% of teenage boys are obese—and
obese youngsters are less likely to be accepted at
high-ranking colleges (Canning and Mayer, 1966).
Among the middle-aged, obesity is accompanied by
a threefold rise in heart disease. Among the poor,
some 44% of women and 34% of men are obese

(Goldblatt, Moore, and Stunkard, 1965). How in-
structive and constructive it would be, if youngsters
(especially those from improverished homes) were
told to purchase a week’s breakfast of high nutritive
value for a small sum, recording the relative costs
of protein, carbohydrates, and fats. Constructive
advice about fad foods and the factors that result
in obesity would constitute practical education in
nutrition. Sound, scientiﬁc facts and answers to
commonly asked questions about obesity are pro-
vided by the professor of nutrition at Harvard
University in an excellent book, Overweight (May—
er, 1968).

Sound Ways of Teaching Nutrition

Of course, there are many ways to learn about
the deleterious effects of poor diet without harming
or killing animals. Clive M. McCay, professor of
nutrition at Cornell University, has pointed out
that “hundreds of good nutritional experiments...
can be done without any suffering of the animal (5) ”
(McCay, 1956). For instance, compare the rates of
growth of animals kept on (i) standard laboratory
chow given ad lib. with those kept on (ii) a varied
diet comprising many different kinds and tastes
of foods and those on (iii) a varied diet with high
protein content. Does diet affect their social be-
havior? Demonstrate in class how animals, when
offered both suitable and unsuitable foods, will
select a balanced diet of correct proportions and
amounts. The lesson is, if rats can do this, so per-
haps can teenagers! Measure the metabolic rates
of animals and human beings. Show photographs
or movies of well-conducted demonstrations of im-
proper animal diet. (See references for movies.)
Make chemical analyses of foods for mineral con-
tent.

Keep a detailed record of students’ eating habits
and assess the nutritive values. Elicit reaction time,
decision-making ability, and work ability of a group
of students who have regularly omitted breakfast
for four weeks; then have them eat a good breakfast
and retest, comparing the results. (A simple, stan—
dard psychologic test, which could be used, is the
time taken to sort a deck of cards into suits and
rank. The results may comport with recent pro-
fessional ﬁndings that made use of a variety of
tests: when breakfast was omitted students took
longer to make decisions, had less neuromuscular
control, and did less work.) Collect data on the
school-lunch and milk programs: does the avail—
ability of hot lunches and milk coincide with dis-
tribution to the neediest children?

Study newspaper accounts of famine in Biafra
or India. Read the recent HEW national survey of
malnutrition in the United States, by Arnold E.
Schaefer (1969). Make a study of local welfare dis-
tribution to the indigent and try to assess its ade-
quacy. Study the objectives of the National Council
on Hunger and Malnutrition in the United States

BETTER NUTRITION STUDIES 485

 




and read its Action Reports (available from the
Council, 1211 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington,
DC. 20036). Ponder the concise book, Still Hungry
in America, by Coles and Clayton (1969) .

Check local shops for fortiﬁed or enriched foods;
for example, milk or bread to which vitamins and
other nutrients have been added, and iodized salt.
(A recent national survey found that 5% of people
examined had an enlarged thyroid gland, indicating
iodine deﬁciency; yet 40% of food markets surveyed
in Texas failed to stock iodized salt and the shop-
keepers were unfamiliar with its purpose [Schaefer,
1969].) Compare the cost of milk fortiﬁed with vita-
min D with the cost of unfortiﬁed milk. Currently
there is no law governing the enrichment of foods;
discuss the advisability of such a law.

The following examples are taken from interest-
ing nutrition pamphlets issued by the US. Food
and Drug Administration (see references). Ask the
students to make a list of food additives on labels
of foods that have been purchased for use at home
and determine which are useful and which are
potentially harmful (such as monosodium glutamate
in baby foods and cyclamates in soft drinks—both
of which were recently banned). Check labels from
a variety of foods and classify all label statements
according to which requirements of the Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act the statements are intended to
meet. Give three students an identical shopping
list (for example, bread, orange juice, cheese, and
canned peas) and have them shop individually, with-
out adult help. Compare their purchases and have
them explain how they decided on each purchase.
Compare methods of food preparation and preser-
vation 50 or more years ago with present-day meth-
ods. Visit a grocery warehouse, a food-processing
plant, or a farmer’s grain bin.

Many other studies could be added, but enough
suggestions have been offered to indicate the range
of pertinent and compassionate investigations that
will inform students about current problems while
providing a sound education in nutrition.

REFERENCES

CANNING, H., and J. MAYER. 1966. Obesity: its possible effect
on college acceptance. New England Journal of Medicine
275: 1172-1174.

COLEs, R., and A. CLAYTON. 1969. Still hungry in America. New
American Library, New York.

GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE, INC. 1937. Laboratory ex—
periments in nutrition. Privately printed, Chicago.

GCEmARD, J. L. 1968. Quoted in Congressional Record, Nov. 1:

-9561.

GOLDBLATT, P. B., M. E. MOORE, and A. J. STUNKARD. 1965. So-
cial factors in Obesity. Journal of the American Medical As-
sociation. 192: 1039—1044.

MAYER, J. 1968. Overweight. Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood
Cliffs, N. J.

MCCAY, C. M. 1956. Animal experiments by high school stu-
dents. (Information report 5: 2.) Animal Welfare Institute,
New York City.

NATIONAL DAIRY COUNCIL. 1968. Animal feeding demonstra—
tions. Privately printed, Chicago.

486 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, NOVEMBER 1970

 

NATIONAL HUMANE EDUCATION CENTER. 1969. The Kindness Club
project manual. Privately printed, Waterford, Va.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH AD Hoc COMMITTEE.
1969. Guiding principles in the use of animals by secondary
school students and science club members. Available from
Science Service, 1719 N St., N.W., Washington, DC. 20036.

SCHAEFER, A. E. [chief, nutrition program, HEW]. 1969. Re-
marks, on Jan. 22, to Senate Select Committee on Nutrition
and Related Human Needs.

U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION. 1967a. How safe is our
food? (“Life protection” series pub. 41.) Superintendent of
Documents, Washington, DC.

. 1967b. Additives in our food. (“Life protection” series

pub. 43.) Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC.

. 19683. Identity of artiﬁcial color on oranges. (“Science

project” series pub. 54.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

. 1968b. Rapid identity of margarine and butter. (“Sci-

ence project” series pub. 56.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

. 1968c. Identity of synthetic colors in foods. (“Science

project” series pub. 57.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

 

 

 

 

 

The following ﬁlms describe the role of vitamins and the
effects of deﬁciency. Names of ﬁrms that lend the ﬁlms with-
out rental charge are given in parentheses.

Foods and nutrition, b/w, 11 min.; Encyclopaedia Britan—
nica Films, Wilmette, Ill‘.

Vitamins, b/w, 14 min. (Medical Motion Pictures, Merck
Sharpe & Dohme, West Point, Pa.)

Vitamins and some deﬁciency diseases, color, 35 min.
(Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, N.Y.)

Vitamins and your health, color, 20 min. (Eli Lilly Co., In-
dianapolis, Ind.)

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Ii“

75.
V .

 

 

.
1...
a _,
.11
. .
I X

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

.ﬂ
L

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
1 .
A 1/ K
r >
7 1.
7 .

I. ‘




 




IPQASJIT[()EVLALIQ
SS(31]EH§J(DIE ‘ \ _ ,
\ AN ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATION OF
TEACHERS . ' THE NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
~ " ' ' AN AFFHJATE OF
THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE

1201 SIXTEENTH STREET, N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036 0 TELEPHONE: AREA CODE 202-833~4283

Robert L. Silber—Executive Director

July 9, 1974

Dr. F. Barbara Orlans
Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Dr. Orlans:

Animal Welfare Institute's workshop, "Teaching Biology Using Human
Beings as Subjects” has been scheduled for the Washington D. C. Eastern
Area Convention as follows: Saturday, November 23, at 8:30 a.m. to l0:00 a.m.
in the WARDMAN ROOM of the Sheraton Park Hotel.

The Association in the past, as you may know, has procured and billed
commercial workshop sponsors for their audio-visual needs. This year,
however, we musttask that you make arrangements for such equipment (including
projection screens) either by providing it or contracting for it with a firm
of your choice. This pertains only to audio-visual equipment; a microphone
will be provided in rooms which are large enough to require it. I know
of one such company--the Hargrove Display Company has an office in the hotel.
Their telephone number is (202) 265-2000, Extension 2l65.

We welcome you as a participant in the Eastern Area Convention and
look forward to having you with us.

Address any needed reply to:
Very ruly yours,
Gene Fox, Supervisor
Science and Math Departments
Prince William County Schools
P. O. Box 389
Commercial Workshop Committee Manassas, VA 22ll0

23rd National Convention/L08 ANGELES. CALIFORNIA/ MARCH 2125, 1975

 




NATIONAL
SCIENCE ‘
TEACHERS #HEAﬁi‘T’FAQ‘AED535%2¥:5§T'£§s&ﬁm.oN
ASSOCIATION L ImEAgmll-EIF'QAIEEANOIASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE
7 7 7 7 e a ., «7,, 7:... «527:3: w w i

1201 SIXTEENTH STREET NW WASHINGTON D..C ZWW: 0 TELEPHONE: AREA CODE 2020833-4283

Robert L. Silber—Executive Director March 8 1974
9

Ms. Barbara C. Gould
Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Ms. Gould:

We are pleased to accept Animal Welfare Institute and
Humane Society of the United States‘ proposal to include a
workshop, "Teaching Biology Using Human Beings as Subjects,”
in the program of the Washington, D. C. NSTA Area Convention,
November 21~23, 1974.

We will schedule your workshop on Saturday, November 23,
8 AM to 9:30 AM, as you have requested. In due time, you
will hear from either the convention chairman or from the
chairman of the Workshop Committee regarding other arrangements«e
room assignments, etc.

Thank you for accepting our invitation to participate
in the commerical workshops at our area convention this fall.
We look forward to working with you in this phase of the
convention program.

Sincerely,

if) :2 ,

Robert L. Silber
Executive Director

22nd National Convention/CHICAGO, ILLINOIS/MARCH 15-19,

 




 




APPLICATION AND EXHIBIT BOOTH CONTRACT
National Science Teachers Association

Eastern Area Convention and Exposition of Science Teaching Materials

November 21 -23, 1974
SHERATON PARK HOTEL, WASHINGTON, o. c.

This application for booth space at the above meeting, which will become a contract upon acceptance, is based upon the plan of exhibits, rates, and general exhibit
information, all of which complement and are to be considered together with details on both sides of this form. A deposit of one—half the exhibit space rental is due
with this application and the balance is due upon notice of space assignment. Failure to make full payment by October 21, 1974 will subject exhibitor to
cancellation of contract and forfeiture of deposit.

Make payment to: NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION and mail with both signed copies of this contract to NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION, 1201 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036.

. COST OF EXHIBIT SPACE:

Rental cost of exhibit space is shown on the exhibit diagram.

. ASSIGNMENT OF EXHIBIT SPACE:

Space assignment will be made June 1, 1974 based upon: Amount of space required; postmark of application; past participation in the National and Area
Expositions; participation in and support of other NSTA endeavors such as advertising in NSTA publications; special requirements; and general grouping of
exhibits for proper comparison.

SIZE or SPACE REQUESTED: ___;8______ ft. x ___JL— ft.

. PREFERRED LOCATIONS: (Please choose four locations that would be suitable for your booth).
Booth No. or Nm Lil; Total Cost $3001.90 ...........
Booth No. or qu Total Cost 3
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost 5
Booth No. or Nos Total Cost 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. PLEASE SPECIFY COMPANIES AND/OR PRODUCTS YOU WOULD LIKE YOUR COMPANY TO BE NEAR TO OR AWAY FROM:

Near to-

 

Away from '

 

BRIEF STATEMENT OF THE NATURE OF THE EXHIBIT AND TYPE OF PRODUCTS TO BE DISPLAYED:

 

pale
(“£1.93 free to each teacherm vts mm. ‘anW

ate if water, gas, or drain are needed, and state intended use).

 

 

 

. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:

Gnu Drain Hot water Cold water

 

 

Intended use

 

Other requirements

 

. WILL YOUR EXHIBIT INCLUDE nTHE OPERATION OF SOUND EQUIPMENT? IF SO, DESCRIBE:

 

 

(See paragraph on reverse side, “Use of Space”)

.smuao. ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE and the HUMANE scenery or THE UNITED STATES
Company ________ Addr me

City, State Zip" _PHAQA 3oz" 3559., ...... lei ashlagtann. ..... D .51..-. “.2390 ----Phone No ------- 201- 9337-92332 ----------------------------------------
Title Adminiatmtive ...... ;~ .saiatant

 

 

 

 

Signature ...............

. ACCEPTED FOR EXPOSITION OF SCIENCE TEACHING MATERIALS by:

 

, Exhibit Manager

(in ,’
. ASSIGNED: Booth(s) No st}? 5

 

 

Amount Received '

 

Balance Due '

Paid in Full:

.. 5 ,1 _g .5} w . f” f f g

 

i

\

”.43, . ...‘, if :. if" - f: I a" .-
[omaﬁ-J «ﬂirt r» vs a iéﬁ “s-

 




NATIONAL SCIENCE
TEACHERS ASSOCIATION

exhibit information

1974 Area and 1975 National Conventions
Denver, Memphis, Washington, D. C. . Los Angeles

 




 

1974
NSTA AREA CONVENTIONS

Oct. 3-5 Exhibits are an essential part of all NSTA conventions. The thousands
MEMPHIS of science educators who attend the third annual series of NSTA Area
Conventions this fall Will be eager to meet their suppliers, discuss their
science teaching problems and have an opportunity to learn about
new products and services available.

COOK CONVENTION CENTER

Oct. 31-Nov. 5
DENVER

DENVER HILTON HOTEL _ The National Science Teachers Association is one of the largest professional
organizations for teachers, supervisors and curriculum specialists in the
science field. Its members represent all of the science disciplines and all

NOV. 21_23 levels of education from elementary school through college. As an

organization and as individuals, they continually seek new instructional
WASHINGTON, D. C.

methods and materials, more effective texts, fresh approaches to learning.
SHERATON PARK HOTEL

This is a prime audience

This prime audience can be your audience in 1974. Reserve exhibit space
now for all three 1974 NSTA AREA CONVENTIONS. Scheduling allows
ample time to move your exhibit between cities.

1975

NSTA ANNUAL NATIONAL CONVENTION

Mar 20-24 The NSTA Exposition of Science Teaching Materials is the world’s

LOS ANGELES largest exhibit of its type.

There will be more science educators in Los Angeles for the 1975
ONVENTION CENTER . . . .
LOS ANGELES C NSTA Annual National Convention than at any other Single screntific

event during the year.

nce department chairmen, science supervisors and administrators
from every part of the country. Most are decision makers in regard to the purchase of textbooks, teaching aids,

supplies specimens and laboratory equipment. Most are intensely interested in reviewing practical classroom
ideas new science teaching methods and technology and the evaluation of teaching eqUIpment, texts, and materials,

Registrants will include science teachers, scie

Convention sessions and events are scheduled to afford registrants ample time to visit the exhibits, give thoughtful

consideration to the displays and to meet their suppliers.

Los Angeles’ new Convention Center will house the Exposition and virtually all program sessions,

Registration will take place in the exhibit area.

Space is always at a premium. Reserve your booth space now.




GENERAL

Application for Exhibit Space

Applications must be made in duplicate on the enclosed
application. Send both copies to National Science Teachers
Association. Upon acceptance, one copy of the contract
will be returned. One—half the space rental price is due with
the application; the balance is due upon notice of space
assignment. Management reserves the right to reassign
space not completely paid for 30 days prior to the opening
date of the exhibit. Cost of the exhibit space is shown on
the exhibit diagrams.

Inquiries for further information should be addressed to:

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
1201 Sixteenth Street, NW.

Washington, D. C. 20038

202/833-4283

Assignment of Exhibit Space

Space assignment for Area Conventions begins June 1,
1974; National Convention, August 1, 1974. All applications
received by then will be processed. Assignment factors are:
past exhibitor in the National and Area expositions; amount
of space required: postmark of application; participation in
and support of other NSTA activities such as advertising in
NSTA publications; special requirements; general grouping
of exhibits for proper viewer comparison.

Booth Information

Standard drapery booths with 8 foot high backwalls and
3 foot high siderail dividers with a two-line identification
sign are included in the booth rental fee.

All measurements shown in the diagrams are as accurate as
possible. NSTA reserves the right to make such modifica—
tions as may be necessary to adjust the floor plan to meet
the needs of exhibitors and the exhibit.

Service Information

All services customarily required by exhibitors will be avail-
able. Complete shipping instructions and information re-
garding furniture and carpet rental, electrical work, plumb-
,ing, labor for erecting and dismantling exhibits and drayage
will be forwarded to those assigned space.

INFORMAHON

Data Recorder Cards

NSTA registrants will receive a plastic identification card
(similar to a credit card) embossed with their name and
school address. As each registrant visits your booth, the
name and address can be quickly imprinted on a booth
registration card or order form. This not only saves time,
but most important, you have an accurate, easy-to-read
mailing list for follow-up. Exhibitors will be provided with
an imprinter at no additional charge. Those with more than
two single booths will receive an extra imprinter for each
additional two—booth multiple or portion thereof.

Registration

Exhibitor registration is complimentary and should be made
in advance on forms that will be mailed after space is
assigned.

Tentative Exhibit Hours
AREA CONVENTIONS

Thursdays, 1O a.m.-6 pm.
Fridays, 1O a.m.-6 pm.
Saturdays, 10 a.m.—1 p.m.

NATIONAL CONVENTION

Friday, March 21, 1975, 10 a.m.-6 pm.
Saturday, March 22, 1975, 10 a.m.-6 pm.
Sunday, March 23, 1975, 10 a.m.-2 p.m.

Installation and Dismantling of Exhibits

AREA CONVENTIONS

Exhibitors may set-up booths as of 8 am. on Wednesdays to
be in place by 6 pm. on Wednesdays. Dismantling may not
begin until 1 pm. on Saturdays and must be completed by
12 midnight on Saturdays.

NATIONAL CONVENTION

Exhibitors may set-up booths as of 8 am. on Wednesday,
March 19, 1975 to be in place by 10 am. on Friday,
March 21. Dismantling may not begin until 2 pm. on Sun-
day, March 23 and extending through Monday, March 24
until 6 pm.

 




 

 

CONVENTION PROGRAMS

are excellent vehicles for reaching individual members
of the science teaching community with information
about your firm’s products.

Advance programs for the 1974 series of Area
Conventions will be mailed to a total of some 20,000
NSTA members and other science teachers early in

the fall. The advance program for the 1975 National
Convention also will be mailed to all NSTA members
and approximately 50,000 additional science educators.

Plan now to include advertisements in all four of the
advance programs. All ads carried in the advance
programs automatically will be included in the final,
hand—out programs at no additional cost.

NSTA PERIODICALS

The Science Teacher, Science and Children, and the
Journal of College Science Teaching also afford direct
access to the decision makers in science education.
You can consistently reach thousands of science
teachers and supervisors at every level of science
education—elementary school through college——
throughout the school year with your advertising
message in these award—winning professional journals.

DIRECT MAIL

to secondary school teachers and department chairmen
in science, mathematics, and the social sciences can
be done more effectively by using the US. REGISTRY.
340,000 names of junior and senior high school
teachers at school addresses are available for your

use on computer produced, standard Cheshire mailing

labels, all fully Zip Coded.

NSTA can be of assistance to you in reaching the
science education market in many more ways than
just its conventions. Give us a try!

 




JOURNAL OF

COLLEGE
SCIENCE
TEACHING

Published ﬁve times yearly, in alternate months
September through May.

First published in October 1971, JCST is addressed
to college teachers of introductory science courses.
It gives special emphasis to interdisciplinary science
teaching, to strengthening disciplinary studies, and
to exploring relationships between science and so-
ciety. In addition to feature articles, JCST regularly
presents departments on national news, book reviews,
magazine abstracts, audiovisual aids, new products
and equipment, and curricular innovations.

Estimated circulation in excess of 3,200 college and
university professors, libraries, and departments of
science. Total estimated reading audience in excess
of 7,000.

Subscription price, $12.

PERSONNEL & OFFICES

Robert L. Silber, Executive Director
National Science Teachers Assoc1ation

Paul Kuntzler, Advertising Manager
Dr. Leo Schubert, Editor

Rosemary Amidei, Managing Editor

Publication Oﬁce

1201 16th St., NW.
Washington, DC. 20036
(202) 833-4284

COMMISSION

15% to recognized agencies on full space rates only.
No cash discounts.

GENERAL ADVERTISING RATES

I Black and White~ .................................................. 1X*

One page ........... ~ ......................................................... 35 400
L73 page .................... ' .................................................... 300
1/2 page ........................... . ............................................. 2 50
IA), page ........................................................................ 200

% page .......................................... p .............................. ' 150

20

:3‘ 10% frequency discount for three to ﬁve insertions
within contract year.

Second Color—~

Black and one 4A color, page or fraction ........ $165.00
Black and one match color ................................ 185.00

Four Color——
Rates on request.

Inserts——
Rates and mechanical speciﬁcations on request.

Preferred Position—

Back Cover ...... . ......................................................... $500
Inside Covers ............................................................ 475

Other special position rates available on request.

Reader’s Service C ard———

Each advertisement will be assigned a number on the
Reader’s Service Card unless instructions to the con-
trary are given.

MECHANICAL
REQUIREMENTS

Copy should be furnished for printing by offset lithog-
raphy as follows—ﬁlm positive or negative, reproduc-
tion proof, camera-ready copy, one-piece original art
or velox print with all elements in position. In case
of color, overlays keyed to original. Any additional
preparation subject to extra charges. All ads must
conform precisely to space dimensions speciﬁed below.

Bleed

Page size ................................................... 8%” x 11%”

Keep live matter 9/4" from top; 3/4,” from bottom;
1/{3" from side; 1/2,” from gutter.

Binding Method—Saddle—stitched.

Printing Speciﬁcations

133 screen. 150 line screen (halftones) .

a. Page trim size —— 8% inches x 11 inches

b. Three columns to a page

c. Column width —~— 25/16 inches (14 picas)

(1. Column depth —— 9/2 inches (57 picas)

e. Type page —— 753/16 x 91/2 inches (44 x 57 picas)
1%), page — 75/16 x 6% inches (44 x 381/; picas)

413/16 x 91/; inches (29 x 57 picas)

page ——- 75/16 x 43/} inches (44 x 281/2 picas)
413/16 x 7 inches (29 x 42 picas)

‘ page —— 7%3 x 3 inches (44 x 18 picas)
413/16 x 4% inches (29 x 28%; picas)
25716 x 91/; inches (14 x 57 picas)

page — 75/16 x 2% inches (44 x 131/2 picas)
41%3 x 3%; inches (29 x 21 picas)

' page —— 419/16 x 21/4 inches (29 x 131/; picas)
2%6 x 43/4, inches (14 x 281/3 picas)

1 inch -——25,66 x 1 inch (14 x 6 picas)

Issue and Closing Dates

Issued 20th of preceding month.

Advertising accepted up to space capacity with ﬁnal
closing dates as follows: 1st of second month pre-
ceding date of issue; i.e., for September issue: 1st of
July. If insertion order and size speciﬁcation are on
hand by closing date, complete plates with no copy
changes will be accepted until the 10th of the 2nd
month preceding date of issue.

No cancellations accepted after closing date. Failure
to notify publisher will result in full cost of insertion.
All copy, cuts and complete plates must be in pub-
lisher’s hands by closing date, or copy rendered for
previous issue will be inserted.

 




Advertising: All advertising and reading n

subject to review and publisher’s acceptance policy»

requirements.

Proofs of ads are supplied; if not okayed’l 'd
rected within the date speciﬁed, publisher
responsible for errors therein.

AdvertiSer’s alterations will not be guaranteéd
proof reaches publication ofﬁce after date speCiﬁe-d.

Advertiser and advertising agency assume liability 17 g!
for all content (including text representation and
illustrations) of advertisements printed, and alsn:

assume responsibility for any claims arising there-
from made against publisher.

Publisher assumes no liability for ﬁlm or mechan-g

icals beyond the normal careful handling

Publisher assumes no liability for errors in key: J

numbers.

Publisher does not guarantee printing results from
materials not identiﬁed as acceptable for conver-
sion.

Advertisements ordered set will be charged at
printer’s cost.

 

 

   
 

 

 

iffy-JOURNAL OF
..,_‘:g.;;coLLEGE SCIENCE
3*;TEACHING

 

 

 

a .
:¥_.11—.._4... .




PUBLISHER’S EDITORIAL STATEMENT

THE SCIENCE TEACHER serves administrative
and supervisory personnel in science education
in the school system and classroom teachers in
junior and senior high school. Biology, chemistry,
physics, and the earth and space sciences are
covered. In a year editorial content covers major
developments; reviews of books, audio—visuals
aid, and apparatus (10%) of editorial space;
classroom ideas (4%); and articles dealing with
new equipment or devices (7%). Other special
features.

CIRCULATION

a. Character of circulation: educational and
scientific institutions, science teachers,
high school and college libraries. THE
SCIENCE TEACHER is the journal of the
National Science Teachers Association of
th National Education Association and an
affiliate of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science. All Life,
Comprehensive, and Regular members
and Library Subscribers receive the jour-
nal. Membership covers all levels of in-y
struction from elementary through college
and includes all fields of special interest
in science.

Locality of circulation—national. (For-«
eign circulation 3,316.)

This rate card is based on guaranteed cir-
culation of 22,000. Total Reading Audi-
ence-about 65,000.

. . t
,w.....v~.._-...A.‘— , u

M "1: .«iiiiz

%’ :‘: ‘ vi...

 




 

the
science
teacher

Published 9 times yearly, monthly Septem—
ber through May, by the National Science
Teachers Association, 1201 Sixteenth St.,
N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036. Phone
202—833-4283.

PERSONNEL

Executive Director——

Robert L. Silber
Editor—Mary E. Hawkins
Advertising—Paul Kuntzler
Circulation—John F. Crosson

COMMISSION—45% to agencies.
No cash discounts.

advertising rates (b/w)
1-4ti 5-7 ti 8-9 ti

1 page ...................... $500 $450 $425
% page ...................... 374 350 325
1/2 page ...................... 300 275 250
1/3 page ...................... 230 215 200
1/4 page ...................... 175 160 150
1/5 page ...................... 135 125 115
*1 inch ...................... 50 -- -—-
2nd or 3rd cover ........ 510 495 475
4th cover .................... 550 525 500

(*) Advance payments required for inch
space. No commission allowed on 1-inch
space rates.

INSERTS

Special multiple page units or inserts, fur—
nished by advertiser and delivered to plant
in Washington, D. C. area— rates available.

COLOR RATES—Third color, available.

Black and one AAAA color, page or
fraction ................................................ $130

Black and one match color .................... 155

SPECIAL POSITION—extra $25.

FREQUENCY RATE

Number of issues used within 12 months
from date of first insertion of contract de-
termines frequency rate. If more or fewer
insertions are used within one year than
specified in original contract, charges will
be adjusted in accordance with established
rates.

mechanical

requirements

Copy should be furnished for printing by
OFFSET LITHOGRAPHY as follows—film
positive or negative, reproduction proof,
camera—ready copy, one-piece original art or
velox print with all elements in position. In
case of color, overlays keyed to original.
ANY ADDITIONAL PREPARATION SUBJECT
TO EXTRA CHARGES. All ads must conform
precisely to space dimensions specified
below.

,BLEED

Page size .................................... 85/3" x 111/4”

Keep live matter 3/4” from top; 3/4” from
bottom; 1/2” from side; 1/2" from gutter.

BINDING METHOD—SaddIe—stitched.

PRINTING SPECIFICATIONS

133 screen. 150 line screen (halftones).
a. Page trim size -— 81/2” x 11 inches

b. Three columns to a page

0. Column width -— 2%. inches (14 picas)
d. Column depth —— 91/2 inches (57 picas)

e. Type page -- 75/16 x 91/2 inches
(44 x 57 picas)

2/3 page —— 75/16 x 63/8 inches
(44 x 381/2-picas)
4% x 9/2 inches
(29 x 57 picas)

1/2 page —-- 7%. x 4% inches
(44 x 281/2 picas)
4% x 7 inches (29 x 42 picas)

1/:1. page -— 75/16 x 3 inches (44 x 18 picas)
4% x 43/4 inches
(29 x 281/2 picas)
2%. x 91/2 inches
(14 x 57 picas)

1A: page —— 75/16 x 21/4 inches
(44 x 131/2 picas)
4% x 31/3 inches
(29 x 21 picas)

1/6 page —-— 4% x 21/4 inches
(29 x 131/2 picas)
2% x 4% inches
(14 x 281/3 picas)

1 inch -— 25/16 x 1 inch (14 x 6 picas)

 

ISSUE AND CLOSING DATES
Issued 20th of preceding month.

Advertising accepted up to space capacity
with final closing dates as follows: 1st of
second month preceding date of issue; i.e.
for September issue: 1st of July. lf insertion
order and size specification are on hand by
closing date complete plates with no copy
changes will be accepted until the 10th of
the 2nd month preceding date of issue.

No cancellations accepted after closing date.
Failure to notify publisher will result in full
cost of insertion.

All copy, cuts and complete plates must be
in publisher’s hands by closing date, or copy
rendered for previous issue will be inserted.

ADVERTISING: All advertising and reading
notices are subject to review and publisher’s
acceptance policy:

a. Publisher reserves the right to alter any
negative received if it varies from estab-
lished mechanical requirements.

b. Proofs of ads are supplied; if not okayed
and corrected within the date specified,
publisher is not responsible for errors
therein.

c. Advertiser’s alterations will not be guar-
anteed if proof reaches publication office
after date specified.

d. Advertiser and advertising agency as-
sume liability for all content (including
text representation and illustrations) of
advertisements printed, and also assume
responsibility for any claims arising there-
from made against publisher.

e. Publisher assumes no liability for film or
mechanicals beyond the normal careful
handnng.

f. Publisher assumes no liability for errors
in key numbers.

g. Publisher does not guarantee printing re-
sults from materials not identified as ac-
ceptable for conversion,

h. Advertisements ordered set will be
charged at printer’s cost.

 




NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION

U. S. REGISTRY OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL TEACHING PERSONNEL
IN SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES
1201 SIXTEENTH STREET N.W., WASHINGTON, o.c. 20036

 

7~ , v
Ics soC‘ P‘

MARCH, 1974

YOU CAN COMMUNICATE DIRECTLY
WITH TEACHERS OF SCIENCE,
MATHEMATICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES

HOW?

The newly updated 1974 U S Registry identifies, by name at school addresses, 287,943 junior and senior high school
teachers of science, mathematics, and the social sciences, plus 45,559 department heads — approximately 76% of all such
personnel in the United States.

New this year are lists of 17,000 teachers in the areas of environmental science studies, science and society, computer
science, urban studies, and black studies programs.

When you need to reach teachers and supervisory personnel in these disciplines, the US. Registry can help. Since its
establishment in 1959 by the National Science Teachers Association, the U. S. Registry has been used advantageously by a
wide variety of commercial and industrial organizations as well as by governmental agencies, colleges and universities,
foundations, and individual researchers.

The U S. Registry is updated via questionnaire response from secondary school principals. It is maintained on magnetic
tape and is fully zip coded. Mailing labels are available by state or by area using sectional center zip code selection. Random

- . sampling with provisions to eliminate tested records from future lists also can be accomplished.

Costs for complete list orders are:
2 Label Type ‘ Commercial ' Non-profit

4-up E/W ungummed Cheshire $30 per M , $20 per M
4-up E/W perforated dryback - $31 per M- $21 per M
4-up E/W contact $36 per M $26 per M

Random sampling, state and Zip Code selection are available at an additional $15 set-up charge. Minimum order is
$50. Postage is additional on all orders. Delivery of labels normally is made within ten days to two weeks from receipt of
order.

In the best interests of the teaching profession and of ‘those who wish to serve it by providing services and materials, the
National Science Teachers Association does reserve the right to review and accept or reject materials to be mailed. Therefore,
it is requested that two copies of every item under consideration for" mailing using the Registry be submitted for review and
approval prior to ourfulfilling orders.

DIRECT REQUEST TO'

John Crosson or Sue Holtzclaw ' X W

National Scrence Teachers Assoc1atlon .

1201 16th Street, NW. - Dnec‘m
Washington, DC. 20036 U- S~ Registry
Telephone: Area Code 202, 833—4287 - ' ' '
DELIVERY: 10 days — 2 weeks

 




1974 U.S._ REGISTRY OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL SCIENCEAND MATHEMATICS TEACHING PERSONNEL

 

 

SCIENCE . ‘ MATHEMATICS ‘ ’ TOTALS

 

 

(1) . , . (5)* 3(5)* (7)* (8)* (9) (10) ‘ (11) 3(12) (13) . (14) ('15) (17)* I (18)* (19) (20) (21)

. Biology, - 3 ' Science ‘Math. ' Total

3 Biology Biology Chem., Chemistry .‘ I 4 Science 50% Math. and and Total Total Science
General ' . and. and _ and and Earth Other Dept.‘ - or ' Grades Grades Dept. Sci. Math. Science Math. ' , 81 Math.
Science Biology Chemistry Physics Chemistry Physics Physics Physics Science Science Heads More 7-8 ’, 9-12 _ Heads Comb. Comb. ‘ Only Only Comb. Total

ALABAMA 827 499 301 241 663 661 743 398 146 133 220 ' 793 831 1.022 247 9. 1,800 1,683 1,495 1,378 305 3,178
ALASKA ......... 61 85 40 30 107 107 . 121 56 45 45 ' 32 106 ' 78 .105 38 187 163 3149 125 38 . 312
ARIZONA ........ 231 ‘ 339 166 ,- 134 461 442 525 244 ' 146 90 119 556 229 641 127 - 789 841 ~ 645 697 144 1,486
ARKANSAS ....... A 524 401 249 148 520 501 569‘ 312 193 140 169 557 621 780 196 1,215 1,207 1,002 . 994 212 2,299
CALIFORNIA ‘ 2,417 2,507 1,205 - 891 3,425 3,252 3,897 1,734 .722 1,912 1,204 4,731 3,351 6,620 1,161 _ 6,686 8,890 ' 5,481 7,685 1,205 14,371
COLORADO ....... 469 578 290 289 772 805 909 451 317 344 269 995 785 1,071 269 , 1,552 1,541 1,275 1,264 277 2,316
' CONNECTICUT ..... - 731 798 482 321 1,180 1,075 1,369 690 309 305 269 1,550 663 1,569 260 2,282 2,132 2,057 1,907 ' 225 4,189
DELAWARE ....... 111 114 75 62 178 171 215 115 . 60 49 59 284 154 263 , 52 393 398 350 355 43 748
OIST. COL. 112 92 50 29 131 118 150 69 18 49 54 ‘ 144 133 240 46 291 355 246' 310 45 601.
FLORIDA ........ 1,080 1,136 445 294 1,444 _ 1,372 9 1,598 628 426 551 473 1,951- 1,344 2,080 430 3,253 3,256 2,973 2,976 280 6,229
GEORGIA - 752 - 782 361 266 1,035- 980 1,141 494 , 278 262 274 1,168 732 1,432 306 2,070 2,098 A 1,837 1,865 233 3,935
HAWAII ......... 106 V 116 64 60 168 167 ‘201 97 65 91 63 260 205 307 55 ~ 389 444 342 397 47 786
IDAHO ..... - ..... 143 195 120 _ 108 280 281 324 171 158 144 93 375 394 331 194 ' 559 541 591 473 153 1,142
ILLINOIS ........ 1,848 2,063 1,179 ‘ 931 2,988 . 2,856 3,449 1,678 783 849 732 3,770 . 1,668 3,732 710 5,541 5,332 4,759 4,541 791 10,032
INDIANA ......... 897 ‘ 896 468 368 1,271 1,243 1,511 713 231 332 380 1,551 1,118 1,816 358 2,616 2,645 2,193 2,222 423 4,838
IOWA ........... 704 698 498 491 1,027 1,105 1,203 688 455 567 352 1,551 1,143 1,415 359 2,339 2,319 1,999 1,339 421 4,219
KANSAS ......... 464 572 376 310 788 790 883 486 259 273 252 803 748 1,032 268 1,474 1,590 1,145 1,261 329 2,735,
KENTUCKY ....... 617 601 ~ 319 217 818' 785 .917 432 205 276 - 189 840 504 1,073 183 1,644 1,532 1,340 1,228 304 2,872
LOUISIANA ....... 981 751 418 265 986 947 1,092 548 . 186 166 244 1,083 924 1,436 275 2,258 2,273 1,801 1,816 457 4,074
MAINE .......... 268 268' 175 155 410 399 487 263 137 . 146 133 562 272 554 128 842 802 676 636 166 1,478
MARY LAN D ....... 754 631 324 206 2 887 813 1,011 456 250 321 279- 1,285 809 1,348 253 2,110 1,978 1,890 1,758 220 3,868
. MASSACHUSETTS._.. , [1,299 1,376 840 576 2,064 1,900 «2,445 1,252 600 822 508 2,862 1,590 3,001 - 446 4,338 4,246 3,845 3,753 493 8,091
MICHIGAN 1,934 1,589 830 y 656 2,244 2,193 2,604 1,211 824 ~ 815 662 3,243 2,624 2,343 638 ' 5,236 5,453 4,209 4,426 1,027- 9,662
MINNESOTA ...... 743 873 583 531 1,305 1,330 1,536 - 832 555 422 439 1,654 1,308 1,828 444 . 2,492 2,614 2,101 2,223 391 4,715
MISSISSIPPI ........ 48-7 364 216 127 478 456 522 270 107 3 94 147 561 558 750 164 1,220 1,255 ' 1,038 1,073 182 2,293
MISSOURI. . .' . .- . 833 821 507 365 1,114 1,103 1,291 708 439 404 372 1,521 1,150 1,633 389 2,403 2,497 1,961. 2.055 442 4.458
MONTANA ....... ' 172' 234 172 142 332 340 385 228 152 134 . 110 ' 350 298 487 115 645 683 466 504 179 1,149
NEBRASKA ..... 387 466 350 310 690 707 798 472 227 308 ' 213 715 567 871 217 . 3 1,193 1,188 928 V 923 265 2,116
. NEVADA ......... 89 75 33 31 101 101 116 ' 51 40 47 38 127 135 160 ' 35 227 269 172 214 . 55 . 441
NEW HAMPSHIRE . .. 213 224 141 , 115 326 320 381 203 116 115 , 91 469 249 456 89 661 . 653 577 569 84 1,230
NEWJERSEY 1,086 1,343 951 549 2,163 1,847. 2,534 1,349 519 559 445 2,738 1,024 2,974 434 4,027 3 3,798 3,670 3,441 . 357 7,468
NEW MEXICO 236 249 116 ' 75 328 306 356 152 100 96 93 ‘ 362 340 443 107 663 709 555 601 108 1,264
‘NEWYORK ....... ‘ 3,862 9 3,094 1,991 1,324 4,718 4,227 5,506 2,842 1,203 1,192 4 1,055 6,479 ' 3,071 5,897 925 9,873 ' 8,202 9,183 7,512 690 17,385
NORTH CAROLINA.. 645 961 395 297 1,208 1,172 1,310 . 530 406 382 .371. 1,364 '925 1,638 378 2,650 2,600 2,026 1,976 ,624 4,626
NORTH DAKOTA 239 ’ 289 218 196 416 423 482 . 308 227 168 193 422 380 432 211 775 679 553 457 222 1,232
OHIO ........... 1,704 1,680 997 791 2,532 2,389 2,891 1,383 790 978 706 3,364 ' 1,928 3,585 683 5,427 5,157 4,631 4,361 796 9,788
0KLAHOMA....'... 666 648 410 270 816 818 921 545 281 337 322 888 984 1,197 .366 . — 1,735 1,364 1,386 1,464 ' 400 3,250
OREGON ......... 394 ‘451 248 203 643 618 716 333 231 9 330 233 359 513 951 235 1,253 1,419 963 1,129 290 2,382
PENNSYLVANIA .. . 2,024 2,261 1,409 .987 3,473 3,161 4,079 2,057 1,201 x 1,253 861 4,953 2,706 - 4,847 810 7,238 6,916 6,593 6,271 645 13,509
RHOOEISLANO . . .. 225 210, 129 81 321 284 366 .178 ' 67 124 ' 80 ‘ 339 292 395 75 617 555 561 499 56 1,116
SOUTH CAROLINA . . 391 383 217 166 535 505 587 . 283' 253 .266 208 764 539 979 295 1,325 - 1,457 1,156 1,287 170 ' 2,613
SOUTH DAKOTA ' 233- 220 150 140 320 327 374' 213 119 108 104 337 322 415 140 ~ ' 686 650 497 461 189 1,147
TENNESSEE. . . . . 595 548 - 325 217 760 . 717 842 422 ' 170 203 226 814 579 1 056 223 1,660 1,538 1,400 1,278 260 2,938
TEXAS ........... . 1,666 2,053 1,065 778 2,726 2,642 3,069 1,450 1,087 1,019 813 3,329 2,717 4,074 ' 843 ’ 6,154 6,491 . 5,300 5,637 , 854 11,791
- UTAH ........... 222 214 87 75 276 278 305 120 104 101 109 293 323 '451 125 554 653 - 406 505 148 1,059
VERMONT ' 108 140 90 * 75 203 203 237 . 126 77 102 77 263 131 273 60 393 370 332 309 ' 61 702
VIRGINIA; ..... 694 867 436 309 ‘ 1,227 1,159 1,431 649 477 331 ’ 375 1,629 1135 1906 341 2,650 . 2,719 2,317 ' 2,386 333 5,036
WASHINGTON ..... 572 663‘ 373 . 311 909 911 1,035 - 510 304 332 320 1,073 1'995 {459 313 1,785 2,192 1,276 1,683 509 3,468
WEST VIRGINIA.... 409 360 177 127 504 469 536 213 143 139 . 178 609 '591 '551 157 1,044 _ 996 904' 856 140 1,900
WISCONSIN ..... .. . 1,016 1,000 565 468 1,472 1,423 1,719 831 424 478 446 2,127 1,157 1 957 434 ‘ . 3,043 2,967 2,512 2,436 531 5,479
WYOMING ' 129 124 78 67 175 174 195 104 88 81 68 231 295 '229 53 365 367 280 282 . 85 547
FOREIGN 76 207 118 105 4 311 300 377 . 194 28 39 ~i 152 73 359 42 500 422 .432 3,54 68 354

'\

TOTALS..... ..... 37,496 38,109 21,827 16,280 54,229 51,673 62,261 30,744 16,748 18.824 15.770 69,868 46,053 77,676 15,546 113,275 113.690 96.287 96.702 16.988 209.977

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Tapes NOS. 5, 6, 7, and 8 include individuals teaching one or more Of the subjects indicated without duplicaiton of names.
*Tape NO. 17 is the total of Tapes NOS. 19 and 21. Tape NO. 18 is the total Of Tapes Nos. 20 and 21.

 




1974 U-.S. REGI

STRY OIF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL
SOCIAL SCIENCE PERSONNEL '

 

SOCIAL SCIENCES

New Science 81 Social
Science Categories

 

Govern.

(26)

. (27) (28) (29)

World
History

(31)
Social
Science
Dept.
Heads

(32)
Social
Science

150% or

More

Total
Social
Science

(33)  

Environ. Sci. 3;

V

(B)

£3

(0)

Computer A
Sci.

 

ALABAMA .......
ALASKA .........
ARIZONA. .......
ARKANSAS .......
CALIFORNIA ......
COLORADO .......
CONNECTICUT.‘. . ..
OELAWARE .......
DIST. COL. .......
FLORIDA ........
GEORGIA . . . . ..
HAWAII .........
IDAHO

ILLINOIS .........
INOIANA . ..
IOWA. . . . . .' .....
KANSAS .........
KENTUCKY .......
LOUISIANA .......
MAINE ..........
MARYLANO.- .....
MASSACHUSETTS. . .
MICHIGAN
MINNESOTA ......
MISSISSIPPI .......
MISSOURI

MONTANA .......
NEBRASKA. . . ..
NEVAOA, .........
NEW HAMPSHIRE . . .
' NEWJERSEY
NEWMEXICO

NEW YORK .......
NORTHCAROUNA..
NORTH DAKOTA . . .
OHIO ...........
OKLAHOMA .......
OREGON .........
PENNSYLVANIA. . . .
RHOOE ISLANO . . ..
SOUTH CAROLINA . .
SOUTH DAKOTA . . .
TENNESSEE .......
TEXAS...;..;...
UTAH ...........
VERMONT ........
VIRGINIA.
WASHINGTON .....
WEST VIRGINIA. . . .
WISCONSIN .......
WYOMING
FOREIGN.........

508
55
302
, 321
2,728
441
403,
103
70
808
453
97
175
1,268
738
724
609
345
619
184
360
778
1,549
91,8
363
526
230
406
102
138
397
142
1,026
375
247
1,454
504
390
1,656
137
274
246
273
1,509
99
68
693
533
252
672
115
55

513
74
179
335
3,790 ‘
519
828
115
33
584
678
184
161
1,774
749
672
593
419
426
267
648
1,237
1,535
893
362

‘ 1,291
186
515
67
239
1,642
227
3,791 '
737
269
1,514
432

- 539
3,942
214
454
194
491
1,835
153
142‘
628
979
388
949
192
161

215'

32
193
156

1,173
244
237

59

44
494
272

64

85
648
349
331
257
175
226
118
245
412
581

‘ 441
139
344

86
299

34

92
397

94
911
299
183
639
286
235

, 829

64
176
121
187
671
197

58
324
292
165
394

55

34

975

592
696
7,249
1,973
1,395
279
129
1,858
1,369
333
394
3,584
1,814
1,698
1,942
827
1,986
529
1,288
2,554
3,897
2,219
734
2,935
. 375
795
184
474
2,588
474
5,868
1,395
435
3,428

1,107
5,607
‘ 372
1,000
434
788
3,702
370
227
1,658
1,484
760

234
163

131'

1,051 f

2,365 .

2,914
215
856

1,286
19,446
1,686
2,958
429
319
3,195
2,398
494
686
5,516
2,875
2,647
1,922
1,699
2,259
783
2,979
3,995
6,985
3,273
1,399
3,167
716
1,372
393
647
3,792
786
8,675
2,591
~ 833
' 5,589
2,184
1,695
8,987
555
1,592

776 3

1,619

6,651 ,

659
339
2,661
2,656

, 1,314
3,338
343
437

dun-i N
##NNQ‘Omm-PMNN

d

 

TOTALS .........

 

 

27,438

 

 

37,740

 

 

 

 

 

14,243

77,010

 

123,524

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Nov-ﬁber 5, 197“

"1'. Harry MGM”
Chrysler Preee, Inc.
110 East 13th Street,
New Yerk, N.Y. 10003

Dear We MOM“.

ﬁbuld you please arrange shipment of the fellewing
books for use at our booth exhibit here in “Behingtan, 0.0.
later this menth — ﬁdvember 21-23, 19708

“00 HUMANS BIOLOGY PROJECTS

#00 FIRST AID AHD CARE OF SMALL AHIMALS
400 ANIMAL EXPWSIWS

5.0 RULES AND REASONS

Ship .0 fellows:

TO: ANIMAL WELEIRE INSTITUTE - Booth 938
FOR: Natiunal Science Teachers Associatian
C/O: Grosdh-Tuoker “ﬁrehouse

203k What Virginie Avenue, N.E.
wishingten, 0.6. 20002

The materiele MUST ARRIVE at least ene week before the
Zlet. Thanks very much.

Sinanely,

Barbara Gould
Adm. ”8t.

P.3. Please return the extra copy letting me knew how many
cartons are in the ehipment. Also, please be sure to merk the
cartans so that we kncw'dhidh books ere 1n,uhioh boron!!!

 




' W ‘ ’ - ‘ A Special Report on
The ‘ "mane Society The Use of Animals

| I 0f the Uhited States In School Science Projects I

SEPTEMBER 1974

When 28 students are rewarded in national
competition for projects that caused pain 1

to animals, it is clear that humanitarians still A
have agreat deal 0f work ahead of them.

A 17-year-old Iowa girlwon a trip to the 1974 InternatiOnal Science and Engineering Fair by
grafting skin onto 12 mice in the basement of her home after only talking with aveterinarian. One
mouse fdi'ed, one leughed off the graft, and the others Were killed by the student with an
overdose of ether. ’ e - ‘ ’

A 15-year-old Kentucky boy won a trip to the same fair by trapping three squirrels in a park,
confining them to cages in his basement, and giving .them electric shocks over a period of
several months to learn if they would respond to visual tests. At the'conclusion ofthe experiment
' he sold two of.the squirrels to a research laboratory.

This is the type of relationship with animals that some school systems in the United States are
encouraging. It is a far cry from the “respect for all life” that The Humane Society of the United
States is attempting to teach young people through ambitious projects aimed at incorporating
kindness into the curriculum of the natiOn’s schools. (See HSUS Special Report on Teaching
Children to be Kind, issued in June 1974.) ' : ’ , '

Because taxpayers are underwriting sCience projects through the schools, and because a .

 

TUMOR TRANSPLANT WINS NATIONAL RECOGNITION—A 17 year-old Illinois girl won an expense-paid trip to the 1974
International Science and Engineering Fair by transplanting cancerous tumors into 35 animals. The Humane Society
believes such projects serve no constructive purpose for teenagers and are unlikely to teach them respect for animal life.

 




 

4|.

_Use 'of Animals in Elementary and -

considerable amount of federal

money is being spent on interna-'
tional science fair competition, sc.i-‘
ence prOjects that involve cruelty to

animals Should be of. concern to
every U.S. citizen. More importantly,

‘ abolition of such projects should be

the objective of all animal lovers and
humane organizations.

The Humane Society of the United
States has been crusading for
many years to stop science prOj-
ects and classroom demonstrations
that inflict pain, suffering, or, injury

-on any warm- -blooded animal.

HSUS m0unted its most concerted
effort, however, in 1973 when it is-
sued Guiding Principles for the

Secondary Education. These prin-‘
ciples prohibit amateursurgery, the
induction of cancer, and all other
painful procedures on vertebrate
animals (such as hamsters, guinea
pigs, rabbits, mice). Several thou-
sand copies of these principles
have been distributed to school
boards, administrators, and teach-
ers throughout the nation. Many
schoolsystems and teachers have
reported the adoption of all or most
of the items'con’tained in the prin-
oiples.

A significant step toward stop-

_ ping cruelty to animals inschools

-was achieved in

Sen.
ramento, who was enthUsiastically

California enacted legislation that
bans the anaesthetizing, subjection

'to pain, injury, or inhumane death

of vertebrate animals in all public
school-sponsored projects. ‘The
legislation was drafted by State
Albert S. Rodda of Sac-

supported by HSUS.

In testimony on the proposed
ban, presented at the invitation of
the State Assembly Education

Committee, HSUS West Coast Re-

1973 when .

Dam; ‘

 

AMATEUR SURGERY—A l6-year-old Wisconsin boy was recognized in national

 

aaaag'

 

science fair competition for drilling through the skulls of mice, as illustrated
above in his project notebook, and transplanting brain cells from one animal to

gional Director Herbert N. Martin
Said: ' '
“What concerns us, when chil-

dren who have barely attained the ‘

age of reason are encouraged to
experiment on living animals, is the
kind of attitude that is being culti-
vated. Students may learn from
specific classroom experience

things that are entirely different-

from what the teacher had in mind.
It is not often, realized that the

“What concerns us, wheh ehiidreh 1
who have barely attained the age ei
reason are encouraged ta experim'
_'ment on liVing animals, is the kind
of attitude that lS being Cultivated.’

'/

2

. Ph.D.,

. another. He boasted of having begun animal surgery at age 13.

' teacher is cultivating attitudes, not

teaching biology.’

Several years before,
HSUS member Richard K. Morris,
Ph.D., a professor of education at
Trinity College, had been instru-
mental in getting the Connecticut
Board of Education to adopt a pol-
icy'urging all school systems in the
state to avoid using animals in" any
way that could cause pain.

Pressure from HSUS and other
humane organizations resulted in
1970in the Westinghouse Electric

Corporation banning the use of

animals in projects for the West-
inghouse Annual Science Talent

' Search. Only ‘a year before, West-

inghouse had given one of its na-
tional awards to a girl who.blinded
sparrows and starved them r to
death. .

in Texas,

in 1968,"

Krystyna Ansevin, ‘
a prOfessor of biology at

 




 

 

 

 

ald Wisconsin boy was recognized in national
ng through the skulls of mice, as illustrated
cl transplanting brain cells from one animal to
un animal surgery at age 13. ‘

artin

chil-

the
d to
3 the
:ulti-
from
ence

arent -

Iind.
the

 

teacher \is cultivating attitudes, not
teaching biology.”

Several years before, «in 1968,“
HSUS member Richard K. Morris,
Ph.D., a professor of education at
Trinity College, had been instru-
mental in getting the Connecticut
Board of Education to adopt a pol-
icy urging all school systems in the
state to avoid using animals in any
way that could cause pain.

Pressure from HSUS and other
humane organizations resulted in
1970'in the Westinghouse Electric

Corporation banning the use of

animals in projects for the West—
inghouse Annual Science Talent

Search. Only 'a year before, West- ‘

inghouse had given one of its na—
tional awards to a girl whoblinded

sparrows and starved them :to .,

death. .
In Texas, Krystyna Ansevm.
-Ph.D., a prefessor of biology at

( .

' : In seme Cases; the perSOn -listed as '
\"Supervisor didn’t see the anImals

* Rice University,

has succeeded

over; the past few years in signifi-

cantly improving the animal rules

of the Science Engineering Fair of
" 'Houston. gThis fair has adopted

\.

most of the HSUS Guiding Princi-
ples. '

The most recent development
was the imprOvement in projects
accepted for competition in the

'1974 International Science and En-
gineering Fair (ISEF),

the final

-, ”stage of competition for about 90%

’who attended the Fair,

of the state and local science fairs
in the nation. HSUS representatives
held at
NotreDame University laSt May, re-
ported there were no projects in-
volving experiments on monkeys, a

'popular subjectat previous Fairs,

sand, 3 reduction in the number of

projects involving home surgery on

‘ janimals. They also found a greater

‘aWareness by student exhibitors

that rules did exist governing the

humane use of animals.

Yet, in spite of these improve-

. ments, HSUS consultant F. Barbara

Orlans,

Ph.D., found “an over-
whelming emphasis” on harming

Fl vertebrate animals. Out of 35 proj-
ects that involved the use of small

mammals, 28 involved the infliction

~ofharm or painful death.

HSUS officials believe that proj-
ects involving pain to animals will

“be eliminated only when the follow-

. ing lSEF Fair regulations and prac-

" . l ‘ carcinogins.

' ticies are changed.

CD Weak Fair rules that explicitly
sanction all surgical

dures, use of anaesthetic

'drugs, ionizing radiation, dis-'

ease causing organisms, and
(Furthermore,
since there is no reStrictlon on

the infliction of pain, students "

often perform experiments in-
volving‘ the
cancer, use of chemicals at

toxic levels,’drugs producing»

proce-’

induction of _

{jf'even once during the entire course
Q; of the project

pain or deformity, Use of ex-
treme temperatures, and elec-
tric shock.)

Lack of enforcement of the
good Fair rules urging the use
of microscopic animals worms,

and insects instead of verte- .

brate animals.
. “Humanitarians must now focus
their efforts on getting science fair
officials to do away with these
problem areas,” said Dr. Orlans, a
physiologist with the National Insti-
tutes of Health and a longtime

crusader against cruelty to animals

in classrooms and laboratories.
“Adoption of the HSUS Guiding
Principles by local and state sci-

ence fairs instead of the widely

used lSEF rules would completely
eliminate all projects involving pain
to animals.”

134mm mm

or .orIans and HSUS Great Lakes  
Regional Director John W. lnman,

Jr., visited the booths of all biolOgi-

’cal projects at the 1974 Interna-

tional Fair. Here are some" of the
most inhumane projects they ob-

. served . l

o Transplanting brain cells frOm
one living mouse to another by a
16-year-old WisconSin boy. Pho-
tos showed the youth drilling
through the Skull of a mouse. Five
weeks later, he sacrificed the mice
with the transplants ' and‘ sliced
brain specimens. for microscopic
study. This exhibitor boasted in his
report of beginning animal surgery
at the age of 13 and took credit for“
startling scientific revelations that
have long been, known‘to thescien-
tific world.

0 Feeding DDT to 16 mice to de- ,'

termine reactions and lethal doses
by a 16-year-old South Dakotagirl.
' Her conclusions: it took 2 to 3

' weeks for the animals to die."
’ o Subjecting three hamsters to re-

peated. intervals of loud noise for—6
weeks'and then exposing them to

'baCteria to see if they would die.

more quickly than hamsters thaw

Instr; DIET , I

 

UNSCIENTIFIC CRUELTY—A 'hamste'r‘was treated cruelly by a 16-year-old Texas

‘ exhibitor at the International Science and Engineering Fair for a project with no .
‘ scientific basis. An HSUS observer reported that neither the Student nor his ,

supervisor knew that hamsters metabolize their own vitamin C. Fair rules require-
that supervisors be qualified in the field under investigation.

l
l

3




had not been subjected to noise, by
a 17- -year-old Oklahoma girl.

Her conclusion: the three ham-
sters, which lost half of their weight
by-the-end of the Biweek period,
died frOmdisease in only 1 week,
whereas three hamsters that had

not been exposed to the noise took .

4 weeks to die after being exposed
to similar bacteria.

0 SUbjecting two mice to cigarette
smoke daily for .3 months by a
17-year-old Washington, D.C.,
youth. _ .

The results, known for many
years by the entire’ U..S scientific
community: groSs abnormalities
developed in the lungs.

'. Injection of toxic doses of aspi-

rin solution into pregnant rats daily.

for 2 weeks by a 15-year-old Col-
orado girl. _

Lumps developed in'the mothers.
The babies, which were killed and
dissected 4- hours after birth, de-
‘ veloped brain and lung damage.

e Feeding a diet deficient in vita— _

min C to hamsters by a 16-year-old
Texas boy. _
Results: weakness, rough coat,
watery eyes. Commented Dr. 0r?
lans: “These symptoms must have
resulted from. some factor other
than diet because it is a well-known
scientific fact that hamsters can
metabolize their own vitamin C.”

’ Dr. Orlans criticized, the vet-
erinanian who supervised the
project because he obviously

wasn’t “skilled and qualified in the
field under investigation,” as re-
quired by Fair rules. “A completely
unscientific project,” Dr, Orlans
said.

a. Cancerous tumors grafted into
the bodies of 35 mice by a
17- -year-old Illinois girl.

0 Rat housed in a cage so small it
could hardly-move to determine the

4?”

 

. mssmtime m mast.

 

iii}! IKE Mi

 

 

 

effects of lack of exercise, by a

. 17eyear-old Missouri youth.

ReSult: the rat lost interest in ev-
erything, became paranoid, mean,
and hostile; This rat and another

one, which was 'housedin larger
> quarters, were killed and dissected.

The student told Dr. Orlans that the
veterinarian who acted as Super-
visor for, the project never saw’ the
animals and that he was too busy

“AdoptIOn of the HSUS Guiding
Principles by local and State science
fairs wouldcompletelyeliminate all
projects inv0Iving pain toanimals.’

4

 

HIGH SCHOOL SURGERY—A 17-year-old Iowa youth was admitted to national .
science fair competition by introducing canoer cells into miCe, killing them, and,
removing their spleens. An improper technique of killing caused intense irritation

to the animals’ skin. -

to give ”much advice on proce-
dures. D'r. Orlans condemned the
project‘as inhumane and criticized
the fact that the student knew.
nothing about brain histology,
which. Was the sole purpose for

,having killed the animals.

0 Two rats placed in; a heat
chamber to determine disrupting
chemical homeostasis of rat urine,
by a 17-year-old Indiana girl.

The heat chamber was so crude'
that the temperature went to 134°F.
instead of the planned 97°F. and

had no observation panel. Cbnsee

quently, two animals died. -,
Dr. Orlans and Inman concluded

that, many of the new animal regu-

lations were not implemented or
enforced. For instance, the rule
that requires that "euthanasia be
administered by anadult super-

 




 

 

 

 

“We have been able to oonVince thousands 0f biolOgy
teachers of the importanCe of the humane treatment

of animals ”

'visor was frequently violated, as
evidence by’number of students

that reported personally killing

a'ni'mals. The rule that requires that
supervisors be experienced, qual-
ified, and actively engaged in the
field under investigation was fre-
quently ignored.

It wasobvious from student re-
ports ,that many project supervisors
failed to provide the “continuing or
on-the-spot supervision” required
for projects conducted in students’
homes. In some cases, the person
listed as supervisor didn’t see the

' animals even once during the en-

tire course of the project. The pre-
requisite that the proposed project
be submitted in writing for ap-
proval prior to the beginning of ex-
perimentation was frequently vio-
lated. Some projects were totally
unplanned and unapproved.

In visits to several local fairs ear-
lier this year, HSUS representatives
. discoVered that guidelines for
. judges issued by some fairs made
no mention of existing animal regu-

lations. As a result, exhibitors were

not disqualified or even penalized
for ignoring them.

Nevertheless, HSUS officials
have been encoUraged by the fact
that some progress has been made.

“I do think the dissemination of
the forceful HSUS Guiding Princi-
ples has had an immense impact,”
Dr. Orlans said. “We have been
able to convince thousands of‘
biology teachers of the importance

of the humane treatment of ani- _

mals.”

But, when 28 high school stu-
dents are rewarded with prizes in a
national science fair competition
for projects that caused pain to
animals, it is clear that» humani-
tarians still have a great deal of

educational work ahead of them.
5

I

 

 

 

, A CONSTRUCTIVE EXPERIMENT—The Humane SoCiety encourages the under- ,

taking of projects that provide the student a constructive learning experience
without harming animals. The student who conducted this project muSt have
attained a much greater respect for barn owls. _ i .

 

It’s Your Tax Money

Here is an agency-by-agency list of prizemoney provided by the govern-
ment for the International Science and Engineering Fair:.U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission — 20 expenSe-paid trips; US. Air Force —— 11 expense-paid trips
and $375 in cash awards; US. Navy — 1-1rexpense-p-aid trips and $150 cash;
U. S. Patent Office — $500 cash; U. S. Dept. ’Iof Agriculture — $150 cash In
addition, the Army pays for a student to travel to Japan, and the Army, Navy
and Air Force together pay for a student trip to Stockholm.

The military services also provide judges Who receive per diem expenses in
addition to their salaries during the Fair. In 1973, the Army sent 26 judges,
including 3 colonels, the Air Force, 16, and the Navy, 34.

 

 

 

 




TYPICAL SCIENCE FAIR CRUELTY—This entry in a local Maryland science fair is
typical of experiments that students conduct on animals. The exhibitor, a junior
high school student, reported that the mouse fed on protein died in 5 days and
the one fed on carbohydrates died in 7. . ‘

You Can Help!

Send for free copies of (a) HSUS Guiding Principles for Use of Animals in
Elementary and Secondary Schools and (b) HSUS’s listing of recommended
'study projects and project books to distribute to members of your state and
local boards of education, superintendents of schools, principals, school
district science coordinators, and biology teachers.

Contact administrators of your local science fairs and find a means of
involving yourself in preparations and formulation of rules.

Write to federal agencies cooperating with the International Science and
Engineering Fair to protest the use of taxpayers’ money on projects involv-
ing cruelty to animals. Enclose a copy of the HSUS Guiding Principles.

Have your state legislator send to HSUS headquarters for a copy of the
HSUS Model State Law on Student Use of Animals in Schools. Have your
local humane society make a project out of getting the law enacted.

Send'a contribution to HSUS to continue its work of monitoring, science
fairs and educating educators about ways of teaching science to children
without practicing cruelty to animals.

100% Recycled Paper

 

Additional copies of this report are available at 391 each from The Humane Society of the United States, 1604 K
St., NW, Washington, DC. 20006.

 

 

 

 




' ‘4 t 1‘ 4/
. ,arraoom CONTRACT m3 :5 MW

Association

. e

{ Ten. wesumsmu. n c.“

inﬂation ﬁr “booth met at the then meat” ﬁnd! em. W e mutt m eeoepteeee it hated upon the plan a: utilities. rota, end general uhihit ‘
"idem ill at ﬁfth ”planet and we to he considered {Smother with Maﬁt on both “a. of thit form. A dammit of one-half the exhibit mace rented it due
‘ ' m the bahtee it dirt upon notice of epeee talcum Failure to mum {an payment by Dabber :1. I"! win tubioct exhibitor to

We
. “with a! team end forfeiture of depotit.

. out to: NA‘ﬂONAL ICIENcI ‘I'IAQHIRS MWGM‘NON and} mu with both time! comet of this contact to NATIONAL SGIINCI TEACHIRS
' ' «won. in: me Street, mm. Walnut” 0. c. 20038.

.
1k

‘ 1:7": will be made June 1,1974 bated upon: Amount of space required; postmark of epplioetion; put penicipetlon in the National and Area
“Ween“: in and support of other N8T4 thwart such as edverttting in N STA publications; specie] Irequirementti and general grouping of

“48......th x __........19.__._.._ ft.

hooufmrlouﬁmtﬁttwwbetoihbltfwmrbooth). ' , ‘

' ' ‘ ‘ ,1“ cost t300..00..-.......
row cm s '
"mun Cost 4
ram can. I

 

 

 

 

e

‘

z

 

 

 

 

1 {title :1 ngle .
ms 5 7‘? Ma. Eamw

Odd "tor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ . .

the Mt on m tide, “Ute of Space")

meme INSTITUTE 1&6 the ME SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

Addre-

_;.».............m jészhjeammonhﬁem. amaze»... m. 201 - 3 32-23 32
«mm -m..mniamt1ve..-..Aa ﬂuent

 

 

MATERIALS by:
. Exhibit Maneuver

 

hm

—*

pm}.

'-

 

 

 




AN ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATION

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION OFTHENATIONAL

' EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
1201 SIXTEENTH STREET. N. w. - WASHINGTON, D. c. 20036
AN AFFILIATE OF THE AMERICAN

ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ROBERT L. SILBER Telephone: Area Code 202 ADVANCEMENT or SCIENCE

Executive Director 833-4283

_ January 10, 1974

Exhibit Manager

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3492

Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

Dear Sir:

The National Science Teachers Association will offer
three (3) area conventions again this fall. Sometimes
described as "mini nationals," the 3—day area conventions
will follow almost the same format but will be held in
geographic locations distant from the sites of the 1974
and 1975 NSTA national conventions.

Because commercially-sponsored workshops were a very
successful component of the area convention programs of the
past two years, the program committees of the three 1974 area
conventions have allocated time and space for us to schedule
approximately 25 workshops of 90 minutes duration at each of
these conventions. Guidelines, criteria, and other "rules"
will be the same as for the national conventions.

Area convention dates and sites will be as follows:

October 3—5 Memphis, Tennessee Holiday Inn-Rivermont
Cook Convention Center

Oct. 31-Nov. 2 Denver, Colorado The Denver Hilton
November 21-23 Washington, D. C. Sheraton Park Hotel

We will be glad to receive a proposal from your organi-
zation to schedule a workshop at any one, or all three area
conventions. Please use the enclosed forms, and let us have
your submission no later than'March 15, 1974. Should you wish
to submit more than one proposal for any of the conventions,
you may request additional forms from this office.

 

As always, we appreciate your interest and various
means of cooperation with NSTA.

Sincerely,

AM If. 32%

Robert L. Silber
Executive Director

- RLS:EP
22nd NATIONAL CONVENTION - CHICAGO, ILLINOIS * MARCH 15-19, 1974

 




NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION CE I \J} \\ Ajv:
1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036

f .3_ " ' 3‘ ‘ ...'.p. ‘5 g‘f' (“ma __' jjﬁ 1 c;

‘ i.,._. ’3’": . ;" ""' " 1‘; (“J ' ' Winn: »~<~~—». .- I “A "

_. \ I 1' L4. , ‘ ; ~ I 34?; 'x‘n H436” “x $zi-~::~.;sa~i a

' , ~ I a.» I ’J I t; rub ~ 0 A J “,PQ’I-"w ' :I "7'11;
. I ‘ S. " a " . '-

\A'Jq/“xJK /,K. txA/‘v ,' V lab? (I: I- ., l§ ﬁIUIF‘ 5. § IJ: \ :LK‘J t‘z.

,~ ; 5 w 4 MW.” j; .‘7
1v If: /‘~/<../ [IVL/‘téuixa "\‘Q "N“ _ 4- 2 .1;

.1

a «#08:;
”at I

t «‘5 C/pIIassssILw.-. MM“;

"3

Ivﬁuy ‘sILﬁ
E‘ 6’ [BO] 5 Tﬁ‘ﬁg

mogsmovgﬂ 2 9, W LIA “taut

m _ 9»~c‘Lgt..a,a LLLL‘v—JLA’ 4/9939

Exhibit Manager

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. BQX 3492

Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

 




1 P. 0. B0 3650
\ Mqlfm(gAQHIVGTON I. C. 2000?
RE NSTA Convent'onin DC on Nof.
2 21, 22 and 2 {w

BarbantOrlans is Willi M:36 do
workahop on Saturday,; 23rd onl

If application is Made early, then
you will get this date.

Cost of booth is approx. $300.
of workshop approx. $100.

Barbara wishes to know if you are
applying.

Will HSUS dividﬁe costs?

 

 




(5/ qigo MV\

F. BARBARA DRLAN S

{2; :2 raw

1'

lﬂuwfjbd

Jrjfv

 




***‘.¢. *k‘kk‘k‘klb‘: 9:931:11. iv‘k‘immicikk'k‘kk‘k‘kﬁ'kﬁ‘kx‘kz’xkax‘ki’xk576*?‘1k**:‘:‘k.“:*******i‘k*w**ﬁ‘ﬂ ‘23: .~::‘ 21:21:" a"

1.’ R 1) P 1) H A 1, 1’ O R A (I 1) M M 13 R (i I A L W 0 R K H 11 0 I’ A '1‘

19711NS’1‘AA111‘.ACONVENTIONS
*********4: *k****%*********wxi*k+¥*wﬁx4r13*k**k**k**+i*k*k***+*i****v*kii'+r%*¢§.

I ‘ 9 > 9 .1. 2'1"; 1" l?;f‘“‘i

-12 .1-1 4

5.1111091511 911E.'11'1‘1(1t.1')11 2 ,-

‘9'. «A . ,
1 ‘ I'

 

‘ 9 .p .I .-. ’~

N111"kb:up:~. 111-a.vig111~11 (“11194-1 1.1116391911111919 1;q11'11.119';r,441 1114111911- _w1‘1‘,g; 1111 11111»,
11'3131111‘ 111' 1111'9 51.“.er AL-‘u 1.91.1 1.1,. : "112172 "1111:19/g-"11 1 (is "1109
1111‘ mam- 1111117 .‘ 111 11111‘ 111111111181 1'.1;1u1~1:1'111;1.111'1‘1;;1‘z11ns. 111 111mm 11111; 1116' 1‘."
(I1'111V1'11t11111r; (111 1111 1111111 (11111111111 1—- 5 111 §11=1111LI111~«2- 11111111155111; 011111101" 11”
in ”mu/111‘, (22111111111111; (11111 N11v11m11121 21—25 :1 11.415111119111111, 1). (2.). 1:1'11111 (1
WM]. 111- p111)1¢111-~ :11 11.11111 1-1111V11111i1'1111 111 1.113111111111111111111-1 9111111111] .9111 11.9 111
51101191111111 w1111m111111s-. 111 01111111111111: 11111711111111. Yum 1111111pa11} is i11\/11‘1111
111 leis 111:1 11111.1 111" L111~ 1111-11 1.1111111111111111:

,1. '1'11 5111111111 11 11111111119111, 111111111111111 111.1 11111115 1111-11-11» (11111 11011 1111 111.1 111111

(11111 1115111 1911-111 1'1V1p11ss 1.11 NS'I‘A, 1111 11111-1‘ 1111111 M£11‘<’t11 152 1.9711; '11LE'11

1'1111‘91 1111‘ 3311111 1‘01‘111‘115.

 

2. A 11111111111111! 111115 submit mom" 1.112111 111111 11111111115211, 11111 .11 is 1111 11\1 '1 111.11
12111111 1111111 111111 will 1.111 11110111111111 (11111 11.1111‘1'1a111m1111 1.11 (1113' 111111 811111 1-11111' '111

11... ,, . .1. .ﬂ . 1 1- :~. 11 '11 4.111»

.1111111 11111110111111.1011 123111115111 111 111' 511111111111 1‘1131‘h111gr 11111111111119.

'1‘11111'1.‘ 1.11 1'1 1 111- 11 has 11: (‘1111249199‘ 11.1 $11111 1.11.1 11111111<51111191 ('1') 1111111 111111271}; 1111111111111

' 1'1'111 1.1111. A11; spewial. h1‘1‘\ 1.1‘1‘5 «.11- 1110112111115 to 11111 providml 11y NH'I‘A, 111‘
1 111,1 01111111925119 12111.1 11111 1111 L111‘ 11951111111 1:1.1111, w 11 .12 1111 111.1 .1 13111 (111111 1 111111111 13'

 

111 1111' 10111119110191 51111115013

11’111‘151‘111115 11111.91 1111 .11 E1111 "1111111111 1111" 1...111'11'L‘f19,/ 1')1‘r;1\/1C1111g 1111‘ :11111'=.=111,1:1111.1
111111.111 11v Z1111'111C11'1‘5; 1-6:‘(YCL11‘1’8 111111 7311111111 £11111 U111." 911380111611111:1'\ 1111 11111
m1'w1 1:111 1’31‘111‘1‘18.

1‘111111‘111ﬁ 9_ 9 ,' 511 , .
()(\t-9)t)(,l ‘9 “ . ()(1 3:341) w1é—N1171‘n11‘." 9,. 9)

115mizn1hm Animal9 Hblfaro Institut9 & Human9 _9$ocigty of the U. S.
. . . .1 .1 . T99911113-31.9.1931 UIMJLnnéygﬁpimgg ﬂab: oats

1)"|‘4"”91(\4) "1‘H1)1)1‘\ 111'" F. Bubu‘ orlms, Phono

1111' 1111" \11111‘1xrs1‘11111 2‘

WW~_W .___._, . ~......2 ._..1_ .m_.. -..~

1111.....-Aw1 .. P. 0.301: 3650,_Wuh1ngton, 0. c. 20007 337-2332

H808 — 16014 K 8119., N. W. Whingtonf D. C. 20006 638—7330

1’1111111‘

 

F Barbara 0:19:19

 

___{9ithor organization) _
111mm1m999939_§§-.9_E93§§9199995 those above

 

 

N" 911999 Written mat9rial desczfibing biology project; on living

Ii,1(-.;.(.g) ., 111111111, .. 9_ . 1; '~ 2- 11': 11=111111s1”‘1111111115111111:

( l

 

111111111191} . ,1 (‘111‘g1115‘11‘1 4 ' 9 19 1': 1‘€11’L11/’H1)11(‘(‘

11111111135113111111111‘9

 

11.11111 \1 11-11111) (1‘11‘11‘11‘ 111112111115 1‘111./(11"£‘11):

M... ‘

C CC1 '1 12,1{31111 .51») 1111.1»;

1111111111». \‘11 w. . 3 n 35

«- a - . .._.. _ .‘_ .. ....._... W ”.2-

(111111113

NATIONAL Scumce TEACHLRQ 1115500117109
1201 SIXTEEhTH swnesw N w
WASHINGTON D C 20036

 




Give room furnishings and configuration to be used, other pertinent details:
submit diagram if necessary:

The roan should be of sufficient size to permit lecture room style seating for all
participants and ample space in front for the demonstrator to conduct participary
demonstrations involving ten people at once. In addition, there should be six
tables (one large and five nodius.sised.ones) placed around the room.

r
SMALL
"T A to:

 

 

 

mew
“Mean:

 

 

 

 

CNM

 

 

 

réﬁNVALL.
[ TAtoé

 

 

 

Give brief description of workshop for printed progra . Lifit5 LUU Wuwﬁb.

Eight practical class projects in human physiology'and psychology using human
beings as subjects will be presented. Experiments will include studies in muscular
fatigue, mapping sweat glands, reaction time, human error, touch, depth perception,
eye dominance, and finger mazes.

All these projects require sininal preparation and utilise easy to obtain and
inexpensive oqdipnont. Inch workshop participant will have an opportunity to

act as a subject in these experiments, and will receive written detailed in.
structions for all projects. ‘ ' '

[gal/Léta/xa,(/i/Z;L£Le€¢(7

.Author‘ized Signature Barbara C. Gmld
Company or Organization Animal Welfare Institute

Address P. 0. Box 3650

 

 

summon, 0.0. 20007 phone 30g-337-233é

“M ~l h~—--_- -.__.....

 

Date Fobruary 6, 1974

 

 




eeeeeeseweaeeeekeweeeeeeweeeweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeweeﬁeekeeeeeeeewkeeéeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
P R O P O S A L F O R A C 0 M M K R C l A L W O R K S H O P A T T H C
l 9 7 H N S T A A R E A C O N V E N T l O N S

ix‘mk-ratwr-k"xxkxk-‘c‘t4-xsv1kﬁﬁk‘ki‘ickkkzkkzerP-rww-k-r-vcick%~c?w:§:‘:$::‘::=:*¥::=::¥:§c:‘:$::‘:§¢zl:5::i::‘::‘«:*f.-Jr's-4x4:issu-

GtﬂlEI‘al“ lliiIJrnmltil)n

 

Workshops designed and conducted by commercial companies were an outstanding
feature of the NSTA Area Conventions in l972 and 1973-—just as they have been
for many years in our national convention programs. In planning the l97H-Area
Conventions (to be held October 3—5 in Memphis, Tennessee; October 3l~November 2
in Denver, Colorado; and November 2le2§_in Washington, D. C.), time and space
will be providwl at each convention to accommodate several series of commercially~
sponsored workshops of 90 minutes duration. Your company is invited to participate
in this activity of the area conventions.
i. To submit a prOposal, complete the items below and over on all four copies
and.mail three copies to NSTA, no later than March 15, 197%; retain one
copy for your records.

 

2. A given company may submit more than one proposal, but it is unlikely tha
more than one will be accepted and programmed in any one area convention.

3. Workshops will be strictly limited to companies who are exhibiting in the
area convention Exposition of Science Teaching Materials.

There wilL_be a basic charge of $l00 per workshop to_help defray expenses
involved. Any special services or facilities to be provided by NSTA, or
any extra charges levied on the Association, will be billed additionally
to the workshop sponsor.

 

Workshops must be of the "hands on" variety providing for active partici?
pation-by attendees; lectures and "show and tell" presentations do not
meet the criteria.

The Preposal

 

We propose to put on a workshop at:

/77 Memihis / / Denver /:7 Washineton
*_ l a

“—

Octobcr 3—5 October Sl—November 2 —~{ November 2l—23

 

Com )arzv or orUan '.7,at ion
.2 . (—3

 

Title‘w'worksmai Teaching Biology Heine Humané Beings as subjects

l)€‘l‘5;(lll (>4) l‘C‘>%})()rl&% il)l (‘

c s ‘e D
lor Hw'worksmn) F’ Darbara rlans fh’”

 

 

Address ,i‘inimal iwielfare 1 A) Box 32-5330,- :«Iash 0.0. 20007

 

 

and Humane Soc, ’» ‘ { Sth&ﬁw. washington 0(0. 20006

lyupsinj(5) {irestuiting

theiwnmshop ” Barbara Urla

 

-Address 2 r9

KJ1?vr V

 

 

 

Spf‘i‘ i l' ic na to H.“
0? pwuhmwlﬁl _hrit§§§;materiel describing biology erogects on living
organisms

 

l

l, arr-(Ms) «19' interest, or rip

:ilitwitiOii inlmwavnt hi p nnnvscd vuirkslwn):

biHl mfg“: V chemist ry ’ pin/sies /" / {*Cit'lli/"zspalcr

Other:

 

 

lll‘lpll.)‘)‘~it'\,l ‘-.-.'Hi"lxslm;) ((“il‘Cl-ﬁ.‘ grades covered):

"ll Hi ’ I 7 (to! lean“ (lthﬂr:

 

ecu: would at‘lff‘i’l)i_3 —— gt:

.f/

.._. 7‘. -._.._.-__-.._..._....___._ . .._..__....—

((lviiii)

 

 

 

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
120: SlXTEENTH STREET. N W.
WASHmeTON. DC. 20036

 




. 1 I,
u .1 , k! .I g:
. I

d’

Give..oom furnishings and configuration to be used, other pertinent details;
submit diagram if necessary:

Thee room shonld'be of sufficient size to permit lecture roam 3
participants and ample space in front for tne demonstrator to conduct
cartinitarv demonstrations involving ten peeple at once. In addition,

there should be sin tables (one large and five m01*un sized ones) placed around
the room.

tgile seating far

. -
‘ I r
a ‘ :

Give brief description of workshop for printed program.
naiht preactzic 2

Limit, 100 words.
3 projects in hun2n pnvsiology and psychology using
323 as wil1 be c°saenued experimentS'will include
f’a tL gue, nannint sweat glands, reaction time, human“
ne meption, eye dominance, 2nd finger mazes.

.,
CiBS
uh

”1
human beinrs as s:
cm

tadies in mus ar
:rror, town h, dais th
Al these projects regin.

and inexpénsive 83d“0me :. 32 ach workshra p H ll have an
opportunity t2 act as 2 ij ct in tiieS2 e‘ and will
receive written detailed ir n8 mr ctio nf far a.

Authorized Signature

 

Company or Organization

 

:1:
ALiU; Fr. 5 b

 

Phone

 

 

 

 




OFFICERS

PRESIDENT

Mrs. Barbara K. Hopper
Department of Biology
Pierce College

Woodland Hills, CA 91364
PR ESIDENT-E LECT

Dr. Thomas J. Cleaver
Advanced Studies in Education
University of Texas

San Antonio, TX 78228
PAST PRESIDENT

Dr. Addison E. Lee
Science Education Center
University of Texas
Austin, TX 78712

VICE PRESIDENT

Mr. George 0. Dawson
Department of Science Education
Florida State University
Tallahassee, FL 32306
TREASURER

Mr. Jerry W. Maurer
Department of Biology
Loyola Academy
Wilmette, IL 60091
REGIONAL DIRECTORS

REGION I

Mr. Harold Wiper

Newton High School
Newtonville, MA 02160
REGION II

Dr. H. Seymour Fowler
Pennsylvania State University
University Park, PA 16802
REGION Ill

Mr. Floyd Conard

West Side High School

Gary, IN 46406

REGION lV

Mr. Clarence T. Lange

Clayton High School

Clayton, MO 63105

REGION V

Dr. Charles J. LaRue
Montgomery County Public Schools
Rockville, MD 20850

REGION Vl

Dr. Jimmy R. Stothart
Northwestern State University
Natchitoches, LA 71457
REGION Vll

Mr. Norbert J. Konzal

Phoenix Union High School System
Phoenix, AZ 85015

REGION Vlll

Mr. Paul W. Richard

University of Northern Colorado
Greeley, CO 80631

REGION IX

Mr. Garland E. Johnson

Hoover High School

Fresno, CA 93710
DIRECTORS-AT-LARGE

Dr. Edward J. Kormondy

The Evergreen State College
Olympia, WA 98505

Dr. lngrith D. Olsen

University of Washington
Seattle, WA 98195

Dr. James A. McCIeary
Northern Illinois University
DeKaIb, IL 60115

Dr. Glen E. Peterson

Memphis State Universny
Memphis, TN 38111
PUBLICATIONS

EDITOR, AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER
Dr. Joan G. Creager

Northern Virginia Community College
Alexandria, VA 22311
EDITOR, SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS
Mr. Paul Klinge

Indiana University
Bloomington, IN 47401

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN

BIOLOGY AND SOCIETY
Dr. Thomas J. Cleaver
University of Texas

San Antonio, TX 78228
EXCELLENCE lN BIOLOGY EDUCATION
Mr. Richard S. Smith

Marple Newtown High School
Newtown Square, PA 19073
FINANCIAL ADVISORY

Mr. Jerry W. Maurer

Loyola Academy

Wilmette, IL 60091

POLICY

Dr. Thomas J. Cleaver
University of Texas

San Antonio, TX 78223
PROGRAM

Miss Maybelle T. Ryan
Kennedy High School
Chicago, IL 60638
PUBLICATIONS ADVISORY
Dr. Richard A. Dodge

Project BIOTECH

3900 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20016
EXECUTIVE STAFF

Dr. Jerry P. Lightner, Exec. Dir.
NABT Executive Offices
1420 N Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20005

U

(27% W
My Biology Teachers 2".

Barbara Gould

Administrative Assistant
Animal Welfare Institute

P.O. Box 3650
washington, D.C.

Dear Ms. Gould,

20007

August 21, 1974

The Animal Welfare League has my permission to reprint, upon
publication, "Biology Students as Experimental Subjects," by F.

Barbara Orlans.

As of now, it seems most likely that it will appear in the

October issue.

we should have a copy of it around October 5;

and if you call us around that time, we can probably arrange for
you to pick up a copy from our office.

JGC:cjb

Sincerely,
f \ a -

\ £3/ /<)

4 ,7 i” ’ /‘ . .-
/.’3-:Zé:r’-/" .. (x ,. ‘ L c€-~é¢7:/Ok-.«z

dan G. Creager, Editor /

AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

 




Augusﬁ 33; 1973

33“ Jéam 3333333

33330“

3.“Fﬁ E3‘ZQF 3333339

gartaern 31rm3n39 Cbmmunitv ﬁhllgya
3333 3ﬁwt” “mawvwgaré Efreet

“lbwaﬂyrlag Virginia
3333 33¢ 3333333,

33% Anima3 333farﬁ anﬁituﬁe 33333 like warmiaﬁian ta
réprin3a an muhliaaticng an artic3m, ”BiaEagy Sﬁadants a3 3wgmrim
men333 33333m33” 3y'Dr. Fe ”wroawa 3r3ans.

3 uwﬂmrgtanﬂ hie “Pﬁiﬁzﬁ 3s 3e3wﬂu3aﬂ 333 bdb3i¢3335ﬁ 3n
he 333vﬁmw ”mum o3 thé 3*” a? “ImhﬂG 3333333. 3h9 Animal Kelfare
lmsﬁituﬁw 3333 ha mating @xhib3t bﬂﬁthﬁ 33 3333 339 ﬁaﬁional 353993"
33333 6593303333 36333633 *nd thm regimnu3 “atiana3 Scianﬁe Tbahhers
3ssacia.3 33m annvan3i§nsg and "3 mauld lika ta ﬂigfribute the ramrints
at thngp Tmﬁﬁae

33333 pub3icatian will be so 01639 to the 3‘33 cf an?
intendeﬁ 333g we 36333 lika to repraéuae directly fram the magaﬁine
an ygbliaaﬁisng a? perhays £30m the page proafs if the time runs out,
as nugﬁasteﬁ by"yﬁur assistant 333$ Braﬂford. Hepraﬂuctian can‘be
accam3333heé in a coup3e a? hanrs here in washingtnng 3.83

Laaking 3033333 ta hearing 333m gun anﬁ parhays'meeting
333 during the 3333 canvantion in Few Ebrk.

Sincerely,

Barbara Gould
Administrativa Asaiatant

m 5' :m if man
205,-. 5.13 {Furs 53’3jh‘i

 




.. 933;: BIARBARA ORLANS -' . V , _ * ' , 3 "‘ " , """"""“""‘""“‘
‘ Wi son Lane _ ‘ ' g1 .1 g j ’ 5"" ' f' ’ ‘ \ _' ’ ' l \ .'
' :5. Bethesda, Maryland 20034 * *. f ' ; ~ ~ '* ‘ ALﬁA ' -3

 

 




TI. m>ﬂm>m> UZF>Zm

3‘er F unﬁdrx

Qiihv J xrr ﬂ/Lhwtgow
6‘ a

If

#1355713 .. .mt . “.4. w . \
.% (N J , N i O W ,..s
c z ‘6 .$
>\3\AN.ID) 7 < (A It? KM.) ; ‘
xx . % .wmrkacyjrﬂa 2 “$1“ $2.??? 4
.v

wan.

 




V
c

REPRINT‘asngST PORN FOEpAMERlCANTiEIOLOGY TEACHER

,Reprints, if wanted, shOuld-be ordered direct from our printer as soon as you‘
receive your copy of the Journal in which the article appears. If ordered by
Purchase-Order, the Purchase Order should accompany the order form. ‘Send this
._completed form direct to: THE INTERSTATE PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS, INC., 19—27
North Jackson Streeti'Danville, Illinois 61832. This service is provided
direct to you by the printer. Allow 4 weeks for deliver after publication of
an issue. '

The folloWing rates for reprints do not include free carriage. Postage will be
billed to yOu with the invoice for your reprint order. If vgu will send your
check with the orderJ the printer pill pay postage. Checks should be made
payable_to THE INTERSTATE PRINTQRS AND PUBLISHERS; INC.

 

2 pgs. ' * S‘pgs. ' 12 pgs. 16 pgs.

- 100 copies or less » ? .‘p N 22.81 3139.84 7 N 63.12 N 85.0A

Additional 100's , \% 6.43 9.91, 13.43 1A.99
7 Reprint covers, lOO.copies.....a....a.................$ 18.88
Additional 100's...........°...09c.0............g;.... 6.23

NQME AND ADDEESS OF PERSON REQUESTING-REPRINTS
‘Name:k

Street Address:

 

City: 7. States ‘ , Zip Code:#_

.._.

 

ARTICIE BEING REQUESTED
Title: k w

’Authorzﬁ

 

. ' A ‘ ’ 5’ : f?“ cm "V 5'47»: ’
VOLUME: w ~ ' Number: 3’ (09?“Cﬂﬂ*t) Pages:

 

Order: V NUmber of reprints wanted'

NUmber of covers wanted-

—y W

- Address to which reprints should be sent if other than above.

Name:

 

‘T ‘ .'

"‘Street Address:_“_

 

 

City: ‘ ' _.” ' a, v.8tate:_mk

.Date Orderedﬁ

— 1-474

 




NATIONAL

SCIENCE ,'
AN ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATION OF
TEACHERS A.“ THE NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

AN AFFILIATE OF
THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE

1201 SIXTEENTH STREET, N.W. WASHINGTON, 0.0. 20036 0 TELEPHONE: AREA CODE 2020833-4283

Robert L. SilbeIr—Executive Director

July 25, 1974

MEMORANDUM

 

TO: Barbara Gould, Adm. Asst.
Animal Welfare Institute

Kent H. Godwin
Convention Coordinator

Eastern Area Convention, November 21-23, 1974
Washington, D. C.

Due to the unfortunate occurrence of a double—booking in the
exhibit halls, we have been forced to "vacate" into an adjacent area.
The hall in which we were moved is comparable to our first booking
but it did necessitate some changes in the layout. A copy of the new
floor plan is enclosed for your perusal.

We have endeavored to relocate your booth in close proximity to
your original assignment. Your new booth(s) number is 38 .
Please be sure and make this change in your convention program ad copy.

For your convenience, we are enclosing a hotel reservation form.
Within the next few weeks you will receive information from our dec—
orator, Grosch—Tucker, regarding drayage, electrical service, booth
furnishings, etc.

From all indications, both the program and attendance will be
good. We are pleased that you have included this event in your fall
schedule.

23rd National Convention/L08 ANGELES, CALIFORNIA/ MARCH 21-25, 1975

 




HOTEL RESERVATION APPLICATIONS
1974 NS TA Area Conventions

 

INSTRUCTIONS

Fill out hotel reservation form only for the Area Convention you will attend. Mail the form directly to the Housing Bureau
or hotel specified on the form. Do not return to NSTA. All cancellations, changes, and other adjustments must be handled
directly through the Housing Bureau or hotel concerned. Blocks of rooms cannot be reserved under one name. Rates

quoted subject to city, county and state taxes.

 

 

NSTA EASTERN AREA CONVENTION

Washington, D. C.

November 21 -23, 1974

Mail Directly to: Sheraton-Park Hotel, 2660 Woodley Road, NW, Washington, D. C. 20008

ACCOMMODATIONS DESIRED
(Deadline for Reservations: October 31, 1974)

Single: E] $24 [J $27.50 [:1 $31 [:1 $34
Twin/Double: (:1 $31.50 E] $35 [:1 $38.50 [:1 $41
Suite: [Z] $55 E] $80 I] $100

[:1 $37
[3 $44
{:1 $130 [:1 $125

Arrival:
Date ; . . p.m.

 

Departure:
Date ; am. pm.

Be sure to list definite arrival and departure dates and times.
Reservations held only until 6 pm. unless otherwise specified.

Person requesting reservation and to receive con-
firmation:

Name
Address
City State

Other occupants (name, address):

 

 

 

 

 

 

If a check is sent with this form, make check payable
to Sheraton-Park Hotel.

 

 

 

NSTA SOUTHERN. AREA CONVENTION

Memphis, Tennessee

ACCOMMODATIONS DESIRED
(Deadline for Reservations: September 19, 1974)

Holiday lnn-Rivermont (qurs.) E) Single: $18/19; (j Double/Twin: $24/25
Holiday Inn Riverbluff E] Single: $13; (:1 Double/Twin: $17/19
Holiday Inn Downtown [3 Single: $12; [:1 Double/Twin: $18
Southern Peabody [:1 Single: $15/20; [j Double/Twin: $22/25
Downtowner Motor Inn [3 Single: $16; (:I Double/Twin: $21/23
Pick Motor Inn (:1 Single: $18; (:1 Double/Twin: $24
Arrival:
Date ; a.m. _________._p.m.

Departure:
Date : . a m. _________p.m.

Be sure to list definite arrival and departure dates and times. Reservations
held only until 6 pm. unless otherwise specified.

 

October 3—5, 1974
Mail Directly to: NSTA Housing Bureau, P. O. Box 224, Memphis, Tenn. 38101

Person requesting reservation and to receive con-
firmation:

Name
Address
City State

Other occupants (name, address):

 

 

 

 

If a check is sent with this form, make check payable
to hotel of your choice.

 

 

 

NSTA WESTERN AREA CONVENTION

Denver, Colorado

ACCOMMODATIONS DESIRED
(Deadline for Reservations: October 10, 1974)

Single: E) $20
Twin/Double: (:1 $25

Arrival:
Date ; . . p.m.

Departure:
Date - am. pm.

Be sure to list definite arrival and departure dates and times.
Reservations held only until 6 pm. unless otherwise specified.

October 31 -November 2, 1974
Mail directly to: Denver Hilton Hotel, 1550 Court Place, Denver, Colorado 80202

Person requesting reservation and to receive con-
firmation:

Name
Address
City State

Other occupants (name, address):

 

 

 

 

If a check is sent with this form, make check payable to
Denver Hilton Hotel. 4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I
EXHIBIT

ENTRANCE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REGISTRATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H—l.

6
L___

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I”;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GROSCH - TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS
St tom — ﬁle-Orleans —- MIMI- — Huston -— Mt"

 

 

 

 

7l25l9 sly]

MEN LADIES

ALL BOOTHS ARE 8' x 10'
$300 EACH 8’ x 10' OR EQUIVALENT THEREOF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eastern Area Convention and Exposition

Exhibit Hall
Sheraton Park Hotel Washington, D.C.

 




Eastern Area Convention GROSCH TUCKER, INC.

National Science TeaCherS ASSOCiation GENERAL CONTRACTORS FOR EXPOSITION AND

Sheraton Park Hotel, Wasbington, D-C- CONVENTION SERVICE FROM COAST TO COAST
November 21-23, 1974

 

156 Simpson Street, N.W. [1 Atlanta, Ga. 30313 D (404) 522-4196

EXHIBITOR'S SERVICE INFORMATION

 

Your Company is exhibiting in the above meeting. The attached service order forms
should be directed to the person in charge of your exhibit.

GENERAL SERVICE - Grosch-Tucker, Inc. is the General Service Contractor and will
have a service desk on the exhibit floor when the set-up period begins. The
attached requisitions for service will enable you to have your requirements in
your booth before your arrival if you will fill out and forward one copy of each
of the attached order forms now, listing items desired for your booth:

 

Authorization for Exhibitor's Agent 6. Cleaning Service
Contemporary Furniture 7. .Photography
Furniture, Drapery and Floor Covering 8. Drayage Service
Display Panels 9. Electric Service
Signs and Exhibit Labor

FREICET SHIPMENTS - All shipments must be_p£epaid and should be shipped in order'to
arrive at Grosch—Tucker's warehouse not later than one week prior to the opening date.
Shipments will be accepted and stored without charge two weeks prior to the installa—
tion date. Complete shipping information and rates are shown on the enclosed Drayage
Information Sheet. Orders for freight service must be filled out and forwarded to
Grosch-Tucker's warehouse at 2034 west Virginia Ave.,NE, washington, DC 20002.

 

 

COLLECT SHIPMENTS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED WITHOUT PRIOR ARRANGEMENT

IMMEDIATELY UPON SHIPPING, MAIL A COPY OF YOUR BILL OF LADING TO GROSCH-TUCKER, INC.
AT THE ABOVE ADDRESS. I

Do not ship freight to the Hotel.' They do not have facilities for receiving exhibit
material.

CRATE REMOVAL, STORAGE AND RETURN — Crates, boxes, and packaging materials will be
taken from your booth, stored during the show, and returned if they are labeled for
storage. Storage tags are available from the Service Desk. No crates will be re—
turned immediately at the close; several hours are required.

 

'Empty crate handling service is provided for all freight shipments handled by Grosch—
Tucker, Inc. All others will be charged at the rate of $5 per crate or box with a
$10 minimum charge. -

FULLY EQUIPPED FACILITIESIN ST. LOUIS El CHARLOTTE [:1 .ATLANTA [:1 NEW ORLEANS El HOUSTON [I] DALLAS D DENVER

 




AUTHORIZATION FOR
EXHIBITOR’S AGENT

GROSCH TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR -
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS Eastern Area Convention

MAIL TO: National Science Teachers Association
GROSCH-TUCKER, INC. Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.

156 Simpson St, N. W./AfIcInto, Go. 30313 November 21—23, 1974
(404) 522—4196

 

 

 

 

AEA-1-72

 

ALL EXHIBITORS HAVING AN APPOINTED OR HIRED AGENT OR AGENTS WITH AUTHORITY TO REPRESENT THE EXHIBITOR IN
ITS ARRANGEMENTS WITH GROSCH-TUCKER, MUST GUARANTEE PAYMENT FOR ALL CHARGES INCURRED BY THE AGENT FOR
THE EXHIBITOR BEFORE ANY ORDERS FOR SERVICES WILL BE PERFORM ED. AN AUTHORIZED AGENT IS ONE ENGAGED OR CON-
TRACTED FOR BY THE EXHIBITOR SUCH AS EXHIBIT BUILDERS, DESIGNERS, OR INSTALLERS; ADVERTISING OR PUBLIC AGENCIES
OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR FIRM ENGAGED BY THE EXHIBITOR, OTHER THAN THE EXHIBITOR’S OWN EMPLOYEES, TO ARRANGE
FOR ITS EXHIBIT SERVICES.

AUTHORIZED AGENT

 

THE FOLLOWING AGENT HAS BEEN ENGAGED TO INCUR CHARGES FOR SERVICES FOR OUR EXHIBIT AND THE CHARGES
ARE TO BE BILLED AS INDICATED:

AUTHORIZED AGENT COMPANY NAME

 

COMPANY STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

 

 

TELEPHONE

 

AUTHORIZED AGENT’S REPRESENTATIVE

 

INDICATE ONE
E] SEND GROSCH-TUCKER’S INVOICE To AUTHORIZED AGENT

D SEND GROSCH-TUCKER'S INVOICE TO EXHIBITOR

GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT

 

THE EXECUTION OF THIS AUTHORIZATION FORM BY THE EXHIBITOR NAMED BELOW HEREBY GUARANTEES PAYMENT BY THE
EXHIBITOR WITHIN 30 DAYS FROM INVOICE DATE FOR ALL SERVICES, MATERIALS, AND LABOR OBTAINED FROM GROSCH-
TUCKER BY THE THE EXHIBITOR’S AUTHORIZED AGENT.

 

Firm Name Booth No.

Address City and State Zip

 

By (Signature) Title Date
MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS -——- RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 

 

 

 




DISPLAY PANEL ORDER FORM
' Must Be Ordered In Advance

GROSCH ASTUCKER INC ..
DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR ' , . g ’ A .
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS.“ 7 _ _ ' , f I . ~ -- . ’ Eastern Area Conventlon

MAIL To; A ’ ‘ * " 3 . A National Science Teachers Association
3 ’ GROSCH- TUCKER INC . ‘ ‘V . ~ ’ ‘4 7 Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.
156 Simpson St, N. W/Atlonta, GO. 30313 7 i- " , November 21- 23, 1974
' ‘ ' (404) 522—4l96 . ~ ‘

 

 

 

 

DP--373

-- Charges for rental items listed below Include delivery to your space, installation only where specified, and removal at close of
.- exhibit. A finance charge of 11/2% per month (18% per annum) will be added to all charges not paid within 30 days of Invoice date.

INDIVIDUAL WHITE PEGBOARD PANELS, BLUE FABRIC C-OV

ERED TACKBOARDS, AND WALNUT FINISH PANELING ARE
AVAILABLE VERTICALLY OR HORIZONTALLY ON LEGS, AND
FOR COMPLETE COVERAGE OF BOOTH BACKGROUNDS AS
PlCTU RED,..P_E_GBOARD HARDWARE IS NOT SU PPLI ED; PRICES
QUOTED ONREQU ESTF‘OR OTHER COLORS AND‘MA‘TERIALS. .

 

STYLE ”A” STYLE “B”

DISPLAY PANELS

PLEASE INDICATE STYLE AND TYPE OF PANEL DISPLAY
REQUIRED . A _ ' _
STYLE DA 2 EB do [39* DB [3,:
*Styles “D" and “-E” require two 4’ x 8’ panels and one
2’ x 8’ panel per 10’ of Dackwall. Please indicate depth
, f_,;.panels fOr style “E": 1:] 2’ deep; [:3 4’ deep.
--v 76' ' P- ~ -' . _ EACH .
I __._. 4' x: BI panel ......... Zr. . .* ............ '. .S40. 00 ___..___.

" WHITE BLUE I WALNUT * , ‘ 4 . ~ STYLE ”D”
PEGBOARD TACKBOARD FINISH A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In.’

2' x 8’ panel.. . . . . .I. .......... S20. 00 __._______

WHITE " BLUE M WALNUT
PEGBOARD - TACKBOARD FINISH

 

__.___ A" R 4' panel f. ................... S20 00 __.__.___-
- WHITE ' ' BLUE: - . I WALNUT
PEGBOARD TACKBOARD _ ___ FINISH

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHITE PEGBOARD SHELVING 6” WIDE PLACED ,. w. a .
._.._...__4' long S4. Oo_ ~ ‘ STYLE “E” ' STYLE “F”
'_____8’|,.Q.ng_ ..... 6,00 4...... ‘ I (4’X'4’ PANEL)

. ’F’IrmName . , f I - .» _\ . i. .- A ' 4 " ' . ,‘ Booth NO.-

Lu. ;,

Address '2; — ,' CItyand State ‘ “ " Q ’ J 'ZiP’i

BY (,SiznatureI ‘2. '. f - * ;.;i;i;;..;.: Title ”g? , i A Date
_ I rlNr‘

 

v.
_ .0

' :;?‘.f='":'a;‘-i-jff: MAIL,TH.I.S FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS—- RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

. ,uix‘, _! I. .~ ...~ .5*’- '

 




GRoscH TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS

MAIL TO:

 

GROSCH-TUCKER, INC.
156 Simpson St, N. W./A’r|cmlo, Go. 3031 3
(404) 522-4I 96

 

 

 

 

Charges for rental items listed, below include delivery to your
space, installation only where specified, and removal at close
of exhibit. A finance charge of 11/2% per month (18% per
annum) will be added to all charges not paid within 30 days
of invoice date.

MODULAR LOUNGE SEATING
QUANTITY EACH

____One Seat Section . . . . . . . . . . $15.00___
__ Two Seat Section . . . . . . . . . . 30.00______
_____Three Seat Section . . . . . . . . . 45.00 ____

Please specify color quantity of each single seat. A two
seat section has two single seats, a three seat section

has three single seats, etc. Any combination of colors
is available.

__ White __ Tangerine Red
_ Black Turquoise

WHITE SECTIONAL TABLES

____ Rectangular Coffee Table . . . . . . . . $10.00_____

____Rectangu|ar Spacer Table . . . . . 10.00____

.A,..__._. Connecting Corner Table . . . . . . . . 10.00_____
(between Modular Lounge Seats only)

MODULAR ARMCHAIR SEATING

Please specify color quantity of each seat.
___Arm_Chair .................$12.50____
r‘ w” White ..---.___ Tangerine Red

_____. Black a-..__ Turquoise

Firm Name

CONTEMPORARY FURNITURE
ORDER FORM

Eastern Area Convention
National Science Teachers Association
Sheraton Park Hotel, washington, D. C.

November 21-23, 1974

CF-UES-73

 

 

SECTIONAL FURNITURE IN COMPLEMENTARY COL-
ORED VINYL FABRIC, FIBERGLASS, AND CHROME TRIM
FOR AN INVITING CONTEMPORARY ATMOSPHERE—
UNIQUE POSSIBILITIES FOR CONVERSATIONAL
GROUPS.

 

 

EAMES CONTOURED FIBERGLASS CHAIRS
Please specify color quantity of each seat.
_____SideChair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $8.50____
__ White Tangerine Red
_____Black '

 

Booth No-

 

Address City and State Zip

By (Signature)

Title Date

 

 

 

 

MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS --RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 




GROSCH ...TUCKER, INC.

DECORATHVG CONTRACTORS FOR
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS

MAIL TO:

 

GROSCH-TUCKER, INC.
156 Simpson St, N. W./AflontO, GO. 303I 3
(404) 522—4196

 

 

 

DRAPERY, FLOOR COVERING AND

ACCESSORIES ORDER FORM

Eastern Area Convention
National Science Teachers Association
Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.

November 21-23, 1974

DFC-UES-73

Charges for rental items listed below include delivery to your space, installation only where specified, and removal at close of
exhibit. A finance charge Of11/2% per month (18% per annum) will be added to all charges not paid within 30 days Of invoice date.

 

 

CONTEMPORARY MODULAR LOUNGE SEATING AND CONTOURED FIBERGLASS CHAIRS, BOTH IN COMPLE-
MENTARY COLORS, MAY BE ORDERED ON THE ENCLOSED CONTEMPORARY FURNITURE ORDER FORM.

 

 

ACCESSORIES

QUANTITY EACH

____._ High Stool, Padded Seat and Back ...... $10.00

__ Hall Tree ................................ 5.00___.____._
Smoking Stand .......................... 5.00___.____
Waste Basket ............................ 2.00,_._____
Easels, 6’, metal ......................... 5.00

FORMICA TOP TABLES

_____ 2’ x 2’ Tables ............................ $ 9.00__s____
__ 2’ x 3’ Tables ............................ 9.00.._______
__ 2’ x 4’ Tables ............................ _ 9.00__.___._

WOOD DISPLAY TABLES—BO" HIGH* (not draped)

_v__:_ 8’ Long, 2' Wide ......................... $10.00 ____._

__ 6’ Long, 2’ Wide ......................... 8.00

______ 4’ Long, 2’ Wide. ........................
*For tables 42” High, add $3.00 per table
Specify Height: D 30" High [:1 42” High

6.00 _______

SHELVING OR TABLE RISERS—IO” HIGH* (not draped)

_______ 8’ Long, 10” Wide ........................ $ 8.00 ______
__ 6’ Long, 10” Wide ........................ 6.00 _______
__ 4’ Long, 10” Wide ........................ 4.00 ____...__
*For risers 16’ high add $2.00 per riser
Specify Height: [3 10" High Q 16” High

DRAPING OF DISPLAY TABLES AND RISERS*

Top, Front, and Ends—Flameproof material
(gClRCLE COLOR DESIRED
Blue, Red, Yellow, Black, White, Green.

V_ 8’ Table, draping only ................... $18.00 ___._____
__ 6’ Table, draping only ................... 15.00 __.______
__ 4’ Table, draping only ................... 12.00___
__ ft. Table Risers, draping only ............ 1.25/ft.___.___..i

*For tables 42” high, add $3.00 per table

Firm Name

SPECIAL DRAPERY BACKGROUNDS, INSTALLED
QUANTITY EACH
CIRCLE COLOR DESIRED
Blue, Red, Yellow, Black, White, Green.
_______ ft. 8’ high drapery background ........ $3.00/ft._______
_____ ft. 3’ high drapery side rails ........... 2.00/ft. _.___

CARPETING—TWIST WEAVE PILE
__ Red, Blue, Gold. CIRCLE COLOR DESIRED
“‘ Front Taping of carpet included

1.. 9’ x 10’ ..................................

$27.50.______
__ 9’ x 20’ .................................. 55.00

______ 9’ x 30' .................................. 82.50
Carpeting in lengths greater than 30’ available
in 10’ increments. Sizes needed: 9’ x

Additional taping at $0.35/lineal ft.

Carpeting installed for your exact exhibit space,
including laying and taping (charge based upon

gross exhibit area). Special contours, carpeting

areas other than exhibit booth floor, charged on

time and material basis.

_____ft. x __._____ ft .............. $5.00/scr yd- ______

FLOOR TILE, INSTALLED

One color or two-color combinations, BLUE,

WHITE, and BLACK in 2’ squares. Rental

charge includes installation and removal.
______ ft. x _______ ft ..................... $0.60/sq. ft.

[:1 One Color
COLOR

 

[3 Two Colors (Checkerboard)

COLOR COLOR

[3 Two Colors (Solid center
with contrasting Border)

 

CENTER
COLOR

BORDER
COLOR

Booth No.

 

Address

 

By (Signature)

 

City and State Zip

Title Date

 

MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS -— RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 




EXHIBIT LABOR ORDER FORM

GROSCH TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR .
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS Eastern Area Convention

MAIL TO: National Science Teachers Association
GROSCH-TUCKER, INC. Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.

156 Simpson St, N. W./At|onto, Go. 30313 November 21-23, 1974
(404) 522—4196

 

 

 

 

EL -2-73

 

A finance charge of 11/2% per month (18% per annum) will be added to all charges not paid within 30 days of invoice date.

Skilled exhibit labor can be employed to assemble and dismantle exhibits and displays, open cases or crates, install drapery and

' floorcovering, or use tools.

In most instances, workmen requested for the start of the day will be provided at 8:00 AM. Workmen requested at times other than
8:00 AM. will be at approximate appointments since these men are assigned to jobs at the start of the day and gauging the exact
time of completion of job assignments can only be approximate. Exhibitors must Sign exhibit labor out from the service desk and
time will continue until the exhibitor returns the workmen to the service desk to sign them off of the job.

To minimize your labor cost, please supervise your exhibit labor workmen; Grosch-Tucker will not supervise work on your exhibit.
Please do not tip the workmen nor discuss any potential problem with them. Report any problems immediately to the service desk
or exhibit management.

The workday is from 8:00 AM. to 4:30 PM. Monday—Friday excluding holidays; all other hours are at an overtime rate. Labor is

hired on an hourly increment basis; prevailing labor rates will apply.

INDICATE
ONE ONLY

E] ERECT EXHIBIT WITHOUT SUPERVISION.

NOTE: Proper instructions should be given, and although the utmost care will be exercised, Grosch-Tucker will
not be responsible for any resulting damage, loss, excessive time, or improper installation.

FURNISH LABOR TO ERECT EXHIBIT UNDER EXHIBITOR’S SUPERVISION.

 

Have (No.) men available as close as possible to (A.M.—P.M.) on (Day)
to erect exhibit under exhibitor’s supervision. Exhibitor must check in at service desk to obtain labor.

 

INDICATE
ONE ONLY

[3 DISMANTLE EXHIBIT AT CLOSE OF EXPOSITION WITHOUT SUPERVISION:

NOTE: Exhibits will be dismantled when crates are returned. Although the utmost care will be exercised, Grosch-
Tucker is not responsible for resulting damage or loss from improper packing, theft or any other cause.

FURNISH LABOR TO DISMANTLE EXHIBIT UNDER EXHIBITOR’S SUPERVISION.
Have (No.) men available as close as possible to (A.M.—P.M.) on____.___(Day)_______—(Date)

to dismantle exhibit under exhibitor’s supervision. Exhibitor must check in at service desk to obtain labor.

 

Firm Name Booth No-

Address City and State

 

 

 

 

By (Signature) Title Date

MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS — RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 




 
 
      
      

GROSCH TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS

MAIL TO:

 

, GROSCH-TUCKER, INC.
I56 Simpson Sf., N. W./Atlonfo, GO. 30313
(404) 522—4I96

 

 

 

SPECIAL BOOTH CLEANING SERVICE
ORDER FORM

Eastern Area Convention
National Science Teachers Association
Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.

November 21—23, 1974

  

SBC-3-72

 

 
  
 
 
    
   
     
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CARPET CLEANING

E] Vacuuming before initial opening of Exhibit and

FLOOR TILE CLEANING

[j Mopping, waxing and buffing once before initial

El Mopping, waxing and buffing before initial opening

EXHIBIT CLEANING
[3 Cleaning and dusting of display background and

E] Cleaning and dusting of display background and
furnishings before initial opening of

EXCLUSIVE SERVICE

Cl Exclusive janitor or porter service

[1 Vacuuming once before initial opening of Exhibit .......

daily thereafter ............................................................................................. 5¢ per sq. ft. per day

El Shampooing once before initial opening of Exhibit ................................................................. 14¢ per sq. ft.

opening of Exhibit ....................................

of Exhibit and daily thereafter ........................

furnishings before initial opening of Exhibit .........

Exhibit and daily thereafter ...........................

A finance charge of11/2% per month (18% per annum) will be added to all charges not paid within 30 days of invoice date.

Maintenance of individual booth areas is the exhibitor’s responsibility. Individual cleaningfor your booth may be ordered by checking
the services desired that are listed below; the charges are based upon the gross exhibit booth area. Maintenance personnel are
not permitted to enter your booth area without this authorization to clean your booth area.

.............................................................. 6¢ per sq. ft.

 

............................................................ 10¢ per sq. ft.

...................................................... 7¢ per sq. ft. per day

........................................................ 12¢ per sq. ft. min.

.................................................... 10¢ per sq. ft. per day
D Emptying waste containers at 2 hour intervals during show hours ....................................... 8¢ per sq. ft. per day min.

 

 

 

  

 

  

 

     
   

By (Signature)

 
 

MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS -—-—RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 

 

(4 hour minimum per day) ...................................................................................... $8.25 per hour
Detail special instructions
Firm Name Booth No.
Address City and State Zip

   

Title Date , 197___

 

   
 




DRAYAGE INFORMATION

GROSCH TUCKER, INC.

DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR Eastern Area Convention
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS National Science Teachers Association

Ship to address shown on Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.
DRAYAGE SERVICE November 21-23, 1974
ORDER FORM

 

 

 

 

Dl-950-2

 

DRAYAGE SERVICE ORDER FORM — Enclosed with the service order forms are duplicate order forms for drayage service. One copy
of this form must be signed and completed in as much detail as possible. Return the completed copy to GROSCH-TUCKER
WAREHOUSE as instructed at the earliest possible date. Grosch-Tucker will only be responsible for the performance of services
described. All shipments arriving at the warehouse or exhibit area without advance written order will automatically be handled as
described below at 50% additional to the published rate.

INSTRUCTIONS — All shipments by whatever means of transportation must be prepaid and should be shipped to arrive not later than
one week prior to initial installation date. All shipments should be addressed as instructed on the Drayage Service Order Form; do not
ship directly to the exhibit area, for there are no facilities to handle or store exhibit material there prior to the initial installation date.

COLLECT SHIPMENTS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED WITHOUT PRIOR ARRANGEMENT!

DRAYAGE SERVICE — The following described drayage service is automatically provided unless written notice to the contrary is
received.

Receive and store all shipments two weeks prior to initial installatiO T date.

Deliver exhibit material to exhibit area and place in booth when physical dimensions do not exceed passageway or elevator
dimensions.

Remove empty crates from booths and place in storage.
Return empty crates to booths at close of meeting.

Provide bills of lading, shipping labels, and clerical assistance in preparing bills of lading for outbound shipments. Exhibitors
must label outbound shipments and submit completed bill of lading to freight service desk.

6. Remove crated material from exhibitor's booth and ship by requested routing, move-out conditions permitting.

SERVICE RATES —— The rate for the above service or any portion thereof is $ 9.50 per 100 pounds or fraction thereof with a 200 pound
minimum charge. THERE IS NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE FOR OVERTIME!

Additional charges for labor and equipment will be made if special equipment is required to handle heavy or special shipments. Advance
notice of shipment must be given in writing with full description of heavy or special material to be handled.

All crated shipments that arrive‘at the exhibit area by local truck, or van line, or exhibitors own vehicles will be unloaded and placed
in the exhibitor’s booth at the above rates based upon the weight on delivery ticket or estimated weight. Uncrated or loose materials
will be handled at a 50% Surcharge in addition to the above rate because of the extra time and care required to handle these shipments.

Charges will be made in addition to the above for advancing freight charges, costs involved in tracing lost shipments, or special trips or
handling of shipments arriving at warehouse after initial installation date.

CRATE REMOVAL, STORAGE, AND RETURN — Empty crates and cartons will be returned only if they are labelled for storage;
storage tags will be available at the service desk. Crate handling service is provided for all freight shipments handled by Grosch-Tucker; all
others will be charged at prevailing rates. Please remember, all crates cannot be returned immediately at the close of the meeting. Several
hours are required to return all crates to the booths.

 




DRAYAGE SERVICE ORDER FORM

GROSCH' TTUCKER, INC.
DECORATING CONTRACTORS FOR Eastern Area Convention
CONVENTIONS AND TRADE SHOWS . . .
MAIL TO- National Solence Teachers Assoc1atlon
° Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.
November 21—23, 1974

 

GROSCH-TUCKER, INC.
156 Simpson St, N. W./Afldnid, Gd. 303i 3
(404) 522-4I 96

 

 

 

~DS-WASH-74»

Grosch-Tucker will be responsible for damage caused by them to crated shipments while handling shipments and will not be held responsible for concealed damage, -
or damage or loss of merchandise after delivery to booth before or during installation time, or at conclusion of show prior todelivery to common carrier. The
condition,_ count, and contents of the materials found in the booth at time of actual removal will be final and binding, and the right is reserved to alter exhibitor’s
bill of.lading to reflect actual condition, count, and contents found. Grosch-Tucker will not be responsible for damages while handling loose exhibit materials or
those inadequately packed. Grosch-Tuc_ker will not be responsible for failure or delay in performing service when delay is caused by strike, labor stoppage, or any
other cause unavaidable or beyond their control. The liability of Grosch-Tucker is hereby limited to $.30 per pound per article and values exceeding this limitation
should be insured by the shipper.

,[NEIRUCTIONS I"- All shipments by whatever means of transportation MUST BE PREPAID and should be shipped to arrive not later than one week prior to

initial'ihst‘allation' date. All shipments should be addressed to Grosch-Tucker Warehouse as shown; do not ship directly to the exhibit area, for there are no facilities
to handle or store exhibit material there prior to the convention.

COLLECT SHIPMENTS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED WITHOUT PRIOR ARRANGEMENT.

 

TO: (Name of exhibitor and booth number)

SHIPPING FOR: (Name of convention or exposition)
C/O: Grosch-Tucker Warehouse
ADDRESS

2034 West Virginia Ave. NE.
Washington, DC. 20002

IMMEDIATELY UPON SHIPPING FORWARD COPY OF FREIGHT BILL OF LADING TO GROSCH-TUCKER WAREHOUSE
SHIPMENTS TO YOUR BOOTH

Groscg-Tucker will trace delayed shipments upon written request and will notify shipper of arrival and condition if requested in writing. To enable delayed
shipments to be traced, the name of originating carrier, connecting carriers, and complete routing information must be given.

 

PRO.
SHIPPED FROM (CITY) TR UCKLIN'E NO.

 

SHIPPING DATE APPROX. ARRIVAL DATE

 

NO. OF SHIPMENTS TOTAL NO. OF PIECES TOTAL WEIGHT OF SHIPMENT

 

LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE TELEPHONE NO.

FOR LOCAL PICKUP (ATTACH SEPARATE SHEET FOR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS)

ADDRESS TELEPHONE NO.

 

APPROX. NO. PIECES APPROX. WE.IGHT_________ DATE OF PICKUP

 

ﬁEFORWARDING, INSTRUCTIONS AT CLOSE OF THE SHOW (ATTACH SEPARATE SHEET IF NECESSARY)

Exhibitor must label each’ piece of outbound shipment and submit completed bill of lading covering outbound shipment to Grosch-Tucker. G_rosch-Tucker_will not
be responsible for delay of rush shipments which will be‘expedited to the best of their ability. The right is reserved to reroute any outbound shipment not picked up
Within alloted move-out period by carrier exhibitor specifies; exhibitor must arrange for special carrier.

SHIP TO PREPAID

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY & STATE CO L LE CT

 

DESCRIPTION (Important for proper rating when reforwarding shipment)

 

Firm Name Booth No

Address City and State

 

BY (Signature) . Title Date

MAIL THIS FORM PROMPTLY TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS —- RETAIN ONE COPY FOR YOUR FILE

 




SERVICE ORDER FORM

MAIL TO; EXHIBITION MANAGER
SHERATON PARK HOTEL & MOTOR INN
2660 WOODLEY RD., N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C. 20008
t * * * * * *
Name of Show
Dates Booth #
Company Name
Address

 

 

 

 

Name of person to approve bills at exhibiE

 

*******

N9, Amount

Telephone: $30/phone/week
plus long distance calls

Electric: 60 cycle AC
120V - $20 lst 1000 watts
$15 each add. 1000 watts __
208V 20AMP-Labor &materials +
$45 each single phase ___
$60 each three phase

Lighting: 300 watts spot or flood
$12.50 each plus 6% DC tax

_ﬂ

Gas, Air, Water, Drainage:
$50 minimum hook-up charge
plus labor & materials

Gas

Air (85 psi)

Water & Drainage

Labor & materials
Above utilities available in
Halls #1 & #2, west wall area

Miscellaneous Charges:

Total Charges $
Labor Rates (One hour minimum):
Weekdays - $lS/hr SAM-4PM; $25/hr 4PM-8AM
Weekends & Holidays — $25/hr

 

 

Customer Signature Date
SEE STANDARD CONDITIONS ON BACK

Must be returned 21 daysixzadvance of
exhibit to assure prompt service

ENGINEERING COPY

 




