 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

M dyﬁzm’, Price 36].

THE

ANIMALS

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.
Subscription for 072: Y ear, p057 frag 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND 2'5 pnbliybed 7nonz‘b_[y by z‘be Naz‘z'ona/ Conner] for Animals’ We/Jare
at Queen’s Lodge, 32, Queen’s Anenne, Mam/ell Hill, London, N .10, and all eo7nn7nn7'eaz‘z'on5
regarding z‘be magazine sbon/d be addreised z‘o ibe Editorr.

Editors: Y. A. M. STOTT and J. L. CATHER.

 

 

Vol. XLVlll. May—June, 1942. NO. 6.
C O N T E N T S .
Page 0 Page
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK 12 3
WELFARE 4 ”4 WITH OR AGAINST NATURE. Robert H.
THE CEYLON PYTHON. S. V. O. Son7anader 116 Sparrzer 124
CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL LOVER. COLLIERY BIRDS’ SANCTUARY. Erie
Geoﬂrey H. Bomber 118 Hardy, 13.2.5, 126
7
ANIMALS WELFARE WEEKS II9 LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
ANIMALS’ FIRST. Cbar/e: A. Wereaeoz‘z‘... Izo ' SPORTS 128'
A PROBLEM OF DOMESTICATION. NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
D. jeffeal Wei/Zane; 121 OF CRUEL SPORTS 129
HORSE BRASSES. E. G. Bar/ow 122 PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY 130

 

 

 

 

 

National Council for Animals’ Welfare

Hon. Seereialy: Mr. J. LEONARD CATHER.

An Appeal by Our New Chairman. and foster a growing appreciation of the part
they play and the place they have—or should
have—in the scheme of things. Our edu-
cational work in this respect we put ﬁrst. It is
Of immense signiﬁcance.

_The present age is “ discovering ” the child
and its innate possibilities. It tends to regard
the child’s personality as something that is
sacred, and education as a result adopts a new
approach and attitude where the child is
. . concerned. To help in a somewhat similar

Our ideals and general 31th3 should, 1 way to “ discover ” the animal and the bird,
suggest, once again be reinforced and to win respect for that which is inherent and
Strengthened by a process 0t making them potential in them, to win a reverence for the
more clear and deﬁnite in our .mlnds. The common life struggling for fuller expression
spec1al role assigned to the National Council in them as in ourselves, to win a deeper sense
for Animals’ Welfare 18, to some Of 113, 0f the of their value for their own sakes, and not
greatest importance. merely for their service and usefulness to our-

Our aim is not only to try, in a fundamental selves, and to try also to catch something of
way, to prevent cruelty and suffering being the marvel and beauty they reveal—that is a
inﬂicted upon our fellow—creatures in the sub~ task which we have always before ourselves.
human kingdom, but also to try to encourage D. JEFFREY \Y/ILLIAMS.

114

Succeeding the late Mr. Robert H. Spurrier
whose loss we acutely feel and deplore—will
not be easy for one who, like myself, does not
possess many of his outstanding qualities.

I feel that I must ask the friends and sup—
porters Of the National Council for Animals’
\Velfare to help in every way open to them in
order to try to minimise the loss we have
sustained.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

S)

 

. —‘4::3.._._ ”v.5; A_ ,

 

 

Mayfunc‘, 1942

Notes and Comments

Dogs and War.

We have had a copy of an appeal made by The
National Canine League for more dogs to be trained
for the Army. It seems as if we cannot keep our
animals out of this man-made war. That dogs are
necessary for the war effort there is no doubt; whether
we will part with our pets and lend them to the country
is a matter which we only can decide. A report issued
by the Canine Press Bureau is very deﬁnite on the point
of good treatment and it will be comforting to those
who have decided to make the sacriﬁce. It is reassuring
to know “ that there is nothing for a humanitarian to
criticiZe.” We must remark, however, that there is
always the loss of the loved master and friends,'the
bewilderment at the change of habits and environment,
perhaps the feeling of hurt and betrayal that this should
have been allowed! On the other hand, many dogs
who .would have been destroyed because of circum-
stances are now still living, leading a useful existence
and probably have found new loves and masters.

Homeless Cats.

We have had an appeal for the cats that are still
wandering about the blitzed areas, specially in the
East End. “ There are hundreds of homeless cats in
Bermondsey alone, many of them bombed. out, but the
majority are the result of promiscuous breeding in the
tenements where the kittens are turned out to fend for
themselves in the backs of these hovels. A friend
and I go every Sunday and collect as many as we can
carry—one Sunday we got II from one house where
the people have kept two females and allowed 16
young cats to run wild. There is not one single
bombed building or piece of waste ground without its
complement of wild strays.

“ We feed all we can and by degrees have been able to
catch a number, but this is a drop in the ocean, and we
need practical help. Will any reader who has the time
come with us on Sunday mornings and help clear
away these creatures, many of whom are in a terrible
condition; we know the alleys and ruins now where
they are to be found.”

Will anyone who can help please communicate with
Miss F. Brathwaite, 44, Markham Street, S.W.3.

Animals and Evacuees.

We have had several letters protesting at the damage
and cruelty perpetrated by evacuees from the towns
to country districts. Much of this is certainly due to
curiosity and ignorance and is not conﬁned to town
children, as the experience of Miss Barrs and other
National Council speakers in country districts has
shown. There seems to be only one remedy, 'more and
more humane education both in town and country
schools. Some of this is given by the teachers but the
same statement made by an “ outsider ” often seems to
be more effective—probably it has the charm 'of novelty.

Presentiment in Animals.

An interesting extract from ,a letter from a Captain
who lives eight or nine miles from Exeter has been sent

"to" us by his aunt, Miss Helen Campbell. “ Out here
115

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

the Sunday had been a peaceful day, the lilacs in full
bloom and everything lovely. The children and I had
gone up to a little copse to gather primroses. There
was, however, one very noticeable thing, the birds were
not singing as usual and were ﬂuttering about in the
most extraordinary way—sheep were bleating in-
cessantly, cattle were ramping and lowing. Heather (a
cairn terrier) would not settle down and nearly drove
us dotty with her restlessness and Smokey (a cat)
took her latest baby out of its box in the kitchen and
took it down to a- nest in the meadow hedge. It was
all very curious and naturally had its effect on us,
though we did not connect it' with another raid—
anyhow not so soon. We all went to bed about
II p.m. Three hours later we were awakened by the
crash of bombs.”

Combined Meeting.

We have had a notice of an important meeting to be
held on Thursday, June 11th, at the Caxton Hall at
5.30 p.m. Six of the foremost Anti-Vivisection
societies are organising this——another sign of the move-
ment towards greater co-operation among animal wel-
fare societies. The subject is, “ What Diphtheria
Immunisation Really Means.”

 

Editorial

This is the ﬁrst number of THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND to be published under the joint editor—
ship of Mr. Cather and myself. The work of
collecting and putting the matter together
will be done in the ofﬁces of The National
Council for Animals’ Welfare and Mr. Cather,
in spite of a very busy life, has very kindly
promised to help and advise where suitability
of matter and general tone of the magazine
are concerned. Our late Editor has set a
standard which it shall be our aim to preserve,
and we would ask all the friends who have
helped us in the past for the continuance of
their patronage and their assistance in making
the magazine more widely known and circu—
lated that it may carry its message into ever
wider ﬁelds. We have received many more
letters and messages of sympathy from
readers who only learnt of the death of Mr.
Spurrier when they opened their last ANIMALS’
FRIEND. The Executive Committee would
again like to express their thanks for the help
and encouragement which these letters have
given to all concerned.

We regret that the name of the World League
against Vivisection was omitted in the last
issue from the list of organisations that sent
messages, and we have since heard from the
London Vegetarian Society and the United
Humanitarian League.

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May; zme, I942

The Ceylon Python

By S. V. O. SOMANADER.

 

 

l- ‘ " ’

Photo by] [8. V. O. Somanader
F Ceylon’s land snakes, which number
nearly three—score and ten, the Python
(sz‘lyon Malawi) is the largest, though,

certainly not venomous. Its average length is
about 10 feet, although a sportsman’s diary
records his encountering two fine specimens,
each measuring from 15 to 18 feet. There
might be some very rare ones which exceed
even 20 feet in length, but even this does not
come up to the Malayan variety, which has
been reported to be over 28 feet in length.

The weight of a python is remarkable, too.
A 19—foot Ceylon specimen turned the scale
at 200 pounds. And most of this weight is
due to muscle, which gives us an indication of
the reptile’s enormous strength.

The colour of the python (or Rock—Snake,
as it is popularly called) has more than one
distinct phase. One is a sort of dark—olive
with blackish markings, and another pale—
grey mingled with dark tan. The ground
colour is broken up by large, squared, irregular
patches of reddish—brown, with black—edged
spots down the middle of the back. And
these patches have darker centres which
irridesce with a blue or purple sheen, adding
to the beauty of the snake.

Though people, as a general rule, dislike
snakes, regarding them as slimy, venomous,
loathsome creatures, it must be said in fairness
to the python that, apart from its non—
poisonous character, it is a very pretty creature.

116

I cannot understand, therefore, why sportsmen
should shoot it unnecessarily and boast of the
exploit.

In habit, the python is both arboreal and
terrestrial, and is also adapted by nature to a
subaquatic life. A very deft and strong
swimmer, it may often be found submerged
partially or totally by the border of a jungle
stream or muddy forest—pool, with its head
resting more or less on a level with the surface.
It is then hardly discernible from the large
frogs ﬂoating about. It is no wonder, there—
fore, that unsuspecting prey such as deer
stepping into the pool to drink are easily
victimised.

Living for the most part in dense jungle, and
even in the sparser forest growth that clothes
the rocky slopes of low hills, the python
frequently climbs trees, hanging its head
sometimes downward by the aid of its tail
which possesses great gripping power, or
lurking for prey with its head thrust out and
the body coiled round a tree-trunk. While in

 

[5. V. 0. Somanader

Photo by]

.~ - LAW‘('»‘?’- >er“. iiT.7’>~3)' , ~<

”‘~-ﬁ‘:‘ . _.

‘

 

r.’ --r.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Maj/June, 1942

this position, it can be easily mistaken for a
branch encrusted with lichen and ﬂecked with
sunlight, both colour and form assisting in
the camouﬂage.

On land, the python’s movement is slow
and sluggish. But, whether lying in the
herbage or resting on rocks, it can easily pass
for a decayed piece of log, or a rotten, woody
creeper by the careless intruder.

The python lives principally on small
mammals, but occasionally on a large one.
Our 'village folk state that it feeds on other
reptiles and also birds. It frequents the
roosting places of herons or egrets, or the lairs
of monitor lizards. Nothing comes amiss to
the python; not only jungle fowls, hares and
monkeys, but also such large beasts as deer,
leopards and wild boar are swallowed, bones
and all. A favourite food of the python is the
monkey, which it takes unawares lying coiled
on some branch. When it is out for deer, it
will lie for days beside some jungle path until
the unsuspecting beast literally strides into
its mouth.

The manner in which the python secures
and kills its prey is interesting. Throwing

.coil after coil of its body over its victim, it

gradually smothers it. When the prey has
been crushed by the terrible power of its
muscles, the python relaxes its embrace, and
proceeds to swallow it head ﬁrst, except in the
case of antlered animals like deer, which are
eaten from the opposite direction.

Though mainly nocturnal in habit, the
python is very much alert during the day as
well, and may frequently be seen consuming
an animal captured in daylight. The other
day, a friend of mine motoring through
jungle country came across one of these

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

creatures lying on the open road in the
afternoon, apparently looking out for a
Vlctlm.

The python is oviparous. Its leathery,
soft—shelled, oblong eggs, each of which
weighs about 5 ounces, are laid more or less
in the open. They are incubated by the snake
coiling itself around the cone—shaped pile of
them, with its head on top.

During this period of incubation, the snake
often retires at intervals into a crevice beneath
a fallen tree or within a termite mound, but
it abstains from food. The eggs are usually
laid between March and June, and take nearly
two months to hatch out. The newly—hatched
“ babies,” each about two feet long, are dis—
regarded by the mother, and instinctively learn
to forage for themselves on rats and frogs, and
other very small creatures to start with. They
grow rapidly, attaining complete maturity in
about three or four years.

Pythons are said to be good climbers, even
of fairly vertical surfaces. Sir Emerson
Tennent, once Lieutenant—Governor of Ceylon,
cites the instance of a python which once
surprised him by the ease with which it erected
itself almost perpendicularly in order to scale a
wall IO feet high.

Such, then, are the ways of the Ceylon
python, to study which it is well worth a trip
to the forest country. To the jungle wallah,
especially if he be a cameraman or a nature-
lover, the very presence of a python in its
natural habitat, spells a thrill. And to watch
it in the seclusion of the wilds lends an added
charm to a jungle holiday. True sportsmen
would, therefore, spare the python. But the
pity of it all is that, even among them, opinions
differ and tastes vary.

 

Photo by]

117

 

S. V. O. Somzmader

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May/11116,, I 942

Confessions of An Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

I Broadcast for the Animals

evident to anyone with ears to hear

that wireless broadcasting was destined
soon to constitute a very important feature of
modern civilization. Feeling that one ought to
be in the movement, I wrote to the recently
started Manchester Station of the British
Broadcasting Company—not yet a “ Corpora—
tion ”-——asking if they would allow me to
launch on the air a short talk on the needs and
correct treatment of dogs.

To my agreeable surprise, this proposition
was promptly accepted. I was still more——
and more agreeably—surprised when a few
days later the post brought me an acceptable
little cheque as payment for what I had
expected would only be granted as a gratuitous
favour.

Frankly, a fee of any sort was unjustiﬁable,
for my ﬁrst broadcast must have been simply
horrible to listen to. Impressed by the im-
perfect reception of many of the early wireless
sets, I had fondly conceived that it would
help matters if I spoke every syllable with
painful precision and emphasis. In reality, of
course, the radio reproduces any departure
from natural, easy speech with deadly exacti-
tude and to the point of virtual caricature.

However, the BBC. must have let me off
as a first offender, for a few weeks later they
allowed me to give a second, and then, subse—
quently, many more microphone talks. These
were delivered at their Manchester and Liver-
pool Stations, both within easy distance of my
Cheshire home, and then ﬁnally I was con—
sidered good enough for London—not the
present Broadcasting House, but less palatial
quarters on Savoy Hill. ’

At the rather jolly little Liverpool Studio——
mysteriously and quaintly arrived at by passing
through a Lord Street cafe—I supplemented
my usual weekly talk by acting as a super-
numerary Uncle during the Children’s Hour.
I became “ Uncle Noah,” who regaled the
youngsters with zoology without tears—and
preferably with smiles. Many juvenile listeners
evidently listened, for they reacted by bom-
barding me with questions about how to treat
their sick pets. There seemed to be a distress~
ingly large number of the latter, and the con-

5 BOUT twenty years ago it became

118

viction gradually grew upon me that, as a rule,
it would be far better if children did not keep
pets at all.

It does not belong to this story to relate how
I came to vary my animal welfare talks with
others on literary and more strictly human
subjects—with occasional excursions into the
purely humorous. These last—named may not
perhaps have seemed quite so killingly funny
to the audience as they did to their author,
though I can boast of one occasion when the
announcer, entering the studio after I had
ﬁnished, told me how the station engineer, who
had been listening—in for technical reasons, had
collapsed in mirth at one of my jokes.

The main reason why I did not conﬁne my
broadcasting entirely to animal welfare was
that I soon discovered that the theme, in the
way I was allowed to present it, was by no
means inexhaustible. I was politely but ﬁrmly
headed off from such “ controversial ” subjects
as blOod sports and vivisection. And the
interesting facts you can state about dogs—
my speciality in the eyes of the BBC. ——are
not unlimited.

As a matter of fact, I could have gone on
for years telling the wireless world about dogs
if I had chosen to deal with the subject from
the angle of the breeder and commercial
pedigree producer. But this, for humane
reasons, I would never do.

What is a pedigree dog? It is simply one
whose progenitors have been adjudged
champions at shows on points which are
largely arbitrary and often most undesirable.
The easiest way to produce such a creature is
to mate two champions. This inevitably means
dysgenic in—breeding, and the animal which
satisﬁes the ring judge by the prick of its ears
or some such nonsense may be little better
than a neurotic invalid, with brains on a par
with its stamina. Here, as in so many other
instances, human commercialism has been the
curse of the animal “creation.

ti: 3: :k ‘41:

To recur to my broadcasting, my constant
aim was to make the public understand what I
held to be the true psychology of the canine
race. In short, I expressed the view that it was
neither kind nor reasonable to expect dogs to

 

 

‘-‘-‘&_.

— tn

 

 




 

 

 

 

.w'” -'

Mtg/June, 1942

be human beings, and that, whilst their instinc-
tive behaviour was often wonderful (and their
love and devotion beyond all appraisement 1),
they could not possibly manifest brain power
on our level. To believe they could do so, I
suggested, often led to cruelty and injustice,
since the dog supposed to “ understand every
word we say to it ” may easily be punished for
disobeying an order it had inevitably failed to
comprehend.

The enunciation of these opinions invariably
resulted in a large number of listeners writing,
telling me of the quite human or even super—
human actions of their domestic pets. And
usually there wOuld be one missive of a
thoroughly abusive character, charging me
with being a hater rather than an admirer of
the tail—wagging species. As some compen~
sation for the abuse, afew listeners were highly
appreciative, one unknown correspondent
being good enough to write : “ Your remarks
on dogs last night were the most sensible I
have ever heard on the subject.”

Most of the pioneers of broadcasting have,
I think, faded out of the ether by now. My
own retirement from the microphone was due
to a letter awaiting me on the breakfast-table
one January morning in the year 1926. It
contained an exciting proposition which ap—
pealed to me but which could not well be
adopted in conjunction with radio speaking.

The totally unexpected character of this
communication shall be disclosed to the kind,
persistent reader in my next month’s instalment.

 

119

._..._'—___,......_ ~-,_ —’-——~--~-~—--.———~———-.~—u .- n.-,..__—._‘_..._..,_._.__._._.,,.__..._..H..,.. «W4 , _.. a r . .- .

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Animals’ Welfare Weeks

HE first reports of the celebration of
Animals’ Welfare Week. are being re—
ceived.

COLCHESTER.—From this town we hear that
Mr. Bowker, by arrangement with Dr.
Estcourt—Oswald and the Director of Educa—
tion, gave 15 talks, seven of these were to
Council schools, the rest to private schools
including the Girls’ County High School, and
the Royal Grammar School. His visit was most
successful and literature was distributed to all
the schools. His audiences will have comprised
about 2,000 children besides the teachers.
The National Council is very grateful to Mr.
Bowker for giving a week of his very busy
time to this work, to Dr. Estcourt-Oswald for
organising the tour and for giving hospitality,
and to the Colchester Education Committee
for giving their permission.

MAIDENHEAD.—Six of the Maidenhead
schools invited a speaker this year and Mrs." '
Stott spent a very pleasant day and a half
cycling round the lovely neighbourhood
talking to the children. Literature and posters
had already been sent and the response of the
children was most encouraging. Several of
the head teachers said how seldom it was that
they had reports of acts of cruelty by their
children. Maidenhead is to be congratulated.

CARLISLE.—This town kept the speaker
concerned, Miss Barrs, busy nearly every day
for a week. Two Women’s Guilds, four
schools and a sermon at the Unitarian Church
were given and literature and posters
distributed. ‘

NATIONAL LECTURER’S ToURs.——Miss Barrs
continued her good work in the North. After
her tour of Jarrow, Hebburn, South Shields
and Wallsend, she returned to London for a
few days and was away again up to Pudsey‘,
where 14 talks were given to approximately
2,760 children. These were arranged by the
Director of Education. Then on to Kirkby
Stephen, where Mr. Parrott had arranged 22
talks in that and the Appleby district. Making
her way slowly northwards Miss Barrs spoke
to 22 schools in various villages in the Penrith
area. After the Carlisle Week she began her
way southwards and up to May 15th had
visited I4 more schools in the Maryport,
Cockermouth, Whitehaven district.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Animals First
( C ontinnea' ) .

By CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

ABEL ONSLOW once described her
j\/ I home at Llanidloes in Montgomery—

shire as being situated near open
woodland with the river running through and
a wood of giant beeches on the hill above the
house. These are her words :—

“ We keep this lovely place as a little
sanctuary. In years past there were otters
living here, but otter—hunters frightened them
away. \We have seen foxes in the garden and
twice a pole—cat (once a dead one, the very
loveliest little creature). There were lots of
red squirrels; they used to come in at open
windows upstairs and down. You would meet
them rushing about the house or coming up
or down the staircase. We have for years fed
them and the birds by the window and in the
garden—robins, hedge-sparrows, greenfinches,
five kinds of titmice, chiffchaffs, wrens and
golden-crested wrens, herons, blackbirds,
clippers, kingﬁshers, tree—creepers, nut—hatches
and many others.”

“ My favourite domestic animal,” Mrs.
Onslow has written, “ is the cat. They and
I are intensely in sympathy. I love them
desperately, though they are so naughty, and
we had to part, as there are too many wild
things.”

The subject of this article, being a consistent’
animal lover, does not eat meat, eggs or butter,
or drink milk, living mostly on fruit and
drinking only water. In her endeavour
“ never to have anything killed or hurt ” she
even uses substitutes for furs, feathers and
skins in wearing apparel, gloves and shoes,
thus carrying out humanitarian principles, for,
as she herself has said: “ It is only the few
who care about the little things.”

In order to create a more humane outlook
towards animals “ M. O.” distributes regularly
many copies of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND in her
district. She has expressed her opinion re—
garding experiments on animals in no un—
certain manner. “ Vivisection is perfectly
horrible and health can never be obtained
through the torture of animals.”

“ Since I was a child,” writes Mrs. Onslow,
“ I have done sketches of landscapes, and

. specialize in brilliant and rich colouring, but

120

 

_ Ma r line, 1942

never an animal, or ﬁgure or house—just pure
scenery. I also am successful in brilliant
coloured embroideries. Colour is the breath
of my nostrils.”

As a schoolgirl “ M. O.” travelled with her
family in Italy, France and Madeira, and of
recent years has on three occasions visited
Kenya where her surviving son was farming,
and it was in Kenya that her poem “ Land of
Lilies ” was written.

“ Tloe gracious snn snone out on Cbrist/nas Day
Turning tlie ancient Bart/9 to softest gold.”

So began the poem “ Christmas Day, 1941,”
memorable as being a most beautiful winter
day. The Concluding verse contains these
lines :—

“ Anita’s/f .t/ye turmoil of a world at war

Tloe lei’el sunken/77s kissed tlye ancient Bart/9.”

A recent poem is “ The Friend,” descriptive
of one of whom

“ All gentle creatures lose tlieir fear ”

and written about the same time is the com-
panion piece, “ A Portrait,” being a pen-
sketch of the poet :—
“ Loving all beauty and colours and scenery
Drearning of Dig/ails, ancl Fairies, ancl
Fanlns.”

Mr. and Mrs. Onslow about ten years ago
went to the succour of The Society for the
Protection of \Wild Flowers which was in need
of prompt assistance, and they have carried on
the work of the Society successfully ever since.
Yet in addition to the manifold duties entailed
in endeavouring to educate the public to enjoy
the countryside without destroying the plants
and wild flowers, time has been made to justify
Mabel Onslow’s declaration that “ I am
Animals First.”

 

P.P.P.S.————continneclﬁooni page 130.

quantity of protein. He was therefore con—
vinced that the ponies will not suffer if fed a
limited quantity of wheat straw pulp in lieu
of hay. A critical position may develop, and
he thought we would agree with him that it
was the duty of the Mines Department to take
Steps to examine and test substitute feeding
stuffs so that the ponies will not suffer.

We think that the above are fair summaries
of the letters.
D. J. W.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Meg/June, I942

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Problem of Domestication

By D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

to offer warm congratulations and

wishes on becoming Joint Editor of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND—has written with
great penetration and ability on this subject.
Everything that comes from his pen carries
freshness and distinction.

In short articles one very often is obliged
to give only an outline of what one thinks in
relation to a particular question, and I for one
would be grateful if we could obtain the views
of our Joint Editor more fully on the subject
of animals under domestication. I shall
therefore cull the following passage from an
article that was ﬁrst printed in the Spectator
in 1932 and reprinted in THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND, June, 1941, and attempt to ask some
questions about it. '

MR. J. L. CATHER—to whom I venture

“ Until man began the process of ‘ domestication,’

he was unwittingly an active agent in the advance—

' ment of Nature’s wOrk : thereafter, the retrogression
of animals began. W’e should not deceive ourselves
about this: the vast majority of domesticated
animals are degraded from, not raised above their
natural estate. Deprived of the opportunity of
experience and the joy of response to it, their lives
are conditioned by and terminated at our caprice.

Their intelligence is thereby progressively lessened

from generation to generation, while their bodily

and dawning mental powers are distorted or allowed
to atrophy.”

At ﬁrst glance, one feels that one must
entirely agree with that indictment. Indeed,
one feels inclined to add to it and to underline
certain things in it. There can be no justiﬁ—
cation for the training of dogs for hunting and
cruel sports of any kind, and apart from the
cruelty involved, there is the hideous twist
given to the nature of the dogs so trained.
Even the breeding and specialised training of
horses over many generations for the sole
purpose of racing—for man’s proﬁt and
pleasure—is undesirable from some important
standpoints, however apparently harmless
from other points of View.

But can it be said, without some sort of
qualiﬁcation, that horses, dogs and cats, are
degraded from their wild state into something
inferior? We might also include elephants in
the same question, at the same time recalling
that elephants live in both a wild and domesti—
cated state, In the case of these animals,

121

.V.,...-.F.-..\.~— ,- -— r———“-r —— ...-..7_,, »‘— w . . ..,. -..._. ”wk“. . . . .... .7.. —

would it not be true to say that their intelli—
gence, at all events, has much improved by
contact with man? Contact with man in a
state of domestication must necessarily quicken
the intelligence of animals, it seems to me.

The late Mr. Ernest Bell dealt with this
question in an essay called “ Is Nature
Cruel? ” in his book, Fair Treatment fer
Am’ma/r, and he suggests that “ where man
comes in he seems to us to complicate the
problem in two ways.” Firstly, animals who
have lived with man for many generations
seem to take on his sensitiveness in great
measure. In dogs and horses in certain
conditions extreme sensitiveness is developed.
Secondly, man introduces conditions which
are abnormal and “ unnatural,” and which do
not allow the same laws as more natural
conditions do. A rabbit suddenly pounced
on by a fox feels practically no pain, but a
rabbit screaming while being held in a tooth
trap must suffer agony. Animals who have
been once caught will give a wide berth to
traps of all kinds in future, and that seems to
show that pain has been suffered and has also
proved educative.

It seems to be true that the horse has an
even more delicate nervous system than man
has, so that its nerves are more sensitive to
pain than the man’s, but a wounded horse
can and does do many things that to a wounded
man would be impossible. A very great deal
of human suffering is due to the mental. part
played in it. Man intensiﬁes and prolongs his
own suffering because of the way in which he
dwells upon it in his mind.

If, as seems true, animals who have lived
with men for many generations take on their
sensitiveness in great measure, is it unreasonable
to assume that a similar thing takes place in
relation to animal intelligence? Sometimes an
unfortunate form of cunning is developed,
sometimes a high form of affection goes with
a high form of intelligence.

Is it not possible to take into account the
case of different species and classes? Mr.
Cather hints at such a thing when he refers
to “ the vast majority of domesticated animals
that are degraded from . . . their natural
estate,” and it would be interesting to consider

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

the cases of fowls, ducks, geese, among birds,

and cows, sheep, pigs and goats, for example, '

among animals. Let it be said at once that
as far as the exploitation and killing of any of
these creatures for man’s sustenance or beneﬁt,
that Mr. Cather and myself are in complete

agreement. The inﬂiction of such unnecessary
suffering and cruelty is an unmistakable
crime!

One other matter seems to call for con—
sideration and it relates to what we call the
balance of nature, for which we have so great
a respect and to which we should give every
heed. Is not man—who is charged with the
degrading of domesticated animals I—also an
integral part of Nature? Can we regard man
as an unwitting agent in the advancement of
animals at one stage and apparently a more or
less conscious agent in their retrOgression at
a later stage? Inevitably man will suffer as a
result of his cruelty and stupidity, where
animals and birds are concerned, and, since
contact with him undoubtedly increases their
sensitiveness where suffering goes while in the
state of domestication, that cruelty and
stupidity will equally inevitably exact a greater

retribution from a just Nature at some time

or another.

(NOTE.— In the next issue of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND
I hope to discuss some of the points raised in Mr. D.
jeﬁ‘rey Williams’ article—with the greater part of which
I am in agreement. Meanwhile, may I ask readers to
consider the differences between the experiences of life
and development undergone by animals in a free state
and those under the control of man ?——J. L. CATHER.)

 

Photo by]

Maya une, I 942

Horse Brasses
EARLY peoples hung charms (against the

evil eye) on their animals, and the

decorative wearing of horse brasses is a
survival of early. beliefs. The most common
symbol is the crescent sign of the new moon.
Many of the brasses worn to—day are either a
plain crescent or with a crescent as the basis
of the design. The Roman soldiers used to
bind two boars’ tusks, crescent shape,,on their
horses’ heads. They most likely brought the

symbol to this country. Many brasses depict -

animals. Firstly, horses in a variety of breeds
and poses. Then there are dogs, squirrels,
stags and camels, and birds, doves, cocks
and phoenix. Other brasses depict some agri—
cultural aspect such as wheatsheaf, plough,
wagon and windmill. Then more brasses
symbolise districts or trades, such as the
Staﬂordshire knot, carpenter’s square and
compasses, brewer’s barrel, railway engine,
and ship. There are also brasses with national
symbols—rose, thistle, shamrock and leek.
An acorn and oakleaf is a popular design.
The better brasses are cast, others stamped
from the metal.
E. G. BARLOW.

. The blocks with luminous. studs inserted,
which are ﬁxed in the road to guide transport
at night, are known to the workers who handle
them as “ cats’ eyes ” I

[ W. M o W illiam

Col/eating Ming/e, IVerz‘ Bay, Dorset.

122

 

 

 




 

May/Line, 1942

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

My Thrush.
All z‘lym’agly z‘lse salt/3r nears 0f fane,

Pram manning aliz‘ne 2‘0 golden noon,
Ana’ fill flee star of evening elimlas
TlJe gray—blue East, a war/(l 1‘00 seen,

Tleere sings a Tlnmsl) amid flee limes,

Closer 2‘0 Gozl art flyon ilean I :
His minsz‘rel inon, n'laese bran/n wings fb/
T/srongli silent miner’s summer elimes.
Al], never may fly} mnsie (lie!
Sing 0n, a’ear Tarns/y, amid Klee limes!
MORTIMER COLLINS (1827—76)

One Who Suffered.

WALT WHITMAN (1819—92), American poet,
“passed on ” on March 27th ﬁfty years ago.
Someone wrote of him as being

“the great prophet of the world’s hope. . . . He

sounds all the chords of human feeling with the
depth and urgency of one who has suffered.”

Below are the ﬁrst four lines'of a funeral
oration by E. C. Stedman. '

' “ Good—bye, Walt!
Good-bye from all you loved on earth——
Rock, tree, dumb creature, man and woman~
To you their comrade human.”

Surpasses Any Statue.

Here are some favourite lines taken from
Walt Whitman’s “ Leaves of Grass ” :—

“ A leaf of grass is no less than the journey work of

the'stars,

And the ant is equally perfect, and the grain of sand,
and the egg of the wren,

And the tree toad is a masterpiece for the highest,

And the running blackberry would adorn the parlours
of heaven,

And the narrowest hinge on my hand puts to scorn
all machinery,

And the cow crunching with depressed head surpasses
any statue.

And a mouse is miracle enough to stagger sextillions
of inﬁdels.”

My Friend the Horse.

The following is an excerpt from the preface
to “ Smoky,” the Story of a Horse, by Will
James :—

“ My life, from the time I ﬁrst squinted at daylight,
has been with horses. I admire every step that
creature makes. I know them and been through so
much with ’em that I’ve come to ﬁgure a big mistake
was made when the horse was classed as an animal.
To me, the horse is man’s greatest, most useful,
faithful, and powerful friend. He never whines
when he’s hungry or sore—footed or tired, and he’ll
keep on a—going for the human till he drops.

123

“ The horse is not appreciated and never will be
appreciated enoughwfew humans, even them that
works him, really knows him, but then there’s so
much to know about him.”

Excerpt from T/Je Animals" Guardian, of
January 15th, 1909 :—

“ ‘Poor Cherry ’ was the innocent founder of a
unique cemetery. On April ZISt, I881, a lady living
in Hyde Park Gardens which face the lodge (Victoria
Gate Lodge) lost a dog—-—‘ Poor Cherry ’——a faithful
companion for many years. As there was no suitable
place on the lady’s premises in which to bury it,
she had to cast about for one.

“ It suddenly dawned upon her that a desirable
spot presented itself for ‘ Poor Cherry’s ’ remains
in the garden at the back of the lodge of Hyde Park.
She immediately went to the residence of the Park
Ranger, then the Duke of Cambridge, to whom she
made known the object of her visit, and solicited him
to grant the favour for which she pleaded. The
Duke willingly granted the favour asked, “ provided

the lodge-keeper made no objection.”

With the help of the “ silver key,” the door
was opened, and “ Poor Cherry ” became the
pioneer of what is now known as “ The Dog
Cemetery.”

The cemetery now contains the remains of
considerably over 300 dogs, some half—a—dozen
cats, and a couple of monkeys. All have
miniature tombstones erected over their
graves. . . . This garden of peace is now full.”

Painting in England.

Miles F. de Montmorency in his book,
A 3/90” Hisz‘my of Painting in England, makes
reference to a few animal painters. This is
what he says of three of them 2——

- “ The painters of animal subjects were popular
throughout the eighteenth and early nineteenth
centuries. John Wooton (1668—1765) and James
Seymour (1702—1752) were early members of a
school which reached its highest level in the work
of George Stubbs (1724—1806). Born at Liver~
pool, Stubbs studied anatomy at York. Much of his
life was spent in studying the anatomy of the horse,
and his book on the subject brought him an inter-
national scientiﬁc reputation. . . . For all his
scientiﬁc knowledge of equine anatomy he always
sees with an artist’s eye and produces a picture which
is as charming aesthetically as it is accurate anatom-
ically.”

Thought for the Month.

“ Agitation for humane arrangements in the
transport of animals from place to place,
entailing better accommodation with food and,
water, is an urgent need of the moment.”

ONLOOKER.

 

\ ...-—;r‘-—..- 2‘4 .

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Mayfune, 1942

With or Against Nature ?

By ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

The following was written for a leaﬂet by our late
Editor and was probably the last thing he wrote. It
was intended for Senior Boys and Girls and, as such,
has been distributed to many schools during Animals’
Welfare Week this year. It was thought that adult
readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND would be interested
to read it, not only because of the matter but also
because of the author.

WONDER how you think and feel about
Ianimals and the way in which they are

regarded and treated by their fellow human
creatures—that is by ourselves and others.

Do you think of them as creatures who are
intended only or mainly to serve our con—
venience and pleasure, to provide us with food
:and clothing, to spend their lives in labour for
us either above ground or below in the
perpetual black—out of the. coal mine, to be
hunted and harassed and worried to their
death or to be enslaved and subject to lifelong
confinement for our education and entertain-
ment P

If you regard them as created for these and
other human ends and not to follow their own
instincts and develop their own intelligence
and capacities, you can never have considered
them from the point of view of creatures who
were here on this planet as the highest form of
life for long ages before man appeared. They
were then the Lords of Creation; the earth
and its fullness was theirs to enjoy. Neither
canyou have considered them as living, feeling,
intelligent creatures to whom life .is dear, to
whom freedom to move among their own kind
within their natural environment is the breath
of life—as creatures who love their young and
are ready to defend them from attack and
injury at the cost of their own lives. You
cannot have considered them as sentient
creatures, nervous and shy, with emotions akin
to our own with their likes and dislikes, their
self—chosen companions and mates, their homes
and families—families in which some members
will be more intelligent than others, some
stronger in character and personality and some
with more of the spirit of adventure and
discovery.

Yet these are some of the observed and
scientifically established facts about animal life
and feeling, as you may learn from many
fascinating books written in recent years by

124

those who have studied the life and conduct of
animals in their natural haunts with penetrating
powers of observation and sympathetic intelli—
gence. They are facts the truth of which we
can, to some extent at least, test for ourselves
in so far as we make sympathetic and patient
contact with theanimals in our own homes and
the surrounding countryside, and have the will
to use our intelligence for that purpose.

Equally challenging to the unimaginative
and unscientific view that animal life is created '
to serve only human ends, and not for the sake
of its own development and welfare, is the fact
that every species has its appointed place and
natural function to perform in Nature’s great
scheme of wild life in which its value to man
may be of but secondary importance to its
value to other creatures. A particular species
may appear to be of little use to man. Take
the carnivorous beasts for example—and in
particular the Leopard. We may have no use
for the Leopard, and if man invades his
territory it is at his own risk—none the less the
Leopard has his place and function in the great
scheme of things. He is, indeed, as F. W.
Champion explained in his wonderful book on
“ The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow,” “ a
very important unit in the scheme of life in
India.” There, deer and wild hogs abound;
they increase so rapidly and are so voracious
that they would consume all the available food
inside the forests and the other animals would
starve. When this food has become, exhausted
they would scatter in all directions, and thus
become a very serious menace to the vegetable
and-cereal food of men and other creatures
but for the Leopard, who is one of the natural
checks on the undue increase of deer and
wild hogs.

Take the Cobra as another illustration. Many
people think that it would be a very good thing
if 'cobras did not exist. What is the use, they
ask, of this poisonous snake—meaning, of
course, what is its use to man, forgetting that
there are myriads of other creatures to be
considered. The answer is that while the
cobra may be of no direct use to man, yet in
the jungle the chief food of the cobra is rats.
These rodents destroy enormous quantities of
cereals. Now cereals form the chief food of

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ma yﬁzne, [942

many species of animals, including man, and
the cobra’s place in the Balance of Nature is to
act as a check on the undue increase of rats,
not necessarily that mankind alone shall beneﬁt,
but because, in the general interest of mankind
and other creatures, the number of rats must
be kept within bounds. '
These two illustrations—and many more

could be given which would include insects
and birds—are sufﬁcient to show that animals
have their own place in Nature’s scheme and
function to fulﬁl—a place and function we shall
most certainly fail to understand if we are only
concerned with the short-sighted question,
"‘ Of what use are they to man? ”

Wllile inan exelainzr, “ See all Ming; for 777]

are! ”
“ See man for mine! ” replier ilie painperea'
goose; ‘
And/nil ar sloori of reason be may; fall
Woo loin/é: all inazlefor one, not one for all.

In Nature’s scheme Man is only one of the
animals, though admittedly the most powerful
because he has the greatest intelligence—and
is as much subject to Nature’s laws as the
rest of them. But he has unhappily not

recognised this in many of his dealings with

the animal world, either because he chooses to
ignore it in pursuit of his proﬁt and pleasure
.and sport, or because he does not use his

intelligence to look far enough ahead to
consider what the long term results of his
actions are likely to be. For the proﬁt or
pleasure of the moment he will mortgage and
sacriﬁce the future in disregard or deﬁance of
the law—As a man soweth so shall he also
reap. Especially has he been found wanting in
regard to the principle of The Balance of
Nature, with disastrous consequences to
himself. Why is it we are plagued with an
excessive population of rats and rabbits, for
instance, to such an extent that an estimate of
the damage done by rats alone of J{19,000,000
annually is authoritatively stated to be “ prob-
ably well within the mark ”? i

The answer given to this question by one
well—known autnority, Mr. H. G. Maurice,
18 :—

“ One of the chief reasons why we are
plagued with an excessive population of rats,
and let me add rabbits, is the senseless
persecution of such useful creatures as the
polecat, the stoat, the weasel, and of owls,
kestrel, hawks and other valuable birds of
prey (chieﬂy in the supposed interests of
game—preserving) ”

125

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

and, he adds :—

“ Life in the biological, as well as in the
philosophical sense is just one thing after
another, an endless chain—Nature’s chain—
which is constructed so carefully and
meticulously that if you destroy one link,
vegetable or animal, you run the risk of
upsetting Nature’s mechanism ; and Nature,
stronger than Man, will in the process of
executing running repairs, probably hit man
on the head with a spanner. The spanner
may take the form of famine, bubonic plague,
or something different, but it will hurt.”
Only within the last few weeks attention has

been called to the fact that sparrows, starlings,
rooks and gulls, are being offered for sale as
food in Smithﬁeld market. Now in spite of
certain minor depredations on cereal crops and
fruits made by one or two of these species, the
sparrow, the starling, rook and gull, are all
useful destroyers of insects and weed seeds
and are on balance a beneﬁt to agriculture and
food production. Well might Ralph Hodson
write :—
I rain will? open (yer
Singing birds yn/eez‘
Sold in Me .r/yopsfor
People to eat :
Sold in flye sloop: of
Siapieliiy Sireet.

I saw in a oiyion
Tlie worn: in tire ninea/
And in i/oe .f/JOPJ‘ noi/ying
For people to eat
ZNToi/oingfor rale in
Stupidizj' Street.

Man has gone against Nature in his treat-
ment of animals practically ever since the
beginning of his known history, and in the
course of his ever extending enslavement and
abuse of animal life—despite his growing
consideration for the welfare of domestic
animals—Man has created a civilisation in
which he has become artiﬁcially dependent
for his food, his health, his clothing: his
transport, his pleasure and many of his
comforts, upon the callous exploitation and
selﬁsh destruction of animal life with little or
no regard to the sufferings and miseries
inﬂicted upon these sentient fellow creatures
in the process.

So ruthless has he been in pursuit of his ends,
in certain directions, that a scientiﬁc journal a
few years back published the statement that:

(Continued on page 127.)

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Moyﬁme, 1942

A Colliery Bird Sanctuary

Rare sights for bir. omit/sees as spring comes to
Laﬂeas/iire’s fies/yes.

By ERIC HARDY, F.Z.S.

the collieries. It brought the coltsfoots

into ﬂower along the slag heaps. The
snipe began drumming in the air above their
nesting haunts on the marshy shore. The
meadow—pipits which also nest there com-
menced their tinkling little songs from a—wing.
Redshank, great crested grebe and wild duck
were settling down at their nesting haunts, the
various gulls and waders were passing through
on their spring migration across the north of
England, but the biggest thrill of all was the
arrival of the wild swans in greater numbers
than we had ever known before. When the
Merseyside Naturalists’ Association held its
field-meeting at the mile-long Pennington
“ Flash,” Leigh, it might have been described
as the sight of a lifetime when we watched a
herd of 37 wild Bewick’s swans on the water
adjacent to the main road and the railway,
under the shadow of colliery wheels and slag
heaps, a railway station and all the gloom of
industrial Lancashire for the landscape. Such
a bird view might not be obtained except at
rare intervals in more sequestered beauty spots
in Lakeland and the Norfolk Broadland;
yet with the short spells of sunshine upon the
birds, their beauty and the bright colour of
their beaks could be observed here with ease.
They distracted most of our interest from the
hundreds of pochard and tufted duck that
swam on the ﬂash, with here and there a few
shoveller, some teal, some common wild duck,
a couple of drake golden eye in handsome
black—and-white plumage, and a duck golden—
eye diving as skilfully as any bird.

Although Leigh Flash is mentidned as one
of the frequent localities for seeing the
Bewick’s swan in winter or early spring in
T/ie Birds of z‘lye Liverpool Area, we had never
before seen or learned of a herd so large as 37
in number. Of course, ordinary swans have
bigger gatherings at times. Nine of the birds
were immature, in their ﬁrst winter, but the
majority of the wild swans made a very grand
sight as the sun shone upon them. They rode
a little higheron the water than the common
mute swans of the ﬂash, their necks were held
stiffer, more erect or slightly tilted forward,

SPRING had come to the ﬂashes amidst

without the graceful curve of the domestic
swan, but many of the visitors spent their

time up—ending to feed on the bottom of the

shallow water. When a couple ﬂew over the
ﬂash their wings were silent, without the
buzzing noise so typical of the common swans.
In appearance they were very different,
especially in the colour of the beak, which was
black at the tip and with a large bright yellow
patch at the base. They were frequently
uttering a short trumpet—like note and for one
brief spell in the morning I watched two of the
swans displaying in courtship, the birds facing
one another, stretching their necks up, moving
them from side to side, and then with the aid
of wing—beats they almost lifted their bodies
half out of the water, before they sank back
again into a normal position.

In addition to these birds on the ﬂash, there
was also a heron, a couple of great crested
grebes, a carrion crow, and many snipe.

 

Photo by]
IVi/a’ (June’s nest beside Zoe eo/lieo' “ figs/J.”

[Eric Hardy

.

Earlier in the week, a friend had watched
some pintail on the ﬂash, and they made a ﬁne
sight in ﬂight, and after much trouble he
eventually identiﬁed a rare grebe as the black~
necked grebe in winter plumage. Other
interesting visitors we have seen at this ﬁne
bird haunt amidst the coal mines have included
bittern, merlin, turnstone, smew, migrating

126

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Ma)» zme, 1942

parties of ringed plover, dunlin, curlew and
oyster-catchers, and my friend watchedone of
the latter black—and-white waders swimming
in the water. The short-eared owl was here
in February when an earlier Bewick’s swan
appeared on the water. In the winter frost
of course the ﬂash was frozen over, excepting
for a small bit of water near the railway station
which was used by the common mute swans
and the tufted duck. A few weeks after the
thaw about 400 pochard visited the ﬂash.
These are the very colourful wild duck that are
frequently seen diving‘for pond snails and
other food, and which are easily recognised
by their colour—chestnut brown on the head,
black on the breast and light grey on the back.
When disturbed, they do not tower into the
air like the common wild duck and teal, but
have a low, heavy ﬂight, typical of all diving
duck.

A census of birds at the flash one week in
March included 60 pochard, 60 lapwings, zo
tufted duck, 21 Bewick’s swans, 6 redshanks,
2 mallard, I heron, I curlew, I dunlin.

This great lake has proved by observation
to be one of the best bird haunts in Lancashire.
and we hope to persuade the authorities to
turn it into a bird sanctuary so that the rare
visitors and the many nests can be protected.
So far as I know, Leigh Corporation would
have authority to do this under the \Wild
Birds Protection Acts, which can be amended
with local by—laws. For instance, the Lan—
cashire County Statutory Bird Order (1939)
specifically lays down that Sunday shooting is
illegal in the county; but Sunday shooting
takes. place at the ﬂashes at Leigh as well as
Wigan—and also in the Ribble estuary. The
Liverpool city police see that the law is
respected in their area.

 

WITH OR AGAINST NATURE—con—
fz'miedfmm page I 2 5 .

“ The modern ravages of the fur and hide
trade, with the work of the bone fertiliser
trade, now threaten the entire vertebrate
kingdom ”

and in January, 1927, a trade paper, 1796 Far
Trader declared :—

“ The trade in skins will increase in volume
until the needs of men coupled with the
vanity of women have exhausted all the
beasts upon the earth’s surface.”

“When man goes against Nature,” says

127

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Mr. Maurice, “ experience shows that he will
probably make a mess of things, and Nature
will take her revenge.” Well, he has gone
against Nature in many directions and the
results are to be seen in the present state of
world civilisation which is in the process of
self-destruction. He has gone against Nature
in the destruction of the fertility of the soil by
over cultivation and by giving the land no
rest; he has gone against Nature in destroying
the fruits of the earth, her harvest of corn and
fruit and coffee.

Will it ever be possible for him to slow up
and reverse this process and live in peace and
comradeship with all that lives and breathes P
Difﬁcult it undoubtedly will be, but to—day
there are many people who are learning to live
with only a minimum of animal exploitation;
people who are planning and working to
create a new order of society, based, not upon
the principle that might and superior intelli-
gence imply the right to tyrannise and oppress,
but upon the reverence for all life and the
recognition in social life and conduct of the
bond that exists between all that lives be it
human, animal or plant and of their dependence
and interdependence one upon the other.
Truly it is written beneath the statue erected
to the memory of the horses that fell in the
Boer War :—

“ The greatness of a nation consists not so
much in the numbers of its people or the
extent of its territory, as in the greatness and
justice of its compassion.”

The older generations cannot do much more
towards the building of this new order; it is
for the younger generations now growing up
into young manhood and womanhood to set
their minds and hearts and hands to the
achievement of this great adventure.

R. H. S.

In expressing my sorrow at the passing of
the Editor ‘of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND I should
like to say how very happy I have been in
contributing to the Animal Monthly which
meant so very much to Mr. Spurrier.

It is a comforting thought that R. H. S.
was spared long suffering and not unduly
stretched “ upon the rack of this tough world.”

ONLOOKER.

 

 

\ -Mm~.‘ .. ,

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May/ﬁlm, I942

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 259, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.

Staghunters Again.

Our attention has been drawn to another
revolting incident in connection with the
“ sport ” of staghunting.

During the recent “ Dig for Victory ” week
in West Somerset a weary, hunted stag, we
read, cut across cottagers’ freshly planted
gardens at Porlock Weir which were alleged
to have been damaged. Concerning the inci—
dent a local resident wrote : “ This particular
stag had its tail, with several inches of the
spinal cord, torn from its living body, and yet
so great was its fear that the animal ran on for
a further quarter of a mile to the sea, without
its tail, there to be caught upon the barbed-
wire entanglement, from which it, after terrible
wounding, freed itself, only to be finally further
torn by the hounds in the sea and drowned.
\Vhere the stag had struggled in the sea there
remained upon the water for a considerable
time a great red patch of blood. No person
who saw the blood upon the sea will ever
forget.”

We ask how much longer is the public
conscience to be outraged by such brutal and
barbarous deeds ? Miss B. K. Abbott, joint
master of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds,
when approached, stated : “ In keeping down
the number of stags we are doing work
approved by the Ministry of Agriculture ”—
a reiteration of the excuse offered by a follower
of the adjacent pack—the Quantock Stag—
hounds—only a few weeks previous when a
Holford farmer stood between a young hunted
deer and the Hunt, and ordered the latter off
his land. “ There is a more humane and
reasonable way of cutting down the-number of
stags,” replied the farmer. In fact, since the
outbreak of war, deer hunting has had to be
supplemented by shooting, and although the
deer drives leave much to be desired, they are
to be preferred to the chase, both from a
humanitarian and an eﬂ-iciency point of view.

Speaking in the House of Commons on
February 25th, Sir StaHord Cripps said that
dog racing and boxing displays were out of
accord with the true spirit of the determination
of the people, and steps would be taken “ to
see that such and similar activities are no
longer allowed to offend the solid and serious
intention of this country to achieve victory.”

128

We submit that this barbarous, extravagant,
ineﬂficient and damaging “sport” of stag—
hunting warrants inclusion among those
“ activities ” which the Government intends
to deal with in the national interest, and would
urge all readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND to
write at once to Sir Stafford Cripps to this
effect.

Now is the opportune time to raise this
matter before the proposed resumption of the
deer-hunting season in the autumn.

Staghunters Deny Allegations.

On April 25rd Mr. Leach asked the Minister
of Agriculture in Parliament if his attention
had been drawn to this horrible cruelty, and if
he would take steps to end such barbarities.

Mr. Hudson replied: My information is
that the hide of the stag in question was
entirely untorn and the spinal cord undamaged.
The Chairman of the Devon and Somerset
Staghounds informs me that the sole object
of staghunting in wartime was the killing of
deer, preferably by shooting, in order to
preserve food crops.

Mr. Leach : Do I understand that he is not
prepared to interfere with this sordid, brutal
practice?

There was no further reply.

Evidence Produced, Inquiry Refused.

Mr. Leach was then sent twelve signed eye—
witness statements which corroborated the
allegations of cruelty, and he again raised the
matter in the House, asking if, as there was a
conﬂict of evidence, an inquiry would be held.

Mr. Pym, replying for the Minister of
Agriculture, said that the Minister was satisfied
that no useful purpose would be served.

Mr. Leach : Is he aware of the grievous way
in which his chief has been misinformed about
the facts, and that there is ample testimony
aVailable to prove how cruel were the injuries
inﬂicted upon this unfortunate animal?

Mr. R. R. Stokes: Is it not time that this
barbaric sport was put an end to?

There was no further reply.

A further appeal to the Minister for investi-
gation has been made by the President of the
League.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Mag/June, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

H072. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, do 255., Cowley Road, Oxford.

A Stag-hunting “ Incident” at Porlock
Weir.

THE following letter from Mrs. J. _de
Bairacli—Levy appeared 'in T66 Wm
Somerset Free Pres; (April 11th, 1942) 1——

“ Sir,—One of the most praiseworthy acts
that I have heard of since the outbreak of war
is the making of Porlock marshes into a wild
bird sanctuary—a sanctuary especially welcome
to wild fowl, which of all classes of birds are
he most persecuted. . . . At a time when the
world is ﬁlled with cruelty to, and slaughter of,
the weak, Porlock Manor Estate have decided
that, at least there shall be no more slaughter of
defenceless birds upon their marshes. Bird-
lovers have noticed that already the wild fowl
on Porlock marshes have become noticeably
tamer.

I hope that the time is not far distant when
parts of Exmoor will be appointed as sanc—
tuaries for the wild red deer, where the ways
of those beautiful and sensitive animals can be
studied, but, above all, where the hunted and
terriﬁed can go for sanctuary; for, as things
are at present on the moor, there is no shelter
or escape from the hound packs, other than
the sea——which in most cases means certain
death. The chances of deer escaping from
the hound packs once the hounds get on their
trail can be no higher than 10 per cent.
Finally, “ terriﬁed ” is but a meaningless word
when applied to the stag which was killed at
Porlock Weir last month, March 24th, and
tormented in such a way that the feelings of
almost every resident in the village have been
outraged.

“ Where the stag had struggled in the sea
there remained upon the water for a consider-
able time a great red patch of blood. No
person who saw the blood upon the sea will
ever forget. It is signiﬁcant that those soldiers
who were hunted by German planes upon the
beaches of Dunkirk and then Greece and
Crete (my young brother was in all three
places) cannot now tolerate hunting.”

On April 23rd Mr. W. Leach (Lab.,
Bradford Central) drew the attention of the
Minister of Agriculture to the cruelty involved
in this incident and asked if he would take

129

steps to end such functions. The Minister,
Mr. R. Hudson, replied: “My information
is that the hide of the stag in question was
entirely untorn. The Chairman of the Devon
and Somerset Staghounds informs me that the
sole object of stag—hunting in war—time was
the killing of deer, preferably by shooting, in
order to preserve food crops.”

As soon as it became apparent that the Hunt
had denied the accusations made in her letter,
Mrs. de Bairacli—Levy went to the very con—
siderable trouble of collecting twelve state—
ments, each one written and signed by the
witness, from the young boy who found the
stag’s tail in the garden far away from where
the stag was ﬁnally drowned, to the many
witnesses who saw the impaling on the barbed
wire and the tearing by the hounds in the sea.
This document was sent to Mr. Leach, who
on May 5th again in the House of Commons
asked the Minister if, in view of a conﬂict of
evidence relating to a recent stag hunt in North
Devon an inquiry would be held. The Minister
replied that he was satisﬁed that no useful
purpose would be served.

Although it is evident that no steps will be
taken at the present time to prevent the
recurrence of these revolting incidents, a good
deal of public feeling has been roused, and
editors of a number of provincial journals
have published correspondence, in which this
Society participated. It will be remembered
that the Minister of Agriculture stated in a
letter to our Secretary, dated July 25th, 1940,
that he had been informed by the Devon and
Somerset Staghounds that over two—thirds of
the deer killed by them during the ﬁrst season
of the war were shot, not hunted; and that
the Secretary of the British Field Sports
Society has repeatedly asserted that in wartime
the question of “ sport” in hunting is not
even a secondary consideration.

AUTHORS invited submit MSS. (especially
Fiction and Poems) to London Publishers of
43 years’ standing. Advice free.-——Stockwell,
Ltd., Elms Court, Ilfracombe (Duration
address).

 

 




 

 

 

 

, 'WLHM.‘-M___ .

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Meg/June, I942

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

Seerez‘nny: JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 69, Carlton Hill, London, N.W.8.

Why Straw Pulp for Pit Ponies?

of Food pointing out that processed

straw pulp was being fed to an increasing
number of pit ponies, and that we were con—
cerned about this in view of the great im-
portance and heavy nature of the work done
by them in connection with our war effort.
We gave the View of Sir John Orr, the famous
expert on animal nutrition, that he had
“ grave doubts ” about straw pulp being as
good for ponies as hay. Since hay was not
rationed we felt that pit ponies were not
getting their proper share, and that ponies
who lived as well as worked below ground
should have preference over agricultural and
other surface horses who can be turned out to
graze. Agricultural horses had an additional
advantage in being able to obtain unrationed
supplies of cereals very often.

In his reply, Lord Woolton said that this
was primarily the responsibility of the Mines
Department, but pointed out that there was no
restriction on the purchase of hay and collieries
could obtain all the hay they required, and
that most collieries had secured sufﬁcient hay
to meet their needs until the end of June. He
further said that the Ministry had a reserve
stock of hay for use in an emergency to meet
the needs of collieries and other users of
essential horses. He claimed—though we did
not raise this matter—that rationed feeding
stuffs are allowed on a generous scale to pit
ponies, and said that appeals fOr increased
allowances of rationed feed, supported by a
statement of facts, would receive sympathetic
consideration. Lord Woolton’s reply went
on to say that, in view of the seriOus supply
position, collieries and owners of agricultural
and other essential horses are being encouraged
to use a proportion of alternative feeding stuff,
including processed straw, and said that, as a
result of a joint discussion between repre-
sentatives of colliery owners with their
veterinary advisers, and oﬂicials of the
Ministries of Food, Agriculture and Mines,
collieries were encouraged to use 25 per cent.
of good quality unprocessed oats straw in partial
substitution for hay. It was agreed that this
was practicable in View of the excellent

EARLY in April we wrote to the Ministry

quality of the 1941 hay harvest. No report
had been received of any colliery being short
of hay since July, 1941. .

In a further letter to the Minister of Food
we said that we agreed as to the responsibility
of the Mines Department, but claimed that the
matter was also the concern of the Ministries
of Food and Agriculture. We suggested, in
view of what was said about the supplies of
hay available, that the feeding of processed
straw pulp to pit ponies was even more
surprising, and that there had been no real
need for this to be done. At the same time,
we failed to understand why the extensive
feeding of straw pulp should have been made
in the ﬁrst place to pit ponies, who are
adversely affected in many other respects as
compared with horses used in agriculture and
on the surface. In view of the restricted
supply position, we maintained that it would
be much fairer to use a proportion of processed
straw pulp (or unprocessed oats straw) for
agricultural and other surface horses in Me
fz'mz‘ place, and that pit ponies should have the
ﬁrst call on the. available supplies of hay. We
pointed out that 3%; lbs. of straw pulp was
required to give a feeding value, in starch or
calory equivalents, of I lb. of hay, according
to a Ministry of Agriculture leaflet. This had
to be eaten slowly and pit ponies were not
given much time for eating during their shifts.
Straw pulp contains no protein or mineral, and
mineral matter, including ﬁnely—ground chalk,
is artiﬁcially added.

Copies of our letters were sent to the Mines
Department, and Mr. D. R. Grenfell, Minister
for Mines, replied to say that the number of
ponies fed with straw pulp in Durham during
the past nine months had suffered no detri—
mental elfects and in the opinion of mine
managers and veterinary surgeons and horse—
keepers, their condition was as good as in
peacetime. Mr. Grenfell said he had taken the
advice of leading animal dieticians, including
that of Professor Linton of the Royal (Dick)
Veterinary College, Edinburgh, who had
informed him that pulp wheat straw is rich in
carbo—hydrates and does contain a small

(Continued on page 120.)

130

 

 

 

 




 

Mayfune, 1942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
. thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.
Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.
Seek: to pro/Jinn tne viz/iseez‘ion of dogs.

Membership 5s. 0d. upwards.

 

 

CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I
. If. You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
‘ OLD VICTOR ’ o
A Short Story (about a prize pit horse). The cats P r OtCCt'lon
By B. L. COOMBES (Ant/Jar of “ T/Jese Poor
Hand: ”). 2d. post free. League
C PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE . The one society devoted solely to the welfare
WITH THE DONKEYS 3 Of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis MEMBERSHIP 5 / - PER ANNUM,
Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted - - - . .
from The Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”——- 1nclud1ng the Somety S Ofﬁmal organ,
Tbe Animaly’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”
01/36,. leaflet: on pit Ponies. Associate Membership Subscription 3s. 6d. p.a.
The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society,
69: CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N.W-8 Write for Free Literature to:-—The Secretary, 29,
Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

Temporary Addresr: 259 HURST ROAD, SIDCUP, KENT.
President: HAMILTON FYFE Cbairrnan: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treamrer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 2s. 6d. upwards.

 

 

National Society for Abolition Of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Cbairrnon: H. G. CHANCBLLOR. Hon. Treamrer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Latest Publication DEER HUNTING AND SHOOTING ON
EXMOOR 2d.

By M. Chapman

 

All rubrerr'ptionr and cornmzmieationr for tbe Magazine would be addrerrea' “ Tb: Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
. 32, Queen’: Avenue, Mus-well Hill, London, N.ro.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND _ Mtg/June, I942

 

 

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

for 1942 will be held on 27th OCTOBER in the
FREEMASONS’ HALL, 96, George Street, EDINBURGHZ

PLEASE NOTE

Miss N. Ivory will be grateful to all who send in their Contributions
as early in the year as possible, addressed to :

MISS N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary,
(to whom all cheques should be made payable)

at 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

Please carefully note alteration in month to October
this year, and not November as in the past.

 

THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY_ FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Miss N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary, 10, Queensferry Street, Edinburgh

(to whom all communications should be addressed)

Form of Bequest

To those who may be inclined to become benefactors by Will to the Society,
the following form is respectfully suggested 2—-

“I bequeath to THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,
whose offices are now or formerly were at No. 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET,
EDINBURGH, the sum of ,5

(free of duty) to be applicable for the general purposes of such Society, and I
declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other proper officer for the time being
of such Society shall be sufficient discharge for the same.”

CAUTION

It is of great importance to describe very accurately the Title of this Society, namely-:—
“ THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,” otherwise the benevolent
intentions of the Donor may be frustrated. All wills and codicils must be in writing, signed
by the Testator in the presence of, and attested by, two witnesses, or must be in the handwriting
of, and signed by the Donor.

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press. Cavendish Road. Redhill. Surrey,
(or the National Council for Animals' Welfare. 32. Queen's Avenue. Muswell Hill. London. N10.

 

 




