VIVISEGTION & THE HOSPITALS.

REPRINTED mom THE “ TIMES,” NOVEMBER 30TH, 1895.

To the Editor of the “ Times.”

SIR,—Will you allow me, as representing the largest of the
anti-vivisection societies, to reply to the attack made on them
by Mr. B. Burford Rawlings in your issue of today ‘2

The charge he makes is that we endeavour to divert
subscriptions from the hospitals because physicians and
surgeons who are members of the staff are vivisectors. The
defence of his position is that “hospitals are in no way
concerned in the practice of vivisection,” and they are “ as
free from all responsibility in respect of it as its most con-
scientious opponent.”

N ow While it is quite true, as he says, that the vivisection
(of animals) is not carried on in the hospitals themselves, he
must be aware that it is carried on in the medical schools
attached to all our large hospitals, and the connexion is very
close. The professor who has been hard at work on his
animals in the laboratory steps across the quadrangle to
lecture and demonstrate his theories to his students at the
bedside in the ward. In the report of the Select Committee
of the House of Lords appointed to inquire into the metro—
politan hospitals (June, 1892) we ﬁnd the following remarkable
words :— ’

“ It is one of the complaints of those who ﬁnd fault with
the present hospital system that the hospitals have become
mere adjuncts to the schools, plunging into all kinds of
extravagance for the sake of their students, and for the
advancement of science, when they ought to be strictly devoting
themselves to the relief of the suffering poor, and to no other
object.”

This view that the hospitals are adjuncts to the schools is
borne out by the words of an eminent surgeon, who, in the
British Illedical Jomvzal (April 28rd, 1884), is reported to have
said, “That the chief use of hospitals is that they should
teach practitioners of medicine and surgery. . . . First, a

 




 

2

hospital should be a place for medical education ; secondly, for
the relief of suffering ; and, thirdly, for the training of nurses;
all of which objects should be considered in due proportion by
those exercising the management.” Also, in the Lancet, the
then President of the Medical Society is reported as saying,
‘.‘ The greatest use of hospitals is to promote the advancement
of medical science, and to afford us improved methods of
recognizing and treating disease.”

The intimate connexion between the vivisectional laboratory
and the hospital ward was, however, best shown by the pain-
ful episode brought to light by the Lancet (November 3rd,
1883), when two vivisectors, having described their experi-
ments with a powerful drug on some cats, remarked, apparently
quite unconscious that they were saying anything unusual,
“ In addition to these experiments we have made some
observations clinically,” and then they proceeded to give
details as to how the patients experimented on felt throbbing
pains in the head, turned blue in the face, fell to the ground
in a swoon, and so on. The same two gentlemen, in a book
which is a standard work on therapeutics, have given a number
of experiments performed on patients, not for their own benefit,
but in the interest of science.

That the chief use of the hospital is as a medical school is
openly admitted by members of the profession. When the
subject was publicly discussed a few years ago, a physician
of one of the women’s hospitals wrote to the Stamiard:~——

“ So far from there being a reason why moral and
pecuniary support should be refused to hospitals on. the ground
that their inmates are made use of otherwise than for
treatment, there is every ground why more and more should
be given to them, in order to compensate by every possible
comfort for the discomforts necessarily entailed by the
education of succeeding generations of medical men and the
improvements in our methods of coping with disease.”

When Mr. Rawlings argues that if the anti-vivisectionists
had their way we should soon have no hospitals left because
the large majority of medical men favour vivisection, he is
making the mistake of confounding vivisectors and vivisec-
tionists, While the majority of the profession express approval
of, vivisection in a general way, they are usually careful to add
that they have never done a vivisection themselves—in fact,
could not—which we readily believe. What the anti-
vivisectionists want is merely that hospitals shall be relieved
of the gentlemen who actually hold licences to vivisect. Or,
failing that, that the subscriptions shall be given to institutions
with which no vivisectors are connected. There appears to be
nothing unkind or unreasonable in this, as many hospitals
have been conducted successfully without vivisectors, and
doubtless more will be so conducted in the future.




‘)
U

I am glad that Mr. Rawlings has drawn attention to the
subject, as it will have to be faced sooner or later. There are
many charitable persons who withhold their subscriptions from
hospitals, and give them instead to nursing homes and other
institutions because they believe the present experimental
methods are objectionable, and there is every'sign that the
feeling which prompts this course of action is on the increase.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
ERNEST BELL, Claiirman,
Victoria Street Anti-Vivisection Society.
November 27m. '

P.S.——\Ve have always heard that the medical schools are
not supported out of the hospital subscriptions directly, but
I shall be glad to be corrected if I am wrong in thinking that
grants are sometimes made to the schools out of the hospital
funds.

The following letter was sent to the Edilorof “ THE TIMES ”
on December 6th, but it was not printed :—

Sin—The purport of Mr. Burford Rawlings’ letter which
introduced this subject was, apparently, to show “ how
serious is the injury” that the anti-vivisectionists are inﬂicting
on the hospitals. In your issue of to-day he says in effect
that there was little cause for the alarm (which he now calls ours),
as “ the good sense of the community” will save the hOSpitals
from destruction, whatever the wicked anti-vivisectionists may
do. Under the circumstances I think we may with quiet
consciences continue our efforts to remove an abuse which he
makes no attempt to deny.

A few years ago Mr. Rawlings himself was guilty of a
paper, in which he drew attention to various hospital abuses,
including the bad treatment of the nursing staff, the obsolete
and insanitary buildings, the defective provision for con
valescents, etc. It is noticeable that in the discussion which
followed his paper the then President of the Royal College of
Surgeons expressed the opinion concerning hospitals that “the
good they were to the poor was not so important as the good
they did for the rich as schools of medicine.” Another
eminent surgeon and well-known advocate of vivisection (elected
only a few days ago to an influential position), was reported in'
the British Zl’feclical Journal (August 16th. 1890), to have said at
a medical conference: “ It is a serious thing to experiment upon
the lives of our fellow—men, but I believe the time has now arrived
when it may be tried.” 4 ‘

But as Mr. Rawlings is dissatisﬁed with any but the veryi
latest evidence, I may direct his attention to the Nineteenth,
Century of this month. In it he will ﬁnd an article on
“ Medicine and Society,” in which a well-known physician

 




4

says: “ It has been stated in various quarters that surgical
operations are nOW constantly performed, not for the advantage
of the patient, but solely for the pecuniary beneﬁt Of the
operators. This 1s really a very serious charge, and, I deeply
grieve to think, one not altogether unfounded.”

Thus other people besides anti- vivisectionists seem to be
aware of the course things are taking ,and Mr. Rawlings as a
hospital reformer surely ought not C)to range himself on the
side of abuses, even for the sake of the subscription list.

Youis faithfully,
ERNEST BELL.
20, Victoria Street, S.W.,

December 5 th.

1 \
.' A} \l

1/ Protection of Animals from Viuisection
I “<7: Um ted Wit“1 1 the

International A ssoc1ation

For the Total 8w: .pression of

 

Y FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIv ITH THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIA-
TION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISEOTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET,
WESTMINSTER, LONDON, SW. 1137,

Price 15d. each; 5d. per doz.; 3/- per 100.

 




