 

 

 

 

 

fzmzmry, 1940

Photo by]

THE

ANIMALS

Waiting for F001 ~—--Ha”pxtead Heat/J. U. ”- 510’”

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
26 GROSVENOR PLACE, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W.1

Subscription for 0116 Y ear, 10057 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND i5 pabliylied inontlily by tlye National Conneil for Aniinaly’ Welfare

at 26 Growenor Plaee, IVeﬂrninrter, London, SJV. I, and all eoin/nnnieatiom regarding tlye magazine
soon/d "be addressed to toe Editor.

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

Vol. XLVI.

 

 

January, 1940. NO. 3.
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGE
ANIMAL LOVERS! S.O.S.! V. Plot/pin 44 BIRD SONG IN WINTER. Hadron Read . 55

“RUGGED INDIVIDUALIST” . . 45

THE ELEPHANT’S RELATIONS. H. R.
Bimel/ . . 46

ANIMAL LORE. E. G. B. . . . 47

THE SCIENTIFIC SPIRIT ARRAIGNED.
George R. Farninn 48

BIRDS AND AIRCRAFT. Catlxerine A1. Clark 49
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer 5o
GEORGE lVIEREDITH. BdJ‘l/ Haroey— anier 52

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF

CRUEL SPORTS . . . . . 54
THE ALL—PURPOSE ANIMAL. D. K. Goa/d 55
NEWS FROM ABROAD—GREECE . . 55
PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 56
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL

SPORTS . . . . . . . 57
CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 5 8

ANIMALS’ FRIEND SUSTENTATION FUND . 58

 

“ Heartbreak House.”

A few days prior to the announcement Of the death
Of the adult female Giant Panda, captive in the ZOO,
it was stated that her illness bafﬂed the Zoo’s veterinary
surgeons and one theory was that she might be suffering
from a disease of the central nervous system. This
was followed by the significant statement: “ To keep
ljer interext aline her lair has been made to resemble as
closely as possible her native home in the mountain
countries Of South West China.”

This pitiful attempt to camouﬂage her captivity
suggests that the ZOO authorities had a shrewd idea
that the exile was dying of nostalgia, and evoked the
following admirable letter from the Secretary Of the
N.C.A.W., Mrs. Yvonne Stott :—

Dear Sir,

One ready wit/J aniazeinent of tlie inability of tlee Zoo
antlzoritier to diagnose the illnerr wait}? it Jlowly
killing tlJe Giant Panda. I t it fairly apparent to
anyone woo really anderrtandy dﬂlﬁld/J‘.

Tliir poor ereatnre liar evidently given np all lJope
of ever seeing her own country again or of aeliiei/ing lyer
freedoni, and if dying of a broken beart aggravated by
lone/inert and longing for lJer own kind and oer ae~
enrtoined mountains.

I 5 it not time we xtopped taking wild animal; from
tlieir own landy and making eoaeneex and refugee; of
tliein? How ean we lJope to eyeape onrreloer if we will
go on doing tlJexe tln'ngy?

“ Mainly about Animals.”

This is the title Of a new monthly concerned with
Natural History, Biology and Animal Welfare—a very
useful combination of subjects. We warmly commend
the editor, Mr. Harper Cory, F.C.G.S., on his enter-
prise and faith in launching a venture of this kind under
conditions which are making it exceedingly difﬁcult
for many Old—established magazines and journals to
carry on. The magazine is intended tO enable teachers
and others tO take advantage Of the present circum—
stances, which, tO quote the words Of the Editorial,
“ have given hundreds Of thousands Of citizens, young
and Old alike, a healthy interest in the countryside,
and the great book called nature.” TO this end it is.
the purpose Of the magazine tO tell its readers, children.
and grown—ups, “ what to lOOk for. Not merely the
forms and haunts Of wild creatures, but the little
intimate details Of animal behaviour which make the
lives Of animals so very like our own.”

The contents Of the ﬁrst issue Of Mainly Aboat Animals,
certainly well illustrate this purpose, and the magazine-
should be welcomed ~by educational authorities and
invaluable to teachers. It is a 32 page illustrated
publication, and is to be Obtained at the Moose Press,
65, Westow Street, London, S.E.19. It is to be pub—
lished on the 15th Of the month, price 3d. per copy.
Among the contents Of the January first issue are
“ The School for Rabbits,” by Harper Cory “ Nature
in January,” “ Keeping Puss Healthy,” “ The Faithful
Few,” “ Animal Workers—the Worm,” “ Why Birds
Differ,” “ Facts in Brief,” and “ First Aid for Dogs.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

femuary, I940

NOtes and

The Editor would like to take this
opportunity of conveying his best

wishes for the Year, which is still
' comparatively new, to all readers
\ and friends of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,

and of expressing the hope that,
despite the disturbing passions with
which the atmosphere is charged
and all that is dark in the outlook, the
spirit of Peace and Goodwill may win
‘ . , its way in our hearts and lives through-
out the hours and days of the year, upon which we
have entered so recently.

 

St. Francis.

“ From time to time, but rarely, there comes
into this world a man not like other men; he is
differently attuned to the forces of nature, he hears
voices, he sees visions, he is directed in dreams and he
follows. He values what other men despise, and he
despises what other men value. He is not acquisitive
of the goods of time, for he has touched the eternal.
He is never sad, for he is always in touch with goodness
and gladness. He has no fear of death, for he has
glimpsed life. He is not capable of ill will and hatred,
for to him all life from highest to lowest—human. and
sub—human——is ﬂooded with love.”

The Animals’ Fair.

There is a concensus of opinion among those taking
part in the 1939 Animals’ Fair that it was well worth
while. Not only did the financial results exceed the
anticipations of the co-operating societies—at least that
is the impression we have gained from reports made to
the N.C.A.W.——but the friendly and intimate associa-
tion of the stallholders of the various societies with each
other, and with the friends of the movement who
patronised the Fair, was a matter of general comment
and satisfaction. During the hours of the three days
on which the Fair was open between 800-900 visitors
were admitted—a surprisingly large attendance, the
more surprising when the unfavourable weather
prevailing on the first two days is taken into considera—
tion.

In a letter received by the Editor this morning, the
Hon. Secretary of one of the societies writes :—-“ I
am so delighted that you carried out the Animals’
Fair. My own stall at the Fair took nearly 7614, but,
of course, one has to add to that about £2 5 sent in by
special donations . . . I am most grateful to the
N.C.A.W., for the way they promote unity in the animal
movement.” The Secretary of another Society
reports a ﬁnancial result of £19 5s. Iod. which he
describes as “ most gratifying considering the times in
which we are living.”

“ A Hazardous Experiment.”

A writer in the January Animalr’ Defender, after
referring to the opinion held by quite a number of

people that to hold the Fair at all this year was “ a

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Comments

43

(C

hazardous experiment,” reports that we did nearly
as well as at previous full-siZed Fairs at the Central
Hall,” and concludes his notice of the Fair with the
kindly comment :—-—“ The N.C.A.W., and those who
supported them in the matter are to be congratulated
on their faith that, war or no war, it was practicable to
give the animals their annual sale of work.” Another
friend writes : “ I think the Executive of the National
Council should be greatly encouraged by the happy
success of the Animals’ BaZaar. If I may, I should so
much like to congratulate you all.”

Thanks and Appreciation.

On behalf of the Executive and staff of the N.C.A.W.,
the Editor would like to express his very cordial
thanks to the co—operating societies, and to all who
supported them on this occasion. It was the unanimous
approval given to the proposal that the Fair should
be held as usual at the meeting of representatives of the
various societies held in October last, that ﬁnally
brought the Council to its decision to go forward
with the enterprise. The fact that it was carried out so
happily, and with so large a measure of success, is due
not only to the excellent spirit and good work of the
small staff of the N.C.A.W., but equally to the excellent
spirit and co—operative effort of the Societies and friends
who gave such ready and valuable support to the
Animals’ Cause on this occasion by their interest,
help and gifts. We hope that every one of the Societies
and friends who are thus implicated in the “ hazardous
experiment,” will accept the thanks that are here
tendered to them with warm appreciation.

The Funds of the Council benefitted by sales and
donations to the extent of about £ 8 5—a result for which
we are very thankful, as we are faced with serious
financial difﬁculties, and the problem of how to main-
tain our staff and work is causing us very grave con—
cern.

Coursing.

We hear from Miss R. B. Johnston, of 2, Hamilton
Road, Wallasey, Cheshire, the Hon. Secretary of the
Prohibition of Coursing Committee, that despite the
war, the coursing of live hares for “ sport ” continues,
and that the Waterloo Cup is being held as usual
this year. The Committee has therefore arranged a
protest meeting for the 6th February at 6.30 pm. at
India Building, Water Street, Liverpool. Representa-
tives of all the great animal welfare societies are being
invited to appear on the platform, and the speakers
announced include the Duchess of Hamilton, the
Hon. Kathleen W. Smith, J.P., Rev. William Paxton,
F.R.G.S., the Deputy Lord Mayor of Liverpool——
Alderman Cory Dixon, Councillor G. L. Peake, J.P.,
and Mr. Peter Wilson, the author of the moving and
widely circulated article published in the Sunday
Pictorial entitled “ A Hare Screams.”

The Committee has, we learn, enrolled ﬁve thousand
members in the course of its campaign and formed
branches in North Wales, Shropshire, Cheshire, Birken—
head, Wirral, Wallasey and Crosby. The Committee,
and more especially its Hon. Secretary, are to be warmly
congratulated on their enterprise and achievement.

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

fanuary, 1940

Animal Lovers 3 8.0.8. 3

BY V. PHILPIN.

(Here is an article tonic/7 will aronre comicleralale comment and criticirm. Wbat do you tlJink of tbe inriter’r proporals for
tlye prevention of tlye grace ei'ilr witb wlzicl.) t/Je article is concerned? Anal, in particular, what doyoa tonne of tlye ynggertzonr
t/Jat “ all clogs rbonla’ bane a commercial oalne ”? and tnat a new leagne rbonlcl be .rtartecl the member; of zz’lnclJ Jbal/ pledge
tlJemreloei~ to dertroy all puppies of a litter but one—a male P—EDITOR, AF.)

HE drastic reduction of the dog and cat

population at the outbreak of war

presents an unprecedented opportunity
to end an unnecessary and avoidable cruelty
of which a country which prides itself on
humane treatment of animals should be
ashamed ; i.e., the careless propagation of
enormous numbers of dogs and cats, truly
designated as “ unwanted ”—tragic word!

Because the number produced is far in
excess of those required, the fate of large
numbers is to be taken (in their youth) to
strays’ homes and clinics, where destruction
awaits them.

In most cases they are young, full of vitality
and love of the life of which they are going
to be deprived—through no fault of their own.
They should never have been born, and the
fault lies with everyone who allows a cross—
bred bitch to bring unwanted puppies into

 

Photo by] [J. H. Stone

. . pria’e alone must tarre t/Je martiffx on ”

the world. Though mongrels are in no way
inferior to pedigree dogs as companions,
for tlaeir on/n well—being all animals should :—

(a) have a commercial value; and
(e) the supply should not exceed the

demand.

The problem could probably be solved by
imposing a higher tax on the cross—bred than
the pedigree dog, but legislation is a slow
business and our Government is occupied
with other matters.

With no expenditure of work or money, the
wrong can be righted by dog—owners if they
will realise the necessity.

Take a look at it from the dog’s point of
view!

Is it fair to let him come into the world to
grow to an age of intelligence—then deprive
him of his life, often without sufﬁcient enquiry
as to the method employed to ensure his death
being free from pain or distress?

Some workers appear to have got their
conception of what constitutes animal welfare
a little out of focus, as instanced by the fact
that what is called “ Rescue Work ” frequently
means collecting animals for the purpose of
destroying them.

To kill is a very negative form of kindness
(save where it is indicated by old age or
suffering).

lee ”inject want; a [meat/7 of from air tlirongle it.

Ethically it is an error to have allowed our-
selves to become so used to this slaughter of
young and healthy animals as to takeit as a
routine part of the work at the depots of
animal societies. It is usually inaptly designated
as “ putting to sleep,” and—in a meet curious
way—regarded as a beneﬁt conferred upon
the victim.

As the matter now stands, a good deal of
destruction seems inevitable, but much distress
to the animals might be avoided if we got a
new angle on the subject and realised that :—

(1) “ An accumulation of rubbish ” wants
clearing out of our minds I—i.e., a lot of
mistaken sentiment obscuring what is in
reality a stark and ugly business—the mo re so

44

 




,n 5“.” u.~ w... _.._,_ .. .._.

 

 

 

 

 

fanumy, I 940

as to achieve a death completely free from fear
or distress in a vigorous animal is less easy
than most people realise.

(2) Having got that straight and calling
things by their proper names, relegating the
“ putting to sleep ” expressions and senti—
ments to the limbo of the past, determined
and practical effort could be made to stop this
undesirable breeding. Every litter of non—
valuable puppies prevented would be a gain.
Naturally it is not suggested that anyone
should part with a bitch they care for, but a
league might be formed whose members
would undertake, in getting a new dog, to
let it be a male, and if they already possessed a
female to promise, should she breed, to destroy
all but one puppy, and let that be a male ; each
member to endeavour to inﬂuence others to
the same effect.

If unwanted mongrels could, by these
means, be prevented from ever mounting to
the same numbers, the sacriﬁce of the animals
who recently died in such startling fashion
will not have been wasted—they, like their
masters, will have died for their fellows, if in
consequence the unhappy superﬂuous dog
can be made a thing of the past.

It will be our fault, if, from it, there is no
gain.

At a time when everyone has to bear their
share of diﬂﬂculty and anxiety, expenditure of
time and energy might be too much to ask,
but such is not required—just the exercise of
a little commonsense care by the owner of
every female dog and cat to avoid breeding
would be the means of preventing an incal—
culable amount of misery to both the canine
and feline race.

The following instances serve to emphasise
the real need for reform—the unforgettable
sight, at a large strays’ home, of a great stack
of bodies of theSe superﬂuous dogs, piled one
upon another like rubbish thrown upon the
scrap-heap, though each one had been an
entity with emotions so much like our own.

Sinister mounds of newly—dug earth on the
premises of a clinic, containing bodies which
had been too numerous to dispose of by other
means.

Lastly, the utterance of a low—class dealer
when being tackled over a case of cruelty—
“ Dogs! ” he said, contemptuously, “ they’re
a penny a thousand! ” To right this wrong
would benefit reputable breeders so that it has
a practical economic side besides the human—
itarian one.

45

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

6‘ Rugged Individualist ”

 

Photo by] A” iﬂdz‘wﬂﬂa/Z’It. [Samz/Lels, Ltd.

a dog and a cat is that a dog is “ some—

thing of a socialist while a cat is an in-
dividualist,” according to a professor of
psychology at the University of Cincinnati.
The professor, who has made a life—long study
of cats, says that persons who favour dogs
over cats or who believe dogs have a higher
degree of intelligence just do not know their
cats. He believes one animal is about as
intelligent as the other and that there is little
difference in their nerve centres. Although
classifying cats as rugged individualists, the
professor wants it understood that felines
have a genuine capacity for gratitude. Some
cats appear to think philosophically and some
think quickly and practically, but all display
individual personalities as distinct as those of
human beings, he adds.

Harrison Weir, in Our Cats, also comments
on the intelligence of cats :—

THE only difference in the intelligence of

“ Take, for instance, how very many cats
will open a latched door by springing up and
holding on with one foreleg while with the
other they press down the latch catch, and so
open the door; and yet even more observant
are they than that, as I have shown by a case
in my Animal Stories, Old and New, in which
a cat opened a door by pulling it towards him,
when he found pushing it of no avail. The
cat is more critical in noticing than the dog.

32




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

I never knew but one dog that would open a
door by moving the fastening without being
shown or taught how to do it. Cats that have
done so are numberless. I noticed one at the
Crystal Palace Show, a white cat: it looked
up, it looked down, then to the right and then
La little to the left, paused, seemed lost in
fthought, when, not seeing anyone about, it
crept up to the door, and with its paw tried
to pull back the bolt or catch. On getting
sight of me, it retired to a corner of the cage,
shut its eyes, and pretended to sleep. I stood
further away, and soon saw the paw coming
through the bars again. This cat had noticed
how the cage-door was fastened, and so knew
how to open it.”

Many animal«lovers are entirely unaware of
the suffering to which these intelligent creatures
are subjected in physiological laboratories.

(Witb acknowledgments 2‘0 “ Liw'ng Ti, 5146.”)

The Elephant’s Relations

BY HELEN R. BISSELL.

HAT would you think if your closest
relative, and your only one, weighed
four hundred thousand times less than
yourself P Such is the startling contrast
between the eleven-foot elephant and the
hyraX or rock rabbit, its nearest relative.
The hyraX looks like a rabbit but no one
can say that a rabbit looks like an elephant.

 

Photo by]

The Rock Hyrax—I/Je Elepbant’s nearert Relative

fanuary, 1940

Still a close study of the skeletons of these two
creatures proves their kinship. The elephant
weighs several tons, the hyraX only a few
ounces. It is only about the size of an elephant’s
toe nail. Yet these little brown natives of the
rocks and trees claim kin to the lordly elephant.
At home in their native land it is the rock
haunting hyraX that is best known.

They resemble an elephant in still another
way. We all know that an elephant is con—
sidered one of the most intelligent of all
animals, so we find the little hyraX intelligent
also. The little ones race up bald, high rock
faces, and delight to sprawl in the sun. They
chase one another like kittens.

Then at an unexpected sound they disappear
like lightning into their holes in the cliif.
Afterwards, with the curiosity of a child, they
mischievously peep out to discover the cause.
There is always intelligence in a little head that
invents games. Play means imagination.

Dr. Chalmers Mitchell tells some delightful
tales of his pet hyrax. How it would scale
the walls of his room and run along the curtain
rods; of the funny things it liked in the way
of diet; and how, becoming accustomed to
the telephone, it would rush to it when it rang.
For it knew it would meet its master there.

It is also the only animal in the world that
makes hay while the sun shines. It cuts the
grass when it is green and lets it cure in the
sun. When the grass becomes hay it stores
it for the winter.

These rock rabbits are the
coneys mentioned in the Bible
and for some reason the
Hebrews were not allowed to
eat their ﬂesh. Some twenty
species exist in Africa, Arabia
and Syria, the largest about
the size of a hare and the
smallest no bigger than a
baby rabbit.

They are grouped scienti—
ﬁcally with the hoofed ani-
mals though they have no
hoofs. They have blunt
clawed paws. The bony for—
mation, however, of these
paws and the wrist bones
overlying them are like those
of the true hoofed beasts. So
scientists place these little
furry creatures as the nearest
relatives of the elephant
to-day.

[C . H. Stockley

 

 

 

_ --_ -4‘.

 

 




 

an». ”wmug- A

 

 

 

. holidays.

fanuary, I940

The Hardy Haymaker

HE pika, cony or Little Chief hare,
I commonly called rock rabbit, is closely
related to both hares and rabbits. It is
an attractive creature with bright eyes, rounded
ears, and a soft thick fur coat of a grey—brown
colour. The legs are very short, the hind legs
being no longer than the fore; thus, when in
rapid motion, the pika runs like a toy animal
on wheels. The tail is so short and small as
to be practically invisible, a physical character—
istic which brings to mind vivid recollection
of boyhood days and of my ﬁrst pair of guinea—
pigs, progenitors of a vast herd. I remember
swearing faithfully to attend to the creature
comforts of these pets and being solemnly
adjured never to lift one by the tail, for if I
did the eyes of the pendant animal would
inevitably drop out.

Of all small mammals in the Rocky Mountain
the pika is the most difﬁcult to photograph . . .
When you go hunting pika with a camera and
the prospective sitter, alarmed by your ap—
proach, pops into a hole among the stones,
do not be inveigled into setting up the photo—
graphic apparatus and crouching down to
await the re—appearance of this bright-eyed
ball of fur. In all probability it will never
emerge from that particular hole again, at
least not for the duration of your summer
Avenues and alleyways of escape
are always open in the rock slides, entrances
and exits are more numerous than ﬂeas on a
bat, and the pikas are familiar with them all.

These hardy mountaineers remain active all
through the winter months. In such regions
as the Assinboine plateau the snow is piled
ten feet high on the roof of their dwelling
place. Yet down among the rocks in the dim
twilight out of reach of the biting frosts and
the rude North winds, they are seldom chilled
and normally have food enough and to spare.

The method by which these creatures pre«
pare and store fodder for winter use is unique
in the animal world. On warm, dry days in
late August and early September they are
busily engaged in haymaking. Quantities of
grass and the foliage of small edible plants are
cut and carried to the tops of ﬂat boulders,
there to be dried in the sun. The hay is then
taken and stacked in small caves and in dry
crannies in the rocks where it can easily be
reached in mid-winter. This grass and
herbage if stored green would speedily become

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

mouldy and rot: sun—cured it remains sweet
and in good condition until the spring rains
come and fresh green food is available.

(From “ Animals of #16 Canadian Rockiex.”
By Dan McGowan. Lovat Dickson, Limited.)

Animal Lore

THENA and Poseidon once contended

Afor the honour of being the best friend

of humanity, and to establish the claim,

the ocean-god created for the use of man the
horse.

The Centaur is perhaps the only form in
the classics to have dignity; man and horse
in one being was not considered degrading.

* * *

Greece and Rome popularly believed that
animals destined for sacriﬁce walked to the
altar with a nobler gait than when at liberty
in the grass. The ancients liked to think that
the animal world was in agreement with them
in the honours that were conferred upon their
divinities.

vi: =l= sic ,

Of Orpheus it was related “lambs would
scorn their food to hear his lay, and savage
beasts stand by as tame as they.”

* 2i: 31':

From its amatory disposition, the sparrow
was sacred to Venus.

#1 >l’-' *

Talmudists speak of a bull with horns so
wide that Noah could not get him into the
ark, and had to tow him behind.

It is said that the goat goes once a day to
the Devil to have his beard combed.

wk «it vﬁ

A proverb says that all the cloth of Ghent,

'if turned into parchment, would not hold all

47

the stories of the fox’s sagacity.
bk 3: *

The custom of liberating a bird over a
funeral pyre to conduct the spirit to the other
world was common in ancient Roman times.
The Iroquois Indians release a bird over the
grave “ to bear the spirit to its heavenly rest.”

5% 5i: *

To South Americans the symbol of condor
ﬁghting puma signiﬁed the conﬂict between
day and night, winged knowledge and brute
ignorance.

E. G. B.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

famiary, I 940

The Scientific Spirit Arraigned

UT two decades after the close of the
Beatastrophic struggle to end war, Europe

has taken another plunge into the dark
abyss—a plunge which may prove an irrepar—
able disaster to Western civilisation. It hap—
pens at a time when according to a great
English scholar, Graham Wallas, “ Civilisation
is still reeling from the effects of a war in
which the whole organisation of natural science
was devoted to the destruction of human life
and health and welfare.”

For the magnitude of these tragedies, the
modern scientiﬁc world will some day be
bitterly arraigned at the bar of history for its
betrayal of humanity.

With incredible genius it has revolutionised
the outer aspects of existence. It has led us
to believe that the value of a civilisation is
largely reﬂected in the ingenuity of its machines
and in the extent of its development of the
material accessories of life. It has been pro-
foundly indifferent to the terrible consequences
of placing enormous powers in the control of
those who lack a commensurate sense of social
and moral responsibility.

It has performed miracles in the domain of
chemistry and has worked marvels in the ﬁeld
of physics. The magic power it has thereby
acquired has been used to inﬂict torture, destroy
life, and spread desolation. It has invented
submarine navigation which has added to the
horrors of war on the sea. It has devised
motor transportation and evolved the death—
dealing and hideous war tanks. It has con—
quered the air and constructed planes to hurl
down terriﬁc explosives and lethal gases on
unprotected communities and their helpless
inhabitants. The counts in the indictment are
too numerous to further summarise.

Never a powerful voice has been raised in
the scientific world for an international strike
against the prostitution of great talents to such
destructive ends. Never a serious movement
has been launched among our. scientiﬁc insti—
tutions to teach the higher morality which
should go hand in hand with the possession
of the terrible secrets that unlock the tremen—
dous forces of nature. '

We see shocking evidence of the working
of this same evil in the manner in which help—
less creatures have been callously subjected to
acute and prolonged torture by vivisectors who
carry on their work frequently with a passion

48

approximating fanaticism, and always without
a serious thought in the world of the grave
moral implications. On top of this, some at
least of our leading educational institutions and
professional schools have been morally if not
legally implicated in the widespread “ snatch-
ing ” of cats and dogs to supply the victims
for the cruel experiments.

What will be the end if life continues to be
controlled by an undisciplined and unmoral
scientiﬁc spirit?

GEORGE R. FARNUM.

(Wilt/9 ackﬂmz/[ea’gwmfr 2‘0 “ Living Tissue,”

Monkeys in War

Boston, Mass.)
THERE seems no lack of recruits for the
Chinese army, judging by reports of the
numbers of men engaged. But it is
most unlikely that any of the monkey recruits
such as were used in the past are used to-day.
These war monkeys were called the “ \Wah—
wahs,” after their peculiar call when angry.
Tailless, always upright, four feet high, they
were captured when very young and put
through extensive training. Each monkey
was kept in a small hut, and every day let
out at the end of a IO foot long cord. The
monkey was taught to go forward and take a
little ﬂagstaff with a coloured ﬂag on it out of
the ground. The ﬂagstaff was one of three, the
two outer ﬂags being of another colour.
If the monkey brought back the right ﬂag
he was rewarded with food, .but if he took
back one of the others he was punished.
After long training the monkey could be
trusted to go on his own a distance after a ﬂag.
An army commander would have some
hundreds of monkeys in his possession.
\‘Vhen he wanted to make an attack, and
desired to terrify the enemy, he picked twenty
or thirty monkeys that would go for the
enemy’s colours. The monkeys would be
kept for several days in a position where they
could see the enemy’s camp. When the camp
was quiet they were let loose. They at once
made their way into the enemy’s lines, and
when the commander heard their loud
“ Wah-wahs ” he knew the enemy was in

confusion and he launched his attack.
E. G. B.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

]amzary, I940

Birds and Aircraft

 

A Flock of Cur/e222 flying fast and straight

NE calm September evening the birds

of a Lancashire estuary were feeding,

bathing and preening in a shallow pool
at low tide. A ﬂock of ﬁfty lapwings were at
rest on the edge of the saltings all facing
upwind; in the sunlight their glossy plumage
was green as the pastures across the river—
mouth and justiﬁed to perfection their alterna—
tive name of green plover. To stalk green
plovers with a camera is a fruitless task, for
as you slowly approach them, the nearest birds
move, a few at a time, to the back of the ﬂock,

 

C (1/17; and Untomemed

49"

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

so that you can creep most carefully towards
them and yet imperceptibly they still maintain
their distance.

A mudﬂat is not a beauty spot and on that
account is often deserted by humanity, so that
few bird-haunts are better suited to the needs
of the ﬁeld—naturalist. On this occasion there
were hundreds of birds of many species spread
over the gleaming ﬂats in little parties, and it
would have been difﬁcult to imagine a quieter
scene than the peaceful reality : the only other
Sign of life was a distant ﬂock of grazing sheep.

Suddenly the spell was broken by an unac—
countable stir when a ﬂock of mallard, quacking
loudly, circled overhead, but the rhythmic
whistling of their wings died away rapidly as
they sped inland. Almost immediately they
were followed by close on a thousand curlew
ﬂying fast and straight : and soon the air was
full of birds and bird—voices, and high above
them came the cause of their alarm—ﬁve
airplanes together, to remind us of the alarm
of war.

' Little companies of ringed plovers ﬂashed
silvery in the sunshine, as they wheeled and
turned and disappeared seaward; while ﬂocks
of green plover rose, one by one, but moved a
short way only before they alighted again to
resume feeding. Redshank were uneasy and
skirted the edge of the tide—line in shrill alarm ;
but the gulls were less fearful and merely ran
a few yards and then paused, cocking their
heads on one side to look up. Only a heron,
preening his feathers, was quite indifferent to
the menace overhead. At length, left solitary,
he calmly stalked into the middle of the pool
and stood motionless, watching intently for
the movement of a ﬁsh.

CATHERINE M. CLARK.

How Much Do you know about Animals P
I. How many teeth has a dog?
2. The two colours in cats which generally
denote a male or a female P
5. How many kinds of British rodents are
there P _
4. How long does (a) a worker bee, (/7) a
wire worm live P
5. At one time animals were tried by civil
and ecclesiastical courts. W hen was the
last trial of an animal held in this
country P
6. One of the larger animals is literally
dumb, which P
E. G. B.

Amy/er; on page 58, to]. 2.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fannary, 1940

From Onlooker’s Note Book

(6

. . . the prond xii/ans
rtray,
Sailing one h); one
Ont of the streain
and ran.”
—ROBERT BRIDGES.
The Mute Swan.
_ To In the Seasons of the Year, by JAMES J.

CASH, I am indebted for the information which
follows concerning. mute swans :—

The mute swan, always a familiar bird on the
Cheshire meres, deserves special mention. In a
state of semi—wildness it nests about the reedy
shores, and several are usually in evidence as we
scan the water for Winter wild fowl. Swans in ﬂight
are an imposing sight; with slow wing-beats the
great birds soon pass by—stately objects as they
fly over the trees, while the clear and musical
sound of their wings is heard to a considerable
distance. Though the semi-wild swans of our
meres, like the Canada geese, wander from one
water to another in the Winter months, and it is
these birds that we usually see, still genuinely wild
swans are not infrequent visitors in Winter to the
estuaries of the Dee and Mersey, and perhaps are
less common than imagined on the meres.

Old Jack.

A hundred years ago F excerpt from The
Ohrerner, of July 14th, 1839 :—

At the beginning of last week there departed
this life “ Old Jack,” the gigantic and venerable
swan, with whom the public have been so long
acquainted on the canal in the enclosure of St.
James’s Park, at the advanced age of nearly seventy
years. “ Old Jack ” was hatched about the year

 

' Photo by] “ 5‘ ‘1.
at zng

eat of the stream and ran ”

50

I770 on the piece of water attached to Old
Buckingham House, and for many years basked
in the sunshine of Royal favour, Queen Charlotte
being extremely partial to him and frequently
condescending to feed him herself.

England’s Premier Bird.
The doe warfellen/ed h} her new—dreptfawn,
And folding all her feathers on her hreart,
The 522/471 amid the reed-inaee deep withdrawn
, Dreained on her next.

Writing of The Swan in the summer number
of The Heine—Finder, GERVASE TURNBULL,
after quoting the above lines, continues :—

Thus aptly does Alfred Austin, poet laureate
and lover of England, describe her noblest bird,
a thing of grace and beauty, and majestic in strength
. . . That swans sing before they die was a
national belief is shown in that old distich :—
Sn/anr ring hefere they die, ’twere n0 had thing
Did eertain perrenr die hefere they sing.

e. g., bird stealers and eggers, before chirruping.

over their ill-gotten collections, as many will
cheerfully admit. Swans seem a part of England’s
self. It is not only that this graceful bird adapts
itself so admirably to our scenery. It is the
tradition behind it, which ﬁts into quite a long
history. . . . In Elizabeth’s days the royal bird
was famous enough to boast nine hundred distinct
marks, by which private or corporate ownership
was recognised by the Royal Swanherd. A crown
licence was required after the time of Richard I.
. . . The swan is very much the bird of Bucking-
hamshire, which runs down to the Thames—hence
the number of “ Swan ” inns in that county.
Another proof of the domination of the British
public by her largest bird is found
in Australia, famous for its black
swan. It forms the armorial bear—
ings of West Australia, where it
was discovered in 1697, and
traced by Captain Cook, later,
through the greater part of the
continent. The Royal Society
were appraised of it in 1698. The
Swan river’s name is now ac-
counted for, and something of the
magic of this vast bird which has
captured our imagination. The
ostrich and the dodo come a long
way second.

Agreeable Swans.

PAUL HENTZNER, in his ac—
count of a journey to England
in 1598, writes of the Thames :

This river abounds in swans
swimming in ﬂocks, the sight of
them and their noise is vastly
agreeable to the ﬂeets that meet

[Paul ]. Pease ‘ . .
them in their course.

 




 

 

 

mm;;:r.:x_:—“ ' ' 'Z’fni " 1 r a , .;: a! ,, 7— , , ‘

filming), I940 - THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Swan of Avon ’and Swans.

SHAKESPEARE, who has been termed “ Swan
of Avon,” has many allusions to the swan in
his works : Portia’s request in the Casket
Scene in Merebnni‘ of Venice :

Lez‘ music sound, wbile be defb inn/ée bis ebeiee ;
Tben, if be lose, be makes a swan—like enzl,

Fading in innsie.

EMILIA says in Oibelle:
I will pleg/ ibe swan,

And (lie in music.
CELIA’s answer to DUKE FREDERICK (As
You Like Ii) comes to mind :

. . . if sbe be traitor,
W/by so am I; we still bar/e slept togez‘ber,
Rose at an instant, learn’d, play’d, eat togetber;
And wbosoe’er we went, like jnno’s swans,
Still we went coupled, and inseparable.

A ﬁnal example:
SUFFOLK declares (Heniy VI, Part 1.):

So doib i‘be swan ber downy qgnets save,
Keeping z‘beni prisoner nnzlerneaz‘b ber wings.

ONLOOKER.

A Great Investment.

 

.No lover of his country can better invest .
his money for his country’s future than to Photo by] G d'- 0 ﬂ NM [13- 5- Eliot
put it into the work of humane education. ”4" mo 3"

La'wlessness, violence, strife, strikes, lockouts, _ . . .
boycotts, class animosities—these symptoms an mCh hlgh’ bulld? structures that 1113156 f t9
of a diseased social order were never so twenty feet. Man, With an average heig to 51X
common this side the sea as to—day. The war feet, buildsttoaheight-of 1:208 feet. In propor—
.was, in part, responsible for this. \War never tion to. their $263 Whlte ants bulls _Sltr§CtuleS
leaves behind it any higher ideal of civic seven times higher thanthehighesltduui t 371mg
righteousness than that which preceded it; The CUblC contents Of an ant bu1 1ng can 0

' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' i ts than the
rather does it dwarf all the ideals With which a million times more .1nhab tan
men entered into it largest human inhabitation.

Leave out of our public schools a large Death Watch Beetle.
part of what now consumes the time of teacher h d
and pupil and quicken in the hearts of the Death—watch beetles cause many tdolpsalré
scholars the idea of justice, fair play, humanity, pounds worth 0f damage to timberie fbm' “
and human kinship, and not only will the IQsS- If bats were encouraged Instea 0 Cbmg
future of the country be safeguarded from killed they would prevent the damggellas at}:
many a peril, but our children will be educated are the natural enemies Of the eat —watc
in things that are really fundamental and vital beetle.
in character and life. This is humane educa— .
don—(Our Dznnb Animals, August, 1939.) Sacred Beetle.

In Ancient Egypt this insect symboliseda
The Biggest Skyscraper. form of the sun—god Ra. Amulets made in

The architecture of the termites (white ants) the insect’s image, pottery, etc., were called
dwarfs the most ambitious human efforts, when scarabs and were believed to have magical
we consider the tiny proportions of the insects. powers. '

The white ant, which is only three—sixteenths of E. G. B-

51

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

wv';:“::,——_—r::-;:::rﬁ :ﬁ:::.—e ~'—" #~’

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fanaary, I 940

George Meredith (1828-1909)

BY BASIL HARVEY-JAMES.

“ The eoinpensation for injnstiee is, that in that dark ora’eal we gather the worthiest around as.”

N time of war it is, above all, necessary
Ito keep wide horizons and not to lose one’s

perspective. This is the first time I put
words on paper since the outbreak of what
some are already calling the “ Second Great
\War.” I am not a pacifist and hold that
Europe and Britain must be defended from
the German menace to their liberty and happi—
ness—that while there is that danger it will
be well—nigh impossible to work for other
reforms. But we must be sure what sort of
a Europe and Britain we are anxious to defend.
It can scarcely be those we have, and still less,
can we emulate the methods of “ the enemy.”
It is the tyranny of all the white races over the
Africans that have made Africa a DARK
Continent ; it is the exploitation of and cruelty
to the other animal species by the whole of
humanity which make all our talk of “ Liberty”
and “ Justice ” a sham, and they will again be
a sham if we do not sincerely and disinterest—
edly try and make a New World Order for
Humanity and Animality alike.

It is in view of what I have said above of
the need of “ perspective ” and “ wide hori—
zons ” that I have chosen George Meredith
as the subject of my first wartime essay. It
causes me much happiness and a little pride
that my last two peacetime activities were to
write an article for the ANIMALS’ FRIEND and
to deliver a Henry George centenary address
(at Portsmouth), the last on the very eve of
war. \Vhile, like a great many men and
women, I have changed and sifted various
opinions, two viewpoints that have remained
with me from the early twenties to the mid
thirties are the importance of the Land
Question and of our relation (which means
more than our “ treatment ” of) to the rest
of the Animal World. Not only have these
two cardinal points come to seem more and
more important to me, but they seem to
underlie so many other problems (including
this war and other wars and rumours of war).
I will not abuse the columns of the ANIMALS’
FRIEND by propaganda on the Land Question,
except to remind animal—lovers that it is the
“land ” on which humans and all other

52

(The Ora’eal of Richard Fez/erel.)

animals have to dwell. But I will stress the
other point—to wit, that our treatment of each
other, whether man by man or nation by
nation, will never radically alter until we
concede benevolence and justice to “ the
animals.”

A second reason why I have chosen Meredith
is that he is essentially the poet of Earth.
Sometimes we are inclined to talk of animals
as “ something apart,” whom we may love
individually or be kind to in general. But as I
said in the last paragraph, it is the Earth (or
“ Land ”) which we and the animals have to
share. Whatever theological or philosophical
views we may hold, we cannot deny that the
Earth is our common Mother. This concep-
tion is driven home in all Meredith’s poems
and to some extent in his novels.

Onee I was part of the inasie I heara’
On the hoaghs or sweet hetween earth ana’ sky,
For joy of the heating of wings on high

[VI] heart shot into the hreast of the hira’.

I hear it now ana’ I see it fl I,
Ana’ a life in wrinkles again is stirred,
My heart shoots into the hreast of the hira’,
As it will for sheer lone till the last long sigh.
_ (YOUTH IN AGE.)

Both tendencies I have cited as typical of
Meredith, his balance and his love of earth,
are exempliﬁed conspicuously in his sonnet
Earth’s Seeret, which begins :—

Not solitarily infields wefina’
Earth’s seeret open, though one page is there.

It should not be imagined that George
Meredith is only concerned with animals in
an indirect and generic way. He has written
about them directly and intimately in both
verse and prose, perhaps never so charmingly

as in The Two Blaekhira’s.

A blackbird in a wicker cage,-

That hung and swung mid fruits and ﬂowers
Had learnt the song charm, to-assuage

The drearness of its Wingless hours.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

jamzary, I 940

Strange anguish in that creature’s breast
UnWept like human grief, unsaid,

Has quickened in its lonely nest
A living impulse from the dead.

3

Dis =E¢ 1%:
.Deeply in their bitter grief
Those sufferers reciprocate,
The one sings for its woodland life,
The other for its murdered mate.

But deeper doth the secret prove,

7 Uniting those sad creatures so ;
Humanity’s great link of love

The common sympathy of woe.

I can think of no poem of Meredith’s and
'few poems by anyone else to compare with
his Ode to ﬂee Spirit of Bart/9 in Anti/nan.
Maybe these lines from this wonderful paean
may encourage us in this time of stress and
at the same time give a background to all our
work for the cause we all have so much at
heart—not solely the welfare of animals, but
our whole relationship to them.

Eartb, the inot/ier of all,

Moves on leer steadfast way,
Gathering, flinging, so wing.
Mortals, we line in leer day,

Sne in leer children is growing.
Slie can lead as, on/ I sne,

Unto God’s footstool, w/n'tner s/oe rear/yes :
Loned, enjoyed, leer <gifts int/st be,
Renereneed t/oe trat/os s/oe tear/yes,
Ere a man may nope t/iat lye
Eoer can attain the glee

Of t/oings wit/ooat a destiny !

(29TH OCTOBER, 1939.)

 

Photo byl

Toe Mare/J Past

53

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Blrd Song 111 Wmter
BY HUDSON READ.
ANY people think that birds sing
I \/ I only in spring and summer, and are
surprised when you tell them that
quite a number of birds sing in winter.

From the top bough of the lane—side elm
the mistle—thrush sings “ tre—wir—ri—o-ee! tre-
we-o-we-o—we—o—wit.” Even when the north
wind carries snowﬂakes in his lap, the cock
bird, “ fearless of the sleety storms of spring,”
will take his stand on a tall tree “like an
enchanter calling up the gale,” and thence,
to quote from Newton, “ with loud voice
proclaim in wild and discontinuous notes the
fervour of his love for his mate.”

When the weather is mild the “ brown—
backed bird with spotted breast ”—the song—
thrush—may be heard carolling from a twisted
apple tree in the old orchard. From the shrub—
bery the inquisitive and familiar little brown
bird, the wren, “ with its short tail, cocked on
high,” trills its “ see, sweet, see, see, see,” in
a surprisingly loud voice for such a small bird.

Away over the sodden meadows a lark is
spilling his silver song, as he climbs his
invisible stairway in the sky. This bird of the
fields who sings nearly all the year round, except
in August, ﬂutes his beautiful music on ﬁne days ;
when stormy winds whip the countryside, he
keeps silent and hides himself—he is a ﬁne—
weather songster. From a tall hawthorn the
bright—breasted robin is clicking like an old
country watch. Sometimes he calls “ tit! tit! ”
when he is angry with another robin, but the
cheerful sweetness of his song, even “ when
winter chills the day,” endears him to us all.

[L. Tyler

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fanuary, I 940

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Hon. Secretaij/z BERTRAM LLOYD, c/o 2 53, Cowley Road, Oxford.

Press Letters.

URING recent months letters from the

Society have been sent to the press

. relating to the continuance of various
forms of blood—sports, including fox—hunting,
otter—hunting, hare-hunting and badger—dig—
ging. These have appeared, inter alia, in
The Manchester Guardian, The Spectator, The
Western Evening Mail, The Duh/in Mail, The
Bedfordshire Times and The journal of Education.
With regard to fox—hunting we have stressed
the point that (the necessity for keeping foxes
under proper control having now arisen)
the problem of their removal in the interests
of agriculture should be dealt with by the
Government—not, as at present, left hap—
hazard to a section of the community which,
with a view to future sporting facilities, aims
at securing a larger balance of foxes than is
necessary for the preservation of the species.

Evacuees and Hunting.
The Field of November 4th last published

an editorial note on the advantages enjoyed
by evacuees in hunting countries. The fol—
lowing letter from the Society appeared in
The Oxford Times (24/11/1939) and The journal
of Education for January, 1940 :—

There has lately been much rejoicing in hunting

circles over the fact that evacuated children who ,

are fortunate enough to be billeted with sportsmen
and their families are often taken to meets. Their
questions on these occasions, we are told, “ are
frequent and intelligent.” One writer in a recent
issue of a leading sporting journal considers that
this golden opportunity to foster an interest in
hunting should be used to the full, since “there
is no propaganda so powerful as the knowledge
gained from experience.” That hunting devotees
should take advantage of the present circumstances
and seek to “ educate ” children in the theory and
practice of their cherished pastime is but natural.
It should be remembered, however, that there are
two sides to the question.

No mention is made, for instance, of those other
evacuees billeted among the many opponents of
blood-sports scattered over the countryside.
Their young guests will be receiving a very
different education. When all these children
return to their normal environment their interest
in the whole question of blood-sports, from what-
ever standpoint, will have received a much needed
stimulus, and we may expect the growth of a body
of young urban voters whose views on the ethics
of killing for sport are based on “ the knowledge
gained from experience.”

It is to be hoped that hunting enthusiasts will take
care that their protégés do not witness one of'
those unfortunate “incidents ” which occasionally
disgrace the fair name of “sport.” It would be
interesting to know whether any critical youngster-
has already asked if the fox enjoys the sport.

Otter-hunting.

According to recent reports in The Western
Morning News otter—hunting is to continue
during the war. The Dartmoor pack plans
to hunt on two days a week, while the Cheriton
Otter-hounds’ subscribers “ are unanimously
determined to do everything possible to carry
on the hunt.” During the 1939 season the
last-named pack killed 13 otters out of 30
“ found ” ; and in 19 37 and 19 38 respectively
accounted for 18 out of 25, and 14 out of 36
otters—ﬁgures which led the Society to point
out to the Editor of The Western Morning News
that the now notorious public assertion by
the Secretary of the British Field Sports
Society that “ of all beasts of the chase the
otter has the best chance of escape ” is a gross.
exaggeration. -

“ It’s an Ill Wind . . .”

The following letter from an ex-Hunt
Secretary appeared in Horse and Hound for
October 6th last :—

Presumably there are various hunting bachelors.
and young ladies who are now drawing war pay,
messing cheaply, and, having nobody else to
support, are better off, ﬁnancially, than they ever
were before. I suggest, therefore, that they might
now increase. their subscriptions, whether they
can get any hunting themselves or not for the
time being. I am merely preaching what I prac-
tised during the last European struggle. Moreover,
a sister of mine asked me what I could suggest
as a thank-offering for the safe return of two
nephews and myself, with the result that a certain
struggling Hunt beneﬁted by a donation of ,5.

All kinds of institutions and causes have
beneﬁted by “ thank offerings ” in the past,
but this recipient of £5 for a safe return from
the dangers of war was certainly on a some—e
what lower level than is usual in such cases.

Hunting was the lahour of the savages of North America,
hut the amusement of the gentlemen of England.

(S. JOHNSON, see “ fohnsoniana,” h} Kean/(9n)

 

54

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

fanuary, I940

The All-Purpose Animal

BY DOROTHEA K. GOULD
P I 0 other domesticated animal in any part

of the world renders more service to its
owners than does the reindeer. The Lap—
landers, for instance, count their wealth by this
animal. The lives of these sturdy folk are almost
entirely dependent on their reindeer for food,
drink and clothing. The Laplanders even have
to accommodate their ways of living to that of
their reindeer herd, for they have to move con-
tinually in order that reindeer have food.

The reindeer is unique among the deer
family in that the female has antlers as well as
the male, although they are somewhat smaller.
It is the only member of the deer family that
has been domesticated by man.

Reindeer thrive and are used in the Arctic
portions of both the Old and New Worlds,
Scandinavia, Spitzbergen, Northern Russia,
Siberia, Alaska, Canada and Greenland. In
America it is called the caribou.

In Eskimo—land the reindeer plays an im-
portant part in the lives of the Eskimos. These
useful animals draw the Eskimos over the
snow at great speed. With a load of two
hundred and fifty pounds a reindeer can travel
nine or ten miles an hour, and keep this up

all day.

In spite of all the important work which the
reindeer does, its upkeep is very inexpensive,
for the animal can ﬁnd its own food even when
on a long, cold trip, by pawing off the snow
with its feet to get at the moss and lichens
underneath.

It has often been said that the reindeer
serves'as horse, sheep and cow all in one. It
furnishes meat and milk for food, antlers for
glue and other implements, hair for mattresses
and life belts, skins for soft and pliable leather
(Out of some of which Eskimo shoes are made).
A number of skins sewed together make a
warm tent. The undressed hide is cut for
-ropes and twine, fishing lines, nets, etc.

The reindeer herders are very careful of
their animals, especially in the winter when
the wolves are ravenous, and they guard them
day and night. But, of course, such an im—
portant and useful animal deserves all the good
care that he can get.

In summer the Lapland reindeer feeds
chieﬂy on the shoots of willow and birch; in
Winter it depends mainly on lichens.

55

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

NEWS FROM ABROAD.

Greece.

Mr. W. Miller writes from Athens :—“ The
new clinic of the People’s Dispensaries of the
Sick Animals of the Poor in Athens was
blessed by the suffragan of the Archbishop
of Athens on November 29th. There were
present at the ceremony the British Minister,
Sir Michael Palairet, the Consul, Mr. Sebastian,
the members of the local committee, Mr.
Palles, Vice-President of the Athenian S.P.C.A.
and others. Mr. Carlisle, the veterinary
surgeon who conducts the work here, which
his predecessor, Mr. Hurle, began in 1936,
received the guests, and light refreshments
were served. The patronage of this work by
the Greek Church is important, because only
the village priests can prevent the cruel
superstitions about the treatment of animals
which have survived in some of the Albanian
hamlets of Attica. The present Archbishop
has ordered them to do their best to stop
these. The S.P.C.A. has sustained a loss by
the departure of Mr. Lagoudakes, its former
Secretary and Editor of the Greek Anima/s’
Friend, for the United States. That journal
is, however, continuing publication, and a new
Secretary has been elected.”

The Mountain Caribou.

In parts of Jasper Park and in certain
areas of the Selkirk Mountains a species of
Reindeer called Mountain Caribou is to be
found. This animal, closely related to the
Barren Lands Caribou, is much larger in size
and darker in colour than the far Northern
type. It is a medium sized deer, smaller
than the moose larger than the mule deer,
and in common with its Arctic relations,
differs from all other American deer in that
the females as well as the males are antlered.

 

" m... (Lamp '

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

, “AA—m ._._=;_. M D .

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

ﬂmuary, 1940'

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H072. Semetmy: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

A COAL OWNER’S PAMPHLET:
E recently sent a copy of an illustrated
i x; pamphlet, called Pz'z‘ P0722195 and Col/2'60
Flower—published by Philip Gee for
the Mining Association of Great Britain, June,
I939—to Mr. D. R. Grenfell, M.P., who is a
leading member of the Parliamentary Opposi—
tion, and who served on the recent Royal
Commission on Safety in Mines. Mr. Gren-
fell’s expert views are entitled to consideration
and respect. His comments, by the way, were
not solicited, but his permission has been
obtained to reproduce them in the ANIMALS’
FRIEND. He writes :—

“ The colliery owners have been very keen
on showing (1) how good the conditions are
for the ponies employed underground; and
(2) how. many mines have dispensed with the
use of ponies.

“ That should not disturb any of us. It

serves to show how effective the agitation and
publicity on our side has been.
' “ I expect a very rapid diminution in the
number of horses that are working near the
coal face along with the compulsory improve—
ment in the average conditions of work below
ground.

“ The colliery owners’ propaganda is a
testimonial to your work. Much of it is true.
What is not shown in this pretty little booklet
still calls for attention and must be done-by us.

“ Horses at the pit bottom do not compare
so badly with those employed in the streets of
our large cities. It is the horse far inbye (that
is, the horse or pony employed in the distant
workings of a mine), on low roadways (that
is, on roadways where the roofs are low), or,
in dry and dusty mines; the horse hauling
from dip places (that is, up steep gradients on
a roadway that goes to the ‘ dip ’), and who
struggles to maintain a foothold on slippery
and rough roads; the horse .working long
hours, the horse lacking food and water; it is
the horse in these conditions that should be
‘ made known ’ to the public by means of
articles to the press and by pamphlets—until
we have freed the animals from the mines
altogether. I do not doubt the genuineness
of some employers and managers; others
have to be kept up to scratch by constant

SOME COMMENTS BY MR. D. R. GRENFELL, M.P.

reminders and by pressure of publicity.”

In the last paragraph of Mr. Grenfell’s.
comments we have ventured to insert, between
brackets, a few explanatory remarks where
some technical terms are used in relation to
mine roadways.

We naturally feel gratiﬁed in being paid a
compliment in this way. We are, however,
still more gratiﬁed to think that our work is
regarded, by one in a position to know, as
having been successful to some extent. We
realise that the large sums of money that must
be spent by coal owners each year in propa—
ganda, parades and exhibitions of selected
ponies at various agricultural and other shows,
in order to justify and defend the use of ponies
and horses in mines, is also in a special sense
a tribute to our work. We can remember a
time when such efforts were not made, and
such expenditure was not incurred, by the
colliery owners. We think we are justiﬁed
in coming to the conclusion that such expendi-
ture is felt to be necessary in order to counter—
act our efforts. We noted in a coal trade
journal recently an expression of displeasure
at the enquiries made by housewives concerning
the obtaining of coal from non—pony pits.

D. ].W

HORSES.
“ T/Jez'r borrex’ [20an rim/l be counted likef/z'm‘.”——Isa. v. 28.

An eleventh—century law made ploughing
with horses illegal in Wales. Athelstan, ﬁrst
ruler of all England, forbade trade in horses ;
he said that they must not be exported for
trade, but could be sent overseas as a gift.
For some years after the introduction of car—
riages, to ride on horseback was considered
more digniﬁed.

Iron horseshoes were made as early as
200 13.0, but they were not generally used
until the Middle Ages. Up to then the usual
shoe was a sock of straw or fern. This was
the custom in Japan until the 19th century.
In Roman times shoes of leather or iron were
used for horses and the shoe tied on. Nailing
the shoe is a comparatively modern practice.

E. G. B.

56

 




 

 

[armory 1940

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Seerez‘my: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

Animals’ Bazaar.

E should like to express our grateful
thanks to all who by their gifts helped
to make this effort so successful. The

result—£19 35. Iod.——-is most gratifying con-
sidering the times in which we are living.

National Hypocrisy.

Already opposition to our proverbial na-
tional hypocrisy in attacking cruelties in other
countries which are fordawerfa/l I the same
cruelties to which we are addicted is becoming
vocal. “ Bulwark,” in the Wolverhampton
Exprem and Sfar (November 18th), refers to
the report that the “ Staffordshire Beagles had
a large and enthusiastic ﬁeld,” as an apt
illustration of the humbug which still attaches
to phases of English life. At the present time,
when the whole resources of the nation, moral
and material, are supposed to be enlisted in
the righteous cause of freeing minorities from
oppression, and protecting the weak against
the strong, we are presented with the spectacle
of a big concourse of trained dogs and more
or less athletic people whose unremitting
energy is bent on bounding to a cruel death
a poor and inoffensive creature that has neither
the wit nor the power to defend itself.

Petrol for Pleasure.

A correspondent in the Clarion Times
(November I 8th) attacks hunting from another
angle. He is surprised to see the number of
cars trailing behind the local Hunt, and wonders
in these days, when we cannot obtain enough
petrol for business purposes, how one gets
it for hunting.

Growing Menace of the Fox.

The opposition to the hunt in war-time from
farmers and poultry keepers is growing.
Poultry farmers in Kent are threatening to
shoot every fox they see, and the Executive
Committee of the Kent N.F.U. have passed
a resolution calling attention to the increasing
number of foxes, and asking what action can
be taken. One member, Mr. W. S. \Watney,
stated that he offered his staff free cartridges
and 55. for every fox shot (Soul/o-Eosz‘err
Gazette, November 7th). The Rugeley Branch
of the N.F.U. has decided that in View of the

57

increasing damage by foxes for which com—
pensation was no longer received, to approach
the County Committee of the Union to take
matters up with M.F.H., the Forestry Com—
missioners and landowners (Lie/afield [Worm/73y,
December Ist).

M...FH Association Take a Hand.

The problem is becoming so acute that even
the M.F.H. Association “is anxious that all
possible measures shall be taken to prevent
damage by foxes if their numbers cannot be
reduced by hounds, and has issued suggestions
as to the special steps which should be taken to
get rid of the foxes causing such damage ”
(Peoriz‘lo Observer, November zist).

Now it is obvious that the number of foxes
can be reduced by other means than hunting.
In fact, only a few weeks previously, Mr.
H. Wynmalen, M.F.H., actually admitted in
Horre and Hormel (October 27th) that “ unfor—
tunately that argument (the necessity to go
on hunting foxes) has not a very convincing
ring, since it may be argued that hunting is
not precisely the most economical, or, for
that matter, the most efﬁcient way of killing
foxes.”

\Ve have brought these facts to the notice
of the County War Agricultural Executive
Committees, to whom powers are delegated
by the Minister of Agriculture under the
Emergency Powers (Defence) Act to destroy
deer, rabbits, hares and foxes, as we believe
several. Committees are urging the local Hunts
to kill all the foxes they can—a good excuse,
of course, for carrying on “ sport ” under the
pretence of performing a national service. We
have also urged the farmers and poultry
keepers to demand of the Minister and their
local Committee that the foxes be destroyed
in a humane, expeditiOus and efficient manner.

Taunton Debate.

Hunting won by two votes at a debate of
the Taunton Branch of the International
Friendship League on December 6th. Mr.
F. W. Mitchell, Our local representative, moved
that blood sports should be abolished, and
was supported by Mr. D. Preece, Secretary of
the Taunton I.'F.L.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——Many suggestions have been put forward
for the feeding of dogs and cats in war-time. I would
suggest that oatmeal be placed at the top of the list as
a substitute for ﬂesh. It is cheap, and has a high food
value. It is so nourishing that a good many Sheepdogs
are fed almost entirely on an oatmeal diet. Dogs take
to oatmeal much more readily than cats.

I do not mean any of the patent brands of oats that
are sold for making porridge. I doubt if some of these
have any food value at all. The oatmeal should be the
ordinary pin—head kind, such as is sold loose in shops.
In order to thoroughly soften the oatmeal it is best to
soak it overnight. Cooked, and sweetened with treacle,
or with the addition of sugar and tinned or fresh milk,
this provides an excellent substitute for ﬂesh. Alterna—
tively, the oatmeal can be flavoured with bits of meat,
ﬁsh, etc.

There is not the slightest doubt that if oatmeal
were made the staple diet of cats and dogs in wartime,
friends of animals would have no need to worry as to
whether their animals were getting enough food to
keep them in good condition.

Yours, etc.,
E. G. BARLOW.
9, St. James Road,
Harpenden, Herts.

Cheetahs.

The cheetah was trained for sport as far back as
865 B.C. by Persian kings. Centuries later, at the zenith
of Mogul domination of Hindustan, emperors used
to keep hundreds of Cheetahs, just as huntsmen in this
country keep packs of hounds. The sport spread to
France where kings used Cheetahs for hunting deer,
as in India. In the reign of George III a few were
brought to England; the Duke of Cumberland tried
them for stag hunting in Windsor Forest, but they were
not a success because they refused to attack stags at
bay.

E. G. B.

fanuary, I 940

(The following letter, addressed to tbe Editor of “ T/Je
Seaman,” by the President of the League for tbe Prebz'bz'tz'on
of Crete! Sports, will be of interest to readers of THE

‘ ANIMALS’ FRIEND.——EDI_TOR.)

SIR,—I am very much surprised, and sorry, to see
that the National Seamen’s Union encourages the
degrading form of so—called sport in which rich people
indulge—fox—hunting, or, as I prefer to call it, fox-
worrying. I have before me a report of a meet of
Lord Leconﬁeld’s hounds at the house in Sussex where
your Union has its temporary office. Permission for
the meet to be held there was given “ with pleasure,”
and the Union supplied drinks and sandwiches for the
aristocratic followers. “ Only too glad to oblige,”
said the secretary to Lord Leconﬁeld.

I cannot believe that the members of the Seamen’s
Union approve either this encouragement given to a
brutal pastime or this hob-nobbing with the aristocracy.
I hope that at the next meeting of members attention
will be called to the matter. It is distressing to those
of us who work for the abolition of cruelty to ﬁnd a
workers’ organisation supporting those who are guilty
of it.

Yours, etc.,
(Signed) HAMILTON FYFE,
President.
Deeenzber 16th, 1959.

How much do you know about Animals P

ANSWERS.

I. 42.

2. Sandy (male); tortoiseshell (female).

5. I4: hare, rabbit, blue hare, black rat,
brown rat, house mouse, harvest mouse,
field mouse, wood mouse, bank vole,
ﬁeld vole, water vole; dormouse ; red
squirrel.

4. (a) 6 weeks; ([9) 5 to 5 years.

. 1771 (a dog was tried at Chichester).

. Giraffe.

av-

 

The Animals’

Friend Sustentation Fund

The Editor acknowledges with grateful thanks the following amounts received up to

january 2nd,194o. Donations to the Fund to keep the magazine going during the war are

still solicited and are greatly needed.

J. H. Perrott, Esq., £2 95. 6d.

Mrs. I. Brierley, Mrs. A. Covey and E. G. \Y/illiams, Esq., 6s. 6d. each.

Miss E. H. Borough, 63.

Miss E. Masham and Mrs. C. G. Oliveira, gs. 6d. each.
Mr. and Mrs. Assinder, Miss L. M. Cowderoy and Miss M. Young, IS. 6d. each.

-Miss E. Springett, Is.

Miss A. Friedenham and Miss M. Perry, 6d. each.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

jam/dry, 1940 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill—treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog—welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to probibit tbe vivisection of dogs.

Membership 25. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
BRIGHTON & HOVE The Cats Protection

League

The one society devoted solely to the welfare

 

Ideal Boarding Establishment

Near Sea and Downs, generous Of cats and kittens.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. MEMBERSHIP 5/= PER ANNUM,
water, gas ﬁres. including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
Moderate Terms. “ THE CAT ”

Associate Membership Subscription gs. 6d. per annum.

 

 

Tariff: MRS' MASSINGHAM Write for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.I.
President: HAMILTON FYPE Cnairnzan: AIR—COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.
This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The

League is doing for wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.
Membership 23. 6d. upwards.

 

National Society for Abolition Of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 CO\WLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Cbairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
New Publication: FOOD AND SPORT
by

H. G. Chancellor
Price 3d.

 

 

All subscriptions and communications for tbe Magazine sboulzi be addressed “ Tbe Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND
26, Crosrenor Place, London, SJVJ."

 




THE ANIMALS’

FRIEND

fem/dry, I940

 

Patrons—T HE COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON,

 

2 8t 3 GEO. 6. Experiments on Dogs.

.,.- g5
,, ,

BILL

Prohibit experiments on dogs.

BE it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with
the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the

authority of the same, as follows: ——~

1.———(1) From and after the commencement of this Act no person
shall perform or shall aid in performing any experiment on any dog,
with or without the use of anaesthetics, and no person or place shall be
licensed or registered respectively under the Cruelty to Animals Act,
1876, for the purpose of performing any such experiment.

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall be
liable on conviction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the case
of a ﬁrst offence to a penalty not exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and in the case
of a second or any subsequent offence to. a penalty not exceeding one
hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
months.

(3) Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 187 6, in so far as it
relates to dogs, is hereby repealed.

2.~——(1) In this Act the expression “ experiment ” includes any
inoculation or injection or infection or demonstration on a dog for any
pathological, surgical, physiological or other purpose other than that
necessary for restoring the health or well—being of a dog, whether or not
a licence in respect thereof is required under the Cruelty to Animals
Act, 1876.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Experiments on Dogs (Prohibition)
Act, 1939, and shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January
nineteen hundred and forty.

SAVE OUR DOGS”
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN.

(Under tbe aurpz'eer of The Seems/7 Tail— Waggerr’ Club.)

THE EARL OF BUCHAN,
OF BUCHAN. ; ~"

Hon. Dzreefor and Treasurer—MISS N. IVORY

A.D. 1939.

Prohibition
of experi—
ments on
dogs and
penalties.

Interpreta—
tion, short
title and
commence—
ment.

ROSALIE, COUNTESS

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill
(introduced by Mr. Groves, M. P. ), and ask them to give it their

support.

Write for Petition Forms
'Edinburgh—qo, Queensferry Street.

to Miss Ivory.

London—7, Haymarket, Court, Haymarket SW. 1.

 

4 Trinted in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill. Surrey,

for the National Council for Animals'

Vv’elfare, 26, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W.1.

 

 




