MEDIUAL EXPERIMENTS ON
HUMAN BEINGS.

 

 

(Reprinted from THE ZOOPHILIST, August and September, 1893.)

THE following experiments are taken from a broelwre* by one
Dr. Koch—recently published in Germany :--

OUR RE CRUITS.

For a right understanding of the information to be given
in this chapter, it is necessary to state brieﬂy the position
which the tuberculin question had assumed in January, 1891.
The storm of enthusiasm which greeted Prof. Koch’s discovery
had already passed its zenith. The numerous deaths which
had occurred with remarkable suddenness after inoculation
made prudent doctors pause. No less a man than Prof.
Virchow had given a check to the general ardour by recording
that in the “ Charite ” 27 deaths had occurred, and that his
assistants had reported a still greater number of fatalities at
other hospitals. Cases were made public in which healthy
parts of the lung had become tuberculous after inoculation.
At Munich a consumptive patient died shortly after inocula-
tion, and at Innsbruck a young girl died in the same way. At
Berne a young woman who was suffering only from slight
lupus at the elbows, died after a few injections ; the autopsy
showed no tuberculosis, but hyperaemia of the lungs and
brain. Ten deaths under similar circumstances were reported
“at present” from Freiburg. The son of Herr Simon, of
Elberfeld, died after successful inoculation, and a watchmaker
from Wollstein went out of his mind and had to be taken to
the asylum at Ovinsk. Whether he died there is not reported.
In the hospital at Buda two deaths had occurred “ up to this
time.” One of the victims was a woman, aged 85, only
slightly tuberculous, whose symptoms became seriously
aggravated after the sixth injection, death occurring in a
short time. At Cannes an English girl died after being
inoculated at Berlin. Besides these, three patients died at
Berlin, and single cases of death were reported from various
parts of the country.

Professor Schrotter, of Vienna, stated that he had treated
20 patients, but had not perceived the slightest result. Prof.
Schnitzler, also of Vienna, reported three cases in which

 

9“ Airztliche Versuche an lebe‘n Mensehen, Qﬁ'entliche Anklage wider
Prof. Dr. Ziemssen and Andere (Medical Experiments on Human
Beings; an indictment against Prof. Ziemssen and others). By
Dr. Koch. Leipzig, M. Vogt.

 




 

2

pulmonary tuberculosis had increased considerably after
inoculation. In the case of a man aged 30, a fresh focus of the
disease arose in the pharyngeal space, with large tubercular
nodules such as had never before been described in medical
literature. Even Dr. Kundrat, the Professor of Pathological
Anatomy,who visited the patient,had never before seen this form
of tuberculosis. The young man wasted to a skeleton, and
suffered excruciating agony, being able to take liquid nourish-
ment, only after the surface of the tubercles had been anaesthe-
tised. At a meeting of the Dermatological Society of Paris, the
six dermatologists of the Saint Louis Hospital reported their
experiences with Koch’s lymph. They had not a single cure
and scarcely a case of improvement to record, but on the
other hand serious symptoms had arisen such as fainting,
continuous albuminuria and haematuria, baldness, 850. Dr.
Hausemann reported twelve fatal cases, and was driven to
the conclusion that the treatment was liable under certain
conditions to lead to an acute outbreak of miliary tuberculosis.
Prof. Weber, at Halle, treated 55 cases without a single cure.
He also, in common with numerous other doctors, denied
even the diagnostic value of the remedy. Dr. Liebmann, at
Trieste, showed that after inoculation with Koch’s lymph,
tubercle-bacilli were present in all the blood passages, which
was not the case with patients not inoculated. Lastly,
Dr. Cornet, at Berlin, who had the most ample material at
his disposal, maintained a profound (though sufﬁciently
eloquent) silence.

All the foregoing experiences with tuberculin were already
made public when the idea presented itself to the doctors of
the Royal Garrison Hospital at Wurzburg of experimenting
on the recruits under their charge with the virus. Dr. G.
Port, assistant physician at the hospital, himself acknow-
ledges that at ﬁrst the doctors were “ not quite clear” on
what supposition the experiments were undertaken, since the
febrile reaction sometimes set in and sometimes remained
absent, both when tubercle was and was not present. This
uncertainty, and the dangerous character of the virus, did
not, however, prove any hindrance either to the beginning or
the continuation of the experiments. Dr. Port himself says,
“The fact that tuberculin has in exceptional cases (l)
dangerous effects would not absolutely forbid its use for
diagnostic purposes if only its diagnostic value was established
beyond doubt. Unfortunately, in this respect also, we had to
recede from our original convictions.” In order to put these
“ original convictions ” to the test, experiments were made on
44 RECRUITS. These poor fellows had to remain for three
weeks in hOSpital to recover from the after-effects of the
virus, and in many cases their symptoms were seriously
accentuated by the inoculation. We select as examples the
following cases :—

Recruit Johann Schr. (2nd Lancers). Had simple bronchial
catarrh. Was inoculated three times. After the first and

 

 

 




 

3

second injections crepitant rales were audible, and after the
third a noticeable dulness.

Recruit Josef H. (2nd Lancers). Resonance impaired over
the right apex. On the fourth day after the third injection,
crepitation was heard at both apices, which was still
audible when the patient was discharged, after 16 days in
hospital.

Recruit Johann G. (5th Infantry). Respiration bronchial
at both apices, with frequent harsh and whistling sounds.
After four injections, the dulness and adventitious sounds in-
creased at the left apex. At another spot in the lungs a
fresh deposit formed, and over the Whole of the right lung,
especially at the apex, the expiration became harsh and
numerous rales were audible. The patient was discharged
after twelve days.

A SIMPLE METHOD.

The research workers wished to cultivate the Lepm bacillus,
but were at a loss to know where to ﬁnd the necessary
material for its cultivation. The bodies of animals were un-
suitable, on account of the tissues being too ﬁrm and therefore
capable of resistance, and on the other hand Lepra, was not so
common among men as to provide sufﬁcient material for all
those interested in the research. What was to be done ‘2 “ For
these reasons,” so runs the report of Dr. A. Farrat, of
Madeira, and Dr. F. Christmann, of Zornhof—Zabern, “we
tried to produce a satisfactory material artiﬁcially.” To this
end various methods were tried before the best was discovered.
First of all, patients with tubercular skin diseases were chosen
and blisters were applied to the tubercles. This experiment
failed because all the patients so treated found the blisters un-
bearable, and by the third day at latest had rubbed them off.
The result was that the bacilli were only found in ones and
twos, and then only after the tubercles had been pierced with
a curved needle.

After this failure, a man (whose name is prudently
withheld) was found who had a tubercular nodule on the
fore-arm. Into this nodule turpentine was injected—not to
cure it of course, but merely to breed bacilli. “ There arose
quickly and accompanied by much pain,” so write the
above-named doctors, “a large swelling of the whole arm,
not involving the axillary glands. The swelling was ‘ as hard
as a board’ to the touch, and showed no signs of diminution
until the third day. On the eighth day an abscess began to
form about 12 cm. long by 3 cm. wide. On the twelfth day we
opened this abscess by a small puncture, and drew out about
40 com. of creamy pus, smelling slightly of turpentine.
Microscopical investigation discovered in each preparation
some 10 to 20 chains of bacilli—a result which was the less
satisfactory, since there was no therapeutic effect whatever
to record.”

 

 




 

4

Meanwhile the poor object of the experiment .seems to
have died, though the writers express themselves 1n a very
roundabout manner on this point. Moreover they were still
unsatisﬁed, as they had not found nearly sufﬁcient bacﬂll.
And now we turn to the question, Where did Dr. Farrat
and Dr. Christmann procure the human material for these
experiments ?

Dr. Goldsmith in Madeira provided this material for them by
passing on to them the patients whom he had inoculated with
tuberculin unsuccessfully. Such was the treatment to whlch
these poor pe0p1e, who hoped to be cured by tuberculin, were
subjected—invalids whose bodies were so weak as not to be
able to bear even the injection of the tuberculin virus.

WHAT ORPHAN CHILDREN ARE GOOD FOR.

011 the 12th of May, 1891, Dr. Carl Jansen delivered a
lecture before the Society of Swedish Doctors at Stockholm,
in which he recorded the results of experiments made by him
on charity children with reference to vaccination. We take
what follows from his own lips :—

“I chose Ivariola Ivaccina as the disease best suited for
experiments. The microbe was certainly unknown, but no
one doubtedthat the disease was caused by one. . . . Perhaps I
ought to have ﬁrst experimented on animals, but these best
adapted for it—namely, calves—were hard to procure and to
keep on account of the expense, and for this reason, by kind per-
mission ‘of the head hysician, Professor Medin, I began my
experiments on chil ren in the Foundling Hospital at Stock-
holm, thinking that I might perhaps experiment on animals
afterwards. My intention was to collect as much as possible
of the variolous pus, to sterilise it, and then to inoculate
with it children who had not been vaccinated, after which
their immunity from small-pox would be proved by vaccina-
tion. I wished also to experiment with other ﬂuids taken
from vaccinated patients, such as blood and milk. Further,
I purposed at different periods after the inoculation to see
whether by injecting these ﬂuids I could arrest the formation
of the pustules (i.e., hinder the children’s recovery! . . . . I
began my experiments in June, 1888.”

Here follows a long description of the method of inocula-
tion :—

“In order to see,” he continues, “how the pustules
developed, I vaccinated the same children day after day, until
I perceived some result. Altogether I vaccinated 14. children
in this manner. I also injected sterile lymph into children
suffering from small—pox, at various periods after the ﬁrst
inoculation, but with no result except that apparently the
progress of the disease was accelerated.”

These experiments with numerous variations, were con-
tinued for about a year. “For several reasons” (which are

 

 

 




 

 

5

not given), Dr. J anson then suddenly discontinued them and
began experimenting on calves.

“ The ﬁrst calf had to be slaughtered at the beginning of
the experiments . on account of diarrhoea setting in.” But;
Dr. J anson preserves a complete silence as to the fate of the
14 charity children. “I discontinued the experiments chieﬂy
because I did not think I could accomplish my object without
too large a number of experiments, and moreover the animals
were very argrensa’ve.” On the other hand, he declared that
he discontinued the experiments on children “ with the intention
of recommencing them when an opportunity occurred.”

 

EXPERIMENTS ON THE INSANE.

In the year 1890 an extensive series of experiments was
made with virulent poisons on the inmates of the Valduna
Asylum (Vorarlberg, Austria). The drug used was Hyosoinum.
Sulphurimm,—'i.e., the juice of the henbane seed mixed with
sulphuric acid. The poisonous properties of henbane are
well-known. In the present case it was mixed with sulphuric
acid, and with this compound experiments were made on the
helpless lunatics, not in order to cure them, but merely to
prove the action of this hellish poison.

We take our information from the report (which was not
intended for the public eye) of the doctor who conducted the
experiments, but whose name is unfortunately not given.
“ Besides opium, morphia, chloral, and sulphonal,” he writes,
“ hyoscin and codein were also tried at the end of 1890. The
hyoscinum sulphuricum was used in subcutaneous injections of
0'1 mg. to 1'2 mg.” '

Among those experimented upon, “only six were beyond
doubt incurable.” The others were more or less healthy
subjects. The experiments lasted for periods varying from two
to nine weeks in each case.

“ The injections were always given in the back, and in the
neighbourhood of the puncture inﬂammation accompanied by
pain was very frequently set up, lasting in many cases for
eight days. The patients complained of great dryness in the
mouth and throat, loss of appetite, nausea, and choking sensa-
tions. They drank astounding quantities of water without
experiencing any appreciable relief. In one case the injec-
tions had to be discontinued after a fortnight on account of
the patient refusing all food in consequence of dryness and
severe nausea.”

“we could seldom induce sleep, to last even for an hour
or an hour and a-half at most. In many cases, instead of
any sedative effect being produced, the excitement was
materially increased.”

“ The patients, as they staggered about with troubled and
often emaciated faces, produced a most alarming impression,
and ﬁnally isolation was zmavo’ic‘lable.”

 




 

6

“ During the treatment with hyoscin they all suffered from
loss of appetite, and lost from one to two-and-a-half
‘kilogrammes in weight according to the duration of the
experiments.”

“Further, while we seldom meet with any resistance on
the part of the patients in cases of injection with other drugs
(how often may not the insane be used for experimental
purposes without their knowledge 1), in injecting hyoscin the
application of force was necessary in almost every case.” Not
content- with experimenting with poisonous drugs on these
insane people, the doctors bound and gagged them and made the
injections by force ! Nor is this all. “ Some of the patients,”
reports the doctor, “begged and implored us not to use this
painful method.” But that the experiments were discontinued
on account of these appeals is not reported.

And what was the ﬁnal result of these experiments ‘2
“ The results,” we are told, “ in no case gave any encourage-
,ment to further trials, so that we were obliged to give up the
hyoscin treatment. We could discover absolutely no beneﬁts
from it, while the evil effects were evident. We came to the
decision that the use of hyoscin in cases of insanity is simply
1n3ur10us.”

 

AN INDICTMENT OF PROFESSOR ZIEMSSEN, OF
MUNICH.

One day in the year 1878 a charwoman from Pless, in
Upper Silesia, Katherina Seraﬁn by name, entered Dr.
Fischer’s Clinic at Breslau. She was a small woman, 42 years
of age, of medium strength, and pale complexion. On her
left breast was a large tumour, and with the patient’s
consent an operation was performed by Professor Fischer and
the neoplasm was removed. As the ribs were involved, a
large portion of the anterior costal wall was also taken out,
leaving an opening about 9 cm. broad by 11 cm. high, which
exposed a space about the size of two, ﬁsts, with a depth of
9 cm. As was to be anticipated, such an operation could not
be performed with impunity. Pneumopyothorax supervened,
i.e., presence of air and suppuration in the pleural sac. This
terrible disease is generally a “ tragedy quickly played out,”
as Kunze appropriately says. The present case, however,
thanks to the great recuperative power of the subject, resulted
in a cure, and in March of the next year Dr. Kolaczek, at that
time assistant in the Clinic at Breslau, was able to exhibit
the (xivoman at the Berlin Surgical Congress as completely
cure .

Since Frau Seraﬁn’s heart was fully exposed to view by the
operation, it was of course not only permissible to observe its
action, but to a certain extent the uncommon nature of the
case demanded such a proceeding. But that the so-called
“sacred ” Science should make ezqieriments on the human

 




 

.-7

heart is not only not permissible, but is stamped as a crime
by the laws of humanity as well as by the penal code. This
poor woman was in the eyes of Science merely an interest
1ng case, and was placed on the same level with the wretched
animals in physiological laboratories. ’

Scarcely had she recovered from the operation when Dr.
Grutzner began his experiments. The woman was made to
lie on her right side, and the doctor took cardiac tracings on
a revolving cylinder. He even ventured to fasten his tambour
by means of small pieces of cork on to the heart itself I

When sufﬁcient experiments had been made on the woman
at Breslau, she was sent by train to another University, for
soon after we ﬁnd her in the hands of Professors Filehne and
Penzoldt at Erlangen, who made various experiments on her.
Finally, she suddenly appeared at the Clinic at Munich. It
is evident that a working woman, just discharged from the
hospital, could not have made two long journeys at her own
expense. Professor Ziemssen himself says that the above-
named professors at Erlangen “ were good enough to send
Frau Seraﬁn to Munich ”—a journey costing about 15s. It
is not clear where the money came from. And when we con-
sider further that she was unﬁt for work when she arrived at
Munich, and incapable of earning any money, the only
explanation is to suppose that someone else (and we can
guess who it was) paid for her, but only the railway fare for
she arrived at Munich quite penniless. Under these circum-
stances she could hardly do otherwise than betake herself to
the Clinic. We have, therefore, this remarkable state of
things. A charwoman is exhibited in Berlin as perfectly
cured, she then suddenly makes a journey to Erlangen, with-
out a penny in her pocket, earns nothing there, makes a
second long journey to Munich, and arrives there in a condi-
tion which prevents her from earning her living, so that her
only safety lies in Professor Ziemssen’s Clinic.

Here, in one of the most celebrated Clinics of the present
day, Frau Seraﬁn was tortured with one experiment after
another till death released her.

But we will proceed vwith the history of the case. The
woman was admitted into Ziemssen’s Clinic free of charge, an
extraordinary circumstance considering how difﬁcult it is for
an ordinary mortal to obtain admission on any terms. In
August ( 1878) she became homesick and went back (at whose
cost ?) to Pless, but strange to say she soon returned (at
whose cost ‘2) to Munich, and now the most extensive experi-
ments were made upon her. The following record is taken
from Ziemssen’s own report :—

Frau Serafm sat in a comfortable high arm-chair, so that
the head of the operator came to about the level of her neck.
In this position everything that occurred in the cavity could
be observed and all the instruments (I) applied in the safest
and most convenient manner. Ziemssen now felt the heart
and neighbouring organs with his ﬁnger. The diaphragm; was

 




 

"-8

directly percussed (6.9., not through the chest wall,) and the
heart was directly auscultated, the arteries of the lung were com-
pressed and the lung also directly percussed and auscultated.
Ziemssen also took cardiac tracings, using very small
tambours so that several could be placed on the heart at the
same time. These experiments, as Ziemssen reports, were
continued for many months, and were accompanied by others
on the cardiac reactions to direct stimuli, electrical and other-
wise, and were also extended to the functions of the phrenic
nerve. Pressure was applied to the superior surface of the
heart ﬁrst with the ﬁnger, and afterwards with the end of the
percussion hammer or the tambour. Ziemssen even took
hold of the heart from behind with three ﬁngers and pressed
it against the breast bone, and in a lateral direction to the
right. And what was the result of all this cruelty ?
Ziemssen himself answers the question, “ Under the
highest possible pressure, which, of course, was only main-
tained for a very short time, emphatic delirimn cmvlis set in,
the sphygmographio tracings showing complete absence of
rhythm.”

‘ “Another series of experiments was made to observe the
effect of prolonged compression of the arteries, and the sudden
increase of pressure in the aortic system caused thereby, on
the action of the heart and especially of the left ventricle.
Frau Seraﬁn lay on her back, one assistant compressed the
two femoral arteries, another the two subclavian arteries,
while I (Ziemssen) managed the tambour on the heart. Of
course both the assistants applied the pressure simultaneously,
at a sign from me ..... Here I may mention that the
Woman’s pulse was very weak, even in the largest arteries,
owing to her small amount of blood.”

“ But surely,” some of our readers will say, “Professor
Ziemssen made some valuable discoveries, so that Frau
Seraﬁn did not suffer altogether in vain ‘2 ”

It is a characteristic thing about all these experiments that
they were absolutely without value to the cause of medical
science. We have the very best authority for saying so, viz.,
Professor Ziemssen himself—“ The only effect,” he says, “ of
this compression of the four chief vessels was that the pulse
became rather slow! ” And again—“ But we cannot ascribe
any particular value to these experiments, since the pain
caused by the compression, as well as a certain amount of
agitation consequent on the procedure, were quite capable of
exercising an inﬂuence on the heart’s action.” What answer
can Professor Ziemssen make to our indictment, since he is
convicted by his own confession—a confession, certainly, only
meant for an exclusive circle ?

But the experiments were not at an end yet. The phrenic
nerve was stimulated, and afterwards the heart itself was
treated in the same manner, ﬁrst with an induction current,
and then with a continuous current, the eﬁect of the latter
operation being to raise the pulse to 140-180 beats per minute,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

the normal number being about 70! Naturally this con-
tinuous stimulation of the cardiac muscle produced terrible
disturbances in the circulation. Fungous excrescences of the
ankle bone arose, followed soon after by necrosis in the bones
of the foot. An operation was repeatedly proposed, but the
poor woman ﬁrmly refused all surgical interference, and death
supervened on the 15th of August, 1881.

This was a disappointment to Professor Ziemssen, as he
“ wished to check the results of his experiments by repeating
them from another standpoint.” The early death of Frau
Seraﬁn prevented this contemplated repetition of all the
experiments.

 

We now come to the second case of human experiments
performed by the same Professor.

On May 28th, 1885, a well-developed boy, 10 years old,
August Wittmann by name, was admitted into the Royal
Surgical Clinic at Munich. He had a tumour on the left side
of the chest, egg-shaped, and about the size of a man’s ﬁst.
This neoplasm was removed on May 30th by Professor
Helferich, together with four ribs, so that the pericardium
and part of the pleura were exposed to view. Wittmann
made a speedy recovery, and on July 13th a movable metal
plate was ﬁtted over the opening. In the summer of 1886 he
was thoroughly examined, and it was found that the ribs and
sternum were re-forming and the aperture gradually closing
up. As it was very possible that this process would continue
until the opening was entirely closed, experiments were begun
with all speed. Dr. Richard Heigl was the ﬁrst to commence
operations. He says, “ Geheimrat von Ziemssen was good
enough to allow me to use the apparatus, belonging to the
Clinical Institute, which had been used in the experiments on
Frau Seraﬁn.” But this was only a prelude to the experi-
ments made by Ziemssen himself. He reports as follows:
“ After the wound had headed, I kept the boy at the Clinic, and
had an opportunity of again proving the results obtained from
Frau Seraﬁn, and besides checking the earlier experiments, I
made further researches with a view to determining accurately
the time occupied by each of the phases of the cardlac
cycle.”

The instruments and appliances used by Ziemssen on this
second human subject were mostly the same as already
described in the case of Frau Seraﬁn. The parts accessible
were the anterior surface of the right and left ventricle, the
left auricle and the pulmonary artery. The left segment of
the diaphragm, “which was exposed in so wonderful a way
in Frau Seraﬁn’s case, was hidden from sight and inaccessible
to the touch.” '

Ziemssen mentions the “favourable anatomical condition
of our ﬁeld of experiment,” and expressly speaks of it as a
“ healthy heart.” This is important, for it is well-known that

 




 

10

Professors Hahn and Bergmann endeavoured to excuse their
experiments on people with cancer, on the ground that death
was in any case not far off. Besides this the cardiac reaction
of mammalia to all the stimuli applied in this case has long
been known. Professor Ziemssen had, therefore, absolutely no
sound. excuse for the experiments made on Frau Seraﬁn and
Adolf Wittmann.

But let us proceed—

“ The noticeable acceleration and irregularity of the heart’s
action were Without doubt affected by the anxiety and excita-
bility of the patient at the sight of the apparatus. The ﬁrst
time the electric registration was to be utilised, the Whlrl of the
battery combined with the sight of the blueish light of the
evolved sparks, frightened him so much that he fainted away.”
Then something unexpected happened: the boy’s parents must
somehow have got wind of the matter, and they suddenly
fetched him from the Institute and took him home. Ziemssen
seems to have made several attempts to get the boy back
into the Clinic, but without success. But he did not deSpair,
and though the methods by which he attained his end are
obscure, he ﬁnally “ succeeded,” during the winter of 1888-89,
in again securing the boy, who was now 14 years old and
strong and healthy.

In company with Dr. von Maximowitch of Warsaw,
Ziemssen now instituted researches on the heart’s movements,
both under normal conditions and also under the inﬂuence of
alcohol, chloral hydrate, and digitalis!

“As we said before, the irritability of the heart was very
noticeable, and we were well able therefore to observe the
variations and period of each phase due to emotional inﬂuence,
as also the action of alcohol and digitalis, and the time
taken by the cardiac cycle under the inﬂuence of a strong
dose of alcohol.”

The boy was made to take 300 g. (more than half a pint)
of sherry within ﬁfteen minutes, the result being that in half
an hour the pulse rose to 112 per minute. Ziemssen gave him
also digitalis, in doses of T15 g. three or four times daily, so that
the pulse went down to 62-68. Even this was not enough. In
four days two full grains of digitalis were given, until the pulse
remained continuously at 62. People whose heart, either
suddenly or for a long time, beats very slowly, become
restless and uneasy—as all who suffer from diseases of the
heart know only too well. And so it was in this case; the boy’s
nervous anxiety often showed itself in bitter ﬁts of weeping,
which at once provided opportunity for further experimenta-
tion. The result of this emotional excitement, “ accompanied
by tears,” as Ziemssen reports, was to raise the pulse to
100-112. The effect of chloral hydrate on this emotional
state was now tested, the dose being 1% g. The natural
effect was to send the boy into a deep sleep. But while his
pulse during normal sleep was 72, it now, under the inﬂuence
of the drug, became 76. But as Professor Ziemssen remarks,

 

 




 

11

“the experiments on this point are not yet ﬁnished ”—which
shows that the intention was to make further experiments -
with chloral hydrate—a drug capable of reducing the most
healthy brain to a state of insanity. “We hoped,” says
Ziemssen, “to be able to study the effects of other drugs
(0.9., coffeinurn natro-salicylicum, cocain, and strophantus) on
the heart, but we were unable any longer to prevent
the boy’s return home, so were obliged to hold these questions
over for later investigation.”

 

 

 




tintnria (Street and @ninnatinual . Swim ﬁur the
aﬂmtatiuu nﬂ @nimalt ﬁrms Emigration.

OFFICES: 20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, SW.

 

Vice-Presidents.
THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF ENGLAND.
THE DUKE 0F PORTLAND. THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.

The MARQUIS OF BUTE. LORD CARDROSS.

The MARQUIS OF HERTFORD. LORD CONGLETON.

The MARQUIS OF WORCESTER. LORD LEIGH.

The DOWAGER MARCHIONESS 0F ORMONDE. , VISCOUNT POLLINGTON.

The EARL OF DELAWARE. LORD RADSTOCK.

The EARL OF DARNLEY. LORD ROBARTES.

The DOWAGER COUNTESS OF PORTSMOUTH. Her Excellency LADY PAGET.
VISCOUNT SIDMOUTH. , Rt. Hon. JAMES STANSFELD, MP.
The BISHOP OF BATH AND WELLS. The ARCHBISHOP OF TUAM.

The BISHOP OF MANCHESTER. Hon. EVELYN ASHLEY.

The BISHOP OF LIVERPOOL. The DEAN OF LLANDAFF.

The BISHOP OF SOUTHWELL. SIR GERALD CODRINGTON, Bart.
The BISHOP OF WAKEFIELD. WILLIAM ADLAM, Esq., F.S.A.
The BISHOP SUFFRAGAN OF COVENTRY. FRANK MORRISON, Esq.

BISHOP BARRY. ROBERT T. REID, Esq., Q.C., MP.
BISHOP CRAMER-ROBERTS. REV. CANON WILRERFORCE.

The BISHOP OF NOTTINGHAM.

Central Executive Committee.

The LADY ABINGER. W. S. LILLY, Esq., LL.M.

MRS. ADLAM. MISS MARSTON.

MRS. ARTHUR ARNOLD. REV. J. MATTHEWS.

LADY EDITH ASHLEY. MISS S. S. MONRO.

REV. J. P. BACON-PHILLIPS. MRS. FRANK MORRISON.

MRS. BARRY. The LADY MOUNT-TEMPLE.

ERNEST BELL, Esq, M.A. JOSIAH OLDFIELD, Esq., M.A., B.C.L.
EDWARD BERDOE, Esq., L.R.C.l’. MRS. JAMES PENDER.

ALEXR. BOWIE, Esq, M.D. F. E. PIRKIS, Esq., R.N., F.R.G.S.
The Hon. MRS. R. C. BOYLE. MRS. LLOYD PRICE.

MISS OLIVE BRYANT. LESTER REED, Esq, F.C.S., F.I.C.
The COUNTESS OF CAMPERDOWN. MISS ELLEN E. REES.

JOHN H. CLARKE, Esq., M.D. REV. F. S. ROSS, B.A.

MISS FRANCES POWER CORRE GEORGE W. E. RUSSELL, Esq, M.P.
J. E. COOKE, Esq. REV. J. H. SATCHELL.

MRS. E. M. JAMES. MARK THORNHILL, Esq.

REV. FRANCIS G. JONES. LADY WINDSOR.

MRS. LEYCESTER.

Hon. Treasurer.——HON. BERNARD COLERIDGE, Q.C., M.P.
SeCretary.——BENJA MIN BRYAN, Esq.

Assistant SCOTCtﬂIYr-SIDNEY G. TRIST, Esq-

HE object of the Society is the Total Abolition of the practice of Vivisection as

deﬁned in the Report of the Royal Commission.

Those who sympathise With this Object are most earnestly entreated to aﬁord the
Society all the help in their power, by subscribing, and inducing others to subscribe,
liberally to its funds ; by Obtaining Signatures to Petitions to Parliament ; and also
by disseminating the publications of the Society, and especially its organ THE
ZOOPHILIST, wherein the latest information respecting the Anti-Vivisection agitation
is to be found.

Member’s Annual Subscription, 103. Life Membership, £5. Subscription to
THE ZOOPHILIST, the Organ of the Cause, 33. 6d. per annum, post free.

PEWTRESS & Co., Printers, 28, Little Queen Street, High Holborn, W.C. 9.93.

 

 

Price, 201.; 1s. 8d. per doz. ; 123. per 100.

 




