BS—2II-19B BS: 599M FROM 9I8 842 5494 TD 12I23389478

WW, 3005;;

F...)

April 1
ZﬁéZ/Christineu-

This is the final draft for ad. I've whittled it from 9 pages

to 4 (this copy is 1 1/2 spacing for easier reading, and amounts
t0 4 single space. A few comments:

I've run this and former versions past a fair sampling of people,'
including my dad, who was a journalism major; a doctor; a former
administrator of FoA not unfamiliar with the trapping issue

(she used to be my assistant); and my sister in law, who knows
little about it.

A consensus: When too truncated, people were confused. They
had many questions about the process, how this could happen,etc.

All but one thought it was important to spell out how FRC is
corrupt.

I've
made the language more.casual, and have explained the E.U. law
in more layman's terms. I've stressed that Kantor is pretending

to work through standards process, while doing everything to
ensure use of leghold traps.

 

Most of all, I've eased up on Clinton. Several people said
, earlier versions were hitting him too hard, and he might
.dig in his heels, so I've made him an almost innocent bystander.

This will easily fit on one full page. My processor fits far
fewer words on each line than computers. Plus, the wording
on last page can be stretched along the entire bottom of page.
The footnotes can be in fine print, etc.

I know there are varying opinions on length of ads. I also.know
that without the three full page ads we took in NJ, there would
be no law. While I can't lay my hands on at least one that

I saved without going through 19 shopping bags, they were all
at least as long or in one case longer than this one. All
achieved the desired result -- two produced unasked for
editorials in support of our position. In sum, I'm not a
political ad expert, and don't pretend to he. I have had
practical experience in what actually works. People know the
trap is bad. What works is discrediting its proponents at fish

and game. This ad will work, and I'm prepared to go to the
mat for it.

Sue

 




 

 

PRESIDENT CLINTON, user's WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

An unseemly ~- And Unpublicized -- Trade Dispute. .The
instrument that so terribly injured the raﬂtoon in this
photograph is called the steel~jaw leghold trap. By most, it
is considered an abomination.

' Outraged by the suffering he had witnessed, Charles Darwin
called on Englishmen to act against "so fearful an amount of
suffering." Arguing that there can be no justification for

barbarism, Sir Winston Churchill sought, and won, its abolition
in'England.

The European Union, and 73 other countries, including Russia,
won't tolerate its use.l-The European Union has banned leghold
traps in member countries, and is trying to prohibit importation
of certain furskins from any country ~— including the U.S. --
that has not ended use of the traps, nor adopted internationally

agreed humane trapping standards.

78.6% of Americans strongly disapprove of leghold traps.§V
Against the will of its own citizens, your government —- the

Clinton Administration -- is pitted against the European Union
in an escalating battle to destroy the import ban, and to retain
use of this punishing, archaic device.

(36' Mi”: 57”
There is still no federal law bahning leghold traps in the United
States. The problem is not the American people. The problem
is our government. And the problem has just gotten worse.

President Clinton and Vice President Gore Say One Thing...

Mr. Clinton wrote a concerned constituent: "I've always loved
and respected animals and abhorred any cruelty toward them.
Please be assured that the Clinton Administration would be
extremely sensitive to these issues and concerns."

 




85-28-1988 I8: 219M FROM 988 842 5494 TD 12'23389478

.I’

In the Senate, Al Gore co-sponsored legislation to outlaw steel-
jaw traps. On the record, Secretary Babbitt has called for
the trap's prohibition.

...And 0.8. Trade Representative.Mickey Kantor Does Another.

At the behest of anti-environment Representative Don Young (R—
AK), the only former trapper in Congress, Mr. Kantor has pulled
out all stops, including the threat of a World Trade Organization
challenge, to kill Europe's humane import ban.

Disingenuous? Sidestepping opprobrium associated with lobbying
for a despised trap, for amputated feet and compound fractures,
Mr. Kantor merely states that he is working through the humane
trap development process.

What he doesn't say is that he has put the trap's few
cheerleaders in charge of the entire process.

0.8. "Humane" Trap negotiating Team; Only Trappers Heed Apply.

In a likely violation of the Federal Fairness Advisory Committee

Act, USTR has abrogated exclusive control of negotiations on

internationally agreed trap standards to a handful of trappers.
“M”

Trappers are intent on classifying leghold traps, explicitly

disallowed by the European law, as "humane."

The Trauma Scale. When last seen and heard from, before the
trap standard process became secret, the U.S. contingent was
promoting the Trauma Scale reprinted in this ad.

Each injury has been assigned points, or an injury score,
attaching a numerical value to animal pain and suffering. The
scores cannot be cumulative. If an animal sustains multiple
injuries, as is often the case, only the higher score will apply.

 




t

USTR says it does not know if these injuries are still being?
advocated in secret talks now underway with Europe and Canada CNNdxibq
Mo). Pubic M052“:- Wt
.101, mus) Advice from a Leading U. s. Negotiator to wrappers: Keep irour Mamas
Leghold Traps: The chairman of another U.S. trap development £d2zf'
group is also editor of "American Trapper." He has advised
readers that draft standards will allow leghold traps, and has
instructed them "not to throw away any traps."

Leading.Mr. Kantor by the Nose.Cmgaﬁnglnternational Association
of Fish and Wildlife Agencies," a quasi-government outfit that
lobbies for game bureaucrats and industries that profit from

the exploitation of wildlife, is dictating policy to Mr. Kantor.
Conflict Of Interest. The IAFW's Fur Resources Committee is
comprised of ten state trapping managers who are paid from
trapping license fee revenues. Until recently, fur trade
lobbyists were members of the Committee, along with the

government employees who regulate the trade.

Under the mantle of presumed government objectivity, the

committee is the brainstem of fur trade opposition to banning

leghold traps in the United States. It regularly aSSiStS the
industry in attempts to overturn state laws banning leghold

traps in court. It undertakes extensive lobbying against humane

trapping laws, permitting the industry to keep its hands clean,
or unbloodied, in public.

Under the Rock of the Fur Resources Committee. Its leader,
Gregory Linscomhe, is a game manager, or state employee, from
Louisiana who works closely with the Woodstream Corporation,

a leading manufacturer of leghold traps, the traps so directly

affected by the E.U. import ban. Woodstream is located in
'Pennsylvania.

M

j

 




es— ' 4.938 11: mm FROM 9-3 842 5494 To 12623389478 P. 211

C9. {ks m it, mi 1 95; Q4 90: m

' Mr. Linsoombe coordinated a series of flawed ”studiee," or tests

on live animals, used by the fur trade during its failed legal
challenge to New Jersey's law banning steel-jaW'trepe.

When eupporting the Woodstream trap at trial, Mr. Lineoombe
was proved to have ignored many reports by trappers of broken
lege, "wring-off," when an animal lunges and twists until the
sharp edge of the trap jaw erodes thorugh tendon and bone,
severing the foot from the leg, and chewed-off feet.

He also met with a Woodstreem official and provided the scoring
information to him, a meeting Lineoombe denied having. ‘After
the meeting, the Fur Resources Cbmmittee decided to change the
acering information to reflect digit amputation and to reduce
the points associated with that injury. Mr. Linsoombe claimed,

under oath, that these changes Had been made before neoropsiee
had been performed.

Polluting the Prooees. Cohtemporaneoue with representing the

v.9. in the deVelopment of etandards to replace leghold traps,
Fur Reeouroe Committee moﬁbers instead passed a resolution
"eupporting continued and¥1ega1 use of legholﬂ traps."

Other documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act
oonfirmed Committee membere’, or government employee,
pertieipetion in public relations evente sponsored by the
International Fur Trade Federation in Europe. The furriets
were lobbying to kill the 3.0. imyert ban.

The Quadrapartide Working Gﬂip: an: Expert Group Negotiates

Humane Trap Standards -— In Secret. With USTR'S approval,

a small panel was formed, based on the exclusion of anyone but

steelujaw trap advocates, to reach a consensus on trap standards ‘

With the Eurozseane and Canadianesm (Mi. Mmﬁmﬁ '10 WWﬁVWQW
*ﬁa; EMAkAtC-~

Nb Animal ﬁein Experts Allowed on.ﬁ.3. Panel. Wildlife

 




 

veterinarians, rehabilitators, ethologista and he

. uraphysiologista
wart summarily rejected for 0.8. panel participat

ion.

.And Who Heads the v.3. Panel? Gregary Linscomba.

additions to the graup watt handpicked by the Fur R
committee.

Lattr
esources

Expertg At What? While prominent wildlifa veterinarians* and
nther scientists can't get near the trap atandard devempment
pracess, state game managers and trade cohorts are writing the
rulea. But game managers have no training in the petcaption

0x evaluation of animal pain, and that is what tha international
nagctiations are all about.

Haw Farmer Fur.nesautce cammittee Chairman Aasesses Aﬁimal Pain.
Committee mambtts hava opanly mocked eXparts' assertiona that
animala art sentient and feel pain:

"I don't believe there is a scientist or a
veterinarian in this room that undexstands
an animal's perception at pain, and until
these animals can talk in our languaga, I
don’t btlieve they thr will."

w Duane Put-slay, Former Chairman WYWW’
Fur Resourcég Committee
(Congttssionai Taitimony
ﬁgrial No. 98~470)

Membexg of U3TR’8 "expert group" are expert at out thing:
labbying against state, feﬂeral and international efforts to

ban steel—jaw traps, and trying to overturu demacratiaally
legislated prwhibitions —- aven in ather countries. The

compasition of this group is no accident; It is Mr. Kantor's
policy,_anﬁ it is against the public will»

$.3tratﬁwhtm.¥$11cv with an ﬁanndation. the Denartment af

 




A.8trongq3um Palicy With no Fbundatinn. The Department af
Cammerge repart$ only 2099 individuals listing hunting and
trapping (cambined) as an uaaupaticn. The faw remaining fur
daalexs export U S. j¢bs by shipping raw fura ta cheap labnr
marketa, such as the Daminican Republic, ﬁat manufactura. The

European Uniwn states that the exyoxts at issue tatal, at most,
$6 million a year.

When the average living wage of Americans has remainad stagnant,
and rapid changes in the economy are creating widespraaﬁ anxiety,
the Administration's expenditure 0f stafﬁ, funaing, energy and
international goodwill on a fraction cf a small part Of a
marginal traaa 1% difficult to understand.

m FUR Immune-E (3014“me DOES mm REPRESENT m rmnkumqnms
cw MIME: mo omega LEGHDLD mm , 1mm IT me a: «menu:
2mm mamas . 1:5: 3:3 mm: mm m mamsmm am 5mm mm;

9mm CDHTAE’E Pmazmmr czmmou 11301333, new mmmonn , E-HAII. ,
LEWTER 0R FAX {inﬁert,heré}a

ﬁSK W PRESIDENT EEK}:

~~~H0n0r U.$. majarity opinian anﬂ drop USTR’$ threat 0f a
Warld wrada Organization mhallenga and auyport the Euxapean
Unicn Impart Ban an skins £20m animals caught in steeleaw traps

———Diamant.3a the biasnd, ukdrat "Quadrapurtide Wbrking Graup"

and uppwintc wild ff veterigar n5, rehabilitatcra, at hologists
and nuuraphnwloiog st battaz suitad to rapreaant 093+ viewa
and agsess &nimal pain

wm-Investigata the Fur Rmmugrces dammittea anﬂ government
emplcyaék'tias ta the fut trade

1.

7B ccuntrias are confiwmad as banning steel—jaw leghold

+vana‘

1R uﬂA-i-ﬁ-Ilnnn'l nnnni-w-laa human». anhdclna his... 131 w -1: ....-....‘.

 




1. 70 countries are canfirmed as banning steel-jaw leghcld

traps. 18 additional countries hava notifiad the E.U. 0f such.
prahibitions. .

2. "Public Attitudes Tcward Critiaal Wilﬂlifa and Habitat ﬁat“
Issues." Yala Schoal Gf Foreatry anﬂ Environmental Studies..

3. Unaffiliataﬂ with state gama agencies Or the fur trade.

 




