l . WW5“ ~' _ ,
M 01..., ,, ear

The Cruelties of Seal Hunting.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

The average woman who buys a seal skin coat has never
heard or read anything about the cruelties connected
with its procuration. If she knew the gruesome
facts she would refuse to purchase such garments, not-
withstanding their attractive display in the shop windows
of London and other great cities.

Many women have already decided for humane reasons
to deny themselves the luxury of wearing this handsome
fur, because they have been made acquainted with what
takes place on the seal grounds; and their number will
rapidly increase as the truth becomes more widely
disseminated. For the ‘higher-self ’ will speak to each
one with imperiousness concerning the responsibility
and bloodguiltiness that is connected with, personal
participation in such systematic and ruthless exploitation
of the fur seal as is now taking place.

The wearing of seal skin is not a necessity; many
beautiful imitation furs and seal plushes are now being
manufactured which in appearance resemble the natural
skins so closely as to be almost indistinguishable. Con-
sequently there can be no excuse for the patronage by
cultured, humane and sympathetic women, of the horrors
of the seal trade.

An independent eye-witness, Capt. Borchgrevink, who
makes no profession of humanitarian principles, described
what takes place in an article in the Century Magazine——
stating as follows :—

“As a rule the slaughter and skinning of the seals were most
barbarous, bloody, and hideous—unnecessarily so. Specially cruel is the
task when seal-pikes are used. Only rarely does a seal die from one
or two blows of the pike, and if it is not dead it is generally con-
sidered ‘all the better,’ for it is easier to skin a seal while it is
half-alive.”

Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N., has corroborated Captain
Borchgrevink’s statement. Here is what he says in the
“ Story of the Arctic Ocean ”: -—

“I write of what I have seen over and over again without being
able to prevent it, for the excitement and the sight of the blood
seems to turn our fellows into ﬁends incarnate for the time being.
Take this one day’s sealing as an example :—-The ice was strewn thickly

 

 




/ f .

with baby seals, and not even a lamb itself is more lovely or innocent-
looking than one of these. . . . Barring the wee black nose and
the jet black tender loving eyes, there is hardly another feature dis-
tinguishable, so well has Nature wrapped them up against the cold.
They never attempt to move off—they can’t. One blow from the sharp
end of the club and the baby is weltering in its gore. The skinning
takes place immediately, the blubber and skin being removed together,
and often pieces of the dark and quivering ﬂesh. The killing of the
young creature before ﬂensing is humane enough. But this is not always
done. Oftentimes the baby is only partially stunned, and when ﬂayed
may be seen to roll in agony on the snow. But beasts in shape of
human beings at times skin them alive! And I have seen these fellows
pitch a living ﬂayed seal into the water to see whether it would move
off or not. It would be speedily put out of its agony anyhow by the
numerous sharks that always attend at sealing times. On this par-
ticular day I frequently saw the gunners trample on a baby seal to
bring up the poor mother who heard it cry. She was then ruthlessly
killed. Could anything be more brutal or less humane? "

Professor Gambler Bolton, in a letter to the Editor
of the thtehall Review, writes :—

“As if it were not sufﬁcient to skin the poor creatures when they
are only half-dead, because of the wretched seal, in its agony,
writhing away from the skinning-knife, thus making the task easier
for the human wretches who adOpt this method, I am assured by an
eye-witness that when this takes place in the close neighbourhood of
the waves, the half-dead seals are thrown or kicked back into the
water to die, and so as to be out of the way of the killers, who are
busy with other victims. . . .

I could tell of even greater horrors; . . . of pregnant seals
ripped open (although out of coat themselves, and, therefore, useless),
but the foetus torn away from them to make the extra soft and
delicate foetal sealskin, prized even more highly than the foetal Llama
and Astrachan skin (all, by the way, obtained in the same manner);
and until the law steps in and with a ﬁrm hand once and for ever
puts down these cruelties, by punishing with imprisonment anyone
found dealing in these foetal skins, and by appointing inspectors to
watcih the seal islands carefully and continually, they are certain to
cont nue. ’

Evidence such as this-which can easily be augmented
from contemporary literature—shows quite plainly that
fur seals are not infrequently skinned alive.

The extent of the massacre that takes place, and
consequently the cruelties involved, may be partially
realized by the following statements :—

An article dealing with the commercial aspect of the
question which appeared in the Graphic contained the
following :—

“Twenty steamers, with an average crew of 200 men, or 4,000 men
in all, get among the seals, which are found huddled together on the
ice. Each man, armed with a ‘gaff’-—a pole with an iron crook at one
end—begins the slaughter . . . 300,000 or more of these animals
are thus slaughtered in three or four days. The carnage is great and
the work cruel.”

Professor Davis Starr Jordan, a United States Com-
missioner says :—

“More than 600,000 fur seals have been taken in the North Paciﬁc
and the Behring Sea. . . . This means the death of no less than

£3.72“
“-33,.191”,

, .. , t :1: 4:31} y

 




 

400,000 breeding females, a starvation of 300,000 pups and the destruc-
tion of 400,000 pups still unborn. . . . In this calculation account
is taken only of those of which the skins have been brought to
America; no record of the animals lost after having been shot or
speared is available, although the number is known to have been
very great.”

Mr. Joseph Collinson in his book, “The Fate of the
Fur Seal,” says :—

“Those who have visited these seal rookeries state that the crying
of the young, bereft of their mothers, is most heartrending, and that
it would be almost impossible to imagine anything more distressing
than the fate of the abandoned motherless seal pups . . . they do
not know how to swim and are too feeble to take care of themselves,
so they are simply allowed to starve slowly to death on the frozen
snows. It is said that it takes ﬁfteen to twenty days, more or less,
to starve a baby seal to death.”

An extract from Professor D’Arcy Thompson’s Report
is as follows :——“The carcases of dead pups, starved and
emaciated, increased with appalling rapidity until 12,000
were counted by the Assistant Agents.”

Apart from the other horrors, the driving of multitudes
of seals over the ice to the killing grounds is a brutal
business; no mercy is shown, time is of value, and the
seals succumb to exhaustion in large numbers. Frank
Buckland, a Zoologist and soldier, said concerning seal-
driving :—“This is the ﬁrst thing I have ever seen that
realizes my youthful conception of the torments of the
condemned in purgatory.”

“However well regulated,” says Sir George Baden-
Powell, “the method adopted of driving fur seals must
be cruel and destructive.”

Dr. William Gavitt, who has lived many years in
Alaska, and has seen the cruelties of the seal industry on
St. George Island and elsewhere, wrote a description of
the distressing sights of which he was an unwilling eye-
witness. “The ﬂying of the eyes from the struck seal,
the crush of the skull, the ﬂow of blood, the sobs of the
dying, and the brutality of the heartless and careless men

)1
was awful. /h ’05 ,0,

Those who demand this fur cannot evade their respon-
sibility concerning the suffering that is inﬂicted to provide
such barbaric decoration. Let me therefore invite every
humane and cultured woman who reads this leaﬂet, and
who is now aware of what is going on, to exert her
inﬂuence in favour of the Ideal of ‘ A Humane Life ’—and
to set an example in this matter by manifesting maternal
compassion and humane and aesthetic sentiment.

Sidney H. Beard.

 

E AhPLEA FOR THE HORSE

very one will work better dl ' '

alrlnple meals. daily; plenty of put: w2t1°§;§§;25“si'2.2? ‘

s argued in slippery weather; a » blanket in cold ‘ ‘0
wetat er ; a stall 6 x 9 or enough room to lie down ~ a fly
rife ngzlmgeﬁt; tﬁvolzveeks vacation each year. 'Avoid
which “:18be u: dilgssfem’ and closely fitting blinders,

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 




Q ,g:
a ‘\

THE HUMAN-E DRE$§JLEAGJZIE

J y, .s S

o '9 s
Ebe ®rber of the @Lbenﬂge

In“:IInI“Inlﬂgpﬂﬂlglunniul V. , ,.

The Council of The Order invite all nﬂéﬁs who are interested

in humane ideals to further the Humane Dress MoVement
by joining the above League. so as to build up a consensus of
public opinion which deprecates the needless and cruel slaughter
of animals and birds in order to procure skins, furs and feathers
for use as dress materials.

Imitation furs, including Astrachan, Broadtail, Caracal,
Seal, Mole and Beaver, are now available, which in appearance
and warmth are quite equal to the natural fur.

Imitation reindeer and suede gloves are now made in con-
siderable variety, which so nearly resemble natural skin gloves
as to be indistinguishable.

Imitation leathers of all colours and textures are also available
for covering furniture and books and even for making boots
and shoes.

Samples of these articles, etc., can be seen, at any time between
the hours of IO am. and 5 p.m., at the Ofﬁces of The Order; and
the Honorary Secretary of the Humane Dress League can be
interviewed on Wednesdays between 3 and 4 p.m., or at other
times by appointment.

Humane Millinery of an artistic sort, made either without
feathers or skins, or with imitation furs and with feathers
which are a waste product, can also be obtained from reliable
ﬁrms who are in sympathy with this Movement, and are
ready to provide facilities for humanitarian dress.

Full particulars can be obtained from the Honorary Secretary
of the League.

Members of the League undertake to abstain from the use of
skins, furs and feathers, the procuration of which directly causes
cruelty and slaughter ; and also to use their inﬂuence to promote
the Objects and Ideals of the League. The minimum subscription
is Two Shillings and Sixpence per annum. which entitles Mem-
bers to receive regularly the Ofﬁcial Magazine of The Order,

THE HERALD OF THE GOLDEN AGE.

Illustrated. Quarterly. Price Threepenee.
(Circulation in forty-eight Countries and Colonies.)

Together with copies of all Booklets and Pamphlets issued in connection
with the Humane Dress Movement.

T he following Leaﬂets for distribution are now ready and other: will/allow .'
The Cost of a Skin. Prof. Howard Moore. ... 1/- per hundred.
The Crueltiee of Seal-Hunting. Sidney H. Beard. 1/- ,,
Barbaric Millinery. ” a, I/- ,,

A Humane Dress League. 1/- ,,

THE ORDER OF THE GOLDEN AGE,
153. 155, Brampton Road, London, S.W.

 




