DR. LEFFING'WELL

SANARELLI’S YELLOW FEVER EXPERIMENTS.

 

The following letter of Dr. Lefﬁngwell on this subject has
been published in the Boston Transcript, U.S.A. :—

“ To THE EDITOR OF ‘THE ’I‘RANSCRIPT.’

“ It seems to me that the entertaining correspondence of the
Transcript recently deserves more than a passing notice, A
certain named physician in charge of a quarantine station,
boldly carrying into practice what others have taught, has been
making experiments upon human beings in place of animals ;
experiments involving torture, inﬂammation, delirium, and
ﬁnally collapse, ending in death. All the awful symptoms of the
disease, thus inoculated, he tells us he has seen ‘unrolled
before my eyes, thanks to the potent inﬂuence of the .
poison made in my laboratory.’ It is absurd to fancy that the
subjects of these experiments knew what was done, when for
the relief of some triﬂing ailment they submitted to the prick
of a needle, and were devoted to death. If anything could add
to the supreme horror belonging to such a crime, it is that
disguise as a physician under which this scientiﬁc murderer
did his work !

“It would be interesting to know how this bit of scientiﬁc
intelligence has impressed the majority of your readers. Your
correspondent, in that enthusiasm for scientiﬁc discovery
which makes his contributions to your columns so often of
exceeding interest, seems to me to forget for a moment the
claims of humanity; for he characterized the discovery by this
doctor’s experiments as ‘ certainly a magniﬁcent achievement.’
Yet he admits that it is murder, and that people Who are
somewhat vaguely referred to as ‘unscientiﬁc persons,’ may
be‘disposed to criticise such experimentation.’ Does this
imply that scientiﬁc persons are not so inclined P Is it, indeed,
as your correspondent bluntly tells us, ‘a question’ whether
scientiﬁc murder be a pardonable crime? At the close of the
nineteenth century have we reached a point where murder for
any purpose is really a matter of ethical Controversy? Must
condemnation of such deeds be relegated to the despised Class
of ‘ unscientiﬁc persons ’ P In short, is it possible for science to
put a gloss upon the most cowardly assassinations that the
imagination can conceive ?

“You may fancy such questions t00 extreme in their
signiﬁcance; I am not so sure but that they have pertinence
to our time. The Marchioness de Brinvilliers in the guise of
a nun, testing her poisons on the patients Of Parisian
hospitals in 1667, is one picture; the American physician
watching, hour after hour, the agonies of his victims is her
counterfeit presentment in 1897. Undoubtedly we are

 




2

approaching a new era, full of mysterious import for
humanity. The old standards of right and wrong seem to be
passing away. The vivisection of animals has been pushed
to its utmost limits; there are no new torments to be devised
every conceivable phase of agony has been inﬂicted again and
again. Must science, then, be condemned to fold her hands
before problems yet unsolved? What—except a certain
sentiment of pity inculcated by the Cruciﬁed One—prevents
science from making experiments upon those useless members
of society to whom your correspondent alludes as the ‘lower
orders of the people’ ; the pauper sick, the friendless, and the
outcast poor, that are always with us? May not Lazarus
contribute to discovery as well as his dogs? Mysterious
hints as to justiﬁable extremes are not wanting. In the
Popular Science Monthly of just a year ago, one of the most
distinguished vivisectors of Massachusetts, evolving from his
inner consciousness a new theological dogma, boldly pro-
claimed that ‘God clearly gives to man every sanction to
cause any amount of physical pain which he may ﬁnd
expedient to unravel His laws.’ ‘The aim of science,’ says
another scientiﬁc writer in the New York Independent of
December, I895, ‘is the advancement of human knowledge
at any sacriﬁce of human life. If cats and guinea-pigs can
be put to any higher use than to advance science we do not
know what it is. We do not know of any higher use we can
put a man to. . . . A human life is nothing compared to a
new fact.’ Probably both of these writers would indignantly
disclaim the imputation of encouraging murder; but why was
language employed of such sweeping signiﬁcance? Experi-
ments like these you publish are by no means unknown, but
it is not often that they are so boldly described.

“For myself, I have no language at command sufﬁciently
strong to‘ phrase my opinion of a man who, in the garb of a
physician, could be guilty of such a crime. I believe that
such experiments would be equally condemned by the majority
of the medical profession in the United States—not connected
with laboratory work. But private disapproval is not enough ;
and at no distant day I venture to hope that the Massa-
chusetts Medical Society, which has so strenuously opposed
all legislation regulating the vivisection of animals, may, by
formal resolution, set the seal of its equal disapproval upon
murder as a method of scientiﬁc discovery.

“ALBERT LEFFINGWELL, M.D.
“ Hamilton Club, Brooklyn, N.Y., Oct. 7.”

 

 

PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.

Price, %d.; per doz., 5d.; per 100, 35.

 




