 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oeloéer, I942

ANIMAL

Photo by]

THE

An Aﬂgiy Tree Hymx.
IV/Jen aﬂgm! 2‘.ng f/mé open and .r/Jm‘ [/10 white pate/J 072 #26 bad: w/Jz'e/y 2'5 ordinarﬂy I'm/'z'xi/i/e.

Price 3d.

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR A‘NIMALS’ WELFARE

32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, RIUSVVELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.
Subscription for One Year, p057 free, 3/6

9

 

[LL—Col. C. H. Slockley.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

T E ANIMAL S’ F RI EN I

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND 2': fables/Jed mane/99 by flee National Cennei/ for Anz'nza/y’ Welfare
at Queen’s Lodge, '32, Queen’s Anenne, Mam/ell Hill, London, N .IO, and all eenenznnz'eaz‘z’eny
negana’z'ng flee magazine Inez/[d be aa’a’rewea’ 2‘0 f/Je Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

 

 

Vol. XLVHI.

 

October, 1942
CONTENTS.
Page Page
STORY OF “ THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND ” AND FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTEBOOK . . 204
~ I?
1;; [EARLY CAMPAIGNS’ THE' jemey 6 ,WHALES. Bdnzand G. Ban/0222 . . . 205
6M6 . . .v . . . . I ,
, , 9 ANIMALERS. Clean/e5 A. LVerz‘aeez‘z‘ . . 206
TESS OF THE DURBERVILLES. Zine/near ,
Hardy . 7 197 EPITAPH FOR A PET s CEMETERY . . 207
CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL LOVER. BIRD PROVERBs AND SAYINGS. E. G.
Geeffney H. Ben/ken . . . . 198 Ban/0222 ~ ° ' - . - - 7-07
LORD SELBORNE’S PARROT . . . 199 IS THE VERMIN—GIBBET JUSTIFIED IN A
’ T . 3 4"»- r ;
LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS, THE . zoo JEEZMECRATIC COJNTRY' F] M Hdﬂé’
. . . . . . . . . 208
HATS OFF To CEYLON’S WATER—BUFFALO.
5. V. O. Sawdﬂgdgy‘ , . _ . zoo SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
\WISDOM IN EATING. See/[a Lz'ef . . 205 OF VIVISECTION, THE - - - 7-09

The opinions expressed by Contributors to this hiagazine
are their own and are not necessarily held by the Editors.

 

 

 

 

 

National Council for Animals’ Welfare

World Day for Animals—St. Francis Day,

Many schools have written for posters,
leaﬂets, emblems, to help them celebrate
\Vorld Day for Animals in their schools on
October 4th, and several have written enthusi—
astically of the humane teaching and example
that is given in their schools.

Animals’ Friend Calendar.

The Calendar is now ready and orders are
being dealt with as rapidly as possible. Since
the advertisements appeared last month we
have been informed that new regulations as to
Purchase Tax are to be enforced, as a result of
which the cost to us will be increased by 3d. on
every Calendar which we have printed.

As we have already advertised the Calendar
at 15. 5d. each, and many people have ordered
copies and some have already been sold at this
rate, we are not proposing to increase the
price. If, however, anyone who has already
purchased or ordered a Calendar would like-to

help the Council further by sending the extra
cost involved, i.e., 3d. per Calendar, we should
be most grateful.

The Animals’ Fair.

This is to be held at the Caxton Hall on
Friday and Saturday, December 4th and 5th.
Several Societies have already announced their
willingness to take a stall; it is hoped to
organise a Brains Trust to answer questions
on animals, and there will be other attractions,
not the least of which, we hope, will be the
refreshments balcony.

Gifts of every kind are required for the
stalls and for the refreshments. Please send
to the Secretary, N.C.A.W., 52, Queen’s
Avenue, only such things as are intended for
the Council. Gifts for other societies should
go to their Headquarters. Admission will be
IS. on both days, times of opening 10.50 a.m.
to dusk.

LEONARD J. CATHER,

Hen. Seenez‘aiy.

194

-— __-_ A -g-_

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

October, 1942

Notes and Comments

Singing with Mouth Full.

We have had two answers to the question put to
our readers last month about the possibility of birds
singing with their beaks full.

Miss M. L. Colbert writes about the blackbird who,
sang with a worm in its mouth :—

Opposite my bedroom window a pair of black-
birds have built their nest for the past three years;
during the winter I feed them and they always come
and sing a good-night song.

It was some time during the month of June I think,
when Mr. and Mrs. Blackbird had their youngsters.
I was looking out of the window when Mr. Blackbird
ﬂew on to a spile (wooden post) with a worm in his
mouth; suddenly he began to sing; my astonish—
ment was great and I looked round to see if another
bird was singing; no, no other bird was in sight.
On closer observation I noticed the rise and fall of
the little throat : the song was not of long duration
and not so clear as the usual song. He ceased as
suddenly as he had started, rested a moment and
then took the worm to the young birds. It may have
been his delight after a spell of dry weather to have
been able to ﬁnd a worm, or it may have been the
ﬁrst worm his babies had had. '

After all, why should not a bird sing with its
mouth full; when I was very young I was told it
was bad manners to speak with my mouth full. If
I could do that, why not a bird?

Mrs. Boyer, the energetic secretary of the Deeside
Animal Welfare Society, after giving an account of the
tame tits, chaﬂinches and other birds who eat from
her hand, says :—-—

Our blackbird has been seen with a beak load of
ﬁve or more pine kernels, with perhaps one or two
grubs, singing a few phrases on the bough of an
apple tree before dropping down to the nest in a
near—by hedge to feed his brood. This I have seen
several times. I don’t think if he were giving a star
performance on the topmost twig of his favourite
tree that he would dream of doing such a thing.
Except when feeding young, a bird would not hold
food in his mouth for any length of time. He
would gobble it quickly. The leaf referred to in
your paragraph was probably nesting material, and
at the height of the breeding season birds are just
bubbling over with song.

Catholic Study Circle for Animal Welfare,

Mrs. Dixon Davies has sent us a notice of the Catholic
Study Circle, which prints a letter from His Eminence
Cardinal Hinsley giving his blessing and good wishes.

\ .
Its aims are :—

To explore and collate Catholic teaching and
tradition on the duty of caring for animals and to
make these better known. Its aim is to review our
relations with the creatures of God in the light of
His Will and Purpose for them and us. To try to
learn, from the teaching and customs of the Church,
the Holy Scriptures, and the example of the Saints,
how God would have us think of His creatures and
treat them.

Prospective members (Catholics) should for the
present write to the Acting Secretary, Miss B. V.
Locock, 7, Campden Grove, London, W.8, enclosing
subscription 23. 6d.

195

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Vegetarian Recipes.

On page 203 will be found a few recipes which con-
cluded Mrs. Lief’s article on Diet and for which we
had no space last month. These should be specially
useful to those folk who are only just beginning a
“less meat ” diet and who may have to face a “ no
meat ”regimen very soon, judging by Lord Woolton’s
recent warning that meat ships are fast ships which
may be needed in the near future for something more
urgent than transport of meat! How difﬁcult it is for
us vegetarians not to chuckle when we hear these
things! Also when one reads :

“ An ox eats as much as ﬁve men and requires ﬁve
times as much land for his support.”
human ﬂesh food, is one of our most wasteful national
enterprises.”

“ A hundred acres of average grass land produces
food which would meet the requirements of twenty
people. If the same hundred acres are subject to the
plough, the food produced would meet the require-
ments of eighty people.”

(From the Arnold F. Hills Memorial Lecture for
1929 by Rennie Smith, B.Sc., M.P.)

Trade Union Rules for Donkeys.

We are very glad to know that the R.S.P.C.A.
espoused the cause of the donkeys who were to be
bought to give rides to children in municipal parks
as part of the stay-at—home holiday scheme. A charter
was drawn up by the Royal Society which gives the
donkeys an eight—hour day, with Sunday oﬂ‘,‘and a
lunch time break for food, water and unsaddling. We
hope many such charters will be drawn up in the future
for the many animal workers who do as much work
as their human brothers and yet have no wages, no
political rights, no trade unions.

King’s Cock Crower.

The English Court no longer boasts a King’s Cock
Crower, but formerly, from Ash Wednesday to Easter,
it was the duty of such an official to crow the hours
every night in the precincts of the Palace, in obvious
allusion to the story of Peter’s denial of Christ. George
II, on the ﬁrst Ash Wednesday he spent in this country,
imperfectly acquainted with English language and
customs, was startled when the crower entered his
presence and imitated the cock’s cry. Suspecting an
insult, he sprang up to strike the crower, and was only
with difficulty appeased. After that it was thought
wiser to abandon the practice, but the King’s Cock
Crower found a salaried place in the Royal Household
until 1822.

E. G. B.

A Successful Bluff ‘

The most successful bluﬂer I ever met was a tiny
ground squirrel in Manitoba. He had been ﬂushed
out of the grass by a collie. Over the grass he ﬂashed
and in among some low vegetation. There he made
trilling, whistling noises which seemed to spring from
here, there, and everywhere. It sounded as though
there were a dozen ground squirrels in that patch, and
the poOr old dog stood amazed, wondering which one
to attack first. While Prince was making up his mind,
the whistling stopped abruptly. The wonderful little
ventriloquist had safely reached and descended a bur-
row. It was a superb bit of bluff on his part.

(From Wild Animal: at Home. By Harper Cory,

F.C.G.S. 7s. 6d.)

. animal husbandry, the raising of animals for '

.J‘wV' :’--’< ‘

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Story of “The Animals9 Friend” and its Early

October, 1942

Campaigns—Part 2

By JESSEY WADE.

At York House.

When Messrs. Bell’s ﬁrm moved to more spa-
cious premises at York House we were able to
expand our own special quarters, where I am
sure many will remember the Editor’s pleasant
Saturday afternoon “ At Homes,” where we
discussed freely and informally our problems,
where speakers on special subjects kindly gave
addresses, on one occasion the teachers’ group
greatly appreciating Mr. J. F. Gould, of the
Moral Education League, who gave “ A Model
Lesson.” There would be tea and exhibition
tables of our latest leaﬂets, wall pictures,
kindness cards, etc., and the Lending Library
was freely open to all. As many as 50 members
and guests would gather there and many
offers of voluntary help resulted.

The children’s magazine meanwhile was
progressing well although we missed the pen
of Miss Edith Carrington, whose failing health
obliged her to retire. Her charming animal
stories are still remembered.

Not to be outdone by the big ANIMALS’
FRIEND, the “ Little ” became organisers of
meetings and public entertainments, and ﬁrst,
in the name of “ Black Beauty,” the Holborn
Town Hall was hired and someone told his
story with the beautiful lantern slides. And
at our next party we gathered a large audience
and performed Mrs. Suckling’s play, “The
New Law Court.” Mr. Bell, duly arrayed in
correct legal robe and wig, took the part of
the judge, while on another occasion, in scarlet
gown and white, ﬂowing beard, he was the
“ Old Father ” in a little play for children,
“ Little Father Christmas.”

What a helpful and willing “ Chief” he
was to work with! Never once did I know
him refuse to back up any little project that
seemed possible, but it was only because of
such “ backing ” that my occasional castles in
the air came to fulﬁlment.

Performing Animals. '
Amongst the bigger campaigns place must be
given in this story to our long and arduous
ﬁght against all shows where trained animals
were in the bill. A newly formed League
(Performing and Captive Animals Defence)
had been started, but was homeless. Mr. Bell
took it in and put it on its feet. \We had a

busy time, attending weekly advertised shows,
making protests tomanagers, bill posting and
what not. At least the League was the means
of attracting so much attention that a Select
Committee of Enquiry in the House of
Commons was set up in 1922, for which we
secured witnesses and much was revealed
which shocked decent—minded people. But
such are our slow progressive moves—it was
not until April, 1926, that a “ Regulation Bill ”
was passed ﬁnally and it gave less than half
of what was wanted. One noble lord declared
that “ the Bill was the outcome of the visit of
excitable women who formed themselves into
bands to visit circuses, where they howled at
the trainers of performing animals.

“ And Cats.”

It seems strange that friends of animals
waited so long before they set up any head—
quarters for these so often ill-used and
neglected, harmless and necessary members of
the feline race. The desire to raise their
status became evident and the Cats Protection
League, now so efﬁciently established at
Slough, can claim as its nursery the ofﬁce of
the ANIMALs’ FRIEND with the Editor as its
Treasurer.

In course of time came another knock at
Mr. Bell’s hospitable door, the response to
which was, “ Come in and welcome,” as usual.
Then entered the group of people who wanted
a special league for the suppression of all the
cruel sport in vogue, from rabbit coursing to
stag hunting. This movement was started
and has since branched out under separate
titles, and has been one of the hardest battles
to ﬁght. -

Likewise the hard lot of the poor ponies
in mines had to be dealt with-at York House
at the start, and to-day, under Mr. Jeffrey

\X/illiams’ guidance, it continues to plead for '

their withdrawal from the mines.

The First Animals’ Fair.

With these records of the long ago I think
we should include the experiment made in 1920
of a United Societies Fair which has now
become a hardy annual. The Animals’ Friend
Society and the Performing Animals Defence’
League together undertook its arrangements,

196

 

 

 

 




 

 

Ocloée‘r, I942

inviting ‘ co—operation from all the other
societies working with similar aims. We must
remember it happened some twenty years ago
but the response was very satisfactory and it
was pronounced a success. A

Another ten years rolled on and by that time
inevitable changes had to be met. Mr. Bell’s
long service to the animal cause had earned a
respite and his first care for the future was to
hand over THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND magazine
to the National Council for Animals’ Welfare.
No one could have been found more compe—
tent to become its new editor than Mr. Robert
Spurri-er. Both these good friends have now
gone beyond, but there remains with us still the
same opportunity of carrying on, thanks to
their pioneer work, and we feel sure THE
ANIMALs’ FRIEND will go forward with in—
creasing success, knowing that Mr. Bell would
like us to keep in mind that—to quote his own
words—“ the magazine exists in the interests
of animals only. It is their organ—to supply
for them the advocate which they would de—
mand if they could speak for themselves. That
it has not existed in vain there has been ample
evidence. Through it many who had never
heard of the horrors of vivisection have become
ardent workers for its abolition. More than
one sportsman has been led to think and when
humane thought once enters blood-sports are
doomed. Others, again, have realised that
the only consistent life for a true friend of
animals is that of the abstainer from meat, and
rather than be responsible for the evils to both
men and animals inherent in butchery, they
have adopted the non—ﬂesh diet.”

Maybe it is useful for us at times to take a
look back over our shoulders at the past, with
its failures and successes, so may we hope that
in this case some of us at least can feel

“ There is gladness in remembrance.”

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Tess of the D’Urbervilles

' End of cbapzfer 41.

HE heard a new, strange sound among
Sthe leaves. . ‘ . . Sometimes it was a palpi-

tation, sometimes a ﬂutter; sometimes it
was a sort of gasp or gurgle. . . . Then she
perceived what had been going on to disturb
her. . . . Under the trees several pheasants
lay about, their rich plumage dabbled with
blood; some were dead, some feebly twitching
a wing, some staring up at the sky, some
pulsating quickly, some contorted, some
stretched out—all of them writhing in agony,
except the fortunate ones whose tortures had
been ended during the night by the inability
of nature to bear more. . . . The birds had
been driven down into this corner the day
before by some shooting party; and while
those that had dropped dead under the shot,
or had died before nightfall, had been searched
for and been carried off, many badly wounded
birds had escaped and hidden themselves
away, or risen among the thick boughs, where
they had maintained their position till they
grew weaker with loss of blood in the night-
time, when they had fallen one by one as she
had heard them. I

She had occasionally caught glimpses of
these men in girlhood, looking over hedges
or peering through bushes, and pointing their
guns, strangely accoutred, a blood~thirsty
light in their eyes. She had been told that,
rough and brutal as they seemed just then,
they were not like this all the year round, but
were, in fact, quite civil persons save during
certain weeks of autumn and winter, when,
like the inhabitants of the Malay Peninsula,
they ran amuck, and made it their purpose to
destroy life—in this case harmless feathered
creatures, brought into being by artiﬁcial
means solely to gratify these propensities—at
once so unmannerly and so unchivalrous
towards their weaker fellows in nature’s
teeming family.

With the impulse, of a soul who could feel
for kindred sufferers as much as for herself,
Tess’s ﬁrst thought was to put the still living
birds out of their torture. . . . “ Poor darlings
—to suppose myself the most miserable being
on earth in the sight 0’ such misery as yours ! ”
she exclaimed, her tears running down as she
killed the birds tenderly. . . . “I be not
mangled, and I be not bleeding.” . . .

THOMAS HARDY (1891.)

197

 




 

 

_;‘ “aw-WHManuatﬂ—ohl- ,1) A 7, ., _ , , , ,,,,r , , , , , ,_,A _ .7
n ' ;
l
l
D

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

October, 1942

Confessions of an Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

. Animals and

AN could not survive on this earth

I \/ I without the kind assistance of sub-

human life. Sometimes I have thought

that the animals may one day render a new and

immensely valuable service to our lordly selves

by helping us to penetrate into those as yet

almost entirely unexplored regions which we
describe as the occult.

Take the familiar but utterly mysterious
“ homing instinct.” In the days when I was
touring the country in my anti—Vivisection
caravan, I sometimes had a pretty convincing
demonstration of it. After a journey of many
leagues, it might happen that I pulled up the
van in the market place of some town which
neither I nor my dogs had ever seen before.

Stepping out to do a little necessary explora-
tion of the place, I would naturally take my
four—footed companions with me. ' Having
strolled round for a quarter of an hour it would
quite likely occur that I had lost my bearings
in relation to the van’s parking place. Did I
need to ask the way? Not a bit of it. The
slightest indication of my desire, and the dogs
would guide me back to our mobile home—
by the shortest route, which probably was not
at all the one we had just traversed.

The cleverest scientist in the world cannot
explain how animals do that kind of thing.
One investigator asserts that if a bee is taken
to a point 150 yards due north of its hive and
then released, it at once ﬂies southward. If,
however, it is removed 150 yards due east of
the hive and then freed, it again ﬂies due south;
but when it has covered 150 yards, it hesitates
and circles round until it finds the hive—
apparently by sight and sense.

If this elucidates the return journey of a bee
from 150 yards, it throws no light whatever
on migrating birds which have been proved
to have ﬂown halfway across the world and
then come back the next year to the very same
hedge-row. And the behaviour of my dogs
as described above, if less sensational, is
equally inexplicable.

‘9 9i: =8

Calculating horses and dogs, of which there
are quite a number on record, constitute
another bafﬂing mystery. On this matter two
things can be said with certainty. First, that

198

the Occult.

in most of such cases there could be no legiti-
mate suspicion whatever of human fraud.
Secondly, that the explanation proffered by
some people, to the effect that animals can be
taught in a rational way to do complicated
sums, is almost certainly nonsense.

Those who try to solve this particular
puzzle might do well to remember that human
idiots or semi—idiots are also occasionally to
be met with who can do mental calculations
which would completely ﬂummox a trained
mathematician.

Incidentally, let no one suppose there is
anything super—normal in the pony at the circus
who indicates numbers or letters by pawing
the ground. An ex—clown obligingly ex—
plained to me how it is done—«the trainer or
ring—master whose hand is affectionately resting
on the pony’s neck is secretly pricking it with
a short nail each time he requires a paw.

=5 * 5%

Innumerable are the stories of animals gifted
with the power to foresee and warn against
impending danger.

I was recently told the following, with
assurances of its truth. During those horrid
weeks when a blitz began regularly in London
every evening shortly after sunset, a certain
family was accustomed to sup in peace and
comfort, and then take refuge in the garden
shelter as soon as Minnie moaned. The
domestic dog entered into this arrangement,
and always showed great solicitude in shep-
herding everyone to (comparative) safety.

But one night, instead of waiting until
supper was concluded, the dog persisted in
nuzzling and pawing the members of the
family in turn—urging them just as plainly as
words could have done to come along to the
dugout without delay. This behaviour was so
unusual and so persistent that at length it
created alarm, and the move out to the shelter
was hastily made.

Five minutes after they had quitted it the
house was devastated by a pre—alert high—
explosive bomb.

* a: a:

Personally I am too sceptical of alleged
psychic phenomena to have gained much
first—hand experience of it. \What I am about

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

October, 1942

to relate may have had no signiﬁcance at all,
though I must say it impressed me considerably
at the time.

Twenty years ago, when I was beginning to
hear, faintly and uncertainly at ﬁrst, the call
to devote the remainder of my life to animal
welfare, I happened one summer evening to be
walking meditatively down a grassy country
lane. .

A farm labourer, accompanied by a lad and
leading a cart—horse, caught up with and
passed me. The next moment the horse, for
no apparent reason whatever, toppled over and
rolled into the ditch at the roadside.

It lay still for a short space, then suddenly
reared its head, and ﬁxed its eyes in a pro—
longed and searching stare—not on the man
or boy whom it knew, but on myself. Th en it
sank down again and instantly expired.

Probably it is the idlest of fancies, but at the
time I felt it might be that this poor horse, in
the moment of death, had prevision that I was
to become an animal protection worker, and
that his intent scrutiny sought to discover
signs of my capability to lighten inlsome degree
the intolerable burden of suffering man has
inﬂicted on the equine race.

(Next month : “ Our Parrot”)

 

Lord Selborne’s Parrot

From “ The Star,” Johannesburg, February
27th, 1942.

Lord Selborne, the former Governor of the
Transvaal, who died, yesterday in England,
was a man with a marked religious sense.

He regularly held family prayers and on
occasions would deliver addresses on religious
subjects. His religious inclinations led to an
incident one day when he returned home and
found his daughters out. The favourite
parrot had escaped and the young ladies had
gone into Regent’s Park to look for it.

His lordship found his daughters in the
middle of a large crowd and with an open
cage trying to coax “ Polly ” to come home.
“ Polly ” apparently took a poor view of the
plan and went through all her vocal per-
formances up in the tree, much to the amuse—
ment of the onlookers.

The moment she espied her noble master,
however, she cocked her head knowingly on
one side, paused a moment, then ejaculated:
“ LET US PRAY.”

THE PILGRIM.

199

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Reminiscence by Garth. .

Parrots are knowing birds and live 100
years and more. One in Klerksdorp has seen
the Dorp grow during the last 40 years, and
always greets her old friends with a jocular
remark. Lord Selborne had a favourite parrot :
so did the writer, who went through the same
experiences as his lordships’ daughters. Garth’s
parrot was a small green one brought by his
brother from one of his voyages to the
Philippines or Java, to Bath, England, some
55 years ago. The parrot introduced the cake
walk to the writer’s home circle by accompany—
ing her owner in his violin practices, taking
jazz steps and bowing gracefully at the ﬁnish
of her performance. In the garden, while her
owner was reading, she would be on his
shoulder, playfully nibbling his ear, and
occasionally passing a remark.

But alas I one day she found that she could
ﬂy, and straightway did so, landing on the top,
of a pear tree at the bottom of the garden.
Efforts to induce her to return to her cage were
unavailing, and ﬁnally she took ﬂight to a.
plantation of tall trees some distance from the-
house. To this plantation the cage was taken,
and the owner went through some tree—
climbing exercises that a young South African.
would have envied, and be prepared to emulate:
at any time. All in vain: Polly would not
be cajoled. Night came and the writer had to-
accept the philosophy of Pepys.

Early next the morning the youth- of the

neighbourhood took a hand, but not on entice-

ment lines. A marksman was amongst them,
and a well-directed stone proved the end of
poor Polly.
EDw. H. HOWARD, C.A. (S.A.),,
H072. Secretary,

Klerksdorp, Transvaal,
Branch of the S.P.C.A.

 

 




 

 

 

, . . . «er,m,

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

October, I 942

The League Against Cruel Sports

Semiz‘my: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 239, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.

Hunting to Go On?

The attitude of the Government towards
hunting is not clear. While it urges that all
needless expenditure shall be cut out, it does
not say hunting must stop. The excuse that
it keeps down foxes has been completely
exploded. But permission to start the f0x—
worrying season is conﬁdently awaited.

Further evidence of the uneconomic and
ineffective metyhod of dealing with unwanted
foxes in hunt~ridden districts is provided in

reports of recent annual meetings of Hunts.

For instance, the South Devon, “ carrying on
in the way recommended by the Masters of
Foxhound's’ Association,” killed 59 foxes at a
cost of j€7.29. Can this be considered wise
spending during a period of national emer—
gency?

The Mendip Farmers’ Hunt and the Crawley
and Horsham Hunt killed 41 foxes on 53
hunting days and 40 foxes on 56 hunting days
respectively, while the Taunton Vale Hunt

only accounted for 26 foxes in 57 hunting days.

These ﬁgures compare very unfavourably with
those published by shooting parties, and
reprinted in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

Farmers Support Us.

Attention was drawn to this matter in a letter
from the League to the Press in which readers
were urged to bring pressure to bear on the
Ministers concerned through M.P.s to pro—
hibit hunting in the national interest. The
letter appeared in ﬁfty newspapers.

One Lincolnshire farmer wrote to us to say
that for years he had dealt with foxes in a
humane way without any “ help( .3) from the
hunt.” All the hunt did was to trample down
his crops, leave gates open, make gaps in
fences and terrify all farm animals. He added :
“ The majority of the farmers are behind you
in your ﬁght against this nuisance and
cruelty.”

As we write these notes, we learn that “ the
Hunt authorities are awaiting the permissive
signal of the Government ” to commence
operations. '

The Meet. .

There’s great doings in the villlage at the
dawning of the day,

There’s a hustle and a bustle at the inn.

There are groups of men and horses getting
ready for the fray,

And both men and beasts are anxious to begin.

Oh, they make a pretty picture for Society
magazrnes, ~

With the horses and the hounds, and all. their
elegant array,

And no doubt its very typical of English
country scenes. .

But what can be behind , all this theatrical
display ?

These "“ ladies ” and these “ gentlemen ” with
hearts as hard as rocks,

Are agog to see the life torn from a miserable
fox! ‘

HILDA LEE.

The Future of Hunting.

The following remarks by J. A. Burgess, of
Aldringham, Leiston, Suffolk, which appeared
in Home and Hazmd on September 11th, are
interesting.

“ It is possible that the women of the future
will carry on with horses and hounds if they
can ﬁnd the money and the horses when this
grim business is over, but the boys will most
certainly have nothing to do with it. I have
taught riding for many years, and I ﬁnd boys
are quite uninterested in anything but speed,
and also that they are extremely nervous of
horses, and prefer to do hair—raising stunts on
a motor—bike rather than come within reach of
a pony. I cannot explain this except that little
girls and women ﬁnd something very lovable
in a horse or pony, and men and boys like good
hard steel, paint, and a gallon of petrol best.
. . . Personally I think this is the last ﬂare-up
of the horse, and that they will go for good
when this war is over. There will, of course,
be a few exceptions. Some of us will drop
back out of the mad rush to live and be content
to go slowly with our old friends along roads
which perhaps will be ours again in time, which
may be somewhat distant.

“ As for pony clubs, do not let anyone set
too much store on them as a ﬁrm basis for the
continuation of hunting and riding. You
cannot keep young people doing old-fashioned
things in a modern world, and it is a very small
percentage of England that has the oppor-
tunity of joining the Pony Club. Riding has
been too expensive for Tom, Dick and Harry
even to try it out, and it is they who are going
to arrange the world in the future.”

200

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

0510.56}; 1942

Hats off

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to Ceylon’s Water-Buffalo

By S. V. O. SOMANADER.

 

Photo by]

[5. V. 0. Somanader.

A pair of Buffalae: drawing a cart of coconut logy.

buffalo is a buffalo, and nothing more.

To not a few, even in this small island,
the poor animal connotes everything that is
ferocious or brutal, while there are so many
others who think of it as a lazy, lumbering
brute, or a silly, stupid beast.,

A little reﬂection, however, will show that,
on the other hand, it is a very intelligent
animal———and very useful too. In fact, it can
be regarded as a sine qua no” in the life of the
villager in Ceylon. And yet, how many there
are who shun'it, or treat it cruelly by working
it too hard and injuring its hide by beating it
with a rough stick, or hurt it when it trespasses
into a field, or underfeed it in spite of the
hard work it does! There is no justiﬁcation
whatsoever for this inhuman treatment, especi—
ally when we realise that, if well trained and
carefully looked after, it can be turned to good
use. Let us consider its various uses.

First of all, it is of great service to the
sportsman. Forming a screen between the
hunter and the hunted, it will shrewdly pretend
to graze here and there, and ultimately take
the hunter right up to his quarry, be it a rogue

I' I ‘O the uninitiated and the ignorant, a

Photo by]

elephant which kills people and damages
paddy ﬁelds, or a leopard which lifts cattle.
And, before or after an exciting hunt, a fully-
trained beast will even allow the marksman to
rest his gun on its ﬂank, while he enjoys a

'quiet betel—chew alongside the thick jungle.

It is also a faithful animal; for if the quarry,
say a tusked wild boar, happens to charge the
stalking shikari, the buffalo has been known
to receive the charge full on its horns, and thus
save human life. Also, at times, though the

practice is not so common in this country, it
gives the tired traveller a ride on its back.

 

Fal/gma’ u’il‘l} travel #16 Villager if riding 507716 071 1/26
lmjfa/o’r [rack along z‘be [one/yforerz‘ road.

Not infrequently, trained buffaloes are used
as decoys to capture, conduct, and tame a wild
buffalo which is caught in the forest to be
trained for agricultural work. The ingenuity
they show in this dangerous art is nothing
short of amazing. _

Then, to the rural agriculturist, the yeoman
service the buffalo renders is incalculable. It
ploughs his ﬁeld, it tramples or puddles the
clayey soil soaked by the monsoon rains, and

201

[5. V. 0. Somanader

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

it threshes his har—
vested grain (paddy)
to the music of the
peasant’s songs. But
these are not all.
For when yoked to
the cart, a pair of
them can be used as
draught animals for
heavy work. And,
in forest districts, it
is a sort of caravan
animal which carries,
on its ample back,
sacks and sacks of
wood-apples, lime
fruits, honey or
other forest produce
which are bartered
for cloth, rice, salt,
tobacco, and other
necessaries sold
country fairs or Village bazaars.

Even when slaughtered it is very useful;
for, apart from its meat which is used as food
chieﬂy by Moslem folks, its hide is used in
making footwear, its hoofs for preparing glue,
and its horns for the manufacture of knife-
handles and combs in the Village itself. And
so many times I have found the skeleton of a
buffalo’s head with the horns mounted in the
paddy-fields as a sort of “ scarecrow ” device
to frighten away intruding beasts and birds
which come to spirit away the toiling farmer’s
ripening grain.

Photo by]

 

Photo by]

October, 1942

 

[5. V. 0. Somanader.

Although buffalo milk is not in great demand
as food, it is converted into ghee (a kind of

‘rancid butter) and curd, both of which enter

largely into the dietary of the village family.
~ In the face of all these benefits which the
buffalo confers upon its owner, and the faithful
duties which it renders, who will deny that
this animal is not a stupid, unintelligent, indo—
lent creature which runs to the water at the
slightest pretext, or a ferocious beast unworthy
of kindly treatment P
On the other hand, it is man’s invaluable
ally, and without its help, he will fare very
poorly indeed. That
is why this useful
and resourceful beast
should at once claim
our great admiration
and loving attention.
If we cannot give
such a worthy animal
a square deal, then
we are not “ animal
friends ”—and we
are not MEN.

I

A team of buffaloer

roi/ prior to tbe rowing.

[5. V. O. Somanader.

202

 

paddling f/Je rain-soaked

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

' Orlober, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Wisdom in Eating

By STELLA LIEF

Cabbage Soup or Garbure Gratinée.
A rubrtantz'a/ and delicious Franc/.2 5021p.
I‘cabbage. I sliced onion.
2 sliced carrots. I bunch of herbs.
3 ounces of margarine or nut fat.
Brown bread crumbs.
I quart of water or vegetable stock.
Grated cheese.

Coarsely cut up the cabbage and cook it in the water
or stock with the vegetables and herbs. Drain roughly,
saving the stock.

Take the crumbs and soak in a little of the stock,
and mix with some of the grated cheese.

Into a casserole put ﬁrst a layer of the vegetables,
a sprinkling of grated cheese and pieces of butter, and
then a layer of the crumbs.

Continue until the casserole is full, ﬁnishing with a
layer of Vegetables.

Sprinkle with cheese, dot with butter and brown in
the oven.

Serve the stock separately.

Potato and Watercress Soup.’ ~
3 potatoes. 2 bunches of watercress.
2 cups of hot milk. ,
I ounce of butter or margarine. Salt.
Cook the potatoes and drain, saving the water.
Mash them and add 3 cups of the water.
Chop the'watercress ﬁnely and add it with the milk.
Season with the butter and a little salt. Serve with
brown toast.

A Perfect Salad.
2 or 3 lettuces. I grated raw carrot.
% grated raw beetroot. ~% grated raw turnip.
I grated, washed, unpeeled apple.
3 unpeeled tomatoes.

K little sliced, unpeeled cucumber.
Watercress. Endive.
Spring onions. A few radishes.

Line a salad bowl with large lettuce leaves. Mix the
grated ingredients together and arrange over the
lettuce.

Cut the tomatoes into pieces and the onions into
rings and mix with the cucumber and watercress.
Arrange in the bowl and cover with a thick layer of

lettuce.

 

Decorate with feathery pieces of endive and water-
cress and dot with small, ﬁrm radishes. Serve with
grated cheese.

Alma—It is not essential to have all the above in—
gredients, but the grated carrot and apple should
always be included in a salad like this.

Cabbage and Radish Salad.
' I cabbage heart.
Radishes. Chopped onion.
Shred the cabbage ﬁnely and mix it with the chopped
onion. Decorate with small ﬁrm, radishes and serve
with grated cheese.

Beans (French or Kidney) ‘a la Poulette.
111; pounds of beans.
I ounce of butter or margarine.
2 tablespoonfuls of milk.
I egg yolk.
2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese.
I teaspoonful of lemon juice if obtainable.
Steam the beans. Heat the butter in a pan and add
the beans, tossing them gently in the butter. '
Beat the yolk with the milk and add to the beans.
Stir in the juice and the cheese. Shake for a few minutes
and serve.

American Cabbage.
I cabbage (about 2 pounds).
2 onions. 2 tart apples.
2 tablespoonfuls of margarine. Salt.

Finely shred the cabbage. Melt the fat in a pan and
add the cabbage, the peeled and chopped apples, the
chopped onions and salt. Cover closely without any
water and cook for about an hour, shaking occasion-
ally. .

French Baked Apples.
Apples. Small rounds of buttered brown bread.
Sugar. Butter or margarine.

Butter a casserole and cover the bottom with the
rounds of bread. Core the apples and stand one on
each piece of bread.

Fill the apples with sugar and place a piece of mar—
garine on each.

Roast in a quick oven until the apples are soft.
Serve at once.

N 612/ Form!
P0171235.
Vegetarians All.

203

Niad‘wd-‘AV'J .

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

October, 1942

From Onlooker’s Note Book

WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS—~OCTOBER 4th.

The Day dedicated to St. Francis of Assissi.

'Thought—Word—Deed.

“ It is by our nntiring interest in, and practical
support of all tbat makes for tbe well-being of tbose
addresses by our Patron, Francis of Assisi, as
‘ our little brotbers and sisters,’ tbat World Day
for Anirnals will basten tbe tinie anen tbe rig/its
of animals will be recognised eneryn/bere.”

CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809-1892).

Died October 6th.

“ The death of Tennyson was worthy of his
life,” wrote Stopford Brooke, going on to
say: -“ He died with the simplicity which
marked his life, and yet with a certain conscious
stateliness which was all his own; and these
two, simplicity and stateliness, were also vital
in the texture of his poetry. But his dying
hour, though it has left a noble picture on the
mind of England, is not the important thing.
His life and poetry are the real matter of
use and interest, and its death gains its best
import from its being the beautiful end of all
the work that had gone before it.”

Here is what the one—time Poet Laureate
had to say regarding the horrors of Vivisection,
the extract below being from “ In the
Children’s Hospital.”

“ I could think he was one of those who would
break their jests on the dead,
And mangle the living dog that had loved
him and fawned at his knee
Drenched with the hellish oorali—that ever
such things should be ! ”

A Cat’s Retreat.

Glancing through My Own Times, by Lady
Dorothy Nevill, I encountered this on
page 59 i I

“ There formerly existed at Florence a curious
house of refuge for cats in a Cloister at the side of the
Church of St. Lorenzo. One had only to go there
to find a complete assortment of tabbies, tortoise—
shells, blacks, whites, greys, and every other colour
usual to the race of cats. There might be seen old
cats, middle—aged cats, and cats just budding into
youth—~Angoras and Persians as well as the common
species: in short, every variety of cat was plentiful
in that unique institution.”

Extract from “ The Animals’ Guardian,”
May, 1909.

A friend of the famous eye—specialist,
Charles Bell Taylor, wrote of him: “ He
always. said the truest worship of God was
shown by our love for all living creatures;
and what he felt about animals he felt also
about human beings. . . . On going over his
private papers with his executors I came across
this quotation from a Calendar :—

“ ‘ Doing good is the only certainly happy
action of a man’s life.’ That was his keynote.
. . . He was considerate of even the ﬂies, and
used to say this piece of rhyme when I com-
plained, of them at the dinner table. He cut it
out of the Globe newspaper one summer, and
it struck him very much :

“ ‘ Busy, curious thirsty fly,
Drink with me, and drink as I.
Thou art welcome to my cup,
Tho’ thou sip, and sip it up.
Thine a summer, mine three-score,
When it’s gone it is no more ;
Make the most of life you may—-
Life is short and wears away.’ ”

Thought for the ,Month. -

GRACE HAWKINS (1880—1940), died October
4th. The Founder of the United Humani-
tarian League, was firmly of opinion that

“ The endeavour to justify the perpetration of
immeasurable agony upon an almost incredible and
ever-increasing number of sentient fellow—creatures
by the declaration that the physical beneﬁt of
humanity is the object of such atrocious practices is
an insult to humanity.” ,

ONLOOKER.

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.

I do hereby leave and bequeath to the National
Council for Animals’ Welfare, whose address
is or was at 32, Queen’s Road, Muswell Hill,
London, N.Io, for the use and purposes of the
said Society, the Sum of .................. Pounds
Sterling free of Legacy Duty; and the receipt
of the Treasurer of the said Society shall be a
good and valid discharge to my Executors, etc.

04

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Canter, 1942

 

Whales

By EDMUND G. BARLOW.

“ Even the sea—monsters draw out the
breast, they give suck to their young ones.”———
Lam. iv, 3.

Backscratcher.

A whale had been playing about not far
from us all the afternoon. I had the ﬁrst
watch that night, and was talking to the
Captain on the poop about 9 p.m., when
suddenly the ship shook and vibrated as
though we were ashore. We were both, for
the moment, slightly startled, and exclaimed,
“ Whatever is that? ” The next moment our
friend the whale appeared blowing about a
ship’s length on the port side. “ Why!” I
said. “it must be that whale!” “Yes,”
answered the Captain, “ he’s scratching the
barnacles off his back; they do that some—
times!” “ There he goes again!” and sure
enough the ship shook as before; the monster
repeated it several times before he disappeared.
——Lea7/er from an Unwritten Leg—Book, Walter
H. Parker.

Singular Intelligence.

They rose up through the clefts they had
made to see what was happening—an awful
sight with “ their small glistening eyes, and
their terrible array of teeth—by far the largest
and most terrifying in the world.” . . . It was
a revelation to Scott, he wrote, that these
creatures could break up ice at least two-and—
a—half feet thick, “ and that t/Jey could act in
arisen. . . . It is clear that they are endowed
with singular intelligence and in future we
shall treat that intelligence with every

205

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

respect.”—-Wz't/y Scott to tbe Pole, Howard

Mamba/l.

The Whale.

Wouldn’t you like to be a whale
And sail serenely by,
An eighty-foot whale from your tip to
your tail
And a tiny, briny eye?
Wouldn’t you like to wallow
Where nobody says : “ Come out! ”

Wouldn’t you love to swallow
And blow all the brine about?

\Wouldn’t you like to be always clean
But never to have to wash, I mean,
And wouldn’t you love to spout
Oh—yes—just—think—
VA feather of spray as you sail away
And rise and sink and rise and sink
And blow all the brine about?

GEOFFREY DEARMER.

Disney’s Deer Hunt.

Walt Disney introduces a deer hunt with
hounds in his new creation, “ Bambi,” the
life-story of a forest deer, which came to the
New Gallery Cinema, Regent Street, London,
on August 9th. The film is acclaimed as
Disney’s best ever, and one critic stated that
sportsmen who see it will never want to hunt
a deer again.

Man the Invisible Enemy.

A. E. Wilson’s Show Parade which appeared
in Tbe Star of August 8th, I942, contained
these interesting details with regard to \Valt
Disney’s last full—length film, “ Bambi.”

“ No human being appears in the picture, though
Man is the invisible enemy of these entertaining
forest creatures, who speak and behave like humans
without losing a whit of their animal characteristics.

“ Here are the new creations of Disney’s fertile
invention—Bambi, the graceful deer who is the young
prince of the forest; Faline, his sweetheart;
T humper, the cheery rabbit who is his friend and
tutor in the ways of forest life; the senile Owl who
is friendly in spite of his hoarse-voiced crustiness;
Flower, the little skunk, and the noble stag who is
King of the Forest until it is time for Bambi to take
his place.

“ This is Bambi’s life story from timid babyhood,
when his efforts to walk arouse the laughter of the
forest, the story of his education, and of his court-
ship. He exists in a world of wonder and‘continual
surprise.”

. .~.;_.3 vav" w.

l:
i

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

October, 1942‘

Animalers

By CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

“ Ammo/s as models are #96 [7652‘ sifz‘ors ;
too)! do not pose.”
FRANQOIS POMPON.

 

of the defenceless which adorns the rose

garden in Regent’s Park, should be familiar
to all readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, for
the National Council for Animals’ Welfare
was responsible for securing Mr. Hartwell’s
beautiful piece of statuary.

Charles Leonard Hartwell is one of a
Small band of creative sculptors who may
be called Animalers. A small bronze at the
Tate Gallery depicting two elephants with their
trunks intertwisted is also the work of this
artist. ‘

Arnrid Johnston, born in Sweden in 1895,
studied at Slade, 1914-1921, and had a remark-
able specimen of her work in the playground
of Walden House, Pimlico—a group in Port—
land stone of children playing, with animals
upon the base. This effort took four years
to complete. Other works in relief include
Cats on a Chimney Cowl, Squirrels and
Horses resting.

Edith Barrett Parsons’ interests take a
humorous form of children and animals, such
as ducks and frogs suitable for garden pieces
and ornamental work. Her “Duck Baby”
fountain, exhibited at the Pan—Paciﬁc Exposi—
tion was most successful, many copies being

 

THE Goatherd’s Daughter—the defender

demanded, the delightful “ Goose Girl ” shown.
at the Metropolitan Museum of New York
being another triumph.

Elsie Henderson (de Condenhove) is always
concerned with animal forms and has made
many accomplished drawings, and carved
studies in artiﬁcial stone. “ Lions ” and
“ Deer ” have been produced in this way, her‘
process being to build roughly, then hard cut
to ﬁnal form.

There are few ﬁne animal sculptors in the
world, and of those who represent wild
animals as in life W. Robert Colton is one.
Born in Paris, 1867, his Drinking Fountain
can be seen in Hyde Park and he also was
responsible for the life-size “ Tiger,” done at
Mysore, which, observed in its wild state,
exhibits a superb sense of strength in action.

A. Phimister Proctor is certainly another,
being represented by his “ Tigers ” for the
entrance to the estate of Mr. H. L. Pratt, of
Long Island. “ Stalking Panther ”——a presen—
tation of the stealth of the animal, “ Standing
Puma” and “ Prowling Panther ” are to be
viewed in the National Gallery of Canada.

Grace Mott Johnson, born 1882, is a direct
carver in stone and plaster, having exhibited
since 1908 in the principal art centres of
America. She has been attached to animals
all her life and has created a number of coloured
plaster reliefs, panels and plaques of animal
subjects. She has studied animal life in
gardens and farms as well as in their wild,
natural conditions.

Jeanne Piffard, born in Paris in 1892, is a
consummate artist, adhering to her carving
technique, an example of which is an exquisite
model of an Orpington cock made direct
from life.

Those of us who have visited the Musee du
Luxembourg, Paris, need hardly be reminded
of two conspicuous works: Prosper
Lecourtier’s “ Great Dane suckling her pups ”
——a very lifelike representation of maternal
love, and Victor Peter’s “ Bear Cubs at play ”
a work full of humour.

Mateo Hernandez, the Spanish sculptor, who-
lived and worked in Paris, was a naturalist and
a real. student of animal life, being unconven-

206

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

0%

 

October, [942

tional and existing as simply as any working-
man. Among his works: Ruﬂled moufHon
——wild Corsican sheep in the form of a bas—
relief in stone; a frieze of lions, a lioness, two
vultures, a condor and a panther—in black
granite. In the Paris (192 5) International
Exhibition of Decorative Arts there were on
view :——Black Java panther in diorite and sea-
lions in black granite which were exhibited as
garden ornaments at the Spanish. Pavilion.
At our own Royal Academy an exhibit of his
took the form of an enraged panther in black
granite. .

Francois Pompon, born near Dijon in 185 5,

. is a direct carver par exeellenee, carving direct

from life on to the chosen material. He can
evoke as well as any man the smaller forms of
animal life— the mole from granite, the ducks
made into a stone vase : the Poule, the Canard
and the Jeune Oie. Pompon has declared
that “ Animals as models are the best sitters;
as they do not pose.”

 

207

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Epitaph for a Pet’s

Cemetery

By Lord SHERBROOKE (R. LOWE).

S oft lie tbe turf on tbese zubo find tbeir rest
Upon our eornnzon Motber’s ainple breast.
Unstained by meanness, anariee and pride,
They never ebeated and tbey never lied.
No gluttonous excess tbeir sluinbers broke,
No burning aleobol nor stifling snzo/ée;
Tbe}! ne’er intrigued a rioal to displace;
Tbey ran, but never betted on a rate.
Content wit/J barniless sports and temperate
food,
Boundless in love and faitb and gratitude.
Happy tbe nzan, if tbere be my! sueb,
Of zuboni bis epitapb can say as inueb.
From Reminiscenees of Lady Dorotby N enill.

BIRD PROVERBS AND SAYINGS
I. As proud as a peacock.
2. A bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush.
3. Fine feathers make ﬁne birds.
4. The early bird catches the worm.
5. A caged bird never sings.
6. One swallow does not make a. summer.
7. You cannot catch old birds with chaff.
8. Birds of a feather ﬂock together.
9. The cuckoo in the nest.
IO. Eye like a hawk.
II. A little bird told me.
12. Up with the lark.
15. Chatter like a magpie.
I4. Sings like a nightingale.
15. Little birds in their nest agree.
16. As the crow ﬂies.
17. As black as a crow.
18. As bald as a coot.
I9. As wise as an owl.
20. Cock of the walk.
21. To be henpecked.
22. Chicken—hearted.
25. Chickens come home to roost.
24. Do not count your chickens before they
are hatched.
25. As green as a gosling.
26. Could not say boo to a goose.
27. Do not kill the goose that lays the golden
eggs.
28. A wild goose chase.
29. Like water off a duck’s back.
50. As plump as a partridge.

 

 

_«‘~mm_

v-‘ ‘4‘ “‘

. "um—nun; 161:."
, mu-

- ‘71-“

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

October, I 942

Is the Vermin-Gibhet justified
in a Democratic Country ?

By ERIC HARDY, F.Z.S.

he has a chapter entitled “ The Villain,” in

which he pours forth all his wrath against
the gamekeeper whom, he says, “is at once
killer and preserver, at once guardian and
thief. . . . I hate one keeper as much as
another,” he adds, and gives us a lot of inform—
tion which suggests that he has a very limited
experience of gamekeepers and their woods.
Now if only Mr. Bates had substituted game—
preserver for game—keeper, and gone to the
hall instead of the bothy, a lot of his remarks
might have been justiﬁed, and this applies to
very many people who write and talk about
the countryside.

IN Mr. H. E. Bates’ book Tbmagb z‘lye W’ooa’s

All who are interested in the countryside
and its bird life are very much annoyed to see
the strings of all sorts of birds hung out upon
the gamekeepers’ gibbet as “ vermin ” and
those who have more intimate contact with
the country are annOyed at the number of rarer
birds which are shot and buried to keep them
out of the sight of people who know there is a
law against shooting such things. But the
gamekeeper is the paid servant of a much more
selﬁsh master who orders him to shoot these
things for a very small wage—or . . . ! Most
gamekeepers are jolly decent people to know,
and very. big-hearted and generous. They
give us access to their woods when they know
they can trust us not to start ﬁres or to break
young saplings, nor to disturb pheasant nests.
It is the views of their masters with which I
disagree, especially in wartime.

It is against the law to rear pheasants arti—
ﬁcially in wartime, but I came across one or two
estates where efforts were being made to feed
wild pheasants to keep them in a wood for
shooting. I have been thinking a lot lately if
this business of game preservation ﬁts very well
into our ideas of democracy. You see the
vermin gibbet in so many woods, and you see
so much on that gibbet which has no right to
be there by all the laws of democracy. Even
if we condone tne rearing of abnormally large
numbers of game birds—far more than
Nature’s balance would permit for the local
food supply—and the shooting of direct agri-

cultural pests like wood—pigeons, house-
sparrows and carrion-crows—there is no
scientiﬁc justiﬁcation for shooting the barn—owl,
the tawny owl, the little owl, the hedgehog, the
badger, the kestrel and many more birds. I’ve
seen over 200 head of bird and beasts on one
Cheshire gibbet alone. The irony of the fact

. . . . . . l.
is that there is no sc1ent1ﬁc justiﬁcation for ‘

preserving the pheasant or the partridge in.
wartime l .
We’ve often been told in defence of game
preservation that pheasants and partridge eat
so many insect pests that they are friends of
the farmers. The truth is that both these birds
are vermin to our food—growing effort and
there is plenty of scientiﬁc evidence to show
that by far the bulk of their diet is grain and
green stuff, and those quoted cases of insect
food form only a minority of their diet. The
diet of the persecuted rook is far more useful
to the farmer than is the diet of the partridge,
which is nearly as bad as that of the wood—
pigeon. I gave a lot of evidence to show this
in a recent article on “ Birds and Agriculture ”
in the Quarter!) Review. We must look beyond
the narrow limits of our local shooting syndi—
cate or a private estate to the needs of a nation
of more than 40,000,000 people which can
grow only less than half its food and needs
every effort to grow more. Sparrow plagues
are the direct result of destroying sparrow—
hawks and other birds of prey that were the
natural check on their increase, just as rabbits
and rats increased to plague numbers in England
when game preservation reduced foxes, pole—
cats and stoats, and ﬁeld-mice increase
through the destruction of their natural
enemies, the weasel and the short—cared owl.

Sport or Food—Which?

Feudalism still exists in rural England. The choice
is between sport and food. Fox—hunting, with the
artiﬁcial breeding of foxes that they may be hunted and
tortured, as the Poet Laureate has described it in the
ﬁnest of his poems, is so cruel and silly that its con-
tinued toleration is amazing. As I know from my
own observation, the hunting as well as the shooting,
so cherished by the rich, means the destruction of food
that might be eaten by the poor. The fox works havoc
among the poultry and the hunter damages the crops.

(Sidney Dark in “ The Land for the People”)

208

t

 

w.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Orloéer, I942

The Scottish Society for the

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary: MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Officer: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET.

From “ The Kiizgrion Chronic/e.” To a Correrpom’em‘.

Diogenes, asked the proper time for supper,
replied, “ If you are rich—when you wish ;
if poor, when you can.”

' E do not believe there is any “ cure ”
in the sense you imply. Disease is

{1 usually built up by prolonged enervating
. abits.

Cure can occur only after all causes
have been removed.

Admittedly we have had great success with
patients suffering over long periods of time in
the way you describe, but we cannot possibly
say what could be done for your friend without
first making a personal and full examination.
But you may as well learn the truth now : We
do not rare mg)! direare.

One of our patients recently remarked,
“ Kingston is truly a College of Health : I have
learned more here in three weeks than in seven
years of home study.” That is really what we
are attempting to do. We are trying to teach
our patients HOW. ' ’

By all means you can ask your friend to rest
and fast for a few days. So long as he desists
from food and drugs and worry it should help
his tissues to throw off the accumulatea toxins.
Psychological. help and manipulative adjust-
ment should also both prove helpful but if he
is to obtain any real and lasting beneﬁt from
the experiment it will be essential for him to
adopt a more rational plan of living in the
future. If this is done the restored health
should be maintained so long as he does not
return to the ﬂeshpots.

Unfortunately, “ Habit, once in, the saddle,
rides roughshod over resolutions,” and he
will probably have a stiff ﬁght against his
tobacco, coffee, etc., for some weeks. My
advice is to tell him not to temporise. After
the fast he should start as he intends to carry on.
As to whether the Kingston plan is'suitable in
all cases, here again we are at cross purposes
although that is a little difficult to explain.
We believe we can handle patient: but not cases.
Everything hinges upon a solution of indi—
vidual difficulties, whether these be habits,
spinal lesions, or psychological maladjustments.

209

No two cases are ever quite alike, however
similar may be the symptoms.

\We believe that if, after readjustment, all
debilitating habits are stopped and a con;
structive regimen of living is followed, health
will return in the vast majority of cases—and
astonishingly quickly even in the most desper-
ately ill people. But always the patient must
do the work and in the end. he must take charge
of his own case. We cannot live his life for
him.

Above all, we do not think that health can
be bought in the form of drugs or capsules of
synthetic vitamens or organ—extract injections
or disease serums. Admittedly by such means
relief may be obtained but invariably it is at
the expense of “ the larger purpose ”; habits
may be formed and even life itself may be lost.
Nothing you can buy takes the place of self
control.

Finally, for all who are ill, .it is certainly
better to think of health than to worry about
disease, but here, too, there are difficulties.
The most excellent advice in this respect has
been put in these words: “ Get health and
then forget it.” Worry about germs and
allergies and lowered resistance will get you
nowhere.

Indeed, as I see it, this belief in separate
“ diseases ” each with its own special “ cure ”
is probably the most damaging superstition
of our times.

We believe that if any patient will change
over to wholesome living, disease will fall
from him like a mantle. Aigy disease can be '
cured, so long as toxic excess has not too badly
damaged or destroyed some vital organ.

     

Comma. Chameleon

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
My Friend the Horse.

It is believed that the following “ Prayer
of a Horse ” was written by an actor.

“ To Thee, my master.

“ I offer my prayer. Feed me, water, and care for
me, and when the day’s work is done provide me
with a shelter, a clean, dry bed, and a stall wide
enough for me to lie down in comfort. Talk to me.
Your voice often means as much to me as the reins.
Pet me sometimes that I may serve you the more
gladly and learn to love you. Do not jerk the reins,
and do not whip me when going uphill. Never
strike, beat or kick me when I do not understand
what you mean, but give me a chance to understand
you. Watch me, and if I fail to do your bidding see
if something is wrong with my harness or feet.
Examine my teeth when I do not eat ; I may have an
ulcerated tooth, and that, you know, is very painful.
Do not tie my head in an unnatural position, or take
away my best defence against ﬂies by cutting off my
tail. Finally, oh my master, when my youthful
strength is done do not turn me out to starve or
freeze, or sell me to some cruel owner, to be slowly
tortured or starved to death, but do thou, my master,
take my life in the kindest way, and your God shall
reward you here and hereafter. You may not
consider me irreverent if I ask this in the name of
Him Who was born in a stable.”

October, 1942

The Law and Birds.

Eric Hardy, in his book 1726 Bird; of live
Liverpool Area (T. Buncle & Co., Arbroath,
85. 6d.), makes this reference to the bird Orders
for Lancashire, Cheshire, and North Wales
and where they need reforms : “ The old and
inadequate North Wales Orders have not been
brought up to date despite frequent requests,
and if the people who framed them had been
practical enough to say exactly what they
meant and give the birds their proper names
instead of often vague and generalised popular
nicknames, it might be possible to work the
Orders. The law was never more of an ass
than where wild birds are concerned. We have
often seen kestrels and tawny owls on Cheshire .

Q
gibbets, even on the estates of ].P.s, am?’

pole-traps were still used in the area up to the
time of the war. We hope the post-war years
will see .a general uniﬁcation of the wild bird
Orders into a simple, workable list drawn up
by people who can produce results instead of
red tape.” The kestrel and the tawny owl
are on the list scheduled for special protection
in Cheshire, and the Denbighshire and
Carnarvonshire county bird Orders were
drawn up in 1911 and 1905 respectively, with
slight amendments in 1921.

 

 

 

BELFAST AND NORTHERN IRELAND WORN-OUT
HORSE FUND

Prerz'dent: CAPTAIN KER, D.L.
Vice—President: The Rt. Hon. LORD GLENTORAN, D.L., O.B.E.

 

Rescued during 1941 :
299 Horses and Ponies.

Funds Urgently Needed.

SPECIAL APPEAL.

On account of the short-
age of petrol hundreds of
these animals, quite unﬁt
for work, are now being
used, and increased prices
demanded, which delays
rescue.

They are worked till they
drop. —

“ The Horse is a Noble
Animal.”

Hon. Secretary :
Mrs. K. M. Shewell,
90, University Street,
Northern Ireland.

T171: Dead Home—Tim! worked to deaf/J.

210

‘ ,,
:ﬁ‘
,4 '

t.

O

.. 1»

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Odo/yer, 1942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog—welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to pro/nail tbe aivisettion of dogs.

Membership 53. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

‘OLD VICTOR’ .'
The Cats Protection

A Short Story (about a prize pit horse).

 

 

By B. L. COOMBES (Ant/Jar of “ lese Poor
Hands”). 2d. post free. League

c PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE The one society devoted solely to the welfare

WITH THE DONKEYS a of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis MEMBERSHIP 5 / - PER ANNUM,
Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted - . - ., , -
from Tbe Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”—— including the Somety 5 ofﬁcial organ,
Tile Ani/nals’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”

- Ot/ser leaflets on Pit pom-65. .. Associate Membership Subscription 3s. 6d. p.a.

The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society,
69, CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N.W.8 Write for Free Literature to:——The Secretary, 29,

Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

 

 

 

The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

Temporary Address: 239 HURST ROAD, SIDCUP, KENT.
President: HAMILTON FYFE C/Jairnran: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals What other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

c/O 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Cbairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretarv: BERTRAM LLOYD
Latest Publication DEER HUNTING AND SHOOTING 0N
’ EXMOOR 2d.

By M. Chapman

 

 

 

All subscriptions and communications for #26 Magazine leonld lze addressed “ 1726) Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’s Arenne, A'Iasn'ell Hill, London, ]\7.Io.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND October, 1942

 

 

THE DOG9 BAZAAR

‘for 1942 in aid of

THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION
will he held on

27th OCTOBER

in the

FREEMASONS’ HALL, 96, George Street,
EDINBURGH 2

 

é—PEKOE, Convener

 

PLEASE NOTE
Contributions Will be gratefully received by
MISS N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary,
at 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill,'Lon:lon, N.10.

 




