OBSERVATIONS BY THE WAY

THE GLORY OF A MAN WHO HAS KILLED OVER FOUR THOUSAND
HAWKS IN HIS LIFETIME

(By J. \Varren Jacobs)

Below I give a reproduction of a photo of an old man and his catch of '
eleven hawks for one day in the vicinity of Pontiac, Michigan.

Recently he had a very favorable write- -up in a magazine which printed a
picture very similar to the one here shown. The write- -up, although a short
article, is remarkable, inasmuch as it is given as a glorious feat of this
man’s prowess at hawk killing and his method of procedure.

The article says that he lures the hawks within shooting range by staking
out a pet’owl “in the hawks’ favorite hunting ground”. Mind you, “in the
hawks’ favorite hunting ground”, and not in a barnyard where popular
prejudice claims that the hawks get the bulk of their living. Nothing could
show up the fallacy of this prejudice more than just this statement that
the hunter goes to the “hawks” favorite hunting ground”. That means that
the blood—thirsty hunter goes to some ﬁeld, near a woods, where it is known
that great quantities of mice abound. Upon these pests, the hawks, commonly
called “chicken hawks”, derive the greater part of their living.

This man, whose name I will omit for the sake of his progeny, is over
seventy. years of age and is considered very popular in his home community
for his great( ?) record for hawk killing. Oh, the pity of it, that the wanton
sacriﬁce of these beneﬁcial birds should be treated as a heroic deed!

 

An approximate estimate of what happened, in one community, because
of the killing of these eleven Red—shouldered Hawks. See these ﬁgures, and
look at the bill of fare on the “dining table”, farther on, for their veriﬁcation.

The sacriﬁce of these eleven Red-shouldered Hawks, in one day, spared
the lives of possibly, if not actually, 77 ﬁeld mice daily (seven for eadh
hawk), or 28,105 during the year. Each of these 28,105 mice would have; 1.
devoured one—half oz., of grass tendrils and rootlets daily, totaling 878 lbs., orEJ '
the equivalent of one-half that much hay or pasture grass in a day, equalling "~°
239 lbs., or 43 1-2 tons in one year.

The value of 43 1—2 tons of hay is about $696.00. Thus each of these
eleven hawks would have prevented the destruction of $63.00 Worth of hay
by mice in one year. To these ﬁgures should be added $15.00 saved by each
hawk in destroying other mammal. pests and insects.

 

What a pity this ignorant “Michigander” did not die at the age of
seven, instead of maturing well up into the seventies!

Some one has ﬁttingly said: “Oh, why has worth so short a date, while
villains ripen gray with time.” Had this man died young he might have
been considered a “dear little boy”. But hold! the article says he is con-

 




 

Lrl

sidered a hero in the community. Why is this? It is because he stands in the
midst of ignorance! ‘ Some day, after he .is dead, and the people, who know
of his destructive career, lift the veil of ignorance now overspreading them,
regarding these beneﬁcial birds, then this man’s name will be enrolled with
those of tyrants. How do I know? Because the hawks in this picture are
Red-shouldered Hawks, the prevailing species in the vicinity of Pontiac, and
over the whole of the state of Michigan; and while they are called “chicken
hawks”, they do not deserve the name, for less than four percent of” their
food consists of poultry and game birds, and the latter were created for the
hawks to eat if they could catch them. Why should not “chicken hawks” be
killed, some one says? Because, truthfully speaking, no hawk is really a
“chicken hawk”, but dense ignorance and prejudice marks all of them as
such because slight damage can sometimes be laid to the door of certain
species.

Nearly three-fourths of the prey of the Red-shouldered Hawk is ﬁeld
mice, and almost all the remaining fourth consists of insect life. This has
been told by many bird men of experience, but it seems that the public will not
listen to truth, preferring to remain in ignorance, even when the true knowl-
edge is oﬁ’ered them free gratis.

The chief reason so many men kill hawks and owls, and all species of
birds in general, is because of the love of cruel destruction lurking within
their own hearts. They love to destroy, rather than conserve the beautiful.
The man who turns a deaf ear to the call of his lower instincts, however
small, and upholds and defends the beautiful in everything, stands alone
among thousands; and like the man who glories in virtue and all that is good,
is a lonesome pillar among the legions about him!

A friend once sent me a Red-shouldered Hawk, from Ohio, to mount for
him, and when I dissected the bird, I found in its stomach and crop, the re-
mains of 3 field mice and one hundred and twenty-two large grasshoppers.
This is the species of hawk of which our Mich. man boasts of having killed
over 4,000. Executed as “chicken hawks”, but in reality cruciﬁed as saviours
of crops!

The “proof of the pudding” will be found in the following sketch rep—
resenting the proportion of the “bill of fare” of the Red-shouldered Hawk.
This diagram is based upon my own records, and upon published statistics
from the various State and National Agricultural Departments, where
thousands of Hawk stomachs have been dissected and their exact contents
determined by analysis.

   

  
    

e, .
C/llef/yG/mSS/wp'mglo
2, O 70 '

277/3 0 CHE/Re ifs,
Bee Hes, Cqu‘Er/olf’ﬂ

 
 
   

 

   

F/ﬂﬂ M/C’f

    
 

70 PenC’e/ié.

dawé .

The “Dining Table” of a Red-shouldered Hawk.
Showing proportionate percentage of prey and various kinds of food.




Suppose, for instance, we were in the dining room of Mrs. R. S. Hawk,
examining the average meal spreadupon a circular table of the above type.
Here we would see a very large bowl, and Mrs. Hawk would explain to us
that it contained “ﬁeld mouse soup”; In another, less than one-third the size
of the first, she would point out was “grasshopper salad,” liberally spiced with
crickets and caterpillars. The third dish, ever so much smaller, contained
“snake sandwiches” and “frog weiners”, and in two very, very small side
dishers we would ﬁnd poultry and game birds.

Do we not all relish a little toothsome desert, after a full meal of common
every day bread and butter? Then, if Mr. Hawk is satisﬁed to ﬁll up on 90
per cent of common everyday pests which are destroyingyour crops all
around you, and mince 6 per cent of stufl3 as immaterial as toothpicks, will
you begrudge him a little desert which is an average of only 2 percent each
of poultry and game bird ﬂesh?

It is true, we will admit, that some species of hawks Will sometimes,
do a lot of damage to poultry, but they will not do this while they can pro-
cure their favorite food—~ﬁeldmice——therefore you can feel assured that when
hawks begin to bother your chickens, that they have just closed a silent, but
thankless, contract with you in ridding your ﬁelds of thousands of mice.

I must not part with this sub'ect without giving a detailed object lesson —

in which facts and ﬁgures on the economic value of the Red-tailed Hawk, the
large species we see so commonly and majestically soaring overhead on bright
sunny days, play a very prominent part.

I have peered into more than 200 nests of this large hawk, and seldom
was there a nest examined in which I did not ﬁnd freshly Killed ﬁeld mide.
Often rats, squirrels and rabbits had been taken to the nest, but never did I
ﬁnd poultry, although, as already stated, some individuals will feed on fowl.
I want to call attention to one particular instance, and this is only one of
many similar stories I could relate. »

In the spring of 1908, I ascended an enormous white oak to a Red—tailed
Hawk’s nest, far up in a central crotch near the tree top. Dropping my
line; down, down it went to the register of 110 feet. But the height (35 feet
above the average) is not the remarkable thing about this incident, nor is the
inspiration, as I remember, which spurred me on in my perilous ascent up
one of the greatest trees I ever climbed. It is the facts and ﬁgures recorded
in the economic status of these birds which this incident brought out, that
I wish to relate. On the edge of the nest lay six freshly killed ﬁeld mice,
which Mr. Hawk had brought to his sitting mate.

The man who owned the land where the hawks nested had a farm hand
with an ill, cruel countenance, whom he supplied with gun and ammunition
for the purpose of killing hawks when not busy on the farm- This farm hand
told me in 1906 or 1907 that he had shot thirty—nine hawks during the pre—
ceding winter; therefore, the farmer hired this man(?) to kill his friends.
Let us see: the killing of so many hawks allowed so many hundreds of ﬁeld
mice to thrive upon the grass roots and tendrils of this same farmer’s land.
Harvest time came, and the farmer had to reap as he had sown, for it was
found that the ﬁeld mice had harvested their share of the grass ﬁrst, even as
it grew, leaving a scanty share in the ﬁeld for the farmer’s men to gather.
Market time came. Ah, there is the point, money! Well, I overheard this
same farmer talking to another man who wanted to buy his hay crop;——that
is, the part of it which the mice had left for him. The purchaser complained
that the price was too high, but the other insisted that the ﬁgures must stand,
for, as he said, the article had been thin on the ground, and he further stated
that times were getting so that “We can hardly raise any hay for the de-
predations of the durned ﬁeld mice”.

I was only a listener, but I recalled the incident of the slaughter of the
hawks, and I also remembered having gone across this man’s mouse infested
fields to the woods where the tree was scaled and the good work of the hawks,
as mouse destroyers, was again proved. What just and swift retribution, I
thought, has come to this man! So impressed was I with the slaughter of the
hawks coming home to this farmer, and the “goose” he had proved himself
to be, that I cannot refrain from putting his case in “Mother Goose” prose
about like this:

There was a ﬁeld the farmer owned.
There was the grass that grew in the ﬁeld the farm-er owned.

060..

 




There were the mice that ate the grass, that grew in the ﬁeld the farmer
owned.

There were the hawks that caught the mice, that ate the grass, that
grew in the ﬁeld the farmer owned.

There was the man( ‘2) who shot the hawks that caught the mice, that ate
the grass, that grew in the field the farmer owned.

There was the fool who paid the man who shot the hawks that caught
the mice, that ate the grass, that grew in the ﬁeld the farmer owned.

There was the merchant who bought the hay (grass) from the fool who
paid the man who shot the hawks that caught the mice, that ate the grass,
that grew in the field the farmer owned.

Here are the facts exposed, because of the merchant’s complaint, as
he bought the hay from the fool who paid the man who shot the hawks, that
caught the mice, that ate the grass, that grew in the ﬁeld the farmer‘owned.

(3

VI.

VoUli‘: gﬁoaiv‘ris
(3x°'\ O

Ir/El-D -M/CE

 

Grasshopplers
Beetlesmé oiherfieid . 47 Percent,

Pests IO 0/0

OtEe/“Sma”
Rodents CA/cjp/Ej
Rats, weasel: etc.)—
ALSO Rabbits and

Squirrefs,
25 Percent.

 

The “Dining Table” of the Red-tailed Hawk.
Showing pr0portionate percentage of prey and various kinds of food.

The Red-tailed Hawk’s prey will average 20 oz. per day, or 7300 oz.
yearly, totaling 456 lbs. 47 per cent of this food is ﬁeld mice which weigh
about 3 oz. each. This would mean a yearly destruction of 1143 of these
ﬁeld pests. Each of these 1143 miqe would devour one— half oz. of grass ten—
drils and rootlets daily, or for the entire number: 572 oz. equalling 35 lbs.
Allowing the remaining portion of the grass roots to revive and regain 50
per cent of this, loss, there would still remain an equivalent of 17 1-2 lbs. of
hay 10st daily, or for the year (365 days), a total of 6,387 lbs., equalling a mar—
gin over 3 1- 4 tons of hay. The hay thus destroyed by the number of ﬁeld

0 :mice killed by a single Red- tailed Hawk in one year, amounts to 3 1- 4 tons

’ z «with a value of $52. 00 when hay sells for $16. 00 per ton.

"‘H This does not take into consideration some 35 per cent of this bird’s food
and prey, consisting of other destructive mammals and insects. Reasonably,
a credit of one-half the above amount should be added to the value of‘ the
hawk’s services, making a total of $78.00 saved to the agricultural interest,
of one small community, in one year. Against this valuable work of the
hawk, can be brought damage to the amount of only 10 per cent of its annual
prey, and this percentage must be divided equally between poultry and game
birds, 22 1-2 lbs. for each. Counting game birds at the price of poultry, 14
cents per pound, the average damage done by this species of hawk is only
$6.28 in one year.‘ Does it not seem like killling the “Goose that lays the
golden egg” to sacriﬁce a bird which does $78.00 worth of good while com-

m1tt1ng $6.28 damage? Waynesburg, Pa., Feb. 18, 1916.

 




