J‘INHSMHCHe”

I
’I
‘1

Our Christian Duty to Dumb Créaturea

By Velma Caldwell Melville.

—.—_—.—.

CHAPTER ONE.

“Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of the least of these
* " ye did it not unto Me.”

The speaker paused for his listeners to grasp the idea that
he had presented the unusual form of the text.

He was a small, steeping man, with a plain face, but in his
gray eyes shone his soul, and behind his words was his life,
which means everything.

It was Christmas morning and one always expects some-
thing a little extra in a Christmas sermon.

In one of the ﬁnest pews sat a woman dressed in velvet and
Wrapped about in costly fur. Her bonnet was a model of
artistic skill and on either side perched the corpse of what had
once been a joyous, innocent'song—bird. She was a professing
Christian and prominent church member. Her name always

/

 




 

“.2“

stood ﬁrst on the subscription list of any popular charity, 'and
she had quite immortalized herself by her gift to a certain
well-known institution of learning for the furtherance of
“scientiﬁc research,” which meant, in a word, the better equip
ment of a laboratory for the torture of living creatures.

In vain had she been petitioned to make a proviso in her be—
quest; this she ﬂatly refused. She could not be “bothered”
with such triﬂes; she gave her money and there her responsi-
bility ended. Others must bear the blame if it were unwisely
or unrighteously expended. She never looked upon, listened
to or read of anything that made her uncomfortable. She was
“too sensitive.”

“I believe,” began the man of God, “in an active Christian-
ityhnot in a dead or even passive religion. We are apt to think
if "we lock after the sins of commission it is no difference about
those of omission; indeed, we give them little or no thought.

 

“Now, if I interpret the teaching of our Lord aright, He ‘

pronounces’a penaltyas surely on the passive as on the active
transgression, and .I am-moved this morning—this anniversary
of one of the humblest births on earth and yet the anniversary
of the King of kings—to speak to you in simple language of
some of the common transgressions of which we are all more

or less guilty, believing that there is no more ﬁtting time to,

examine ourselves as to our stewardship than on this day.

‘ “You remember the words of our Lord when He pronounced
a certain woe, concluding with, ‘Ye tithe mint and rue and all
manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of
God: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other
undone." In His sight the sin of omission seemed to ovbr-
balance all their good deeds.

“We all have an inﬂuence and that inﬂuence is either on the
side of right or on that of wrong; we are either making the
world better or worse. Now the question I would bring home
tomy own heart, the one I would send home to yours, is, ‘do

iny sins of omission outweigh,. in their far—reaching inﬂuence, .

the-merit of my commissions of good ?’ Am I not as respon-
sible for what I do net do asfor What I do? These are ques‘

ti’on‘s-that people. are always dodging. Accuse a man of some.

 

ni-“A

('5 bum R (‘3.

‘1'"‘4‘4 6" l' n:

(D

CFH‘IT‘ES

Qgg ELI: b‘i'cfmimm mm H“:-




t? W?

IS‘

'i’m‘d‘dcbtb

5d:

 

 

—-b—-

well-known sin and he has nothing to :say; there- is no denying
it; but accuse him of some sin of omission and he will bluff “at
once, plainly intimating that it is nobody’s business what he
does not do. And yet Christ said, ‘Inasmuch as, ye did it
not.’ , The minister of the Gospel who simply keeps still on
some subject that he ought to put himself on record concern-
ing is as great a transgressor as he who violates one of the! ten
commandments. ‘

“ ‘This ought ye to have done and not left the other undone.’

“The woman who protests not by example and precept

, against the slaughter of birds for millinery purposes is as much

+—aye, more—a transgressor as the man whose business it .is
to lie in wait for the mother-bird as she wings her way home-
ward, with the bit of supper in her bill, and brings her down
just outside the nest, strips her of her beautiful plumage and
leaves her there to die by inches in sight and sound of her
starving nestlings. i

“O, the tragedies of the forest! Who is to blame? ‘Inas-
much as ye did it not.’ The man who says it is none of his
business if another over-load, over-check, and under~feed his
horse becomes a party to the sin, inasmuch as he failed to; in-
terfere; he did it not. '

“The citizen who knows of vice and corruption in his polit-
ical party and utters .no protest, may claim to have clean
hands; may claim he does nothing" wrong; but is he not a silent
partner? Is not his the sin of omission? The call comes. to
aid some child-saving institution; we lay aside the letter or'pa-
per and forget all about it. How many are lost through this
simple neglect, this omission, Eternity may reveal, yet; We
salve our conscience by saying: ‘Well, I can’t attend to every-
thing and I gave something last year.’ ‘Inasmuch as ye did
it not unto one of the least of these ye did it not to 'Me.’ .30,
how some of us would like to entertain the Christ as a Christ-

; mas guest! We would throw Open the best chamber, bring out

the best table-service, provide the choicest viands; oh, but. We
would entertain right royally! and yet He is willing, anxious
to be a guest with every one of us to-day. ‘_Inasmuch as ye.
did it unto one of the least of these ye diditiunto Me, andﬂin-I

 




 

 

5-4....

asmuch as ye did it not unto one of these ye did it not to Me.’

“There are tens of thousands of babes holding out their puny
arms to you this day, in the name of the Christ imploring you
for food, shelter and leve; there are as many more a little
' older, whose pinched, pitiful faces are turned up to yours, and
whose blue lips are framing the sentence: ‘For the love of
Christ, save us.’

“Then there are the fallen-~men and women. What claims
have they on us this Christmas-tide? '

“Can we not see in each bloat-eyed, rum-soaked fellow-man
‘one of these?’ Is not each woman whose sullied virtue rises
like an impenetrable wall between her and you, is she not, in a
sense, ‘one of the least of these?’ We do not like to touch such
cases; no, we do not, but ‘inasmuch—’

“I tell you, brothers and sisters, we are responsible creatures
-responsible for every word we say, every act we do, every
hour of our time, every cent of our money, the inﬂuence we
exert, and more than all, perhaps, the inﬂuence we do not exert.”

There was more in the same vein, and then Mrs. B. Baker
Brown—«she of the costly apparel and ghastly bonnet-trimming
—-gathered her furs about her and swept out of the house.

CHAPTER TWO.

She—ers. B. Baker Brown—had never felt more uncomfort-
able and disgusted in her life before; yes, even downright angry,
for it was plain that he had meant to be personal.

How dare he, and she the most inﬂuential member in his
church!

Did not she pay more toward his salary than any other
member? Did she not give to all the charities of the church?
Had she not an almost national reputation for her generous
bequest? '

And yet—how odious the man was! She went home and
took 011’ her bonnet. There were those birds !

“A tragedy of the forest!” Had it Cost pain and suifering
to secure these ornaments? She felt very angry but could not
. keep her mind off the picture of a nest full of starving bird~

lings; she could almost hear their piteous cries growing fainter

 

 

 




 

 

 

  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

no.“ .
and fainter. Suddenly she began to wish she had never had
them put there; it was really barbarous taste anyway. To
think was to do with Mrs. Brown. Instantly she took her
shears—«Sabbath though it was—~and ripped off those “dead
creatures,” as she now mentally termed them; to~morrow she
would have something substituted—“something less gruesome.”

Surely she had done her duty now; no sin of omission could - -
be laid at her door. In proportion as she felt justiﬁed, her
spirit rose. Mrs. Brown liked to be comfortable of all things.

After a sumptuous Christmas dinner, eaten alone, save for
the presence of the housekeeper, she retired to her library to
read and meditate, but someway the simple sermon of the
morning ﬁlled her thoughts more than aught else. Perhaps it
was not a bad discourse after all, coming from an honest man,
and every one believed in “the plain preacher,” as some had
dubbed him. Had he kept still on the subjects mentioned he
would have fallen under his own condemnation; it would have
been keeping a cowardly silence. And then she fell to musing
over his words concerning our being responsible for time and
money. She thought of her lavish gift to the already richly
endowed college, and of the letters of protest she had received.
For the most part she had put them by without reading; now
she brought them out and looked them over.

Burning words ﬁlled page after page, picturing the horrors
of a scientiﬁc laboratory conducted as was the one to which
she had given her money. There were leaﬂets with cuts show-
ing the tables and blocks on which living creatures are
strapped, and, without anaesthetics, cut in pieces. Here was a
dog bound fast, but the throat lay open where the windpipe
had been cut out to prevent his cries being heard. A lovely
mother spaniel, lying on a table, had raised her poor head to
lick her puppy; her back and legs were rendered helpless by
experiments on the spinal cord, but the torture of her body had
not dimmed the light of affection in her mournful eyes. A
horse was tied to a bar and a dozen students standing about
were each expected to take a hand at the experiments per»
formed.

Underneath was a quotation from the, lips of the instructor,

 




 

  

—6—

in reply to a visitor’s query as to how long they experimented
on one animal.

“Just as long as it stands it; they sometimes live nine days.”

_A beautiful kitten had both eyes removed; mice were put in
jars, the air excluded and their bodies burst with the pressure;
and then Mrs. B. Baker Brown, her eyes bulging with horror,
began to read:

‘ “Vivisectors, according to their own published testimony,
freeze animals to death, suffocate them by slow drowning and
plastering up the mouth; they inoculate them in the brain,
eyes, ears, with dreadful diseases like hydrophobia, and inject
drugs, poison of snakes, powdered glass and vile substances
under the skin to produce ulcers and abscesses, which keep
the poor creatures in fearful agony for months before they die.
They fasten animals till they grow together; stiffen them like
iron by putting them under compressed oxygen; try in every
conceivable way to make them commit suicide to get rid of
pain. .,

“So hardened do vivisectors become to suffering that, ac-
cording to their own published testimony, they watch the most
terrible agony, which they themselves have caused, with feel-
ings of pleasure, patience and ‘ joyful excitement.’

“Prof. Goltz says: . ‘It was marvelous and astonishing to
.ﬁnd that a dog that had served for seven experiments was still
capable of natural feeling for its young.’ ”

With a stiﬂed scream Mrs. Brown ﬂung the leaﬂet from her
and dropped to her knees. With her face buried in the cush-
ion she wept hysterically.

This allusion to the love of a dumb motherfor her offspring
was too much. . If there was anything that could break Mrs.
:Brown up, it was a reminder of the one great sorrow of her life.
She buried Mr. Brown philosoPhically and decorously; one by
one her other friends had died, until only herself and a far dis-
tant sister remained; but none of these things had come near
breaking her heart. It was only when her baby died that she
wentdown 1n an abandon of grief; only then that she with-
drew 11618911? from society; only then that she suffered. . '-

. » Something of this old feeling had come back when the pas-

 

“A‘A‘ - 1.

 

   




—6— f, '
in reply to a visitor’s query as to how long they experimented turtalke
on one animal. _ . ad not
“Just as long as it stands it; they sometimes live nine days.” j-“Inasl
A beautiful kitten had both eyes removed; mice were putm. " " fsuppt
jars, the air excluded and their bodies burst with the pressure; p alvent,
and then Mrs. B. Baker Brown, her eyes bulging wrth horror, j; tad die.
began to read: , . She t1
“Vivisectors, according to their own published testimony, ﬁd hut
freeze animals to death, suffocate them by slow drowning 391d ‘ ﬂ'ut l
plastering up the mouth; they inoculate, them“!!! , the Low ed 1
eyes, ears, with dreadful , . tself:
drugs, poison of snakes, — iucati
under the skin to produc {Ant tc
the poor creatures in fea '
They fasten animals till
iron by putting them un
conceivable way to make
pain. 7
“So hardened do vivi
cording to their own pub
terrible agony, which the
ings of pleasure, patience
“Prof. Goltz says: , ‘It
.ﬁnd that a dog that had 5
capable of natural feeling
With a stiﬂed scream M
and dropped to her knees
ion she wept hysterically.
This allusion to the love
was too much. If there v
rBrown up, it was a remind
She buried Mr. Brown phi \
one her other friends had (
tant sister remained; but I! '
breaking her heart. It wa: Sh‘
wentdown in an abandon 4,
drew herself from society; .r"
. Something of this old fe; .~‘

 
   
 
   
   

l‘

)

g,” and

in every other way help us all they can.

eby
re—

ociety
ng to
t glad
to encourage the formation

way of

, and her

ruelty
—West who

, and send-

dtion S

asks us to do somethi

‘ :3“

Humane Societies

“Prize Contests of Humane Speakin
GEO- TLEANQELL.

THE NORTH-WEST.
A good friend writes us of terrible c

on the ranches in the North-west
ing our American Humane Educ

a check for $50,
stop that cruelty.

 

The good Lord knows we will be mos
“Bands of Mercy,”

to do everything in our power in the
humane education and otherwise

we ask all editors in the North

ceive this paper

of

2
D“

 

 

     




LL.

7 f“\"UE

  

.A

  

”.37..

tor talked about the birds; and now this—in years Mrs. Brown.
had not felt so badly. - .

“Inasmuch.” y,

Suppose little Glenn had lived and Mr. Brown had died in-
solvent, as so many men inconsiderately do, and then she too
had died,and the child had been left without money or friends.

She tried to picture him in rags going about the streets cold
and hungry. It made her shiver and sob. » :—...

But then here was this other dreadful thing. She remem-
1“red that when she made her college gift she had said to

rself: “I can do it as well as not; it is not half what Glenn’s
cation would probably have cost; it will be a sort of monu-
nt to him;” and now it was being used to torture dumb
atures with.
hat would Glenn have thought to have had any one tor-
re the pretty white kitten he loved so well?
It was all too horrible! And then she went to her desk and
ote, wrote with an inspiration she had never felt before, to

e president of the college, forbidding, begging, entreating

d demanding an immediate promise that it should be as she
lled.

After this she felt more calm, and sat down again to think.

'(In due time there came a reply; not from the president of

6 college, but from an assistant of some sort, saying that

eir rules were unalterable, and one of them was not to dic—

te to the professors in the various departments; that they '
nsidered it best to lay no restraints; to serve the ends of sci-
ce was their aim, let it cost what it might.

And this was all; oh, why had she not been warned of this
. rrible evil in time! '

What could she do? ‘ .

“Inasmuch as ye did it not” sounded in her ear. She
ealized that it was not enough to try to make amends for

bat she had done; she would be held accountable for what

did not do. '
hsl‘he next day she called on the “ plain preacher,” and there
nsued a long and serious talk, which resulted 1n much fruit.
She did all she could in the way of reparation; she wrote;

 

  




-—~8—-

. humane

, - she ra ed; she gave of her money to _
zlii'zrtéabli‘letdnever cguld7 she forget that her money wtalsrggalggsg.
the daily torture of God’s dumb and helpless (are:l complete
sible. The conversion of Mrs. B. Baker Brownhwa hich good,
and this is but one of this :nany avegigzseigrg);g w

° m t a 011881111 . '
1.8311131: ﬁgggilbliifiltcies of one pulpit message when it comes
from the heart of a sincere servant! .

/

PUBLISHED BY
THE CHRISTIAN HOME,
nmmCIL BLUFFS, IOWA.

. . RED.
Kindness to Animals. Y

But who shall speak for those whose mouths
are dumb?

The poor, brave brutes, with patient eyes, and
feet that go and come

To do our bidding, toiling on without reward or
fee,

Wearing their very lives away, poor things, for
you and me,

“ The brave dumb things! no voice have they to

I say, “Why do ye so?”

Am I not man’s most faithful slave, his friend
and not his foe?

Give me one kind, caressing word, undo this
heavy load,

Nor torture me along the way with whip and
thong and goad.”

 

 




