ﬁzz/ﬂag?

From The National Humane Journal

‘foNLY A C‘ATL’”

By MARY CRAIGE YARROW

 

 

Yes, that was all—just a young mother cat, not
far removed from her own kittenhood. Only a bit
of the living driftwood of a great, hot, dusty city,
stranded when the retreating waves of its population '
sought recreation by land and sea, in” many in—
stances cruelly turning adrift the helpless, dumb
creatures they had once had as pets in their homes.

Where she had found enough food to keep life
in her thin gaunt body only she could'have told,
for garbage cans were closely covered, and water
could seldom be found, but that the little of both
she had been able to gather here and there, had
sufﬁced for that, and that alone, none who saw
her could doubt.

"‘ONLY A CATV—but she could suffer the pangs
of hunger and thirst, and her emaciated body could
burn with fever and be shaken by chills, and she
could feel pain and loneliness, and she could long
unutterably in her desolation, for the sound of a
human voice speaking kindly to her (which she
had once known,) and for the touch of a friendly
hand. “ONLY A CAT!"——but she could tremble with
fear when driven from human habitations with
harsh words and ﬂying missiles, asshe drew near
to them, while desperately searching for a morsel
of food.

Once, in the early days of her vagrant life, she
had, while foraging 011 a vacant lot. suddenly found
herself attacked and surrounded by barking, snapa
ping dogs, and but for a friendly tree into which
she sprang in quick desperation, her kittens would
have waited in vain for her return, and would have
perished slowly of starvation. Not until.the shades
of night had fallen, which discouraged and drew
off her pursuers, did she dare to descend from

‘ its sheltering branches, then with palpitating. heart,
faint with hunger, and trembling at every sound, she slowly made her way back
to her grieving, terriﬁed little ones.

Her three kittens had ﬁrst opened their eyes among the overgrown grass and
weeds of a deserted backyard adjoining an empty house. There was an opening in
the high board fence which d1\ ided it from the next door garden, and as they grew
older they went back and forth How frightened they were one day, when a man
ame into the neighboring garden to cut down the grass and set it in order for the
returning owner. It was several days before they ventured to run again. through the
opening in the fence, but when they gathered courage and did so. soon scampered away
on seeing a woman standing “by the back door. However, she had seen the members of
the pathetic, little family making their hasty exit, and placed food near the opening in
the fence, hoping to coax them to return. The mother cat understood the friendly over-
ture, and was the ﬁrst to come back, asking only to lie undisturbed in a quiet corner of
the garden. She was then too sick and had travelled too far along the hard road to
starvation, to be able to eat until milk was carried to her and she had moistened her
parched throat with it. All were too timid to come indoors, but appreciated the here-
tofore' unknown luxury of a sheltering'box in which some bedding had been placed.
The suffering mother’s gratitude for this comfort was indeed pitiful, and she purred
her thanks while gratefully looking up into the face of the one she had learned to trust.

Some happy days were spent by the little family in the garden where they had
found a welcome and at times the solemn— eved kittens weak and shaky as they were
tried to play in a feeble. unaccustomed way as thdugh some of the joy of life had
awakened within them. \\ hen the wild, small creatures could be approached, they and

 




     

the sick mother were mercifully helped from a world\which they had found so hard,
and where there are unfortunately so many more helpless dumb creatures than there are
good homes for them, and the horrors of the homes that are not good, no pen could
fully describe. ,

The little mother cat and her babies are resting very peacefully now in one tiny
grave in the quiet garden, and unbidden tears sprang from the heart and overt—lowed
. the eyes of one mourner, called forth by the pathos of their short, sad lives. When
‘- ' winter comes the bitter, iCy winds will not pierce their thin bodies, nor will the snow
freeze them, and they will not be outcasts, hunted from place to place, seeking rest and
food and shelter and ﬁnding little; trembling and shrinking frOm close contact with
the human kind, which they had had only too much cause to distrust.

Would that the dumb lips of this suffering mother cat had been opened that she
might have told her heartrending tale of wretchedness and privation to those who
had so cruelly and selﬁshly abandoned her, when seeking pleasure for themselves be-
neath shady trees and by cool waters, unmindful of the living creature which they
had cruelly thrown upon the mercy of the city streets, casting it away like a bit of
rubbish, when justice demanded that it should have been provided for as a useful mem~
ber of the household, or its little life mercifully ended before it had experienced, those
unspeakable miseries known only to homeless wanderers.

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 
   
  

From Manford’s Magazine

/

Presfdent Lincoln was as sensitive to external impressions as the 'test paper of
the chemist. The results of a battle pained him as though he himself were among the
wounded or had lost a brave son. This sympathy—that is, his power of putting him--
self in another’s place—extended even to animals. I

The day on which Grant‘s army began the ﬁnal advance the President sat in a small
telegraph ofﬁce at City Point, receiving telegrams and examining a pocket chart. Three
little kittens were running about'the hut, in which was the ofﬁce. The President of the
Nation, whose fate was in the scales, picked up the kittens, placed them on the table,
and said:

“You poor little miserable creatures, what brought you in this camp of warriors?
\Vhere is your mother?” .

“The mother is dead,” answered the colonel in charge.

“Then she can’t grieve for them,” said the President, with a sigh. “as many a poor
mother is grieving for the son who has fallen in battle. Ah, kitties, thank God you are
cats,'and can’t understand this terrible strife.

“There. now go, my little friends,” wiping the dirt from their eyes with his handker—
chief; “that is all I can do for you. Colonel, get them good milk and .don’t let them
starve. There is too much starvation going on in this land, anyhow. Let us mitigate it
when we can.”

The great President, even at such a crisis, could, as Admiral Porter says, “ﬁnd time
to look at God’s creatures, and be solicitous for their comfort.’.’

 
       
       
     
   
   
   
       
  
   
   
    
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
  

«gOUR DUMB BROTHERS 7<

See a countless multitude about us, Innocent of wrong, our ow‘ii transgressing
Claiming sympathy-*our humble kin. Lays on them a heavy load of pain,
Sadly have they learned to fear and doubt us, Sharing all the misery and oppression
Driven from our side by human sin. Man has wrought beneath his iron reign.
Yet. though dumb. their hearts to ours are speaking, Touch all hearts. 0 Thou Divine Compassion,
Help and kindness from us ever seeking, Till they burn with generous love and passion
Kindness hard to win. To remove the stain.
Inarticulate voices, groans of anguish. They and we are in our Father’s keeping.
Patient sighs. ’neath burdens hard to bear; \Vhose compassion claSps both great and small;
From lone places where dumb victims languish Not one wrong eludes that Eye unsleeping,
Plaintive moans are ﬂoating on the air! Not one humble-st life unseen shall fall.
Soft eyes, seeking ours with wistful pleading, ‘ None can serve him with a heart unheed’ing,
Can we turn away with hearts unheeding His dumb creatures’ inarticulate pleading,
That unuttered prayer? For He loveth all. ' ‘ ANON_

 

 

 

 
 

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained without charge, by addressing Miss M. C. Yarrow.
1928 N. Eighteenth Street, Philadelphia, Penna.

  




