ecial Repert $33333h .R338. 7 I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5-de (Emu BM‘OW

NATNNAL R}: ALTN 1N3 333.33 3

 

 

MEDHAL 333333.333
CUMMWTEE

 

, Repmft 031. 13113
P3 ....,3“.€: St3t3 03" 3333371333.. 333333333
Aﬂ...€3§3Uf”37 310033 15333333 (Vitamiﬂ33}

 

1 x:

€303mﬂ3dhya (33311333333 appaimﬁd 1313313 33.3
.. 3...”. t3: 13.333133 and M3di33‘l R3333rch £3.33. 33;»:

. , LONDON: .
PI'BLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S S‘I‘AVI‘IQ/“NIQRY OFEKJE,
T3 be puI'Charsed {11 rolmh any! 30311391133" 01? dwwtl‘v frum
ELM STA TIONEI‘ZX " 015‘ EN E a? the following 331....5.sx.x1m~:
IMPERIAL 131033312: kanswm. LON 31:11:13., W132; and

:48 ABINGDON 3313,33?) 1301111er ff3..\V 1;
:37 PEEER STREE'J‘ NTANOIIESTER;
1 812 AND} 3133 FRMCLt-m CARDIFF;
23 FORTH 3TREET, EDINEI 333;
car from E. PONSONBY, Mm, 116 (3333251103 STREET, DUBLEN~

1 9 1!.)

&

Price 43. mt.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
MEDICAL ARESEARCH COMMITTEE

The following publications relating to the work of the Medical Research Committee can be pur-
chased through any bookseller, or directly from H.M. Stationery Ofﬁce, at the following addresses :
Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W.C. 2, and 28 Abingdon Street, London, SW. 1 ; 37 Peter
Street, Manchester; 1 St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff ; 23 Forth Street, Edinburgh; or from
E. Ponsonby, Ltd.,‘116 Grafton Street, Dublin.

 

 

 

First Annual Report of the Medical .Research Committee, 19114915. [Cd. 8101.] Price 3d.,
post free 4%d. '

Second Annual Report of the Medical Research Committee, 1915—1916. [Cd. 8399.] Price 312-d.,
post free 5d.

Third Annual Report of the Medical Research Committee, 1916—1917. [Cd. 8825.] Price 6d,,
post free 7 d.

Fourth Annual Report of the Medical Research Committee, 1917 -1918. [Cd. 8981.] Price 4d”
post free 6d. . '

Fifth Annual Report of the Medical Research Committee, 1918—1919. [Cmd. 412.] Price 6d.,
post free 8d.

 

Special Report, Series '
Tuberculosis : .
No. 1. First Report of the Special Investigation Committee upon the Incidence of Phthisis in
relation to Occupations—The Boot and Shoe Trade. Price 30L, post free 4d. '

No. 18. An‘ Investigation into the Epidemiology of Phthisis Pulmonalis in Great Britain and
Ireland. Price 1.9. 3d,, post free 1.9. 5d.

No. 22. An Inquiry into the Prevalence and Aetiology of Tuberculosis among Industrial
Workers, with special reference to Female Munition Workers. Price 1.9. 6d., post free 1.9. Gd.

No. 33. Pulmonary Tuberculosis: Mortality after Sanatorium Treatment. Price 2.9., post
free 28. 2%d. ‘
Cerebro-spinal Fever: -
No. 2. Report of the Special Advisory Committee upon Bacteriological Studies of Cerebro—
Spinal Fever during the Epidemic of 1915. Out Of pmnt.

N o. 3. Bacteriological Studies in the Pathology. and Preventive Control of Cerebro—spinal Fever
among the Forces during 1915 and 1916. Price 19. 6d., post free 1.9. 8:1,;d.

No. 17. I. A Report upon the Seasonal Outbreak of Cerebro—spinal Fever in the Navy at
Portsmouth, 1916—1917.

II. The Treatment of Cerebro-spinal Meningitis by Antimeningococcus Serum at the Royal
Naval Hospital, Haslar, 1915—16—17. Price 2.9. 6d., post free 29. 9d. '

Dysentery: . ,

Reports upon Investigations in the United Kingdom of Dysentery Cases received from the
Eastern Mediterranean.

No. 4. I. Amoebic Dysentery and the Protozoological Investigation of Cases and Carriers.
Price 1.9., post free 19. 2d.

N o. 5. II. Report upon 878 Cases of Bacillary Enteritis. Price 1.9. 6d., post free 1.9. 8d.

No. 6. III. Report upon recovered Cases of Intestinal Disease in the Royal Naval Hospital,
Haslar, 1915—16. ’

IV. Report upon combined Clinical and Bacteriological Studies of Dysentery Cases from the
Mediterranean. Price 1.9. 6d., post free 13. 8d.

No. 7. V. Report upon 2,360 Enteritis ‘Convalescents’ received at Liverpool from various

Expeditionary Forces. Price 2.9., post free 29. 2%01. .

 

N o. 15. A Study of 1,300 Convalescent Cases of Dysentery from Home Hospitals : with special
reference to the Incidence and Treatment of Amoebic Dysentery Carriers. Price 6d., post
free 7d.

No. 29. A Contribution to the Study of Chronicity in Dysentery Carriers. Price 9d., post
free 10%d. .

No. 30. An Investigation of the Flexner—Y Group of Dysentery Bacilli. Price 1.9., post
free 19. 1%d. '

N o. 40. Studies of Bacillary Dysentery occurring in the British Forces in Macedonia. Price 39.,
post free 3.9. 2d. '

N o. 42. A Study of the Serological Races of the Flexner Group of Dysentery Bacilli. Price 2.9. net.

Venereal Diseases: ‘

No. 23. An Analysis of the Results of Wassermann Reactions in 1.435 Cases of Syphilis or
Suspected Syphilis. Price 2.9., post free 2.9. l-é—d.

No. 41. I. An Investigation into the Ultimate Results of the Treatment of Syphilis with
Arsenical Compounds.

II. A Clinical Study of the Toxic Reactions which follow the IntravenousAdministration of ‘ 914 ’.
Price 29. net.








 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE

 

 

 

MEDICAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE .

 

 

Report on the present state of Knowledge
concerning
Accessory Food Factors (Vitamines)

 

Compiled by a Committee appointed jointly by the
Lister Institute and the Medical Research
Committee I

 

Approved for Publication by the Governing Body of the Lister Institute
and the Medical Research Committee. July 1919

 

 

 

 




Medical Research Committee.

(N ational Health Insurance.)

The Hon. WALDORF ASTOR, M.P. (Chairman).

The Right Hon. CHRISTOPHER ADDISON, M.D., M.P.
The'VISCOUNT GOSCHEN, C.B.E. (Treasurer).

J. C. BOND, C.M.G., F.R.C.S. (Hon. Colonel).

Professor WILLIAM BULLOCH, M.D., F.R.S.

HENRY HEAD, M.D., F.R.G.P., F.B.S.

Professor F. G. HOPKINS, D.Sc., F.R.S.
‘ Major-General SIR WILLIAM LEISHMAN, K.C.M.G., C.B., F.B.S. .
Professor NOEL PATON, M.D., F.R.S.

SIR WALTER M. FLETCHER, K.B.E., M.D., F.R.S. (Secretary).

15, BUCKINGHAM STREET,
STRAND, W.C. 2.

.X/

Lister Institute: Governing Body.
Major-General SIR DAVID BRUCE, K.C.B., D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S.
(Chairman). .

Lieut.-Colone1 G. W. ADDISON, RE. (Hon. Treasurer). ‘
Professor F. W. ANDREWES, M.D., F.R.S.
Professor W. BULLOCH, M.D., F.R.S.
Sir JAMES KINGSTON FOWLER, K.C.V.O., M.D.
Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. W. E. GUINNESS, M.P. ' .
Professor ERNEST H. STARLING, O.M.G., M.D., F.R.S.

Professor C. J. MARTIN, C.M.G., M.B., D.Sc., F.R.S. (Director).
CHELSEA, SW 1. ‘

Committee upon Accessory Food Factors (Vitamines)
appointed by the Medical Research Committee jointly with the
Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine to consider and advise upon
the best means for advancing and co-ordinating the various lines
Of inquiry into the modes of action‘of the factors in metabolism
which are independent of the provision of energy. '

Professor F. GOWLAND HOPKINS, D.Sc., F.R.C.P., F.B.S_’
(Chairman).

Miss HARRIETTE CHICK, D.Sc. (Secretary).

J. C. DRUMMOND, D.Sc.

Professor ARTHUR HARDEN, D.Sc., F.R.S.

E. MELLANBY, M.D.

 




TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.
II.

III.

IV.

VI.

VII.

INTRODUCTION .

ACCESSORY FACTORS AND GROWTH
References tO Chapter II

BERI-RERI AND SCURVY
Beri-beri .
Scurvy . . . . . .
References to Chapter III . . .

APPLICATION OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK TO THE PRAG-
TICAL PROBLEMS OF HUMAN DIETS
Diet Of Adults
References tO Chapter IV

APPLICATION OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK TO THE PRAC-
TICAL PROBLEMS OF HUMAN DIETS (continued)
Accessory Factors in the Nutrition Of Infants
References tO Chapter V

RICKETS AS A DEFICIENCY DISEASE .
References tO Chapter VI

PELLAGRA . . . .
References tO Chapter VII .

APPENDIX .

INDEX

(454) Wt. 4295. 231. 1500. 9/19. O.U.P.
(5508) Wt. 36019. 200. 1000. 2/20. O.U.P.

PAGE

'24

25
25
38
48

49
51
67

69
69
80

82
91

92

96

97
105

 

 




 

N. .:mg.....,.,._r__..,ﬁ.‘ _-V._.V V , ,

 

 

 

 




 

 

ACCESSORY FOOD FACTORS ‘

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION.

THAT substances playing a prominent part in nutrition could have
eluded discovery until the arrival of the present decade seemed
a short time ago to be quite unlikely : sufﬁciently unlikely at any
rate to induce scepticism towards the subject of this monograph.
Nevertheless, while any recognition of the existence and functions
.of such accessory food constituents as those now termed vitamines
is new to the science of nutrition, the facts already available seem
to compel belief in their reality and importance. True, there is at
present no knowledge concerning their actual chemical nature, but
the study of their functions is progressing on real and objective
lines, and has become in certain cases even quantitative.

As food constituents the vitamines are characterized by a dis- .
proportion between the apparent importance of their functions
and the amounts in which they are normally consumed. They are
present in quantities far too small to constitute any appreciable
contribution to the energy supply of the body. Whether they
ultimately prove to be structural components of living tissues of
which a supply is essential even though quantitatively unimportant,
or whether (as is equally possible) they are found to act rather as
catalysts in certain normal processes of metabolism, it seems certain,
because they function in such small amounts, that they must be
put in a nutritive category different from any which would comprise ,
the better-known foodstuffs such as proteins, fats, and carbohydrates.
As already admitted their actual nature is unknown, though much
information has been acquired as to their distribution and relations
as well as clear evidence that at least three members of the class
exist, each with its Special function in nutrition.

What can be said precisely at present is that if minute amounts
Of certain constituents are removed from natural foods, such foods
Wholly fail to support nutrition, and grave symptoms of actual
disease may supervene. The failure and the symptoms may be
prevented—or the animal restored to health—by the replacement
of what was removed from the food, or by adding an equally small
supply from other sources. The constituents that can be so removed
are (or rather, contain) vitamines. All the nutritional phenomena
observed in connexion with these substances are due to the inﬂuence
of amounts of actual material so small as to suggest that their
functions are of a nature quite distinct from those of proteins or of
foods which supply energy. It is not surprising that common
experience should have failed to take note of dietetic factors such
as these. The vitamines are always present in natural foodstuffs
as instinctively consumed by men and animals. There is evidence

5508 B

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to suggest that they are formed only in the tissues of plants, whence
they pass into the tissues of herbivorous animals and thus become
available for carnivora. Their distribution in the tissues of either
plants or animals may be partial and irregular, but broadly speaking
it is’ safe to say that the individual always ﬁnds a sufﬁcient supply
of vitamines in his food so long as that food is reasonably varied

' and has received no artiﬁcial or accidental separation into parts,

and so long as no destructive inﬂuence has been applied to it.

In the observation of phenomena the importance of contributory
factors is often overlooked until the effects of their removal come
to light. In the case of vitamines and their functions, demonstration,
so far as it depended upon observation, ﬁrst came when commercial
adventure or other human enterprise had led to the preparation
and consumption of foods in which the natural materials had been
fractionated for the sake of taste, appearance, or convenience, or
treated (over-heated, for example) for preservative purposes. Owing
on the one hand to the partial and irregular distribution of vitamines
in the natural products, or on the other hand to their instability, it
may happen that by these processes they are removed or destroyed.

Safety in this connexion is evidently greater when a variety of
foods is consumed. In countries where geographical conditions
prevent such variety the danger is more imminent. It is a fact at
any rate that the most striking evidence for the evil effects of the
artiﬁcial treatment of food came from rice-eating districts of the East

' when they had been invaded by milling machinery from the West.

Those who recognize beri-beri as a deﬁciency disease have good
evidence both for the evil effects of fractionating natural foodstuffs
such as the cereals, and. for the nutritive importance of what we have
agreed to call accessory factors. . "

The evidence from disease would have led sooner to a conception
of these food constituents and their functions but for a not unnatural
bias in thought. It is difﬁcult to implant the idea of disease as due
to deﬁciency.

Disease is so generally associated with positive agentS—the
parasite, the toxin, the mater/£63 morbd—that the thOught of the
pathologist turns naturally to such positive associations and seems
to believe with difﬁculty in causation preﬁxed by a minus sign.
Even in connexion with deﬁciencies arising within the body there
is or was a similar tendency. When the importance of internal
secretions was ﬁrst recognized there seemed to be much hesitation
in believing that symptoms might be frankly due to their failure.
When each fresh internal secretion was described there was always
an effort to shew that its function was to ‘ neutralize ’ some, always
hypothetical, toxic substance. Symptoms, on this View, were due
to the unmasking of a deleterious agent rather than to simple
deﬁciency in a normal and necessary agent. To distinguish between
these two possibilities was of. course a scientiﬁc duty; but, at any
rate in the earlier literature of internal secretions, a bias against
the simpler view interfered with the fair interpretation of experimental
resu ts. A

So in connexion with the newer conception of disease as due to
dietetic deﬁciencies. Even when Eijkman, through his admirable

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Jaw

 

 

 

 

3

studies, had clearly established more than twenty years ago that
beri-beri arose during the consumption of decorticated and not of
whole rice (making it clear, therefore, that something in the cortex
was necessary to normal nutrition) he was led to suggest, not the simple
view that the cortical substance was of direct'use to the body but
rather that it was necessary to neutralize the otherwise deleterious
effect of a diet over-rich in starch. Save for the mental bias just
referred to it is very difﬁcult to see why so roundabout an explanation
should have been thought necessary. Its effect in every case has
certainly been to delay the recognition of deﬁciency diseases and
indirectly also to delay the realization of the functions of what, for
lack of a better term, have been called vitamines.

Fortunately in connexion with deﬁciency diseases it has proved
possible by the choice of suitable animals to supplement clinical and
sociological observation by experiments. As usual experimental
work has made our knowledge more quantitative. The discovery,
for-instance, of avian polyneuritis and its relation to beri-beri by
Eijkman and the demonstration by Axel Holst that the guinea-pig
easily develops the symptoms of scurvy and at the same time reSponds
readily to anti-scorbutic treatment have made possible experimental
work upon sound and illuminating lines. In this country the work
done in conneXiqn with beri-beri and scurvy at the Lister Institute
has shown the value of experiments essentially quantitative in kind.
Work on rickets now being carried out at Cambridge has further
shown the value of experiment as a supplement to clinical observation
when dietetics are concerned. This investigation seems to leave no
doubt that a deﬁciency in the food, almost certainly involving a factor
of the vitamine type, plays a fundamental part in the etiology of
the disease.

If, however, the evidence for the existence and importance of
vitamines had arisen entirely from the study of deﬁciency diseases
our views might have remained too limited, too much conﬁned to
the standpoint of pathology and therapeutics. But in the very
years during which the etiology of beri-beri was being cleared up
and the suggestion established that a quantitative food deﬁciency
may be responsible for striking symptoms, experiments were in
progress on quite independent lines to show that something other
than a supply of energy and protein is required to maintain so
fundamental a physiological phenomenon as growth, and to demon-
strate that normal metabolism as a whole is not possible without the
inﬂuence of food constituents which because of their minute amount
could justiﬁably be Spoken of as ‘ accessory’ factors in nutrition.

From such experiments then the conception of the vitamine
also arose, and at the present time the evidence from all kinds of
feeding experiments, whether carried out from the physiological or
pathological standpoint, is being consolidated. In this country
valuable contributions to the research are being made at Cambridge,
the Lister Institute, the Cancer HOSpital, and elsewhere. The
work of McCollum and of Osborne and Mendel in the United States
has made it clear that at least two substances of the vitamine type
are concerned in growth, one of them being probably identical with
the antineuritic substance discovered in connexion with beri-beri,

B 2

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

while abundant evidence shows that the antiscorbutic factor is
"distinct fromeither of these. -

There is no occasion for surprise in the circumstance that students
of normal metabolism have, like the pathologist, failed until recently
to recognize the existence of such substances in the food. Nearly
all the classical experiments have been made upon diets containing
natural foods, the content of protein, fat, and carbohydrate being
calculated from analysis. Not until these constituents had been
thoroughly puriﬁed and animals fed upon ‘ synthetic ’ dietaries
made up of such puriﬁed materialscould the suggestion arise that
the familiar basal constituents of food were not by themselves
capable of maintaining life. . _ '

A point of interest arises here which is sufﬁciently cognate to the
subject of this monograph to justify some reference to it. The
tissues contain, of course, many known organic Constituents other
than proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. It is clearly a question
fwhether any of them, or the constituent groups of any of them,
must be supplied in diet. At one time or another many observa-
tions have been made to determine this point. The result of adding
certain of these known constituents has sometimes seemed to be
positive-—in the sense of increasing growth, or of improving meta-
bolism—but the evidence has never been striking or even unequivocal.

Now feeding experiments, such as those which have brought to
light the necessity for a vitamine supply, seem to have proved at
the same time that all known tissue constituents can be synthesized
from the amino-acids of protein with the other basal foodstuffs.
For, with their vitamine supply secured, animals in great numbers
have now been shown to develop normally upon a diet containing
only pure protein, fats, carbohydrates, and salts. We must believe,
therefore, that substances such as the nucleic acids, the phosphatides,
and other complex phOSphOI‘uS compounds, creatine and the other
bases in muscle, as well as many other necessary tissue constituents,
must be synthesized from the basal foodstuffs. The vitamines may
of course be themselves indispensable tissue elements in the structural
sense ; exceptional in that they cannot be synthesized in the animal.
If so it would seem that they share that characteristic with certain, of
the amino-acids of the protein and with those alone. To some, on the
other hand, it seems probable that the functions of vitamines are in
essence dynamic and catalytic, though the point remains unproven.1

The purpose of the present monograph is to present in a collected
form the essential facts concerning these accessory diet factors so
far as they are at present known. It is hoped that it will be found,
in particular, to make readily available information which is already
*capable 'of practical application.

The practical importance of the facts will not be understood
unless it be recognized that a deﬁciency in food, which when complete
"or extreme leads to actual disease, may, when only relative, be
reSponsible for ill health of a vague but still important kind.

1 So far back as 1911, when Hopkins described his own experiments to a meeting
of the Biochemical Society (then the Biochemical Club) the subsequent discussion
ranged chieﬂy round this point. The opinion of those who took part in the discussion

was almost entirely in favour of the View that the function of such accessory food
factors (as he termed them) must be that of stimulants rather than structural units.

 




 

CHAPTER II
ACCESSORY FACTORS AND GROWTH.

THE growth of a young animal is believed to be determined by
two factors. One of these is what has been termed the growth
impulse. This is inborn, and represents the‘power to grow possessed
by individuals of the particular species. It has not yet been
possible to resolve and identify the multiplicity of factors which
operate to determine the magnitude of the growth impulse, but it
may be safely said that the chief variations are those introduced
by hereditary inﬂuences. ~

The growth impulse may therefore be termed the internal factor
which controls growth and development. The second factor, which
may be designated the external factor, must also be regarded as
multiple, and is represented by the summation of those external
conditions which inﬂuence growth. Of the many factors which
together constitute this external inﬂuence the most important is,
without question, the food supply. '

Neither of these fundamental factors can be regarded as inde-
pendent of the other. The growth impulse, predetermined by
evolutionary and- hereditary inﬂuences, represents the power to
grow inherent in the fertilized ovum, but this is in itself powerless
to promote actual growth unless assisted by the co-operation of the
external factor. _

On the other hand, the external factor, which for our purpose
may be identiﬁed with the food supply, cannot stimulate growth

beyond those limits which are predetermined by the growth impulse. ,

It will, therefore, be realized what fundamental importance is to
be attached to a full understanding of the food requirements of the

animal body during the period of growth, since these represent the

chief factors which are under voluntary control.

For many years past it has been customary to estimate the
nutritive requirements of the animal organism in terms of What
have been for long regarded as the four fundamental food units,
namely protein, carbohydrate, fat, and inorganic material, and to
underestimate, if not entirely neglect, the possible signiﬁcance of
other less clearly deﬁned dietary constituents.

As a result of this narrow conception, we ﬁnd that only within
the last decade has research on animal nutrition advanced beyond
the stage when primary importance was attached to the results
yielded by elaborate studies of the nitrogen, energy, and mineral
exchanges. Whilst acknowledging the great value of the many
fundamental principles which have been deduced from such results,
much that is misleading and inaccurate has undoubtedly followed
from the attempt to allocate to every foodstuff a nutritive value
estimated solely in terms of digestible protein, fat, carbohydrate, and
salts. It is only necessary to consider the methods by which no
inconsiderable prOportion of this valuation has been made in order

 

 




L_.____.»_.<._._.,--..__.._._“.rr...—~_._ .__.._...__.__.._.-_,~., 7 _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

to appreciate how these errors have arisen; thus, for example,
‘ protein’ is still computed in many cases from determinations of
total nitrogen, without any attention being paid to the character of
the nitrogen-containing substances actually present in the foodstuffs ;
whilst the true nature of the substances frequently estimated as
p ‘ fat ’ is almost invariably disregarded.

The sole justiﬁcation for assuming that proteins, fats, carbo-
hydrates, and salts are all that is necessary for the nutritive require-
ments of the body can gnly come from a successful experiment in
which an animal has shown a normal development and standard of
nutrition throughout its life cycle upon a diet composed of these
units in a pure condition. . , ‘

EARLY EXPERIMENTS WITH PURIFIED-DIETs.

Many attempts have been made to accomplish this, although it
was not an experiment of this nature that led to the ﬁrst suggestion
being advanced that in addition to these recognized dietary units
other substances. existed, which were equally indiSpensable for life.
This suggestion was made by Lunin as far back as 1881 (1). He was
investigating at the time the signiﬁcance of inorganic salts in the
nutrition of the animal, and as a result of some of his experiments
found that whereas adult mice could live for several months in good
health on a diet of milk, they invariably died within a month if they
received a ration composed of what he believed to be the essential
ingredients of milk, namely, caseinogen, milk-fat, milk-sugar, and
the ash of milk. Commenting upon his experiments, he remarked:

‘ Mice can live quite well under these conditions when receiving
suitable foods (e. g. milk), but as the above experiments demonstrate
that they are unable to live on proteins, fats, carbohydrates, salts,
and water, it follows that other substances indispensable for nutrition
must be present in milk besides caseinogen, fat, lactose, and salts.’

In Spite of the fact that this conclusion was given considerable
publicity in the widely-read pages of Professor Bunge’s Teasthooh of
Physiological and Pathological Chemistry, it does not appear to have
attracted the attention it merited. .

A number of investigators since Lunin’s time have attempted to
supply the nutritive requirements of animals, usually rats and mice,
by means of artiﬁcial diets composed of mixtures of proteins, fats,
carbohydrates, and inorganic salts, but it was found exceedingly
difﬁcult even to keep the animals alive for any appreciable time
upon such diets. In practically every case, no matter how carefully
the composition of the diets had been planned so as to provide what
was considered an adequate and well-balanced supply of the neces-
sary food units, the animals showed a steady decline in weight and
health throughout the course of the experiments, and seldom sur-
vived for any appreciable length of time. t

A valuable review of these earlier experiments is given in the
monograph by Osborne and Mendel (2), which should be consulted
for fuller details. Many suggestions were advanced to explain the
repeated failures. By some it was considered that the monotony
of the diet was in itself sufﬁcient to bring about ultimate nutritive

 

 

 




 

 

7

failure; a View that was difﬁcult to reconcile with the fact that
animals have been successfully reared and maintained at a normal
standard of nutrition for considerable periods upon equally mono-
tonous diets of single foodstuffs such as milk and egg-yolk (8, 4).

» Another explanation frequently put forward was that the absence ‘

of ﬂavouring agents from the artiﬁcial diets induced loss of appetite,
with a consequent failure to partake of sufﬁcient food to satisfy the
nutritive requirements for maintenance (5). Attempts were there-
fore made to increase the palatability of the rations by the addition
of ﬂavouring substances, but in Spite of this, the experimental
animals still failed to ﬂourish.

Reference must,however, be made to the experiments of Rehmann,
who has done much pioneer work in this ﬁeld of research. This
investigator claimed to have been able to satisfy the nutritive
requirements of mice with rations prepared by mixing a number of.
isolated and ‘ puriﬁed ’ food components (6). His animals not only
showed increases of body weight upon such diets, but were actually
sufﬁciently well nourished to produce young. A full criticism of his
results will be given later, but it may be stated here that there is
every reason to believe that he had failed to use sufﬁcient care in
ensuring the purity of the components of his food mixtures.

In the year 1911 Osborne and Mendel published in America (2)
their classical monograph in which they described experiments on
the nutrition of rats over considerable periods upon diets composed
of isolated food substances.

They used dietaries containing proteins of a high degree of ‘purity,
together with starch, sugar, lard, agar, and inorganic salts. The
agar was included in order to form an indigestible intestinal ballast
or ‘ roughage’, whilst the inorganic salts were given either as a
mixture of the pure crystalline salts or in the form of a preparation
known as ‘ protein-free milk’. The latter product was prepared
by evaporating down milk after removal of the fat and proteins.
It therefore contained the salts, lactose, and extractives of milk.
With regard to these experiments, they say (2 II. 59) : ‘Although
these apparently successful experiments indicated that the com-
binations of isolated food-stuffs employed satisﬁed the nutritive
requirements of the rats, and consequently constituted a complete
food for the maintenance of mature animals, a prolongation of the
observations has led to a less favourable outcome. A continuation
of the experiments over longer periods has shown that in every case,
sooner or later, the animal declined; and unless a change in the
diet was now instituted within a comparatively short time, th
animals died.’ ‘

Mention must now be made of the work of Stepp (7), who found
that whereas mice lived satisfactorily for several months upon
certain foods, such as wheat bread made with milk, they were
unable to live longer than a month when fed upon the same diet

after it had been subjected to prolonged extraction with alcohol ,

and ether. That the extraction itself had only lowered the nutritive
value of the foodstuffs by removing some essential component was
demonstrated by restoring the extract to the extracted food, when
it once again became adequate for the nutrition of the mice. .

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ 8

He made a number of experiments in order to ascertain the nature
of the essential factor removed by the extraction process. The
addition of the ash of the extract, or of certain neutral fats in a pure
condition, did not remedy the deﬁciency, but he found that milk
and egg-yolk did. This led him to suggest the existence of an un-
identiﬁed indiSpensable dietary unit, which he appears to have
regarded as a member of the lipoid class. He was unable to identify
this substance with cholesterol, lecithin, kephalin, and cerebrone,
since all members of that class of substance failed to restore the
nutritive value of the extracted foodstuffs. He remarks in one of
his papers: ‘It is not impossible that unknown substances indis-
pensable for life go into solution with the lipoids, and that the
latter thereby become what may be termed carriers for these sub-
stances.’

We must now turn our attention to the classical experiments
carried out by HOpkins in this country. As early as 1906 he wrote
as follows (8) : ‘ But further, no animal can live upon a mixture
of pure protein, fat, and carbohydrate, and even when the necessary
inorganic material is carefully supplied, the animal still cannot
ﬂourish. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant
tissues or other animals, and these contain countless substances
other than the proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Physiological
evolution, I believe, has made some of these well nigh as essential
as are the basal constituents of diet; lecithin, for instance, has
been repeatedly shown to have a marked influence upon nutrition,
and this just happens to be something already familiar, and a sub-
stance that happens to have been tried. The ﬁeld is almost un-
explored, only it is certain that there are many minor factors in all
diets, of which the body takes account. In diseases, such as rickets,
and particularly in scurvy, we have had for long years knowledge of
a dietetic factor, but though we know how to beneﬁt these conditions
empirically, the real errors in the diet are to this day quite obscure.
They are, however, certainly of the kind which comprises these
minimal qualitative factors that I am considering. Scurvy and
rickets are conditions so severe that they force themselves upon our
attention, but many other nutritive errors affect the health of
individuals to a degree most important to themselves, and some of
them depend upon unsuspected dietetic factors.’

The results of his experiments extending over several years were
published in 1912 (9). He fed young rats upon an artiﬁcial food
m1xture containing caseinogen, starch, cane sugar, lard, and inorganic
salts. When the animals were fed upon the diet composed of these
constituents in the crude condition, they were able to live and to
show a certain amount of growth. When, however, the components
had been carefully puriﬁed, growth invariably ceased after a com-
paratively short period, and the rats declined and died. A most
Important feature of his experiments was that he showed by estima-
tions of the energy consumptions of‘ the animals that this failure
was not due to an insufﬁcient food intake. It was found that they
ceased to grow at a time when they were consuming food in more
than sufﬁcient quantity to maintain normal growth.

Another series of animals received in addition to the basal ration

 

 

t




 

Q 0 l

'70 -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

a
i
3 05 20 4 0 '

{ FIG. 1. Lower curve, six rats on artiﬁcial diet alone. Upper curve, six similar
t, animals receiving in addition 2 0.0. of milk each per diem. Abscissae, time in days ;
l ordinates, average weight in grm. (Reproduced by permission from the Journal
? of Physiology, 1912 44 432.)

E
‘J
‘ 6‘0 r}
. ‘ I
l /
i
f
l
g.
l
. l
6 0 . .i
i
3

.. z

i i
1 I

.4 0 < -
0 _ l 5 5 0'
9 FIG. 2. Lower curve (up to eighteenth day), eight male rats upon pure dietary;

upper curve, eight similar rats taking 3 cc. of milk each a day. On the eighteenth
M day, marked by vertical dotted line, the milk was transferred from one set to the

other. Average weight in grms., vertical; time, horizontal. (Reproduced by per-
,’ mission from the J oumal of Physiology, 1912 44 433.)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

. of puriﬁed foodstuffs a very small daily allowance of milk. In all

cases the milk addendum, although its total solids amounted to only
4. per cent. or less of. the whole food eaten, induced normal and
continual growth.

The extraordinary effect of this apparently insigniﬁcant addition
to the diet upon the growth of the experimental rats is well illustrated
by the above two ﬁgures, which have been reproduced from the
original paper. A similar growth-stimulating action was exerted
by the addition of protein-free and salt-free extracts of milk-solids,

or of yeast, to the basal diet. As the milk ration was administered

separately and in advance of the administration of the main dietary,
it could not have affected the palatability of the food or diminished
its monotony.

The importance of these early experiments is so great that an
extract from HOpkins’_ discussion of. his results is reproduced : ‘ It is
possible that what is absent from artiﬁcial diets and supplied by
such addenda as milk and tissue extracts is of the nature of an
organic complex (or of complexes) which the animal body cannot
synthesize. But the amount which seems sufﬁcient to secure growth
is so small that a catalytic or stimulative function seems more

‘ likely.

‘ It is probable that our conception of stimulating substances
may have to be extended. The original vague conception of such
subjects being condiments, chieﬂy affecting taste, gained in deﬁnite-
ness by the work of the Pavlov School. But the place of Speciﬁc
diet constituents which stimulate the gastric secretory mechanism
can be taken by the products of digestion itself, and in this con-
nexion the stimulant in the diet is by no means indispensable. Most
observers agree that the addition to normal dietaries of meat extracts

capable of stimulating the gastric ﬂow does not increase the actual '

absorption of food, though this point could be properly tested by
addmg them to an artiﬁcial dietary known to be free from analogous
substances.- As was emphasized above, the milk did not affect
absorptlon 1n my experiments. But such undoubted stimulating
effects due to diet constituents as those discovered by Pavlov may
quite possibly be paralleled elsewhere in the body on more Speciﬁc
and 1nd1spensable lines. Stimulations of the internal secretions of
the thyrord and pituitary glands which are believed on very suggestive
evidence to play an important part in growth processes, can be
legitimately thought of. On the other hand, the inﬂuence upon
growing tissues may be direct. I f the attachment of such indispensable
functions to speciﬁc accessory constituents of diets is foreign to current
mews upon nutrition, so also is the ewperimental fact that young animals
may fail to grow when they are absorbing daily a suﬁiciency offormativc
material and energy for the purpose of growth.’

These experlments undoubtedly mark the beginning of a full
apprec1atlon of the importance of what Hopkins has termed the
accessory factors of the diet.

Additional evidence of the existence of such factors rapidly
accumulated; Osborne and Mendel (10) conﬁrmed their previous
ﬁnding that when they replaced ‘ protein-free milk ’ as a source of
carbohydrates and salts in their artiﬁcial food mixture by lactose

 

J

 




 

 

11

and. a mixture of pure inorganic salts approximating to the com-
posItlon of the ash of milk, the animals were unable to thrive.
Summing up they say, ‘ whether the deﬁciency of the purely artiﬁcial
dIet Is to be attributed to improper proportions of its constituents,
to Improper combinations of these constituents, or to the lack of
some essential element, is at present difﬁcult to deﬁne.’

That they did not regard their failure as being entirely due to the
absence of accessory factors may be assumed from their statement
that they had achieved a considerable degreeof success in feeding in
the absence of the hypothetical organic hormones (10). Hopkins and
Neville (11) challenged this statement and attempted to repeat the
experiments of the American workers. Using very carefully puriﬁed
Ingredients they were unable to obtain any appreciable growth on
such diets, and the animals, in Spite of a satisfactory consumption
of food, were all dead before the expiration of forty days. In com-
plete conﬁrmation of the earlier experiments of Hopkins, it was
found that when a small ration of milk, 2 cc. per day was given, in
addition to the basal diet, this failure was not shown.

DIFFERENTIATION OF Two ACCESSORY FACTORS,

In 1913, McCollum and Davis in America conﬁrmed the fact that
rats were unable to grow upon an artiﬁcial ration consisting of
caseinogen, lactose, lard, and inorganic salts (12). They also stated
their belief that cessation of growth upon such diets was due to the
animal running out of some organic complex which was indispensable
for further growth, but since their rats lived in fairly good health
upon this mixture after growth had ceased, they concluded that
maintenance could be satisfactory in the absence of that substance.
They found that the ether-soluble fraction of butter and eggs sup-
plied the missing factor, but that lard and olive oil were unable
to do so.

In concluding their paper, they remark: ‘ Our observation that
ether extracts from certain sources improve the condition of animals
on such rations strongly supports the belief that there are certain
accessory articles in certain foodstuffs which are essential for normal
grOwth for extended periods.’

Very shortly after the appearance of this paper, Osborne and
Mendel reported a continuation of their experiments (18). The
greater efﬁciency of natural milk as a food, as compared with artiﬁcial
mixtures containing what were supposed to be the only constituents
of milk, impressed them with the belief that there existed some
unidentiﬁed substance in the natural product which was not only
necesSary for growth but also for prolonged maintenance. They
found that young rats which fed upon a diet containing protein,
starch, lard, and protein-free milk grew at a satisfactory rate for
a short time, but that sooner or later growth invariably ceased and
that the animals declined. This decline could, however, be arrested
and a normal rate of growth resumed when butter was substituted
for the lard in the diet. '

Later these investigators found that the active substance was
concentrated in the butter-fat fraction of the butter (14). Since

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

the authors claimed that their butter fat was free from nitrogen
and phOSphorus and devoid of any ash-yielding or water-soluble
components, it appeared probable that the growth factor was not
a substance of the type to which the anti-beri-beri factor, then being
carefully studied by Funk, apparently belonged. The latter worker,
however, challenged their claim as to the purity of butter fat, and
showed that appreciable traces of nitrogen-containing substances
could be extracted from that product preparml by the method
described by Osborne and Mendel (15).

Numerous naturally occurring fats and oils were examined for the
presence of the substance which apparently played so important
a part in the nutrition of the animal body, and it was found in
association with several animal fats, such as cod-liver oil and beef
fat, but was absent from a number of oils of vegetable origin (16, 17).
The distribution of this substance will, however, be more fully
considered in a later section.

For some time it was generally believed that the substance found
in association with certain fats was the only accessory substance
necessary to supplement the nutritive deﬁciency of a diet of puriﬁed
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and salts for growth. Several workers
had, however, failed to secure the satisfactory nutrition of animals
even when butter fat was added to the basal ration of puriﬁed food-
stuffs. Thus Funk and Macallum in 1915 reported that young rats
fed upon such a diet not only failed to grow but rapidly declined
and died after many of them had shown symptoms which the authors
believed to be analogous to those of avian beri-beri (18). On the
basis of Funk’s vitamine theory of beri-beri (see later) they added
a small ration of yeast to the diets and found that this addition was
immediately followed by growth.

They failed, however, to appreciate the true signiﬁcance of their
own results, fOr they apparently disregarded the inﬂuence of any
substance present in the butter fat, and expressed their opinion that
‘ thet growth-promoting factor is beyond question contained in the
yeas .

The proof of the existence of a second essential accessory dietary
factor of atype distinct from that found in association with fats
was ﬁrst given by McCollum and Davis (19). As the result of
a careful 1nvestigation of the dietary deﬁciencies of rice they were
forced. to accept the conclusion ‘ that there are necessary for normal
nutrition during growth two classes of unknown accessory sub-
stances, one soluble in fats and accompanying them in the
process of 1solation from certain food-stuffs, and the other soluble
1n water but apparently not in fats ’. They termed these two
substances ‘fat-soluble A ’ and ‘water-soluble B’ reSpectively;
preferring these provisional appellations to the ' much criticized
word Vitamine ’, which had been introduced and used extensively
by Funk. Their terminology has been widely adopted as being both
convement and non-committal.

Amongst other interesting points they showed that the so-called
water-soluble factor is present in milk, and that it is only removed
from milk sugar by thorough crystallization, a fact conﬁrmed by
Drummond (20). .

 

 




 

 

I, New”..- —4q¢/——‘7 -——~

13

This observation supplied the solution to the apparent discordancy
of many of the experimental results which had been obtained by
various investigators, of whom many had employed in one form or
another insufﬁciently puriﬁed lactose as a component of their
dietaries, thereby unwittingly providing’a more or less adequate
supply of the water-soluble accessory factor. Thus, Funk and
Macallum, who had taken great pains to ensure the purity of the
components of their food mixture, and who excluded lactose on the
grounds that it was known to contain traces of nitrogenous products
derived from milk, were unable to obtain growth in the presence of
butter fat until they supplied yeast, now known to be one of the
richest sources of the water-soluble‘factor.

Practically all investigators in this ﬁeld of research have now
admitted their belief in the indiSpensability of the two accessory
factors, ‘fat-soluble A’ and ‘water-soluble B ’ for growth and
nutrition of the animal organism, but a brief reference must be made
to certain opinions which have been advanced in opposition to this
View.

Foremost amongst the very small minority who have not yet
acknowledged the indisPensability of these constituents is F. Boh-
mann of Breslau. As the majority of his views and criticisms are
contained in a book published in Germany in 1916 (21), and as no

copy of this publication has as yet been available for reference in

this country, we are unfortunately conﬁned mainly to an examination
of the criticisms it has roused in America (22). Apparently Rohmann
asserts his belief that ‘ accessory foodstuffs are not necessary for the
continued maintenance of fully grown animals ’, and that if the
long familiar nutriments are suitable in quality and quantity,

nothing further is essential to the ration. He remarks: ‘The V

assumption that some unknown substances are indispensable for
growth is a convenient device for explaining experiments that result
in failure—a device that becomes superﬂuous as soon as the) experi-
ment succeeds.’ But we must ﬁrst examine his own experiments ' _
which he claims have been successful in achieving this result and ‘
which have led him to express these vieWs. ,
Rohmann has for many years past carried out a large number of
feeding experiments with artiﬁcial mixtures of foodstuffs, and has
thereby obtained valuable results upon such questions as the relative
nutritive values of individual proteins. It is impossible to say,
however, that he has exercised sufﬁcient care in controlling the purity
of the ingredients of his food mixture. Many of his dietaries con-
tained protein in a very impure form, such as crude dried egg
albumin and ‘Kalzose’, the latter a commercial preparation of
calcium-casein, admittedly containing milk sugar, and hence without
doubt other products present in milk. The composition of the
margarine, which he frequently employed as a source of fat, isnever
stated. It may, if derived from animal fat, contain large amounts
of fat-soluble A (24). That he has failed to appreciate the difﬁculty
of removing traces of the accessory substances from the ingredients
of his diets may be judged from the fact that, in order to meet the
possible objection that his diets contained these substances in some
cases, he only extracted the components with cold alcohol. More

 

 




 

 

 

14

astounding is his admission that a successfulnutrition with certain
diets was frequently induced by the addition of alcoholic extracts
of yeast or by small quantities of a product termed by him ‘ Filtra-
teiweiss ’. Of this latter substance, Osborne and Mendel remark:
‘ according to his (Rohmann’s) account of the method of preparation,
this product may have contained some or all of the other constituents
of milk among which are those proved to be especially efﬁcient in
promoting growth.’

It is scarcely necessary to expend further time in considering work
sofull of inconsistences, and we may conclude by quoting the trenchant
criticism of the American workers (22). ‘ The thesis that a successful,
i. e. positive, experiment in nutrition is far more signiﬁcant than
a negative one is doubtless valid. On the other hand, in dealing
with substances which, like the alleged vitamines, are potent in
surprisingly small amounts, the burden of the proof with respect
to the complete absence of effective substances so widely distributed
among the natural foodstuffs falls on those who deny the need
of them.’

ARE FAT-SOLUBLE A AND WATER-SOLUBLE B THE ONLY ACCESSORY
SUBSTANCES NECESSARY FOR GROWTH AND NUTRITION?

A later section of this book is devoted to a consideration of a third
accessory substance, which may be sharply differentiated from both
the factofs ‘ A ’ and ‘ B ’ by its properties, namely the antiscorbutic
substance. It will be seen there that this factor is undoubtedly
indispensable for the normal nutrition of certain Species of animals.

The question, therefore, arises as to whether we must regard this
substance as a third accessory factor indiSpensable as a component
of a normal dietary for growth. It is difﬁcult to give an answer to
this question in the light of our present knowledge of the subject,
becausc’whilst we as yet understand very little of the requirements

~ of the various Species for this substance, it is undoubtedly true that ~

wide variations occur.

Practically all the researches which have led up to the discovery of
fat-soluble A and water-soluble B have been carried out on young
mice and rats. Neither of these animals appears to show any
susceptibility to scurvy, if we may judge from the fact that they
have been nourished with apparent success over long periods
upon diets which can have contained but the merest traces, if any,
of the anti—scorbutic substances. It is, however, quite conceivable
that these two Species represent types whose low susceptibility to
the disease calls for a very small requirement of the preventive sub-
stance. Failure to supply an adequate amount of the factor in such
cases might only bring about a comparatively Slight lowering of the
nutritive standard of the animal, and experimental evidence is
accumulating that this is actually what ocburs in the case of the
rat'(23, 23 a). Strictly Speaking, we must recognize at least three
distinct accessory factors indiSpensable for normal growth and
nutrition, but as the anti—scorbutic substance is fully treated else-
where, the other two substances, fat-soluble A and water-soluble B,
will alone be considered here.

 

 

 




 

 

I‘ or“ Raf ”'7 Grams

15

ILLUSTRATIONS or THE INFLUENCE OF FAT-SOLUBLE A AND WATER-
sOLUBLE B ON THE GROWTH AND NUTRITION or RATS.

In Fig. 3 are given a number of curves illustrating the changes
in body weight of rats which were fed from an early age upon an
artiﬁcial ration of puriﬁed protein, carbohydrate, fat and in-
organic salts, supplemented with adequate amounts of the factors
‘ A ’ and ‘ B ’. 1

The actual dietary employed was constituted as follows :

Puriﬁed caseinogen . . . . . . . 20 parts
55

,, starch . . . . . . . ,,
Mixture of crystalline inorganic salts . . . . 5 ,,
Butter fat (as source both of fat and the factor ‘ A ’)~ . 15 ,,
Yeast extract (as a source of factor ‘ B ’) . . . 5 ,,

 

l

 

 

§

 

 

\
()5
O

S
c

5003/ we [75
‘6‘

 

 

 

Maﬁa/55
b/hf/I of/M’ér’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6/4700??? —- >

 

FIG. 3. Showing normal growth of rats over 4-5 months with production, and
satisfactory growth, of young on above dietary.

Curve 1 represents the growth of a male rat, and Curve 2 the growth of a female rat.
At the points marked on the second curve litters of young were born. Average curves
for the growth of the second generation reared on this diet are given in Curve 3 (males)
and Curve 4 (females). In one experiment four generations were reared upon this
dietary as a sole source of food, and in every case the animals were well up to, and in
some cases were considerably superior to, the normal standard.

1 The curves illustrating this section are taken from records obtained during experi-
ments carried out by Drummond. They conﬁrm those previously obtained by
McCollum and his co-workers.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

'16

The composition of the salt mixture employed is one recommended
by McCollum and Davis and is as follows (25) :

NaCl . . . . . 2 . 519 parts
MgSO4 . . . . . . A 7-98 ,,
NaH2P04 . . ' p. . . . 10-41 ,,
KQHPO4 . . . . . . 28°62 ,,
Cal-14(PO4)2 . . . . . . 16-20 ,,
Ca lactate . . . . . . 39-00 ,,
Ferric citrate . . . . . 3-54 ,,
Iodine . . trace.

In addition to the above the animals received occasional doses of
orange juice as an antiscorbutic.

That the basal ration of protein, starch, and salts was free from
accessory substances is shown by complete failure of young animals
to grow when fed upon it, illustrated by the curves given in
Fig. 10 (p. 19). ' .

Throughout this experiment the rats were apparently in excellent
health and showed a normal appearance; A rat from this group
was photographed after having received the diet for over twelve
months (Fig. 4) ; one of the second generation raised on this ration
is also shown (Fig. 5). ., '

From the close approximation of the weight curves of these animals
to the standard curve for similar’rats fed upon a mixed dietary of
natural foodstuffs it appears probable that their nutritive require-
ments had been completely supplied by the components of the
artiﬁcial dietary. ‘

This is supported both by the fact that the experimental animals
showed normal breeding propensities, many highly satisfactory litters
of young having been produced and reared by females receiving the
artiﬁcial ration, and by the animals showing a normal standard of
resistance to disease.

INFLUENCE OF THE ABSENCE OF FAT-SOLUBLE A FROM THE DIET;

It has already been remarked that certain fats are very deﬁcient
in the fat-soluble factor. Such a fat is lard. Fig. 6 represents the
changes in body weight of rats fed upon a ration similar to that of
which the composition has been given, but in which lard replaced
the butter fat.

It will be seen from. these curves that for a short time the young
animals are able to grow when the fat-soluble factor is deﬁcient in
their diet. The explanation of this is probably supplied by the assump-
tion that the animal organism normally contains reserve supplies of
the factor ‘ A’ in its own body. If this hypothesis is correct it is
reasonable to assume that these reserves are mobilized for use when
a deﬁciency occurs in the diet, but as soon as they are exhausted
growth is immediately inhibited. During the period of temporary
growth,throughout which it has been assumed thatthe reserve supplies
are being utilized, the animals show a normal appearance and there
does not appear to be any decline in their health, but when the
reserves are exhausted and the deﬁciency becomes felt, not only do

 

 

 

' “MW—HA _.




 

 

 

17

they cease to grow but they become highly susceptible to bacterial
infection. In the case of rats this lowered resistance ﬁrst becomes
apparent in many cases by the appearance of a characteristic infection
of the external eye, which has been provisionally classiﬁed as a xero-
phthalmia. It usually begins with a swelling of the lids of one or both
eyes, which is followed by an inﬂamed and catarrhal condition of
the conjunctivae (Fig. 7 ),. This rapidly becomes worse and the
discharge which is at ﬁrst haemorrhagic, frequently becomes purulent.
If untreated, the cornea may be involved and total blindness result.
This condition is regarded by some (e. g. McCollum) as an almost

Q

 

 

 

 

 

1' ‘éf Wffiﬂljf'm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

250 , .
. 3 —. — _ Syn/ﬁwymw/ﬁ
é maﬁa/Maw!“
A / 2 ‘ IiJWzﬁSO/ué/eﬂ'

200 v .

\t .
4 (0W4, Wry/ / , _ Symﬁés yr W177i!

'0‘ 5 Bro » ' _ 0/; complex?
we \ arﬁﬁ'c/a/a’xé/
wal/ fwd! 6
50 v. ‘ *0 -_ . ' l ‘ .

?2 i . . .

A . 0 , o Syn/ﬁes (ﬁe/yd
‘9 qL" " x 9’ i / of wet. '
L , ’ x (4 C3 -
a 100
.3» ’ . 50
s * "NJ 3 4
§\ - ~ ” E
s ./ ¢ m
t) 50 .S 25 W ’4 __ _ _ ~
_ — a . ~
‘k. ’ a '
R a-"
K__[,,70”/ﬁ_;, g ’ ” ("'1 week "’
O ,

FIG. 6. Showing preliminary growth and eventual decline on diet deﬁcient in
Fat-soluble A. Also recovery on addition of a source of Fat-soluble A.

These curves illustrate how the absence of the fat-soluble accessory substance
ultimately inhibits the growth processes of young animals. The broken curves
represent the changes in body weight of. rats fed upon a diet freed as far as possi-
ble from all traces of that accessory factor. The small amount of growth, which
usually occurs at ﬁrst, probably indicates the utilization of reserve stores of the indis-
pensable unit, but failure ultimately sets in. At the points marked on the curves by
(0) the deﬁciency of the fat-soluble was made good by the addition of butter fat. This
change was at once followed by a resumption of growth. In the small ﬁgure are given
the weight curves of young rats born from females receiving artiﬁcial diets of this
nature. Curve 4 indicates the normal growth of young rats nursed by mothers re-
ceiving an adequate artiﬁcial ration similar to that used in the experiments illustrated
in Figure 3. Curve 5 shows the development of young nursed by females receiving
a dietary deﬁcient in the fat-soluble factor. These two curves represent the average
of a considerable number. The young nursed by the females on the inadequate
ration were for some time not much below the normal standard as regards body
weight, although they Were at all times markedly undernourished.

 

speciﬁc result of a deﬁciency of the fat-soluble factor. This View is
certainly supported by the observation that if animals showing these
symptoms be given a diet containing an adequate amount of the
fat-soluble substance, the conjunctivitis usually clears up within
a few days and the animal is very soon able to resume a normal rate
of growth. An example of this recovery in growth is illustrated in
Fig. 6. Fully-grown animals are apparently able to live for periods
of many months in the absence of the dietary essential. Sooner or .
5508 ‘ 0

 




 

 

200

\
“c?

5005/ fey/9f x}? 5mm:
8

8‘

18

later, however, the deleterious inﬂuence of the deﬁciency is made
apparent by the appearance of the external eye disease, or by
a greatly lowered general state Of health, resulting in an abnormally
high death rate from acute infections particularly those affecting

the lungs.

INFLUENCE OF THE ABSENCE OF WATER-SOLUBLE B FROM THE DIET.

Contrary to the case of the fat-soluble factor, the animal does not
appear to possess any appreciable reserve store of the water-soluble
accessory upon which to draw in the event of an emergency arising.
Consequently the ill-effects Of a deﬁciency are more quickly apparent

26). An immediate cessation of growth is shown by young animals,
followed by a short period during which body weight is more or
less satisfactorily maintained.

Adult animals show a very gradual fall in body weight following

 

6’ % 2V

 

my ' 6/ 1/...“ %\

 

 

 

 

7: J . '.___,/ “d

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

->/ln/}77a'/ race/i7};
ﬂ—II‘§ __ ”l ’— ﬁ—IF de/deﬁcxenf/n
, / \" [wafer—so/uéé‘E’
\\ Ari/ma/ Pace/Why
4 aafeyuaz‘é
~lmonf/i— Q “my

 

 

FIG. 8. Showing failure to grow on diet deﬁcient in water-soluble ‘ B ’ , and recovery

on adding that factor.
These curves illustrate how a deﬁciency of the water-soluble growth factor im-

mediately causes a cessation of growth, and show the equally prompt resumption when
ar extract containing the active substance is added to the dietary of the experi-

mental animal. .
Curves 3, 4, and 5 demonstrate that the more mature the animal, the longer can it .
survive against the deleterious effects of a deﬁciency of water-soluble A.

the restriction, but sooner or later both young and Old subjects
suffer a rapid decline which invariably terminates fatally.

Body weight curves illustrating these observations are given
in Fig. 8.

A number of the rats dying as a result of this deﬁciency have been
observed to show symptoms of muscular inco-ordination due to
involvement of the nervous system (see p. 35). Immediate recovery
is effected by administering the missing factor, provided the condition
of the animal is not extreme (Fig. 8). . ’

Fig. 9illustrates the condition of a rat deprived of ‘water-soluble B ’.

INFLUENCE OF THE ABSENCE OF BOTH FAT-SOLUBLE A AND
WATER-SOLUBLE B FROM THE DIET.-

When both these important constituents are absent from a diet
it is usual to ﬁnd that the deﬁciency of the second named is that
which ﬁrst exerts its deleterious action upon the growth and health

 

4..

 

 




137'”

5:"

why

 

 

 

 

 

,;
1

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIG. 9. This photograph represents the condition shown by a young rat which is
suffering from a deﬁciency of water-soluble B. There is no co-ordination of the
movements of the hind quarters and the animal is unable to use the hind legs, which
may be seen stretched out in a helpless manner. This animal showed a rapid recovery
from this condition and was able to walk about with ease twenty-four hours after
a dose of yeast extract had been given by the mouth.

1
{ [To face p. 18.]
l
l

 




V¢£hvﬁn\ Q\ \‘§\Vs\\ \VA\QA<

 

 

”-mv r~ .v— __

-,; m- haw.»-

 

A1,; __ wig..- (“Mal—”m

 

 

 

 




 

19

of the animal. This may be satisfactorily explained on the assump-
tion that the body normally contains an available store of fat-
soluble A. A deﬁciency of the latter, therefore, does not arise until
the available reserves have been utilized, by which time the inadequate
supply of the factor ‘ B’ has induced a cessation of growth and
a serious disturbance of the general health. .

Young rats fed upon a diet inadequate as regards both these
factors immediately cease to grow (see Fig. 10), and usually die show—
ing symptoms associated with an absence of the water-soluble com-
ponent, seldom surviving sufﬁciently long to exhibit the characteristic
symptoms associated with a deﬁciency of the fat-soluble substance.

PHYSIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF FAT-SOLUBLE A AND WATER-
SOLUBLE B.

1. Fat-soluble A. i This factor in all probability is synthesized by
the plant, and is found to be present in green leaves and in the

 

206

’2

 

 

 

 

 

 

b V 1 -
l ' F: .
is 0:8“ , . - _ 6 ' "' / 5
t to ' /
s . c I
Q 450 J / __ __ __ __ Anima/mce/w'xy
‘9 , b 072/ o’eﬂ‘c/enf
' S $0f . **/ lg facfor ”8‘"
:E R ......— ‘~-. 153‘ ' 5" ”/pece/nhy
. Q3 9’0 6 4 + com/o/e/Tz- a’xéf
§/0 . .5“ . . ..o..._ +" /
0 CU "o" ﬂn/ma/ Pece/ why
$3 ' ° ' ’ ° ' ° we! def/deaf
Q . 0...... M 250% aid/20’2"
“<1 0 o . ’0 ix X
.. . .-' .\ .. 'lMOﬂf/I-’ .' i ”ﬁat X X XX X X X Anzl'nU/I‘ece/w'nf
‘ a’xé/ Jerk/"ant
50 /'; facfor 9'4 "

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIG. 10. Growth curves of rats fed on diet deﬁcient in both fat-soluble A and
water-soluble B. ,

The curves represented by (. . . .) show the inability of young animals to grow when
both factors, A and B, are absent from the diet. When A alone is added, as for
instance by the inclusion of butter fat in the ration (curves marked - - -), matters are
not improved, but an immediate resumption of growth follows the restoration of both
the missing units (curves marked

When water-soluble B alone is added there is occasionally slight growth (curves
marked x x x X), probably as a result of the utilization of reserve stores of the factor A,
but it seldom lasts for long and is eventually followed by failure.

 

embryos of many seeds. In the latter locality it is perhaps present
in the form of a loose type of combination with some cell-constituent
other than fat. This conclusion has been arrived at from the observa-
tion that the simple processes used to extract fats, such as pressure
or extractions with solvents, do not remove the fat-soluble factor
from seeds, and this accounts for the absence of the factor from the
vegetable oils prepared for consumption by these methods (17).
The combination, whatever its actual nature may be, is very readily
broken up. Treatment of the ﬁnely divided seed embryos with
alcohol will effect the rupture, and subsequent ether extraction will
remove not only the fats but the fat-soluble accessory substance.
We as yet know nothing deﬁnite of the part it plays in the nutrition
of the body. There is every reason to believe that considerable
amounts may be stored, perhaps in association with the reserve fat
0 2

 

 

 

 




,. ._._-. . ~_._____‘A..._.~H.-.._.._._____..__. -_._. _ .-.._.. ‘_...._.s' ;;v___. m-....i...__..__‘.__“_:__.» ,—...-,~——. >e— - -- . _ 7 ._..

20

supplies, but this has not been experimentally proved. The fat
derived from many tissues also contains the factor, so that it would

, appear to be closely associated with fat during transport of the
latter in the body.

The suggestion was at one time advanced that the fat-soluble
accessory substance was a characteristic accompaniment of fats,
such as milk-fat and egg-fat, elaborated by active organs for the
express purpose of providing for the nutrition of the young, and
that it was absent from purely depot fats, such as lard. This theory,
however attractive, became untenable after it had been shown that '
the depot fat of oxen contained the factor in considerable amounts.
' No entirely satisfactory explanation of the deﬁciency of lard has yet
been advanced.

Whether the factor is intimately concerned in the metabolism of
fats, or whether it plays some more direct part in the nutrition of the
cell is as yet uncertain, but there is a certain amount of indirect
evidence in favour of the latter View. There is apparently little
appreciable loss of body fat in animals showing the characteristic
symptoms associated with a deﬁciency of the fat-soluble substance,
and such cases do not appear to show any obvious signs of a dis-
turbed fat-metabolism (27). Storage of the factor appears to be
particularly marked in adult animals, and the requirements, after
maturity is reached, are of a smaller order than those of the growing
young. The fully-grown rat is able to live for periods of several
months upon what may be regarded as an almost complete deﬁciency
of the fat-soluble factor, without showing appreciable loss of body
weight or serious symptoms of ill-health, but at the same time it
may be inferred that such animals are being maintained at a sub—
normal level of nutrition by their decreased powers of propagation
and increased susceptibility to infection.

The storage of the fat-soluble factor is of considerable importance
to the pregnant and nursing mother, for she is thereby enabled to
provide her young with a high concentration of this factor without
immediate dependence upon an external supply. The importance
of this cannot be over-estimated, and it has been suggested that the
ill effects which follow a deﬁciency of the fat-soluble substance are
much more serious and far-reaching when they occur in early life,
particularly during the period when the young animal is dependent
upon its mother (28).

2. Water-soluble B. The plant kingdom also provides the primary
source of the water-soluble substance. The power to synthesize
this substance is possessed generally by plants, even by some which
appear low down in the natural classiﬁcation. Thus, for example,
yeast constitutes one of the richest known sources of the substance:

It apparently exists free in the plant cell, although it has been
stated that extracts of certain natural foodstuffs are more active
after treatment with dilute acids : conﬁrmation of this observation
Would tend to indicate the existence of the factor in some com—
bination from which the acid liberates it.

Of its action following absorption from the digestive tract, little,
if anything, “is known. The type of nutritive failure and the pro-
duction of symptoms of nervous inco-ordination, produced by

 

 

 

 




 

 

21

a deﬁciency of this factor, have already been described. A study
of the onset of these ill- effects does not indicate that the normal
animal possesses any large reserve of the water- soluble factor In an
available form. The requirements of the body for the factor are
much greater during growth than during maturity. As in the case
of the fat- soluble Substance, the quality of the milk of the nursing
mother will suffer if her diet becomes deﬁcient 1n this dietary essential
The adverse effects of this deﬁciency are, however, much more
rapidly apparent in this case, for she has little, if any, reserve supply
available In her own tissues. This point will receive further attention
in a later section (p. 70).

DISTRIBUTION OF FAT-SOLUBLE A AND WATER-SOLUBLE E IN
NATURAL FoonsTUFFs.

1. Fat-soluble A. The presence of the fat-soluble factor was ﬁrst
detected in butter and egg-yolk, and, as far as is at present known,
these foodstuffs represent the richest sources of that substance. It
has also been found present in many oils and fats derived from the
animal kingdom, as for example, cod-liver oil, shark-liver oil, beef
fat, the fats of kidneys, heart muscle and liver tissues, herring oil,
cod oil, salmon oil, and whale oil.

On the other hand, the following oils and fats, all with one excep-
tion, derived from plant sources, contain only small amounts or
are deﬁcient in the accessory factor; sunﬂower-seed oil, corn oil,
olive oil, cotton—seed oil, almond oil, arachis or peanut oil, linseed oil,
coco- -nut oil, and lard. Since there is good reason to believe that
the animal organism does not possess the power to synthesize either
of the factors A or B, it must derive its supplies of these substances
from outside sources. The primary sources of fat-soluble A are
found in the green leaves of plants, and the embryos of certain
seeds. The former appear to be the richer source, but very few
quantitative data upon the distribution of the substance have yet
been obtained. It is, therefore, difﬁcult to attach a deﬁnite value
to any individual foodstuff as a source of fat-soluble A. This is
particularly true in the case of the foodstuffs of animal origin, as
their value as sources of that factor is in all probability directly
determined by the nature of the diet which the animal has pre-
viously received (28). Thus, the milk yielded by a cow which has
for some time past been receiving a diet deﬁcient in fat-soluble A,
will, without doubt, sooner or later show the same deﬁciency.

The following tabulation of the chief foodstuffs has been made
' with the object of illustrating the distribution of the fat-soluble A
factor. In the absence of quantitative data it has been impossible
to do more than to indicate the relative values of the foodstuffs as
sources of the accessory factor by the rough method of positive
and negative signs. An attempt to give some idea of relative values
has been made by the employment of more than one such sign
in certain cases. A zero indicates the absence of the factor. (See
also thecombined table in which the anti-neuritic (water-soluble)
and anti-scorbutic factors are included, p. 50.)

 




w » - m..-

(ff—ﬂ: :_ i V _,._‘31::,3:;:_>:..~::=::;:er—:—;:;:uAJmea—mv » i .

“F

 

 

Class of foodstuﬁ.
Fats

Meat and ﬁsh

Cereals

h

Legumes

Other vegetables and fruit

Miscellaneous

 

 

 

22
TABLE I 3
Individual foodstuﬁ‘.
Butter
Cream

Margarine prepared from animal fats
other than lard. (Value is in pro-
portion to quality and percentage
of animal fat.) -

Margarine prepared from vegetable
fats or lard

Nut butter

Vegetable oils such as are commonly
used for salad oils or frying oils
(e. g. olive and cotton-seed oils)

Hardened fats, such as are sold as lard
substitutes .

Cocoa butter

Coco-nut oil.

Linseed oil

Lard

Mutton and beef fat .

Cod-liver oil and other ﬁsh liver;oils

Herring oil, salmon, or cod oil

Lean meat (beef or mutton)

Liver

Kidneys

Heart

Brain

Blood

Sweetbreads

‘ Lean ’ ﬁsh, such as cod, haddock

‘ Fat ’ ﬁsh, as herring, salmon

Fish roe

Wheat embryo
,, endosperm
,, bran

Maize embryo
,, endosperm
Rice embryo and bran (i.e. so-called
rice polishings) ‘
Rice (polished)
Wholemeal bread
White bread ‘
Custard powders and egg substitutes
Millet
Linseed .
Linseed cake (after expulsion of oil)
Peas
,, (dried)
Kidney beans
Soy-beans
Cabbage (fresh)
,, (dried)
Lettuce
Spinach
Carrots (fresh)
,, (dried)
Onions
Tomatoes
Potatoes
Oranges
Bananas
Apples (green)
Nuts (Walnuts)
Cheese (prepared from Whole milk)
, , (prepared from skim milk)

Fat~soluble A.

+++
++

+ +

> 0
Variable.

OOOOC C?

+ +
+ + +
+
Inconclusive result.
+ +
+ +
+ +

Inconclusive result.

+
0
++
+
++
o

Incenclusive result.

4,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

23

Class of foodstuﬁ. Individual foodstuff. Fat-soluble A.
Miscellaneous Eggs (yolk) + + +

,, (White) ' 0
,, (dried) + +

Yeast (dried) Very slight, if any.
,, (extract) (commercial) 0

Meat extract (commercial) 0

Malt extract ,, 0

2. Water-soluble B. In view of the probable identity of this with
the anti-neuritic factor, the distribution of the two is treated on
pp. 27 and35. .

\ PROPERTIES OF THE ACCESSORY SUBSTANCES, FAT-SOLUBLE A
AND WATER-SOLUBLE B.

1. Fat-soluble A. s

(a) When associated with fats it is not extracted by water, but is
soluble in solvents which dissolve fats, e. g. ether, ligroin, and
alcohol. It cannot, however, be extracted by fat solvents from
green leaves. ‘

(b) It was at one time generally believed that the fat-soluble
accessory factor was comparatively stable to heat. Thus, Osborne
and Mendel (30) recorded that butter fat treated with steam for
two and one-half hours did not appear to have lost its value as
a source of the factor. Indirect evidence which supported that belief
was given by the observation of Drummond (31), who found that
certain ﬁsh oils, such as crude whale oil, which are frequently pre-
pared by processes involving the use of high pressure steam for
several hours, contained considerable amounts of'the factor.

More recent work has, however, cast some doubt on the stability
of this accessory toWard heat (32). The results of this investigation,
carried put in America by Steenbock, Boutwell, and Kent, indicate
that the fat-soluble accessory substance is gradually destroyed at
100° 0., and that four hours’ exposure to that temperature is sufﬁcient
to render butter fat of little greater nutritive value from the stand-
point of vitamine supply than an equivalent. quantity of lard.

This result has now been conﬁrmed by experiments of a Similar
character carried out in this country (33).

(c) It is completely destroyed during the ‘hardening’ of oil by
the action of hydrogen, a process now widely employed for the
preparation of edible fats (33).

(d) It has been stated to be stable to alkali under the conditions
employed for hydrolysis of fats at room temperature in a non-
aqueous solution (34).

2. Water—soluble B. The properties of this factor are, as has
already been remarked, identical with those described for the anti-
beri-beri substance (29), and are treated under the heading of the

latter (p. 35).

ATTEMPTS T0 ISOLATE FAT-SOLUBLE A.

Scarely any attempt has been made as yet to isolate and identify
this factor. The statement has been made that it may be removed
from butter-fat by prolonged extraction with water, but recent work

 




24

does not COnﬁrm this (35). Certain facts may be interpreted as
indicating that this accessory substance is a lipoid, but it has not '
been identiﬁed with any of. the common representatives of that class
of substance or with the free fatty acids (35).

REFERENCES.

(1) LUNIN, G., Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem. 1881 5 31. ‘

(2) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B. Feeding experiments with isolated food
substances. P2'iblicat2022 of the C(22neg2'e Institute of Washington, 1911, NO. 156.
Parts I and II.

(3) SOCIN, Ztschr. f. physiol. Che222., 1891 59 93.

(4) FALTA and N OGGERATH, Hofmeister’s Beitrc'ige, 1905 7 320.

(5) MCCOLLUM, E. V. Am J. Physiol, 1909 25 120.

(6) ROHMANN, F. Allg. med. Centr. -Ztg., 1903 1; 19089.

(7) STEPP, W., Biochem Ztsch2., 1911 57135; 1912 62 405.

(8

(

1

1

 

) HOPKINS, F. 0., Analyst, 1906 31 395.
9) HOPKINS, F. 0., J. Physiol, 1912 44 425.
0) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. 13., J. Biol. Chem, 1.912 13 233.

1) HOPKINS, F. G., and NEVILLE, D., Biochem J ., 1913 7 96.
2) MCCOLLUM, E. V., and DAVIS, M., J. Biol. Chem, 1913 15 167.
3) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B., J. Biol. Chem, 1913 15 311.
4) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B, J. Biol. Chem, 1913 16 423.
5) FUNK, 0., and MACALLUM, A. B, Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem 1914 92 13.
6) OSBORNE,T. B. and MENDEL, L. B., J. Biol. Chem 1915 20 379.
7) MCCOLLUM, E V. , SIMMONDS, N, and P122, W., Am J. Physiol, 1916 41361.
8) FUNK, 0., and MACALLUM, A. B., J. Biol. Chem, 1915 23 413.
9) MCCOLLUM, E. V., and DAVIS, M., J. Biol. Chem, 1915 23 181.
0) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1916 10 89.
21) ROHMANN, F., Kilnstliche Ernc'ihrnng 22nd Vitamine, Berlin, 1916.

2) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B., J. Biol. Chem, 1917 31 144.
3) HARDEN, A., and ZILVA, S. 8., Biochem J., 1918 12 408.
(23 a) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1919 13 77.
(24) HALLIBURTON, W. D., and DRUMMOND, J. 0., J. Physiol, 1917 51 235.
(25) MOOOLLUM, E. V, and DAVIS, M., J. Biol. Chem. 1915 20 161.
(26) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1918 12 25.
(27) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1919 13 95.
(28‘) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Lancet, Lond., 1918, Oct. 12. ,
(29) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1917 11 255.

(30) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B., J. Biol. Chem, 1915 20 379.

(31) DRUMMOND, J. 0., J. Physiol, 1918 52 95.

(32) STEENBOOK, H., BOUTWELL, P. W., and KENT, H. E., J. Biol. Chem, 1918
35 577.

(33) HALLIBURTON, W. D, PATON, N., DRUMMOND, J. 0., and others, J. Phys2ol, 1919
52 325.

(34) MCCOLLUM, E. V., and DAVIS, M., J. Biol. Chem, 1914 19 245..
(35) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1919 13 81.

 

 

 




CHAPTER. III
BEBI-BERI AND SCURVY.

THERE is now a general consensus of Opinion that beri-beri and
scurvy are diseases of dietetic origin, caused by the absence from
the diet of an essential accessory factor. Experimental work on
animals and experience based upon human diet conﬁrm each other
in the view that the factors concerned in prevention of beri-beri and
scurvy are distinct and have a different...distribution among natural
foodstuffs. In modern European life, under normal peace conditions,
the risk of these deﬁciency diseases, although a real one where infants
are concerned, may be regarded as non-existent for adults; the
great variety of food taken ensures that an adequate amount of
the preventive vitamines is regularly consumed. This fact will be
appreciated later when the distribution of the factors preventing
these diseases has been considered in detail. It is where extremes
of climate limit the variety of available foodstuffs, as in the tropical
or arctic zones, that a restricted diet may lead to outbreaks of
deﬁciency disease. Thus beri-beri has proved to be mainly conﬁned
to rice-eating peoples in trOpical climates ; scurvy is to be feared
alike in tropical deserts or in arctic regions. '

Under war conditions, both for civilians and soldiers, the situation
is altered, even in civilized European countries. Owing to dislocation
of tranSport and other causes, many articles of common consumption
become scarce or absent and the diet becomes more and more
restricted. Accurate knowledge as to the value of various articles
of food in respect of the accessory factors contained in them becomes
of the utmost importance. It is necessary to ensure that an amount
of these be consumed in the diet suﬁ’icient to prevent the disturbance of
metabolism which eventually leads to ‘deﬁciency diseases’.

BERI-BERI.

Beri-beri is a disease characterized by severe nervous disorder
occurring principally among rice-eating populations, e. g. in Japan,
the Malay Peninsula, Dutch Indies, Philippine Islands, &c. It is
a form of severe peripheral neuritis, and may appear in two well-
marked forms. In one (dry type) there is great wasting, anaesthesia
of the skin, and ﬁnally paralysis of the limbs ; in the other (wet type)
the most marked symptom is excessive oedema which may affect
the trunk, limbs, and extremities. In severe cases the heart is usually
involved, and death may occur suddenly from heart failure. The
mortality is high.

This disease has, in the past, been regarded as a tropical disease
conﬁned to rice-eating populations. It is now recognized that this,
though the best known example of endemic beri-beri, is only a-
special case of what will inevitably occur when the diet consists too
exclusively of a cereal which has been impoverished by excessive
milling. The researches of Eijkman, Grijn‘s, and later of Braddon,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

'26

Fraser, and Stanton have shown that the disease does not occur
among the East Indian and Malay rice-eaters when unmilled or
home-milled rice is taken, and that it can be cured or prevented
by restoring to ‘ polished ’ 1 rice the valuable constituents (germ
or embryo and silverskin or pericarp) known as ‘rice polishings ’,
removed in the milling; see Fig. 11.

The discovery of avian polyneuritis was an important step
towards the elucidation of the human disease. Eijkman (36), who in
1897 was medical ofﬁcer to a prison in Java where beri-beri cases
occurred, noticed that the poultry of the establishment showed
paralytic symptoms strangely reminiscent of those of his patients,
and died with extensive degeneration of the peripheral nerves.

I § inéskea

I i J'las keel ,
I ’ lﬂul' not"

mailed.

‘T . '
1L- 0 Q ”lulled. 1"
Q Q PcCCshed.

FIG. 11.2 Showing the various stages in Milling of the Rice Grain. I. Rice grain in the
natural condition, retaining the husk or enclosing glumes. II. After removal of the husk,
but retaining the pericarp or ‘ silver-skin ’ , and the embryo, which is shaded. III. After
milling and polishing ; both ‘ silver-skin ’ and embryo are removed and the grains are
then ‘ polished ’ by rubbing with talc between sheepskins.

The fact that these fowls were largely fed upon the rice refuse of
the institution was strongly suggestive of a dietetic origin for the
disorder of the human inmates, a theory which, for many years
previously, had attracted adherents. A careful study of polyneuritis
gallinarum, as the disease was called by Eijkman, was published
by Grijns (37) in 1901, but it was a matter for debate as to how
far these experimental results could be applied to the human disease.

On further study,’ avian polyneuritis has been accepted as the
physiological equivalent of human beri-beri, both in its etiology,

1 Polished rice is a term which should strictly be applied to steam-milled rice after
it has been subsequently polished with talc between sheepskins. The ‘ polishing ’
itself does not injure the rice dietetically, but the expression has been used loosely

to indicate the whole process of preparation, and to include the milling in which
cuticle and germ are removed.

2 Reproduced from Chick and Hume, Trans. Soc. Twp. Med. and Hyg., vol. x,
1917, p. 149, with the permission of that Society.

 

 




 

 

27

symptoms, and method of cure. By its discovery a method has been
provided for determining experimentally which foodstuffs prevent
beri-beri, and their relative value for this purpose. Experimental
work with fowls and pigeons ﬁgures largely in the pioneer work by
the above-mentioned observers, and in the later researches, among
others of Schaumann, Vedder, Chamberlain, and Funk. (For com—
plete bibliographies upon this subject see 38, 39, 39 a.)

McCarrison (39 b) has studied the loss of weight of various organs
in pigeons fed with a diet which produces polyneuritis. With the

' exception of the adrenals the loss of various organs occurs much as

in inanition but the adrenals increase to two or three times the
weight of those of control birds. The adrenaline content of the
enlarged glands appears to be increased prOportionately to the size ,
of the organ. McCarrison makes out a relationship between the
hypertrophy of the adrenals and the occurrence of hydropericardium in
his experimental birds. He regards the excess of liquid as. the equi-
valent of ‘wet beri-beri’ in man, and develops a theory of the cause
of oedema in beri-beri on the basis of excessive adrenaline production.

DISTRIBUTION AMONG FOODSTUFFS OF THE ANTI-BERI-BERI
OR ANTI-NEURITIC FACTOR.

The work of the early investigators in this ﬁeld yielded much

. valuable information upon this point, but the distribution of the

anti-beri-beri vitamine was ﬁrst studied systematically by Cooper (40)
working at the Lister Institute. In reSponse to war-time needs this
work has since been rendered more complete-by other workers in
the same Institute (Chick and Hume, 41, 46).

The methods adopted were substantially the same throughout;
pigeons were used as experimental animals, and the experiments
were of two general types—preventive and curative.

In the preventive experiments estimate was made of the daily
ration of the particular foodstuff necessary to prevent polyneuritis
when added to a'vitamine-free diet consisting of highly milled and
polished rice. Feeding was artiﬁcial, and in the absence of an adequate
supply of vitamine in the supplementary foodstuff the birds developed
severe symptoms in from 15—25 days, with paralysis of legs and
wings, leading to complete helplessness and death within 24.-48 hours.
Protection was reckoned to be successfully accomplished if the birds
showed no symptoms after a period of 50—60 days.

In curative experiments a series of birds was fed with polished
rice until severe symptoms were observed. The foodstuff to be
tested was then given by the mouth in varying doses to separate
birds and determination made of the ”dose required to cure the
symptoms. One of the most striking features of avian polyneuritis
is the dramatic swiftness with which a bird will recover from complete
helplessness. It is not unusual to see normal gait and ﬂight restored
within a few hours after the adequate amount of vitamine has been
administered.

It is sometimes necessary to concentrate the factor contained
in the foodstuff in order to get the requisite amount absorbed in
time. In such cases a weighed quantity of the air-dried material
is shaken up with alcohol in the cold, the alcoholic extract evaporated

 

 




 

 

Wheat germ, sample R.I., free from bran
Wheat bran, sample R.I., free from germ

Yeast extract, commercial sample A .

Pressed yeast .

Barley, unhusked
Barley, husked

0

Ox heart-muscle

 

 

 

 

TABLE II.

Natural Foodstuff.
(grm.)
1-5
More than 1-5

More than 2'5

MIQMOIQQD.
(N

1'2

More than 10
More than 8
More than 35

10010
GHQ]

DO

Dry Weight.
(gr/m.)

1-3

More than 1-4

More than 2-2

c?

Q

PIQOCN

mmqum
ooommeﬂma

HO

2-5

More than 2
More than 5-6
More than 3-5

 

 

 

 

 

Preventive Experiments.

MINIMUM DAILY RATION WHICH MUST BE ADDED TO A DIET OF POLISHED RICE To PREVENT ONSET or POLYNEURITIS (BERI-BERI)
IN A PIGEON or 300 To 400 GRM. WEIGHT.

Notes on Results.

Chick and Hume (46) Complete protection.

,, N o protection with 1'5 grm. daily. Poly-
neuritis occurred in same time as in control
birds.

,, Small degree of protection. Mean time of
on set delayed about 2 weeks.

,, Protection not secured in all cases.

,, Protection.

,, Protection not secured with these amounts.

" 2‘
1.
l‘.
i.
l
l
l
l
l
1
l
i
i

r
5
F
E
i
l

.-_ .- avg-bum“ W




TABLE III. C’umttve Experiments. -

MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF FOODSTUFFS REQUIRED TO CURE POLYNEURITIS (BERI-BERI) IN A PIGEON 300 T0 400 GRM. WEIGHT. THE DOSES ARE
RECKONED IN TERMS OF THE ORIGINAL Foonsrurrs.
Preparation of curative
material.

Substance.

Amount of dose given. Result. Observer.

In terms of the In terms of dry
natural foodstuﬁ. wetght100-110° C.

Wheat germ
Commercial sample, cooked

Sample A ‘ picked ’, uncooked

Sample B ‘ picked ’, uncooked
*Maize germ
*Rice germ
Wheat bran . . . .

Stone ground, not free from germ

Roller milled, free from germ

Rice bran, containing germ .

. Turbot ﬁsh-roe (hard)
Egg-yolk . .

Dried Whole egg,_comniercial.samp'. 1

9’ 3, 9,

Malt extract, 1st sample . .
,, 2nd sample .
,, 3rd sample . .
Meat extract, commerCial sample 1

99
samp. 2

Extracted with alcohol

9’ ’9

Unextracted

Extracted with alcohol

5,

UncxtraCted

(mm)

60:4 yolks
40=about 4 yolks
30: n 3 a:
20: ,, 2 n

5

7.
10

3

(arm)

Improvement
Sometimes cures
Cure
Incomplete cure
Complete cure
Sometimes cures
Cure
’3

97

Sometimes cures
N o cure
Sometimes cures
No cure
Complete cure

Cure almost complete

Cure complete

9’ ,3

Cure

9’

N o cure

No improvement, bird died

* Picked out from the unmilled grain by hand in the laboratory.

Chick and Hume (46)

Cb’Oper (40)"

Chick and Hume(46)

’3

Cdbper (40)

n 9’

,9

3,

9,

,3

’9

Chick and I-lhme (46)

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Substance.

Meat extract, commercial sample 1

Raw beef . . . . .

‘ Maconochie ’ ration . . .

‘ New ration ’ roast beef tinned
(submitted for examination by
the Dept. of Hygiene, RAIM.
College, on June 19, 1916)

Dried peas . . . .

v :9 - - i 0

Pea ﬂour, kilned . . .

Dried lentils

vegetables, commercia .
sample

‘ Spring greens ’ .

Potatoes, peelings . . .

O O O

O O O

,3

9 9 . .9,
ins1des

n ‘ ' '

9’ 3’
Pressed yeast . . . .

n 9: ' - ' '
Yeast extract, commercial sample A
Dried fruits, currant . . .

9’ ,, ,’
dates . . .

,9 9’

n n ’9 ' ° '

Proprietary article, dry powder,
stated to contain vitammes in
a concentrated form

material.

Unextraeted

Extracted with alcohol

. 99 9
Unextracted

Extracted with alcohol

Autolysed

Unextraeted
Extracted with alcohol

Unextracted

9

Carat/ice Empertments (continued).

Preparation of curative

Amount of dose given.

In terms of the
natural foodsmﬁ .

(grm.)

6-5
140
440
350

30
40
10
80
20
40

120
180
630
200
350
2-0
3-0 to 6-0
1-5 to 2-0
60
19
26

26

12
31

In terms of dry
weight100~110° C. ,

(gr-m.)
5-2
30 approx.
106
1 12

18
35

105
36
126
40
70
0-4
0-6 to 1-2
1-0 to 1-3
47
16
21

21

Result. Observer.

N‘o improvement, bird died Chick and Hume(46)

Cure _ Cooper (40)

Cure incomplete Chick and Hume-(46)

Very slight improvement,
no cure

Incomplete cure
Complete cure
Cure
Slight improvement, no cure ,, ,,
Cure Cooper (40)

,, Chick and Hume (46)

Complete cure ,,

Died ,,
Improvement, no cure ,,
Incomplete cure ,, .

Cure ,,

Cured slowly ,,

Cure Cooper (40)
Complete cure Chick and Hume (46)
N0 improvement ,, ,,

9,
Slight improvement,
death delayed
Slight temperary improve-
ment ,, ,,
No improvement, died ,, ,,
Temporary improvement,
no cure ,, ,,

30

 

 




 

31

to dryness under reduced pressure and the residue taken up in
a measured quantity of water. Various doses of this watery solution
are then given to a series of birds with severe symptoms in order to
determine the minimum amount necessary to effect a cure. There
is a considerable mechanical loss of the anti-neuritic factor in the
process of extraction, and in making any comparison of values it is,
therefore, necessary to make sure that the curative materials, as em-
ployed, are strictly comparable (see above, Table III; in the case of
dry peas the curative dose of natural material is 10 grm., whilst that
of the alcohol extract is the equivalent of 40 grm.; in the case of
wheat germ the amounts were 1 to 2-5 grm. and 16 grm. re-
Spectively). \

The results of the experiments on the distribution of the anti-
beri-beri factor by Cooper and Chick and Hume are summarized
in Tables II and III. The results in Table II, based on preventive
experiments, must be considered the more valuable. If, however,
the researches had been limited to this type of experiment, their
scope must of necessity have been very much curtailed. In Table IV
is shown the approximate relative value of some of the more potent
of the foodstuffs investigated.

TABLE IV. Showing approximately relative values of the more impor-
tantfoodstuﬁs (weight for weight) in natural condition for prevention
of beri-beri, compiled from results in Tables II and III. (Value of
wheat germ taken as equal to 100.) .

Substance. 'Value. Approximate water content.
Per cent.
Wheat p’germ 100 10 to 13
'Wheat bran 25 10 to 13
Rice germ 200 10 to 13
Yeast (pressed) 6O 70
Peas (dried) 40 12
Lentils 80
Egg yolk 5O ‘ 7O
Ox liver 50 70
Beef muscle 11 75
Potatoes 4'3 ‘ 80

It will be seen that the anti-beri-beri or anti-neuritic factor is
wideSpread ; it was detected in almost all the natural foodstuffs
examined. Its presence in yeast, the only unicellular organism
studied, is signiﬁcant of the universality of its distribution. Its
principal sources proved to be the seeds of plants and eggs of birds,
thus following very closely the distribution of the water-soluble
growth factor and suggesting strongly the probable identity of
the two (see p. 35). -

Cereal—s. The most important practical result emerging from this
work is the fact that one of the chief sources of anti-beri-beri vitamine
should be found in the cereals and edible pulses. In case of the
cereals an interesting differentiation has been established (Chick
and Hume 41) between the different constituents of the grain, the
largest deposit of the anti-neuritic factor being found in the
embryo, or germ, the bran (pericarp and aleurone layer) coming
next in order of importance (see Fig. 12 a). The endOSperm,

 

 

 




82

«4‘6, n11W%3\
o / 9
WI?

, \\ 2;;
\§\\lll‘ljv // I

     
 
   
    

  
  

9°:

 
    

I;
§\§\\\x\
\\\‘

\\

  
    

II
"0‘

WI
II,
I};

        
 

  

l

     
  
  
  
 
  

I
I
’I
l
1
Il

I;
It
i

II
[:06
1
ll

 

.1“ h I

 
 
  

III
II
‘3“:
‘3“

I
ll

7..
II»
III
Ill

I;
{ll
llI
I
“I

      
 

\

I
I3.
1}
l

l
I'II

  
 
 

I
1
.l
I
‘I

'1
I I
i"
l“
Ill

l.
‘1

     
    
 

  

   
    
    

lIII

31H
I {1
I..IIIIIII..I|...\

l
I

   

 

1

“I
II
I!

"III
III.
4214/!

‘

     
    
 

  

 

A D

      

l

    

II
//
I?!
{4,

       
 
   
   
 
    

    

   

I’/

if?
{/xﬁ
ﬁe

4-“--1'" 1.;.:1;2j.:’fi”"
’/// HIV/l ,
‘ 0

Q //.///

\€Q

Fm.- 12 0.1 Diagram of a longitudinal section through a grain of wheat, showing :
B, Pericarp, forming the branny envelope. A, Aleurone layer of cells forming the outer-

most layer of the endosperm removed with the pericarp during milling. E, Parenchy-
matous cells of the endosperm. G, Embryo or germ.

 

 

 

FIG». 12 b.1 Cross-section "through the branny envelope and outer portion of the endo-
sperm of wheat grain, showing: P, the pericarp ; E, endosperm, consisting of a, layer
of aleurone cells and p, parenchymatous cells. '

 

 

 

 

i Reproduced, With the permission of the Controller of H.M. Stationery Office, from

Figs: 1 and 2 in Dr. J. M. HAMILL’S ‘ Report to the Local Government Board on the
nutritlve value of bread made from'different varieties of Wheat ﬂour ’, 1911.

 

 

 




 

83

especially when deprived of the aleurolne layer (as is customary in
the preparation of white Wheaten ﬂour or ‘ polished’ rice), is deﬁcient
in the anti-neuritic factor, and if employed too exclusively as a diet
will occasion polyneuritis in birds or beri-beri in man [see also Edie
and Simpson (42)]. V

The experiments wefe made chieﬂy with rice and wheat, but there
is conﬁrmatory evidence in Case of maize and rye, and no reasonable
doubt exists that, as a rule among cereals, the anti-beri-beri factor
is chieﬂy concentrated in the embryo.

The potency of the cereal embryo in curing avian polyneuritis
was found to be very great. Chick and Hume found that 2-5 grm.
(and occasionally 1 grm.) wheat germ was sufﬁcient to cure a
pigeon showing fully developed symptoms; in case of rice and
maize embryo, cures were obtained with amounts varying from
0-5 to 1 grm. and. from 1 to 3 grm. respectively.

The prevailing opinion, based on observation of rice-eating
populations consuming decorticated rice, has located the principal
deposits of the substance preventing beri-beri in the cuticle of the
husked grain, in the outer layer (aleu'ro'ne layer) of endosperm,
which is removed during steam milling. This view was based upon
the connexion between beri-beri and decorticated rice, and the
prevention or cure of the disease effected when rice bran or its
extracts were added to the diet. A truer explanation recognizes
the richer source of the vitamine to be in the germ (embryo) of the
cereal removed with the bran. In the case of wheat and rice the
germ, weight for weight, was found to be respectively ﬁve times
and ten times as potent as the bran in the cure of avian polyneuritis.

Pulses. The foodstuffs next in. importance to the cereals in
prevention of beri-beri are the pulses. Grijns (87) and others have
demonstrated the value of certain beans (‘ katjang-idjo ’—--Phaseolus
radiatus) in prevention and cure of avian polyneuritis or human
beri-beri. Dry peas and lentils were found to occupy a high place
in the series of foodstuffs collected in Table IV. '

Eggs are also valuable sources of the anti-beri-beri factor, and this
property was found unimpaired in two samples of dried eggs examined.
These large deposits of anti-neuritic factor in the seeds of plants
and eggs of animals (birds and ﬁshes) suggest a due provision made
for the wants of the young offSpring during the early period of life.
Vedder (43, p. 61) mentions the unusual prevalence of beri-beri
among pregnant women in countries where the disease is endemic.

Yeast is rich in this accessory factor and is unharmed in this
respect by autolysis' and extraction. Yeast extract A in Tables II
and III was a commercial preparation (mar/mite) largely used as
a substitute for meat extract in preparation of soup cubes, &c.

.Meat is comparatively deﬁcient in this factor, and large quantities
were required for curing or preventing pigeon polyneuritis. This
was Specially true of muscle ﬁbre which was less valuable than
heart, liver, or brain.

In case of preventive experiments with ﬁsh, milk, and cheese
protection was not obtained with the comparatively large amounts
administered daily (experiments by Cooper, Table II).

5508 D

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

RESISTANOE To DRYING, HEAT, &c., AND OTHER PROPERTIES OF THE
_ ANTI-BERI-BERI OR ANTI-NEURITIO FACTOR.

The anti-beri-beri factor withstands desiccation for long periods
of time, as may be appreciated from the fact that its principal sources
are found in dry foodstuffs. .

Its resistance to heat is also considerable. Many isolated observa-
tions upon this point have appeared in the literature during the last
twenty years, and most observers have not detected destruction of
the anti-beri-beri vitamine after exposure to 100° 0. Grijns (37)
found that 1—2 hours’ exposure to 120° 0. destroyed the anti-beri-
beri properties of unmilled rice, katjang-idjo beans, and buffalo
meat. Eijkman (44) did not succeed in destroying the protective
value of horseﬂesh by heating for two hours at 120° 0. Holst (45)
traced loss of anti-neuritic properties in beef heated to 110° 0. for
half an hour, but in the case of dried peas or unpeeled barley kept at
115° 0. for thirty minutes, no loss of anti-neuritic power was detected.

Recently Chick and Hume (46) have made a series of systematic
experiments upon this point, with (a) wheat germ (natural con-
dition, 15 per cent. moisture), and (b) yeast extract (containing
65 per cent. water) exposed to temperatures from 100° 0. to 124° 0.
in a steam autoclave. The results Obtained are summarized in
Table V, from which it will be seen that destruction of anti-heri-
beri vitamine takes place very slowly at 100° 0., but is much more
rapid in the neighbourhood of 120° 0.

TABLE V.

Inﬂuence of EapOsure to high Temperatures upon the Anti-Bert-Bert
Vitamtne contained (a) in Wheat Embryo and (b) in Yeast Extract;

Minimum amount in grm.
required to cure a ngeon

Substance. Temperature. Time. ' (300 to 400 grm.) suﬁering
° C. M in. from acute poly/neuritis.

Wheat embryo,water content Unheated Control 1-0 to 2-5
11 to 14 % 98 to 103 120 -5
100 to 117 40 , 5-0

118 to 124 A 120 10-0 did not cure
Yeast extract A,water content Unheated Control 1-5 to 2-0
65 % 100 60 2-0 to 3-0
122 60 2-5 to 3-0

122 120 about 5-0 ‘

The practical conclusion to be drawn from this result is that in
the baking of bread or biscuit, during which process the interior of
the material does not rise above 1000 0., no serious diminution in
anti-beri-beri vitamine need be apprehended. This proved to be
true in the case of pigeons, which throve well upon a sole diet of
Wheaten biscuit made from wholemeal ﬂour. In preserving and
canning foodstuffs, however, the temperatures employed are fre-
quently much higher than 100° 0., and it is safe to regard tinned
foods of all descriptions with but few exceptions as vitamine-free.

This is well seen in Table III, where the curative dose of raw meat
for pigeons is given as the equivalent of 30 grams dry weight, and
where, in two instances of tinned meats, no cures were Obtained with
amounts equivalent to 106 and 112 grams dry weight respectively.

 




 

35

The anti-neuritic accessory substance can be extracted by alcohol
from most of the foodstuffs in which it is found ; it is also soluble
in water. It is not, as a general rule, extracted by ether or other
fat-solvents, although COOper (40) was able to detect distinct anti-
neuritic properties in the "ether extract from egg-yolk. It is probable
that, as in the case of the fat-soluble accessory factor, the
‘ solubility ’ of this vitamine is variable, and depends on the character
of the material in which it is deposited. The anti-neuritic accessory
substance is readily adsorbed] from solutions upon the surface of
various adsorbents, e. g. animal charcoal (Chamberlain and Vedder,
47), fuller’s earth (Seidell, 48), colloidal ferric hydroxide (Harden and
Zilva, 49). The anti-neuritic factor may be almost completely removed
by one or another of these adsorbents, and there is no doubt that
this prOperty offers an explanation of the mistaken belief that the
factor itself had been successfully isolated (p. 37).

PROBABLE IDENTITY OF THE WATER-SOLUBLE B AND ANTI-
NEURITIC FACTORS.

It is now very widely believed that the Water-soluble B and anti-
neuritic factors are identical (see Drummond, 65). This conclusion
is based in the first place upon the fact that when the distribution
and properties of the water-soluble B factor, marked out by the
use of rats, are compared with those of the anti-neuritic factor, ‘
established by experiments on pigeons, the closest possible agree-
. ment is found to exist between the two sets of results (see Tables VI
and VII). Additional evidence is afforded by a comparison of the
symptoms which are deve10ped by rats and pigeons suffering from
deﬁciencies of these factors. In both cases these point to the presence
of a peripheral neuritis, and this is conﬁrmed by the histological
examination of the nerves.

TABLE VI.

Table showing I denttty of Distribution of the Water-soluble B and the
Anti-neuritic Factor.
Value as source of Anti-

Value as source of Water- beri-beri or Anti-neuritic
Soluble B Factor (as shown Factor (as shown by expert'-
Foodstuﬁ. by experiments on rats). ments on birds).

Rice germ . . . + + + + + + +
Wheat germ . . . . + + + + + +
Linseed . . . . + +
Lentils . ' + + +
Yeast . + + + + + +
Egg-yolk + + + + +
Ox liver . + + -+— + +
Wheat bran . + + +
Fresh peas + .
Dried peas + +
Fresh carrots +
Dried carrots +
Meat muscle . +
Milk + Slight
Potatoes + +
Meat extract . . 0 0
Meat tinned . . . . V. Slight
White bread or ﬂour 0 O
Polished ricc . 0 0

D 2 '

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table showing Properties of
determined by experiments on

Solubility.

Stability.

Behaviour on dialysis.

Adsorption.

Water.

Alcohol, dilute.
Alcohol, absolute.
Ether.

Chloroform.
Benzene.
Heat.

Drying.

Acids, hot dilute.
cold ,,

Alkalies, hot dilute:

cold ,,

Water-soluble B Factor and Anti-
growth of Rats and prevention 0

TABLE VII.

Water-solaMe B Factor.

Very soluble.
Very soluble.
Insoluble.
Insoluble.

Insoluble.

Insoluble
Stable at 100° 0., destroyed

rapidly at 120° C. (in neutral
or acid solution).

Stable.

Moderately stable.

Stable.

Rapidly destroyed,

Stable.

Passes through parchment mem-
brane.

Adsorbed from acid or neutral
solution by fuller’s earth,

charcoal, &c.

neuritic (Anti-Beri-Beri) Factor, as
f Avian Polynenritis respectively :

Anti-neuritic Factor.

Very soluble.

Very soluble.

Insoluble.

Usually insoluble, but can be extracted with
ether from fatty materials such as egg-yolk.

Destroyed very slowly at temperatures below
100° 0., destroyed more rapidlv at 110
to 120° C. "

Stable.

Stable.

Stable.

Passes through parchment membrane.
Adsorbed from neutral solutions by fuller’s

earth, colloidal ferric hydroxide, animal
charcoal, &c.

36

 

 




 

37

ATTEMPTS TO ISOLATE THE WATER-SOLUBLE ACCESSORY SUBSTANCE
on ANTI-NEURITIC VITAMINE.

A large number of attempts have been made to obtain this accessory
substance in a pure condition, but, as they have all hitherto failed,
it is only necessary to review the more important investigations.
Cooper and Funk (50) found that the curative substance present in
an alcoholic extract of rice polishings was precipitated by phOSpho-
tungstic acid, and that this method of preparation yielded a fraction
which was ‘ extraordinarily potent ’, and free from proteins, carbo-
hydrates, and phosphorus. Funk carried the investigation further
(51), and fractionated the substances precipitated by phOSpho-
tungstic acid by means of precipitations with silver nitrate, following
the usual method employed for separating certain nitrogenous bases.
From the silver nitrate-baryta fraction he obtained a crystalline sub-
stance melting at 288° 0., to which he gave the formula CI7H2OO7N2.
This substance was curative for pigeons. This process of separation
was applied to yeast and certain other foodstuffs (Funk, 52),
and led to the isolation of a substance possessing similar properties.

Funk considered that the chemical properties of the curative
substance placed it in the class of pyrimidine bases. '

The substances isolated by Funk do not, however, appear to be
the active substance in a pure condition. Rather does it seem that
they are nitrogenous bases contaminated with traces of the accessory
factor (Barger, 53 ; Drummond and Funk, 54). Another attempt to
isolate the factor was that made by Susuki, Shinamura, and Odake
(55), who claimed to have prepared the anti-neuritic substance,
which they termed oryzanin, in the form of a crystalline pierate.
Drummond and Funk (54) failed to conﬁrm their results.

Edie, Evans, Moore, Simpson, and Webster (56) obtained an
active fraction from yeast, from which they precipitated a crystallirfe
basic substance belonging to the pyrimidine group. This they
termed torulin. ' '

The precipitation of the active substance by silver nitrate and
baryta has been conﬁrmed by Cooper (57) and by Vedder and
Williams (78) and Williams and Saleeby (7 9). Further, Williams and
Seidell (60) prepared a sample of adenine from yeast, and found that
this had anti-neuritic prOperties, but lost them on keeping. They
attributed this change to isomerisation, but their results have not
been conﬁrmed by other workers (Voegtlin and White, 61 ; Harden
and Zilva, 62).

Quite recently Abderhalden, who on more than one occasion has
vigorously attacked the vitamine theory, has published a paper
with Schaumann (63), in which they report attempts to isolate the
accessory substance of yeast. This long and obscure paper marks
little or no advance in this ﬁeld ; no active substances were obtained
in a pure condition, the previous work of many investigators is
ignored, and the subject is still further confused by the introduction
of new names (eutonin and nutramine) for the accessory substances.

Hofmeister, in his recent review of the vitamines (64), states that
he has isolated from a very active solution a substance belonging to
the pyrimidine series. It yields a crystalline hydrochloride and
double salt with gold chloride, and he has given it the formula

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38

C5H11NO2. The details of his work do not appear to have-been
published as yet. Drummond (65) has made a study of the water-
soluble accessory factor in yeast extract, and has suggested that
many of the results obtained by previous investigators may be
explained by the readiness with which this substance is carried
. down in the adsorbed condition by precipitates.

SCURVY.

Scurvy has for many centuries been regarded as a disease due to
dietetic errors, and rightly so. It was common knowledge in olden
times, eSpecially among seafaring folk, that scurvy occurred after
deprivation for long periods of fresh foodstuffs, and that it could be
prevented and rapidly cured when fresh vegetables and fruits were
available. Thus Bachstrorn in 1734 (Observationes circa scorbutum ;
eiusque indolent, causas, signa ct cumm) wrote as follows :

‘ From want of prOper attention to the history of the scurvy, its
causes have been generally, though wrongfully, supposed to be cold
in northern climates, sea-air, the use of salt meats, etc., whereas
this evil is solely owing to a total abstinence from fresh vegetable
food and greens ; which is alone the true primary cause of the disease. .
‘And where persons, either through neglect or necessity, do refrain
for a considerable time from eating the fresh fruits of the earth, and
greens, no age, no climate or soil are exempted from its attack.
Other secondary causes may likewise concur, but recent vegetables
are found alone effectual to preserve the body from this malady;
and most Speedily to cure it, even in a few days, when the case is
not rendered desperate by the patients’ being dropsical or con-
sumptive ’ (translation given by Lind, 66, p. 894).

Other theories of the etiology of scurvy dating from more recent
times..include, ﬁrstly, that of bacterial origin frequently advanced
from different sources, and secondly, the suggestion that the cause is
chronic poisoning from putrefying meat or ﬁsh. Many adherents
of the former theory (e. g. OOplans, 67 ; Jackson and Moody, 68)
have brought forward some experimental support for their view,
the explanation being doubtless that any animal in a scorbutic con-
dition, due to dietetic deﬁciency, will be a ready prey to a secondary
infection. The second view, ﬁrst advanced by Torup (quoted by
Jackson and Harley, 69) and supported by the work of Jackson
and Harley (69), has received wide acceptance in recent times,
especially among the leaders of some Arctic expeditions, with the
result that the nature of the stores taken and diet arranged was
modiﬁed accordingly. There is, however, little, if any, support for
this view in the ﬁnal experience of the expeditions, and the inter-
pretation placed by Jackson and Harley upon their experimental
results has not been accepted by their scientiﬁc colleagues (Holst
and Frolich, 70, p. 42).

' It is convenient in this place to allude to the most recent attempt
to explain scurvy on lines other than that of a deﬁciency disease,
although the theory refers to the experimental scurvy of guinea-
pigs rather than to human scurvy. McCollum and his co-workers
(71, 7 2, and 73) consider guinea-pig scurvy to be caused by chronic
constipation brought on by an unsuitable, rather than a defective,

 




 

39

diet. Their view is based mainly upon the different results obtained
in guinea-pigs and rats, respectively, by a diet of milk and grain;
the guinea-pigs were found frequently to die of ‘ scurvy ’, while the
rats grew in a normal manner. These workers, therefore, consider
that this diet contains adequate nutritive constituents for both
types, so that the failure on the part .of the guinea—pig must be
referred to a defect in the physical properties of the diet, i. e. to lack
of ‘ roughage ’. In the light of the recent experimental work on
milk detailed on p. 45, it is evident that the discrepancy can be
explained by the low value of milk as an anti—scorbutic foodstuff,
coupled with a difference in the requirements of these two animals
as regards the amount of anti—scorbutic vitamine necessary for the
maintenance of health. .

McCollum and his colleagues conﬁne their interpretation of scurvy
to the experimental disease produced in guinea—pigs, but this dis-
order has been accepted on convincing evidence as the physiological
equivalent of human scurvy by all other workers in this ﬁeld. It is
evident, therefore, that the identity of the two disorders must be
denied or that the theory of McCollum must be applied also to
human scurvy. The evidence against such a view is overwhelming,
and as regards the guinea-pig disease, McCollum’s views have been
combated both in England and America in a series of publications
(7 4, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, and 80) showing how the experimental results
of McCollum and his colleagues can reasonably be interpreted to
give full support to the vitamine hypothesis.1 ‘ »

Systematic experimental work on scurvy dates from the early
part of the present century, when Professor Axel Holst and his
colleagues at the University of Christiania made a careful study of
guinea-pig scurvy, its etiology, symptoms, and methods of pre-
vention and cure, and decided that it offered a complete analogy
with the human disease. One or two centuries previously, when
scurvy was an everyday occurrence and the common dread of all
seamen, rough ‘ experiments’ were from time to time made upon
the human material so unfertunately provided. Thus Lind, in the
middle of the eighteenth century, published the following account
of an ‘ experiment ’, which expresses, as the result of his own careful
obServation, what became the common knowledge of his own day.

‘ On the 20th May, 1747, I took twelve patients in the scurvy,
on board the “ Salisbury” at sea. Their cases were as similar as I could
have them. They all in general had putrid gums, the spots and
lassitude, with weakness of their knees. They lay together in one
place, being a proper apartment for the sick in the fore-hold ; and
had one diet common to all, viz. water-gruel sweetened with sugar
in the morning, fresh mutton-broth often times for dinner; at
other times light puddings; boiled biscuit with sugar, etc._. and
for supper, barley and raisons, rice and currants, sago and" wine, or
the like. .

‘ Two of these were ordered each a quart of cyder a day. Two
_ others took twenty-ﬁve drOps of elixir vitriol, three times a day,

1' According to a private communication received from Professor McCollum he has

been convinced by these arguments and now regards guinea-pig scurvy as a deﬁciency
disease.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40

upon an empty stomach; using a gargle strongly acidulated with
it for their mouths. Two others took two SpOOnfullS of vinegar
three times a day upon an empty stomach; having their gruels
and their other food well acidulated with it, as also the gargle for
their mouths. Two of the worst patients, with the tendons under
the ham rigid (a symptom none of the rest had) were put under
a course of sea-water. Of this they drank half a pint every day,
and sometimes more or less, as it Operated by way of gentle physio.
Two others had each two oranges and one lemon given them every
day. These they ate with greediness, at different, times upon an
empty stomach. They continued but six days under this course,
having consumed the quantity that could be spared. The two
remaining patients took the bigness of a nutmeg three times a day
of an electary recommended by an hospital-surgeon, made of garlic,
mustard-seed, rad. raphan, balsam of Peru, and gum myrrh ; using
for common drink, barley-water Well acidulated with tamarinds;
by a decoction of which, with the addition of cremor-tartar, they
were gently purged three or four times during the course.

‘ The consequence was, that the most sudden and visible good
effects were perceived from the use of the oranges and lemons ; one
of those who had taken them being at the end of six days ﬁt for
duty. The spots were not indeed quite off his body, nor his gums
sound ; but without any other medicine, than a gargarism of elixir
vitriol, he became quite healthy before we came into Plymouth,
which was on the 16th. June. The other was the best recovered of
any in his condition; and being now deemed pretty well, was
appointed nurse to the rest of the sick. -

‘ Next to the oranges, I thought the cyder had the best effects.
It was indeed not very sound, being inclinable to be aigre or pricked.
However, those who had taken it were in a fairer way of recovery
than the others at the end of the fortnight, which was the length of
the time all these different courses were continued, except the oranges.
The putrefaction of their gums, but especially their lassitude and
weakness, were somewhat abated, and their appetite increased
by it.

‘ As to the elixir of vitriol, I observed that the mouths of those
who had used it by way of gargarism, were in a much cleaner and
better condition than many of the rest, especially those who used
the vinegar ; but perceived otherwise no good effects from its internal
use upon the other symptoms. I indeed never had a great Opinion
of the efﬁcacy of this medicine in the scurvy, since our longest
cruise in the “ Salisbury” from the 10th. August to. the 28th. October,
1746 ; when we had but one soorbutic case in the ship. The patient
was a marine (one Walsh), who after recovering from a quotidian
ague in the latter end of September, had taken the elixir vitriol,
by way of a restorative for three weeks; and yet at length con-
tracted the disease, while under a course of medicine recommended
for its prevention. ‘

‘ There was no remarkable alteration upon those who took the
electary and tamarind decoction, the sea-water, or vinegar, upon
comparing their condition, at the end of the fortnight, with others
who had taken nothing but a little lenitive, electary and cremor-

 




 

41

tartar, at times, 1n order to keep their belly open; or a gentle pectoral
in the evening, for relief of their breast’ (Lind, 66, p. 56). .

Holst and Frolich (70,81) showed that scurvy could be induced
in guinea— pigs by removing the greenstuff from the ordinary diet of
grain and cabbage leaves, and by giving a diet consisting of grain
and water only. It proved immaterial what grain was used, and the
experiments included uncooked maize, oats, barley, and rice, as
well as wheat and rye in the form of bread. In all cases this diet
caused severe scurvy from which the animals died in from twenty
to forty days, showing the haemorrhages and bony changes character-
istic of the disease. t,By supplementing the scurvy diet with fresh
vegetables, fruits and fruit juices, these observers were able to
maintain the animals in health. For example, scurvv was
prevented by a daily ration of 30 grm. of fresh raw cabbage,
dandeliorbleaves, sorrel, carrot or cranberries. When these anti-
scorbutic materials were heated, their value was reduced by an
amount depending on the temperature and time of heating , after
heating at 100° C. for one hour (and 1n some cases for half an hou1)
the same ration was found inadequate to prevent scurvy. A similar
result was obtained with dried materials; rations equivalent to _
80 grm. of raw carrot, dandelion leaves or cabbage leaves failed
to prevent scurvy when in the dried condition, and equally dis-
appointing results were obtained with dried potatoes.

The anti-scurvy substance originally present in the expressed
juices of vegetables suffered a similar fate rapidly on keeping, but
the expressed juices of acid materials, e. g. , lemons, raspberries or
sorrel leaves were found to be more stable 1n this respect.

A further result of ﬁrst- class importance was obtained by Fifrst (82)
also working in Professor Holst s laboratory. He found that, whereas
dry cerealsb or pulses, e. g., oats, barley, lentils, peas, beans, were
unable to prevent scurvy in the dry condition, if soaked in
water and allowed to begin germination for 2—3 days they acquired
anti-scurvy properties. This result has recently been conﬁrmed by
Chick and Hume (83), and Chick and Delf (84) as regards pulses.
In the case of cereals it has been called in question by Weil, Mouri-
quand, and Péronnet (85). The published account of their experi-
ments is not very detailed, and it does not seem impossible that they
might be interpreted in the opposite sense to that adopted by the
authors themselves.

From the researches of Holst and his colleagues we are enabled to
make the following generalization. The anti- scorbutic accessory factor
is found in nature associated with living tissues in which metabolic
processes are still proceeding. When these active processes cease
or are greatly reduced, as in seeds, or when the tissues are destroyed,
as in drying or heating, the anti-scurvy‘ vitamine’ also disappears.
In, the case of seeds it is created anew during germination. The
distribution of this factor thus presents a marked contrast with that
of the anti-beri-beri factor, of which one of the principal sources is
found in dry seeds.

The researches of Holst and his 00- workers have been continued
during the last three years by a group of workers at the Lister Institute, .
with the aim of making a more complete survey of the commoner

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mimi
51»
W I

5‘10

Lid

 

 

no '

 

 

NO

42

foodstuffs and assigning to each some quantitative value as regards
anti-scurvy properties. Although the investigation is still incomplete,
many results have already been published owing to the urgent need,

 

 

.
n
'.

\
'v
‘.\
s
o
D \
n
u
.
n
.

Cure Jta rrg

 

 

 

3 I; I5 I! 2.: J3 36 J? 1.2 :36 4f 5/ 4:4 5}

. 13,4673 .
FIG. 13.1 Weight Charts of ﬁve typical experiments with guinea-pigs showing the
anti-scorbutic value of orange juice and fresh cabbage leaves :

CURVE A. Typical scurvy on a diet of oats, bran and water.

CURVE B. Typical scurvy on a diet of oats, bran and sterilized milk (heated to 120° C.
for one hour in" the autoclave). '

CURVE C. Typical scurvy on a diet of oats, bran and water, cured by addition of
orange juice and autoclaved milk to the diet on the twenty-second day, when
the symptoms were well marked.

CURVE D. Weight chart showing inﬂuence of 5 0.0. fresh orange juice daily added
to the ‘ scurvy ’ diet ; autoclaved milk added to the diet on the ﬁfty-sixth day.

CURviE E. Normal weight chart on a diet of oats, bran and cabbage leaves (30 grin.

ail . ‘

CURVE F. Weight chart on diet of oats, bran, autoclaved milk and 3 0.0. fresh orange

juice daily ; specially favourable circumstanceswwarm weather, &c.

for such knowledge presented by war-time conditions (Chick and
Hume, 88 ; Chick, Hume, Skelton, and Smith, 86 ; Chick and Rhodes,
87; Deli, 88; Delf and Shelton, 89). To these workers and to
other members of the staff at present engaged in this research we

{Reproduced from the ﬁgure in the Transactions of tlie Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene with the permission of that Society; Chick and Hume, vol.
x, 1917, p. 152.

 




 

 




 

 

 

 

. '14

FIG

 

 

 

[To face 1). 43,]

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

43

are indebted for much unpublished information, and for permission
to incorporate it in the following paragraphs.

Young, growing guinea-pigs (350 grm. weight) have been
employed for the work, the methods used being in essential those of
Holst and his colleagues. The principal modiﬁcation has been the
substitution of water in the scurvy diet of grain and water by a daily
ration of about 60 0.0. strongly heated (autoclaved at 1200 C. for one
hour) milk. This addition of milk very greatly improves the general.
condition of the experimental animals, although the onset of scurvy
is not thereby seriously inﬂuenced. Normal growth takes place for
the ﬁrst 15 to 20 days of the experiment in Spite of absence of
anti-scorbutic material ; with onset of scurvy symptoms, about the
twentieth day, the weight of the animal begins to decline, death
from acute scurvy ensuing about the thirtieth to fortieth day. The
general type of the weight curve on a scurvy diet with and without
the addition of autoclaved milk is well seen in Fig. 18 by observing
the details of curves A and B respectively. -

The main object of the work has been to determine the minimal
amount of the various foodstuffs that must be added daily to the
‘ scurvy ’ diet in order to prevent occurrence of scurvy. When this
minimal amount (or more) is consumed, growth does not cease about
the twentieth day, but the animal continues to grow in good health '
without symptoms of scurvy (Curve F, Fig. 13). As a general rule
the animals were kept under observation during three months.

The symptoms of severe scurvy in guinea-pigs are brieﬂy the
following : tenderness and swelling of the joints is the earliest sign,
and the animal will frequently adopt a position (scurvy position),
in which it rests on its side, while the painful member is held twitching
in the air. In other cases the animal lies down with the side of its
face upon the ﬂoor of the cage (‘scurvy face-ache position’), indicating
that its gums and jaw have become painful (see Fig. 14). Later onteeth
become loose, solid food is refused, and death may 'occur a few days
later. In cases where the anti-scorbutic given is only adequate
for partial protection, the animal will usually live on for a con-
siderable time, exhibiting swollen and painful joints, but growing
up and enjoying a measure of health and spirits depending on the
degree of protection afforded.

In case of death from scurvy the principal lesions at the post-
mortem examination show close analogy with those characteristic of
the human disease. Haemorrhages occur in any position, but are most
frequent in the limbs. In cases where they occur in the intestinal
tract blood is frequently passed in life, and death occurs suddenly.
Rariﬁcation of the long bones is almost invariably present, and these
frequently show fracture in the neighbourhood of the junction of
shaft and epiphysis. The ribs are swollen and often fractured at the
juncture of bone with cartilage.

Table VIII, which is drawn up by the staff working at the Lister
Institute, shows the approximate anti-scorbuticvalue of ”a whole
series of foodstuffs ; the values given are based upon the minimal
protective doses as determined for guinea-pigs. As in some instances
the experiments are still incomplete, it is not possible to attach
exact numerical values in every case. The series of signs are,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44
however, arranged to express the relative value of the various
materials With as much exactness as is possible at the present
time.

TABLE VIII. Protective Value of Various Foodstuﬂs against

Scurvy.
0 = no value detected.
Value ‘ Min. Daily Ration to
against , prevent Scurvy in
Foodstuff. Scurvy. Guinea-pigs.
Cereals. Whole grain 0
Germ 0
Bran 0
Endosperfn, e.g. white Wheaten
ﬂour, polished rice 0
Pulses. Whole dry 0
Germinated. (Lentils) + + 5 g.
Vegetables. Cabbage, raw + + + + l g.
,, cooked % hr. at 100° C. + + 5 g.
Runner beans, green pods + + + 5 g.
Carrot (juice) + 20 0.0.
Beetroot (juice) + More than 20 0.0.
Swede (juice) + + + 2-5 0.0.
Potato, cooked —3, hr. at 100° C. + 20 g.
Onion +
Desiccated Vegetables + to 0 60 g. expressed as
. . equivalent in fresh
cabbage.
Pickled Vegetables 0
Fruits. Lemon juice, fresh + + + + 1'5 c.c.
,, preserved + + 5 0.0.
Orange juice, fresh ' + + + + 1‘5 0.0.
Lime juice, fresh + + 10 0.0.
, ,, ,, preserved + to O
Grapes Less than + More than 20 g.
Apples ,, +
,, dried ,, +
*Tamarind, dried ,, +
*Mango ,, (‘ Amchur ’) ,, +
*Kokum ,, a: +
Eggs. Fresh, Whites ‘20
,, yolk 20
Desiccated ‘2 0
Meat. Raw (juice) Less than + More than 20 0.0.
inned 0
Milk. Cow’s, raw Less than + 100 to 150 0.0.
,, dried Less than raw '
Yeast. Pressed, autolysed ‘20
Extract, ‘ marmite ’ ‘30

* Dried fruits much estimated as anti-scorbutic by natives of India.

Vegetables. Among the most potent anti-scorbutic materials are
placed raw cabbage leaves, the raw juice of swedes, and the juices of
the citrous fruits. Raw cabbage leaves take the ﬁrst place, 1-5
grm. daily sufﬁcing to protect from scurvy, or, in exceptional
cases, as little as 0-5 grm. (Deli, 88). Among root vegetables there
are great differences, raw carrot juice and raw beetroot juice
proving comparatively feeble, while raw swede juice is placed in
the front rank. The potato, which was tested in the cooked condition
(after half-an-hour’s boiling), would appear to occupy a mean position.
In this connexion it is interesting to note that the cabbage and swede

\

 

 




:cf

 

 

45

are nearly allied species and belong to the same natural order of
plants, viz. the Cruciferae. The old legend teaching that plants
with a cruciform arrangement of the flower possess Special virtue
in the service of mankind thus receives scientiﬁc support at this
late date

Fresh fruit. Among the fresh fruits examined, the orange and

' lemon are easily the most valuable anti-scorbutic agents. It is

therefore the more surprising to ﬁnd that the juice of fresh limes is
distinctly inferior, but such it has proved to be. The experiments
on this point include tests with monkeys as well as guinea-pigs.
Ordinary preserved lime juice was found to be almost devoid of anti-
scorbutic prOperties, but preserved lemon juice appeared to be
distinctly more satisfactory. Experiments are now in progress with
the aim of discovering some method of preserving lemon juice which
shall retain its original anti-scurvy value.

Dried vegetables and fruit. Dried vegetables, in conﬁrmation of
Holst’s work, have been found practically useless (89, 90). From
Delf and Skelton’s results, cabbage leaves within two weeks of
drying were found, to have lost about 93 per cent. of their original
anti-scorbutic value, while three months after drying less than
5 per cent. was retained.

The dried fruits examined were old Specimens, probably six months
old. Some degree of protection was detected in the small doses
that could be administered.

Milk and meat. Milk and meat come last in the order of merit.
Large quantities of fresh raw cow’s milk, 100 c.c. daily and over,
are required if scurvy is to be prevented by its agency alone (Chick,
Hume and Skelton, 7 4, 75). In case of raw meat juice a daily ration
of 20 c. c. offered only a very slight protection ; a larger ration was
not tolerated.

Among the foodstuffs 1n which no deﬁnite anti-scurvy properties
could be detected by the method employed are the following: eggs
(both fresh and dried), cereals, malt (dried and kilned), preserved
lime juice, autolysed yeast and yeast extract (marmite), pickled
cabbage.

RESISTANCE or THE ANTI-SCURVY FACTOR TO HEAT,
DRYING, &c.

The absence of the anti-scorbutic principle from dried foodstuffs
and its disappearance from powerful anti-scorbutics when these
are reduced to the dry condition, is sufﬁcient proof of the sensitiveness
of the anti-scorbutic vitamine to drying. It may be regarded as
an axiom that dry or dried fOOdstuffs will not prevent scurvy, and
in this respect the contrast between the anti- beri- beri and anti-
scurvy factors 1s very marked.

With regard to exposure to high temperatures, the anti-scorbutic
factor is also much more sensitive than the anti-beri-beri factor,
or the fat-soluble A factor. The experiments of Holst and Frblich
upon this point have already been referred to, but more complete
series of experiments upon this point have recently been carried
out at the Lister Institute by Dr. Marion Delf (89). Working. with

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46

raw cabbage leaves the minimum daily ration required to prevent
scurvy in guinea-pigs was determined to be less than 1-5 grm. and '
greater than 0-5 grm., i. e. about 1-0 grm. When the cabbage
was heated in water at 60° C. for one hour, symptoms of severe
scurvy were just prevented by a 5 grm. ration. When the tem-
perature was 70°, 80°, 90°, or 100° C. for the same period, scurvy
was not satisfactorily avoided. If the time was reduced to twenty
minutes, the same ration, 5 grm., prevented scurvy when the
temperature was 90° C. and just failed to do so when the temperature
was 100° C.

The conclusion drawn from these results is that when cooked for
one hour at temperatures ranging from 80° to 100° 0., cabbage
leaves lose about 90 per cent. of the anti-scorbutic value originally
possessed (anti-scurvy value-of 5 grm. ration reduced by cooking
to the equivalent of about 0'5 grm. raw cabbage). In a similar
manner the loss on heating in water either (a) for sixty minutes at
60° 0., or (b) for twenty minutes at 90—100° 0., was estimated at
about 80 per cent. of the original (anti-scurvy value of 5 grm.
reduced to the equivalent of about 1'0 grm. raw cabbage).

An interesting point emerging from these results is that the
destructive inﬂuence of heat is enhanced to a comparatively slight
degree with rise of temperature. Upon the above estimates, the
rate of destruction is accelerated only about threefold (time required
for destruction of 80 per cent. of the original value reduced to one-
third) when the temperature is raised from 60° 0. to boiling point,
i. e. 40° C.

If the process of destruction by heat of the anti-scorbutic factor is
assumed to be inﬂuenced by rise of temperature in an orderly manner,
this result points to a temperature coefﬁcient of about 1-5 for
10° 0. rise of temperature. It is suggested by Delf that this
low result may be of value in guiding speculation as to the character
of the unknown anti-scorbutic factor, that it is opposed to the
enzyme or protein-like theory of its nature and would argue a much
simpler constitution. Destruction or denaturation of protein bodies
by heat has been shown to possess a much higher temperature
coefﬁcient than the ordinary chemical reaction, which is accelerated
2 to 3-fold for 10° C. rise in temperature. The results obtained
in a few typical instances are collected in Table IX.

At the same time ‘ it must be remembered that in Delf’s
experiment the anti-scorbutic material was contained in. a tissue of
vegetable cells, and it is possible that the low temperature coefﬁcient
may. have reference to some extraneous limiting factor. Much
further light may be expected from. experiments now in progress
on the effect upon anti-scorbutic value of heating the expressed
juices of fruits and vegetables.

 




 

 

47

TABLE IX.
Cocﬁ‘icic'nt of heat change. for
Substance. 10°C. rise in temperature. Observer.

Emulsin . . . . 7 - 1 4 Tamman (9 1 )
Haemoglobin . . . . 13-8 Chick and Martin (92)
Egg albumin .- . . . 635 n 99 (92)
Bacteria, disinfection by heat,

B. anthracis Spores . . 10 ’ Ballner (93)
Bacteria, disinfection by heat, ‘

B. typkosus . . . 136 Chick (94)
Vibriolysin . . . 1,000 Famulener and Madsen (95)
Hydrolysis of cane sugar . . 3-6 Spohr (96)

The above experimental results conﬁrm those of Holst and Frolich
(70) in showing the great sensitiveness of the anti-scurvy factor to
temperatures of 100°C. and below. They are also in marked contrast
with the results obtained with the anti-beri-beri factor. In this
case little signiﬁcant destruction was detected on exposure to
100° C. for one hour or over (see above, p. 84). This greater
instability of the anti-scurvy factor is a matter of the greatest
importance in estimating the anti-scorbutic value of cooked vegetables
and the relative merits of different methods of cooking, and will be
referred to later under that heading, p. 64.

The anti-scorbutic factor is soluble in water and in alcohol (Harden
and Zilva, 49; Hess and Unger, 97); it passes through dialysing
parchment (Holst and Frolich, 70, p. 109), or a porcelain ﬁlter (Harden
and Zilva, 49), without appreciable loss. The latter observers have
also shown its behaviour towards adsorbents to be different from
that of the anti-beri-beri factor ; it is not adsorbed upon the surface
of ﬁne precipitates such as fuller’s earth or colloidal iron. When
a mixture of equal volumes of autolysed yeast and orange juice was
treated with fuller’s earth the anti-neuritic factor was removed
while the anti-scorbutic remained unaltered.

Holst came to the conclusion that the anti-scurvy factor was more
stable in acid than in neutral media. His Opinion was based mainly
upon the fact that acid fruit juices retained their anti-scorbutic
properties much longer than vegetable juices. Recently Harden
and Zilva (98) have shown that the presence of alkalis, even
when dilute (1 / 50 normal sodium hydrate) and at room temperature,
has a rapidly destructive effect upon the anti-scorbutic vitamine.
These authors have called attention to the danger involved in the
practice of adding sodium carbonate when boiling green vegetables.

It has been suggested that the loss in anti-scorbutic value suffered
by vegetables during cooking might be lessened if the water in which
they are heated were made slightly acid with citric acid. The

suggestion was originally made in respect of germinated lentils in

order to preserve the anti-scurvy value as far as possible where
these may form the only source of anti-scorbutic material in a diet
(99). It has, however, been shown experimentally by Delf (8-8)
that, when 05 per cent. citric acid is added to the water in which
germinated lentils are boiled, the loss in anti-scurvy properties is,
if anything, greater than when no, addition of acid is made.

It follows, therefore, that in cooking vegetables there should be no
addition either of acid or alkali to the water in which they are boiled.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48

REFERENCES.

(36) EIJKMAN, 0., Arch. f. path. Anat. [6130.], 1897 149 197.

(37) GRIJNS, G., Ceneesk. Tijdsch. 7). Ned. Ind., 1901 1. ~

(38) SCHAUMANN, H., Arch. f. Schiﬁ's- u. Tropen-Hyg., 1910 14 Beiheft 8, 325.

(39) FUNK, C., Ergebn. d- Physiol, Wiesb. (Asher and Spiro), 1913, Jahrg. 13.

(39 a) BRADDON, W. L., Causes and Prevention of Beri-b‘eri, London, 1907.

(39b) MCCARRISON, In. J. Med. Res, 1919 6 275.

(40) COOPER, E. A., J. Hyg., 1913 12 436; 1914 1412.

(41) CHICK, H., and HUME, E. M., Proc. Roy. Soc., 1917, B 90 44.

(42) EDIE, E. S., and SIMPSON, G. C. E., Ann. Trop M. and Parasitol, 1911 5 313

(43) VEDDER, E. B., Beri-beri, London, 1913.

(44) EIJKMAN, 0., Arch. f. Hyg., 1906 58 150.

(45) HOLST, A., J. fig/9., 1907 7 619.

(46) CHICK, H., and HUME, E. M., Proc. Roy. 806., 1917, B 90 60.

(47) CHAMBERLAIN, W. P., and VEDDER, E. B., Philippine J. Sc. (B), 1911 6 395.

(48) SEIDELL, A., U.S.A. Public Health Reports, 1916 31 366.

(49) HARDEN, A., and ZILVA, S. 8., Biochem J., 1918 12 93.

('50) COOPER, E. A., and FUNK, C., Lancet, London, 1911 2 1266.

(51) FUNK, C., J. Physiol, 1911 43 395.

(52) FUNK, C., ibid.,' 1912 45 75.

(53) BARGER, G., The Simpler Natural Bases (Longmans), 1914 112.

(54) DRUMMOND, P. C., and FUNK, C., Biochem J ., 1914 8 598.

(55) SUSUKI, V., SHINAMURA, T., and ODAKE, S. ‘ Biochem Ztschr., 1912 43 89.

(56) EDIE, E. S., EVANS, W. H., MOORE, B., SIMPSON, G. C. E., and WEBSTER, A ,
Biochern. J ., 1912 6 234. -

(57) COOPER, E. A., ibia'., 1913 7 368.

(58) VEDDER, E. B., and WILLIAMS, Philippine J. Sc. (13.), 1913 8 175.

(59) WILLIAMS, R. H., and SALEERY, ibid., 1915 11 99

(60) WILLIAMS, R. R., and SEIDELL, A., J. Biol. Chem, 1916 26 431.

(61) VOEGTLIN, C., and WHITE, J. Pharmacol. and Exper. Therap., 1916 9 155.

(62) HARDEN, A., and ZILVA, S. S., Biochem. J ., 1917 11 172.

(63) ABDERHALDEN, E., and SCHAUMANN, H., Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol, 1918 172 1.

(64) HOEMEISTER, Ergebn. d. Physiol, 1918 16 510.

(65) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochem J., 1917 11 255.

(66) LIND, A Treatise on the Scurvy, London, 2nd ed., 1757.

(67) COPLANS, M., Tr. Epidemiol. Soc., 1904 23 1.

(68) JACKSON, L., and MOODY, A. M., J. Infect. Dis., 1916 19 511.

(69) JACKSON, F. G., and HARLEY, V., Proc. Roy. 800., 1900 66 250; Lancet, Lond.
1900, April 28.

(70) HOLST, A., and FRCLICH, T., Ztschr. f. H yg. u. I nfelctionskranlch., 1912 72 l.

(71) MCCOLLUM, E. V., and PITZ, W., J. Biol. Chem, 1917 31 229.

(72) MCCOLLUM, E. V., J. Am M. Ass., 1918 71 937.

(73) EM, W., J. Biol. Chem, 1918 33 471.

(74) CHICK, H., HUME, E. M., and SKELTON, R. F., Lancet, Lond., 1918, J an. 5.

(75) CHICK, H., HUME, E. M., and SKELTON, R. F., Biochem J., 1918 12 131.

(76) COHEN, B., and MENDEL, L. 13., J. Biol. Chem, 1918 35 425.

(77) COHEN, B., Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. and Med., 1918, April 17. 3

(78) COHEN, B., and MENDEL, L. B., ibid., 1918, May‘15.

(79) HESS, A. F., and UNGER, L. J _., J. Biol. Chem, 1918 35 479.

(80) HARDEN, A., and ZILVA, S. 8., Biochem J ., 1918 12 270.

(81) HOLST, A., and FRCLICH, T., J. Hyg., 1907 7 634.

(82) FHRST, V., Ztschr. f. Hyg. u. Infektionskranlch., 1912 72 121.

(83) CHICK, H., and HUME, E. M., Tr. Soc. Trop. 1714. and fig/9., 191710 141.

(84) CHICK, H., and DELE, E. M., Biochem J., 1919 13' 199.

(85) WEIL, MOURIQUAND, and PERONNET, Compt. rend. Soc. ole biol., 1918 81, June 8.

(86) CHICK, H., HUME, E. M., SKELTON, R. F., and SMITH, A. H., Lancet, Lond., 1918,
Nov. 30.

(87) CHICK, H., and RHODES, M., ibid., 1918, Dec. 7.

(88) DELF, E. M., Biochem. J., 1918 12 420.

(89) DELF, E. M., and SKELTON, R. F., ibid., 1918 12 448.

(90) GIVENS, M. H., and COHEN, 13., J. Biol. Chem, 1918 36 127.

(91) TAMMANN, G., Ztschr. physilcal. Chem., 1895 18 426.

(92) CHICK, H., and MARTIN, C. J ., J. Physiol, 1910 40 404.

(93) BALLNER, Sitzungsb. d. k. Aloud. d. W issensch., 1902 111 97.

(94) CHICK, H., J. [lg/9., 1910 10 237.

(95) FAMULENER, L. W., and MADSEN, TH., Biochem Ztschr., 1909 11 186.

(96) SPOHR, Ztschr. physikal. Chem, 1899 2 195.

(97) HESS, A. F., and UNCER, L. J ., J. Biol. Chem, 1918 35 487.

.(98) HARDEN, A., and ZILVA,‘ S. S., Lancet, Lond., 1918, Sept. 7.

(99) GREIC, E. D. \V. (Private communication, quoted by Delf, 88.)

 

 

 

 




 

CHAPTER IV

APPLICATION OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK TO THE
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS OF HUMAN DIETS.

THIs section of the subject must necessarily be the one which
arouses most interest, and it is, therefore, a matter for regret that
our limited knowledge of the accessory substances should restrict to
some extent the consideration of practical issues. Certain facts are,
however, clear, and the application of these may be discussed with
proﬁt. The objection may be raised that the many - theories
concerning the accessory factors have been based solely on the
results of experiments with animals such as rats, mice, guinea-pigs,
pigeons, and, to a small degree, monkeys. There-is, however, very
little, if any, evidence that man’s dependence on these factors is not
as great as that exhibited by the rat or guinea-pig. ‘- We may assume
that beri—beri and infantile beri-beri represent in man the ultimate
result of a deﬁciency of the water-soluble factor, whilst symptoms
of nutritive failure analogous to those shown by rats have been
observed in young children suffering from a deﬁciency of the fat-
soluble factor, and human scurvy is well known to result from a
deﬁciency in the diet similar to that causing scurvy in guinea-pigs
and monkeys. Evidence is also accumulating that accessory factors
play a very important role in the growth processes of the higher
animals, and many recent advances in animal husbandry have been.
based on these laboratory experiments with the lower species.

It is of the greatest importance to emphasize the fact that a de-
ﬁciency of an accessory factor may be of a much smaller order than
that necessary to produce the typical syndrome of the disease usually
associated with that deﬁciency, but may nevertheless be sufﬁcient
to induce a distinct failure of nutrition and health. This is par-
ticularly true inthe case of young children. Fortunately, in this
country our natural dietary is so varied even‘amongst the poorer
classes as practically to preclude an absolute deﬁciency of any
particular factor arising, so that there is little fear of the incidence
of a typical deﬁciency disease such as beri-beri. On the other hand,
there is a very real danger that the improperly balanced dietaries
consumed in many cases may lead to a partial deﬁciency of one
or more of the accessory substances, if not of other components as
well. The inﬂuence of these partial deﬁciencies, even when relatively
slight, may be extremely serious when they occur in very early life, ’
and, if we may judge from the experiments on animals, an adequate
supply of these indispensable dietary components in later life may
completely fail to make good the damage caused by the. deﬁciencies
in youth.

Table X shows the distribution of the three accessory factors in
the commoner foodstuffs and will be found useful for reference in
reading the following pages.

5508 E

 

 




50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE X.
Water-solu-
ble B or anti-
Fat- maritic (anti- A m“.
soluble hart-be???) scorbmic
Classes of foodstuff. A factor. factor. factor
Fats and oils.
Butter + + + 0
Cream + + '0
Cod-liver oil _ + + + . O
Mutton and beef fat or suet + +
Lard 0
Olive oil 0
Cotton-seed oil 0
Coconut oil 0
Coco butter . O
Linseed oil 0
Fish oil, whale oil, herring oil, &c. + +
Hardened fats, animal or veg. origin . O
Margarine prepared from animal fat Value in
prop. to
amount of
animal fat
. contained
Margarine from vegetable fats or lard 0
Nut butters +
Meat, ﬁsh, d’cc.
Lean meat (beef, mutton, 8m.) + + +
Liver + + + + +
Kidneys + + +
Heart + + +
Brain + + +
Sweetbreads + + +
Fish, white 0 very slight,
if any
,, fat (salmon, herring, &c.) + + ,,
99 roe + + +
Tinned meats ? very slight 0
3121/5, cheese, etc.
Milk, cow’s whole, raw + + + + '
,, skim ,, O + +
,, dried whole less than + + + less than +
,, boiled ,, Undeter- + ,,
‘ mined
,, condensed, sweetened + + ,,
Cheese, whole milk +
,, skim 0
Eggs.
Fresh + + + + l- ? 0
Dried . + + + + + ‘30
Cereals, pulses, d’cc.
Vthat, maize, rice, whole grain + + 0
,, n ., germ + + + + + 0
‘ ,, ,, bran 0 + + 0
White Wheaten ﬂour, pure cornﬂour,
polished rice, &c. 0 0 0
Custard powders, egg substitutes, pre-
pared from cereal products 0 O 0
Linseed, millet + + + + 0
Dried peas, lentils, &c. + + O
Peaﬂour (kilned) 0 0
Soy beans, haricot beans + + + 0
Germinated pulses or cereals +’ + + + +

 

 

 




Water-solu-
ble B or anti-

Fat- neuritic (anti- Anti-
soluble bcrzlberi) scorbutz’c
Classes of foodstuff. A factor. factor. factor.
Vegetables and fruits.
Cabbage, fresh raw + + + + + +
,, cooked + +
,, dried + +' very slight
,, canned ,,
Swede, raw expressed juice + + +
Lettuce + + +
Spinach (dried) ‘ + + +
Carrots, fresh raw + + +
,, dried very slight
Beetroot, raw, expressed juice less than +
Potatoes, raw + +
,, cooked +
Beans, fresh, scarlet runners, raw + +
Lemon juice, fresh + + +
,, preserved + +
Lime juice, fresh + +
,, preserved very slight
Orange juice, fresh + + +
Raspberries + +
Apples
Bananas + very slight
Tomatoes (canned) + +'
Nuts + +
Miscellaneous.
Yeast, dried ‘3 + + +
,, extract and autolysed ‘3 + + + 0
Meat extract 0 O O
Malt extract + in some
specimens
Beer 0 0
Honey +

 

 

DIET OF ADULTS.

Although there are reasons for believing that the adult has smaller
requirements for the accessory substances than the growmg child,
the beneﬁcial inﬂuences of a liberal supply cannot be denied.

There are some grounds for believing that the accessory food
factors are concerned in the processes of tissue formation and repair,
and we should therefore expect larger amounts to be necessary after
exercise than after periods of rest. Whilst there is as yet practically
no experimental evidence upon this point, there are indications
based upon human experience that the demand for the three accessory
factors is greater when work is being accomplished. This probability
should be borne in mind when the dietaries or rations of those engaged
in severe manual work, such as soldiers and labourers, are being
considered (see p. 67). . . .

_ For many years past the value of a generous dietary in combating
diseases such as tuberculosis has been universally recognized, and
it is a curious fact that many of the foodstuffs which enter so
largely into the composition of these dietaries are those which are
particularly rich in one or other of the accessory substances.

E2

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'52

THE FAT-SOLUBLE ACCESSORY FACTOR IN THE DIET OF ADULTS.

Considering in the ﬁrst place the fat-soluble accessory it is note-
worthy that milk, cream, butter, and cod-liver Oil, all rich sources of
this factor, form the basis Of the treatment Of diseases of malnutrition
and Of tuberculosis, and it must be admitted that such foodstuffs
are more than mere sources of fat, otherwise the cheaper fats such
as lard and the vegetable oils would long ago have been adopted as
equally efﬁcient for the purpose. .

The very fact that the latter Oils are not employed, or have been
employed and rejected as of no value, suggests that some factor
other than fat is operating in the case of milk-fat and cod-liver Oil.
In this there is an illustration of the results of scientiﬁc investigation
justifying the selections based on long practical experience.

With regard to the fat-soluble A factor our present knowledge
does not enable us to make deﬁnite statements as to the effect of
a deﬁciency in the diet of an adult, but experience is much more
advanced as concerns the water-soluble B (anti-neuritic) and anti-
scorbutic factors.

THE WATER-SOLUBLE B (ANTI-NEURITIC) FACTOR IN THE DIET 0F
ADULTS.

Although the exact knowledge we possess regarding the distribution
of the anti-neuritic accessory factors has been Obtained by experi—
ments upon birds, the analogy between avian polyneuritis and
human beri-beri is so close that we may apply it without misgiving
to the latter case. This conclusion is also justiﬁed by a careful study
of the conditions under which human beri-beri has broken out and
under which it has been cured. In many cases the records are
incomplete, but their value is frequently enhanced by the fact that
they were made by observers who were ignorant Of the results Of.
experimental work upon the subject, and when pieced together
a mass of evidence is Obtained which is in full accord with the
principles set forth in the preceding chapter.

Beri-beri as the result of a» diet consisting too exclusively of

an over—milled cereal.

The classic example is found in the prevalence of beri-beri
among the poorer classes in Japan, Malay States, &c., where rice
is the staple diet. The researches Of the investigators mentioned
on p. 26, have succeeded in correlating the disease with the con-
sumption of steam-milled, white, polished rice. Where the rice, was
merely husked and the outer skin and germ were retained, or where
the rice was milled in domestic or native mills, so that the separation
of these constituents was much less complete, b‘eri-beri did not occur.
Further, in localities where it is epidemic, beri-beri has been both
cured and prevented by substituting whole rice or rice prepared in
the native manner, for the ﬁne, white, polished rice.

Eijkman (100) quotes an Observation of Vorderman, which points
forcibly to the connexion between beri—beri and highly milled
rice. This worker made a survey Of all the prisons in Java and
Madura, noting the type of rice consumed and the incidence Of
beri-beri ; his observations extended over a total population of more

 




 

53

than 279,000 persons. The results are summarizedin Table XI
and show how closely the incidence of beri-beri varies with the
degree of milling the rice has undergone. .

TABLE XI.

Relations between the incidence of beri—beri in Javanese prisons and
the type of rice consumed. .

Type of rice consumed. Incidence of beri-beri.
No. in which Proportion of cases of
N 0. of Prisons beri-beri % beri-beri among total
examined. occurred. N o. of inmates.
1. ‘ Half polished ’ ; j—i of 37 1 2-7 1 in 10,000
the ‘ silver—skin ’ ad- .
herent
2. 3; of the ‘ silver-skin’ 13 6 46 ' lin 416
adherent
3. ‘ Polished’ ; less than 51 36 71 1 in 39
éof the ‘ silver-skin ’ »
adherent

Apart from these general observations, there have been a few
deﬁnite human experiments, which may be cited here. Strong and
Crowell (10]) obtained a number of volunteers from among the
prisoners in a jail in the Philippine Islands, and these were placed
upon a strictly controlled diet, divided into four groups. All received
a certain amount of ﬁsh, bacon, lard, bananas, potatoes, and sugar,
but rice was the staple article of diet and was provided in three
different forms for the four groups of prisoners; the results were ,
as follows : '

Type of Rice. No. of men. Cases of beri-beri.
Group 1.. White polished rice and extract of rice
‘ polishings ’ (bran) . . . . . . 8 2
Groups 2 and 4. White polished rice . . . 17 13
Group 3. Red rice, i. 0. whole, unmilled rice . . 7 1 (very slight)

This experiment suggests that when the diet'consists mainly of
cereal food, beri-beri can usually be prevented, if a whole,
unmilled cereal is employed, but that there is not a great margin
of safety. It will be noticed that the other subsidiary articles of diet
were poor in content of anti-beri-beri vitamine.

Analogous cases of beri-beri outbreaks among wheat-eating
pOpulations are not so common. The peoples who are accustomed
to consume white Wheaten bread belong to the more highly civilized
and richer countries, where the diet is varied and a sufﬁciency of
anti-beri-beri factor is obtained from other constituents. There are,
however, a few instructive instances among which the following
four cases may be mentioned. - ‘

1. In Newfoundland and Labrador the pOpulation subsists largely
on bread during the winter and spring. Formerly, when the bread
was baked from ‘ brown ’ ﬂour, beri-beri was unknown, as can be
testiﬁed by the memory of the older inhabitants. At the present
time, with the advance of civilization, ”the bread is made from pure
white Wheaten ﬂour and beri-beri is frequent. Little (102) relates
the following interesting occurrence. In 1910 a ship ran ashore,
laden with a cargo of whole-meal Wheaten ﬂour, and in ordervto

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54

lighten her a considerable portion of her load was removed and was
subsequently consumed by the population in the adjacent districts.
The result was that no case of beri-beri was reported in that region
for a period of one year following this event.

2. Beri-beri was a» rare disease on Norwegian ships before the
year 1894. In that year an alteration was made in the sailor’s. diet,
in response to a popular agitation to ameliorate the hard conditions

of their life at sea. The sailors had previously lived on biscuit baked.

from rye ﬂour (in the milling of which there is no separation of germ) ;
after this date masters of ships were compelled to supply bread
baked from white Wheaten ﬂour or a mixture of wheat and rye
ﬂour, and beri-beri became a frequent disease in the Norwegian
mercantile marine (Holst, 103). There is an amusing story of one
old sea captain who disapproved of the new-fangled reforms and
insisted upon a supply of rye ﬂour being taken on board for his own
personal consumption. He was rewarded for his independence with
the satisfaction of effecting cures among his men, who, when stricken

. with beri-beri, were supplied with biscuit from the captain’s private

supplies. As, however, these gradually showed signs of depletion,
he was ﬁnally compelled to husband them in order to preserve his
own health.

3. The deﬁciency in white Wheaten bread is under ordinary
conditions made good by the varied diet enjoyed by EurOpeans.
If, however, the ‘ mixed diet ’ is derived from tinned and preserved
foods, the case is otherwise and beri-beri may be expected. This

was no doubt the explanationof the beri-beri which has been reported

among our troops in the Dardanelles and in Mesopotamia (Willcox,
104). In the latter campaign it is illuminating to note that the
disease was conﬁned to the British trOOps and was not reported
among the Indian soldiers. This immunity was to be expected, for
in addition to atta, a coarsely ground, whole-wheat ﬂour, the
native soldier receives a generous daily ration of dhall or dry
pulses of various kinds, which are rich in anti-beri-beri Vitamine.
(See Tables II and III.)

4. The difference in the type of cereal ration issued. respectively
to the British and Indian troops was the basis of an unconscious

_‘ experiment ’, which took place during the siege of Kut. In his

account of the medical arrangements during the siege of Kut-el-
Amara (December-1915—April 1916), Colonel Hehir (105), I.M.S.
writes :

‘ In the early stage of the siege, a recrudescence of beri-beri among
British troops gave rise to some apprehension, but it then disappeared,
whilst in Indian troops and followers during the latter half of the
siege scurvy caused anxiety.’

At another place in this diary we learn that the British troops
were receiving white Wheaten ﬂour until February 5, 1916, after
which. date they were compelled to take part of their ﬂour ration in
the form either of barley ﬂour or of atta. It is very signiﬁcant
that beri-beri should have occurred while the British troops were
enjoying white Wheaten bread and should have cleared up when
they were compelled to share the coarsely milled, germ-containing
ﬂour of. their Indian comrades. The incidence of scurvy during this

 

 

O

 

 




 

55

siege showed an entirely opposite distribution; the British soldiers
were protected by the large ration consumed of meat and herseﬂesh,
while the Indian soldiers, largely vegetarian in habit, suffered terribly
from this disease. (See also below, p. 64.)

The moral to be drawn from the above experience is that for the
prevention of beri-beri, it is important that the germ and bran of wheat
should be included. in the manufacture of bread or biscuit for any
population living on a restricted diet. This is specially desirable in case
of soldiers on active service where the rest of the ration may consist
largely of tinned foods which may be regarded as vitamine-free, owing
to the high temperatures at which they have been sterilized

I11 this connexion attention may also be drawn to two articles of
diet, specially rich 1n anti- beri-beri factor and also specially suited
to the need of armies 011 active service, viz. yeast extract and
preseived eggs.

Yeast 1s one of the most valuable sources of the anti- neuritic factor
and, in the form of an extract, gives the pleasant savoury taste to
many of the soup cubes at present on the market. One commercial
sample of such an extract (marmite) has been found 011 examination
to retain the original value of the yeast from which it has been
prepared, see Table II. The addition of such an item to the soldier’s
ration would. be a useful and agreeable method of increasing the
supply of anti-beri—beri vitamine in his diet.

Dried eggs have. been found experimentally to retain the valuable
anti- beri- beri pioperties of the fresh article They probably are
much too expensive an article to be included 1n the ordinary soldier’s
ration, but the1e can be no question of their suitability for inclusion
in hOSpital st01 es. A large proportion of medical casualties on foreign
service consists of intestinal diseases, and both during the acute stage
and the subsequent convalescence the diet is largely restricted to
bread, condensed or tinned milk, and invalid foods, which may be
regarded as vitamine- free. It was noted by Willcox (104) that among
twenty- six cases of beri- beri diagnosed in the autumn of 1915,

eighteen had previously suffered from diseases of the digestive and

alimentary system. It is not improbable that the restiicted diet
necessitated by these disorders may have been the prediSposing
cause of the beri- beri which occurred subsequently. The addition
of eggs would have materially enriched these invalid diets in
1eSpect of anti- beri- beri properties, and in the form of dried eggs
the addition could be made with the greatest convenience.

Before leaving this subject it may prove useful to give as an
illustration the details of certain diets which have recently been
found to occasion beri-beri, and to compare them with. certain others,
which under similar circumstances of climate, locality, &c., were
found to be satisfactory.1 _

Diets A 1 and A .1, given in Table XII, refer to a camp ina Medi-
terranean a1ea in which beri- beri occurred. , they are essentially the
same diet, but inasmuch as the rice ration was occasionally substituted
by peas and beans, they form diets very different as regards the
protection afforded against beri- beri. Both, however, are inferior

1 For pe1 mission to publish the details of this investigation we are indebted to Major L.
Braddon, R. A. M. 0., and the Director General of the Army Mcdk al.Q erviee.

 

 

 

 




56

to Diets B and O, which were issued to similar neighbouring com-
munities, in which no beri—beri was reported. After the diagnosis
of beri-beri had been substantiated in case of certain men receiving 1
Diet A l/A 2, a careful search among the healthy men ofthe same i
community revealed a widespread abnormality 1n knee-Jerks and
other nervous reﬂexes. This is an important observation, as
it shOws deﬁnitely that normal health may be undermined by
a deﬁciency in diet before any symptoms are apparent to the casual
observer or to the individual himself.

 

 

 

 

TABLE XII. Showing relative amounts of foodstuffs deﬁcient and
rich respectively in anti-neuritic factor, present in satisfactory
diets and those found to; Occasion beri-beri; the amounts are
expressed as 02. per week.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N 08. expressing
approximate value p
in preventing beri— Diet A _ Diet B Diet 0
beri. Wheat (.Beri-beri producing) (Satis- (Satis-
Foodstujf. germ = 1.00 A l. A 2. factory). factory).
Foods deﬁcient in anti-beri-beri
factor:
Rice . . . 28 21 28
Broad (white ﬂour) 224. 224 112 168
Jam . . 7 7
Sugar 14 14 7
Cheese 14 14 14
Dry fruit 14
Salt ﬁsh . . 2O
Margarine or butter or oil 14 14 7 3'5
X==Total N0. of oz. weekly of
foods deﬁcient in anti-
beri-beri factor . 294 206 202 206
Foods richer in anti-beri-beri
factor:
Oatmeal . 1.0 l 4 14
Fresh meat or bacon 10 42 42 30 42
Peas, beans, lentils . 50 28 14 21
Potatoes (or fresh vegetables) 5 14 14 42 28
V: Total N o. of oz. weekly of
foods containing anti-beri-
bori factor 50 84 100 1.05
Ratio V/X 02 0-3 05 05
in Table X11 an arrangement is adopted by which foodstuffs

deﬁcient in the anti-beri—beri factor a
those more valuable‘in this re
be noticed are, ﬁrstly, the large preponderance

the diets Al (252 oz. weekly) and A 2
B (138 oz.) and C (196 oz.), and secondly

vitamine-containing foodstuffs,

B, 100 oz. ; C, 105 oz.

Spect in the second.
of cereal food 1 in

re collected in one group and

The points to

(224 oz.) compared with
the smaller proportion of

A1, 56 oz. weekly; A2, 84 oz.;

If the ratio—No. of oz. vitamine-containing food / No. of oz.
vitamine-deﬁcient food—be calculated for the four diets, we get

i 1 Cooper and Braddon (106)

found that the time and onset of polyneuritis in birds

' varied inversely with the quantity of polished rice fed to them ; and that the amount

of vitamine necessary for protection de
Vedder (107), on the other hand, is of opinion that the
without effect on the onset of beri-beri.

pended upon the si

ze of the carbohydrate ration.
size of the carbohydrate ration is

 

 




 

a series of values rising from 0'2 for diet A] to 0'5 for diets B and
C. It would appear as if this ratio might provide a useful indication
of the value of a diet for the prevention of beri-beri.

THE ANTI-SCORBUTIC FACTOR IN THE DIET or ADULTS;

In attempting to apply the results of experimental work upon
scurvy in animals to the case of human diet, we are confronted
with the same difﬁculty as in the parallel instance of beri-beri. The .-
question whether guinea-pig scurvy and human scurvy are to be
regarded as the same disease has, however, been answered in the
afﬁrmative, by those having experience of both diseases. In etiology,
symptoms and methods of cure, the analogy between the two is so
close that they may be regarded as pathological equivalents. In
addition there are some scattered observations with monkeys in
which the manifestations of the disease approach even nearer to
those of human scurvy, especially as regards post-mortem appear-
ances. These serve to bridge the differences existing between
guinea-pig scurvy and the human disorder.

But valuable direct evidence upon this point is also found in the
history of outbreaks of human scurvy, in caseswhere the details
of the faulty diet and of the means successfully adOpted for cure
have been faithfully recorded. These instances may not offer
convincing evidence when considered singly, but taken collectively
they form an impressive conﬁrmation of the experimental work and
of the values assigned to the various foodstuffs in the second column
of Table VIII. In point of fact a table of values constructed upon
the sifted evidence of past human experience, would contain the
foodstuffs ranged in an order not differing markedly from that
constructed upon the results of experimental work. It is proposed
to describe a few typical cases by way of illustration.

Fruit. The great value of fresh vegetables and fruit in the pre-
vention and cure of human scurvy has so often been emphasized,
that its reiteration has become a commonplace. The juice of fresh
citrous fruits has fOr centuries been regarded as the anti-scorbutic
material par-excellence. The ‘ experiment ’ made by Dr. Lind (108)
in 1747, quoted above, p. 89, is one of the most carefully recorded
instances, but others are to be found in abundance.

Curran (109) mentions two ‘hOpeless’ cases of scurvy who
received 3 oz. lemon juice with sugar and water thrice daily, and
relates that. the patients sat up and took food with cheerfulness
in the course of two days. He also records that in the case of a
gentleman affected with scurvy of a very severe description, ‘the
eating of a single rhubarb tart produced a most decided amelior-
ation, equally sensible to the patient and his friends ’.

Lind (108) recounts the tragic history of four ships which sailed
from England to Bombay in April 1600, carrying 480 men on board,
including merchants and other ofﬁcials, in order to establish the
East India Company. The CommOdore upon his own ship had
arranged for a regular issue of lemon juice, three tablespoonfuls daily,
to all hands, and four months later, when the ﬂotilla reached the
Cape, his men were all in goOd health. On the other three ships,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

58

however, the seamen were so severely attacked by scurvy that the
passengers had to work as common seamen. In all 105 men died
from scurvy during the voyage, and when Bombay was ﬁnally
reached the entire work of unloading had to be performed by the
crew of the Commodore’s ship.

Budd (110) relates how the voyage of the Suffolk to Madras in 1794,
which occupied nearly six months, during which no land was touched,
was accomplished with almost entire freedom from scurvy. A regular
ration of 5— oz. lemon juice was served out daily.1 Scorbutic symptoms
were noticed in a few men, but these disappeared on increasing the
lemon-juice ration. Perhaps the most impressive instance of all
is to be found in the history of the Navy itself, between the latter
part of the eighteenth century, when thousands of cases of scurvy
were reported annually, and the early years of the nineteenth
century when, after the regular issue of lemon juice had been made
compulsory in 1804, scurvy became a comparatively rare disease
in the Navy.

Lime juice. The results of experimental work in Table VIII (p.44)
showing the inferiority of the juice of West Indian limes (Citrus medica
var. aside), both in the fresh and preserved state, compared with that
of lemons (Citrus medica var. lemoua), are difﬁcult to reconcile with
the pOpular esteem in which the former is held at the present day
as a preventive of scurvy. It is not, however, generally known that
when ‘ lime juice’ earned its laurels in the ﬁeld of medicine, the
term was used to signify the juice of lemons from the Mediterranean.
Such was the case until the middle of the nineteenth century, when
owing to favourable reports upon the acidity of the product, in which
quality the anti-scorbutic virtue was held to exist, the supply of
West Indian lime juice was gradually substituted. By the date 1870
very little, if any, lemon juice was issued ofﬁcially.

This point has been investigated quite recently from a historical
standpoint by Mrs. Henderson Smith (111), and the results of her
inquiry afford an important conﬁrmation of the experimental
ﬁndings given above, p. 45. She has been unable to ﬁnd any
recorded instances in which scurvy has been prevented or cured
by preserved lime juice, in absence of other anti-scorbutic agents.
On the contrary, a careful comparison of certain Arctic expeditions
in the ﬁfties of last century, equipped with lemon juice, with those
of later date provided with preserved lime juice has demonstrated
the inferiority of the latter material. The most impressive case
quoted is that of the Relief Expeditions sent in search of Sir John
Franklin, 1847—59, where those ships which were supplied with
lemon juice of good quality enjoyed remarkable immunity from
scurvy, for long periods of time. One instance, that of the Investigator
under Captain McClure, was Specially noteworthy, for, in this case,
there was no scurvy for twenty-seven months after leaving England,
notwithstanding great privations. The event was otherwise in the
Alert and the Discovery, two ships which left England in 1875 under
Captain Nares, in an attempt to ﬁnd the North Pole. These ships
were equipped with all the improvements that the advance of

1 In 1840 the navy ration was 1 oz. lemon juice daily with 1-}; oz. sugar, served after
two weeks at sea. (Budd, 110.)

 

 




 

 

 

59

twenty years had discovered and plentifully supplied with lime juice
of the best quality. Notwithstanding these advantages, serious
scurvy broke out at the end of the ﬁrst winter spent in the Arctic
regions. A commission of inquiry was held by the Admiralty on the
return of these ships in 1876, but no satisfactory cause was found
to explain the unexpected disaster. The commission took no notice
of the fact that the ‘lime juice’ provided in 1875 was the juice
of the West Indian limes, whereas in the ﬁfties it had been the juice
of Mediterranean lemons, but there is little doubt that in this difference
lies the explanation of the different experience in the two cases.
Following this period a general distrust of ‘lime juice’ as a pre-
ventive of scurvy may be traced in the writings of those who had
given careful attention to the history of later Arctic discovery,
and the theory alluded to above, p-. 38, that scurvy is due to chronic
ptomaine poisoning, by tainted and salted meat, found ready
acceptance. For example, the experiences of the Jackson-Harms-
worth Expedition to Franz Josef Land in 1894—37 was accepted as
being in accord with this theory (Jackson and Harley, 112) on the

basis of the folloWing facts.

The land sledging party was for three years without any lime juice
and without any scurvy, but large quantities of fresh bear meat were
consumed. The ship party, on the W indward, took their daily 1 oz.
lime juice with regularity, and were well supplied with tinned and
salted meat, but after one winter the whole crew developed scurvy
and there were three deaths. There is no record that the meat was
tainted or putrid when consumed, but it was afterwards assumed
that it must have been so. In earlier days ‘lime juice’ had for so
long been regarded as the equivalent in diet of fresh vegetables and
fruit, that the supporters of the ‘ tainted ’ meat theory maintained
further that fresh vegetables also were not concerned in the prevention
or cure of scurvy, but that the disease was connected only with the
quality of the meat eaten (see also below, p. 63).

Vegetables. Among the vegetables investigated the cabbage was
found to be pre-eminent, and even after cooking the minimum
preventive ration for guinea-pigs remained small in comparison
with root and other vegetables. The following incident, related to
Holst and Frolich (113) by a political refugee from Russia, bears
testimony to the value of cabbage for the prevention of human
scurvy, even when taken in the form of soup, after prolonged stewing.
In a Russian prison, in which the narrator had been conﬁned with
1,400 other prisoners, the diet consisted of tea, coarse bread, and
cabbage soup. The preparation of the soup was so unclean that
twenty of'the inmates, including himself, who were of gentle birth
and upbringing, could not endure to take it. After about six months
these twenty prisoners showed symptoms of scurvy, while no case
occurred among those who had consumed the soup regularly.

Among herbs and ‘ cresses ’ esteemed in the past for anti-scorbutic
Virtues it is interesting to note that those belonging to the natural
order Cmeifeme occupied a high place. This natural order includes
also the cabbage and the swede, which were found to be the most
valuable of the vegetables investigated experimentally. ‘Scurvy
grass’ (Coehleam'a oﬁiemalfis), a small plant frequently found growing

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

60

near the sea shore, ﬁgures largely. in old records of scurvy cures
among mariners. Thus Bachstrom in 1734 tells the following story :

‘ A sailor in the Greenland ships was so over-run and disabled with
scurvy, that his companions put him into a boat, and sent him on
shore, leaving him there to perish without the least expectation
of recovery. The poor wretch had quite lost the use of his limbs ;
he could only crawl about the ground. This he found covered
with a plant which he, continually grazing like a beast of the ﬁeld,
plucked up with his teeth. In a short time he was by this means
perfectly recovered, and, upon his returning home, it was found to
be the herb “scurvy grass ”.’ (Rendering given by 'Lind, 108,
p. 395.)

Potatoes. Among roots and tubers the potato easily takes the ﬁrst
place in practical importance, not so much because of its intrinsic
value, but because owing to its abundance, cheapness, and general
acceptability large quantities are regularly consumed. It was not
found possible to test it experimentally in the raw condition, but
even when cooked, it was found to possess signiﬁcant protective
powers for guinea-pigs. There is no doubt that in northern climates
the potato is of the utmost value in preventing scurvy during the
winter and Spring. Epidemics of scurvy have repeatedly followed
failure of the potato harvest, e. g. in Norway in 1904, Ireland in
1847. The outbreaks of scurvy reported in Glasgow (114), Man-
chester (115), and Newcastle (Harlan, 116) in the Spring of 1917 are
doubtless to be attributed to the great scarcity of potatoes at that ,
period. '

Om’ons take a position between the more and the less potent
vegetables. They possess a special importance, however, owing to
the ease with which they can be transported, and are much appreciated
whether raw or cooked by reason of their ﬂavour. For these reasons
they should always be included in rationing soldiers, sailors, or other
communities of people at the end of long lines of communication
cut off from fresh supplies. ‘

Germinated pulses and cereals. There is so far little direct evidence
of the anti-scorbutic value of germinated pulses in human diets.
The custom of eating germinated cereals and pulses obtains in some
parts of China (rice) and in the Malay States and Dutch Indies,
where germinated beans, ‘ towgay ’, are a common article of native
diets ; there is, however, no evidence that the anti-scorbutic value
of these foods has been recognized. .

One instance, however, in which germinated beans were found to
beof great value for the cure of scurvy is that recently recorded by
Wiltshire (117), which yields complete conﬁrmation of the experi-
mental work described above. This observer succeeded in curing
27 cases of mild scurvy among Serbian soldiers (selected at random
from a total of 57) by the sole measure of including in their daily
dietary 4 oz: (dry wt.) germinated haricot beans. The progress
was, if anything, better than that made by the remaining 30 patients
who received 4 oz. fresh lemon juice daily instead.‘ The beans were
consumed after boiling for ten minutes only.

There is, however, indirect evidence to be gleaned in the high
esteem with which certain fermented liquors made from germinated

 

 




 

61

seeds have been regarded for the prevention of scurvy. Captain
Cook was a great believer in the anti-scorbutic virtues of a fresh
infusion of malt (sweet-wort). His second voyage, 1772—5, was
accomplished with an amazing record of good health among his
crew, there being only four deaths during the period, of which one
only was from sickness. He took a large quantity of ‘ malt, of which
was made sweet-wort ; to such of the men as showed the least symp-
toms of scurvy this was given, from one to two or three pints
a day each man, or in such proportion as the surgeon found necessary.
This was, without doubt, one of the best anti-scorbutic sea medicines
then discovered, when used in time’ (Captain Cook, 118, p. 227).
According to Sir John Pringle, writing in 1776 (119), quas, ‘ a small
brisk acidulous liquor’, made from ground malt and rye meal, was
regularly served out in Russian prisons as an anti-scorbutic.

Kafﬁr beer, ‘ leting ’or‘ joala ’, is another instance. It is the product
of rapid fermentation of partly germinated millet and is consumed
quickly after preparation. The Kafﬁrs are in the habit of taking
large quantities when living in their own kraals in South Africa, and
it is believed to be a valuable anti-scorbutic. It has been the custom
of'the mining companies on the Band to arrange for the brewing
of this beer in the compounds of the native labourers, and there large
quantities are consumed. Outbreaks of scurvy have been reported
by Dyke (120) among companies of Kafﬁr labourers in France, in
cases where this ‘ joala’ was replaced by a second type of beer,
‘ mahew ’, a fermented drink also made from millet and maize, but
in the preparation of which the grain is not previously germinated.
Modern beer appears, however, to "be practically free from anti-
scorbutic properties (Harden and Zilva, 121).

The use of germinated pulses as an article of diet certainly deserves
a prolonged trial in circumstances where fresh food is scarce or
unobtainable. Dry peas, beans or lentils contain less than 15 per cent.
of moisture, are admirably adapted for tranSport, and can be ger-
minated on the Spot if and when required. Pulses of various sorts,
as ‘dhall’, form a staple article of the native Indian diet, and had.
this knowledge of their value after germination been applied in
Mesopotamia in 1915, it is possible that the terrible wastage from
scurvy in that campaign (122, p. 72) might have been prevented.
During the siege of Kut (December 1915 to April 1916) the British
soldiers were protected from scurvy by large daily rations of fresh
meat or horse ﬂesh, but scurvy among the native soldiers presented
a terrible complication. It is impossible to say whether the disaster
of the ﬁnal surrender might not have been averted if the ‘ dhall’
ration for the Indian troops had been issued to them in the ger-
minated condition.

Dried vegetables. Dried vegetables have repeatedly been tried and
found useless for preventing human scurvy, and in this respect the
results of the experimental work ﬁnd abundant conﬁrmation in the
records of failure which have been preserved. Owing to the con-
venience with which they can be transported, dried herbs and
vegetables have been repeatedly adopted for the supply of armies
and other large bodies of men separated from supplies of fresh food ;
and with disastrous results.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62

As long ago as 1720, Kramer, chief surgeon with the Austrian
army in Hungary, was confronted with a serious outbreak of scurvy
among the troops and in his perplexity he wrote to Vienna for help
and advice. The College of Physicians in that city arranged for
a large and varied supply of anti-scorbutic herbs to be dispatched
to his aid. The consignments arrived and were giVen a prolonged
trial, but the result was that thousands perished from scurvy.
Kramer epitomized the knowledge gained by his tragic experience
in the oft-quoted paragraph in his Medeeiria, Castrensis, 1720 :

‘ The scurvy is the most loathsome disease in nature : for which
no cure is to be found in your medicine chest, no, not in the best
furnished apothecary’s shop. Pharmacy gives no relief, surgery as
little. Beware of bleeding: shun mercury as a poison: you may
rub the gums, you may grease the rigid tendons in the knee, to little
purpose. But if you can get green vegetables ; if you can prepare.
a sufﬁcient quantity of fresh, noble anti-scorbutic juices, if you have
oranges, lemons, or citrons ; or their pulp and juice preserved with
whey in cask, so that you can make a lemonade, or rather give to
the quantity of 8 or 4 oz. of their juice in whey, you will, without
other assistance, cure this dreadful evil.’ (Translation given by
Lind, 108). g ‘

Dried vegetables were repeatedly tried in the navy, with similar
results, and by the middle and end of the eighteenth century all
persons who were well informed upon this subject were convinced
of their uselessness for the prevention of scurvy. The following is
a sample of what appears constantly in the correspondence of
the Medical Board of the Admiralty at this period : Digests of ‘ In ’
Letters, 4806, 37. 1, August 22, 1773, Ref. M. Report from Com-
missioners for Sick and Hurt : -

‘ On a reference of a letter from Earl Suffolk sending a box con-
taining Specimens of a plant and herbs prepared and dried for the
purpose of curing the scurvy at sea. Acquaint Lord Suffolk they
cannot recommend its introduction.’

And in 1757 Lind writes, in describing methods suggested for
preventing scurvy at sea. .

‘ The latest proposal to the Lords of the Admiralty was a magazine
of dried Spinach prepared in the manner of hay. This was to be
moistened and boiled in their food. To which it was objected by
a very ingenious physician (Dr. Cockburn), that no moisture whatever
could replace the natural juices of the plant lost by evaporation,
and, as he imagined, altered by a fermentation which they underwent
1n drying.’ (Lind, 108, p. 143.) .

When scurvy ceased to be a permanent menace this knowledge
was soon forgotten, and Kramer’s experience was repeated again ‘
1n the American Civil War. In that campaign, large rations of dried
vegetables, including dried potatoes, were issued to the men, but
proved powerless to prevent scurvy, of which there were many
outbreaks (128). At the present day it again needs to be emphasized
that vegetables which have been dried have lost almost the whole of
their anti-scorbutie properties. During the period of the present war
the public have frequently been energetically advised in the daily
press to dry and preserve vegetables for dispatch to prisoners of war

 




 

63

in Germany or to provide ‘fresh’ vegetables for our ﬂeet when at
sea (e. g. Daily Chronicle, October 19, 1917).

In case of dried fruits a distinct, though feeble, anti-scurvy value
was detected in the experimental trials. This result also coincides
with human experience. The dried tamarind, kokum, and mango
(‘ amchur ’) mentioned in Table VIII were obtained direct from
India, with the assistance of the authorities, and all possess a reputa-
tion in that country as anti-scorbutic materials. It is related that
when scurvy broke Out among our troops in 1833—4 at Nassirabad
in Rajputana, great beneﬁt was obtained by eating anola, the
strongly acid dried fruits of Phyllcmthus emblica, which is commonly
sold in the bazaars (MacNab, 124). This difference between vegeta-
bles and acid fruits, in respect of the degree to which anti-scurvy
properties are preserved in the dry condition, may be due to the
inﬂuence of an acid medium in checking the process of destruction
which the anti-scorbutic factor slowly undergoes after the cells of
the plant have been disorganized by drying.

Meat. Many careful observers in the past have noted that the
anti-scurvy value of fresh meat, though signiﬁcant, was much
inferior to that of vegetables or fruit. Curran (109) mentions three
patients with, scurvy at the Swift Hospital in Dublin in the epidemic
of 1847, who had consumed 3} lb. meat on ﬁve days in the week while
developing the disease. Sir Gilbert Blayne relates an incident of
the Fleet at Barbadoes in 1781, where a party of soldiers serving as
marines were affected with scurvy and were‘sent to an army hospital
where no fresh animal food was allowed. These men recovered much
quicker on the vegetable diet provided than the seamen on the ships
who were deprived of vegetables, but were fed on fresh meat.

There is no doubt, however, that scurvy can be prevented by the
use of fresh meat alone if the ration is large. The history of Arctic]
experience is full of such cases. Dr. Rae, surgeon to the Hudson Bay
Company, in his evidence to the Scurvy Commissioners of 1876,
stated that among the inhabitants of that district scurvy was almost
unknown. The people subsisted almost entirely on meat, but the
amount consumed was upon the following scale, 8 1b. fresh venison
daily per man, 4 lb. per woman, 2 lb. per child.

Nansen and J ohansen, after leaving the Fram, spent two months,
including the winter of 1895-6, on Frederick Jackson Island in
a rudely constructed hut. They remained in good health and free
from scurvy although obtaining no lime juice and no fresh vegetables
and subsisting mainly on fresh walrus and bear meat preserved
by cold.

Jackson and Harley (112) describe an interesting incident at
Kharborova, Yugor Straits, where six Russian priests arrived in the
autumn, attended by a small Russian boy. The priests by their
religious vows were prevented from eating the fresh meat available :
they subsisted on salt ﬁsh and there were no vegetables. In the
following May the little boy was found to be the only surviving
member of the party, and had buried all his late masters in the snow. »
He suffered from no religious disability and had fed largely, on
reindeer meat through the winter. A further instance is provided
in the experience of Scott’s ﬁrst expedition (Voyage of the Discovery)

\
\

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64 I

where an outbreak of scurvy was cured by the inclusion in, the dietary
of his party of large quantities of fresh seal meat. The case of the
Jackson-Harmsworth Expedition referred to above, in the discussion
of lime juice, is another instance of similar experience. The inter-
pretation of these facts made by the leaders of the expeditions,
was, however, to lead them to support the theory that scurvy was
a disease due to chronic poisoning, by the ptomaine develOping in
tinned meat. ‘

From Colonel Hehir’s report on the medical history of the siege
of Kut (105) it is clear that in this case also British soldiers were
protected from scurvy by their regular ration of meat or horse ﬂesh,
but the amounts they consumed were considerable, 8 to 20 oz.
daily. The Indian troops in Kut, on the other hand, who were
vegetarian, suffered severely from scurvy.

Tinned and preserved meats can be dismissed in a word, as offering '
no possible protection from scurvy. Meat in its fresh condition
contains the anti-scurvy factor in comparatively low concentration,
and after exposure to the temperature necessary for sterilization
it is impossible that any signiﬁcant anti-scurvy properties should
be retained.

The value of frozen meat is probably intermediate between that
of freshmeat and tinned'meat and, in any case, is likely to be low,
eSpecially if it has been for a long period in the frozen condition.
Wiltshire (117), describing outbreaks of scurvy among Serbian
soldiers, states that out of 132 cases in 1917 all had received a ration
of frozen meat practically every day.

INFLUENCE OF METHOD OF COOKING UPON THE ANTI—soonBUTIc
VALUE OF COOKED F001).

Seeing that the anti-scorbutic accessory factor is sensitive to high
temperatures, it is clear that the value of fresh vegetables and fruit
must of necessity be greatly impaired by cooking. When there is
scarcity of fresh food, either by actual deﬁciency or by difﬁculty in
tranSport or distribution, it is well to realize that raw fruit and salads
have a value, weight for weight, far exceeding that of cooked fruit
or cooked vegetables, and that a smaller ration will suffice to afford
protection from scurvy. It is unfortunate that most fresh fruits
and all salads are perishable articles of food and inconvenient for
distribution. They are not available at all periods of the year nor
are they universally acceptable. The fact remains that the bulk of
the population in this country takes its anti-scorbutic food in the
cooked condition, and this being so, the methods adopted for cooking
become of great importance.

It is clear from the experimental results obtained by Delf (125)
(p. 46 above) that over the range of temperature employed in
ordinary cooking processes, variation in the temperature employed
has a comparatively small influence upon the rate of destruction of
the anti-scurvy vitamine. For example, if the temperature of
cooking cabbage is lowered from 1000 C. (boiling—point) to 80° 0.
(slow simmering) the rate of destruction of the anti-scorbutic factor
is decreased only about two fold : in other words the loss in anti-

 




 

 

’65

scurvy value caused by boiling for half an hour would be equalled
by simmering for about one hour at 80° C. This time would, however,
need to be greatly increased, with a consequent greater loss in anti-
scurvy value, if the cabbage were to be rendered palatable. Cooking
for a short period of time at the higher temperature is, therefore, much
to be preferred to cooking for the much longer time necessary at
the lower temperature. - .

For the preparation of food in large quantities methods of slow
cooking are the more convenient, and hence arises the great popularity
of the stew in camps and other situations where the arrangements
forcooking are perforce of a temporary character. Methods of slow
cooking at temperatures below boiling-point are also economical of
fuel, and it is for this reason that the hay-box and other forms of
‘ self-cookers’ are so widely recommended at the present time.
When using these types of cooker the practice is to raise the sauce-
pan containing the vegetables, &c., to boiling-point upon an ordinary
stove, and after a short period of boiling (5—10 minutes) to place in
the hay-box for two hours or longer. For one commercial hay-box
it is recommended that cabbage should be left for 2% hours after
10 minutes’ preliminary boiling, and it is claimed that the temperature
inside the saucepan will not fall below 97° C. If this perfection of
non-conductivity be in reality attained, the net result as regards
loss of anti-scorbutic value will not differ materially from the result
of boiling for from 2—3 hours. The ordinary method of cooking
cabbage by boiling for 20 minutes or half an hour is thus. immensely
superior in preserving the anti-scorbutic value. Some careful
observations, upon an ordinary home-made hay-box (126), showed
that cabbage was satisfactorily cooked with 5 minutes’ boiling
followed by 2 hours in the hay—box, during which time the tem-
perature of the saucepan had, in fact, fallen to about 85° C. This
operation may be assessed as equal to exposure to 1000 C. for 5
minutes followed by exposure to a mean temperature of about 90° C.
for 2 hours, or upon the basis of Delf’s experiments, to about
1%; hours at 100° 0., instead of the half-hour’s exposure which would
be the result of a simple boiling. .

The conclusion to be drawn from these considerations is that all
forms of slow cooking should be avoided, if possible, for those articles
of food upon which dependence is placed for protection from scurvy.
In case of fresh meat of inferior quality it is often necessary to
resort to slow stewing in order to provide an appetizing meal, but
in such cases, effort should always be made to cook the vegetables
separately and for as short a time as possible.

In this connexion it is instructive to place on record two recent
outbreaks of scurvy which have been attributed to neglect of this
principle. Scurvy broke out in a camp in Scotland in the Spring of.
1917 and 82 men were affected. At the time potatoes were scarce,
but the ration contained a fair proportion of fresh meat and 2 oz. of
swedes were available daily. These, as will be seen from Table VIII,
are among the most potent a'nti-scorbutic vegetables we possess,
and, if cooked satisfactorily, should have afforded considerable
protection. The cause of the outbreak was investigated by Prof. L.
Hill, who discovered that the meat was always served as a stew,

5508 F

 

 

 




I..._
— r..._‘_-——~ _ - --
.‘_ ,ﬂir—‘P—«qﬁv-<-

’. .7 Mia“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66

the vegetables were added, and the whole cooked for about 5 hours.
This circumstance was considered by Prof. Hill to be a sufﬁcient
explanation of the outbreak. "

A second example is afforded by an outbreak of scurvy which
broke out in a Kafﬁr labour battalion in France between May and
July, 1918 (Dyke, 120), and in which 142 cases of pronounced scurvy
were diagnosed. In this case there‘ was a ration of fresh vegetables
equal to 8 oz. daily, these were cooked with the meat and boiled for
a period of at least 8 hours. In the Opinion of the‘medical ofﬁcer by
whom the circumstances of the outbreak were thoroughly investi-
gated this fact was an important contributory cause.

PERIOD OF DEVELOPMENT OF BERI-BERI AND SCUEVY.

A diet deﬁcient in both anti4scorbutic and anti-beri-beri accessory
factors will occasion both diseases, but the likelihood is that symptoms
of beri-beri will be the ﬁrst to appear. In the ‘ship - berberi’,
described by Holst (127), the symptoms are reminiscent of both
diseases, and it is probable that the cause is a deﬁciency in the diet
of both factors.

The period of development of beri-beri has been determined with
some care by Fraser and Stanton (128), who found the disease
occurring among Japanese coolies after a period of eighty to ninety
days upon a diet consisting mainly of polished rice.

In cases of scurvy the period of development is longer and probably
not less than from four to eight months, as may be gathered from the
following observations. Infantile scurvy is rarely seen in infants less
than six months old, and according to Barlow (129) is most common
about the eighth month of life. In the old days, when fresh food
was scarce or absent during the winter, it was usually in the following
Spring, after several months of deprivation, that scurvy occurred.
Colonel Hehir has stated that four months is the minimum time in
which he has observed scurvy to develop among Indian troops on
active service (122, p. 71). Holst and Frolich (118) quote two cases
in which the period of development was observed to be longer.
One is the caSe of a fanatical vegetarian in Christiania who wished
to prove to the world that existence could be maintained on bread
and water alone. During the period of his self-imposed trial he was
guilty of backsliding on two occasions only, once for a pound of sugar
and once for a bottle of beer. The bread was presumably rye bread
and afforded adequate protection from beri-beri, but deﬁnite
symptoms of scurvy in the form of haemorrhages in the legs were
noticed after seven and a half months. This period of development
is not very different from that in the narrative of the Russian refugee
(see above, p. 59) in the. Russian convict prison, where scurvy was
developed after six months upon a similar diet.

There is a certain amount of evidence showing that these periods
of development may be shortened in case of men performing hard
manual work or exposed to damp or cold climatic conditions. In
both cases metabolism would be stimulated, and it would be reasonable
to suppose that any reserve of accessory factors would be the sooner
exhausted (compare footnote, p. 56). The following are instances.

 




 

67

It was a matter of common observation that scurvy was Specially
prevalent among sailors exposed to cold, damp, or very rough weather.
Lind (108) places this circumstance before diet in his dissertation
on the ‘ Causes of the scurvy ’. He gives instances of beleaguered
cities where the garrison on hard duty succumbed to the malady
before the inhabitants.

In the expedition of the Alert and the Discovery to seek the North
Pole in 1875 the men wintered on the ships within the Arctic circle.
There was no deﬁnite scurvy diagnosed during this period, although
the diet was defective from the‘point of View of anti-scorbutic
substances, notably by the substitution of lime juice for lemon
juice. In the Spring Of 1876 the sledging parties set out, and with
the performance of hard manual labour scurvy at once made its
appearance, the ﬁrst case occurring within ten days of departure.
At ﬁrst the Ofﬁcers escaped, but, as the men fell sick and the labour
of dragging the sledges devolved more and more upon them, they
also fell victims to the disease. In due course scurvy also broke out
among the crews left behind upon the ships during the spring and
summer of 1876, but its onset was distinctly later (Smith, 111).

A second instructive example is found in the outbreak of scurvy
in the Scottish camp referred to on p. 65. In this instance the ﬁrst
'cases to develop and a large majority of those showing severe symp-
toms were among a small section of the inmates who were engaged
in hard manual work for a few hours daily.

One point of practical importance concerned with the Slow develop-
ment of these deﬁciency diseases is the certainty that long before
the symptoms of the acute disease can be diagnosed there will be
a general, ill-deﬁned departure from good health which may defy
diagnosis, but which will seriously lower the well-being and efﬁciency
of the individual.

These considerations are eSpecially important in cases where
isolated cases Of pronounced deﬁciency disease are diagnosed among
large communities of peOple as in institutions, camps, &c. SO small
_ an incidence Of the disease may be regarded as unimportant, but
in reality it is an indication that a widespread danger exists and
that the health of a much larger number of persons is being affected
by the same cause, although, owing to greater natural resistance or
other causes, severe symptoms may not for the moment have
supervened.

REFERENCES.

(100) EIJKMAN, 0., Arch. f. path. Anat. [etc], 1897 149 197.

(101) STRONG, R. P., and CROWELL, B. 0., Philippine J. Sc. (B), 1912 7 271.

(102) LITTLE, J. M., J. Am. M. Ass, 1.912 1 2029.

(103) HOLST, A., Tr. Soc. Trop. M. and fly/9., 1911 5 76. 7

(104) WILLCOX, W. H., J. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 1916 27 191 ; Lancet, Lond., 1916,
March 11.

(105) Mesopotamia Commission Report, 1917. Appendix III.

(106) COOPER, E. A., and BRADDON, L., J. Hyg., 1914 14 331.

(107) VEDDER, E. B., Beri—beri, London, 1913.

(108) LIND, A Treatise on the Scurvy, London, 2nd ed., 1757.

(109) CURRAN, Dublin J. M. 80., 1847 7 83. i

(110) BUDD, Twccdie’s System of Practical Medicine, London, 1840, article ‘ Scurvy ’.

(111) SMITH, A. H., Lancet, Lond., 1918, Nov. 30, J. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 1919 32 735.

(112) JACKSON, E. G., and HARLEY, V., Lancet, Lond., 1900 1 1184.

(113) HOLST, A., and FR GLICH, TIL, Ztschr. f. H 99. a. Infektionskrankh., 1912 72 1.

F2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68

(114) GLASGOW, Lancet, Lond., 1917, July 8.

(115) Report on the Health of the City of Manchester, 1917 49.

(116) HARLAN, G. 1)., Brit.~M. J., 1917, July 14.

(117) WILTSHIRE, Lancet, Lond., 1918, Dec. 14.

(118) Capt. Cook’s Voyages (Everyman Edition).

(119) PRINGLE, J ., Discourse of the Royal Society ‘ Upon some late improvements for
preserving the health of marines ’, 1776.

(120) DYKE, Lancet, Lond., 1918, Oct. 19.

(121) HABDEN, A., and ZILVA, S. 8., J. Inst. Brewing, 1918 24- 197.

(122) Mesopotamia Commission Report, 1917.

(123) Medical History of the War of Rebellion, Washington, 1888, vol. iii.

(124) MACNAB, Quart. J. Calcutta Med. Phys. Soc., 1837 1 306.

(125) DELF, E. M., Biochem. J., 1918 12 420.

(126) STRUDWICK, F., Miss. Private Communication.

(127) HOLST, A., J. Hyg., 1907 7 619.

(128) FRASER, H., and STANTON, A. T., Lancet, Lond., 1909, 1 451.

(129) BARLOW, T., M ed.-chir. Trans. Lond., 1883 66 100; Brit. Med. J., 1894, Nov. 10.

 




 

CHAPTER V

APPLICATION OF EXPERIMENTAL .WORK TO PRACTICAL
PROBLEMS OF HUMAN DIETS (continued). '

ACCESSORY FACTORS IN THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS}

PHYSIOLOGICAL evolution has elaborated in the milk of the mother
a perfect food for the nutrition of the young during the period of
infancy. The fundamental importance of the survival of the species
has called into existence a wonderful provision for the maintenance
of the composition of this foodstuff. Over and over again has it
been proved (see Lusk, 131) that the mother will sacriﬁce her own
tissues to provide the necessary components of her milk, should
dietary restrictions call for such sacriﬁce. The normal milk of one
species is naturally to be regarded as a perfect food for the nutrition
and growth of the young of that Species, and a certain relationship
has been traced between the composition of the milk as determined
by gross chemical analysis and the normal rate of development.
This is only what is to be expected, for the requirements of a young
animal for the tissue-building elements will be directly proportional
to the growth impulse of the species to which it belongs.

But, as the recent work which we have surveyed has shown, no
amount of protein and mineral matter will in themselves enable
growth to take place. Nor will deveIOpment be any more possible
when these tissue-forming units are supplemented with an adequate
supply of the energy-yielding foodstuffs. Animals cannot grow
without the accessory factors.

Not only has that fact been established, but it is probably true
that the rate of growth is closely related to the amount of. these
factors supplied, provided that the diet is adequate as regards its
other constituents. .

It must be remembered that, as in the case of other food com-
ponents such as protein, an adequate supply of the accessory factors
can only assist in giving the growth impulse full play. If larger
amounts of these substances are administered than are necessary
for normal growth, we do not get any supernormal development, for
the upper limits of this are predetermined by the inborn capacity
for growth. "

What happens to the excess over and above that required for the
normal development in such cases is not clear, but in the case of
the fat—soluble A factor there are indications that like fat itself it
is stored.

Since we have seen that these indiSpensable dietary factors appear
to play a quantitative role in the processes of tissue formation, we

1 See J. C. Drummond (130).

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

70

must admit the probability that the milk secreted by Species with
different growth impulses will show similar differences with regard
to their content of these substances. Experimental evidence in
support of the existence of such differences is as yet meagre, but
it has recently been shown that cow’s milk may be an inadequate
source of the water-soluble B accessory for the growing rat (132),
and of the anti-scorbutic for the growing guinea-pig (133).

The importance of differences of this type will be at once apparent
When the problem of the artiﬁcial feeding of infants is considered.

Breast feeding. The fundamental importance of breast feeding
cannot be over-emphasized, for it is now recognized as impossible
to elaborate a perfect substitute for mother’s milk. Much has been
written to account for the superiority as food for the young of the
milk secreted by the female of the same.Species. Such superiority
cannot be ascribed to any one constituent. No small part of it is
due to the fact that the mother supplies her young with a food
which is both qualitatively and quantitatively adequate as regards
protein, fat, carbOhydrate, and inorganic salts. But no milk
adequate only in these respects would be of any value for growth,
and we must therefore ascribe the advantage of mother’s milk for
the nutrition of infants in part also to the presence of an appropriate
supply of the accessory food substances unweakened by heat or
dilution. - ‘

But it is most important to remember that it has been proved ex-
perimentally that the mother is entirely dependent upon her own food
supply to provide her young with these substances, and should her
diet be deﬁcient in this respect they will suffer, sooner or later, in
Spite of any sacriﬁce she may make (134). We see therefore that
the diet of pregnant or nursing women should be one rich in the
accessory factors, so that they may be able to supply their offspring
with a milk of high value in this reSpect.

Reference to the table of foodstuffs (p. 50) will indicate those
which should be liberally supplied to expectant or lactating
mothers. , . -

In this country there is little fear of mother’s milk being totally
deﬁcient in one or more accessory factors, but such cases are not
unknown elsewhere ; for example, it has been proved that infantile
beri-beri, a disease frequently encountered amongst rice-eating
pOpulations such as the Philippines, results from a deﬁciency of the
water-soluble substance or anti-beri-beri factor in the mother’s milk.
.. Whilst, then, there is little chance of an insufﬁcient supply of the
anti-neuritic or anti-scorbutic principles to breast-fed children in
Western EurOpe and America, there may be a very real danger of
such children receiving an insufﬁcient supply of the fat-soluble
accessory. This will be the case where the mothers normally exist
upon a dietary containing an inadequate amount of that factor,
a condition which is probably far from infrequent among the poorer

classes : for it must be borne in mind that the chief sources of the _.

fat-soluble accessory—milk, butter, and eggs—are comparatively
expensive foodstuffs. Studies of the dietaries consumed by the
poorerclasses have frequently been made; but although they have
given results of value regarding the consumption of protein, fat,

 

 




 

 

71

and carbohydrate, they are of little use in determining whether the
intake of accessory factors has been adequate.

In a recent study (135) it is stated that the fat content of the
diets of the rural classes in this country is distinctly below that of
the working classes in the cities. But it must be recognized that
the fat consumed in rural districts is largely derived from dairy
products, whereas the ever-increasing production of the cheap mar-
garines lacking in the fat-soluble accessory may eventually tend
to cause butter to disappear from the tables of the working people
in the towns and cities. We cannot afford to neglect the fact that
such a process may in time contribute towards lowering very con-
siderably the nutritive value of the dietaries consumed by the poorer
classes, in that there will be a tendency for an increased consump-
tion of those cheaper foodstuffs which are in many cases seriously
deﬁcient in the fat-soluble factor.

Halliburton and Drummond (136). have experimentally shown
that the cheaper forms of butter substitutes, i. e. the margarines
prepared on a basis of vegetable oil or hydrogenated fats, are
practically devoid of the fat-soluble accessory substance, and that
only those margarines prepared exclusively from a fat such as beef-
fat have any claim to possess a nutritive value approximating to
that of. dairy butter. Such facts as these cannot be disregarded in
estimating the nutritive value of a dietary.

From a consideration of a number of the dietaries consumed by

the poorer classes in the towns of this country, one is led to suggest
that no inconsiderable proportion of the population is existing on
a food supply more or less deﬁcient in the fat-soluble factor. If
this is so, it must follow that thousands of infants which are being
nursed by the women of this population are indirectly being deprived
of an adequate supply of that substance during the period of their
life when it is vitally important that they should suffer from no
, dietary deﬁciency. '
/ Artiﬁcial feeding of infants. A great deal of attention is being
devoted at the present time to determining the most satisfactory
' method of rearing babies upon other foods than their mother’s milk.
Unfortunately this alternative to the 'natural method appears to be
necessary in many cases, and it is therefore a problem of vital im-
portance to ascertain the value of the manyartiﬁcial substitutes
for human milk.

In the past the aim has been to prepare food mixtures approximat-
ing in gross chemical composition to human milk in terms of protein,
fat, carbohydrate, and inorganic salts. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that any modiﬁcation made in milk intended for the feeding
of infants should conform to the condition that an adequate supply
of the three accessories should also be provided. Each of these
requires consideration.

THE FAT-SOLUBLE AND WATER-SOLUBLE (ANTI-NEURITIC) FACTORS.

Cow’s milk and modiﬁed milk. Some infants may be reared with
success from a very early age upon unmodiﬁed'cow’s milk. The
practical results which have been obtained by this method indicate

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72

that ordinary untreated cow’s milk is an adequate source of all three
factors—fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, and anti-scorbutic—for the
growth and nutrition of the human infant. This is in some respects
what might be expected from the fact that the rate of growth of
the calf is much greater than that of the human infant.

Other infants, however, are unable to take cow’s milk until it
has been modiﬁed so as to bring its composition nearer to that of
human milk. Fortunately, the majority of formulae given for the
preparation of what are erroneously termed ‘humanized’ milks
recommend the use of milk products in the process of modiﬁcation.
This must now be regarded as a most important matter when
considered in the light of our knowledge of the accessory substances,
and it should be recommended that no product other than those
derived from milk should be employed in the preparation of
a modiﬁed milk used for infant feeding. Vegetable oils cannot
replace cream, and sugar solutions cannot replace whey.

In some instances far too little regard has hitherto been paid to
the character of the substances added to the milk in preparing
infants’ food. Thus, for example, a deﬁciency of fat has often
been ‘ corrected’ by the addition of various preparations contain-
ing olive oil, linseed oil, and cotton-seed oil. One such preparation
which has been extensively utilized in this country is popularly
known as Marylebone cream. This product is essentially an emul-
sion of linseed or olive oil. The following composition has been
given (137) :

Linseed oil . . . . . . ~§~ drachm.
Powdered gum acacia . . . . 8 grains
Essential oil of almonds . . . . % mn.
Elixir of saccharine (1 in 20) . . . % mn.

Water to make 1 drachm.

This preparation is in many cases added to a dried separated
milk, and Pritchard has stated (138) that the nutritive qualities of
the linseed oil appear to be not inferior to those of cream. This is not
in agreement with the carefully controlled experiments of McCollum
in America (139), and already there appears to be some doubt in the
minds of many pediatricians as to whether such emulsions are really
efﬁcient as substitutes for milk-fat. A modiﬁcation of Marylebone
cream is now prepared in which suet takes the place of linseed oil.
Apart from any question as to whether foreign fats of the type
represented by linseed oil can replace the speciﬁc fat elaborated by
the mammary gland, there cannot be the slightest justiﬁcation for
imperilling the health of a child during the most critical years of
its life by denying it an adequate supply of the indispensable fat-
soluble accessory substance. ’
Dried milks. We have already seen that fresh cow’s milk appears
to be adequate as a source of the accessory substances necessary for
the growth of the infant, and the large number of young children which
have been satisfactorily reared upon dried milk would indicate that
the processes employed in desiccation have had no destructive effect
upon the fat-soluble and water-soluble factors, although, as will be
seen later, the anti-scorbutic principle suffers during the preparation.

 




 

73

The majority of dried milks are prepared by one or other of two
processes, which may be termed respectively the ‘ drum ’ and the
‘ spraying ’ processes (137).

The ‘ drum ’ process involves an exposure of the milk upon
a revolving drum heated internally by steam at 140° C. The
exposure is, however, a very short one, and is probably insufﬁcient
to cause any appreciable destruction of either of the two factors
under consideration. ‘ ,

In the ‘ spraying ’ process the milk is sprayed into a chamber
through which a current of dry air at a temperature of 1150 O. is
passing. The dried powder falls to the bottom of this chamber and
is, therefore, exposed to a temperature above 100° C. until it is removed

 

200

n 6m:
3‘,
0.

800'? \h/e/gﬁf /'

z
_ / 1
«0‘6 / ,2

 

/

 

Q
Q

8"

/ *r /

6% on def
Mw/m/e mi“.

 

 

/

' paw/er: ﬁéfdﬂ“.

 

 

 

/ _ ’“poooo../

 

000.1 0...... "OOZ

[Akin/l7 l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

._ _._ _..o’xé7‘o/.sepumM

ﬁz/hrrfo 9/540 0!

m ”(you/def and

ar /7.

 

dun???) gratlan
‘ °°“‘ $3327 ”7m
or... $22. .

 

 

FIG. 15. These curves illustrate the inefﬁciency of vegetable oils such as linseed and
olive oil to replace the fat of milk for promoting growth. Curve 1 represents the
growth of a young rat fed upon a food paste composed of whole cream, dried milk, and
starch. The growth curve is not quite up to the normal standard, but it is evident
that there is no serious deﬁciency of either factor ‘ A ’ 0r ‘ B ’. The curves marked
(— —— —) show the failure of young rats to grow on a similar paste composed of dried
skimmed milk powder and starch. This failure is due to the absence of an adequate
amount of the fat-soluble accessory substance, and is not made good by the addition
of linseed oil (curve 2 . . .) or olive oil (curve 3 . . .) to the ration in an amount
equivalent to the deﬁciency of milk fat. Addition of butter fat, however, at once
renders growth possible again (curves 2 and 3 ).

 

for packing. It is probable that a certain amount of destruction
of both factors might occur if the dried powder remained in the
chamber longer than an hour.

It will be at once apparent that dried half-cream and separated
milks will be deﬁcient in the fat-soluble accessory. The curves given
in Fig. 15 illustrate the failure of olive oil and lard to repair the
deﬁciency of dried skimmed milk in the nutrition and growth of
young rats.

‘ Synthetic ’ dried milk. Coutts (137) has reported that a product
prepared entirely from vegetable materials has been placed on the
market as a substitute for dried milk. It is described as ‘ full cream
synthetic milk ’, and he has pointed out the undesirability of the
use of the terms ‘cream’ and ‘ milk’. It appears probable from

, what is known of the composition of this product that it would be

entirely inadequate as a substitute for dried cow’s milk for many
reasons, particularly for lack of the fat-soluble vitamine. '
Condensed milks. The usual process employed for the preparation

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”mm—*— izzx...; : r, .

.74

of the various types of sweetened condensed milks involves a pre-
liminary ‘ pasteurization ’ at 80—90° 0. followed by concentration
at 50° C. under reduced pressure for two or three hours. It is
doubtful whether such treatment would affect any serious destruction
of the water-soluble accessory or the fat-soluble factor.

Condensed milks are classiﬁed according to whether they are
full-cream milks or machine-skimmed milks. The former are often,
and the latter almost invariably, sweetened by the addition of sucrose
(cane sugar).

Any form of machine-skimmed milk, whether condensed or not,
is unsuitable for the nutrition of the child, owing to the fact that
its low content of fat, particularly after dilution, involves a corre-
Spondingly low content of the indiSpensable fat-soluble accessory.

The serious objections. to the use of this type of foodstuff for
infants have repeatedly been emphasized (140). With many types
of condensed milks the dilutions necessary to reduce the sweetening
effect of the added sucrose (cane sugar) are so great as to result in.
the production of a foodstuff very deﬁcient in fat, and therefore
seriously deﬁcient in the accompanying accessory component.

Proprietary infants’ foods. Apart from the foods prepared from
cow’s milk the prOprietary infants’ foods may be classiﬁed as follows:

Classiﬁcation of Proprietary Infants’ Foods (141).

(i) Foods with a basis of dried cow’s milk but mixed with flour.1

(ii) Foods consisting mainly of ﬂours, the starch of which is
practically unaltered, or altered only by heating.

(iii) Foods consisting mainly of ﬂours mixed with a proportion
of malt‘ ﬂour or malt extract, but containing much unaltered starch
which is not converted into soluble products during the process of
preparing the food for infants in accordance with the directions
~ given on the package.

(iv) Foods containing ﬂours, but also containing active diastase
or pancreatic ferment, so that if the food is carefully prepared
according to the directions on the package the starch is appreciably
altered.

(v) Foods manufactured from ﬂours, the starch of which has been
mainly or partially converted into soluble products during the course
of manufacture. -

As has already been pointed out by many authorities, the majority
of proprietary infants’ foods are seriously deﬁcient in fat when
prepared for use according to the directions given, and although
we are not directly concerned here with the question of the inﬂuence
of a fat-deﬁcient or carbohydrate-rich diet upon infant nutrition, we
cannot neglect certain aspects of that subject. -

Many authorities have emphasized the dangers of a deﬁciency of
fat in infant feeding, and many failures in nutrition have been
ascribed to that cause. Hutchinson has stated that an abundance

1- The word ﬂour is used here to include not only the true cereals but other
starch-containing vegetable substances, 6. g. ﬂour from leguminous seeds, arrowroot,
banana, &c.

 




 

75

of fat should be the main characteristic of the diet in infancy,
although care must be taken not to give it in an excess which would
produce intestinal disturbance (142).

. Numerous observers have reported a type of malnutrition in
mfants fed upon food mixtures poor in fat (143, 144). Such infants
are frequently plump and well supplied with body-fat, and at ﬁrst
give the impression that they are well nourished, but they are
usually found to be ﬂabby, have a lowered resistance to disease,
and are particularly prone to rickets. The question therefore arises
as to whether the undoubted ill effects of a diet deﬁcient in fat are
actually a result of an insufﬁcient supply of fat, or whether they
may not be also due to a deﬁciency of the indispensable accessory
substance associated with fat.

The majority of patent foods are seriously deﬁcient in the fat-
soluble factor, and it is probable that a number of them are also
inadequate with respect to the water-soluble factor ; all are certainly
deﬁcient in the anti-scorbutic factor. Addition of milk to such foods
will, of course, increase the amount of these factors present, but the
resulting preparation will be inferior ‘to milk in that respect. This
fact constitutes the most powerful argument against the extensive
use of these foods in infant feeding.

The symptoms of malnutrition that are observed in children as
the result of prolonged feeding upon infant foods deﬁcient in fat
are curiously~ similar in many reSpects to those which may be observed
in young animals deprived of an adequate supply of the fat-soluble
accessory substance. Such cases show an unusually low resistance
to bacterial invasion, although they may at the time possess a satis-
factory body weight and appear plump and well. Cases have been
observed in which the young born and nursed by female rats
receiving a diet containing an inadequate amount of the fat-soluble
factor have shown a normal rate of growth and, in many cases, may
exhibit no obvious signs of malnutrition. But such offSpring show,
in the majority of cases, an unusually low resistance to infectious
diseases, which only improves when they are given a richer‘supply
of the accessory factor.

If this hypothesis regarding the cause of nutritive failure upon
foods deﬁcient in fat is correct, the adjustment of the fat content
to normal limits by the addition of an oil or fat not containing the
accessory factor, such, for example, as the vegetable oils, should
effect little if any improvement in the health of the child, whilst
the addition of an adequate fat such as cream, butter, or cod-liver
oil should be followed by a rapid recovery.

Xerophthalm’ia in young children. It has already been described
how young rats receiving an inadequate supply of the fat-soluble
accessory substance not only show failure to grow but in most cases
contract a characteristic disease of the external eye. This condition
in rats fed upon inadequate dietaries was examined carefully by
Knapp (145), who appeared to appreciate the relationship it bore to
certain forms of conjunctivitis in children usually ascribed to faulty
nutrition. He was, of course, unaware of the existence of the then
undiscovered fat-soluble factor, but a study of the rations he employed
shows that they were deﬁcient in that reSpect.

 

 




76

 

Mori (146) has described a form of external eye disease prevalent in
Japan, the symptoms of which bear close resemblance to those shown
by the rats deprived of the fat-soluble factor. His work was also
carried on prior to the discovery of this dietary component, but it is a.
interesting to note that he approached very near the correct explana-
tion when he attributed the condition to a deﬁciency of fat. He
states that chicken livers, eel fat, cod-liver oil, and other ﬁsh oils are
useful prophylactics, and reference to the list of foodstuffs (p. 22)
will show that these are all of the type which are comparatively

- rich in the fat-soluble accessory. ’

More recently Bloch (147) and also Monrad (148) have described
a form of external eye disease in young children in Denmark which
they associate with a deﬁciency of fat.

Bloch gives a detailed account of forty-nine cases of this disease in
babies treated. at the Bijkshospital, Copenhagen, in 1912—16. All
the patients had been artiﬁcially nourished, and the most severe and
characteristic cases occurred in children about twelve months old,
who had been fed on separated milk. The eye disease showed every
stage of severity from xerosis bf the conjunctiva in the slighter cases
to hardening of the cornea, leading to ulceration, necrosis, and
ultimate blindness in the more severe ones. Treatment of the eye
condition in the ophthalmic department of the hOSpital gave little
relief. and no permanent improvement. On further study the children
proved to be weak, anaemic, ill developed, apathetic, and with poor
appetite. In sOm-e cases, especially of the younger children, the
condition was associated with a condition of general atrophy. In the
older children the general condition was not usually so severe, although
the eye condition was frequently worse; there were often distinct
swelling and oedema of‘the subcutaneous tissues, but no tenderness.

A careful scrutiny of the previous diets of the patients led Bloch
to the conclusion that their general ill-health and the diseased
condition of their eyes might be associated with a lack of fat in their
food. Accordingly, while in hOSpital, they were given whole milk,
cow’s or human, and in addition as much cod-liver oil as could be
tolerated. Under these circumstances a rapid recovery took place,
both of the general weakness and of the Speciﬁc eye disease. In
absence of the cod-liver oil recovery was much delayed, and although it
ultimately took place it was frequently too slow to save the sight.

In a later paper (149) Bloch describes a particularly interesting
outbreak of eight cases of xerophthalmia taking place in a philan-
thropic institution for children in Copenhagen in the spring of 1917.
The institution, which contained eighty-six inmates, was primarily
intended for healthy children up to two years, but a number of ailing
children were also included ; these were housed in a separate building
with the infants and. in this department (section A) full milk was
supplied; the children all did well and no case of xerophthalmia
occurred. The second department of the institution (section B)
contained the thirty-two older children, who were again divided
into two subsections, B 1 and B 2, under different matrons. The
eight cases of xerOphthalmia all occurred in one subsection (B 1).

The diet, which was considered liberal and satisfactory, was the
same throughout section B, with the exception that at breakfast

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

77

the children in B 1 had rusks and gruel and those in B 2 a beer and
bread porridge with full milk. ‘ The midday meal consisted of soups
or gruels made with milk, butter-milk, fruit syrups, barley, &_c., &c.,
boiled ﬁsh, minced meat, mashed potatoes. The other meals consisted
of cocoa, milk food, and various kinds of bread and margarine. aThe
margarine was prepared from vegetable fats and the milk was all
half-skimmed. No butter, eggs, or cream were used in this section of
the home, and the only full milk was that taken with the breakfast
porridge in the one subsection, B 2. This small amount, however,
seems to explain the fact that all the eight cases of xerophthalmia
occurred in subsection B 1.

These eight ‘cases of xerosis of the conjunctiva were at ﬁrst con-
, sidered to be slight conjunctivitis, and local treatment with zinc
salts was tried but with little result. It was then noticed that,
whereas the growth and development of the children in section A
had been satisfactory during the winter and spring, it had been
subnormal in many instances in section B, in so far as many children
had remained stationary or had lost weight during the recent months.
This was true of the eight children who had developed xerophthalmia.

With the exception of two cases the eye condition was not severe.
There is no mention of oedema, and the children, who otherwise
appeared to be fairly well, though weak and without appetite, were
allowed to be up and about. No change was made in the diet, except
that 10 grm. cod-liver oil were given twice daily. In the‘ course of
a few days the xerophthalmia improved, and within eight days was
cured. At the same time the children gained weight, and improved
in general health. No other cases of xerophthalmia developed. The
skimmed milk in the diet was afterwards partly replaced by full milk.

The author considers this disease to be one due to lack of the
Speciﬁc fat-soluble growth factor, and not to the lack of fat as such,
which in the above instance had been supplied as margarine. The diet
was, however, greatly deﬁcient in the fat-soluble factor, owing to
the use of skimmed milk, and cures resulted rapidly when cod-liver
oil was administered. _
- In many of the other cases of xerophthalmia described by Bloch,
and showing marked oedema, the children had been nourished on
diets consisting too largely of carbohydrates and had been deprived
of all fats. The author, therefore, makes the suggestion that lack
of fat may itself be the cause of this and other oedemata arising from
malnutrition.
, Bloch considers this eye disease to be identical with that of
Japanese children, called ‘ Hikan ’, described by MOri (146), and
successfully treated by the administration of ﬁsh- and other livers.
The severer manifestations leading to blindness he considers due to
superimposed infections. Throughout the work he calls attention
to the frequency with which other diseases, such as diarrhoea,
bronchitis, pneumonia, pyuria, discharges from ears and nose, and
catarrhs of all sorts were found associated in these patients with
xerophthalmia, showing a lowered resistance to infection resulting
from their malnutrition. At the same time, it should be noted,
especially in the light of the results discussed in a subsequent section
of this report, that Bloch makes no mention of any signs of rickets

 

 

 




78
in most of the cases described. The children in many cases were not
older than about twelve months, and it is possible that rickets may

be a manifestation of a similar dietetic deﬁciency, less severe and
extending over a longer period.

 

ANTI-SCORBUTIC VALUE OF MILK AND ITS REFERENCE TO
INFANT FEEDING.

Experimental work has shown (Frolich, 150; Chick, Hume, and
Skelton,183) that if scurvy is to be preverited by the agency of milk
alone, a quantity must be consumed which practically amounts to
a corriplete milk diet. This result is in accord with the physiological
role played in’nature by mammalian milk, as a food Specially adapted
for the complete nourishment of the young during the early period
of life.

Upon this basis fresh cow’s milk must be classed among the less
valuable foodstuffs in reSpect of anti-scorbutic qualities, and there is
considerable evidence conﬁrming this View. For example, Curran
(151) mentions eightv cases among inmates of the Dublin unions
1n the Irish epidemic of 1847, who Chad consumed at least one pint
of fresh milk a day for at least six months prior to the outbreak,
although the diet had been deﬁcient in fresh meat and vegetables.

There isa considerable amount of evidence that the diet of the
mother has effect upon the vitamine content of her milk. It is possible
therefore that human milk may be poorer in anti-scorbutic properties .
than cow’s milk, although it must be admitted that there is no direct
evidence upon the point. The breast-fed infant has the advantage,
however, that its nourishment is taken in the raw condition. It is
probable that infants brought up on cow’s milk do not receive
any great excess of anti-scurvy vitamine, and that this is further
diminished when the milk is fed to the child after boiling or in the
dried condition. Medical authorities are much divided upon this '
point, many maintaining that an infant will thrive upon boiled milk
or dried milk, without the addition of any supplementary anti-.
scorbutic substance, others that such is desirable and even essential.
For example, Barlow (152), in his ‘Bradshaw lecture on Infantile
Scurvy, 1894-, states his opinion that‘ the boiling of cow’s smilk
and prolonged sterilization (especially at high temperatures) lessens
in some degree its anti-scorbutic quality. Neumann (15? J) attributed
the many cases of infantile scurvy, encountered 1n his private practice
in 1901—2, to the practice of pasteurizing milk for infant feeding,
recently introduced as a safeguard against transmission of bacterial
infections. He found, on inquiry, that most of these infants had
been receiving milk from one dairy in which it was the custom to

‘pasteurize’ the milk at 90—95° C. before delivery, and that in their
homes, the milk, as an extra precaution, had been heated a second
time in a Soxhlet or other apparatus at or near 100° C. for ten to
ﬁfteen minutes. Heubner (154) has published similar experiences
and, in common with Neumann, has expressed the opinion that the
marked mcrease of infantile scurvy which he noticed 1n Berlin about
the same period must be attributed to the fashion of pasteurizing
milk before feeding to infants, a custom which had been recently

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

79

introduced and enthusiastically adOpted even to the extent of
repeating the operation more than once.

The best studied instance to be found in the literature is probably
that recently recorded by Hess and Fish (155). These investigators
have described an outbreak of very mild and sub-acute infantile
scurvy in the Hebrew Infant Asylum, New York, among infants
who had been fed for several months upon a diet of cow’s milk
previously heated to 63° C. (1450 F.) fOr thirty minutes. It had
always been the custom in this Institution to give orange juice as an
extra anti—scorbutic to the babies fed upon pasteurized cow’s milk,
but it had been discontinued as a result of the pronouncement of '
the AmeriCan Medical Milk Commission (1912) that for purposes of
infant feeding heated milk might be considered the equivalent of
raw milk. The result was that an outbreak of mild scurvy occurred
two to four months later. The babies were not very ill, they were
fretful, anaemic, had no appetite, and ceased to gain weight or grow.
They were all over six months old, and it would have been reasonable
to attribute the condition to teething troubles. The scorbutic nature
of the illness was proved, however, by the ease and rapidity with
which the symptoms cleared up when orange juice or other anti-
scorbutic was restored to the diet, or when raw milk was substituted
for the pasteurized milk. These conclusions of Hess and Fish have
received conﬁrmation in very similar observations made by Miller
(156).

The whole question whether the nutritive value of boiled, is
equal or inferior to that of raw, cow’s milk is discussed fully by .
Lane Claypon (157), in whose book reference is made to many
authorities who consider that there is no proof of. any inferiority in
case of heated or pasteurized milk.

It is not always stated, however, whether an extra anti-scorbutic
was or was not emplOyed with the diet of heated milk. Apart from
this point it is probable that the difference of. opinion existing on
the whole question may be partly accounted for by differences in
the length of time during which the milk was heated and the tem-
peratures to which it was raised, and also by differences in sus-
ceptibility of different infants and in the periods for which they
were maintained upon that diet without change.

As regards dried milk there is an exactly analogous difference of
opinion among medical authorities. Pritchard (158) believes that
‘ when dried milk or other preserved foods are employed it is well
to give some fresh fruit juice or other anti-scorbutic ’. Naish, on
the other hand (159), considers that ‘ the risk of scurvy upon such
a diet is non-existent ’, and adds that he is. not in the ‘habit of
ordering any orange juice or any other anti-sc_orbutic.’. His view
is shared by Dr. Helen Campbell among others (see Coutts, 160, p. 90).

In the present state of our knowledge upon these points it is our ,
duty to give our infants the best possible chance, and the wise course
is to omit no precaution that may ultimately prove to have been
necessary. An additional anti-scorbutic should therefore be given
to infants who are reared on any artiﬁcial food, other than raw cow’s
milk. Even in this case, and that of the breast-fed infants, such.
a course might also prove beneﬁcial.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80

As regards the most suitable anti—scorbutic material to be adepted,
orange juice is easily the best from many points of View; it is a very
potent anti-scorbutic, is convenient, needs .no preparation, and is
acceptable to the vast majority of infants. Under peace conditions
oranges are cheap and plentiful, but during the war their scarcity
and high price placed them out of reach of many poor mothers.
The juice of raw swedes seems to be the best substitute for orange
juice at the moment; the anti-scurvy value of these vegetables
was found by Chick and Rhodes (161) to be very great and far in
exceSs of the other root vegetables examined. Swedes have also
the merit of being abundant and cheap. The preparation of the
juice is exceedingly simple. The clean cut surface of the raw swede
is grated on an ordinary kitchen grater and the pulp felded in a small
piece of muslin and squeezed with the ﬁngers, when the juice readily
runs out. Its slight sweetish taste is not disliked by infants and it
is already recommended in some infant welfare centres. Canned
tomatoes have been found satisfactory by Hess and Unger (155 a).
Where the presence of starch is not a drawback, cooked potato is also
recommended by some workers (Barlow, 152; Hess and Fish, 1.55).
The cooked potato is shaken up in water and the resulting fluid
used as a diluent of cow’s milk in the same manner as barley water.

For curative purposes potato cream, orange juice, or grape juice
is usually employed. It has recently been shown, however (Harden,
Zilva, and Still, 162), that lemon juice, from which the free citric acid
has been removed by treatment with cahﬁim carbonate and alcohol,
is a valuable remedy inasmuch as, owing to the absence of acid,
a very large amount can be administered without causing digestive
disturbance.

A very serious effect of the anti-scorbutic deﬁciency in the guinea-
pig is the degenerative change which occurs at an early stage in the
odontoblastic cells of the teeth (Zilva and Wells, 162 a). It has
not yet been ascertained to what degree a similar change occurs in
infants or whether the permanent teeth are affected by an‘ anti-
scorbutic deﬁciency in early childhood.

REFERENCES.

(130) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Lancet, Lond., 1918, Oct. 12.

(131) LUSK, Science of Nutrition, 1918, 3rd ed., 394.

(132) OSBORNE, T. B., and MENDEL, L. B., J. Biol. Che-7a., 1918 34- 537.

(133) CHICK, H., HUME, E. M., and SKELTON, R. F., Biochem. J., 1918 12 131.

(134) MCCOLLUM, E. V., SIMMONDS, N., and Prrz, W., J. Biol. Chem, 1916 27 33.

(135) Medical Research Committee, Special Report Series, No. 20. A study of social and
economic factors in the causation of Rickets, 1918.

(136) HALLIBURTON, W. D., and DRUMMOND, J. C., J. Physiol, 1917 51 235. .

(137) Report to the Local Government Board. Food Reports No. 24, 1918. Upon an
inquiry as to dried milks with special reference to their use in Infant Feeding.

(138) PRITCHARD, E., Pediatrics, 1913 25 632. , . 7

( 139) MCCOLLUM, E. V., SIMMONDS, N., and Prrz, W. , Am. J. Physiol, 1916 41 361.

(140) Reports to the Local Government Board, Food Reports No. 15, 1911. On an
inquiry as to condensed milks with special reference to their use as Infants’ Foods

(141) Reports to the Local Government Board, Food Reports, No. 20, 1914. On the use
of proprietary Infants’ Foods for Infant Feeding.

(142) HUTCHINSON, R., Food and the Principles of Dietetics, p. 434. London, 1911

(143) CHEADLE, W. B.. Artiﬁcial Feeding of I nfante, 1906.

(144) STILL, F. G., Practitioner, 1900 64 611 ; 1905 75 462.

(145) KNAPP, Ztschr. f. exp. Path. n; Therap, 1909 5 147.

(146) MORI, Jahrb. f. K inderh., 1904.

 

 

 




 

 

 

81

(147) BLOCH, C. E., Ugesk. f. Laeger, 1917 79 309; Rigshospitalets Boerneafdeling
Meddelelser, 1918 2 1, 17.

(148) MONRAD, Ugeslc. f. Laeger, 1917 79 1177.

(149) BLOCH, C. E., Rigshospitalets Bo‘erneafdeling Meddelelser, 1918 3 57.

(150) FRéLIoH, TH., Ztschr. f. Hyg. 21.. Infektionskrankh., 1912 72 155.

(151) CURRAN, Dublin J. M. 80., 1847 7 83.

(152) BARLOW, T., Brit. Med. J., N av. 10, 18-94.

(153) NEUMANN, Dentsche med. chnsehr., 1902 247.

(154) HEUBNER, Berl. klin. Wchnschr., 1903 285.

(155) HESS, A. F., and FISH, Am. J. Dis. Child., 1914 8 385.

(155 a.) HESS and UNGER, Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. M ed., 1918 16 l.

(156) MILLER, Cleveland M. J., 1917, August.

(157) LANE-OLAYPON, J. E., Milk and its H ygienio Relations, London, 1916.

(158) PRITOHARD, E., Pediatrics, 1914 26 300.

(159) NAISH, ibid., 1914 26 247.

(160) COUTTS, F. J. H., Report to Local Government Board, No. 116, 1918.

(161) CHICK, H., and RHODES, M., Lancet, Lond., 1918, Dec. 7.

(162) HARDEN, A., ZILVA, S. S;, and STILL, G. F., ibiel., 1919, J an. 4.

(162 a) ZILVA, S. S., and WELLS, F. M., Proc. Roy. 800., 1919, B. 90 505.

5508 . G

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER VI

RICKETS AS A DEFICIENCY DISEASE.

IN consequence of the association of scurvy and rickets sometimes
found in children, and further because of the efﬁcacy of cod-liver oil
as a therapeutic agent in rickets, it has naturally occurred to some
(Hopkins, 163 ; Funk, 164) that this latter is also a deﬁciency
disease, its development depending upon some dietetic error involving
accessory food factors. ~

Experimental medicine has provided much positive knowledge
«concerning disease, but it has also shown how unreliable are many
views on etiology when the basis is supposition and conjecture
unconﬁrmed by scientiﬁc investigation. Reference tothe literature
of rickets (Findlay, 165) shows that it occupies a pre-eminent place
among diseases whose etiology is surrounded by conjecture, and it
is hardly an exaggeration to say that every Specialist in children’s
«diseases has his own hypothesis as to the causative factor of rickets.
This portion of the monograph consists largely of a summary of an
experimental investigation undertaken by E. Mellanby for the
Medical Research Committee upon rickets in puppies (see Mellanby,
166). Although incomplete, the results are sufﬁciently deﬁnite to
place rickets among the deﬁciency diseases. ~
. This investigation carried out on puppies has consisted essentially
'1n placing the animal on standard diets found to produce rickets,
and then adding to the standard diets other substances in order to
determine the effect of these on the development of the disease. As
a result of the work it has been found possible to make a provisional
arrangement of foodstuffs into those preventing and those not pre—
venting rickets.

The standard diets used in the course of the work were as follows :

Diet I. Diet II. Diet III. Diet IV.
Whole milk, 200 0.0. Whole milk, 17 5 0.0. Separated milk, Separated milk,
_ 175 0.0. (250—350 0.0.)
Porridge, Oatmeal White bread White bread White bread (70 %)
‘7 (70 0A) Wheaten)

,, Rice NaCl 1—2 gr. Linseed oil, 10 0.0. Linseed oil, 10 0.0.

:2 gr. NaCl Yeast, 10 grm. , Yeast, 5—10 grm.
NaCl 1—2 gr. Orange juice, 3 0.0.
NaCl 1—2 gr.

. . The abstraction of the butter from milk and its substitution by
linseed oil in Diets III and IV was carried out in consequence of
results obtained with the earlier diets.

Similarly yeast and orange juice were added because they were
found to improve the general condition of the animal and to allow
better growth. In work of this nature it is obviously desirable to
have such a diet as will allow the best possible general health and
rateof growth consistent with a rapid development of the disease.
As rlckets is a disease that does not itself kill the child affected, and

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

per diem. Time of experiment,

g a diet of 175 0.0. Whole milk, White
se in weight during period of experiment

 

 

 

ﬂ

0

d

MW
.ms
W.n
Oh
1 I
Me.

ea
WOm
mim
.mMI
Ra

b,s..
Ghmm
1d

amg
mm mm
Fe 6

r1_2.s

b52

[To face 2?. 83.]

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

83

in its development is most obvious in the well-grown child, it is
evident that experimental work of this nature can only be satisfactory
when good growth is obtained and the mortality is not abnormally
high. It is true that puppies on Diets III and IV are very susceptible
to extraneous diseases like distemper and mange, and these can only
be excluded by taking great care of the animals. Under laboratory
conditions a puppy taken from its mother at six weeks old and placed
on Diet IV ought to develop well-marked rickets within six weeks.

The development and symptoms of rickets in puppies may be
shortly described as follows (see Fig. 16). The bones are defectively
calciﬁed and the legs bend, the ligaments are loose and emphasize
the leg deformity. Swellings at the epiphyses of bones are obvious,
a rosary develops at the costo-chondral junctions, with other chest
deformities according to the intensity of the affection. As in the
rachitic child, the animals are lethargic and usually show great
inability to run some time before the bone changes would prevent
their so doing. That is to say, there is loss of tone of the muscle
often accompanied by a lack of desire to carry out physical exercise.

After death the calcium content of the bones is low and the structure,
as revealed by histological examination of the bones, is characteristic
and pathognomonic, the irregularity of the epiphyseal cartilages and
the presence of o'steoid tissuein abundance being the most marked
features. Skiagraphs of the wrists of two dogs of the same family,
one on a rachitic and the other on an anti-rachitic diet, are shown in
Fig. 17, A and B.

The following lists indicate roughly the effects of the various
substances in preventing and allowing rickets when added to the
standard diets (Table XIII). It will be necessary, however, to
consider some of the substances more closely because their action
occasionally varies under different circumstances.

TABLE XIII.

Substances not preventing Rielcets in Substances preventing Rickets to varying
puppies. extents in puppies.
Bread ad lib. Whole milk (500 0.0. a day).
Oatmeal. Cod-liver oil.
Rice. Butter.
Separated milk ad lib. Suet.
Yeast, 10—20 gr. a day. Olive oil.
Orange juice, 5 cc. a day. Arachis oil.
Linseed oil. Lard.
Babassu oil. Cotton-seed oil.
Hydrogenated fat. Meat.
Calcium phosphate. Meat extracts.
Sodium chloride. Malt extract.
Meat protein.
Milk protein.

The substances having some preventive action on the deveIOpment
of rickets can obviously be classiﬁed into two categories—(1) the
group of extractives and (2) the group of fats—~and it is necessary
to discuss these groups in turn. ’ »

Meat and malt eatraets. In the earlier experiments on Diet II the
addition of meat and meat extract deﬁnitely prevented rickets

G 2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84

(Diet II contained 5—7 grm. of butter-fat). Malt extract delayed the
onset of the condition, and with large doses, e. g. about 20 0.0., some
degree of protection was observed. When, however, Diets III
and IV were the standard, the addition of meat (5 to 50 grm. in
different experiments) did not prevent the development of character-
istic symptoms. In all cases the meat seemed, however, to have an
inhibitory inﬂuence which varied according to the experiment. For
instance, meat added to the diet of a dog whose initial weight is small
and whose rate of growth is also slight, may have a large inﬂuence
on the development of rickets. With a large dog growing rapidly
the inﬂuence of the meat is less evident, the increased metabolism in
such a case apparently demanding a large supply of the anti-rachitic
factor.1 '

The explanation of the different results obtained with meat,
according as whether Diets II or IV were used, apparently depended
on the fact that Diet II was not so powerfully rickets-producing
because of the presence of 5—7 grm. of butter-fat in the whole milk. In
itself the butter in the milk (17 5 cc) was not sufﬁcient to prevent
rickets, but its effectiveness was increased considerably by the
addition of a small quantity (10 grm.) of meat per diem.

In addition to the above results, fresh vegetables (5O grm. potatoes
and turnips per diem) have deﬁnite inhibitory action when added to
the standard diets. This action is, however, not great, and is almost
negligible in cooked turnip when the liquid is poured away after
cooking.

Fats. It will be seen in the tables recording the rachitic and anti-
rachitic substances that there is a wide variation in the effect of fats
as regards rickets. In the ﬁrst place, it can be deﬁnitely stated that
the animal fats tested were more effective in preventing rickets than
the vegetable fats, and the latter varied greatly among themselves.
Linseed and babassu oils and a hydrogenated fat seemed to have no
preventive action on the development of the disease. On the
other hand, arachis and olive oils showed moderate preventive action,
while oils like coco-nut and cotton—seed occupied an intermediate
position. Such results demonstrate that the action of the oils does
not depend on fats per se but rather on something these substances
contain. If we call this something an anti-rachitic factor it is clear
that cod-liver oil and butter contain much more anti-rachitic factor
than linseed oil. ~

THE NATURE OF THE ANTI-RACHITIC FACTOR.

The results obtained show clearly that diet plays an important
part in rickets, and a study of the diets and experimental results seems
to allow a satisfactory explanation along the lines of accessory food
factors. It is generally agreed that there are at present three accessory
food factors : (1) Fat-soluble A ; (2) Water-soluble B ; (3) Anti-
. scorxbutic.

Two of these three factors can be immediately eliminated, as may
be seen by reference to Diets III and IV. For instance, yeast is a rich
source of the water-soluble B” accessory, and since yeast in the diet

1 See the analogous cases of beri-beri and scurvy (pp. 56, 67).

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Linseed oil, 10 0.0.
Increase in weight in three months, 1,560 grm.

3 months. Diet, 200 0.0. separated milk.

I‘Il’l.

magi.
msm

,g
MJMO
a6
ﬁes
nYl
.m .t,
tbh
aig
rld
udW
Dal
.mm
Aeuw
rn
bI

 

] (filotw
S Emeyb.
w Mmmwm
R awmh
W .ﬂwth
mmamm
F nm. mePf
0 e raeeo
tr 0.1gr
nag ndamt
m m0 sdﬂnm
P w1 .1mm%m
9 9w .1
A 8.5 Bscdr
R Mm Mmcmbw
G WM Pthm
I . riuen
K C gpor.l
S a mem%d
3 080w.10
hh ed n
a a Ptgsﬁ
C efrwmﬁu
} .1 80a 1’
A -w heSMLUIon/O
7 e S
1 % tmmBu
I r u1.me
F O Onw v...

[To face 2). 84 ]

 




 

’RIS]

A1

 

 

 

 

 

 

S OF TWO DOGS OF SAME FAMILY.

B. Duration of feeding, 3 months. Diet as A, except that 10 0.0. cod-liver oil was
substituted for linseed oil. Initial weight, 1,845 grm. Increase in weight, 2,400 grm.

LS well-developed rickets. Note the sharp

1&1 enls of the bones in B as compared with A ;

'eent
riculz

“(211213

e epiphyses and diaphyses of A as compared
y seen in the case of the ulna of A. Above
y.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

85

is compatible with rickets and shows no inhibitory effect, it is certain
that the water-soluble B accessory is not the anti-rachitic factor.
Again, orange juice in the diet allows rickets to develop, and therefore
the anti-scorbutic factor is probably not concerned. We are now
left with the fat-soluble A factor, and although the identity of this
with the supposed anti-rachitic factor is not completely proved, there
is some probability that the substances are the same. It is known,
for instance, that animal fats are a good source of the fat-soluble A
factor and that vegetable fats are deﬁcient. Similarly the anti-
.rachitic factor is more abundant in the animal fats than in the
vegetable fats. On the other hand, as seen above, there is a well-
marked grading of the anti-rachitic factor in the vegetable fats
whichwas not traced in the distribution of the fat-soluble factor as
studied in-experiments with rats. It is possible that further work
will show a more harmonious distribution of the fat-soluble A and
anti-rachitic factors in the vegetable fats, for, in the main, the agree-
ment is sufﬁciently striking to suggest that the differences may be
a matter of technique.1 Considering that the detection of fat-soluble A
has depended on the feeding of young rats while the work on rickets
has been carried out on puppies it is not surprising that such
differences should appear.

It is much easier to prevent rickets in a small and slowly-growing
puppy than in those of a larger type which grow rapidly. This is
What might be expected from the accepted clinical observation that
rickets attacks the large well-growing infant, and is not found in
marasmic babies. In other words, rickets is a disease accompanying
growth, and it appears that the more rapidly the animal grows the
more anti-rachitic factor is necessary to keep the growth normal.
Since, however, it is recognized that both fat-soluble A and water-
soluble B are necessary for growth per se, in so far at least as rat
feeding experiments are concerned, it might, at ﬁrst sight, seem
strange that a disease of growth should have its explanation in
a deﬁciency of a growth-accessory factor. The experimental results
indicate, that, however necessary it may be to have a minimum of
fat-soluble A in the diet to ensure growth, it is by no means the case
that the amount of growth has any relation to the amount of fat-
soluble A eaten. On the other hand, there is an apparent relation
betweenvthe rate of growth and the amount of anti-rachitic factor
necessary to keep the growth normal and prevent the development
of the rachitic syndrome. If, therefore, the anti-rachitic factor is
the same as fat-soluble A, it appears from these experiments that
the function of the latter is not so much to stimulate growth as to
ensure the efﬁcient working and normal deveIOpment of organs and
tissues.

Whether the undoubted anti-rachitic effect shown in some cases
(on Diets I and II) by lean meat and meat extract is due to the
comparatively small amount of the fat-soluble accessory contained
in them, or whether the explanation of their effect must be sought
along other lines, is a question requiring quantitative investigation.

It will be seen, therefore, that, although there is considerable

1 Moreover, the inﬂuence of green leaves, a valuable source of the fat-soluble acces- "
sory, has not yet been examined in connexion with rickets.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86

evidence that fat-soluble A and the anti-rachitic factor are identical,
further work is necessary, and the above difﬁculties must be cleared up
before it can be stated deﬁnitely that they are the same.

APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING FACTS TO OTHER HYPOTHESES
CONCERNING THE ETIOLOGY OF RICKETs.

The main hypotheses that have been put forward previously
concerning rickets fall for the most part under two groups: (1)
Dietetic; (2) Hygienic. There are, Of course, other explanations,
such as the action of the thymus (Matti, 167 ; Basch, 168 ; Klose
and Vogt, 169) and other ductless glands, and the infection theory
advocated by Koch (170), which cannot be so classiﬁed. It is obvious
that .an hypothesis involving ductless glands is not in antagonism
to a dietetic explanation, more CSpecially one concerned with acces-
sory food factors, for nothing is known about the mode of action
Of the latter and very little of the former.

(1) DIETETIC HYPOTHESES.

(a) Rickets as a Disease due to Deﬁciency of Fat.

The work of Bland Sutton (171) on the lion cubs at the Zoological
Gardens has left its impression on English thought as regards rickets,
and, together with the acknowledged efﬁcacious results that follow
the treatment of rachitic children with cod-liver Oil and other fats,
has brought about a general acceptance Of the View that rickets is due
to a deﬁciency of fat in the diet. The results here recorded make it
clear that the eﬁcacy Of the treatment—curative and preventive——
does not depend on, the fat per se, but on whether it contains an
abundance Of anti-rachitic factor, animal fats being very superior in
this respect to vegetable fats.

(1)) Excess of Carbohydrate in the Diet.

When a diet contains excess Of carbohydrate it means that it is
made up largely Of cereals. Now cereals, and more particularly cereals
like wheat and rice, which have undergone some manufacturing
process resulting in the loss Of the embryo, are most deﬁcient in
accessory food factors. A diet, therefore, Of such substances is un-
balanced and most effective in producing rickets.

(c) Deﬁciency of Fat and Excess of Carbohydrate (Holt, 172 ;

Cheadle, 173).

This condition comprises the ﬁrst two hypotheses, and what is said
about these can be extended to this suggestion. Such a combination
would most certainly involve a deﬁciency Of the anti-rachitic factor.

(d) Deﬁciency of Calcium in the Diet.

An abundance Of calcium in the diet either in the form found in
separated milk or as calcium phosphate will not prevent rickets
when the diet is deﬁcient in anti-rachitic factor. Similarly it has
been found by Stoeltzner (174) and others that a diet otherwise

ﬂ

 

 

 

A": ~W~._ “AA. ~




 

 

87

adequate, but containing too little calcium, will not produce rickets,

although soft bones deﬁcient in calcium salts are found in the
animals. It is, however, probable that a deﬁcient calcium intake-
associated with deﬁcient anti- rachitic factor intake will bring about
more strongly marked bone and other deformities associated with
rickets than would occur if the supply of calcium salts were adequate.

Lack of these salts must to this extent be an adjuvant factor 1n the
etiology of rickets.

The above are some of the more commonly held dietetic explanations
of rickets, and it will be seen that there is nothing in them which is
contrary to the accessory food factor theory. In fact this suggestion
in a general way focuses the above theories to a central point.

(2) DEFECTIVE HYGIENIC CONDITIONS.

The Von Hansemann (17 5) theory of domestication includes in
a comprehensive way all the unhygienic conditions associated with
life in civilized and eSpecially in closely packed communities. The
defects involved in civilized environment and more particularly
met with in urban life are (a) dietetic, (1)) involving conﬁnement and
lack of fresh air. The dietetic portion of this combination has been
dealt with above and is considered to be the prime factor in the
etiology of rickets.

The second factor—conﬁnement and lack of exercise—will now be
brieﬂy discussed. The effect of conﬁnement on the development of
rickets has been studied by Findlay (176), who has decided that it is
the real cause of the disease. Findlay’s experiments involved the
use of fourteen puppies, and during the experimental period of three
months, ﬁve of these died. One on a diet of oatmeal and water and
another on rice and water, died of marasmus. The remaining twelve
were fed on porridge and milk (amount not stated), and of the nine-
animals that were conﬁned, three died, one of marasmus, two of
broncho-pneumonia with rickets. The conﬁned animals were
rachitic. Now, in an experimental research, designed to show the-
inﬂuence of conﬁnement on the development of rickets, it is necessary
that the diet used should be adequate and allow healthy development
That the diet given was not healthy 1s suggested by the high death
rate recorded, and the experimental results only show that exercise
is a factor 1n the production of rickets, but cannot be regarded as
proof that it is the primary factor. Before the acceptance of this.
hypothesis is possible it must be shown that conﬁnement on an
adequate diet, that 1s to say, one compatible with the general health
of the animal, always brings about rickets. In E. Mellanby’ s ex-
periments puppies developed no signs of rickets during conﬁnement
for three months when fed on adequate diets.

Reference may here be made to the recent statistical account of an
investigation made by Miss Ferguson (178) on rickets, more particu-
larly 1n Glasgow for the MediCal Research Committee.

The interpretation of the results of this work are regarded as being
adverse to the hypothesis that rickets 1s a dietetic deﬁciency disease,

‘ Findlay’ 8 work has recently been conﬁrmed and extended by Paton, Findlay, and
Watson (177).

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

88

. and the general ‘conclusion, although undetermined in a deﬁnite
sense, is that the factors favouring the development of rickets are :

' 1. Insufﬁcient space in houses.

2. Conﬁnement in such houses.
3. Imperfect parental care.

No support is given to the diet hypothesis. Some of the dietetic
results obtained by Miss Ferguson have been criticized elsewhere
(166), and it remains doubtful whether accurate conclusions as to
the diet of individual children, particularly of infants below two years
of age, can be drawn from a consideration of family diet budgets.

PROPHYLACTIC TREATMENT OF RICKETs WITH Con-LIVER OIL.

The therapeutic treatment of rickets with cod-liver oil and malt
is generally regarded as efﬁcacious, but the successful prophylactic
trials made with cod-liver oil by Hess and Unger (179) gives
additional weight to the view advanced in this monograph that
rickets is a deﬁciency disease due to insufﬁcient amount of anti-
rachitic factor in the animals’ diet. These workers arranged for
the distribution of cod-liver oil among the children of negro families
in the Columbus Hill District of New York. Bickets is rife in this
district and is said to affect 90 per cent. of the whole number of
infants. The oil was given to infants between four months and
a year old, and the results obtained were so striking as to deserve
reproduction here (Table XIV).

TABLE XIV. _
Oil given. Duration of N 0. of ' Infants not Infants Per cent.
A verage total. Therapy. Infants. dei'eloping developing N on-Rachitic.

' Rickets. Rickets.

54 oz. 6 months 32 3O 2 93

23 oz. 6 months 5 4 l 80

21 oz. 4 months 12 7 5 58

Not given —— 16 l 15 6

It will be observed that, whereas without cod-liver oil 94 per cent.
of the children developed rickets, when cod-liver oil was given in
the largest dose, only 7 per cent. of the children were so affected.
The cod-liver oil was a more potent factor than breast feeding, for
even when breast fed almost all these coloured babies developed
rickets.

The development of rickets in breast-fed babies is uncommon in

England, but that it does occur is undeniable and demands the‘

attention of research, for, in a normal way, an abundance of whole
milk in the diet is incompatible with the development of rickets.
Probably the explanation is to be found in the inability of the
maternal organism to synthesize accessory food factors (see p. 70),
so that a mother’s milk is only adequate when she received a sufﬁ-
ciency of these substanCes in her own diet. It is interesting that
Hess and Unger (180), as the result of a statistical investigation of
the dietaries of negro women in New York, found a large proportion
Were eating too little fat ; also that the amount of milk they con-
sumed was abnormally small, while vegetables and fruit only formed
a small part of their diet;

.‘\. g

“V
J.-




89

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS OF‘RICKETS As A DEFICIENCY DISEASE.

It is but little realized how great and widespread is the part
played by rickets in civilized communities. If the matter ended
with bony deformities obvious to the eye it would be bad enough, but
investigations have demonstrated that such deformities only repre-
sent a small part of the cases affected. Schmorl’s (181) histological
investigations on children dying before the age of 4 years showed that
90 per cent. had had rickets. The relation between defective teeth
and rickets has been placed on an experimental basis recently by the
work of May Mellanby (182), and there can be little doubt that any
remedy which would exclude the one would almost certainly improve
and might eradicate the other (see Fig. 18). The rachitic child carries
the stigma of the disease throughout life in the form of defective
teeth. Nor is this the most serious part of the evil, for the reduced
resistance to other diseases of the rachitic child and animal is so
marked that the causative factor of rickets may be the secret of
immunity and non-immunity to many of the diseases which result
in the high infantile death-rate associated with urban conditions.
It is a striking fact to remember that in the West of Ireland, where
the infantile death-rate is only 30 per 1,000, rickets is very rare,
whereas in poor urban districts of this country where rickets is rife,
the infantile death-rate varies from 100 to 800 per 1,000. It is
at least suggestive that there may be some relation between rickets
and the enormous death-rate of infants in towns even although the
disease in itself does not kill. The experimental work with puppies
has shown that the rachitic condition need not be at all advanced
before the animal’s whole behaviour is transformed. It becomes
lethargic and is far more liable to be affected by such diseases as
distemper, broncho-pneumonia, and mange. The low resistance of

’ the animal to infection developed under conditions which ultimately

may lead to rickets is impressive. ,

There is some danger in applying laboratory results to a clinical
condition more especially when the results are new and for the most
part uncontrolled by clinical observation. But some remarks are
necessary in this connexion, for, if experimental research can point
to the real cause of a disease, then not only is the curative treatment
indicated, but, What is of much greater importance in the case of
rickets, it ought to be possible to indicate why rickets is widespread
and to direct action along preventive lines. It appears from this
work that the foodstuffs of an infant ought to contain a maximum
amount of anti-rachitic factor, and that the type and amount of
fat eaten are important. Since the amount of fat a child can eat
is limited, it is necessary to give children the best fat from the point
of View under consideration. They should, therefore, not be given
vegetable margarines or any other vegetablefat. The natural fat
for a child is the fat of milk, and to give it a vegetable fat not only
limits the amount of butter it can eat even if procurable, but also
weighs down the diet in the rachitic direction. If additional fat is
given, then cod-liver oil is the best. —

Milk Should remain the staple article of diet not only until weaning
but for some years after this time. Milk is undoubtedly better than

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90

the corresponding amount of butter. Under normal circumstances
the child would then be assured of a good supply of anti-rachitic factor
throughout its early life. Not, however, under all circumstances is
this certain, for the work of McCollum, Simmonds, and Pitz (183)
has shown that before an abundance of fat-soluble A appears in the

milk the mother must have a good supply of this substance in her .

food. So far as the water-soluble accessory is concerned Drummond
(184) has conﬁrmed the results of these workers. This means that
the animal’s power of synthesizing these accessory food factors is
small or absent. Green leaves are a good source of the fat-soluble A
factor for the cow, and a well-fed cow, from this point of View, will
give good milk. The nursing mother drinks this milk and eats eggs,
butter, green vegetables, &c.,land the accessory food factors are
passed on to her mammary glands, thereby allowing the breast-fed
child to get an adequate supply. If therefore a mother’s diet is
deﬁcient "in the anti-rachitic factor, it is easy to understand how
even the «breast-fed child may develop rickets. It is probable that
the same argument applies even if it should subsequently prove
that the anti-rachitic factor and fat-soluble A are not identical.
These suggestions may also explain why in children brought up on
cow’s milk rickets develops more commonly in the winter months,

when the cow’s diet is more artiﬁcial and may contain less of the

anti-rachitic factor.

As for the action of other foodstuffs it has been pointed out that
meat has an anti-rachitic effect to some extent, and even in small
quantities (10 grm. a day to a puppy) will render a slightly rachitic
diet safe. Vegetable juices seem also to have some inhibitory action
on the development of rickets. .

Nowadays, when proprietary foodstuffs for children are much in
evidence, the public should insist on knowing the relative value of all
these preparations as regards their accessory food factors as well
as their content of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and salts. Syn-
thetic milks, eSpecially those containing vegetable oils, should not
be given to infants and children unless they have been proved to
contain an adequate amount of anti-rachitic factor. Similarly, dis-
pensing vegetable oils to children instead of cod-liver oil ought to
be discountenanced. .

Finally, it may be stated that, although the experimental work
here summarized deals only with’ young animals, it is certain that
the necessity of having abundant anti-rachitic factor in the diet is
also important at a later stage. Recently May Mellanby (182) has
demonstrated the effect of diets deﬁcient in an accessory food factor,
probably fat-soluble A, on the calciﬁcation of puppies’ teeth (see
Fig. 18). Apparently the formation of calciﬁed enamel and the ade-
quate Spacing of the teeth in puppies is dependent on an abundance of
some such factor. In human beings calciﬁcation of the teeth is
a much slower process and continues till the eighteenth year. In
order to ensure perfect calciﬁcation of the teeth, therefore, it is neces-
sary, that the diet should contain adequate supplies of the accessory
food factor up to this time, and a deﬁciency at any period will be
reﬂected in a correSponding defect in the formation of the teeth.
The teeth appear to be most susceptible to this deﬁciency and the

. ‘ lg/—_A’A____M__w__ﬂ ,. -

<4. . ‘5.

 

 

 

 




i,

 

 

.f .

 

FIG. 18. Teeth of retriever puppies of same family. Age at death ﬁve months
three weeks.
Diet. 175 0.0. separated milk ; white bread (70 per cent. Wheaten) ad lib. ; linseed
oil, 10 0.0. ; yeast, 10 grm.
In addition (d) received 5 grm. meat per diem.
(8) 9,- 10 a: a:

f) 9’ )9 99 I
From seventh to ﬁfteenth week of experimental period (6) receiVed 10 grm. of
butter in addition.
Increase in weight during experimental period ( 15 weeks) (d) 3,330 grm.
(6) 4,145 grm.
(f) 5,135 grm
The enamel on most of the teeth of these dogs is poor, especially in the case of (f) ;
it is best in (c) (butter). The size of the jaw in the case of (f) is in reality greater
than is the case in (d) and (e). The magniﬁcation of the photograph is less.
The photographs show (1) the good effect of butter on the enamel (e),
’ (2) the fastest growing puppy (f) has the worst teeth.
(Reprinted from paper of May Mellanby (Lancet, December 7, 1918) by permission
of the Editor of the Lancet.)

[Tofacce p. 90.]

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

91

results suggest that the defective teeth of civilized man may depend
on some such type of unbalanced diet as has been suggested as the
cause of rickets. '

In conclusion, there is good evidence that rickets is a deﬁciency
disease due to diets which are unbalanced in that they contain too
little of those substances rich in anti-rachitic factor and too much
of those substances deﬁcient in this reSpect. The anti-rachitic has,
in many respects, a similar distribution to the fat-soluble A factor,
and is possibly identical with this substance.

REFERENCES.

(163) HOPKINS, F. G., Analyst, 1906 31 395.

(164) FUNK, (3., Die Vitamine, 1914.

(165) FINDLAY, L., Medical Research Committee, Special Report Series, No. 20, 1918.
(166) MELLANBY, E., J. Physiol, Proc. 52 xi, and Dec. 1918 ; Lancet, Lond., 1919.
(167) MATTI, Ergebn. d. inn. Med. n. Kinderh., 1913 10 1.

(168) BASCH, Jahrl). f. Kinderh., 1906 64 289.

(169) KLOSE and VOGT, Beitr. z. klin. Chin, 1910 79.

(170) KOCH, J 08., Ztschi'. f. Hyg. n. Infektionskrankh, 1912 72 321.

(171) BLAND SUTTON, quoted by Cheadle and Paynton, Allbutt’s System of Medicine, 3 85.
(172) HOLT, Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, 1907, 251.

(173) CHEADLE, Artiﬁcial Feeding and Food Disorders of Infants, 1906, 190.

(174) STOELTZNER, W., Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1899 50 268.

(175) HANSEMANN, D. v., Berl. klin. W chnschin, 1906 629 670.

(176) FINDLAY, L., Brit. M. J., 1908 ii 13 (July 4).

(177) PATON, N., FINDLAY, L., and WATSON, A., ibid., 1918.

(178) FERGUSON, M., Medical Research Committee, Special Report Series, No. 20, 1918.
(179 HESS, A. F., and UNGER, L. J., J. Am. M. Ass, 1917, 1583.

)
(180) HESS, A. F., and UNGER, L. J ., ibid., 1918 70 900.
(181) SCHMORL, Vcrhandl. dentalpath. Gesellsch., 1909, 58.
(182) MELLANBY, MAY, Lancet, Lond., 1918, Dec. 7.
(183) MCCOLLUM, E. V., SIMMONDS. N., and PITZ, W., J. Biol. Chem, 1916 27 33.
(184) DRUMMOND, J. 0., Biochmn. J., 1918 12 25.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER VII
PELLAGRA.

PELLAGRA is a disease-which is endemic in certain partsof the
world, of which the chief are Northern Italy, Roumania, and the
Southern States of North America. The disease may assume more
than one form (Roberts, 185), but the characteristic symptoms in
practically all cases consist of severe gastro-intestinal disturbances,
accompanied by a bilateral symmetrical dermatitis which is painful
and followed by desquamation and pigmentation. Until recently
a survey of the literature on pellagra left the reader in obscurity
regarding the etiology of the disease. The very multiplicity of
theories that have been advanced was sufﬁcient evidence that the
correct explanation had not been discovered.

' The majority of these theories may be divided into two groups,
according as they regard the disease as one of infective origin, or as
the result of a faulty diet. Of those investigators who lean towards
the belief in an infective origin, prominence must be given to Sambon,
who made a careful studyof the disease in Italy (186). From an
epidemiological study of the disease, he concluded that it was not
connected with the consumption of maize, but that it was an infec-
tion, probably of a protozoal 'nature, and that ﬂies of the genus
Simultum (sand ﬂies) were agents in the transmission.

Although this theory has received a certain amount of support
(187, 188), it has failed to convince many investigators who could
ﬁnd no relationship between pellagra and the Simulz'um ﬂies (189).
In no case has the announcement of the isolation of a speciﬁc
organism from cases of pellagra been substantiated by further and
more careful investigation. The strongest evidence against the
infectivity of the disease is, however, given by the failure which
has followed all attempts to transmit it to animals and man (190
and 191). In spite of this, many still regard the disease as a speciﬁc
infection, but no further progress has been made in proving the
correctness of this view. '

Turning now to those theories which ascribe the malady to dietary
causes, it is found that to a large extent they originated in the
observation that pellagra is frequently localized amongst people who
subsist largely on a maize diet. Naturally the suSpicion fell on maize,
and for some little time considerable popularity was accorded to the
theory which ascribed the malady to the consumption of diseased

or spoilt maize (192 and 193). Several authors described the isolation '

of toxic substances from spoilt maize, and it was suggested that these
products, produced by the growth of moulds, when ingested into
the body were reSponsible for the production of a chronic intoxication
resulting in pellagra. This and closely similar theories found many
adherents, particularly in Italy.

The ﬁrst suggestion that pellagra was a disease produced by
a deﬁciency in the diet was made by Funk (194). Following the
researches which he made upon the etiology of beri-beri, he attempted

 

 

/ Ni- ,\ 9

 

 




 

 

 

93

to draw an analogy between that disease and pellagra. As has
already been pointed out in an earlier section, the polishing of rice
removes a certain substance, present in the embryo, which is indis-
pensable for normal nutrition, and an absence of which from the
diet eventually induces the train of symptoms associated with
beri-beri. Funk suggested that in the milling of maize a similar
substance was removed, and that an absence of that factor from the
dietary would produce pellagra. He advocated the consumption
of whole-meal maize and of potatoes to combat the disease (194).
He was unable to produce the disease experimentally, and his theory,
attractive as it might appear, was based purely upon conjecture.

'Since that time evidence has not been forthcoming which would

justify the acceptance of his view, and a more careful study of the
diet consumed in pellagrous districts is in itself sufﬁcient to disprove
the theory. .

In 1914 Goldberger in America reported a very careful study of
the dietaries of pellagrous communities, and his results clearly
indicated a controlling inﬂuence of diet both in the causation and
the prevention of the disease (195, 196, and 197). His work has
led to the advancement of the most satisfactory theory yet put
forward regarding the etiology of pellagra. The accuracy of his
conclusions, drawn from the study just referred to, was de-
monstrated in a striking manner by his experimental production
of the typical disease in man by feeding upon a restricted diet
similar to that consumed in pellagra zones (198). The diet he
employed consisted of dishes prepared from corn, patent ﬂour,
polished rice, pork fat, corn starch, syrup, sweet potatoes, cabbage
and turnip greens. Vedder (199) has also expressed the belief that
the disease may be the result of a deﬁcient diet, and pointed out
that it is localized in districts where the population subsist on low
protein and high carbohydrate rations derived very largely from
corn products.

In 1917 Chittenden and Underhill (200) reported the production
in dogs of a pathological condition closely resembling human pellagra
by restricting the animals to a diet of boiled peas, ‘cracker meal’,
and salad oil (cotton-seed oil). By quantitative variation in the food
intake, the condition could be produced in varying periods of time
ranging from one to six or eight months. They found that the
pathological condition usually began suddenly with a refusal to eat,
After‘abstention from food for a day or two, the animals showed
a characteristic condition of the mouth and tongue, which were
covered with pustules. At the same time severe gastro-intestinal
disturbances were indicated by a haemorrhagic diarrhoea. In many
cases the condition could be cleared up and a normal nutrition
re-established by the addition of meat to the diet, but the amount
of meat had to be above a certain level, otherwise no improvement
resulted. In fact, it was found possible to induce the pathological
condition in animals fed upon a meat, cracker meal, and lard diet,
when the intake of meat was kept sufﬁciently low. Chittenden and
Underhill believe that the condition they have described, which
they suggest may be analogous to pellagra in man, may be referred
to a deﬁciency of some essential dietary constituent or constituents.

 

 




 

 

 

94

A systematic analysis of the deﬁciencies exhibited by the dietaries
characteristic of those consumed in pellagrous districts has been
made by McCollum (201). _

As a result of the extensive researches which he has made on the
nutritive value of various foodstuffs, it has been proved that the seeds
of any plant (wheat, oats, maize, rice, beans, peas, ﬂax, or millet),
when fed as the sole source of nutriment, are inadequate for growth
or prolonged well-being. ,

This'has been traced to the fact that they all exhibit somewhat
similar deﬁciencies. First, the quality'of the proteins they contain
is low. This is particularly true of maize, which contains considerable
amounts of the protein zein, the molecule of which is deﬁcient in the
biologically important amino-acid tryptophan. Secondly, they are
usually deﬁcient in certain inorganic elements, particularly sodium,
calcium, and chlorine; and thirdly, with the possible exception of
ﬂax and millet, they are inadequate sources of the indispensable
food unit which is termed fat-soluble A (see p. 22).

McCollum has pointed out the most interesting fact, that the leaf
of a plant may make good certain of the deﬁciencies of the seed.
He has shown that cabbage and clover leaves are rich in the fat-
soluble A and the inorganic elements sodium, calcium, and chlorine,
and that a well-balanced food may be obtained by suitable mixtures
of leaf and seed (202, 203). Working on this basis, McCollum has
shown that the diets consumed by the populations of pellagrous
districts show grave inadequacies, in that they are usually composed »
very largely of foodstuffs derived from seeds.

Thus, he has analysed the rations employed by Goldberger in the
experimental production of pellagra in the human being (see p. 93),
and has shown that 95 per cent. of the energy intake on those diets
is derived from seed products or pork fat. Such a dietary shoWs
three serious inadequacies :

1. It is undoubtedly deﬁcient in the indiSpensable factor known
as fat-soluble A.

2. It is probably deﬁcient in sodium, calcium, and chlorine.

3. The quantity of proteins is low, and their nutritive value is
below that of the proteins derived from meat or milk.

The following dietaries are typical of those consumed in the
pellagrous districts of Italy (204), and represent the type of ration
low in fat-soluble A and poor as regards protein supply :

I I1
Maize .. . 1,091 grm. daily. Polenta . . 1,500 grm. daily.
Beans . . 60 ,, Milk . . 100 ,,
Rice . . 67 ,, Rice . . 100 ,,
Potatoes . . 67 ,, Potatoes . ‘ . 100 ,,
Vegetables . 250 ,, Vegetables . 100 ,,
Lard . . 21 ,, Lard . . 20 ,,
Olive oil . . 33 ,, Olive oil . . 10 ,,
Fish . . 67 ,, Beans . . 100 ,,
Poultry . . 27 ,, Cheese . . 50 ,,

The theory which regards pellagra as a result of prolonged main-
tenance on an ill-balanced dietary of this type has recently received
additional support by the careful investigation recorded by Gold-
berger, Wheeler, and Sydenstricker (205).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

95

A very exhaustive examination of the food purchased by pellagrous
and non-pellagrous households in South Carolina was made. They
showed that although the caloriﬁc intake of the pellagrous households
was slightly less than that of the non-pellagrous, nevertheless the
dietaries consumed by both types of household possessed caloriﬁc
values comparing favourably with the recognized standards. The
non-pellagrous undoubtedly enjoyed a larger supply of butter, and _
the animal protein foods, lean meat, milk, cheese, and eggs. Varying
supplies of these foodstuffs, particularly fresh meat and milk, were
assOciated with a corresponding inverse variation in the incidence
of pellagra. In their concluding remarks they state: ‘the indications
afforded by this study would seem very clearly to suggest that the
pellagra-producing dietary fault is the result of some one or, more
probably, of a combination of two or more of the following factors :
(1) a physiologically defective protein supply ; (2) a low or inadequate
supply of the fat-soluble vitamine ; (8) a low or inadequate supply
of the water-soluble vitamine ; and (4) a defective mineral supply.’

‘ The pellagra-producing dietary fault may be corrected and the
disease prevented by including in the diet an adequate supply of
- the animal protein foods, particularly milk, including butter and
lean meat.’

An important series of observations have been made recently by
W. H. Wilson (unpublished work) of Cairo, which throw new light
upon the etiology of pellagra, and go to prove that the disease is to
be attributed principally if not entirely to a defective protein supply
in the diet. This conclusion emerged after a careful analysis of
a large series of diets known to have produced pellagra, together
with others proved to be preventive or curative. Special attention
was paid to the protein provided, not only as regards the actual
amount, but also as regards the ‘biological value’. The ﬁgures
expressing the latter are taken from the work of K. Thomas (206),
who investigated the nutritive properties of protein derived from
various foodstuffs, and estimated their relative value in maintaining
nitrogenous equilibrium in the human subject. These values were
found to vary within wide limits, the ‘ biological value ’ of vegetable
protein (and especially of the protein derived from the maize grain)
being less than that of milk or meat proteins. Equilibrium was not
attained with maize diet, but Thomas calculated from the data
obtained that the amount of ‘ tissue repair’ effected by 30 grm.
protein from meat or milk would require over 100 grm. of maize
protein. Other foodstuffs, such as ﬁsh, rice, potatoes, occupied an
intermediate position. The reason for this difference lies doubtless
in the fact that animal proteins are more appropriately constituted
for animal nutrition as regards the amount and variety of their
constituent amino-acids. The inferiority of maize proteins would
be explained by the large proportion contained of zein, a protein
which is devoid both of tryptophan and lysine, two amino-acids
which are known to be essential for animal nutrition.

Unfortunately the results obtained from the different experiments
with maize were not concordant, and further conﬁrmation is necessary
before Thomas’s ﬁgure for the biological value of maize protein can
be accepted as ﬁnal.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96

TABLE XV.

‘ Biological values ’ of various proteins, as measured by the relative,
‘ tissue-repairing ’ values of equal weights.

Ox meat . . 104 l Caseinogen . 70
Cow’s milk . 100 Peas . . 56
Fish . . 95 Wheat ﬂour . 40
Rice . . . 88 Maize meal . 30
Potato . . 79

It was after analysis of the pellagrous and non~pellagrous diets
from this point of View that Wilson arrived at the conclusion that
danger of pellagra occurred if the ‘ biological value ’ of the protein
ration was below a certain level. This level, as might be expected,
varied within certain limits according to- individual need and idio-
syncrasy, hard manual labour needing a more generous provision in
this respect. This view is in accord with many of the known facts
of the incidence Of the disease. For example, upon this theory
pellagra would be likely to develop with greatest frequency upon
a diet consisting largely of maize, owing to the low ‘ biological
value’ of the proteins of this cereal ; at the same time the disease
might occur among wheat or rice eaters, in cases of an exceptionally
low total consumption, but it could rarely occur among pOpulations
taking meat or milk even in small quantities. The protein deﬁciency
which leads to pellagra and is possibly concerned with a defective
supply of some essential amino—acid or acids may, in Wilson’s opinion,
occur also upon an adequate diet if assimilation is defective as the
result of gastro-intestinal disease. This theory would account for
certain rare cases, occurring in England and elsewhere, of a disease
with symptoms closely resembling those of pellagra. In these
instances there has frequently been a history of chronic diarrhoea
and gastrointestinal disturbance of long standing.

REFERENCES.

(185) ROBERTS, Pellagra (London), 1912.

(186) SAMBON, L. W., Jouru. Trop. Med. (850.), 1910 13 271, 287, 305, 319.

(187) ROBERTS, S. R., Jouru. Am. M. Assoc, 1911 56 1713.

(188) British Pellagra Commission, J ouru. Trop. Med. [850.], 1911 14 344.

(189) Thompson-McFadden Pellagra Commission ; Summary of the First Report,
Jourri. Am. M. Assoc, 1914 62 8.

(190) LAVINDER, C. H., FRANCIS, 133., GRIM, R. M., and LORENZ, W. F., J ouru. Am. M.
Assoc, 1914 62 1093.

(191) GOLDBERGER, J ., Pub. Health Rep., Washington, 1916 31 3159.

(192) CENT, Beitr. z. path. Auat. u. z. allg. Path., Jena, 39; cited by Funk, Die Vitamiue,
1914. .

(193) OTTO, Ztschr. f. Icliu. Med., 59 2.

(194) FUNK, 0., Jourri. Trop. Med. [850.], 1913 6 166.

(195) GOLDBERGER, J. ,1 Pub. Health Rep, Washington, 1914 29 1683.

(196) GOLDBERGER, J., ibid., 1915 30 3117.

(197) GOLDBERGER, J ., ibid., 1915 30 3338.

(198) GOLDBERGER, J ., and WHEELER, G. A., ibid., 1915 30 iii.

(199) VEDDER, E., Arch. Int. Med. 1916 18 137.

(200) CHITTENDEN, R. H., and UNDERHILL, F. P., Am. Jouru. Physiol, 1917 44 13.

(201) MOCOLLUM, E.V., and SIMMONDS, N., J ouru. Biol. Chem, 1917 32 29, 171,
347 ; 33 303.

(202) MCCOLLUM, E. V., SIMMONDS, N., and EM, W., Am. Jouru. Physiol, 1916 41
333, 361.

(203) MOCOLLUM, E. V., SIMMONDS, N., and PIN, W., Jouru. Biol. Chem, 1917 30 13.

(204) LOMBROSSO and CAMURRI, cited by Funk, Die Vitamiue, 1914.

(205) GOLDBERGER, J., WHEELER, G. A., and SYDENSTRIOKER, E., Jouru. Am. M.
Assoc, 1918 71 944.

(206) THOMAS, K., Archiv f. Pkg/8., 1909, 291.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

APPENDIX

[The following memorandum was issued by the Committee on Accessory
Food Factors in June 1919 ; it contains a short summary of the
present state of our knowledge upon this subject and of the practical
applications that can be made]

THE IMPORTANCE OF ACCESSORY
FACTORS IN THE FOOD.

SOME FACTS CONCERNING NUTRITION, FOR THE
GUIDANCE OF THOSE ENGAGED IN ADMINISTRATION
OF FOOD RELIEF TO FAMINE-STRICKEN DISTRICTS.

RECENT research has shown that the requirements of the human
organism as regards diet cannot be met entirely by an adequate
supply of protein, fat, carbohydrate, inorganic salts, and water.
It has therefore modiﬁed the common belief of ten or more years ago,
when the attention of physiologists was focussed upon the calorie or
energy value of the diet. It is now established that, in addition to
these necessary constituents, certain unidentiﬁed principles, known as
accessory food factors or ‘ vitamines ’, must also be present in order to
maintain health and prevent the occurrence of ‘ deﬁciency diseases ’.
These substances have not so far been isolated, little is known of
their chemical or physical properties, and at the present time their
presence can only be detected by experiments with animals.

These accessory factors or vitamines are widely distributed
among naturally occurring foodstuffs, and in time of peace, under
normal conditions of food supply, the variety of food consumed by
European nations protects them from risk of any deﬁciency in
these essential substances. Under the conditions arising from the
war a different state of things exists; "in addition to a general
shortage of food there is also a great restriction in the variety
available, and danger from ‘ deﬁciency diseases ’ is to be feared.

Of these diseases scurvy is the best known, and the belief that
it is caused by some deﬁciency in the diet has long been strongly
held. Recent research has added to the deﬁciency diseases beri-beri,
rickets, and other less well-marked disorders of growth and de-
partures from health.

The following notes have been compiled by the Committee on
Accessory Food Factors in the hope that they may afford practical
help to those occupied in the administration of food relief to the
famine districts of Eastern Europe. The advice given is based upon
the present state of our knowledge of the distribution of accessory
food factors (vitamines) in natural foodstuffs and of the role played
by them in preventing disease and in promoting health and growth.

The accessory food factors at present recognized are three in
number:

(1) Anti-neuritic or anti-beri-beri factor, identiﬁed with the
water-soluble B growth factor of the American investigators.

5508 H

 

 




 

 

 

 

98

(2) Fat-soluble A growth factor or anti-rachitic factor.

(3) Anti-scorbutic factor. '

As far as is known the accessory food factors cannot be produced
by the animal organism, and all animals are dependent for their
supply directly or indirectly upon the plant kingdom.

DISTRIBUTION AND PROPERTIES OF THE ACCESSORY FACTORS.

(1) Anti-neuritic or Anti-beri-beri Factor (‘ water-soluble B’
growth factor Of the Americans). -

This vitamine prevents the occurrence of beri-beri in man and
analogous diseases in animals. It is also neceSsary to promote
satisfactory growth in young animals. It is widespread, and is found
to some extent in almost all natural foodstuffs. Its principal sources
are the seeds of plants and the eggs of animals, where it is deposited,
apparently, as a reserve for "the nutrition of the young offSpring.
Highly cellular organs such as the liver and the brain contain con-
siderable amounts Of this vitamine; ﬂesh contains comparatively
little. Yeast cells are a rich source, so also are yeast extracts, e.g.
‘ marmite ’. In the case of peas, beans, and other pulses, this
vitamine is distributed throughout the seed, but with cereals it is
concentrated in the germ (embryo) and in the peripheral layer of the
seed which in milling is peeled off with the pericarp and forms the
bran.

Beri-beri is occasioned by a diet composed too exclusively of
cereals from which germ and’ bran have been removed by milling,
as in the case Of polished rice or white wheat ﬂour. The disease is
common where polished rice is the staple article of diet to the almost
entire exclusion of other foodstuffs. It is rare, though not unknown,
Where white wheat bread is eaten, because the consumption of this
type of cereal food is usually accompanied by a sufﬁciency Of other
foodstuffs containing the essential principle. It is unknown where
rye bread is the staple food, because in the milling Of rye there
is no separation Of the germ.

(2) The Fat-Soluble A Growth Factor or Anti-rachitic Factor,
necessary to promote Growth and prevent Rickets in young
Animals.

This vitamine appears to be necessary also to maintain health
in adults, and it has been suggested that war oedema may be due to
a lack of this factor in the diet. .

The main sources Of this factor are two in number :

(l) certain fats Of animal origin,
(2) green leaves.

The most notable deposits Of this factor are in cream, butter,
beef fat, ﬁsh oils (for example, cod-liver Oil, whale oil), egg yolk.
It is present in very small Or negligible amount in lard (pig fat) and
in vegetable Oils, as, for example, linseed Oil, Olive Oil, cotton-seed Oil,
coco-nut Oil, palm oil; pea-nut or' arachis oil is reported to contain
it in larger amount. ‘It will be noticed that this factor is found
chieﬂy in the more expensive fats.

While green-leaf vegetables contain the fat-soluble factor, root

 




 

99,

vegetables are deﬁcient in it; war oedema has been frequently
reported under circumstances in which root vegetables have formed
' a large proportion of the diet.

(3) Anti-scorbutic Factor. This vitamine is necessary in a diet for
the prevention Of scurvy, and is found in fresh vegetable tissues and
(to a much less extent) in fresh animal tissues. Its richest sources
are such vegetables as cabbage, swedes, turnips, lettuce, water-
cress, and such fruits as lemons, oranges, raspberries, tomatoes.
Inferior in value are potatoes, carrots, French beans, scarlet
runners, beetroot, mangolds, and also (contrary to popular belief)
lime juice. Potatoes, although classed among the less valuable ~
vegetables as regards anti-scorbutic value, are probably reSponsible
for the prevention Of scurvy in northern countries during the
winter, owing to the large quantities which are regularly consumed.

Milk and meat possess a deﬁnite but low anti-scorbutic value.

This vitamine snﬁers destruction when the fresh foodstnﬁs con-
taining it are subjected to heat, drying, or other methods of preservation.

All dry foodstnﬁs are deﬁcient in anti—scorbntic properties ; such are
cereals, pulses, dried vegetables, and dried milk.

Tinned vegetables and tinned meat are also deﬁcient in anti-scorbntic
principle. ' In case of tinned fruits the acidity of the fruit increases
the stability of the vitamine, and prevents, .130 some extent, the
destruction which would otherwise occur during the sterilization by
heat and the subsequent storage.

A table giving a summary of our knowledge as to the distribution
of these three accessory factors among the commoner foodstuffs
is appended, p. 102.

PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING FACTS To THE
PREVENTION OF DISEASE.

(1) Prevention of Beri-beri.

It is unlikely that any danger of beri-beri will arise among the
famine threatened districts of Eastern Europe as long as wholemeal
ﬂour from rye, wheat, barley, maize, or peas, beans, and lentils are
provided. Mere shortage Of food does not cause beri-beri, and poverty
ensures that the whole grain is consumed for purposes of economy.

(2) Prevention and Cure of Rickets or Growth Failure
in Children or War Oedema in Adults.

Evidence is accumulating that rickets is caused by a shortage not
of fat as such, but of the ‘ fat-soluble growth factor ’ which is con-
tained in certain fats. XerOphthalmia, a severe disease Of the external
eye, leading, if untreated, to blindness, has also been attributed to
lack of this factor. Infants and young children must therefore be
supplied with the right kind of fat. To prevent rickets (1) full cream
milk should be secured for artiﬁcially fed infants when possible; failing
that, (2) full cream dried milk or (3) full cream unsweetened con-
densed milk. (2) is preferred to (3), and, in case of ignorant or
careless mothers, even to (1), in order to prevent spread of infection

H 2

 




100

 

and intestinal disorders. _ In all cases where (2) or (3) are used, an
extra anti-scorbutic should be given (see below). ‘

Sweetened condensed milk is undesirable for the reason that the
degree of dilution required by the high sugar content renders the
food, as prepared, deﬁcient in the fat-soluble (anti-rachitic) factor as
well as in fat and protein.

Milk and butter are the best sources of the anti-rachitic (or fat-
soluble) factor for young and growing children; margarines made
from animal fats are also valuable ; those made from vegetable oils
are to be condemned. If there is a shortage of butter it should be
reserved for children, but if totally lacking the deﬁciency can be
replaced by cod-liver oil and other ﬁsh oils, or by eggs. If all animal
fats are unavailable, pea-nut oil should be selected in preference to
other vegetable oils for preparation of margarines, &c., and some
effort should be made to utilize the fat-soluble vitamine contained in
green leaves.

, . Green leaves are a cheap and readily available source of the fat
soluble vitamine, and adults can probably maintain good health
when animal fats are substituted by vegetable fats if green-leaf
vegetables are consumed in fair quantity. In case of this vitamine,
the loss involved in ordinary cooking is not serious. Unfortunately
infants or very young children cannot take green vegetables in the
ordinary way, but the juices expressed from cabbages and other
green-leaf vegetables, raw or even after steaming (not immersing in
boiling water) for a few minutes, might be given even to infants if
all other sources of this most necessary vitamine have failed.
Purées, carefully prepared from cooked Spinach or lettuce, can be
tolerated in small quantities (one teaspoonful daily) by many young
infants, and the amount taken can be increased regularly with age.

In cases where rickets or growth failure or xerophthalmia are
already well established, a daily dose of cod-liver oil is essential in
addition to all other procedure. ‘

Pregnant and nursing mothers should have as liberal a supply of
the fat—soluble factor as is possible. Rickets is not conﬁned to
artiﬁcially fed children. Breast—fed children depend for an adequate
supply of this factor on the milk, which in turn depends upon the
diet of the mother.

 

(3) Prevention of Scurvy.

Use of germinated seeds. If fresh vegetables or fruit are scarce
or absent an anti-scorbutic food can be prepared by moistening any
available seeds (wheat, barley, rye, peas, beans, lentils) and allowing
them to germinate. It is necessary, of course, that these should be
in the natural whole condition, not milled or split. The seeds should
be soaked in water for 24 hours, and kept moist with access of air
for 1—3 days, by which time they will have Sprouted. This Sprouted'
material possesses an anti-scorbutic value equal to that of many fresh
vegetables, and should be cooked in the ordinary way for as short
a time as possible. '

In case of shortage it should be remembered that salads are of
more value than cooked vegetables. The extent to which the anti-
scorbutic factor is destroyed during cooking depends chieﬂy upon

 

 

 

 




 

 

101

the time employed. When supplies are limited vegetables shOuld
be cooked separately and for as short a time as possible ; they should
not be cooked for long periods with meat in soups or stews.

Preserved foods, with a few exceptions, may be regarded as
devoid of the anti-scorbutic principle. Lemon juice retains some
value in this reSpect ; canned tomatoes (and presumably other tinned
acid fruits) have also anti-scorbutic value. Canned vegetables are
useless for prevention of scurvy, as also are dried vegetables.

Infantile scurvy must be considered separately as many of the
above foodstuffs are unsuited to infants or young children. To avert
danger all artiﬁcially nourished infants should receive an extra anti-
scorbutic. Cow’s milk, even when raw, is not rich in the anti-scorbutic
Vitamine ; when heated, dried, or preserved, the amount contained
is still further reduced. The most suitable anti-scorbutic material to
use is fresh orange juice, 1—3 or 4 teaspoonfuls (5—15 c.c.) daily,
according to age. Raw swede (or, if unavailable, turnip) juice is a
potent anti-scorbutic, and an excellent substitute for orange juice;
to obtain the juice the clean cut surface is grated on an ordinary
kitchen grater and the pulp obtained is squeezed in muslin. Tomato
juice, even from canned tomatoes, and grape juice can also be used ;
the latter is, however, less potent than orange juice, and a larger dose
should be given. .

Pregnant and nursing mothers. If babies are breast fed it is
important that the pregnant and nursing mother should receive an
adequate supply of anti-scorbutic food in her diet. The pOpular
belief that green vegetables are harmful in such cases is often without
foundation. Infantile scurvy is not unknown in breast-fed children.

It is evident that many of the above deﬁciency diseases are rife
among the pOpulations of Central and Eastern Europe. It is essential,
therefore, that the principles set forth in the preceding paragraphs
should be fully understood by all persons engaged in administering
relief to these districts.

Signed on behalf of the Committee,
F. G. HOPKINS, Chairman.
HARRIETTE CHICK, Secretary.

June, 1919.

(Correspondence should be addressed to

The Secretary,
The Committee on Accessory Food Factors,
The Lister Institute,
Chelsea, London, S.W. 1.)

 




 

 

" 102

The Distribution of the Three Accessory Factors in the:

Commoner Foodstuffs.

 

 

 

 

 

Fat- Water-solu-
soluble ble B or anti-
A or anti- neuritic (anti- Anti-
, rachz'tz'c beri-bem') soorbutz‘c
Classes offoodstaﬁ. factor. factor. . factor.
Fats and oils.
Butter + + + 0
Cream + + 0
Cod-liver oil + + + O
Mutton fat + +
Beef fat or suet + +
Pea-nut or arachis oil +
Lard 0
Olive oil 0
Cottonseed oil 0
Coco-nut oil 0
Coco butter 0
Linseed oil 0
Fish oil, Whale oil, herring oil, &0. + +
Hardened fats, animal or veg. origin 0
Margarine prepared from animal fat Value in
proportion to
amount of
animal fat
contained
Margarine from vegetable fats or lard 0
Nut butters + ,
Meat, ﬁsh, (to.
Lean meat (beef, mutton, &c.) + + +
Liver » + + + + +
“Kidneys + + +
Heart + + +
Brain + + +
Sweetbreads + + +
Fish, White 0 very slight, if any
,, fat (salmon, herring, &c.) + + ,,
,, 1‘06 + + +
Tinned meats ? very slight 0
Milk, cheese, (‘26.
Milk, cow’s Whole, raw + + + +
,. skim ,. 0 + +
,, dried Whole less than +‘ + + less than +
,, boiled ,, Undeter- + ,,
mined
,, Condensed, sweetened + + n
Cheese, Whole milk ' +
,, skim 0
Eggs.
Fresh + + + + + ? 0
Dried + + + + ,+ ‘2 o
Cereals, pulses, cfcc.
eat, maize, rice, Whole grain + + 0
:9 germ + + + + + 0
,. bran 0 + + 0
White Wheaten ﬂour, pure cornﬂour,
polished rice, &c. 0 0 O
Custard powders, egg substitutes, pre- \
pared from cereal products 0 O 0
Linseed, millet + + + + 0
Dried peas, lentils, &c. + + 0
Peaﬂour (kilned) 0 0
Soy beans, haricot beans . + + + 0
Germinated pulses or cereals + + + + +

 

 

 

 

 




 

Classes of foodstuff.

Vegetables and fruits.

Cabbage, fresh
,, dried
,, canned

Swede, raw expressed juice

Lettuce

Spinach (dried)

Carrots, fresh raw
,, dried

Beetroot, raw, expressed juice

Potatoes, raw

cooked

cooked

,9

Beans, fresh, scarlet runners, raw

Onions, cooked
Lemon juice, fresh
,, preserved
Lime juice, fresh
,, preserved
Orange juice, fresh
Raspberries
Apples,
Bananas
Tomatoes (canned)
Nuts

Miscellaneous.

Yeast, dried

,, extract and autolysed
Meat extract
Malt extract

Beer

108

Fat~
soluble
A or Ant/i-
rackitz'c
factor.

++
+

++
++

+
very slight

+

0@

Water-solu-
ble B or anti-
nem'itic (anti-

beri-ben’)
factor.

+
++

+
+

o++

+

+
+ in some
specimens

Ant i-
scorbatic
factor.

+ + +
very slight

+£4-

.1.

less than +
+

+
+

H}-
’5?
a
p—I
8
U)
512

q
('9
++q++
+++$++
+§

ver light

+t<
+m

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

INDEX

Accessory food factors :
and growth, 5.
differentiation of two, 11.
distribution'of the three, among food-
stuffs, 50,51.
Réhmann’ s criticism of theory of, 18.
Adenine, alleged anti- neuritic properties
of, 37.
Adults, accessory food factors in diet of,
51

anti-beri-beri (water-soluble B) factor 9

in diet of, 52.
anti-scorbutic factor in diet of, 57.
fat-soluble A factor in diet of, 52.
Anti-beri-beri factor:
distribution among foodstuffs of, 27,
28, 29, 30, 31, 35, 50.
probable identity of, with water- soluble
B factor, 35, 36
see also Water-soluble B factor.
Anti-neuritic factor :
see Anti-beri-beri factor and Water-
soluble B factor.
Anti-rachitic factor :
nature of, 84.
relation of, to fat-soluble A factor, 85.
Anti-scorbutic factor:
associated with living tissues, 41.
best source of, for infant feeding, 80.
distribution among foodstuffs of, 44, 50.
effect of alkali and acid on, 47.
effect of drying on, 45. ,
effect of lack of, on growth, 42.
effect of temperature on, 45.
in diet of adults, 57.
in diet of infants, 78.
properties of, 45.
relation of, to adsorbents, 47.
Arctic explorations :
incidence of scurvy in, 58.

Beer, absence of anti-scorbutic factor
from, 61.
Kafﬁr, anti—scorbutic value of, 61.
Beri—beri, 25.
due to lack of an accessory food factor,
25.
due to too exclusive diet of over-
milled cereal, 52.
outbreaks of, instances of, 53, 54.
period of development of, 66.
relation between incidence of, and type
of rice consumed, 53.
wet and dry types of, 25, 27.
Breast-fed infants, development of rickets
in, 88.
Breast-feeding, of infants, 70.

Cabbage, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 51,
59.

 

 

 

Cereals, distribution of anti- beri- beri
(water-soluble B) factor among, 28,
29, 31,50.
distribution of anti-scorbutic factor
among, 44, 50.
_ distribution of fat-soluble A factor,
among, 22, 50.
germinated, anti-scorbutic value of, 41,
44, 50, 60.

5 Cheese, distribution of fat-soluble A

factor in, 22, 50.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 33, 50.
Cooking, effect of, on anti-scorbutic value
of foodstuffs, 64.
Cruciferae, anti- scorbutic value of plants
belonging to order of, 59.

Deﬁciency disease, rickets as a, 89.

Deﬁciency diseases, 2,25.

Diet of adults, accessory food factors in,
51.

Diet of infants, accessory food factors
in, 6 .

Dietary, basal, for experiments with rats,
15.

Diets iich and poor in anti- beri- beri
(water- soluble B) factor, examples
of, 56.

Eggs, absence of anti-scorbutic factor
from, 44, 45, 50.
distribution of fat-soluble A factor in,
23, 50.
dried, value of, as source of anti-beri-
beri (water-soluble B) factor, 55.
occurrence of anti—beri-beri (water—
soluble B) factor in, 28, 29, 31, 33,
35, 50.
Eutonin, 37.

Fat-soluble A factor :
differentiation of, 12.
distribution of, in natural foodstuffs,

1 ; table of, 22, 23, 50, 51.
effect of temperature on, 23.
in diet of adults, 52.
in diet of infants, 71.
inﬂuence of absence of, from diet, 16,18.
inﬂuence of, on growth and nutrition
of rats, 15.

isolation of, attempted, 23.
mode of occurrence of, in seeds, 19.
physiological signiﬁcance of, 19.
properties of, 23.
relation of, to metabolism of fat, 20.
storage of, in animal organism, 2.0

Fats, animal, anti-rachitic value of, 84.
distribution of fat- soluble A fact01 in

21, 22, 50.

vegetable, anti-rachitic value of, 84.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

106

Fish, distribution of fat-soluble A factor
in, 22, 50.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 29, 33, 50. '
Foodstuffs, anti-rachitic value of, 83.
distribution of anti-scorbutic factor
among, 44, 50.
distribution of fat-soluble factor among,
2 23, 50, 51.
distribution of "water-soluble B (anti-
beri-beri) factor among, 27-35, 50.
Fruits, distribution of fat-soluble A factor
among, 22, 51.
antiseorbutic value of, 44, 45, 51, 57.
dried, anti-scorbutic value of, 63.
dried, occurrence of anti-beri-beri
(water-soluble B) factor in, 30.

Germinated pulses and cereals, anti-
scorbutic value of, 41, 44, 50, 60.

Germination of cereals and pulses,
production of anti-scorbutic factor
during, 41.

Guinea-pig, experimental sourvy in the,

9

Hygienic conditions, defective, and

rickets, 87.
Infants, accessory factors in nutrition of,
69

anti-rachitic factor in diet of, 89.

anti-scorbutic factor in diet of, 78.

artiﬁcial feeding of, 71.

breast-feeding of, 70. ‘

fat-soluble A factor in diet of, 71.

water-soluble B factor in diet of, 71.
Infants’ foods, proprietary:

classiﬁcation of, 74.

value of, for infant feeding, 7 4.

Kalzose, 18.

factor among, 22, 50.
' Lemon Juice: '
anti- scorbutic value of, 44, 31, 57.
freed from citric acid, as a curative
agent for scurvy, 80.
Lime Juice:
anti- scorbutic value of, 44, 51, 58.
relative anti- socibutic Value of, com-
pared with lemon juice, 58.
substitution of, for lemon juice in the
Navy, 58.

Maize theory of production of pellagra, 9 2)
Malt, use of, as an anti scorbutic, 61.
Malt extract:
absence of fat-soluble A factor from, 23.
anti-rachitic value of, 83.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri
soluble B) factor in, 29, 51.
Maryleb one cream, 72.
Meat, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 45, 50,

(water-

distribution of fat-soluble A factor in,
22, 50.

 

 

 

, Oils,
Legumes, distribution of fat-soluble A

 

Meat (continued) :
frozen, anti-scorbutic value of, 64.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 30, 31, 50.
tinned, anti-scorbutic value of, 64.
Meat extract.
absence of anti beri- beri (water-soluble
B) factor from, 29,30, 51.
absence of fat- soluble A factor from,
23,51.
absence of anti-scorb utic factor from, 51. ‘
anti-rachitic value of, 83.
Milk, cow’s, and milk products, distribu-
tion of fat-soluble A factor in, 50.
anti~scorbutic value of, 44, 45, 50.
anti-scorbutic value of, for infant
feeding, 7 8.
as source of accessory food factors in
infants’ diet, 71.
boiled, anti-scorbutic value of, for
infant feeding, 78.
occurrence of anti~beri~beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 33, 35, 50.
permissible modiﬁcations of, for use
in infants’ diet, 72.
value of, as source of anti-rachitic
factor in infants’ diet, 90.
condensed, manufacture of, 74.
value of, in infant feeding, 74.
dried, anti-scorbutic value of, for infant
feeding, 79.
methods of manufacture of, 7 3.
synthetic, 73.
value of, for infant feeding,1 72.
protein- -free, preparation of, 7.
Muscular moo-ordination in rats, due to
"lack of water~soluble B factor, 18.

Nursing mother, accessory factors in diet
Of, 70, 90.
N utramine, 37.

distribution of fat—soluble A factor
in, 21, 22, 50.
vegetable, anti-rachitic value of, 84.

i Onions, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 60.
Oryzanin, 37.

Pellagra, 92.

deﬁciency theory of origin of, 92.
experimental in dogs, 93.
experimental in man, 93.
nature of diets producing, 94, 95.
Wilson’s observations on, 95.
Pigeon, experimental avian polyneuritis
in the, 27.
Polished rice, nature of, 26.
Polyneuritis, avian, discovery of, by
Eijkman, 26.
experiments of McCarrison on, 27.
relation of, to human beri-beri, 26.
relation of time of onset of, to size of
carbohydrate ration, 56.
Potatoes, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 51,
60.

occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 30, 31, 35, 51.
Pregnancy, accessory factors in diet
during, 7 O.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

107

Protein-free milk, preparation of, 7.
Pulses, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 50.
germinated, anthcorbutic value of, 41,
44, 50, 60.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 30, 31, 33,
35, 50.
Puppy, experimental rickets in the, 82.
Puriﬁed diets :
Hopkins’s experiments with, 8.
Lunin’s experiments with, 6.
McCollum and Davis’s experiments
with, 11.
Osborne and Mendel’s experiments
with, 7.
Réhmann’s experiments with, 7.
Stepp’s experiments with, 7.

Rat, basal dietary for experiments with
the, 18 ‘
effect of anti-scorbutic factor on nutri-
tion of the, 14.
growth of, inﬂuence of fat-soluble A
and water-soluble B factors on, 15—19.
muscular inco-ordination in the, 18.
salt mixture for experiments with the,
18.
xerophthalmia in the, 17 .
Rice, milling of, 26.
polished, nature of, 26.
Rickets, 82.
as a deﬁciency disease, 89.
diets preventing and not preventing
onset of, 82.
etiology of, hypotheses concerning, 86.
in puppies, symptoms of, 83.
Mellanby’s experiments on, in puppies,
prophylactic treatment of, with cod-
liver oil, 88. '
relation of, to defective hygienic condi-
tions, 87.

Salt mixture for dietary experiments with
rats, 16.
Scurvy, 38.
curative treatment of, 80.
due to lack of an accessory food factor,
25.
etiology of, theories concerning, 38.
guinea-pig, Holst’s observations on,
39, 41.
guinea-pig, symptoms of, 43.
Lind’s observations on, 39.
period of development of, 66.

 

Scurvy grass, 59.
Swede juice, anti-scorbutic value of, 44,
51, 80.

.Teeth, effect of anti-rachitic deﬁciency on

calciﬁcation of, in puppies, 90.
effect of anti-scorbutic deﬁciency on
structure of, 80.
Temperature, effect of :
on anti-scorbutic factor, 45.
on fat-soluble A factor, 23.
on water-soluble B factor, 34.
Torulin, 37.

Vegetables, anthcorbutic value of, 44, 51.
distribution of fat-soluble A factor
among, 22, 51.
dried, anti-scorbutic value of, 44, 45, 51,
61.

Vitamines : see Accessory food factors.

Water-soluble B factor :
differentiation of, 12.
distribution among foodstuffs of, 27,
28, 29, 30, 31, 35, 50.
effect of temperature on, 34.
in diet of adults, 52. '
in diet of infants, ‘71.
inﬂuence of absence of, from diet, 18.
inﬂuence of, on growth and nutrition
of rats, 15.
isolation of, attempted, 37.
physiological signiﬁcance of, 20.
prob able identity of, with anti-beri-beri
factor, 35, 36.
properties of, 34.
relation of, to adsorbents, 35.
Wheat germ, presence of anti-beri-beri
(water-soluble B) factor in, 28, 29,
31, 33, 35, 50.
Wheat grain, structure of, 32.

Xerophthalmia in children, 75.
in rats, 17.

Yeast, absence of anti-scorbutic factor
from, 44, 45, 51.
occurrence of anti-beri-beri (water-
soluble B) factor in, 28, 30, 31, 33,
35, 51.
Yeast and yeast extract :
distribution of fat-soluble A factor in,
23, 51. ,
value of, as source of water-soluble B
(anti-beri-beri) factor, 55.

Printed under the authority of HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE
by Frederick Hall, at the University Press, Oxford

 

 








 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5.1.]!!! If i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,!
i ‘, -
r u ‘
‘ . ' ,
H {g a”
‘ \ \ .
\ ~. - m: . . . , 7 _..-
. w-,.mumw_.w-w _ .M V

 




 

 

Special Report Series- continued.

Venereal Diseases (continued).
No. 44, Reports of the Special Committee upon the Manufacture, Biological Testing, and
Clinical Administration of Salvarsan and of its Substitutes. No. 1. Price 1.9. net.

No. 45. Unsuspected Involvement of the Central Nervous System in Syphilis. Price Is. net.
No 47. The Accuracy of Wassermann Tests, applied before and after death, estimated by
N ecropsies. I. The Wassermann Test applied before death.

(Vide infra, Reports of the Special Committee upon Pathological Methods, Nos. I~IV.)
Reports of the Special Committee upon Pathological Methods :
No. 14. I. The Wassermann Test. Price 361., post free 4%d. 7
No. 19. II. The Laboratory Diagnosis of Gonococcal Infections.
III. Methods for the Detection of Spirochaetes. Price 1.9., post free 1.9. 1%(1.
No. 21. IV. The Diagnostic Value of the Wassermann Test. Price 19., post free 1.9. léd.
N o. 35. V. The Reaction .of Media. Price 60L, post free 7 at.
Reports of the Special Investigation Committee on Surgical Shock and Allied
”a Conditions : _
N o. 25. I—VII. Wound—Shock and Haemorrhage. Price 43., post free 4.9. Get.
No. 26. VIII. Traumatic Toxaemia as a Factor in Shock. Price 1s., post free 1.9. lgd.
No. 27. IX. Blood Volume Changes in Wound—Shock and Primary Haemorrhage. Price 9d.‘,
post free 10%d.
Reports of the Air Medical Investigation Committee:
No. 28. VII. The Sense of Stability and Balance in the Air. Price 9d., post free 10%d.

No. 37. VIII. The Effects of Diminished Tension of Oxygen, with eSpecial reference to the
Activity of the Adrenal Glands.

IX. The Ear in relation to certain Disabilities in Flying. Price 13., post free 1.9. léd.
Reports of the Committee upon Accessory Food Factors (Vitamines):

No. 38. Report on the Present State of Knowledge concerning Accessory Food Factors
(Vitamines). Price 4.9., post free 4.9. 3d.

Reports of the Committee upon Anaerobic Bacteria and Infections:

N 0. 39. Report on the Anaerobic Infections of Wounds and the Bacteriological and Serological
Problems arising therefrom. Price 6s., post free 6.9. 4d.

 

N o. 8. Report upon Soldiersreturncd as Cases of ‘ Disordered Action of the Heart ’(D.A.H.), or
‘ Valvular Disease ofthe Heart ’ (V. D. H.). Price 1.9., post free 1.9. l-éd.

No. 9. A Report upon the use of Atropine as a Diagnostic Agent in Typhoid Infections.
Price 1.9., post free 1.9. 1%cl. . -

No. 10. p The Mortalities of Birth, Infancy, and Childhood. Price 1.9. 6d., post free 1.9. 8d.

N o. 11. The Causation and Prevention of Tri—nitro-toluene (T.N.T.) Poisoning. Price 1.9.,
post free 19. 2d.

No. 12. The Classiﬁcation and Study of the Anaerobic Bacteria of War Wounds. Price. 2.9.,
post free 2.9. 2%d.

No. 13. An Enquiry into the Composition of Dietaries, with special reference to the Dietaries
of Munition Workers. Price 9d., post free lOéd.

No. 16. A Report on the Causes of Wastage of Labour in Munition Factories. Price 1.9. Get,
post free 1.9. 7%d. .

No. 20. A Study of Social and Economic Factors in the Causation of Rickets, with an Intro—
ductory Historical Survey. Price 2.9., post free 2.9. 2d.

No. 24. A Report on the Investigation of an Epidemic caused by Bacillus aertrycke. Price 9d.,
post free 10%d. _

No. 31. Alcohol—Its Absorption into and Disappearance from the Blood under different
conditions. Price 1.9., post free 1.9. 1%d. '

N o. 32. The Science of Ventilation and Open Air Treatment. Part I. Price 10.9., post
free 10.9. 6d.

N o. 34. The Inﬂuence of Alcohol on Manual Work and N euro-muscular Co-ordination. Price 2.9. ,
post free 2.9. 1%d.

No. 36. Studies of Inﬂuenza in the Hospitals of the British Armies in France, 1918. Price 39. 6d.,
post free 3.9. 8%d. .

No. 43.. Albuminuria and War N ephritis among British Tr00ps in France. Price 3.9. Get. net.

No. 48. A Report on the probable Proportion of Enteric Infections among Undiagnosed Febrile
Cases invalided from the Western Front since October, 1916.

The following is published under the direction of the British Medical Research Committee by
Messrs Longmans, Green & Co., 39 Paternoster Row, London, EC. 4:

Milk agd its Hygienic Relations, by Janet E. Lane-Claypon, M.D., D.Sc. (Loud). Price
7.9. 6 . net.

 




M. ‘ 1:4. ‘ :u .
«lnlh I!!! be

I ‘ll:

1;... :lo! Ctltt (I... "4
‘ . a «91:31.. iﬁ‘1v5‘1vnt.(,alw.¢t

‘...-,.,...( \M . A

 




